v»' . i* . -^ 



: ;t ^ i# f 't 

'")■ ll > * Jl 



<.■ \m :m- .m 

it li ^- i* ."' 



t" :*' ?""' 

> :« ^1 



If :f 



^;* > 






■^^. ;t 



I '!■ :ji 



':. ji :i ;^.. 



^ ;i 



;t .1 '.i ,«^ .t. ^. ^^ i» 11 :. 

> # 1 I*- If' %■ 'k ''.'■ '- ' 

j. -I t ^ \9i it ^ 

^ il * liJ^ :^ ^- yt! 



!lSl 'ft > ,#■ ^ 
..i%. ^ V* .*• {i 

!* .1^ ii I*- # 
M 1i' » 11 ^ 

" i^ % % 1 
;i ji ■'- ■ '^ 



\ ^ ^ > 

* ^* 'i f 



•r 't 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES. ANT) CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, 1906. 



REPORT 

OP THE 

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 




WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
19 6. 



CONTENTS 



Page. 

Contents in 

General Considerations. 

The new building for the National Museum 7 

Some important matters of the year 7 

The American Association of Museums 10 

SUMSIARY OF the OPERATIONS OF THE YeAR. 

Appropriations and expenditures 11 

Buildings 12 

Additions to the collections 14 

General ^A•ork on the collections 28 

The exhibition collections 32 

Researches 35 

Explorations 43 

Distribution and exchange of specimens 45 

Visitors 46 

Correspondence 47 

Publications and printing _ 47 

Library 48 

Photography 49 

Expositions 49 

Organization and staff 50 

The INIuseum staff 51 

List of accessions 53 

List of publications 95 

III 



TtEPORT 



THE CONDITION AXD PROGRESS OF THE U. S. ^^ATIOKAL 
MUSEllI DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1906. 

By Richard Rathbux, 

Assista7it Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 

In the death of Samuel Pierpont Langle}^ Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian' Institution, on Fel)ruaiy 27, 1906, the National Museum, of 
which he was the keeper by virtue of his higher office, has sufi'ered a 
severe loss. 

Although Mr. Langley's scientific Avork lay in the direction of 
astronomy and physics, his wide range of learning and breadth of 
view led him to take a deep personal interest in all the varied activi- 
ties of the Museum, with some of which, moreover, he was especially 
identiiiecl. It was largely through his efforts that the collections 
relating to the history of time-keeping devices and to standards of 
weights and measures were brought together, and the art subjects 
strongly appealed to his esthetic sense. 

The extensive collections exhibited in the public halls were in his 
view not only valuable to the student but capable of imparting infor- 
mation to the man of ordinary' education, and in behalf of the people 
at large he sought the ehmination from the labels of such technical 
matter as was beyond their comprehension. He was also especiall}^ 
solicitous as to the needs of the child, as is strikingly illustrated in the 
so-called children's room, due to his initiative and direction. 

As was to be expected, the manifold duties resting upon the Secre- 
tary precluded his taking up the details of management of the Museum, 
but he was ever active in guarding its interests before Congress and 
the public. 

The work of this great man will be recorded in another place and at 
another time. In this connection 1 only wish to express my sense of 
personal loss and my deep appreciation of the confidence he bestowed 
in committing to me the administration of the National Museum. 

1 



2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

The inception tind history of the Museum have often been dis- 
cussed in the opening pages of the annual report. Congress, in 
the act of August 10, 1840, founding the Smithsonian Institution, 
recognized that an opportunity was afforded, in carrying out the 
large-minded design of Smithson, to provide for the custody of the 
museum of the nation. To this new establishment was therefore 
intrusted the care of the national collections, a course that time has 
fully justified. 

In the beginning the cost of maintaining the museum side of the 
Institution's work was wholl}^ paid from the Smithsonian income; 
then for a number of 3"ears the Government bore a share, and during 
the past three decades Congress has voted sufficient funds to cover the 
expenses of the museum, thus furthering one of the primary means 
"for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men" without 
encroaching upon the resources of the Institution. 

The museum idea was inherent in the establishment of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, which in its turn was based upon a ten years' dis- 
cussion in Congress and the advice of the most distinguished scientific 
men, educators, and intellectual leaders of the nation of seventy 3'ears 
ago. It is interesting to note how broad and comprehensive were the 
views which actuated our lawmakers in determining the scope of the 
Museum, a fact especially remarkable when it is recalled that at that 
date no museum of considerable size existed in the United States, and 
the museums of England and of the continent of Europe were still to 
a large extent without a developed plan, although containing many 
rich collections. 

The Congress which passed the act of foundation enumerated as 
within the scope of the Museum "all objects of art and of foreign 
and curious research and all objects of natural histor}^ plants, and 
geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United 
States," thus stamping the Museum at the very outset as one of the 
widest range and at the same time as the Museum of the United 
States. It was also full}' appreciated that additions would be neces- 
sary to the collections then in existence, and provision was made for 
their increase by the exchange of duplicate specimens, by donations 
and b}' other means. 

If the wisdom of Congress in so fully providing for a museum in 
the Smithsonian law challenges attention, the interpretation put upon 
this law by the Board of Regents within less than six months from the 
passage of the act can not but command admiration. In the early part 
of September, 181G, the Regents took steps toward formulating a plan 
of operations. The report of the committee appointed for this pur- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 6 

pose, submitted in December and January following, shows a thorough 
consideration of the subject in both the spirit and the letter of the law. 
It would seem not out of place to cite here the very first pronounce- 
ment of the Board with reference to the character of the Museum: 

"In obedience to the requirements of the charter,'* which leaves 
little discretion in regard to the extent of accommodations to be pro- 
vided, your committee recommend that there be included in the build- 
ing a nmseum of liberal size, fitted up to receive the collections destined 
for the Institution. * * * 

"As important as the cabinets of natural history by the charter 
required to be included in the Museum 3"our committee regard its eth- 
nological portion, including all collections that ma}^ supply items in 
the phj-sical history" of our species, and illustrate the manners, customs, 
religions and progressive advance of the various nations of the world: 
as, for example, collections of skulls, skeletons, portraits, dresses, 
implements, weapons, idols, antiquities, of the various races of man. 
* * * In this connexion, 3'our committee recommend the passage 
of resolutions asking the cooperation of certain public functionaries, 
and of the public generally, in furtherance of the above objects. 

"Your committee are further of opinion that in the Museum, if the 
funds of the Institution permit, might judiciously be included various 
series of models illustrating the progress of some of the most useful 
inventions; such, for example, as the steam engine from its earliest 
and rudest form to its present most improved state; but this they pro- 
pose only so far as it may not encroach on ground already covered by 
the numerous models in the Patent OflSce. 

"Specimens of staple materials, of their gradual manufacture, and 
of the finished products of manufactures and the arts may also, 3'our 
committee think, be usefully introduced. This would supply oppor- 
tunity to examine samples of the best manufactured articles our 
country afli'ords, and to judge her gradual progress in arts and manu- 
factures. * * * 

"The gallery of art, your committee think, should include both 
paintings and sculpture, as well as engravings and architectural 
designs; and it is desirable to have -in connexion with it one or more 
studios in which young artists might copy without interruption, being 
admitted under such regulations as the board may prescribe. Your 
committee also think that, as the collection of paintings and sculpture 
will probabl}' accumulate slowl}', the room destined for a gallery of art 
might properly and usefully meanwhile be occupied during the ses- 
sions of Congress as an exhibition room for the works of artists gen- 
erally; and the extent and general usefulness of such an exhibition 

"Since the Institution was not chartered in a legal sense Ijut estabUshecl by Con- 
gress, the use of the word "charter" in this connection would seem to be unauthor- 
ized. It was not subsequently employed. 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

might probabl}^ be increased if an arrangement could be effected with 
the Academy of Design, the Arts-Union, the Artists' Fund Society, 
and other associations of similar character, so as to concentrate at the 
metropolis for a certain portion of each winter the best results of 
talent in the fine arts." 

The important points in this report are, (1) that it was the opinion 
of the Regents that a museum was requisite under the law. Congress 
having left no discretion in the matter; (2) that ethnology and anthro- 
pology, though not specially named, were yet as important subjects as 
natural history; (3) that the history of the progress of useful inven- 
tions and the collection of the raw materials and products of the 
manufactures and arts should also be provided for; (4) for the gallery 
of art the committee had models in existence, and they proposed, pend- 
ing the gathering of art collections, which would of necessity be slow, 
to provide for loan exhibitions by cooperating with art academies and 
societies. 

In the resolutions which where adopted upon the presentation of 
this report, a museum was mentioned as "one of the principal modes 
of executing the act and trust." ^' The work was to go forward as the 
funds permitted, and, as is well known, the maintenance of the 
museum and the library was long ago assumed b}^ Congress, the Insti- 
tution taking upon itself only so much of the necessary responsibility 
for the administration of these and subsequent additions to its activi- 
ties as would weld them into a compact, scientific whole, which 
together forms a unique and notable agency for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge, for the direction of research, for cooperation 
with Departments of the Government and with universities and scien- 
tific societies in America, and likewise affords a definite correspond- 
ent to all scientific institutions and men abroad who seek interchange 
of views or knowledge with men of science in the United States. 

Since that early day no material change has been suggested in the 
general scope of the Government museum; it has only remained to 
elaborate the details, and the opportunity is now close at hand to 
realize all that the first Board had in view, since ample space will be 
available in about another two years. 

The development of the Museum has naturally been greatest in those 
subjects which the conditions of the past sixty years have made most 

« Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress estabUshing the Institu- 
tion, and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in liis will, 
that one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumula- 
tion of collections of specimens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and 
the gradual formation of a library of valuable works pertaining to all departments of 
human knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science, 
literature, and art may be provided which shall excite and diffuse the love of learn- 
ing among men, and shall assist the original investigations and efforts of those who 
may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of knowledge. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

fruitful — the natural history, g-eology, ethnolooy, and archeology of 
the United States, supplemented by many collections from other 
countries. The opportunities in these directions have been mainl}^ 
brought al)out through the activities of the scientific and industrial 
surveys of the Government, many of which are the direct outgrowths 
of earlier explorations, stimulated or directed by the Institution. 
The Centennial Exhil)ition of 1870 aflorded the first opportunity for 
establishing a department of the industrial arts on a creditable basis, 
and of this the fullest advantage was taken, though only a part of the 
collections then obtained could be accommodated in the space available. 

The department or gallery of the line arts has progressed less rapidly 
than the other branches, as anticipated at the outset, but not through 
an}^ lack of desire or appreciation. In fact, it is interesting to note 
that the first collection acquired by action of the Regents was a large 
series of choice engravings, purchased in 1849 at a cost of about ^,000, 
but now valued at more than ten times that sum. The recent gift by 
Mr. Charles L. Freer of his important art collection is certain to inspire 
renewed activitj^ in this direction, as is also the decree of the supreme 
court of the District of Columbia, announced in the closing daA's of 
the 3'ear, to the efl:"ect that the Smithsonian gallery is in law and in 
fact the National Gallery of Art, which insures the possession of the 
Harriet Lane .lohnston collection of paintings and other art objects. 

Another subject to which much attention has been paid with grati- 
fying results is American histor}", illustrated by objects representing 
distinguished personages and important events as well as the domestic 
life of the country from the colonial period to the present da}'. 

It has been deemed appropriate at this time to present the foregoing 
brief review of the scope of the national collections, since the time is 
approaching when they maj' be given an orderl}^ arrangement and 
when the subjects least developed from lack of space ma}' have the 
opportunity for growth. By transferring to the new building, as 
proposed to Congress, the subjects which are best represented, which 
have been as a whole most completely classified and can, therefore, be 
most advantageously exhibited for the benefit of the public, namely, 
ethnology, archeology, natural history, and geology, the present 
museum building ma}" be given over to the industrial arts. In cer- 
tain branches of this subject the collections are already important and 
extensive, and arrangements are already under way for large and 
valuable additions. Several halls in the Smithsonian building were 
originally planned for the gallery of art, and with a moderate expendi- 
ture they can be adjusted to suit the requirements of to-day. 

With its collections thus distributed between the three buildings, 
all fireproof and of substantial construction, the National Museum 
ma}' be expected to enter upon an era of renewed prosperity and use- 
fulness. 



6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190fi. 

While it is the primar}" duty of a museum to preserve the objects 
contided to its care, as it is that of a library to preserve its books and 
manuscripts, yet the importance of public collections rests not upon 
the mere ])asis of custodianship, nor upon the numl)er of specimens 
assembled and their money value, but upon the use to which they are 
put. Judged by this standard, the jNational Museum may claim to 
have reached a hij^h state of efficiency. From an educational point of 
view it is of great value to those persons who are so fortunate as to 
reside in Washington or who are able to visit the nation's capital. In 
its well-designed cases, in which every detail of structure, appoint- 
ments, and color is considered, a selection of representative objects is 
placed upon view to the pu])lic, all being carefully labeled individually 
and in groups. The child as well as the adult has been provided for, 
and the kindergarten pupil and the high-school scholar can be seen 
here, supplementing their class-room games or studies. Under 
authority from Congress, the small colleges and higher grades of schools 
and academies throughout the land, especially in places where muse- 
ums do not exist, are also being aided in their educational work by 
sets of duplicate specimens, selected and labeled to meet the needs of 
both teachers and pupils. 

Nor has the elementar}^ or even the higher education been b}' an3^ 
means the sole gainer from the work of the Museum. To advance 
knowledge, to gradually extend the boundaries of learning, has been 
one of the great tasks to which the Museum, in consonance with the 
spirit of the Institution, has set itself from the first. Its staff, though 
chiefly engaged in the duties incident to the care, classitication, and 
labeling of collections in order that they may be accessible to the pub- 
lic and to students, has 3^et in these operations made important dis- 
coveries in every department of the Museum's activities, which have 
in turn been communicated to other scholars through its numerous 
publications. But the collections have not been held for the study of 
the staff' nor for the scientihc advancement of those belonging to the 
establishment. Most freely have they been put at the disposal of 
investigators connected with other institutions, and, in fact, without 
the help of man}^ such the record of scientific progress based upon the 
material in the Museum would be greatly curtailed. When it is possi- 
ble to so arrange the investigator comes to Washington; otherwise 
such collections as he needs are sent to him, whether he resides in this 
country or abroad. In this manner practicall}^ every prominent spe- 
cialist throughout the world interested in the subjects here well rep- 
resented has had some use of the collections, and thereby the National 
Museum has come to be recognized as a conspicuous factor in the 
advancement of knowledee wherever civilization has a foothold. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

THE NEW HUILDINO FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The beginning- of the year found onl}' the foundations of the new 
building in place, and it was not until the latter part of the summer 
that enough stone had been received to commence the erection of the 
walls. The first stone to be set, one of the large pieces of the base 
course next adjoining the northern projection on the east, was laid on 
August 21, 1905, from which time the construction of the basement 
walls was continued until their completion, except at the entrances on 
both the north and south sides. The several rows of massive brick 
piers required to support the exceptionally broad and heavy floors of 
the main story, as well as the hwing of the steel framework and brick 
arches of these floors, were also flnished, and work was begun in June 
on the court walls of the main story. 

The plans of the building as approved in January, 1904, are being- 
followed, except as to the south central feature, the central projection 
on the north side, and certain matters of detail, in regard to which it 
was understood in the beginning that further studies would be neces- 
saiy to produce the best results. All of the alterations suggested by 
the architects, however, have been in the direction of securing greater 
simplicity and more perfect harmony in the several parts of the build- 
ing. These changes, approved in April last, insure the acquisition 
by the Government of a structure of exceptional dignity and merit, 
which will rank among the finest museum buildings of the world. 
Not least among its qualities is the massive character of the walls, 
which already count many pieces of granite weighing from 10 to 19 
tons apiece, a suflicient guaranty of its stabilit}^ and permanence. 

The failure of one of the quarries to furnish stone within the time 
agreed upon has been the cause of some delay and has retarded the 
completion of the building until about two years hence, making the 
total period required for its erection about four years. Before the 
close of the year, however, practically all of the important additional 
contracts had been let, and it is expected that greater activity will 
prevail hereafter. 

SOME IMPORTANT MATTERS OF THE YEAR. 

A satisfactory^ conclusion has fortunately been reached regarding 
the worn-out roofs on the present Museum building, which, it has been 
found, can be entirely replaced without removing the collections below. 
Steps have been taken in this direction, and since the walls were veiy 
substantially constructed, there is no reason wh}" the building may not 
soon be placed in even a better condition than it was original!}. 

With the rapid increase in the national collections, which has lately 
averaged nearly a quarter of a million specimens annuall}^, the-Museum, 



8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

as well as the Smithsonian building', has been turned into a veritable 
storehouse of vakiable material. Year b}^ year the exhibition cases 
have been brouglit closer and closer together, and great spaces have 
been shut off from the public view to permit of the shelter of thou- 
sands of new accessions, whose importance can only be revealed upon 
the completion of the new building. In this manner the freedom of 
circulation through the biulding has been much curtailed, and its con- 
tents have become so crowded that it has been deemed a matter of 
prudence to close, as far as possible, the great openings of the inner 
walls, in order to isolate the different sections and prevent the spread 
of fire, should one occur. This work has already been started, but 
some time will be required for its completion. 

As an additional fire precaution experiments are in progress look- 
ing to the fitting up of the storerooms and laboratories with metal 
cases, having especiall}'' in view the requirements of the new building, 
and the importance of providing absolute protection for the reserve 
collections. 

The collections of the Museum were increased during the year to 
the extent of about 257,000 specimens. In ethnology large accessions 
were received from Arizona and New Mexico, the Philippine Islands 
and Mala3^sia, and smaller but important ones from the Egyptian 
Sudan, Austria, and Colombia. The additions in archeology, less 
extensive but of great interest, came mainly from Japan, France, 
Switzerland, Algeria, Colombia, Mexico, and Florida. The collections 
in phj^sical anthropology were mainly enriched by material from 
Mahiysia and from ancient Indian ruins and mounds in the western 
and southwestern part of the United States. 

The exhibition of small arms, in the division of technology, has been 
made the finest in the country by the courtesy of the United States Car- 
tridge Company, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in depositing its valua])le 
collection of 569 pieces, man}^ of great rarity. All of the important 
typical features in the development of devices for throwing projectiles, 
from the crossbow to the latest form of gun and pistol, are repre- 
sented, requiring 38 large cases for their installation. To the collec- 
tion in aerodromics have been added original examples of the Lilien- 
thal and Hargrave aeroplanes. The manufacture of cut glass in all 
its stages and the recent advances in the potter's art in America are 
illustrated b}' two beautiful series of examples. 

Through the British Indian government the division of historic 
religions acquired a valuable Tibetan manuscript on Buddhistic the- 
ology, and several important Jewish ceremonial objects were added to 
the Benguiat loan collection. 

The historical exhibits were enriched by many objects of interest 
and intrinsic value, including rich costumes and personal ornaments 
dating from the beginning of the last century and relics of Capt. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 9 

Jame.s Lawrence, U. S. Navy, Gen. Santa Anna, of Mexico, and Gen. 
efose Antonio Paez, tlie Venezuelan patriot. 

Among- the objects of art received were a full-length portrait of 
General Paez, painted by John J. Peoli and donated by the children 
of the latter, and the beautiful marble bust of Maj. Walter Reed, 
U. S. Army, executed by Mr. Hans Schuler and deposited b}^ the 
Walter Reed Memorial Association. 

The accessions in the several branches of biology amounted to about 
227,000 specimens. The most important was the donation by Mr. 
William Schaus of his valuable collection of American Lepidoptera, 
numbering 75,000 specimens. The Bureau of Fisheries transferred 
an exceptionally large quantity of fishes and marine invertebrates, 
including the tj'pes of several hundred new species obtained during 
explorations at the Hawaiian and Philippine islands, on the coast of 
Japan, in the tropical Pacific, along the west coast of America from 
Alaska to Panama, and at Porto Rico. 

Of mammals, the principal additions came from Mala3-sia through 
Doctor Abbott; of birds, from "the Philippines and Guam through 
Doctor Mearns; of reptiles, from Japan, Formosa, and the Philip- 
pines, and of mollusks, from Burma through Doctor Chamberlain. 
Besides the Schaus collection, the division of insects received 33,000 
specimens through the Department of Agriculture, mainly from 
Texas, Central America, the West Indies, and Japan. 

Over 37,000 plants were added to the Herbarium, the greater num- 
ber having been obtained through explorations in Mexico and from 
the Department of Agi'iculture. 

The U. S. Geological Survey was the principal contributor in geo- 
logical subjects, the transfers including large series of rocks and ores 
from recent surveys in the West, and of many thousands of fossil 
invertebrates and plants described in recent bulletins. There were, 
however, many additions of valuable material from other sources. 

As far as can be determined, it ma}^ be said that the entire series of 
collections is being maintained in good condition, and every possible 
resource is directed toward preserving this rich accumulation of over 
sixt}^ years until its safety can be further insured in more appropriate 
and secure surroundings. All additions have been carefully recorded, 
and to the extent that the conveniences permit, all classes of specimens 
are accessible for reference or study. 

The large upper hall in the Smithsonian l)uilding, devoted to the 
archeologicarcollections, so long under repair, has been again opened 
to the public with an entire revision 'of its contents, which makes it 
more attractive and instructive than ever. 

Notwithstanding the increased demands upon the staff in routine 
matters, the amount of research work accomplished in connection with 
the classification of the collections has been noteworthy. The number 



10 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

of publications issued during the year was exceptional, comprising 8 
volumes, though some of these were begun the year before. They 
consist of 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, and 4 bulletins. 
Of the papers they contain, 81 were actually issued during the year, all 
descriptive of the collections in the Museum except the administra- 
tive reports. The number of copies of volumes and separates dis- 
tributed was over 100,000. 

Of duplicate specimens separated from the reserve collections, over 
20,000 were distributed to educational establishments throughout the 
country and above 17,000 were used in making exchanges. 

THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS. 

On December 21, 1905, the directors of several of the large museums 
in the United States met at the National Museum to discuss the 
expediency of organizing for America a society corresponding in its 
aims with the Museums Association of Great Britain. As a result of 
the deliberations at this time a call was issued for a general meeting, 
which was held at the American Museum of Natural History, New 
York, on May 15 and 16, 1906, the attendance being large and repre- 
sentative of museums of art, as well as of natural history and eth- 
nology. An organization was effected by the adoption of a temporary 
constitution and the election of a board of officers. The publication 
of some form of periodical in the interest of museums was proposed. 

The importance of this movement, so auspiciously inaugurated, can 
not be overestimated, since the opportunity for interchange of views 
will surely stimulate the activities of museums everywhere and tend 
to increase their benefits in behalf of the public, for which they are 
instituted. 



SUMMARY OP' THE 0PP:RAT10NS OF THE YEAR. 



APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES. 

The appropriations made by Congress for the maintenance and 
activities of the National Museum during the year 1905-6 are given 
in the following ta))le, which also shows the expenditures under each 
item for the 3 ear and the balances remaining on June 30, 1906, to 
meet outstanding liabilities. 



Object. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating, lighting, and electrical service 

Building repairs 

Books, pamphlets, and periodicals 

Rent of workshops, etc 

Postage 

Printing and binding 

Total 



Appropria- 
tions. 



$180, 000. 00 

22, 500. 00 

18,000.00 

1.5, 000. 00 

2, 000. 00 

4, 580. 00 

500. 00 

25, 000. 00 



Expenditures. 



175,841.40 

19, 843. 02 

16, 603. 25 

10,206.62 

1,262.18 

4, 579. 92 

500.00 

24, 775. 93 



267, 580. 00 



253, 612. 22 



Balances 
June 30, 1906. 



84, 158. 60 

2, 656. 98 

1, 396. 75 

4. 793. 48 

737. 82 



224.07 



13, 967. 78 



The sum of $1,500,000 was also appropriated for continuing the 
construction of the new Museum building. 

The disbursements made during the past year from unexpended bal- 
ances of appropriations for the two previous 3'ears are indicated in the 
following tables: 

From balances of appropriations for 1904-5. 



Object. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating and lighting 

Building repairs 

Books, etc 

Rent of workshops, etc 

Transportation of exhil)its acquired at the Louisiana Pvir- 

chase Exposition 

Printing and binding 

Total 



Balances 
June 30, 1905. 



SB, 645. 34 
2,769.99 
1, 469. 40 
1,800.90 
965. 9C 
.08 

5, 235. 12 

175. 31 



Expendi- 
tures 1905-6. 



19, 062. 10 



074. 04 
6S1. 31 
388. 38 
493. 31 
905. 69 



4,063.79 



Balances 
June 30, 1906. 



S571. 30 

88.68 

81.02 

307. 59 

60.27 



1,171.33 
175. 31 



2,455.58 



11 



12 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



From balances of appropriations for 1903-4- 



Object. 



Preservation of collections. 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating and lighting 

Building repairs 

Books, etc 

Purchase of specimens 

Rent of workshops, etc 

Total 



Balances 
July 1, 1905. 



$198. 99 
6.94 
54.48 
53.34 
18.32 
614. 72 



Expendi- 
tures 190-5-6. 



S188.13 



10.71 



Balances 
July 1, 1906. 



110. 86 

6.94 

54.48 

53.34 

7.61 

614. 72 

.08 



198.84 



748. 03 



Eent of workshops, etc |4, 580 

Postage 500 

Printing and binding 34 , 000 

Total 274,080 



For the operations of the fiscal year endino- June 30, 1907, Congress 
voted the following appropriations in the sundry civil act approved 
June 30, 1906: 

Preservation of collections $180, 000 

Furniture and fixtures 20, 000 

Heating and lighting 18, 000 

Building repairs 15, 000 

Books, pamphlets, and periodi- 
cals --- 2,000 

Besides the regular appropriations, $500,000 was granted for con- 
tinuing work upon the new building for the Museum. 

Comparing the appropriations for 1907 with those for 1906, it will 
be noticed that the amount for furniture and fixtures has been reduced 
by $2,500 and that for printing and binding has been increased by 
$9,000. The latter change was occasioned by the fact that all printing 
was specifically appropriated for, while heretofore the cost of printing 
the annual reports was charged against the general fund of the Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. 

BUILDINGS. 

An account of the progress made in the erection of the new Museum 
building has been given on a previous page. 

The subjects requiring most attention under building repairs were 
the roofs and certain measures for increasing the fire protection. 
Each section of the Museum building has virtually a separate roof. 
The rotunda, main halls, courts, corner pavilions and central towers 
are covered with slate, while the low ranges which adjoin the outer 
walls are roofed with tin. There is besides a complicated system of 
gutters and down spouts. The tin roofs have at no time demanded 
more than the ordinary amount of repair, but most of the slate roofs, 
which are too flat to justify the use of that material, and the gutters 
and down spouts have caused endless annoyance and much damage. ^ It 
had been thought necessary to await the completion of the new build- 
ing before steps could be taken to replace them. Through the cour^ 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ] 3 

tesy of the Supervising- Architect of the Treasury Department, how- 
ever, plans were drawn up during the 3'ear under which new tin roofs 
may be substituted for tlie slate over the exhibition halls Avithout 
materially interfering with the collections below. "While much of the 
framework is scarcely strong enough to support slate, it is entirely 
adequate for the lighter metal covering. It was not until late in the 
year that the arrangements to this end were perfected, but contracts 
were let for roofs over the east hall and the adjoining courts, the work 
to continue during the summer. It is expected that as much, if not 
more, can be accomplished under the appropriation for 1907. 

Some attention has also been given to the gutters and down spouts 
on the Smithsonian building, which have for a long time been in such 
bad condition that during the spring thaws a great deal of water backs 
into the archeological hall, causing injury to the walls and the dis- 
figurement of the painting. Much of the old tin roof on the Museum 
building was painted, and the old slate on the northwest pavilion was 
replaced Iw other of a better quality. 

The partitions which separate the halls, courts, and ranges in the 
]\luseum building are l)roken by so man}' large, arched openings, reach- 
ing nearly to the roofs, as to make of the exhibition space practicalh^ 
one large room, about two acres in extent. While the building itself, 
including these interior partitions, was constructed of fireproof 
materials, yet the immense collection, now greatly crowded, contains 
much that is combustible. Every possible means of detecting the 
occurrence of a tire and of preventing its spread have been introduced, 
but as an additional and very necessar}^ precaution it has been decided 
to isolate the difterent sections as far as possible. The only way to 
accomplish this effectively is to close all openings, except the few 
necessary passageway's, with some fireproof material, and macite has 
been selected for the purpose after subjecting it to a thorough test. 
Much was done in this direction during the year, the following places 
having been already isolated wholly or in part: The stor}^ over the south- 
east range, occupied by a part of the herbarium and of the collections 
of the Biological Survey; the gallery in the west-north range used b}^ 
the library and the division of history ; the pueblo court, and the west 
side of the south hall. 

Among other items of repair ma}- be mentioned the entire renova- 
tion, including the plumbing, of the toilet rooms in the ]\Iuseum build- 
uig; the laying of a broad water table along the north front of the 
same building to check the seepage of water into the conduits con- 
taining the steam pipes and electric wires; the repainting of all the 
woodwork on the outside of this building; the renewal of the 42 win- 
dows in the clearstory of the west corridor of the Smithsonian build- 
ing, and the repainting of many walls, disfigured by water or by time. 

NAT MUS 1906 2 



14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

The heating plant was kept in good condition, with a few changes 
and additions. Steam was maintained from October 18, 190.5, to May 
11, 1906, with a consumption of 725 tons of furnace coal, 43 tons of 
e^g coal, and 82^ cords of wood. 

A thorough inspection of the electric lighting system was made by an 
electrical engineer detailed b}^ the Supervising Architect of the Treas- 
ur}^ Department, with the result of introducing man}- changes in the 
plant, to make it conform more nearl}^ to modern methods and to 
eliminate all elements of danger. 

There were on hand at the close of the year 2,336 exhibition cases, 
2,279 storage cases, and 1,580 pieces of miscellaneous furniture. Of 
the additions in this line during the 3'ear, 59 cases were made in the 
Museum workshops, 151 were purchased, 1-1 were acquired from the 
Bureau of American Republics, and 2 from the U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey. Besides this above 1,641 standard unit storage cases, insect 
drawers, and trays were purchased, and a great deal of attention was 
given in the Museum shops to repairing, remodeling, and retinishing 
old exhibition cases. 

The danger from fire, which is greater in the storage rooms than in 
the exhibition halls, has led to some experiments in the direction of 
securing noncombustible furniture for the former, having especially 
in view the needs of the new building. In providing for the storage 
of the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera, which fills about 500 mahog- 
any drawers of regulation size, a ver}^ satisfactory metal case was 
obtained on special order, each of a size to hold 50 of the drawers in 
two vertical tiers. The racks are made of channel and angle iron and 
covered on the back and top with sheet iron, and with the runners on 
which the drawers slide of cold-rolled steel riveted to the channel irons 
on the side. Experiments are in progress looking to the construction 
in metal of satisfactory standard storage cases and drawers, and her- 
barium cases. A number of the drawers have been received, but it is 
still too early to pass judgment upon them. Shelves of iron and glass 
have also been introduced in one of the laboratories, with excellent 
results. 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

The total number of accessions received during the year was 1,516, 
comprising 257,605 sptcimens, of which 8,232 were assigned to the 
department of anthropology, 227,633 to the department of biology, 
and 21,740 to the department of geology. A detailed list of these 
accessions is given in the latter part of this report, only the more 
important ones being referred to on the following pages. 

Anthropology. — Of the 62 accessions received by the division of 
ethnology, the larger ones, with a single exception, resulted from 
explorations by Dr. W. L. Abbott, Dr. Walter Hough, Prof. E. L. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15 

Hewett, and Mi'. George W. Ellis. The contributions from Doctor 
Abbott comprised three collections, the first from the islands of 
Engano and Nias, off the west coast of Sumatra, with a few speci- 
mens from other neighboring localities; the second from West 
Borneo, and the third from western Sumatra. The Engano collec- 
tion is especially interesting for the reason that the natives, who 
are fast disappearing; present marked differences in their arts from 
the inhabitants of other near-by islands. It consists, besides photo- 
graphs of the people, of articles illustrating their costimies and orna- 
uients, weapons and trophies of war, canoes and paddles, nets and 
traps, domestic utensils, baskets, tools, and the products of various 
industries. The Nias collection, which is also large and valuable, was 
secured principallj^ in the extreme north and south of the island. It 
resembles that from Engano, but is especially rich in objects of wor- 
ship. The material from West Borneo was secured in the Pontianak 
residency, which includes the waters of the Kapuas River S3'stem. 
This region was thoroughly explored by Doctor Abbott, who visited 
all the subdistricts. The collection is especially rich in basketr}^ and 
weapons, but other classes of objects are well represented, such as 
traps, tools, and other utensils connected with the domestic arts, cos- 
tumes, musical instruments, and agricultural implements. The col- 
lection from Avestern Sumatra, though much smaller than tEe others, 
is of much value. 

The collection of the Museum-Gates expedition contains about 3,000 
specimens. The exploration was conducted by Doctor Hough, in con- 
junction with Mr. P. G. Gates, of Pasadena, California, who gener- 
ously assumed the entire expense of the lieldwork. The season 
extended from June to October, 1905, the region covered lying* in the 
mountains and drainage system of the San Francisco River on the 
border between Arizona and New Mexico. The material secured con- 
sists of pottery, stone implements, basketry, bows and arrows, tex- 
tile fabrics, ceremonial offerings, etc., from ancient pueblos and caves, 
the bones of several animals, including the bison, being obtained in 
the latter. From the pueblo cemeteries the skeletons of former 
inha])itants were secured, and from one of the caves three desiccated 
human bodies. A collection of plants was also made. 

An exploration of the ruins in Pajarito Park, New INIexico, by Prof. 
K. L. Hewett, for the Bureau of American Ethnology, resulted in the 
acquisition of 129 specimens, principally ancient Tewa pottery and 
])one and stone implements and crania. The collection is especiall}^ 
interesting on account of the class of potter}^ which is of a new type, 
exhibiting a remarkable s3Mnbolism, and from the fact that the crania 
secured were almost all pureh' dolichocephalic. 

The collection from Mr. George W. Ellis, of Monrovia, Liberia, 
was received as a loan. It consists of 393 ethnological objects from 



16 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

the Vai-speaking- peoples of western Africa (Soudan), gathered by 
Mr. Ellis while at his post as secretary of the American legation in 
Liberia. Jt is rich in specimens of the fine leather work manufactured 
b}^ these natives and also contains examples of their costumes, pottery, 
models of canoes, household belongings, and samples of the mineral, 
animal, and vegetable products of the country. 

The Philippine Insular Connnission at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition presented 458 specimens, a selection from the immense 
exhibits of the Commission, consisting of potter}^ musical instruments, 
basketr}^, agricultural tools, models of houses, transportation devices, 
costumes, textile fabrics, etc., illustrating the culture of the islands. 
This gift was in addition to the large collection received from the 
same source the 3"ear before. 

Mrs. Jane Friedenwald, of Baltimore, donated to the Museum a 
collection of ethnologica, numbering 46 objects from the Egj^ptian 
Soudan, comprising musical instruments, spears, swords, ironwork, 
and leather work, of superior interest and v^alue. The geographical 
cabinet of the Benedictine School, Seitenstetten, Lower Austria, sent 
in exchange, through Prof. P. Josef Schock, an excellent series of 19 
ethnological and industrial objects from southeastern Europe. Dr. H. 
Pittier, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, contributed a collec- 
tion of 18 ethnological specimens from the Popayan Indians of Cauca, 
Colombia, consisting of baskets, dishes, personal ornaments, and figu- 
rines carved from seeds and painted in colors. 

The more notewortliy additions to the division of prehistoric arche- 
ology have been as follows: Through Mr. Jean Miguel, of Herault, 
France, there were obtained in exchange 106 objects, including flint 
hatchets, knives and scrapers, bone awls, fragments of animal and 
human bones, etc., mainly from caverns in France and Algeria, besides 
a number of polished stone implements, fragments of potter}^, bronze 
pins, and a bronze hatchet, from various localities in France and from 
a pile dwelling at Lake Morat, Switzerland. Mr. Miguel also donated 
a small collection of the same character. Dr. H. Pittier presented 3 
especially tine specimens of earthenware spindle whorls, Avith incised 
and inlaid decorations, taken from graves in the Cauca Valley, Colom- 
bia, and also a gold spider and fishhook from southern Cauca. A 
small collection from Bogota, Colombia, consisting mainl}^ of stone 
spindle whorls, all more or less decorated with incised line patterns, and 
a number of stone implements from New Jersey, were received as a gift 
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Pope, of Valparaiso, Chile. Thirt3'-one 
earthenware bowls, bottles, efiigy vases, tripod vases and figurines, 
and two stone hatchets, from Ahoma, Sinaloa, Mexico, apparently 
washed out of an ancient burial groimd, were contributed by Mr. E. 
W. Nelson, of the Biological Survey, who obtained them during his 
summer field-work of 1905. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17 

An interesting collection of 58 polished stone hatchets, arrow points, 
perforators, rice spoons, rouo-lily shaped points of Hint, curved 
"jewels'' or amulets, and a bead of nephrite, from various localities 
in Japan, were reeeiv^ed in exchange from Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kara- 
Humarn, Kyoto. Five sculptured stone heads, parts of small statues, 
from Nagasaki, Japan, said to have been [)laced over graves, and 
])elonging to the collection of the late Pierre Louis Jouy, were i)re- 
sented b}" Mrs. Jon}'. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology transferred a quantity of shell 
implements and ol)jects, fragments of pottery, man}' showing incised 
and stamped decorations, and fossil bones obtained by Dr. Ales 
Hrdlicka from a shell mound near Ospre}', Florida; and the U. S. 
Geological Surve}' a large number of mollusks, representing 24: 
species, illustrating a part of the food of the mound builders, collected 
at the same place by Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan. 

A loan collection belonging to Mr. A. H. Blackiston, of Cumber- 
land, Maryland, comprises earthenware ollas, bowls, effigy vases, etc., 
with painted and incised decorations, and a number of the highly pol- 
ished specimens of black ware, stone axes, mortars, pestles, rubbing 
and polishing stones, carved stone amulets, copper objects, shell beads 
and pendants, shell necklaces, sandals of yucca fiber, fragments of 
cane matting, and pieces of human and animal bones froui the Casas 
Grandes Valley and from Cave Valley, Chihuahua, Mexico, many 
having been obtained from ancient clitf dwellings. The painted pot- 
tery is of special interest as representing some new forms and sym- 
bolisms. An ax of limonite, found by Mr. J. M. Wulting while dig- 
ging a well in Gasconade County, Missouri, is especially noteworthy 
from the fact that the material is quite light, like chalk, and not of 
the usual tirm, heavy material of which stone axes are made. 

The principal accessions in the division of physical anthropology 
were as follows: Over 100 specimens from Malay, including a num- 
ber of brains of the orang, gibbon, and monkeys, besides 4 complete 
bodies of gibbons, presented by Doctor Abbott; an important collec- 
tion of skeleton parts of white races, from Prof. George S. Hunting- 
ton, of Columbia University, in exchange; many crania and other 
bones, through the Bureau of Ethnology, collected at the ancient Indian 
ruins in Pajarito Park, New Mexico, by Mr. E. L. Hewett, and in the 
vicinity of Osprey, Florida, by Doctor Hrdlicka; Indian bones and 
crania from mounds in North Dakota, donated by Prof. H. Montgom- 
er}', of the University of Toronto; many specimens of the same char- 
acter from the ancient sites of Pueblo Indians in New Mexico and 
Arizona, through the Museum-Gates expedition of 1905; the brains 
of a number of animals which had died at the National Zoological 
Park; nearly 1,000 photographs of Indians belonging to over 30 tribes 



18 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

in the southwestern United States and northern Mexico from nega- 
tives taken by Doctor Hrdlicka on the Hyde expeditions, contributed 
])y the American Museum of Natural History. Important material 
was also received from Dr. H. Pittier, Dr. D. S. Lamb, of the Army 
Medical Museum, Prof. J. E. Tylor, of Oxford, Maryland, and Mr. 
C. Hagenbeck. 

The additions to the collections of technology were exceptionally 
valuable and noteworthy, especially in the section of firearms. This 
was mainly due to the generosity of the United States Carti'idge Com- 
pany, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in depositing its unique historical 
collection of small arms, Avhich the company has been asseml)ling for 
some 3'ears. It is the finest and most complete collection of its kind 
in the country, and its acquisition places the Museum in the front rank 
in respect to this subject. The collection comprizes 509 pieces, many 
of great rarity, carefully selected to illustrate the art of gun making 
from the beginning to the present time. It is systematical h^ installed 
in 38 mahogany cases furnished by the company and yery appropri- 
ately constructed to display their contents to the best advantage. All 
important tj^pical features in the mechanical development of devices 
for throwing projectiles are shown, from the crossbow through the 
advancing stages of matchlocks, wheel locks, flintlocks, guns with 
percussion pill locks, percussion cap locks, and magazine primer locks, 
to the modern types adapted to the use of metallic cartridges. The 
development of breech-loading and magazine guns is w^ell illustrated. 
Many of the pieces are examples of fine artistic work in gold, silver, 
ivory, and other ornamental materials. 

Of the 38 cases in the exhibition 1 is devoted to arbalests, or cross- 
bows; 1 to ancient matchlocks; 1 to Japanese matchlocks and blunder- 
busses; 2 to flintlock muskets used in the war of the revolution; 1 to 
guns made by the United States Government between 1799 and 1860; 
8 to guns used b}^ the United States Army during the civil war; 1 to 
guns used by the Confederate army during the civil war; 1 to breech- 
loading rifles; 1 to repeating arms; 1 to magazine and revolving arms; 
1 to telescope and sporting rifles; 2 to rifles captured from American 
Indians; 2 to musketoons, whaling guns, etc.; 3 to fowling pieces; 1 
to guns used by historical personages; 1 to foreign flintlocks; 1 to 
modern military guns, and 5 to revolvers and pistols. In two special 
cases are a Springfield magazine rifle of the model of 1903, and what 
is considered the most valuable piece in the collection, commonly called 
the Cookson gun, dated 1586. The latter appears to have been made 
by John Cookson, in England, but shows, in features of construction 
and embellishment, certain Spanish, Moorish, or Turkish character- 
istics. It is of superior workmanship and is elaborately and richly 
decorated. The features of most interest are the magazine and auto- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19 

matie loading devices. Separate chambers in the stock carry a supply 
of loose powder and bullets, and these are fed into the barrel by a 
single movement of a simple lever, which at the same time closes the 
pan and cocks the hammer of the flintlock. This relic was discovered 
in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1803, by a provost-marshal and held in the 
custody of the Government until after the close of the war, when it 
was sold to a local dealer, finally passing- into the possession of the 
Carti'idge Compan}'. 

Three interesting pieces have also been added to the collection of 
arms through the courtesy of the War Department. One is a Spring- 
field musket made in 1800, being the immediate successor of the 
Charleville model, of which a number of examples were sent to this 
country l)v the Government of France just before the war of the Revo- 
lution. The Charleville model was employed by the French army and 
was regarded as the most effective military gun of its time; it was used 
during a considerable period by the ordnance officers of the Ujiited 
States Army as a pattern for making guns at the Springfield Arsenal, 
slight improvements being introduced from time to time. The other 
two are United States magazine rifles of the model of 1903, with 
improvements of 19<>5, including the knife bayonet. 

The collection of aeroplanes has received several important pieces. 
One of these was an example of the so-called air sailer, having no pro- 
pelling power, but used to support a man in flight from some elevated 
point to the ground, constructed and used by Otto Lilienthal, a noted 
German experimenter in this subject, which w^as presented to the 
Museum by Mr. John Brisben Walker. Another was one of the flying 
machines inv^ented by Mr. Lawrence Hargrave, of New South Wales, 
and donated by the Field Museum of Natural History of Chicago. 
This example is provided with propellers driven b}- a compressed-air 
engine placed near the forward end of a central tubular shaft, the 
latter serving as the compressed-air reservoir, and was tested by Mr. 
Hargrave in 1891, when it made a flight of 312 feet. Mr. Octave 
Chanute, of Chicago, so well known for his experiments in aerodromics, 
has ver}' generouslv given to the Museum a number of small models 
and parts of apparatus of his own devising, which are of much histor- 
ical interest. 

The collection of American watch movements has been enriched by 
several interesting additions, illustrating advancing steps in the indus- 
try. As a loan from Mr. Frederick Leach, of New York, there were 
received a movement made b}^ Dennison. Howard & Davis, at W^al- 
thani, Mass., before the organization of the American Waltham Com- 
pany, and forming a basis for the work done immediately afterwards; 
one of the first stem- winding lady's watches; a collection of typical 
watch movements made in the United States at an early date, and one 



20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

watch movement made by the Palmer Watch Company, of Waltham. 
Mr. Thomas Featherstonhaug-h, of Washington, presented a move- 
ment made by the United States Watch Company, Marion, New Jer- 
se}% which marks a step in the history of watch making in the United 
States, and Mr. J. C. Lindsey, of Kavenna, Ohio, contributed an 
antique silver watch made by Christian Lehmann, at Vattenuyl, Ger- 
many, supposed to be about one hundred and fifty j^ears old. 

Mr. George F. (Xunmings, of New York, donated two historical docu- 
ments relating to the invention of the telegraph, one being an invita- 
tion from Professor Morse to the father of Mr. Cummings to witness 
the operation of his electric magnetic telegraph at a private exhibi- 
tion in the geological cabinet of the New York City University on 
January 22, 1838, the other an original- message recorded in the char- 
acters of the Morse alphabet, said to have been made on the same 
date. 

The gallery of ceramics received 94 pieces, the most interesting 
addition being a gift from the Libby Glass Company, illustrating the 
processes involved in the manufacture of cut glass. The materials and 
the proportion of each employed in the making of the glass are rep- 
resented. There is a miniature model of the furnace with the clay 
crucibles in which the glass is melted, and also a set of the tools and a 
series of objects in glass showing the successive stages of cutting from 
the plain condition to the finished product, comprising beautiful exam- 
ples of this art. The Rev. Curt Morhart, of Bavaria, generously 
donated a clay tablet with green glaze, bearing an allegorical repre- 
sentation of what is said to be the discovery of America by Columbus; 
it is supposed to have been made between 1520 and 1545. Through 
the meeting in Washington, during the winter, of the American Pot- 
ters' Association, the Museum came into possession of 50 line exam- 
ples of the potter's art, presented by 21 difierent manufacturers. The 
association has generously offered to add material to this collection 
when more space becomes available, and to keep the Museum supplied 
with the latest noteworthy productions. 

Of the additions in graphic arts, two may be mentioned. The first 
consists of twelve lithographic prints in color, constituting a part of 
the illustrations in the notable work of the late Heber R. Bishop, enti- 
tled "Investigations and Studies in Jade," They were presented by 
the Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing Company, of Boston, and rep- 
resent the highest tj^pe of the lithographic art of to-day. The other 
is an original copperplate, one of a series engraved for iHustrating 
" Philoponus," etc. , published b}^ the Benedictine Monaster}^ at Seiten- 
stetten, Lower Austria, in 1621, and obtained in exchange from the 
Geographical School Museum at the monastery. 

The section of photography received, among many other objects, 
one of the first model "Genie" magazine cameras, presented by 



REPORT OP ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21 

Mr. William E. Schneider, of Washington, and an Ippcr's relief- 
])hotograph, showing an entire]}' new application of photography, 
the gift of Mr. All)ert II. Walker, of New York City. 

To the collection of musical instruments were added an upright 
piano, with twelve boxes of musical instruments made by Debain, of 
Paris, about 1850, a bequest from the late Mrs. Ann A. Jeffcott, 
of New Haven, Connecticut; a collection of old nmsical instruments 
presented by ]\Ir. Weston D. Bay ley, of Philadelphia, and a harp or 
musical bow of the type made and used b}^ the natives of the Barbados, 
from Mrs. Sarah S. Frishnuith. of Philadelphia. 

One of the most important acquisitions by the division of historic 
religions was a Tibetan manuscript presented by the British Indian 
government, entitled "Prajna Paramita, or Transcendental VV'isdom." 
It consists of a treatise on Tibetan Buddhistic theology or metaphysics, 
written in gold characters on the ])lack ground of 303 cardboards, 
))etween covers of lacquered wood. To Mr. Ephraim Benguiat the 
Museum is indebted for the loan of the following objects: An elaborate 
embroidery of fine French workmanship of the period of Louis XV, 
representing Joseph in an P2gyptian chariot, with scenes of Egyptian 
life; an old English lamp, with a chain of quatrefoil; eight finely 
wrought and engraved silver cups used at the Jewish passover meal, 
and an old Samaritan bronze case of the To rah scroll, inlaid in silver, 
with Samaritan inscriptions and arabesques. Of special interest for 
the study of religions is a "Pujah" set, consisting of the parapher- 
nalia used in Hindu family worship, showing the private and domestic 
side of Hindu religious life, obtained from Miss Emily Brainard 
Kyder. 

Th(^ historical collection received many accessions during the year, 
of which the following are the more important: Mrs. Julian eJames, 
of Washington, added to her already large loan collection man}' cos- 
tumes, ornaments of personal wear, and toilet articles, worn or used 
b}' the Bailey -jM3'ers-Mason families from 1812 to 1900. The interest 
shown b}' Mrs. James in the welfare of this division may be illustrated 
by the mention of some of her recent deposits, which comprise gold 
and silver watches ornamented with jewels; bracelets of diamonds and 
other precious stones and of carved jet beads; tortoise-shell combs, 
some jeweled; opera glasses, one with a diamond monogram; brooches, 
pins, card cases of silver, gold, and amber, a solid silver wash bowl 
and pitcher handed down in the famil}^ from Spanish ancestors; silver 
cups, jade intaglio scarf pins, a pearl and diamond necklace on gold 
wire, gold and silver chatelaine ))ags, fans of pearl and Ivor}', earrings 
of gold and precious stones, five rare and valuable East India shawls, 
parasols of lace and carved ebony, a dress of pina cloth, satin and silk 
dresses, signet rings; a cross of the Order of Isabella the Catholic and 
one of the Legion of Honor of France conferred upon members of 



22 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

the family, commissions and warrants in the Navy, and other docu- 
ments. Mrs. James also presented the telescope used by Rear-Admiral 
(then Captain) Theodorius Bailey, U. S. Navy, second in command of 
the Mississippi expedition sent by Admiral Farragut on Ma}^ 1, 1802, 
to demand the surrender of the cit}^ of New Orleans. 

Five pieces of silver plate presented b>^ the common councils of the 
cities of Philadelphia and New York, in 1813, to Capt. James Law- 
rence, U. S. Nav}', of the U. S. S. Hornet^ for his capture of the 
British sloop-of-war Peacock during the war of 1812, were lent by Mr. 
William Preston Redmond, of New York City. A telescope and gold- 
headed cane wdiich l)elonged to Gen. Santa Anna, President of Mexico 
and commander of the army of invasion of Texas in 1836, were depos- 
ited in behalf of the heirs of Gen. 8am Houston, and several uniforms 
and objects of military accouterment worn b}^ Gen. Jose Antonio 
Paez, the Venezuelan patriot who died at New York City in 1861, when 
minister from Venezuela to the United States, were received as a loan 
from Jose Antonio Paez, of Staten Island, New York. It is interest- 
ing to note in this connection the acquisition by the Museum of a full- 
length oil portrait of General Paez, painted by John J. Peoli, and 
generousl}^ donated by the children of the artist through his daughter, 
Mrs. Mar}^ Peoli Maginn, of New York. Mr. Peoli was born in New 
York, October 1, 1825, but when only 3 ^^ears old his parents removed 
to Havana, where the youth l)egan the study of art at the Royal 
Academy of San Alejandro. At the age of 11 3' ears he gained the 
first prize, which entitled him to a scholarship at Rome, at which place 
he studied 8 years under the celebrated painter Minardi. From Rome 
he went to Paris and Madrid, where he continued his studies, and at 
the latter city painted tlie portraits of several members of the royal 
family. He afterwards resided many j-ears in the United States, but 
died in Sagua la Grande, Cuba, on July 8, 1893. He was an intimate 
friend and ardent admirer of General Paez. 

The chair used by Gen. U. S. Grant when he signed the terms of 
capitulation with Gen. R. E. Lee, at Appomattox Court House, has 
become the property of the Museum through the bequest of the late 
Gen. Wilnion W. Blackmar, U. S. Army. 

The notable table service of 32 pieces, comprising a silver and gilt 
punch bowl, cups, spoons, a coffeepot, teapot, sugar bowl, milk 
pitcher, and two massive silver engraved waiters, made by Tomaso and 
Fernando Zamora, native jewelers and silversmiths of Manila, Philip- 
pine Islands, and exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase and Lewis and 
Clark expositions, was purchased by the War Department and depos- 
ited in the Museum. 

An interesting collection, comprising 22 pieces of fractional cur- 
rency, 8 medals, 27 gold coijis, 356 silver coins, 312 copper coins, and 
6 nickel coins, and including many rare examples from America and 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23 

other countries, assembled by Mr. Claas Denekas, has been loaned to 
the Museum by Miss Oesine Denekas, of Brightwood, D. C. 

Mention ma}" here l)c made of the marble bust of the late Walter 
Reed, major and surgeon, U. S. Army, an exquisite example of the 
sculptor's art, executed by Mr. Hans Schuler, of Baltimore, for the 
Walter Reed Memorial Association, which, through the courtes}' of 
the association, now occupies a prominent place in the main hall. 
Although onh' 51 years of age at the time of his death in 1002, Major 
Reed had attained rank among the most distinguished benefactors of 
humanity by his intelligent and conclusive experiments on the trans- 
mission of 3"ellow fever, resulting in the establishment of effective 
means for checking and even eradicating this most dread disease of 
the American tropics. Scarcely less noteworth}'- in character and thor- 
oughness were his previous investigations upon the subject of t3"phoid 
fever 

Biology. — The largest ))iological accession of the j^ear, and one of 
the largest donations the department has ever received, was the collec- 
tion of 75,000 American Lepidoptera, presented bv Mr. William 
Schaus, as elsewhere described. 

The Museum has also continued to be indebted to Dr. W. L. Abbott, 
one of its associates, who sent three large zoological collections from 
the East Indies, comprising about 2,600 specimens, of which about 
1,700 were vertebrates. They represent investigations b}' Doctor 
Abbott on the west coast of Sumatra and the adjacent islands of 
Engano and Nias; on the coast and islands of eastern Sumatra, and in 
West Borneo. The Engano and Nias collection consists of 4'42 mam- 
mals, 863 birds, 77 reptiles, and 850 butterflies; the eastern Sumatra 
collection, of 352 mammals and 95 birds; and the West Borneo collec- 
tion of 21>6 mammals and 70 birds. There was also received from 
Doctor Al)bott and Mr. C. B. Kloss jointly a series of 98 mammal 
skins from the Rhio Archipelago. None of these collections have yet 
been fully worked up, but many new species have already been dis- 
covered, and the contribution as a whole is of exceeding interest and 
value. 

The U. S. Bureau of Fisheries transmitted an exceptionally large 
number of important collections of fishes and marine invertebrates. 
Among the former were many type specimens of new species from 
the Hawaiian and Philippine islands, Japan, and the northwest coast 
of America. Of the latter, which were comprised in about 8,000 
packages, there were, besides much unidentified material, twelve 
important collections which had been studied by specialists, consist- 
ing of about 1,000 lots of specimens and 143 types of new species, 
belonging to the following groups: Barnacles, schizopod crustaceans, 
and annelids from Hawaii; isopod crustaceans, echinoderms, and 
corals from Porto Rico; annelids from Alaska, Japan, and the Great 



24 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

Lakes; corals, with commensal annelids, and sponges from tlie region 
about Panama; and corals from the South Pacific. There were also 
many mollusk.s, chiefly from the Pacitic Ocean. 

Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, surgeon, U. 8. Army, contributed al)()ut 150 
specimens of birds from the Philippine Islands and Guam, including 
several species new to the Museum, and a large number of rats and 
shrews from Manila and vicinity. 

Among the additions specifically to the division of mammals was a 
mounted specimen of the handsome broad-horned antelope, Exiryceros 
euryceros^ from West Africa, collected by Mr. W. N. McMillan and 
presented by Mrs. McMillan. This genus had not previously been 
represented in the Museum. The British Museum transmitted in 
exchange a collection of small mammals from Borneo, China, Africa, 
and Australia, consisting mainly of species new to the National 
Museum; the Copenhagen University Zoological Museum, specimens 
of the Norwegian wild reindeer and red deer, both of which are 
becoming rare; and the Civic Museum, of Genoa, 51 specimens of bats, 
chiefly from South America, but including two Malayan genera. A 
collection of small mammals from Java, obtained through the offices 
of the United States consular agent at Padang, Sumatra, are of special 
interest as coming from a region from which many species were 
described at an earl}- date. Among the mammals received from the 
National Zoological Park was a specimen of Grevy's zebra, a species 
new to the Museum. A small but important collection of birds from 
islands in the Ba}^ of Panama, including specimens of newly described 
species from the type localities, was obtained from the Hon. J. E. 
Thayer in exchange. 

To the division of reptiles and batrachians there was added, as a 
gift from the Science College of the Imperial University of Tokyo, 
a valuable collection from Japan, the Kiukiu Archipelago, and For- 
mosa, containing the types of several new forms and species not pre- 
viously in the National Museum. This division also received a small 
but interesting collection from the Philippine Islands, presented by 
Mr. E. C. McGregor; a series of 21 specimens illustrating the devel- 
opment of the spotted-tailed salamander, Spelerpes mact/Iicandys, the 
gift of Mr. W. L. McAtee and Mr. A. M. Banta; 16 specimens of 
rare North American salamanders, including one new species, Pletlio- 
don sherinani^ from Mr. C. S. Brimley, and 2 specimens of a new 
species of horned toad from Mexico, from Mr. R. L. Ditmars. 

Beside the material from the Bureau of Fisheries, already men- 
tioned, the division of fishes obtained two important accessions. The 
first consisted of specimens from Ecuador and Peru, collected by Mr. 
P. O. Simon; the second of a large number of Mexican species col- 
lected by Dr. S. E. Meek and contributed by the Field Museum of 
Natural History. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 25 

Dr. L. T. C'hamberlain, an associate of the Museum, presented to 
the division of mollusks a collection of Naiades from upper Burma, 
which included a fine series of the largest existing species of fresh- 
water mussel. A large series of Japanese shells, contributed by Dr. 
W. H. Dall, and another similar series obtained bj^ purchase, embrace 
about 400 species, man}^ recently described. Other noteworthy dona- 
tions were al)out 540 species of South African shells, from Lieut. Col. 
W. H. Turton, of Bristol, England; about 250 Uruguayan shells, from 
Dr. F. Filippone, of Montevideo; over 1,000 Costa Rican and other 
Central and South American shells, from Dr. H. Pitticr; a numlx'r of 
Mexican land shells from the collection of the agronomic bureau of the 
Mexican Government, through Prof. A. L. Herrera, and the t3^pe 
specimen of Scala mitchelli., from Texas, from Mr. J. D. Mitchell. 
The iSluseum collection of Mexican land shells has become one of the 
finest in existence. 

Among man}^ additions to the division of marine invertebrates, 
aside from the large transfers made by the Bureau of Fisheries, four 
exchanges are worth}^ of special mention, as follows: A collection of 
141 specimens of corals, including the t^'pes of 13 species, from the 
Bishop Museum, Honolulu; a series of 22 specimens of corals from 
the Cape Verde Islands, from Mr. J. Stanley Gardiner; 23 species of 
Pacific coast bryozoans, from Dr. Alice Robertson, and 14 species of 
Cumacea, from the west coast of Ireland, from the British Museum. 

The number of accessions received l)y the division of insects Avas 
312, comprising nearly 122,000 specimens. The gift by Mr. William 
Schaus of his collection of American butterflies and moths, numbering 
75,000 specimens, stands preeminent among all the accessions of the 
year, and adds immensely to the richness and importance of the 
national collection of Lepidoptera. Two thousand of the specimens 
came from Mexico, the remainder from North and South America. 
The Museum was also indebted to the Rev. Robert Brown, S. J., for 
important gifts of insects from the Philippine Islands, and to Prof. 
H. Maxwell-Lefroy for valual)le conti'ibutions of East Indian para- 
sitic Hymenoptera. The collections transferred by the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture were, as usual, of great extent and \'alue. The 
following six lots, comprising about 33.000 specimens, are especially 
noteworth}^: 10,000 specimens from Texas, collected by Mr. H. S. 
Barber; 3,000 specimens from Central America, collected hj Mr. F. 
Knab; 10,0()0 specimens from Guatemala, collected by Mr. E. A. 
Schwarz and Mr. H. S. Barber; 5,000 sjjecimens from the West 
Indies, collected by Mr. A. Busck; 3,000 Japanese insects from the 
exhibit at the St. Louis P^xposition, presented to the Department by 
Mr. K. N. Ohashi, and 2,000 specimens from Plununers Island, Mary- 
land, collected by Messrs. Schwarz, demons, and Barber. Among 
exchanges may be mentioned 500 moths from the American Museum 



26 REPORT OF "NATIOlsrAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

of Natural History; Coleoptera and Hemiptera from New Guinea, 
throug-h Mr. O. Kronov; and a collection of H^^menoptera containing 
many cotypes of recently described species, from the Sarawak Museum, 
Borneo. 

The division of plants received 575 accessions, containing in the 
aggregate 37,751 specimens. The most important accession was the 
collection made by Dr. J. N. Rose and Mr. J. H. Painter, while 
detailed for field work in Mexico. It comprises 4,477 specimens, is 
especially rich in cacti, and includes man}^ rare species from type 
localities, as well as numerous undescribed species. The number 
of specimens transferred from the Department of Agriculture was 
15,145, of which 13,786 specimens came from the Bureau of Plant 
Industry, 931 from the Biological Survey, 320 from the Forest Serv- 
ice, and 108 from the Bureau of Entomology. Through exchange with 
the New York Botanical Garden 1,743 plants, including much West 
Indian material, were obtained; and by gift from Dr. H. Pittier, 406 
specimens, chiefly from Central America. 

Geology. — The total number of specimens received by the Depart- 
ment of Geology, exclusive of duplicates, was approximately 21,000, 
comprized in 104 accessions, of which 91 consisted of rocks, ores, and 
minerals, 16 of fossil vertebrates, 44 of fossil invertebrates, and 13 of 
fossil plants. Four hundred and seventy-two lots of specimens were 
also received from diflerent parts of the countiy for identification 
and report. 

The division of systematic and applied geology obtained by transfer 
from the Geological Survey 1,335 specimens of rocks and ores illus- 
trating field work in the Mount Stuart and Tacoma quadrangles of 
Washington; the gold belt of the Blue Mountains; the Cripple Creek 
district, and the Needle Mountain Quadrangle of Colorado; the Mar3^s- 
ville district of Montana; the Clifton Morenci district of Arizona, and 
the lead and zinc district of western Kentucky. The same bureau 
also transmitted about 475 hand specimens of native and foreign rocks 
and a large collection of phosphates, associated rocks, and fossils col- 
lected in Florida by the late George H. Eldridge. 

Among other noteworthy additions to this division were specimens 
of Alaskan ores, presented by the Alaskan Commission at the Lewis 
and Clark Exposition; a collection of rocks and ores from the Philip- 
pine Islands, obtained at the same exposition; a fine specimen of 
phonolite with a telluride of gold from Cripple Creek, Colorado, 
donated by Mr. A. B. Frenzel; a large number of specimens of basalt, 
phonolite, and dolorite collected in Colorado and Wyoming by Prof. 
R. D. George; a large mass of tin ore from Lincolnton, North Carolina, 
a gift of the Piedmont Mining Company; 13 samples of volcanic dust 
from several eruptions of Mount Vesuvius from 1822 to 1867, donated 
by Prof. J. W. Mallet, of the University of Virginia; a small collection 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27 

of rocks from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, presented by Mr. 1. C. 
White, of Morgautown, West Virginia; and a specimen of metallic 
zinc smelted in ^^^ashington. District of Columbia, in 1835, said to be 
the tirst zinc smelted in America from American ores. 

The most important accessions in the division of mineralogy con- 
sisted of the type materials of the new minerals coronadite and 
morencite, and of specimens of the rare minerals enuuonsite, spango- 
lite, dioptase, and libenthenite from the Geological Survey, and a 
unique and remarkable cube of iron pyrites, about 2 inches in diameter, 
containing numerous small crystals of gold, showing cubic, octahedral, 
and dodecahedral faces, and some good crystals of argentite, obtained 
by purchase. Other valuable additions were a specimen of stibiotan- 
talite; a complete individual, weighing 1,170 grams, of the meteorite 
which fell at Modoc, Kansas, September 2, 1905; a 576-gram mass of 
theKernouve meteorite which fell in Mav, 1867; and a 200-gram slice 
of a meteorite found at Coon Butte, Arizona, in 1905, the last named 
being the gift of Mr. D. M. Barringer. 

From the Geological Survey there was transferred to the section of 
invertebrate paleontology a collection of Upper Cretaceous fossils 
from the Judith River beds of Montana, containing the types and 
other figured specimens described by Dr. T. W. Stanton in Bulletin 
No. 257 of the Survey; a collection of type specimens of Miocene 
foraminifera from the Monterey shale of California, described by Mr. 
R. M. Bagg in Bulletin No. 268 of the Survey; and about 3,000 speci- 
mens of Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian fossils collected in Vir- 
ginia by Doctor Bassler, under the auspices of the Survey. Dr. A. von 
Mickwitz, of Eastland, Russia, presented over 2,000 specimens of Rus- 
sian Ordovician bryozoans; Prof. Charles Schuchert, a large slab con- 
taining Helderbergian crinoids from New York State, and Dr. H. 
Pittier some 500 specimens of Pliocene and Pleistocene fossils from 
Costa Rica. Through exchange much valuable material was also 
obtained, including collections of Paleozoic fossils from Mr. George W. 
Stose, of European Mesozoic, and Cenozoic fossils from Mr. W, E. 
Crane, and of European Tertiar}^ fossils from Mr. J. Vaquez, of 
Pantin, France. 

The section of \ertebrate paleontology has received but few speci- 
mens, since at present it is practically impossible to obtain material 
of this character without sending collectors into the field, which the 
Museum" is not al)le to do. The following additions, however, are 
deserving of mention: A nearly complete skeleton of a new species of 
Sinopa from the Bridger (Eocene) of Wyoming, collected in 1902 by 
Mr. Walter Granger under the auspices of the Geological Survey, and 
described by Dr. W. D. ]\Iatthew under the name Sinojxi grangeri; 
a nearly complete skull of a new genus of musk ox from the Pleisto- 
cene of Alaska, obtained by Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the Department of 



28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

Agriculture, and described by him under the name Slmhos terrelli; 
part of the skull of a fossil ruminant from the Pleistocene of Zuni, 
New Mexico, presented by the Department of the Interior, and 
described and tigured by Mr. Gidle}', of the Museum, as Lissops zuni- 
ensis, and a small collection of fossil reptiles from the Permian of 
Brazil. 

Of the accessions in the division of paleobotany the most important 
were as follows: Several thousand specimens of Mesozoic plants, 
being the material described bv Ward, Fontaine, Bibbins, and Wie- 
land in Monograph No. XL VIII of the Geological Survey; sev- 
eral hundred examples of fossil wood and plants from the Permo- 
Carboniferous of Sao Paulo and Santa Catherina, Brazil, collected by 
Mr. I. C. White, and 250 specimens of fossil plants from the Judith 
River beds of the Upper Cretaceous of Montana, collected in 1903 by 
Mr. T. W. Stanton and Mr. J. B. Hatcher, and described in Bulletin 
No. 257 of the Geological Survey. 

GENERAL WORK ON THE COLLECTIONS. 

The primary duty with which the Museum staff is charged is the 
care, recording, and arrangement of the immense collections, which 
have lately been increasing at the rate of nearly a quarter of a million 
specimens annually. This work, laborious under the best conditions, 
i.s made especially difficult by tiie crowded condition of the buildings, 
the inconvenient location of most of the workrooms, and the fact that 
the bulk of all the material received must now be packed away for a 
time in inaccessible storage quarters. The safety of specimens is never 
secured by simply finding a place for them. They must be under con- 
stant surveillance, for otherwise they are certain to deteriorate and 
eventually to become valueless. It is, therefore, not only the recent 
accessions which require attention, but ever}- collection received from 
the very fii'st that came into the possession of the Museum. Only a 
general review of the work- of the past year is given here. 

In the division of physical anthropolog}^ much tune was spent in 
placing the older material, mainly skulls and skeletons, in proper 
museum order, and in attending to the preparation and preservation of 
current accessions. This involved the cleaning, identification, cata- 
loging, and arrangement of a large number of specimens, and at the 
close of the year the entire collection was in as perfect condition as 
the limited facilities permitted. Some improvements were also made 
in the accommodations of the laboratory. 

The numbering and card cataloging of the extensive ethnological 
collections, mainly from the Philippines, obtained at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition in 1905, were completed and the objects arranged 
in storage drawers in the Museum l)uilding. In order to make more 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29 

accessible the entire reserve collections in ethnology, which have to 
some extent been scattered indifferent places, partial means have been 
provided for bringino- them together in unit drawers, properly classi- 
fied and labeled. The segregation and rearrang-ement of the material 
representing the Eskimo, the Northwest coast and Pueblo Indians, 
and that from Africa and the East Indies has been tinisluHl, and a find- 
ing-catalog of the Eskimo and Northwest coast objects has been pre- 
pared. The large Abbott collection has been assembled in one place, 
and work upon it is still in progress. A part of one side of the Puel)lo 
court has been screened off" as a laboratory, and the storage facilities 
back of the exhibition cases have been increased by the addition of 400 
unit drawers. 

In the division of prehistoric archeology the routine work was 
largely directed toward the rearrangement of the exhibition hall, 
although the care of current accessions occupied the usual amount of 
time. 

Notwithstanding the diversity of subjects falling under the head of 
technology, and the great extent of the collections, a considerable 
part of which it is still necessary to retain in storage, the material 
belonging to this division has been kept in good condition, and much 
attention has been given to the historj^ and labehng of the different 
objects. In the division of graphic arts the Cranch collection of many 
hundred prints was classified and arranged, and full descriptions of 
each print are being prepared for use as labels. The stud}- series has 
been assembled in storage drawers back of the exhibition cases. 

The collection illustrating Christian ceremonial or ecclesiastical art, 
comprizing about 930 objects, was withdrawn from storage, numbered, 
cataloged, and arranged for stud}" purposes. 

In the gallery room assigned to the reserve series in history suit- 
able racks have been constructed for the portrait collection and drawer 
racks for the duplicate specimens. The indexing and cataloging of 
the portraits were continued during the year. 

In the preparatory laboratories of the Department of Anthropology 
there was no cessation of activity at any time during the year. It is 
there that all the casting, modeling, and coloring of specimens are 
done, that the lay figures are prepared for the exhibition cases, and 
that the poisoning and cleaning of objects are conducted. Nowhere 
else has the preparator's art in anthropology been carried to a higher 
stage of perfection, a fact that will be prominently demonstrated in 
the halls of the new building. 

In the division of mammals the extensive collections of rabbits and 
marmots and of small to medium sized skulls were rearranged in sys- 
tematic order, new cases for the former having been constructed at 
the entrance to the mammal laboratory. In the division of birds some 
5,000 duplicates were overhauled and invoiced. The hornbills, now 

NAT MUS 1906 3 



30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

represented by a splendid collection, the fruit pigeons, and specimens 
of some other groups, which had been scattered in different places, 
were brought together in glass-covered drawers placed on top of the 
tier of storage cases in the crowded laboratory. The recent very 
large accessions from the Bureau of Fisheries made necessary the 
construction of a large amount of additional shelving in the basement 
storage rooms of the division of fishes. Some 12,000 specimens of 
fishes were cataloged, and many of these were put in final shape and 
given their appropriate places in the systematically arranged series, 
special attention being paid to types and other unusually important 
specimens. 

In the division of mollusks, 7,500 lots of specimens were cataloged. 
Good progress was made toward placing the large Jeffrey's collection, 
mainl}'^ of British shells, in final museum shape. The identification of 
all the species is being verified, and the duplicates are being separated 
from the reserve specimens. The rearrangement of the American lafid 
shells, especially from Mexico and Central America, was continued, 
and that of the families Doliida3 and Cassidida? was completed. The 
cataloging of the named specimens of crustaceans, echinoderms, 
hydroids, br3'ozoans, alcyonarian and stony corals, and annelids in 
the division of marine invertebrates was brought up to date, and the 
extensive collection of echinoderms was rearranged, permitting the 
recent additions in that group to be assigned their appropriate places. 

A very large amount of work was accomplished in identifying and 
rearranging specimens in the division of insects. To accommodate 
the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera it was necessary to screen off a 
corner of the exhibition hall devoted to fishes and reptiles. This tem- 
porary laborator}' has been fitted up with iron stacks to hold the 
insect drawers, an initial step toward securing better fire protection 
for the invaluable collections of this division. As in previous years, 
the larger number of workers in this division were assistants of the 
Bureau of Entomology of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

In the division of comparative anatomy the entire collection of 
cetacean skeletons and skulls (except those of the whalebone whales) 
was assembled and systematically arranged in the storage compart- 
ments under the exhibition cases in the southeast range, after being 
cleaned and cataloged. The fish skeletons and skulls, numbering 
about 1,500, were treated in a similar manner. 

The capacity of the storage cases in the division of plants was 
increased by about 200 compartments, making the total number now 
in use above 10,000. The herbarium is reported to be nearly free of 
pests, and continuous efforts are made to prevent their gaining a foot- 
hold. During the j^ear 17,189 sheets of plants were stamped and 
placed in the regular series, which now contains 385,260 sheets. The 
number of plants mounted .was 10,577. The work of rearranging the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31 

herbarium in accordance with the s\'steni of Engler and Prantl was 
continued, the families covered extending- from Acanthacetv (No. 266) 
to Composite (No. 280). 

The preparators of the Department of Biology were kept fully occu- 
pied. The mounting of mammals for exhibition was practicall}^ 
restricted to small specimens, and the taxidermic work in connection 
with both mammals and birds consisted mainly in preserving the skins 
of fresh specimens as they were received, in preparing and making 
over old skins for the reserve series, and in the constant renovation 
of specimens in both the reserve and exhibition series to prevent thetr 
deterioration. In osteology some 30 skeletons of mammals and birds, 
including a number of large forms, such as the bison, camel, and tiger, 
were roughed out and a few skeletons were cleaned. A still larger 
work was the cleaning of mammal skulls, required for stud}- in con- 
nection with the skins. The total number so treated was abput 7,000, 
of which a large portion was from the collections of the Biological 
Surye}". The chief modeler overhauled the collection of fish casts 
which has accumulated during the past twentj^^-five 3^ears, renovating 
those required for exhibition, the remainder being made up into sets 
for distribution to schools and colleges. He also prepared a number 
of casts of large and interesting reptiles, and cleaned about 1,000 
specimens of corals for stud}- and exhibition purposes. 

In the division of systematic and applied geologj^ much was accom- 
plished in bringing the reserve collections into better arrangement and 
classification. Good progress is reported as to the segregation of 
the record collections transferred from time to time by the U. S. 
Geological Survey. This required the overhauling of the entire 
series, including the cleaning of specimens and traj^s, the verification 
of labels, the elimination of duplicates, the rearrangement of the 
specimens in drawers, the preparation of lists and of catalog and 
bibliographical cards. By the close of the year all of the material 
from the surveys of the Pacific coast, the Great Basin and the Rocky 
Mountain States (except some material from Montana, Arizona, and 
New Mexico), and from Arkansas, Kentuck}-, Missouri, and Texas, 
had been gone over, although the lists wei'e not completed. The 
specimens thus rearranged numbered about 15,800 and filled about 
360 large standard drawers. 

The purel}' petrographical material was stored in cases in the west- 
south range, the balcony of the same range, and the mezzanine story^ 
of the southwest pavilion. Nearly the entire duplicate series of this 
division was also overhauled, and approximately 12,500 specimens, 
accurately labeled, were made up into 225 sets for distribution to 
schools and colleges. Many thin sections of rocks were cut for deter- 
minative purposes, and numerous blocks and slabs of stone were 
prepared for exhibition. 



32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

In the .section of invertebrate paleontology nearly 40,000 speci- 
mens, representing 3,000 species and tilling 172 standard drawers, 
were labeled, cataloged, and systematically arranged. This material 
belonged mainly to the Rominger collection of Paleozoic fossils from 
the Mississippi Valley, the work upon which was completed, and to 
the Ulrich collection, which will require at least another year's atten- 
tion. Types of several hundred species have been added to the section 
since the publication of the type catalog in 1!M)5, 

Seven hundred specimens were identified and cataloged in the sec- 
tion of vertebrate paleontology. About 200 specimens of the teeth 
of Mesozoic manmials were mounted on corks inserted in glass vials 
for their better preservation, and enlarged pencil drawings and wax 
models of many minute forms were prepared. Much time was spent 
in locating and identifying the type material of the earlier specialists 
in this subject, such as Leidy, Cope, and Marsh. Excellent progress 
was made by Mr. Gidle}" in classifying the reserve collection of fossil 
mammals, the trays containing them being grouped by geological hor- 
izons. The same ma}' be said of the work of Mr. Gilmore upon the 
reptilian forms. Some 636 trays of the Marsh collection, stored at 
the Emer}^ building, have been roughly classified and labeled, and sev- 
eral hundred specimens of small reptiles have been unwrapped in order 
to make them accessible for study. In the matter of preparing large 
specimens for exhibition, which requires much time and skill, the fol- 
lowing were worked out and mounted: A complete skeleton of Mery- 
coidodon gracilis^ a skull of TnceratOjpH callcornU^ a composite skele- 
ton of a large Dinornls^ and a cave bear. The skull of a Miocene 
rhinoceros from the Marsh collection was prepared for mounting, and 
the skeleton of a mastodon, exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase Expo- 
sition, was renovated. All of the type and figured specimens in this 
section have been assembled, properlv marked, and hibeled. 

In paleobotany the general routine work in connection with the 
collections occupied the entire time of Doctor Peale. 

THE EXHIBITION COIXECTIONS. 

Owing to lack of space it has not yet been possible to organize an 
exhibition series illustrative of the subject of physical anthropology, 
although there is much material on hand suitable for that purpose. 
A number of plaster busts of American Indians comprizes the entire 
display at present. 

Many changes and improvements were made in the exhibition col- 
lections of etlmology. All of the wall cases on the floor of the west 
hall were rearranged, and the Siamese collection obtained at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition was newl}^ installed. The latter con- 
sists of art objects and selections from the textile and agricultural 
exhibits. The Roumanian peasant group, for which the costumes 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33 

were obtained from Baron Lajos Ambrozy de Sedan, of Temesvar, 
Hungar}", was completed and installed in a large case in the same hall. 
In the gallery of the northwest court the Patagonian, British Guiana, 
and Costa Kican objects were rearranged, and the tigure cases prepared 
in the same manner as in other halls. Through the completion of the 
fire wall in this court the hanging of the collection of South American 
oil paintings of Indian subjects and the linal disposition of baskets 
and decorative objects became possible. 

The extensive repairs in the hall of prehistoric archeology, the large 
upper room in the Smithsonian building, were completed in li>05, and 
advantage was taken of the opportunity to entirely reorganize the 
important collections of this division. It was found necessary to tem- 
porarily screen off one end of the room for storage and laboratory 
purposes, but the exhibition series was opened to the public on Janu- 
ary 22, 1906. The work of revision was slow and laborious, the cases 
and their contents having first to be thoroughly cleaned. The floor 
cases were rearranged and some new ones added, and many of the less 
important specimens were transferred to storage, to make room for 
recent accessions of greater interest to the public. The hall is now in 
a much more attractive and satisfactory condition than ever before. 
Among the noteworthy features which supplement the older collec- 
tions are engraved stone plates, discoidal stones, bird-shaped and boat- 
shaped amulets, banner stones, and a series of both chipped and 
polished stone objects of the rarer types; a number of ancient Peru- 
vian textiles belonging to the Pope collection ; casts of rare Mexican 
antiquities, such as drums, knives, jade carvings, and images in clay 
and stone; the Seton-Karr collection of chipped flint implements from 
the Fayum district of Egj'pt, and the Harris collection of archeologi- 
cal objects from Ohio and Missouri. Casts of the Abadiano collection 
of important Mexican sculptures and casts of carved stone yokes, 
*'Palmas'' stones, bas-reliefs, etc., from Mexico; the Brigham collec- 
tion of ancient burial pottery, including two very large vases from 
the island of Marajo, Brazil; and parts of the West Indian collections 
of Latimer, Gabb, and Fewkes, comprizing stone collars, zemes, masks, 
hatchets, pestles, beads, and objects of clay, bone, and shell, have 
been installed in six especially large cases which occupy the center of 
the hall. A number of originals and casts of large Mexican and Peru- 
vian l)as-reliefs have been hung on the western wall. 

The series of casts illustrating the history of classical sculpture has, 
from lack of better accommodations, been assembled temporaril}' in 
the court devoted to the graphic arts, which has thereby become 
unduly crowded to the disadvantage of both subjects. The pieces, 
14:5 in number, are displa^'ed in large center cases and on pedestals, 
walls, and screens. 



34 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

In technology the collection of arms deposited by the United States 
Cartridge Company, elsewhere described, has added a most interest- 
ing and popular f eatiij-e. Being accompanied by handsome mahogany 
cases built expressly for the purpose, its installation was readily 
accomplished. Small additions have also l)een made to other exhi])i- 
tion series in this division, which is being developed along certain lines 
as rapidl}^ as possible under the present unfavorable conditions. 

The galler}' of ceramics received a few additions, notably the exhi- 
bition of the Libby Glass Company, illustrating the manufacture of 
cut glass. There is nothing special to note in regard to the exhibits 
in graphic arts and medicine, except in the matter of labeling, since 
the space assigned to these divisions is now fully occupied. 

A selection from collections in storage illustrating the principal 
phases of the doctrines and rites of the western (Roman Catholic) and 
eastern (Greek Catholic and Armenian) churches was installed. The 
historical collection received some important objects, and a series of 
American coins and medals and of Japanese coins, made up from the 
Capron purchase and a gift from the Government of Japan, were 
placed on exhibition. 

In the Department of Biology the several large mammals mounted 
for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and subsequently shown at 
the Lewis and Clark Exposition, Avere, after their return to Washing- 
ton, arranged in the gallery of the south hall, the onlj^ place that could 
be found for them. Although these and the other large mammals from 
the St. Louis Exposition are among the most valuable additions which 
have been made to this exhibition series for some time, it has not been 
practicable to inclose them under glass. A number of other mammals 
of small to medium size, chiefly from the oriental region, were mounted 
and installed during the year, and the heads of large game on the wall 
space above the gallery were renovated and rearranged. 

The large series of cases in the Smithsonian main hall containing 
North American birds were thoroughly cleansed inside. The speci- 
mens themselves were also cleaned and put in order. Some progress 
was made in substituting the new pattern of label holder, adopted the 
year before, and new labels were printed for the birds of Australia 
and neighboring regions. The fine exhibition collection of birds can, 
however, never be shown effectively in the antiquated cases which it 
now occupies. 

Skeletons of a large sulphiirbottom whale (of the same species as 
the cast in the south hall), of an adult little piked whale, of a dodo, 
and of an African elephant, were added to the osteological series, 
which was almost entirely relabeled. The cutting off, for storage of 
the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera, of a part of the exhibition hall 
devoted to reptiles and fishes, necessitated an entire rearrangement of 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35 

these collections, to which were also added the fine casts from the St. 
Louis Exposition. 

Some progress was made toward completing the exhibit of insects, 
and a case of br3'ozoans was installed in the hall of marine inverte- 
brates. A notable addition to the Childron's Room was a copy of the 
old Dutch painting- of the dodo, the original of which is in the British 
Museum. 

As a new departure, a special case was brought into use for the 
display of miscellaneous newly acquired objects having a general pop- 
ular interest, preparatory to their being installed in their proper places 
in the various permanent exhibition series. In this case were also 
placed some small groups of specimens of current interest, such as the 
cotton-boll weevil and the '"culep," or Guatemalan ant, and mosqui- 
toes which transmit malarial fever, 3"ellow fever, etc. The smaller 
specimens were mounted in a new form of glass cell devised by the 
chief of exhibits. 

Coniparatively few changes were made in the exhibition collections 
of the Department of Geology. A large mass of diatomaceous earth 
was added to the economic series; two cases of minerals and one of 
hot spring tubes, returned from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, 
were installed in the west-south range, and the paper casts of the large 
Bacubirito and Cape York meteorites were placed on one of the gal- 
leries facing the rotunda. The exhibit of fossil vertebrates, which 
occupies the southeast court, was extensive!}' overhauled and rear- 
ranged, and there were added to it a skull of Triceratops calicornis^ a 
complete skeleton of the small oreodont, Merycoidodon gracilis^ 
skeletons of a small mastodon from Michigan, and a large Dinoriiis 
from New Zealand, and the remains of a cave bear from France. In 
the gallery of the southeast court a screen was built against the east 
side for the exhibition of ammonites and other large fossil inverte- 
brates, and a beginning was made toward rearranging the fossil plants. 

RESEARCHES. 

The most important researches carried on in the Department of 
Anthropolog}' were those made in connection with the preparation of 
articles for the "Handbook of the Indians," now in course of pub- 
lication by the Bureau of American Ethnology. This work, far from 
being restricted to information in hand, has been extensively based on 
special studies, involving the critical examination of practically all of 
the Museum collections which relate to the subject. The results, more- 
over, have been of service not solel}' in the compilation of the "Hand- 
book," but liave brought about a more thorough knowledge of the 
collections and a more complete and accurate labeling of many speci- 
mens. The task has been one of great magnitude, extending through 



36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

several years, and the outcome ha.s fully jvistitied the time spent upon 
it. The investioations on the part of the Museum have been conducted 
by Mr. W. H. Holmes in prehistoric archeology, by Professor Mason 
and Doctor Hough in ethnology, and by Doctor Hrdlicka in physical 
anthropology. 

Doctor Hrdlicka continued his inquiries relative to the effects of 
preservatives on specimens of the brain, the weight of the brain in 
correlation with the weight of the body, the proportions of the cranial 
fossae, and the growth, physiology, and pathology of certain tribes of 
Indians. He also completed a study of 26 orang crania from Borneo. 
A number of visiting Indians were measured and facial casts of a few 
of them were made. 

The large Malaysian collection of ethnology from Dr. W. L. Abbott 
was the subject of investigation by Professor Mason and Doctor 
Hough, who have in preparation an illustrated descriptive catalog 
of its interesting specimens. The extensive ethnological material 
from the Museum-Gates expedition of 1905 is being worked up by 
Doctor Hough, whose report is well advanced. The latter has also 
commenced the writing of a bulletin on the distribution of the ancient 
Indian ruins of the Gila-Salt River region in the Territories of Arizona 
and New Mexico. The principal investigations in prehistoric archeol- 
ogy were conducted by Mr. Holmes and had reference mainly to the 
"Handbook" above mentioned. The condition and knowledge of the 
collections in this division were greatly advanced by his thorough and 
comprehensive researches. 

Mr. Maynard, assistant curator of technology, has completed a care- 
ful study of the Museum records bearing upon the subject of marine 
architecture, especially as illustrated by the many models received 
from the Bureau of Fisheries and other sources. Under authorit}^ 
from the officials of the Departments of War and of the Treasury, an 
examination of the records relating to the manufacture of arms for 
the United States Army and United States Navy is also in progress. 

Besides the investigations b}^ members of the Museum staff, the 
collections in anthropology have been extensively consulted by experts 
from different parts of the country and from abroad, and in greater 
or less degree have been utilized in many important researches. 

A considerable part of the East Indian collections of mammals 
recently received from Dr. W. L. Abbott was worked up during 
the year, those from Engano and Karimata islands and the Rhio 
Archipelago by Mr. Gerritt S. Miller, jr., and those from Banka and 
Billiton islands l)y Dr. W. M. Lyon, jr. A number of special contri- 
butions, based wholly or mainly upon this material, were published, 
the more noteworthy being as follows: By ^r. Miller, on Malayan 
pigs and new forms of bats, on the monke3^s allied to Macaca nemis- 
trina^ and on two new civets; by Doctor Lyon, on the pygmy squirrels, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 87 

and a revision of the slow lemurs; by Mr. Knud Andersen, of the 
British Museum, on the bats of the ^enus RhinolopJms. 

The ]\luseum collection of ])ats, which is very extensive and diver- 
sified, has received a great amount of attention, Mr. Miller, who has 
been making a careful study of the entire order Chiroptera, extending 
over several years, recently brought to conclusion a revision of the 
families and genera in a manuscript of 583 pages. He also published 
several papers on nomenclature and new genera. Mr. W. L. Hahn, 
aid, is working up the gennsllemiden/ia, as represented in the Museum, 
and contributed two short papers on bats. Mr. Andersen completed 
and published several papers on the genera Rhinolophus and Hippo- 
sideros, based parti}' on the collections here. 

Dr. F. W. True prepared a full description of the new fossil sea 
lion from Oregon, Pontoleon magnus, for publication by the U. 8. 
Geological Survey, and also published a description of a new fossil 
seal from the Miocene of Marjdand. In addition, he prepared an 
account of the fossil cetacean known as Agorophius for publication 
by the Smithsonian Institution, and continued work on the ziphioid 
wdiales and on a new scheme of biological exhibits. 

Doctor L} on spent some time in bringing up to date a catalog of 
the t3^pe specimens of mammals in the Museum collection; he also 
published a note on Pmlagus^ a genus of rabbits, and discovei'ed that 
the great ant-eater of Central America represents a new species, which 
he descri))ed from a Museum specimen. Among those who made use 
of the mannnal collection in connection with their investigations were 
Dr. J. A. Allen, of the American Museum of Natural History; Dr. 
D. G. Elliot, of the Field Museum of Natural Histor}", and the mem- 
bers of the staff of the Biological Surve3\ 

Mr. Hobert Ridgway, curator of birds, completed the revision of 
six families of North American ])irds for his comprehensive work now 
in course of publication; described 18 new genera and 3 new species 
of birds, and made other contributions on the subject of ornithology. 
Dr. C. W, Richmond, assistant curator, added 3,000 cards to the cata- 
log of genera and species of birds, spending some time at the Phila- 
delphia Academy of Sciences for the purpose of consulting publications 
not to be found in Washington. He also continued his work on the 
catalog of type localities of North American birds. The birds col- 
lected in Sumatra and Borneo by Doctor Abbott were placed in the 
hands of Mr. H. C. Oberholser, of the Biological Survey, for study. 
Mr, J, H. Riley, aid in the division of birds, besides assisting Mr. 
Ridgway with his manual, described 3 new Venezuelan species and 
a new ground dove from Porto Rico. The collection of birds was 
consulted by members of the Biological Survey, the committee on 
nomenclature of the American Ornithologists' Union, and Mr. Outram 
Bangs, of Boston. Several papers based partly on this collection by 



38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190G. 

ornitholog-ists not connected with the Museum were published, as 
follows: On the Ruff in Indiana, by Mr. R. Deane; on gnWs of the 
genus Larus. b}" Dr. J. D wight, jr.; on variation in the hairy wood- 
peckers, by Mr. II. O. Jenkins; on petrels, by Mr. W. O. Emerson; 
on certain California birds, by Dr. L. B. Bishop, and on the Pacific 
night hawk, by Mr. J. Grinnell. 

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and l)atrachians, com- 
pleted a large work on the herpetology of Japan, which has occupied 
his attention for several j^ears, and a report on the reptiles collected 
in Patagonia by the late Prof. J. B. Hatcher; he has begun upon a 
revision of the North American salamanders, and researches relati^'e 
to the reptile fauna of the Philippines, for which material is being 
assembled. He also described several new species. The lizards and 
snakes of Texas were studied b}^ Mr. Vernon Bailey of the Biological 
Survey; the chameleons by Mr. Th. Barbour; the garter snakes by 
Mr, A. G. Ruthven; the sea turtles by Mr. R. E. Coker, and the 
tailless batrachians by Miss M. C Dickerson. 

Twenty-four papers on fishes, bj^ members of the staff' and others, 
based wholl^y or in part on Museum collections, were issued or in coui'se 
of preparation during the year. Seven of these were on Japanese 
fishes, including the sand lances, thread fishes, giant bass, and stur- 
geons, b}^ Dr. David Starr Jordan, in collaboration with Mr. R. C. 
McGreggor, Mr. J. O. Snyder, and Mr. A. Scale. In conjunction 
with the two latter Doctor Jordan also contributed a paper on fishes 
from the Negros Islands, Philippines, a list of the fishes collected at 
Shanghai and Hongkong in 1882-83 bj^ Mr. Pierre L. Jouy, and a 
list of fishes collected at Tahiti by Mr. H. P. Bowie. 

Dr. B. W. Evermann, curator of fishes, conjointly with Mr. Scale, 
Mr. W. H. Kendall, and Mr. H. W. Clark, described the fishes collected 
at the Philippines by Doctor Mearns and those from the same islands 
exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. He also reported on 
collections of fishes obtained in Argentina by Mr. J. W. Titcomb, and 
in Santo Domingo by Mr. A. Busck. Prof. C. H. Eigenmann, of Indiana 
University, and Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, com- 
pleted a paper on the specimens brought from the Amazon River a few 
years ago by Prof. J. B. Steere, and have begun upon a list and bibli- 
ograph}" of all the species known to occur in the same region. Mr. 
Bean and Mr. McKnew spent some time in a study of the Florida 
fishes contained in the collection. 

Prof. C H. Gilbert, of Stanford University, spent about two months 
at the Museum investigating the general collection and reexamining 
the type specimens of deep-sea fishes obtained in the Pacific Ocean by 
the Fisheries steamer Albatross. Notes by him and Mr. J. C. Thomp- 
son on the fishes of Puget Sound were pul dished. Dr. T. N. Gill, 
associate in biology, contributed papers on the carp and cyprinoid 



IlEl>OtlT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 89 

fishes and on the life history' of sea horses; Mr. E. C. Starkes, a list 
of fishes obtained in Ecuador and Peru by Mr. P. O. Simons, and Mr. 
E. W. Gudger, an account of the breeding habits and embryology of 
the pipe fishes. The ichthyologists of the Bureau of Fisheries made 
frequent use of the collections as heretofore. 

Dr. W. H. Dall, curator of mollusks, completed a report on the land 
and fresh-water shells collected by the Harriman expedition to Alaska, 
and several shorter papers on land shells, on Chiton^ Callistorna^ Crep- 
idula^ and Vltrina, and on questions of nomenclature. Work on 
his revision of the Volutida' was continued. In cooperation with Dr. 
Paul Bartsch, assistant curator, he prepared an extensive series of 
notes on Japanese, Indo-Pacific, and American species of the family 
Pyramidellidic. Doctor Bartsch has nearl}' completed his monograph 
of the same family, and published two short papers on fresh-water 
shells. Some progress was also made in working up the mollusks col- 
lected at the Hawaiian Islands by the Bureau of Fisheries. 

Thirty-three systematic and faunal papers and many articles on 
types of economic interest were prepared by the stafl' of the division 
of insects and others who worked in the laboratory. A new genus of 
Encyrtidse from China was described by the curator. Dr. L. Oo Howard, 
who was also the author of a number of economic papers. Among 
the contributions by Dr. W. H. Ashmead were an outline of a new 
arrangement of the families and genera of ants, a new classification 
of the ants of the famil}^ Ponerida? and of the Driver ants, descriptions 
of a large number of new genera and species of Hymenoptcra from 
the Philippines and Japan, and of two new Mymaridse from Russian 
Turkestan. He also completed papers on Hymenoptera from the 
Galapagos Islands, and on Proctotrypidffi, Cynipoidea, and Bethytidae 
from continental South America, and continued his studies on the 
Braconida?. 

Mr. D. W. Coquillet, custodian, submitted a new classification of 
the mosquitoes (Cuculida?) of North and Central America, and descrip- 
tions of 3 new genera and 15 new species of this family from the West 
Indies and Central America. A revision of the Hemero])iidcC of the 
United States and descriptions of man}' new genera and species of 
neuropterous insects and of American spiders and mites were pre- 
pared by Mr. Nathan Banks, custodian. Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of 
Philadelphia, contributed to the Proceedings descriptions of new 
species of earwigs, of South American grasshoppers, and of several 
other groups of orthopterous insects from Costa Rica. Mr. F. H. 
,Chittenden, of the Bureau of P]ntomology, described 13 new species 
of Sp/ie))oj)/io/'u.s; and Mr. Otto Heidemann, of the same Bureau, a 
new genus and two new species of Rhyngota. Mr. R. H. Johnson, 
of the Carnegie Institution, studied the specimens of Ilippodamia and 
other Cocciuellidte, in preparation for a treatise on variation of color 



40 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

in beetles. The Euinenidie were examined by the Rev. F. W. X. 
O'Brien, S. J., who contemplates writing- a synopsis of the North 
American species. 

The investigations conducted^ in connection with the division of 
marine invertebrates were extensive and important. The soundings 
made by the U. S. S. Nero during the survey for a trans-Pacific cable, 
rich in specimens of foraminifera, were examined and reported on by 
Dr. James M. Flint, U. S. Navy, curator of medicine, in "A Contribu- 
tion to the Oceanograph}^ of the Pacific," constituting Bulletin No. 55 
of the Museum. Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine 
invertebrates, studied the anomuran crabs from Hawaii and Japan, 
and, in cooperation with Dr. Harriet Richardson, made considerable 
progress toward completing his work on the famil}" Lithodidse, 
including a revision of the genera. Miss M. J. Rathbun, also assist- 
ant curator of the division, finished the second part of her monograph 
on the fresh-water crabs of the world, which was published by the 
Museum of Natural Historj^, Paris, France. She reported on the 
brachyuran and macruran crustaceans obtained during the Hawaiian 
investigations of the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, began the working 
up of the decapod crustaceans from several cruises of the steamer 
Albatross in the tropical Pacific and of the general collection of grap- 
soid crabs, and prepared a paper on certain New England crustaceans. 
A monograph of the isopod crustaceans of North America by Dr. Har- 
riet Richardson, collaborator, based chiefly on the Museum collection, 
was published as Bulletin No. 54 of the Museum. It treats of 369 
species, 12 of whi(;h, together with 9 genera, were new to science. 
The same author also contributed a paper on the family Sphteromidge 
and one descriptive of a new genus of Isopoda from the Alhatross- 
Agassiz Pacific expedition of 1904-5. Dr. T. W. Vaughan, custodian, 
reported on the stony corals from the same cruise of the Alhatross 
and from the explorations at the Hawaiian Islands by the Bureau of 
Fisheries, and, in two papers, described several new species belonging 
to the genera Fungia., Ckxmocyathus, and Astrangia. 

Reports upon material collected in Hawaiian waters by the Bureau 
of Fisheries were published during the year as follows: On the star- 
fishes by Mr. W. K. Fisher, on the nemerteans by Prof. W. R. Coe, 
on the annelids by Mr. A. L. Treadwell, on the hydroids by Prof. C. C. 
Nutting, and on the medusae by Dr. A. G. Mayer. Descriptions of 
the parasitic MyzosUnmi taken from the crinoids collected on the Japan 
coast by the same Bureau were published by Mr. J. F. McClendon, 
who also examined the general collection of crinoids in the Museum 
for additional specimens. The following papers based upon material 
from Alhatross explorations in the tropical Pacific under the direction 
of Dr. Alexander Agassiz, in addition to those mentioned above, were 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SE('RP:TARY. 41 

published by the Museum of Comparative Zoology, namely: On the 
starfishes collected during- the cruise of 1899-1900, b}^ Dr. H. Ludwig; 
on the pelagic tunicates from the same cruise, by Prof. W. E. Ritter 
and Miss Edith S. Byxbee; and on a remarkable new genus of Cysto-* 
llagellata from the cruise of 1901-5, b}' Dr. Charles A. Kofoid. 

In accordance with an arrangement between the Bureau of Fisher- 
ies and Doctor Agassiz, the entire ]\Iuseum collection of deep-water 
sponges from the Pacific Ocean, mainly obtained in the course of 
investigations by the steamer Alhatross, were sent to Dr. R. von Len- 
denfeld and Dr. F. Urban, of Prague, Austria, for woi'king up in con- 
nection with other material from the Bureau of Fisheries and the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology. Doctor Agassiz has generously 
agreed to assume the expenses attendant upon the preparation and 
publication of this extensive work, which will occupy several years. 
The equally large and important collection of starfishes from the 
North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea, but including the shore and shal- 
low-water species as well as those from greater depths, was turned 
over to Mr. W. K. Fisher, of Stanford University, for study and 
report. To Dr. C. B. Wilson, of Westfield, ^Massachusetts, whose 
reports on the Argulid^ and Caliginaj have already been published, 
were sent the specimens belonging to the other groups of parasitic cope- 
pod crustaceans. The Museum collection of barnacles is being studied 
by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences; the 
bryozoans from Bering Sea and other northern waters, b}' Dr. H. 
Kluge, of the Museum fiir Naturkunde, Berlin; and the extensive 
collection of foraminifera from the Pacific deep sea, b}^ Mr. Joseph 
A. Cushman, of the Boston Society of Natural History. The collec- 
tion last mentioned, resulting chiefl}' from soundings and dredgings 
by the steamer ^l/Jr///'(;>.*<.s and cable surveys by the United States Navy, 
is exceedingly rich and diversified. 

Eleven contributions by the stafi' of the division of plants were 
published during the year. Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator, was 
chiefly occupied in working up the Mexican plants, collected mainly 
])y himself in recent years. He prepared two papers on this material 
in conjunction with Mr. J. H. Painter, and described certain umbellif- 
erous plants from Georgia. In cooperation with Dr. N. L. Britton, 
director of the New York Botanical Garden, he has begun upon a 
monograph of the cactus group. Capt. John Donnell Smith, associate 
in botan}', described 23 new Central American species, and identified 
several hundred Guatemalan plants in the Herbarium, with the assist- 
ance of Baron von Piirckheim. He also completed for the press the 
eighth part of his enumeration of the plants of Guatemala. Mr. W. R. 
Maxon, assistant curator, i)repared six papers on ferns, in which were 
described new species from Mexico, Guatemala, Porto Rico, and 



42 KEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906, 

Alabama; and a collection of yellow water lilies, assembled b}^ Mr. G. S. 
Miller, jr., was made the subject of investigations by Mr. Painter, 
aid in the division. Prof. E. L. Morris, of the Washington Central 
High School, continued his studies on the genus Pfantago^ and the 
botanists of the Department of Agriculture made constant use of the 
Herbarium. 

Four meteorites from Modoc, Kansas ; Coon Butte, Arizona; Hender- 
sonville, North Carolina, and Selma, Alabama, were the subject of 
study by Prof. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology, who com- 
pleted descriptions of the two first mentioned. A contribution to the 
History of American Geology, on which he had been engaged .for 
several years, was published in April as an appendix to the Annual 
Keport of the Museum for 1904. Mr. Wirt Tassin, assistant curator 
of mineralogy, conducted investigations on meteorites m the collection 
with special reference to establishing the relations between structure 
and composition, which resulted in the discovery of a graphitic iron 
not heretofore recognized as occurring in meteorites, and in confirming 
the conclusion that much of the so-called chromite of meteorites is not 
true chromite but rather a spinel. Fort3^-two analyses led to the 
recognition of four minerals new to the collection. 

Dr. R. S. Bassler, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleontology, 
completed under the auspices of the U. S. Geological Surve}', a paper 
on the stratigraphy of the Valley of Virginia, with especial reference 
to the cement resources of the region, and a monograph on the bryo- 
zoan fauna of the Rochester shales. He has begun upon a stud}^ of 
the Ordovician bryozoans of Russia. 

Mr. Gidle}^ of the section of vertebrate paleontolog}^, made a study 
of tooth -cusp development in Mesozoic manmials, descriVjed a new 
species of fossil raccoon and a new genus and species of musk-ox, 
and finished his work on Miocene horses, begun at the American 
Museum of Natural History. He has now in preparation a revision 
of the Mesozoic mammals, based primarily upon the Museum collec- 
tion. Mr. Gilmore, of the same section, described a recently mounted 
skeleton of the oreodont, Merycoidodon gracilis^ and connuenced the 
writing of a new description of the type specimens of Morosaurns 
agilis Marsh. He was also the author of several other papers relating 
to the collection of fossil reptiles. Both Mr. Gilmore and Mr. Gidley 
spent much time in revising the manuscript of a tj^pe catalog of the 
fossil vertebrates in the collection of the Museum, which will soon be 
read}^ for printing. 

Extensive researches in paleobotany were carried on b}^ Mr. David 
White and Dr. F. H. Knowlton, of the U. S. Geological Survey, who 
are also in charge of the Museum collection of fossil plants. 



KErOKT OF ASSISTANT SECEETARY. 43 

EXPLORATIONS. 

The principal exploration of the 3^ear under the Department of 
Anthi'opolog-y was conducted by Doctor Houoh, assistant curator of 
ethnology, in conjunction with Mr. P. G. Gates, of Pasadena, Califor- 
nia, through whose generosity the field expenses were paid, and was 
a continuation of the work ])egun in 1001 under the same conditions. 
The expedition started from Clifton, Arizona, on June 7, 1005, and 
terminated at Gallup, New Mexico, about four months later, having 
covered a large extent of country, touching upon the boundaries of 
earlier surveys b}^ Doctor Hough. The area examined lies south of 
the great divide Avhich sharpl}" separates Arizona into two provinces, 
and is especially interesting on account of the presence of numerous 
cliff dwellings resembling those in the northern part of the Pueblo 
sphere. It contains, like other sections, numerous pueblo sites, but 
especially attractive are the ancient caves used for habitations and 
ceremonial purposes. The object of the expedition was to ascertain 
the nature of the peoples, their diffusion under varying conditions of 
environment due to food supply, elevation, intrusion from other areas, 
migrations, etc. With this view a study of the animal, vegetal, and 
climatic environment was made and collections were secured from the 
various sites for the pur]3ose of comparative studies. Since the nat- 
ural diffusion of population is along water courses, the work was mainly 
confined to streams. Of these, the San Francisco with its branches, 
the Blue, the Tulerosa, and the Apache were thoroughly investigated. 
As the region had previously been untouched by scientific exploration, 
the results of the expedition are very important. About 3,000 speci- 
mens were obtained and shipped to Washington. 

In February, 1006, under the auspices of the Bureau of American 
Ethnology, Doctor Hrdlicka, assistant curator of physical anthro- 
pology, in company with Dr. T. W. Vaughan, of the U, S. Geological 
Survey, spent about two wrecks at Osprey, Florida, for the purpose of 
examining the localities w' here human fossil bones had been discovered, 
and of ascertaining the local conditions favoring fossilization. Oste- 
ological remains of Indians of more recent date were also obtained for 
comparison with the fossil specimens. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the 
Bureau of Ethnology, made exi)lorations in the Vera Cruz district of 
Mexico, of which a report is in press. The valuable collection he 
obtained is referred to in another place. 

Of private expeditions from which collections have been received, 
reference may be made to the work of Doctor Abbott in the islands of 
Engano and Nias and along the northern branch of the Great Kapuas 
River, in western Borneo; of Dr. E. A. Mearns, II. 8. Army, in con- 
nection with military operations in the Philippines: and of Mr. A. H. 



44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

Blackiston among clitf dwellings in the Casas Grandes Valle}^ and in 
Cave Valley, Chihuahua, Mexico. 

The most important exploration in the interest of the Department 
of Biology was conducted by Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator of 
plants, who, with one assistant, was detailed for about three months 
to continue his botanical investigations in Mexico, in cooperation with 
the National Medical Institute of Mexico and the New York Botanical 
Garden. The States of Mexico, Morelos, Guerrero, Hidalgq, Quere- 
taro, Puebla, and Oaxaca were visited and large collections obtained, 
including many living specimens of cacti. 

Doctor True, head curator of biology, who is studjing the fossil 
cetaceans of the Atlantic coast region, collected at the Calvert Cliffs 
in Maryland, where several hundred specimens, mainly vertebra^, were 
found, and also in the vicinity of Richmond and at Gay Head, Massa- 
chusetts. While in charge of the Museum exhibit at the Lewis and 
Clark Exposition, Doctor Lyon made several trips, chief!}" for procuring 
small mammals, to places in the vicinity of Portland, Oregon, to Seaside 
and Mount Hood, and to Mount Rainier, Washington. Mr. William 
Palmer also collected mammals about Portland, and Mr. W. L. Hahn 
was detailed for field work in Indiana. Doctor Stejneger engaged in 
field-work for the Museum while in Europe during the summer of 1905, 
and Doctor Ralph visited the Dismal Swamp, Virginia, and the Adiron- 
dack region in New York, securing both mammals and reptiles. Mr. 
Barton A. Bean accompanied Dr. B. W. Evermann to Florida, where 
he obtained a large number of fishes mainly between Daytona and 
Miami. Miss M. J. Rathbun was detailed to the Woods Hole Station 
of the Bureau of Fisheries for a part of the summer of 1905. 

Dr. A. M. Reese, of Syracuse University, while collecting material 
in Florida for a study of the embryology of the alligator, under a 
grant from the Smithsonian Institution, obtained a number of reptiles 
for the Museum. The important field-work of Doctor Abbott in the 
East Indies, and of Doctor Mearns in Guam and the Philippine Islands 
has already been referred to. 

The branches of the Government through the explorations of which 
the collections in biology were especially enriched are the Bureau of 
Fisheries, and the Bureau of Entomolog)'', the Biological Surve}^, and 
the Bureau of Plant Industry of the Department of Agriculture. 

The only explorations carried on in connection with the Department 
of Geology were conducted under the joint auspices of the Museum 
and the U. S. Geological Survey by Doctor Bassler, Avho engaged in 
stratigraphic field-work in the southern Appalachians during the early 
part of July, 1905; in western Virginia during August and Septem- 
))er, and in the Mississippi Valley during June, 1906. These investi- 
gations resulted in the acquisition of a large amount of desirable 
material for the Museum collection. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45 

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS. 

Over 30,000 duplicato specimens, recently separated from the 
reserve collections, and consisting- mainly of marine invertebrates, 
fishes, rocks, ores, and minerals, accurately named and labeled, were 
made up into several hundred sets for distribution to educational 
establishments. The number of sets actually sent out during the year 
was 261, including fossils, as well as the groups above mentioned; 
these comprised about 20,000 specimens. 

There were lent to specialists elsewhere for study, including those 
who are conducting investigations for the Museum, as noted under 
the heading of researches, about 20,000 specimens; and upward of 
17,500 duplicate specimens were utilized in making exchanges with 
other institutions and with individuals. The most noteworthy object 
disposed of in exchange was the full-sized restoration of the skeleton 
of the Dinosaurian reptile, Tnceratops, exhibited at both the Pan- 
American and Louisiana Purchase expositions, which was sent to the 
British Museum of Natural History. Reproductions of some of the 
rarer objects in archeology have also proved to be a valuable medium 
of exchange. The institutions abroad from which, through exchange 
relations, important material was received were as follows: 

The British Museum of Natural History, London; the Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew, England; the Museum of Natural History, Paris; the 
University Zoological Museum, Copenhagen; the Geographisches 
Schul-Museum, Seitenstetten, Lower Austria; the University of Got- 
tingen, Germany; the Zoological Museum of the Imperial Academy of 
Sciences, St. Petersburg; the Zoological Museum, Christiania, Nor- 
way; the University of Upsala, Sweden; the Musee Cantonal, Fri- 
bourg, Switzerland; the Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Genoa, 
Italy; the Royal Botanic Garden, Sibpur, near Calcutta, India; the 
University of Sydney, New South Wales; the Sarawak Museum, 
Borneo: the Instituto Medico Nacional, City of Mexico; the Instituto 
Fisico-Geografico, San Jose, Costa Rica; the Hope Gaidens, Kings- 
ton, Jamaica; the Geological Survey of Canada; the Estacion Central 
Agronomica, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba. 

The following individuals abroad have also sent valuable specimens 
in exchange: Mr. J. Stanley Gardiner, Mr. Edward Lov^ett, the Rev. 
Canon A. M. Norman, and Mr. H. W. Parntt, of England; Mr. F. 
Canu, Mr. Jean Miguel, and Mr. J. Vaquez, of France; Mr. Ph. Ober- 
land, of Austria; Mr. J. Kaulfuss, of Germany; Mr. G. van Roon, of 
Holland; Mr. A. Roman, of Sweden; Mr. A. Berger, of Italy; Dr. 
H. Christ, Mr. Charles Mottaz, Grebel, Wendler & Co., and Mr. 
Henry Volkart, of Switzerland; the Rev. R. P. Longinos Navas, 
of Spain; Mr. Y. Hirase, of Japan; Mr. Octavius Watkins, of West 

NAT MUS 1906 4 



46 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Australia; the Rev. William Webster, of New Zealand; Mr. C. Boden 
Kloss, of Singapore; Mr. C. Conzatti, of Mexico; and Mr. Federico 
Videla Ibarra, of Chile. 

VISITORS. 

The number of visitors to the National Museum building- during 
the vear was 210, 88(5, a daily average of 673, and to the Smithsonian 
building 149, (3H1, a daily average of 478. 

The following tables show, respectively, the attendance during each 
month of the past 3"ear, and for each 3'ear be'ginning with 1881, when 
the Museum building was first opened to the pu])lic: 

Ninnber of visitors drmnf/ the JiKcal year lHOo-H. 



Year and month. 



Museum 
building. 



Smith- 
sonian 
building. 



1905 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December .' 

1906, 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

Total 



17,077 
22, 641 
22, 197 
17,684 
13,831 
16,572' 

13, 762 
14, 958 
16, 152 
24, 429 
16, 462 
15. 121 



210,886 



12, 471 
16,176 
16, 257 
12, 841 
9,008 
11,171 

9,507 
10, 720 
11,240 
17, 556 
11,997 
10,717 



149, 661 



Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the 

former in 1881. 



Year. 



881 

882 

883 

884 (half year) 

884-85 

885-86 

886-87 

887-88 

,888-89 

889-90 

890-91 

891-92 

S92-93 

893-94 



Museum 
building. 



150, 000 
167, 455 
202,188 
97, 661 
205, 026 
174, 225 
216, 562 
249, 665 
374, 843 
274, 324 
286, 426 
269, 825 
319,930 
195, 748 



Smith- 
sonian 
building. 



100, 000 
152, 744 
104, 823 
45, 565 
105, 993 
88, 960 
98, 552 
102, 863 
149, 618 
120, 894 
111,669 
114,817 
174, 188 
103, 910 



1894-95 . . . 
1895-96 . . . 
1896-97 . . . 
1897-98 . . . 
1898-99 . . . 
1899-1900 . 
1900-1901 . 
1901-2 . . . . 
1902-3 ... 
1903-1 . . . . 
1904-5 ... 
1905-6 . . . . 



Museum 
building. 



Smith- 
sonian 
building. 



Total. 



201, 744 


105, 658 


180, 505 


103, 650 


229, 606 


115, 709 


177,2.54 


99,273 


192, 471 


116,912 


225,440 


133,147 


216, 556 


151,563 


173,888 


144,107 


315,307 


181,174 


220,778 


143,*)88 


235,921 


149, 380 


210, 886 


149, 661 


5,764,234 


3, 168, 818 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

CORRESPON DE NC E. 

The work of the office of correspondence has been kept well in hand, 
notwithstanding the increased demands made npon the otiice, which 
not onh' has to do with the receipt and answering of letters in gen- 
eral but is also charged with the distribution of the Museum publica- 
tions. Of the 8 volumes and SO separate papers issued during the 
3'ear, about :^4,0(>0 copies of the former and ?A.Oi)0 of the latter were 
supplied to the scientilic establishments, libraries, and individuals 
entered on the permanent mailing list. About 14,000 publications 
were sent out in response to special request, and some 34,000 copies 
were distributed in sets to many scientitic and educational institutions 
in different parts of the country. 

PUBLICATIONS AND PRINTING. 

Eight volumes of publications were issued during the year, though 
the composition and printing of a part of them was begun in 190.5. 
These volumes were as follows: The Annual Report for the tiscal 3'ear 
ending June 30, 1904, containing, besides the administrative part, 
three scientitic papers entitled *' Contributions to the History of 
American Geology,'' bj' George P. Merrill, *'The S. S. Rowland Collec- 
tion of Buddhist religious a-rt in the National Museum," b}' Immanuel 
M. Casanowicz, and "Flint Implements of the Fayum, Egypt," by 
Heywood Walter Seton-Karr; volumes 28, 29, and 30 of the Proceed- 
ings of the Museum, comprising 97 descriptive papers, 25 of which 
were issued in separate form before the beginning of the year; Part 1 
of Bulletin 53, entitled " Catalogue of the t3"pe specimens of fossil 
invertebrates in the department of geology. United States National 
Museum," by Charles Schuchert, assisted by W. II. Dall, T. W. 
Stanton, and R. S. Bassler; Bulletin 54, "A Monograph on the Iso- 
pods of North America," by Harriet Richardson; Bulletin 55, "A 
Contribution to the Oceanography of the Pacific," by James M. Flint; 
Part S of Bulletin 39, entitled '' Directions for collecting information 
and objects illustrating the history of medicine," by James ]M. Flint; 
and Part 1 of Volume X of the Contributions from the National Her- 
barium, entitled ''North American Species of Festuca," bj- Charles V. 
Piper. 

Of the papers contained in the Proceedings and the Annual Report, 
separates in editions of OOO to 1,000 were printed for supplying special- 
ists, whereby the distribution of the publications was greatl}' extended. 
These separates together with the bulletins related to 81 subjects as 
follows: Administration, 1: physical anthropology, 1; archeology, 1; 
historic religions, 1; medicine, 1; mammals, 5; birds, 3; reptiles and 



48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

batrachians, 4; fishes, 16; insects, 21; crustaceans, 2; mollusks, 3; hel- 
minthology, 1; corals, 2; plants, 4; geology, 1; fossils, 13; oceanog- 
raph}', 1. 

The regular distribution of the publications of the year consisted of 
23,670 volumes and 33,600 separates, while the special distribution, 
resulting from requests received from time to time and from the effort 
to place the publications among scientific establishments where they 
will do the most good, amounted to about 48,000 volumes and sepa- 
rates from the issues of this and former years. 

Besides the printing of the publications the editor has charge of all 
the other printing for the Museum, including the several forms of 
labels employed in connection with the exhibition collections, those 
for the specimens, for che shelves and for the cases. 

LIBRARY. 

The library was exceptionally fortunate the past year in the matter 
of valuable donations. Perhaps the one of greatest general interest 
was a copy of the magnificent publication in two volumes, entitled 
" Investigations and Studies in Jade," profusely illustrated by Ameri- 
can, European, and Chinese artists, and presented by the estate of the 
late Heber R. Bishop, whose large collection of jade and other hard 
stones was denoted to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. 
The material for this imposing work was prepared under the direc- 
tion of Mr. Bishop at great cost, but its publication was left to his 
executors. The number of copies was limited to one hundred, to be 
distributed to members of his family, heads of governments, and the 
principal libraries and museums in this and other countries. 

Prof. Lester F. Ward, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and for 
many years connected with the Museum, presented his collection 
of botanical and paleobotanical books, memoirs, and pamphlets. 
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, contributed a large number of 
natural histor}" papers, and Dr. C. W. Richmond, assistant curator of 
birds, over a hundred valuable works relating to the same subject and 
to travel. Prof. O. T. Mason and Dr. C. A. White have continued 
to add to their donations of some years ago, and many valuable pub- 
lications have reached the library in this way. 

The library now contains 27,726 volumes, 44,075 unbound papers, 
and 108 manuscripts, the additions during the year having comprised 
3,556 books, 5,327 pamphlets, and 105 parts of volumes. There were 
catalogued 1,848 books, 4,864 pamphlets, and 12,228 parts of period- 
icals^ and 290 books were bound. 

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from 
the general library amounted to 28,924, including 19,354 which were 
assigned to the sectional libraries. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



49 



The sectional libraries established in the Museum are as follows: 



Administration. 

Administrative Assistant. 

Anthropology. 

Biology. 

Birds. 

Botany. 

Children's Room. 

Comparative Anatomy. 

Editor. 

Ethnology. 

f ishes. 



Geology. 

History. 

Insects. 

Mammals. 

Marine Invertebrates. 

Materia INIedica. 

Mesozoic Fossils. 

Mineralogy. 

Mollusks. 

Oriental Archeology. 

Paleobotany. 

rHOTOGRAPHY, 



Parasites. 

Photography. 

Physical Anthropology. 

Prehistoric archeology. 

Reptiles. 

Stratigraphic Paleontology, 

Superintendent. 

Taxidermy. 

Technology. 



In the photographic laboratory, which is well equipped for the pur- 
pose, there were made 1,681 negatives, 3,820 silver prints, -165 platinum 
prints, 511: velox prints, 1,903 cyanotypes, and 56 bromide prints. 
These photographs were almost exclusively of objects in the collec- 
tions for use in illustrating scientific reports or in perfecting* the 
records and catalogs. Some, however, related to structural details of 
the buildings, to articles of furniture, and to other general museum 
subjects. The chief photographer, Mr, T, W. Smillie, also continued, 
as in previous jears, to conduct the examinations in photography for 
the U. S, Civil Service Commission, 



EXPOSITIONS, 

LEWIS AND CLARK CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION, PORTLAND, OREGON. 

From the appropriation of $200,000 made by Congress for a Gov- 
ernment exhibit at this exposition, which was held from June 1 to 
October 15, 1905, the sum of $12,658 was allotted to the Smithsonian 
Institution and National Museum, which were represented on the 
Government Board b}' Dr. F. W. True, Dr. M. W. L^'on, jr, , being 
detailed as chief special agent. The collections taken to Portland 
were mainl}' selections from the exhibit made at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition, but with only about one-third the space the display was 
naturally very much smaller. Among the new objects shown were 
photographic enlargements of geological subjects and of animals at 
the National Zoological. Park; framed plates from Audubon's great 
work on birds; a nearly complete skeleton of the extinct Dodo; a 
facsimile of a painting of the living Dodo from a copy in the British 
Museum, and the skeleton of a little piked whale. 

JAMESTOWN TERCENTENNIAL EXPOSITION. 

In the sundry civil act approved June 30, 1906, the sum of $200,000 
was appropriated to enable the United States Government, including 



50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum, to be repre- 
sented at the Jamestown Tercentennial Exposition, which will be held 
during the summer of 1907. The buildings were provided for in a 
Separate grant of $350,000. 

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF. 

There were few changes in the scientihc staff during the year. Mr. 
E. P. Upham, who has served for many 3'ears in the division of pre- 
historic archeology under the title of clerk, was advanced to the rank 
of aid. Dr. M. W. Lyon, jr., was promoted from the grade of aid to 
that of assistant curator in the division of mammals, while Mr. Gerrit 
S. Miller, jr., also assistant curator in the same division, was granted 
a >'ear's leave of absence to enable him to carry on certain investiga- 
tions abroad for the British Museum of Natural History. 

Dr. Paul Bartsch was promoted from aid to assistant curator in the 
division of mollusks. Mr. Le Roy Abrams was appointed assistant 
curator in the division of plants; Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, custodian of orthoptera in the division of insects, 
and Mr. Lawrence La Forge, of the Geological Survey, aid in the 
division of phj'sical and chemical geology. 

The following table gives the organization and staff at the close of 
the fiscal year: 



The Museum Staff. 

[June ;50, 190(i] 

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper ex officio. 

Richard Rathbun', Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 

W. i)E C. Ravenel, Administrative Assistant. 

SCIENTIFIC STAFF. 

Department of Anthropology: 

Otis T. Mason, Head Curator. 
Division of Ethnologij: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Curator; 

J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator. 
Division of Physical Antliropology: Ales Hrdlicka, Assistant Curator. 
Division of Historic Archeology: Cyrus Adler, Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Assist- 
ant Curator. 
Division of Prehistoric Archeology: William H. Holmes, Curator; J. D. McGuire, 

Collaborator; E. P. Upham, Aid. 
Division of Technology: George C. INIaynard, Assistant Curator. 
Division of Graphic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian. 

Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian. 
Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy (Retired), Curator. 
Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Curator. 

Division of History: A. Howard Clark, Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant Curator. 
Associate in Historic Archeology: Paul Haupt. 
Department of Biology: 

Frederick W. True, Head Curator. 
Divisio7i of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Assist- 
ant Curator; Walter L. Hahn, Aid. 
Diiision of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant 
Curator; J. H. Riley, Aid. 
Section of Birds' Eggs: William L. Ralph, Curator; E. J. Horgan, Aid. 
Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G. Paine, 

Aid. 
Division of Fishes: B. W. Evermann, Curator; Barton A. Bean, Assistant Cura- 
tor; C. A. McKnew, Aid. 
Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Curator; Paul Bartsch, Assistant Curator; 

William B. Marshall, Aid. 
Division of Insects: L. 0. Howard, Curator; W. H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator; 
H. S. Barber, Aid. 
Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. 
Section of Myriapoda: 0. F. Cook, Custodian. 
Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. 
Section of Lepidoptera. Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian. 
Section of Orthoptera: A. N. Caudell, Custodian. 
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. 

51 



52 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 

Department of Biology — Continued. 

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Curator; J. E. Benedict, 
Assistant Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator; Harriet Rich- 
ardson, Collaborator. 
Section of Ilelminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian; B. H. 
Ransom, Assistant Custodian. 
Division of Plants {National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Curator: J. N. 
Rose, Associate Curator; W. R. Maxon, Assistant Curator; LeRoy 
Abrams, Assistant Curator; J. H. Painter, Aid. 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: 0. F. Cook, Assistant Curator. 
Section of Higher A lga3: W. T. Swingle, Custodian. 
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian. 
Associates in Zoology: Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, R. E. C. Steams, 

W. L. Abbott. 
Associates in Botany: Edward ij. Greene, John Donnell Smith. 
Department of Geology: 

George P. Merrill, Head Curator. 
Division of Fliysical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P. 

Merrill, Curator; Laurence La Forge, Aid. 
Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assistant Curator. 
Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Curator; R. S. Bass- 
ler, Assistant Curator. 
Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, R. S. Bassler, in charge; Carbon- 
iferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, Custodian; 
Cenozoic, VV. H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporariaa Corals, T. Way- 
land Vaughan, Custodian. 
Section of Paleobotany: David Wliite, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, Aid; 
F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants. 
Associate in Mineralogy, L. T. Chamberlain. 
Associate in Paleontology, Charles A. White. 
Associate in Paleobotany, Lester F. Ward. 
Department of Mineral Technology: 
Charles D. Walcott, Curator. 

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 

Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare. 

Disbursing Agent, VV. I. Adams. 

Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. S. Goldsmith. 

Editor, Marcus Benjamin. 

Editorial Clerk, E. S. Steele. 

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder. , 

Photographer, T. W. Smillie. 

Registrar, S. C. Brown. 

Property Clerk, W^. A. Knowles. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS DURING THE FISCAL 

YEAR 1905-1906. 

[Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were either presented or transferred in accordance 

with law.] 



Abboti', William L., Singapore, Straits 
Settlements: An extensive and valuable 
collection of ethnological and biological 
material, the latter consisting of mam- 
mals, birds, reptiles, insects, fishes, and 
mollusks, principally from the islands 
of Engano and Xias, western Sumatra; 
also 363 negatives (44682); a large and 
very interesting collection of ethnolog- 
ical objects and natural-history speci- 
mens from the region of Kapuas River, 
Borneo (45397) ; ethnological specimens 
and natural -history material from east- 
ern Sumatra (46089); mammals from 
Rhio Archipelago, collected by C. 
Boden Kloss (46090). (See under C. 
Boden Kloss. ) 

Abr.jlms, Le Rov, U. S. National Museum: 
638 plants from California (46066: pur- 
chase). (See under J. "\V. Adams. ) 

Adam, Joseph S., Canaan, Conn.: Larva 
of a sphinx-moth, or hawk-moth, para- 
sitized by ichneumon-fiies (44969). 

Adams, J. W., Soldiers' Home, Cal. : 8 
plants from California (45147) ; 4 plants 
from the southern part of California 
(received through Le Roy Abrams) 
(45031). 

Adams, Martin A., Jersey City, N. J.: 
Cane or walking-stick with the inscrip- 
tion "Presented to Dr. B. Clement, U. 
S. Frigate Cointitution" (45632). 

Adler, Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution: 
Ten-cent bill (fractional currency) 
(45284). 



Agriculture, Department of, Hon. 
James Wilson, Secretary. 

Bureau of Bi< 'logical Survey: 4 jilants 
from Texas, collected by Arthur How- 
ell (44771); specimen of black pine, 
Pinus Jeffrei/i, collected by J. H. Gaut 
in Shasta County, Cal. (44859); 268 
plants from Mexico (44939); 50 shells 
from Lower California (44996); 3 fresh- 
water shells obtained by J. H. Gaut in 
California (45015); 4 birds' eggs col- 
lected in Lower California by E. A. 
Goldman and E. W. Xelson (45027); 4 
specimens of moUusk, Epiphragmophora 
fidelis, from California, collected by J. 
H. Gaut (45049) ; plant from Elk River, 
Minnesota, collected by Vernon Bailey 
(45080); 207 plants collected in Lower 
California by E. W. Nelson and E. A. 
Goldman ( 45136 ) ; 5 specimens of willow, 
Salix, obtained in California by E. W. 
Nelson (45385); 120 plants from Low^er 
California obtained by E. W. Nelson 
and E. A. Goldman (45479); 29 land- 
shells collected by E. W. Nelson and E. 
A. Goldman in Lower California 
(45496) ; 26 plants collected in Texas by 
A. H. Howell (45579); 130 plants col- 
lected in Lower California by E. A. 
Goldman and E. W. Nelson (45582); 9 
specimens of cacti from Mexico collected 
by E. W. Nelson (45736); 24 living 
plants and 120 dried specimens ob- 
tained by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Gold- 
man in Mexico (45735) ; crustaceans col- 
lected by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Gold- 

53 



54 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Agriculture, Department of — Cont'd. 
man in San Felipe Bay, Lower Cali- 
fornia (45797) ; 6eggsof Viosca's pigeon, 
Columhafasciata rio.tcieirom Lower Cali- 
fornia (45811); ]8 land-shells from 
Lower California (45840) ; 21 plants 
from California collected by E. A. Gold- 
man (45845); 38 plants from Arizona 
collected by E. A. Goldman (45846); 
specimen of living prickly pear, Opuntia, 
from Wyoming collected by Vernon 
Bailey (45897); 5plantsfrom Wyoming 
collected by Vernon Bailey (45958); 
3 living specimens of cacti collected by 
Vernon Bailey in New Mexico (46048) ; 
skeletons and sterna of birds (46062); 
nest of California bush-tit, Psaltriparus 
mimmus californicns (46128). 

Bureau of Entomology: Specimen of 
short-fruited rush, Juncus brachycarpiis, 
from Long Island, collected by Harry 
Latham (44740); large collection of 
insects made by Mr. A. Busck, under 
the auspices of the Carnegie Institution 
(45044); about 10,000 insects collected 
in Brownsville, Tex., by H. S. Barber 
(45250); about 800 Japanese insects 
(45252); 6 specimens of cicada. Cicada 
nigriventris ( 45477 ) ; specimen of insect, 
Mantispa viruJis, collected by J. D. 
Mitchell, Victoria, Tex. (45587); 6 
specimens of insect, Telenomus liodermx, 
collected by A. \V. Morrill (45740); 
large collection of insects, shells, rep- 
tiles, plants, marine invertebrates, bird 
and bird-egg collected in Alta Verapaz, 
Guatemala, by E. A. Schwarz and 
H. S. Barber (46026). 

Bureau of Plaid Industry: 30 plants 
from Texas (44649); 196 plants col- 
lected in Massachusetts by G. . C. 
Worthen (45677); 820 type specimens 
of grasses and many drawings of types 
(44696); about 400 plants collected in 
Guatemala by H. Pittier in 1905 (44763) ; 
about 300 snakes, insects, and plants 
collected in Guatemala by G. P. Goll 
in 1904 and 1905 (44783); 13 plants 
from various localities (44885); about 
800 plants collected in Costa Rica in 
1903 by O. F. Cook and C. B. Doyle 
(44889); 15 plants from Washington 
and Oregon collected by Byron Hunter 
(44976); plants obtained in Texas by 
J. H. Gaut (44991); 2 specimens of 



Agriculture, Department of — Cont'd, 
willow, Salix (45016); 9 specimens of 
grasses collected at Fort Gibbons, 
Alaska, by C. W. H. Heideman (45033) ; 
13 specimens of grasses from Mt. Pose, 
Nev., collected by P. B. Kennedy 
(45034) ; 23 plants collected in Argen- 
tina by various collectors and received 
from E. Autran, Buenos Aires, Argen- 
tina (45035); 6 plants collected in the 
Transvaal by William IMcDonald, 
editor of the "Agricultural Journal," 
Pretoria, Transvaal (45036); 150 
plants collected in various localities 
and received from E. Hackel, Graz, 
Austria (45037); 821 grasses, largely 
types obtained by different collectors 
in various localities (45038); 69 speci- 
mens of grasses collected in the south- 
ern part of the United States by S. M. 
Tracy (45039); 15 specimens of grasses 
from Terra del Fuego collected in 
1903, from E. Autran, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina (45040); 2,750 plants from 
various localities (45059) ; 3 plants from 
Virginia (45060); 123 plants collected 
in Mexico by H. Pittier (45126); 18 
specimens of cryptogams from various 
localities (45233); 300 plants from the 
western part of the United States col- 
lected by F. V. Coville (45237); plants 
from Oregon (45238); 10 plants from 
Oregon (45238); plant from Washing- 
ton (45266); 3 plants from various 
localities (45280); 31 plants from vari- 
ous localities (45349); 35 plants col- 
lected in Pennsylvania, Maine, and 
other localities by P. L. Picker (45401) ; 
9 sijecimens of Pteridophytn collected in 
Washington by C. V. Piper (45416); 8 
shrubby plants from New Hampshire 
collected by F. V. Coville (45425); 21 
specimens of grasses collected by W. E. 
Brock way in Grenada, West » Indies 
(45605); 8 grasses from Argentina 
collected by G. Williams and sent 
by L. H. Pammel (45606); 31 grasses 
from W. C. Cusick, Union, Oreg. 
(45607); 65 botanical specimens from 
N. N. Suksdorf, Bingen,Wash. (45608); 
116 specimens of grasses from different 
localities (45609); 5 plants from Mexico 
and vicinity (45610) ; 500 plants, chiefly 
from the western section of the United 
States, collected by David Griffiths 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



55 



Agriculture, Depaktmknt of— Cont'd. 
(45667); 82 sedges (45674); 1 plant, 
Dracontium asperum, from Porto Rico 
(45706); about 1,175 specimens of 
grasses (45737); 400 plants obtained 
from A. Kneucker, Germany (45S64): 
about 500 sjjecimens of fungi from 
Maine collected by V. 1^. Ricker 
(45893); specimen of ivory palm, Pliy- 
telephas, from Panama (45894); plants 
from the Colombian Reiniblic collected 
byll. Pittier (44895); fungus, J/^'/mrria 
sotani, collected by AV. S. Lyon in the 
Philippine Islands (45896) ; plants from 
Alaska collected by the Harriman ex- 
pedition (45908); plants collected by 
W. F. Wight in Canada and New Hamp- 
shire (45917); 2 plants from the south- 
ern part of California (45928) ; 52 plants 
from various sections of the United 
States (46017); 2 living specimens of 
prickly pear, Opuntia, from Dallas, Tex., 
collected by C. V. Pijier (46018); 4 liv- 
ing plants from Texas collected by C. V. 
Piper (46028); specimen of plantain 
from Texas collected by C'. Y. Piper 
(46070); 14 plants from the Philippine 
Islands collected by F. Lamson-Scrib- 
ner (46101). 

Forest Service: 310 plants collected in 
the United States. 

(See also under J. A. Flemer; B. V. 
Lilly; C. G. Lloyd; C. S. Scofield.) 

Alabama State Commission at thk 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallie minerals from Alabama 
(44661). 

Albatross - AciAssiz Expedition. (See 
under Department of Commerce and 
Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. ) 

Alfaro, Anastasio, San Jose, Costa Rica: 
5 l)irds' skins from Costa Rica (44654) ; 
11 birds' skins from Costa Rica, in- 
cluding type of a new species of owl, 
Cryptogldux ridgwayi (44903). (See 
under San Jose, Costa Rica, Museo 
Nacional ) . 

Allen, G. W., Fort Bayard, X. Mex. : 2 
larvje of a large yellow swallow-tailed 
butterfly, Pfqjilio (44970). 

Allen, R. A., Jr., U. S. National Museum: 
AVild rabbit, gray squirrel, owl, hooded 
woodpecker, field-lark, crow, blue jay, 
cardinal, turkey buzzard, 2 field-larks, 
woodcock, collected for the Museum at 



Allen, R. A., Jr.— Continued. 

Ammon, Amelia County, V;i. (45112; 
45125; 45140; 45160). 

Allen, William T., Pacific Grove, Cal.: 
5 living plants of the genus Dudleya, 
from Point Lobus (45725). 

Alonza, Carlo, Bologna, Italy: Subter- 
ranean crustaceans from Italy (44951); 
collection of cave insects (46092). Ex- 
change. 

Altamirano, F., Instituto Medico Na- 
cional, City of Mexico, Mexico: 4 plants 
from Mexico (45017). (See also under 
City of Mexico. ) 

Alverson, a. H., San Bernardino, Cal.: 
7 plants from California (45835: ex- 
change ) . 

American ]Museum of Natural History, 
New York City: About 500 moths 
(45726: exchange); 2 species of ants 
(45854: exchange) ; brain of an Eskimo 
(11234: loan). 

American Philosophical Society, Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. : Bronze medal to com- 
memorate the 200th anniversary of the 
birth of Benjamin Franklin (received 
through the President of the LTnited 
States, from the State Department) 
(45927). See also under Smithsonian 
Institution. 

American Republics, International 
Bureau of the, Washington, D. C. : 
Panama relief map and Intercontinental 
railway map (45568). 

Ames, Frank H., Brooklyn, N. Y". : Beetle 
and 2 larvae of Sitodrejxi panice i ( 46134 ) . 

Amos, Mrs. Helen, Washington, D. C. : 
Cecropia moth (46046). 

Anderson, E. M., Provincial- Museum, 
Yictoria, British Columbia: Moth 
(44687). 

Anderson, RoBERt Y. (See under Le- 
land Stanford Junior University. ) 

Anderson, R. W., Eagle Pass, Tex. : Cac- 
tacese from Texas ( 45553 ; 45627 ; 45640 ) . 

Andrews, L., Stonington, Conn.: 5 plants 
of the genusSanyuinaria from Connecti- 
cut (45920). 

Anthony, A. AY., Anthony, Greg.: In- 
vertebrate fossils (46052). 

Arkansas State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallie minerals from Arkan- 
sas (44662). 



56 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190(). 



Arledge, Alex., Weiser, Idaho: Larva 
of a water-beetle, Ili/drnphilus triangu- 
laris (44690). 

Armes, Col. G. A., U. S. Army (retired), 
Washington, D. C. : Service sword worn 
during the civil war, while on the staff 
of Gen. \V. S. Hancock (44960); un- 
exploded shell from Appomattox battle- 
field, April 8-9, 1865 (45363). 

Arthur, J. C, Lafayette, Ind.: 32 fungi 

(45898: exchange). 
Ash, Charles, U. S. National Museum: 

Bat, Vespertilio (45319: collected for the 

Museum ) . 
Atwood, M. C, Provincetown, Mass.: 

Brain of double-crested cormorant, 

Phalaerocorax dilophus (45022). 
AuTRAN, E. (See under Department of 

Agriculture. ) 
Avery, AV. C, Corinth, Vt. : Larvae of a 

fly, probably Hornalomyia canicularis 

(45868). 

Back, E. A., Amherst, Mass. : 5 dipterous 
insects, Scatopse claripes (45788). 

Badc, N. J., Llano, Tex.: Samples of 
powdered rock (44874). 

Bagg, Rufus M., Jr. (See under Interior 
Department, V. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Bailey, Vernon, Department of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. : Living 
specimen of prickly pear, Opuntiaclavata 
from Texas (45130). (See also under 
Department of Agriculture. ) 

Baker, C. F. , Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 
44 specimens of Lepidoptera (44863); 
176 specimens of Lepidoptera (45166); 
200 specimens of cacti from Cuba 
(46085). (See also under Santiago de 
las Vegas.) 

Baker, Frank C. (-See under Chicago 
Academy of Sciences. ) 

Baker, Leroy, Mell City, Nev.:' Silver 
ores from Buena Vista district, Hum- 
boldt County, Nev. (45527). 

Baker, Miss Olivia, Selma, Ala.: Ala- 
bama badge of the Young People's 
Society of Christian Endeavor (44676). 

Balch, F. N., Boston, Mass.: 4 speci- 
mens of moUusk, Rissoa latior, from 
Maine (46001). 



Ball, W. P., Beckley, W. Va.: 2 fossil 
plants from Beckley (received through 
David White) (45528). 

Bangs, Outram. (See under John E. 
Thayer.) 

Banks, Charles S. (See under Manila, 
Philippine Islands, Bureau of Science.) 

Banta, a. M. and W. L. McAtee, De- 
partment of Agriculture: 24 specimens 
of salamanders, Spelerpes muculicmidus, 
from Mansfield's Cave, Bloomington, 
Ind. (45247). 

Barber, A. W., Washington, D. C: 
Birch-bark bucket from Washington 
(44956: exchange); plant from near 
Lake Okeechobee, Florida (44965) ; cop- 
perhead snake from Virginia (44826). 

Barber, Maj. Henry A., U. S. Army 
(retired), Cambridge, Md.: Scorpion, 
Heterometrus longimanus (45110). 

Barber, H. S., U. S. National Museum: 
5 specimens of knotweed. Polygonum, 
from Fairfax County, Va. (44785); 3 
land-shells from California (45054) . 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture and Carnegie Institution. ) 

Barber, V. S., Susan ville, Cal. : 34 eggs 
of North American birds (44694). 

Barchet, Stephen P. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution. ) 

Barnard, W. C, Seneca, Mo.: Small 
collection of relics from ancient quar- 
ries in Seneca County (45113); flint 
implements from Seneca (46057) . Ex- 
change. 

Barnes, William, Decatur, 111.: 616 
moths (44720: exchange); 259 speci- 
mens of Lepidoptera (44680; 45233). 

Barrett, L. E., Syracuse, N. Y. : Hickory- 
horned devil, larva of Citheronia regalis, 
from Indian Territory (?) (44910). 

Barringer, M., Philadelphia, Pa.: Piece 
of stony meteorite weighing 200 grams, 
from Cafion Diablo, Arizona (46024). 

Barrott, a. F., Washington, D. C. : Coin: 
i kopeck of 1892 (45111); silver neck- 
lace of Navaho workmanship (45924: 
exchange). 

Bartlett, J. D., Hico, Tex.: Fragment 
of a Lower Cretaceous ammonite of the 
genus Engonoceras (45383). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



57 



Bartlett, S. p. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries. ) 

Bartsch, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
Fungus from the District of CoUimbia 
(44718) ; 3 plants from Fairfax County, 
Va. (44708: collected for the Museum). 

Bassett, Miss IIuLDA J., Warsaw, N. Y. : 
Beetle, CalUgrapha scalaris (45457). 

Bassler, E. S., U. S. National IMuseum: 
20 land-shells from Clinch Mountain, 
near Mendota, Va. (44824) ; about 5,000 
fossils from the Ordovician rocks of 
Virginia (44935: collected for the Mu- 
seum 1; about 500 fossils from the Si- 
lurian and Devonian rocks of Virginia 
(44977: collected for the Museum). 

Baumaxx, a. F., Greenville, S. C. : Cube 
of granite (44957 ) . 

Bayley, Western D., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Collection of old musical instruments 
and manuscript music arranged for 
bands (45356). 

Beals, Mrs. Ida M., Lake Valley, N. 
Mex.: 11 specimens of cactus and a 
plant from New 3Iexico (44648; 44807; 
44818; 45026; 45184). 

Bean, Barton A., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Fishes collected for the Museum 
along the eastern coast of Florida 
(45409). 

Bean, T. H., New York City: Inverte- 
brates from Alaska and Washington 
(45169); 3 birds' skins from near 
Washington, D. C. (45964). 

Beck WITH, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
26 one-cent pieces, U. S. currency, and 
2 U. S. dimes (45454); silver half-dol- 
lar, U. S. currency, issued in 1817 
(45710); silver coin of the Dukes of 
Belgium, IIII Marean gross of 1668 
(46010). 

Beebe, G. F., Jordan, Mont.: Cricket, 
Stennpalmatus fuscus ( 45094 ) . 

Beers, Henry W., Bridgeport, Conn.: 
7 nests and 35 eggs of the blue-winged 
warbler, IlebninthophUa pinus (45603: 
exchange). 

Benedict, J. E., U. S. National Museum: 
Mollusks and other invertebrates from 
Pacific Grove,, Cal. (45339: collected 
for the Museum) . 



Benedict, J. E. and Marcus W. Lyon, jr., 
U. S. National Museum: Mammals, 
plants, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans, 
birds, and fishes from Oregon (45099: 
collected for the Museum). 

Benedict, J. E., jr., Woodside, Md.: 
Snake, Carphophiops, from Woodside 
(44881). 

Benguiat, Hadji Ephraim, New York 
City: Religious objects used in Jewish 
ceremonial (11437: loan). 

Berg, L. (See under St. Petersburg, Mu- 
see Zoologique de 1' Academie Imperiale 
des Sciences). 

Berger, a.. La Mortola, Ventimiglia, 
Italy: Specimen of cactus from Italy 
(45292: exchange). 

Bergh, H. O., Quatsino, British Colum- 
bia (northwest coast of Vancouver Is- 
land): 2 Indian skulls collected in the 
neighborhood of Quatsino (45058). 

Berndt, E. L. (See under Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries). 

Besselievre, S. L, Navy Department, 
Washington, D. C. : Blue prints of the 
plans of the frigate Constitution. ( 44724 ) . 

Beutenmuller, Alfred, New York City: 
968 photographs of Indians of the south- 
western part of the United States and 
northern 3Iexico, printed from nega- 
tives taken by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka 
(45102). 

Beutenmuller, William, American Mu- 
seum of Natural History, New York 
City: 6 beetles, Cychrus niagarensis and 
Corymbites longicornis (44633). 

Billingsley, T. E., Victoria, Tex.: 3 
living specimens of cacti from Victoria 
(44799). 

Bishop, estate of H. R. : Copy of the 
magnificent publication entitled "The 
Bishop Collection, Investigations and 
Studies in Jade" : also rocks and asso- 
ciated minerals collected by George 
F. Kunz and his son in Silesia for Mr. 
Bishop's use in illustrating the occur- 
rence of jade in p]urope (received 
through A. J. Paterson, executor) 
(45485). 

Bishop Museum (See under Honolulu, 
Hawaiian Islands). 



58 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Black, G. F., New York City: Electro- 
types of Scotch and other antiquities 
(44941). 

Black, Gen. John C, Civil Service Com- 
mission, Washington, D. C. : Luna 
motli, Troph;c(t linui (46132). 

Blackford, Charles M., Staunton, Va. : 
Long-sting, Megarhyssa lunator (46039). 

Blackiston, a. H., Flagstaff, Ariz.: Col- 
lection of pottery, stone implements, 
and human bones from Casas Grandes 
Valley and Cave Valley, Chihuahua, 
Mexico (11152) ; shell and stone objects, 
bones, etc., from the same localities 
(11311). Loan. 

Blackmak, estate of Gen. W. W.: Chair 
in which General Grant sat when sign- 
ing thearticles of capitulation atthe sur- 
render of the army of General Lee at 
Appomattox Court House, April 9, 
1865 (received through Geo. B. Knapp, 
executor) (45493). 

Blakeslee, a. F., Halle, Germany: 2 
specimens of fungus, Phyconujces niteiis 
(45727). 

Blaney, Dwight, Bar Harbor, Me.: 230 
specimens of moUusks from French- 
mans Bay, Me. (44712). 

Blanks, Cyrus F., St. Louis, Mo.: Piece 
of a log which formed a part of the 
cabin built by General Grant in 1854 
(45490). 

Blankinship, J. W., Bozeman, Mont.: 
500 plants from Montana (45232: pur- 
chase). 

Blumer, J. C, Washington, D. C. : 3 liv- 
ing specimens of cacti from New 
Mexico (45626); 146 plants from New 
Mexico (46014). 

BoARMAN, W. A., Cherrydale road, Fair- 
fax County, Va. : Pair of iron tongs 
found in 1862 on General Washington's 
birthplace, Wakefield, Va. (46097). 

Bolles, Miss Lucy Dix, Brookline, Mass. : 
Brick from porcelain tower at Mankin; 
brick of solid tea (sometime used as 
money), and a sword made of per- 
forated copper coins (45436). 

Booth, P. L., Danville, Va. : Larva of 
moth, Megalojyyge opercular is (44855). 

Bosworth, a. S., FLshingHawk, W. Va. : 
Fossil plants (44778). 



Boutwell, G. B., Monte Vista, Colo.: 
Specimen of tench. Tinea mlgaris 
(45771). 

BowDEN, J., Stillwater, Okla. : Larva of a 
butterfly, Papilio sp. (46078). 

Bowers, Samuel, Bisbce, Ariz. : 51 cases 
of a bag- worm, Oiketicus tovmsendi 
(44731; 45392). 

Bowers, Stephen, Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Specimen of coelenterate, Canocyathus 
n. sp., from California (45143). 

Bradley, Mrs. N. D., Richmond, Va. : 
2 garden spiders, Argiope riparia (?) 
(44934). 

Brainerd, Dwight, Montreal, Canada: 
2 types of new species and variety of a 
moth, Gortyna (44728: exchange). 

Brainerd, Ezra, Middlebury, Vt. : 33 
specimens of violets from Vermont. 
(45809: exchange). 

Brandegee, T. S., San Diego, Cal.: 3 
plants from California (45103: ex- 
change); 6 specimens of umbelliferous 
plants from Mexico (45400); 6 plants 
from California and Mexico, 4 of them 
collected in Mexico by C. A. Purpus 
(45717; 45878; 45951: exchange). 

Braun, Miss A. F., Cincinnati, Ohio : 9 
tineid moths representing rare species 
(45422). 

Braverman, M., Visalia, Cal.: 2 German 
passports (46020). 

Brazilian Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition: Ores and non- 
metallic minerals from Brazil (44636). 

Brewster, A. B., Koyukuk District, 
Alaska: Gold nugget (crystal) weigh- 
ing 2 grams (45440) ; plaster casts of 
2 gold nuggets from Myrtle Creek, 
Koyukuk District (45515). 

Brimley Brothers, Raleigh, N. C. : 5 
batrachians (46060: purchase). 

Brimley, C. S., Raleigh, N. C: 4 speci- 
mens of Chologaster cornutus and Cope- 
landellus quieseens from Ellis Lake, 
North Carolina (44673) ; eggs of Scapht- 
opus liolhrooH and larva3 of Engystoma 
(45200); salamander from North Caro- 
lina (45259); 30 specimens of Orthop- 
tera (45546); tree-frogs and salaman- 
ders (45633) ; 2 salamanders from North 
Carolina (46059). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



59 



British Guiana INIuseum. (See under 
Creorgetown, Britif^h Guiana. ) 

Bkitton, N. L., New York Botanical Gar- 
den, New York City: 8 plant:?, 6 photo- 
graplis of j)lants, and a living plant 
(45121: exchange). (See under Kings- 
ton, Jamaica, and New York Botanical 
Garden.) 

Brockhaus, Otto, Burt Angeles, Wash.: 
Larvteof a cerambycid beetle, proba- 
bly Er gates spicidat us (46012). 

Brockway, AVilliam, Necaxa, Puebla, 
Mexico: 8 living plants from Mexico 
(45.322). 

BiiocKWAV, W. E. (See imder Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. ) 

Bkodie, William, Provincial ^luseum, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 23si)ecimens 
of Hymenoptera (44894) ; 14 specimens 
of Diptera (received through L. 0. 
Howard) (46068). 

Bri>oklvx Institute of Arts and Sci- 
E.vcEs, ^Ii'sEUM of, Brooklyn, N. Y. : 
Reptiles and batrachians from North and 
South America (45448); skeleton of 
oilljird, Stralornis caripensis, from Trini- 
dad, collected by George K. Cherrie 
( 45611 ) . Exchange. 

Brooks, F. E., Morgantown, W. Va. : 4 
specimens of Sfihosropns ArooA'.s-/ (45548). 

Brooks, T. W., Detroit, Mich.: Cock- 
roaches, "probably Ectobia gervianlca 
(45997). 

Brown, E. J., Lemon City, Fla. : Reptiles, 
batrachians, fishes, insects, shrimp, 
shrew, and a bird, from Florida 
(45875). 

Brown, Nathan Clifford, Lakewood, 
N. J.: Skin of vardimiX, Cardinal is cardi- 
iialis, inclining to /7oric7«n(i.? (45641); 8 
l)irds' nests from North Carolina 
(4.5642). 

Brown, Rev. Robert, Philippine Weather 
Bureau, Manila, Philippine Islands: 
Parasitic Hymenoptera (44681; 44765; 
44781 ; 44797; 44879; 45096; 4.5245; 45281 ; 
4.5459; 4.5615); 2 glass sponges (44823). 

Browne, estate of Mrs. L. W. K. : Swords 
and guns of the late Gen. William 
Henry Browne (received througli II. 
H. Dodge, executor) (4.5676: bequest.) 



Bkues, C. T., Public Museum, Milwaukee, 
Wis.: 2 specimens of ichneumon-flies, 
Mnsostenus arvalis {4A8\0) . 

Bruner, Prof. Lawrence, Lincoln, Nebr. : 
66 Orthoptera (Decticinai) (45391). 

Bryant, Owen, Cohasset, Mass. : 2 speci- 
mens of Diptera (44813); 14 .specimens 
of moUusks, RIssoa muUilineata and 
J'aludestrina salsa, from Cohasset 
(45187). 

Bucks Harbor Granite Company, South 
Brooksville, Me. (See under M. D. 
Chatto. ) 

Bunker, Mrs. Ella, Washington, D. C: 
4 eggs of African gray parrot (45246). 

BuscK, August, Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : ilammals from 
the AVest Indies (4.5003); snakes and 
lizards from Santo Domingo (4.5005); 
10 birds' skins from Santo Domingo 
(45062); sand-bug from Trinidad 
(45228) ; young specimens of moUusks, 
AmpuUaria, from Trinidad, and of 
Neritina from Santo Domingo (45250). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture, and B. W. Evermann. ) 

Bush, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: 52 plants, * 
including portions of 2 types from INIis- 
stiuri, Arkansas, and Texas (44777) ; 52 
plants from Missouri (45291). 

Bush, Miss K. J. (See under Peabody 
Museum, New Haven, Conn.) 

Bu.ssell, C. AV., McCoysburg, Ind. : 2 
wolves (45991). 

Butler, C. T., Brookhaven, Miss.: Plant 
(44788). 

Button, F. L., Oakland, Cal. : Specimen 
of moUusk, Rostellaria delicatula, from 
Persian Gulf, and 5 specimens of mol- 
lusk, Epiphragmophora arrosa expansi- 
labris, from Ferndale, Cal. (45522). 

Cairns, Ralph, Walton, N. Y. : Two fos- 
sil plants from the Devonian of New 
York (received througli David White) 
(45507). 

Caldwell, F. M., Venice, 111.: Photo- 
graph of a celt weighing 40 pounds 
(45946). 

California Academy of Sciences, San 
Francisco, Cal. : Plant from Lower Cal- 
ifornia (45857: exchange). 



60 



EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM^ 1906. 



California Citeus Products Company, 
National Citj', Cal. : Citric acid, melade, 
lemon extract, lemon oil, from the 
Lewis and Clark Exposition at Port- 
land, Oreg. (45794). 

Calleja, Francisco Lopez, San Jos6, 
Costa Rica: Reptiles, batrachians, and 
2 mole-crickets (44638). 

Calvert, Mrs. E. F. R. (See under Miss 
Cornelia P. Randolph.) 

Canada, Geological Survey of. (See 
under Ottawa, Canada. ) 

Cannon, W. A., Tucson, Ariz.: Cactus 
fruits (44717). 

Canu, F., Versailles, France: Fossil shells 
from the Cretaceous of France (44809: 
exchange). 
■ Card, George W. (See under Sydney, 
New South Wales, University of Syd- 
ney. ) 

Carlisle, J. A., Gainesville, Fla. : Pair 
of ram's horns (45239). 

Carnegie Institution, Washington, D. 
C. : A large collection of insects from 
Central America, obtained by Mr. Fred- 
g erick Knab (received through Dr. L. 
O. Howard) (45043); 827 mosquitoes 
and other insects collected in July and 
August, 1904 by H. S. Barber (45258) ; 
fishes, in.sects, mollusks, and other in- 
vertebrates collected by J. Hobart Eg- 
bert in the region of the Hawaiian 
Islands while attached to the Magnetic 
Expedition under the auspices of the 
Carnegie Institution (45865) . (See also 
under Department of Agriculture. ) 

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa. : Speci- 
men of Sanguinaria from Pennsylvania 
(45833; exchange). 

Carruth, G. H., Catawba, Va. : Larva 
and pupa of a moth, Sisymsea textula 
(44997). 

Cary, L. R., Cameron, La.: Shells 

' (45643). 

Cary, Merritt, Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : 13 dragon- 
files and a moth from Athabasca, Mac- 
kenzie Districts, Canada (46035). 

Cary, Merritt, and L. Bruner, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture: 128 dragon flies 
from Juan Vifias, Costa Rica (46034). 



Castner, Mrs. Hamilton Y., New York 
City: 10 specimens illustrating the 
manufacture of aluminum by the Cast- 
ner process, and a portrait of H. Y. 
Castner (45366). 

Catlettsburg, Kenova and Ceredo 
Water Company, Catlettsburg, Ky.: 
Specimen of "crystallized soot" 
(45164). 

Caudell, a. N., U. S. National Museum: 
Lizard from Wyandotte Cave., Ind. 
(44825; collected for the Museum); 3 
bats, Mijotis, from Indiana (45025); 
salamanders from Falls Church, Va. 
(45154; collectedfor the Museum); 150 
specimens of Orthoptera from Paraguay 
(45423). 

Cerriglio, a., Washington, D. C. : Crab, 
Gec.arcinus, found in a bunch of ba- 
nanas from Cuba (45930). 

Ceylon Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition: Ores and non- 
metallic minerals from Ceylon (44639; 
6 swifts, CoUocalia, from Ceylon (44904; 
purchase). 

Chalwin, H. J., superintendent Muni- 
cipal Gardens, Cape Town, South Af- 
rica: Seeds (44716). 

Chamberlain, E. B., Cumberland Cen- 
ter, Me.: Living plant, Sedum stolon- 
iferus, from Maine (46100; exchange). 

Chamberlain, F. M. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau 
of Fisheries. ) 

Chamberlain, L. T., New York City: 
Collection of unios from Burmah 
(45317). 

Channon, Miss M. K., Philadelphia, 
Pa.: Mole-cricket, Gryllotalpa borealis 
(45045). 

Chanute, Octave, Chicago, 111. : Models 
of flying-machines and kites (45671; 
45672) . ( See also under Field Museum 
of Natural History. ) 

Chapman, N. A., East Cleveland, Ohio: 
Photograph of Dr. G. S. B. Hempstead 
and his "Archeological Map" of Ports- 
mouth, Ohio, and vicinity (44726). 

Chapman, S. B., Shope, N. C. : Grass- 
hopper, Chortophaga viridifasdata 
(45619). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



61 



Chapmax, T. a., Betula, Reigate, En- 
gland: 8 butterflies, 5 moths, and 6 
cocoons from Spain (44650). 

Chase, Mrs. Agnes, Washington, D. C. : 
2 plants from the District of Columbia 
(45877; exchange). (See also under 
E. J. Hill.) 

Ohastaix Brothers, Thomasville, Ga. : 
Nest and young larva^ of a moth 
(46007). 

Chatto, M. D., South Brooksville, Me.: 
Polished cube of granite from the Bucks 
Harbor Granite Company (45310). 

Cherrie, George K. (See under Brook- 
lyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, Mu- 
seum of. ) 

Chicago Academy of Sciences, Chicago, 
111. : Crustaceans (received through 
Frank C. Baker, curator) (45287). 

Christ, H. Basel, Switzerland: Fragment 
of the type of Diplozlum WercJdeanum 
( fern ) from Costa Rica ( 4531 1 ) ; 328 ferns 
from Costa Rica (45712; exchange). 

Christiania, Norway, Zoological Mu- 
seum: 4 specimens of rats (45680) ; skin 
and skull of reindeer, and skin and 
skull of red deer (46025). Exchange. 

Churchill, C. H., Johannesburg, Cal. : 
Three fossorial wasps from Mojave 
Desert (44883). 

Clapp, (teorge H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Co- 
types of 3 species of land-snails, Poly- 
gyra (45241). 

Clark, F. F., New York City: 2 one-cent 
pieces of United States currency of the 
issues of 1885 and 1893 (45473). 

Clark, H. F., Washington, D. C: Gold 
ore from Montana Tonopah mines, To- 
nopah, Nev. (44955). 

Clakk, H. W., Bureau of Fisheries: 75 
land moUusks from the District of 
Columbia (44833); landshells and a 
snail, Limax maximus, from the Dis- 
trict of Columbia (45841; 45052; 45509). 

Clark, J. J., Washington, D. C. : Parts 

of a telegraph relay (45161). 
~Clemoxs, Douglas, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Landshells, freshwater shell, 
and amphipods from the District of Co- 
lumbia and Chesapeake Beach (45051; 
46135). 

NAT MUS 1906 5 



Clemons, Douglas, and E. A. Schwakz, 
U. S. National Museum: 2,000 insects 
collected in 1905 on Plummers Island 
(45668). 

Clinton, Gr. P., New Haven, Conn.: 50 
specimens of economic fungi from 
North America (45064: exchange). 

Clunn, H. G., San Pedro Springs, via 
Temosachic, Mexico: Neuropterous in- 
sect, Chauliodes difjunctus (46108). 

Cockerell, T. D. a., Boulder, Colo.: Co- 
types of 2 species of landshells from 
Kingston, N. Mex. (44693); 10 speci- 
mens of parasiticHymenoptera (44733) ; 
4 moths, Phalonia fclir, TIdodia tenui- 
ana, Paltodora magnella, and Incurvaria 
n. sp. (45163). 

Coker, Robert E., Baltimore, Md. : 
Hawksbill turtle (45132). 

Colby, J. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Small 
wooden dish or tray made by the na- 
tives of the Gilbert or King's Mill 
group of islands in the South Pacific 
Ocean; also a photograph of trays and 
bowls (45747). 

Coleman, John W., Selma, Ala.: 25 fos- 
sil echinoids (45948). 

College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York City: 
Collection of human bones (45362: 
exchange) . 

Collins, Frank S., Maiden, Mass.: 50 
specimens of algae (44880; 45483: pur- 
chase). 

Collins, J. F., Providence, R. I.: 154 
plants from the eastern section of Que- 
bec (45776: purchase). 

Colonial Company Potters, East Liv- 
erpool, Ohio: 3 pieces of pottery 
(45698). 

Colorado State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallic minerals from Colo- 
rado (44663). 

Commerce and Labor, Department of: 
Hon. Victor Metcalfe, secretary. 

Bureau of Fisheries: Type specimens 
of fishes collected by the steamer Alba- 
tross in Alaska waters (44660) ; 16 plants 
from Norway, collected by Hugh M. 
Smith (44746); fishes from the Illinois 



e^'i 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Commerce and Labor, Department of — 
Continued. 
River, collected by S. P. Bartlett 
(45811); 87 plants from the vicinity of 
Yes Bay, Alaska (44815) ; 63 plants col- 
lected near Yes Bay, Alaska (44886); 
fishes (44928); marine invertebrates, 
mollusks, insects, and reptiles (44954); 
3 plants from Yew Bay, Alaska, collected 
by F. M. Chamberlain (45086) ; sponges 
collected in the Pacific Ocean by the 
Albatross-Agassiz Expedition of 1891 
(45174) ; series of fresh-water fishes from 
Maine (45175); snake and frogs from 
Maine, collected by W. C. Kendall in 
Aroostook County (45180); mammals, 
birds, mollusks, and other invertebrates, 
fossils, fish, and fiber-producing plants 
collected by the Albatross and FisJi 
Hawk in Japan, Alaska, the South Sea 
Islands, and Porto Rico (45248); fish- 
ing apparatus and gear, fossil material, 
and 2 valves of a giant clam (45276; 
fishes, mollusks, and other inverte- 
brates from the German educational 
exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Ex- 
position (45340); fishes, mollusks, and 
other invertebrates, also ethnological 
objects forming part of the Japanese 
fisheries exhibit at the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition (45348); sponges 
from the Pacific Ocean (45351); 22 
types of fishes collected by the Albatross 
among the Hawaiian Islands in 1902 
(45353); insects, crustaceans, and shells 
collected by J. W. Titcomb in Argen- 
tina (45361 ) ; Hawaiian fishes collected 
by the Albatross in 1902 (45365); iso- 
pods, including types of new spe- 
cies, collected at Porto Rico in 1899 
by the Fish Haivk (45399); reptiles, 
fishes, insects, mollusks, and other 
invertebrates, plants, and skull of a 
mammal (45403), fishes, chiefly from 
Alaska (45404); fishes from various 
localities (45407); compound ascidian 
from EUice Island, obtained by the 
Albatross - Agassiz Expedition to the 
South Pacific in 1899 (45410); about 
2,981 fishes collected by the Fish Haicl; 
Albatross, and Grampus, and also by 
Cloudesley Rutter and W. C. Kendall 
(45430, 45431, 45432); hammerless 
darting-gun No. 583, and implements 



Commerce and Labor, Department of — 
Continued, 
for taking blubber from a whale 
(45474); stony corals obtained during 
the Albatross-Agassiz Expedition to 
the South Pacific in 1904-5 (45482); 
fishes from the Hawaiian Islands, 
collected by D. S. Jordan and B. W. 
Everniann, the Albatross, the Fur Seal 
Commission, and 0. P. Jenkins (45495) ; 
fishes chiefly from the coast of Califor- 
nia obtained by the Albatross in 1894 
(45498) ; sponges collected by the Alba- 
tross off the coast of California in 1904 
(45516); dried crustaceans (45517); 103 
fishes from the Pacific Ocean principally 
obtained by the Albatross (45558); 309 
fishes collected in Hawaiian waters by 
the Albatross in 1902 (45564); 101 fishes 
from Samoa, collected by D. S. Jordan 
in 1902 (45565); 60 fishes from the 
western section of Cuba, collected in 
March of 1902 by C. H. Eigenmann 
and O. Riddle (45583); 95 fishes col- 
lected in Hawaiian waters in 1902 by 
E. L. Berndt and others (45584) ; 5,772 
fishes from the fresh waters of the 
northern part of California and the 
southern section of Oregon (45604) ; iso- 
pod, Meinertia, sp. from Kochi, Japan, 
collected by H. M. Smith (45620); 529 
fishes collected in Massachusetts waters 
chiefly about Woods Hole (45639) ; 511 
fishes, chiefly from the New England 
coast (45664) ; Hawaiian fishes (45679) ; 
type si^ecimens of worms, Limnodrilus 
gracilis and Actinobdella annectans 
(45751); barnacles, chiefly from the 
Hawaiian Islands and the Alaska- 
California coast (45770); mammals, 
birds, reptiles, fish eggs, insects, mol- 
lusks, and other invertebrates (45772); 
reptiles, plants, mollusks, and other 
invertebrates obtained by the Albatross 
during the Albatross- AgassizExpedition 
totheSonthPacificin 1899-1900 (45786); 
fishes from Argentina, South America 
(45791); 78 UnionidtB from Connecti- 
cut lakes. New Hampshire, collected 
by W. C. Kendall and E. L. Goldsbo- 
rough in 1904 (45800) ; fishes, including 
several types from Japan, Hawaiian 
Islands, and the Galapagos Islands ( re- 
ceived from Leland Stanford Junior 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



63 



Commerce and Labor, Department of — 
Continued. 
Univor.«ity (45856); mollusks from Sa- 
moa (received from Leland Stanford 
Junior T'^niversity, (45873); types of 
new species of fishes from Japan and the 
Philippine Islands (45935); fishes col- 
lected by the Albatross in the North 
Pacific Ocean, principally in 1894 
(45988); worms and other inverte- 
brates, insects, and mollusks, including 
tyi)es, collected by the Alaskan Salmon 
Commission in 1903, by the Albatross 
off the coast of Japan in 1900, and in 
the Hawaiian Islands and off the 
southern part of California in 1902 
(46055); 2 crabs, Potamocarimis, col- 
lected by S. E. Meek at Lake Amatit- 
lan, (iuatemala (46080). 

Conway, Benjamin, Anacostia, D. C. : 
Fifty-cent United States coin, issued in 
1821 (45206: exchange). 

Conzatti, C, Oaxaca, Mexico: 5 living 
specimens of cacti (45863; 45829: ex- 
change); 10 living plants from Mexico 
(46054; 46072; 46086). 

Cook, O. F., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C: 2 plants from 
Guatemala (44632). (See also under 
Department of Agriculture. ) 

Cooper, Juan, Cartago, Costa Rica: 5 
birds' skins from Costa Rica (44655). 

CoQiiiLLE-iT, D. W. (See under James 
G. Xeedham. ) 

CoRBETT, Miss ^Iary H., U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey, Washington, D. C. : Sword, 
commission, and handkerchief of Lieut. 
Samuel Howard, pilot of the Monitor 
during its engagement with the Merri- 
mac (45729: exchange). 

Corey, J. M., and H. W. Mitchell, Sara- 
toga, N. Y. : Piece of tufa from a min- 
eral spring (45368). 

CosPER, Mrs. J. H. T., Blue, Ariz.: Pot- 
tery vase from Bear Creek (45824). 

Cotton, J. S., Washington, D. C. : 4 liv- 
ing specimens of cacti (45146). 

CoviLLE, F. v.. Department of Agricul- 
ture: 2 plants, Franklinia alatamnhn, 
from Maryland (44908). (See also 
under Department of Agriculture. ) 



Cox, L. N. : Specimen of coral, Poritcs, 
from the island of Guam (received 
through C. W. Hayes, U. S. Geological 
Survey, Washington, I). C.) (45142). 

Crane, W. E., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 300 fos- 
sils from the Pleistocene rocks at Santa 
Barbara, Cal. (44812); 50 fossil coral 
sponges from the Jurassic of France 
(44832); 100 fossil sponges and bryo- 
zoans from the Cretaceous greensand, 
Faringdon, England (44861); European 
Paleozoic and Mesozoic fossils (44936). 
Exchange. 

Crawford, J. G., Albany, Oreg. : Skull of 
a beaked whale, yfesoplodon stejnegcri , 
from a specimen stranded 1 2 miles south 
of the U. S. Life-Saving Station on South 
Beach, near Newi)ort, Oreg. (45866: 
exchange) ; photograph of egg mass of 
sculpin (45876). 

Crosby, C. R., T'niversity of Missouri, 
Columbia, Mo.: Braconid (45825). 

Crosby, F. W., San Diego, Cal.: Sjjeci- 
men of dumortierite from Alpine, Cal. 
(45767); samples of gold-bearing car- 
bonate of lime from the mines of the 
Golden Harvest Milling and Mining 
Company, San Bernardino County, Cal. 
(46121). 

Crosby, M. Lewis, Boston, Mass.: 2 bul- 
lets telescoped in flight (45871). 

Cross, Whitman. (See under Interior 
Department, V. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Cummings, George F., New York City: 
Card of invitation extended by S. F. B. 
Morse to a private exhibition of his 
electro-magnetic telegraph, Jan. 24, 
1838, and a message recorded by the 
apparatus on the same day (45891). 

Curtis, Charles E. (See under Mrs. Ann 
A. Jeffcott. ) 

CuRTiss, A. H., Jacksonville, Fla. : 226 
plants from Cuba (45084: purchase). 

CusiCK, William C, Union, Oreg. : Speci- 
men of sumac, Schmaltizia, from Oregon 
(45359). (See also under Department 
of Agric'ulture. ) 

Dall, Marcus, Washington, D. C. : 25 
spedmens of fresli-water shells from 
the Uintah Mountains, Wyoming 
(44773) ; 14 specimens of fossil mollusk, 



64 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Dall, Marcus — Continued. 
Planorbis utahenfiix, from the Eocene of 
the Uintah Mountains (44774) ; landand 
fresh-water shells from Utah (45346). 

Dall, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C. : Japanese land- 
shells (45150). (See also under A. L. 
Herrera. ) 

Damon, Robert F., Weymouth, Eng- 
land : Colored cast of Australian mud- 
lish, Ceratodus forsteri (45364: pur- 
chase). 

Darling, Willard S., Harbor Springs, 
Mich.: Chippewa bark-and-quill work 
(45591). 

Darton, N. H. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Daughtrey, T. R. L., Jacksonville, Fla. : 
2 skulls from a mound near Lake Oke- 
chobee, Fla. (45030). 

Davenport, Homer, Morris Plains, N. J. : 
Peacock pheasant, I'olypledron (45029) ; 
pheasant (45445). 

Davidson, H. A. (See under H. E. 
Hasse.) 

Davis, C. Abbott. (See under Roger 
Williams Park Museum). 

Davis, E. D., Harrisonburg, Va. : Speci- 
men of black marble (46069). 

Davis, T. A., Lakeland, Fla.: Bagworm, 
Thyriopteryx ephemererformis (46123). 

Davis, T. E. R., Baileyton, Tenn.: Pseu- 
doscorpion, Chelifer cauceroides (45588). 

Davis, William T., New Brighton, Staten 
Island, N. Y.: Cicada, Prunesis venosa 
(45408). 

Davison, L. C, Jacksonville, Fla.: Larvae 
of a tineid moth (44882). 

Day, W. T., Barboursville, Va. : Speci- 
men of graphite (44835). 

Deam, C. C, Bluffton, Ind.: 212 plants 
from Indiana (45135: exchange); seeds 
from Guatemala (45761). 

Delgar, H. S., Joseph, N. Mex.: 4 stone 
implements (45884). 

Demarest, Miss E. E., Passaic, N. J.: 59 
lantern slides, 147 negatives, diatoms, 
22 photographs, and a lot of unmounted 
jihotographs, forming the collection of 
diatoms formerly, owned b}' Dr. Van 
Allen, of Albany, N. Y. (45990). 



Demming, H. C. (See under Charles A. 
Porter. ) 

Denekas, Miss Gesine, Brightwood, D.C. : 
Collection of medals, gold, silver, cop- 
per, and base metal coins, also United 
States fractional currency (received 
through Henry Hensel, of Jefferson- 
ville, Ind.) (11060: loan). 

Depuy, A. B., Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. : Carbonized wood 
with marcasite from a railroad excava- 
tion at First and M streets, Washington, 
D. C. (44775); 14 specimens of vivian- 
ite from Mullica Hill, N. J. (44972: 
exchange). 

De Riemer, W. E., Washington, D. C. : 
Pair of jaws of a sand shark, Odontaspis 
littoralis (45106: collected for the 
Museum). 

Deyrolle, les fils d'Emile, Paris, 
France: Skeleton of a dodo,' Did us 
inepfns, from the Marais aux Songes, 
Mauritius (45525: purchase). 

DiCKERSoN, MissM. C, Providence, R. I.: 
Toads from Cuttyhunk, Mass., and 
frogs from Seattle, Wash. (44946; 46079). 

Dietz, W. G., Hazelton, Pa.: 27cotypes 
of Microlepidoptera (45780). 

DiLLARD, Buchanan, Helena, Mont.: 
Moth, Smerinthus cerysii (46106). 

Diller, J. S., U. S., Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C. : Rocks and minerals 
from Eurojie and America (45230). 

Ditmars, R. L., New York Zoological 
Park, New York City: Horned toads 
from the northern part of Sonora, 
Mexico (45024; 45070) . 

DoD, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta, 
Canada: 99 moths (45637: exchange). 

Dodge, Byron E., Davison, Mich.: Stone 
pestle and arrow point (11517: loan). 

Dodge, C. K., Port Huron, Mich.: 3 
specimens of a moUusk, Laciniaria, 
from near Port Frank, Lambton County, 
Ontario (44887); 17 plants from Michi- 
gan (45134). 

Dodge, Mrs. H. H., Mount Vernon, Va. : 
Relics of the Revolutionary war; war 
of 1812; and Mexican and Civil wars, 
which belonged to the late Gen. William 
Henry Browne (11275: loan). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



65 



DoLAX, J. J., I^. S. National Museum: 
Ribbon badge, ribbon and metal badge 
of the Knights of Columbus (44675); 
Christian Endeavor badge of the Ohio 
Union at the International Convention, 
1905 (44689); souvenir badge of Elks 
(colored) Reunion at Washington, D. 
C, in 1905 (44830). (See also imder 
J. E. Lowe.) 

DoLAX, F. v., Was^hington, I). C. : 5-cent 
silver Panama currency (45892). 

Doll, J. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 30 moths 
from Arizona (45393); 13 moths 
(45497). 

DoxALDsox, Mrs. Lrcv Ord, Bloomfield, 
N. J.: U. S. Army marksman's badge, 
Department of Texas, and a life-saving 
medal (45842); sword of Lieut. Jules 
Garesche Ord (45843). 

DoRiA, Marquis G. (See under Genoa, 
Italy, ]\Iuseo Civico di Storia Naturale). 

DoKiAX, Fraxk, London, England: Spec- 
imen of "touch-money" of the time of 
Charles II (45285). 

Dougherty, C. V., Baltimore, Md. : Spec- 
imens of opercula from Cavite, Luzon, 
Philippine Islands (45256). 

Douglass, William B., Washington, D. 
C. : Iron axe-blade found in a shell 
mound on the coast of Oregon (11403: 
loan). 

Dowell, Philip, Port Richmond, X. Y.: 
Plants from New Jersey and Pennsyl- 
vania (44931) ; (45812: exchange). 

Doyle, C. B. (See under Department of 
.\griculture.) 

Draixard, M., Golden, British Columbia: 
Specimen of sodalite from Golden, re- 
ceived through Charles M. Lea, of Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. (45297). 

Drake, Mrs. Ida M., Alva, Okla. : Spider, 
Argiope traiisrersa (fasclaia), "Silver- 
ladder spider" (44846). 

Duckworth, A. S., Cape Girardeau, Mo.: 
3 specimens of fossil echinoids (44952). 

DuDGEOx, G. C. : About 2,000 specimens 
of butterflies from India (received 
through Sir George Hampson, British 
Museum of Natural History, London, 
England) (45262). 



Duces, A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Mollusk, 
sea urchin, Echinouietra nibarigularis, 
and 2 alcyonarians (45151 ) ; plants from 
Mexico (45341). 

Dukes, W. C, Mobile, Ala. : 13 ferns from 
Alabama (44942: exchange); 10 speci- 
mens of Pteridoplii/ta from the Southern 
States (45269: exchange); 7 specimens 
of ferns, Botnjchiam, from near Mobile 
(45350); 10 specimens of ferns, Bo- 
trychium and Ophioglossmn, from Ala- 
bama (45621: exchange). 

DuxLOP, George, Chevy Chase, Md. : 
Grooved stone axe found near Chevy 
Chase Lake (45283). 

Dury, Charles, Cincinnati, Ohio: 14 
beetles (45218: exchange); 6 beetles, 
Lachnostema vehemens, and Symbiotcs 
sp. (45492). 

Duval, H. C, Washington, D. C. : Piece 
of worked soapstone from Anandale 
soapstone quarry, Fairfax County, Va., 
and 2 roughly worked leaf-shaped 
blades from Shea, Baltimore County, 
Md. (44862). 

Dyar, H. G. (See under Lord Walsing- 
ham). 

East, J. M., Manchester, N. H.: Badge 
of the Manchester Union (45784). 

Eastwood, Miss Alice, California Acad- 
emy of Sciences, San Francisco, Cal. : 2 
living specimens of cacti from Grand 
Junction, Colo. (45002) ; 5 living cacti 
from Arizona (45067: exchange); 2 uni- 
belliferers from California and 5 ferns 
(45342; 45343); 24 plants from Grand 
Canyon, Ariz. (453.54: exchange). 

Eatox, a. a.. North Ea.ston, Mass.: 4 
ferns from the Ignited States and the 
West Indies (44697); 15 specimens of 
horse-tail, Equisetum, from North Amer- 
ica (45481). 

Edwix Benxett Pottery Compaxy, Balti- 
more, Md.: Vase (45690). 

Egan, Mark J. , Clifton, Ariz. : Stone dish 
from Solomonville, Graham County, 
Ariz. (45823). 

Egbert, J. Hobart, U. S. Coast and Geo- 
detic Survey, Washington, D. C: 10 
specimens of mollusk, JantJdna striatula, 



66 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Egbert, J. Hobart — Continued, 
specimen of Cypnea araneosa, 2 of Cy- 
pr:ea ccqnd-serpentis, and 6 of Cypriea 
maculata (45412); 9 photographs of a 
beaked whale, Ziphius, captured by the 
crew of the steamer Patterson in Kiska 
Harbor, Alaska (45599) ; beak of a gray 
porpoise, Prodelphinus, a photograph of 
the same, and the jaw of a shark, Car- 
charhinus sp. ( 45600) ; 3 birds' skins, 
batrachians, and insects from Florida 
(45763); mammals, reptiles, batrachi- 
ans, crustaceans, insects, and flshesfrom 
Florida (45799); 6 living plants from 
Florida (45858); upper and lower jaws 
and a photograph of a porpoise, Lage- 
norhynchus obliquidens, from Montague 
Strait, Prince William Sound, Alaska 
(45938) ; human skull from southeastern 
Alaska (46056). (See under Carnegie 
Institution. ) 

Ehlers, E. H., Gottingen, Germany: 
Two photographs of skull of type of bat, 
Megaderma gigus (45073). (See under 
G5ttingen, Germany, University of Got- 
tingen. ) 

EiGEXMANN, C. H., Bloomington, Ind. : 
Skull of a porpoise from San Diego, Cal. 
(46110). (See under Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries,, and W. P. Hay.) 

Eldridc;e, G. H. (See under Interior j 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Ellis, George W., jr., secretary, Ameri- 
can Legation, Monrovia, Liberia: Eth- I 
nological objects from the Vai-speaking j 
peoples of West Africa (11122: loan), i 

Ellis, Sylvester L., Provincetown, Mass. : 
Skeleton of an adult little-piked whale, 
Balsenoptera acuto-rostrata, from Prov- 
incetown (45524: purchase) . 

Elskes, Lawrence, Goliad, Tex,: Luna- 
moth, Actios luna (45754). 

Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. S. Navy, Prince- 
ton, N. J. : 2 African pipes and an arrow 
rasp from Washington State (45092: ex- 
change). 

Emmons, N. H., Bisbee, Ariz.: Copper ore 
from New Mexico (44695). 

Engel, H., Pittsburg, Pa.: 121 moths 
(45510). 



Eschnauk, Mrs. W. H., Terminal, Cal.: 
Specimens of mollusk, (Jerostoma niit- 
tal/i, showing color variation (45571). 

EsTACioN Central Agronomica. (See 
under Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba. ) 

Evans, A. W., New Haven, Conn.: 34 
specimensof Pteridophyta (44913: loan) ; 
specimen of liverwort, Cronotolejeunea 
Bermudtana, from Bermuda (45480); 
23 specimens of liverworts from Jama- 
ica (44860). 

Evans, Henry, Wauzeka, Wis.: Sample 
of onyx (45075). 

Evermann, B. W., U. S. Bureau of Fish- 
eries: 3 shrimps from San Francisco 
Mountains, Santo Domingo, West 
Indies, collected by August Busck 
(45139); fern from St. George's Island, 
Bering Sea (45411). (See under De- 
partment of Commerce and Labor, 
Bureau of Fisheries. ) 

Failyer, G. IL, Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : Specimen of 
moss agate (44979). 

Fairchild, D. G., Department of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C. : 86 beetles 
from the Malay Archipelago (44856). 

Fall, H. C, Pasadena, Cal.: 2 beetles. 
Glycerins obtnsus and Tachycellus tur- 
batus (typical specimen) (45617: ex- 
change). 

Faris, a. p., Clinton, Mo. : Larva of moth, 
SpJu'codina ubbott'd (44721); longicorn 
beetle, Orthosoma brunnewn, from Provi- 
dence, R. I. (44803). 

Farwell, O. a., Detroit, ]\lich. : 2 plants 
from Texas (45074). 

Favile, Mrs. J. M., Fredericksburg, 
Va. : 5 moths of cutworms, Xoctua clan- 
destina (45098). 

Fawcett, William. (See under King- 
ston, Jamaica.) 

Featherstonhaugh, Thomas, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : American watch move- 
ment (45020) ; half-dollar of the issue of 
1831 (45494); sample of monazitesand 
from Rutherford, N. C. (45820). 

Felippone, Florentino, Montevideo, 
Uruguay, South America: 250 land, 
freshwater, and marine shells, and an 
echinoderm (44709). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



67 



Fellows, F. F., McMinnville, Greg. : 14 
photographs taken in Alaj^ka, reroivod 
through M. W. Lyon, jr. (45120). 

Fknno, L. Carteret, Boston, Mass. : 
White-fronted goose, Anser albijrons 
gamheli, in immature plumage (45249). 

Feknekes, Val., Milwaukee, Wis.: 13 
moths (45119). 

FiELo Museum of Natural TIistoky, 
Chicago, 111.: Fishes from the fresh 
waters of Mexico and Ontario (44821: 
exchange); piece of Sherbourne me- 
teorite weighing 578 grammes (44959: 
exchange) ; example of the Hargrave 
flying machine (45631); monkeys and 
bat^ from tropical America (45795: ex- 
change). 

Field, R., Washington, D. C. : Cocoon 
of a moth of the family Cochlidiidic, 
(45967). 

FiXLEY, W. L., Portland, Oreg.: 39 birds' 
eggs from Oregon (45129). 

Fisher, A. K., Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : 5 beetles 
from Cypress Point (45458). 

Fisher, W. H., Baltimore, Md. : Snake, 
Natriv fasciata (45057). 

Fla(ig, Capt. Charles E. B., U. S. Army, 
Malahe Island, Laguna, Philippine 
Islands: Larva, pupa, and adult of a 
house fly, Musca domesticus (44985). 

Fle.mer, J. a. (no address given): 58 
plants collected at the headwaters of 
the Chilkat River, Alaska (received 
through Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C), (45581). 

Fleming, Ralstox, X. Y. City: "The 
first ballot-box used ))y the Dakota 
Indians" (46083). 

Flick, G. W. H., W^est Salem, 111.: 15 
land and marine moUusks from Nica- 
ragua (44744). 

Flower, F. G., Seattle, Wash.: Seed of 
a leguminous plant and a few insects 
(44839). 

Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing 
Company, Boston, Mass.: 12 litho- 
graphic prints of illustrations from the 
work entitled "Investigations and 
Studies in Jade," by the late Ileber R. 
Bishop (received through E. W. Rob- 
erts) (46009). 



Forbes, W. T. M., Amherst, ]Mass. : 44 
Lepidoptera (45636: exchange). 

Forney, E. O., Washington, D. C. : Speci- 
men of piedmontite (manganese cjii- 
dote) from Jacko MouuUun, Franklin 
County, Pa. (46162). 

Fox, W. H., Washington, D. C, and J. 
W. Hawkins, Nimrod Hall, Va.: Eggs 
of raven, Corvus corax jmncijMlis 
(45781). 

Fraxck, Henry, Frankfurt-am-Main, 
Germany: Living specimen of stone- 
crop, Echeveria clavifoUa (44890). 

Franklin, Joshua, Moseley, Ala. : Clay 
concretion ( 45529 ) . 

Freed, J. K., Scott, Kans. : Meteorite 
(-45418: deposit); meteorite, weighing 
1,170 grams, from Modoc, Kans. (46112: 
purchase). 

Frenzel, a. B., Denver, Colo.: Specimen 
of phonolite carrying telluride gold 
(44980). 

Fribourg, Switzerland, Musee Can- 
tonal: 508 plants from Sw-itzerland 
(45226: exchange). 

Friedenwald, Mrs. Jane, Baltimore, 
Md.: Ethnological objects from the 
Egyptian Soudan, comprising musical 
instruments, spears, swords, iron-work, 
and leather-work (45514). 

Friend, Gilbert H., Paw Paw, W. Va.: 
Long-sting, Thalessu lunator (44671). 

Friersox, L. S., Frierson, La.: 20 speci- 
mens of mussels, LTj^iionidpe, principally 
from Japan and China (45444). 

Frishmuth, Mrs. S. S., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
A musical bow of the kind used in the 
Barbados; made in Philadelphia by a 
native of Barbados (45464: exchange). 

Fry, Walter, Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. : Plants from Cali- 
fornia (44981; 45006). 

Furlong, Charles W., White Plains, 
N. Y. : Piece of the wreck of the frigate 
Philadelphia, a framed chart of the har- 
bor of Tripoli, and a pamphlet describ- 
ing the finding of the wreck (44645). 

Fur-seal Commission. (See under De- 
partment of Commerce and Labor, Bu- 
reau of Fisheries. ) 
Gage, A. (See under Sibpur, India, 
Royal Botanic Garden. ) 



68 



KEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Ltarczynski, E., Washington, D. C. : Con- 
cretion of ferruginons sand from Wash- 
ington, D. C. (45903). 

Gardiner, J. Stanley, Cambridge, Eng- 
land: 22 recent corals from Cape Verde 
Islands (45144: exchange). 

Garman, H., Lexington, Ky. : Plant from 
Kentucky (44926). 

Garrett, George, Ada, Ohio: Crab- 
spider, Acrosoma rugosum (44772). 

Gates, Petlk G., Pasadena, Cal. : Arche- 
ological collection from New Mexico 
and Arizona (11323: loan). 

Gates Potteries, Chicago, 111. : 3 jjieces of' 
Teco pottery (45700). 

Gaut, J. H. (See under Department of 

Agriculture. ) 
Gee, N. Gist, Department of Science, 

Soochow University, Soochow, China: 

11 weevils, Desmidophorus confucii 

(46133). 
Genoa, Italy, Museo civico di Storia 

Naturale: 51 batsfrom South America, 

Africa, Asia, and other localities (45585; 

46000). Exchange. 
Geographisches-Schul Museum. (See 

under Seitenstetten, Lower Austria) . 

George, E. D., University of Colorado, 
Boulder, Colo.: Specimens of phonolite 
from Bull Cliff and The Dillon, near 
-Victor, Colo. (44842); basalt from Yel- 
lowstone National Park (44944); 100 
specimens of Valmont dolerite (45733). 
Exchange. 

Georgetown, British Guiana, British 
Guiana Museum: 100 specimens of 
Coleoptera, 30 Lepidoptera, 31 Hyme- 
noptera, and 6 Orthoptera (45853: ex- 
change). 

Georgia State Commission at the Lou- 
isiana Purchase Exposition: Ores and 
nonmetallic minerals from Georgia 
(44664). 

German Educational Exhibit at the 
Louisiana purchase Exposition. (See 
under Department of Commerce and 
Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. ) 

Gibson, Frank M., Westminister, Md. : 
Braconid insect, Doryctes [Bracon) ex- 
halans (46102). 



GiFFARD, W. A., Honolulu, Hawaiian Is- 
lands: 6 insects from Mt. Tantalus 
(45100). 

Gilbert, B. D.,Clayville, N. Y. : 2 mosses 
and a fern (44739). 

Gilbert, C. S., Los Angeles, Cal. : 5 plants 
from California (45101). 

Gilchrist, D. M., U. S. National Museum: 
Frog, Ranapipieris (45155: collected for 
the Museum). 

Gillette, C. P., Fort Collins, Colo.: 100 
Lepidoptera (45559). 

Girault, a. a.. Myrtle, Ga. : 3 type 
specimens of insect, Euluphus gultivenlris 
and 2 of Aphycus ayinulepes (45999). 

GiRTY, G. H., U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C. : 10 ferns from Texas 
(44629: collected for the Museum). 

Glover, G. H., Middle Park, Colo. : Plant 
from Colorado (44768). 

GoFF, D. S., Metlaltoyuca, Mexico: Seed 
of the Spanish cedar (44705). 

Goldbach, a., Pensacola, Fla. : Luna 
moth, Tropwa luna (44700). 

Goldman, E. A. (See under Department 
ot Agriculture. ) 

GoLDSBOROUGH, Ralston. (See under 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
American Ethnology. ) 

Goldsmith, J. S., U. S. National Museum: 
Great white egret, Herodias egretta 
(44902). 

Goll, George P., Washington, D. C. : 
Insects from Central America (45966). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture. ) 

Gomez, A. Da Costa, New York City: 
About 100 fresh-water shells from Cen- 
tral America (44829); moilusk, Bijida- 
ria prolotypus, from Guatemala (45888) . 

Goodwin Pottery Company, East Liv- 
erpool, Ohio: Apple-blossom vase 
(45691). 

Gordon, W. W., Wasuington, D. C: Lig- 
nite with pyrite found near the Capitol 
(45916). 

Gorman, M. W. ( See under C. V. Piper. ) 

Gottingen, Germany, University of 
Gottingen: Crustaceans (received 
through E. Ehlers) (45502: exchange). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



69 



Gould, C. N. (See under Interior De- 
partment, r. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Graton, L. C. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Graves, G. H., South China, ]\Ie. : Smelt, 
Osyiienis mordax (45848). 

Grebel, Wendler and Company, Geneva, 
Switzerland: Piece of the Kernouve 
meteorite weighing 567 grams (45987: 
exchange) . 

Greely, Gen. A. W., U. S. Army, War 
Department, Washington, D. C. : 2 
photographs of a humpback whale 
caught on the Sitka- Valdez (Alaska) 
cable, November 6, 1904 (45018). (See 
also under War Department. ) 

Greene, E. L., U. S. National Museum, 
Washington, D. C. : 45 plants collected 
in New MexicobyO. B. Metcalfe (45290: 
purchase) ; 2 plants from the District 
of Columbia and vicinity (46022). 

Greene, G. S., Los Angeles, Cal.: Nest 
and 4 eggs collected in Arizona, and 
believed to be Say's phoebe, Sayomis 
saya (46079). 

Greenfield, A. M., Gaines, Pa.: Luna 
moth, Tropxa luna (46065). 

Gregory, L. M., Manvel, Cal. : Specimen 
of Guteregm from California (44906). 

Griffiths, David. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. ) 

Grinxell, Fordyce, Pasadena, Cal.: 
About 625 plants from California 
(44875: purchase). 

Grinsted, C. W., Washington, D. C: 
Hair worm, Gordtus, from the filtra- 
tion plant in Washington (45802). 

Gronvold, H., British Museum (Natural 
History), London, England: Full-sized 
copy in oil of a painting of a dodo by a 
Dutch artist, the original in the British 
Museum (45523: purchase). 

Grosvenor, D. a., Washington, D. C. : 
Hog-nosed snake from Maryland 
(46027). 

Grout, A. J., Brooklyn, N. Y. : Speci- 
mens of North American pleurocarpous 
mosses (45612: purchase). 

Grueby Faience Company, Boston, Mass. : 
Vase (45693). 



Gudger, E. W.: Waynesville, N. C. : 
Microscopic slides showing the develop- 
ment of the pipe-fish (44784). 

Hack el, E. (See also under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

Hagenbeck, Carl, Hagenbeck's Circus: 
Skin of a young male hippopotamus 
(45921). 

Hahn, W. L., U. S. National Museum: 
2 specimens of stonecrop, Sedani, from 
Virginia (44674; mammals, plants, mol- 
lusks, insects, and reptiles (44940); 
snake, Eidivnia, from Bascom, Ind. 
(45145); lizard from Great Falls, Md. 
(45915). Collected for the. Museum. 

Haines, A. S., Westtown, Pa.: 236 plants 
from Pennsylvania and Maryland 
(45377). 

Halberstadt, Baird, Pottsville, Pa.: 
Fossil plants, Muriopteris inflata, from 
Vaughan, W. Va. (45520). 

Hall, H. M., Berkeley, Cal.: 119 plants 
from California (45274); 7 specimens 
of plants, Cotijledon saxosum, from Cali- 
fornia (46006). Exchange. 

Ha.mpson, Sir George F. (See under G. 
C. Dudgeon, and London, England, 
British Museum of Natural History.) 

Hancock, Joseph L., Chicago, 111.: 4 
cotypes of Orthoptera (45217: ex- 
change ) . 

Hardler, William, Savannah, Ga.: Car- 
rion-flower, Stapelta variabrhs (45224). 

Harper, John B. (See under Depart- 
ment of the Interior, Office of Indian 
Affairs.) 

Harper, R. H., Alton, Ind. T. : Horned 
toad (44827). 

Harper, R. M., University, Ala.: 2 
plants, Harperm nodosa, from Georgia 
(45317); plant from Georgia collected 
by S. W. McCallie (46087). 

Harris, W., Hope Gardens, Kingston, 
Jamaica, West Indies: Bat, Noctilio 
(44711); tree-frogs, grasshopper, fern, 
and crab (44891 ) ; 5 specimens of crusta- 
cean, Sesarma bidentatum, and speci- 
mens of cypronodont fish (45334). 

Harshberger, John W., University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.: 215 
plants from Pennsylvania (45085). 



70 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906, 



Hart, J. Edward, Miami, Fia: 2 anne- 
lid worms, Nereis (46113). 

Hasbrouck, Lieut. R. De Lancey, U. S. 
Navy, San Francisco, Cal.: Cassidid 
beetle (44698) . 

Hassse, Dr. H. E., U. S. Army, Soldiers' 
Home, Cal.: 4 living plants frojn Cali- 
fornia collected by Doctors Hasse and 
H. A. Davidson (46073). 

Hasse, Paul, Senaliu, Alta Vera Paz, 
Guatemala, Central America: Reptiles, 
batrachians, and beetles from Guate- 
mala (44790; 44796). 

Hatch, Mark B., Ponce, Porto Rico: 
Sword presented to Brig. Gen. J. P. 
Hatch by the officers of the Fifth New 
York and First Vermont Cavalry, Oc- 
tober 31, 1862 (11511: loan). 

Hawkins, J. P., jr. (See under W. 11. 
Fox.) 

Hay, W. p., Howard University, Wash- 
ington, D. C: 2 hermaphroditic cray- 
fishes, Cambaru>i affinis and C. propin- 
cjuus ( 45675 ) ; frogs from Cuba obtained 
by C. H. Eigenmann (45914). 

Haynes, D. F., & Son, Baltimore, Md.: 
Vase (45688). 

Haynes, Frank R. (The accessions of 
pottery received from the following 
firms were transmitted through Mr. 
Haynes: Colonial Company Potters; 
Edwin Bennett Pottery Company; 
Gates Potteries; Goodwin Pottery 
Company; Grueby Faience Company; 
D. F. Haynes & Son; Homer Laugh- 
lin China Company; International Pot- 
tery Company; Norse Pottery Com- 
pany; G. E. Ohr; Pope Gosser China 
Company; A. W. Robertson; Roseville 
Pottery Company; Sevres China Com- 
pany; J. S. Taft & Co.; C. C. Thomp- 
son Pottery Company; Van Briggle 
Pottery Company; Wheatly Pottery 
Company; Warwick China Company; 
Willets Manufacturing Company). 

Heacock, Edward R., W'yncote, Pa.; 
Fern from Pennsylvania (45273). 

Head, W. G., Shelby, N. C: Monazite 
ore and monazite sand (46125). 

Heideman, C. W. H. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, and War Depart- 
ment, Signal Corps.) 



Heidemann, O., Department of Agricul- 
ture: 2 land shells from the District of 
Cohmdjia (45050) ; 2 types of bug, C'ory- 
thticaperffandei (45300) ; 3 types of bugs, 
Aradidpe (5 specimens) (46117). (See 
also under Department of Agriculture.) 

Heigh way, A. E., Guaracabulla, Cuba: 
Gold ore and small agates from Culm 
(45446). 

Helberstadt, Baird. (See under Henry 
Hudson Smith. ) 

Heller, A. A., Los Gatos, Cal. : 400 plants 
principally from California (45601; 
45670). Purchase. 

Henderson, J. G., Chicago, 111.: Speci- 
mens from a mound near Naples, 111., 
and from the surface near the Illinois 
River (45550: exchange). 

Hendley, H. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Copper two-cent piece issued in 1867, 
United States currency (44837). 

Henshaw, Samuel. (See under Museum 
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 
Mass. ) 

Herrera, a. L., City of Mexico, Mexico: 
Mexican land and fresh-water mollusks 
(received through W. H. Dall and L. O. 
Howard) (45115). 

Herrick, Glenn W., Agricultural Col- 
lege, Miss.: 2 insects from Mississippi 
(44737). 

Herrick, Mrs. H. B. (See under S. P. 
Langley, estate of.) 

Hess, Frank L. (See luider Piedmont 
Mining Company.) 

Hewes, John W., Chester, Pa.: Archeo- 
logical specimens (44967). 

Hewett, E. L., Bureau of American 
Ethnology, Washington, D. C. : Indian 
war-clubs (11232: loan); 20 crania 
(45899; exchange). (See also under 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
American Ethnology). 

Hewitt, John. (See under Sarawak, 
Borneo, Sarawak Museum. ) 

Hill, E. J., Chicago, 111.: 2 specimens of 
thorns, Crat<rgns, from type trees in 
Illinois (received through Mrs. Agnes 
Chase) (45185). 

HiLLMAN, F. H., Washington, D. C: 9 
specimens of TriJ'oUiua from Maryland 
(45061). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



71 



HiRASE, Y., Karasumaru, Kyoto, Japan: 
58 archeological ol)jec-ts (45019: ex- 
change) ; 409 niollusks from Japan 
(45153: purchase); crabs from Japan 
(45171: exchange). 

lIiTZ, John, Washington, D. C: Piece of 
zinc, a portion of the first piece pro- 
duced in the United States from Amer- 
ican ore (1835) (45314). 

HocHDERFFER, Georc.e, Flagstaff, Ariz.: 
Living specimens of stone-crop Eche- 
veria, from Arizona (45447); 15 plants 
from near Agua Caliente, Cal. (45624); 
living plant from Arizona (45814); 2 
living plants from Bradshaw Moun- 
tains, Arizona (45910: exchange). 

HoDELL, Charles W., Baltimore, ]Md.: 
Spray of crimson rambler infested with 
aphids (45998). 

HoDSON, E. R., Woodland Park, Colo.: 
Living plant from Colorado (46088). 

HoLDEX, R. J., Blacksburg, Va. : 5 speci- 
mens of Clinton rock with fossils from 
Estell, Oa. (45388). 

HoLLYDAV, John W. (See under Charles 
A. Killie.) 

Holm, Theodor, Brookland, D. C. : 
Specimen of rush, Juncus, from Bodega 
Bay, Sonoma County, Cal. (44907). 

HoLWAY, E. W. D., University of Minne- 
sota, Minneapolis, Minn. : 40 specimens 
of fungi from North America (46075: 
exchange). 

HoLziNGER, J. M., Winona, Minn.: 60 
mosses (44975; 45722). Purchase. 

Homer Laughlin China Company, East 
Liverpool, Ohio: 3 vases (45696). 

Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, Bishop 
Museum: 141 recent corals from the 
Hawaiian Islands (44637: exchange). 

Hope Gardens. (See under Kingston, 
Jamaica. ) 

Hopkins, S. C, Isabella, Cal.: 7 plants 
collected on the Brackenridge range, 
Kern County, Cal. (44735). 

Horn, F. C. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

HoRNUNG, J., Menlo Park, Cal.: 5 bats 
and a spider (45004) ; skeleton of ]ydrn- 
o\\\, Sinx prutincola (45118); 3 moles 
and 10 ))ats (45158); 3 earwigs (45159); 
3 bats from California (45595). 



Hough, Walter, U. S. National Museum: 
Flea from a prairie-dog found 5J feet 
under ground, N. H. Ranch, Apache 
County, N. Mex. (44819); volcanic 
bomb and fossils from Salt Lake, So- 
corro County, N. Mex. (45023: col- 
lected for the Museum); archeological 
specimens, human and animal bones, 
and plants (45821 : collected through the 
cooperation of the Museum and Peter 
Goddard Gates (second expedition). 

Houghton, C. 0., Newark, Del.: Masked 
duck, Xomonyx dominicus, from INIary- 
land (45960). 

House, H. D., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. : Plants collected in 
the vicinity of "Washington, D. C. 
(44937); dried barnacles from Chesa- 
peake Beach (45798) ; 43 si)ecimens of 
clover, Trifolium, from Europe (45939: 
exchange). 

House of Reformation, Cheltenham, 
Md. : Bald eagle, Halisetus leucocepha- 
lus (received through John B. Pyle, 
superintendent) (45762). 

Houston, Andrew J., Beaumont, Tex.: 
Telescope and gold-headed cane of Gen. 
Antoniode LopezdeSanta Anna (11379: 
loan, in behalf of the descendants of 
Gen. Samuel Houston). 

Howard, L. 0. (See under William Bro- 
die, Carnegie Institution, and A. L. 
Herrera. ) 

Howe, Ernest. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Howell, Arthur. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 

Howell, A. H., Runge, Tex.: 3 speci- 
mens of Croton (44912). (See also un- 
der Department of Agriculture). 

Howell, E. E., Washington, D. C. : 2 spec- 
imens of serpentine from Montville, 
N. J. (45419: exchange). 

Hrdlicka, Ales, U. S. National Museum: 
W^hite fetus; colored fetus; negro new- 
born child and a fetus of a negro 
(44841; 44897; 45315: collected for the 
Museum); sponges, sea-urchins, and 
gorgonian from Casey's Key, Fla.; ma- 
rine shells from Florida (45752; 45779). 
(See under Alfred Beutenmuller, and 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
American Ethnology.) 



72 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM;, 1906. 



Hubbard, H. G. (See under E. A. 
Schwarz. ) 

HuBER, Simon G., Mays Landing, N. J.: 
2 mollusks, Sphxrhnus, from New Jer- 
sey (45165). 

Hunter, Byron. (See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 

Hunter, Thomas L., King George Court 
House, Va. : Larva of moth, Megalopyge 
opercularis (44909). 

HuRTER, Julius, Sr. , St. Louis, Mo. : Rep- 
tiles and batrachians (45724). 

Iacke, Mrs. Amalie, Panzos-Senahii, Alta 
Vera Paz, Guatemala, Central America: 
54 Lepidoptera from Guatemala ( 44795 ) . 

Ibarra, Senor Feuerico Videla, Esta- 
cion de Maipu, Chile, South America: 
Birds, insects, and mammals (45309); 
miscellaneous collection of insects 
(45867). Exchange. 

Ijima, -i. (See under Science College, 
Imperial University, Tokyo, Japan.) 

Ingersoll, C. M., Bayou Labatre, Ala.: 
Electric - light bug, Benacus griseus 
(44703). 

Instituto Fisico-Geograpico Nacional. 
(See under San Jose, Costa Rica.) 

Interior, Department op, Hon; E. A. 
Hitchcock, Secretary. 

Ores from the Alaskan exhibit at the 
Lewis and Clark Exposition (45466). 

Office of Indian Affairs: F. E. Leupp, 
Commissioner; remains of fossil verte- 
brates from the dam on the Zufii Reser- 
vation, forwarded by J. B. Harper, 
superintendent of irrigation, Zuni Res- 
ervation, Zufii, N. Mex. (45173). 

U. S. Geological Survey: Charles D. 
Walcott, Director; fossil bones collected 
by Willis T. Lee in the Red Lands of 
the Staked Plains, eastern part of New 
Mexico (44836); vertebrate fossils from 
the Triassic Dockum beds, obtained by 
C. N. Gould, 18 miles southeast of 
Canyon City, Tex. (44901); 2 verte- 
brate fossils from Fairbanks and Upper 
Cleary creeks, Alaska (45088) ; rocks 
from Tacoma, Washington quadrangle, 
obtained by Bailey Willis and G. O. 
Smith (45149); rocks from Needle 
Mountain quadrangle, Colorado 
(45179); hubnerite from the hubnerite 



Interior, Department of — Continued, 
mine near Osceola, Nev. (45201 ) ; basalt 
and hornblende-andesite from Califor- 
nia (45214); fossil teeth from Tertiary 
deposits 3 miles south of Iron Moun- 
tain Station, Wyo., collected by N. H. 
Darton (45243); fossil turtle from 
the Bad Lands of South Dakota, col- 
lected byN. H. Darton (45251); Cre- 
taceous and Tertiary fossils collected by 
L. W. Stephenson from and near Cape 
Fear River, North Carolina (45267) ; 
Tertiary fossils from near Minidoka, 
Idaho, collected by F. C. Horn (45279) ; 
shell limestone collected in Florida by 
the late G. H. Eldridge (45295); rocks 
from Marysville district, Montana, col- 
lected by W. H. Weed (45296); fish 
remains from the Tertiary of Sanpete, 
Utah, collected by G. B. Richardson 
(45379) ; Mesozoic fossil plants de- 
scribed by Lester F. Ward in Mono- 
graph XLVIII of the Survey (45415); 
fuller's earth from Attapulgus, Ga. 
(45455); Miocene foraminif era from the 
Monterey shale of California, described 
and figured by Rufus jNI. Bagg, jr., for 
Bulletin 268 of the Survey (45501); 
rocks from the Kenova quadrangle, 
Kentucky, collected by W. C. Phalen 
(45560); 4 minerals from Colorado, 
namely, native tellurium, zunyite, and 
chalcedony (4.5569); nevadite from 
Chalk Mountain, Colorado, collected by 
Whitman Cross (45576); 2 specimens 
of brecciated chlorite schist from Ani- 
mas Canyon, collected by Ernest Howe 
(45592); Upper Cretaceous fossils (ver- 
tebrates, invertebrates, and plants) 
from Judith River beds (45730) ; Pleis- 
tocene fishes from Truckee Canal, near 
Hazen, Nev. (45787); rock containing 
the rare mineral " em m on site" from 
Cripple Creek district, Colorado 
(45807); 24 species of moUusks col- 
lected by T. Wayland Vaughan from a 
shell mound at Osprey, Fla. (45859); 
315 rocks and ores from Cripple Creek 
district, Colorado, collected by Walde- 
mar Lindgren and F. L. Ransome; also 
duplicate material (45885); sample of 
lead ore in limestone from Missouri 
(4591 1 ) ; 2 corals from Florida, obtained 
by T. Wayland Vaughan (45965); 76 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



73 



Inteuiok, Department of — Contitmed. 
rocks, mineraln, and ores from the 
western section of Kentucky, repre- 
sentinglead, zinc, and fluorspar deposits 
(45968); 2)57 rocks and ores from the 
CUfton quadrangle, Arizona, collected 
by Waldemar Lindgren (46042); 18 
minerals from the Clifton-Morenci dis- 
trict, Arizona, collected by Waldemar 
Lindgren (46048); 133 specimens from 
the gold belt of the Blue Mountains, 
Oregon, collected by Waldemar Lind- 
gren (46049); 84 rocks from Bitterroot 
range of Idaho and ^Montana, collected 
by AValdemar Lindgren (46077); 51 
rocks and ores from the central por- 
tion of the C'arolinas, collected by L. C. 
Ciraton (46109). 

InternationaI/ Pottery" Company, Tren- 
ton, N. J.: Yellow pitcher or jug 
(45686). 

Jackson, Hon. John B., American minis- 
ter, Athens, Greece, Newark, N. J.: 
2 pieces of Bulgarian carpet (44873: 
purchase). 

James, Mrs. C. M. M. J., Washington, 
D. C. : Telescope of Rear- Admiral 
Theodoras Bailey, used at the surren- 
der of the city of New Orleans (45945). 

James, Mrs. Julian, Washington, D. C. : 
15 photographs of the Myers-Mason 
family (45493); snuff-box (in case) 
made from an oak rafter that supported 
the roof of the Hall of Independence 
(10949: loan); collection of Myers- 
Mason family heirlooms (11244: loan). 

Japanese Fisheries Exhibit at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition. (See 
under Department of Commerce and 
Labor, Bureau of Fisheries). 

Jeffcott, Mrs. Ann A.: Upright piano, 
made by Debain, of Paris, France, with 
12 boxes of musical attachments (trans- 
mitted through Charles E. Curtis, New 
Haven, Conn., executor of estate 
(44953: bequest). 

Jeffries, Thomas N., Saltillo, Mexico: 
2 living specimens of Crassulaceas, 
Echeveria, from Mexico (45255) . 

Jenings, Jefferson IL, Washington, D.C. : 
Pipe of black slate, mended with lead 
(45021). 



.Tenkins, O. 1'. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries). 

Jenney, C. E., Fresno, Cal. : About 30 
fresh-water mollusks, marine mollusks, 
4 species of insects, 25 isopods, Porcel- 
Uo hvvis; 16 shells (45768; 45777; 
45887; 45890; 4.5901). 

Jentink, F. a., Leiden., Holland: 6 
photographs of skulls of bats, Callinyc- 
teris rosenbergii and Cynopferns melano- 
cephalns (44896) . 

Jermy, Julius, San Antonio, Tex. : 19 
moths (44704); 60 beetles (44715). 

Jessup, a. C, Grayson, Utah: Ear of corn 
found beneath the clay floor of a small 
house at Wickiup Cafion, San Juan 
County, Utah (45870). 

Jewett, Stanley G., Portland, Oreg. : 
Chipmunk from Troutlake, Washing- 
ton (45471). 

John, Andrew, Washington, D. C. : 3 
small vases and 2 pipes, samples of the 
work in pottery-making of the Catawba 
Indians of South Carolina (44911); 
photograph of Andrew John, sr. 
(44947) . 

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Md. : Brains of negroes and fetuses 
(received through Frank P. Mall) 
(45563). 

Johnson, C. W., Boston. Mass.: 2 speci- 
mens of Strombus from Nicaragua 
(44995). 

Johnson, Lieut. F. C, U. S. Army, Al- 
bay, Philippine Islands: Leaf insect 
(44692). 

Johnson, R. H., Cold Spring Harbor, 
N. Y.: 6 birds' skins from Washing- 
ton (45545). 

Johnson, W. W., Memphis, Tenn. : Ball 
covered with cactus spines, taken from 
a cow's stomach (45252). 

Jones, Henry, Blue, Ariz. : Skull of griz- 
zly bear (45822). 

Jones, J. T., Tacoma, Wash.: Gold on 
pyrite from the southeastern part of 
Alaska (46111: purchase). 

Jordan, A. S., Whitehall, Md.: Tour- 
maline from Baltimore County, Md. 
(44978). 



74 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Jordan, David S. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau 
of Fisheries. ) 

JouY, Mrs. M. S. F., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Ethnological objects from Japan 
and Mexico, collected by the late 
Pierre L. Jouy (44725). 

Kaix, John, Matagorda, Tex.: Pteropcd 
mollusks, Cresis aciculata, from Texas 

(45278). 

Kaulfuss, J., Niirnberg-Schweinau, Ger- 
many: 92 plants (46016: exchange). 

Kearfott, W. D., Montclair, N. J.: 11 
moths (44732); 164 moths from North 
and South America (45394); 98 moths 
(45420). 

Kearney, T. H., Department of Agricul- 
ture: 6 plants from Plummers Island, 
Md. (44736); 38 plants from Plum- 
mers Island (45000); 2 plants from 
South Dakota, collected by T. H. 
Means (45032). 

Keele, Joseph, Ottawa, Canada: 12 speci- 
mens of mollusks, PJiysa anciUaria, from 
Meach Lake, near Ottawa (45933). 

Keenan, Michael, Springer, N. Mex.: 
Beetles, Tenehrio molitor (46064). 

Kellerman, W. a., Columbus, Ohio: 
Plant from Guatemala (45254: ex- 
change); 41 plants from Guatemala 
(45293: exchange); 8 fresh fruits of 
Pereskia from El Rancho, Guatemala 
(45530); 39 plants from Guatemala 
(46760: exchange). 

Kelly, Luther S., San Carlos, Ariz.: 12 
bulbs from Arizona (45828). 

Kendall, W. C. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau 
of Fisheries. ) 

Kennedy, Harris, Roxbury, Mass.: 2 
bats from Japan and 2 from Bonin Is- 
land (45205). 

Kennedy', P. B. (See under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

Kentucky State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallic minerals from Ken- 
tucky (44665). 



Kern, D. N., Allentown, Pa.: Small, 
leaf-shaped blade of jasper, and a tri- 
angular arrowpoint found near Vera 
Cruz Jasper mines, Lehigh County, 
Pa. (45207). 

Kester, VAUCiHAN aucl Paul, Accotink, 
Va. : Mounted heads of large game ani- 
mals, skins, guns, and ethnological ob- 
jects (44635). 

Kew, London, England: Royal Botan- 
ical Gardens: Piece of tlie type speci- 
men of a plant from Mexico, and 2 
drawings (45847: exchange). 

KiLLiE, Charles A., Peking Presbyterian 
^Mission, Paoting-fu, China: Mauser 
rifle (with 2 shells and 50 Mauser bul- 
lets) captured at the siege of Peking (re 
ceived through John W. Hollyday) 
(45586). 

KiLPATRiCK, 3Irs. LuisA V. i)E, Santiago 
de Chile, South America: Collection of 
relics of the late Judson Kilpatrick 
U. S. Army (46071). 

King, Miss Mary R., Great Neck, Long 
Island, N. Y.: Pupa of large yellow 
and black butterfly, PcqnUo tumus 
(44845). 

King, William A., Cleveland, Ohio: 
Badge worn by the donor in 1860, dur- 
ing the political campaign of Abraham 
Lincoln (45785). 

Kingston, Jamaica, Hope Gardens: 
26 living specimens of cacti from 
Jamaica (received through N. L. Brii- 
ton. New York Botanical Garden) 
(46094: exchange). 

Kirk, Edwin J., Columbia University, 
New York City: Bryozoans from the 
Trenton rocks of Canada (46011). 

Kirkland, a. H., Boston, Mass. : 3 para- 
sites of Gypsy-moth, CJialds Jicwipes 
(44727). 

Kloss, C. Boden, Singapore, Straits Set- 
tlements: 32 mammals from Batam 
Island and Singapore (received through 
W. L. Abbott) (45405); skull of 2 pigs 
from Johore (45499: exchange) ; shrew, 
centipede, and skeleton of a bird (re- 
ceived through W. L. Abbott) (46063); 
mammals from the Malay Peninsula 
(46091). ( See under W. L. Abbott.) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



75 



KxAB, Frederick, U. S. National Mu- 
seuiii: Schizopods from Costa Rica. 
(45229) ; 24 beetles and a lace-winged 
fly (45669). (See under Carnegie Insti- 
tution). 

KxAPP, GEOR<iE B. (See under W. W. 
Blackmar) . 

IvNEiCKEK, A. (See under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

Knight, O. W., Bangor, ^le. : 4 j>lants 
from California and Xew Mexico 
(45757) . 

Knopf, Fred., Lebanon, Pa.: 75 plants 
from Pennsylvania (45001). 

KxowLES, J. D., Port Huron, Mich.: 
Plant from Michigan (received through 
Department of Agriculture) (45072). 

KoHLEE, ^L\x J. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution.) 

KosTROMETiNOFF, George, Sitka, Alaska: 
Suit of armor worn bv Alexander Bara- 
noff, first Russian governor of Alaska, 
and a lithographic portrait of (Tovernor 
Baranoff (45931). 

KoTiNSKY, Jacob, Honolulu, Hawaiian 
Islands: 25 insects (45203); 11 Dip- 
tera from India and the Hawaiian Is- 
lands (46081). (See under AV. A. 
Giffard. ) 

KrxzE, R. E., Phoenix, Ariz.: Larva of 
Copidri/as co!<ijra (44864). 

La Flesche, Francis, Washington, D. C. : 
Skull of Omaha medicine man (44748) . 

Laixg, Alva E., Detroit, Mich.: Half- 
dollar, Columbian issue, 1893 (45441). 

Lamb, D. S., Army Medical Museum, 
Washington, D. C. : Human skeleton 
(45575); skeleton and brain of a negro 
(45805) . 

Lamb, R. P., Davenport, Iowa: Moth, 
Spllosoma virginica (46067). 

Lamson-Scribxer, F. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. ) 

Landers, Miss Cora, Nevada City, Cal.: 
Lepidoptera (44892-). 

Langley, estate of S. P.: Fetish from 
Santa Ana, N. Mex. (received through 
Mrs. H. B. Herrick) (45746). 

Latham, Harry. ( See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 



Laurent, Philip, Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 
specimens of ortliopterous insect, 7Vn- 
odera sinensis (45902) . 

Lea, Charles M. (See under M. Drain- 

ard.) 
Leach, Frederick, New York City: 12 

old watch movements; (10911; 11047; 

11521). Lo:ui. 

Lee, Iua T., Thrace, Ark.: 2 specimens 
of rat-tail maggots, probabh- Malloia 
posticata (45264). 

Lee, Willis T. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Lefroy, H. Maxwell, Pesu, India: Par- 
asitic Hymenoptera (44895; 45434). 

Leier, Henry, Alva, Okla. : 2 madstones 
(11133: loan). 

Lelaxd Stanford Junior University, 
Stanford University, Cal. : Fishes col- 
lected by P. 0. Simons in Ecuador and 
Peru (45554); fishes collected by G. A. 
Lung in Manila, Cavite, ami adjacent 
localities (45855); Japanese fishes 
obtained by Robert V. Anderson 
(45618). 

Lembkey, Walter I., Washington, D. C. : 
Short-eared owl, Asio accijntrinus, and 
Richardson's owl, CniptoglaiLV richard- 
soni, from St. Paul Island, Alaska 
(45462) . 

Lenox, J., Holder, Fla. : Beetle, Sfrate- 
gus anUtus (44998). 

Lerchex, F. H., Deming, N. Mex.: Speci- 
mens of lerchenite (45335). 

Leupp, F. E. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, Office of Indian Affairs. ) 

Lewis, G. H., Washington, D. C. : Crys- 
tal of rutile from Chester County, Pa. 
(45830). 

Libbey Glass Company, Toledo, Ohio: 
Exhibit of glassware, showing process 
of manufacture (44943). 

Lie-Pettersen, O. J., Bergen, Norway: 
6 specimens of bumblebee, Bombus 
Kmitliianus, from Radoen, near Bergen, 
western Norway (45328). 

Lilly, B. V. : Stone celt and bones from 
mounds southwest from Tallulah, La. 
(received through Department of Agri 
culture, Washington, D. C.) (45123). 



76 



REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



LiNDGREN, Walpemar, U. S. Geological 
Survey, Washington, D. C. : Skull of 
skunk. Mephitis (45202). (See also 
under Interior Department, U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey.) 

LiNDSEY, J. C, Ravenna, Ohio: Silver 
case watch (45451). 

Life, Clarexce, Los Angeles, Cal. : Pleis- 
tocene fossils from San Pedro, Cal. 
(44767: exchange). 

Lloyd, C. G., Cincinnati, Ohio: 2 speci- 
mens of oak, Quercus Leana (received 
through Department of Agriculture) 
(45531). 

London, England, British Museum 
(Natural History): 74 mammals 
(44770); 14 species of Irish Cumacea 
(45963). Exchange. 

Long, John P., Springfield, Mass.: 8 
flies, parasitic on deer (45204) . 

Lookabill, Alfred, Crawfordsville, Ind. : 
7 photographs of gourds (45450). 

LovETi', Edward, Croydon, England: 3 
originals and 3 models of ethnological 
objects from the southern part of Wales 
and England (45562); set of Maundy 
money of 1906 (46127). Exchange. 

Lowe, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Crus- 
taceans from the southern part of Cali- 
fornia (45439; 46104). Exchange. 

Lowe, J. E., Duluth, Ga. : Ribbon badge 
of the Seventh Regiment of Georgia 
Volunteers, C. S. A. (44806). 

Lucas, F. A., Brooklyn Institute of Arts 
and Sciences, Brooklyn, N. Y. : 2 turtles 
from Plymouth, Mass. (44958). 

LucHS, Leopold, Washington, D. C. : 
Fossil wood from near the Reform 
School Washington, D. C. (45838). 

Ludlow, Miss C. L., Office of the Sur- 
geon-General, Marine-Hospital Service, 
Washington, D. C. : Insects from the 
Philippine Islands (45764; 46058.) 

Lung, G. A. (See under Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University.) 

Luschan, Felix von, Berlin, Germany: 
Skin-color tablet for determining the 
color of the skin in the different races 
(45570). 



Lyon, M. W., Jr., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Mammals, birds, plants, and a 
frog from Oregon and California (45472; 
45713). Collected for the Museum. 
(See under F. F. Fellows.) 

Lyon, M. W., Jr., and J. E. Benedict, 
IT. S. National Museum: Mammals, 
plants, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans, 
birds, and fishes from Oregon (45099: 
collected for the Museum) . 

Lyon, Victor W., Jeffersonville, Ind.: 
Devonian fossils from the Falls of the 
Ohio (45177: exchange). 

Lyon, W. S. (See under Department of 
Agriculture. ) 

McAtee, W. L., and A. M. Banta, De- 
partment of Agriculture, Washington, 
D. C. : 24 specimens of salamander, 
Spelerpes maculicaudus from Mayfield' s 
Cave, Bloomington, Ind. (45247). 

McCallie, S. W. (See under R. M. 
Harper. ) 

McCann, Jasper K., Zanesville, Ohio: 
Neuropterous insect, Corydalis cornuta 
(46103). 

McConnell, W. R. (See under Penn- 
sylvania State College). 

McCowN, R. M., Saginaw, Ark.: Spider, 
Acrosoma rugosa (44710). 

McDonald, William. (See under De- 
partment of Agriculture). 

McDowell, J. A., City of Mexico, Mex- 
ico: 21 plants from Mexico (46010). 

McElhose, Henry A., St. Louis, Mo.: 
36 moths (45395: exchange). 

McGee, Anita Newcomb, Washington, 
D. C: Skull of an Aino (45880: pur- 
chase") . 

McGee, W J (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology. ) 

McGregor, R. C, Palo Alto, Cal.: Rep- 
tiles, batrachians and crustaceans from 
the Philippine Islands (45167); marine 
shells from the Hawaiian Islands 
(45211); 3 birds' skins, Falco peregrinus 
pealei; Puffinus tenuirostris and Actodro- 
rnas minulilla (45478: deposit). (See 
under Manila, Philippine Islands, Bu- 
reau of Agriculture.) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



77 



McKaig, Joseph F., Washington, D. C. : 

White fetus (brain and skeleton) 

(44840). 
McLachlan, Argyle, Victoria, Tex.: 4 

ants (44691); 90 insects from cotton 

fields in Guatemala (45426). 

McLachlan, R. W. (See under Numis- 
matic and Antiquarian Society of 
]\Iontreal. ) 

McLai-ghlix, C, Robbins, Mich.: 2 
western great horned owls. Bubo rir- 
ginianus ocddentalis (45437; 45645). 

McLean, Mrs. Donald. (See under Na- 
tional Society, Daughters of the Ameri- 
can Revolution. ) 

McMillan, W. N., London, England: 
Mounted Bongo antelope, Boocercus 
euryceros (45364). 

McPhersox, J. D., Andalusia, Ala. : Centi- 
pede, Scutigera forceps (44974). 

MacDonald, M. E., Guanajuato, Mexico: 
Specimen of quartz replacing dolomite 
(45716). 

Macparlane, J. M., University of Penn- 
sylvania, Philadeljahia, Pa. : 4 speci- 
mens of pitcher plant, Sarracenia, from 
Mississippi (46029: exchange). 

Mackerille, Lucy V., Chevy Chase, Md. : 
Spider, Lycosa fatifera (44994). 

Macoun, J. M. (See under Ottawa, 
Canada, Geological Survey of. ) 

IMall, Frank P. (See under Johns Hop- 
kins University. ) 

Mallett, J. W., University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Va. : AUenite from 
Amherst, Va. , and volcanic ashes from 
Vesuvius, Italy, representing various 
eruptions (45905). 

M alone, R. a., Jr., Culebra, Panama: 
Clearwing moth, Santa leagrus (i-1838) . 

Manila, Philippine Islands: 

Bureau of Agriculture: 217 plants col- 
lected by R. C. McGregor (44900). 

Bureau of Science: 2 beetles (received 
through Charles S. Banks) (45547). 

Marloff, Fred. , Oak Station, Pa. : 
Moth, Gliea signata (45556); 6 moths 
(45635: exchange). 

NAT MUS 1906 6 



Marshall, George, U. S. National 
Museum: 1-cent piece. United States 
currency, issue of 1902(45453); skull 
and hoof of horse from Laurel, Md. 
(45526). 

Marshall, Miss Josephine, Anacostia, 
D. C. : Pearl from a common oyster 
(45839). 

Marsteller, Miss Pauline, Thorough- 
fare, Va. : Set of English china, consist- 
ing of 38 pieces (11113: loan). 

Marsteller, Miss P.\uline, and A. A. 
Marsteller, Thoroughfare, Va. : Sil- 
verware which belonged to Col. Philip 
Marsteller. of General Washington's 
staff (11.303: loan). 

Marvel, W. D., Taunton, Mass.: 
"Mummified mouse" (45357). 

Mason, O. T., U. S. National Museum: 
4 silver coins, United States currency, 
namely, 2 half dollars of the issues of 
1903 and 1904, and 2 quarter dollars of 
the issues of 1.S98 and 1904 (45513) ; sil- 
ver half dollar, United States currency, 
in 1828 (45709). 

Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum: 
10 plants from the eastern section 
of the United States (44792) ; plants 
from the District of Columbia (44999); 
specimen of fern, Botrychium, from Con- 
necticut (45272). Collected for the 
Museum. 

Maxwell, J. W., Austin, Tex.: Scara- 
bjeid beetle (45995). 

Maynard, G. C, U. S. National ]Mu- 
seum : Photograph of an oil portrait of 
William Hale Maynard in the city 
hall of Buffalo, N. Y. (45475). 

Means, T. H. (See under T. H. 
Kearney.) 

Mearns, Dr. E. A., U. S. Army, Manila, 
Philippine Islands: Pair of wooden 
sandals (45028); rats and shrews from 
the vicinity of Manila (45567); mam- 
mals, birds, fishes, marine invertebrates, 
mollusks, and ethnological objects from 
Guam and INIanila (45789) ; natural his- 
tory specimens and ethnological ol^jects 
from the Philippine Islands (45912); 
mammals, l)irds, reptile, shell, insects, 
corals, and ethnological objects from 
the Philippine Islands; 84 plants from 



78 



EEPOBT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1^06. 



INIearxs, Dr. E. A. — Continued. 

the Philippine Islands (46074). (See 
under Dr. Raymond F. Metcalfe, U. S. 
Army, and INIaj. G. W. Newgarden, 
U. 8. Army. 

Meek, S. E. (See under Department of 
Commei'ce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fishes. ) 

Melville, A. U., Chicago, 111.: Speci- 
men of walking-stick, Diapheromera 
femorata (44884). 

Menelik, King, Adis Abbaba, Abyssinia: 
2 elephant tnsks (received through 
Hon. Theodore Roosevelt) (45215). 

Merriam, C. Hart. (See under Wm. 
Lord Smith.) 

Merrihew, Mrs. E. L., Long Beach, Cal. : 
250 land and marine mollusks from 
California (44684). 

Merrill, G. P., U. S. National Museum: 
Photographs of J. H. Alexander, Jules 
Ducatel, Philip Tyson, and H. H. Hay- 
den (44683); shrew and a fish from the 
Isle of Springs, Sheepscot Bay, Maine 
(46040). 

Merritt, Miss C. A., Medina, N. Y. : 2 
polished stones (45682). 

Metcalfe, O. B. (See under E. L. 
Greene. ) 

Metcalfe, Dr. Raymond F., U. S. Army, 
Manila, Philippine Islands: Reptiles 
from Samar, Philippine Islands (re- 
ceived through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. 
Army (45790). 

Mettauer, H. a., Macon, Ga. : 2 plants 
from Georgia (45131). 

Mexico, City op Mexico, Instituto 
Medico Nacional: 2 living plants from 
Mexico (received through F. Altami- 
raho, director) (45602: exchange). 

Meyer, J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Photo- 
graphic color prints, unfinished prints, 
and paper sensitized for printing, illus- 
trating new process of making photo- 
graphic color prints (45704). 

MiCKWiTz, August von, Reval, Estland, 
Russia: 2,063 specimens of Russian 
Ordovician bryozoans (45521). 

Miguel, Jean, Barroubio, par Aigues- 
Viyes, Herault, France: Prehistoric 
objects (44831); prehistoric objects 
(46030: exchange). 



Miller, Lieut. Edward Y., U. S. Army, 
governor of the Province of Palawan, 
Puerta Princesa, Philippine Islands: 
Copies of a letter in Tagbanua charac- 
ters, and 2 photographs of the alphabet 
and of a bamboo tul)e which were for- 
merly used in correspondence by the 
natives (45937). 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., U S. National 
Museum: 72 plants principally from the 
vicinity of Washington (44858: col- 
lected for the Museum); specimen of 
lomsea from Mexico (45929). 

Miller, Mrs. Gerrit S., Jr., Washington, 
D. C. : 14 specimens of mollusks, La- 
ciniaria from Virginia (45386). 

Miller, Gerrit S., Sr., Peterboro, N. Y.: 
2 specimens of Samlmcus from Peter- 
boro (44670); 8 photographs of a com- 
mon finback whale, Bahmoptera pJiy- 
sulus taken at Provincetown, Mass. 
(45589). 

Mills, Theo., Methow, Wash.; Cecropia 
moth, Samia gloveri (46131). 

Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwaukee, 
A¥is. : 12 specimens of Hymenoptera 
(received through H. L. Ward, custo- 
dian) (44626). 

MiNGUS, EvERiTT, Marghfield, Oreg. : 
Wood coated bronze (46051). 

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, 
Mo.: 2 plants (45013); 6 living plants 
from Mexico (45183) ; specimen of 
stone-crop, Edieveria lucida (45225); 
living specimen of stone-crop, Sedas- 
trum liemshyanum from Mexico (45268) ; 
2 living plants (45504). Exchange. 

Mitchell, Miss E. G., U. S. National 
Museum: Crustaceans from Piney 
Branch, District of Columbia. (45170). 

Mitchell, E. S., Havre de Grace, Md.: 
Oriskany fossils (45330). 

Mitchell, H. W. (See under J. M. 
Corey. ) 

Mitchell, J. D., Victoria, Tex.: Type of 
moUusk, Scala milchelll (45577). (See 
also under Department of Agriculture.) 

Montgomery, Henry, curator of Museum, 
Toronto University, Toronto, Canada: 
Mound relics from Dakota (45749). 

Mooney, James. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology. ) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



79 



MoRHAET, Curt, Pfarrer vox Staadorf, 
Bayern, Germany: Clay tablet with 
figure of Columbus (received through 
Department of State ) (44779). 

Morrill, A. W. (See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 

Morse, A.P.,Wellesley, Mass. : 180rthoi> 
tera (45666: exchange). 

MosBY, John S., Jr., Mosby, Va. : Black 
horse-fly, Tabanus atratus, and asphinx- 
moth, Callosamia angulijera (46129). 

MoTTAZ, Charles, Geneva, Switzerland: 
11 l)ats and a shrew from Switzerland 
(45663: exchange). 

Murray, J. D., Washington, D. C: Skull 
of a negro (46044) ; negro fetus (46115). 

MiTSEE Caxtoxal. (See Under Fribourg, 
Switzerland. ) 

MUSEE ZOOLOGIQUE DE L'ACADEMIE ImPE- 

KiALE DBS Sciences. (See under St. 

Petersburg, Russia. ) 
MrsEO Civico Di Storia Xaturale. (See 

under Genoa, Italy.) 
Museo Nacion.\l. (See under San Jose, 

Costa Rica. ) 

Museum D'Histoire Naturelle. (See 
under Paris, France. ) 

Museum of Co.mparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass: Reptiles and batrachi- 
ansfrom the Bahama Islands (45925). 

Museum of Natural History, Valjmriso, 
Chile, South America: 17 specimens 
of Arachnids (45265). 

Nash, G. V. (See under New York Bo- 
tanical Garden.) 

National Society of the Dames of 1846: 
Flag of the Baltimore, 3Id., and Wash- 
ington Battalion, volunteers in the 
Mexican war, 1846-1848 ( 10664) , badge, 
with inscription, of the reunion of the 
National Association of Veterans of the 
Mexican War, at Dallas, Tex., 1905 
(10786); sword carried by Sergeant 
Michael McEnnis in the march through 
Mexico under Col. A. \V. Doniphan, 
and a gold-plated medal made from 
cannon captured in Mexico (10787) ; 5 
badges of Mexican War N'eterans 
(10813); Mexican flag (10841); letter 
and 3 military documents of Richard C. 
Daly (1847-1860) (11158); photograph, 
newspapers, badge, and circular letter 



National Society of the Da.mes of 
1846— Continued, 
to the Fifty-ninth Congress relating to 
the National Association of Mexican 
War Veterans (11315). Loan. 

National Society of the Daughters of 
the American Revolution, Mrs. 
Donald McLean, President-General: 

"A masque made in the matrix 
which was moulded at Mount Vernon 
on the living features of George Wash- 
ington by that eminent sculptor, Jean 
Antoine Houdon, who in 1785 was 
brought from Paris for that purpuse by 
the State of Virginia" (10641); framed 
letter of Abigail Adams; framed photo- 
graphs, with pieces of wood attached, 
of Washington elm, Cambridge, Mass.; 
Clark House, Lexington. Mass.; Fa- 
neuil Hall, Boston, Ma.ss., and Old 
North Church, Boston, Mass. (11347); 
Revolutionary relics (11370); porcelain 
clock, 3 miniatures on ivory, and a 
chemisette, the property of Mrs. Sophie 
L. Walker (11371); letter written in 
1777 by Samuel Chase to Governor 
Johnson, of Maryland, and a bronze 
medal awarded to the society by the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition (11479). 
Loan. 

Navas, R. P. Longings, Zaragoza, Spain: 
Hymenoptera from Spain (45956: ex- 
change). 

Needham, James G., Lake Forest, 111. 50 
Diptera (received through D. W. Co- 
quillett) (45289). 

Nelson, Aven, Laramie, Wyo.: 746 
plants from Wyoming and Colorado 
(45065: purchase). 

Nelson, E. \V., Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : Ancient pot- 
tery and stone objects from ^lexico 
(45923: purchase). (See under De- 
partment of Agriculture. ) 

Newgardex, Maj. George W., U. S. 
Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: 
Horned beetle, Clmlcosoma atlas (re- 
ceived through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. 
Army) (45913). 

New Jersey Historical Society, New- 
ark, N. J.: Copy (bronze) of the Cen- 
tennial Memorial medal issued by the 
Society (received through Nathaniel 
Niles) (45773). 



80 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



New Jersey State Commission at the 
Louisiana PuRcnASE Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallic minerals from New 
Jersey (44666). 

Newlon, W. S., Oswego, Kans. : Verte- 
bra of a fossil or extinct bis^on (44963); 
skull of a bison, and Indian relics 
(45181). 

New Mexico State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and non metallic minerals from New 
Mexico (44667). 

New York Aquarium, Battery Park, 
New York City: Specimen of Axolotl 
(45529). 

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx 
Park, New York City: Living plant 
collected by G. V. Nash in Hayti 
(45066); living plant from Mexico 
(45083); large collection of PlerUlophyta 
(45263); 2 living plants (45299); living 
plant from Costa Rica (45344); 296 
specimens of marine algae and 232 
specimens of Characese (45580); 597 
plants from the West Indies (45623); 
plants principally from Jamaica 
(45628); living specimens of cacti, 
principally from Mexico (46050). Ex- 
change. 

New York Zoological Park, New York 
City: 2 specimens of rattlesnakes from 
Arizona (45421); iguana, C'ydura cari- 
nata from Turks Island, West Indies 
(45728). 

Nichols, Mrs. Ann, Laredo, Tex.: 2 
specimens of cactus (45011). 

Nichols, George E., New Haven, Conn.: 
Mollusk, Schiz.ra pusilla, from Cape 
Breton, Nova Scotia (45271). 

Nickels, John, U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washmgton, D. C: About 60 fresh- 
water shells from Riverside on the Ohio 
River (45889). 

NiLEs, Nathaniel. (See under New Jer- 
sey Historical Society.) 

Norman, Rev. Canon A. M., The Red 
House, Berkhamsted, Herts, England: 
Parasitic copepods (received through 
Charles B. Wilson) (45398: exchange). 

Horse Pottery Company, Rockford, 111.: 
3 pieces of pottery (45701). 



North Carolina Agricultural Station, 
Raleigh, N. C. :4Hymenoptera(45739). 

North Carolina Department of Agri- 
culture, Raleigh, N. C. : Adult and 
larva of a salamander, Stereochi/us mar- 
ginatus (received through H, H. Brim- 
ley) (45298). 

North Carolina Granite Corporation, 
Mount Airy, N. C. : Cube of Mount 
Airy granite (44850). 

North, John T., New York City: Projec- 
tile found on Flat Creek Swamp, Fayette 
County, Ga. (45590). 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of 
Montreal, Montreal, Canada: Medal 
issued in connection with the bicen- 
tennial of the erection of the building 
of the museum of the society (received 
through R. W. McLachlan, honorary 
curator) (45681). 

Oberlander, Ph., Hronov, Bohemia: 
Hemiptera and Coleoptera from New 
Guinea (45906); insects from India, 
Ceylon, Australia, and Chile (44938). 
Exchange. 

O'Brien, F. W. X., Woodstock, Md.: 2 
mud nests with bees (45137). 

Ohr, George E., Biloxi, Miss.: Small 
handled vase (45687). 

Oldroyd, Mrs. T. S., Long Beach, Cal.: 
Marine shells and marine moUusks 
from California and other localities 
(45138, 45778). 

Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: 7 species 
of fungi from Lower California (45719). 

Ord, estate of the late Capt. James T., 
U. S. Army: Badge of the Seventy- 
fifth Army Corps, presented to Captain 
Ord by Major-General Shaffer after the 
war with Spain (received through Mrs. 
Lucy Ord Donaldson) (11343: loan). 

Oregon Commission at the Lewis and 
Clark Exposition, Portland, Oreg. : 
Cobalt ore from Quartzburg, and gyp- 
sum from Huntington, Oreg. (45469). 

Oriole Museum, Knowlesville, N. Y.: 6 
birds' skins from China (45613). 

Osgood, W. H. (See under J. B. Tyr- 
rell.) 

OsLAR, Ernest J., Denver, Colo. : 14 moths 
(45708: purchase). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



81 



Ottawa, Canada, Geological Survey 
of: (received tlirough J. M. Macoun) 
150 plants from Canada (45555); 103 
plants from Canada (45735). Ex- 
change. 
^ Owen, Virgil W., Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Rattlesnake from Arizona (45796). 

Paez, Jose A., Sailors' Snug Harbor, 
Stateii Island, N. Y.: Collection of 
personal relics of the late Gen. Jose 
Antonio Paez (10689: loan). 

Paine, P. R., Jr., Charleston, S. C. : Tree- 
frogs from South Carolina (45069). 

Palmer, Edward, Department of Agri- 
culture: 303 plants from Mexico (44844: 
purchase) ; 232 plants from Mexico 
(44927: purchase); collection of eth- 
nological objects from Mexico (45308); 
plants from Mexico (45511; 45721: 
purchase). 

Palmer, William, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: 5 ferns from the Bright Angel 
trail. Grand Canyon, Arizona (45337); 
dried specimen of crayfish from Mount 
Tamalpais, California (45220); Hzard 
and a frog from California (45551); skins 
and skeletons of 2 squirrels, Sciurus 
grisens, from Allspaugh, Oreg. (45573); 
15 plants from Oregon and other locali- 
ties(45918). Collected fortheMuseum. 

Pammef,, L. H. (See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 

Paris, France. Museum D'HistoireNa- 
tueelle: 3 fresh water crabs (44644: 
exchange); 2 bats, Euripierus, from 
South America (44945: exchange); 
isopods obtained by the Charcot expedi- 
tion to the Antarctic regions (45625). 

Parish, S. B., San Bernardino, Cal.: 5 
specimens of Sedum (44708); about 10 
cacti from California (44730); specimen 
of fern, Cheilanthes Cooper ie (44929); 
plant from California (44964: ex- 
change); specimen of fern (45071). 

Parker, A. C, Bridgeton, N. J.: Saddle- 
back caterpillar, Sabine stimulea (45046). 

Parks, H. L., Lake Valley, N. Mex.: 
Beetle, Hippodamia convergens (44933). 

Parritt, H. W., London, England: Speci- 
men of crab, Liihodes kamKchatica , and 2 
specimens of crab, Grapsus vanus 
(45593: exchange). 



Paumgartten, Baron. (See under Sei- 
tenstetten. Lower Austria, Geograph- 
isches-Schul Museum). 

Payne, P]lias J., Olympia, Wash.: Ores 
from the Washington State Exhibit at 
the Lewis and Clark Exposition ( 45468 ) . 

Peabody, Mrs. Harriet, Washington, 
D. C. : 2 pottery bowls of Navaho Indian 
workmanship (45210). 

Peabody Museum of Archeology and 
Ethnology, Harvard University, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. An old Micmac box 
made in Annapolis County, Nova Scotia, 
about the year 1800 (received through 
a C. Willoughby) (45861: exchange). 

Peabody Museum, Yale University, New 
Haven, Conn.: 4 isopod crustaceans, 
Janira spinosa and Dynamene perforata 
(received through Miss K. J. Bush) 
(45886). 

Peck, Bradford, Jr., Searles, Cal., 2 
plants from the Mojave Desert, Pholisma 
arenarium (44769) ; fragments of a solo- 
pugid, Eremobntes formicaria (44854). 

Pennell, Francis W., Wawa, Pa.: 2 
plants from Pennsylvania (44899). 

Pennsylvania State College, State Col- 
lege, Pa. : Fishes from various localities 
in Pennsylvania (received through 
W. R. McConnell, president) (46019). 

Peters, Dr. R. H., Livingston, Guatemala: 
Moth (44794); 22 moUusks, Veronicella 
stoUi (received through PI. Pittier) 
(44923). 

Peterson, John, Delamar, Nev. : Gold 
ore from Delamar (45384). 

Pfordte, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Min- 
erals and graphite (44878; 45989). 

PiiALEN, W. C. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Philippine Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition: Ethnographic 
and mineralogical collections from the 
Philippine Islands (45257). 

Phillips and Bosworth, Fishinghawk, 
W. Va.: Fossil plants (45227). 

Phillips, J. W., Hailey, Mo.: 20 plants 
from Missouri (44761; 44888; 45460). 

Piedmont Mining Company, Lincolnton, 
N. C. : Tin ore (received through Frank 
L. Hess) (46032). 



82 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Pierre, Abbe (Alliers), Moulin, France: 
Specimens of mymarid, Amignis atomos 
(45738). 

PiLSBRY, H. A., Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences, Philadelphia, Pa. : vSpecimens of 
mollusk, Suhidhwslrialclhi, from Liberia 
(45053). 

PiNCHOT, Mrs. J. W., Washington, D. ('. : 
Early colonial pewter pipe (46008). 

Piper, C. V. , Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. : 32 specimens of 
rteridophiita from Alaska (44631); 300 
shells from INIecca, Cal. (45014); 49 
plants, principally from Washington, 
most of which are types (45360).; 11 
plants from Oregon, collected by INI. W. 
Gorman (45429); 25 specimens of algse 
from Alaska and 6 from other localities 
in the United States (45505); 2 speci- 
mens of beard-tongue, PenMemon, from 
Oregon (45596). (See also under De- 
partment of Agriculture. ) 

Pittier, H., Department of Agriculture, 
W^ashington, D. C: 3 carved and 
painted bowls made by the Kekci In- 
dians (44678) ; 3 skulls of Kekci In- 
dians from a cave of Sakalkunte, 
between Senahu and Aktela, Alta 
Verapaz, Guatemala (44747) ; 14 liv- 
ing plants from Mexico (44848); 80 
plants collected in El Salvador, by 
Carlos Renson (44852); 10 shells from 
Sakalkunte (44905); 35 specimens of 
land and freshwater moUusks, from 
Mexico and Gautemala (44924); mol- 
lusks, insects, crustacean, and a tooth 
(45048) specimen of plant, Pereskia, 
from Panama (45294) ; 162 plants from 
Costa Rica, consisting principally of 
Piperacepe determined by de Candolle 
(45449); fish-hook and spider of "gold, 
found near Call, southern Cauca, Co- 
lombia, and ethnological objects made 
by the Popayan Indians of Cauca 
(45831); 38 mosses from Costa Rica 
(45837); 3 batrachians and a spider 
from Las Cruces de Lopez, Colombia, 
South America (46862); 134 plants 
from El Salvador, Central America, 
collected by Carlos Renson (45909); 3 
spindle-whorls found in graves in the 
Cauca Valley, Colombia, and 2 photo- 
graphs (45947); about 500 species of 



Pittie:r, H. — Continued. 

Pliocene and Pleistocene fossils from 
Port Limon, Costa Rica (45953); 120 
lichens from Costa Rica (45959); 78 
land and freshwater shells from Colom- 
bia, South America (46003); 133 land 
shells from Costa Rica and the Cocos 
Islands (46004); 33 plants collected by 
Carlos Renson in El Salvador (46013). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture and Dr. R. H. Peters.) 

PiwoNKA, Thomas, Cleveland, Ohio: 
About 200 Onondaga fossils (45383). 

PooLE, B. G., Washington, D. C: White 
fetus (44635). 

Pope, Mr. and Mrs. Charles A., Valpa- 
raiso, Chile: 18 archeological speci- 
mens from Bogota and 23 stone imple- 
ments from New Jersey ( 44982 ) . 

Pope Gosser China Company, Coshoc- 
ton, Ohio: 2 vases (45694). 

Porter, Charles A., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Specimen of quartz (received thrnugli 
H. C. Demming) (45068). 

Post, E. J., Tampa, Fla. : Rock containing 
fossil moUusks (45566). 

Preble, E. A., Washington, D. C. : 
Skull of Dogrib woman from Fort 
Rae, Mackenzie, skull of an Eskimo 
child, and skull of a Tula Lake (Ore- 
gon) woman (45387); Eskimo furcoat 
and moccasins, net of willow ))ark, and 
sled line from the Mackenzie River dis- 
trict and western Hudson Bay shore 
(45922: purchase). 

Prentiss, D. W., Washington, D. C. : 
Mole, Scalops, from Chevy Chase, 
Md. (45182). 

Pringle, C. G., City of Mexico, Mexico: 
Plant from Mexico, of the crassulaceous 
class (45012); 2 living jjlants from Coa- 
huila (45212); type specimen of plant, 
Hoffmanseggia fruticosa (45442) ; 645 
plants from Mexico (45723: purchase). 

PuRPUs, C. A., Amecameca, Mexico: 3 
livingspecimens of Crassulacese (45378) ; 
2 living specimens of Cernis (45720: 
purchase); 15 living plants (44973). 
(See under T. S. Brandegee. ) 

Pyle, J. B., superintendent House of 
Reformation, Cheltenham, Md. : Beetle, 
Dynastes titi/us (45869) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



83 



Rader, F. E., Rampart, Alaska: 75 plants 
from Alaska (45235). 

Ralph, "W. L., U. S. National Museum: 
8 deer and 17 rabbits (45097); 2 deer 
(45114); a rat (45122); « batrachians 
from Hamilton County, "N'. Y. (45156) ; « 

2 specimens of deer (45221); 2 speci- 
mens of deer (45231); 2 musk-rats 
(45277); muskrat (45282); specimen 
of rice-field mouse, Oryzomys, from 
Virginia (45313); flying-squirrel and 3 
mice (45333); 4 musk-rats and 3 speci- 
mens of field mouse, Peromysciis 
(45336) ; specimen of rice-field mouse, 
Oryzomys, from Virginia (45345); blue- 
crowned kinglet, liegulus calendula 
(45396); specimen of rice-field mouse, 
Oryzomys, from Virginia (45433); nest, 

3 eggs, and skin of female Alaskan jay, 
Perisoreus canadensis /nmifrons (45465); 
muskrat from Nansemond River, Suf- 
folk, Va. (45503); turtle (45561); gray 
squirrel (45850); 25 birds' eggs from 
Newfoundland and Utah (45954); gray 
squirrel (46119); 2 squirrels (46136). 

Rames, James L., Florence, Ariz.: Kan- 
garoo-rat, Dipodomys deserti, from Casa 
Grande, Ariz. (46124). 

Randolph, Miss Cornelia P., Washing- 
ton, D. C, and Mrs. Elizabeth G. R. 
Calvert: Family relics, including a 
French clock which belonged to Gen- 
eral Lingan; miniature on ivory of 
Gen. J. C. Lingan; wedding vest of 
General Lingan, and his parole from 
the prison-ship Jersey, dated February 
25, 1776; teaspoon found near Gen- 
eral Lingan's home, "Middlebrook 
Mills," in Montgomery County, Md.; 
buckskin hunting-shirt belonging to 
John Randolph of Roanoke; pair of 
doeskin garters worn by him, and a 
small gold shoe-buckle (46098). 

Ransome, F. L. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Rathbun, Miss M. J., U. S. National 
Museum: Invertebrates from Woods 
Hole, Mass. (45141: collected for the 
Museum). 

Rawlings, E. a.. Forest, Ontario, Can- 
ada: Rainbow-darter, EtJieostoma cceru- 
leum (45950). 



Raymond, Percy E., Carnegie Museum, 
Pittsburg, Pa. : Fossil bryozoans 
(45326). 

Redmond, William Preston, New York 
City: 5 pieces of plate voted in 1813 by 
the Common Councils of New York 
and Philadelphia to Capt. James Law- 
rence, U. S. Navy, to commemorate 
the victory of the Hornet over the Eng- 
lish sloop-of-war Peacock (11351: loan). 

Reed, J. C, Wickenburg, Ariz.: Ore 
(45574). 

Reese, A. M., Syracuse, N. Y. : Toads, 
fishes, insects, mollusks, crustaceans 
and leeches from Lake Kissimmee, 
Florida (45168). 

Reichard, C. Adolf, Frankfurt am 3Iain, 
Germany : Photographs representing 
pieces of pottery found in caves along 
the coast of Jamaica (45331). 

Reinecke, Juan, Guanajuato, Mexico: 3 
plants from Mexico (45826). 

Reinholt, O. H., Los Angeles, Cal.: 
38 recent shells from the Philippine 
Islands (45486). 

Renson, Carlos. (See under H. Pittier. ) 

Reynolds, E. V., Sacred Heart, Okla. : 
Imperial Roman coin (44764). 

Richards, T. W., U. S. Navy, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : 31 birds' skins from Cuba 
(45089). 

Richardson, G. B. (vSee under Interior 
Department, U. S. (Teological Survey.) 

RiCKENBAKER, G. W., North, S. C. : Cab- 
bage-worm, Gordins varius (46105). 

RiCKER, p. L., Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : 59 specimens 
of fungi from New England (45127: ex- 
change); fossil leaf from the bog ore at 
Katahdin Iron Works, Piscataquis 
County, Me. (45792: transferred from 
the Department of Agriculture). 

Riddle, O. (See under Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries. ) 

RiDGWAY, Robert, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: 1,305 birds' nests and eggs, a 
mammal, and 2 lizards from Costa Rica 
(44659: collected for the Museum); 22 
skins of humming birds from Costa Rica 



a Collected. 



84 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



RiDGWAY, Robert — Continued. 

(44786: purchased for the Museum); 
skin of screech-owl, Megascops asio, 
from Ilhnois (45148). 

Riley, J. H., U. S. National Museum: 3 
land-shells from Falls Church, Va. 
(44932); 10 birds' skins from Maryland 
and Virginia (45488: collected for the 
Museum); 3 squirrels and 2 bats from 
Virginia (45533); skin and skull of a 
squirrel (45932); egg of whip-poor-will, 
Antrostomus vociferus (45955). 

Ripley, Edwin, Seattle, Wash.: Wolf- 
fish, Anarrichthys ocellatus (received 
through Department of Commerce and 
Labor, Bureau of Fisheries) (46067). 

Ritchie, John, Jr., Boston, Mass. : 2 speci- 
mens of land-snail. Helix maynardi 
(cotypes) from Andras Island, Baha- 
mas (45270); 5 specimens of land-snail, 
Cepolis maynardi, and 2 of Cepolis xan- 
tJiophsea (cotypes) (45443); cotype of 
Cepolis xanthophseus, and 3 cotypes of 
Cepolis caymanensis (45487). 

Roberts, E. W., House of Representa- 
tives, Washington, D. C. : Set of coins 
recently issued by the United States 
for use in the Philippine Islands (45926: 
exchange). (See also under Forbes 
Lithograph Manufacturing Company. ) 

Robertson, Alice, University of CalifoV- 
nia, Berkeley, Cal.: 23 species of bryo- 
zoans from the Pacific coast (45552). 

Robertson, A. W., San Francisco, Cal.: 
3 pieces of pottery (45699). 

Robinson, J. D. (See under Libbey 
Union Glass Company. ) 

Robinson, Mrs. Martha, care O. T. 
Mason, U. S. National Museum: Shut- 
tle of a hand-loom (46036). 

Robinson, Capt. Wirt, U. S. Army, Fort 
Totten, N. Y.: 60 Lepidoptera and 15 
Coleoptera (44961); pupa of moth, Phi- 
prosopus callitrichoides (44986) ; 3 mam- 
mals from the West Indies (45042). 

Robotham, R., Marysville, Ohio: Glow- 
worm, Photinus sp. (44699) . 

Roby, William C, City of Mexico, 
Mexico: 7 plants from Mexico (45009). 

Rockey, W., Haskell, Ind. T.: Stag- 
beetle, Lucanus elaphus (44713). 



Rogan, H. G., Norfolk, Va.: 2 lobes of 
a human brain (45783). 

Roger Williams Park Museum, Provi- 
dence, R. I. : Fossil, Sphenopteris elegans, 
from Rhode Island (received through 
C. Abbott Davis, curator) (45616). 

Rogers, Miss A. M., Hyattsville, Md. : 
Photograph of the "Bonhomme Rich- 
ard" flag, and one of Mrs. Stafford 
(11324: loan). 

Rogers, Walter, Farmington, Iowa: 
Sword captured from a Confederate 
officer at Fort Sumter, S. C. (44857). 

Rolle, Hermann, Berlin, Germany: 1,500 
land and fresh-water shells (types from 
the collections of the late Herr M Ol- 
lendorff from the Philippine Islands 
(44623: purchase). 

Roman, A., Upsala, Sweden: Swedish Hy- 
menoptera (45683; 46023). Exchange. 

RooN, G. Van, Rotterdam, Holland: 
Indo-Malayan beetles, Cetoniidse and 
Lucanidae (45222: exchange). 

Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore, President of 
the United States: Piece of a log said to 
have formed part of the cabin built 
by General Grant on his farm near St. 
Louis in 1854 (45518). (See also under 
American Philosophical Society; Hadji 
Abdullah Ali Sudik and King Menelik. ) 

Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum: 14 
plants, principally cacti, from Mexico 
(44679) ; 27 plants from Mexico (44729) ; 
89 living plants from Mexico (44802; 
44817); 113 specimens of Cactacese, 
Crassulacese, etc, from Mexico (44853). 
Collected for the Museum. 

Rose, J. N., and J. H. Painter, U. S. 
National Museum: 4,347 dried plants, 
60 jars of alcoholic plants, 106 dried 
cactus, 70 shells, and a reptile (45406; 
collected for the Museum, in Mexico). 

Rosenberg, W. F. H., London, England: 
1,544 Hynienoptera and Hemiptera 
from various localities in Central and 
South America (45109); mammals 
(46126). Purchase. 

Rosenstock, E., Gotha, Germany: 88 
Brazilian ferns (45461: purchase). 

RosEviLLE Pottery Company, Zanesvillej, 
Ohio: Vase (Sang de boeuf) (45689). 



LIST OP ACCESSIONS. 



85 



Ross, F. H., Rutland, Vt. : Young mourn- 
ing dove, Zenaidura macroura (44849). 

RosTEL, C. B., Central Point, Oreg. : 
Water-strider, Gerris sp. (45456). 

Rounds, L. C, Westwater, Utah: Speci- 
men of praying-mantis, Sfagntomcmtis 
Carolina (45007). 

Rousseau, Talmage, Clear Water (Bel- 
leair), Fla. : Fungus from Florida 
(45312). 

Royal Botanic Garden. (See under 
Sibpur, near Calcutta, India. ) 

Royal Botanical Gardens. (See under 
Kew, London, England. ) 

RoYSTER, Alphonso, Suffolk, Va. : Caro- 
lina wren, Thryothorns ludovicianus 
(45381). 

RusBY, H. H., New York Botanic Gar- 
den, New York City: Fragments of a 
plant from Bolivia (44930). 

RuTTER, Cloudesley. (See under Com- 
merce and Labor, Department of, 
Bureau of Fisheries. ) 

Rybor, L. W., McCabe, Ariz.: Moth 

(46041). 
Ryder, Emily B., Chicago, 111.: Hindu 

Pujah set (45934: purchase); Parsi 

school girl's suit and skull cap (11094: 

loan). 
St. Petersburg, Russia, Musee Zo- 

OLOGIQUE DE L'AcADEMIE ImPERIALE 

DES Scie.vces: Fishes (45879: ex- 
change). 

Sampson, F. A., Columbus, Mo.: About 
150 Mississippian fossils from Fern 
Glen, Missouri (45750: exchange). 

Sands, W. A., Auburndale, Fla.: Dragon 
fly (44804). 

San Jose, Costa Rica, Instituto Fisico- j 
Geografico Naciixnal: 939 plants from 
Costa Rica (45288: exchange); plants 
(45427: exchange); plants from Costa 
Rica(45622: exchange); 233p]antsfrom 
Costa Rica (45662: exchange); plants 
from Costa Rica (45952: exchange) ; 
6 lizards, Cnemidophorus deppii, from 
Costa Rica (46033). 

San Jose, Costa Rico, Museo Nacional: 
502 birds' skins from Costa Rica 
(44653) ; 3 species of crustaceans 
(45731) ; amphipods (45882). 



Santiago de Las Vegas, Estacion Cen- 
tral Agron6mica: Large collections 
of plants from Cuba (received through 

C. F. Baker) (45286; 45673; 45705; 
45718; 46099). Exchange. 

Sapp, W. J., Lordsburg, N. Mex. : Pseu- 
domorphous mineral from near Gage, 
Luna County (45534). 

Sarawak, Borneo, Sarawak Muskum. 
John Hewitt, curator: 38 Hyuienoptera 
(46076: exchange). 

Savage, H. B., Belton, Tex.: Luna 
moth, Actias luna (45804). 

Schaeffer, C, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2 speci- 
mens of Decticina? (45390). 

ScHAUs, William, Twickenham, Eng- 
land: Collection of American moths, 
including several thousand specimens 
(44719; 44805; 44876; 45389); large col- 
lection of Lepidoptera and Coleoptera 
(46082). 

ScHMiD, E. S., Washington, D. C. : 
"Homay" or "Chinese nightingale," 
Trochalepteron canorum (45438); Japa- 
nese titmouse, Parus varius (45572). 

Schneider, William E., AVashington, 

D. C. : Genie magazine camera, and a 
model of the same (45041). 

ScHOCK, P. J. (See under Seitenstetten, 
Lower Austria ) . . 

Schrottky, C, Paraguay, South America: 
Hymenoptera from South America 
(45782: exchange). 

ScHWARz, E. A., Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. : Nest of oriole, 
Icterus hypomelas, from Cayamas, Cuba 
(45117). (See also under Department 
of Agriculture ) . 

ScHWARZ, E. A., and H. 8. Barber, 
U. S. National Museum: Land shells 
and land moUusks from Guatemala 
(46002; 46084). 

Schwarz, E. a., and D. Clemons, U. S. 
National Museum: 2,000 insects col- 
lected on Plummers Island, Maryland, 
in 1905 (45668). 

Schwarz, E. A., and H. G. Hubbard: 
Salamander from Retreat, N. C. 
(45176). 

ScHWEYER and Liess, King of Prussia, 
Pa. : 2 samples of American green mar- 
ble from Pennsylvania (45367). 



86 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Science College, Imperial University, 
Tokyo, Japan: Japanese reptiles and 
batrachians (received throngh I. Ijima) 
(46093). 

ScoFiEiiD, C. S., Washington, D. C. : 
Living specimen of cactus from Dickin- 
son, N. Dak. (received through De- 
partment of Agriculture) (44814). 

Seabrook, Phoebe H., Washington, D. C. : 
African gray parrot (45104). 

Seaman, W. M., Washington, D. C: 
ilariiie shells and crustaceans from 
Frenchmans Bay, Massachusetts 
(45186). 

Sedgwick, W. H., Christiana, Tenn.: 16 
unios from Tennessee (45904). 

Seegear, G. a., U. S. National Museum: 
2 turtle eggs from Branchville, Md. 
(44984). 

Seitenstetten, Lower Austria, Geo- 
GRAPHiscHEs-ScHUL MusEUJVi: Collec- 
tion of ethnological and industrial ob- 
jects illustrating the primitive arts, 
chiefly of Austro-Hungary, obtained 
through the assistance of Baron P. 
Paumgartten, of the Austro-Hungarian 
Embassy, Washington, D. C. (45209; 
exchange). 

Serjeantson, C. R., Miami, Fla. : 2 scor- 
I^ions, Centrurus gracilis (44847). 

Sevres China Company, East Liverpool, 
O. : Bird-jug or vase (45684). 

Shaw, C. H., Collegeville, Pa.: 556 plants 
from the Selkirk Mountains, British 
Columlna (45836; exchange). 

SiBPUR, India, Royal Botanic Garden: 
57 plants from Asia (45484; exchange). 

SiLVESTRi, FiLippi, Portici, Italy: Para- 
sitic Hymenoptera (44820; 45081; 45260; 
45329). 

Simmons, J. S., TaybelaranBohol, Philip- 
pine Islands: Case-worm (45957). 

Simons, P. O. (See under Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University). 

Simpson, H. A., Wheeling, W. Va. : Luna 
moth, Trophasa luna (46130). 

Sloan, Earle. (See under South Caro- 
lina Geological Survey). 

Slocum, Joshua, Menemsha Creek, Mass. : 
Coral (45152). 



Slosson, Mrs. A. T., New York City: 
31 parasitic Hymenoptera (45424). 

Smillie, T. W., U. S. National ]\Iuseum: 
Nose-ring for a l)ull, from Maryland 

(45244) . 

Smith, F. W., Washington, D. C. : Model 
of the Parthenon, and model of lotus- 
pillar of ancient Egypt (11185; loan). 

Smith, G. O. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Smith, Henry Hudson, Philadelphia, 
Pa. : Fossil plant from near Gilbert- 
son, Schuylkill County, Pa. (45275). 

Smith, H. M., U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, 
Washington, D. C. : Bone needlecase, 
horn spoon, and a bone spoon from the 
Lapps of Finmarken, Norway (44780; 
exchange); flag fan from Khartum 
(44800; exchange); skull from a mound 
inMiami, Fla. (45124); satchel of native 
hemp, made by a Maori, near Welling- 
ton, New Zealand (45594); valve of 
shell. Pterin macroptera lotorium from 
Japan (45755); moUusks from Japan 
(45775); certification of a visit to the 
shrine of Ise, Japan, in May of 1903 
(45860). (See also under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries. ) 

Smith, Jared S., Honolulu, Sandwich 
Islands: Plants from the Hawaiian 
Islands (44822; 44686). 

Smiih, John B., Rutger's College, New 
Brunswick, N. J. : Parasitic Hymenop- 
tera (44782); 4 cotypes of mosquitoes 
{Culex pallidofdrta; C. siphonalis; C. 
saxatilis, and C. si/lvieola) (46045); par- 
asitic Hymenoptera (45082). 

Smith, John Donnell, Baltimore, Md.: 
Plants from Central America (45428; 
45532); 3 sheets of foreign plants 
(45813). 

Smith, Miss Nellie H., U. S. National 
Museum: Lefaucheux revolver (44641 ). 

Smith, William Lord, Boston, Mass.: 
Natural history specimens from Korea 
(received through C. Hart Merriam) 
(45944). 

Smith, W. S., Dalhousie, New Brunswick: 
Devonian fossils and a stone implement 
(45093). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS, 



87 



Smithsonian Institution: Bronze figure 
representing Buddha, presented by Mr. 
August Wall, of Benicia Barracks, Cal. 
(44642). Medal commemorating the 
laying of the corner stone of the new 
building for the National Library of 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (45213). Collec- 
tion of plants from China, presented 
by ^Ir. Stephen P. Barchet, Shanghai, 
China (45512). Plants, chiefly from Sal- 
vador, presented by Capt. John Don- 
nell Smith, Baltimore, ild. (45646). 14 
bronze commemorative medals, award- 
ed to the Smithsonian Institution by 
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in 
recognition (jf the various special ex- 
hibits of the Institution and its bureaus 
(45678). Unique Tibetan manuscript, 
obtained by Lieutenant-Colonel Wad- 
dell at the instance of the government 
of India, and presented by Colonel Wad- 
dell (45806). Silver medal commemo- 
rating the two hundred and fiftieth an- 
niversary of the settlement of the Jews 
in the United States, received through 
Mr. Max J. Kohler, honorary secretary 
of the executive committee of the cele- 
bration (45886). Bronze commemora- 
tive medal, awarded to the Institution 
and National Museum by the Lewis and 
Clark Centennial Exposition at Port- 
land, Oreg. (45940) . Copy of the Argo- 
naut (45969). Copy of a medal struck 
by order of Congress to commemorate 
the two hundredth anniversary of the 
birth of Benjamin Franklin, received 
from the American Pliilosophical So- 
ciety (46095). 

Transferred from the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology: Stone axe from Gasco- 
nade County, Mo., obtained by J. M. 
Wulfing, of St. Louis, Mo. (44789); 
stone implements from Frederick 
County, Md., and Lehigh Hills, Penn- 
sylvania, collected by Ralston GokLs- 
borough (44948) ; specimens of earthen- 
ware, stone implements, and shell ob- 
jects collected in Mexico in 1895-1896 
by W J McGee (44992) ; bone dice used 
in dice game in the ghost dance by the 
Arapaho Indians, oljtained by James 
Mooney (44993); fragments of pottery 
from the Mandan country, obtained by 
E. R. Steinbrueck, Mandan, N. Dak. 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 
(45077); crania from a cave in Tarahu- 
mare, State of Chihuahua, Mexico, col- 
lected by James Mooney ( 45316 ) ; collec- 
tion of skeletal remains, pottery vessels 
and fragments, implements of stone, 
bone, shell, etc., obtained during the 
season of 1905 by the excavation of 
burial places on the Pajarito plateau. 
New Mexico, by Edgar L. Hewett 
(45665); Indian skulls, fragmentary 
skull, and other bones, shell imple- 
ments and objects, broken pottery and 
fossils collected in Florida by A. 
Hrdlicka, of the National Museum 
(45819); medal issued by the Numis- 
matic and Antiquarian Society of Mont- 
real (45852); 2 ancient pueblo crania 
received from Edgar L. Hewett ( 45872) ; 
human skeleton obtained by Mr. Hewett 
from an ancient grave at Rito de los 
Frijoles, New Mexico (45936). 

Transferred from the National Zoologi- 
cal Park: Black-tailed deer, OdocoHeus 
columbianus (44624); Java sparrow. 
Mania oryzivora, wedge-tailed eigle, 
Aquila auda.v (44625); 3 blue foxes, 
I \dpes lagojms ( 44627 ) ; yellow baboon, 
I'ajrio babuin; opossum, Didelphys rir- 
giniana (44628) ; 2 specimens of Plegadis 
gfuarauna (44749); Tovi parrakeet, Bro- 
togerys jugidaris, yellow-naped amazon, 
Amazona auropalliata and specimen of 
ibis, Plegadis guarauna (44750); casso- 
wary, Casnarius ausfralis, and 3 speci- 
mens of roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja 
( 44751 ) ; blue fox, I Idpes lagopus, white 
stork, Ciconla (dba and specimen of 
roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (44752); 
blue quail, Callipepla scjaamata, green 
monkey, Cercoplthecus, rock kangaroo, 
Petrogtde penicdlata (44753); rock kan- 
garoo, Petrogale pentcillata, golden eagle, 
Aquila chrysirtos (44754); hedgehog, 
Erinaceas europuns, badger, Ta.ridea 
americana (44755); jaguar. Felts onca, 
rufous rat kangaroo, .Eprymnus rnfes- 
cens (44756); lynx, Lynx rafitK manda- 
tus, ocelot, Felis pardalis, and a caco- 
mitli cat, Fells cacomilll (44757); black 
ape, Cynopithecus nigrr (44758); olive 
agouti, Dasyprocta acoachy (44759); 
coypu, Myocastor coypus (44760); coy pu, 
Myocaster coypus, and blue fox, Vulpes 



88 



RlJt>ORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 
lagopus (44866); snowy owl, Nyctea 
nyctea (44867); 3 specimens of rose- 
ate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (44868); cara- 
cal, Lynx caracal (44869); deer, Odo- 
coileus (44870); specimens of tiger, 
Felis tigris; rough fox, Canis cancri- 
vorus (44871); king vulture, Gypagus 
papa (44914); mandrill, Papio maifmon 
(44915); alligator, Alligator mississipjn- 
ensis (44916); upland goose, Chlccphaga 
magellanica (44917); Leaver, Castor 
canadensis (44918); Florida wildcat. 
Lynx rufus floridanus, American bison. 
Bison americanus (44919); rat kanga- 
roo, Aeprymnus rufescens, manicou, Di- 
delphys (44920); skin of emu, Dromxus 
novse-hollandix (44921); spectacled owl, 
Pulsatrix perspicillata (44949) ; bonnet 
monkey, Macacus sinicus (449.50); rhea, 
Ehea arnericana (44983); Canada porcu- 
pine, Erethizon dorsatus (45190); mouf- 
flon, Ovis musimon, hutia rat, Capromys 
pilorides (45191); rat kangaroo, Ae- 
prymnus rufescens (45192); great horned 
owl. Bubo virginianus, glossy ibis, Ple- 
gadis autumnalis, and gang-gang cocka- 
too, Callocephalon galeatum (45193); 
trumjjeter swan, Olor buccinator, Can- 
ada goose, Branta canadensis, and pin- 
tail, Dafila acuta (45194); aoudad, Ovis 
tragelaphus, and 2 hybrids from Cuban 
deer and Mexican deer (45195); pig- 
tailed monkey, Macacus nemistrinus, and 
agouti, Dasyprocta azarss (45196); Sam- 
bar deer, Cervus aristotelis (45197); 3 
comb lizards, Ctenosaura sp. (45198); 
grass parrakeet, Melopsittacus undidatus 
(45199); American coot, Fulica arneri- 
cana (45242); harbor seal, Phoca 
vitulina, capybara, Ilydrochoprus capy- 
bara, and rat kangaroo, Aeprymnus 
rufescens (45301); comb-lizard, Cteno- 
saura (45302) ; diamond rattlesnake, 
Crotalus adamanteus (45303) ; tree-duck, 
Dendrocygna (45304) ; agouti, Dasyproc- 
ta azarx, and black ape, Cynopithecus 
niger (45305); agouti, Dasyprocta acou- 
chy (45306); Java sparrow, Munia ory- 
zivora (45307); European porcupine, 
Hystrix cristata (45323); rat kangaroo, 
Aeprymnus rufescens (45324); Louisiana 
heron, Ardea tricolor ruficollis (45325); 
green jay, Xanthoura luxuosa (45370); 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued, 
hornbill, Buceros, and night heron, 
Nycticorax nycticorax nievius (45371); 
coypu, Myocastor coypus (45372) ; harbor 
seal, Phoca vitulina, and black-striped 
wallaby, Macropus dorsalis (45373); 
Rocky Mountain sheep, Oiis canadensis 
(45374); sloth bear, Melursus ursinus 
( 45375 ) ; buffalo. Bison americanus 
(45376); fox, Canis cancrivorus, and 
mule deer, Odocoileus hemionus {45535) ; 
gelada baboon, Theropithecus obscurus, 
and a yellow baboon, Papio babuin 
(45536); tiger, Felis tigris, and Arabian 
camel, Camelus dromedarius (45537); 
langur monkey, Presbytis entellus 
(45538); black ape, Cynopithecus niger, 
and Cuban deer, Odocoileus (45539); 
Canada goose, Branta canadensis, and 
egret, Ardea egreita (45540); road run- 
ner, Geococcyx caUfornicus (2 speci- 
mens) (45541) ; kiwi, Apteryxmantelli (?) 
(2 specimens); kea, Nestor notabilis 
(45542); snowy owl, Nyctea nyctea 
(45543); massasauga, Sistrwus catenatus 
(45544); cross fox, Vulpes pennsylvani- 
cus (45647); dasyure, Dasyurus, and 
Tasmanian devil, Sarcophilus ursinus 
(45648); bay lynx. Lynx rufus (45649); 
harbor seal, Phoca vitulina (45650); 
dingo, Canisdingo (2 specimens) (45651 ) ; 
white ibis, Guara alba, peafowl, Pava 
cristatus {45Q52 ) ; roseate spoonbill, Ajaja 
ajaja (45653) ; langur monkey, Presbytis 
entellus (45654); tuatera lizard, AS);/(eno- 
donpunctatus {45Q55) ; pine snake, Pituo- 
phis melanoleucus, horned rattlesnake, 
Crotalus cerastes (45656); bull snake, 
Pityophis sayi (45657) ; roe deer, Capreo- 
lus caprea, langur monkey, Presbytis 
entellus (45658); little blue heron, Ar- 
dea aerulea, lesser snow goose, Chen 
hyperborea (45659) ; 2 specimens of road 
runner, Geococcyx californianus (45660) ; 
specimens of comb lizard, Ctenosaura 
(45741); roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja 
(45742); coot, Fulica arnericana, gan- 
net, Sula bassana (45743) ; common ma- 
caque, Macacus cynomolgus, langur mon- 
key, Presbytis entellus (45744); grass 
parrakeet, Melopsittacus undulatus 
(45815); snake bird, Anhinga anhinga 
(45816); California sea-lion, Zalophus 
californianus (45817) ; American beaver, 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



89 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 
Castor canadensis, grizzly bear, Ursus 
horribilis (-15818); banded rattlesnake, 
Crotalu)i horridus (2 specimens) (45972) ; 
cockateel, Calopsittacus novw-holUuidix 
(45973); 6 arctic foxes, Vulpes layopus 
(45974); 2 gray wolves, Canis occiden- 
talis (45975) ; red squirrel, Sciurus hud- 
sonicus (?), Barbary sheep, Ovis tragela- 
phus (45976); sparrow hawk, Falco 
sparverius (45977) ; glossy ibis, Plegadis 
aidumnalis, loon, Urinaioriniber (45978) ; 
macaque monkey, Macaca cynomolga, 
yellow baboon, Fapio babuin (45979); 
red howler, Alouata seniculus (45980); 
crested screamer, Oiauna chavaria 
(45981); hutia rat, Capromys jnlorides, 
fisher, Mv^tela pennanti (45982); bur- 
rhel sheep, Ovis nahoor (45983); spider 
monkey, Ateles, red howler monkey, 
Alouata seniculus (45984); Grevy's 
zebra, Equus grevyi (45986); Arabian 
camel, Camelus dromedarius (45992); 
doguera baboon, Papio doguera (45993); 
comb-lizard, Ctenosatira sp. (45994). 

South Carolina Geological Survey, 
Charleston, S. C. : Marl containing 
Tertiary fossils (44722) ; cretaceous 
marl from South Carolina (received 
through Earle Sloan) (45519). 

South Dakota State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallic minerals from South 
Dakota (44668). 

Spalding, V. M., Tucson, Ariz.: 4 speci- 
mens of Krameria from Arizona 
(46053). 

Spofford, G. L., Hospital Corps, U. S. 
Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: 
Assassin-bug, Centroaiemes sp. (44987). 

Springer, Frank, Burlington, Iowa: 
Crinoids, Talorocrinus patei (45810). 

Spurling, Everett S., Biddeford Pool, 
Me.: " Siil smelt," Argentina silus 
(46015). 

Stalford, Florence, Sayre, Pa.: Badge 
of the Baltimore Convention (1905) 
of the Young Peoples' Society of Chris- 
tian Endeavor (44677). 

Standard Underground Cable Com- 
pany, Pittsburg, Pa. : 4 insulated elec- 
trical conductors (44816). 



Stanton, T. W., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey, Washington, D. C. : 12 specimens 
of cacti from New Mexico and Colorado 
(44630; 44643; 44685). Collected for 
the Museum. 

Starr, Mrs. C. H., Globe, Ariz.: Beetle, 
Dendrobias mandibularis (45095). 

Stearns, Elmer, Modesto, Cal. : 2 living 
specimens of cacti from Price, Utah 
(44898); 4 living specimens of cacti 
from jNIexico (45774). 

Stebbins, Mrs. F. A., Chicago, 111.: 2 cop- 
per coins (46096). 

Steinbrueck, E. R. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of American 
Ethnology. ) 

Stejneger, Leonhard, U. S. National 
Museum: Mammals, mollusks, crusta- 
ceans, worms, and plants from Europe 
(44843: collected for the Museum); 
horned toad (45711: purchase). (See 
under O. J. Lie-Petterson and P. Stainer 
Stejneger. ) 

Stejneger, P. Stainer, Bergen, Norway: 
3 pieces of Norwegian money (received 
through Leonhard Stejneger) (44851). 

Stephenson, L. W. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Stone, C. H., Cleveland, Ohio: Larvae 
and puparia of a small Hy, Phora sp. 
(45219). 

Stone, J. F., Columbus, Ohio: An unique 
and valuable specimen of Rhabdocarpus 
in the fossil seed of a carboniferous 
plant from a piece of coal mined in Pike 
County, Ind. (44877.) 

Stose, G. W., Washington, D. C. : Paleo- 
zoic fossils (45327: exchange). 

Stricker, W. O., U. S. National Museum: 
Old-style weaving apparatus (46114), 
consisting of shuttle and quill from an 
old-fashioned band loom. 

Stuhr, F. a., Portland, Oreg. : Ringed 
pheasant, Pliasianns torquatus (45413) 
2 chipmunks from Los Angeles, Cal. 
skull of lynx from St. Helen, Oreg. 
skull of squirrel from Sandy River, Ore- 
gon, and skull of porcupine from Cas- 
cMe Mountains, Oregon (45470); skin 
and skull of flying squirrel and skull 
of a mink (45769) . 



90 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



SuDiK, Hadji Abdullah Ali, Adis Ab- 
baba, Abyssinia: Mounted specimen of 
leopard (received througb lion. Theo- 
dore Roosevelt) (45216). 

SuKSDORF, N. N. (See under Depart- 
ment of Ag:riculture. ) 

Sumner, Mrs. S. S., San Francisco, Cal. : 
9 plants from Hawaiian Islands (re- 
ceive'd through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wil- 
cox, U. S. Army, retired) (45358). 

SuTER, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand: 
4 mollusks, Voluta pacitica and Diplo- 
(Jon waikunense, from New Zealand 
(45746). 

Sweeny, T. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Jenks carbine (11121: loan). 

SwETMAN, J. W., Biloxi, Miss.: Shell of 
Onadoiita trapezoides (45707). 

SwETT, L. W., Maiden, Mass.: 7 geome- 
trid moths from southern Arizona 
(44706); 3 Lepidoptera (44971). 

Sydney, New South Wales, University 
OF Sydney: Rocks from New South 
Wales, sent by request of Whitman 
Cross, of the U. S. Geological Survey 
(45253). 

Taft, J. S., & Company, Keene, N. H.: 
4 pieces of Hampshire pottery (45702). 

Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Museum: 
Dulling snoods from Virginia, handles, 
horsehair swords, and ticklers, made by 
Mr. Tassin (45091) . 

Terry, W. A., Bristol, Conn.: 2 micro- 
scopic slides of diatoms (44766). 

Thayer, J^ E., Lancaster, Mass. : 86 birds' 
skins from Panama, Gorgora Islands, 
and Pearl Islands (45489); nest and 4 
eggs of McLeod's sparrow, AhnopMla 
mdeodil (46118) (received through Ou- 
tran! Bangs). Exchange. 

Thayer, P. E., Thomas, W.Va.: 3 cecro- 
pia moths, Platysania cecropia, and an 
arctiid moth, Estlgmene acrxa (44702). 

Thomas, Oldfield, British Museum (Nat- 
ural History), London, England: 4 
specimens of red-backed mouse, Evoto- 
mys, from Japan (45133; 15 mice, 
MIcrotKs and Erolomijn, from the Tian 
Shan McHintains and theOrkney Islands 
(45463); bat, Xyrtiuomus tivniotk, from 
Africa (45900: exchange). 



Thompson, A. C, Quincy, Mass.: Photo- 
graph of a bird stone (45834). 

Thompson Pottery Company, C. C, East 
Liverpool, Ohio: Yellow pitcher 
(45685). 

Thukow, F. W., Hockley, Tex.: 7 plants 
from Texas (45236). 

TiTCOMB, John W. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau 
of Fisheries. ) 

Todd, Aurelius, Caibarien, Cuba: Shells 
from the stomach of a flamingo (45318). 

Tracy, S. M., Biloxi, Miss.: 11 plants 
from the Southern States (44793) ; 2 
plants from Texas (45949). (See also 
under Department of Agriculture. ) 

Traphagen, Mrs. F. W., Butte, Mont.: 
Portrait of George Washington on 
Wedgwood ware (10734: loan). 

Trask, Mrs. Blanche, Avalon, Cal.: 15 
specimens of mollusk, Polinices recluzl- 
ana alta, from California (45766). 

Tristan, J. Fid, San Jose, Costa Rica: 
Crabs from Costa Rica (44652). 

True, F. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Skull of a striped porpoise, Lageno- 
rynchus acuius, from Truro, Mass. 
(45105: collected for the Museum). 

Tucker, E. S., Lawrence, Kans. : 100 
lepidoptera (45402); 45 insects (46116). 
Exchange. 

TuLANE University of Louisiana, New- 
comb College Art Department, New 
Orleans, La.: Piece of Newcomb pot- 
tery (received through E. W. Wood- 
ward, Director of Art Department 
(45745). 

Turner, Arthur, Norfolk, Va. : Kongo 
eel. Siren lacerihia, from Lake Smith 
(45414). 

Turton, Lieut. Col. W. H., Harley House, 
Clifton Down, Bristol, England: About 
500 species of marine shells from Port 
Alfred, South Africa (45369). 

Tylor, J. E., Oxford, Md. : Human bones 
collected from an Indian burial })lace in 
Florida (45907). 

Tyrrell, J. B., Lovett Gulch, Klondike, 
Alaska: Skull of type of >Simbos tyrrelU, 
collected by Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the 
Biological Survey, Department of Ag- 
riculture (46138). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



91 



ri.KiciT, E. O., U. S. Geological Survey, 
W'asliinsiton, D. C. : Larije collection of 
land and fresh- water mollusks (45508). 

r.vDERWooD, Cecil F., San Jos4, Costa 
Rica: Humming bird, Amazilio cinna- 
monu'd, from Costa Rica (44656). 

Underwood, L. M., Bedford Park, N. 
Mex.: riant from Florida (44762). 

I'NiThD States Cartridge Company, 
Lowell, Mass. : Collection of small arms, 
consisting of 569 specimens (11423); 
U. S. ^lagazine rifle, model of 1903, with 
improvements of 1905 (11524). Loan. 

United States National Mtseum: The 
following models were made in the An- 
thropological Laboratory: Plaster cast 
of bone awl, found ]iy D. W. Bushnell, 
of St. Louis, Mo., in a mound at Mont- 
gomery, Pike County, 111. (44872); 
mold and plaster cast of bone awl, the 
original of which was owned by Mr. 
Bushnell (44925); casts of duck-head 
amulet found by William L. Bryant, 
Buffalo, N. Y., in a mound at Cedar 
Keys, Fla. (45941); mold and 6 casts 
of Mississippi tablet (44968) ; mold and 
6 casts of "Rattlesnake" disk in the 
University of Alabama (45090); model 
of wooden whistle (45491); plaster 
casts of Naples mound relics (45598); 
model of the U. S. S. Constitution 
(45661); casts of 2 stone "palmas" 
(45714); 6 casts of small engraved tab- 
let of catlinite, the original of which 
was found by Henry Montgomery in a 
mound in North Dakota ( 45748 ) ; casts 
of a birdstone found near Edmore, 
Montcalm County, Mich. (45942); 
wooden compass (46021); plaster busts 
of North American Indians (46061); 
plaster casts of prehistoric objects of 
stone, bone, and pottery (46122); lay 
figures for a group of Wallachian 
peasants (46137). 

Upsala, Sweden, University of Upsala: 

57 fossils (45578: exchange). 
Valparaiso, Chile, Museum of Natural 

History: Specimens of 4 species of 

crustaceans (45-557); 2 leeches (46107). 
Valway, W. H., Cleveland, Ohio: A 

pair of plumtd quails, Oreortyx pictas 

plujiiiferus (44('87). 



Van Briggle Pottery Co^ipany, Colo- 
rado Springs, Colo.: 12 pieces of pot- 
tery (45703). 

Vaquez, Mons. J., Pan tin, Seine, France: 
Tertiary invertebrate and vertebrate 
fossils (45759: exchange). 

Vaughan, Francis E., West Haven, 
Conn.: 79 stone and quartz arrow 
points (44801); shell arrowheads from 
Connecticut (44966). 

Vaughan T. Wayland, U. S. Geological 
Survey, Washington, D. C. : 2 corals 
from Osprey, Fla. (45965). (See also 
under Interior Department, U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey. ) 

Velie, J. W., St. Joseph, Mich.: 16 
species of marine shells from Florida 
(44791). 

Venable Brothers, Stone Mountain, 
Ga. : A six-inch dressed cube of granite 
(44988). 

Verrill, a. Hyatt, Roseau, Dominica, 
West Indies: About 45 insects (44714); 
insects (44828); crustaceans, with 
sketches (45437); crustaceans from 
Dominica (45961). 

Veth, C. G., Padang, Sumatra: 134 mam- 
mals from Japan (44865: purchase). 

Volkart, Henry, St. Gallen, Switzer- 
land: Danish weaving apparatus 
("Brikning"), containing a piece of 
unfinished handiwork showing the 
process (45962: exchange); quadrangle 
boards, with string in process of weav- 
ing, photograph and 2 drawings 
(46120). 
! Waddell, Lieutenant-Colonel. (See un- 
der Smithsonian Institution.) 

W^ailes, L. a.. Port Limon, Costa Rica: 
Marl containing Tertiary fossils 
(44776); fossil and mound shells, and 
skull of an agouti (45382). 

Waldey"er, W., Anatomical Institute, 
Berlin, Germany: 2 typical specimens 
of German brains (44745). 

Walker, A. H., New York City: Col- 
lection of Ippers' photomechanical 
prints and relief photograph (45970). 
Walker, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Speci- 
men of a variety of water snail, Planor- 
bis campanulatus (45321). 



92 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Walkek, George H., Chicago, 111.: 17 

plants from Illinois (45063). 
Walker, John B., New York City: Lili- 

enthal flying machine (45630). 
Walker, Mrs. Sophie L., Alexandria, 
Va. : Experimental currency of Andrew 
Johnson (ten-dollar bill) (45883). 
Wall, August. (See under Smithsonian 

Institution). 
Wallingsford, W. W., U. S. National 
Museum: 1 cent, United States cur- 
rency, issued in 1835 (45452). 
Walsingham, Lord, Werton Hall, Thet- 
ford, England: 14 Tortricid-moths, 2 
tineid-moths, and a limacodid moth 
(received through H. G. Dyar) (44738). 
Walter Reed Memorial Association, 
Baltimore, Md.: Marble bust of Maj. 
Walter Reed (received through Daniel 
C. Gilman, chairman of the committee) 
(11.391: loan). 
War Department, Hon. William H. 
Taft, Secretary : Punch bowl made from 
a tridacna shell and silver mounted, the 
work of Tomas Zamara, and a silver 
coffee set, also made by Senor Zamara, 
containing 31 pieces (45435). 
Bureau of Ordnance, Brig. Gen. 
William Crozier, Chief: Springfield 
smooth-bore (flint-lock) musket of 
the "Charleville pattern," to- 
gether with a collection of small 
arms, and swords, entrenchment 
tools from the Springfield Armory 
(44989, 44990); 2 United States 
magazine rifles, model of 1903, with 
improvements of 1905 (45803). 
S'ignaJ, Corps U. S. Army, Gen. A. W. 
Greely, Chief Signal Officer. Pearl 
drag constructed and used by 
the Sulu Moros (45172); 81 plants 
from Alaska 'sent to the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture by Corporal 
Charles W. H. Heideman, Fort 
Gibbon, Alaska, and transferred to 
the Museum (45234). 
Ward, Lester F., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey, Washington, D. C. : 10 speci- 
mens of Orobranche sp., and Bidens 
trk-hosperma from the District of Colum- 
bia (44922) (See also under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey) . 



Warwick China Company, Wheeling, i: 
W. Va.: Vase (45692). j 

Wasser, Henry, U. S. National Museum: !, 
Ground mole from Landover, Md. 
(45489). 

AVaters, C. E., Washington, D. C: 7 
plants from the United States (44672: 
exchange); specimen of Lycopodiurn 
selago from New York (45506). 

Watkins, A. OcTAvius, Royal Mint, 
Perth, West Australia: Stibio-tantalite 
from Greenbushes, West Australia, i 
weighing 31 grams (45851: exchange). > 

Watkins, Mrs. M. S., Washington, D. C: .1 
One of the first envelopes received from ij 
San Francisco, Cal., after the earth- 
quake of April, 1906 (46037). 

Wayne, Arthur T., Mount Pleasant, S.C. : 
Arizona crested flj' catcher, Myiarchus 
mexicanus magister (45208). 

Webb, J. G., Osprey, Fla. : 4 living speci- 
mens of cacti from Florida (46005); 
butterflies, Pontia monuste and Pontia 
m.phileta (460.38). 

AVeber, S. E., Lancaster, Pa.: 10 pupae 
and adults of mosquitoes, Cidex pipiens 
(45332). 

Webster, William H., Waiuku, Auck- 
land, New Zealand: 2 specimens of mol- 
lusk, Ausiralium heliotropium (45107: 
exchange). 

Weed, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C. : 3 specimens of cop- 
per ore from Beaverhead County, Mont. 
(45808). (See also under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey^^) 

Weeden, W. C, U. S. National Museum: 
Wesson and Leavett rev^olver (45971). 

Weeks, Stephen B., San Carlos, Ariz.: 
Fragments of burial urns and of incin- 
erated human bones, from an Indian 
burial place at San Carlos (44688). 

Weil, Norton, Calhoun, Ky. : Oak gall 
from a post-oak (44893). 

Weinberg, Frank, Woodside, N. Y. : 4 
living plants from Africa (45128); liv- 
ing plants (45380; 45919). 

Welsh - LoFFTUs Uranium and Rare 
Metals Company, Richardson, Utah: 
Specimen of vanadium ore, not yet 
definitely named (44646). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



93 



Welzlek, Fred., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Tubular pipe of catlinite (?) from near 
Concho, Apache County, Ariz. (45078). 

Werckle, C, Cartago, Costa Rica: 14 
plants from Costa Rica (44651). 

VVestinghouse Company, George, Pitts- 
burg, Pa.: Tantalum lamp, Nernst 
lamp, 3 minerals on glass, 7 minerals, 
also other articles from the Lewis and 
Clark Exposition, Portland, Oreg. 
(45793). 

Wheatley Pottery Company, Cincin- 
nati, Ohio: 2 mottled vases (45695). 

White, C. R., Naples, Me.: Caddis-fly, 
larva, and case (44742). 

White, David. (See under Ralph Cairns, 
W. P. Ball, and Baird Halbertstadt. ) 

White, I. C, Morgan town, W^ Va. : Bra- 
zilian rocks (45732); fossils from Brazil 
(45756). 

White, Thomas, Winchendon Springs, 
Mass.: Impression of fossil shell 
(45715). 

Whitino, E. N., Coulinga, Cal.: Moth 
from California (44743). 

Widgeon, J., Maryland Academy of Sci- 
ences, Baltimore, Md.: Salina fos.sils 
from Maryland (45178). 

Wight, F. W. (See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 

Wilcox, Glenn A., Tucson, Ariz. : Plants 
from Arizona (44707; 44741; 44808). 

Wilcox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U S. Army 
(retired), Washington, D. C. : Luml)ar 
vertebra of a mastodon from Hiing- 
mans Creek, Idaho (45108); fragments 
of teeth of a fossil horse from Loup 
Fork Miocene concretions, Fort Nio- 
l)rara, \ebr. (455iJ7); specimen of pine 
from the Philippine Islands, collected 
by R. G. Egbert (45827). See also 
under Mrs. S. S. Sumner. 

Wiley, George, Winter, W^is.: Moth of 
Telea poh/phemus (44701). 

Willard, T. E., it. S. Geological Survey: 
15 specimens of Ordovician limestone 
with fossils from the western section of 
Maryland (45355). 

WiLLCox, Joseph, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Mollusk, Curdium virginiamnn, from 
near Newport News, Va. (45320). 
NAT MCS 1906 7 



WiLLETS Manufacturing Company, Tren- 
ton, N. J.: Cup, saucer, and plates 
(45697). 

Williams, G. (See under Department 
of Agriculture. ) 

Williamson, E. B., Bluffton, Ind.: Cray- 
fishes (45189); 3 specimens of living 
crayfishes, Cambarus argillicola (45881). 

Willis, Bailey, Carnegie Institution, 
Washington, D. C. : 6 photographs of 
Cambrian glacial boulders collected in 
China during the expedition of the 
Carnegie Institution (45076). (See 
also under Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey. 

Willoughby, C. C. (See under Peabody 
Museum of Archeology and Ethnol- 
ogy.) 

Wilmer, Lieut. Col. L. Worthington, 
Lothian House, Ryde, Isle of Wight, 
England: Cretaceous fossils from the 
Isle of Wight and about 20 fossil and 
recent mollusks, insects, and a piece of 
moss (45261; 45734). 

Wilson, Charles B., State Normal 
School, Westfield, Mass.: Parasitic 
ccp-^pods, (Caliginse) (45188); parasitic 
copepods (45500). (See a so under 
Rev. Canon A. M. Norman. ) 

Wirt Electric Company, Incorporated, 
Philadelphia, Pa.: Wirt voltmeter No. 
101, and Wii-t voltmeter No. 239 
(44824). 

Wood, N. R., TI. S. National Museum: 
Young peacock, Paro crisiatus (4-1647); 
2 baffle-heads, CharitoneUa albeula 
(45087). 

Woodroffe, Thomas. (See under North 
Carolina Granite Corporation.) 

Woodward, E. W. (See under Tulane 

University of Loui.'^^iana, Newcomb 

College Art Department. ) 
WooDwoRTH, C. C, Stamper, Miss.: 

Clearwing-moth, Ilemaris axillaris 

(15047). 
Wooton, E. O., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: 

5 specimens of plant, Sedum wootoni, 

from New Mexico (44640). 
Work, J. L., Lancaster, Ohio: Photo- 

gra])h of the skull of an elk with 

"triplet antlers" (45832). 



94 



EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



WoRTHEN, G. C. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. ) 

"WuLFiNG, J. M., St. Louis, Mo.: Bone 
implement (46031). (See also under 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
American Ethnology.) 

Wyoming Commission at the Lewis and 
Clark Exposition, Portland, Oreg.: 
Copper ore from Encampment, Wyo., 
mined by the Penn-Wyoming Company 
(45467). 

Wyoming State Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition: Ores 
and nonmetallic minerals from Wyo- 
ming (44669). 

Yale University Museum, New Haven, 
Conn. : Crinoid slab found in the Hel- 
derbergian of Herkimer County, N. 
Y.; and j^laster casts of Leidy's types 
of mammals; Cretaceous fossils; 6 fos- 
sil invertebrates and 3 fossil plants 
(44962; 45056: exchange; 45758); shells 
from Bermuda (45874). 



Young, R. T., Boulder, Colo.: Lizard, 
Sceloporus consobriniis ( 451 1 6 ) ; 17 mam- 
mals from Colorado (45638). 

Zalesky, Dr. William, U. S. Navy, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : Larva of Mantis from 
Santo Domingo (45055). 

Zeigler, C. W., & Company, Gettysburg, 
Pa. : 1,000 pounds of diabase from Get- 
tysburg (45614: purchase). 

Zeledon, Sefiora Ampora de: 2 hum- 
mingbirds, 5 shells and crustaceans 
from Costa Rica (44658). 

Zeledon, Jose C, San Jose, Costa Rica: 
14 birds' skins and mammals (44657). 

Zeus, Carl C, Fredalba Park, Cal. : 4 
specimens of insect, Notonecta insulata 
(45008). 

Ziegler, Mrs. E. M., New York City: 3 
mounted Polar bears (45157). 

Zoological Museum. (See under Chris- 
tiania, Norway.) 



LIST OF THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
ISSUED DURING THE FISCAL YEAR 1905-6, INCLUDING PAPERS 
PUBLISHED ELSEWHERE WHICH RELATE TO THE COLLEC- 
TIONS. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 



ANNUAL KEPORT. 



Annual Report | of the | Board of Re- 
gents I of the I Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, I showing I the operations, ex- 
penditures, and condition of the 
Institution ] for the | year ending June 
30, 1904. I — I Report | of the | 



U. S. National Museum. | [Seal] | 
Washington | Government Printing 
Office I 1906 I 

8vo., pp. i-xvi, 1-780, pLs. 66, ligs. 141, 
maps 1. 



PROCEEDINGS. 



Smithsonian Institution. | United States 
National Museum | — | Proceedings | 
of the I United States National Mu- 
seum I — I Volume XXVIII | — | 
Published under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution | [Seal"] | 
Washington | Government Printing 
Office I 1905 1 

8vo., pp. i-xix, 1-1027, pis. 1-35, figs. 380. 

Smithsonian Institution | United States 
National Museum | — f Proceedings | 
of the I United States National Mu- 



seum I — I Volume XXIX | — | 
[Seal] I Washington | Government 
Printing Office | 1906. | 

8vo., pp. i-xvi, 1-840, pis. 1-41, figs. 143. 

Smithsonian Institution | United States 
National Museum | — | Proceedings | 
of the I United States National Mu- 
seum I — I Volume XXX | — | 
[Seal] I Washington | Government 
Printing Office | 1906 | 

8vo., pp. i-xvi, 1-883, pis. 1-78, flgs. 120. 



BULLETINS. 



Catalogue | of the | type and figured 
specimens | of | fossils, minerals, 
rocks I and ores | in the | Department 
of Geology, United States | National 
Museum | Prepared under the direction 
of I George P. Merrill | head curator of 
geology I Parti — Fossil invertebrates." 
I [Seal] I Wa,shington | Government 
Printing Office | 1905. | 

Bulletin .W (Part I), pp. 1-704. 

A monograph | on the | Isopods of North 
America | By | Harriet Richard.son [ 1 
Collaborator, Division of Marine In- 1 

a Part I was prepared by Charles Schuchert, assisted 



vertebrates | [Seal] | Washington | 
Government Printing Office | 1905. | 
Bulletin 54, pp. i-liii, 1-727, figs. 740. 

contribution to the oceanography | of 
the Pacific. | Compiled from data col- 
lected by the United | States steamer 
Nero while engaged in | the survey of 
a route for a | trans-Pacific cable | — | 
By I James M. Flint | Medical Di- 
rector, U. S. Navy; Curator, Division 
of Medicine, U. S. National Museum | 
[Seal] I Washington | Government 
Printing Office | 1905. | 

Bulletin 55, pp. i-v, 1-62, pl.s. i-.\iv. 

by W. H. Dall, T. W. Stanton, and R. S. Bassler. 

95 



96 



EEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906, 



PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM. 

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1904. 



Report upon the condition and progress 
of the U. S. Nationnl Museum during 
the year ending June 30, 1904. By 
Richard RatHbun. pp. 1-186. 

Report on the department of anthropol- 
ogy for the year 1903-4. By Otis 
Tufton Mason, pp. 61-75. 

Report on the department of biology for 
the year 1903-4. By Frederick W. 
True. pp. 77-95. 

Report on the department of geology for 
the year 1903-4. By George P. Mer- 
rill, pp. 97-104. 



Contributions to the history of American 
geology. By George P. Merrill, pp. 
189-733, pis. 1-37, figs. 1-141. 

TheS. S. Ilowland collection of Buddhist 
religious art in the National Museum. 
By Immanuel M. Casanowicz. pp. 
735-744, pis. 1-17. 

Flint implements of the Fayum, Egypt. 
By Heywood Walter Seton-Karr. pp. 
745-751, pis. 1-12. 



FROM VOLUME 28 OF THE PROCEEDINGS. 



No. 1407. List of fishes collected by Dr. 
Bash ford Dean on the Island 
of Negros, Philippines. By 
David Starr Jordan and Al vin 
Seale. pp. 769-803, figs. 1-20. 

No. 1408. The life history of the sea- 
horses (Hippocampids). By 
Theodore Gill. pp. 805-814, 
figs. 1-12. 

No. 1409. Notes on an adult goblin shark 
(Mitsukurina owstoni) of 
Japan. By Barton A. Bean, 
pp. 815-818, figs. 1-2. 

No. 1410. Notes on cestode cysts. Taenia 
chamissonii, new species, 
from a porpoise. By Edwin 
Linton, pp. 819-822, pi. 

XXXV. 



No. 1411. Birds collected by Dr. W. L. 
Abbott in the Kilimanjaro re- 
gion. East Africa. By Harry 
C. Oberholser. pp. 823-936. 

No. 1412. A descriptive list of a collection 
of early stages of Japanese 
Lepidoptera. By Harrison 
G. Dyar. pp. 937-956, figs. 
1-23. 

No. 1413. Additions to the recorded 
hymenopteroiis fauna of the 
Philipjjine Islands, with de- 
scriptions of new species. 
By William H. Ashmead. 
pp. 957-971. 

No. 1414. Notes on the fishes of Puget 
Sound. By Charles H. Gil- 
bert and Joseph C. Thomp- 
son, pp. 973-987, figs. 1-3. 



FROM VOLUME 29 OF THE PROCEEDINGS. 



No. 1415. Cambrian faunas of China. 
By Charles D. Walcott. pp. 
1-106. 

No. 1416. New Hymenoptera from the 
Pliilippines, By William.H. 
Ashmead. pp. 107-119. 

No. 1417. The classification of the Amer- 
ican Siphonaptera. By Carl 
F. Baker, pp. 121-170. 



No. 1418. A new subspecies of ground 
dove from Mona Island, Por- 
to Rico. By J. H. Riley, 
pp. 171, 172. 

No. 1419. New genera of South American 
moths. By Harrison G. 
Dyar. pp. 173-178. 

No. 1420. Descriptions of new South 
American moths. By Wil- 
liam Schaus. pp. 179-345. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



97 



No. i42]. Some new South American 
moths. By William "Warren, 
pp. 347-352. 

No. 1422. A list of fishes coUeoted in 
Tahiti by Mr. Henry P. 
Bowie. By David Starr Jor- 
dan and John Otterbein Sny- 
der, pp. 353-357, figs. 1-3. 

No. 1423. A list of American cochlidian 
moths, with descriptions of 
new genera and species. By 
Harrison G. Dyar. pp. 359- 
396. ' 

No. 1424. New genera and species of 
Hymenoptera from the Phil- 
ipi)ines. By William H. Ash- 
mead, pp. 397-413. 

No. 1425. Thomas Martyn and the Uni- 
versal Conchologist. By Wil- 
liam Healey Dall. pp. 415- 
432. 

No. 1426. The mounted skeleton of Tri- 
ceratops prorsus. By Charles 
W. Gilmore. pp. 433-435, 
pis. 1-2. 

No. 1427. Five new species of Mexican 
plants. By J. N. Rose. pp. 
437-439. 

No. 1428. Two new umbelliferous plants 
from the coastal plain of 
Georgia. By J. N. Rose. pp. 
441, 442, pi. HI. 

No. 1429. Descriptions of three Mexican 
violets. By J. N. Rose and 
H. D. House, pp. 443, 444, 

pi. IV. 

No. 1430. Description of a new species of 
Livoneca from the coast of 
Panama. By Harriet Rich- 
ardson, pp. 445, 446, figs. 1-2. 

No. 1431. The breeding habits and the 
segmentation of the egg of the 
pipefish, Siphostoma fioridse. 
By Eugene Willis Gudger. 
pp. 447-500, pis. v-xi, figs. 1, 2. 



No. 1432. Notes on exotic forficulids or 
earwigs, with descriptions of 
new species. By James A. G. 
Rehn. pp. 501-515, figs. 1-9. 

No. 1433. List of lishes collected in 1882- 
83 by Pierre Louis Jouy at 
Shanghai and Hongkong, 
China. By David Starr Jor- 
dan and Alvin Scale, pp. 
517-529, figs. 1-6. 

No. 1434. On the syntomid moths of 
southern Venezuela collected 
in 1898-1900. By Edward A. 
Klages. pp. 531-552. 

No. 1435. A fossil raccoon from a Cali- 
fornia Pleistocene cave de- 
posit. By James Williams 
Gidley. pp. 553, 554, pi. xii. 

No. 1436. The monkeys of the Macaca 
nemestrina group. By Ger- 
rit S. Miller, jr. pp. 555-563, 

pis. XIII-XX. 

No. 1437. A new lizard of the genus 
Phrynosoma, from Mexico. 
By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 
565-567. 

No. 1438. A study of the wings of the 
Tenth red inoidea, a super- 
family of Hymenoptera. By 
Alexander Dyer MacGilli- 
vray. pp. 569-654, pis. xxi- 
XLIV, figs. 1-20. 

No. 1439. A new blattoid from the Cre- 
taceous formation of North 
America. By Anton Hand- 
lirsch. pp. 655,656, fig. 1. 

No. 1440. Gn some bats of the genus 
Rhinolophus, collected by Dr. 
W. L. Abbott in the islands 
of Nias and Engano. By 
Knud Andersen, pp. 657-659. 

No. 1441. Revision of American Paleozoic 
insects. By Anton Hand- 
lirsch. pp. 661-820, figs. 
1-109. 



98 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



FROM VOLUME 30 OF THE PROCEEDINGS. 



No. 1442. A study of the James types of 
Ordovician and Silurian Bry- 
ozoa. By Ray S. Bassler. 
pp. 1-66, pis. i-vii. 

No. 1443. The life history of the cave 
salamander, Spelerpes macul- 
icaudus (Cope). By Arthur 
M. Banta and Waldo L. Mc- 
Atee. pp. 67-83, pis. viii-x,' 
figs. 1-3. 

No. 1444. Descriptions of new South 
American moths. By William 
Schaus. pp. 85-141. 

No. 1445. Descriptions of six new species 
of fishes from Japan. By 
David Starr Jordan and Alvin 
Seale. pp. 143-148, figs, 1-6. 

No. 1446. New American Paleozoic Os- 
tracoda. Notes and descrip- 
tions of ITpper Carboniferous 
genera and species. By Ed- 
ward O. Ulrich and Ray S. 
Bassler. pp. 149-164, pi. xi. 

No. 1447. A new ruminant from the 
Pleistocene of New Mexico. 
By James Williams Gidley. 
pp. 165-167, figs. 1-3. 

No. 1448. Descriptions of new Hymenop- 
tera from Japan. By William 
H. Ashmead. pp. 169-201, 
pis. XII-XV. 

No. 1449. The osteology of Sinopa, a 
creodont mammal of the Mid- 
dle Eocene. By William Dil- 
ler Matthew, pp. 203-233, 
pi. XVI, figs. 1-20. 

No. 1450. The Locustidae and Gryllidae 
(katydids and crickets), col- 
lected by W. T. Foster in 
Paraguay. By Andrew Nel- 
son Caudell. pj.. 235-244. 

No. 1451. Brains and brain preservatives. 
By Ales Hrdlicka. pp. 245- 
, 320b, figs. 1-27. 

No. 1452. Notes on Japanese, Indopacific, 
and American Pyramidel- 
lidse. By ^Villiam Healey 
Dall and Paul Bartsch. pp. 
321-369, pis. xvii-xxvi. 



No. 1453. Notes on South American grass- 
hoppers of the subfamily 
Acridinge (Acrididse), with 
descriptions of new genera 
and species. By James A. G. 
Rehn. pp. 371-391. 

No. 1454. Descriptions of two new naiads. 
By Paul Bartsch. pp. 393- 
395, pis. xxvii-xxix. 

No. 1455. A synopsis of the sturgeons 
(Acipenserid;<>) of Japan. 
By David Starr Jordan and 
John Otterbein Snyder, pp. 
397,- 398. ' 

No. 1456. Descriptions of new genera 
and species of South American 
geometrid moths. By Wil- 
liam Warren, pp. 399-557. 

No. 1457. A new salan)ander from North 
Carolina. By Leonhard Stej- 
neger. pp. 559-562, figs. 1-6. 

No. 1458. Cambrian faunas of China. By 
Charles D. Walcott. pp. 
563-595. 

No. 1459. Descriptions of tliree new spe- 
cies of katydids and a new 
genus of crickets from Costa 
Rica. By James A. G. Rehn. 
pp. 597-605, figs. 1-8. 

No. 1460. Notes on some recent additions 
to the exhibition series of 
vertebrate fossils. By Chas. 
W. Gilmore. pp. 607-611, 
pis. xxx-xxxv. 

No. 1461. Synoptic list of Paraguayan 
Acrididae, or locusts, with 
descriptions of new forms. 
By Lawrence Bruner. pp. 
613-694, pis. xxxvi-xxxviii. 

No. 1462. List of fishes collected on Tan- 
ega and Yaku, offshore islands 
of southern Japan, by Rob- 
ert Van Vleck Anderson, with 
descriptions of seven new spe- 
cies. By David Starr Jordan 
and Edwin Chapin Starks. 
pp. 695-706, figs. 1-13. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



99 



No. 1463. A review of the American 
moths of the genus Cosmop- 
teryx Hiibner. By August 
Busck. pp. 707-713. 

No. 1464. A review of the sand lances or 
Ammodytidse of the waters 
of Japan. By David Starr 
Jordan, pp. 715-719, figs. 1,2. 

No. 1465. Tineid moths from southern 
Texas, with descriptions of 
new species. By August 
Busck. pp. 721-736, figs. 
1-10. 

No. 1466. Notes on the Malayan ]iigs. 
ByGerritS. Miller,jr.,pp. 737- 

758, pis. xxxix-Lxiv, fig. 1. 
No. 1467. A new American pentremite. 

B}' Charles Schuchert. pp. 

759, 760, figs. 1-3. 

No. 1468. On a collection of fishes made 
by P. 0. Simons in Ecuador 
and Peru. By Edwin C. 
Starks. pp. 761-800, pis. lxv, 

LXVI, figs. 1-10. 

No. 1469. Notes on birds from (lernian 
and British East Africa. By 
Harry C. Oberholser. pp. 
801-811. 

No. 1470. Descriptions of a new species 
of Threadfin (family Polyne- 
midse ) from Japan. By David 
Starr Jordan and Richard 
Crittenden McGregor. pp. 
813-815, fig. 1. 

No. 1471. A new tree toad from Costa Rica. 
By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 
817,818. 



No. 1472. The mamrnals of Engano 
Island, West Sumatra. By 
Gerrit S. Miller, jr. pp. 819- 
825. 

No. 1473. Three new fungige, with a de- 
scription of a specimen of 
Fungia granulosa Klunzinger, 
and a note on a specimen of 
Fungia concinna Verrill. By 
T. Wayland Vaughan. pp. 
827-832, pis. Lxvii-Lxxiv. 

No. 1474. On a species of loach, ]Misgur- 
nu.-j decemcirrosus ( Basil- 
ewsky), from northern China. 
By David Starr Jordan and 
John Otterbein Snyder, pp. 
833,834, fig. 1. 

No. 1475. Description of a new genus and 
species of fossil seal from the 
Miocene of Maryland. By 
Frederick W. True. pp. SS5- 
840, pis. LXXV, LXXVI. 

No. 1476. The giant bass of Japan. By 
David Starr Jordan and John 
Otterbein Snyder, pp. 841- 
845, figs. 1, 2. 

No. 1477. A new species of Co?nocyathus 
from California and tiie Bra- 
zilian astrangid corals. By 
T. Wayland Vaughan. pp. 
847-850, pis. Lxxvii, Lxxviii. 

No. 1478. New fishes from Santo Do- 
mingo. By B. W. Evermann 
and H. Walton Clark, pp. 
851-855, figs. 1-3. 



FROM BULLETIN 39. 

Part S. Directions for collecting information and objects illustrating the history of 
medicine. By James M. Flint, M. D., U. S. Navy (retired), pp. [l]-[5]. 

FROM VOLUME 10 OF COXTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM. 



Part 1. North American species of Festuca. By Charles V. Piper, pp. i-vi, 1—48 
vii-ix, pis. i-xv. 



100 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



CLASSIFIED LIST OF PAPERS BASED WHOLLY OR IN PART ON TiHE 
NATIONAL COLLECTIONS. 



MUSEUM ADMINISTRATION. 

Mason, Otis Tufton. Report on the de- 
partment of anthropology for the year 
1903-4. 

Eep. Smilhsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 61-75. 

Merrill, George P. Report on the de- 
partment of geology for the year 1903-4. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 97-104. 

RATHEfN, Richard. Report upon the 
condition and progress of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum during the year ending 
June 30, 1904. 

Rejy. Smithsonimi Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 1-186. 

True, Frederick W. Report on the de- 
partment of biology for the year 190.3-4. 
Rep. .Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 77-95. 

ETHNOLOGY, ARCHEOLOGY, PHYSICAL 
ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Casanowicz, Immanuel M. The S. S. 
Rowland collection of Buddhist re- 
ligious art in the National Museum. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 735-744, pis. l-xvil. 
Gives a sketch of the origin, doctrines, and 
history of Buddhism, followed by a descrip- 
tion of 27 objects. 

Flint, James M. Directions for collect- 
ing information and objects illustrating 
the history of medicine. 

Bull. rj. S. ^at. Mus., No. 39, pt. S, Aug. 8, 
1905, pp. [1]-15]. 

Holmes, William H. Certain notched 
or scalloped stone tablets of the moUnd 
builders. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), viii. No. 
1, Jan.-Mar., 1906, pp. 101-108, pis. xii, 
XIII, 2 figs. 
Calls attention to the paper of Mr. Clarence 
B. Moore, in which he describes and illus- 
trates stone plates, which he is able to iden- 
tify as mortar plates, or palettes, intended 
for grinding pigments. The distribution of 
the designs is carefully studied by the author. 

Hough, Walter. Pueblo environment. 

Science (new series), xxiii. No. 597, 
June 8, 1906, pp. 865-869. 
Treats of the geography, geology, meteor- 
ology, and biology of the Pueblo region and 



Hough, Walter — Continued. 

discusses t\^ environment with regard to its 
general effects on man's body and activities. 
This paper was the address of the vice-presi- 
dent and chairman of Section H, .\merican 
Association for the Advancement of Science. 

Sacred springs in the southwest- 
ern United States. 

Records of the Past, v, pt. vi, June, 1906, 
pp. 163-169. 
Treats of spring worship among the Pueblo 
Indians, in whose country this feature of 
their life is emphasized by the arid environ- 
ment and consequent importance of water. 
The ceremonies performed around springs, 
the offerings placed in them, and the lore 
connected with them are described. 

Hrdlicka, Ales. Notes on the San 
Carlos Apache. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), vii, No. 

3, July-Sept., 1905, pp. 480-495, pis. xxx- 
XXXII, 7 figs. 

A brief account of the present status and 
mode of life of the Apaches on the San Carlos 
Reservation, Ariz., with notes on their sub- 
divisions, dwellings, manufactured objects, 
habits, and customs, and on antiquities in the 
San Carlos Valley. 

Diseases of the Indians, more es- 
pecially of the southwest United States 
and northern Mexico. 

Washington Medical Annals, iv. No. 6, 
Dec, 1905, pp. 372-394. 
A ri5sum6 of personal observations, and 
special data furnished by physicians in the 
Indian Service, on diseases among the Indi- 
ans, with a di.scus.sion. 

Notes on the Pima of Arizona. 

Am. Anthropologist (new seiiefi) , viii, Jan.- 
Mar., 1906, pp. 39-46, pis. vni-ix, 8 figs. 
Brief account of the tribe as it exists at the 
present time (1905), including notes on dwell- 
ings, manufactures, and customs. 

Brains and brain preservatives. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. 'Mus., xxx. No. 1451, June 

4, 1906, pp. 245-320b, figs. 1-27. 

A detailed account and graphic illustra- 
tions of the results of experiments in the 
laboratory of the divison of physical anthro- 
pology, U. S. National Museum, with 15 
different preservatives containing formalin. 

Contribution to the physical an- 
thropology of California. 

Pub. Univ. California, Am. Archeology 
and Ethnology, IV, No. 2, Berkeley, June, 
1906, 20 figs. 
A detailed description of a series of Califor- 
nia mainland crania. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



101 



Setox-Karr, Heywood Walter. Flint 
implements of, the Fayum, Egypt. 

Hep. Smithsonian lust. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1904 (1906), pp. 715-751, pis. i-.xii. 
Describes and illustrates a groat variety of 
chipped stone implements far antedating the 
historic period of lower Egypt. 

MAMMALS. 

Andersen, Kxuo. On the bats of the 
Rhinolophus philippinensis group, 
with descriptions of five new species. 
Ann. Mag. yat. Hist, (.series 7), xvi, Aug., 
1905, pp. 214-257. 
Describes specime:; No. 124767, U. S. N. M., 
collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott on Banka, as 
Rhinolophxis soUtatiarus, p. 250. The types of 
four other new species are in the British Mu- 
seum: Rh. seduliis, p. 247; Rh. lanosus, p. 248; 
Rh. geinuius, p 253; Rh. bcddomei, p. 253. 

on the bats of the Rhinolophus ar- 

cuatus group, with descriptions of five 
new forms. 

Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 7), xvi, 
Sept., 1905, pp. 282-288. 
Systematic revision of and remarks on the 
group. 

No. 125314, U. S. N. M., is made the tj-pe 
of Rhinolophus inops, p. 284. 

on the bats of the Rhinolophus 

macrotis group, with descriptions of 
two new forms. 

Ann. Mag. Sat. Hist, (series 7), xvi, Sept., 
1905, pp. 289-292. 
No. 10&487, U. S. N. M., Is made the type of 
Rhinolophus hirsutus, p. 289. 

on some bats of the genus Rhinolo- 



phus, with remarks on their mutual 
affinities and descriptions of twenty-six 
new forms. 

Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 190.5, ii, Oct. 17, 
1905, pp. 75-145, pis. III. IV. 
A systematic revision of eastern Rhinolophi, 
with remarks on affinities of the Ethiopian 
and western Palearctic species. 

No. 101966, U. S. N. M., is made the type of 
new species Rhinolophus virgo, p. 88. No. 
101714, U. S. N. M., is made the type of Rhi- 
nolophus nereis, p. 90. No. 104753, U. S. N. M., 
is made the type of Rhinolophus affinis nesites, 
p. 104. 

On Hipposideros diadema and its 

closest allies. 

Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 7), xvi, Nov., 
1905, pp. 497-507. 
Systematic revision of the group and gen- 
eral remarks on it. 

A list of the species and subspecies 

of the genus Rhinolophus, with some 
notes on their geographical distribution. 
An7i. Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 7), xvi, Dec, 
1905, pp. 648-662. 



ANDERSEN, Knud. On some bats of the 
genus Rhinolophus, collected by Dr. 
\V. L. Abl)ott on the islands of Nias and 
PZngano. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mu.-<., xxix, No. 1440, Mar. 
7, 1906, pp. 657-659. 
Description of a new species and a new 
subspecies, Rhinolophus cure, and R. trifoliatus 
niascnsis, and notes on other species. 

On Hipposideros caffer,Sund., and 



its closest allies, with some notes on 
H. fiiliginosHs, Temm. 

Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, (series 7),xvii,Mar., 
1906, pp. 269-282. 
Systematic revision of and general remarks 
on the group. 

Bailey, Vernon. Identity of Thomomys 
umbrinus (Richardson). 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Jan. 29, 1906, 
pp. 3-6. 
Thomomys urhbrinus (Richardson) rede- 
scribed and skull figured. 

A new white-footed mouse from 

Texas. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix. May 1, 1906, 
pp. 57, .58. New subspecies: Peromyscus 
pectoralis laceianus, p. 57. 

Gary, Merritt. Identity of Eutamias 
pallidus (Allen), with a description of 
a related form from the South Dakota 
Bad Lands. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix,- June 4, 1906, 
pp. 87,90, No. 11656, U.S.N.M., selected 
a.slectotypeoiEulamiaspaUidits{M\en), 
which is redescribed. Eutamias pal- 
lidus cacodemus described as new, p. 89. 

Hahn, Walter L. A new bat from Mex- 
ico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Dec. 9,1905, 
pp. 247-248. 
New species Herviiderma subrufum, p. 247. 

]\Iyotis lucifugus in Kamchatka. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Dec. 9, 1905, 

p. 254, No. ^^^??, U. S. N. M., Myotis luci- 
37449 -^ ■ 

Jugus, recorded from Kamchatka. 

Lyon, Marcus W., Jr. The pigmy squir- 
rels of the Nannosciurus melanotis 
group. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, May 1, 1906, 
pp. 51-56. 
This paper is based mainly on material col- 
lected in the Malay .\rchipelago by Dr. W. L. 
Abbott and presented by him to the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. Systematic revision of the 
group. New species: Nannosciurus sumatra- 
nus, p. 53; ^V. borneanus, p. 64; N. bancanus, 
p. 65. 



102 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Type of the 



Lyon, Marcus W., Jr. 
genus Pronolagus. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, June 4, 190G, 

p. 95. 

The type of this genus, based on No. 22972, 

U. S. N. M., is Pronolagus crassicaudatus Lyon 

(not Geoffroy) =P. ruddi Thomas _ and 

Schwann. 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. Note on the 
generic names Pteronotus and Derma- 
notus. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17,1905, 
pp. 223-226. 
Pteronotus Gray, 1838, is shown to be a valid 
name for a Phyllostomid genus. 

A new bat from German East 

Africa. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii. Dee. 9, 190o, 
pp. 227, 228. 
Bat collected by Dr. VV. L. Abbott at Taveta 
in 1889, described and named Lavia rex, p. 
227. *• 

A new genus of bats from Sumatra. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvni, Dec. 9, 1905, 
pp. 229, 230. 
Description of the new Vespertilionine 
genus Phoniscus, p. 229, and of the new spe- 
cies Phoniscus atrox, p. 230, collected by Dr. 
W. L. Abbott in eastern Sumatra in 1903. 

A second specimen of Odonton- 

ycteris meyeri Jentink. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Dec. 9,1905, 
p. 253. 
Notice of a specimen of this rare bat col- 
lected by 'Dr. Edgar A. Mcarns on Cagayan 
Sulu, Philippine Islands. 

■ The monkevs of the Macaca ne- 



mestrina group. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix. No. 1436, Feb. 
3, 1906, pp. 555-563, pis. Xlll-xx. 
A revision of the monkeys of this group 
based mainly on specimens collected and pre- 
sented to the U. S. National Museum by Dr. 
W. L. Abbott. Macaca broca, p. 258; J)/, adusta, 
p. 259; and M. insulana, p. 260, are described 
as new. 

Two new carnivores from the 



Malay Peninsula. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Feb. 26, 1906, 

pp. 25-28. 

Description of two Viverrldae collected by 

Dr. W. L. Abbott, and presented by him to 

the U. S. National Museum: Arctogalidia 

major, p. 25, and Parodoxurus robiistus, p. 26. 

A new name for Rhinolophus 

minutus Miller. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Feb. 26, 1906, 
p. 41. 
Rhinolophus minutus Miller is shown to 
be preoccupied, and the species is renamed 
Rhinolophus minutillus. 



Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. The nomencla- 
ture of the flying lemurs. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Feb. 26, 1906, 

p. 41. 

The family is named Cologidse (new) and 

the genera Colugo Gray (Philippine flying 

. . lemurs) and Cynocephalus Boddaert (Malayan 

flying lemurs) are defined. 

Some voles from the Tian Shan 

range. 

Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, (series?), xvii, Apr., 
1906, pp. 371-375. 
Descriptions of 4 voles sent for determina- 
tion by the British Museum. Duplicates have 
been presented to the U.S. National Museum. 
New species: Alticola worthingtoni, p. 372; Evo- 
tomys centralis, p. 373. 

A new genus of sac-winged bats. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, May 1, 1906, 
pp. 59, 60. • 
New genus: Mijropteryx (Emballonuridae), 
p. 69. 
New species: Myropteryx pullus, p. 60. 

Seven new Malayan bats. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix. May 1, 1906, 

pp. 61-66. 

New species: Cynopterus princeps, p. 61; C. 

major, p. 62; C. pagensis, p. 62; C. minutus, p. 

63; Pteropus baveanus, p. 63; P. niadicus, p. 64; 

Kcrivoida depressa, p. 64. 

Twelve new genera of bats. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, June 4, 1906, 
pp. 83-86. 
Diagnoses of new genera, family Pteropidse: 
Niadius, p. 83; Sphaerias, p. 83. Family Meg- 
adermidae: Macroderma, p. 84. Family Phyl- 
lostomidse: Ardops, p. 84; Erophylla, p. 84. 
Family Desmodontidse: Diaemus, p. 84. Fam- 
ily Noctilionidse: Dirias, p. 84. Family Natal- 
idce: Phodotcs, p. 85. Family Vespertilionid*: 
Pizonyx, p. 85; Rhinopterus, p. 85; Bseodon, p. 
85. Family Molossidse: Eumops, p. 85. 

A bat new to the United States. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, June 4, 1906, 
pp. 95-98. 
Chmronycteris mexicana recorded from Ari- 
zona. 

The mammals of Engano Island, 

West Sumatra. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. 3Ius., xxx, No. 1472, June 
4, 1906, pp. 819-825. 
An account of 70 mammals collected on 
Engano by Dr. W^. L. Abbott and presented 
to the U. S. National Museum. New species: 
Mus enganus, p. 821; Pteropus enganus, p. 822; 
Kerivoula engana, p. 825. 

Notes on Malayan pigs. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1466, June 
13, 1906, pp. 737-758, pis. xxxix-LXiv. 
Systematic revision of Malayan pigs, based 
on 62 specimens collected by Dr. W. L. Ab- 
bott and presented by him to the U. S. Na- 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



103 



Miller, GerritS., Jr. — Continued. 

tional Museum, as well as on material in 
European museums. New species described: 
Sus garganiua, p. 743; S. jubatus, p. 74.5; iS. 
jubatulus, p. 745; S. rhioiiis, p. 749; S. peninsu- 
laris, p. 749; S. niadensiii, p. 751; S. babi, p. 751; 
S. mvmis, p. 753. 

Osgood, Wilfred H. A new vole from 
Montague Island, Alaska. 

Proe. Biol. Soc. HVt.s/f., xix, May 1. 1906, 
pp. 71, 72. 
Describes Microtus elymocetes as new, p. 71. 

Ste-jneger, Leon hard. The systematic 
name of the Japanese deer. 

Science (new series), xxii, Sept. 29, 1905, 
pp. 402, 403. 
Shows that Cerrus nippon Temminck, 1837. 
is 7 years older than Cervus sika. 

BIRDS. 

Alfaro, Anastasio. a new owl from 
Costa Rica. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17, 1905, 
p. 217. 
Cryptoglaux ridgwayi is described as new. 

Bishop, Louis B. Notes on a small col- 
lection of California birds with de- 
scription of an apparently unrecognized 
race of Mutton's vireo. 

Condor, VII, No. 5, Sept. 19, 1905, pp. 141-143; 
Notes on 32 species of California birds, of 
which Vireo huttoni oberholseri, p. 142, is de- 
scribed as new. 

Deane, Ruth vex. The ruff (Pavoncella 
pugnax) in Indiana. 

Auk, XXII, No. 4, Oct., 1905, pp. 410, 411. 
Record of an Indiana specimen of this Old 
World species, with a list of previous North 
American records. 

DwiGHT, Jonathan, Jr. Status and 
plumages of the white-winged gulls of 
the genus Larus. 

Auk, XXIII, No. 1, Jan., 1906, pp. 26-43, pi. i, 
Ifig. 
A discussion of the status of -5 species of this 
group, with a description of the plumage of 
each, accompanied by a table of measure- 
ments. Larus barrovianus is considered to be 
indistinguishable from L. glaucus. 

Emerson, W. Otto. Oceanodroma leu- 
corhoa and its relatfves on the Pacific 
coast. 

Condor, viii. No. 2, Mar. 20, 1906, pp. 

53-55. 

The writer restricts Oceanodroma leucorhoa 

to the Atlantic, and describes 2 new species 

from the California coast, viz: 0. beali and 0. 

bddingi. 



Grinnell, Joseph. The Pacific night 
hawk. 

Condor, Vll, No. 6, Nov. 22, 1905, p. 170. 
Description of a new form, Chordeiles virf/ini- 
anus hcsperis, from the San Bernardino moun- 
tains, California. 

Jenkins, Hubert O. Variation in the 
hairy woodpecker (Dryobates villosus 
and subspecies). 

Auk, XXlll, No. 2, Apr., 1906, pp. 161-171, 
2 figs. 
A discussion of the variation in pattern of 
coloration and size in the hairy woodpecker 
and its subspecies, with remarks on their 
geographical distribution. Observations on 
the probable causes of variation are added. 

Oberholser, Harry C. The avian genus 
Bleda Bonaparte and some of its allies. 

Smithsonian Misc. CoZ^s., XLViii.Quar.issue, 
III, pt. 2, No. 1588, July 1, 1905, pp. 149- 
172. 

Birds collected by Dr. W. L. Ab- 
bott in the Kilimanjaro region, East 
Africa. 

Proc. U. S. Aat. Mus., xxviii. No. 1411, 
July 8, 1905, pp. 82a-936. 
This report is based upon a collection of 684 
specimens made by Doctor Abbott during the 
years 1887-1889. The following genera and 
species are named as new: Astur sparsimfasci- 
atus aceletus, p. 829; Lissotis notophila, p. 836; 
(Ena capensis anonyma, p. 843; Chalcopelia 
chalcospila acanthina, p. 845; Asio maculosus 
amerimnus, p. 856; Tachynaules, p. 860; Viridi- 
bucco, p. 865; Melignothes exilis meliphilus, p. 
809; Odontospiza, p. 883; Arizelopsar, p. 887; 
PoneropslTr, p. 888; Pycnonotus layardi mi- 
crus. p. 891; Acroccphalus orinus, p. 839; Notio- 
cichla, p. 900; AnteliocicMa, p. 901; Apalisthe- 
sceZa, p. 904; Cichlomyia, p. 908; Arizelo7nyia,p. 
910: Platysteira cryptoleuca, p. 913; and Helio- 
nympha, p. 929. 

The forms of Vermivora celata 



(Say). 

- Auk, XXII, No. 3, July, 1905, pp. 242-247. 

A synopsis of the forms of this species, with 
the geographical distribution of each. Ver- 
mivora celata oresfera is described as new. 

Description of a new Querquedula. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, June 4, 1906, 
pp. 93,94. 
Querquedula orinomus, allied to Q. cyanop- 
tera, is described as a new species from Lake 
Titicaca, Peru, 

Notes on birds from German and 



British East Africa. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxx, No. 1469, June 
4, 1906, pp. 801-811. 
Notes on 26 species, based partly upon a re- 
examination of some of the material previ- 



104 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Oberholser, Harry C. — Continued. 

ously reported upon by the author, in con- 
n(*;'tion with a smiill collection from British 
East Africa in the Carnegie ISIuseum. Ponia- 
torhynchus senegalus nrmcnitK, p. S09, is de- 
scribed as new. 

RiDGWAY, Robert. Descriptions of .some 
new genera of Tyrannidse, Pipridse, and 
Cotingidse. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Sept. 2, 1905, 
pp. 207-210. 
The following new genera are the result of 
the aiithor's studies of the families Tyrannida?, 
Pipridte. and Cotingidse, in the preparation of 
part IV of Bulletin 50, U. S. National Museum: 
Aphanotriccus, p. 207; ^Terenotriccus, p. 207; 
Myiotriccus, p. 207; Atalotriccus, p. 208: Pta- 
costomus, p. 208; ffnemarchiis, p. 208; Orody- 
nastes, p. 208; Tyrannopsis, p. 209; Tolmarchus, 
p. 209; Phxotriccus, p. 209; Allocotopterus, p. 
209; Stictornis, p. 209; Idiotriccus, p. 210; Elain- 
opsis, p. 210; Microtriccus, p. 210, and Hylonax, 
p. 210. 

• New genera of Tyrannida3 and 

Turdidpe, and new forms of Tanagridte 
and Turdidse. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17, 1905, 

pp. 211-213. 

Describes the following as new: Platytriccus, 

- p. 211; Haplocichla, p. 212; Chlorospingus z'ele- 

doni, p. 212; PhfEnicothraupis alfaroana, p. 212; 

Mimocichla rubripes, p. 213, and Catharus 

frantsii omiltemeiisis, p. 213. 

Description of an adult female 

Euphonia supposed to be Euphonia 
gnatho (Cabanis). 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17, 1905, 

pp, 225, 226. 

Description of a female Euphonia thought 

to represent the true E. r/natho from Costa 

Rica, with some observations on the history 

of the species. 

A winter with the birds in Costa 



Rica. 

Condor, vii. No. 6, Nov. 22, 1905, pp. 151- 
160, 6 text figs, and frontispiece. 
A popular account of the writer's visit to 
Costa Rica on behalf of the National Museum. 

Some observations concerning the 

American families of Oligomyodian 
Passeres. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Jan. 29, 1906, 
pp. 7-16. 
A discussion of the characters diagnostic 
of the families of Mesomyodian Passeres, 
particularly of the section Oligomyodi, with 
a key to the 14 Mesomyodian families here 
recognized. This is followed by observations 
on the limits of the families Tyrannidse, 
Pipridae, and Cotingidse, a study of which 
has produced very unexpected results. Thus 
Lawrencia is transferred from the Tyrannidse 



RiDGWAY, Robert — Continued. 

to the oscine family Vireonida, and Sirystes, 
Hylonax, Idiotriccus, Elainopsis. Tyranmdus. 
Ornithion, and Culicivora are found to be 
members of the Cotingidte, while Stigmalura. 
Ilapaloccrcus, Habrura, and Musrigralla are 
removed from the Tyrannidaj and placed 
tentatively in the family Formicariidae. 

"Atratus versus Megalonyx." 

Condor, viii, No. 2, Mar. 20, 1906, p, 53. 
Reply to an article by Harry S. Svvartb re- 
specting the status of Pipilo macidatus mega- 
lonyx and P. 111. atratus. 

RiLEY, J. H. A new subspecies of 
ground dove from Mona Island, Porto 
Rico. 

Proc. U. S. Kat. Mus., xxix. No. 1118, 
Sept. 30, 1905, pp. 171, 172. 
Culumbigallina i)asserina exigua, p. 171, is de- 
scribed as new. 

Descriptions of three new birds 

from the Merida region of Venezuela. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvni, Oct. 17, 1905, 

pp. 219-221. 

The following species are described as new: 

Leptasthenura inontivagans, p. 219, Haplospiza 

mo7itosa, p. 220, and Pheucticus uropygialis 

meridensis, p. 220. 

A new name for Lewis's wood- 



pecker. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17,1905, 
pp. 224,225. 
Asyndesmus lewisi is a new name for Picus 
torquatus Wilson, preoccupied. 

List of birds collected or observed 



during the Bahama expedition of the 
Geographic Society of Baltimore. 

Auk, xxn. No. 4, Oct., 1905, pp. 349-360. 
An annotated list of species, 71 in number, 
obtained or seen by the author in the 
Bahamas. 

Stone, Witmer. On a collection of birds 
from British East Africa obtained by 
Mr. George L. Harrison, jr. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., for 1905, Jan. 

24, 1906, pp. 755-782. 

An account of a collection from British 

East Africa, numbering 212 species, with 

critical notes on many of them. Cisticola 

harrisoni, p. 771, is described as new. 

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS. 

Bailey, Vernon. Report on the Bio- 
logical Survey collection of lizards and 
snakes from Texas. 

North Am. Fauna, No. 25, pp. 38-51, pi. xii. 
An annotated list of the species with special 
reference to the distribution of the species in 
relation to the various life zones. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



105 



Banta, Arthur M., and McAtee, Waldo 
L. The life history of the cave 
salamander, Spelerpes inaculicaudus 

(Cope). 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Miis., XXX, No. 1443, April 
2, 1906, pp. 67-83, pLs. VIII-X. 
The entire material upon which this paper 
is based has been presented to the National 
Museum by the authors. 

CoKER, Robert E. Garden's hypothesis 
of " orthogenetic variation" in Che- 
Ionia. 

Johns Hopkins Univ. Circ. No. 178, May, 
1905, pp. 9-24. 

McAtee, Waldo L. (See under Arthur 

M. Banta.) 
Stejneger, Leoxhard. The geographical 
distribution of the bull-toads. 

Science (new seriesl xxii. No. 564, Oct. 20. 

1905, p. 502. 

The discovery of Bombina maxima in 

Yunnau corroborates the author's theory 

that these batrachiana originated in that 

part of the world. 

A new lizard of the genus Phryno- 

soma, from Mexico. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxix. No. 1437, Feb. 
2, 1906, pp. 56.5-567. 
Phrynosoma ditmarsi described as a new 
species; type U. S. N. M. No. 36022. 

A new salamander from North 



Carolina. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxx. No. 1457, May 
22, 1906, pp. 559-562. 
Plethodon shermani described as a new 
species; type U. S. N. M. No. 36214. 

A new tree toad from Costa Rica. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxx, No. 1471, June 
4, 1906, pp. 817, 818. 
Hyla phlebodcs described as a new species; 
type U. S. N. M. No. 29970. 

FISHES. 

Bean, Barton A. The history of the 

whale shark, Rhinodon typicus Smith. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLViii, Quar. 

issue. III, pt. 2, No. 1.587, July 1, 1905, pp, 

139-148, pi. xxxiv-xxxvi, 4 figs. 

Notes on an adult goblin shark 

(Mitsukurina owstoni) of Japan. 

Proc. v. S. Xat. Mus., xxviii. No. 1409, 
July 6, 1905, pp. 815-818, figs. 1, 2. 

Clark, H. Walton. (See under Barton 

Warren Evermann. ) 
EvERMANN, Bartox Warrex, and Clark, 
H. Walton. New fishes from Santo 
Domingo. 

Proc. U. S. Aat. Mus., xxx. No. 1478, 
June 27, 1906, pp. 851-855, figs. 1-3. 



Gilbert, Charles H., and Thompson, 
Joseph C. Notes on the fishes of 
Puget Sound. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu.<s., xxviii, Aug. 8, 1905, 
No. 1414, pp. 973-987, figs. 1-3. 

Gill, Theodore. The life history of the 
sea-horses (Hippocampids). 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxvill, No. 1408, 
July 6, 1905, pp. 805-814. 
After a section (1) on the characteristics of 
the family of Hippocampids and the genus 
Hippocampus, the habits of the sea-horses are 
considered in paragraphs relating to (2) their 
attitudes and movements, (4) their food, and 
(5) the sexual relations and manner of trans- 
fer of eggs from female to pouch of male. In 
concluding paragraphs, (6) the specific char- 
acters of four species are illustrated, and (7) 
some foreign relations of the subfamily of 
solegnathines noticed. 

The family of cyprinids and the 



carp as its type. 

Smith.fonian Misc. Colls. Quar. issue, 

XLVIII, pt. 2, No. 1591, Sept. 8, 1905, pp. 

195-217, pi-;. XLV-LVlir. 
After introductory remarks follow discus- 
sions of relations to the cyprinids, character- 
istics of the cyprinids, especially those of the 
pharyngeal bonesand teeth, distribution, and 
sexual differentiation. The "life history of 
the carp" is then considered (pp. 202-210), 
and this is followed by notices of other note- 
worthy cyprinids of Europe whose names 
have been perverted in other parts of the 
world to very different fishes. In addition to 
the four families recognized by the author in 
1861 a new one (Gyrinochilidae) is proposed 
(p. 196) for a remarkable generic tjTJe from 

Borneo {Gi/rinochilus). 

r 

Flying fishes and their habits. 

Pep. Smithsonian Inst., 1904 (1905), pp. 
495-515, pis. 1-4. 
After preliminay remarks on flight in gen- 
eral, the flying fishes are considered in two 
categories: 

I. The e.xocoetoid flying fishes (497-508) 
are treated of with respect to (1) their adap- 
tation for flight and the actual or alleged 
facts, (2) their food, (3) their procreation, (4) 
their enemies, (5) their economical value, 
and (6) the major differences among them- 
selves. 

II. The Dactylopterids, or flying gur- 
nards (.508-515), are likewise discussed with 
respect to (1) their characteristics and flight, 
CI) their food, (3) the .sounds they utter, (4) 
their later developmental stages, and (5) their 
capture. 

Gudger, Eugene Willls. The breeding 
habits and the segmentation of the egg 
of the pipefish, Siphostoma floridse. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. mis., xxix. No. 1431, Dec. 
6, 1905, pp. 447-500, pis. V-XI, fig. 1. 



106 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Jordan, David Starr. A review of the 
sand lances or Amniodytidfe of the 
waters of Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 14G4, June 
4, 1906, pp. 71.S-719, figs. 1, 2. 

and McGregor, Richard Crit- 
tenden. Descriptions of a new species 
of threadfin (family Polynemidte) from 
Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1470, June 
4, 1906, pp. 813-815. 

and Seale, Alvin. List of fishes 



collected by Dr. Bashford Dean on the 
Island of Negros, Philippines. 

Pruc. U. S. Nat. Mm., ixvni, No. 1407, 
July 3, 1905, pp. 769-803, fig.s. 1-20. 

List of fishes collected in 



1882-83 by Pierre Louis Jouy at Shang- 
hai and Hongkong, China. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu.s., xxix. No. 1433, Dec. 

6, 1905, pp. 517-.529, figs. 1-6. 

Descriptions of six new 

species of fishes from Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1445, Apr. 
4, 1906, pp. 143-148. 

and Snyder, John Otterbein. A 

list of fishes collected in Tahiti by Mr. 
Henry P. Bowie. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix. No. 1422, Oct. 

7, 1E05, pp. 353-357, figs. 1-3. 

A synopsis of the sturgeons 



(Acipenseridae) of Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1455, May 
9, 1906, pp. 397, 398. 

On a species of loach; Mis- 

gurnus decemcirrosus (Basilewsky), 
from northern China. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1474, June 
]6, 1906, pp. 833,834. 

The giant bass of Japan. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1476, June 
16, 1906, pp. 841-845. 

and Starks, Edwin Chapin. List 

of fishes collected on Tanega and Yaku, 
offshore islands of southern Japan, by 
Robert Van Vleck Anderson, with 
descriptions of seven new species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. J/ms., xxx. No. 1462, June 
4, 1906, pp. 696-706, figs. 1-13. 

McGregor, Richard Crittenden. (See 

under David Starr Jordan. ) 
Seale, Alvin. (See under David Starr 

Jordan.) 
Snyder, John Otterbein. (See under 

David Starr Jordan. ) 



Starks, Edwin Chapin. On a collection 
of fishes made by P. O. Simons in 
Ecuador and Peru. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1468, June 
14, 1906, pp. 761-800, pis. LXV, LXVI. 

(See also under David Starr Jordan. ) 

Thompson, Joseph C. ( See under Charles 
H. Gilbert. ) 

TUNICATES. 

Byxbee, Edith S. (See under William E. 
Ritter. ) 

Ritter, William E. Reports on the sci- 
entific results of the expedition to the 
eastern tropical Pacific, in charge of 
Alexander Agassiz, by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross, from 
October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. 
Commander L. M. Garrett, U. S. Navy, 
commanding, iv. — Octacnemus. 

Bull. Mus. Camp. ZooL, XLVi, No. 13, Jan., 
1906, pp. 233-252, pis. I-III. 
A critical .study of a new species of Octacne- 
mus, 0. herdmani, five specimens of which 
were taken by the Albatross^ ofl the coast of 
Ecuador. 



and Byxbee, Edith S. Reports 

on the scientific results of the expedi- 
tion to the tropical Pacific in charge of 
Alexander Agassiz, in the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross from 
August, 1899, to March, 1900, Com- 
mander Jefferson F. Moser, U. S. N., 
commanding, viii.- — The pelagic tuni- 
cata. 

Memoirs Mus. Comp. ZooL, xxvi, No. 5, 
Aug., 1905, pp. 195-214, pis. I-II. 
The collections reported upon include many 
localities in the Pacific Ocean visited by the 
Albatross since 1888. A new species of Pyro- 
soma, P. agassizi, is described, and a new 
name given to a known form, Oikopletira 
huxleyi. 

MOLLUSKS. 

Bartsch, Paul. Descriptions of two new 
Naiads. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1454, May 

9, 1906, pp. 393-396, pis. xxvil-xxix. 

In this paper Nephronaias flucki and Diplo- 

don huapensis are described as new;, the first 

from Nicaragua, the second from Lake Huap6, 

Argentina. 

(See also under William Healey Dall.) 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



107 



Dall, William Healey. A new genus 
and several new species of land shells 
collected in Central Mexico by Dr. 
Edward Palmer. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLViii, Quar. 
issue, III, pt. 2, No. 1590, July 1, 1905, 
pp. 187-194, text figs. 22-25, pis. XLIII, 
XLIV. 

A description of shells collected and. pre- 
sented to the Museum by Doctor Palmer, 
together with a list of his previous donations 
from the same region. The new genus Hcn- 
dersonia (afterwards changed to Haiderso- 
niclla) is proposed for a remarkable discoid 
urocoptid, and details of its anatomy fur- 
nished by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry are described and 
figured. The following species are figured 
and described as new: Hcndersonia palmer i, 
Xanthony.t potoHana, Strepbostyla potosiana, 
S. pabneri, Schazicheila palmeri, and Sphxrium 
mextcanum. 

Note on the name Hendersonia. 

Proc. Biol. Sac. Wash., XVIII, July 12, 1905, 
p. 189. 
The name Hendersonia published in the 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quar- 
terly Issue) being preoccupied by a slightly 
earlier use of the name in Helicinidae, the 
new name Hendersoniella is proposed for the 
later genus. 

Note on a variety of Crepidula 

nivea C. B. Adams, from San Pedro, 
California. 

Nautilus, XIX, No. 3, July, 1905, pp. 26, 27. 
A singular race of Crepidula discovered on 
Glottidia albida Hinds, and therefore given 
the mutational name of C. glottidiarum. 

Anewproserpinoid land shell from 



Brazil. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Sept. 2,1905, 
pp. 201, 202. 
The new species, P. derbyi, is described and 
referred to a new section called Staffola. The 
type was presented to the Museum by Dr. H. 
von Ihering and collected by Dr. O. A. Derby 
in Brazil. 

A new chiton from the New Eng- 
land coast. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Sept. 2, 1905, 
pp. 203, 204. 
The new species, Tonicella blaneyi, is de- 
scribed, from the coast of Maine, collected by 
Mr. Dwight Blaney who presented the type 
to the National Museum. 

Note on the name Hendersonia. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. is- 
sue, III, pt. 2, Sept. 8, 1905, p. 239. 
Notes that Hendersoniella is substituted for 
Hendersonia, p. 187, op. cit. 



Dall, William Healey. Thomas Mar- 
tyn and the "Universal Conchologist." 
Proc. U. S.'yat. Mus., xxix, no. 1425, Oct. 
6, 1905, pp. 415-432. 
A discussion of Martyn's life and work, 
with a synopsis of the genera and species con- 
tained in the Universal Conehologi^t, evi- 
dence being adduced that the first 80 plates 
were issued in 1784 and the second 80 in 1786. 

Land and fresh-water moUusks. 

Harriman Ala.-'ka Expedition, New York, 
Doubleday, Page & Co., xin, Nov. 20, 
1905, pp. i-i.\, 1-171, pis. I, 11, text fig.s. 
1-118. 
This volume forms a manual of land and 
fresh-water shells of North America north of 
latitude 49° N. Statistics are given with 
geographical tables; the relations with the 
Asiatic, Calif ornian, and Canadian faunas are 
discussed. The species are enumerated under 
a revised nomenclature, many of them are 
illustrated and some new ones described. The 
nomenclature of the genera of fresh-water 
gastropods is revised at length and the groups 
they contain diagnosed. The volume closes 
with a bibliograffhy of works relating to the 
mollusk fauna of the region referred to. The 
following names are proposed as new: Cyclo- 
limmva, Lymnsea anticostiana, L. perpolUa, L. 
jK'tersi, L. preblei, Paraspira, Picrosoma, Oreo- 
helix stantoni, Planorbis megas, P. rudentis, 
Polyyyra megasoma, Planorbula christyi, Tor- 
quis, Succinea alaskana, Valvata pelicoidea, V. 
nylanderi, Vitrina alaskana. 

The types are in the national collection. 

A new chiton from the New Eng- 



land coast. 

Nautilus, XIX, No. 8, Dec, 1905, pp. 88-90, 
pi. IV. 
A reprint of the paper from the Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington, 
further improved by an excellent plate. 

On a new Floridian Calliostoma. 

Nautilus, XIX, No. 11, Mar., 1906, pp. 131, 
132. 
The species Calliostoma marionx is described 
as new from the type in the National Mu- 
seum. It is shown that Eutrochus A. Adams, 
and other names which have been given to 
the umbilicate Calliostomas are, for various 
reasons, unavailable and the name Leiotro- 
chus Conrad, 1863, is resuscitated for them. 
The type is unique. 

Notes on some names in the Volu- 



tidaj. 

Nautilus, XIX, no. 12, Apr., 1906, pp. 143, 
144. 
In revising the Volutidae of the Museum, 
some changes in the nomenclature and new 
names were found to be neces-sary. The fol- 
lowing new names are proposed for the types 



108 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Dall, William Healey— Continued. 

indicated: Adelomdon Dall ( 1'. ancilla So- 
lander); Harpuiina { \'.' arausaica Sol.) for 
Harpula auctorum non Svvainson; Mucitlupep- 
lum Dall {V.junonia llwass); the following 
old names are typified as indicated: Scap- 
hella Swainson {V. undulata Lam.); Amoria 
Gray is probably a synonym; Volutilithes ( V. 
muricina Lam.); Plcjona Bolten (V. spinosa 
Lam.) . 

and Bartscii, Paul. Notes on 

Japanese, Indopacific, and American 
Pyranii(lellid;e. 

Proc. U. S. JV'a^ Mus., xxx, No. 1452, May 
9, 1906, pp. 321-369, pis., XVir-XXVl. 
This is a revision of an important series of 
chiefly Pacific Pyramidellidaj, partly belong- 
ing to the National Museum and partly loaned 
for study by the Konigliche Zoologische Mu- 
seum of Berlin, Germany. Ten plates of 
magnified figures illustrate these difficult 
little shells. Nisiturris, Bahella, Egilina are 
proposed as new subgenera. The following 
species are described as new: Odostomiaviau- 
ritiana, 0. meta, O. dux, 0. lecta, O. exaratis- 
sima, O.felix, O. lectissima, 0. cult a, 0. limpida, 
O. desimana, O. densecostata (Garrett), subsp. 
upolucnsis; Pyramidellajacksonrnsis, P.japon- 
ica, P. digitalis, P. lischkei, Turbonilla abseida, 
T. approximata, T. acosmia, T. actopora, T. 
injantula, T. laticingula, T. bclla, T. {nisitur- 
ris) crystallina ; the following new names are 
proposed for species of which the current 
names are preoccupied: Turbonilla secura, 
T. candidissima, T. aulica, T. (Babelta) cxl- 
atlor, T. garrettiana; Odostomia martenni; Py- 
ramidella moffati. P. dunkeri; and forty-one 
species named by other authors are dis- 
cussed and adequately described, many of 
them, especially those of A. Adams, for the 
first time properly described and figured. 

INSECTS AND ARACHNIDS. 

Ashmead, William H. A skeleton of 
a new arrangement of the ants, or the 
superfamily Formicoidea. 

Can. Ent., xxxvn, June, 1905, pp. 381-38^. 
Gives an arrangement of the families, sub- 
families, tribes, and genera, as arranged in 
his classification of the ants, which will 
• probably appear in 1906. 

Additions to the recorded hyme- 

nopterous fauna of the Philippine 
Islands, with descriptions of new 
species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. xxviii. No. 1413, 
July 8, 1905, pp. 957-971. 

New classification of the Poneridee. 

Tech. Series Ko. 10, Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. 
Agric, July, 1905, pp. 38-40. 
A synopsis of the subfamilies and tribes, 
with a li.st of the genera, furnished to Prof. 
O. F. Cook by Dr. Ashmead, from his forth- 
coming classification of the ants. 



AsHMEAD, William H. New Hymenop- 
tera from the Philippines. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxix. No. 1416, Sept. 
30, 1905, pp. 107, 119. 
Describes 1 new genus, Krugeria, and 23 
new species. 

New genera and species of Hy- 

menoptera from the Philippines. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxix. No. 1424, Oct. 
5, 1905, pp. 397-413. 
Describes 3 new genera, Elasmognathus, 
Amauromorpha, and Heviiglyptus, and 27 new 
species. 

Two new Mymaridse from Russian 



Turkestan. 

Ent. News, xvi, 1906, pp. 213,214. 
Describes Anagrus hydrophilus and Polynema 
bergi. 

Descriptions of new Hymenoptera 



from Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1448, May 

11, 1906, pp. 169-201, pis. xn-xv. 

In this paper G new genera and 73 new 

species, in the superfamily Ichneumonoidea, 

are described . The more conspicuous of these 

genera are figured. 

Baker, Carl F. The classification of 
the American Siphonaptera. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix, No. 1417, Oct. 
3, 1905, pp. 121-170. 

Banks, Nathan. Descriptions of new 
species of neuropterous insects from the 
Black Mountains of North Carolina. 

Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., xxi, July 24, 
1905, pp. 215-218. 
Describes 9 new species. 

New genera and species of Perli- 



dfB. 



Psyclie, XII, Aug., 1905, pp. 55-57, 3 figs. 
Describes 2 new genera and 4 new species. 

— Descriptions of some new mites. 
Proc. Ent. Soc. Was/i., vii, Oct., 1905, pp. 

133-142, 4 figs. 
Describes 1 new genus and 20 new species. 

— A revision of the nearctic Heme- 



robiidse. 

Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, xxxii., Feb., 1906, 
pp. 21-51, 3 pis. 

Baruer, Herbert S. Illustrations of an 
undetermined coleopterous larva. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, Oct., 1905, p. 117. 

The spread of Sphseridium scara- 



bseoides Linnaais. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, Oct., 1905, p. 127. 

Note on Phengodes in the vicinity 



of Washington, D. C. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash.,\u, Dec, 1905, p. 196. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



109 



Bruner, Lawrence. Synoptic li^t of 
Paraguayan AcrididiP, with descriptions 
of new forms. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxx, No. 1461, June 
5, 190t'>, pp. 613-691. 

BuscK, August. Descriptions of Amer- 
ican moths of the genus Cerostoma. 

Ent. News, xvii, Mar., 1906, pp. 96-99. 
Synoptic table of geuns anrl description of 
■1 new species. 

New American Tineina. 

Can. Ent. xxviil. Apr., 1906, pp. 121-125. 
Descriptions of 7 new species. 

A new tortricid from Texas. 

Can. Ent., xxviii. May, 1906, p. 211. 
Description of Cijdia grindeliana, sp. nov. 

A new injurious pine-needle moth. 

Can. Ent. xxvill. May, 1906. p. 212. 
Description' of Becurvaria pinella, sp. nov. 

. A review of the American moths 



of the genus Cosmopteryx Hiibner. 

Prnc. r. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1463, .June 
4, 1906, pp. 707-713. 

Tineid moths from southern Texas, 



with descriptions of new species. 

Pioc. r. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 146.5, 
June 4, 1906, pp. 721-736, figs. 1-10. 

Caudell, Andrew Nelson. The Lo- 
custidye and Gryllidfe (katydids and 
crickets) collected by W. T. Foster in 
Paraguay. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxx. No. 14.50, 
Apr. 21, 1906, pp. 23.5-244. 

Chittenden, Frank H. The larger 
canna leaf-roller (Calpodes ethlius 
Cram.). 

Bull. Bur. Ent., V. .S. Dept. Agric, No. 54, 
1905, pp. 54-58. 1 fig. 
Reference to recent damage in tlie South, 
witli description of all stages, bibliography, 
and distribution. 

The pond-lily leaf-beetle ((Taleru- 

cella nymphaeae Linn.). 

Bull. Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, 
1905, pp. 58-60. 1 fig. 
A popular account, with .special reference 
to an unusual occurrence in the District of 
Columbia in August, 1904, on beans and wil- 
low; distribution and bibliography. 

Insect enemies of the pecan. 

The Nut Grower, iv, Jan., Feb., Mar., 1906, 
pp. 106-109, pp. 117-120, pp. 137-142. 
Short accounts of the principal insects 
which affect the pecan in the United States. 
The principal species mentioned are: Pro- 
tcoptcryx dcludana, Acrobasis nebulella, Coleo- 
phorucaryaefoliclla, Hyphantria cunea, Datana 
integerrima, Datana angusii, Catocala sp., 
Sesia sc.itula, Chrysobothris femorata, Amphi- 
cerus bicaudatus, Oncideres texana, Oneideres 



CniTTENDEN, Fr.\nk H. — Continued. 

cingulnfa, EtaphkUon villosum, Balaninus ear- 
yac, Conotrachdus jnglandis, Knurmnnia car- 
yana, Laclinosternahirticnla, Eut< rmes fiavipes, 
Pulvinaria innumerabilis, and Phyllo.rrra sp. 

New species of Sphenophorus, 

with notes on described forms. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash, vii, (author's extras 

is.sued March 6) 1906, pp. 166-182, figs. 

19, 20. 

Descriptions of Sphenophorus marinus, n. 

sp., graminis, n. sp., subopacus, n. sp., monte- 

rcnsis, n. sp., diversus, n. sp., nevadensis, n. 

sp., fallii, n. sp., subulatus, n. sp., destructor, 

n.si). .sublaei'is, n. .sp., soltauii, n. sp., blanch- 

ardi, n. sp., .^triatiprnnis, n.sp., with notes on 

parvulus, minimus, marinus, callosa {sculptilis 

Horn), cariosus (srul2>tilis Uhler),;eae, aequa- 

lis, and ochreus. 

An instance of the complete para- 
sitism of the imported cabbage worm. 

Bidl. Bur. Ent., V. S. Dept. Agric, No. 54, 
p. 79. 
A note of the complete de.struction in Au- 
gust and September, 1904, of Picris rapas by 
Apanteles glomeratus. 

and Titus, E. S. G. The dock 

false-worm (Taxonus nigrisoma Nort. ). 

Bidl. Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric.. No. ,54, 
1905, pp. 40-43. 1 fig. 

i)oQUiLLETT, D. W. A iiew siiljapterous 
tipulid from New Mexico. 

Can. Ent., xxxvil, Oct., 1905, p. 347. 
Describes Limnophilaf aspidoptera, n. sp. 

A new dexiid parasite of a Cuban 

beetle. 

Can. Ent., xxxvii, Oct., 1905, p. 362. 
Describes Thelairodes ischyri, n. sp., which 
was bred from Ischyrus flavitarsis by Dr. 
George Dimmock. 

On the breaking up of the old 

genus Culex. 

Science (new series), xxiii, No. 682, Feb. 
23, 1906, pp. 313-314. 
Gives a synoptic table of 5 old and 2 new 
genera, based on the eggs, larvse, and adults. 

A newtabanid related to punctifer. 

Ent. News, xvii, Feb., 1906, p. 48. 
Describes Tabanus subniger, n. sp. 

Five new Culicid;e from the West 



Indies. 

Can. Ent. xxxviH, Feb., 1906, pp. 60-62. 
Describes Stegomyia mediovittata, S. busckii, 
Ta<:ninrhynchus2>alliatus,.Velanoconion urichii, 
and Verrallina insolita. 

New Cuhcidje from the \\*fest 



Indies and Central America. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vir. Mar., 1906, 
pp. 182-186. 
Three new genera and 9 new species are 
described. 



110 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



CoQUiLLKTT, D. W. A iiew Culex near 
currii'i. 

Ent. Navs, XVII, Apr., 190(5, p. 109. 
Describes Culex latirittatus, n. sp. 

A claRsifi cation of the mosquitoes 

of North and Middle America. 

Tech. Series, Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Auric., 
No. 11, Apr., 1900, pp. 31. 
A brief history of tlie family and sub- 
families, and synoptic tables for the identifi- 
cation of the subfamilies, genera, and most of 
the species. 

Dyak, Harrison G. A descriptive list of 
a collection of early stages of Japanese 
Lepidoptera. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxviii, No. 1412, 
July 8, 1905, pp. 937-956, figs. 1-23. 

New genera of South American 

moths. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxix. No. 1419, Oct. 
3, 1905, pp. 173-178. 

A list of American rtochlidian 



moths, with descriptions of new genera 
and species. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxtx, No. 1423, Oct. 
12, 1906, pp. 359-396. 

On the classification of the Cu- 



licidse. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, 1905, pp. 188- 
191. 

A review of the Hesperiidse of 

the United States. 

Jouni. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xill, 1905, pp. 111- 
142. 

Illustrations of the al)doininal 



appendages of certain mosquitoes. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xni, 1905, pp. 18.5- 
188. 

A new Oncocnemis from Nevada. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xni, 1905, p. 211. 

Descriptions of new American 

moths. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xiv, 1906, p. 30. 

The life history of a cochilidian 

moth, Adoneta bicaudata Dyar. 

Biological studies by thepupilsof William 
Thompson Sedgwick, June, 1906, pp. 11- 
19. 

The North American Nymphulinae 



and Scopariinse. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xiv, 1906, pp. 77- 
107. 

Description of four new species of 



North American moths. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xiv, 190G, pp. 107, 
108. 



DvAK, Harrison G. A note on the 
Euchoeca comptaria muddle. 
Can. Ent., xxxviii, 1906, p. 110. 

Heidemann, O. a new genus and species 
of the hemipterous family Ceratocom- 
bidse. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, 1906, No. 4, pp. 
192-194, fig. 1. 

Account of a new tingitid. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., viii, 1906, pp. 10-13, 
figs. 1-4, Nos. 1, 2. 
Describes adult and nymphs of Corythuca 
pergandei. 

Howard, Leland 0. Concerning the 
geographic distribution of the yellow- 
fever mosquito. 

Public Health Records, xviii. No. 46 [Re- 
vised to Sept. 10, 1906] , Washington, Oct. 
2, 1905. 
A complete account of the geographic dis- 
tribution of Stegomyia calnpus (fasciata.) 

House flies. 

Circ Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric, No. 71, 
Mar. 29, 1906, 9 pp., 8 figures. 
A popular consideration of flies frequent- 
ing houses, with remedies, and some refer- 
ence to their disea.se-bearing proclivities. 

An interesting new genus and 

species of Encyrtidaj. 

Ent. Neivs, xvii, Apr., 1906, pp. 121,122. 
Description of Comperiella, n. g., bifasciata 
n. sp., from China, introduced into California 
by George Compere. 

The gypsy and brown-tail moths 

and their European parasites. 

Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric, 1905 (June 22, 
1906), pp. 123-138, pis. 2, figs. 8. 
A brief account of the American occur- 
rences of Porthetria dispar and Euproctis 
chrysorrhoea, with a consideration of their 
European parasites and the attempts of the 
Department of Agriculture to introduce and 
establish them in New England. 

Klages, Edward A. On the syntomid 
moths of southern Venezuela collected 
in 1898-1900. 

Proc U. S. Nat. 3Ius., xxix. No. 1434, Jan. 
31,1906, pp. 531-552. 

MacGillivray, Alexander Dyer. A 
study of the wings of the Tenthredi- 
noidea, a superfamily of Hymenop- 
tera. 

Proc U. S. Nat. 3Ius., xxix. No. 1438, Feb. 
10, 1906, pp. 569-654, pis. XXI-XLIV. 

]\Iarlatt, C. L. The giant sugar-cane 
borer (Castnia licus Fab.). 

Bull. Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric, No. 54, 
1905, pp. 71-95, 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



Ill 



Rehn, James A. G. Notes on exotic 
forlieulids or earwigs, with descriptions 
of new species. 

Pioc. U. .S. ^lat. Mas., xxix, No. 1432, Dec. 
2, 1905, pp. 501-515, figs. 1-9. 
Figure.s and describes many new species in 
the national collection. 

— Notes on the Orthoptera of Costa 



Rica, with descriptions of new species. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 790- 

843. 

This paper treats of over 100 species of 

Orthoptera found in Costa Rica, 11 of which 

are described as new. 

Notes on South American grass- 



hoppers of the subfamily Acridime 
(AcricUdcT?), with descriptions of new 
genera and species. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mas., xxx, No. 1453, May 
9, 1906, pp. 371-391. 
Gives notes and bibliographies and de- 
scribes many new species in the national col- 
lection. 

Descriptions of tliree new species 

of katydids and a new genus of crickets 
from Costa Rica. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1459, May 
24, 1906, pp. 597-605. 
Figures of these new Orthoptera are given 
in the text, the types being in the national 
collection. 

ScHAUs, William. Descriptions of new 
South American moths. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. j\lus., xxix. No. 1420, Oct. 11, 
1905, pp. 179-345. 

Descriptions of new South Ameri- 
can moths. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1444, Apr. 
2, 1906, pp. 85-141. 

Titus, E. S. G. (See under Frank H. 

Chittenden. ) 
Wakren, William. Some new South 
American moths. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. iVus., xxix. No. 1421, Oct. 
6, 1905, pp. 347-352. 

Descriptions of new genera and 

species of South American geometrid 
moths. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1456, May 
11, 1906, pp. 399-557. 

CRUSTACEANS. 

CusHMAN, Joseph A. Marine Ostracoda 
of Vineyard Sound and adjacent waters. 

Proc. BoiitonSoc. Nat. Hist., xxxu. No. 10, 
Feb., 1906, pp. 359-385, pis. xxvii- 

XXXVIII. 



CusHMAN, Joseph A. — Continued. 

Based largely on material dredged by the 
Bureau of Fisheries steamers Fish Hawk and 
Phalarope. Three families, 11 genera, and 26 
species arc represented, of which 1 genus and 
10 species are described as new. 

DuERDEN, J. E. On the habits and re- 
actions of crabs bearing actinians in 
their claws. 

Proc. Zool. Soc. London, ii, 1905, pt. ii, Apr. 
1906, pp. 494-511, text figs. 72-76. 
Based chiefly on studies made at the Ha- 
waiian Islands, under the auspices of the 
('arnegie Institution, on Melia (correctly 
Lybia) tcsselata and Polydectus cupulifer. 

Hay, William Perry. Instances of her- 
maphroditism in crayfishes. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLViii, Quar. is- 
sue, III, part II, No. 1593, Sept. 8, 1905, pp. 
222-228, text fig. 27. 
Reviews the literature on the subject and 
adds observations on certain specimens of 
Cambarus spinosus, C.propinquus,a.iidC.affinis 
which show evidences of hermaphroditism. 

Rathbun, Mary J. Fauna of New En- 
land. V. — List of the Crustacea. 

Occasional Papers Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 
VII, July 20, 1905, pp. 1-117. 
This paper is the fifth in the series forming 
a catalogue of the animals of New England, 
and conforms to the general plan outlined for 
the series, the list including the accepted 
name (scientific and vernacular) for each 
.species; reference to the original description 
with record of locality; reference to an au- 
thentic description and illustration; and hab- 
itat and occurrence. The list comprises 390 
species. 

Description of a new species of 

commensal crab. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905 (issued 
Aug. 2), pp. 371, 372. 
Pinnotheres slromhi, taken from Strombus 
;jMf/;Yisat'Clearwater Harbor, Florida, by Mr. 
H. S. Colton. 

Based on a specimen in the Museum of the 
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. 

Les crabes d'eau douce (Pota- 

monidse). 

Nouv. Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, (4) vii, 
Dec, 1905, pp. 159-321, pis. xm-xxii. 
Tliis IS the second part ol the monograph 
which began in volume vi ol the Archives. 
The descriptions are carried through the sub- 
families Potamoninaeand Pseudothelphusinse, 
while the plates are completed in this num- 
ber. Two hundred and ten species and sub- 
species are discussed, 39 of the species being 
new. 



112 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Rathbun, Mary J. The Brachyura and 
Macrura of the Hawaiian Islands. 

Bull. U. S. Fiiih Com. for 1903, part in, 
pp. 827-930, pis. l-x\iv. (Jan. 27, 1906.) 
Based chiefly on collection.s made by the 
U. S. Fish Comnii.ssion during several sea- 
sons. Three hundred and fourteen species 
are enumerated. Two genera, 76 species, 
and 4 .subspecies are described as new. 

Description of a new crab from 

Dominica, West Indies. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wa.'fh., xix, June 4, 1906, 

p. 91. 

Pseudorhombila octodcntata, a species allied 

to the type species of the genus P. quadriden- 

tata (Latreille). One specimen was collected 

by Mr. A. Hyatt Verrill. 

Les crabes d'eau douce (Pota- 

monidfe). 

Nouv. Arch. Mtis. Hist. Nat., Paris, (4) viii, 
June 26, 1906, pp. 33-122. 
The third and concluding part of the mon- 
ograph begun in volume vi of the Archives. 
Deals with the subfamilies Trichodactylinse, 
Gecarcinucinae, and Deckeniina'. There are 
34 species and subspecies, 9 of which are de- 
scribed as new. At the close of the paper are 
given lists of nomina nuda, indeterminable 
species, and species wrongly assigned to the 
Potamonidse, al.so a bibliography brought 
down to January 1, 1906, and an index. 

Richardson, Harriet. Reports on the 
scientific results of the expedition to 
the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge 
of Alexander Agassiz, by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross, from 
October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. 
Commander L. M. Garrett, U. S. Navy, 
commanding. ii. — Description of a 
new genus of Isopods, typical of a pecu- 
liar family. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool , XLVI, No. 6, July, 
1905, pp. 105, 106, 1 pi. 
Genus Colypurus (type C. agassizii sp. nov.) 
and family Colypuridse. Incidentally, a new 
family, Rhabdochiridse, is made lor an allied 
form, Rhahdochcrus inccrlus Giard and Bon- 
nier. 

Description of a new species of 

Livoneca from the coast of Panama. 

Proc. U. S. Nal. Mus., x.vix, No. 1430, Dec. 
2, 1905, pp. 445, 446, text fig. 1. 
The new species, Livoneca conrcxa, was col- 
lected by Dr. W. L. Jones, and the type is 
owned by the University of Pennsylvania. 

A monograph | on the | Isopods 

of North America | By | Harriet Rich- 
ardson I Collaborator, Division of Ma- 
rine Invertebrates | [Seal] Washing- 
ton I Government Printing Office | 
1905 I 



Richardson, Harriet— Continued. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 54, Dec. 19, 1905, 
pp. i-liii, 1-727, text figs. 740. 
All the species of North America are de- 
scribed and figured. Twenty-nine families, 
128 genera, 369 .species, and 1 subspecies are 
represented. Of these, 9 genera and 12species 
are described as new. 

Sur les isopodes de I'expedition 



Fran<,'aise Antarctique. 

Bull. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, 1906 (June), 

No. 4, pp. 187, 188. 

Preliminary account of the isopods collected 

in the Antarctic regions by Mr. Jean Charcot. 

Thirteen species (5 new) and 4 new genera 

are noted. 

WORMS, ECHINODERMS, HYDROIDS, 
PARASITES, ETC. 

CoE, Wesley R. Nemerteans of the Ha- 
waiian Islands collected by the steamer 
Albatross in 1902. 

Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1903, pt. in, pp. 
975-986, pi. I. (Mar. 14, 1906.) 
Three species were collected, of which two 
are new to science, Taeniosoma uniinttatum 
and T. cingidatum; the third, a species of 
Drepanophorus, is represented by a proboscis 
only. 
Fisher, Walter K. The starfishes of 
the Hawaiian Islands. 

Bull. U. S. Pish Com. for 1903, part ill, pp. 
987-1130. (June 30, 1906.) 
The collection upon which the report is 
based numbers nearly 1,650 .specimens and 
includes 60 .species, of which 62 are new to 
science, and 5 are for the first time re- 
corded from the Hawaiian Islands; 1 spe- 
cies only that had been previously reported 
from the region was taken by the Albatross. 

On the generic name Stolasterias, 

Sladen. 

Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), xvii, pp. 674-575. 

(June, 1906.) 

Determines tliat Polyasterias Perrier 1894 is 

a synonym of Stolasterias Sladen 1889, and 

thA.t Stolasterias Perrier 1894, nee Sladen, is a 

synonym of Marthastenas Jullien, 1878. 

GoLDBERGER, JosEPH. (See uudcr Ch. 

Warden Stiles.) 
Hassall, Albert. ( See under Ch. Ward- 
ell Stiles. ) 
KoFoiD, Charles Atwood. Reports on 
the scientific results of the expedition 
to the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge 
of Alexander Agas.siz, by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross, from 
October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. 
Commander L. M. Garrett, U. S. Navy, 
commanding. iii. — Craspedotella, a 
new genus of the Cystoflagellata, an 
example of convergence. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



113 



KoFoiD, Charles Atwood — Continued. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., xiA'i, No. 9, Sept., 
1905, pp. 163-165, 1 pi. 
Based on a new species, Cranpedotella pileo- 
his, found in the plankton midway between 
the Galapajjos Islands and Manga Reva, and 
bearing a striking resemblance in form to a 
craspedote medusa. 

Linton, Edwin. Notes on cestode cysts, 
Taenia chamissonii, new species, from 
a porpoise. 

Proc. U. S. Aat. Mus., x.xviii. No. 1410, 
July 14, 190.5, pp. 819-822, pi. x.xxv. 

LuDwiG, Hubert. | Memoirs of the Mu- 
seum of Comparative Zoology. | At 
Harvard College. | Vol. x.v.xii. | — 
I Reports on an exploration off the 
west coast of Mexico, | Central and 
South America, and off the (Galapagos 
Islands, | in charge of Alexander Agas- 
siz, by the U. S. Fish Commis- | sion 
Steamer "Albatross," during 1891, 
Lieut. Commander | Z. L. Tanner, 
U. S. N., commanding. | xxxv. | 
Reports on the scientific results of the 
expedition to the | Tropical Pacific, in 
charge of Alexander Agassiz, on the 
I U. S. Fish Commission Steamer "Al- 
batross,"' from August, 1899, I to March, 
1900, Commander Jefferson F. Moser, 
U. S. N., com- I manding. | vii. | As- 
teroidea. | By Hubert Ludwig. | With 
thirty-five plates | and a chart of the 
route. I [Published by permission of 
Marshall McDonald and George M. 
Bowers, U. S. Commissioners | of Fish 
and Fisheries.] | Cambridge, U. S. A.: 
I Printed for the Museum. | | July, 
1905. I 

pp. i-xii, 1-292, pl.s. 1-35, 1 chart. 
The material represents 16 families, 38 
genera, 67 species, and 2 varieties, of which 
5 genera, 56 .species, and 2 varieties are new. 
The descriptions are followed by lists of 
species taken at each dredging station and in 
each bathymetrical area, and a list of the 
literature involved. 

McClendon, J. F. The Myzostomes of 
the Albatross expedition to Japan. 

Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXIII, May 26, 
1906, pp. 119-130, pis. xv-xvn. 
The material was mostly taken from crin- 
oids and ophiurans dredged by the U. S. Bu- 
reau of Fisheries steamer Albatro.ss off the 
eastern coast of Japan in the spring of 1900, 
and partly collected at Pacitic Grove, Cal., 
by Dr. Bashford Dean. Ten species, of wtiich 
8 are new, and 1 new variety are described. 



Mayer, .VlkredGoldsborouc.h. Medusa.' 
of the Hawaiian Islands collected by 
the steamer Albatross in 1902. 

Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1903, part in, pp. 
1131-1143, pis. i-iii. (June 30, 1906.) 
Seven species are described, 2 of which are 
new, and the occurrence of several others is 
briefly noted. 

Nutting, Charles Cleveland. Hydroids 
of the Hawaiian Islands collected by 
the steamer Albatross in 1902. 

Bull. V. S. Fish Com. for 1903, part ni, pp. 
931-959, pi. l-XIll. (Dec. 23, 1905.) 
Of the 49 species collected 29 are new and 
are very distinct from previously known 
forms. Two of them form the types of new 
genera and families, viz: Hydrodendrium 
gorgonoides, type of Hydrodendridae, and 
Balca mirabilis, type of Tubidendrida'. 

Stevenson, Earle C. (See under Ch. 

Warden Stiles. ) 
Stiles, Ch. Wardell. Note sur un 
protozoaire (Ichthyophthirius multi- 
filiis) parasite des poissous conserves 
dans les aquariums de Texpo-sition uni- 
verselle de Chicago. 

Bull. Soc. Cent. d'Aquic. de France, Par., 
V. 6, 2. s. (7-9), July-Aug.-Sept., 1905, 
pp. 165-167. 

The international code of zoolog- 
ical nomenclature as applied to medi- 
cine. 

Bull: Hyg. Lab. U. S. Pub. Health and Mar. 
Hnsp. Serv., No. 24, Sept., 1905, pp. 1-50. 

— New species of parasite in man. 

Journ. Am. Med. Assoc, xlvi. No. 16, Apr. 

21, 1906, p. 1232. 
New York Med. Journ., lxxxiii, No. 16, 

Apr. 21, 1906, pp. 839, 840. 

A plan to insure the establishment 

of type species of genera. 

Science (new series), xxiii. No. 598, June 
15, 1906, pp. 913-915. 

and Goldberger, Joseph. A 



young stage of the American hook- 
worm, Necator americanus (Stiles, 1902) 
eight to twelve days after skin infection 
in rabbits and dogs. 

Am. , Med., Phila., v. 11 (2), Jan. 13, 1906, 
pp. 63-65, figs. 1-6. 

and Hassall, Albert. The de- 



termination of generic types and a list 
of roundworm genera, with their orig- 
inal and type species. 

Bull. Bureau Animal Indust., U. .S. Dept. 

Agric, No. 79, 1905, pp. 1-150. 



114 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Stiles, Ch. Wardell, and Stevenson, 

Earle C. The synonymy of Taenia, T. 

crassicollis, T. marginata, T. serialis, T. 

serrata, T. coenurus, and E(ihinococcus. 

Bull. Bureau Animal Indust., U. S. Dept. 

Agric, No. 80, 1905, pp. 1-14. 

Treadwell, Aaron L. ,,,Polycha}tous 
annelids of the Hawaiian Islands, col- 
lected by the steamer Albatross in 1902. 
Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1903, part in, pp. 
1145-1181. (June 30, 1906.) 
The report includes, al.io, ii specimen from 
Samoa and a number of specimens from the 
coast of California. In all, 79 species are dis- 
cussed, of which 27 are new to science. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland. Three new 
Fungise, with a description of a speci- 
men of Fungia granulosa Klunzinger 
and a note on a specimen of Fungia 
concinna Verrill. 

Proc. U. S.Nat.Mus., xxx. No. 1473, June20, 
1906, pp. 827-832, pis. LXVii-I.xxiv. 
One of the new species, F.japonica, is fossil, 
and the -other two, F. samboangcntiis and F. 
viadagascaren.Hs, are recent. The specimen 
of F. granulosa was collected by the U. S. 
Exploring Expedition; that of F. concinna 
at Papeete by the Bureau of Fisheries steamer 
Albatross. 

A new species of Ccenocyathus 

from California and the Brazilian 
astrangid Corals. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., xxx. No. 1477, 
June 27, 1906, pp. 847-850, pis. Lxxvii- 

LXXVIII. 

The new species of Ccenocyathus, C. bowersi, 
is from San Miguel Island, California, donat- 
ed by Dr. Stephen Bower.s. Two new species 
of Brazilian A.strangia'a,Te described, A. hra- 
siliensis and A. rathbuni, both collected by 
Dr. Richard Rathbun, while on the Geolog- 
ical Commission of Brazil, 1875-1877. 

BOTANY. 

I 

Greene, Edward Lee. Three new Heu- 
cheras. 

Leaflets, i, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. Ill, 112. 
H. pachypoda from California, H. versicolor 
and leptomeria from New Mexico. 

A proposed new genus Anotites. 

Leaflets, i, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 97-104. 
The -type of the genus is what has been 
known as Silene menziesii. Eighteen species 
are described, sixteen of which are new. 

Some New England Persicarias. 

Leaflets i, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 105-110. 
Notes on P. fluitans, coccinea, novx-anglix, 
and hartwrightii. P. andrewsii is described as 
new. 



Greene, Edward Lee. Segregates of the 
genus Rhus. 

Leaflet,^ I, Nov. 24, 1905, pp. 114-144. 
The genus Toxicodendron is reinstated, with 
33 species, all from the United States and 
Mexico, except the Japanese T. occidentale. 
This and 23 others are described as new. The 
genus Srhmaltzia Is al.so restored, with 41 
species (chiefly of the far western and .south- 
western United States and Mexico), 38 of 
which are described as new. With Rhus 
microphylla Kngelm, as its type, the new genus 
Rhoeidium is proposed. Of the eight species, 
all of the arid regions along the Mexican 
boundary, six are defined as new. 

On so-called Silene menziesii. 

Ottawa Naturalist, xix, Dec. 9, 1905, pp. 
163-166. 
A recension of Anotites as occurring in Brit- 
ish America. One new species, A. picta, is 
described. 

New plants from southwestern 

mountains. 

Leaflets, I, Dec. 23, 1905, pp. 145-154. 
Descriptions of 31 species, in 23 genera. 

New species of Chaptalia. 

Leaflets, I, Dec. 23, 1905, p. 158. 
C. alsophila of New Mexico and C. conflnis of 
Arizona. 

A proposed new genus Callisteris. 

Leaflets, i, Dec. 23, 1905, pp. 159-160. 
Genus of Polemoniacese, with Cautua ag- 
gregata its type. Eight of the 10 species are 
defined as new. 

A new northern Antennaria. 

Ottawa Naturalist, xix, Jan. 9, 1906, p. 197. 
A. athabascensis, from Fort Chippewayan, 
Athabasca. 

New species of Pentstemon. 

Leaflets, i, Jan. 23, 1906, pp. 161-167. 
Twenty-one species, all from between the 
Rocky Mountains and the Pacific coast, are 
described. 

New species of Isocoma. 

Leaflets, i, Jan. 23, 1906, pp. 169-172. 



Eleven new specific types are named and 
described. They are mostly from California, 
although several are from adjacent sections 
of Arizona. 

New asteraceous genera. 

Leaflets, i, Jan. 23, 1906, p. 173. 
TumioncUa, based on Aplopappus monactis, 
Gray; Hespcrodoria, founded on a new type 
of the CompositEe from Utah. 

Segregates from Sieversia. 

Leaflets, i, Jan. 30, 1906, pp. 174-179. 
It is held that there is no Sieversia in North 
America. Plants that have been so referred 
are here distributed between two genera, 
both indicated as new: Acomastylis based on 
iS. rossii, with five species, one of them new, 
Erythrocoma, with S. Iriftora for its type, has 
14 species, 12 of them new. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



115 



Greene, Edwaed Lee. Various new 
species. 

Leaflets, l, Jan. 30, 190(5, pp. 180, 181. 
Two new members of the genu-s Pelasitcs, 
three in Polijgonatum, one in Euthamia. 

Mutations in Viola. 

Leaflets, i, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 182-187. 
Nine different species or mutates discussed, 
two of them described as new. 

New species of Mimulus. 

Leaflets, I, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 189, 190. 
Four species are from California and one 
from Arizona. 

A further study of Chaptalia. 

Leaflets, i, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 191-196. 
Diagnosis of 18 new species of the genu.s, 
Mexican, West Indian, Central and South 
American. The Mutisiacere to which Chap- 
talia belongs is indicated as a distinct natural 
family. 

Icianthus and Sprengeria. 

Leaflets, i, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 197-199. 
Two proposed new genera of Cruciferse. 

New or noteworthy species. 

Leaflets, I, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 199, 200. 

Certain malvaceous types. 

Leaflets, i, Apr. 10, 1906, pp. 205-208. 



Sphsemlcea and Malvastrum discussed taxo- 
nomically; Lliamna, Malacothamnus, Ercmal- 
che, and Disella proposed. 

New plants from New Mexico. 

Leaflets, i, June 5, 1906, pp. 211-213. 
Eight new phanerogams, belonging to six 
different genera. 

New species of Viola. 

Leaflets, i, June 16, 1906, pp. 214-218. 
Five new species and ten new varieties of 
Viola, all of eastern North America. 

HorsE, H. D. (See under Joseph N. 

Rose. ) 
Maxon, William R. A new cloak fern 
from Mexico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Sept. 2,1905, 
pp. 205, 206. 
Describes Notholxna bryopoda n. sp., from 
Mexico, based on Pringle, No. 8802. 

A new fern from Porto Rico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Oct. 17,190.5, 
pp. 215, 216. 
Describes Polystichum krugii n. sp., closely 
related to the Jamaican P. rhizophyllum (Sw.) 
Presl. 

A new Lycopodium from Guate- 
mala. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Dec. 9, 1905, 
pp. 231,232. 
Describes Lycopodium dichaeoides n. sp., 
allied to the West Indian L. aqualupianum 
Spring. 



Maxon, William R. A newBotrychium 
from Alabama. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xix, Feb. 26, 1906, 
pp. 23, 24. 
Botrychium alabamense, a new member of 
the group of B. tcrnatitm (Thunb.) Sw., is de- 
scribed from Alabama. 

Painter, Joseph IL (See under Joseph 
N. Rose. ) 

Piper, Charles V. North American spe- 
cies of Festuca. 

Contrib. U. S. Xat. Herb., x, pt. 1, Mar. 30, 
1906, pp. i-vi, 1-48, pis. 1-15. 

Rose, Joseph N. Five new species of 
Mexican plants. 

Proc. U. S. Kat. Mas., xxix. No. 1427, Sept. 
30, 1905, pp. 437-439. 

Two new umbelliferous plants from 

the coastal plain of Georgia. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mtis., xxix, No. 1428, Oct. 

5, 1905, pp. 441-142, pi. in. 

and House, H. D. Descriptions 

of three Mexican violets. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix, No. 1429, Oct. 

6, 1905, pp. 443-444, pi. IV. 

and Painter, Joseph H. Some 



Mexican species of Cracca, Parosela, 
and Meibomia. 

Botan.- Gazette, XL, Aug., 1905, pp. 143-146, 
pl.L 
Contains 3 new species and several new 
names. 

Smith, John Donnell. Undescribed 
plants from Guatemala and other Cen- 
tral American republics. 

Botan. Gazette, XL, July, 190.5, pp. 1-11, pi. i. 
GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY. 

Merrill, Geor(;e P. [Petrographic de- 
scription of the Coon Butte meteorite.] 

Am. Journ. ScL, xxi. May, 1906, pp. 3.50- 
352. 
This d'escription is included in a paper by 
J. W. Mallet, entitled "A stony meteorite from. 
Coon Butte, Arizona." 

On a new stony meteorite from 

Modoc, Seott County, Kans. [Chemical 
analyses by Wirt Tassin.] 

Am. Journ. Sci., xxi. May, 1906, pp. 355- 

360. 

Contains a description of the phenomena 

of the fall, and the mineral and chcmicul 

nature of a stony meteorite which fell at 

Modoc, Kans., September 2, 1905. 



116 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Merrill, George P. The division of 
applied geology in the U. S. National 
Museum. 

Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers. Bi- 
monthly Bulletin No. 4, July, IVO i, pp. 
931-937. 
Contain.s remarks descriptive of the collec- 
tion.?, delivered at a meeting of the American 
In.stitute of Mining Engineers in the lecture 
hall of the Museum, May, 1905. 

Contributions to the history of 

American geology. 

Fep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 

1904 (1906), pp. 189-733, pLs. I-XXXVII, 

text figs. 1-141. 

The vi'ork: traces the history and gradual 

development of geology in America from 

1785 to the organization of the present U. S. 

Geological Survey, in 1880. 

Tassin, Wirt. See under George P. Mer- 
rill. 

PALEONTOLOGY. 

Arnold, Ralph. The Tertiary and Qua- 
ternary pectens of California. 

P)'ofessional Paper U. S. Gcol. Surv., No. 
47, Series C, Systematic Geology and 
Paleontology No. 76, 1906, pp. 1-264, 
pis. I-LIII. 

This paper consists of an introduction and 
parts I and 11. 

Part I di.scusses the Tertiary and Pleisto- 
cene formations of California, and presents a 
post-Cretaceous geologic column and a corre- 
lation table. The various formations recog- 
nized are the Martinez and the Tejon in the 
Eocene; the San Lorenzo in the Oligocene; 
the Vaqueros sandstone; the Monterey shale 
and the San Pablo formation in the Miocene; 
the Purisima and the Merced in the Pliocene; 
the San Pedro in the Pleistocene. Each of 
these formations is treated thus: Type local- 
ity, definition of the formation, localities, 
Peeten fauna, and a list of fossils of whatever 
class. Part i closes with a tabular presenta- 
tion of the geologic range of the California 
pectens, both recent and fo.ssil, and from 
recent time back through the Eocene, and a 
summary showing the number of species and 
varieties found in the Eocene, Oligocene, etc., 
the number restricted to each and the num- 
ber found transitional from one formation 
into its successor or successors. Part ii con- 
tains a synopsis and descriptions of subgenera 
and species. 

The following species and varieties are de- 
scribed and figured as new: 

From the Eocene: Peden (Chlami/s) calkini, 
landesi proavus. 

From the Oligocene: Peden (Peden) sanc- 
txcruzensis, P. ( Chlamys) branneri, P. (Propea- 
musium) dallamensis, waylandi. 

From the Miocene: P. ( Peden) carrizoensis, 
keepi, P. (Patinopedcn) oweni, P. {CMamys) 
hamlini, nutteri, sespeensis and var. hydei, P. 



Arnold, Ralph — Continued. 

{Lyropedcn) bowersi, crassicardo Con., var. 
hamiltoni, cstrellauus Con., var. catalinx, and 
var. terminus, miguelensis, perrini, vaughani, 
P. (Plagiodenium) andersoni, and var. barke- 
rianus, cerrosensis Gabb, var. f mendenhalli 
cldridgei, neahensis, P. (Pseudamusium) lorn- 
picoensis, P. (Propeamusium) stand/or densis, 
P. {A7nusium) lornpoensis. 

From the Pliocene: P. (Peden) auburyi, 
coalingaensis, lecontei, merriami, vogdesi, P. 
(Patinopeden) hcaleyi, purisimaensis, turneri, 
P. ( Chlamys) bartschi, bellilamellatus, lawsoni, 
washburnei, ivattsi, and var. morani, P. (Lyro- 
peden) asldeyi, P. (Plagiodenium) cooperi, P. 
( Propeamiisium) riversi. 

From the Pleistocene: P. (Chlamys) latiau- 
Vitus Gabb, var. cerritcnsis, and var. delosi. 

Recent: P. (Chlamys) hastatus Sby., var. 
albidus Dall, P. (Pseudamusium) randolphi 
Dall, var. tillamookensis. 

The paper closes with a bibliography of 
literature bearing directly or indirectly upon 
the pectens of California. 

Bagg, Rufus M. Miocene foraminifera 
from the Monterey shale of California, 
with a few species from the Tejon for- 
mation. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 268, 1905, pp. 
1-78, pis. i-xi. 
Si.xty-six species of foraminifera are de- 
scribed and illustrated in this bulletin. These 
descriptions are preceded by a discussion 
of the geology of the region by Prof. J. C. 
Branner. 

Bassler, Ray S. Portland cement re- 
sources of Virginia. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 243, 1905, pp. 
312-325. 
Describes the stratigraphy and gives analy- 
ses of the Portland cement rocks of Virginia. 
The stratigraphic and paleontologic investi- 
gations are based upon Museum material. 

Cement materials of the valley of 

Virginia. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 260, 1905, pp. 
631-544. 
In this article the stratigraphy, paleon- 
tology, and economic value of the various 
cement horizons in the Paleozoic rocks of the 
valley of Virginia are described. Analyses, 
maps, and details of localities are also given. 

A study of the James types of Or- 

dovician and Silurian Bryozoa. 

Proc. U. S. jVa<. Mus., xxx. No. 1442, April 
2, 1906, pp. 1-66, pis. i-vi. 
This paper presents (1) an introduction 
stating the necessity for a redescription of 
these types, (2) a bibliography of the James 
publications, (3) the laws of nomenclature 
applicable to the species under discussion, (4) 
a classification of the Ordovician strata in the 
vicinity of Cincinnati, Ohio, and (5) the de- 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



117 



Bassler, Ray S. — Continued. 

scription of the species in alphabetical order. 
Under the last heading the types of the many 
species of bryozoans described by Messrs. 
U. P. and J. F. James as corals, bryozoans, or 
sponges, are di.scussed under 73 headings and 
are illustrated on 7 plates. 

In the discus-'jon of Ordovician strata the 
following new divisions are proposed: One 
group, Covington, three formations, Brom- 
ley, Fairview, and McMillan, and three mem- 
bers, Economy, Southgate. and McMicken. 
(See also under Charles Schuchert and 
E. 0. Ulrioh.) 
BiBBiNs, Arthur. (See under Lester F. 

Ward.) 
Cracin", Francis Whittemore. Paleon- 
tology of the Malone Jurassic forma- 
tion of Texas. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Sun:, No. 266, 1905. pp. 
1-22, 34-172, pis. i-xxix. 
Describes and figures an Upper Jura.ssic 
invertebrate fauna occurring in the neighbor- 
hood of Sierra Blanca, El Paso County, Tex. 
The fauna, which is varied, appears to be 
somewhat clo.sely related to the Jurassic 
faunas in San Luis Potosi and Oaxaca, Mex- 
ico. The collections here described are the 
property of the National Museum. 

Dall, William Healey. The Pelecy- 
poda of the Miocene of Maryland. 

\'aiiderbill I'nirersitti Quartcrhj. vi. No. 1. 
Jan., 1906. pp.70, 71. 
Review of work, parti yon Museum material, 
by L. C. Glenn. 

(See &lso under Charles Schuchert.) 
Fontaine, William M. (See under Les- 
ter F. Ward. ) 
GiDLEY, James W. A fossil raccoon from 
a Calitorma Pleistocene cave deposit. 
Proc. I\ S Aat. .»/«.<., xxix, No. 143.5, 
Feb. 2 1906, pp. 563, 554, pi. xii. 
Proeyon simus, n. sp., is here described and 
figured. 
A new ruminant from the Pleisto- 
cene of New Mexico. 

Proc. U. .>. Xat. Mug., XXX, No. 1447, Apr. 
4, 1906, pp 165-167; text figs., 1-3. 
A new genus and species of the subfamily 
Ovibovinse is iiere described under the name 
Liops zunicnsis. Liops being preoccupied, 
Mr. Gidley later proposed me term Lissops as 
a substitute. 

(See also under William Diller Mat- 
tliew.) 

(Jill, Theodore. An interesting Creta- 
ceous chima>roid egg case. 

Science (new series), xxir. No. .567, Nov. 
10. 1905, pp. bOl, 602. 
The first known American Chimseroid egg 
case IS noticed. The fossil is in the U. S. 



Gill, Theodore — Continued. 

National Museum and was obtained from 
"massive sandstone" a few miles west of 
Laramie, Wyo.; its form most resembles that 
of the living Rhinochim^'ra. Comments are 
made on the other known Mesozoic chimae- 
roid ovicapsules and the relations indicated 
to modern types. The names archidome and 
urodome are also introduced for different 
regions of the egg case. 

GiL.MORE, Charles W. The mounted 
skeleton of Triceratops prorsus. 

Proc. U. S. yaf. Mus., xxix, No. 1426, Oct. 
4, 1905, pp. 433-435, pis. I, ll. 
Gives a brief description of the mounted 
skeleton in the National Museum. 

Notes on the osteology of Baptano- 

don, with a description of a new species. 

Memoirs Carncfiic Museum, ii. No. 9. Feb. 

6, 1906, pp. 325-337, pis. xxxvi-xxxviii, 

text figs. 1-13. 

Gives additional information regarding the 

skeletal structure of Baplanodon. Describes 

and figures Baplanodon robustus, n. sp. 

Notes on some recent additions to 



the exhibition series of vertebrate 
fossils. 

Proc. r. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1460, May 
31, 1906, pp. 607-611, pis. XXX-xxxv. 
Illustrates and briefly describes the skele- 
tons of Bhamphorhi/nchus (jenmingi and Mam- 
mut americanum. Enumerates for the first 
time the elements comprising the type speci- 
men of Triceratops calicornis. Two views are 
given, together with brief notes on the type 
skull of Dicer atops hatcher i. 

Handlirsch, Anton. A new blattoid 
from the Cretaceous formation of North 
America. 

Proc. v. S. Sat: Mus.. xxix. No. 1439, 
Mar. 7, 1906, pp. 655. 656, 1 text tig. 
Describesand figures new genus and species, 
Stantonia cretacea. The type specimen is in 
the National Museum collection. 

Revision of American Paleozoic 

insects. 

Proc V. S. yat. Mus., XXIX, No. 1441, 
Mar. 7, 1906, pp. 661-820, text figs. 
1-109. 
This paper treats of all the known Ameri- 
can Paleozoic insects and is therelore mono- 
graphical in Its scope. The systematic re- 
vision of American Paleozoic insects proper 
is preceded by an introduction by Prof. 
Charles Schuchert and a discussion of the 
geological position oi the principal inseci- 
bearing localities of the United States by Dr. 
David White. 

One nundred and three new genera and 
138 new species are described by Doctor 
Handlirsch. With the exception of a lew 
species, all oi me material illustrated is in 
the collections ot tne National Museum. 



118 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Hatcher, J. B. (See under T. W. Stan- 
ton.) 

Knowlton, Frank Hall. Fossil plants 
of the Judith River beds. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 257, 1905, pp. 
129-168, pis. xiv-xix. 
The specimens described by Mr. Knowlton 
are contained In the Museum collections, 
having been transferred from the U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey. The paper enumerates and 
describes 28 forms, 16 of which are new and 5 
not specifically described. From his review 
of these forms he states that the flora of the 
Judith River beds, so far as now known, 
shows very little affinity with the true Lara- 
mie or with the Fort Union, but that it does 
exhibit an undoubted relationship with that 
of the Dakota Group, or with the Cenomanian 
and Senonian of the Old World; that is, with 
the lower and middle portions of the Upper 
Cretaceous. 

(See also under T. W. Stanton and 
J. B. Hatcher.) 

Martin, G. C. (See under T. W. Stan- 
ton. ) 

Matthew, William Diller. The oste- 
ology of Sinopa, a ereodont mammal 
of the middle Eocene. 

Proe. U. S. Nat. 3Ius., xxx. No. 1449, May 

11, 1906, pp. 203-2S3, pi. XVI. 

Describes and figures a complete skeleton 

of a new species of Sinopa, Sinopa grangeri, 

and discusses the affinities and relationships 

of the genus Sinopa. 

and GiDLEV, James W. New or 

little known mammals from the Mio- 
cene of South Dakota. 

Bull. Am. Mm. Nat. Hist., xxii, art. vni, 
May 26, 1906, pp, 135-153, texts figs. 1-20. 
In part iv of this article, under the sub- 
title Equidaj, Mr. Gidley describes and figures 
new material of Miocene horses from South 
Dakota and Nebraska, and proposes three 
new species, Protohippus sinnos, Neohipparion 
(lolichops and Neohipparwn niobrarense. 

Osgood, Wilfred H. Scaphoceros tyr- 
relli, an extinct ruminant from the 
Klondike gravels. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 

issue, III, pt, II, No. 1589, July 1, 1905, 

pp. 173-185, pis. xxxvii-XLii. 

Describes and figures Scaphoceros tyrrelli, 

new genusand species. Tne name Scaphoceros 

being preoccupied, Mr. Osgood later proposes 

Si7nbos as a substitute. 

ScHucHERT, Charles. A new American 
pentremite. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1467, June 
11, 1906, pp. 759, 760, figs. 1-3. 
Describes and figures Pentremites maccalliei, 
n. sp., from the Bangor limestone of Georgia. 



ScHUCHERT, Charles. Catalogue of the 
type specimens of fossil invertebrates in 
the department of geology, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. Assisted by W. H. 
Dall, T. W. Stanton, and R. S. Bassler. 
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 53, pt. 1, Sept. 
30, 1905, pp. 1-704. 
This section of Bulletin 53 records the type 
material of invertebrate fossils in the U. S. 
National Museum. The introduction by 
Charles Schuchert contains a general discus- 
sion and classification of type speciroons, with 
descriptions of the various kinds of primary 
and supplementary types and definitions of 
new type terms. Typical specimens, types 
of genera, marking of type material, and 
other more general subjects are discussed. 
The introduction closes with a list of the 
literature on type terms. 

In the catalogue proper the types are re- 
corded under the names as originally de- 
scribed. Subsequent descriptions of the same 
species under different names are referred to 
by cross references, while the present place- 
ment of the listed type, if different from the 
recorded reference, is likewise denoted. 

Smith, W. S. Tangier. (See under E. O. 

Ulrich.) 
Stanton, T. W. Stratigraphic notes on 
Malone Mountain and the surrounding 
region near Sierra Blanca, Tex. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 266, 1905, pp. 
23-33. 
Describes the Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks 
in a limited area lying between the Sierra 
Blanca, El Paso County, Tex., and the Rio 
Grande. The Juras.sic rocks are those of the 
Malone formation yielding the fauna de- 
scribed by F. W. Cragin, and the Cretaceous 
is mostly referable to the Comanche series, 
th()ugh in fact somewhat different from the 
usual facies. 

The Morrison formation and its 

relations with the Comanche series and 
the Dakota formation. 

Journ. Geology, xiii, 1905, pp. 657-669. 
It is shown that the Morrison formation, 
long known as the Atlanto.saurus beds, passes 
beneath the marine beds of the Comanche 
series in southwestern Colorado and adjacent 
portionsof New Mexico and Oklahoma. The 
attenuated marginal deposits of the Coman- 
che series in this region have often been 
referred to the Dakota formation with which 
they are intimaiely associated, although 
there is some evidence of an unconformity 
between them. 

and Hatcher, J. B. Geology and 

paleontology of the Judith River beds, 
with a chapter on the fossil plants by 
F. H. Knowlton. 

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 257, July, 1905, 
pp. 1-174, pis. i-xix. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



119 



Stanton, T. W., and Hatciiek, J. B. — 
Continued. 

Presents the evidence as to the stratigraphic 
position of the Judith River bedsin the Upper 
Cretaceous, showing they are considerably 
lower than the Laramie. The vertebrate 
fauna is discussed by Mr. Hatcher, and the 
invertebrate fauna by Mr. Stanton, with de- 
scriptions and figures of a few new or imper- 
fectly known species. Mr. Knowlton de- 
scribes and illustrates the flora. The collec- 
tions discussed have been transferred to the 
National Museum. 

and Martin, G. C. Mesozoic sec- 
tion on Cook Inlet and Alaska Penin- 
sula. 

Bull. Geol. Soc. America, xvi, 1905, pp. 
391-410, pis. 67-70. 
Describes the Tria.ssic, Jurassic, and Creta- 
ceous rocks of the region with detailed strati- 
graphic sections and notes on their distribu- 
tion, correlation, and fossils. The great de- 
velopment of the Middle and Upper Jura.ssic 
is especially noteworthy. Large collections 
of fossils which will become the property of 
the National Museum were obtained in con- 
nection with this field study. 

(See also under Charles Schuchert. ) 
True, Frederick W. The first discovery 
of fossil seals in America. 

Science (new series), xxii. No. 572, Dec. 

15, 1906, p. 794. 

Description of a new genus and 

species of fossil seal from the Miocene 
of Maryland. 

l^oc. U. S. Nnt. Mus., xxx. No. 1475, June 

16. 1906, pp. 83.5-840, pis. LXXV-I.XXVl. 
Proposes the new genus Leptophocn and de- 

srribes and figures the new species Ijpto- 
Ithocalems. 

Ulrich, P10.,andBAssLER, RayS. New 
American Paleozoic ostracoda. Notes 
an<l descriptions of Upper Carbonifer- 
ous genera and species. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1446, Apr. 
4. 1906, pp. 119-164, pi. XI. 
In this paper the writers continue their 
studie.s ot fossil ostracods. Here the family 
Leperditellidce and the genus Paraparclnus 
are described as new, while descriptions and 
illustrations of new and previously known 
species of Beynchia, BeyrichieUa, Cyttierc, 
Kirkbija, Baiidia, and Cypndinia are i;i\en. 

and Smith, W. S., Tangier. The 

lead, zinc, and fluorspar deposits of 
western Kentucky. 

Professional Paper, U. S. Qeol. Surv., No. 
36, 1905, pp. 1-218, pis. i-xv. 
In Part 1 of this paper the geology and gen- 
eral relations are discussed by E. 0. Ulrich. 
Under the description of the stratigraphy of 
the region, five plates are given upon which 



Ulrich, PI O., and Smith, W. S. Tan- 
(iiER — Continued, 
the characteristic fossils of each formation 
are illustrated. The originals of these illus- 
trations are all in the National Museum, be- 
ing a part of the Ulrich collection. 

Walcott, Charles D. Cambrian faunas 
of China. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix. No. 1415, Sept. 
6, 1905, pp. 1-106. 
This is a preliminary paper devoted to a 
description of the Cambrian fossils collected 
in China for Doctor Walcott by the members 
of the expedition of the Carnegie Institution 
of Washington. This fauna is published in 
advance of the illustrated report for use in 
the correlation of the various sections and 
discussion of the stratigraphy. Descriptions 
of 126 si)ecii!s are given of which 106 are tiilo- 
bites, the remainder being distributed among 
the Foraminifera, Porifera, Brachiopoda, 
Pteropoda, Gastropoda, Cephalopoda, and 
Ostracoda. 

Cambrian faunas of China. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx. No. 1458, May 
23, 1906, pp. 563-595. 
This preliminary paper (No. 2) is a contin- 
uation of the description of the fossils col- 
lected in China by the members of the expe- 
dition of the Carnegie Institution of Wash- 
ington. Twenty-six additional new species 
of trilobites are described as well as a num- 
ber of brachiopods and gastropods, and the 
occurrence of the genus Coscinoryathus is 
noted. 
Ward, Lester F. Status of the Mesozoic 
floras of the United States. Second 
jiaper l)y Lester F. Ward, with the col- 
laboration of William M. Fontaine, 
Arthur Bibbins, and G. R. Wieland. 

Mouofjr. V. S. Gad. Surr., XLVlll, 1905, pt. 
I, text, pp. 1-616; pt. II, pis. i-cxix. 
The specimens described in this work are 
almost entirely in po.ssession of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. The paper is divided into 
three parts: Part I, The Triassic Flora (con- 
tinued from the first paper in the 20th Ann. 
Kept., U. S. Geol. Surv., 1900), devoted to the 
older Mesozoic of Arizona; Part ii. The Ju- 
rassic Floia (continued irom the first paper 
in the Twentieth Annual Report of the U. S. 
Geological Survey, 1900), which describes the 
Jurassic flora of Douglas County, Oreg., and 
other plant-bearing beds in the Jura.ssic and 
Jurasso-Cietaeeous transition beds from other 
localities in Oregon and from Alaska, Califor- 
nia, and Montana, including also the Jurassic 
cycads from Wyoming and the Black Hills; 
and Part iii. The Cretaceous Flora, which 
includes the Lower Cretaceous flora of Queen 
Charlotte Islands, and the floras of the Shasta, 
Kootanie, Lakota, Trinity, and older Poto- 
mac lormations. The latter Is devoted to the 
older Potomac (James River, Rappahannock, 
Mount Vernon, and Aquia Creek beds) flora 



120 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906. 



Ward, Lester F. — Continued. 

of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Co- 
lumbia. From the study of these beds the 
conclusion is reached that the lower Potomac 
has a flora that is essentially Wealden, and 
also that the Wealden is Lower Cretaceous 
rather than Jurassic. 

WiELAND, G. R. (See under Lester F. 
Ward. ) 

OCEANOGRAPHY. 

Agassiz, Alexander. Reports on the 
scientific results of the expedition to 
the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge 
of Alexander Agassiz, by the U. S. 
Fish Commission steamer Albatross, 
from October, 1904, to March, 1905, 
Lieut. Commander L. M. Garrett, U. S. 
Navy, commanding, v. — General re- 
port of the expedition. 

Memoirs 3Ius. Comp. ZnoL, xxxiii, 1906, 
pp. i-xiii, 1-75, 96 plates and 8 text figs. 
Contains accounts of the hydrography, char- 
acter of the bottom, fauna of the different 
depths, temperatures, .specific gravities, 
winds, records of stations occupied, and brief 
descriptions of some of the islands visited. 

Flint, James M. A contribution to the 
oceanography | of the Pacific | com- 
piled from data collected by the 
United | States steamer Nero while 



Flint, James M. — Continued, 
engaged in | the survey of a route for 
a I trans-Pacific cable | — | By | 
James M. Flint. | Medical Director, U. 
S. Navy; Curator, Division of Medicine, 
U. S. National Museum | [Seal] | 
Washington | Government Printing 
Office I 1905. I 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 65, Dec. 26, 1905, 
pp. i-v, 1-62, pis. i-xiv. 
The work of the Nero was from Honolulu 
to Midway Island, thence to Guam, thence 
to Luzon, and also from Guam to Japan. The 
number of soundings made was 2,074. The 
author gives an account of the track, depths, 
gradients, temperatures, and character of the 
bottom, the deposits at a selected number of 
stations being recorded in detail. 

BIOGRAPHY. 

Dall, William Healey. Obituary no- 
tice, Marcus Baker, 1849-1903. 

Bull. Pfiilos. Soc. Wash., xiv, Aug. ,-1905, pp. 

277-285. 
A brief memoir of one who was for years a 
collaborator in the field work and collecting 
of the National Museum. 

Obituary notice, John Wesley 

Powell, 1834-1902. 

Bull. Pliilos. Soc. Wash., xiv, Aug., 1905, pp. 
300-308. 
Brief memoir of a distinguished associate 
In the work of the Museum. 



o 



