%wi 






rv%>^ 



'♦*t^ 






"<r: 



!^ 



<:_ 



^BP^^ 


^5 




^^Jiii8 


^ 




^9 






-/^ 


P 


^v" 


i 


i 




.^^^ 


« 


fe 



C/ ■ '^ 



-N. 



^J^ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THK 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSOIilAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR 



THE YE^Il 1884, 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT FEINTING OFFICE. 

1885. 



[FORTY-EIGHTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION.] 

In the Senate of the United States, 

Jamiary 27, 1885. 
Resolved by the Senate {the House of Representatives concurring), That the annual re- 
port of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum for the year 1884 be printed, 
and that there be printeil 16,000 extra copies ; of which 3,000 copies shall be for the 
iiKc of the Senate, 0,060 for the House of Representatives, and 7,000 for the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 
Af^reed to by the House of Representatives, February 4, 1885. 
II 



LETTER 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year 

1884. 



January 27, 1885.— Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington^ D. C, January 25, 1885. 
Sir : In accordance with section 5593 of the Ee vised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor in behalf of the Board of Eegents to 
submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1884. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. G. F. Edmunds, 

President of the Senate. 

Hon. John G. Carlisle, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

m 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1884. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 
1885. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1884, and the estimates for 1885. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1884, with the statistics of 
collections, exchanges, &c. 

4. General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti- 
tution, teacliers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



The report of the Assistant Director and Curators of the National 
Mnscum for the year 1884 will be published in a separate volume. 



CONTENTS. 



Re8oluti6n of Congr-sss to print extra copies of the Report ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress iii 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

List of illustrations viii 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution x 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents xi 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1884 xv 

Condition of the funds January 1, 1885 xv 

Receipts for the year xv 

Expenditures for the year xvi 

Estimates for the year 1884 xvi 

National Museum appropriations by Congress xvii 

Appropriations for exchanges xvii 

Appropriations for Ethnology xviii 

Report of the Architects on reconstruction of eastern portion of 

Smithsonian Building xix 

Plans and views of grounds and building xxiii 

Members ex officio of the Establishment xxxix 

Regents and officers of the Institution xxxix 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

Introductory 1 

The Henry Statue 2 

Scientific writings of Professor Henry 2 

Information relative to James Smithsou 2 

The Board of Regents 6 

Finances 7 

Condition of the fund January, 1885 7 

Buildings 8 

Smithsonian building 8 

National Museum building 9 

Brick workshop 10 

Armory building 10 

Necessity for an additional Museum building 10 

Meetings of scientific bodies : 11 

Lectures 11 

Routine work of the Institution 12 

Correspondence 13 

Explorations 13 

Greenland 14 

Labrador 16 

Arctic coast 17 

V 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



Pago. 
Report op thk Seokbtary.— The Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 

The North Pacific 18 

Alaska 19 

British Columbia and Washington Territory 19 

Oregon and California 20 

Arizona and New Mexico 20 

Eastern portion of the United States 24 

Mexico and Central America 25 

Costa Eica 26 

Nicaragua 26 

South America 26 

Europe 27 

Asia , 27 

Africa 28 

Madagascar 28 

The Sandwich Islands 28 

Publications 28 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 29 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 30 

Forest Trees 31 

Bulletins of the National Museum 31 

Proceedings of the National Museum 32 

Smithsonian Annual Report 32 

Exchanges 33 

Congressional aid 33 

Liberality of transportation companies 34 

Receipts for exchange 34 

Transmissions 35 

Government exchanges 35 

Library 37 

Additions for the year 37 

Relations of the Institution to other bodies 37 

Congress 37 

The Navy Department 38 

Naval Observatory 39 

The War Department 39 

The United States Signal Service 39 

The Treasury Department 39 

The Light-House Board 39 

The Interior Department 40 

Railroad and steamboat lines . ^ 41 

American Association for Advancement of Science 42 

Electrical Exhibition at Philadelphia 43 

State and International Exhibitions 43 

Necrology 44 

Dr. Arnold H. Guyot 44 

Henrj Gass , 46 

Clarence B. Young 46 

Miscellaneous 46 

Edinburgh University Ter-centenary 46 

Sonorous sand 47 

The Mercer Estate 47 

The Walker Prize 47 

Telegraphic Astronomical announcements 48 

Special Donations to lustitation ...i..*....^». 48 



CONTENTS. 



VII 



Page. 

National Museum ^^ 

Bureau of Ethnology "'^ 

United States Geological Survey '"^ 

United States Fish Commission ^^ 

Appendix to the Kepokt of the Secretary 99 

Report OQ exchanges for 1884 99 

Receipts of packages for distribution 101 

Foreign 1*^^ 

. mo 

Domestic ^"'^ 

■ino 

Government ^" 

Transmissions of packages 1"t 

Foreign 1 1"'* 

Transportation companies lOo 

Domestic - ^^^ 

Government '■'■'^ 

List of official publications from Public Printer, 1884 113 

Report on Explorations in Queen Charlotte Islands 137 

Report on Indexing Chemical Literature 147 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution, &c . 149 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I.— Record of Scientific Progress, 1884 157 

Introduction, by Spencer F. Baird 157 

Astronomy, by Edward S. Holden 159 

Vulcanology and Seismology, by Charles G. Rockwood 215 

Geography, by F. M. Green 237 

Meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe 2.57 

Physics, by George F. Barker 433 

Chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton 491 

Mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana 543 

Bibliography of Invertebrate Palaeontology, by J. B. Marcou 563 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 583 

Anthropology, by Otis T. Mason 677 

II.— Miscellaneous Papers ^^19 

Papers relating to Anthropology ^^19 

Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala, by Charles E. Vreeland, J. F. 

719 
Bransford • 

The Guesde Collection of Antiquities in Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, 

by Otis T.Mason ^^^^ 

Ancient Mounds in Clinton County, Michigan, by M. T. Leach 839 

Ancient Forts in Ogemaw County, Michigan, by M. T. Leach 849 

Sketch of Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio, by Charles M. Smith. 851 

Earth- works and Mounds in Miami County, Ohio, by E. T. Wiltheiss. 873 



Index to the volume 



877 



VIII CONTENTS. 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Views of the Smithsonian Institution Building: Page. 

PI. 1. Plan of the Smithsonian Grounds xxv 

PI. 2. North front of the Smithsonian Institution xxvii 

PI. 3. South front of the Smithsonian Institution xxix 

PI. 4. North and south elevations of the re-constructed eastern portion . . xxxi 
PL 5. East elevation of the re- constructed eastern portion xxxiii 

Plan of basement of the same xxxiii 

PL 6. Plan of first story of the same xxxv 

Plan of second story of the same . _ xxxv 

PI. 7. Plan of third story -of the same xxxvii 

Plan of fourth story of the same xxxvii 

Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala : 

Fig. 1. Group of sculptures at Pantaleon 720 

Fig. 2. Sculpture from San Juan 721 

Fig. 3. Quarter view of the same 722 

Fig. 4. Side view of the same 723 

Fig. 5. Sculpture from Pantaleon 725 

Fig. 6. Sculpture from Pantaleon 726 

Fig. 7. Side view of the same 726 

Fig. 8. Sculpture from Pantaleon 727 

Fig. 9. Side view of the same 727 

Fig. 10. Quarter view of the same 728 

Fig. 11. Sculpture from Pantaleon 729 

Fig. 12. Sculpture from Pantaleon 730 

Guesde Collection of Antiquities from Guadeloupe: 

Figs. 1-8. Unpolished stone blades 740-744 

Figs. 9-15. Polished stone blades 745-747 

Figs. 16-47. Stone blades with continuous faces and notched sides 748-762 

Figs. 48-76. Stone blades with butt distinct and faces not continuous.. . 763-776 

Figs. 77-88. Stone blades with hooked edges 777-781 

Figs. 89-129. Stone blades with encircling grooves 782-797 

Figs. 130-172. Stone hammers, grinders, and polishers 798-815 

Figs. 173-185. Perforated stones 816-819 

Figs. 186-200. Ornamental forms of stone implements 819-827 

Figs. 201, 202. Carved wooden stool from Turk's Island 828, 829 

Fig. 203. Human figure carved in wood 830 

Fig. 204. Two human figures seated on chair, carved in wood (oblique 

front view) 831 

Fig, 205. Oblique rear view of the same 832 

Figs. 206, 207. Spoon and cup, carted from guava 833 

Fig. 208. Inscriptions on stone slab 834 

Figs. 209-214. Specimens of pottery 835,836 

Fig. 215. Shell blades ". 837 



CONTENTS. IX 

Page. 
Ancient Mounds in Clinton County, Michigan : 

Map showing locality of mounds in northwest part of Clinton County.. 840 

Ancient Forts in Ogemaw County, Michigan : 

Plan of Fort No. 1 849 

Plan of Fort No. 2 850 

Remains from Flint Eidge, Licking County, Ohio : 

Map showing locality of remains at Flint Eidge 854 

Map showing locality of remains at Flint Eidge 855 

Figs. 1-4. Outline of flint arrow-head forms 869 

Figs. 5-10. Eestoration of arrow-head forms 869 

Mounds in Miami County, Ohio : 

Map showing locality of earth-works 874 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Revised Statutes, 
title Lxxni, section 5580, "The business of the Institution shall be con- 
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Eegents, named the 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice- 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor of 
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem- 
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons, 
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of the same State." 



REGENTS FOR THE YEAR 1884. 

Term expires. 
The Vice-President of the United States : 

George F. Edmunds (elected President of Senate March 3, 1883) Mar. 3, 1885 



The Chief Justice of the United States : 
Morrison E. Waite. 

United States Senators : 

Nathaniel P. Hill (from May 19, 188] ) Mar. 3,1885 

Samuel B. Maxey (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 3,1887 

Justin S. Morrilx (appointed February 21, 1883) Mar. 3, 1885 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

Otho R. Singleton (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 18f5 

Wm. L. Wilson (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 18?5 

Wm. W. Phelps (appointed January 7, 1884) Dec. 23, 1^5 

Citizens of Washington : 

Peter Parker (first appointed in 1868) Resigned Apr., 7, 1884 

William T. Sherman (first appointed in 1871) Mar. 25, 1885 

James C. Welling May 13,1890 

Citizens of a State : 

John Maclean, of New Jersey (first appointed in 1868) Dec. 19, 1885 

Asa Gray, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1S74) Dec. 19, 1885 

Henry Coppee, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 19, 1885 

Noah Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878) Mar. 3, 1890 



Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and Breaident of the Board of 

Regents. 
X 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



WASHiNaTON, D. C, January 21, 1885. 

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution was held this day at half-past 10 o'clock, a. m. 

Present: Hon. G. F. Edmunds, Hon. J. S. Morrill, Hon. S. B. 
Maxet, Hon. O. E. Singleton, Hon. W. L. Wilson, Hon. W. W. 
Phelps, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Rev. Dr. Noah Porter, Dr. 
Henry Copp:6e, Dr. James 0. Welling, and the Secretary, Professor 
Baird. 

Excuses for non-attendance were read from Chief-Justice Waite, 
Prof. Asa Gray, and Hon. N. P. Hill. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, on motion of Mr. Phelps, Dr. Por- 
ter was called to the chair. 

The journal of the Board was read and approved. 

The Secretary stated that the Rev. Dr. Koah Porter had been 
re-elected a Regent for six years by the joint resolution of Congress, 
approved March 3, 1884. 

The Secretary presented to the Board the following letter : 

Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Dear Sir : The state of my health renders it necessary to tender my 
resignation as a member of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

In signifying my resignation it is with no ordinary feelings I recall 
the years I have been connected with the Board and the distinguished 
men with whom it has been my privilege and honor to be associated. 
Kot only the present members whom I so highly respect and esteem, 
but a long list of honored names of former members now deceased, re- 
cur to me, the last of which is that of Professor Joseph Henry, and 
while James Smithson will be known to the world and remembered 
as the founder of the Institution, Joseph Henry will be regarded as 
having been raised up by a signal Providence, the true interpreter of 
his will, the able organizer of the Institution, and wise controller of its 
finances. 

May the Smithsonian Institution, so auspiciously established and ex- 
tensively known, continue, under your wise administration, an estab- 
lishment distinct and specific, for the " increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." 

With great respect, your friend and servant, 

Peter Parker. 

2 Lafayette Square, 

Washington, B. 0., April 7, 1884. 



XII JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

The Secretary informed the Board that Congress had filled the va- 
cancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker by the election of 
Dr. James C. Welling, president of Columbian University of Wash- 
ington, D. C, for six years from May 13, 1884. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean it was — 

Resolved, That the Board of Kegents has heard with regret of the 
resignation of Dr. Peter Parker, and hereby expresses the high appre- 
ciation of the valuable and efficient services he has rendered the Insti- 
tution for the past seventeen years as a Regent and as Chairman of 
its Executive Committee. 

The Secretary stated that in accordance with the rules of the Board 
during its recess, the remaining members of the Executive Committee 
had filled the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Parker, by 
the appointment of Dr. Welling. 

On motion of Dr. Coppee it was — 

Resolved, That Dr. Welling be elected to fill the vacancy in the Ex- 
ecutive Committee. 

The Secretary reported that in accordance with the request of the 
Board at its last meeting, Senator Edmunds had prepared a bill rela- 
tive to the provision for an Acting Secretary, which had passed Con- 
gress and become a law on the 13th of May, 1884, as follows : 

An act to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 
[Public No. 31, Forty-eighth Congress, first session.] 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled. That the Chancellor of the 
Smithsonian Institution may, by* an instrument in writing filed in the 
office-of the Secretary thereof, designate and appoint a suitable person 
to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a vacancy in 
said office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from illness, 
absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office; and in such 
case the person so appointed may perform all the duties imposed on th^ 
Secretary by law until the. vacancy shall be filled or such inability sh^li 
cease. The said Chancellor may change such designation and appoint- 
ment from time to time as the Institution may in his judgment require. 

Approved, May 13, 1884. 

Under the provisions of this act the Chancellor h^d taken the fol- 
lowing action : 

Lyme, Conn., July 2, 1884. 
By virtue of the authority conferred on me by the act of May 13, 
1884, "to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution," I hereby designate and appoint Mr. William 
J. Rhees to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a 
vacancy in that office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from 
illness, absence, or other cause to perform the duties of his office. 

M. R. Waite, 
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution. 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XIII 

Dr. Maclean presented the annual report of the Executive Commit- 
tee, which was read. 

On motion of Dr. Copp^e it was — 

Besolved, That the report of the Executive Committee be accepted, 
and that the income for the year 1885, be appropriated for the service 
of the Institution upon the basis of the above report ; to be expended 
by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to the 
approval of the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented the following communication he had received 
since the last meeting of the Board : 

June 2, 1884. 
Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. G. : 

Sir: I intend to make a bequest for the advancement of science — 
that is, of physical science. For many reasons I would like to make 
the bequest in favor of the Smithsonian Institution ; but there is one 
difficulty which must be cleared up before I can decide. If money were 
left by will to the Smithsonian Institution would it defend the will 
against the claims of any and all persons who should contest the will 
and take legal- steps to set it «oside? Has it authority by law; has it 
funds that it would be authorized to use for the purpose of defending a 
will in its favor? As I have no children the \vill would be less likely 
to be contested, but there are others who might attemjit to set it aside. 
For this reason what I wish above all to be assured of is that any legacy 
that I leave for the purpose named will not be given up without making 
a fight of it if needful. Please explain this point. 

I wish you to send me a form of words, the very words themselves, 
in which a bequest should be made so that there could be no pretense 
of setting it aside for vagueness ; and that will carry out my intentions, 
which I will exi)lain : 

The chief part I would desire to bequeath to the Institution would 
be for the " increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," and beside 
vould wish to have the Institution invest say $300 (is that too insig- 
nificant for the purpose*?) and use the income thereof for conferring a 
^old medal either annually or biennially (which would be the better t) 
v.- the person who had made the most important discovery in physical 
science during the year, or two years ending, say a year before the date 
of conferring the medal. For example, the Eegents would have to 
decide, say in the month of December, 1883, who made the most im- 
portant discovery in physical science during the year, or two years, 
ending December 31, 1882. If you have my meaning put it in language 
that will make it perfectly clear without multiplying words. 

The medal not for any patented invention, like the electric light, for 
example, but especially and only for such discoveries as Pasteur on in- 
fection, fermentation, &c., and G. Darwin's on tidal action. Eegents 
to be sole judges as to what is meant by physical science and most im- 
portant discoveries therein. 

The reason why I would like to have not only suggestions and ex- 
planations but the full "I will and bequest to" is also because I don't 
know whether to say the Eegents shall do this or that, or whether to say 
a majority or quorum of them shall do it in order to make it both strictly 
legal and also practicable; also, whether or not it is necessary to say 
how the Eegents shall invest the money. I suppose a copy of that part 



XIV JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

of Hamilton's or Huebus' (Habel ?) will would answer for the part re- 
lating to the " increase and diffusion," &c. As for the medal I believe 
no fund has been left to institutions for that purpose, and I should like 
to have your opinion on it. 

Please return this letter with your answer, which I would like you to 
let me have as soon as you can; taking, however, all the time you need 
to make it so full and explicit that no further correspondence will be 
necessary at this stage. I mean business if your answer is satisfactory. 
For the present I desire this alfair to be treated as confidential, or if 
necessary to mention to other parties, withhold the name. 

There is one thing I had rather do than make a bequest in favor of 
the Institution, namely, pay over a certain sum, say $2,000 or $2,500, 
in trust to the Eegents; provided I could receive the income during 
life, the Institution to have the sole use and possession of the same after 
my death. Would the Institution be authorized to accept a sum of 
money on such terms ? 
Eespectfully, 



After full discussion of the subject it was, on motion of Mr. Edmunds — 

Resolved, That the communication be referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee with full power to act in relation to it. 

The Secretary, Professor Baird, presented his annual report of the 
operations of the institutfon for the year 1884, which was read in part. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean, the Secretary was instructed to transmit 
the report to Congress. 

On motion of Mr. Edmunds, it was — 

Resolved (1), That the fiscal year of the Institution shall hereafter ter- 
minate on the 30th day of June in each year. 

(2) That the Secretary shall hereafter prepare and cause to be printed 
and sent to each member of the Board on or before the first day of De- 
cember in each year, his annual report. 

(3) That the annual meeting of the Board of Eegents shall hereafter 
be held on the second Wednesday in January in each year. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. a 

IP 

fx 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 

1884. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures for the In- 
stitution and the Museum, for 1884, and the estimates for the year 1885. 

Condition of the fund January 3, 1885. 

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States (act of Congress 
August 10, 1846) $515, 169 00 

Residuary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States (act of Congress 
February 8, 18(37) 26, 210 63 

Addition to the fund from savings, &c. (act of Congress 
February 8, 1867) 108, 620 37 

Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Pennsylvania (1884) 1, 000 00 

Addition to the fund by bequest of Simeon Habel, of New 
York (1880) 500 00 

Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds 

A (1881) \ 51, 500 00 

g"^ Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of 
^'^ the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent. 

per annum $703,000 00 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Inetitution 

for the year 1884. 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest on the Smithson fund $42, 180 00 

Repayment of expenses of freight, &c., on 
Henry statue, by act of Congress 900 00 

Balance cash on hand January 1, 1884 25,914 20 

Total receipts $68, 994 20 

XV 



XVI REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

EXPENDITURES. 

Building : 

Eepairs and improvements $2,205 74 

Furniture and fixtures . . 2,423 90 

$4,629 64 

General expenses : 

Meetings of the Board 469 75 

Postage and telegraph 337 44 

Stationery ... 522 82 

General printing, blanks, &c 922 58 

Incidentals, horse, carriage, gas, «&c 1, 250 00 

Books, periodicals, and binding 2, 528 25 

Salaries, Secretary, clerks, assistants, aud 

labor : - . 16, 591 19 

22, 622 03 

Publications and researches: bni'.ai 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 3,100 93 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 4, 939 59 ^'v^bLnfioin 

Smithsonian Annual Eeport 2, 834 53 

Explorations 2, 881 16 

Apparatus 94 77 

Literary and scientific exchanges in addition 

to appropriation by Congress 2, 510 71 

16,361 69 

Total expenditures 43, 613 36 

Balance, January, 1885 $25, 380 84 

ESTIMATES FOR 1885. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the 
year 1885, and of the appropriations required for carrying on its opera- 
tions during the same period : 

Receipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund receivable July 1, 1885, 
and January 1, 1886 $42, 180 00 

Expenditures. 

For building and repairs $1, 500 00 

For general expenses, including salaries 23, 000 00 

For Publications and researches 12, OPO 00 

For Exchanges 3,000 00 

For Contingencies 2, 680 00 

Total $42,180 00 



REPORT OF THE BOARD OP REGENTS. XVII 

NATIONAL MUSEUM, AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS 
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following appropriations were made at the first session of the 

Forty-eighth Congress for the JSTalional Museum, and other objects com- 
mitted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution : 

For the preservation and exhibition and in- 
crease of the collections received from the 
surveying and exploring expeditions of the 
Government, and other sources, including 
salaries or compensation of all necessary 
employes $91, 000 00 

For transfer and arrangement of the collec- 
tions of the American Institute of Mining 
Engineers, presented to the Government, 
• .c!:. ^ing expenses already incurred 10, 000 00 

For expense of heating, lighting, and telepho- 
/. ^oi-rical service for the new Museum 

building 6, 000 00 

$107,000 00 

For care of the Armory building and grounds and expense 
of watching, preservation, and storage of the duplicate 
collections of the Government, and of the property of 
the United States Fish Commission contained therein, 
including salaries or compensation of all necessary em- 
ployes 2, 500 00 

For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for the exhibi- 
tion of the collections of the United States National Mu- 
seum, and for salaries or compensation of all necessary 
employes 40,000 00 

For the expenses of an international exchange of books, 
documents, and productions of the United States with 
foreign countries, in accordance with the Paris conven- 
tion of 1877, including salaries and compensation to all 
necessary employes, to be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 10, 000 00 

For finishing, heating, gas-fitting, plumbing, and com- 
pletely furnishing the eastern portion of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and for finishing the fourth and fifth stories, 
including liabilities already incurred 15, 000 00 

For paving sidewalk on south and east fronts of National 
Museum building 1, 000 00 

For expense of freight on statue of Joseph Henry from 
Eome to Washington, and all expenses by the Smith- 
sonian Institution connected with the erection and cere- 
monies of unveiling said statue - 900 00 

S. Mis. 33 II 



XVIII 



REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 



For the purpose of continuing ethnological researches 
among the American Indians, under the direction of the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, including sala- 
ries and compensation of all necessary employes 



$40,000 00 



Exhibit of condition of appropriations by Congress for Xational Museum, ^c, January 1, 

1885. 



Object. 



Balance 
January 1, 

1884. 



Appropriated. Total avail- 



for fiscal 

year 1884-'85, 

act July 7, 

1884. 



able from 

January 1, 

1884, to .June 

30, 1885. 



Expended 

in the year 

1884. 



Balance 

January 1, 
1885, avail- 
able till June 
30, 1885. 



Preservation of collections, 
^National Museum , 

Armory Biiilding, National 
Muspum . . 

Fiirnitiire and fixtures, Na- 
tii lual Museum 

International Exchanjies. . ... 

Keconstruction eastern por- 
tion Smithsonian building .. 

Paving sidewalk. National 
Mn.seum 

North American Ethnology... 



$46, 658 51 

1, 525 50 

36. 020 49 
3,500 00 

12, 677 14 



19, 945 40 



$107, 000 00 

2, 500 00 

40, 000 00 
10,000 00 

15, 000 00 

1, Ono 00 
40, 000 00 



$153,658 51 i $100,259 24 



4, 025 50 


2, 525 00 


76, 020 49 
13, 500 00 


63,384 13 
7, 705 50 


27, 677 14 


26, 378 92 


1,000 00 




59, 945 40 


40, 419 78 



$53, 399 27 

1, 500 50 

12, 636 36 
5, 794 50 

1, 298 22 

1, 000 00 
19, 525 62 



The balance (January 1, 1884), $802,17, of the appropriation for pre- 
paring tbe scientific report of the Polaris expedition, has been expended 
during the year, according to the certificate of Major Hobbs, October 
G, 1884, disbursing clerk of the Treasury Department. 

The appropriation by Congress of $900 to reimburse the Institution 
for its expenditures in connection with the Henry statue, was received 
from the Treasury Department in October, 1884, and is included in the 
statement of receipts for the year. 

The committee has examined the vouchers for payments made from 
the Smithson income during the year 1884, all of which bear the ap- 
proval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the 
materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the 
Institution. 

The committee has also examined the accounts of the National 
Museum and find that the balances above given correspond with the 
certificates of the disbursing officers of the Interior and Treasury De- 
partments. 

The quarterly and annual accounts-current, the check-books and 
journals have been examined and found correct. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

John Maclean, 
W. T. Sherman, 
James C. Welling, 

Executive Committee. 

Washington, January, 1885. 

Dr. Maclean's examination of the expenditures and vouchers was 
limited to those of the Smithsonian Institution proper. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS FOR THE RECONSTRUCTION 
OF THE EASTERN PORTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN IN- 
STITUTION. 

Prof. S. F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution: ' 

Sir : We have the honor to submit a report of the operations pertain- 
ing to the fire-proof reconstruction of the east jjortion of the Smithson- 
ian building, which was commenced in the month of April. 1883, and 
completed during the last year. 

For a proper understanding of the conditions under which this work 
was executed it may be well to recall a few steps in the life of the whole 
building. 

On the 28th of January, 1847, the plans of James Renwick, esq., of 
New York, were adopted, bids for the completion of the whole building 
were invited, the work awarded on the 9th of March, and the corner- 
stone laid on the 1st of May following. Five years were stipulated for 
the completion of the work under the building contract. 

On the 26th of February, 1850, the interior framing and floors of part 
of the center building, intended to contain the museum of apparatus, 
fell down into the basement before completion, and on July 3, 1850, a 
committee of the Regents of the Institution reported "that the interior 
of the main building is defective in the kind of material originally 
adopted and to a considerable degree in the quality of the material em- 
ployed, which consists principally of wood. The money was mainly 
expended upon the cut-stone work of the fronts." The committee rec- 
ommended " that the interior of the center building be removed and 
that a j^re-j^roo/ structure be substituted for it." 

In January, 1853, the plans of Capt. B. S. Alexander, U. S. A., for fire- 
proofing and finishing the interior of the center building were adopted, 
and the author of the plans intrusted with the superintendence of this 
work, which was commenced in June, 1853, and completed in Decem- 
ber, 1854. It included a lecture room with unsurpassed optical and 
acoustic properties, accommodating 1,800 persons. Unfortunately for 
the building the term " fire-proofing " had in those days simply refer- 
ence to floors and walls, so that the fire-proofed center building still 
retained a combustible wooden roof, like all other public buildings 
erected about the same time. 

A fire occurred on the 24th of January, 1865, which destroyed this 
roof, and with it all the interior of the upper story of the main building 
and the adjacent towers. The executive committee of the Regents re- 



XX REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

ported that careful survey forced upon them the conviction that "the 
original construction of the building as a whole was very defective and 
unsuited as a receptacle of valuable records. The two wings and con- 
necting ranges, which were not injured by the fire, are defective in ma- 
terial and construction. The floors in some cases, though covered with 
flagging, rest upon wooden beams, which are decayed, and in a few 
years the interior of these parts will require removal." 

The Eegents decided that the restoration should in all parts be inde- 
structible by fire, and intrusted Adolf Cluss, architect, with the plans 
and superintendence of the work, which was carried on shortly after 
the close of the war, when material and labor had risen to the highest 
mark. 

The second story of the center building was fitted up as a hall for 
Government collections, and was covered with an iron and slate roof; 
five towers were fitted up with iron and brick floors, iiartitions, and roofs, 
and with iron stairs. This work was completed in the season of 1867. 
Fire-proof floors were substituted in 1871 for the decayed lower wooden 
floors of the west wing and of the northwest arcade, and in 1873 a steam- 
heating apparatus was put in the building. 

The east wing, then called the chemical wing, was originally arranged 
for one large lecture-room, provided with seats for 1,000 persons, and 
the adjoining range was fitted n]) for two apparatus-rooms in close prox- 
imity with the lecturers' table. When the improved lecture-room in the 
main building was completed in 1854 there was no longer any use for 
the now antiquated room which absorbed the whole east wing. Hence, 
this wing was temporarily divided into two stories, with wooden floors, and 
studded, lathed, and plastered partitions. The lower floor was arranged 
in a large room for handling all articles of exchange; &c. The second 
story was fitted up with a suit of rooms for the accommodation of the 
Secretary of the Institution, in accordance with the original intentions 
of the Regents, and the high space above was left unfinished as a loft. 

The fenestration became, in the newly arranged two stories, most 
anomalous. The tall windows of a lofty lecture-room being subdivided, 
the old frames came to be in the lower story very near to the ceiling, 
and almost on a level with the floor in the upper story. The connect- 
ing wing, as altered, accommodated simply two middle-sized offices, with 
the cloister along the exposed north front, through the open arches of 
which rain and snow drifted, and rotted the wooden floor-joists so much 
that they had to be temporarily supported from the cellar. Before long 
the opei;^arches of the cloister had to be filled in with temporary wooden 
windows, which barely kept the weather out. 

Above the first story of the range there was a second story, of no 
practical value, since the external architecture limited the size of its 
windows to bull's-eyes of 2J feet in diameter, «&c. 

The museum was shut off from the eastern main entrance by direct 
obstructions and by floors on two different levels. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. XXT 

This deplorable condition of the east wing, continued for a series of 
years, demanded in the end prompt action, and in March, 1883, an ap- 
propriation of $50,000 was made by Congress for the fire-proof recon- 
struction of the eastern part of the Smithsonian Institution, to which 
$15,000 were added in July, 1884, for completion and furniture. 

Under these appropriations the old " chemical wing " was stripped of 
the combustible constructions ; so much of the exterior walls as de- 
pended upon the wooden frame work was carefully taken down; all or- 
namental cut-stone work, consisting of copies from doors, windows, and 
cornices of divers monastic edifices in France and Germany, was laid 
aside and reset in the walls during the progress of the work. The 
dark and damp cellar, containing 4,500 square feet of floor space, was 
drained, and provided with a Portland cement floor upon a concrete 
foundation, and converted into dry working-rooms in best sanitary con- 
dition. On the ground floor cheerful offices were arranged on both sides 
of a broad and level corridor, by which the old museum is reached in a 
direct line from the east entrance. Tbe formerly useless and anomalous 
second story was rearranged into two stories of ten feet clear height 
for offices, with adequate light and air, and covered with a metal roof, 
fastened in a fire-proof manner upon concreted brick arches. 

Above the ground floor of the east wing there were but six badly 
lighted and ventilated rooms in a second story. These were replaced 
by seven well lighted and aired spacious offices, and a similar space 
was gained in each of two upper stories for offices and document-rooms. 
This wing is crowned by a pitched mediaeval wrought-iron roof, covered 
with slate hung to iron pur-lines for the steep portions, and with metal 
upon hollow terra-cotta tiles for the flat portions. 

There are arranged above the basement, in all, 36 office rooms, con- 
taining 12,500 square feet floor space. 

In the progress of the work the exterior walls were strengthened, sub- 
stantial brick walls were built for the interior partitions, and supports 
of the fire-proof floors consisting of concreted brick arches sprung 
between rolled-iron beams. 

All the rooms are provided with extra large gas-pipes and flues end- 
ing above the roof, so that eventually either of them may be used by the 
scientists for experiments. There are tubes laid throughout for inter- 
communication by means of oral annunciators, and piping for clocks. 

Documents may be raised or lowered from the outside of the building 
to the basement by a hoist, and from there distributed to the archives 
in the different stories by means of an elevator of cheap construction. 

A compact low-pressure steam-heating apparatus warms the whole 
section promptly and comfortably at a moderate expense. 

The exterior architecture was simply modified by resetting all the 
architraves and cornices at such levels as to enable valuable space 
within the buQding to be made useful for laboratories, offices, work- 
rooms, archives, and store-rooms, by enlarging some of the windows as 



XXII REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

necessary for the new conditions, by supplying a small quantity of plain 
cut stone, and by adding Norman dormers of cut-stone work for light- 
ing the space within the pitched roof of the west wing. 

A financial statement accompanies this report, which gives the cost of 
all branches of the work in detail and requires no comment. 

With the completion of the work, as above reported upon, the prin- 
cipal part of the Smithsonian building is now, from foundation to roof, 
beyond the reach of any serious fire. Still the reconstruction is not com- 
plete as long as the west wing and adjoining range above the ground floor 
are of combustible construction. During a conflagration in those com- 
bustible parts of the building, the main building in the center would 
probably be considerably damaged by water. 

In the center building some repairs are necessary, and the first story 
ought to be re-arranged, so that the available space can be made more 
useful for the purposes of the Institution. 

We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your most obed't, 

OLUSS & SCHULZE, 
Architects. 

Washington, D. C, 

January 12, 1886. 



PLAINS AND VIEWS OF THE GROUNDS AND BUILDING 
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



1. Plau of^tbe Smitlisonian Grounds, appropriated to the ube of the 

Institutiou by act of Congress August 10, 184G. 

2. View of the north front of the Smithsonian building (from the west), 

showing partly the original form of the eastern portion. 

3. View of the south front of the Smithsonian building, showing the 

present reconstructed ajipearance of the eastern portion. 

4. Elevations of the eastern portion as reconstructed, showing first the 

north aspect, and second, the south aspect. 

5. Elevation of the east front of the eastern portion as reconstructed, 

and also plau of the basement. 

6. Plans of the first and second stories of the eastern portion as recon- 

structed. 

7. Plans of the third and fourth stories of the eastern portion as recon- 

structed. 



Plate 1. 



XXV 



(D 
0) 



MALL 



I2TH STREET WEST 




PLAN OF THE SMITHSONIAN GROUNLiS. 



(ArPROPRIATtD DV ACT OF CONGRESS, AUGUST 10, 
I046.J 



Plate 2. 



XXVIT 




Plate 3. 



XXIX 




Plate 4. 



XXXI 




EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — NORTH ELEVATION. 




T f 1 



EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — SOUTH ELEVATION. 



Plate 5. 



XXXIII 




Tnf I r r r 



EASTERN PORTION- OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — EAST ELEVATION. 




EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — PLAN OF BASEMENT. 

S. Mis. 33 ni 



Plate 6. 



XXXV 




10 s q 10 20 30 ^0 so 

EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — PLAN OF FIRST STORY. 




EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — PLAN OF SECOND STORY. 



Plate 7. 



XXXVII 




EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — PLAN OF THIRD STORY, 




10 S O /Q 20 30 40 SO 

EASTERN PORTION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION— PLAN OF FOURTH STORY. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE "ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January 1, 1885.) 



CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States. 
G. F. EDMUNDS, President of the United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 
FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State. 
HUGH Mcculloch, secretary of the Treasury. 
ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM E. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Navy. 
FRANK HATTON, Postmaster-General. 
HENRY M. TELLER, Secretary of the Interior. 
BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General. 
BENJAMIN BUTTERWORTH, Commissioner of Patents. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(January 1, 1885.) 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, 

President of the Board. 
G. F. EDMUNDS, President of the United States Senate. 
NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
SAMUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States. 
J. S. MORRILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
O. R. SINGLETON, member of the House of Representatives. 
WILLIAM L. WILSON, member of the House of Representatives. 
W. W. PHELPS, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY COPPfiE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
JAMES C. WELLING, citizen of Washington, D. C. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. 

John Maclean. William T. Sherman. James C. Welling. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary of the Institution and Director of the 
U. S. National Museum. 

XXXIX 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1884, 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen: I have the honor to present herewith the report of the 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1884. This, in accordance with the usual custom, will include an ac« 
count of the work performed b^' the Smithsonian Institution itself, as 
well as that of the branches of the public service placed by Congress 
under its charge, namely, the National Museum and the Bureau of Eth- 
nology. To this will be added a sketch of the work of the United 
States Fish Commission, which is also under my charge ; and of that 
of the Ui S. Geological Survey, kindly furnished by its Director. 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 
INTRODUCTORY. 

Outside of the regular routine work of the Institution, an account of 
which will be furnished in its proper place, are the details connected 
with the participation, in 1884, by the Smithsonian Institution in the 
exhibitions at Cincinnati, Louisville, and the International Cotton Ex- 
l)osition at New Orleans, with which your Board was charged by order 
of Congress. A full account of the history of these undertakings will 
be given hereafter. 

An increasing number of national organizations for the promotion of 
science has received accommodation in the lecture-room of the National 
Museum during the year, in accordance with the authority of the Board. 

The repairs to the eastern portion of the Smithsonian building have 
been completed, with the exception of a few minor details, and the offices 
re-established. 

The general progress of the Institution during the year, and that of 
t!ie public service under its control, has been satisfactory. The Smith- 
sonian funds are in good condition, the new year being entered upon 
free from any indebtedness and with a satisfactory balance on hand. 

The publications of the Institution have been continued, and numer- 
ous additions have been made to the library. The work of the Inter- 
national Exchange service continues to increase, and wiJl, it is hoped, 

1 



2 REPORT OF TUE SECRETARY. 

be placed upon a still more definite and satisfactory basis -during the 
year 1885. 

The additions to the Museum have been unexampled in extent, con- 
sequent partly upon the acquisitions made in connection with the ex 
hibitions just referred to, and partly upon the labors of the Geological 
Survey, of the Ethnological Bureau, of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion, and of numerous miscellaneous explorations, both public and pri- 
vate. 

THE HENRY STATUE. 

The appropriation of $15,000, made some years ago by Congress, for 
the erection of the Henry statue did not quite cover all the expenses, 
and the sum of $900 was advanced from the funds of the Institution. 
Believing, however, that it was the intent of Congress that this statue 
should be placed in position without cost to the Institution, application 
was made for the sum named, which was duly allowed. The money has 
been paid over and placed to the credit of the Institution. 

PROFESSOR henry's SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS. 

At the meeting of the Board of Regents of January 17, 1883, a reso- 
lution was introduced by Dr. Maclean to provide for the republication 
of Professor Henry's scientific writings. A committee appointed at the 
last meeting of the Board, January 16, 1884, consisting of Prof. Asa 
Gray, Hon. William L. Wilson, and your Secretary, has had the subject 
under consideration, and has decided that the resolution only covered 
such of Professor Henry's articles as had actually been printed, and espe- 
cially the portion prior to his entrance upon his duties at Washington. 
The editing of this publication was intrusted to Mr. Wm. B. Taylor, who 
has been engaged in collecting the necessary material. The commence- 
ment of the work has gone to press, and a sample is submitted for the 
information and criticism of the Regents. 

JAMES SMITHSON. 

In the Life of Smithson,* published by the Institution a few yeare ago, 
the author, Mr. Rhees, says: "It is an interesting subject of speculation 
to consider the motives which actuated Smithson in bequeathing his 
fortune to the United States of America, to found an institution in the 
city of Washington. He is not known to have had a single correspond- 
ent in America, and in none of his x>apers is found any reference to it 
or to its distinguivshed men. It has been alleged that he was more 
friendly to monarchical than to republican institutions, but there aj)- 
peaTO to be no foundation for this opinion. * * * By selecting the 
United States as the depository of his trust he paid the highest compli- 



*•' Smithson and lii.s Bequest." Siuithsoniau Miscellaneous Collections, No. 330, 
1880, p. 18. And Smithsonian Annual Report for 1879. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3 

ment to its intelligence and integrity, and testified his confidence in 
republican institutions and his faith in their j^erpetuity." 

It is gratifying to be able to confirm this suj^position by information 
which has recently been communicated to this Institution. The follow- 
ing letters from a grandson of Davies Gilbert, president of the Royal 
Society, and an intimate friend of Smithson, were received during the 
past year: 

Enys, Penryn, Cornwall, England, 

■March 13, 1884. 
Prof. S. F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir: Some years since I noticed, while I was living in New Zealand, 
an advertisement for any letters or information relating to Mr. Smithson, 
addressed especially to descendants of Sir Davies Gilbert and others. 

On my return to England I came across a letter written by Smith- 
son, dated Paris, May 9, year 4, (1702), under his first name, James 
L, Macie, and addressed to my grandfather, Mr. Davies Gilbert {never 
Sir). Should you wish for a coi>y of this letter and any information 
relative to his passing at Oxford, and short notes by my grandfather 
written in bis pocket-book, I shall be glad to send them. 

I should have inclosed copies, but fear the * life ' projected may be 
long since published. 

Yours, truly, 

John D. Enys. 

Athen^um Club, Pall Mall, S. W., 

Maij IG, 1684. 
My Dear Sir: I have lately returned from fishing in Scotland, and 
write to acknowledge your answer to my letter re Smithson. 

On my return to Cornwall next month I will copy from my grand- 
father's pocket-books the entries relating to him as Mr. Macie, and for- 
ward a copy of the only letter I know of from him written from Paris 
when the Kevolution was first under way. 

I shall be grateful if you could forward me here, or to my address in 
Cornwall, any life or account of Mr. Smithson such as you have already 
published. 

Yours, truly, 

John D. Enys. 

Enys, Penryn, Cornwall, 

August 23, 1884. 
My Dear Sir : I am afraid that the following extract from my grand- 
father's pocket-books and addresses to the Royal Society of London will 
be of very slight value to you. I know of no other letter of his, but 
any under the not familiar name of Macie I have no doubt were long ago 
burnt. Should any further information turn up I will forward it. 
I shall be glad to hear if you think right to publish the inclosed, which 



4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

were written on the leaves bound up in Mr. Davies Gilbert's pocket- 
books, and should like copies of any information which has been pub- 
lished before. 

You are at liberty to destroy the extracts or publish them, as you 
think best towards Smithson's memory. 

Yours, truly, 

John D. Enys. 

Note under the ice^lcfrom June 8-14, 1789. In bound-up poclet-hook of 
Davies Gilbert, F. B. S., M. T., &c. 

<' Macie, afterwards Smithson, was a Gent. Com. when I entered at 
Pembroke College. 

" His mother's husbaud was a country gentleman, to whose estates he 
has succeeded ; but the first Duke of Northumberland was allowed on 
all hands to be his father. At the time of his matriculation I have 
heard that a blank was left for his surnames, Mr. Macie having at that 
period instituted suit to annul his marriage, which the wife defended. 
The Dutchess of N. then died, when Mrs. Macie wished the marriage 
dissolved, with the hope of marrying the Duke of N., but this the hus- 
band from spite opposed, and I have heard that a suit was actually in- 
stituted in which the parties had changed sides. Pending these mat- 
ters Mr. Macie died, and my friend succeeded to his estate. The Duke 
of Northumberland did not marry the mother, nor, I believe, did he 
notice Macie m his will, certainly not beyond a small legacy. Yet on 
that event Macie had the bad taste (not to use a stronger expression) to 
obtain the King's authority for taking the name of Smithson (his puta- 
tive father's), he still continuing to usurpe and wrongfully hold, by his 
own admission, the property of the Macie's. 

"Mr. tSmithsou has lived chiefly abroad, with manners and habits 
more foreign than English. He is living unm arried in 1826. * * * 
Several ingenious papers in the Phil:- Transactions and other periodi- 
cal works here and on the Continent under the names James Smith- 
son and James Macie. D. G." 

" in the college register it is usual, after incerting the Christian and 
surnames of the person admitted, to add Filius Richardi (for instance) 
Armigeri or Generosus, but not repeating the surname. 

" In Mr. Macie's case the addition is Filius Armigeri, omitting his 
father's name altogether. D. G." 

Note in bound copy of MS. poclcet-booJc kept by Davies Gilbert. 

" May 26, 1786. 
" On this day Mr. James Louis Macie (afterwards Smithson) was cre- 
ated Master of Arts in the Convocation House. I remember his being 
seated on the upper end of the bench, on the floor, on the proctor's lelt 
hand J that we walked back together, when Macie exchanged his cap for 



REPCRT OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

a hat, and then walked with me round Christ Church meadows. What 
is very curious his father's name is omitted and he is merely stated to 
be the son of an esquire." 

" For some account of Mr. James Smithson Macie see Gentleman's 
Magazine for March, 1830, p. 275." 

" Extract translated from the college register : " 1786, May 7, James 
Louis (or Lewis) Macie, jet, 17, of London, son of an esquire, matricu- 
lated of Pembroke College, Oxford." 

"Under June 11th, 1789 : " Macie introduced me to Sir Joseph Banks 
at the Eoyal Society." 

Letter from James Smithson to Davies Gilbert. 

" Parts, May dth, Year 4 [1792]. 
" Dear Sir : Your letter did not reach London till after I was come 
out of town, and followed me here. I really take it exceedingly ill of 
you to have forgot my crystals, and beg of you to make quick and 
ample atonement for it. I do not now remember what particular ones 
I requested you to procure me, but any you bring shall, king-like, be 
graciously received, as a testimony of your good intentions. Well ! 
Things are going on ! ^a ira is growing the song of England, of Eu- 
rope, as well as of France. Men of every rank are joining in the 
chorus. Stupidity and guilt have had a long reign, and it begins, in- 
deed, to be time for justice and common sense to have their turn. The 
office which you have been lately named to will, I hope, afford you 
means of promoting their cause. Every Englishman I converse with, 
almost every Englishman I see or hear of, appears to be of the demo- 
cratic party. Mr. Davis, high sheriff' for Dorsetshire, left this town to- 
day and takes with him, it seems, a quantity of tricolor ribbon to deck 
his men with the French national cockades, and I do not think this ex- 
ample unworthy of imitation by those whose principles lead them to 
consider with indifference and contempt the frowns of the court party, 
to whom, doubtless, the mixture of red, white, and blue is an object of 
horror. I do not tell you news of this country, as the English papers 
inform you pretty faithfully of the manner in which it goes on. You 
have understood, I hope, that the church is now here quite unacknowl- 
edged by the state, and is indeed allowed to exist only till they have 
leisure to give it the final death-stroke. Mr. Louis Bourbon is still at 
Paris, and the office of king is not yet abolished, but they daily feel the 
inutility, or rather great inconvenience, of continuing it, and its dura- 
tion will probably not be long. May other nations, at the time of their 
reforms, be wise enough to cast off, at first, the contemptible incum- 
brai)ce. I consider a nation with a king as a man who takes a lion as 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

a guard dog — if he knocks out his teeth he renders him useless, while 
if he leaves the lion his teeth the lion eats him. 

" 1 remain, dear sir, yours, very sincerely, 

"James L. Maoie. 
" I beg of you to make my best compliments to your father. A let- 
ter directed as follows will reach me : Monsieur Macie, Hotel de Pare 
Eoyal, Eue de Colombier, F. S. G., A Paris. 
" To Davies Giddy,* Esq., 

" Tredred, near Marazian, Cornwall, Angleterre.^^ 

This letter is indorsed by Davies Gilbert (formerly Giddy): " Smith-- 
son. J. L. Macie. 1792. May the 9th." 

Mr. Davies Gilbert was sheriff of Cornwall in 1792. 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

It is with regret that I announce the resignation of Hon. Peter Parker, 
on April 17, 1884, of the office of member of the Board of Eegents and of 
the Executive Committee. Dr. Parker has performed these functions 
for many years, and always with zeal and fidelity. His advancing years 
and the great amount of labor required from the Executive Committee 
in the way of auditing the accounts of the Institution, &c., made him 
firm in insisting upon the acceptance of his resignation against many 
protests. His place was accordingly filled by Congress by the election 
of Dr. James C. Welling, president of Columbian University of this city, 
on May 13. Dr. Welling was requested by the remainder of the Execu 
tive Committee — General Sherman and Eev. Dr. Maclean — to take Dr. 
Parker's place on that committee. 

The term of Eev. Dr. ]ST>ah Porter as Eegent having expired, he was 
re-elected by Congress on March 3 for another term of six years. 

ACTING SECRETARY. 

In view of the importance of having some one, notably an officer of 
the Institution, to exercise the functions of Acting Secretary in the 
event of the extended absence, disability, or death of the Secretary, a 
law was passed January 24, 1879, giving to the Chancellor the power 
to make such selection ; and Mr. W. J. Ehees, the chief clerk, was ap- 
pointed to fill the position. The Board at its last meeting found some 
informality or uncertainty in the act of Congress, and the following 
act, prepared by Hon. G. F. Edmunds, of the Senate, one of the Ee- 
gents, was passed, and approved on May 13, 1884 : 

An act to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian 

Institution. 

PuMic, No. 31, Forty-eighth Congress, first session. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Chancellor of the Smith- 

*The family name of Davies Gilbert was Giddy. At his marriage, in 1808, he as- 
tjumed his wife's natoe, Gilbert. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

sonian Institution may, by an instrument in writing filed in the office 
of the Secretary thereof, designate and appoint a suitable person to act 
as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a vacancy in said 
oflBce, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable from illness, absence, 
or other cause to perform the duties of his ofBce ; and in such case the 
person so appointed may*perform all the duties imposed on the Secre- 
tary by law until the vacancy shall be filled or such inability shall 
cease. The said Chancellor may change such designation and appoint- 
ment from time to time as the Institution may in his judgment require. 
Approved May 13, 1884. 

In accordance with this act the following action was taken by the 
Chancellor: 

By virtue of the authority conferred on me by the act of May 13, 
1884, "to provide for the appointment of an Acting Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution," 1 hereby designate and appoint Mr. William 
J. Ehees to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a 
vacancy in that office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable, from 
illness, absence, or other cause, to perform the duties of his office. 

M. R. Waite, 
Chancellor of tlie Smithsonian Institution. 
Lyme, Conn., July 2, 1884. 

PORTRAITS OF THE REGENTS. 

It has been the object of the Smithsonian Institution to make a col- 
lection, as complete as possible, of the likenesses of all who have served 
as its Regents. This object is comparatively easy of attainment in the 
immediate present, but as the enterprise was not initiated until quite 
recently, there is an undesirable number of blanks in the collection. 
Crayon portraits, however, of Prof. Asa Gray, at present one of the 
Regents, and of President Fillmore, and Vice-President George M. 
Dallas, who were Chancellors of the Institution, all by Mr. Henry Ulke, 
were added to the gallery during the year. 

FINANCES. 

As in previous years, the Secretary has much pleasure in announcing 
the excellent condition of the finances ; all ijidebtedness to the 1st of 
January, 1885, having been paid, and leaving a balance in the Treasury 
available for the operations of the coming year. In the report of the 
Executive Committee will be found a statement of the receipts and 
expenditures, with the balances, as also a list of appropriations made 
by Congress. In the list of credits enumerated will be found the sum 
of $900, appropriated by Congress for expenses of construction and 
installation of the Henry statue over and above the original appro- 
priation. 

The permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the United States 
is $703,000. The receipts during the year 1884, including the balance 
unexpended on the 1st of January, were $68,994.20, and the expendi- 
tures $43,013.30; leaving a balance of $25,380.84, available for tb^ 
operations of the Institution, in ^885, 



5 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

BUILDINGS. 

Smithsonian Building. — The appropriation of Conjp'ess, available on 
January 1, for the reconstruction of the eastern range and wing was 
insufficient to complete it, and an additionaJ sum of $15,000 was granted 
at the first session of the Forty-eighth Congress. This was expended 
in fitting up the two upper stories of the building, which had been 
necessarily left unfinished for lack of funds. This included the intro- 
duction of iron furring and iron lathing for the ceilings immediately 
under the roof — a measure very necessary for the comfort of the occu- 
pants of the rooms below them. It was impossible, however, to find 
the means for plastering, which yet remains to be done. 

With the additional appropriation many of the rooms were fitted uj) 
specially for their requirements, including a post-office, which is used 
by nearly 200 persons — equal in the amount of mail distributed daily to 
that of a village of considerable size. 

In view of the difficulty of making the electric connections answer a 
satisfactory purpose, it was thought best to make provision for intro- 
ducing the pneumatic clock system whenever occasion allowed, and for 
this purpose the air-tubes were inserted, to which the regulator-clock 
and the dials in the several rooms can be fitted at any time. A similar 
provision was made for the oral annunciator — an arrangement by which 
communication can be established direct at a central station betv\een 
the pipes leading to any two rooms in the building, thus facilitating com- 
munication and obviating the use of several telephones. A few tele- 
phones have been introduced, more especially with reference to connec- 
tion with the switchboard in the National Museum, and by which 
communication is established with all parts of that building, as well as 
with the city systems of exchange and those of the Departments. 

By the courtesy of the Superintendent of the Observatory, and at but 
slight expense, a control-clock jvas set up in the National Museum 
building, as also in that of the Smithsonian Institution, these being reg- 
ulated at noon each day by communication direct from the Observatory. 
In this way the important desideratum of accurate time is obtained. 

The rooms in the reconstructed portion of the building are now all 
occupied for the general purposes of the Institution, notably the depart- 
ments of administration, of international and miscellaneous exchanges, 
of the reference library, of transportation, and of publication. Several 
rooms are occupied by artists employed in connection with the work of 
the Institution, or persons who are engaged in preparing special reports 
upon collections and explorations made by them under the direction of 
the Smithsonian Institution, the Fish Commission, and the United States 
Signal Office. Three rooms have been fitted up as a special cliemi(;al 
laboratory, in charge of Dr. Kidder, the cheniist of the United States 
Fish Commission ; and all work in the way of rating of thermometers, 
barometers, and hydrometers is under his direction, as also that con- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

nectert with chemical annlyses of air, sea-water, &c. Much work has 
alrendj' beeu done by him in this connection. 

Two rooms are occupied by the United States Coast and Geodetic 
Survey in making i)en(hihim exi)eriments. 

Considerable changes have been made in the central portion of the 
main building, consequent upon the retransfer of the tem])orary ofiQces 
to their permanent quarters in the eastern end. The large room on the 
first floor has been given up exclusively to the collections of bii-ds, shells, 
and in small part to the tishes; and by the removal of the cases on the 
south galleries exceptional facilities have been furnished to the curators 
who have charge of these departments respectively. 

During the year some experiments were made by the Brush Electric 
Light Company in lighting Washington by means of powerful arc lights 
placed on top of lofty buildings, the points selected for this purpose 
being the doiue of the Capitol, the summit of the Smithsonian tower, 
and the toi) of the Washington JVlonument. To increase the altitude of 
the Smithsonian tower a pole was erected 50 feet high, the top of which 
was, therefore, about '200 feet from the ground. At the request of the 
Institution, General Hazen, Chief Signal Ofticer, was kind enough to 
lend a large vane, which has been erected, and which serves an admir- 
able purpose in showing the direction of the wind from over a wide ex- 
tent of the city. 

National Museum Building. — This building continues to give entire 
-satisfaction as lully carrying out its objects. As might be expected, 
the ordinary minor repairs have been required from time to tiuje, but 
nothing involving any considerable expense. Some of the wooden floors 
have rotted in places, and may hereafter require renewal. At present, 
however, the renewal of a few of the boards has answeretl the purpose. 

Major Powell, of the United States Geological Survey, having secured, 
by Congressional favor, the use of a large fire-proof building in this city, 
his own oflices and those of a considerable portion of his scientific aids 
have been transferred from the National Museum building, permitting 
a rearrangement in the latter, which has been greatly to the convenience 
of the service. The rooms vacated in the northeastern pavilion were 
reoccupied, however, by the chemical and physical departments of the 
Geological Survey ; but the transfer of the latter from the southwestern 
pavilion has enabled us to give much better accommodations to the 
mineralogical, metallurgical, and lithological branches of the- service. 
The four courts which have been hitherto used merely as work-rooms or 
for storage have been cleared out and will soon be occupied by exhibits, 
thus adding over 1C,0U0 square feet to the available space for display. 

Temporary shed in ihc grounds. — The immense amount of work required 
to properly comply with the directions of Congress in connection with 
the exhibitions at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans made it 
necessary to take a portion of the api)iopriation to erect a temporary 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

building of 100 by 50 ifeet in the grounds. This, of course, will be re- 
moved as soon as it can be dispensed with ; but it has furnished an im- 
portant aid in the general work of the Institution for the year. 

Brick worlc-shop. — The vacating of several rooms by the transfer of 
Major Powell's photographic department to its new quarters on F street 
has permitted a much more satisfactory arrangement to be made of the 
taxidermical service, Mr. Henry Marshall, in charge of the mounting of 
birds, having moved upstairs and left the lower floor to Mr. Joseph 
Palmer, the superintendent of the division of modeling in plaster and 
papier-mache. The building has also been used to unpack a large col- 
lection of corals, which was made by Dr. Edward Palmer for exhibition 
at New Orleans. 

Armory Building. — This building has received some necessary repairs 
to its roof and has been painted inside, so as greatly to increase the 
neatness of its appearance. The two oval spaces referred to in the pre- 
ceding report as having been left in the concreting of the yard have now 
been converted into fish-ponds, in which carp and other fish are kept 
pending their distribution by the United States Fish Commission. 

An extension of the car-shed has also been built, under which four 
cars of the Fish Commission can be accommodated. 

As has already been stated, a side-track from the Baltimore and Po- 
tomac deiiot runs into the grounds of the Armory and under the sheds, 
and the whole establishment has been of very great service for loading 
the exhibits prepared by the Smithsonian Institution, the Fish Commis- 
sion, the Interior Dei^artment, the Treasury Department, «&c., for the 
three great expositions already referred to. 

Additional Museum Building. — The need of an additional Museum 
building was fully detailed in the last report, the demand for it being 
very much greater now than before, in view of the immense additions 
made by the regular sources of supply. Very many objects of great 
interest and requiring a large space for their accommodation have been 
promised by exhibitors at New Orleans, and it is a serious problem to 
know where these can even be stored, aside from the possibility of prop- 
erly displaying them. The full details in regard to the necessity of this 
building will be found in the report of 1883. 

Building for the Alcoholic Collections. — The presence of alcoholic speci- 
mens in large numbers, so important in a scientific point of view, greatly 
endangers the safety of museum buildings and their contents, and most 
of the establishments in Europe have lately taken the precaution to 
construct separate buildings peculiarly adairted for the purpose. An 
application was made at the last session of Congress for an appropria- 
tion to put up a similar building in the grounds of the Institution, but 
it was not acted upon favorably. This item has been renewe(l in the 
estimates for the coming- fiscal year, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC BODIES. 

The Board of Regents, at its meeting in January, 1881, formally tend- 
ered the use of the lecture-room and other accommodations in the Na- 
tional Museum to the National Academy of Sciences, and authorized 
the executive committee to grant a similar courtesy to other national 
organizations having the advancement of science as their object. Un- 
der this arrangement the National Academy met on Tuesday, April 15, 
and continued in session until Friday, April 18. 

In addition to the facilities afforded to the National Academy of 
Sciences, mentioned above, it was thought quite in accordance with its 
relationships to the Smithsonian, especially as established since the res- 
olution of the Board, above referred to, to give to the Academy the 
use of one of the new rooms in the extension of the Smithsonian build- 
ing for its archives, library, and other property. This has accordingly 
been done, and two rooms have been assigned for the purpose. It has 
proved to be a very great convenience to the officers of the Academy, 
especially during its meetings in the adjacent National Museum building. 

Among the most interesting meetings of 1884 in the National Museum, 
of the national scientific societies, was that of the American Fish Cultu- 
ral Association, which took place in May, it being the first convocation 
it has ever held in the city of Washington. In addition to the association 
itself, invitations were extended to the fish commissioners of nineteen 
States, and a large attendance was the result. Many papers were pre- 
sented, but the chief point of attraction was the opening to the public 
of the fisheries section of the Museum, as arranged after the return of 
a part of the collection from the International Fisheries Exhibition in 
Loudon. The Brush-Swan Company kindly put in sufficient plant to 
illuminate the entire building, especially the fisheries section, and a 
very large attendance was present on the occasion. The annual address 
was delivered by Hon. Theodore Lyman, who was followed by Hon. S. 
S. Cox and others. The meeting was varied by an excursion on the 
steamer Fish Hawk to the shad-hatching grounds near Fort Washing- 
ton, where the processes of treating the fish were duly exhibited. 

LECTURES. 

The success of the course of lectures delivered in 1883, in the lecture- 
room of the National Museum, under the auspices of the Anthropolog- 
ical and Biological Societies, induced those bodies to establish a second 
course for 1884, and, as before, these were attended by large audiences. 

The list of these lectures will be given under the head of National 
Museum. 

Toner Lectures. — It is known to the Board that an endowment was 
made by Dr. John M. Toner, of Washington, of a fund, the interest of 
which was to be appropriated in giving a series of lectures on some 
subject pertaining to medicine, surgery, or i>ublic health j and, by an 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

arrangement made with my predecessor, these lectures are published 
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, as a portion of the series 
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and in that form distributed 
to public libraries and to institutions having a common object with the 
lectures in question. 
The lectures delivered have been as follows : 

I. On the Structure of Cancerous Tumors and the mode in which ad- 
jacent parts are invaded. By Dr. J. J. Woodward. Delivered Marcii 
28, 1873. Published E^ovember, 1873. 8vo, 42 pp. 

II. Dual Character of the Brain. By Dr. C. E. Brown-Sequard. 
Delivered April 22, 1874. Published January, 1877. 8vo, 23 pp. 

III. On Strain and over-action of the Heart. By Dr. J. M. Da Costa. 
Debvered May 14, 1874. Published August, 18U. 8vo, 30 pp. 

IV. A Study of the nature and mechanism of Fever. By Dr. H. C. 
Wood. Delivered January 20, 1875. Published February, 1875. 8vo, 
47 pp. 

V. On the Surgical complications and sequels of the continued 
Fevers. By Dr. William W. Keen. Delivered February 17, 1876. 
Published March, 1877. 8vo, 70 pp. 

YI. Sub-cutaneous Surgery. By Dr. William Adams. Delivered 
September 13, 187fi. Published April, 1877. 8vo, 17 pp. 

VII. The Nature of Reparatory Inflammation in Arteries after Liga- 
tures, Acupressure, and Torsion. By Dr. Edward O. Shakespeare. 
Delivered June 27, 1878. Published March, 1879. 8vo, 70 pp. and 7 
plates. 

VIII. Suggestions for the Sanitary Drainage of Washington City. 
By George E. Waring, jr. Delivered May 26, 1880. Published June, 
1880. 8vo, 24 pp. 

IX. Mental over- work and premature disease among public and pro- 
fessional men. By Dr. Charles K. Mills. Delivered March 19, 1884. 
Published January, 1885. 8vo, 30 pp. 

As it has been found quite impossible to supply gratuitously the large 
demand from medical men and others for these lectures (in addition to 
the liberal grant to the leading public libraries and other institutions 
in this and foreign countries), the uniform price of 25 cents has been 
fixed for each, by which probably their more equitable distribution will 
be secured. 

The rooms of the National INIuseum were occupied on March 19 for 
the delivery of the ninth lecture of the foregoing series by Dr. Charles 
K. ]\Iills, of Philadelphia. A large and attentive audience was present 
during the delivery, and the paper will be printed as soon as the re- 
vision is received from the author. 

ROUTINE WORK IN THE INSTITUTION. 

The most important event of the year to be mentioned in this con- 
nection is the occupation of the new rooms in the eastern range and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

wing of the Smithsonian building alter their reconstruction, a work 
which occupied about a year from its commencement in the spring of 
1883. 

For many years past the small number of rooms available for the ad- 
ministrative offices of the Institution has greatly impeded its business 
and interfered with the effectiveness of the work of all the employes. 
The stock of publications was widely scattered in different i)arts of the 
Smithsonian building, and the rooms were overcrowded with clerks and 
assistants. The records were necessarily kept in places more or less 
inconvenient of access, with a constant fear of their destruction and 
that of other property of the Institution by fire in a building so con- 
structed that should a fire break out it would be almost impossible to 
prevent the combustion of the entire edifice. Thanks to the liberality 
of Congress in furnishing the necessary means, these inconveniences 
and dangers are all things of the past ; the offices have been re-ar- 
ranged, everything brought together in convenient approximation, and 
every necessary provision made for the comfort of the employes and 
the efficiency of their work. 

The Secretary transferred his office from his temporary quarters in 
the National Museum building early in May, and a few days after the 
chief clerk, corresponding clerk, and others moved from their impro- 
vised rooms in the lower hall of the Institution. By the end of the year 
the work was finished and everything in good running order. 

The personnel of the Institution continues to be the same as hereto- 
fore, apart from the addition of one or two subordinate employes re- 
quired to meet the increase of work. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

This continues to increase in about the usual ratio, and represents a 
very large part of the operations of the Institution. The range of sub- 
jects presented for consideration covers every branch of speculation 
and of human knowledge; and there are very few subjects upon which 
the advice and opinion of the Institution are not asked. In accordance 
with its uniform rule, all communications are treated wdth respect; and 
where the information asked for cannot be furnished directly, the let- 
ter is referred to some exi)ert. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

From the very beginning of its work a large part of the attention of 
the Institution has been directed towards increasing our knowledge of 
the physical condition and natural history of various parts of the globe, 
especially on the continent of America, and almost every report con- 
tains some account of w^ork accomi:)lished in this direction. No single 
agency has done as much as the Smithsonian Institution in developing 
a knowledge of the region ii question, whether as the result of observa- 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tious prosecuted entirely or partly at its own expense, or made at its 
suggestion by Gov ernment expeditions and private parties. An exten- 
sive correspondence and more or less intimate association with men ot 
science resident in the diiferent localities has also been utilized to sug- 
gest points of inquiry and invite the communication of information. 

The year 1884 has been no exception to the statement just made. In- 
deed, it is doubtful whether any of its predecessors has exceeded it in 
the amount of results obtained. This is, of course, largely due, as in 
many previous years, to the co-operation of the United States Signal 
Service, under General Hazeu; the United States Geological Survey 
and the Bureau of Ethnology, under Major Powell; and the United 
States Fish Commission. 

As heretofore, I shall give in geographical sequence a short account 
of the various expeditions and of their results, leaving the full account 
of the collections themselves to be reported upon by Mr. Goode, the 
Assistant Director of the National Museum. 

Greenland. — The most interesting chapter of the exploration of Green- 
laud is that connected with the history of the Greely Eelief Exjiedition, 
which was fitted up by provision of Congress for the purpose of rescuing 
Lieutenant Greely and his fellow members of the Signal Service from 
their imprisonment in the Polar Seas. After the two futile attempts, 
made in 1882 and 1883, to communicate with the International Arctic 
station at Lady Franklin Bay, and to relieve Lieutenant Greely and his 
command, a new expedition was organized by a special act of Congress, 
at an early date in 1884, under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, 
and Secretary of War. Subsequently the Dundee wlnaler " Thetis-' and 
the "Bear" of the Newfoundland sealing fleet, two stout steamers of 600 
and 609 tons burden, were purchased by the Government, and taken to 
the Brooklyn navy -yard to be overhauled and refitted. The English 
Government generously presented the steamer "Alert," one of the ves- 
sels of the late Arctic expedition under Captain George Nares, to be 
used in the search, and the collier "Loch Garry" was chartered to act 
as lender. The expedition was placed under the command of Comman- 
der W. S. Schley, U. S. N., who selected the "Thetis" as flag-ship, and 
under whose superintendence the squadron was thoroughly fitted out. 

On April 23 the "Bear" left the United States bound for St. John's, 
Newfoundland, followed by the "Thetis" on May 1, and by the "Alert" 
on the 10th of the same month. The "Thetis" arrived at Disco 
on May 22, accompanied by the "Loch Garry," where she learned 
that the "Bear," having reached that port on the 15th, had left the 
day previous, to continue to Upernavik. Convoving the "Loch Garry," 
the flag-ship sailed again from Disco on the 24th, touching five days 
later at Upernavik, where she met her consort. In the afternoon all 
the whalers which had gathered there left with the "Thetis" and 
" Bear," the tender remaining behind to await the convoy of the " Alert " 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

and a more favorable time for crossing Melville Bay, which was full 
of heavy ice. The time between June Gth and 11th was spent at the 
Duck Islands, looking in vain for an opening in the pack. Taking 
advantage of every narrow lead the vessels fought their way through 
the ice, now resorting to ramming and torpedoes to force a passage, 
then tying up to the lee of a berg or to a heavy floe. By dint of labor 
they finally came in sight of Cape York, but it was impossible to get 
into open water before the 18th. Accompanied by two of the whalers 
they then steamed on. The '' Bear " was signaled to push ahead and 
send a party on shore to communicate with the natives. Nothing had 
been heard here of Greely. Every place was searched where records 
or people were likely to be found. The " Bear " went to the Gary 
Islands, the "Thetis" to Conical Eock, Wolstenholme and Saunders 
Island, to Cape Parry, and finally to Littleton Island, where a cache was 
found, but no tidings of the party. Now the impression became gen- 
eral that the vessels would have to i^roceed to Lady Franklin Bay. Let- 
teis were got ready to be sent home by the " Alert," when she should 
return in the autumn, and on the 22d, 720 rations were cached. When 
the '' Bear" arrived at noon it was decided to laud 3,000 rations more 
51 1 Payer Harbor, and both vessels stood across through open water to 
Cape Sabine, where Greely and the survivors of his command were found 
ill a starving condition. On July 17, the vessels, with the exception of 
tbe " Alert," were at anchor again at St. John's, Newfoundland. 

Considering that the whole energy of the squadron had to be devo- 
ted to the rescue of the Lady Franklin Bay party, the natural history 
collections, made by the officers on various occasions, are richer than 
might have been expected; the numerous photographs of the country, 
of the natives, and the ice, in its various shapes and formations, will be 
of lasting value. 

The physical observations during the course of the expedition were 
made part of the regular routine of the vessels. The natural history 
work, however, was i)rosecuted by the naval ensigns who had been 
sent by the Navy Department to the Smithsonian Institution specially 
for the purpose of being trained for such duty. Among these were 
Messrs. C. A. Harlow, A. A. Ackerman, and C. S. McClain. These gen- 
tlemen had all been well trained at the Institution in the methods of 
instantaneous photography, in taxidermy, and in the collecting of min- 
erals and fossils; and although the time occupied by the expedition — 
thanks to the energy of its commander, CaiJtain Schley, and his associ- 
ates — was very much less than had been anticipated, very interesting 
and desirable collections were made by the gentlemen mentioned. 

The landings were made, for the most part, at Disco, Upernavik, 
Duck Island, Conical Eock, Camp Clay, &c., and the gatherings con- 
sisted of rock specimens, minerals, fossils, numerous birds, and an ac- 
ceptable collection of fishes and marine invertebrates in alcohol. The 
photographic plates have not yet been developed, but will no doubt 



16 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

show much of very great interest. These gentlemen all make acknowl- 
edgment of the assistance given them in their work by the orders and 
hearty good feeling of Captain Schley and the other oflicers in com- 
mand. 

The Greely Eelief Expedition fully and entirely carried out its mis-, 
sion of restoring the survivors of the Greely party to their friends in 
the United States. By far the greater ])art, however, of the apparatus 
and collections made in the several years cf absence wat> left behind at 
Fort Conger, and may never be recovered. A few specimens were 
brought home by Lieutenant Greely, but have not been received at the 
National Museum. 

Labrador. — The reports of 1882 and 1883 give full detailsof the work 
prosecuted by Mr. L. M.Turner at Fort Cliinio, Ungava Bay, in North- 
ern Labrador, and full credit given to the Chief Signal Officer for his 
encouragement to Mr. Turner to make collections of specimens in the 
intervals of his duties of recording the meteorological and other ])hysi- 
cal phenomena of the region. Mr. Turner's two years of detail exi)iring 
in 1884, he returned to Washington and is now engaged in preparing his 
report. In order to make the rej)ort comi)lete, I subjoin a brief extract 
prepared by him of his work during the two years: 

" Under letter of instructions of date of i\Iay 27, 1882, from the Chief 
Signal Oflice, United States Army, 1 departed from Washington June 
1, 1882, for Montreal, where I remained until June 7th, and joiued the 
Hudson Bay Company's schooner 'Tropic' at Quebec, and left there 
June 8th for Eigolet, Labrador, where we arrived June 28th. At this 
place I remained until July 8th, and i)roceededon the company's steamer 
'Labrador' for Davis' Inlet, Labrador, where we arrived July IGth, 
and remained fourda\s. At these two stations I collected a great num- 
ber of fishes, birds, plants, and insects. On the 21st of July westarted 
for Nakvak, Labrador, but were prevented by bad weather frorti enter- 
ing that hord, and continued around Cape Chidley, at the entrance of 
Hudson Strait. After entering we immediately encountered heavy ice, 
and were detained eleven days in Ungava Bay. We went on shore for 
part of one day (July 31st) at the mouth of George's Eiver emptying 
into that bay. On the Gth of August we ascended the Koksoak or 
South Eiver, and anchored at Fort Chimo, Ungava district of the Hud- 
son Bay Company, where I was to establish a meteorological observa- 
tion station for the Signal Service. The meteorological observations 
were to be live in number daily at the following times: 7.35 A. m.; 11.35 
A. M. ; 3.35 p. M. ; 7.35 P. M., and 11.35 p. M. A dwelling not being ready 
for occupation, I was ueceysitated to await the completion of a building 
intended for a blacksmith shop, which when finished was used by me 
as dwelling and oflice until my final departure from Fort Chimo. Dur- 
ing my stay at Fort Chimo I had an opimrtunity to ascend the Koksoak 
Eiver to the 'Forks' (junction of the North or Larch Eiver with the 
Koksoak and about 105 miles from the mouth of the latter river). Also 
to the Falls, some 30 miles above the 'Forks.' These ' Falls' were 
visited for the purpose of i)hotographing them. I again visited the 
'Forks' for the puri)ose of obtaining winter resident birds, and while 
on this trip I ascended the Larch or North Eiver, and discovered a 
small river Howing from the southwest into it. On this river, some 14 



REPORT OV THE SECRETARY. 17 

miles from its mouth, iis a small falls of some 25 feet perpendicnlar, 
affording one of the most picturesque scenes I ever viewed. On an- 
other occasion I visited Whale Eiver, to the east of the Koksoak about 
50 miles, and on this trip j)assed the mouth of 'False' Eiver, so named 
because it is nothing but a cul de sac of about 40 miles length and run- 
ning nearly parallel with the Koksoak. The tides exert such influence 
on these rivers that navigation is extremely dangerous. The rise and 
fall of the tides at the mouth of the Koksoak were determined by me 
to be sixty-two feet and three inches. 

" On the 4th of September, 1884, I left Fort Ohimo, Ungava, on the 
Hudson Bay Company's steamer ' Labrador,' to return to civilization. 
We stopped for ten days at George's Eiver, Ungava district, to re es- 
tablish a trading station there for the Hudson's Bay Company, leaving 
there on the 14th for Nakvak, Labrador, where we arrived on the 16th, 
and lelt next day for Davis Inlet, where we arrived on the 19th and re- 
mained until the 23d. We then started for Eigolet, Labrador, and ar- 
rived there on the 25th, and left next day on the Newfoundland mail 
steamer 'Hercules' for Battle Harbor, Labrador, where we arrived 
October 1, leaving next day for St. John's, Newfoundland, on the 
mail steamer 'Plover,' where we arrived October 6. While on these 
two mail steamers we stopped at over one hundred lishing stations 
along the Labrador and Newfoundland coast to call for and deliver 
mail. On the 16th I left St. John's for Halifax, where I arrived on the 
18th, and took railway for Montreal, and arrived there on the 21st, and 
left next day for Washington, where I arrived on the 23d. My leisure 
time was employed at every locality visited, in collecting specimens of 
natural history. The results are given approximately as below in round 
numbers : 

"Of birds, 1,800 specimens; eggs, 1,800 specimens; fishes, 1,000 speci- 
mens; mammals, 200 specimens; ethnological, 600 articles; plants, a 
great number; insects, over 200,000; geological specimens, a great 
variety ; Eskimo linguistics, over 500 pages of manuscript, embracing 
thousands of words and over 800 sentences, which were obtained dur- 
ing the winter nights and at other times when outdoor work could not 
be done. 

" To this should be added twenty-three months of continuous meteoro- 
logical observations, taken and recorded at Fort Chimo, Ungava, which 
have been already turned over to the Chief Signal Officer, United States 
Army. 

"To enable me to successfully prosecute these labors, I was by the 
characteristic liberality of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
abundantly supplied with all necessary articles for procuring, preserv- 
ing, and transmitting the results," 

Eeference was made in a preceding report to the work accomplished 
by Dr. C. Hart Merriam in the investigation of the natural history of 
the seals of the coast of Labrador. The arrangements made by Dr. 
Merriam during his abode in Newfoundland and Labrador have fur- 
nished him additional material during the present year, the results of 
which he has kindly shared with the National Museum in the way of 
skins and skeletons of several species of seals. 

Arctic Coast. — Although we are unable to record quite so large ac- 
quisitions from the Arctic coast as were obtained in the year 1882 from 
S. Mis. 33- 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the Point Barrow Expedition of the Signal Service Bureau, under com- 
mand of Lieutenant Ray, yet some interesting contributions have been 
received. Captain Healy and officers of the revenue steamer Corwin 
have supplied collections from Hotham Inlet and other points along 
the coast, including numerous minerals, birds, fish, invertebrates, &c. 

The following summary of Captain Healy's work has been furnished 
through the Secretary of the Treasury, Hon. Hugh McCulloch : 

"Captain Healy has, during the past season, visited with his com- 
mand the new volcano on Bogoslov Island, of the Aleutian chain, in 
longitude 168° W., which, after some years of quiet, recently became 
active. He caused a survey of the island to be made by two of his 
officers, who submitted a very interesting and valuable report, contain- 
ing a detailed descrii)tion of the large accession to the island thrown 
up by the recent volcanic action, and through the aid of another officer 
of the vessel obtained some excellent photographs of the volcano in its 
various aspects. Later in the season Captain Healy sent a boat expedi- 
tion up the Kowak Eiver, which debouches through its delta into Ho-, 
tham Inlet, Kotzebue Sound. Lieutenant Cantwell, who conducted this 
expedition, ascended the Kowak Kiver a distance of 379 miles. He 
submitted a report, showing a careful survey of the river for the dis- 
tance named, and a very interesting discovery in a large deposit of 
jade (nephrite) situated in a mountain (named in the native language 
Ashoganok, meaning smooth stone,) lying a few miles north of the river. 
Also a description of the flora and fauna of the river's banks, accom- 
panied with specimens. Assistant Engineer McLenegan, who accom- 
panied him, submitted also a valuable list of birds^f Northern Alaska 
with descriptions and specimens. Lieutenant Cantwell made a fur- 
ther detailed survey of Selaivrk Lake, tributary to the same iulef, ac- 
companied with a well executed chart of the region. This expedition 
brings back the report that the precious metals are found in large 
quantities among the high mountains which form the water-shed for the 
Kowak, Kuryukuk, and perhaps Colville Rivers." 

Lieut. George M. Stoney, U. S. N,, of the schooner " Ounalaska," M'ho 
had visited Arctic America and explored Hotham Inlet and the rivers 
entering into it, obtained an interesting series of rocks from the volcano 
in Behring's Sea. The collections made by him have not, however, yet 
come to hand. 

Both Captain Healy and Lieutenant Stoney have furnished specimens 
of the crude jade, or jade-like material so much used by the natives of 
Arctic America for ornaments and weapons. 

The Pacific Steam Whaling Company established during the year a 
depot at Cape Lisburne, with Mr. D. Woolfe in command, for the pur- 
pose of mining coal for the use of the whalers, and specimens of this 
coal and of the associated fossils have been furnished by Mr. Woolfe. 
Miscellaneous collections of the natural history of the region are ex- 
pected from that gentleman during the year 1885. 

The North Pacific. — Reference was made in a previous report to the 
very important work accomplished by Dr. L. Stejneger, under the direc- 
tion of the Signal Office and the Smithsonian Institution, in Kamtschatka 
and the adjacent group of the Commander Islands. Through the cour- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

tesy of Governor Grebuitski, iu command of these islands, a number of 
additional collections were received. 

Dr. Stejneger also received from Captain Hunter some skins and 
skeletons of the mountain sheep of Kamtschatka, filling an important 
desideratum. 

AlaslM. — As in previous years, the additions to our knowledge of the 
natural history and ethnology of Alaska have been very considerable, 
owing to the continuation of explorations of the different parts of that 
extensive Territory. The station of the Signal Service at l!f ushagak, on 
Bristol Bay, which was so well worked up by Mr. C. L. McKay, was 
subsequently re-established after his death by drowning, by Mr. J. W. 
Johnson, from whom a collection of birds was lately received, which 
was specially noteworth}' as containing specimens of the Alaska wil- 
low wren and of the yellow wagtail, representing a locality many hun- 
dreds of miles further south than St. Michael's, the place of previous 
record. 

Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, on board the U. S. S. ^'Adams," during its pe- 
riod of service at Sitka, used all opportunities in his x>ower to enrich 
the National Museum by his contributions, and became so much inter- 
ested iu his work that he sought and obtained a transfer, through the 
favor of the Navy Department, to the steamer " Pinta," which replaced 
the "Adams" during the past summer. At latest advices he was still 
engaged in his scientific work. 

Mr. John J. McLean, of the Signal Service, stationed at Sitka, has 
secured many ethnological objects of great rarity. 

Mr. W. J. Fischer, who is stationed by the Coast Survey at Kodiak, 
has used many opportunities both there and in the adjacent regions to 
continue his important Avork ; this, including much information in re- 
gard to the manners and characteristics of the native tribes. 

From the Kev. J. Loomis Gould a collection of Indian carvings and 
other tirticles of ethnology were obtained, representing some quite new 
forms of aboriginal construction. 

British Columbia and Washington Territory. — For the purpose of in- 
creasing material for the needs of the National Museum and its repre- 
sentation at the New Orleans Exposition, the services of Mr. James 
G. Swan, of Port Townsend, were secured to visit various parts of 
Alaska and British Columbia. His collections, as received so far, have 
been, as usual, very interesting and important. During a visit to Vic- 
toria in the interest of this service, he was invited to deliver a lecture 
before the legislature uj^on his observations made iu 1S83 in Queen 
Charlotte Islands, and having obtained permission from the Institution 
for the purpose, he complied with the request. 

The specialties of Mr. Swan's collection consist of very full illustra- 
tions of the whaling apparatus and outfit, including boats, &c., used 
by the Haidah Indians. 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

A valuable monograph by Mr. Swan, upon the ethnology of the Hai- 
dah Indians, which had been contributed to the Treasury Department, 
was transmitted by its Secretary for publication in the reports of the 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

Oregon and California. — From Oregon the most noteworthy collec- 
tions are those furnished by Capt. Charles Bendire, at Fort Klamath, 
to whose important contributions and services to the Fish Commission 
full detailed reference is made in another part of the report. 

The returns from California consist in large part of numerous collec- 
tions of shells, minerals, fossils, and archaeological objects from Mr. E. 
E. C. Stearns, recently appointed as Curator of Conchology in the Na- 
tional Museum. In transferring his effects from San Francisco to Wash- 
ington he brought with him a very large series of specimens, of which 
he has made a present to the National Museum. 

Other specimens are birds from Mr. L. Belding, and fossils from Mr. 
C. R. Orcutt. 

Mr. Charles H. Townsend, connected with the fishery establishment 
at Baird, Shasta County, California, has made and supplied the most 
extensive series of collections of mammals ever received from the State 
of California, all in most admirable preservation and specially adapted 
for mounting. The collection also embraces numerous skins, skele- 
tons, and skulls of the various sea lions and seals from the Farralone 
Islands, and an additional collection of sea elephants from South Cali- 
fornia is now on its way. In addition to this there are a large number 
of skins of birds, fossils, and other objects of interest. 

Arizona and New Mexico. — These Territories have been particularly 
well represented during the year ; the former by the large number of 
skins of mammals, birds, and other objects of interest furnished by Mr. 
E. W. Nelsou ; the latter by an enormous collection of modern Indian 
pottery and other articles, which, when packed, represented a bulk of 
many thousand cubic feet. These collections made under the auspices 
of the Bureau of Ethnology, and others obtained by Mr. James Steven- 
son under similar direction, may be considered as exhausting all possi- 
ble demand for such articles from the region in question, and, in fact, 
represent a series that can never be duplicated. The articles obtained 
represent for the most part nearly all those that have been used by the 
Indians for many years. All others now procurable are of more modern 
make, and in large part fabricated to meet the demands of travellers 
along the routes of the new lines of railways, and being made espe- 
cially in great haste for sale, are very inferior both in material and dec- 
oration. 

Some contributions to the fauna of New Mexico were supplied by 
Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, of the Army, from his station at Fort Wingate. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson has furnished the following account of his explora- 
tions and collections in Arizona during 1884 : 



I 

I 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

" When I reached Tucson in January, 1884, it was midwinter, but the 
only ev^idence of the fact there, lay in the leafless vegetation and the 
frosty uights. Thin ice formed quite frequently on the borders of stag- 
nant pools. The days were warm and pleasant, as a rule, much like the 
'Indian-summer' days of autumn in the eastern States. 

" Prairie dogs and other mammals, that hibernate during winter in 
more northern latitudes, are found full of activity at all seasons in this 
portion of Arizona. 

" Tucson is situated on a large basin-like plain with groups of mount- 
ains on every side, from 10 to 30 or 40 miles distant. It is a^o located 
near the eastern border of the region covered by the giant cactus, with 
several species of birds having their range within about the same 
limits. 

" Various other species of cactus abound, and, with the mesquite 
woods and the cottonwoods and elder trees along the bottoms near the 
streams, form the most conspicuous part of the vegetation. The gen- 
eral aspect of the country surrounding Tucson is very desert-like, al- 
though covered with scrubby and thorny bushes, yet it is a favorite 
resort for birds, and is probably the richest field for the ornithologist 
north of the Mexican border. 

"During the four months following my arrival at Tucson, my attention 
was given to securing a series of the birds found there, with gratifying 
success. Perhaps the most notable of the cajitures consisted of a fine 
series of the resident race of song sparrow, by the aid of which Mr. 
Henshaw was enabled to decide that the song sparrow of Southern Ari- 
zona is a resident form peculiar to that region, and to which properly 
ai)pertains the name of Melospiza fasciata fallax ; while the song spar- 
row of the Eocky Mountain region in general, which has heretofore 
been known as fallax, was in reality an undescribed form to which Mr. 
Henshaw has given the name of Melospiza fasciata montana. 

"A series of the rare Ilarporhynchus bendirei was also taken, includ- 
ing the young in first plumage. 

"It having been discovered that the deserted holes of Colaptes chry- 
soides and Cetiturus uropygialis in the trunks of the giant cactus were 
resorted to by the little-known Whtuey's owl {Microthene Whitneyi) 
and the southern screech owl [Scops trichopds), a number of these birds 
were captured by cutting down the cactus stems and taking the birds 
from their holes. 

"Later in the season, during the last of May, a portable ladder some 
eighteen feet long was ust;d to good purpose in securing the birds and 
their eggs. The giant cactus is frequently from thirty to forty feet high 
in that vicinity, and the old woodpecker holes are placed so high that 
one had very often to stand on the extreme u[>per end of the ladder with 
one arm embracing the thorny cactus and the other hand employed in 
cutting out the entrance of the hole to admit the hand. This style of 
work is very successful, and, although two men are required to do it, 
one can count upon finding an owl in about every fourth or fifth hole 
examined in a good locality. The same proportion holds good when 
hunting eggs in the nesting season. The vicinity of streams is the most 
productive field. Toward the end of May the heat became very oppress- 
ive, and early in June I made camp on the eastern slope of the Santa 
Eita Mountains, about sixty miles southeast of Tucson. My camp was 
in the live-oak belt at about 5,000 feet above the sea-level. Here I 
found a much cooler temperature and a number of birds not seen 
before. The breeding season was nearly over, though i was fortunate 
enough to secure a fine nest and set of eggs of the black-throated ;^ray 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

warbler {Dendrceca nigrescens). Fine series of the Arizona jay {Cya- 
nocitta sordida), the Strickland's woodpecker (PicMS strieklandi), Law- 
rence's flycatcher {Myiarclms laicrencei), and of other species of greater 
or less rarity were secured here. 

"The Scott's oriole {Icterus parisorum) was found rather common but 
extremely shy there, and a number of skins were taken. Above the 
oak belt on this small group of mountains is a sparsely timbered belt 
of pines reaching to the summit, at about 10,000 feet altitude. The 
deer, bears, and peccaries, or 'musk-hogs,' as they are called locallj', 
were on(^ very numerous in these mountains, but the occupation of 
every permanent spring or creek by ranchmen, and the presence of 
prospectors at all seasons, has nearly driven the game from these hills. 

"The vicinity of my camp, near Gardiner's ranch, is probably the 
very best location for a collector that these mountains afford and is a 
rich field for the ornithologist. From this camp, in company with two 
friends, an excursion was made toward the Mexican border into a low 
bottom. This bottom is heavily wooded with cottonwoods and other 
trees and is a notoriously malarial region. It is full of birds, but who- 
ever ventures there to do any extended work must be ague-proof. In 
this bottom the blue grosbeak was very common, as many as fifteen or 
twenty being seen on some days. At the head of this valley, in the 
open grassy flats, the Arizona sparrow {Peucwa arizona) was very abund- 
ant, and its sweet song was heard from morning till night. 

" The middle of July I broke camp and moved about iwenty-fi,ve miles 
southeast to Camp Huachuca, at the base of th« Huachuca Mountains. 
Very little was done here, as the mountains and their faunas were very 
similar, and nothing, not taken before, was seen. Both the Santa Rita 
and Huachuca Mountains are poorly watered ; and although special at- 
tention was not given to hunting for ruins or other evideuces of ancient 
occupation by Indians, yet nothing of the kind having been found in my 
tramps after birds would indicate a paucity of such remains ; nor could 
the prospectors familiar with these mountains name any such ruins. 
In August I returned to Tucson for a few days and made a flying visit 
to the Papago Indian Reservation, nine miles south of town, at the old 
mission of San Xavier. There I secured samples of their pottery and 
other of their manufactures, such as the few natives present could be 
induced to part with. These natives make the large porous water-jars 
with which every house is supplied in Southern Arizona. The women 
mix the clay with horse-dung and then mold it up by hand into the 
tall, gracefullj^-shaped jars, smoothing it on the surface with a small 
wooden trowel. The pot is then baked in a hot fire, and the parti- 
cles of dung being burned out, the requisite porosity is obtained. 
When filled witli water the fluid oozes slowly through the sides and 
bottom of the jar, and if kept in a shaded spot the rapid evaporation 
from the surface kee])S the water inside cool and palatable in the hot- 
test weather. This jar is almost a necessity in every household in the 
hot southern region where ice is almost unknown. The Papagoes of 
San Xavier derive a considerable income from the sale of these jars. 
The women hawk them about the streets of Tucson and sell them for 
twenty-five cents each. This is certainly not an exorbitant price for a 
jar that will hold from five to ten gallons, and which the seller has packed 
nine miles, upon her back, into town. 

"The intensely hot weather caused me to leave Tucson after a very 
short stay there, and the 20th of August iound me located at Springer- 
ville, at the eastern base of the White Mountains, and at an altitude of 
about 6,500 feet. The change from the arid, sun-baked plains of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

southern part of the Territory to the greeu hills and magnificent pine 
forests of this vicinity was a. marked aud welcome one. The tempera- 
ture here at that time was also cool and very pleasant. For several 
weeks after my arrival here my health was unusually jwor, owing to the 
debilitating effect of the heat experienced earlier in the season, but 
recovering from this, I passed the remainder of the fall in making hunt- 
ing excursions in various directions from Springerville as a center, for 
the purpose of securing a series of deer and antelope skins for the Na- 
tional Museum. 

"Although the mountains about here have been noted for the abun- 
dance of large game in them during past years, yet all kinds of large 
game were remarkably scarce during the past season. Such being the 
case, it required much longer hunting and more work to secure the de- 
sired game than had been antici])ated. 

" Bear were not to be found at all, and elk were so scarce that only a 
single fresh track was seen during several weeks in the woods. Al- 
though the cattlemen have invaded this district in force, yet they have 
only touched the pine country at widely separated places, and I am un- 
able to account for the scarcity of large game. 

"The mountains of this range are well watered by creeks and springs, 
and from 6,500 feet altitude up to timber line they are covered with a 
fine growth of pines, with aspens, and other trees common to high alti- 
tudes in this region, intermingled on the higher ridges. There is 
scarcely any undergrowth but a dense mat of grass and flowers in these 
forests, and beautiful mountain parks are found at frequent intervals. 
These parks vary in size from the tiny glades a few yards across to 
broad savannas miles in extent^ and the country would appear to be a 
sportsman's paradise were not the game unaccountably absent. 

" While at Springerville some time was devoted to examining va- 
rious old ruins in the vicinity, along the valley of the Little Colorado 
Eiver. The sites of old stone-walled houses, frequently showing the 
outlines of several rooms, are common, but only fragments of broken 
pottery, with an occasional mortar, are found lying about them. Two 
rooms were cleaned out in one ruin, but the results were discouragingly 
meager, as only a bone awl, a hammer-stone, and a shell ornament re- 
warded two days' hard \vork. 

"Along the base of th(? lava bluffs bordering the valley occur masses 
of huge, angular blocks of lava, lying as they fell from the cliff" in 
rough masses, and among which are large crevices, frequently leading 
into irregular chambers and sheltered nooks among the rocks. In these 
were found much broken pottery, and by careful search nearly all the 
fragments of several pots were secured. Some old bows, arrows, and 
other sticks, with the paint still bright upon them, were found in dry 
spots. 

"An old cave in the sandstone on the river, about 15 miles below 
Springerville, yielded an old pot, some reeds prepared for arrows, a war 
club, and some spear and arrow-tips. This cave had a great mass of 
bows and arrows stored in it, when found by the Mexicans some years 
ago; but the finders fired the pile, and nearly everything was reduced 
to ashes. Another cave, located about thirty-five miles west of Spring- 
erville, is a long, forked passage in the lava rock at the far end of which 
the discoverers secured a fine lot of pottery a couple of years ago. At 
the time of my visit nothing remained except traces of a fire where the 
pottery had been found. The bottom of the cave is covered with a layer 
of fine clay, such as the pottery was made from. 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

"From the boy who found the cave I secured a few pot-covers and 
other specimens, which he took from the cave after his first find. 

" The season's work has resulted in a collection of over fifty skins and 
skulls of mammals, eighteen of which are of deer and antelope ; over 
one thousand bird skins, and eighty birds' eggs ; about one hundred 
and fifty ethnological specimens, and some alcoholic specimens of fishes 
and mammals." 

Eastern Portion of the United States. — ^Yery large numbers of collec- 
tions from the eastern portion of the United States have also been re- 
ceived, but as having less relation to additions to our knowledge of the 
natural history and ethnology of the region, they are less noteworthy in 
the present portion of the report. I should, however, especially mention 
the exploration of the fresh- water fish fauna of the Mississippi Valley 
made by Professors Jordan and Gilbert in behalf of the New Orleans 
International Exposition. As a specially desirable presentation on that 
occasion, it was determined to show as fully as possible the fishery 
resources of the region at the outlet of which Kew Orleans is situated, 
and to furnish, if possible, every kind of fish known to inhabit the 
waters of the great river. Several months were occupied in this serv- 
ice, and many hundreds of species obtained and prepared for exhibi- 
tion. With a somewhat similar object Dr. Palmer was detailed for 
service in Florida with special reference to securing collections of the 
corals of the Florida Keys and the Tortugas. Henry Hemphill also 
assisted in making collections of the invertebrates of Florida. 

The display made under the auspices of the ^National Museum at 
New Orleans of the economical and attractive natural history of the 
Gulf of Mexico and the Mississippi Valley were in great part made 
especially for the occasion, and will constitute a noteworthy feature in 
the history of American science. 

As usual, the collections made under the auspices of the United 
States Fish Commission along the eastern coast of the United States 
have been noteworthy in value and extent, resulting from the continual 
research at the station at Wood's Holl, and especially from the labors 
of the Fish Commission steamer "Albatross" in the deep waters off the 
coast. Here, as in previous years, the occasion has been taken to secure 
large numbers of duplicate specimens for distribution, as educational 
material, to colleges and academies. 

A subsidiary research of the Fish Commission in this connection was 
accomplished by sending Dr. T. H. Bean to Long Island to explore the 
adjacent waters, especially those of the Great South Bay, and this re- 
sulted in making some discoveries of scientific interest as well as of 
practical importance. 

The West Indies. — Many important contributions to our knowledge of 
these regions have been made during the year, the most noteworthy 
being the gatherings in the Caribbean Sea and the adjacent islands, 
Bisid« by the Fish Commission steamer " Albatross," which was detailed 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

to the service of the Navy Department at its request. The vessel was 
also engaged in making soundings between the south side of the West 
Indies and the north coast of South America, resulting in determin- 
ing the character of the sea bottom with great precision and establish- 
ing the existence of a number of unexpected reefs and shoals of great 
depths, which have been indicated in a model of the bottom of the Ca- 
ribbean, made by direction of Captain Bartlett, of the Hydrographic 
Office of the Navy. General collections were made of the laud fauna 
as well as of the marine, resulting in the addition of a very great num- 
ber of species to the National Museum, of which a noted proi)ortion are 
of scientific interest. Among these may be mentioned eight new si)e- 
cies of birds found on the islands of Curagoa and Old Providence. 

Professor Poey has continued his contributions of fishes from Cuba, 
and has, in all, supplied a noteworthy proportion of the hundreds of 
species known to occur in the vicinity of that island.- 

Dr. Nichols, of Dominica, has continued his donations of birds, mol- 
lusks, &c., while from Mr. Morris, director of the public gardens and 
plantations in Jamaica, many samples of valuable fibers have been 
secured. 

Mexico and Central America. — Professor Alfred Duges, of Guanajuato, 
Mexico, has continued his transmissions of objects of natural history, 
among them being some rare species of birds, &c. Mr. McLeod, of 
Jesus Maria, in Mexico, has also furnished some rare birds. 

As an ethnological contribution, Mr. Romero, the Mexican minister, 
supplied a series of the playing cards and other gambling implements 
of the Mexican Indians. 

The services of Mr. Aym^, late consul at Merida, were secured to 
prosecute some investigations into the ethnology of Yucatan and West- 
ern Mexico, especially with a view of showing the relationships between 
the habits and manufactures of the Indians of those regions and those 
of the southern portion of the United States. Several large collections 
have already been received from him, and others of still greater moment 
are on the way. 

Other collections, especially of birds, from Yucatan have been fur- 
nished by Mr. Gaumer. 

On the occasion of establishing the boundary line between Guate- 
mala and Mexico, the services of Prof. Miles Rock, of the Washington 
Observatory, as astronomer, were secured by Guatemala, and he was 
provided with a photographic apparatus, furnished by the Smithsonian 
Institution, and many interesting views of scenery were obtained and 
forwarded to the Institution. 

Among the least known portions of Central America is the region 
along the eastern coast of Honduras and the adjacent islands, and the 
offer of Mr. Allstrom, an American engaged in mining researches in 
that country, to make collections of natural history, &c., was gladly 
accei)ted. No returns, however, have yet been received fiom hiua. 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In addition to the articles already meutioned, a valuable series of the 
illustrations of the animal and vegetable kingdoms of Guatemala and 
Salvador were secured from the Government commissioners of those 
countries to the foreign exhibition held in Boston in the autumn of 
1883. These, with similar collections under similar auspices obtained 
from Venezuela and Brazil, were packed up in the early part of the 
year 1884, under the immediate direction of one of the employes of the 
National Museum, and transferred to the National Museum at Wash- 
ington, where they will constitute an important addition to the collec- 
tion. 

Costa Rica. — As in previous years, Costa Rica has been well repre- 
sented by the contributions of Mr. J. C. Zeledon, for many years in the 
service of the National Museum, his transmissions consisting of speci- 
mens of medicinal plants, of birds, of vertebrated animals, and of eth- 
nology. Through his courtesy the National Museum is enriched with 
an almost complete representation of the mammal and bird fauna of 
that country. 

Mr. R. Iglesias, of Chiriqui, has contributed some antiquities and 
modern pottery. 

Reference was made in the last report to the large collection of antiq- 
uities, especially of sepulchral pottery, obtained in Chiriqui by Mr. J. 
A. McNeil, and secured through Messrs. Lamson & Bros., of New 
York. An additional collection was made during the year under the 
same auspices. 

Nicaragua. — Among the most interesting and least known portions of 
Nicaragua is the central region, between the Upper San Juan and Lake 
Nicaragua. A short sojourn there has furnished to Mr. C. C. Nutting 
quite a number of new species of birds. Mr. Nutting's success induced 
Dr. Walter Van Fleet to arrange for an expedition to that region under 
the patronage of the Smithsonian Institution. Duly provided with let- 
ters from the Institution, and with certain arrangements for facilitating 
his work. Dr. Van Fleet proceeded to Aspinwall; but while waiting the 
arrival of the steamer from Greytown he was taken ill, and obliged to 
return to his home in Pennsylvania. He hopes, however, at an early 
date to renew the experiment. 

South America. — Interesting collections representing the natural prod- 
ucts of the animal and vegetable kingdoms of Venezuela and Brazil 
were secured from the Governments of Venezuela and Brazil. Dr. Will- 
iam H. Jones, surgeon on the naval vessel stationed on the west coast 
of Guiana, has contributed some extremely important collections of the 
antiquities and natural history of the coast of Peru and Chili, and to 
some extent of the Galapagos Islands. Many of the antiquities are of 
unusual forms are of great rarity. 

Mr. Kiefer, of Lima, has also made similar contributions. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Professor Nation, an eminent naturalist of Peru, has sent some types 
of rare and uudescribed species of birds of that country. 

Dr. William K. Crawford, of the U. S. S. " Shenandoah," has also 
contributed some rare shells from the west coast of Terra del Fuego and 
the Straits of Magellan. 

Europe. — Large numbers of articles, both Iti single and collective 
series, have been received from Europe, but as being derived from pub- 
lic museums and not having any specially geographical significance, are 
not mentioned here, but will be enumerated in detail in the rejiort of 
the Assistant Director of the National Museum. 

It may, however, be well to refer to the arrangement made with Mr. 
J. Gwyn Jeffries, of London, by which his magnificent collection of 
recent and fossil shells of Europe has been acquired by the National 
Museum and in large part received by it, several boxes of specimens 
coming to hand during the year 1884. This is by far the most valu- 
able i^rivate collection of European shells in existence, and especially 
important in possessing so many types of the deep-sea species dredged 
in the North Atlantic, and of great value for the determination of the 
collections of the United States Fish Commission. 

Among contributors to the European collections may be mentioned 
the Eoyal College of Surgeons, the South Kensington Museum, the 
British Museum, the Eoyal Botanical Gardens at Kew, in England; the 
Museums of Berlin and Dresden, in Germany; of Copenhagen, in Den- 
mark; of Bergen, in Norway, &c. 

Asia. — The collections from Asia have been of unusual significance 
and importance. Eeference has already been made to the accessions 
from Kamtchatka and the Commander Lslauds as having been obtained 
through the efibrts of Dr. Stejneger, whose j)ersonal collections in those 
countries were dwelt ui^on in the last report. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy, a former employe of the National Museum, and resi- 
dent Jbr a number of years in Japan, continued his researches in that 
country, and has supplied a large number of species of mammals and 
birds of that region, together with other species of animals. The col- 
lection of birds being taken in connection with a series presented by 
Mr. Thomas Blackiston, who spent many years in Japan, gives to the 
National Museum one of the most complete collections of Japanese 
birds in existence, and one great in value in view of their relationships 
to the birds of Western North America. Mr. Jouy has since trans- 
ferred the field of his researches to Corea, although none of his collec- 
tions have so far come to hand. 

Eev. C. H. A. Dall has furnished some samples of fibers and other na- 
tive products of the Indian, and the greater part of the exhibit of the 
Foreign Exhibition in Boston made by Ceylon ; while a very valuable 
collection of musical instruments of East India, and other objects rep- 
resenting a high money value, were contributed by the Eajah of Tagore. 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Africa. — This country is represented by a few objects of art and in- 
dustry, wliile from New Guinea the collection of weapons, implements, 
&c., obtained from Mr. A. P. Goodwin, Las added very greatly to our 
representation of that little known island. 

Madagascar. — Much attention has been directed to explorations in 
Madagascar. Lieut. M. A. Shufeldt, of the Kavy, left Norfolk a year or 
two ago on the " Enterprise," and was enabled to leave the ship and spend 
some time in Madagascar. On this occasion he made a large number of 
photographic negatives, which were sent to the Smithsonian Institution 
for development, a set of the prints having been presented to the National 
Museum. These contained most interesting illustrations of the life, cus- 
toms, and i^hysiognomy of the people, as well as of the scenery which 
they inhabit. 

The Sandwich Islands. — The greater part of the exhibit made by the 
Hawaiian Government at the Boston Foreign Exhibition was secured 
and transferred to the National Museum. These, with the many speci- 
mens brought home by the Wilkes expedition in its fauious cruise, ren- 
der the representation of that country very full and complete. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Not much has been done during the year in the printing and distribu- 
tion of special publications by the Smithsonian Institution, although the 
activity of the National Museum in this respect has been very great. 
It is expected, however, that during the year 1885, quite a number of 
volumes will be printed and issued to institutions and libraries in cor- 
respondence with it ; these to appear in one or other of the three series, 
" Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," in quarto (of which 23 vol- 
umes have been printed), the '' Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections," 
in octavo (now numbering 27 volumes), and the annual "Eeports " of the 
Institution, extending from 1847 to 1882, inclusive. 

The " Smithsonian Contributions " and "Miscellaneous Collections" 
include all publications made primarily under the auspices of the Na- 
tional Museum, as well as the annual "Proceedings" of the three jmuci- 
pal societies of Washington, namely, the Philosophical, the Anthropolog- 
ical, and the Biological Societies. The societies in question pay for 
the type-setting of their volumes, and print an edition for distribution 
tion to their own members. The Smithsonian Institution, however, 
charges itself with supplying these books to public libraries and learned 
societies at home and abroad, and has the pages stereotyped, and the 
usual edition of 1,500 copies printed at its own expense. 

The first publication made by the Smithsonian Institution, nearly 
forty years ago, consisted of a memoir by Messrs. Squier and Davis 
upon the ancient monuments of the Mississippi Valley, a work which 
marks the initial point of the great advancement made in the depart- 
ment of archiBology in later years. The subject continues to be one 
of much interest to the Institution, special attention having- been 



REPORT 01- THE SECRETARY. 29 

given to securing as complete a series of archoeological specimens 
as possible for preservation in the National Museum. For several 
years past Dr. Eau, the curator of the Department of Archaeology, has 
been working in the direction of further publications on this subject; 
a valuable paper prepared by him having been printed in 1876, for use 
in connection with the Centennial Exhibition, and which has since 
then been the principal manual of information on the subject. 

Dr. Ran is also superintending the preparation of drawings, by Mr. 
C. F. Trill and others, of all the typical forms of stone implements and 
objects not already figured in the Smithsonian publications. This is a 
work of great magnitude, but it is hoped to commence the publication 
of a new and systematic memoir at an early date. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. — Of the quarto series of pub- 
lications no v^olume has been actuallj^ published during the year. A 
memoir by Dr. Charles Eau on "Prehistoric Fishing in Europe and 
North America," as illustrated by the archaeological specimens collected 
by the Institution, comprising about 350 quarto pages, has, however, 
been put entirely into type, and, en the completion of an index, will be 
issued. 

The title of this work sufficiently explains its purport. The descrip- 
tive portion is altogether based on existing antiquities bearing either 
Unmistakably or presumably on fishing in prehistoric times, and no con- 
clusions whatever have been drawn exceeding the somewhat narrow 
compass limited, as it were, by those tangible tokens. If the work had 
been exclusively designed for persons well acquainted with the results 
of prehistoric investigation in Eurojie, the author might have consid- 
erably abbreviated its first part by excluding much introductive and 
descriptive matter. But as it also may be read by non-archaeologists, 
he has deemed it proper to dwell on the differences between the palseo- 
lithic and neolithic ages, to give accounts of the tool and bone bearing 
drift-beds, the cave-habitations, artificial shell-deposits, lake-dwellings, 
and, finally, to present a. brief characterization of the bronze age. Most 
of these introductions are followed by a section, or sections, devoted to 
notices of fish-remains, descriptions of fishing implements and utensils, 
and suggestions in regard to the jjrobable methods of fishing during the 
period under consideration. The curious tracings of fishes and aquatic 
mammals, characteristic of the reindeer-period, are treated in a sepa- 
rate division. 

In the first section of the second part, relating to prehistoric fishing 
in Korth America, the available relics bearing on fishing, such as 
straight bait holders, fish-hooks, harpoon and arrow heads, nets, sinkers, 
and fish-cutters, are described and figured, most of the objects being 
specimens in the United States National Museum. Boats and their ap- 
purtenances are next considered, and then follows an account of some 
prehistoric structures connected with fishing. In the subsequent di- 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

vision plastic and graphic representations of fishes, aquatic animals, 
&c., are treated, and finally a somewhat extended account of. artificial 
shell deposits in various parts of North America is given. 

Pages 201 to 3 1 8 contain extracts from various writings of the 16th» 
17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, in which reference is made to aboriginal 
fishing in North America. 

In an appendix of 17 pages notices of fishing implements and fish- 
representations discovered south of Mexico are given. 

T^e volume embraces, without the index, xviii, 335 pages, and is 
illustrated with a frontispiece and 405 figures in the text. Nearly all 
the illustrations have been specially drawn for the work. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — In continuation of a former 
series, vol. vi of the " Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Wash- 
ington " has been published as No. 543. It comprises the proceedings 
of the society for the year 1883 (from the meeting of Januarj^ 3 to 
that of December 19), and forms an octavo volume of Lii pj). introduc- 
tory -f 108 pp., including an index; in all, 220 pp. 

No. 544 of Smithsonian publications in like manner comprises the 
" Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington." Vol. 
II, from February 1, 1882, to May 15, 1883; forming an octavo volume 
of XIII 4- 211 pp.; in all, 224 pp. 

No. 501 is a reprint of an article by General J. H. Simpson, U. S. A., 
on '• Coronado's March in Search of the ' Seven Cities of Cibola,' and 
Discussion of their probable Location," originally published in the 
Smithsonian Eeijort for 1809. This interesting memoir had never been 
separately published, and the frequent inquiries for it seemed to justify 
its reproduction. It forms an octavo pamphlet of 34 pp., illustrated by 
a sketch map of Mexico (2 pp., 8vo), indicating the route jjursued by 
Coronado and his army, which extended as far north as the fortieth 
parallel of latitude, near the present boundary separating the State of 
Kansas from that of Nebraska. 

No. 571 is " Check List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion from December, 1881, to March, 1884." 8vo, 8 pp. 

No. 573 is "Price List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution" 
to March, 1884. 8vo, 7 pp. 

No. 574 is "An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 
1883." By Prof. Edward S. Holden. An octavo pamphlet of 78 pp. 
This forms part of the annual scientific record which has for some years 
past been prepared at the expense of the Institution for the Smithson- 
ian report. 

No. 575 is "An Account of the Progress in Geology in the year 1883." 
By Dr. T. Sterry Hunt. 8vo pamphlet of 22 pp. 

No. 576 is "An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 
1883." By Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. 8vo pamphlet of 17 pp. 

No. 578 is "An Account of the Progress in Phj'sics in the year 1883." 
By Prof. George F. Barker. 8vo pamphlet of 52 pp. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

Ko. 579 is "An Account of the ProgTess in Cbemistry in the year 
1883." By Prof. H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo pamphlet of 31 pp. 

No. 580 is "An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 
1883." By Prof. Edward S. Dana. 8vo pamphlet of 10 pp. 

1^0. 581 is "An Account of the Progress in Botany in the year 1883." 
By Prof. William G. Farlow. 8vo pamphlet of 18 pp. 

There has also been reprinted an edition of No. 34 (originally pub- 
lished in March, 1859): "Directions for Collecting, Preserving, and 
Transporting Specimens of Natural History." Third edition. 8vo 
pamphlet of 40 f»p. 

Forest Trees. — Among the earliest objects receiving the attention of 
the Smithsonian Institution was the preparation of a vrork upon the 
" Forestry of North America," under the direction of Dr. Gray, and for 
which quite a number of plates were prepared more than thirty years 
ago. 

In part the cost of the publication and in i:>art the pressure of other 
duties UI30U Professor Gray have prevented the completion of this me- 
moir ; and a jiroposition having been made by Prof. 0. S. Sargent, of 
Brookline, Mass., to take up and complete the work, the same was 
accepted, and Mr. Faxon was authorized to make the necessary draw- 
ings of the trees from living or fresh specimens. The magnitude, how- 
ever, of this undertaking proved to be a little more than the Institution 
could compass, and an arrangement has recently been made with Pro- 
fessor Sargent to refund the cost of these drawings and to receive them, 
so that he may use them in the publication which he has arranged to 
make with a private publisher. 

Among the treatises in preparation for publication by the Institution 
may first be mentioned the beginning of a complete work on the "Bot- 
any of North America," by Prof. Asa Gray. 

Part II is in press. It comprises the Gamopetalous orders from 
Caprifoliacece to GompositcBj inclusive. An enumeration by the author 
indicates that of the Caprifoliacece there are 8 genera and 47 species ; of 
Euhiacew, 26 genera and 86 species ; of Valerianacew, 2 genera and 22 
species ; of Dipsacacew, 1 genus and 2 species (naturalized) ; of Compos- 
itce, 237 genera and 1,610 species. It will form an octavo volume of 
nearly 500 pages. 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — As explained in the last annual re- 
port, a supplementary edition of the Bulletins of the United States Na- 
tional Museum, from the stereotype plates issued under the direction of 
the honorable Secretary of the Interior, is printed at the expense of the 
Institution, and is included in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions. Seven scientific monographs on the geology and on the flora and 
fauna of Bermuda, extracted from Bulletin No. 25 of the Museum series, 
have been thus reproduced during the year. 

"The Geology of Bermuda, by William North Bice, Ph. D." (No. 563 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of the Smithsonian publications), forms an octavo pamphlet of 32 pages. 

" The Botany of Bermuda, by General Sir John Henry Lefroy, F. E. 
S." (No. 5G4), forms an octavo pamphlet of 109 pages, illustrated with 5 
wood-cut i^lates. 

" The Mammals of Bermuda, by J. Matthew Jones, F. E. S. C." (No. 
565), forms an octavo j)amphlet of 19 pages. 

"The Birds of Bermuda, by Capt. Saville G. Eeid, F. Z. S." (No. 
566), forms an octavo pamphlet of 117 pages. 

" On a Bird new to the Bermudas, with IS^otesupon several species of 
rare or accidental occurrence in these islands, by Clinton Hart Merriam, 
M. D." (No. 567), forms an octavo pamphlet of 4 pages. 

"The Eeptiles of Bermuda, by Samuel Garman" (No. 568), forms a 
pamphlet of 19 pages, illustrated with 6 wood-cut plates, containing91 
figures. 

Annelida from Bermuda, by H. E. Webster (No. 569), forms an octavo 
of 26 pages. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — This series (as heretofore ex- 
plained) comprises carefully prepared memoirs on new and interesting 
specimens and articles collected for the National Museum, and printed 
as soon as material for a "signature" of 16 pages is made up. This 
series, like that of the "Bulletins," is primarily published and stere- 
otyped under the authority and direction of the honorable Secretary of 
the Interior. These articles or contributions comprise, first, papers pre- 
pared by the scientific corps of the National Museum; secondly, papers 
by other naturalists based on the Museum collections; and, lastly, of 
memoranda and interesting information gathered from the correspond- 
ence of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Volume VI of the " Proceedings of the United States National Mu- 
seum" for 1883 (Smithsonian No. 548) was completed and published 
during the past year. The volume contains papers by Tarleton H. 
Bean, L. Belding, Katherine J. Bush, W. H. Dall, William J. Fisher, 
James M. Flint, Charles H. Gilbert, Theodore Gill, G. Brown Goode, 
G. H. Heap, William T. Hornaday, Frederick Humbert, J. G. Hunt, 
David S. Jordan, Pierre Louis Jouy, George P. Merrill, E. W. Nelson, 
A. P. Niblack, Charles C. Nutting, Eichard Eathbun, Charles Eau, Eob- 
ert Eidgway, John A. Eyder, Eosa Smith, Sidney I. Smith, Eobert E. 
C. Stearns, W. A. Stearns, Leonhard Stejneger, Joseph Swain, Freder- 
ick W. True, S. T. Walker, Charles A. White, Merritt Willis, and H. 
C. Yarrow. It forms an octavo volume of vii -f 558 pages, illustrated 
with 6 wood-cuts in the letter-press, and 14 wood-cut plates. 

Smithsonian Annual Report. — The Annual Eeport of the Eegents of 
the Institution to Congress for 1882, submitted January 19, 1883, was not 
actually published and ready for distribution till the past year, 1884. The 
volume contains the Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Eegents, the 
reports of the Executive Committee of the Board, and of the Secretary 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

of the Institution, together with the " General Appendix," which com- 
])rises the usual scientific record for the year, namely, an account of the 
progress in Astronomy, by E.S.Holden; in Geology, by T. Sterry Hunt; 
in Geography, by F. M. Green; in Meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe; in 
Physics, by G. F. Barker; in Chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton ; in Min- 
eralogy, by Edward S. Dana; in Botany, by W. G. Farlow; in Zoology, 
by Theodore Gill ; and in Anthropology, by O. T. Mason ; concludiug with 
a selection of miscellaneous papers on American aboriginal remains, 
contributed by correspondents of the Institution. The Eeport forms an 
octavo volume of xx + 855 pages, the archaeological x)apers being illus- 
trated by 46 wood-cuts and topographic sketches of mound localities. 

The Annual Eeport for 1883, I regret to say, has not yet been pub- 
lished. 

The reports on the progress during the year of the various branches 
of science have been continued, and meet with very hearty favor, espe- 
cially on the part of teachers, who find in them material for presenta- 
tion to their classes, not otherwise accessible at the time, excepting to 
those who have command of a vast number of scientific journals. 
Among these reports, and one of special interest, is that upon the prog- 
ress of meteorology, prepared by Professor Abbe. To make this spec- 
ially serviceable, a detailed index was necessary ; but it was not possi- 
ble to have this completed before it became necessary to put the report 
to press. The index was, however, prepared, and has been appended 
to the extra copies. 

INTERNATIONAI. EXCHANGES. 

The operations of this important branch of the Institution have been 
carried on with vigor during the past year. Great inconvenience was 
experienced during the winter of 1883-'84 owing to the limited quarters 
available for exchange work during the reconstruction of the eastern 
portion of the Smithsonian building. On the completion of the first 
Qoor of this edifice five rooms were assigned to this department and 
two in the basement ; several new assistants were appointed, and I am 
bappy to state that amj^le facilities ar6 now provided for the prompt 
and efficient discharge of business. The work, however, is constantly 
growing and demands unceasing attention. 

Mr. George H. Boehmer, in charge of the international exchanges, has 
oeen in Europe for a large part of the year, engaged in taking the neces- 
sary measures to improve and reorganize the relationships of the Smith- 
Bonian Institution to the Euroi>ean service of international exchanges. 
A full account of his operations will be given in the next annual report. 

Congressional Aid. — The appropriation by Congress for the exchange 
system, under direction of the Institution, was increased for the year 
1884-'85 from $7,500 to $10,000. Without this aid it would be impossi- 
ble for the Institution to continue its gratuitous service to the libraries 
S. Mis. 33 3 



34 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



and societies in this country which have so long enjoyed the benefits 
of the system. 

Liberality of Transportation Companies. — Thanks also to the liberality 
of the principal steamship companies, the packages of the Institution 
are still carried free of freight, a concession amounting to several thou- 
sand dollars a year in value. Acknowledgments are due to the follow- 
ing companies and firms for this voluntary service : 

Am. Colonization Society. Washington, D. C. ; Anchor Steamship 
Co. (Henderson & Bro., agents), N. Y. : Atlas Steamship Co. (Pim, For- 
wood & Co., ag'ts), N. Y. ; H. B. Bailey & Co., N. Y. ; E. R. Biddle, 
Philadelphia; Thomas Bixby &Co., Boston, Mass.; Thomas Bland, N. 
Y. ; B. E. Borland, N. Y. ; R. W. Cameron & Co., K Y. ; Compagnie 
G^n^rale Transatlantique (L. de B6bian, ag't), IST. Y.; Cuuard Royal 
Mail Steamship Line (Vernon H. Brown & Co., ag'ts), X. Y.; Dallett, 
Boulton & Bliss, N. Y. ; Thomas Dennison, K Y. ; Hamburg- Ameri- 
can Packet Co., (Kunhardt & Co., ag'ts), N. Y. ; Inman Steamship Co., 
N. Y. ; Merchants' Line of Steamers, N. Y ; Monarch Line (Patton, 
Vickers & Co., ag'ts), N. Y. ; MuQoz y Espriella, K Y. ; Murray, 
Ferris & Co., N. Y. ; Netherlands-American-Steam Navigation Co., 
(H. Cazaux, ag't), N. Y. ; New York and Brazil Steamship Co., N. Y. ; 
New York and Mexico Steamship Co., N. Y; North German Lloyd 
(Oelrichs & Co.), N. Y., (Schumacher & Co., ag'ts,) Baltimore; Pacific 
Mail Steamship Co., N. Y.; Panama E. R. Co., N. Y.; Red Star Line 
(Peter Wright «& Sons, ag'ts), Philada. and N. Y.; Spinney, Joseph, 
S., N. Y.; Steamship Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. 
P. (C. W. Mallory & Co., agents), N. Y.; White -Cross Line of Antwerp 
(Punch, Edye & Co., agents), N. Y. ; Wilson & Asmus, N. Y. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Comjiauy and the Baltimore and Ohio 
Company have continued their concessions of reduced fares, and the 
freight steamer lines between Washington and New York have also 
made liberal concessions, which have been of very great value. 

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls 
of 1 he various Governments for their assistance in taking charge of the 
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent 
and transmitting them with care to their destination. 

The following tables will give the statistics for 1884 : 

RECEIPTS. 



Purpose for which received. 



1. For foreign distribution ... 

2. For domestic distribution.. 

3. For Government exchanges 



Packages. Weight. 



18, 866 

7,967 

38, 337 



65, 170 



78, 732 
42, 255 
32, 827 



lbs. 153,814 



Representing an increase over 1883 of about 1,500 packages. 



REPCRT OF THE SECRETAKY 35 

TRANSMISSIONS. 

1. Foreigu exchanges: 537 boxes, representing a bulk of 3,531 cubic feet, with a 

weight of 131,350 pounds, being an increase of 118 boxes over the year 1883. 

2. Domestic exchanges: 10,236 packages, of which 8,094 were addressed to institu- 

tions, and 2,142 to individuals. 

3. Government exchanges : 114 boxes, representing a bulk of 750 cubic feet, with a 

weight of 27,885 pounds, against 76 boxes in 1883 ; or an increase of 38 boxes, as 
compared with that year. 

The increase over the year 1883 is most aoticeable in the foreign and 
Government exchanges, being 156 boxes, with a bulk of 993 cubic feet 
and a weight of 30,970 pounds. 

In the domestic exchanges there is an apparent decrease in the num- 
ber of parcels, but this is owing to the fact that packages arriving by 
mail for the Smithsonian library were formerly recorded by the ex- 
change office, while during a great portion of the year 1884 this practice 
had been discontinued. 

Government Document Exchange. — The exchange of official publica- 
tions of the United States Government for those of most other foreign 
nations has been continued, as in previous years, under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the law of Congress, 
and a large number of valuable publications have been sent to agencies 
designated by their respective countries. 

During the year the Government of Great Britain has agreed to make 
a complete exchange of all official documents, commencing with Janu- 
ary 1, 1882, and preliminary arrangements have been made to the same 
effect with the Government of Austria. 

There are now thirty-eight foreign Governments regularly receiving 
the publications of the United States. 

For some time there has been considerable difficulty in establishing 
the regular international exchange connection with the British Prov- 
inces and the United States. A satisfactory arrangement, however, 
has been made with the Geological Survey at Ottawa to receive and 
distribute all parcels belonging to Canada proper, and by the kind aid 
of Mr. Matthews, of St. John, N. B., Mr. Kane, of the custom-house at 
St. John, has agreed to receive parcels for Nova Scotia, New Bruns- 
wick, and Prince Edward Island, and to assess pro rata the freight 
expenses upon the recipients. There only remains to make some satis- 
factory arrangement with Newfoundland to complete the British pro- 
vincial service, which it is thought can be accomplished before long. 

Public Utility of the Smithsonian Exchanges. — The practical benefits of 
the Smithsonian exchange system are extended to the remotest quar- 
ters of the earth 5 and have been frequently acknowledged by erninent 
scientific workers abroad. It has even been suggested that in the in- 
terest of science, similar agencies iu Great Britain and elsewhere, are 
a great desideratum, notwithstanding the increasing activity among 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

European Governqaents in promoting international exchanges of ofl&cial 
publications. In a communication published in Nature, October 30, 
1884 (vol. XXX, p. 634), Prof. V. Ball, of the chair of Geology and 
Mineralogy in the University of Dublin, in warmly commending " the 
extraordinary liberality of the American Government" in its free dis- 
tribution of the Geological Survey Reports, and other valuable works, 
remarks as follows : 

" We owe much of this liberality, no doubt, to the forethought and 
generosity of our own countryman, Smithsou, the i)rincipal function of 
the Institution founded by him, being to arrange for the exchange and 
dispatch of books and specimens.* 

" There are perhaps few directions in which tbe cause of science would 
be more directly benefited just now than by the establishment of an 
institution in England which would undertake the management of the 
exchanges of the scientific societies of the United Kingdom. I am 
aware that there are paid agencies for the purpose, but what is wanted 
is a free agency which would undertake the duty for the large societies 
and relieve those that are struggling from charges which now press 
heavily on their resources. 

"The great desideratum, however, is a man like Smithson, who, pos- 
sessing wealth, would be willing to give or bequeath it for the purpose 
of founding such an institution. Here is an opportunity for any person 
of capital — desirous of doing good and preserving his name to all pos- 
terity by one and the same act. 

" To return, however, to the main object of this letter, cannot anything 
be done to increase tlie ' free list' of Government publications I Surely 
there must be stored away vast quantities of survey and other serial 
publications, which if they were handed over to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, would, I feel certain, be gratefully accepted and judiciously dis- 
tributed among the libraries of America." 

Difficulties of prompt Delivery. — It is perhaps proper to call attention 
to the fact that tbe Institution does not undertake to act as an expiess 
agencj', guaranteeing to deliver packages in the most expeditious man- 
ner antl securing prompt returns. The number of correspondents is so 
large, the places to be rea<ihed so numerous and some of them so ditB- 
cult of access, that delays of weeks and even of months are frequently 
necessary. The Institution desires to secure the speedy delivery of 
everything intrusted to it, not only for the sake of the senders and the 
credit of the exchange agency, but because the constant accession of 
packages is so great that it is not possible to allow them to accumulate. 

It is very desirable that officers of societies or individuals who avail 
themseh es of the Smithsonian service should not inform the parties for 
whom packages are intended in foreign countries that they have been 
sent until the date of actual shipment is ascertained. This is a cause 
of frequent complaint and misunderstanding, and might be entirely pre- 
vented by due consideration of the case. 

* This is really but one of tbe functions of tbo Institi^tion, co-ordinated with that 
of promoting ori<;;iqal research. 



REPORT OF tH£ SECRETARY, 37 

LIBRARY. 

The following is a statement of the books, mapS, arid charts received 
by the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1884 and transferred to 
the Library of Congress or to that of the National Museum : 
Volumes : 

Octavo or smaller 1, 222 

Quarto or larger 345 

1,667 

Parts of vol umes : 

Octavo or smaller 3, 983 

Quarto or larger 4, 843 

8,820 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller ... 1, 979 

Quarto or larger 344 

2,323 

Maps and charts 143 

Total 12,859 

RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO OTHER BODIES. 

I. To the Government — Congress. — Ever since the completion of the 
new wings of the Capitol, the proper ventilation of the House of Eep- 
resentatives has been a subject of anxiety to its members, and several 
commissions of civilians have been appointed to consider the question. 
Of these Professor Henry was chairman, and at the time of his death, in 
.1878, he had completed a renewed inquiry on the subject, and prepared 
a report upon the same. In this ofBce I succeeded Professor Henry, 
and again, in February, 1884, was asked to form one of an advisory 
committee (the other members consisting of Colonel Casey, of the 
United States Engineers, Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capitol, 
and Dr. J. S. Billings, of the Army Medical Museum) to assist the 
standing committee of the House of Representatives in its deliberations. 
The question having arisen as to the purity of the air in different parts 
of the hall and its approaches, a chemical analysis of the same was made 
by Dr. J. H. Kidder, U. S. N., with the assistance of Mr. R. L. Packard, 
of the Bureau of Education, and some interesting and important state- 
ments and generalizations were furnished. Their work was completed ; 
on the 2d of April, and a report furnished in the same month and jnib- 
lished as a part of Report ^o. 1970, Forty eighth Congress, first ses- 
sion. The conclusions of the report are that — 

1. The chemical examinations and tests indicate no impurity in the- 
air supplied to the House, nor unwholesome change during its passage 
through the air-duct or the hall. 

2. The air in the corridors and stairways is much less pure than that 
of the hall. * * * 

5. The "relative humidity" as observed is about 20 per cent, below 
the accepted standard, and probably falls much lower in cold weather. 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

6. The veDtilation of the southeast gallery appears to be insuffi- 
lieut. 

This examination, which included the estimation of 65 samples of air, 
and numerous hygrometric and anemometric observations, agrees sub- 
stantially as to results with those undertaken by Professor Henry and 
Dr. Charles M. Wetherill in 1865-'66 (House Ex. Doc. No. 100, Thirty- 
ninth Congress), and by Dr. Charles Smart, U. S. A., in 1880 (MS. re- 
port to the Advisory Board). 

Navy Department. — Eeference has been made in previous reports to 
the arrangement by which, at the request of the Navy Department, 
the iuvstitution received for three successive years six Ensigns, and 
assigned them to duty in various sections of the National Museum 
for the purpose of enabling them to become acquainted with certain 
branches of science, such as chemistry, mineralogy, geology, ethnology, 
general natural history, &c., in order that in their subsequent cruises 
they might be more useful. Three details of the kind have been made, 
none, however, in 1884, the Department having found it inexpedient to 
continue the arrangement. Most of the gentlemen already detailed 
have also been reclaimed and assigned to duty. Two of these Ensigns, 
Messrs. Miner and Garrett, are now on the Fish Commission steamer 
"Albatross." Ensign Hayden was detached in October and ordered 
to duty, first at the Cambridge Observatory and subsequently to the 
United States Geological Survey. At present there are but two of 
these gentlemen left, and they are daily expecting their orders. 

The experiment in connection with these junior officers of the Navy 
has been very satisftictory as far as it has gone, and there can be no 
doubt that the increased range of information thus acquired by the 
eighteen gentlemen so detailed will be utilized to a greater or less ex- 
tent in the future. 

As in previous years, the Navy Department has had charge of the 
administration of the department of materia medica in the National 
Museum, which renders unnecessary the establishment of a similar 
bureau in the Navy Department itself. The first officer detailed by the 
Medical Department for this purpose was Dr. J. M. Flint, under whose 
efficient administration the collection was thoroughly organized and 
placed in working order. On Dr. Flint's transfer to the steamer "Alba- 
tross," in 1884, Dr. H. J. Beyer, of the Navy, was ordered to his place, 
and gives general satisfaction. 

Lieutenant Bowles, attached to the U, S. S. "Adams," stationed at 
Sitka for some time past, was enabled to make some interesting collec- 
tions for the National Museum, and when this vessel was under orders 
to return to San P^rancisco, Lieutenant Bowles made application for an 
exchange of service with an officer of the "Pinta," so as to remain on 
that vessel and continue his work. This request was granted by the 
Navy Department with its usual courtesy. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

]^oral Ob.s€rvatory. — The Institntioii isindebtod to the courtesy of the 
Superinteiideut ol the United States is aval Observatory for iucluding 
its building and that of the National Museum in the series of public 
establishments which receive telegraphic time at noon on each succes- 
sive day, and a clock, fitted up under the direction of the Observatory, 
with au arrangement by which the observatory itself corrects any aber* 
ration in time, has been supplied, and although the money expense has 
been borne by the Institution, yet no charge has been made for the time 
service. 

War Department. — The Signal Service has continued during the year 
that co-operation which has heretofore been found very serviceable, 
especially through its agencies in Labrador and Alaska. More par- 
ticular reference will be made to this subject in the chapter on Explora- 
tions, but it maj^ be well here to particularize the work of Mr. Lucien 
M. Turner at Fort Chimo, Ungava Bay, Northern Labrador ; of Messrs. 
Murdoch and Smith, at Point Barrow; Dr. Stejneger, at the Commander 
Islands, &g. 

By the kindness of the Signal OfiBce, Mr. John J. McLean, who has 
rendered' very much aid to the institution in its w^ork while resident in 
Alaska, was again ordered to that country by the chief signal officer. 
The lamented death, by drowning, of Mr. C. L. McKay, in the vicinity 
of Nushagak, Bristol Bay, was mentioned in the jjreceding report. The 
vacancy thus eftected was filled by the Signal Office by the appoint- 
ment of Mr. J. W. Johnson, of East Eockport, Ohio. This gentlemaa 
is a naturalist of considerable experience, and will continue Mr. McKay's 
work of securing such specimens of natural history as he can find time 
to i^repare in the intervals of his regular official work for the Signal 
Service. 

By the courtesy of Colonel Eockwell, Superintendent of Public Build- 
ings and Grounds, the Institution was enabled to make connection with 
the underground telephone laid by his authority through the public 
grounds by the Waring Company. A special advantage in this was 
the opportunity of making a more satisfactory connectiou between the 
National Museum building and the United States carp ponds, a service 
that previously had. been much interrui)ted. Connection was also made 
through the same trench with the Fire-Alarm Telegraph Company, and 
the necessary permission to oi)en North B street was promptly granted 
by the District Commissioners. 

Treasury Department. — The Director of the Mint, at the request of 
the Institution, has furnished for display in the National Museum two 
sets, in bronze, of all the meda-ls struck at '^the United States mints. 
These are of great historical value, and wnen properly installed will 
doubtless be very attractive to the public. 

Lif/htHonse Board. — The usual courtesies of the Light House Board 
have been extended in the way of co-cperation in obtaining data by 
which to determine the temperatures of the watt rs of the Atlantic 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Oceau, with a view of investigations into the causes of movements of 
fish aud other marine animals. 

, On the application of the Institution in behalf of the American Orni- 
thologists' Union the Board also promptly gave instructions to light- 
house keepers to Iceep the record of migrations of birds as shown 
principally by their being picked up after striking against the light- 
houses on dark nights. 

The instructions of the Life-Saving Service to its agents to co-operate 
with the Institution in its investigations have also borne good fruit in 
the way of collecting information of the occurrence of rare and inter- 
esting forms of marine animals. 

In order to increase in every possible way the material in the de- 
partment of materia medica iwthe National Museum, above referred to, 
under the Navy Department, application was made to the Treasury 
Department for instructions to the collectors of customs in the sea- 
board cities to transmit samples of drugs submitted by specialists for 
investigation, so as to serve as illustrations of both the crude importa- 
tions and the adulterations attempted from time to time by importers. 
A favorable response was made, and quiteanumber of collections have 
already been received. 

Tlic usnal courtesies of the Revenue Marine to the work of the Smith- 
sonian have been continued during theyear,thechief of the bnreau hav- 
ing instructed its captains in Alaska to further Mr. Swan's proposed 
exploration for the Institution by receiving him and his collections on 
board whenever such action will not interfere with the regular service 
of tlie vessels. Captain Healy, of the " Corwin," has also, by the author- 
ity of the bureau, continued to make important contributions of collec- 
tions. 

The chief of the Bureau of Revenue Marine also kindly instructed 
the commander of the revenue steamer "Key West" to assist Mr. Hemp- 
hill in carrying on his explorations of the Florida keys in behalf of the 
National Museum. 

Inferior Department. — It has always been the policy of the Smith- 
sonian Institution to make amicable arrangements witli the various 
Departments of the Government by which to avoid duplication of effort 
in material. This has been shown in many ways, as in the arrange- 
ment with.the Commissioner of Agriculture to transfer all specimens of 
plants and insects to that establishment and all human crania to the 
Army Medical Museum, receiving from them in return whatever might 
belong to the department of general natural history and ethnology. 

A second instance of this sj)irit was shown in the transfer to the 
United States Signal Service of the results of the meteorological corre- 
spondence aud labors which had been so effective in the hands of the 
Smithsonian Institution for nearly twenty-live years. 

Major Powell, of the United States Geological Survey, has organized 
a special department of maps and charts, with a view of utilizing the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 41 

infonnation tbey contain in his work, or of baviii-g standards of com- 
parison for bis own draughtsmen and engravers. The Smithsonian In- 
stitution lias been accumulating material of this kind for nearly forty 
years, embracing many thousands of sheets, and the offer of this to 
Major Powell was promptly accepted, with the assurance that it would 
be properly classed and arranged, and be at all times at the command 
of the Institution. 

The co-operation of the Secretary of the Interior has been especially 
manifested in connection with the publications of the National Museum, 
and of the printing required for labels, blanks, &c. All the expendi- 
tures of ai)propriations made by Congress for preservation of the col- 
lections of the Government, the construction of cases and fixtures, the 
payment of salaries of Museum employes, &c., are made through the 
disbursing officer of the Interior Department, Mr. G. W. Evans, and the 
annual estimates for the service of the Museum, for postage, printing, 
and blanks, are made through its Secretary, 

Railroad and Steamboat Lines and other Corporations. — As in previous 
years, the various railroad lines of the country and the foreign steam- 
shix^ companies have rendered ajd either in the entire reduction of 
charges or through a very large remission of charges. The number has 
increased of steamship companies furnishing free freights to the parcels 
of the Smithsonian Institution, especially those connected with the In- 
ternational Exchanges; a list of these is subjoined. The services ren- 
dered by these companies is of the utmost possible benefit, not only in 
the very great reduction of transportation to the Institution, but also 
in the greater care exercised in handling the packages. Among the 
additional companies to which the Institution is under obligation may be 
specially mentioned the Atlas Steamship Company, the vessels of which, 
under the direction of Messrs. Pim, Forwood & Co., make connection 
with nearly all ports of the West Indies and Central America. 

The Institution lis indebted to the Merchants and Miners' Transporta- 
tion Company for greatly reduced rates of freight between Washington 
and Boston. This is a privilege of great importance, as sometimes there 
is a large amount of freight to be carried by this route. 

Mr. C. G. Priudle, a well-known botanical collector, undertook an 
exploration of the region adjacent to the boundary line between the 
United States and Mexico west of El Paso, and at the request of the 
Smithsonian Institution the Atlantic and Pacific Eailroad Company 
gave passes to himself and assistant, which greatly facilitated their 
work. An exceptionally wet season brought about an unusual develop- 
ment of vegetation, and many points of interest were visited by Mr. 
Prindle in the course of his labors with rich results. 

To General Manager Kobinson, of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa 
F6 Railroad, the Institution is indebted for a free pass for the year 1885, 
to be used by one of its employes in an explor,atio.n of the natural his- 
tory along the line of that road. 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Alaska Commercial Company has cootinued its liberal and im- 
portant aid to all the operations of the Institntion on the Pacific coast. 

The cooperation of the Hudson's Bay Company in the work of the 
Smithsonian Institution, which commenced as long ago as 1858, has 
been continued through successive years; the latest instance being the 
courtesy by which Mr. Lucien M. Turner was enabled to spend two 
years at Ungava Bay, in Northern Labrador, in the service of the United 
States Signal Office and of the Smithsonian Institution. The company 
has also granted the necessary authority, and has given instructions to 
its agents in this country in connection with the proposed exploration 
of the region about the mouth of the Mackenzie Eiver. 

Co-operation icith the American Associa^on. — At the meeting of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science, held at Montreal 
in 1882, a committee was appointed, consisting of Professors H. Car- 
rington Bolton, Ira Remsen, F, W. Clarke, Albert R. Leeds, and Alexis 
A. Julien, " to devise and inaugurate a plan for the proper indexing of 
the literature of the chemical elements." To forward this useful en- 
terprise the Smithsonian Institution undertook to distribute for the com- 
mittee any circulars or other documents issued by its authority. At 
the next meeting of the Association, held at Minneapolis in 1883, the 
committee on indexing rejjorted progress, and acknowledged the 
friendly offices of the Institution as "an ofter of great importance, and 
for which this committee expresses sincere thanks." 

In further aid of a work so valuable to chemical research and to the 
advancement of science this Institution has also announced its readiness 
to undertake the publication of the various bibliographical indexes com- 
piled under the auspices of the committee; not, however, in excess of 
fifty pages per annum. At the meeting of the Association held at Phil- 
adelphia last September ''1884) the committee on indexing reported a 
number of special indexes as completed, and stated: 

"Two hundred and fifty copies of our report for 1883 have been sent 
to chemists throughout the United States, the Smithsonian Institution 
haring kindly attended to the distribution by mail without expense to 
the committee. This led to correspondence with several chemists, who 
regarded the scheme of co-operative indexing favorably, and resulted 
in several offers of assistance. 

" We are pleased to announce that in consequence of our representa- 
tions the Smithsonian Institution has consented to publish indexes to 
chemical literature which shall be indorsed by this committee. The 
Smithsonian Institution places a limit to the number of pages which 
will be printed per amium, but the limit is a generous one. By thus 
securing the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution chemists are 
assured of a reliable and authoritative channel of publication, together 
with a wide circulation, and the plan of co-operative indexing will un- 
doubtedly receive a great stimulus," 

The committee's report for 1884, extracted from the proceedings of the 
American Association for the year, was published as a three-page cir- 
cular in October, and the same has been distributed by this Institution 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

to chemists aud others interested in the subject. A copy of this circu- 
lar is appended to this report. 

Electrical Exhibition at Philadelphia. — An " International Electrical 
Exhibition," under the direction of the Franklin Institute of the State 
of Pennsylvania, was held at Philadelphia from September 2 to Octo- 
ber 11, 1884. Although the activities of the Institution have not for 
many years past been directed to the extension of our knowledge in 
the field of electrical science, nor any recent memoirs on the subject 
published under its auspices, yet, as exi)ressive of the interest felt in 
the proposed movement, an exhibit was prepared and forwarded to the 
directors before the opening of the exhibition. This exhibit comprised 
two quarto volumes of original memoirs relating to electricity and 
magnetism, collected from the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge (averaging about 500 j)ages each), with specially-prepared title- 
pages, and neatly bound ; and also three octavo volumes on the same 
subject, collected from the miscellaneous papers published at various 
times in the annual Reports of the Institution, in like manner supplied 
with appropriate title-pages, and neatly bound in a uniform style. 
These five volumes were presented to the Franklin Institute as a per- 
manent contribution to its memorial electrical library. ^ framed por 
trait of Professor Henry, of life size, in crayon, by Mr. H. Ulke, was 
also forwarded for exhibition, with a framed legend attached, briefly 
stating the more important contributions of the late Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution to the scientific and practical applications of 
electricity. 

In addition to these, the original telegraphic instrument constructed 
for Professor Morse by Mr. Alfred Vail, and operated by them in the 
first experimental communication by electro- magnetism between Balti- 
more and Washington (May 24, 1844) — on deposit in the ISTational Mu- 
seum — was loaned to the Exhibition, by jiermission of Mr. Stephen 
Vail, the owner and depositor of the instrument, and placed in its hall 
of historical relics and memorials. 

For the purpose of having the interest of the Smithsonian Institution 
represented, Mr. William B. Taylor was commissioned to attend the 
Electrical Exhibition to see after the exhibits of the Institution, aud to 
make such general examination of the extent, character, and details of 
display as might prove instructive or useful. Mr. Taylor remained at 
Philadelphia on this service one week, the cost to the Institution being 
only his traveling expenses. 

State and International Exhihitions. — The time and attention of the 
ofiflcers of the Smithsonian Institution have been occupied for a number 
of years past in the preparation of displays for exhibitions, national and 
State. Kotably among them may be mentioned, the International Ex- 
hibition at Philadelphia in 187G, the Berlin Fisheries Exhibition in 1880, 
the Louisvillle Exhibition in 1883, the London Fisheries Exhibition in 
the same year, and, in 1884, the exhibitions at Louisville and Cincin- 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

iiati, and the International Cotton Exposition at New Orleans, opening 
in December, 1884. 

Many applications are made from time to time to the Institution for 
material for display, but in every instance they have been declined, un- 
less an act of Congress has been passed authorizing the same, and mak- 
ing the necessary appropriation. It is considered that the Institution 
has no right to allow any of its collections to leave the walls of the Mu- 
seum without such authority, and as the appropriations are each made 
for a specific purpose, all expenditures of the same are strictly applied 
as designated. 

Great confusion is generally caused in the regular work of the Na- 
tional Museum, as the time of the curators and assistants is occupied in 
spasmodic efforts, apart from the regular continuous work necessary to 
properly install and label the permanent collections. This condition is 
cheerfully met, however, as the appropriations are generally such as 
permit, and, indeed, require, the acquisition of new material which may 
not be attainable excepting by purchase or expenditure of some kind. 
Thus, with the help of the appropriations for the Berlin and London 
disi)lays, the Museum has acquired what may safely be considered the 
most complete exhibition of fishery apparatus, methods, and products 
ever combined under one roof, and constituting an object of great at- 
traction to visitors. The exi)erience of the present year is also in the 
same direction ; all funds available being expended specially in procur- 
ing material illustrative of archaeology and ethnology, and in bringing 
together very extensive representations of the general industries of 
the United States connected with textile materials, metallurgy, &c. The 
increase in the collections of the Museum by this means and others is 
so rapid as to involve the necessity for the speedy erection of a new 
building for their projjer accommodation. 

In accordance with an act of Congress making provision for the par- 
ticipation by the United States in the International Cotton Exhibition 
at New Orleans, Mr. Gr. Brown Goode was nominated as the representa- 
tive of the Fish Commission on that occasion and was duly commissioned 
to that effect in May last. In conjunction with the representatives from 
other departments, Mr. Goode has been diligently occupied in his labors, 
which were brought to a satisfactory conclusion by the transmission of 
several car-loads of objects to New Orleans in December last. 

Prior to the transmission of collections to New Orleans, extended 
displays were made at the exhibitions in Cincinnati and Louisville, some 
of whicli have been returned to the Institution and others forwarded 
direct to New Orleans. 

NECROLOGY. 

Dr. Arnold Henry Guyot, one of the earliest contributors to the in- 
terests and the publications of the Smithsonian Institution, is one whose 
death early in the past year we have to lament. Born at Boudevilliers, 
near Neuchatel, in Switzerland, September 28, 1807, he entered the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

second class of the college of Neuchatel iu 1821, goiug thence to Carls- 
ruhe (where, iu 1825, he formed an intimacy and lasting friendship with 
Agassiz), afterward to the classical gymnasium of Stuttgardt, returning 
to ifeuchatel in 1827. In 1829 he entered the university at Berlin, from 
which institution he received the degree of Doctor in Philosophy in 1835. 
The next four years he spent in Paris, making summer excursions of 
physiographical observations through France, Belgium, Holland, and 
Italy, and in 1838 studying glaciers in Switzerland, and investigating 
the distribution of erratic bowlders. In 1839 he was made professor of 
history and pliysical geography at Neuchatel, where his early friend 
Agassiz had already for some half a dozen years been i^rofessor of 
natural history. Dr. Guyot held this position for ten yearts, assisting 
Agassiz iu the " Systeme Glaciaire," published in 1847. 

In 1848, Dr. Guyot, at the urgent solicitation of his friend Agassiz, 
came to this country — the latter having been here already about two 
years. He was employed for six years by the Massachusetts board of 
education \is lecturer to the normal schools of the State on geography 
and its methods of teaching. In 1849 a course of his lectures in French 
on " The Earth and Man " were published in an English translation by 
Professor Felton. 

In 1851) he- was invited by the Smithsonian Institution to assist iu 
developing the system of meteorological observations for the North 
American continent, then recently organized. In addition to valuable 
suggestions in consultation with other eminent meteorologists, as a 
needful reference work in the labor of the various reductions from ex- 
tended observations. Dr. Guyot undertook the collection, computation, 
and arrangement of a series of graduated tables of constants — physical 
as well as meteorological — for the use of those engaged in such investi- 
gations. This valuable work, comprising 212 printed pages, together 
with "Directions for Meteorological Observations," comprising 70 printed 
pages, mainly by the same author, was published in 1852, as the first 
volume of the " Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections," and at once 
became iu great demand. 

Dr. Guyot at this time made a careful study of the physical geography 
of the eastern i^ortion of our country from Maine to South Carolina. 
In 1854 he was elected professor of geology and physical geography in 
the College of New Jersey at Princeton, a chair which he held till the 
time of his death, a period of thirty years. A second edition of his 
standard work, the " Tables," amended and greatly enlarged, was pub- 
lished by the Institution in 1857, and a third edition in 1859, which ex- 
tended to G38 octavo pages. 

He was one of the original members of the National Academy of 
Sciences at its organization in 18G3. In the preparation of Johnson's 
'' New Universal Cyclopaedia," a very elaborate and valuable work in 
four large and closely printed volumes, published in 1875-'78, he was 
Dr, Barnapd's assistant editor-in-chief. Indefatigable in his efforts to 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

render complete his favorite production, the " Meteorological and . . . 
sical Tables," he commenced the preparation of a new edition, with stin 
further additions in 1870, and this fourth edition, embracing about 750 
octavo pages, was published by the Institution in the past year. But 
the distinguished author did not live to see the last pages of the work 
through the press. He died at his home in Princeton, New Jersey, Feb- 
ruary 8, 1884, in the 77th year of his age. 

Henry Gass, for many years an employ6 of the Institution, died at 
his residence in this city on the 10th of Ajiril, 1884, of consumption,, at 
the age of 49 years. He was appointed as a general messenger in Feb- 
ruary, 1855, and though occupying a comparatively humble position, 
by his fidelity and attention to his duties he made himself very useful. 
Of late years he had been intrusted with the mail transmission of 
Smithsonian publications to individual corresjmndents and aj^plicants. 
His health, never very robust, had been declining for a year or two, 
but be continued at his post till within a few months before his death. 
Patient and accommodating, he was kindly regarded h;y all with whom 
he was brought into intercourse. 

Clarence Bishop Young, the accountant of the Institution, died 
on the 17th of April, 1884. He was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on 
the 3d of February, 1846, but came to the United States with his parents 
in 1849. He was graduated from Columbian College, Washington City, 
in 1864, and from Harvard College in 1868. He completed the scien- 
tific course in the Lawrence Scientific School. Before entering Har- 
vard he was for two years a clerk in the Fourth Auditor's Oftice, Treas- 
ury Department. After leaving college, and while perfecting himself 
in mechanical engineering in the city of New York, he was one of the 
editors of an industrial journal. At the request of Professor Henry he 
accepted a place in the Smithsonian Institution in 1870 as clerk and 
book-keeper, which he retained until his death. He always discharged 
his duties with punctuality, judgment, and accuracy. During his ex- 
tensive service in the Institution, his modest and courteous demeanor, 
his readiness to assist others when applied to, and his careful attention 
to all details submitted to him, won the respect and warm regard of 
all his asoociates. He was a fine linguist, and his general scientific 
culture and critical acumen rendered his services especially valuable in 
revising papers and printers' proofs for the Smithsonian publications. 
In 1873 he was commissioned by Professor Henry to attend the Vienna 
Exposition and visit the v^arious agencies in Europe of the Institution. 
Ill health, attended with great nervous prostration, compelled him to 
withdraw from all active occupation for a year before he finally passed 
away. 

miscellaneous. 

Edinburgh Ter- centenary. — The Smithsonian Institution was invited 
by th<^ University of Edinburgh to send a delegate to be present at the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

celebration of its tercentenary, and Hon. J. Eussell Lowell, American 
minister to England, was requested by the Institution to act in that 
capacity. He did so to its entire satisl'action and gratification, and oc- 
cupied quite a prominent place on the occasion in question. 

Sonorous Sand. — An interesting problem to physicists and geologists 
has been a sand found in certain localities, which, when placed in motion 
by sliding, sometimes produces a very sonorous or resonant sound quite 
peculiar in character and quite difficult of explanation. The subject 
has received considerable attention from specialists, and Prof. H. C. 
Bolton, of Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., desirous of making re- 
searches on the subject, and especially in studjdng the microscopical, 
chemical, and physical peculiarities of the grains, requested the aid of 
the Institution in obtaining materials for the purjjose. Letters were 
addressed to parties in the Sandwich Islands, the coast of Oregon, Ger- 
many, and many other places, and a considerable variety of specimens 
from various localities has been-received in resi)onse. These are now 
in Professor Bolton's hands, who will prepare a report on the subject. 

The Mercer EUcde. — References have been made in previous reports 
respecting the will of the Eev. Dr. Mercer, of ISTewport, in which the 
Smithsonian Institution and Harvard and Yale Colleges are made trust- 
ees to administer certain scholarships. 

A question arose as to whether these designations meant the present 
incumbents of the offices or those who might be in power at the time 
when the provisions of the will should take effect. 

This question having been brought before the courts of Ehode Island, 
it was decided that reference was made to the officers in the abstract, 
and not to the individuals, so that whoever may be in charge of the es- 
tablishments in question when the provisions of the will are carried 
into effect will be competent to take action. The amount involved at 
present is about $300,000, and is likely to be doubled before action is 
required. This action is contingent upon the death of certain legatees, 
which will not take place, according to the tables of mortality, for about 
thirty-five years. 

Walker Prize. — Dr. William J, Walker a number of years ago be- 
queathed to the Boston Society of Natural History a prize fund, from 
the income of which an annual award was to be made to the compet- 
itor having written the best essay on specified topics. In addition to 
these annual awards, an honorary prize of from five hundred or one 
thousand dollars (at the discretion of the society) is founded, to be 
awarded every five years, "for such investigation or discovery as may 
seem to deserve it, provided such investigation or discovery shall have 
been made known or published in the United States at least one year 
previous to the time of award." The prize is to be bestowed on recom- 
mendation of a special commission appointed by the society for the pur- 
pose. 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lu January of tbe past year, the Secretary of this lustitution was des- 
ignated as one of such committee (together with Dr. Asa Gray, one of 
the Eegents, and Prof. J. S. Newberry). The prize of $1,U00 was 
awarded on their recommendation to Prof. James Hall, of Albany, by 
the society, May 7, 1884. 

Telegraphic Astronomical Announcements. — In the last annual report 
(1883) was recorded the final transfer to the Harvard College Observa- 
tory of the system of telegraphic announcement of astronomical dis- 
coveries inaugurated by this Institution in 1873. The belief was ex- 
pressed that astronomical interests would be benefitted by placing this 
useful service in the charge of a working observatory. It is gratifying 
to learn that the expectation has been justified by the result. In the 
thirty-eighth Annual Eeport of the Directoroftlie Astronomical Observ- 
atory of Harvard College (Prof. Edward C. Pickering), laid before the 
Board of Overseers, January 9, 1884, it is remarked : 

" The system of announcing astronomical discoveries employed here 
for some years past has received an important extension during the 
last year. An association of over fifty observatories has been formed, 
with its headquarters at Kiel, for the pur])ose of expediting the an- 
nouncement of astronomical discoveries. The Smithsonian lustitution, 
which had for many years rendered an important service to astronomy 
by transmitting astronomical telegrams between Europe and America, 
courteously signified its readiness to transfer this function to the ob- 
servatory of Harvard College, upon learning that this observatory was 
prepared to undertake it. The change was announced by a circular 
issued by the Smithsonian Institution on Januai'y 10, 1883, and since 
that time the observatory has distributed in this country the astro- 
nomical intelligence received from the European association, and has 
forwarded to Kiel the information of American discoveries." 

Sjiecial Donations to the Smithsonian Institution. — The relationship of 
Professor Henry, the first Secretary of the Smithsonian lustitution, to 
the ])rogress of scientific discovery, by which the Morse electric tele- 
graph system was established, must always give an interest to anything 
illustrating the early history of the invention. Knowing this fact, Mr. 
Stephen Vail has deposited with the Institution one of the two original 
Morse telegraphic instruments made for experimental service between 
Washington and Baltimore, and this has been placed in the National 
Museum, where it attracts much interest among inventors. By permis- 
sion of Mr. Vail it was lent for a time to the Electric Exhibition in 
Philadelphia, but has been duly returned and put in its proper place. 
Application has been made for it by parties connected with the New 
Orleans Exposition, and with the permission of the owner, the instru- 
ment will be sent to that city. 

A life-size statue of Prof. Benjamin Sillinimi, one of the pioneers of 
physical science in America, and the founder of the American Journal of 
Science, was recently modeled by Prof. John F. Weir, cast in bronze (8 
i"eet in height), and placed peimanently iu Yale iI!oUege, at New Haven. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

Through the kinduess of Prof. Benjamiu Silliman, son of, the eminent 
savant in question, the model of this statue, in plaster, was presented 
to the Institution and deposited in the National Museum, where it is 
proposed to bring together as complete a collection as possible of busts 
or portraits of the men whose work has definite lelationship to the ob- 
jects of the Institution. 

The Institution received, in February, a comi)lete set of standard 
weights and measures of the United States from Professor Hilgard, Su- 
perintendent of the Coast Survey, and of the United States Department 
of Weights and Measures. This set was placed in the Institution in ac- 
cordance with the requirements of the act of Congress of March 3, 1881. 
(Statutes, XXI, p. d'21..) 

The set (No. 40) consists of the following: 

1. Measure of length : A yard scale divided to inches and tenths, with 
a matrix for the comparison of end yards. 

2. Weights: 25, 10, 5, 5, 2, 2, aud 1 pounds; 8, 4, 2, 1, ^, ^, and ^ 
ounces, and 500, 200, 200, 100, 50, 20, 20, 10, 5, 2, 2, and 1 grains. 

3. Capacity measures, liquid: A gallon; a quart; a piut. 

4. Capacity measures, dry: A half-bushel; a peck; a half-peck; a 
quart. 

Adjustments: The yard is a line measure and an end measure. The 
jaws of the matiix forming the latter are given a slight slope. 

The yard scale is standard at 50^.8 Fahr. 

The bottom of the matrix is standard at 66°.4 Fahr. 

The top of the matrix exceeds the bottom by about three hundredths 
(0.03) inch. 

The expansion of the brass scale may be assumed as 0.0003d inch for 
lo F. 

The weights are so closely adjusted to the standards that any correc- 
tions developed in the final comparisons are insensible. 

The liquid measures are adjusted to the temperature of 60° F. At 
this temperature — 

The gallon = a standard gallon — 0.007 cubic inch. 

The quart = a standard quart — 0.003 cubic inch. 

The pint = a standard i^int — 0.005 cubic inch. 

The dry measures are adjusted to the temperature of the maximum 
density of water. At this temperature — 

The half-bushel = standard -0.009 cubic inch. 

The peck = standard +0.007 cubic inch. 

The half-peck = standard -f 0.0003 cubic inch. 

The quart = standard +0.002 cubic inch. 

In a previous report mention was made of the present by Messrs. 
Herring & Co., safe manufacturers, of New York City, of a fireproof 
safe for the display of precious stones and metals belonging to the 
National Museum. This safe, which was made, transported to Wash- 
ington, and placed in the building at the expense entirely of the liberal 
S. Mis. 33 4 



50 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

douors, is liow iu the Metallurgical Department, a conspicuous and 
attractive portion of the Museum. 

A very important service has been rendered to the Institution during 
the year by Capt. Charles Bendire, of the First Cavalry. This officer 
was detailed on an Army Board, and utilized the opportunity of his 
abode in Washington for a number of months by completely reorganiz- 
ing and rearranging the collection of eggs of birds contained in the 
National Museum. In the course of this operation he presented and 
interpolated the whole of his own collection of eggs, which was the finest 
extant, so far as western America is concerned, and well supplied with 
the species of the Eastern States, as well as those of Europe. Dr. J, C. 
Merrill, of the Army, was prevailed upon to present his very fine col- 
lection, which filled some of the few gaps in Captain Bendire's series. 

The National Museu-n and Smithsonian Institution are not only 
greatly indebted to Captain Bendire for the douation of one of the.most 
important contributions it has ever received butralso for the scientific 
service rendered and for the accurate identification, labelling, and ar- 
rangement, in an extremely attractive and novel manner, of the entire 
series. The collection is now considered, to be iu excellent order, and 
occupies one of the small rooms adjacent to the northeastern pavilion. 

Among the desiderata of the National Museum, and one necessary to 
complete its material for study and exhibition, is that of a collection of 
plants from the different regions of the globe, and for obtaining which 
no opportunity has hitherto presented itself. A very satisfactory ar- 
rangement was made with Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, to secure 
the duplicates of what is known as the Joad Herbarium. Mr. Joad was 
a botanist and much interested in the subject, and, having the means at 
his command, brought together, iu the course of his long life, one of 
the most extensive private collections of plants known to men of science. 
This collection went at his death,, by bequest, to the Eoyal-Gardens at 
Kew, London, and as that establishment had the greater number of 
the species represented on its shelves, it transferred the collection to 
the Herbarium at Cambridge, Mass. This collection also was uearly 
complete, and after selecting coml^aratively few desiderata, Professor 
Gray, in charge, offered to the Smithsonian Institution the remainder 
on condition of payment of freight from London, agreeing, at the same 
time, to attend without cost, to the poisoniug of the specimens, their 
arrangement and proper labelling in suitable ^lortfolios. All this was 
accomplished at a cost of a little over $500, and a collection of over 
10,000 species is now in the Museum and at the seryice of students. 

At the close, in 1884, of the foreign exhibition he?d in Boston, which 
opened in 1883, a large number of exhibits were contributed to the lu- 
scitution by foreign governments and commercial exhibitors. These, 
with other donations of greater or less interest, will be noted in the-re- 
port of Mr. Goode, the assistant director. I may mention here, how- 
ever, that among the contributions of this character were the greater 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

part of the exhibits made by Guatemala, Salvador, Ceylou, the Sand- 
wich Islands, &;c. 

Among other interesting contributions to the Institution has been 
what purports to be the first flag made in America, from American silk. 
By a formal order of Congress this was transferred to the National 
Museum, and occupies a satisfactory position therein. 

While the Smithsonian Institution is frequently favored by visits of 
men of science from other countries for the purpose of special inquiry 
into its methods* or as an incident to travel through the country, an 
unusual throng of such callers was welcomed during the centennial 
year of 1876, on account of the number connected with the foreign com- 
missions and European visitors generally. A meeting somewhat simi- 
lar — that of the British Association in Montreal — furnished a great in- 
crease over the average, although, while savants of all countries were 
represented in 1876, the visitors of 1884 were principally Englishmen, 
who had been in attendance during the meeting of the British Associa- 
tion in ]Vk)utreal. Several distinguished naturalists took the occasion 
to s'udy the collections of the National Museum as containing many 
imi)ortant types otherwise inaccessible to them. 

The Acclimatization Society of Budapest, Austria-Hungary', having 
made application to the Smithsonian Institution for aid in obtaining a 
sufficient supply of American hickory nuts for experimental cultivation, 
through Mr. John Xantus, for many 3'ears a highly valued correspond- 
ent of the Institution, the matter was referred to Mr. Thomas Mee- 
han, of Germantown, Pa., the well-known florist and pomologist, who 
attended promptly and satisfactorily to the call. 

Within the year a very active organization has been established un- 
der the name of the American Ornithologists' Union, having for its ob- 
ject the determination of many points of interest in connection with 
the migration and history of the birds of North America, which can 
only be ascertained by a concurrent eftbrt extended over a wide area. 

One of the principal objects of this Association has been the pre- 
paration of a reliable nojiienclature of North American birds. A re- 
vision of the previous list, now in progress, will probably be published 
before long, and will doubtless receive the assent of all working orni- 
thologists. 

As it is desirable to ascertain the amount of destruction of birds by 
striking against light-houses along the coast, with the corresponding 
indications of dates and routes of migration of the different species, 
the Union, through its Secretary, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, has issued cir- 
culars to the light-houses of the United States and Canada, to be filled 
up and returned. 

An appeal made to the Institution for co-operation was promptly 
met, tlie Institution undertaking the expense of printing the blanks 
and circulars in question, as being strictly germane to its functions. A 
.suliiciently large edition was prepared and transmitted to the Secretary, 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and it is understood that important returns have already been received, 
which, with others, will be duly digested and published. 

In the re-organization of the affairs of the National Museum, conse- 
quent upon taking possession of the new building, an important place 
was given for a complete collection of materia medica of the whole world, 
civilized and barbarous, as also for a series of suitable artificial combi- 
nations of the elements in nature. In connection with this the services 
of Dr. J. M. Flint, surgeon, U. S. X., were obtained from the Secretary 
of the Navy, and the Institution owes everything to the doctor for 
establishing this collection on a firm basis. Dr. Flint's term having 
expired, he was transferred to the U. S. Fish Commission steamer 
"Albatross," and Dr. H. G. Beyer assigned to duty in his place on June 
4, 1884. Dr. Beyer has been since that time actively engaged in carry- 
ing on the work begun by Dr. Flint, as also initiating some important 
measures of his own. 

When the Chemical Department of the Smithsonian Institution was 
first organized. Dr. F. M. Endlich was placed in charge, and per- 
formed its duties with fidelity and efficiency. On his resignation to 
take charge of some extensive mining operations in the Southwest, 
Dr. F. W. Taylor, of Washington, was appointed in his place. The 
climate of Washington proving too severe for Dr. Taylor's health, 
he received leave of absence for some months, for the purpose of visit- 
ing New Mexico, and on his arriv-al there, finding that it was in every 
way to his advantage, he resigned his position in the Institution on 
June 10, 1884, greatly to our regret. He was succeeded in charge of 
the laboratory of the Institution by Prof. F. W. Clarke, the chemist of 
the United States Geological Survey. 

CTNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

A little more than three years ago, in the fall of 1881, the occupancy 
of the new Museum building was begun, by moving into it several 
thousand packing boxes full of unassorted and* uncatalogued material, 
the accumulation of many previous years. The members of the Museum 
staff have been struggling ever since with this fragment of chaos, and 
it gives me great pleasure to state that at the present time they have 
finally gained the mastery over it. The material is now under control, 
and has all been assorted and assigned to its proper departments. Ex- 
cept in a few curatorships, which are not yet entirely organized, the 
specimens have been catalogued, and are available for study. The prep- 
aration of the exhibition series has not yet been completed, however, 
owing to the necessary delays in the work of printing the labels and 
making the exhibition cases. Two things have interfered materially 
with the progress of the work: first, the tremendous influx of new ma- 
terial, which has required immediate attention to insure its safety, 
3,509 packages having been received during the yearj and, second, the 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

interruptious cau&ed by tbe preparatioDS for the exhibitions in London, 
New Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati, which have really put back 
the work of arranging the collections at least twelve months. 

It must be remembered that the ''National Museum" is actually 
an institution of very recent origin, although the idea of the National 
Museum has been in process of development for very many years. As 
recently as 1877 the appropriation made by Congress for its support 
was only $10,000. The " National Museum" was not recognized by that 
name in the Congressional appropriation bills until 1876, although the 
term was used in the reports of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution as early as 1808, * and although the national collections were 
transferred to the custody of the Institution in 1858, in accordance with 
the act of incorporation passed in 1846, by which it is provided that, 
"all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all olvjects 
of natural history, plants, and geological and miueralogical specimens 
belonging or hereafter to belong to the United States, which may be in 
the city of Washington," shall be delivered to the Regents of the 
Smithsouian Institution, and, together with new specimens obtained 
by exchange, donation, or otherwise, shall be so arranged and classified 
as best to tacilitate their examination and study .t 

Nearly half a century has passed since the United States, by the pro- 
visions of the will of James Smithson, first became proprietor of a sci- 
entific collection, in the shape of the Smithson minerals and meteorites; 
it is forty-three years since the National Institute was founded, with 
great presMge and influence, for the avowed purpose of organizing a 
National Museum of Natural History; thirty-eight since Congress threw 
upon the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution the responsibility of 
caring for the so-called " National Cabinet of Curiosities; " twenty-seven 
since this responsibility was finally accepted and these collections were 
transferred to the Smithsonian building ; thirty-five since the Institu- 
tion began to make collections of its own; eight siufce Congress has 
really recognized the " National Museum " as its ward, and four since 
the Museum has htid a shelter of its own, and an appropriation in any 
way adequate to the necessities of its administrative work. The year 
1880, then, marks an epoch in the history of the Museum, since at this 
time Congress saw fit to recognize the claims of the Museum by increas- 
ing the appropriations for its preservation and installation from $34,500 
to $135,000. 

Their responsibility in the matter they had, however, recognized in 
1879, by appropriating $250,000 for the construction of a fire-proof 
building. The claims of the Museum to increased support had been 

* See Report Smitliaonian lustitutiou, 1867, p. 55. 

t Au act to establisli the " Smithsonian Institution" for the increase and diffusion 
of useful knowledge among men. (Approved August 10, 1846 ; Revised Statutes, 
title Ixxiii, sections 5579-5594.) See also Revised Statutes, section 5586, and Statutes 
Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182, p. 394. 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

before them for three or four years — ever since, indeed, by their own act, 
in connection with the preparations for the participation of the Govern- 
ment Departments in the International Exposition in Philadelphia, and 
the valuable gifts of foreign Governments upon that occasion, the Smith- 
sonian building had been filled to overflowing with unassorted material 
of the highest value for educational and scientific uses. These facts 
should be borne in mind in considering the present condition of the 
Museum, which is really — thanks to a large and efficient staff of cura- 
tors — in much better condition than a glance at the exhibition halls 
would seem to indicate. 

If Congress continues its present policy in making appropriations for 
the coming fiscal year I shall be able to report at your next meeting 
that the exhibition series of specimens is in nearly as good condition 
as the study series — which is not now the.case, for it has been our policy 
to work from the foundation ujiwards and to get the great mass of the 
reserve collections into good condition, before attempting to prepare 
the selected series of specimens for display in the open cases. 

More than ten years ago* — as Assistant Secretary — I pointed out in 
my report to the Secretary of the Institution that the annual growth of 
the Museum was undoubtedly greater than that of any other in the 
world ; that is, so far as the accession of great masses of material was 
concerned. The increase at present is much greater than formerly, but 
the accessions are much more manageable, owing to the larger number 
of assistants employed. For twenty years the Assistant Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, with the help of one or two laborers and such 
students as hax)pened to volunteer their aid, performed all the duties of 
curatorship of the national collections. It was not until 1874 that a 
special staff' of Museum assistants was recognized, with duties apart 
from the executive work of the Institution, and pot until 1875 that the 
office of curator was established, that office being held by the Assist- 
ant Secretary from 1875 to 1878. Up to 1880 there was still but one 
curator, with a number of " assistants," but during that year an execu- 
tive officer, with the grade of assistant director, was ajipointed, and the 
five principal assistants in the Museum were designated curators. The 
present organization of the personnel, then, dates back only five years, 
to the time when preparations were being made for taking possession of 
the new building. 

The staff", as now organized, consists of two classes — the scientific 
officers, or curators, and the administrative officers; the former report- 
ing to the director of the Museum, the latter to the assistant director, 
who also has general supervision of the administrative work of the 
curators. 

There are at present 19 cui atorshii^s, some of which are divided as 
indicated below, so that the number of heads of departments or sub- 
liepartments is 25, and the total number of men in the scientific staff" 

* Smithsonian Report for 1873, p. 49. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

30, of whom 24 are in the pay of the Museum, aud the others are hon- 
orary, r> being detailed for this duty by the director of the Geological 
Survey, 1 by the director of the Bureau of Ethnology, others by the 
Coin mission of Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the ^avy, two being 
volunteers. It maybe stated here that these details are in every instance 
made in the interests of co-operation by those bureaus of the Govern- 
ment engaged in work closely connected with that of the Museum, The 
paleontologists of the Geological Survey find it so much tO' their advan- 
tage to have access to the paleontological collections of the Museum, 
and the use of the laboratories, storage cases, and general administra- 
tive machinery of the Museum, that they are permitted by their chief 
to assume the responsibilities of curatorships and perform a general 
work of supervision. In the same way it is with the mineralogist and 
the ethnologist detailed. In nearly every case, however, the Museum 
supplies the honorary curators with assistants, who relieve them of much 
of the routine work. The curatorships are now organized as follows: 

I. Arts and Industries. — The Assistant Director acting as curator, 
j^ith sub-curatorships as follows: A. Howard Clark, assistant; two pre- 
parators. 

a. Materia medica: Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. S. N., honorary curator, with 
one clerk. 

6. Textile industries : Komyn Hitchcock, acting curator. 

c. Fisheries: E. Edward Earll, curator. 

d. Animal products: E. Edward Earll, acting ^curator. 

e. Kaval architecture : Capt. J. W. Collins, United States Fish Com- 
mission, honorary curator. 

f. Foods : W. O. Atwater, acting curator. 

In this department, it may be stated, is administered very much of 
the material usually arranged by museums in their ethnological series, 
and the curator of ethnology is consequently acting as adjunct curator 
in arts and industries. 

II. Ethnology. — Dr. Otis T. Mason, curator, with one preparator and 
two clerks. 

III. Antiquities. — Dr. Charles Eau, curator; E. P. Upham, assistant. 

IV. American Prehistoric Pottery. — W. H. Holmes, Bureau of Eth- 
nology, honorary curator; Dr. Edward Foreman, assistant; one prepar- 
ator. 

V. Mammals. — Frederick W. True, curator ; one clerk ; two prepar- 
ators. 

VI. Birds. — Eobert Eidgway, curator; Dr. Leonard Stejneger, assist- 
ant ; one clerk and one preparator. 

VII. Birds'' Eggs. — Capt. Charles Bendire, U. S. A., honorary cura- 
tor (volunteer), and one clerk. 

VIII. Eeptiles and BatracMans. — Dr. H. C. Yarrow, honorary cura- 
tor (volunteer). 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

IX. Fishes. — Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, curator; Peter Parker and B. A. 
Bean, assistants, detailed from United States Fish Commission. 

X. Comparative Anatomy. — Frederick W. True, curator; F.A.Lucas 
assistant ; one j^reparator. 

XI. Mollusks. — W. H. Dall, United States Geological Survey, curator; 
Dr. K. E. C. Stearns, adjunct curator; one clerk. 

XII. Insects. — Dr. C. V. Riley, honorary curator (volunteer). 

XIII. Marine Invertebrates. — Richard Rathbun, curator ; L. H. Bald- 
win, assistant, and one clerk detailed by the United States Fish Com- 
mission. 

XIY. Invertebrate Fossils, Paleozic. — C. D. Walcott, United States 
Geological Survey, honorary curator. 

XV^. Invertebrate Fossils, Mesozoic and Genozoic. — Dr. C. A. White, 
United States Geological Survey, honorary curator; J. B. Marcou, 
United States Geological Survey, honorary assistant. 

XVI. Plants, Fossil and Recent. — Lester F. Ward, United States Geo- 
logical Survey, honorary curator ; one clerk ; one preparator. 

XVII. Mineralogy. — Dr. F. W. Clarke, United States Geological Sur- 
vey, honorary curator; W. S. Yeates, assistant. 

XVIII. Lithology and Physical Geology. — George P. Merrill, acting 
curator; one preparator. 

XIX. Metallurgy and Economic Geology. — Fred. P. Dewey, curator; J. 
A. Allen, assistant. 

Division of Administration. 

The Division of Administration consists of fifteen departments, the 
organization of which has been described at length in previous reports. 
A number of additional preparators have been employed for special 
work upon the collections for the New Orleans Exposition, and an un- 
usual quantity of objects for the exhibition series has been completed 
during the year in the workshops, as is shown in the review of the op- 
erations of the scientific departments. Specially noteworthy" among 
these is a number of gigantic photograjihic enlargements representing 
thirteen of the Government buildings in Washington. These are the 
largest prints ever made, and have been found particularly effective at 
New Orleans and Cincinnati, it being thought that in an exhibition of 
the work of the Government Departments, such as has been attempted 
this year by the United States Executive Board, it was particularly ap- 
propriate that the public buildings of Washington should be shown in 
an impressive manner. 

In addition to the regular administrative staff' of the Museum, an ad- 
ministrative staff" for exhibition work has been maintained since July, 
1882, under the general charge of the Assistant Director. Mr. R. Ed- 
ward Earll is the executive officer, and Mr. W. V. Cox financial clerk of 
this staff, which is increased -from time to time as occasion requires by 
the employmentof extra clerks and preparators, and to which also, when 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

necessary, are detailed various officers of tlie IMuseum scientific stafl'. 
In addition to tbeexliibition work of the year elsewbere'referred to, this 
statf is still engaged in the preparation of a report upon the Interna- 
tional Fisheries Exhibition at London. 

Department of Ethnology.— Prof. Otis T. Mason, having been appointed 
curator, took charge of this department on the 1st of July and spent 
the remainder of- the year chiefly in getting control of his material. All 
of the ethnological specimens of the Museum are now under complete 
management, a part of them being on exhibition, the remainder classi- 
fied and stored in drawers for ready reference. During the year, 3,658 
specimens belonging to primitive races have been received. In addi- 
tion to these, this department has been intrusted with many objects 
registered in other catalogues and deposited here for the sake of com- 
pleting evolutionary series ot implements, processes, and art products. 
The most noteworthy accessions in 1884 were as follows : Illustrations 
of Eskimo and Indian life from TJngava Bay and vicinity, by Lucieu 
M. Turner, who will prepare a monograph upon the specimens; illas- 
trations of Eskimo life at Point Barrow, collected by Lieutenant Ray, 
U.S.A. Mr. Murdoch will describe these: rich collections from the 
Eskimo of Western and Southern Alaska, by E. W. Nelson, W, J. Fisher, 
Charles L. McKay, Baron ISTordenskiold ; specimens of the arts of the 
tribes of Northwest America, collected by J. G. Swan and Lieut. T. Dix 
Bolles ; many objects illustrative of the modern Indians of Yucatan, by 
Louis H. Ayme ; a very large and instructive collection of objects from 
the Peruvian huacas, by George W. Keifer and Dr. William H. Jones, 
U. S. N. ; a-collection of weapons, «&c.,from New Guinea, purchased from 
A. P. Goodwin ; an exchange series of weapons from Polynesia, con- 
tributed by Charles Heape. During the year illustrative series of eth- 
nological objects have been exhibited at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New 
Orleans, care being taken in each case to impress some ethnological 
truth, such as distribution of types, the effect of environment, the treat- 
ment of the same art by different tribes, or the progress of an art from 
its infamey to its highest manifestation. 

Department of Antiquities. — Dr. Rau reports 3,956 specimens added 
to the exhibition and study series and 1,185 to the duplicates. They 
are in numerous accession lots, of which 18 were sufficiently important 
to merit especial notice. An extensive educational series, illustrating 
American archaeology, was prepared for the New Orleans Exposition. 
The collection now comi>rises4>,l!5jJ specimens, of which 8,522 are in the 
duplicate bins. 

Department of Mammals. — Notwithstanding the absence of the curator, 
Mr. True, in Europe during the first quarter of the year, and other diver- 
sions of his attention and time to routine work not connected with his 
regular duties, the progress of this department has been exceedingly sat- 
isfactory. The work upon tbe exhibition series has been hampered by 
the fact that money was not available for the construction of the desired 



58 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cases in the mammal ball. The collection is now, for the first time in 
many years, thoroughly classified and under control, and the total 
number of skins and alcoholic specimens is reported to be 5,694, and of 
skulls and skeletons 4,214, making a total of 9,908. The accessions of 
the ye^r have, in number, variety, and importance, been fully equal to 
those of earlier periods. No less than 38 specimens, including such rare 
and peculiar forms as the eland, harnessed-antelope, cheetah, two spe- 
cies of lemur, wart-hog, and baboons, have been received from the pro- 
prietors of zoological garcens and menageries, for which due acknowl- 
edgments are made in the Museum report. Au unusual number of 
cetaceans and seals, many of great novelty and interest, have come in 
from various sources. The amount of taxidermic work accomplished 
has been unusually great, owing to a special allotment for the employ- 
ment of extra help, made from the appropriation for the New Orleans 
Exhibition — 149 specimens in all having been added to the mounted 
series, including several large forms, such as the buffalo, puma, jaguar, 
and beaver. 

Department of Birds. — Mr. Ridgway reports that the year has been 
unprecedented in the extent of the accessions and the amount of work 
accomplished. The number of birds added during the year is 8,142, 
2,658 having been distributed. The collections have been entirely re- 
arranged and the exhibition series is receiving a complete overhauling. 
Over 1,200 skins have been mounted, and copy for 1,000 species labels 
have been sent to the printer. The total number of specimens in the 
reserve series is now 50,350, 6,800 of which are in the exhibition series. 
Very much of the increased activity of the year was due to the stimulus 
of preparation for the New Orleans Exhibition and the aid received from 
this appropriation. About 500 birds were sent to New Orleans, consti- 
tuting a complete representation of American game birds. 

Department of Birds' Eggs. — During the year the collections have been 
■overhauled and thoroughly rearranged by Capt. Charles Bendire, U. S. 
A., who has incorporated with it his own collection, including* nearly 
8,000 specimens, the finest in the United States, which he has presented 
to the Museum. This collection now represents pretty nearly all that 
is known of American oology, and contains 40,072 specimens, of which 
1,272 are foreign. 

Department of Reptiles and Bairachians. — Comparatively little has been 
[lone in this dei)artment, owing to the absence of Dr. Yarrow on a col- 
lecting expedition in Utah during the summer months, which he has in 
former years devoted to volunteer work upon the collections. 

Department of Fishes. — The work upon this great collection has made 
fine progress during the year. The curator, Dr. Bean, has nearly com- 
pleted his card catalogue of the reserve series, and during the summer 
Prof. D. S. Jordan was employed, in the interest of the New Orleans 
Exhibition, in selecting a special exhibition series to include all the 
fresJi-watcr fishes of the United States, and to make a special collect- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

ing trip through the Mississippi Valley, with the view to supply such 
species as were lacking in the collection. This trip has been of great 
importance to the science ot ichthyology, bringing to light very many 
important facts concerning the fishes of a region not previously explored 
ichthyologically, and throwing much light upon the whole subject of 
distribution. Out of the 560 fresh water species kno^n to inhabit North 
America, the Museum now has all but 49, 30 having been added by this 
trip, and some 25 new species having been brought to light. The ac- 
cessions to this department have been very important, especially those 
from the Fish Commission ; at least twenty new fishes from the deep- 
sea fauna having been brought in as a result of the work of the Alba- 
tross. 

Department of Comparative Anatomy. — A department of comparative 
anatomy is being organized, and the east-south range has been filled up 
with a very beautiful set of cases, especially constructed for the recep- 
tion of the preparations. Mr. Lucas, with his two assistants, has been 
engaged, during the latter part of the year, in mounting skeletons, and 
fully 150 fine preparations have been put on exhibition. The report of 
Mr. True upon the plan of organization will not be presented until next 
year, since much preparatory work remains to be done. A case illus- 
trating the work in this department was sent to the New Orleans Expo- 
sition. 

Department of Mollusks. — Mr. W. H. Dall, who has for many years 
had charge of the collection of mollusks, having been appointed one of 
the paliBoutologists of the Geological Survey, and assigned to the de- 
partment of Quaternary mollusks, has, by the request of the Director of 
the Survey, been assigned working rooms in the Smithsonian building, 
and will continue to care for the department as heretofore, access to the 
collections of recent shells being necessary for" comparison with the 
shells of the Quaternary beds, which are, for the most part, specifically 
identical. Prof. R. E. C. Stearns, late of the University of California, 
has been assigned to this department as adjunct curator, and since the 
first of July there has been great activity in rearranging the collections. 
It was decided to make an extensive display of the mollusks of the 
United States at the New Orleans Exposition, and the well-known 
Stearns collection of mollusks, for which negotiations had been in prog- 
ress for some years, was purchased from the exhibition appropriation. 
Dr. Stearns had in charge the preparation of the series for New Orleans, 
which occupied his time from July until the end of the year. This oc- 
cupied twenty large cases, and exhibits the economic mollusks of both 
coasts and the adjacent seas, and the fresh-water mussels, which form 
so remarkable a part of the fauna of the great Mississippi basin. Mr. 
R. Ellsworth Call has been employed for six months in connection with 
the New Orleans work, and by the efforts of these three conchologists, 
with the help of two clerks, much progress has been made toward getting 
under final control the immense mass of material in this department. 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

.Department of Insects. — Prof. 0. V. Eiley has, as in previous years, 
voluntarily assumed the care of the entomological material ^hich has 
come in, and his own valuable and constantly increasing- collection re- 
mains a deposit in the Museum. A collection of insects injurious to 
forest trees, mounted in Museum cases, in the style which it is pro- 
posed by Professor Eiley to adopt in the arrangement of our exhibition 
series when the opportunity comes, was sent to the International For- 
estry Exhibition in Edinburgh and received a gold medal. Fifty-five 
accession lots were received during the year, the most valuable being 
the collection made by L. M. Turner at Ungava Bay, H. B. T. It is 
hoped that the financial condition of the Museum will soon warrant the 
placing of this very important and long- neglected department upon a 
footing of equality with the others. 

Department of Marine Invertebrates. — In the Department of Marine 
Invertebrates, exclusive of the Mollusca, under the charge of Mr. Eath- 
bun, 240 cases of specimens, enumerated in 72 accessions, have been 
added during the year. Of these, the most important have been re- 
ceived from the United States Fish Commission, from Dr. Edward Pal- 
mer, a collector employed in the interest of the New Orleans Exhibition, 
and from various naval sources. The Fish Commission collections are 
mainly illustrative of the recent deep-sea explorations of the steamer 
"Albatross" off' the eastern coast of the United States and in the Gulf of 
Mexico and Caribbean Sea, and contain many new additions to science, 
which have been worked up only in part. They fill several thousand 
jars and vials. The collection of Dr. Palmer was made for the purpose 
of representing at the World's Fair, in New Orleans, the varied animal 
resources of the coral reef and sponge regions of Southern and West- 
ern Florida. It consisted for the most part of finely prepared specimens 
of commercial and other sponges, ornamental corals, and the larger spe- 
cies of Crustaceans and Mollusks used as food, and required G5 large 
shipping cases to transi)ort it to Washington. Su])plemental to this is 
an extensive collection made by Mr. Henry Hemphill on the western 
coast of Florida. 

Among the more interesting of the naval contributions are several 
collections of Crustaceans and Echinoderms, obtained by Dr. W. H. 
Jones, U. S. N., in diflerent parts of the Pacific Ocean. A number of 
valuable collections, carefully identified, have also been received from 
competent European authorities, and will be of great service in the 
elaboration of new materials contained in the Museum. 

The increase of accessions to this department has been so great dur- 
ing the year, especially by reason of the material furnished by the 
Fish Commission, that, even with the aid of three or four assistants, 
little more could be done than to take care of the new material. 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils {Paleozoic). — The collections of this 
department are arranged in 13 unit table cases and in office trays equiv- 
alent in capacity to as many more. Mr. Walcott estimates the total num- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

ber of specimens at 25,000, including the old Smithsonian collections and 
the accessions I'rom the recent Government surveys and other sources 
up to the present time. The most important accession of the year is 
that of Devonian and Carboniferous fossils from the United States 
Geological Survey, many of them types of new species, and forming the 
basis of Mr. Walcott's recent " Paleontology of th*e Eureka District, 
Nevada." 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils {Mesozoic and Cenozoic). — The ac- 
cessions of the year consist of 85 boxes from the Geological Survey, 
embracing collections made in California, Oregon, New Jersey, Florida, 
Alabama, and Mississippi, and 15 miscellaneous lots sent from private 
sources to the Museum. The catalogue entries number 1,158. From 
this department, as from many others, there comes a request for more 
room. These requests we are striving to grant as rapidly as the ap- 
propriation for the construction of cases will allow, but it is doubtful if 
the necessities of the case can be fully met until a new building can be 
put up. 

Department of Plants, Fossil and Recent. — The collection of fossil plants 
now contains 923 distinct species identified and installed. The report 
of Professor Ward contains elaborate statistics of the collection, from 
which it appears that 7,291 specimens have already been catalogued. 
The accessions of the year have been of but slight importance. The 
Joad collection of recent plants has not yet been unpacked, owing to 
lack of room, but will soon be arranged and in proper condition for 
study. During the year Mr. William E. Smith, sujierintendent of the 
Government Botanic Garden, has placed in the rotunda of the new 
building a number of very beautiful palms, which add very much to the 
attractiveness of the apartment, and which., being selected with refer- 
ence to their economic importance to man, will, when labeled, furnish 
instruction as well as pleasure to the visitors. 

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. — Mr. Merrill reports a 
total number of entries amounting to 2,541, including not less than 3,000 
specimens administered upon duiing the year. Prominent among the 
accessions is a series of rocks and tufas from Utah, Nevada, and Cali- 
fornia, collected by Mr. I. C. Kussell and transferred by the Geological 
Survey, and a large collection of building stones from John S. F. Batchen. 
Mr. Merrill prepared a large and important series of specimens for the 
New Orleans Exhibition, and in this work had the efficient assistance of 
Mr. L. H. Merrill, and the services of a number of stone-cutters for some 
months. 

Some remarkably beautiful colored photographic enlargements on 
glass, illustrating the structure of twelve selected types of rocks, were 
among the most striking i)roducts of the year's work in Mr. Merrill's 
laboratory; also a series of colored sketches showing the appearance of 
various kinds of building stones used in architectural work. The col- 
lections sent to New Orleans included a type collection of the building 



62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and oruaineiital stoues of the United States, comprisijig 358 specimens, 
an education^ series of rocks, containing 500 specimens, a very interest- 
ing structural series of rocks, and a collection of rock-forming minerals. 
In addition to all this work, 1,557 descriptive labels were printed and 
200 thin sections of rock prepared. The collection as it now stands is 
described by Mr. Merrill as follows : 

The total number of specimens in the reserve series is not less than 
15,000, of which some 3,000 are now on exhibition. Of these, 4,24G are 
building or ornamental stones, 1,658 of which are on exhibition. The 
number of specimens in the duj)licate series will jjrobably increase the 
total to 18,000. 

Department of Minerals. — Prof. F. W. Clarke, chief chemist of the Geo- 
logical Survey, continues to act as curator, Mr. W. S. Yeates having the 
collections in immediate charge. During the year, the growth of the col- 
lections has been steady and encouraging, the work of installing the col- 
lections has been definitely begun, and a system of exchanges has been 
fairly inaugurated. Mr. Joseph Willcox has deposited his private col- 
lection, consisting of some 1,400 specimens, which is, in some respects, 
one of the finest in America. Mr. J. T. Abert has given the valuable col- 
lection of his father, Col. J. J. Abert, containing 1,245 specimens. An 
allotment of $2,500 from the New Orleans appropriation was devoted 
to building ui) the collection of getns and ornamental stones. The 
schedule adopted included all the gems proper, rock crystal, agates and 
jaspers, malachite, lapis lazuli, &c., and every important gem or orna- 
mental species was secured both in the rough and cut conditions. 
About 1,000 specimens are on exhibition at New Orleans, of which 
nearly one-third are cut and polished stones. A part of this collection 
was exhibited at Cincinnati, where it was awarded a silver medal. In 
connection with the New Orleans work, two important collecting trips 
were made by Mr. Yeates, to Northern New York and the Ilot Springs 
of Arkansas. The total number of specimens in the collection is esti- 
mated at 15,288. 

Department of Metallurgy. — Owing to the absence of Mr. Dewey in 
New Orleans, no report upon his work can be given. It may be stated, 
however, that a large force has been at work during the entire year, 
with very satisfactory results in the way of reducing to order the great 
mass of material, the accumulation of many years. Since July, Mr. 
Dewey and his staff have been preparing the New Orleans collection, 
having an allotment of $5,000 wherewith to illustrate the metallic re- 
sources of the country, and, by the aid of a number of volunteer assist- 
ants in the field, the collection has received accessions of very great 
value, which make it one of the most important metallurgical collections 
in the world. 

Increase of the Museum. — The accessions are described in detail in the 
reports of the Assistant Director and Curators of the Museum, and are 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63 

also referred to in tlie discussion of the explorations carried on during 
the year by the' Smithsonian and aftiliated organizatioDS. 

Exposition Work. — The jjarticipation of the Smithsonian Institution, 
as directed by Congress in three exhibitions, has, although in many 
respects detrimental to the growth of the Museum, contributed largely to 
the prosperity of several of its departments. In the first x^lace, in order 
»that material might' properly be selected for exhibition, it was found nec- 
essary in mauy departments of the Museum to employ additional assist- 
ants in making a thorough overhauling of the material and getting it 
systematically arranged. In the second place, it was found necessary 
to purchase a considerable amount of material to fill vacancies in the 
various series of specimens which were shown at the exhibitions. It 
has been our-policy to expend the appropriation for the New Orleans 
Exposition in such a manner that there also might result a perma- 
nent benefit to the Museum. This we have found to be entirely con- 
sistent with the interests of the exhibitions, since the material which 
is useful for these temporary displays is even more useful for the per- 
manent exhibition series of the Museum. At the same time, in many 
of the departments, an effort has been made in selecting specimens for 
the expositions, to make use of duplicate material from the Museum, in 
order that, should we be called upon in future to participate in other 
exhibitions, the preparation of a collection can be effected with less ex- 
pense of time and money than has been heretofore practicable. 

I can, at present, only present a brief preliminary report upon what 
has been done in connection with the exhibitions at Cincinnati, Louis- 
ville, and New Orleans. 

By direction of Congress the Smithsonian Institution, in connection 
with the Executive Departments of the Government and the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, has taken part during the year in three industrial 
exhibitions — the "Cincinnati Industrial Exposition," atCinciunati, open 
from September 3 to October 4; the " Southern Exposition," at Louis- 
ville, open from August 16 to October 25, and the "World's Industrial 
and Cotton Centennial Exposition," at New Orleans, which opened on 
December 16, and will not close until June 30 of the j^reseut year. Out 
of $300,000 appropriated to the Government executive board for the 
New Orleans Exhibition, the Smithsonian received $75,000, and of the 
$10,000 for the boards participating at Louisville, and a like sum for 
Cincinnati, the allotment to the Smithsonian was $5,000 — $2,500 for 
Louisville and $2,300 for Cincinnati. The conduct of the displays on the 
part of the Government was intrusted to an executive board appointed 
by the President of the United States, of which Col. S. C. Lyford, U. S. 
A., was designated president. Mr. G. Brown Goode was nominated 
by me and appointed by the President member of this board on behalf 
of'the Smithsonian Institution, National Museum, and Fish Commission. 

The passing of the nppropriatiou bill was so long delayed that when 
the money finally became available, only two weeks' time remained be- 



64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

fore it was necessary to have the collections for Louisville packed and 
on the way. We were, therefore, unable to make a very extensive ex- 
hibit at that place. 

The special features of the exhibit were a large collection showing 
the uses of animals, a collection of textile fibers and fabrics, a series of 
the game and water birds of North America, a small collection of "boat 
models, including the whale-boat and the Chinese junk, a collection of 
casts of reptiles, and a large number of photographs illustrative of the 
methods employed in the fisheries. 

The exhibit was packed in ninetj'-six boxes of various sizes. 

The Cincinnati Exposition opened two weeks later, and it was there- 
fore possible to make a more creditable display. A special building, 
was erected for the Government exhibit, one end of which was assigned 
to the Smithsonian Institution. In addition to a collection similar to 
that sent to Louisville there was prepared for the Cincinnati Exposition 
a fine collection of gems, and also an exhibit representative of the eth- 
nology of the North American Indians and Eskimos. Several large 
casts of cetaceans were also displayed. 

It was found necessaiy to have most of the Louisville and Cincinnati 
collections returned to Washington to be prepared and rearranged be- 
fore sending them to New Orleans. 

By virtue of an Executive order of May 13, 1884, a board, consisting 
of a rejireseutative of each Government Department and of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, was appointed and charged with making arrange- 
ments for a display of collections illustrating the resources of the 
United States at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Expo- 
sition to be held at New Orleans. The appropriations for this jiurpose 
were not made nntil July 7, leaving only four clear months for the 
preparation and shipment of collections. Several of the curators were 
at once sent into the field with the authority to add to the collections 
under their charge. By December 1, the collections were ready for 
transmission, but the opening had been deferred from December 1 to 
December 10. On this date the Exposition was formally opened. 

The preparations for this Exposition were very much more elaborate 
than had been possible in the case of the Louisville and Cincinnati Ex- 
positions. The main feature of the display made by the Institution at 
New Orleans was, of course, understood to be in illustration of the 
animal and mineral resources and the ethnology of the United States, 
similar to that made by the Institution in 1876 at Philadelphia. In 
addition to this a collection illustrating the textile industries of the 
world was prepared, in view of the fact that the main interest of the 
New Orleans Exposition centered in one of the textile materials, and 
also a selection of objects from the Department of Naval Architecture. 
The curators of eleven departments were requested to take part in the 
preparation of the New Orleans exhibit, and most of them were tempo- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

rarily placed upon tlie exhibition staff. The character of the work 
undertaken by them may be briefly sketched as follows : 

The participation of the Zoological and Geological Departments has 
been referred to in the review of the work of the several departments, 
and will not be repeated here. 

Department of Arts and Industries. — Mr. Romyn Hitchcock undertook 
the preparation of a collection of textile fibers and fabrics. Portions 
of this collection were exhibited both at Louisville and Cincinnati. 
Capt. J. W. Collins prepared a series of working models illustrating the 
development of the ship-building industry in the United States, and 
especially the evolution of the American schoouer, the American pilot- 
boat, and the American cotton-ship. A number of full-rigged models 
were also sent in this connection, being exhibited on the way at Louis- 
ville and Cincinnati. The model of a whale-boat, fully equipped with 
all appliances for the capture of whales, was also sent. This model at- 
tracted much attention at the London and Berlin Fisheries Exhibitions. 

The animal products collection, which was so prominent a feature in 
our exhibition at Philadelphia, was reorganized and greatly extended, 
so that it now represents very thoroughly the applications of animals 
to the uses of mankind in all parts of the world. This collection alone, 
if arranged in table-cases, would occupy a floor space equivalent to that 
in one of the large halls of the new Museum building. The Museum 
has received many important gifts for this collection on condition that 
they be exhibited in New Orleans before being finally placed in the 
Museum. 

The Section of Fisheries was represented by about sixty of the large 
Ijictures prepared for the London Exhibition, and by about two hun- 
dred casts of American food fishes, which also had direct relation to 
the^nimal products collection just referred to. It was not "deemed 
expedient to dismantle the general fishery collections so recently in- 
stalled, for such a temporary interest as that of these exhibitions. The 
United States Fish Commission made preparations for a considerable 
display of fish-culture, and a representativ^e collection of fish-cultural 
apparatus was sent from the Museum. 

A selection of about two hundred and fifty of the celebrated autotypes 
l)ublished by Adolph Braun & Co., of Dornach, was acquired for dis- 
l)lay. This collection illustrates the history of i)ainting from the time 
of Oimabue and Giotto, including from one to six copies of the best rep- 
resentative works of each celebrated master, so far as it was practicable 
to obtain them. This collection can be packed in a very small space, 
and is particularly well suited for sending away to exhibitions. It may 
in the future be somewhat extended to very good advantage. 

Department of Etlinology. — There were sent to New Orleans about two 
hundred and fifty unit boxes, containing a representative collection of 
American ethnological objects. Th';se were very largely selected from 
the duplicates in the Museum and are available for future exhibition. 
S. Mis. 33 5 



66 



REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Number of visitors to the United States National Museum and Smithsonian Institution for 

1882, 1883, and 1884. 



Year. 



Museum 
building. 



Smithsonian 
building. 



1881 
1882 
1883 
1884 



*150,000 

+167, 455 

202, 188 

195, 322 



152, 744 

104,823 
91,130 



* Estimated on basis of register. 

+ Estimated on basis of from February 8 to December 31. 

Meetings in the Lecture-Rail. — The lecture-hall of the National Museum 
has been used during the year for sixty-eight meetings of various char- 
acters, as is shown below. 

National Academy of Sciences. — April 15-April 17. Ten meetings were 
held. On the evening of the 17th a public meeting was held, at which 
the eulogies of deceased members were pronounced, 176 persons being 
in attendance. 

■American Surgical Association. — April 30-May 3. Eight meetings 
were held. 

American Fish- Cultural Association. — Maj^ 13-May 1 3. Seven meet- 
ings were held. On the evening of May 13 a public meeting took place, 
Hon. Elbridge G. Lapham in the chair. The address was delivered by 
Hon. Theodore Lyman, of Massachusetts, who was followed by Hon. S. 
S. Cox, of New York. About 350 people were present. 

American Dental Association. — July 22- July 23. Four meetings were 
held. 

Society of American Taxidermists. — July 30. One meeting was 
held. 

Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States. — December 29- 
December 30. Four meetings were held. 

The Biological Society of Washington. — Fortnightly meetings were 
held between January 25 and May 31 and between November 1 and 
December 27. In all there were fifteen meetings. 

The Entomological Society of Washington held three meetings in the 
oflBce of the Assistant Director, on May 8, June 3, and November 3, 
respectively. 

Saturday Lectures. — Four courses of these lectures were given, con- 
sisting of seventeen lectures, a list of which is subjoined : 

January 5. Mr. Grove K. Gilbert, Cliffs and Terraces. 

January 12. Prof. Otis T. Mason, Child Life among Savage and 
Uncivilized Peoples. 

January 19. Prof. Edward S. Morse, Social Life among the Japanese. 

January 26, Maj. J. W. Powell, Win-tun Mythology. 

February 2. Prof, F. W. Clarke, Lightning and Lightning Rods, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67 

February 9. Otipt. C. E. Dattou, U. S. A., The Hawaiian Islands aud 
People. 

February 18. Prof. John Murdoch, Eskimo Life at Point Barrow. 

February 23. Prof. Harvey W. Wiley, The Sugar Industry of the 
North. 

March 1. Prof. Harvey W. Wiley, The Sugar Industry of the 
North. 

March 8. Prof. Simon Newcomb, Psychic Force. 

March 15. Mr. John A. Eyder, Protoplasm in the Light of Recent 
Investigations. 

March 22. Dr. Frank Baker, The New Phrenology. 

March 29. Dr. D. Webster Prentiss, The Bird Life of the District of 
Columbia. 

April 5. Prof. T. C. Chamberliu, The Great Ice Invasion of North 
America. 

April 12. Dr. W. W. Godding, What shall we do with the Ine- 
briates ? 

April 19. Prof. J. S. Newberry, The Industrial Arts as Factors in 
Modern History. 

April 26. Maj. J. W. Powell, The Cations of the Colorado. 

BUEEAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The prosecution of ethnologic researches among the North American 
Indians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution and in comi^liance with act of Congress, was continued during 
the year 1884, under the charge of Maj. J. W. Powell, who has furnished 
the following account of operations. 

They may be conveniently reported ui:»on under the two general heads 
of Field Work and Office Work, the latter to a large extent beiug the 
supplement to and discussion of the former, and executed by the same 
officers, who had previously obtained materials and information in the 
field. 

1. Field Worh, 

This heading may be divided into, 1st, Mound Explorations; 2d, 
Collections from Ancient aud Modern Stone Villages ; and, 3d, General 
Field Studies, embraciug those in Institutions, Linguistics, aud other 
divisions of Anthroi)ology. 

Mound Explorations. — The work of exploring the mounds and other 
ancient monuments of our country, begun in 1882, was carried on dur- 
ing the year 1884, under the charge of Prof. Cyrus Thomas. 

The same persons, viz, Mr. P. W. Norris, Mr. James D. Middleton, 
and Dr. Edward Palmer, who had been engaged during the previous 
year, were retained as the regular field assistants, but Dr. Palmer ceased 
to be connected with the work after the 30th of June, being then suc- 
ceeded by Mr* John P. Began, 



68 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

Mr. Noriis was engaged during the latter part of the winter and most 
of the spring in Arkansas, then returned to Kanawha Valley, West 
Virginia, where he was occupied in exploring the extensive group of 
works in the vicinity of Charleston until December, when he was com- 
pelled by the cold weather and sickness to desist. To the great regret 
of all his associates in the work, his sickness terminated in death a few 
days after the close of the year. By his death the division has lost a 
faithful and enthusiastic worker. 

His explorations in Kanawha Valley brought to light the fact that 
here is one of the most extensive and interesting groups of works in 
the United States. Although the exploration of this group is not yet 
complete, it is sufficient to demonstrate beyond reasonable doubt that 
the people who constructed the works of this locality built the Grave 
Creek mound, or were intimately related to the authors of that noted 
tumulus. There are also found some strong indications that they were 
related to the authors of the ancient works of the Scioto Valley^. 

Mr. Middleton continued operations in Arkansas until the approach 
of summer, assisted for some of the time by Mr. L, H. Thing. During 
the remainder of the summer, the fall months, and until the approach 
of extreme cold weather, he was engaged in exploring the works of 
Knox County, Ohio. Since that time his field of operations has been 
Arkansas. 

Dr. Palmer was engaged, dnring the six months of the year he 
remained with the division, chiefly in Alabama, and in Early County, 
Georgia. 

Previous to his appointment as permanent assistant Mr. Rogan was 
employed in Northern Georgia, principally in exi)loring the celebrated 
Etowah group in Bartow County. This examination brought to light 
some of the most remarkable mound relics so far discovered in the 
United States. These consist of very thin, evenly, wrought sheets of 
copper, on which are impressed, as regularly as though done with me- 
tallic dies or by means of machinery, figures bearing strong resem- 
blance to the Mexican and Central American designs. The conditions 
under which these were found leave no doubt that they were placed in 
the mounds when they were built, and not subsequently. Here also 
was found part of a stone bust of nearly life size, and the broken arm of 
another stone image, also but little less than life size. 

During the latter i)art of the summer and until the beginning of win- 
ter, Mr. Rogan was engaged, in connectipn with the Rev. J. P. Mac- 
Lean, in examining and exploring the ancient monuments of Butler 
Count3^ and adjacent regions of Southern Ohio. 

Mr. Charles Smith was employed during the month of November in 
examining the ancient quarries of" Flint Ridge," Ohio, and making col- 
lections to illustrate the various stages in the aboriginal manufacture 
of flint implements. The collection made is, perhaps, the most com- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69 

plcte in this particular line of auy single one so far made in this coun- 
try. 

During the year nearly five thousand specimens were collected. The 
data obtained bearing on the questions relating to the origin and uses 
of the ancient monuments of North America, and the habits, customs, 
and culture-status of the people who constructed them, are very impor- 
tant, and will throw much additional light on these interesting prob- 
lems. The number of whole and uninjured vessels of clay collected 
by Messrs. Middletou, Thing, and Norris is much larger than that of 
the preceding year, and is very valuable on account of the new and un- 
usual types obtained. The collection of copper implements and orna- 
ments is also large and valuable. 

Although the pottery obtained by Dr. Palmer in Early County, 
Georgia, is in fragments, it is of special value, as it serves, when com- 
pared with that of the region of Flint Eiver and other sections, to show 
that this southern region was occupied by a people varying, in some 
respects at least, from those of the other portions of the South. 

Collections from Stone Villages. — Ethnologic and archfeologic re- 
searches among the Pueblo Indians, and ancient ruins in tlie south- 
western Territories, were extensively prosecuted during the year. Mr. 
James Stevenson, in charge of a party, proceeded to Arizona and New 
Mexico to examine special localities and make collections of objects 
illustrating the arts and industries of the Indian tribes of that region. 
The labors of this party resulted in a collection of about eight thousand 
five hundred specimensof pottery, stone, and other domestic implements, 
both ancient and modern, representing nearly all phases of life, art, and 
industry among those tribes. A portion of Mr. Stevenson's party, in 
charge of Mr. F. D. Beckford, made explorations among the ruins of 
Chaco Caiio'u in Northwestern New Mexico, Canon de Chelly and some 
of its branches, the cliff" dwellings in Walnut Canon in Arizona, and a 
group of cave dwellings near Flagstaff in the same Territory, the re- 
sults of which are full notes, sketches, and photographic illustrations 
of the ruins examined. The remainder of this party was divided ; one 
party was stationed at the pueblo of Acoma, in charge of Mr. Garlick, 
and the other at Zuui in New Mexico. The party at Acoma made a 
collection of about three thousand five hundred specimens, consisting 
of pottery and domestic utensils of other material, such as stone, hoca, 
bone, wood, and woven fabrics. The collection from the pueblo of 
Acoma, though not embracing so great a variety of objects, will, how- 
over, illustrate nearly all the phases of the arts and industrial pursuits 
of those Indians. 

The collection made at Zufii, under Mr. Stevenson's personal super- 
vision, is much larger than any heretofore obtained from that section 
of the Southwest, and includes many interesting objects, illustrative 
of their outdoor ceiemonies, such as sacred spring, cave and shrine 
worship, also a large number of water-color sketches illustrating many 



70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of their sacred dances. About three hundred fetiches were also ob 
tained, representing nearly every animal and object held in high esteem 
by the Zui5is, e. g., hunting charms, war and prey gods. A series of pho- 
tographic views was also made of the sacred springs, wells, monuments, 
picture-writings, and shrines of the Zunis, scattered over an area of 
about 75 miles in all directions from Zuiii, and a collection of repre- 
sentative specimens of their gods, idols, plume-sticks, and other relig- 
ious objects was secured. These collections have already been received 
at the National Museum, where they will be arranged, classified, and 
described. Full notes, detailing the observations made in the field, as 
well as a descrii)tive catalogue of the collections made, will appear in 
a forthcoming report of the Bureau of Ethnology. 

Mr. Victor Mindeleff was, at the beginning of the year, in charge of 
a party collecting pottery at Acoma, IST. Mex. He secured and shipped 
about 1,000 specimens before returning to Washington, in the month 
of February. He also made a close architectural survey of the village, 
securing such plans and data as were necessary for the preparation of 
a detailed model. In August he returned to New Mexico, visiting the 
Chaco group of ruined pueblos in order to secure detailed plans, pho- 
tographs, and other materials for the preparation of models, spending 
about two months in that work. In October he made a survey and 
measurements of the large Etowah mound near Cartersville, Ga., pre- 
liminary to constructing a model to be added to the mound series of the 
Bureau. 

General Field Studies. — In the beginning of 1884 Mr. Frank H. Gushing 
undertook systematic explorations of the sacrificial grottoes and -votive 
shrines of the Zuiiis in the main and tributary valleys of their pueblos. 
In and upon the mesa of Taai ycel Ion ne or Thunder Mountain alone, 
he found eight of these depositories, three of which proved to be entirely 
prehistoric, the others partially so. On the head-lands, both north and 
south of Zuui, he traced eleven additional shrines, and near both Pes- 
cado and Nutria . found others, all rich in ancient remains. More im- 
portant than any of these, however, were three caverns, or rock-shelters, 
situated in two caiions, one some 9 miles east of Zuni, the other south- 
east and nearer the pueblo by 3 miles. Two of these caves were of a 
remote date as receptacles, one containing a burial cairn, the other an 
extensive accumulation of well-preserved idols of war and rain-gods, 
symbolic altar-tablets, sacred cigarettes, long and short prayer- wands, 
and numerous samples of textile, cordage, and plume work. The lat- 
ter deposit was the more important in that, beside being still used and 
held sacred by the Zui5is — hence clearly referable to their ancestry — its 
contents evidently connected it with the crater and cave-shrines discov- 
ered by Mr. Gushing on the Upper Golorado Ghiquito in 1881, and de- 
scribed in the report of his explorations for that year. As, however, ho 
was forced to visit these i)laces either in company with Indian compan- 
ions or by stealth, he had to leave his rich finds undisturbed. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71 

Piirsning bis explorations southward, he discovered, between 20 and 
30 miles from the central Zniii valley, not only two caves, containing 
sacrificial remains, but also a number of cemeteries of undoubted an- 
cient Pueblo Indian origin. These burial places yielded perfect crania 
and well-preserved vessels of earthenware, and in all respects save in 
extent were identical with those of Arizona examined and reported on 
by him during the spring of 1883. 

He explains the non-discovery heretofore of Pueblo burial places by 
the fact that the primitive house-building Indians, although they at 
first practiced burial by interment, must have carried the remains of 
their dead (judgingby the cemeteries under discussion) to great distances 
from their permanent homes; that afterward, when the present methods 
of terraced commuual architecture (induced by defensive confederations 
and productive of conditions and populations rendering such burials 
Impracticable) began to prevail, " water sepulture " came into vogue. 
This was, according to Zuiii tradition, performed by cremating the 
bodies, then carrying the remains to sacred springs or lagunes into 
which they were cast. Mr. Gushing returned to Washington in the 
month of May. 

Mr. H. W. Henshaw visited California for the purpose of pursuing 
linguistic studies in the Santa Barbara family of languages. The ra- 
pidity with which the tribes of the Southern Califoruian coast died away 
when brought under the sway of the Spanish missions is well known, 
and he found only about fifty survivors of the once populous tribes of 
this family. Several dialects have become extinct. He visited Monte- 
rey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties, and ob- 
tained vocabularies of eight distinct dialects of this family, all that now 
survive. Los Angeles and San Diego Counties were visited with the 
view to determine the limits of the Shoshonian and Yuman families, and 
several vocabularies of each family were collected, 

Mr. Albert S. Gatschet traveled early in August to Fort Sill, Ind. 
T., to study the languages of the Comanche, Apache, and Kaiowa Indians 
residing there. He then proceeded to Fort Worth, Tex., where he ob- 
tained a large vocabulary, with texts and sentences, of the Lipan lan- 
guage, and later to Fort Griffin to obtain similar information from the 
Tonkaway Indians. While at the latter place, he obtained from old 
Tonkaway Indians a vocabulary of the Karankawa Indians, a tribe said 
to have lived over fifty years ago in the vicinity of Matamoros. This 
appears to be new to linguistic science. A short list of words was also 
obtained of the Han4me language, which also appears to belong to an 
extinct tribe. 

Eeturuing to Fort Sill, Mr. Gatschet obtained further linguistic in- 
formation on the Kaiowa language ; and after going to Anadarko, Ind. 
T., extensive vocabularies were gained from Kaiowa, Caddo, Yatassi, 
and Anadarko Indians, the last two being dialects of the Caddo lan- 
guage. At Austin, Tex., historic and linguistic information relating to 



72 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 

Indians of Texas and Caliibrnia was found in the State librarj\ At the 
close of the year he was still at Saint Charles, La., studyinj^- and collect- 
ing linguistic material of the language of the Atakapa Indians. 

Rev. J. Owen Dorsey visited the Siletz Agency, Oregon, in August, 
1884, to gain linguistic and other information respecting the tribes in 
that region. When he returned in November, 1884, he brought back 
the following vocabularies: Athabascan family: Applegate Creek, Galioe 
Creek, Chasta Costa, Mikono tunne. Tutu tunne (and Joshua), Yuk- 
witce. Sixes, Naltunne tunne, Chetcoe, Smith River, Cal., and Uj)per 
Coquille. YaJconan family: Siuslaw, Umpqua, Alsea, and Yaquina. 
Unclassified vocabularies : Takelma or Upper Rogue River, Molluk or 
Lower Coquille, Klikitat, Sasti. Total, nineteen vocabularies, ranging 
from fifty to three thousand entries, exclusive of phrase and grammatical 
notes. He also obtained materials for an account of the social orgaui- 
zation of some of these Indians in villages, which appear to have beeu 
clans, illustrated by rough maps, showing the localities of such villages. 
Mr. Dorsey also gained the corresponding Indian names from several 
tribes of about sixty vegetal products, specimens of which were brought 
to Washington for identification. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman proceeded early in August to Victoria, B. C, 
where a large collection of sketches of Haida totem-posts and carvings 
were obtained, in connection with the myths which they illustrated. 
At this locality attention was paid to the burial places and osteologic 
remains of the nearly extinct Songhish Indians. Meeting with a large 
party of Haida Indians at Port Townsend, Wash., he exa rained a large 
number of individuals of both sexes to study and sketch the tattooed 
designs with which they were profusely decorated. Definitions and 
explanations of these designs were obtained, together with the details 
of the process employed in tattooing by the Haidas, as well as the other 
tribes living on Puget Sound, Cape Flattery, etc. A collection of Es- 
kimoan pictographs and ivory carvings were also copied at the museum 
of the Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. 

At Santa Barbara, Cal., Dr. Hoflman discovered several interesting 
painted records, and examined a number which have not yet been re- 
corded. These records are usually found in mountainous country, and 
near passes. Similar records were also visited 30 miles northeast of 
Los Angeles, Cal., and at Tule Indian Agency, in the deep valleys on 
the western slope of the Sierra Nevada, near Porterville. By far the 
greatest amount of pictograi^hic material was collected in Owen's Val. 
ley, Cal., where a number of series of petroglyphs are scattered over an 
arid, sandy desert, the extremes being about 20 miles apart. Although 
many of the characters appear to resemble some of the figures drawn 
by the Moki of Arizona, the greater number have not as yet been noted 
from any other portions of the United States. 

During the months of May and June Mr. W. H. Holmes visited 
Mexico, and secured much valuable information upon the relative ages 



1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73 

of the ceramic products of tliat conntry. His collection, consisting of 
several hundred pieces of ancient ware, has been presented to the Na- 
tional Museum. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow spent the months of August and September, 1884, 
in the Territory of Utah to prosecute ethnologic inquiries. Several 
mounds were carefully examined at Provo, 50 miles sonth of Salt Lake 
City. These did not aflbrd any specimens, but showed the manner in 
which the former Indian inhabitants of the Great Salt Lake Valley con- 
structed their adobe dwellings. From Provo he proceeded west to a 
place known as the "Old Government Kanch," where an Indian burial 
cave was discovered, which for some years had been used by the Gos- 
hute Indians, from which the Indian remains were removed. Prom 
here he crossed the southern limb of the American desert and reached 
the settlement of Willow Spring, at which point a nunjber of bnrial 
places were discoverecV, giving results of interest. Thence he went to 
Deep Creek, the present home of the band of Goshute Indians, number- 
ing about 150 souls; learned from them the meaning of many of their 
ceremonies and burial rites, and obtained a collection of articles of na- 
tive manufacture. A similar collection with information thereupon was 
obtained from the band of Pahvants at Fillmore, Utah. 

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin prosecuted studies in Indian philosophy and 
folk lore among the Senecas in Missouri, during the month of Febru- 
ary, and later from the Shawnee and other Algonkian tribes in Mis- 
souri and Indian Territory. In June he visited the Seminole Indians in 
that Territory with the same object in view, and in October proceeded 
to Redding, Cal., where he continued the collection of m\ ths among 
the Nozi Indians. 

2. Office Worlc. 

The Director, Maj. J. W. Powell, has continued the work, fiist, of 
classifying on a linguistic basis all the tribes, remaining and extinct, of 
North America; second, of establishing their synonomy or the refer- 
ence of their many and confusing titles as given in literature and com- 
mon usage to a correct and systematic standard of nomenclature; and 
third, of the ascertainment and display on a series of charts of the hab- 
itat of all tribes when first met by Europeans or subsequent periods 
Much progress has been nuide in this undertaking, recognized as essen- 
tial to the i^roper study of Indian anthropology. 

Col. Garrick Mallery was engaged during the year in the continued 
study of sign language. A number of important collections of gesture 
signs were procured from j)arts of the United States not before thor- 
oughly explored in this respect. Collections of great value were also 
obtained from Japan, Asiatic Turkey, and from several of the Polyne- 
sian groups. The increased collection of material, with its collation, 
indicates that while one system of gesture-speech has long existed 
among the North American Indians, it is not to be regarded as one 



74 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ormal or absolute language ; several groups with their centers of origin 
being indicated. Five of these groups ajipear, from present informa- 
tion, to be well defined as follows: First, the Arikara, Dakota, Mandan, 
Gros Ventre or Hidatsa, Blackfeet, Crows, and other tribes in Montana 
and Idaho. Second, Arapaho, Cheyenne, Pani, Kaiowa, Caddo,Wicbita, 
Apache of Indian Territory, and other tribes in the Southwest as fiir as 
New Mexico, and possibly portions of Arizona. Third, Pima, Yuma, 
Papago, Maricopa, Haalpai (Yuman), and the tribes of Southern Cali- 
fornia. Fourth, Shoshoni, Banak, Pai Uta of Pyramid Lake, and the 
tribes of ISTorthern Idaho and Lower British Columbia, Eastern Wash- 
ington, and Oregon. Fifth, Alaska, embracing the Southern Innuit, 
Kenai (Athabaskan), and the lakutat and Tshilkaat tribes of the 
T'hlinkit or Koloshan stock. The gestures of Alaskan tribes present 
marked difference to any of the southern tribes. 

The gestures still used by the Indians of British Columbia and the 
northern part of Vancouver's Island, also by the Iroquois of Canada^ 
are not at present classed in any groui>. 

In the comparison made between the gesture signs of the several 
bodies of speaking men and between those groups and the signs of deaf- 
mutes, it appears that variation in form is frequent, while identity of 
system is preserved. Not only do many of the particular signs of deaf- 
mutes in America differ from those with the same signification in some 
countries of Europe, but a similar disagreement is observed among the 
several institutions for deaf-mute instruction in the United States. 
When the diverse signs are purely ideographic, they are, however, in- 
telligible to all persons familiar with the principles of sign expression ; 
but when, as frequently occurs, they are conventional, they cannot bo 
understood without the aid of the context, or without knowledge of the 
special convention. Th6 similar instances of diversity among the In- 
dian signs are so numerous that a vocabulary confined to the presenta- 
tion of a single sign for each of the several objects or ideas to be ex- 
pressed would be insufficient and misleading. Variants must be sup- 
plied with designation of the several groups using them. There being 
no single absolute language, each of the prevalent forms of expression 
has an equal right to consideration, without which a vocabulary must 
either be limited to a single so-called dialect, or become the glossary of a 
jargon. For this reason the collation of the gesture signs of the North 
American Indians for scientific examination requires minute care, and 
when they are critically compared with the signs of other speaking 
men, ancient and modern, and with those of deaf-mutes, the work is 
much protracted. 

Colonel Mallery has also continued the study of pictographs, and 
has prepared for the press a preliminary paper on that subject intended 
to guide research and ijrocure collaboration. The collection of picto- 
graphs has been largely enriched during the year, especially by the 
discovery of six forms of Dakota Winter Counts, which have been col- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75 

lated with the one form published in the year 1877 by Colonel Mallery, 
under the title of "Calendar of the Dakota Nation." The wide circu- 
lation of his paper on this subject was the means of obtaining the ad- 
ditional copies, valuable as a verification and for correction, and also 
extending over a longer number of years than the one first published. 
The collected Winter Counts now furnish a large amount of ethnologic 
information wholly apart from the interest attached to them as calen- 
dars. In the whole of these studies Colonel Mallery has been assisted 
by Dr. W. J. Hoffman. 

Mr. Frank H. Cushing, on his return to Washington in the spring of 
1884, renewed his work of the classification of his material obtained in 
the field and its preparation for publication. He completed an essay 
on the culture-growth of the ZuSis, as illustrated by studies of the 
Pueblo pottery, and has prepared a paper on the ancient province of 
Cibola, and the Seven Cities, with explanation of the architectural 
types in the Southwest, and the social institutions connected with the 
several periods of that architecture. He has also arranged his coj)ious 
notes on the myths and folk-lore of the Zuhis. 

The preparation of the Bibliography of North American Linguistics 
by Mr. James C. Pilling was continued during the year. There were 
received from the printer during the year proof-sheets of pages 839- 
1135, and these were distributed to various gentlemen throughout this 
country and others for examination and criticism. Among them were 
Seuor Joaquin Garcia Icazbalceta, of the city of- Mexico; Mr. Wilber- 
force Eames, of New York City, and Drs. J. G. Shea, of Elizabeth, N. 
J., D. G. Brinton, of Media, Pa., and J. Hammond Trumbull, of Hart- 
ford, Conn., from all of whom valuable information was obtained. 
During the latter part of October and the early part of November 
Mr. Pilling made a brief trip to New England, visiting several libraries 
in Boston and Providence for the purpose of clearing up a number of 
doubtful bibliographic points. 

Mr. H. W. Henshaw was engaged during the earlier part of the year 
in assisting the Director in the work of the classification of the lan- 
guages of the North American Indians. The large number of vocab- 
ularies of Indian languages which have been collected from time to 
time, and the recent increased activity in the direction of linguistic 
studies, imperatively require that a classification shall be made upon 
a more comprehensive and satisfactory basis than has hitherto been 
done. The confusion of nomenclature observable in previous classifi- 
cations, and the perplexities to the linguistic student resulting there- 
from, are universally recognized. Since Gallatin's classification of 1836 
the grouping of linguistic families has undergone great changes at 
the hands of successive authors in accordance with conflicting views 
held by them, and the families have been named and renamed with 
little or no reference to the names previously given. It is believed 
that in linguistic as in zoologic classification priority of name is the 



76 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

only safe rule to follow, and careful examination of all the literature 
pertaining to Indian linguistic classification with a view to a deter- 
mination of the name first employed for a family, together with care- 
fully-compared tables of synonymy, was therefore indispensable. In 
the work indicated, Mr. Uenshaw prepared a system of tables on the 
principle explained, and in connection with them a brief account of the 
literature bearing on the subject. 

Prof. O. T. Mason finished compiling the census of Indian education 
from the time of the foundation of the Government, and collected ad- 
ditional material for a grammar and dictionary of the Ohahta language. 

Mr. W. H. Holmes has been engaged during the year in carrying for- 
ward his studies of American ceramics, and has made much progress 
in the classification and arrangemept of the collection of pottery in the 
National Museum. He has also prepared a paper upon the fine collec 
tion of mound pottery in the museum of the Academj^ of Sciences at 
Davenport, Iowa, which will appear in the Fourth Annual Eeport of 
the Bureau. For the same volume, he has completed a paper upon the 
origin and development of form and ornament in the ceramic art, with 
copious illustrations. Mr. Holmes remains in charge of the department 
of illustrations in the Bureau of Ethnology, as well as in the Geologi- 
cal Survey, and has made good progress in elevating tbe standard of 
work. He has also had charge of the preparation of the exhibits of the 
Bureau of Ethnology and of the Geologic Survey for the exposition at 
New Orleans. 

Mr. C. C Royce continued his examinations into the primal title of 
the diflferent Indian tribes to lands within the limits of the United 
States, and the methods employed by the United States authorities in 
securing from such tribes a relinquishment of their title to such lands. 
Special attention was given to compiling the data in connection with 
the extinguishment of the Indian title to lands within the present limits 
of Oregon, Washington Territory, California, Arizona, New Mexico, 
Nevada, Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, Montana, Dakota, Texas, Minnesota, 
Kansas, and Nebraska. The investigations before commenced in other 
States have also been completed, and it is expected that the entire work 
will be ready for publication within the year 1SS5. 

Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, when not in the field, made many entries for 
an Osage-English dictionary, and for a Kansas-English dictionary, pre- 
pared Osage and Kansas native texts with free and interlinear transla- 
tions, and entries for the Egiha English dictionary. He also prepared 
articles on Kansas War Customs, and Migrations of certain Siouan 
tribes, each one illustrated by charts. A manuscript Musquito diction- 
ary was examined and criticised. After December 1, 1884, he collated 
the following vocabularies gained in Oregon, viz: Takelma, Sasti, Ap- 
jjlegato Creek, Chasta Costa, Galice Creek, Mulluk, Siuslaw, Umpqua, 
Vaquina, KliUitat, and Smith River, California. He also inxq)ared a list 
of the villages obtained from the tribes at the Silctz Agency, Oregon. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 77 

Mr. Albert S. Gatscliet, before proceeding to tlie field, as above men- 
tioned, was occupied in reading proof of his Klamath dictionary ; the 
second or Euglish-Klamath part, and in correcting and largely rewriting 
the manuscript of his Klamath grammar from the copious notes made 
during the printing of the text and the dictionary. 

Mrs. Erminnic A. Smith continued her special study on the different 
Iroquoian dialects. The Mohawk words previously translated from 
the dictionary of Marcoux were all recopied and their literal meaning 
given, as were also over 6,000 words in the Tuscarora dialect. She 
also prepared several studies upon pronouns and other parts of speech, 
for use in the introduction to her Iroquoian dictionary, which is in course 
of preparation. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, acting assistant surgeon, U. S. A., during the part 
of the year in which he was not, as elsewhere reported, engaged in field 
work, continued his investigations into the mortuary customs of the 
North American Indians ; maintaining the large correspondence relat- 
ing thereto, and arranging, with a view to publication, the large amount 
of material collected by him subsequent to his preliminary paper on the 
above-mentioned subject. 

Mr. Victor Mindeleff was occupied, when not in the field, in the prep- 
aration of a map of Canon de Chelley and its branches, from the data 
obtained in the field during the last season, for the purpose of showing 
the relation of the large number of clift' ruins (the plans of which had 
been obtained) to the topography of the caiions. He also continued the 
work of modeling the Moki villages, which had been interrupted by his 
field trip, in a series of models illustrating ancient pueblos and cliff" 
ruins, prepared by him for the New Orleans Exposition. 

-UNITED STATES GE(3L0GICAL SURVEY. 

Although separate in organization and management, the Smithsonian 
Institution and the Geological Survey have enjoyed at all times such 
close personal and official relations that it has been customary to in- 
clude a summary of the yearly operations of the Survey in the annual 
report of the Institution. In pursuance of this custom such a summary, 
furnished by Maj. J. W. Powell, the Director of the Survey, is appended 
hereto. 

The increased appropriation for the Geological Survey for the fiscal 
year 1883-84 made improved organization and greater expansion possi- 
ble. To the former nothing contributed more than the obtaining of 
suitable office accommodations — a want long felt, and finally rendered 
imperative by the enlargement of the Survey. Formerly the Director's 
office and executive force were in one place, the quarters of the geolo- 
gists and geographers in another, while many divisions that should 
have been in Washington under the imuiediato supervision of the Di- 
rector were scattered in remote cities. This unsatisfactory condition 



78 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of affairs was euded by securing a lease of the Hooe iron building, a 
large fire-proof structure on F street, to which the Survey force, with 
the exception of the chemists and paleontologists, was removed in Octo- 
ber. As this building did not offer laboratory facilities, the chemists 
were permitted, through the kindness of the Director of the National 
Museum, to occupy the northeast pavilion left vacant by the removal 
of the Director's ofiflce, while the paleontologists retained their old rooms 
in the Museum, it being impracticable to separate them from their col- 
lections, to which constant reference must be made, and which by law 
are installed in the Museum. As these gentlemen also serve in the 
capacity of honorary curators in the Museum, this arrangement seems 
especially appropriate. 

Before taking up the specific items of survey work, it is most gratify- 
ing to refer to the friendly relation subsisting between the various State 
surveys and the Geological Survey, and especially to the active co-oper- 
ation of many of the former with the latter in its efforts to include the 
whole country in its geologic investigations. 

The detailed statements which follow under the heads of Geography, 
Geology, Paleontology^ Chemistry, Statistics, Publications, and Collec- 
tions, indicate satisfactory progress made during the year. 

For purposes of general reference it was found desirable to retain the 
Divisions of the North Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Mississippi, 
South Mississippi, Rocky Mountains, and Pacific. The Division of the 
Great Basin was abandoned, it being necessary to withdraw Mr. G. K. 
Gilbert therefrom and place him in charge of the Division of the South 
Atlantic. For convenience of topographic reference these large areas 
are again subdivided into districts such as "New England," "Appala- 
chian," &c. 

GEOGRAPHY. 

In the geographic work of the Survey it is constantly borne mi mind 
that it is only possible to carry out the intent and purpose of the law 
requiring the construction of a geologic map of the United States, by 
first preparing an accurate topographic map which can be placed in the 
hands of the field geologists. In pursuance of this policy, as soon as 
the material of the previous season had been reduced to permanent 
form, active i)reparations were made for field work with an increased 
and more effective force. As soon after July 1, as i^racticable, 27 topo- 
graphic parties were organized and took the field under the guidance of 
their resi)ective chiefs. 

Division of the North Atlantic 

New England District. — Encouraged by the topographic work begun 
in Massachusetts during the previous season, the legislature of that 
comwonwealth appropriated the sum of $40,000 for the further prosecu- 
tion of the work iu couuectiou with the Geological Survey. In view of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7,9 

tliis fact the uumber of field parties was increased to four. This neces- 
sitated greater supervision, and in order that the inauguration of the 
survey upon this more comprehensive phm might be made under the 
most auspicious conditions, its general management was undertaken by 
the Chief Geographer of the Survey, Mr. Henry Gannett. The season's 
work included the counties of Hampshire, Bristol, Norfolk, and Ply- 
mouth, and embraces an area of 058 square miles. 

New Jersey District. — Under arrangements very similar to those en- 
tered into with Massachusetts a survey of i^^ew Jersey was commenced, 
and one topographic party, aided by two subordinate parties, was as- 
signed to the work. Professor Cook, State geologist, kindly under- 
took the direction of this force. With the exception of a small area in 
Sussex County all the northern counties had been completed under 
State direction. During the field season Sussex was finished and con- 
siderable progress made in Monmouth and Ocean Counties. The area 
surveyed up to December 31 was 1,082 square miles. 

Appalachian District. — During tlie previous season the chief geogra- 
pher of the Survey had given much of his time to the supervision of 
tl*e work of his district. His withdrawal to New England made it 
necessary to secure the services of some other competent geographer, 
and Mr. Gilbert Thompson was relieved from the direction of the Cali- 
fornia district, and placed in charge of the Appalachian. Before the 
15th of July the large force assigned to this district was organized 
into seven principal parties and field-work commenced. These parties 
operated in Eastern Maryland, Northeastern and Southwestern West 
Virginia, Western Virginia, Eastern Kentucky, Eastern Tennessee, 
Eastern North Carolina, and in Northern Alabama and Georgia. The 
total area covered in these States was 17,460 square miles. This work 
required the construction of between 8,000 and 9,000 square miles of 
triangulation ^nd the connection of ])ortious of it with the triangula- 
tiou of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

Divisions of the South Mississippi and the Bocky Mountains. 

Heretofore topography was undertaken only in the latter division, 
but the increased appropriation permitted its extension into the former 
also. As Prof. A. H. Thomi^son had previously been in charge of the 
parties in this region the additional territory was also placed under his 
management. 

Missouri and Kansas. — One topographic party was sent into each of 
these States, and in addition to this an astronomic party took the field 
for the purpose of making observations from which to determine the 
positions to be used by the topographers as a basis for their work. 

In anticipation of the extension of the survey into these States, much 
valuable topographic material was compiled from all available sources 
before the parties left for the West; and, as in many cases it was onlj 



80 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

necessary to add the elements of relief and culture to the plats, rapid 
progress was made. It is estimated that not less than 15,000 square 
miles were covered by the two parties during the Reason. 

Texas. — The work in Texas was successfully inaugurated about Au- 
gust 1, the chiefs of three parties and their assistants reporting at that 
time at Austin, Tex. As no work had heretofore been done in this dis- 
trict, the establishment of a base-line and the connection of the trian- 
gulation with that of the Coast and Geodetic Survey was necessary. 
As it is a region of small details, and this, together with the presence of 
much timber and embarrassing atmospheric conditions, made the work 
tedious. Nevertheless, the party succeeded in covering an area of 
4,000 square miles. 

Arizona and Nevada. — Work having been carried on in this region 
during previous years, there was but little delay in putting into the 
tield the three parties — one trian gulation and two topographic — assigned 
to this district. As this is the region peculiarly favorable to topographic 
work, the unusual area of 36,900 square miles was surveyed. 

Yellowstone National Parle. — The topographic work in the Park re- 
mained in the charge of Mr. John H. Eenshawe, who, with three parties, 
carried forward the survey from the points where it was discontinued at the 
close of the last season. One thousand square miles were added to the 
area already surveyed, leaving one-half of the Park yet to be completed. 
This, however, is a rugged, mountainous district, unfavorable to rapid 
work, and it is expected that future progress will be slow. Recent at- 
tempted legislation concerning the Park boundaries and the relation 
thereto of settlers' vested rights add interest to this survey. 

Division of the Great Basin. 

As previously stated, geologic work in this division was discontinued. 
A certain amount of topographic work was done, however, by reason of 
the extension of the survey across the western boundary of Arizona into 
the southern part of Nevada — the object of this extension being to unite 
large areas already surveyed. 

Division of the Pacific. 

Northern California District. — Two parties were sent to California and 
placed under the direction of Mr. Mark B. Kerr, who in previous years 
had been in charge of parties under Mr. Gilbert Thompson's direction. 
In addition to covering 3,700 square miles, detailed surveys of 375 
square miles within this same area were also made. 

At the closing of this report all of the field i^arties were not in, but 
sufficient data are at hand upon which to base the close estimate that an 
area of nearly 80,000 square miles was surveyed during the year. The 
reduction to permanent shape of this material will be taken up by the 
different divisions immediately upon their return, and will be completed 
before the close of the fiscal year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

GEOLOGY. 

For some time it had been the wish of the Director to extend geo- 
logic investigation into certain fields which, owing to limited funds, it 
had not been possible to study. It is very gratifying to note that at 
the beginning of the fiscal year much was accomplished in this direction 
by the addition of several eminent geologists to the Survey staff, as 
well as by securing the active co-operation of others whose duties would 
not admit of their assuming additional obligations. * The former will 
be mentioned specifically in referring to their respective fields of work; 
the latter include such well-known scientists as Professor Hall, of the 
Geological Survey of ISTew York ; Professor Newberry, of the School of 
Mines, Columbiiv College, New York; Professor Safford, of the Geolog- 
ical Survey of Tennessee; and Professor Cook, of the New Jersey State 
Survey. 

North Atlantic Division. 

New England District. — The discontinuance of the transconi iueutal 
survey by the Northern Pacific Railroad left Prof. Raphael Pumpelly 
free to engage in other lines of work, and his services were secured for 
the direction of the investigations to be undertaken primarily in the 
Archean formations of the Atlantic slope. The general plan of pro- 
cedure Avill be to take up the investigations in New England and extend 
them southward, at the same time carefully studying the many other 
problems connected with this region. In pursuance of this plan, pre- 
liminary reconnaissances were made in New England towards the close 
of the current year. 

Prof. N. S. Shaler, of Harvard University, who has given considera- 
ble attention to the geology of New England, will be associated with 
Professor Pumpelly in this task. Pending the final decision as to the 
course to be pursued, Professor Shaler found time, with the aid of vol- 
unteer assistants, to study the geologic history of Cape Cod ; to con- 
tinue his examination of the Narragansett coal fields ; to examine criti- 
cally 100 miles of the main shore line, obtaining valuable collections of 
fossils therefrom ; to make observations as to the evidences of recent 
shoreline movements; to study the drift- sheet of this region; and to 
bestow some attention on the phenomena connected with swamps. 

Much information concerning the geology of New Jersey liad already 
been acquired by Prof. George H. Cook, the State geologist, and the pub- 
lication of the material provided for by the State. Under arraugements 
with Professor Cook the paleontology of New Jersey is to be published 
hereafter by the United States Geological Survey. A reference to the 
paragraph on "Publications" will show that the carrying out of this plan 
has been commenced through the publication by theSurvey of Whitfield's 
"Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata." It has already been noted that 
Professor Cook, in addition to his geologic duties, undertook the man- 
agement of the mapping of the unsurveyed portions of the State. 
S, Mis. 33 G 



82 REPOKT OF THE SECKETARY. 

South Atlantic Division. 

Appalachian District. — At the time of the withdrawal of Mr. G, K. 
Gilbert from the District of the Great Basin, he had in course of prepara- 
tion an elaborate memoir, embodying the results of his investigations 
concerning the ancient Lake Bonneville and its boundaries, while his 
immediate assistant, Mr. Eussell, was engaged in the preparation of a 
like report upon Lake Lahontan and a paper upon the Mono Basin. For 
these many illustratious had been made, and others that were being 
drawn required constant supervision. Attention to this material occu- 
pied much of Mr. Gilbert's time, but early in the Held season he found 
opportunity to make a preliminary study of the structure of the Appa- 
lachian system. For this purjjose he proceeded, via Lynchburg, Va., 
to Asheville, N. C. From this point a series of excursions were made to 
Mount Mitchell, Eoan Mountain, and to the valleys of several of the 
tributaries of the French Broad. The journey was then continued south- 
ward across Tennessee, and as far into Georgia as Ellijay. While the 
object of this trip was the general study of the history of the Appala- 
chian system, especial attention was given to that phase of it which is 
represented by the ancient base-levels in the mountain valleys. Later 
in the season Mr. Gilbert made similar observations upon the terraces 
of the valleys of the Passumpsic, Connecticut, and Mohawk, for com- 
parative purposes. In the mean time, he sent the assistant geologists, 
who had previously acted in this region under the Director's immediate 
instructions, but who were now placed under his direction, to make a 
detailed study of the geologic phenomena of the Kanawha Valley, West 
Virginia, of the country in the vicinity of the White Sulphur Springs, 
and of a portion of the great valley of eastern Tennessee. At the close 
of the calendar year satisfactory progress was reported in these several 

fields of work. 

Division of the North Mississippi. 

Glacial District. — A summary of what was accomplished by Prof. T. 
C. Chamberlin and his assistants shows six months' of oflice duty in 
connection with the i>revious season's material and six months of out- 
door work in extending the research into new fields. The first half of 
the year was .given to the preparation of a paper on " Requisite and 
Qualifying Conditions of Artesian Wells," for the Director's Fifth An- 
nual Report, a report upon gravel deposits, and the collation of the ob- 
servations made upon glacial striation. The field work of the last half 
of the year included (1) an expansion of the previous studies of the drilt- 
less area of Wisconsin, Illinois, Iowa, and Minnesota ; (2) the continua- 
tion of previous work in Dakota, more particularly the detailed study 
of the moraines of the southern part, and a critical examination of their 
relation to other deposits ; (3) the tracing of the outer limit of the north- 
ern drift from the point to which it had been previously traced in Indi- 
ana westward to the Mississippi River ; (4) the study of the terraces ot 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83 

the Upper Ohio and the hypothetical effects of ice blockage; (5) the 
more complete mappinft' of the osars of Maine, together with a critical 
study of their structure, character, and relation ; (6) a comparative study 
of glaciated and unglaciated Archaean knobs which occupy an isolated 
position in the Silurian district of Central Wisconsin, and (7) a study of 
the northern border of the Missouri Valley loess and its relation to other 
members of the Quaternary series, as well as to altitude, topographic 
features, and drainage systems. 

The tracing of the boundary of the drift and loess was undertaken by 
Professor Chamberlin in person. The limit of the drift will be indi 
cated in a manner by the statement that his examination carried him 
across Northeastern Illinois, Southern Iowa, Southeastern aud Central 
Nebraska, as far west as Denver, Colo., theuce into the Valley of the 
Arkansas southward across Indian Territory to Northern Texas, aud 
thence eastward across the northern part of Louisiana to the flood- 
j)lains of the Mississippi, and from this point northward through West- 
ern Tennessee, Kentucky, aud Eastern Missouri. The results of the in- 
vestigations of Professor Chamberlin and his assistants will appear 
from time to time in the form of monographs aud bulletins. 

Lake Superior District. — Office work in connection with the investiga- 
tions of this division occupied the time of Prof. R. D. Irving and his 
assistants until the weather permitted field exploration, which was at 
once taken up and continued until nearly the close of the calendar year. 
Professor Irving's line of research lies mainly iu the Cambrian and 
Archaian formations of the Lake Superior region. The assistants under 
his direction were employed in the following fields : One was sent to 
study the gneisses and granites of the Minnesota Valley, the results to bo 
used, in connection with data obtained last season, in preparing a bul- 
letin on the gneisses and granites of Central Minnesota; another was 
sent to the Gogebic Lake country of the northern peninsula of Mich- 
igan for the purpose of connecting the Huronian of the Penokee region 
of Wisconsin with that of the Marquette and Menominee regions of 
Michigan; a third continued the studies previously made in the region 
of the national boundary line in the vicinity of Knife Lake, Minne 
sota — the object of the investigations being to determine the rela 
tion between the flat lying Animikie and the more northerly folded 
schists ; a fourth assistant was assigned a large area stretching from 
Vermilion Lake, Minnesota, northeastwardly to its juncture with the 
region in which the party just referred to operated, while for himself 
Professor Irving reserved the necessary supervision of his subordinate 
parties; a special study of portions of the Marquette region hitherto 
unexplored, and a further examination of the exposures along the 
national boundary-line, iu the neighborhood of the Lake of the Woods. 
The various parties had about completed the tasks assigned them and 
returned to the Madison ofldce for the purpose of elaborating the results 
of this successful field season, when they had the misfortune to lose 



84 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

much of the labor of this and previous years by the fire which occurred 
in the Science building of the University of Wisconsin, on the night of 
December 1. This conflagration destroyed most of their collections, 
instruments, and field equipage ; seriously damaged their field-notes, 
manuscript text and accompanying illustrations, and a number of excel- 
lent field-maps upon which the geology thus far determined had been 
laid down, and also ruined a quantity of carefullyijrepared micro-sec- 
tions. At the time of the fire, Professor Irving and his assistants had 
well under way papers upon the following subjects : (1) Observations 
on the contact-line between the western sandstones and the copper- 
bearing series on Keweenaw Point, to be issued jointly by Professors 
Irving and Chamberlin ; (2) Notes on the preliminary geologic map of 
the region bounded by Lake Superior, the national boundary-line, and 
the Saint Louis and Vermilion Eivers ; (3) The geology of the region 
between Gunflint and Knife Lakes ; (4) The geology of the region west 
of Knife Lake and lying between the national boundary-line, Vermilion 
Eiver, and tbe Mesabi Eange; (5) The Penokee-Gogebic iron-bearing 
series, and (C) The cherts, jaspers, and iron ores of the Huronian of 
the Northwest. Professor Irving and his assistants at once set about 
repairing the damage done by the fire, and while it will be possible to 
reproduce much of this material, delay in its publication must neces- 
sarily follow. 

Rocky Mountain Division. 

Montana District. — Prof. F. V. Hayden and assistants continued in- 
vestigations in Western Montana. The special field of work selected 
was the eastern and northern sides of the Gallatin Valley, the west side 
of the Bridger's Range, and the country in the vicinity of the Forks of 
the Missouri Iliver. The object of the reconnaissance was the comple- 
tion of the section of the Silurian and Cambrian formations which are 
so well exposed in this region. In traveling to and from the field of 
work a careful examination was made of the springs of Western and 
Southeastern Montana, Idaho, and Utah, for the purpose of obtaining 
data to be used in connection with the list of mineral springs of the 
United States, which is being prepared by Dr. A. C. Peale. 

The publication by the Geological Survey of Canada of the results of 
investigations in British Columbia enabled Dr. Hayden to ascertain 
with more definiteness the relation of the geology of the region being 
studied by him to that of the country extending to the northward into 
British Columbia. 

Yellowstone Park Dlstrict.^-Bj the last of June Mr. Arnold Hague and 
assistants completed office- work in connection with the material col- 
lected during the previous season, and were ready to take the field. A 
reference to the season's work in detail shows that it was only by adopt- 
ing a comprehensive plan of procedure and dividing the force- up into 
small parties that it was possible to make the most of the short field - 
season in the Park. A careful compilation of such observations as had 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85 

beeu made from time to time upon the geysers enabled Mr. Hague to 
institute a more sj'stematic study of tbe changes and modifications. 
Skilled observers were kept in the principal geyser basins, and as far as 
possible the more remote and less active thermal springs were visited 
and the phenomena connected therewith carefully noted. Two j^arties, 
one of which was under Mr. Hague's immediate direction, made a pre- 
liminary study of the East Gallatin Range, which forms the northwest 
boundary of the Park Plateau, and extends from Electric Peak south- 
ward to Mount Holmes. Geologically considered, this range is a most 
interesting one; every i^eriod from the Silurian to the Colorado Creta- 
ceous being represented therein. A special study was made of the 
Obsidian cliffs, and later in the season the volcanic rocks of the west 
shore of the Yellowstone Lake, together with its Quaternary geology, 
glacial i)henomena, and ancient terrace-lines, were carefully worked up. 

In connection with the geologic investigations, Mr. Hague also made 
a preliminary examination of the region named in the bill before the 
Forty-eighth Congress for addition to the Park reservation. 

The several parties were compelled by reason of snow-storms to leave 
the Park by the middle of October. Upon returning east the ibrce of 
this division were removed from their quarters in the American Museum 
of Natural History, in New York, to the Survey building, in Washing- 
ton. 

Colorado District. — During the winter Mr. S. F, Emmons and assist- 
ants made further study of the material collected from the Silver Cliff 
mining district, and, as soon as the field, season opened, topographic 
and geologic work was taken up in the Gunnison district. In connec- 
tion therewith, and in order that a better understanding mig])t be ob- 
tained of the Colorado Paleozoic and Mesozoic, a geologic section was 
made along the Arkansas River, in the neighborhood of Salida. The 
result of the season's work will enable the geologists to lay down the 
geology of the Gunnison district upon the map of the region which 
was prepared at the same time. As soon as the weather made further 
research in these fields impossible, attention was turned to the geologic 
phenomena of the Denver Basin, especial attention being given to the 
source of the water-supply of its artesian wells. The investigations in 
this region, dealing as they do with the mineral-bearing formations, 
require a large amount of laboratory and microscopic work, in the course 
of which some very interesting discoveries were -made as to the occur- 
rence of minerals both in combinations and in localities in which they 
were not supposed to exist. Tho results of these investigations of the 
minerals of Colorado will appear at a future day in the form of a Bulletin. 

District of the Pacific. — At the close of the previous annual state- 
ment, the investigations of Mr. George F. Becker and his assistants in 
the quicksilver deposits of Sulphur Bank and New Idria, California, 
were sufficiently near completion to permit the entering upon new 
fields. It was decided, therefore, to take up the study of the Knoxville 



S6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

district, and the mines in the vicinity of Steamboat Springs, to be fol- 
lowed later by an examination of the cinnabar deposits of Gnadaloupe 
and Eew Almaden. The climate of California makes field-work possi' 
ble at all times of the year, and Mr. Becker kept in mind the desirability 
of not only making a careful study of the surface geology of the are.i 
immediately under investigation, but also of utilizing all trips to and 
from the field of work for the puri)Ose of obtaining a thorough knowl- 
edge of the general geology of California, and its relation to the quick- 
silver deposits. In addition to this, special trips were made whenever 
necessary to localities thought to be instructive or furnishing any clue 
to the solution of the geologic problems of this region. With such ends 
in view, the construction of a geologic section through the Coast liange 
was undertaken. In view of the extensive studies made by Mr. Becker 
and his assistants, and as a check upon their conclusions concerning the 
age of the quicksilver-bearing rocks of the Pacific coast, it seemed wise, 
before proceeding further, to have some competent paleontologist review 
the results obtained by the State survey and such other material as 
had been procured recently by Mr. Becker. Dr. C. A. White was as- 
signed this duty, and proceeding to California he first made a study 
of the Chico, Tejon, and Miocene groups, and then, in company with 
Mr. Becker, visited the several mining districts under consideration, 
the Cretaceous and Paleozoic formations of liutte County, and certain 
other localities on the McCloud River, and in Shasta and Mariposa 
Counties. They then proceeded as far north as Eugene City, Oreg , 
for the i)urpose of examining a large and very instructive collection of 
fossils in that city. 

Much microscopic and chemic work has been accomplished in the 
laboratory of this division, in connection with the cinnabar investiga- 
tions. 

Assistant Geologist Curtis completed his report on the Eureka min- 
ing district, and early in the year proceeded to Washington to superin- 
tend its publication. When not engaged in this task, his time was de- 
voted to experimenting for the purpose of devising improved methods 
for determining minute quantities of precious metals in ores. 

Volcanic Bocks. — Having nearly completed the manuscript of his 
memoir on the Hawaiian volcanoes, Capt, C. E. Button, U. S. A., in 
pursuance of his investigations relative to volcanic i)henomena, pro- 
ceeded to Fort Wingate, IST. Mex., in July, for the purpose of making 
a thorough examination of Mount Taylor and its vicinity, a region which 
in past time was one of great volcanic activity. In the mean time the 
investigations previously conducted in the Cascade Range were not for- 
gotten, and Assistant Geologist Diller spent the field season in the 
neighborhood of Mount Shasta with most gratifying results. An area 
embracing 400 square miles was explored; the successive lava-flows 
which ha<l taken place from the main crater, as well as from the many 
vents upon the slopes of this extinct volcano, were traced; the limits of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 8? 

the jilacicrs and the accompanying phenomena weredeterminodMilh as 
much accuracy as possible, and collections were made which enabled 
Mr. Diller to indicate on the map, prepared at the same time by a topo- 
graphic party, the distribution of the material forming the successive 
flows. A large number of photographic views were also taken, which, 
with field-notes and sketches, will be invaluable in setting forth the 
geology and topography of this interesting region. 

Upon Mr. Diller's return from the field, a well -equipped petrographic 
laboratory was fitted up under his direction in the Survey building, 
and an opportunity thus afforded for the microscopic study of the col- 
lections of the various divisions. In connection witli this laboratory it 
was found possible to arrange abundant facilities for the preparation of 
micro-sections. Under Mr. Diller's management most gratifying results 
have already been obtained from this much-needed acquisition to the 
Survey's equipment. In the last quarter of the year alone 512 micro- 
sections were made. 

Goal-fields of the Great Sioux Reservation. — On January 3, the honora- 
ble the Secretary of the Interior instructed the Director of the Survey to 
have made a geologic survey of the Great Sioux Eeservation, for the 
purpose of determining the extent and value of such coal-fields as might 
be found. It was not practicable to undertake this task until the spring. 
At that time the services of Mr. Bailey Willis were secured, and he, with 
a party, was sent to Dakota. In addition to the geologic investigations 
l^rosecuted by Mr. Willis, he also superintended the preparation of a 
map of 2,000 square miles, embracing all of the area in which it was ex- 
pected the so-called coal-fields would be found. Before the close of the 
year Mr. Willis had completed his report, and it only awaited the prepara- 
tion of the map to be forwarded to the Secretary of the Interior. While 
the details of this report cannot be given here, it may be briefly stated 
that the coal-beds were found to be confined to restricted areas, and to 
be of but little if any value for commercial or domestic purposes. 

Geologic map of the United States. — The geologic map commenced in 
1883 was completed and placed in the hands of the engraver. It was 
found, after collating all available data, that our knowledge is not suffi- 
cient to warrant the extension of geologic colors over the entire territory 
of the United States. Accordingly, California, Oregon, and parts of 
Montona, Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas re- 
main uncolored. 

This map will be issued in two editions within a few months. The 
first edition will be colored in accordance with the scheme previously 
adopted and published by the Survey. It will form one of the plates of 
theFifthAnnual Report of theDirector, and a brief explanatory statement 
will accompany it. A second edition, with complete explanatory text, 
will be issued as a bulletin. In this edition the map will be printed in 
duplicate, one copy colored in accordance with the published scheme 
and the other in accordance with a scheme now under consideration. It 



g8 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



is proposed to have this bulletin in rcadinesp for presentation before the 
Berlin meeting of the Congres Geologique International during the 
coming autumn. 

The taxonoraic scheme is essentially that published in the report for 
1883, that is, as follows : 



Group. 



Ceuozoic . . 
Mesozoic . . 

Paleozoic . 
Azoic 



System. 



Quaternary 

Mioceuo 

Eocene (including Oligo- 

ceue). 

Cretaceous 

Jurasso-Triassic 

' Carboniferous (including 

Permian). 

Devon ian 

Silurian 

Cambrian 

Arch;ean 

Volcanic 



Sym- 
bol. 



Q 
M 

E 

K 
T 
P 

D 

S 

c 

A 



Color published. 



Gray 

Chrome yellow 
Orange yellow. 

Dark green 

Olive green 

Blue 

Deep purple. . . 
Light purple . . 
Grayish purple 
Brown 

Red 



Color proposed. 



Gray. 

Violet. 

Indigo. 

Blue. 

Green. 

Yellow. 

Orange. 

Red. 

Brown. 

Angular figures on 
white ground. 

Round dots on neu- 
tral ground. 



The sources of the information incorporated in the map are : first, 
published maps, and second, manuscript maps prepared for the Survey 
by diflerent ofiflcial and amateur geologists. As the colors have not 
been carried beyond the boundaries of the original maps, this geologic 
map may be regarded as an accurate representation of our present 
knowledge of the distribution of American rock -groups. 

The map, together with the explanatory text, was prepared by Mr. 

W J McGee. 

Oeologij of the District of Columbia. 

The investigation of the superficial deposits, and the littoral and 
fluviatile terraces of the District of Columbia and contiguous territory, 
commenced in 1883 by Mr. W J McGee, were continued. A recon- 
uoissance was extended over an area of 1,000 square miles having the 
District of Columbia as its center. In addition, short journeys to the 
northward and southward were made for the purpose of correlating the 
deposits with those already known in other localities ; and, with the 
same object in view, the literature of the Orange Sand and Stratified 
Drift of the Gulf States, and the glacial " Quaternary," and accociated 
deposits of the Atlantic States, were studied. In the prosecution of his 
work Mr. McGee found it necessary to extend his observations into the 
interior. The Potomac was followed as fiir as Cumberland, Maryland, 
and the south branch of that river explored to its source in the elevated 
tract near the center of the Virginias. Then crossing the main range 
of the Alleghanies, Mr. McGee descended the Cheat, Monongahela, and 
Ohio to Wheeling, West Virginia, re-examining the base-level, fluvia- 
"tile, and lacustral terraces already noted by others on those rivers. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89 

Tbe necessity for increasing the topographic force in Kew England 
delayed the construction of the map of this area; but arrangements 
have been made for its completion, and Mr. MeGee will thus be enabled 
to present in comprehensive form the complicated phenoma of the region 
which he has under study. 

PALEONTOLOGY. 

A few changes were made in the distribution of the work of the pale- 
ontologic corps, looking to its greater systematization and effective- 
ness. Certain independent parties which had previously been under 
the immediate instruction of the director were assigned to duty under 
the chiefs of division, and the paleontologic corps was increased by the 
acquisition of Dr.W. H.Dall, formerly of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

Vertebrates. — Prof. O. C. Marsh's personal work was confined to the 
prepariition of the manuscript and illustrations of his volumes on the 
Dinocerata and the Sauropoda, and to the administrative duties of his 
division. The former monograph was about ready for publication at 
the end of the year. Early in the spring four field parties were sent 
out, two to the Jurassic beds of Wyoming, one to the same horizon in 
Colorado, and one to Northern Kausas. There was received from these 
parties during the year an unusually large amount of material. Their 
success in collecting Pliocene mammals in Kansas, and the remains of 
Dinosaurs in Colorado and Wyoming was marked — 119 boxes having 
been taken from one locality in Kansas alone. Upon the approach of 
the winter season the collecting parties were transferred to Texas where 
the weather is such as to permit exploration throughout the entire year. 

Paleozoic hivertehrates. — During the winter mouths Mr. C. D. Wal- 
cott, the chief of this division, was engaged in the preparation of a re- 
port on the Paleontology of the Eureka District, to accompany the 
monograph of Mr. J. S. Curtis on the Silver-Lead Deposits of this 
same region. 

The plan of field work for the summer embraced the study by Mr. 
Walcott in person of the Cambrian system in Eastern New York and 
Western Vermont, including the preparation of numerous geologic sec- 
tions and the collection of a large series of fossils ; the continuance by 
Assistant Geologist Williams of his investigations in the Devonian and 
Lower Carboniferous in Western New York and Northern Pennsylvania 
on about the same plan as that pursued in 1883, and the sending out of 
collectors to obtain fossils from the Potsdam and Lower Maguesian form- 
ations of Wisconsin and Eastern Minnesota, and from the Cambrian of 
Northern Alabama. The latter part of this plan was satisfactorily carried 
out, but in the midst of his investigations in Vermont and New York Mr. 
Walcott was recalled, in conformity with the wish of the Honorable the 
Secretary of the Interior, who desired that a compt^tent geologist of the 
Survey be designated to act as a member of a commission to examine 
supposed coal-bearing areas on the White Mountain Indian Eeservation, 



90 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

in Arizona. Upon the completion of the field work in connection with 
this duty, Mr. Walcott proceeded to Texas and made a brief study of the 
Paleozoic rocks in Burnet, Llano, San Saba, and Lampasas Counties. 
Though the study of these areas was limited, some very satisfactory 
results were obtained. After his return from the south it was too late 
to resume the investigations which he had abandoned in Vermont and 
Kew York. 

On November 2G Mr. Walcott's report on the Deer Creek coal-fields 
of the San Carlos Indian Reservation was forwarded to the honorable 
the Secretary of the Interior. 

Mesozoic Paleontology. — The paleontologic work of the division un- 
der the direction of Dr. C. A. White included the examination of the 
collections made by Mr. Becker on the Pacific coast. The successful 
completion of this task has already been noted in the reference to that 
division. Much preliminary work in connection with this duty was 
performed by Dr. White, and to this and to the study of his own col- 
lections he gave most of his time until his departure for the West in 
early June. 

The arrangement of fossils for installation in the National Museum — 
a task which Dr. White superintends by reason of his curatorship in the 
National Museum — demanded much of the time and attention of his as- 
sistants during the winter season. This included the preparation of a 
catalogue of the type-specimens of this division for insertion in the re- 
port of the Director of the National Museum. 

The i^reparatiou of an index-catalogue of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic 
fossils was undertaken by Dr. White, and such satisfactory progress 
made that it is believed its publication in 1S85 will be i^ossible. 

On the opening of the field season and during the absence of Dr. 
White, collecting parties proceeded to such localities in the southern 
Appalachian District as contained formations which come under this 
division. On returning from California in September, Dr. White at 
once began the preparation of a report upon the Pacific coast collec- 
tions. This was about completed at the close of the year. 

Cenozoic Invertebrates. — A systematic study of the Invertebrates of 
the Quaternary has long been an unfilled want in the paleontologic 
work. In September the Survey was so fortunate as to secure the 
services of Dr. W. 11. Dall, who immediately entered upon his duties. 
As a preliminary step, he began putting the large collections which 
had accumulated from time to time in such shape that while under 
study they can be utilized as a means of identification for incoming 
material. This task, in conjunction with the necessary attention to the 
routine duties connected with this division furnished work for several 
months. 

Paleobotany. — No fiekl-work was urdertaken by Prof. L. F. Ward 
during 1884, his large collections made heretofore occupying his entire 
time and attention. His especial line (f study was the collections ob- 



Report of the slcretary. 91 

fcained by him from tbe region of tlie IJ])per iNIississippi, and the Yel- 
loustonc durini;' the previous .sununer. In connection therewith he 
also undertook the compihition of a general compendium of paleobot- 
any ; substantially a digest of the history and present status of the 
science. Such a work, dealing largely with the literature of the sub- 
ject, has come to be very important, if not indispensable to the proper 
utilization of American material in geologic work. The preliminary 
part of this volume, a sketch of paleobotany, illustrated with figures 
and tables, will appear in the Director's Fifth Annual Report. 

Under Professor Ward's direction there was prepared a catalogue of 
the species of fossil plants in the JTational Museum, thus rendering the 
collection much more valuable for purposes of reference. 

Prof. W. M. Fontaine's plan of work for the year was to continue his 
investigation of the Mesozoic fossil-plants by means of the material al- 
ready collected until the opening of the field season, and then to make 
further collections from this formation in localities to the north and east 
of Fredericksburg, Va. The latter was successfully accomplished in a 
brief tour, and Professor Fontaine then returned to the elaborating of 
field-notes and the describing and tiguring of tyi)e specimens. 

Though engaged in the special line of work referred to, Professor 
Fontaine also made a careful study of the general geology of the regions 
visited in the course of his investigations. He believes that some of 
his discoveries will definitely determine the status of certain forma- 
tions whose character have been considered uncertain. 

CHEMISTRY. 

The effectiveness of the laboratory service was greatly increased by 
the addition to the force of several experts and by the removal of the 
Kew Haven physical laboratory to Washington. This latter was ren- 
dered possible by the kindness of the director of the National Museum, 
who, as previously stated, i)eriuitted the laboratories to occupy the 
rooms in the Museum vacated by the office of the Director of the Sur- 
vey. The fitting up of these rooms for this purpose was begun in Octo- 
ber, and before the close of the year the combined forces of the two 
laboratories were busily at work again under Professor Clarke's direc- 
tion. 

During the year there were made a large number of analyses of 
mineral waters, sediments from mineral springs, minerals and clays, as 
well as a large number of assays of mineral-bearing ores. Original 
research was also prosecuted. This included new methods for the de- 
termination of titanium in rocks, for the determination of minute quan- 
tities of the precious metals in ores, and investigations concerning the 
precipitated silicates of lime, aluminum, and magnesium, this latter 
being fundamental to the study of the natural silicates. 

Upon the opening of the field season Assistant Chemist Chatard pro- 
ceeded to North Carolina for the i)uriiose of obtaining specimens from 



92 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the corundum fields of that region, and Doctors Goocli and Hallock were 
sent to the Yellowstone National Park to make special studies of the 
geyser phenomena. Bulletins setting forth the results obtained will be 
issued in the due course of time. 

In his capacity as a Curator of the National Museum, Profeissor Clarke 
gave considerable time and attention to the arrangement of the mineral- 
ogic collection to be exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition. 

For some time prior to the removal of the physical laboratory from 
New Haven, experiments were made for the determination of high tem- 
peratures by means of thermo-electric couples. This line of research is 
of importance, opening up, as it does, a wider range of investigation than 
had heretofore been possible. 

Before the close of the year there was sent to the press, a Bulletin by Dr. 
Carl Barns, on the Electric and Magnetic Properties of Iron-Carburets, 
the result of laboratory investigations. 

The above reference to chemic work does not include analyses and 
special mineralogic studies made by such divisions of the Survey as it is 
not practicable to bring to Washington. 

STATISTICS. 

Mineral Resources of the United States. — As soon as it became practica- 
ble to begin the collection of statistics concerning the mineral resources 
of the United States other than gold and silver, the preparation of a sec- 
ond report was taken up by Mr. Albert Williams, jr. While this report 
follows the general form and scope of the previous volume, and is in itself 
complete, from a statistical and trade point of view, it complements the 
latter in the matter of description of localities, metallurgic processes, &c. 
A new feature will be the introduction of a series of graphic tables show- 
ing at a glance the progress in the several industries. While adding but 
a trifle to the cost of the publication, this scheme contributes greatly to 
its effectiveness. 

At the close of the year the statistics for 1883 were in shape for print- 
ing, and progress made as far as jiossible in the collection of those for 
1884. As soon as these are obtained the volume will be ready for the 
printer. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Believing that it will prove of value to the many readers of the Smith- 
sonian Eeport, for jiurposes of reference, there is appended hereto, in 
somewhat condensed form, the contents of the circular issued by the 
Survey concerhing its publications. 

The publications of the United States Geological Survey are issued 
in accordance with the statute approved March 3, 1879, which declares 
that— 

" The publications of the Geological Survey shall consist of the an- 
nual report of operations, geological and economic maps illustrating the 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. , 93 

resources and classificatiou of the lands, and reports upon general and 
economic geology and paleontology. The annual report of operations 
of the Geological Survey shall accompany the annual report of the Sec- 
retary of the Interior. All special memoirs and reports of said survey 
shall be issued in uniform quarto series if deemed necessary by the Di- 
rector, but otherwise in ordinary octavos. Three thousand copies of 
each shall be ])ublished for scientific exchanges and for sale at the iirice 
of publication ; and all literary and cartographic materials received in 
exchange shall be the property of the United States, and form a part of 
the library of the organization : And the money resulting from the sale 
of such publications shall be covered into the Treasury of the United 
States." 

On July 7, 1882, the following joint resolution, referring to all Gov- 
ernment publications, was j)assed by Congress : 

" That whenever any document or report shall bo ordered printed by 
Congress, there shall be printed, in addition to the number in each case 
stated, the 'usual number' [1,900] of copies for binding and distribu- 
tion among those entitled to receive them." 

Under these general laws it will be seen that none of the Survey pub- 
lications are furnished to it for gratuitous distribution. The 3,000 copies 
of the annual report are distributed through the document rooms of 
Congress. The 1,900 copies of each of the publications are distributed 
to the ofiicers of the legislative and executive departments, and to stated 
depositories throughout the United States. 

Except, therefore, in those cases where an extra number of any jiub- 
lication is sui)plied to this oflice by special resolution of Congress, as 
has been done in the case of the second, third, fourth, and fifth annual 
reports, or where a number has been ordered for its use by the Secre- 
tary of the Interior, as iu the case of Mineral Eesources, and Dictionary 
of Altitudes, the Survey has no copies of any of its publications for gra- 
tuitous distribution. The gratuitous edition of the Mineral Eesources 
is entirely exhausted. 

ANNUAL REPORTS. 

Of the AiiDiial Reports there have beeu already published : 

I. First Aunual Report to the Hon. Carl Schurz, by Clarence King. 1880. 8°. 79 
pp. 1 map. — A preliminary report describing plan of organization and publications. 

II. Report of the Director of the United States Geological Survey for 1880-'81, bj'- 
J. W. Powell. 1882. 8°. Iv, 558 pp. 61 pi. 1 map. 

III. Third Aunual Report of the United States Geological Survey, 1881-'82, by J. 
W. Powell. 1883. 8°. xviii, 564 pp. 67 pi. and maps, 

IV. Fourth Annual Report of the United States Geological Survey, 1882-'83, by J. 
W. Powell. 1884. 8". xii, 473 pp. 85 pi. and maps. 

The edition of the Fourth Annual for the use of the Survey has not yet been deliv- 
ered. The Fifth Annual is in i^ress. 

MONOGRAPHS. 

Of the Monographs, Nos. II, III, IV, V, YI, and VII are now j)ublished, viz : 

II. Tertiary History of the Grand Canou District, with atlas, by Clarence E. Dut- 

tou, captain, U. S, A. 1882. 4°. 264 pp. 42 pi. and atlas of 26 double sheets folio. 

Price 110.12, 



94 REPOET OF THE yECRETAEY. 

III. Geology of the Comstock Lode iiiid tlic Wasboe District, with atlas, by Georgo 
F.Becker. 1882. 4°. xv, 422, pp. 7 pi. aud atlas of 21 sbcets folio. Price $11. 

IV. Comstock Miuiug and Miners, by Eliot Lord. 1883. 4°. xiv, 451 pp. 3 pi. 
Price $1.50. 

V. Copper-beariug Rocks of Lake Superior, by Roland D. Irving. 1883. 4°. xvi, 
464 pp. 29 pi. Price $1.85. 

VI. Contribntious to the knowledge of the Older Mesozoic Flora of Virginia, by W. 
M.Fontaine. 1883. 4°. xi, 144 pp. 54 1. 54 pi. I'rice $1.05. 

VII. Silver-lead Deposits of Eureka, Nevada, by Joiicph S. Curtis. 1884. 4°. xiii, 
200 pp. 16 pi. Price $1.20. 

The following are in press, viz : 

VIII. Paleontology of the Eureka DistrCt, by Charles D. Waluott. 1884. 4'-"'. xiii, 
285 pp. 24 1. 24 pi. Price $1.10. 

IX. BrachioiJoda and Lamellibranchiata of the Karifan Clays and Greensand Marls 
of New Jersey, by Robert P. Whitfield. 1-S^4. 4". ix, 338 i>p. 35 pi. 

X. Dinocerata. A Monograi)h of an Extinct Order of Gigantic Mammals, by 0th- 
niel Charles Marsh. 1884. 4"^. , pp. pi. 

The following are in preparation, viz : 

I. The Precious Metals, by Clarence King. 

Geology and Mining Industry of Leadville, with atlas, by S. F. Emmons. 

Geology of the Eureka Mining District, Nevada, with atlas, by Arnold Hague. 

Lake Bonneville, by G. K. Gilbert. 

Sauropoda, by Prof. O. C. Marsh. 

Stegosauria, by Prof. O. C. Marsh. 

BULLETINS. 

The Bulletins of the Survey will contain such papers relating to the general pur- 
pose of its work as do not properly come under the heads of Annual Reports or Mono- 
graphs. 

Each of these Bulletins will contain but one paper, and be complete in itself. They 
will, however, be numbered in a continuous series, and will in time be united into 
volumes of convenient size. To facilitate this, each Bulletin will have two pagina- 
tions, one proper to itself, and one which belongs to it as part of the volume. 

Of this series of Bulletins, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are already published. 

1. On Hypersthene-Andesite and on Tricliuic Pyroxene in Augitic Rocks, by Whit- 
man Cro.s8, with a Geological Sketch of Buffalo Peaks, Colorado, by S. F. Emmons. 

1883. 8°. 42 pp. 2 pi. Price 10 cents. 

2. Gold and Silver Conversion Tables, giving the coining value of Troy ounces of 
fine metal, &c., by Albert Williams, jr. 1883. 8°. ii, 8 jip. Price 5 cents. 

3. On the Fossil P'annas of the Upper Devoninn along the meridian of 76° 30', from 
Tompkins County, New York, to Bradford County, Pennsylvania, by Henry S. Williams, 

1884. 8°. 36 pp. Price 5 cents. 

4. On Mesozoic Fossils, by Charles A. White. 1884. 8°. 36 pp. 9 pi. Price 5 
cents. 

5. A Dictionary of Altitudes in the United States, compiled by Henry Gannett. 
1884. 8°. 325 pp. Price 20 cents. 

6. Elevations in the Dominion of Canada, by J. W. Spencer. 1884. 8°. 43 pp. 

Price 5 cents. . This number completes Vol. I of the Bulletins, and contains 

the title-page, table of contents, and list of illustrations for the whole volume. 

7. Mapoteca Geologica Americana. A catalogue of geological maps of America 
(North and South), 1752-1881, by Jules Marcou and John Belknap Marcou. 1884. 
8°. 184 pp. Price 10 cents. 

8. On Secondary Enlargements of Mineral Fragments in certain Rocks, by R. D. 
Irving and C. R. Vanhise. 1884. 8°. 56 pp. Price 10 tents. 

9. A Report of Work done in the Washington Laboratory during the fiscal year 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95 

1883-'84. F. W. Clarke, chief cliemist; T. M. Chatard, assistant. 1884. 8°. 40 pp. 
Price 5 cents. 

10. On the Cambrian Fannas of North America. Preliminary studies, by Charles 
D. Walcott. 1884. 74 pp. 10 pi. Price 5 cents. 

The following are in press, viz : 

11. On the Quaternary and Recent Mollusca of the Great Basin, with descriptions 
of new forms, by R. Ellsworth Call ; introduced by a Sketch of the Quaternary Laki s 
of the Great Basin, by G. K. Gilbert. 1884. 8°. 66 pp. 6 pi. 

12. A Crystallographic Study of the Thinolite of Lake Lahoutaii, by Edward S. 
Dana. 1884. 8°. 34 pp. 3 pi. 

13. Boundaries of the United States and of the several States and Territories, by 
Henry Gannett. 1835. 8°. pp. 

14. The Electrical and Magnetic Properties of the Iron-Carburets, by Carl Barns 
and Vincent Strouhal. 1885. 8°. pp. 

15. Notes on the Mesozoic and Ceuozoic Paleontoh)gy of California, by Charles A. 
White. 1885. 8°. pp. 

16. The Higher Devonian Faunas of Ontario County, New York, by J. M. Clark. 
1885. 8°. pp. 3 pi. 

STATISTICAL PAPERS. 

A fourth series of publications, having sx)ecial reference to the mineral resources of 
the United States, is contemplated. 

Of that series the iirst has been published, viz: 

Mineral Resources of the United States, by Albert Williams, jr. 1883. 8°. xvii, 
813 pp. Price 50 cents. 

The second will shortly be ready for j^ublication, viz: 

Mineral Statistics of the United States, 1883-'84. 

COLLECTIONS. 

During the year the collections of the Survey were increased by the 
addition of 317 boxes of rocks, minerals, and fossils. This does not in- 
clude the collections received at New Haven by Professor Marsh ; nor 
the material collected by certain of the divisions of the Survey having 
permanent headquarters elsewhere than in Washington, and held by 
them temporarily for study. 



UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

As in previous years, 1 include in my report to the Board of Eegents 
the principal facts connected with the work prosecuted by the United 
States Fish Commission during each year, as, under the appointment 
of the President, I exercise the function of United States Fish Com- 
missioner. It is not necessary to go into any special detail in this con- 
nection, as the Reports and the Bulletins of the Commission contain a 
full account of progress during the year. The reports for 1882 and 1883 
bring the subject up to the end of the latter year; and the continuation 
for 1884 consists, for the most part, in carrying out the plans already 
initiated in some respects on a larger scale. 

Owing to the peculiarities of the season, the yield of eggs at the 
shad-hatching stations near Washington was not as productive as in 
previous years. The young shad hatched from these eggs were care- 



96 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

fully distributed at many distant points, where they will no doubt exer- 
cise a very important function in connection with the stocking of the 
rivers of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts with shad. 

The calls upon the Commission for the German carp have continued 
to increase, and have been met as far as the stock at command would 
allow. Twice the number of fish bred in the ponds in Washington 
could have been disposed of had they been in our possession. 

The two cars constructed expressly for the purpose of transporting 
the fish to different parts of the country have proved extremely serv- 
iceable; and Congress authorized the building of a third car, which 
will be available in the early part of 1885. This contains many improv- 
ments over the others, and will be of great value in the work of the 
Commission. 

The distribution of eggs of the Penobscot and land-locked salmon 
from the stations in Maine has been satisfactory, as in former years, 
the i)roduct of the stations being forwarded to such points in the United 
States as promise to be the most suitable. 

In no year since the establishment of the Commission have there 
been so many eggs of whitefish taken at the two stations in Michigan, 
about one hundred and fifty millions being the actual yield. This fish 
is growing in favor, and there are numerous demands for it. 

A large increase has been made in the distribution of the California 
trout, a fish that promises to be of great service in localities Avhere the 
common brook-trout of the Eastern States cannot be maintained in 
proper condition. 

The usual annual Bulletin of the United States Fish Commission has 
been published, making the fourth volume in the series. It contains 
many interesting communications which are very much sought after. 

In previous reports mention has been made of the seacoast station at 
Wood's Holl, a point specially adapted for carrying out the work of the 
United States Fish Commission. 

After having devoted a number of years to the improvement of the 
river fisheries of the United States, especially those of the salmon, 
shad, whitefish, &c., attention was turned to the fish inhabiting the 
ocean, with a view of determining the x>ossibility of multiplying them 
to a profitable degree. The first experiments in this direction were 
mostly made at Gloucester, Mass., in the winter of 1878-'79, and were 
so satisfactory, in spite of the inclemency of the winter weather, dur- 
ing which the work is carried on, that it was determined, as soon as a 
suitable site could be obtained on the south coast of ^N^ew England, to 
prosecute the work there on a large scale. 

Wood's Holl combining all the requirements in a greater degree than 
could be found elsewhere, the first subject to be taken into considera- 
tion was that of acquiring the ground on which to erect the buildings. 
This was done by the liberality of several citizens of Massachusetts, 
and of the Old Colony Eailroad Company, supplemented by contribu- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97 

tions from various collegiate establishments which desired to utilize 
the expected opportunities in the interest of education. An appropri 
ate strij> of ground was thus secured and presented by the donors to the 
United States for use by the Commission. After the State of Massa- 
chusetts had formally ceded its jurisdiction the donation was accepted 
and an appropriation made for the necessary buildings. A concur- 
rent appropriation, in the interests of commerce and navigation, for the 
construction of a harbor of refuge, and expended by the Engineer 
Bureau, was found to embrace all the requirements for locality, and 
the station as now organized comprises a hollow basin of about an acre 
in extent, in which pens and inclosures for fish can be made; and a 
wharf outside forming a suitable landing-place for coaling vessels, etc. 
An abundance of fresh water, and in addition an unlimited supply of 
salt water, complete the desiderata. 

The building for the accommodation of persons connected with the 
Commission is completed, and was occupied during the past summer, 
and the fish-hatchery and laboratory will be ready for the season of 1885. 

The work of hatching codfish is now under way, with promise of entire 
success. 

The inquiries of the Commission in connection with the occurrence oq 
the coast and their distribution of useful fishes, mollusks, &c.; its in- 
vestigations into the character of the sea-bottom, and its suggestions as 
to its ability to support sea fishes, furnish large numbers of specimens 
of a great variety of species. These are carefully investigated by spe- 
cialists connected with the Commission, and minutely detailed and 
described in its reports. After making selections for the benefit of the 
National Museum the duplicates are assorted, labeled, and made up 
into sets for distribution to colleges and academies. The number of 
sets already distributed amounts to several hundreds, the specimens in 
each set being carefully identified and labeled. No more acceptable 
contribution could be made to a college or academy, in view of the ab- 
solute impossibility of obtaining such objects from any other source, 
even without regard to cost. 

The opportunities afforded at the sea-coast stations of the Commission 
for scientific research have, for many years, induced the presence ol 
some of the most distinguished specialists in natural history and biology 
in this country, and many more persons apply for a share in the benefits 
than can be accommodated, although the material collected is usually 
in suflicient abundance for the needs of a large number of inquirers. 

In order to utilize the surplus material and facilities of the Wood's Boll 
station in the interest of such parties it was thought desirable to obtain 
control of a tract of about two acres of ground immediately adjacent to 
the premises of the Commission, and in every way suitable for the erec- 
tion of supplemental buildings, in which outside students could be ac- 
commodated and find the necessary facilities for work without interfeP' 
ing with the operations of the Commission. A friend of science accordiuglf 
S. Mis. 33 7 



1)8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

purchased ground at a cost of about $2,500, and holds it for future ac- 
tion. It is proposed to subdivide this into six lots, and to furnish the 
use of these lots to as many scientific establishments in the country as 
can be accommodated, all the expenses of erection of the necessary 
buildings and their maintenance to be cared for by the establishments in 
question. 

A question, however, has arisen as to the control of the ground so as 
to secure proper co-ordination of action on the part of tenants, and pre- 
vent any use other than for the purely scientific purposes originally con- 
templated. 

The owner of the ground, desiring to secure permanent supervision 
over it, wishes to deed it to the Smithsonian Institution, and I respect- 
fully refer the subject to the Board for its action. 

No money, either now or hereafter, is asked or expected from the In- 
stitution, but simply that it shall administer the trust referred to as 
coming strictly within its province — that of the "increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." 

Eespectfully submitted, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Washington, January, 1885. 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



REPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES FOR 1884. 
By George H. Boehmer. 

Oueof the principal events of tbe year was the removal from a tem- 
porary location in the central hall of the Smithsonian building to the 
new quarters assigned in the east wing of the reconstructed fire-proof 
portion of the building, taking place in the mouth of March, 1884. This 
removal caused a temporary cessation of active operations, and conse- 
quently a not inconsiderable accumulation of material, which, together 
with the regular increase, crowded into the last nine months of the year 
an unusual amount of work. Furthermore, my appointment to visit 
Europe on business of exchange, and consequent absence since July — 
during which time Mr. N. P. Scudder assumed the duties of my position 
additional to his regular work as assistant in charge of the domestic 
branch of the exchanges — diminished the active force of the depart- 
ment; but notwithstanding all these disadvantages, the zealous and 
efficient application of the various assistants to their respective duties 
enabled them to overcome the obstacles, and to place the bureau in a 
position to enter upon the work of a new year without any accumula- 
tion. 

The Record Division. — The duties of this office, as specified in the re- 
port for 1883, have been performed by Miss J. C. Diebitsch in a com- 
mendable manner, and notwithstanding the large increase in the work, 
the card catalogue alone now embracing 4,000 cards against 1,000 in 
1883, and other multiplications of work — the files and records in this 
division have been posted promptly and accurately, so as to admit of 
momentary inspection of the accounts of exchanges kept with the vari- 
ous foreign establishments — an advantage claimed for the system when 
its acceptance was urged. 

Foreign Exchange Division. — In February, owing to the transfer of 
the assistant in charge of this branch of the service, Mr. F. V. Berry 
was appointed in this place, and it is due to his energy and untiring 
application to his duties that the unusual accumulations and constant 
increase had been disposed of before the close of the year. 

99 



100 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

During the year 18,886, packages, with an aggregate weight of 78,732 
pounds, have been received — an increase of 800 pacliages over the year 
1883 — which were sent in 537 boxes, this being 120 boxes more that in 
1883. A detailed statement is presented in the appended general sta- 
tistics. 

Domestic Exchange Division. — As stated in the introductory, Mr. Scud- 
der, the assistant in charge of this branch, had been appointed to as- 
sume the duties of the office during my absence in Europe on business 
of exchanges. Of the work performed in this division, I submit Mr. 
Scudder's report, as follows : 

"The number of packages received and distributed to the United 
States during the year 3881 was 10,236. Of these 8,094 were sent to 
societies and 2,142 to individuals. 

"The number of packages distributed by the domestic exchange dur- 
ing the year 1883 is somewhat (704) larger than the above, because of 
a slight modification of the scope of this branch of the exchange. 

"During the year 1883 packages for Canada were forwarded by the 
domestic exchange, whereas in 1884 they were forwarded by the foreign 
exchanges. Again, in 1883 and the first eight months of 1884, all books 
for the Smithsonian Institution, whether received by mail or otherwise, 
were entered on the exchange records, but for the last four months of 
1884 all books for the Smithsonian Institution coming by mail were sent 
direct to the Smithsonian Institution library without passing through 
the exchanges." 

Government Exchange Division. — In last year's report the suggestions 
made in 1882, of placing this work in the hands of one assistant, to the 
exclusion of any other duty, has been, in part at least, inaugurated. 
A card catalogue has been prepared, and a clerk is intrusted with the 
proper management of this duty, in addition to such other work as may 
become necessary, like copying, «&c., while the receiving and shipping 
is still done by the assistant in charge of the foreign branch. 

During the year the Government of England has agreed to a com- 
plete exchange of all official documents, commencing with the 1st of 
January, 1882, and preliminary arrangements have been made to the 
same effect with the Government of Austria. 

The receipts in this branch during the year are 22 boxes and 38,337 
packages, with an aggregate of 32,827 pounds, while the transmissions 
to foreign governments amount to 114 boxes, against 76 boxes in 1883. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 
"RECEIPTS. 

1. For foreign transmission. 



101 




1884. 



From Goverument Departments: 

Agricultural Department 

Botanical Garden 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Census Office 

Coast Survey 

Comptroller of the Currency 

Court of Claims 

Department of Justice 

Engineer Bureau, United States Army 

Fish Commission 

Geological Survey 

Interior Department 

National Museum 

Nautical Almanac 

Navy Department 

Naval Observatory 

Ordnance Office, United States Army 

Patent Office 

Signal Office, United States Army 

Surgeon-General's Office, United States Army . 

Treasury Department 

War Department 



Total 



b. From Smithsonian Institution 



From societies, etc. : 
American Association for the Advancement of Science. 

American Entomological Society 

American Geographical Society 

American Journal of Arts and Sciences 

American Philosophical Society 

Boston Acad emy of Arts and Sciences 

Boston Athenajum 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Buffalo Society of Natural History 

Bnssey Institution 

Canadian Institute 

Cincinnati Observatory 

Cincinnati Society of Natural History 

City Library, Baltimore 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts 

Davenport Academy of Natural Science 

Franklin Institute, Philadelphia 

Harvard College, Cambridge 

Health Department, Baltimore 

Johns Hopkins University 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge 

Michigan State I3oard of Agriculture , 

National Academy of Science, Washington 

National Deaf Mute Institute 

New York Academy of Science 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 

Ohio Geological Survey , 



Number of 


Weight in 


packages. 


pounds. 


446 


1,114 


3 


31 


486 


3,401 


1 


9 


3 


31 


1,000 


1,060 


36 


94 


1 


1 


136 


2,127 


809 


3, 327 


1,689 


9,331 


95 


801 


329 


2,5b9 


1 


5 


2 


7 


221 


904 


27 


155 


133 


18, 380 


1,969 


11, 580 


52 


496 


2 


7 


35 


326 


7,476 


55,776 


4, 102 


11, 985 


32 


284 


19 


20 


2 


39 


165 


56 


489 


586 


294 


935 


1 


19 


325 


760 


105 


52 


22 


10 


135 


146 


96 


35 


18 


20 


2 


7 


1 


15 


169 


150 


1 


35 


2 


7 


2 


6 


22 


136 


213 


507 


33 


153 


325 


800 


1 


10 


385 


384 


211 


70 


7 


48 



102 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Eeceipts— Continued. 
For foreign transmission — Continued. 



Whence received. 



0. From societies, etc. — Continued. 

Ohio State Library 

Pennsylvania Historical Society 

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Science 

Royal Society of Canada 

Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

Saint Louis Academy of Science 

United States Publishing Company, Philadelphia 

University of New York 

Vermont State Library 

Washburn Observatory 

Washington Anthropological Society 

Washington Philosophical Society 

Wisconsin Academy of Science 

Miscellaneous societies , 

Total 

d. From individuals 

Grand total 



1884. 



Number of 


Weight in 


packages. 


pounds. 


1 


24 


71 


71 


63 


347 


55 


500 


63 


676 


269 


253 


1 


808 


18 


133 


1 


7 


267 


615 


371 


364 


139 


125 


2 


5 


2, 562 


869 


6,960 


10, 087 


328 


884 


18, 866 


78,732 



2. For domestic transmission. 





1884. 




Boxes. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


Argentine Confederation 


3 

12 

2 

1 
2 
3 
18 
76 
35 
5 
31 
2 
5 
3 
3 
1 
7 
1 
4 
1 
4 
1 
1 


106 

644 

45 

1 

7 

88 

1,125 

1,891 

2,234 

452 

31 

218 

417 

27 

121 

12 

357 

23 

7 

154 

4 

1 

2 


1,040 


Belgium 


1,300 


Brazil 


320 


British India 


16 


Central America 


430 


Denmark 


293 


France 


4 401 


Great Britain and Ireland 


14,263 


Germany and Austria-Hungary 


8,881 
1,896 


Italy 


Labrador 


3,765 

180 


Mexico : 


Netherlands 


1,461 


New South Wales 


229 


Norway 


516 


Peru 


160 


Russia 


1,270 


South Australia 


90 


Sweden 


678 


Switzerland 


217 


United States of Colombia 


800 


Victoria 


35 


West Indies 


14 






Total 


221 


7,967 


42,255 





REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 
3. For Oovernment exchanges. 



103 



For what and whence received. 


1884. 


Boxes. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


a. For Library of Congress from — 

En f land. 


18 
2 


18 
2 

65 
1 
1 

38, 250 


2, 799 


GiTuiaii V 


600 


Miscellaneous 


118 


Norway ..... .. 


1 

1 


225 


Victoria ... . . 


35 


b. For foreign transmission from — 

Public Printer 


29, 050 








Total 


22 


38, 337 


32, 827 







RECAPITULATION . 





1884. 


188:;. 


• 


Packages. 


Weight. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


1. For foreign transmission from — 

Government Departments 


7,476 

4, 102 

6, 961 

327 


55, 776 
11,9^5 
10, 122 

849 


7,165 

6,218 

3.900 

780 


44, 637 


Siiiithsouian Institution 


22, 566 


Scientific societies .. . .. 


11,003 


Individuals 


441 






2. For domestic transmission 


18, 866 

7,967 

38, 337 


78, 732 18, 063 
42, 255 8. 263 
32, 827 37, 569 


78,647 
49, 608 


3. For Government exchanges 


27,395 


Total 


65, 170 


153,814 


33,849 


155, 650 







In the year 1881 special attention was invited to the large increase 
in the reception of exchange ijarcels, the number for that year, 1881, 
being 43,104 ; in 1882 this had increased to 58,047 ; in 1883 to 03,894 ^ 
and in 1884 to 65,170. In the report for 1882 it was respectfully sug- 
gested that the receiving and distributing of all the incoming exchanges 
be made a separate division of the service, and placed in the hands of 
a tried competent assistant, since on the prompt and accurate per- 
formance of this duty depends the punctuality of shipments of foreign, 
domestic, and Government document exchanges. 

Taking the present status of incoming j)arcels, we now I'eceive on an 
average over 200 parcels per day. These have to be assorted, arranged, 
compared with the invoice — if such has been furnished, otherwise an 
invoice has to be prepared — provided with the number correspouding t» 
the respective address in the list of foreign correspondents and in the 
card catalogue, and distributed in the bins to await their turn of ship- 
ment. Thus far this work has been performed — mostly at the expense 



lot 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



of other important duties — by the assistants of the respective depart- 
ments to whom such incoming parcels are referred, and it is from 
these considerations that the suggestion is now renewed and urged 
that this branch of the service be placed in charge of an assistant, while 
an additional clerk be employed to prepare, under his supervision, the 
then remaining only mechanical portion of the foreign exchanges, the 
shipping. 

TRANSMISSIONS. 

1. Foreign transportations. 

An unusual number of boxes have been shipped during the year, 
the increase over last year being 120, while from 1882 to 1883 an in- 
crease of 70 boxes only was noticed. The following table furnishes a 
comparison with former years : 



Items. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 1881. 


1882. 


1883. 


1884. 


Boxes 


397 

2, 779 

99,250 


309 

2,160 

69,220 


311 

2, 177 

69, 975 


268 i 407 

1,976 2,800 

60,300 100,750 


422 

2, 950 

105, 5t)0 


495 

3,288 
122,265 


651 


Bulk (cub. ft.). 
Weight, in lbs. 


4,281 
159, 235 



The distribution in 1884 was made as follows : 



Country. 


Government 
boxes. 


Smithsonian 
boxes. 




AFRICA. 

Algeria 




3 
4 


3 


Esvpt, &c 




4 








Total 




7 










AMERICA. 
North America: 

British Americfe; 


6 
3 


8 

8 

2 

2 
1 


14 


Mexico 


11 


West Indies: 

Cuba 


2 


Hayti 


3 


3 


Jau)aica 


1 


South America : 

Argentine Confederation 


6 
3 


10 


Brazil 


8 


British Guiana 


1 


Chili 


3 


5 


Dutch Guiana 


1 


Parasruav 




1 


Peru 




1 


United States Colombia 


3 


5 


Uruguay 


1 


Venezuela 


3 


3 






Total 


30 


37 


67 







REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 
Distribution in 1884 — Continued. 



105 



(Country. 


o 

si 

o 
O 


a 
'a A 

C 1. 

g 


o 


ASIA. 
China 




3 
6 

9 


3 


India 


3 
3 


9 


Japan 


12 






Total 


6 


18 


24 






AUSTRALASIA. 

New South Wales 


3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 


8 
6 
2 
2 
2 
5 


11 


New Zealand 


9 


•Queensland 




South Australia 


5 


Tasmania 


5 


Victoria 


B 






Total 


18 


25 


43 






EUROPE. 


3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
•3 
3 
3 


25 

42* 

8 
85 
82 
61 

1 
50 
15 
10 

8 

25 

7 
11 
12 

7 


28 


Bavaria* 


3 




45 


Denmark 


11 




88 


France 


85 


Germany 


64 


Greece .... 


4 


Italy 


53 


Netherlands 


18 


Norway 


13 


Portugal .... 


11 


Prussia* 


3 


Russia 


28 




3 


Spain 


10 




14 


Switzerland 


15 




10 


Wiirtemberc* 


3 






Total 


60 


449 


509 






POLYNESIA. 

OaUu 




1 


1 









RECAPITULATION. 



Africa 




7 

37 

18 

25 

449 

1 


7 


America 


30 

6 

18 

60 


67 


Asia 


24 


Australasia 


43 


Europe 


509 


Polynesia 


1 








Total 


114 


537 


651 







* The Smithsonian exchanges are included in the cases for Germany. 



106 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

TRANSPORTATION COMPANIES. 

The privilege of free freight on parcels and boxes beariog the stamp 
of the Smithsonian lustitution has been continued during the past year 
on the part of the following : 

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), Nevr York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., :N^ew York. 

Biddle, E. R., Philadelphia. 

Bixby, Thomas, & Co., Boston. 

Bland, Thomas, New York. 

Borland, B. E,, New York. 

Cameron, E. W., & Co., New York. 

Compagnie Generale Transatlantique (L.de B6bian, agent). New York- 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Dallett, Boulton & Bliss, New York. 

Deunison, Thomas, New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), 
New York. 

luman Steamship Comi^any, New York. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

Monarch Line (Patton, Vickers & Co., agents), New York. 

Munoz y Espriella, New York. 

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 

Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, 
agent). New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co.), New York ; Schumacher & Co., 
Baltimore, agents.) 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Panama Eailroad Company, New York. 

Eed Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), Philadelphia and New 
York. 

Spinney, Joseph S., New York. 

Steamship Line for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P. (C. W. 
Mallory & Co., agents). New York. 

White Cross Line (Fuuch, Edj e & Co., agents). New York. 

Wilson & Asmus, New York. 

In addition to these regularly established transportation companies, 
the consuls of foreign powers in the United States have volunteered or 
agreed to take charge of the transmission of Smithsonian exchanges to 
the following countries : 

Argentine Eepublic, Carlos Carranza, New York. 

Brazil, Charles Mackall, Baltimore. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



107 



Chili, Justo R. de la Espriella, New York. 
Cuba, Miguel Snares Gliaues, New York. 
Bolivia, Melchor Obarrio, New York. 
Colombia, United States of, Lino de Pombo, New York. 
Denmark, Thomas Schmidt, New York. 
Ecuador, Francis Spies, New York. 
Greece, D. W. Botassi, New York. 
Italy, M. Raffo, New York. 
Japan, Samro Takaki, New York. 
Mexico, Juan N. Navarro, New York. 
Nicaragua, .41exander I. Cotheal, New York. 
Norway, Christian Bors, New York. 
Polynesia, M. Severance, San Francisco. 
Portugal, G. Amsiuk, New York. 
Paraguay, John Stewart, Washington, D. C. 
Siam, Isaac T. Smith, New York. 
Spain, Miguel Suares Giiaues, New York. 
Sweden, Christian Bors, New York. 
Uruguay, Enrique Estrazulas, New Vork. 

The following is the shipping list at i)reseut used in the transmission 
of the Smithsonian exchanges : 



Country. 



Shipping agent. 



Algeria 



Argentine Confederation 

Antigua 

Austria-Hungary 

Bahamas 

Belgium 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British America 

British Guiana 

Cape Colonies 

Chili 

China 

Colombia, United States of. . 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

Finland 



Compagnie Gdu^rale Trausatlantique, New York; 

trausfer made by the French Bureau of Exchanges 

iu Paris. 
Consul-General Carlos Carrauza, New York. 
Lewis & Co., Portland, Me. 
George F. Brown, New York, representing Samuel B. 

Hale & Co., of Buenos Ayres. 
Thomas Deunisou, New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore ; transfer made by Dr. 

Felix Flilgel, Leipzig. 
Murray, ierris & Co., New York. 
Red Star Line, New York. 
White Cross Line, New York. 
Cousul-Geueral Melchor Obarrio, New York. 
Consul Charles Mackall, Baltimore. 
R. B. Borland, New York. 
Baltimore aud Ohio Express Company. 
Adams Express Company. 
Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by William 

Wesley, Loudon, England. 
Monarch Line, New York; transfer made by agent- 
general lor Cape Colonies, London, England. 
Consul Justo R. de la Espriella, Now York. 
Salter & Livermore, New York^ direct to Shanghai. 
Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by Crown 

agents for the colonies, London, England. 
Consul-General Lino de Pombo, New York. 
Munoz y Espriella, New York. 
Pacitic Mail Steamship Company, New York. 
Consul-general for Spain, New York. 
Consul Thomas Schmidt, New York. 
Thomas Bixby & Co., Boston. 
Consul Francis Spies, New York. 
S. L. Merchant &. Co., New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore ; transfer made by Dr» 

Felix Fliigel to F. A. Brockhaus, Leipsic. 



108 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Shipping list, dc. — Continued. 



Country. 



Shipping agent. 



France ... 
Germany 



Great Britain . 



Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Iceland 



India 



Italy 

Japan 

Liberia 

Madeira 

Malta 

Mauritius 

Mozambique. 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

Netherlands India 



New Caledonia . . . 
New South Wales 



Compagnie G^n^rale Transatlantique, New York. 
( North German Lloyd. New York or Baltimore. 
( Hamburg-American Packet Company, 
f Monarch Line, New York. 
I North Germaa Lloyd, New York or Baltimore. 
I Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Company, 
tinman Steamship Company, New York. 

Consul D. W. Botassi, New York. 

Consul Jacob Baez, New York, 

Atlas Steamship Company, New York. 

Consul Thomas Schmidt, New York ; transfer made 
by the Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, 
Copenhagen. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by Secretary 
of State for India, India Office, London, England. 

Consul-General M. Raffo, New York. 

Consul Samro Takaki, New York. 

American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C. 



New Zealand 



Nicaragua 

Norway 

Paraguay 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Polynesia 

Portugal 

<5ueen8land 



Russia . 



St. Helena. 



Siam 

South Australia 

Spain 

Straits Settlements. 



Sweden 

Switzerland 



Syria 

Tasmania 



Turkey 

Turk's Island 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

Victoria 



West Indies 



( Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by Crown 
( agents for the colonies, London, England. 

Consul J. N. Navarro, New York. 

Consul W. H. van den Toorn, New York. 

Consul W. H. van den Toorn, New York ; transfer made 
by Bureau Scientifique Central N^erlandais, Haar- 
lem, Holland. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by W. Wes- 
ley to Gordon & Gotch, London, England. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by agent- 
general for New South Wales, London. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by agent- 
general for New Zealand, London, England. 

Consul-General Alexander I. Cotheal, New York. 

Consul Chiistian B6rs, New York. 

Consul John Stewart, Washington, D. C. 

Joseph S. Spinney, New York. 

Spanish consul, San Francisco. 

Consul Severance, San Francisco. 

Consul Gustav Amsiuk,New York. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by Queens- 
land department, London, England. 

Hamburg -American Packet Company, New York; 
transfer made by Russian consul general, Hamburg, 
Germany. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by the Crown 
agents for the colonies, London, England. 

Consul Isaac T. Smith, New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York, 

Consul-general, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by the Crown 
agents for the colonies, London, England. 

Consul Christian B6rs, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore ; transfer made by 
Swiss consul in Bremen, Germany. 

Presbyterian Rooms, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by the Crown 
agents for the colonies, London, or by G. W. Wheat- 
ley <fe Co., London, England, 

Consul Edouard Scherer, New York. 

Wilson & Asnius, New York. 

Ambassador Eniique Estr^zulas, New York. 

Dallett, Boulton & Bliss, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York ; transfer made by agent- 
general for Victoria, London, England. 

H. B. Bailey & Co., New York. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

CENTERS OF DISTKIBUTION. 



109 



Countries. 


Agencies. 


Algeria 


M. Canette, chef d'6tat major du g6nie, seryice m6t6- 

orologique, Algiers. 
Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres. 
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 
Commission Beige Echauge Internatiouaux, Brussels. 


Argentine Confederation 

Austria-Hungary 


Belgium 




Commissiio Central Brazileii'a de Permuta^Oes Inter- 


Britisli America 


cionat'S, Rio Janeiro. 
< McGill College, Montreal. 
I Geological Survey, Ottawa. 
Observatory, Georgetown. 


Britisli Guiana 


Cape Colonies ! . - 


Agent general for Cape Colony, London, England. 
Universidad, Santiago. 


Chili 




( Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 
I United States consul-general, Shanghai. 

Central Commission of Exchanges, National Library, 
Bogotil. 

Universidad, San Jos6. 


Colombia, United States of . . 
Costa Rica 


Denmark 


K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 


Dutcli Guiana 


Surinaamsche Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 


Ecuador 


Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, Quito. 


Eirvnt 


Institut figyptien, Cairo. 

Kejserliga Alexanders Universitet, Helsingfors. 

Bureau Frangaisdes Echanges luternationaux, Paris^ 


Finland 




Germany 


Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 
William Wesley, Loudon. 
National Library, Athens. 
Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala. 


Great Britain 


Greece 




Iceland 


Islands Stiptisbokasafu, Reykjavik. 

Secretary to Government of India, Home Department, 

Calcutta. 
Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emauuelo, Rome. 


India 


Italy 


Japan 

Liberia 


Minister for Foreign Atfa'rs, Tokio. 
Liberia College, Monrovia. 


Madeira 


Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 




Do. 


Mauritius 


Agent-general for Cape Colony, Loudon, England. 
Do. 


Mozambique .. .... 


Mexico 


SeSor Ministro de Justicia y latruccion Publica, 
Mexico. 

> Bureau Scientifique Central N^erlandais, Haarlem. 

Gordon & Gotch, London. 


Netlierlands 


Netherlands India 


New Caledonia 


New South Wales 


Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 
Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 
Government, Managua. 


New Zealand 

Nicaragua 


Norway 


K. N. Frederiks Universitet, Chr; 'la.uia. 
Government. 


Peru 


Biblioteca Nacional, Lima. 


Philippine Islauds 


Royal Economic Society, Manila. 


Polynesia 


Royal Hawaiian and Government Library, Honolulu. 
Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon. 




Queensland 


Governnieut Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane. 
Commission Russe des £clianges luternationaux, St. 




St. Helena 


Petersburg. 
Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 
Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 


South Australia 


Spain 


R. Acaflemia de Ciei}cias, Madrid. 


Straits Settlements 


Crown a"ents for the colonies, London, England. 


Sweden 


K S. Vetenskaps Akndemien, Stockholm. 
Eidgenosscnscbe Bnndes Kanzlei, Berne. 


Switzerland 


Tasmania 


Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart. 


Turk's Island 


Public Library, Grand Turk. 


Uruguay 


Bureau de Statisqne, Moutevideo. 
Universidad, Caracas. 


Venezuela 



110 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Centers of Distribution— Continued. 



Countries. 


Agencies. 


Victoria 

West Indies: 

Cuba 

Hayti 

Trinidad 


Public Library, Melbourne. 

R. Universidad, Havana. 

S6cr6taire d'fitat des R61ations Ext6rieures, Port-au- 
Prince. 
Scientific Association, Port of Spain. 



2. Domestic transmissions. 

Ten thousand two hundred and thirty-six packages were received 
during the year and distributed within the United States as follows: 



State. 



Alabama 

Arkansas 

California 

Colorado 

Counecticut , 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 



No. of 
packages. 



4 

4 

113 

1 

303 

5,713 

1 

8 

122 

20 

108 

2 

11 

19 

37 

115 

1,342 

40 

23 



State. 



Mississippi 

Missouri 

Nebraska 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina . 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania .. 
Rhode Island.. . 
South Carolina. 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Virginia *. 

Vermont 

West Virginia .. 
Wisconsin 

Total 



No. of 
packages. 



1 

194 

1 

14 

64 

981 

7 

126 

611 

46 

21 

6 

2 

39 

13 

3 

121 



10,236 



A comparison with former years shows the following results : 



Items. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


1883. 


1884. 


Total addresses of insti- 
tutions 


292 

370 


444 
341 


385 
560 


600 
454 


548 
399 


423 
471 


409 


Total addresses of indi- 
viduals 


361 






Total number of parcels 
to institutious 

Total number of parcels 
to individuals 


4,059 
1,233 


5,786 
1,185 


4,021 
1,566 


7,086 
1,347 


7,192 
1,167 


8,697 
2,323 


8,094 
2,142 


Total number of 
packages 


5,292 


6,97J 


5,587 


8,438 


8,359 


11,000 


10,236 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Ill 



Among the packages enumerated in the above were 3,030 addressed 
to the Smithsonian Institution, and these contained 1,507 volumes, 10,393 
parts and pamphlets, and 143 maps and engravings. Assuming the 
same ratio for the remaining parcels, it will be seen that about 40,000 
books, pamphlets, &c., have been distributed within the United States 
during the past year. 

The history and condition of domestic exchanges, from their com- 
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following table : 



Year. 



1846-1850... 

1851 

1852 

1853 

1854 

1855 

1856 

1857 

1858 

1859 

1860 

1861 

1862 

1863 

1864 

1865 

1866 

1867 

1868 

1869 

1870 

1871 

1872 

1873 

1874 

1875 

1876 

1877 

1878 

1879 

1880 

1881 

1882 

1883 

1384 

Total 



Received for the Smithsonian library. 



Volumes. 



470 
549 
481 
440 
926 
037 
356 
555 
723 
022 
271 
821 
611 
910 
823 
767 
243 
557 
770 
234 
113 
936 
262 
889 
863 
120 
017 
889 
263 
949 
143 
867 
296 
754 
567 



Parts 
and pam- 
phlets. 



624 
618 
106 
991 
468 
707 
834 
067 
695 
540 
180 
945 
:^9 
479 
754 
256 
509 
946 
605 
089 
890 
579 
502 
354 
521 
813 
193 
511 
392 
071 
275 
904 
341 
702 
149 



41, 494 



153, 979 



Maps 
and en- 

sravinsrs. 



1,749 
125 
434 

26 
140 
138 
122 

40 
220 
120 

55 
200 
109 
183 
121 
328 
134 
232 
179 

82 
198 
454 
162 
114 
375 
326 

74 
183 
1.52 
188 
152 
219 
143 



Total. 



098 
167 
336 
556 
826 
^70 
330 
760 
540 
602 
671 
886 
035 
589 
686 
206 
873 
831 
509 
5.55 
182 
597 
962 
697 
546 
047 
585 
726 
729 
203 
570 
959 
789 
675 
859 



7,481 



202,954 



For institutions and 
individuals in the 
United States and 
British America. 



Addresses. 



96 
160 
149 
219 
189 
193 
243 
293 
335 
274 
273 
273 
299 
345 
329 
347 
436 
501 
567 
573 
587 
689 
750 
610 
644 
766 
662 
785 
945 
1,054 
947 
894 
770 



Packages. 



637 
1,052 

987 
445 
245 
273 
539 
933 
908 
406 
111 
522 
482 
368 
703 
971 
394 
130 
705 
952 
635 
782 
326 
661 
853 
962 
292 
971 
587 
433 
359 
000 
236 



15, 897 



124, 360 



112 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES 

3. Government transmissions. 

Three transmissions (Nos. 20, 21, 22) of 38 boxes each were made to for- 
eign governments under the system of exchange inaugurated by acts of 
Congress of the 2d of March, 18117, and July 25, 18C8. The countries 
now supplied with the government documents, together with the num- 
ber of boxes sent since 1868, are exhibited in the following table: 



Countries. 



Argentine Confederation 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Ontario) 

Chili 

Colombia, United States of 

Denmark 

France 

France, second set (discontinued 

in 1882) 

Germany (Empire) 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Hungary 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 



No. of 
boxes. 



22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 

16 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 



Countries. 



Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

Scotland (discontinued in 1879) 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

WUrtemberg 

Total 



No. of 
boxes. 



22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
12 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
25 
22 
22 
22 

864 



The shipping to their destination of these cases of exchanges is per- 
formed in large part by the consuls accredited to the United States, 
namely: 

Carlos Carranza, Argentine Confederation. 

Charles Mackall, Brazil. 

Justo R. de la Espriella, Chili. 

Lino de Pombo, United States of Colombia. 

Thomas Schmidt, Denmark. 

D. W. Botassi, Greece. 

M. Raffo, Italy. 

J. N. Navarro, Mexico. 

W. H. van den Toorn, Netherlands. 

Christian B6rs, Norway and Sweden. 

Gustav Amsink, Portugal. 

H. de Uriarte, Spain. 

Ed. Scherer, Turkey. 

The final disposition of the books comprised in this system of exchange 
has been made by the respective Governments, who have designated the 
establishments enumerated in the following list as depositories: 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



113 




Establishments designated for the reception of Gov- 
ernment exchanges. 



Argentine Confederation ... 

Bavaria 

Belginm 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada < 

Cliili 

Colombia, United States of. 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Hungary 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Wurtemberg 



Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Ayres. 

Konigliche Bibliothek, Munich. 

Biblioth^que Royale, Brussels. 

Commission of International Exchanges, Rio Janeiro. 

Government, Buenos Ayres. 

Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 

Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Bibliotheca Naoiaual, Santiago. 

National Library, Bogota. 

Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen. 

Bureau des ^changes Internationaux, Paris. 

Bibliothek des Reichstags, Berlin. 

British Museum, London. 

Bibliothfeque Nationale, Athens. 

Secr6taire d'fitat des Relations Ext6rieures, Port-au- 
Prince. 

Prasidium des k. Ungarischen Ministeriums, Budapest. 

Secretary to Government of India, Calcutta. 

Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio. 

National Library, Mexico. 

Libraiy of the States General, The Hague. 

Parliamentary Library, Sydney. 

Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 

Foreign Olhce, Christiania. 

Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin. 

Government, Brisban«. 

Commission Russe des fichanges Internationaux, St. 
Petersburg. 

Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden. 

Government, Adelaide. 

Government, Madrid. 

Government, Stockholm. 

Eidgeuossensche Bundes-Kauzlei, Berne. 

Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Government Library, Constantinople. 

Parliamentary Library, Caracas. 

Public Library, Melliourne. 

Konigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart. 



List of official publications received from the Public Printer during the 

year 1884. 



1884. 
Jan. 2 



AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT. 



Special Report No. 63. The grasses of the United States, being a synopsis 
of the tribes and genera, with descriptions of the genera, and a list of 
the species. Prepared by Dr. George Vasey, botanist of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 8vo. Paper. 47 p. 
Special Report No. 64. On condition of crops, "American competition," 
and freight rates of transportation companies. August 1, 1883. 8vo. 
Paper. 80 p. 
Special Report No. 65. On condition of crops and on freight rates of trans- 
portation companies. September, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 55 p. 
Jan. 10. Proceedings of a national convention of cattle-breeders and others, called 
in Chicago, November 15 and 16, 1883, by the Hon. George B. Loring, 
to consider the subject of contagious diseases of domestic animals. 8vo, 
Paper. 85 p. 

S. Mis. 33 8 



114 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Id84. 

June 30. Annual Report, 1883. 8vo. Cloth. 496 p. 

Aug. 5. Microscopic observations, by Thomas Taylor, M. D. Internal parasites in 
domestic fowls. Butter and fats. 8vo. Paper. 

Oct. 16. The agricultural grasses of the United States. By Dr. George Vasey, bota- 
nist of the Department of Agriculture. Also, the chemical composition 
of American grasses. By Clifford Richardson, assistant chemist. 120 
plates. Bvo. Pai)er. 144 p. 

Nov. S."). Contagious diseases of domestic animals. Investigations by Department of 
Agriculture, 1883-'84. 10 plates. 2 maps. 8vo. Paper, 368 p. 

Chemical division. 

Bulletin No. 1. An investigation of the composition of American wheat and 
corn. Clifford Richardson, assistant chemist. 8vo. Paper. 69 p. 

June 30. Bulletin No. 2. Diffusion. Its application to sugar cane, and record of ex- 
periments with sorghum in 1883. H. W. Wiley, chemist. 8vo. Paper. 
36 p. 

Sept. 15. Bulletin No. 3. The northern sugar industry. A record of its progress dur- 
ing the season of 1883. W. H. Wiley, chemist. 11 plates, 8vo. Paper. 
120 p. 

Oct. 18. Bulletin No, 4. An investigation of the composition of American wheat and 
corn. Second report. Clifford Richardson, assistant chemist. 8vo. 
Paper. 98 p. 

Oct. 28. Bulletin No. 4. An investigation of the composition of American wheat and 
corn. Second report. Cliftbrd Richardson, assistant chemist. 8vo. 
Paper. — p. 

Division of entoviology. 

June 1. Bulletin No. 3. Reports of observations and experiments in the practical 
work of the division, made under the direction of the entomologist, with 
plates. 8vo. Paper. 75 p, 

June 30. Bulletin No. 4. Reports of observations and experiments in the practical 
work of the division. 8vo. Paper. 102 p. 

Division of statistics. 

June 1. Report No. 1. On condition of crops, yield of grain per acre, and on freight 
rates of transportation companies, October, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 28 p. 

Report No. 2. On yield of crops per acre, on the progress of sorghum 
growing, the crops of Europe, and on freight rates of transportation 
companies. November, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 59 p. 

Report No. 3. Of the crops of the year, of cereal production in Europe, 
and freight rates of transportation companies. December, 1883. 8vo. 
Paper. 74 p. 

Report No. 4. Upon the numbers and values of farm animals, certain 
causes affecting wages of farm labor, and on freight rates of transpor- 
tation companies. February, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 56 p. 
June 30. Report No. 5. On the distribution and consumption of corn and wheat, 
and the rates of transportation of farm products. March, 1884. 8vo. 
Paper. 44 p. 

Report No. 6. Of the acreage of winter grain, the condition ot farm animals, 
and freight rates of transportation companies. April, 1884. 8vo. Pa- 
per. 48 p. 

Report No. 7. Of the condition of winter grain, the progress of cotton 
planting, and estimates of cereals of 1883, with freight rates of trans- 
portation companies. May, 1884, 8vo. Paper, 36 p. 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 115 

1884. 
July 1. Report No. 8. Of acreage of spring grain and cotton, the condition of 
winter wheat, and European grain prospects, with freight rates of 
transportation companies. June, 1&84. 8vo. Paper. 39 p. 
21. Report No. 9. On the area of corn, potatoes, and tobacco, the condition of 
growing crops, and on the rates of transportation. July, 1884. 8vo. 
Paper. 59 p. 
Aug. 16. Report No. 10. On the condition of growing crops and on rates of trans- 
portation. August, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 36 p. 
Sept. 24. Report No. 11. On condition of crops, on wheat in India, and on freight 
rates of transportation companies. Sejitemher, 1884. &vo. Paper. 
87 p. 

Miscellaneous. 

Special Report, No. 1. Forestry in the United States. Address of the Hon. 

George B. Loring, United States Commissioner of Agriculture, before 

the American Forestry Congress, Saint Paul, Minn., August 8, 1883. 

8vo. Paper. 41 p. 
Special Report No. 2. Proceedings of a convention of agriculturists, held 

at the Department of Agriculture, January 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 29, 

1883. 8vo. Paper. 245 p. 

June 30. Special Report No. 3. " Mississippi," its character, soil, productions, and 
agricultural capabilities. By A. B. Hunt. 8vo. Paper. 89 p. 

July 1. Special report, No. 4. The climate, soil, physical resources, and agricult- 
ural capabilities of the State of Maine. By Samuel L. Boardman. 8vo. 
Paper. 09 p. 

July 1. Special Report No. 5. Proper value and management of Government tim- 
ber lands and the distribution of North American forest trees, being 
papers read at the United States Department of Agriculture, May 7-8, 

1884. 8vo. Paper. 47 p. 

Oct. 4. The Agricultural grasses of the United States. By Dr. George Vasey, bot- 
anist of the Department of Agriculture. Also, the chemical composition 
of American grasses. By Cliflbrd Richardson, assistant chemist. 120 
plates. 8vo. Paper. 144 j). 

Dec. 13. Special Report No, 6. Address of Hon. George B. Loring, United States 
Commissioner of Agriculture, at the National Convention of Cattle- 
Breeders, Chicago, 111,, November 13, 1884. Also, the report of the vet- 
erinary inspectors in New York. Svo. Paper. 21 p. 

Oct. 24. Report on condition of crops, yield of grain per acre, and on freight rates of 
transportation companies. New series. Report No. 12. October, 1884. 
8vo. Paper. 44 p. 

Oct. 20. New Series. Report No. 10. On yield of crops per acre, on agriculture in 
Mexico, and on freight rates of transportation companies. November, 
1884. 8vo. Paper. 94 p. 

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION. 

Jan. 10. Civil service act, amended rules and regulations. Third edition. 8vo. 

Paper. 20 p. 
June 30. Same. Fourth edition. 8vo. Paper. 22 p. 
June 30. First annual xgport. 8vo. Paper. 72 p. 

Same. Seco^ff edition. 8vo. Paper. 74 p. 
Sept. 22. Civil service act, amended rules and regulations. Fifth edition. 8vo. 

Paper. 22 p. 



116 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES, 

UNITED STATES CONGRESS. 
1884. 
June 30. Congressional Record, first sessiou Forty-eiglith Congress, 1883-1884. Vol. 

15, parti. 4to. Half Russia. 1008 p. Part 2, pages 1009-1216. Half 
Russia. 1003 p. 

July 18. Congressional Record, vol. 15, part 3, pages 2017-3024, Forty-eighth Con- 
gress, first session, March 18 to April 16, 1884. 4to. Paper. 1008 p. 

Aug. 7. Congressional Record, vol. 15, part 4, pages 3025-4240, Forty-eighth Con- 
gress, first session, April 16 to May 16, 1884. 4to. Paper. 1216 p. 

Aug. 29. Congressional Record, vol. 15, part 5, pages 4241-5456. Forty-eighth Con- 
gress, first session, May 16 to July 21, 1884. 4to. Paper. 1216 p. 

Sept. 17. Congressional Record, vol. 15, part 6, pages 5457-6182 and Appendix, Forty- 
eighth Congress, first session, June 21 to July 7, 1884. 4vo. Paper. 
1232 p. 

Sept. 17. Index to vol. 15, parts 1-6. Forty-eighth Congress, first session. 4to. 
Paper. 790 p. 

House of Representatives. 

Jan. 10. House reports, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 3, Nos. 

654-993. 8vo. Sheep. 
House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, lS81-'82, vol. 

3. Contested election, Bisbee v. Finley. 8vo. Sheep. 1,227 p. 
House miscellaneous, first session Forty -seventh Congress, l881-'82, vol. 10. 

Contested election, Sessinghans v. Frost. Part 2. 8vo. Sheep. 
House miscellaneous, first session Forty -seventh Congress, 1881-82, vol. 

6, Nos. 19 and 20. 8vo. Sheep. 
Jan. 23. Digest and manual of the rules and practice of the House of Representatives 

(seventh edition), compiled by Henry H. Smith. 8vo. Paper. 

472 p. 
Jan. 30. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 

26. Agricultural report, 1881-'82. 8vo. Sheep. 704 p. 
Executive documents, third session Forty-sixth Congress, 1880-'81, vol. 7. 

Signal Office, No. 1. Part 2, vol, 4. 8vo. Sheep. 1,120 p. 
Mar. 28. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 

3. Engineers, No. 1, part 2, vol. 2. Parti. 8vo. Sheep. 1,04^ p. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

2. Report of the tariff commission, vol. 1. 8vo. Sheep, 1,248 p. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

2. Report of the taritf commission. 8vo, Sheep. 2,617 p. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

9. Digest of election cases. 8vo. Sheep. 692 p. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-83, vol. 

10. Decisions of First Comptroller, vol. 3. 8vo. Sheep. 614 p. 
Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

15. Report on the finances. 8vo. Sheep. 589 p. 
Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

22. Offers for carrying the mail. 8vo. Sheep. 1,484 p. 
June 30. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, 8vo. 

Sheep. 
Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 1. 

Foreign relations. 8vo. Sheep. 
Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh (^ngress, 1881-'82, vol. 9. 

Interior and Land Office reports. 8vo. Sheep. 
Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-82, vol. 12. 

Education report. 8vo. Sheep. 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 117 

1884. 
Jtme 30. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 18Sl-'82, vol. 21. 
Nos. 117-121. 8vo. Sheep. 

Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress. Bvo. Sheep. 

Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 3. Navy 
Departmeut report, bvo. Sheep. 
July 1. Executive documents, third session Forty-sixth Congress, vol. 17. Report 
of National Board of Health. 8vo. 'Sheep. 646 p. 

Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 6. Ord- 
nance, No. 1. Part2, vol. 3. 8vo. Sheep. 560 p. 
June 30. House reports, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82. 8vo. Sheep. 

House reports, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 2. Nos. 393-653. 
8vo. Sheep. 

House reports, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 4. ifos. 994-1276. 
8vo. Sheep. 

House reports, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 1. Nos. 1812- 
1958. 8vo. Sheep. 

House reports, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 2. Nos. 1959- 
2044. 8vo. Sheep. 

House reports, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 5. General index 
of the Journals of Congress from Eleventh to Sixteenth Congress, 
inclusive. 4to. Sheep. 118 p. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82. 8vo. 
Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 4, Nos. 14 
and 15. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 5, Nos, 16, 
17, 18, 21. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 7. Con- 
tested election, Lowe v. Wheeler. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 18. Rebel- 
lion Records, vol. 5. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 23. Rebel- 
lion Records, vol. 6. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 27. Rebel- 
lion Records, vol. 7. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82. 8vo. 
Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 

I, Nos. 1-18, exclusive 6 and 9. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 

6. Rebellion Records, vol. 8. 8vo. Sheep. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-82, vol. 

II, Nos. 39 and 40. 8vo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 

12. Rebellion Records, vol. 9. Bvo. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881 -'82, vol. 

8. Eulogies, Lowe, Updegraft', Orth, Hawk, Shackelford. 4to. 

Sheep. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol . 

13. Tenth' Census United States, vol. 1. 4to. Sheep. 

House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 19, 
Nos. 59, 60. 8vo. Sheep. 
July 1. Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 21, Nos. 
73 to 104, inclusive, except No. 93. 8vo. Sheep. 599 p. 



118 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

1884. 
July 1. House reports, first session Forty-seventli Congress, vol. 6, Nos. 1618 to 1811, 
inclusive. 8vo. Sheep. About 1,000 p. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 7. Amer- 
ican Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac, 18b'6. Bvo. Sheep. 525 p. 
July 10. Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-83, vol. 
14, No. 1, Plate 6; and No. 8 to 34, inclusive. 8vo. Sheep. About 
1,000 p. . 
House miscellaneous, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-82, vol. 17. 
8vo. Sheep. 422 p. 
July 18. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 18, 

Nos. 13 to 19. 8vo. Sheep. About 1,500 p. 
Aug. 7. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881 -'82, vol, 25, 
No. 226. Offers for carrying the mails. 8vo. Sheep. P. xxvii- 
2,006 = 2,033 p. 
Aug. 18. Executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, vol. 7. 
Signal Office, No. 1. Part 3, vol. 4. 8vo. Sheep. Maps 21. 1.296 p. 
Aug. 29. House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Cougress, 1882-'83, vol. 
13, part 5. Tenth census of United States, vol. 5. Cotton, part 
1. 4to. Sheep, p. 600. 
Sept. 18. House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 
13, part 3. Tenth census United States, vol. 3. Agriculture, 17 
maps, 6 plates. 4to. Sheep, 1149 p. 
House executive documents, first session Forty-seventh Congress, 1881-'82, 

vol. 10. Indian, &c. No. 1 , part 5, vol. 2. 8vo. Sheep. 1 132 p. 
Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-83, vol. 
1. Foreign Relations. No, 1, parti. 8vo. Sheep, 547 p. 
Oct. 24. House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'8.3, vol. 
13, part 9. Tenth census of United States. Manufactures, vol. 2, 
10 maps, 13 plates. 4to. Sheep. 1198 p. 
House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 
16, Land Laws and Digest of late decisions. 8vo. Sheep. 149 ]>. 
25. Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 

3. Engineers, No. 1, part 2, vol. 2, part 1. 8vo. Sheep. 10^4 p. 
30, Executive documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 
19. Nos. 35 to 72, inclusive, except No. 71. Plates 70. 8vo. Sheep. 
721 p. 
Dec, 30. House miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, 1882-'83, vol. 
13, No. 42, parts. Maps 18, plates 101. 4to. Sheep. 1111 p. 

United States Senate. 

Jan. 10. Senate documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, No. 84, part 1, 

vol.5, 1882-'83. Bvo. Sheep. 711 p. 
23. Senate documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, No. 84, part 2, 

vol. 5, 1882-'83. 8vo. Sheep. 919 p. 
Senate docnments, second session Forty-seventh Cougress, No. 84, part 3, 

vol. 5, 1882-'83. 8vo. Sheep. 817 p. 
Senate documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, No. 84, part 4, 

vol. 5, 1882-'83. 8vo. Sheep. 860 p. 
Senate documents, second session Forty-seventh Congress, No. 84, part 5, 

vol. 5, 1882-'83. 8vo. Sheep. 644 p. 
Standing rules for conducting business in the Senate of the United States. 

Reported by the Committee on Rules, January, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 

43 p. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 119 

1884. 
Jan. 30. Same, with amendments to March 24, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 43 p. 

Rules for the regulation of the Senate wing of the Uuited States Capitol 

adopted by the Committee on Rules, March 15, 1«84. 8vo. Pa- 
per. 9 p. 
Senate reports, vol. 1, 1882-'83, second session Forty-seventh Congress. 

Nos. 879-080, inclusive. 8to. Sheep. 
Senate miscellaneous, second session Forty-seventh Congress, vol. 3, 1H83. 

No. 32. Eulogy Senator Hill. 4to. Sheep. 
July 1. Senate documents, third session Forty-sixth Congress, United States Coast 

and Geodetic Survey, 1880. 4to. Sheep. 83 folded maps. 419 p. 
Senate miscellaneous, third session Forty-siyth Congress and special session 

Forty-seventh Congress. Fish and Fisheries, vol. 3, 1880-'81. 8vo. 

Sheep. lOGO p. 
Special session, convened Oct. 10, 1881, and the first session Forty-seventh 

Congress, vol. 1, 1881-'82. 8vo. Paper. 1000 p. 

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT. 

Oct. 28. Register of the Department of the Interior, containing a list of persons 
employed in the Department, appointed by the President and by the 
Secretary of the Interior, corrected to October 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 

171 p. 

Office of Commissioner of Railroads. 

July 28 Report of Commissioner of Railroads on the Affairs of the Union Pacific 
Railway Company, June 17, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 15 p. 

Bureau of Education. 

Jan. a'd^Oy, fjie Bufalini Prize. 8vo. Paper. 5 p. 

23. Education in Italy and Greece, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 8 p. 
Mar. 25. Circular of information of the Bureau of Education, No. 4, 1883. 8vo. 

Paper. 82 p. 
June 30. Circulars of information, No. 4 of 1884. Meeting of the International Prison 
Congress at Rome, October, 1884. 8vo. Sheep. 11 p. 
30. Circulars of information, No. 3 of 1884. Illiteracy in the United States, 
by Chester Warren, M. D. ; National Education, by J. L. M. Curry, 
LL. D. 8vo. Paper. 99 p. 
Preliminary circular respectiug the exhibition of education at the World's 

Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition. 8vo. Paper. 11 p. 
Report of the Director of the American School of Classical Studies at 
Athens, 1882-'83 8vo. Paper. 13 p. 
July 1. Circulars of information of the Bureau of Education, No. 2, 1884. The 
Teaching, Practice, and Literature of Shorthand, by Julius Ensign 
Rockwill, stenographer. 8vo. Paper. 70 p. 
Sept. 4. Articles exhibited in the Southern Exhibition of 1884 at Louisville, Ky., 
from the museum of the U. S. Bureau of Education. 8vo. Paper. 
7 p. 
8. Circulars of information. No. 5, 1884. Suggestions respecting the educa- 
tional exhibit at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposi- 
tion. 8vo. Paper, 28 p. 
18. Circulars of information. No. 4, 1884. Proceedings of the Department of 
Superintendence of the National Association, at Washington, February 
12-14, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 176 p. 



120 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

General Land Office. 
1884. 

Mar. 28. Letter from the Cornmiasioncr of the General Land Office to the Secretary 
of thrj Iut(!rior, January 8, 1884, in relation to the excess of indemnity 
land certified to the State of Kansas for the benefit of the Atchison, 
Topeka and Santa V6 Railroad. 8vo. lb p. 

June 30. Circular from General Land Office, showing the manner of proceeding to 
obtain title to public lands under the pre-emption, homestead, and 
other laws, issued March 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 110 j). 

Dec. 6. United States mining laws and regulations thereunder. Circular of Octo- 
ber 31, 1881, including circulars of April 27, 1880, September 23, 1880, 
and later circulars. 8vo. Paper. 41 p. 

Indian Office. 

June 30. Laws of the United States relating lo Indian affairs. 3d edition. Bvo. 

Paper. 431 p. 
Dec. ly. Regulations of the Indian Department, with aiipendix containing the forms 

used. Revised by the Indian Bureau. 8vo. Paper. 270 p. 

Pension Office. 

Mar. 28. Annual report of the Commissioner of Pensions to the Secretary of Interior 
ff)r the year ending June 30, 1882. 8vo. Paper. 205 p. 
Annual report for June 30, 1883. Paper. 8vo. 99 p. 
A treatise on the practice of the Pension Bureau, governing the adjudica- 
tion of Army and Navy pensions, being the unwritten practice formu- 
lated. By Calvin B. Walker. 129 pages. 8vo. Board. 129 p. 
Aug. 11. Regulations for the recognition of attorneys and agents in claims pending 
before the P(nision Office. Paper. 2vo. 8 p. 
21. Instructions to examining surgeons for pensions. 1894. 8vo. Pai)er. 19 p. 
Nov. 1. Roster of examining surgeons appointed under authority of the Commis- 
sioner of Pensions, September, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 145 p. 

United States Patent Office, 

Jan. 10. Catalogue of books in Law Library of the United States Patent Office, 1883. 

8vo. Paper. f)2 p. 

Description and valuation of thati)ortioii of the Omaha Indian Reservation 

in Nebraska lying west of the Sioux City and Nebraska Railroad right 

of way. 4to. Paper. 20 p. 

Ex parte William Long. Appeal from the principal examiner decision of 

the Commissioner. 8vo. I'aper. 25 p. 
Subject matter index of patents for invention. France, 1791-1876. 4to. 
Cloth. 9.'!4 i». 
Juno 30. Rulesof praelice. Revised March 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 93 p. 

Reports of the examiners, showing the condition of the respective divisions 
March, 1884 . 8vo. Paper. 28 p. 
Sept. 12. Rules of practice in the United States Patent Office. Revised August 12, 

1884. 8vo. Paper. 94 p. 
Nov. 13. In the United States Patent Office. The speaking telephone interferences. 
Decisions of the examiners-in-ehiof, cases A, B, C, D, E, F, G, II, I, J, 
and No. 1. 4to. Paper.- 47 p. 

United Slates National Afiiseum. 

June 30. Bulletin No. 19, Nomeuclator Zoologicus, by Samuel H. Scudder. 8vo. 
Paper. 340 p. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 121 

1884. 
JiiDf; 30. Bnlletin No. 20, the pnblishefl writings of Spencer Fullerton Baird, 1843- 

1882, by Gf;OTge Brown Goode. 8vo. Paper. o77 p. 
.July 21. Bulletin No. 25, Contrihiitions to the Natural History of the Bermudas. 
Vol. 1. 1884. 8vo. Paper. 353 p. 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. 

Mar. 28. Annnal Report of the Attorney General of the United States for the fiscal 
year ending .June 30 — 



1873. 


8vo. 


Board. 


93 p. 


1880. 


8vo. 


Board. 


113 p. 


1874. 


8vo, 


Board. 


85 p. 


1881. 


8vo. 


Board. 


128 p. 


1878. 


8vo. 


Board. 


89 p. 


1882. 


8vo. 


Board. 


131 p. 


1879. 


8vo. 


Board. 


91 p. 


1883. 


8vo. 


Board. 


171 p. 



Regiflte-r of the Dej)artnir;nt of Justice and the judicial officers of the 
United Btatf-s, including instructions to marshals, district attorneys, 
and cler]<H of the United States courts, sixth edition, compiled by au- 
thority of the Attorney-Oerl(^ral, corrected to July 1, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 
230 p. 
Report of the general agent of the Department of Justice to the Attorney- 
General. 1882-^83. 8vo. Paper. 11 p. 
OfQcial opinions of the Attorney-General of the United States, advising the 
President and heads of departnu;nts in relation to their official duties 
and expounding the Constitution, treaties with foreign Governments 
and with Indian tribes, and the public laws of the country, edited by 
A. J, Bentley — 

Vol.13, 8vo. .Sheej). (i44 p. i Vol. 15. 8vo. Sheep. 743 p. 
Vol. 14. 8v(). Sheep. 755 p. I Vol. 10. 8vo. Sheep. 770 p. 

July 21. Supreme Court of the United States, proceedings in, on the death of Jere- 
miah Black. 4to. Paper. 13 ]>. 

Oct. 10. Compilation of the laws of the United States applicable to the duties of 
the governor, attorney, judge, clerk, marshal, and coiruiiissioners of the 
District of Alaska, compiled under the direction of the Attorney-Gen- 
eral, 8vo. Paper. fiO p. 

Doc. 15. Exercises at the ceremony of unveiling the statue of .John Marshall, May 
10,1884. 1. IMiUe. 4to. Board. 92 p. 

Dec, 27. Casesdecided in the Court of Claims at thetermof 1883-'84, wi(h abstracts 
of decisions of the Supreme Court in appealed cases from October, 1883, 
to May, 1884. Vol.19. 8vo. Paper. 808 p. 

NAVY Dr.PAUTMKNT. 

•Jan. 10. Regulations gov<!rniiig (be admission of candidates into the Naval Acad- 
emy as Naval Cadets, 1883-'84. Bvo. Paper. 7 p. 
Regulations governing the uniform of officers of the IJnited States Navy 

1883. Pl.'ites. Bvo. Paper. 15 p. 

Mar. 22. Register of the eonuuissioned and warrant oflicers of the Navy of the United 
States, including officers of the Marine Corps, to January 15, 1884. 
8vo. Paper, 214 p. 
Aug. H. S.-i me to August 1, 1H84, 8vo, Paper. 75 p, 

23, Acts and rescdutions ivdating to the Nnvy Department and Marine Corps, 

passed at the first session of the Forty-eighth Congress. 1883-'84. 

8vo. Paper. 49 p. 

Oct. 17. lieport of Secretary of the Navy of 1883. vol. 2. (50 coi)ie8— 20 cloth, 20 

board, and 10 half sheep.) 8vo, 622]). 

18. Report of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy, June, 

1884, Bvo. Paper, 27 p. 



122 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

1884. 
Oct. 30. Greely Relief Expedition. Reception of Lieut. A. W. Greely, United States 
Army, and his comrades and of the Arctic Relief Expedition at 
Portsmouth, N. H., on August 1 and 4, 1884. Account pre- 
pared at the request of the Navy Department, by Rev. Wm. 
A. McGinley of Portsmouth. 8vo. Paper. 58 p. 
Dec. 1. Annual Register of the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. 

Thirty-fifth Academic year, 1684-'85. 8vo. Paper. 66 p. 
Dec. 15. Navy Yard Commission. Special Report of A. B. Mullett. Civil Commis- 
sioner. 8vo. Paper. 11 p. 

Hydrograpldc Office. 

Jan. 10. Hydrographic Notices, 1883: 

No. 73. New Zealand — North Island, West Coast. 2 p. 

No, 74. China Sea — Natuna Island. 4 p. 

No. 75. United States — Maine. 2 p. 

No. 76. United States — New York — East River. 1 p. 

No. 77. Indian Archipelago — Celebes — East Coast. 2 p. 

No. 78. Mediterranean — Greece, Santa Maur Island. 1 p. 

No. 79. Brazil — Cape Saint Roqne. 1 p. 

No. 80. China Sea— Java Sea. 3 p. 

NfP. 81. Australia — Gulf of Carpentaria. 10 p. 

No. 82. Korea — West Coast — Prince Imperial Archipelago. 2 p. 

No, 83. Mediterranean — Greece — Gulf Volo. 2 p. 

No, 84. England — British Channel. 2 p. 

No. 85. Indian Ocean. 2 p. 

No. 86. North Atlantic Ocean. 2 p. 

No. 89. New Zealand— Middle Island— BuUer River. 2 p. 

No. 90. China Sea, Corea — Approaches to Seoul. 3 p. 

No. 91. Borneo — Northeast Course Nymphe Reef. 2 p. 

No. 92. Indian Ocean — Madagascar. 1 p. 

No. 93. Australia — East Coast — Percy Islands. 1 p. 
Jan. 23. No. 70. United States— Rhode Island. 1 p. 

No. 71. Mediterranean — Tunis. 2 p. 

No. 87. United States — Delaware. 2 p. 

No. 88. Caribbean Sea — Little Antilles. 1 p. 

No. 189. Sweden — Karings Rock. 8vo. Pajjer. 2 p. 

No. 201. Sweden — West Coast — Skagerrak. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 
Publications of Hydrographic Office during the quarter ending December 

31, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 11 p. 
Hydrographic Notices, 1883. 

No. 1. West Coast uf Mexico. 1 p. 

No. 2. Atlantic Coast Pilot Division B. 
Hydrographic Notices, 1884: 

No. 3. Germany — Hever River. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 4. France — Bandol Bay. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 5. Canary Islands — Santa Cruz de Tenerifie. 8vo. Paper. 2 p.' 

No. 6. Buenos Ayres — Dikes and lights. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 7. Friendly Ishiuds — Bank in Tongatabu Harbor. 5vo. Pa- 
per. 4 p. 

No. 8. Psau Liang Hai — Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 9. France — Isle de Bas. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 10. Java — Light on Merak Island. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 11, Daunt Rock light-ship. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 12. Black Sea — Fog-signals, 8vo, Paper. 3 p. 



Paper 


3 p. 




Paper. 


2 p. 




8vo. 


Paper 


. 2 


3 p. 






Paper. 1 p. 




8vo. 


Paper. 


2p 


3 p. 






8vo. 


Paper. 


3 p. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 123 

1884. 

Hydrographic Notices, 1884 — Coutimied. 

Jan. 23. No. 13. St. Mazaire — Change of light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 14. Java — Light at Cheribou. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 15. Yangtse River entrance — A shoal. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 10. Austro-Hiingary — Cittanuova. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 17. England — Outer Dowsing Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

No. 18. China Sea Directory — High Lomach Island. 8vo. Paper. 
2 p. 

No. 19. Montreal — Light discontinued. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 20. Thames River entrance. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 21. Spain — Cadiz — Bury. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 22. Madagascar — Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 83. Borneo, northwest coast. 8vo. 

No. 24. Aiistro-Hungary — Light. 8vo. ] 

No. 25. Brazil — Santa Anna Island light. 

No. 26. Leruka — Lights. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 27. Boston — Change of lights. 8vo. 

No. 28. China Sea — Gulf of Tong-King. 

No. 29. Pilot regulations. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 30. France, southern coast — Light. 

No. 31. Non-resistance of shoal. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 32. New Jersey— Sandy Hook. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 33. South Carolina— Charleston. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 34. New Jersey — Wreck. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 35. Florida Reefs— Hawk's Channel. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 3G. Java Sea— Reef. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 37. Canary Islands— Santa Cruz deTenerifife. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 38. Spencer Gulf— Port Augusta. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 39. Holyhead Bay— Rocks. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Juno 27. No. 40. Greece— Hydra Island light. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 41. Bombay— Time-ball. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 42. Magellan Straits— Landmarks. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 43. Connecticut- Light-house. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 44. Algeria— Dellys-Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 45. Madagascar— Autonga— Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 46. Gillert Group— Hopper Island. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

No. 47. Corsica — Vecchio. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 48. Belgium— Schelde River. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 49. China Sea— Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 50. Ceylon— Columbo light. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 51. New Caledonia— Yeugen to Pou6bo. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 52. Sicily— Port Augusta— Inflexible Shoal. Bvo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 53. Guadaloupe— Harbor dues. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 55. Sierra Leone- Port dues. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 56. Rhode Island- Bell-buoy off Block Island. 8vo. Paper. 

IP- 
No. 57. Delaware — Buoys off Cape Henlopen. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 58. Greece— Gulf of Vola— Shoals. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 60. New Britain, northeast coast. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 61. Iceland— Magnetic observations. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 62. Cochin China— Pulo Coudore. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 63. Tonquet. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 64. East coast— Bet-el-Ras shoal— Beacon. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 65. GulfofBurglaz— Light dtMegalo— Nice. Bvo. Paper. 2p. 



124 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

1884. 

Hydrographic Notices, 1884— Continued. 
June 27. No. 66. Scotland — Burgliead light. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 67. Paumotou Islands. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 68. Trinidad — Diamond Rock — Bell-buoy. 8vo. Paper. *2 p. 
No. 69. France — Pallice. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 70. Austro- Hungary — Cape Promontore — Fog-signals. 8vo' 

Paper. 3 p. 
No. 71. Brazil — Gaivotas Island light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 72. Shelburne harbor — Fog-horn. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 73. Canton River. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 74. South Foreland — Experimental lights. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 7.5. Sardinia — Sant Antioco Island. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 76. Carimata Strait — Pulo Kumpal. 8vo. Paper. 7 p. 
No. 77. Madagascar — Port Robinson — Rock. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 78. Middle Island. 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 
No. 79. Spain — Aguilas. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 80. Humber River — Wreck buoy. 8vo. 2 p. 
No. 81. Grand Bassa — Simken rock. 8vo. 1 p. 
No. 82. Encounter Bay — Fort Victor light. 8vo. 3 p. 
Fo. 83. France — Cayeux. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 84. Spain — Port Passages. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 85. Lough Foyle — Tims Bank buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 86. Mediterranean — Cyprus — Kyrenia — Light. 8vo. Paper. 

3 p. 
No. 87. Kal-ah — Kebineh Shoal — Beacon. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 38. Buccaneer Archipelago — Banks. 8 vo. Paper. 12 p. 
No. 89. Piel Harbor. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No, 90. Spain — Alicante — Change in lights. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 91. Loango Bay — Indian point— Wreck. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 92. Cuba, North coast — Bahia Honda. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 93. Gulf of Tong King — Kua, Kam River. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 94. Malta — Shoals off' St. Elms point. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 95. Loch Ailort — Rock. 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 
No. 96. Senegal — Gover Bay. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 97. Great Sandy Strait — N. entrance — Beacon. 8vo. Paper. 

Ip. 
No. 98. Welsh Hook — Middle Hook buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 99. Mozambique Channel, Goa Island. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 100. Torris Strait — Light ship. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 101. Casper Straits — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 102. Helliss — Light temporarily extinguished. 8vo. Paper. 

Ip. 
No. 103. Hollant Light. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 104. Virginia — Gas — Buoy oft" Cape Charles. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 105. Greece — Parapola Island (BeloPorda). 8vo. Paper. Ip. 
No. 106. Spain — Cadiz — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p.- 
• Fo. 107. France — Villefranche — Buoys. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 108. Spain— Malaga — Beacon. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 109. Gulf of Guinea — Tofon point. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 110. Dutch Guinea — Nickerie River — Light. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 111. Denmark — Jutland buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 112. Carimata Strait — Scharroyd Islands. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 113. Canada — Lake Huron — Kincardine light. 8vo. Paper. 

ip. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OP EXCHANGES. 125 

1884. 

Hydrograpbic Notices, 1884 — Continned. 
June 27. No. 114. Marshall Gx'oup — Nainorich (Baring) Island. 8vo. Paper. 

No. 115. Madagascar — Barlow Island. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 116. England — Cromer — Wreck-buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 117. Donnarso Approach — Rock near Siebra. 8vo. Paper. Ip. 
No. 118. Bideford — Alteration of Lights. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 119. Isle of Man— Port Erin. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 120. Ballywakill Harbor — Buoys. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 121. Jamaica — Alligator Reef — Beacons. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 122. Magellan Strait — Baxa Point beacon. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 123. Ceylon — Colombo — Time-ball. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 124. Java Sea — Sourabaya — Jansen Channel. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 125. Corea — Breton Islands. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 12(i. British Guiana— Demerara. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 127. Perim Island — Lights. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 128. Greece — Tyra. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 129 , Yarmouth Road — Wreck-buoy. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 130. Cuba — Santiago light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 131. Italy — Leghorn. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 132. Angra PequeuaCove — Depth of water. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 133. Java — Sunda Strait. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 134. Sumatra — Bodjo Island — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 135. Ketaug — Light not exhibited. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 136. Wide Bay — luskip point, 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 137. Massachusetts — Vineyard Sound. 8vo. Paper. ] p. 
Fo. 138. New Jersey — Light-vessel repaired. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 139. Strait of Georgia — Eraser River — Light. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 140. Min River — Buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 141. Chile— Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 142. Spencer GuIf^Light. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 143. Japan — Kobe. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 144. France — Wreck. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 145. Kalmar Sound — Grimskar Light. Svo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 146. Austro-Hungaiy — Pola Lights. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 147. Copeland Islands — Lights. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 148. Spain — Malaga — Lights. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 149. Cape Town — Time-ball. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 150. New York Bay. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 151. New Jersey — New Inlet — Wreck. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 152. Virginia — Chesapeake Bay — Bell Buoy. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 153. Orchilla Harbor — Rock at entrance. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
• No. 154. Kirpou Harbor — Beacons. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 155. Cape de Verdes — Porto Praya. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 156. France — Turbal — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 157. Fornaes — Wreck light withdrawn. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 158. Falkland Islands — Reef. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 159. Orissa coast — Change in False Point Light. Svo. Paper. 

Ip. 
No. 160. Tunis — Bezerta — Light discontinued. Svo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 161. Spain — Vigo road. Svo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 162. Poverty Bay — Buoy. Svo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 103. Tunis — Tabarca — Light discontinued. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 164. Canton — Shamien — Light. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 165. Chile— Lata— Light. Svo. Paper. 1 p. 



126 



REPORT OX THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



1884. 



June 



Hydrographic N 
27. No. 166. 

No. 167. 
No. 168. 
No. 169. 
No. 170. 
No. 171. 
No. 172. 
No. 173. 

No. 174. 



Jan. 10. 



June 23. 



No. 175. 
No. 176. 
No. 177. 

No. 178. 
No. 179. 
No. 180. 

No. 181. 
No. 182. 
No. 183. 
No. 184. 
No. 185. 
No. 186. 
No. 187. 
No. 188. 
No. 190. 
No. 191. 
No. 192. 
No. 193. 
No. 194. 
No. 195. 
No. 196. 
No. 197. 
No. 198. 
No. 199. 



otices, 1884 — Continued. 

Austro-Hungary — Rovigno — Light. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Danger Signals. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Kertch Strait — Anchorage. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Italy — Giglio Island — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Mediterranean — Mersinah — Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Guadaloupe— Point aPitre — Beacons. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Brazil — San Joao Island— Light. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Venezuela — Orinoco River — Light-ship. 8vo. Paper. 

2 p. 
Michigan — Copper Harbor — Light discontinued. 8vo. 

Paper. 1 p. 
Crane (Maria) Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Non-existence of doubtful inlet. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Swansea — Docks. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Fortune Bay — Cape Grand Bank. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
New Jersey — Buoy on Brigan tine Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Massachusetts — Change of position of Shovelful Shoal 

light-ship. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
South Carolina — Savannah River. 8 vo. Paper. 3 p. 
Nubian coast^Le Mercier Shoal. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Abbot Harbor — Light. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 200. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

8vo. Paper. 1 p. No. 202. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

8vo. Paper. 2 p. No. 203. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

8vo. Paper. 2 p. No. 204. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

8vo. Paper. 1 p. No. 206. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

8vo. Paper. 2 p. No. 207. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

8vo. Paper. 2 p. No. 209. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

8vo. Paper. 2 p. No. 210. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

8vo. Puper. 1 p. No. 211. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

8vo. Paper. 1 p. No. 215. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

8vo. Paper. 3 p. No. 216. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

8vo. Paper. 1 p. No. 201. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

8vo. Paper. 1 p. No. 212. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

8vo. Paper. 3 p. No. 214. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 



Danish coast — Wreck 
8vo, Paper. 3 p. 



No. 113. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 181. 8vo. Paper. 6 p. 

No. 182. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. res. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 



No. 184. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 
No. 205. 8vo, Paper. 3 p. 
No. 208. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 



June 27. Index to hydrographic notices, 1 to 93. 8vo. Paper. 23 p. 

Index to hydrographic notices, 1 to 216. 8vo. Paper. 30 p. 
July 1. Catalogue of charts, plans, and sailing directions, July, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 
196 p. 
Same, North Atlantic Station. 8vo. Paper. 95 p. 
10. Notices to mariners, Nos. 189 to 213, inclusive. Bvo. Paper. Total num- 
ber pages 42. 
10. Notices to mariners, Nos. 216 to 227, inclusive. 8vo. Paper. Total num- 
ber pages 17. 
10. Notices to mariners, No. 229. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 

10. Publications of the United States Hydrographic Office during the quarter 
ending March 30, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 7 p. 



' IlErORT ON THE OPLRxVTIO.XS OF LXCHANGES. 127 

1884. 
July 10. Notice to mariners, Nos. 1S.5 to 188, iaclusive of 1884. 8vo. Paper. Total 
number payes 8. 
28. No. 1, list of lights ou the east aud west coastsof North and South America, 
inckuliDgthe West India and Pacific Islands, corrected to July 1, 1884. 
8vo. Paper. P. 267, XXIV. 291 p. 
30. No. 2, list of lights of south and east coastsof Asia and Africa and the East 
Indias, including Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand, corrected to 
July 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. P. I(i9 and XIV. 183 p. 
Statement of the Secretary of the Navy in reply to the resolutions of both 
Houses of Congress for the appointment of committees on ordnance and 
naval construction, July 12, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 12 p. 
Aug. 4. No. 3, list of lights of the west coast of Africa, and the Mediterranean Sea, 
including the Adriatic, the Blacli Sea, and the Sea of Azof, corrected to 
July 1, 1884, at the United States Hydrographic Office. 8vo. Paper 
P. 269, XXII. 291 p. 

4. No. 4, list of lights of the Atlantic coast of Europe and the southern shores 

of the English Channel and North Sea. 8vo. Paper. P. 175, XXII. 
197 p. 

5. Notice to mariners, Nos. 228 to 284 (except No. 229). 8vo. Paper. Total 

pages 93. 
8. No. 5, list of lights of the North Baltic and White Seas, corrected to July 1, 

1884. Bvo. Paper. P. 157, XXII, 169 p. 
8. No. (5, list of lights of the British Islands, corrected to July 1, 1864. 8vo. 

Paper. P. 149,X. 159 p. 
14. Publications of the United States Hydrographic Office during the quarter 
ending June 30, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 9 p. 
Sept. 3. Catalogue of charts, plans, aud sailing directions issued to vessels on the 
European Station. 8vo. Paper. 120 p. 
3. Notice to mariners, No. 206, of 1884. 8vo. Paper. 11 p. 
5. Notice to mariners. No. 285, of 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
5. Notice to mariners, Nos. 287 to 321, of 1884. Bvo. Paper. Total number 

pages 66. 
22. Newfoundland and Labrador, No. 73 ; the coast and banks of Newfound- 
land and the coast of Labrador, &c., compiled by Lieut. W. W. GiU- 
patrick and Ensign John Gibson, United States Navy. Bvo. Paper. 
615 p. 
Oct. 3. Notice to mariners, Nos. 322 to 363, inclusive, of 1884. Bvo. Paper. Total 

number pages 83. 
Nov. 13. Publications of Hydrographic Office during the quarter ending September 
30, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 8 p. 
27. Catalogue of charts, plans, and sailing directions issued to vessels on the 
South Atlantic Station. Bvo. Paper. 56 p. 

Nautical Almanac. 

Mar. 28. The American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1884. Second edition, 

4 tables. 4to. Paper. 496 p. 
Nov. 16. The American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1885. Second edition, 

2 plates. 4to. Paper. 522 p. 

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. 

Mar. 25. Hygienic and medical reports, by medical officers of the United States Navy. 
Prepared for publication under the direction of the Surgeon General of 
the Navy, by Joseph B. Parker, A. M., M. D., Surgeon United States Navy, 
assisted by the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. 8 vo. Sheep. 1070 p. 



128 RErORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

1884. 
Mar. 25. Sanitary and statistical report of the Surgeon-General of the Navy for the 
year 1879. 8vo. Sheep. 361 p. 
Same for the year 1880. 8vo. Sheep. 469 p. 
Same for the year 1881. 8vo. Sheep. 684 p. 

Bureau of Equipment and Becruiting. 

Aug. 23. Regulations for the enlistment, government and instruction of naval 
apprentices, as authorized by the circular of the Navy Department, dated 
January 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 29 p. 

Bureau of Navigation. 

Jan. 23. List of lights of the East and West coasts of North and South America 
(except the United States), corrected to October 9, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 
175 p. 
Professional papers, No. 13, magnetism ; its original principles and special 
application to ships and compasses, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 280 p. 

Mar. 22. The American Practical Navigator, being an epitome of navigation and nau- 
tical astronomy, by Nathaniel Bowditch, LL. D. 4to. Paper. 647 p. 

June 27. Information from Abroad, report on the exhibits at the Crystal Palace Elec- 
trical Exhibition, 1882, by Ensign Frank J. Sprague, United States Navy. 
8vo. Paper. 169 p. 

Sept. 4. General Information, series No. Ill, Examples, Conclusions, and Maxims of 
Modern Naval Tactics. 26 plates. 8vo. Paper. 149 p. 
15. Naval Professional Papers, No. 16 ; papers and discussions on engines, boilers 
and torpedo boats. 8vo. Paper. 219 p. 

Oct. 16. Astronomical and meteorological observations made during the year 1880 at 
the United States Naval Observatory. 4to. Cloth. 5 plates. P. Lxxix 
and 267 p. 

Dec. 20. The International Code of Signals for the use of aU Nations. 4 plates. 
8vo. Paper. 256 p. 

Bureau of Steam Engineering. 

Mar. 22. Annual report of the Chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering for 1883. 
8vo. Paper. 63 p. 

POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT. 

Jan. 30. StreetDirectory of the principal cities of the United States. Second edition. 
8vo. Paper. 43 p. 

Oct. 4. Letter carriers of the Saint Louis post-office — laws and regulations con- 
cerning letter-carriers and their duties. Saint Louis, October, 1884. 
Bvo. Paper. 16 p. 

STATE DEPARTMENT. 

Mar. 28. Reports from the consuls of the United States on the commerce, manufac- 
tures, &c., of their consular districts. No. 36, December, 1883. 8vo. 
Paper. 397 p. 

Aug. 8. Commercial relations between United States and Central and South Amer- 
ica. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

Oct.' 17. Register of the Department of State corrected to October 1, 1884. 8vo. 
Paper. 118 p. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OP EXCHANGES. 129 

SUPUEME COTJRT. 

1884. 
Jan. 23, Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States, adopted January 7, 1884. 

8vo. Paper. 24 p. 
June 30. Record of the Star Route trials. Second trial. 4 volumes. 8vo. Sheep. 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT. 

Mar. 25. Annual report of the Treasurer of the United States to the Secretary of 

the Treasury for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 59 p. 

Sixth annual report of the Treasurer of the United States on the sinking 

fund and funded debt of the District of Columbia. 8vo. Paper. 40 p. 

July 30. Steamboat inspection service, steamboat inspector's manual laws govern- 
ing the steamboat inspection service, Revised Statutes of the United 
States as amended at the first session of the Forty-seventh Congress, 
1881-'82, to which are added the revised rules and regulations of the 
Board of Supervising Inspectors as amended January, 1882--'S3, together 
with the various decisions of the Treasury Department. Third edition 
revised, 1882-'83-'84. 8vo. Paper. 222 p. 

Nov. 6. Instructions to custodians of public buildings under the control of the 
Treasury Department, October 10, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 20 p. 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

Jan. 23. Atlantic Local Coast Pilot, sub-division 15, Delaware Bay and tributaries, 

1st edition, appendix xii. 4vo. Paper. 139 p. 
Mar. 25. Summary Report of the progress of the United States Coast and Geodetic 

Survey, for the fiscal year ending with June, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 21 p. 
June 30. Tide Tables, Pacific Coost, 1885. 8vo. Paper. 66 p. 
June 30. Tide Tables, Atlantic Coast, 1885. 8vo. Paper. 136 p. 
Aug. 25. Pacific Coast Pilot Alaska. Part 1. 8vo. Paper. 333 p. 
Aug. 29. Methods and Results Field Catalogue of Time and Circumpolar Stars for 

1885. Appendix No. 18. Report for 1883. 8vo. Paper. 91 p. 
Sept. 3. Methods and Results Field Catalogue of Time and Circumpolar Stars for 

1885. Appendix No. 18. Report for 1883. 8vo. Paper. 91 p. 
Oct. 10. Methods and results, Report of a Conference on Gravity Determinations. 

Appendix No. 22. Report for 1882. 4vo. Paper. 13 p. 
Oct. 17. Catalogue of Charts 1884, J. E. Hilgard, Superintendent. 4vo. Paper. 

68 p. 
Dec. 6. Summary Report of the progress of the United States Coast Survey for the 

fiscal year ending with June, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 20 p. 
Dec. 27. Short descriptions of articles forming the Coast and Geodetic Survey ex- 
hibit at the Cotton Centennial Exposition, New Orleans, La., 1884-'85. 

8vo. Paper. 25 p. 

Comptroller of the Currency. 

June 30. Instructions and suggestions of the Comptroller of the Currency in regard 
to the organization, extension and management of National Banks. 
8vo. Paper. 39 p. 

Inspector-General of Steamboats. 

Dec. 19. Annual Report of the Supervising Inspector-General of Steamboats to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1884. 
8vo. Paper. 23 p. 
S. Mis. 33 9 



130 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Internal Revenue. 

1884. 

Mar. 25. Series 7, No. 11, Revised United States Internal Revenue Gangers Manual) 
embracing regulations and instructions, and tables prescribed by the 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, by virtue of Sec. 3249, United 
States Revised Statutes. 1 plate. Bvo. Paper. 64 p. 

United States Life-Saving Service. 
1884. 
Oct. 8. Annnal Report of the operations of the United States Life-Saving Service 
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 519 p. 

Light-House Board. 

June 30. List of lights in the waters and on the shores and banks of the Northern 
Lakes and Rivers of the United States, and also of the Canadian lights 
in these waters, corrected to .January, 1884. 4to. Paper. 53 p. 

July 1. List of beacons, buoys, stakes, and other day-marks in the first light-house 
district, embracing the sea-coasts, bays, harbors, and rivers from the north- 
east boundary of the United States to Hampton Harbor, New Hampshire, 
corrected to May 1, 1884. 4to. Paper. 42 p. 

Oct. 11. List of beacons, buoys, stakes, and other day-marks in the fourth light- 
house district, embraced in the sea-coasts, bays, harbors, and rivers from 
Squam Inlet, New Jersey, to Metomkin Inlet, Virginia, corrected to Sep- 
tember 1, 1884. 4to. Paper. 26 p. 
List of beacons, buoys, and stakes in the twelfth light-house district, em- 
bracing the sea-coast and bays of California, coiTected to October 1, 1884. 
4to. Paper. 14 p. 

Oct. 16. List of beacons, buoys, and stakes in the second light-house district, cor- 
rected to August 1, 1884, 4to. Paper. 61 p. 

Oct. 25. List of beacons, buoys, and stakes in the fifth light-house district, corrected 
to August 1, 1884. 4to. Paper, 71 p. 

Dec. 4. List of beacons, buoys, and stakes in the third light-house district, embrac- 
ing the sea- coasts, harbors, and rivers from Gooseberry Point, Massachu- 
setts, southward along the coast as far as Squaw Inlet, New Jersey, and 
including Lake Champlain and Lake Memijhremagog, corrected to Octo- 
ber 1, 1884, 4to, Paper. 77 p, 

Dec. 15. List of beacons, Inioys, and stakes in the seventh light-house district, em- 
bracing the coast of Florida from .Jupiter Inlet to Egmont Key, Tampa 
Bay, and Cedar Keys, inclusive; also Saint Mark's, Saint Gecrge's Sound, 
Ay)alachicola, Saint Andrew's, and Pensacola Bays, corrected to October 
1, 1884. 4to, Paper, 30 p. 

Bureau of Statistics. 

June 30. The operations of the tariff act of March 2, 1883, for the six months ended 
December 31, 1883, April 21, 1884. 8vo. Sheep. 70 p. 
Reciprocity of transportation facilities between the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada and the Canadian Pacific Railroad. Bvo. Paper, 
lip. 
Jan. 10. Summary statement of imports and exports of the United States for the 
month ending — 

October 31, 1883, 4to. Paper, 14 p. 
November 30, 1883, 4to, Paper, 14 p, 
December 31, 1883, 4to, Paper, 17 p. 
June 10, January 31, 1884, 4to, Paper, 18 p. 

February 29, 1884. 4to. Paper, 14 p. 
March 31, 1884, 4to, Paper, 14 p. 



REPORT OX THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 131 

1884. 
June 10. Quarterly report relative to imports, exports, immigration, and navigation 
of the United States for the three months ended — 
I Jan. 10. September 30, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 133 p. 

j Mar. 25. June 30, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 

! June 30. December 31, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 135 p. 

{ July 1. Document No. 588 (No. 10, April, 1883-'84). Summary statement of the im- 

I ports and exports of the United States for the month ended April 30, 1884, 

I and for the ten months ended the same, compared with the correspond- 

' ing periods of 18i3. 4to. Paper. 14 p. 

I July 10. No. 3, 1883-84. Quarterly report of the Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, 

j Treasury Department, relative to the imports, exports, immigration, and 

I navigation of the United States for the three months ended March 31, 

1884 ; also contaijiing other statistics relative to the trade and industry 
r of the country. 8vo. Paper. 396 p. 

f Oct. 17. Quarterly rei)ort of the Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, relative to the 

imports, exports, immigratiou, and navigation of the United States for 
the three months ending June 30, 1884 ; also containing other statistics 
relative to the trade and industry of the country. 8vo. Paper. 573 j). 
Nov. 28. Index to quarterly reports of the Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, show- 
ing the imports and exports of the United States for the four quarters of 
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1884, and for the correspondiug quarters of 
the year immediately preceding ; also embracing other statistical tables 
relative to the trade of this and foreign countries for various periods. 
Bvo. Paper. 12 p. 

WAR DEPART\rENT. 

Mar. 22. OfiScial table of distances for the guidance of disbursing officers of the Army 

charged with the payment of money allowances for travel. 8vo. Paper. 

189 pp. 
Official Army Register for January, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 390 p. 
Mar. 28. Report of board of officers to consider an expedition for the relief of Lievi- 

tenant Greely and party. 8vo. Paper. 192 p. 
June 30. Alphabetical list of additions made from June, 1882. 4to. Paper. 39 p. 
Aug. 12. Army Paymaster's Manual, for the information of the officers of the Pay 

Department of the United States Army. Revised to include June 30, 

1884. 8vo. Paper. 78 p. 

Adjutant-GeneraVs Office. 
Jan. 10. General orders, 1883 : 



Jan. 23. 



No. 83. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 101. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 84. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


7 p. 


No. 102. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 85. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


3 p. 


No. 105. 


8vo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 90. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 88. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


128 p 


No. 91. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 99. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


9 p. 


No. 94. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 103. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 95. 


8vo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 


No. 104. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


2 p. 


No. 86. 


Bvo. 


Paper, 


Ip. 










No. 92. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 










No. 93. 


8vo. 


Paper. 


2 p. 










No. 96. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 










No. 97. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 










No. 98. 


Bvo. 


Paper. 


Ip. 











No. 100. 8vo. Paper. IB p. 
Circnlar No. 11, 1883. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 



132 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



1884. 






General court-martial orders, 1883 : 






m. 23. No. 53. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 


No. 59. Bvo. Paper. 


2 p. 


No. 54. Bvo. Paper. 6 p. 


No. 60. 8vo. Paper. 


5 p. 


No. 55. 8vo. Paper. 7 p. 


No. 63. Bvo. Paper. 


5 p. 


No. 56. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 


No. 52. 8vo. Paper. 


8 p. 


No. 57. Bvo. Paper. 7 p. 


No. 61. 8vo. Paper. 


4 p. 


No. 58. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 


No. 62. Bvo. Paper. 


9 p. 


Circular No. 10, 1883. Bvo. Paper. 


2 p. 




Index of general court-martial orders, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 5 


P- 



Mar. 22. General court-martial orders, 1883 : 
No. 1. Bvo. Paper. 9 p. 
No. 2. Bvo. Paper. 8 p. 
No. 3. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 4. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 

Circular No. 12, 1883. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 
General orders, 1884 : 

No. 1. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. No. 3. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 2. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. No, 4. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 

June 30. Circulars for 1884 : 

No. 1, February 18, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 2, March 14, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 3 p. 
No. 3, April 14,1884. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 4, May 14,1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
General orders, index to general orders for 18H3. 
General orders for 1884, Nos. 5-39, 41, 43, 44, 46, 47. Bvo. Paper. 
General court-martial orders, index for 1883, and No. 63, orders for 1864, Nos. 
5-25. 8vo. Paper. 
July 5. Proceedings of a court of inquiry convened the 5tli May, 1884, to examine 
into the accusations against Brig. Gen. David G. Swaim. Bvo. Paper. 
308 p. 
July 1. General court-martial orders No. 27, January 4, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 6 p. 
Circular, June 5, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 
Circular No. 5, June 10, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 2 p. 
General court-martial orders No. 26. Bvo. Paper. 4 p. 



July 


10. 


General orders, 1884 : 

No. 40. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
No. 42. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 
No. 45. Bvo. Paper. 1 p. 








Nos. 48 to 54, inclusive. Bvo. Pape 


r. 10 


July 


21. 


No. 64. 8vo. Paper. 12 p. 
General court-martial orders, 1884 : 








No. 28, July 17, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


4 p. 






No. 29, July 28, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


2 p. 


Aug. 


8. 


General orders, 1884 : 

No. 52. 8vo. Paper. 1 table. 8 p. 








No. 73, July 18, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


8 p. 


Aug. 


13. 


No. 60, June 30, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


Ip. 






No. 63, July 7, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


4 p. 






No. 66, July 10, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


Ip. 






No.67, July 11, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 


Ip. 






No. 68, July 12, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 


Ip. 






No.79, July 26, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 


Ip. 






No. 92, August 11,1884. Bvo. Paper 


. 8p 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 133 

1884. 

Aug. 14. No. 61, July 2, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 62, July 5, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 71, July 16, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 2 p. 

No. 72, July 21, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
Ang. 16. No. 57, June 24, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 58, June 26, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 69, July 14, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 7 p. 

No. 74, July 19, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 5 p. 

No. 78, July 25, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 
Aug. 19. No. 65, July 9, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 10 p. 

Aug. 20, Circular No, 6, July 8, 1884, 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 
Aug. 21, Ordnance notes. No. 355. A peculiar phase of metallic behavior, by Capt. 

O. E. Michaelis, 2 plates, 8vo. Paper, 5 p. 
Aug, 23. The soldiers' hand-book for the use of enlisted men of the Army, by N. 

Hershler. 8vo. Paper, 62 p. 
Sept, 3, General court-martial orders, 1884 : 

No. 30, July 9, 1884, 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

No, 31, July 25,1684, 8vo. Paper, 3 p. 

No, 32, August 2, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 7 p. 
General orders, 1884 : 

No, 80, July 28, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 1 p. 
Sept, 4, No. 70, July 15, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 13 p. 

No. 81, July 29, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 82, July 30, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 1 p. 

N^o. 83, July 31, 1884. 8%'0. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 86, August 4, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 87, August 5, 1884. 8vo, Paper. 4 p. 

No. 88, August 6, 1884, 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 

No. 89, August 7, 1884. 8vo, Paper, 2 p. 

No. 91, August 9, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 
Sept. 15. General court-martial orders, 1884: 

No. 33, August 4, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 4 p. 

No, 35, August 18, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 3 p. 
General orders, 1884 : 

No. 84, August 1,1884. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 
Sept. 18. CircularNo, 7, August 9, 1884, 8vo. Paper, 2 p, 
Oct. 24, An epitome of Triplei-'s manual for the examination of recuits. 8vo, Paper, 

51 p, 
Oct. 9. General orders, 1884 : , 

No, 85, August 2, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 

No. 93, August 12, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 5 p. 

No. 97, August 16, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 103, September 2, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Oct. 17. No. 100, August 25, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 105, September 6, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No, 109, September 19, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No, 95, August 14, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 1 p, 
Oct. 9. General court-martial orders, 1884 : 

No, 36, August 20, 1884. 8vo. Papier. 6 p. 
Oct. 28. No, 34, August 12, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

Nov, 13. No. ,37, September 1, 1884, 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 

No. 43, October 4, 1884. 8vo. Pajjer, 4 p. 
_ No. 40, September 23, 1884. Bvo. Paper. 5 p. 



134 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

1884. 

General orders, 1884 : 
Nov. 13. No. 94, August 13, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 98, August 20, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 99, August 22, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No, 102, September 1, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 104, September 3, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 106, September 8, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 107, September 12, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 108, September 18, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 110, September 20, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. Ill, September 30. 1S84. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 112, October 4, 1884. 8vo. Paper. I p. 

No. 114, October 13, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 115, October 18, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 116, Octobei 20, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 117, October 21, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 118, October 22, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 119, October 23, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 120, October 24, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Nov. 15. No. 77, July 26, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 32 p. 

No. 90, August 7, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 1 p. 
Nov. 17. General court-martial orders : 

No, 39, Sept. 22, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 7 p. 

No. 44, October 7, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 8 p. 

No. 45, October 16, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No. 41, September 25, 1884. 8vo, Paper, 2 p. 

No, 42, September 26, 1884, 8vo, Paper, 2 p. 

No, 46, October 17, 1884, 8vo. Paper, 3 p. 
Nov. 20. Circular: 

No 8, September 10, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 9, October 10, 18ti4. 8vo. Paper. 4 p. 
General orders : 

No, 113, October 6, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 
Dec. 10. No. 96, August 15, 1884. 8vo. Paper,* 20 p. 

Dec. 8. General court-martial orders: 

No, 49, November 3, 1884, 8 vo. Paper, 5 p. 
Dec. 13. No. 38, September 2, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 2 p. 

No, 47, October 20, 1884. Pvo. Paper. 4 p. 
Dec. 9. General orders : ,, 

No. 121, October 30, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 1 p, 
Dec, 30. No, 122, November 1, 1884, 8vo. Paper. 1 p. 

No. 123, November 5, 1884. 8vo. Paper, 11 p. 

No. 126, November 22, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 

No. 128, November 25, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
Circular : 

No. 10. November 10, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 3 p. 
General court-martial orders: 

No. 48, November 1, 1884. 8vo, Paper. 5 p. 

No, 50, November 11,1884. 8vo, Paper, 3p, 

No, 51, November 12, 1884, 8vo, Paper. 5 p. 

No, 52, November 13, 1884. 8vo. Paper. 1 p, 
July 1. Report ou tbe Interuational Exhibition of Electricity, held at Paris, August 
to November, 1881. 8vo, Paper. 287 p. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 135 

1884, 
July 10. Professional notes. By Capt. Edward Maguire, Corps of Engineers, U. S. 

A. 2 plates. 8vo. Paper. 28 1». 
July 28. Studies on Coast Defense applied to the Gulf of Spezia. By Cajsar 

Guarasce, Colonel of Engineers. 8vo. Paper. Ill plates. 20 p. 

Burlington, lo\ya, during the mouth of October, 1879. Illustrated 

by one sketch and 41 plates. By Maj. Alexander Mackenzie. 

8vo. Paper. 38 p. 
Sept. 10. Report on current-meter observations in the Mississippi River, near 

Ordnance Office. 
Ordnance notes : 
Jan. 10. No. 321, 1883. Experiaients with small shot. 8vo. Paper. 17 p. 

No. 317. The effects of the bombardment of the forts of Alexan- 
dria, July 11, 1882. 3 plates. 8vo. Paper. 48 p. 
Mar. 22. No. 323. Machine guns. 3 plates. 4to. Paper. 23 p. 

No. 325, 1883. Account of the construction of bridges over the 
Kabul River, near Jalalabad, during the operations in Afghan- 
istan, 1880. 5 plates. 4to. Paper. 9 p. 
No. 326, 1883. Railways for military communications in the field. 

3 plates. 4to. Paper. 23 p. 
No. 327, 1883. Provisional fortification. 10 plates. 4to. Paper. 

8 p. 
No. 328, 1883. Krupp's works. 4to. Paper. 16 p. 
No. 329, 1884. Trajectory of a projectile iw I'aoio. 4to. Paper. 5 p. 
June 30. No. 324. Metallurgy of iron, by First Lieut. Constantino Chase, 

Third Artillery. 2 plates. 129 p. 
No. 330. Mano-la Tour and Gravelotte, by Lieut. John Bigelow, jr., 

Tenth Cavalry. 2 plates. 69 p. 
No. 331. Fabrication of 8-inch Eureka projectiles. 
No. 332. Steel for gun hoops. 4to. Paper. 5 p. 
No. 333. The 80-tou steam hammers of Creusot and Saint Chamond. 

2 plates. 14 p. 
No. 335. Field artillery. 4to. Paper. 35 p. 
No. 336. Paints and lacquers for artillery material. 11 p. 
No. 337. Practical instructions in gunnery. 2 plates. 18 p. 
No. 338. A visit to the artillery practice ground at Jueterbogk. 

1 plate. 4 p. 
No. 339. Improved capstan. 1 plate. 6 p. 
No. 340. Target practice — information for soldiers. 5 p. 
No. 341. Machines for the physical tests of metals — the Olsen test- 
ing machine. 3 plates. 9 p. 
No. 342. Probability of fire. 4to. Paper. 7 p. 
No. 343. The Hawaiian Islands. By C. E. Datton. 21 p. 
No. 344. Stencil outfit. 2 plates. 4to. Paper. 3 p. 
Notes on the construction of ordnance : 
June 30. No. 25. Shrinkage tests of steel hoops for cannon. 2 plates. 4to, 

Paper. 47 p. 
No. 26. Fabrication of projectiles. 2 plates. 9 p. 
Ordnance notes: 
July 18. No. 334, February 5, 1884. 4to. Paper. 15 p. 

^ No. 349, May 22, 1884. 2 plates. 4to. 4 p. 

No. 350, May 29, 1884. 5 p. 

Vol. XI (Nos. 320 to 333, inclusive). 4to. Paper. 8 p. 
July 21. No. 348, May 19, 1884. 4to. Paper. 9 p. 



136 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCEANGES. 

1884. 

Ordnance notes — Continued. 
July 1. No. 345, April 29, 1884. Report on transcontinental railways, 1883. 

By Col. O. M. Poe, U. S. Engineers, A. D. C, and brevet 
brigadier-general. 1 map. 4to. Paper. 58 p. 
No. 346, May 12, 1884. Strategical value of the inland canal navi- 
gation of the United States. By Lieut. T. H. Bliss, First Artil- 
lery. 4to. Paper. 10 p. 
No. 347, May 15, 1884. Military rifles. Communicated by the 
director of artillery. 4to. Paper. 4 pages. 
Aug. 4. Ordnance Memoranda No. 24. Management of 8-inch muzzle-loading rifles 
and carriages. Table of ranges, descriptive plates, &c. 8vo. 
Paper. 10 plates. 11 p. 
Ordnance notes : 
Aug. 13. No. 353, June 1, 1884. United States Life-Saving Service. 8vo. 

Paper. 12 p. 
Aug. 16. No. 352, June 14, 1884. Field artillery fire. 8vo. Paper. 13 p. 

Aug. 25. No. 357. Electricity applied to explosive purposes, June 30, 1884. 

8vo. Paper. 26 p. 
Sept. 4. No. 356, June 28, 1884. Electrical units of measurement. 8vo. 

Paper. 17 p. 
Sept. 13. Notes on the Construction of Ordnance, No. 29. Manufacture of sabots for 
muzzle-loading projectiles. By Lieut. R. Bime, jr. 1 plate. 
8vo. Paper. 5 p. 
Ordnance notes : 
Oct. 2. No. 351. The manufacture of steel and its application to military 

purposes. By Capt. G. Mackinlay, R. A. 8vo. Paper. 16 p. 
No. 354. Meteorological investigations. By Capt. O. E. Michaelis, 
Ordnance Department. 3 plates. 8vo. Paper. 5 p. 
Notes on the construction of ordnance : 
Oct. 11. No. 27, June 10, 1884. Position and form of bands for projectiles. 

By Capt. M. P. Breger, French Marine Artillery. 4to. Paper. 
32 p. 
Dec. 1. No. 30, July 1, 1884. The adoption of standard forms of "-est pieces 

for bars and plates. By William Hackney. 4to. Paper. 62 p. 
Dec. 26. Vol. 1. 4to. Paper. 12 p. 

United States Signal Office. 

June 30. Professional Papers, No. XIII. Temperature of the atmosphere and earth's 
surface. By Prof. William. Ferrell. 4to. Paper. 69 p. 

Surgeon-General's Office. 

Sept. 29. Index-catalogue of the library of the Surgeon-General's Office. Authors and 
subjects. Vol. V. Flaccus-Hearth. 4to. Paper. 1,055 p. 



REPOET ON EXPLORATIONS AND COLLECTIONS IN THE 
QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS, BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

By James G. Swan. 

In 1873 I wrote a memoir on the Haidah Indians, of Queen Charlotte 
Islands, which was published in the Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge (No. 267), January, 1874. In the advertisement the late 
Professor Henry says that, " under the head of ethnology, it raises 
some questions which seem of great significance, and which it is hoped 
will lead to further investigations." It was not, however, till 1883 that 
an arrangement was effected, when, early in that year, I was sent by 
Professor Baird to that interesting group of islands lying in the North 
Pacific Ocean, off the coast of British Columbia, between lat. 51° 30' 
and 54:0 20' north, to make collections and obtain useful information for 
the United States Fish Commission, the National Museum, and the 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

On the 29th day of May, 1883, I left Port Townsend, Wash., for Vic- 
toria, B. C, to make my arrangements for the cruise, by purchasing all 
necessary stores and outfits, and securing a credit with the Hudson Bay 
Company to make purchases and draw orders on their traders at Fort 
Simpson, B.C.,andatMasset, on Graham Island,the largest of the Queen 
Charlotte group. I also made a similar arrangement with the Skidegate 
Oil Company to give orders on their store at their oil works, near Skide- 
gate village, B. C. This was to enable me better to trade with Indians 
for the procuring of specimens of their manufactures, and to avoid the 
trouble and risk of carrying coin with me to those islands, and to ena- 
ble me to keep an account of my expenditures in a more satisfactory 
manner. Having completed my arrangements, I next secured the serv- 
ices of an assistant and interpreter, a young Haidah Indian, a native 
of the Klue or Cumshewa district on the eastern coast of Moresby 
Island, the second largest of the Queen Charlotte Islands. This Indian, 
whose name is Johnny Kit Ulseva, I had personally known for some 
time as one of the most intelligent, faithful, and reliable natives I ever 
have seen. To his qualifications as a cook and general servant he 
added those of an interpreter; his knowledge of English, which he 
speaks fluently, enabling him to understand me fully at all times. He 
is also a working jeweler, skilled in making silver bracelets, ear-rings, 
and charms, and a good carver in wood and stone. He is also an artist, 
and has drawn for me in India ink a series of mythological sketches 
illustrative of the folk-lore of his tribe, and is still at work in finishing 

137 



138 REPOET ON THE QUEEN CHAELOTTE ISLANDS. 

other sketches, which, when completed and fully described by me, will 
be forwarded for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

As the communication with Queen Charlotte Islands is very uncer- 
tain I was obliged to wait for the steamer "Otter," which for many years 
has made semi-annual voyages to the islands, going in the spring with 
supplies for the Hudson Bay Company trading-post at Masset, and 
with goods for the oil company at Skidegate, and returning in October 
to take away the furs, fish, and oil that have been collected during the 
season. 

From some cause of delay the "Otter" did not leave Victoria until 
Monday, June 18, when we made a start at noon for Masset via all 
the trading stations and canneries on the route. I did not object to 
this, as I was thereby enabled to see many places where I expected to 
procure specimens, without additional cost for passage. As the detail 
of a sea voyage would be unnecessary here, I will omit all mention of 
it except of the places where we stopped. 

The next day, June 19, we arrived at Alert Bay, on Cormorant Island, 
the trading-post and cannery of Mr. Wesley Hudson, who has been there 
a number of years, and takes an interest in scientific matters, and is 
considered a reliable man in all his statements regarding fisheries, seals, 
and other fur-bearing animals, and in Indian lore. I shall refer to this 
gentleman in my general report. 

At 11.45 p. m. we left Alert Bay and ran down Johnson's Strait to 
Queen Charlotte Sound, and at 1 p. m. on the 20th we arrived at the 
canneries of Shotbolt & Co., at the head of Elver's Inlet, where we dis- 
charged some freight, and left at 2.30 p. m. In this inlet, besides Shot- 
bolt's canneries, are a saw-mill and canning establishment of Messrs. 
Saunders and Warren, of Victoria, but I did not visit them, as the steamer 
remained so short a time. 

After leaving Elver's Inlet we ran up Fitzhugh Sound to the Hudson 
Bay Company's trading-post of Bella Bella, where we arrived June 21 at 
1.30 a. m., and left at 2. a. m. for the mouth of the Skeena Eiver, where 
there is another cannery, at a place called Port Essiugton, where we ar- 
rived at midnight ; but I did not go ashore, as we shortly left for Metla- 
katla, where we arrived at C.30 a. m. on Friday the 22d. 

Shortly after our arrival Bishop Eidley, the bishop of the diocese, 
came on board and kindly invited me to go ashore with him, which I 
did, and was introduced by him to Eev. Mr. Collinson, one of the mis- 
sionaries, who has a fine collection of fossils and Indian curiosities, which 
he kindly showed me, but as I had but a short time to remain on shore 
I made a hurried visit, which I would gladly have prolonged, and then 
went to the residence of the Eev. Mr. Duncan, the founder of the Met- 
lakatla mission, and the teacher and preacher to the Indians of the 
Tsimsean tribe, who have a settlement at Metlakatla. 

I was very cordially received by Mr. Duncan, who showed me some 
blankets and shawls made by the mission Indians, and then took me to 



REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 139 

his cannery, where some fifty Indians, men and women, were engaged 
canning salmon. Everything was scrupulously neat and clean, and the 
whole work done with a precision and exactness which showed that 
Indians can be taught to do such kind of work, and, when taught, are 
as capable as a majority of white men, and are far preferable to Chinese. 
Mr. Duncan next wished me to visit his church, which I desired very 
much to do, but just then the whistle of the old steamer Otter gave the 
signal for departure, and, escorted by Mr. Duncan, I returned on board, 
and at 8.15 a. m. we left for the Hudson Bay Company's post at Fort 
Simpson, where we arrived at 12 o'clock noon. 

Fort Simpsou is situated on the mainland but a few miles south of 
the boundary between British Columbia and Alaska. It is one of the 
principal trading posts of the company, and is under charge of Mr. E. H. 
Hall, from whom I purchased a quantity of Indian manufactures in 
carved stone, to be sent by him to Victoria for me. I also saw Eev. 
Thomas Crosby, Wesleyan missionary, from whom I purchased several 
articles made by Tsimsean Indians, and then went with him to visit his 
church and school. I found a marked improvement in the appearance 
of Fort Simpsou since I visited it seven years ago in the U. S. S. 
" Wolcott." The old unsightly Indian houses of former days had been 
removed, and a pretty village of neat cottages surrounds the fine church, 
and gives evidence of the skill and taste of the Indians, when encour- 
aged by intelligent sympathy, to emulate the dwellings of white men. 
The general efiect of the village, when viewed from the anchorage, is 
very pleasing, and would be creditable to any of our frontier towns. 

At 1.30 P. M. we left F'ort Simpson for Fort Wrangel, Alaska, where 
we arrived the next morning (Saturday, 23d) at S o'clock. 

At Fort Wrangel I purchased several articles of Indian manufacture, 
and saw many more, but as they all came from Queen Charlotte Islands, 
where I was going, 1 concluded to make my purchases there. Having 
finished our business at Fort Wrangel we were ready to leave at noon, but 
there being a very heavy sea and stormy SE. gale of wind all day we re- 
mained until the next morning (Sunday, 24th). At 3 o'clock we started 
and ran down Stachiuski Strait into Duke of Clarence Strait, where we 
encountered a stormy head wind and heavy head sea, which retarded 
our progress till the next morning (Monday the 25th), when we had a 
terrific time with a stormy tide-rij) and SE. gale, which tossed the old 
steamer as if she were an egg-shell. At 2 p. M. the wind and sea went 
down and we soon got out of Clarence Strait into Dixon's Entrance and 
ran across to Masset Inlet, north end of Graham Island, and anchored 
ofi" the Hudson Bay Company's post at Uttewas village, two miles up 
the inlet, where I was kindly and most hospitably received by Alex- 
ander McKeuzie, esq., the company's agent at Masset, who furnished 
me comfortable quarters in a cottage within the company's inclosure. 

Masset is a very pretty place, situated on the east side of Masset Inlet. 
The land is low and level, and covered with dense foliage of evergreen 



140 REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 

trees, spruce, hemlock, and cedar, and an undergrowth of shrubbery, 
rose bushes, wild currant, raspberry, and hazel, with much open grass- 
land, on which wild strawberries are found in great quantities, of un- 
usual size and superior flavor. Strawberries and wild roses seem to be 
a specialty at Masset, and are noted by every person who visits Gra- 
ham Island in June. 

Masset is the site of the Indian town of Uttewas, a village containing 
65 houses old and new, some of them deserted and in ruins ; nearly every 
house has a carved column erected in front covered with heraldic or 
totemic designs of the family residing within. These columns are pic- 
ture writings and illustrate the folk-lore of the tribe, and most of them 
are allegorical or mythical fables which I succeeded in lUciphering, and 
my account of them, with illustrations, will be prepared by me for my 
complete monograph on Queen Charlotte Islands. 

Fish. — The princijial fish used by the Masset Indians for food is the 
halibut, which abounds in the waters of the inlet and along the whole 
of the north shore of Graham Island. Several varieties of salmon run 
up Masset Inlet, one of which, a small variety called by the Haidahs 
" Swagan^^ {0. Iceta, Walb.), is as fat and fine flavored as the Quenaiult 
salmon of the same variety, and is taken in considerable quantities by 
the natives, as is also a fine quality of salmon trout which are taken in 
weirs and traps in the small creeks which empty into the inlet. The 
dog salmon (0. Msutch. W{\lh.) is taken in the fall in considerable num- 
bers for winter use. Dogfish abound, and a large quantity of their oil 
is collected by the Hudson Bay Company every season from the In- 
dians. 

Codfish {Oadus morrhua) seem to breed in the waters of Masset Inlet, 
where I procured several specimens from IJ to 2 inches long, which 
I preserved in alcohol. Mr. McKenzie, the Hudson Bay Company's 
trader, purchased a few hundred pounds of true cod from the Indians 
which he salted in kench. I ate some of them and they were quite equal 
to pickled eastern cod, but the Haidahs do not seem to care for them, 
and when occasionally they catch the cod while fishing for halibut, they 
are always ready to sell them to white men. From what the Indians 
told me, and from my own observation, I think the true cod abound all 
along the northern and western coast of the whole group. These, with 
the Opliioflon elongatus, Kultus cod, or inferior cod, several species of 
Sehastichthys, and the black cod {Anoplopoma Jimhria), lamprey, eels, 
herring, smelt, &c., form an extensive and plentiful variety of food-fish. 

Of the i)lants observed by me, were Ahronia arenaria, L.; Lupinus 
Nootkafensis, Donn; Ranunculus Nelsoni, Gray ; Buhus ur sinus (Cham.), 
Schl. ; NiitJcmma mocino, R.; Spergularia, Pursh., Rosa Nntlianay Presl; 
Epilohium angustifoUu7n, L.; Engero7i salsuginosus, Gr. ; Campanula 
Scheuchzeri, Gray; Gaultheria Shallon, Pursh.; Mimulus luteuSy Willd; 
Gastilleia pallida, Kunth; Aquilegiaformosa, Fisch. ; Gentiana Amarella, 
L.j Pinus contorta, Douglas; Abies Engebnanm^ Parry; A. amabilis, 



REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 141 

Forbes ; Thuya gigantea^ Nutt ; Cnprcssus Nutlatensis, Lamb; Fritillaria 
lanceolata, Hook; Fragaria Chi1cnsiSjT>uchesne; Mahonia, Bcrheris Aqui- 
folivm, &c. All of tlie foregoiug- I observed in tlie vicinity of Masset, 
and along' the nortli shore of Graham Island. All of them are identical 
with the plants at Cape Flattery, Wash., except the Cuprcssus Nutlca- 
tensis, and the Gastilleia pallida., which latter at Cape Flattery is bright 
red, while at Masset and elsewhere on Queen Charlotte Islands it is 
pale yellow. 

Collections. — 1 was fortunate while at Masset in obtaining articles of 
great interest, such as models of ancient war canoes, salmon and trout 
nets, stone mortars, hammers, mauls, carved boxes, carved dishes of 
wood and horn. But the objects of the greatest interest to me were five 
images, three inches long, made of pure native copper by swedging 
and cutting. These images re])resent naked men and women dancing. 
They were worn at the belt in front of the person dancing, and made a 
tinkling sound. 

I procured them of an old woman, who told me that they had been in 
her family before her great grandmother could remember. The legend 
respecting them is that an ancestor of hers while on a trading excursion 
to Sitka procured them of an Atna or Copper Eiver Indian from the 
tribe of that name to the northwest of Sitka. These images were con- 
sidered of such value that I was offered a large sum if I would i)art with 
them, which I declined, as I considered them the best proof I have seen 
of the ancient intercourse between the Aztecs of Mexico and the tribes 
of the Northwest coast. On my subsequent return to Victoria, Mr. 
Alexander McKenzie, who had come from Masset, mentioned about 
these copper images on board Her Majesty's ship Swiftsure, then lying 
in Esquiuault Harbor. The surgeon of the ship, Dr. Moore, produced 
a silver image, 1^ inches long, which he had procured at Guatemala 
during the summer of 1883. This was made of pure nugget silver, and 
had been worn by a lady as a charm and susi)ended to the neck by a 
ribbon through a ring on the top of the head of the image. Mr. Mc- 
Kenzie was so struck with the similarity of design with the copper 
images that he borrowed it of Surgeon Moore, and had it photographed 
in four different positions. By comi>aring the two photographs the 
Aztec style seems to be seen in both alike. 

I also found in the grave of an old doctor, or sJiaga, who had been 
dead fifty years or more, a coui)le of carved tusks, which I at first 
thought were those of a peccary or Mexican wild hog, but subsequent 
examination in Washington proved them to be the babyroussa or Asi- 
atic wild hog, and the question is how they reached Queen Charlotte 
Island. A gentleman, long a resident in Japan, informs me that the 
Siamese junks are accustomed to trade on the African coast, running 
down with the northeast monsoons and returning with the southwest 
monsoon. These Siamese junks bring everything they can get, and 
trade with the Japanese and Chinese. These Japanese or Siamese junks 



142 REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 

have been frequently wrecked on the northwest coast, and in 1831 one 
of these junks was wrecked on the Qneen Charlotte Islands, and we have 
records which show that in 1G94 a Japanese junk was wrecked on the 
Kamtchatkan coast. And at various intervals since that date we find 
five junks reported as being wrecked on the northwest coast, previous 
to the one I have mentioned in 1831. It is therefore easy to assume as 
a logical conclusion that the tusks of the babyroussa were procured 
from the wreck of some one of those old junks and became the property 
of the old shaman, and from their rarity were considered a highly 
prized medicine, which were buried with their owner as some of his 
treasures. 

During my visit at Masset I went up the inlet and made several col- 
lections in natural history. I also took occasion to study the manners 
and customs of the Indians, which will be illustrated and explained in 
my future report. 

I remained at Masset until August 6, having been detained two weeks 
waiting the return of the Indian who was to take me to North Island 
and around the west coast to Skidegate. Everything being ready, I left 
Masset on Monday, August 6, at 8.30 a. m., in a large canoe with seven 
Indians, two of whom were boys thirteen or fourteen years of age. 

The canoe was owned and commanded by "Edinso," chief of North 
Island, where I wished particularly to make examinations. Edinso for- 
merly lived at a village called Kioosta, on the northwest end of Gra- 
ham Island, opposite North Island. We camped that night at Yatze 
village, a little to the west of Virago Sound, and the next morning, 
August 7, at 5 o'clock, we broke camp and proceeded to Jalun River, 
where we stopped for breakfast, the Indians meanwhile having speared 
ten humpback salmon (0. gorbuscha). 

At this place is a singular exhibit of volcanic action ; the lava had 
burst up Ibrough the superincumbent rocks as though the region had 
boiled like a jwt. The lava was of a brick-red color, and in some places 
a pale sulphur yellow, and filled with bowlders and pebbles of stone 
blackened outside with the heat, and looking like a gigantic plum pud- 
ding. This is the first instance I have seen of such an evident volcanic 
action on the direct sea-beach. 

From Jalun Hiver we passed on leisurely, examining the shore from 
the canoe as we went. At 1.30 we passed the pillar rock at Pillar Point, 
and I made a sketch of the pillar, which shows quite different from Pro- 
fessor Dawson's sketch made from the shore, and gives a better idea of 
the surrounding country. 

At 2 p. m. we went ashore in Parry Passage and gathered some speci- 
mens of shells, principally Heliotis and Pecten. I took the tempera- 
ture of the water in Parry Passage, and found it 54°, air 60°, barometer 
30, 31, and at 4 p. m. we landed at Kioosta village, where I pitched 
my tent and remained till the 14th, visiting in the meantime North 
Island, Cloak Bay, and two burial caves, in one of which I found a 



REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. l4B 

number of boxes, carved and painted, each of which contains the 
mummified remains of former inhabitants of the near villages. The 
prejudices of the Indians and ray overloaded canoe did not permit me 
to collect any specimens of those mummies, which I could easily have 
done if I had been in a steamer. I collected many interesting speci- 
mens of fish and mollusks, and could have procured more, but unfor- 
tunately the net which had been made for my dredge before leaving 
Port Townsend proved useless on trying it, as the man who made it for 
me had made a mistake in its shape, which made it impossible to use it 
in deep water. Had my dredge worked i)roperly I could have obtained 
many interesting mollusks in Parry Passage, which is a rich field for 
the naturalist. 

While at Kioosta village I made sketches of carved columns and 
heraldic designs and my Indian assistant, Johnny, drew, in India ink, a 
number of sketches illustrative of Indian legends, which when com- 
pleted will furnish an interesting and valuable addition to the general 
report of my summer's work. 

Near my camp at Kioosta village is the mausoleum or burial house 
of old Doctor Koontz, a famous skaga or shaman, who died many 
years ago and was famous in his time as a great medicine man. In his 
grave I found the tusks of the babyroussa mentioned. 

Directly opposite this point, on the southeast portion of North Island, 
is Cloak Bay, made interesting by the mention of it by Captain Dixon, 
who named it in 1787, and Captain Marchand, a French navigator, who 
visited it in 1791. My notes and observations made during my week's 
camp at Kioosta are too extensive to be inserted in this brief synopsis. 

On Tuesday, August 14, we broke camp at Kioosta and started for 
Skidegate at 10.20 A. m., with a fair tide which took us past Cape Knox, 
the extreme northwest point of Graham Island, where we encountered 
a tide-rip and rough cross-sea very dangerous to our heavily-laden 
canoe. The wind now commencing to blow fresh from the south- 
east with rain, we were forced to make a landing at a rocky point called 
Klekwakoon, which we did at 1.30 p. m., and with difficulty scrambled 
over a reef which extends out from the shore a considerable distance 
and is bare at half tide. I remained at this place till the 17th, being 
unable to proceed owing to constant head wind and heavy sea. I oc- 
cupied the time by explorations up and down the coast, collecting 
curiosities and other fossils, and a few specimens of small cottoid and 
other fish, and making notes of the appearance of the country, which 
is thrown into various contorted and fantastic shapes by volcanic action. 
It presents a most remarkable formation, and 1 regretted that I did not 
have a photographic apparatus with me to have taken a view of the * 
scene, which it is imiiossible otherwise to describe. 

I found quantities of drift stuff on the beaches and in the coves, 
among which were logs, and broken boards of redwood from California, 



144 REPOET ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 

sliowiug the northerly drift along the shores of Oregon, Washington 
Territory, and British Columbia. 

On Friday, August 17, I left Klekwakoon for the village of Tledoo, 
near Susk or Frederick Island, at 9 a. m., and reached camp at 2.30 
p. m. There were a few Indian houses unoccupied and I took posses- 
sion of one, glad to get under shelter from the rain which was falling 
fast. 

This village, which we found vacant on our arrival, is occupied during 
the season by sea-otter hunters. 

I had procured a chart of Queen Charlotte Islands published by the 
English admiralty from a map by G. M. Dawson, of the Geological Sur- 
vey office, Montreal, who made a reconnaissance of the east coast of the 
group in the summer of 1878. The west coast has never been surveyed, 
but the chart of that portion was made up from an old liussian map of 
1849, which is very incorrect. I kept this chart before me as I cruised 
along the coast in the canoe, and old Edinso, who is an excellent pilot, 
pointed out to me the errors in the chart as we passed along, and gave 
me the nomenclature of all the capes, points, bays, inlets, harbors, and 
islands. Frederick or Susk Island and Hippa or ISTesto Island had 
been pretty accurately laid down, but the intervening sjiaces from Cape 
Knox to Skidegate Channel were not correctly laid down, and I marked 
the corrections as we came to each place. At Hii)pah Island in par- 
ticular is a fine inlet not laid down, which makes a complete harbor of 
refuge for vessels bound up or down the coast. It is hidden from the 
view of passing vessels by ISTesto or Hippah Island, and will be found 
when properly surveyed to be of much importance to commerce. All 
my new work I have marked in red ink on the copy of the chart which 
I sent to Washington from Victoria, August 6. 

I was detained at Camp Tledoo from August 17 to August 21 by head 
winds and heavy breakers, which prevented our passing through the 
only opening in the reef to the ocean, and I occupied the time in making 
such collections as I could and making notes of the country for several 
miles each side of our camp. 

On Tuesday, August 21, I started at 5.20 a m. and i)roceeded as far 
as Hippah Island, where we camped for the night with much discomfort. 
The following morning I made a reconnaissance of Skaloo Inlet and 
noted it on my map, and proceeded leisurely along, noting every point 
and change in the coast, till we came to Runnell Sound, when it com- 
menced to blow from the south, with fog and rain, and we were forced 
to take refuge in a cove called Tchuwn, where I had to remain, wind and 
storm bound, till Saturday, the 25th, when I started at 7 a. m., and 
having camped that night in Skidegate Channel, I reached the Skide- 
gate Oil Works at 8 o'clock Sunday morning, August 2G. I at once 
made arrangements with the Skidegate Oil Company to assist me in 
procuring some black cod {Anoplopoma fimbria), which was done by 
Bending Indians to the west coast, where they abound, and in a few 



REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 145 

days I had over one hundred fine fish, which I had split like cod and 
salted. 

I remained at Skidegate making collections of the Indians till Tues- 
day, September 4, when I started on a visit to the villages of Skedaus, 
Cumshewa, and Laskeek, in the southern portion of the group, and suc- 
ceeded in obtaining some rare specimens of Indian work used in their 
masquerade performances and highly prized by them. 

At the village of Laskeek, on Tanoo Island, is the most interesting 
collection of columns, both heraldic and mortuary, and more monuments 
for the dead than I had seen in any other village. The Indian house in 
which I stopped is a new one, of large dimensions, built after the ancient 
style. In this house will be held the most extensive ceremonies that 
have taken place for many years, consisting of the tomanawas or secret 
performances, then the public tatooing of persons of all ages and sexes, 
then the masquerade dances and the distribution of presents, when sev- 
eral thousand dollars^ worth of blankets, calico, clothing, and provisions 
will be given away, and the whole interspersed with feasts at different 
houses in the village. The occasion of this is the erection of one or 
more huge columns, elaborately carved with totemic devices, to show the 
wealth and importance of the chief in front of whose house the column 
will be erected. This great ceremony will take place in the fall of this 
year and will be well worth seeing, as it is probable that it will be the 
last grand display of the kind that will take place, the influence of mis- 
sionaries being directed to suppressing these ancient ceremonies, in 
which they have succeeded, so far as regards the villages at Masset 
and Skidegate, where the ceremonies of the tomanawas^ if performed at 
present, are greatly shorn of their honors, and I was thereby enabled 
to obtain many articles of ceremonial usage, which formerly no white 
man was suffered to look at, much less to purchase and take away. 

The grand tomanawas of next fall will last from two to three weeks. 
I left Laskeek village on my return to Skidegate on Saturday afternoon, 
September 8tli, and ran back with a fair wind to Koona village, the resi- 
dence of Captain Skidauce, the chief of the Klue district, where I re- 
mained till the 10th, when I arrived at Skidegate village at 8 p. m., and 
the following morning returned to the oil works, when I at once packed 
my Skidegate collection into cases, took passage on the company's little 
steamer Skidegate, for Victoria, leaving Skidegate on Friday, September 
21st, and reaching Victoria on the afternoon of the 27th. 

The result of my work may be briefly summed up as follows: I have 
a most interesting and valuable collection of articles of Indian manu- 
facture. I have succeeded in introducing the black cod, a new and valu- 
able food-fish. I have determined the locality of several new inlets 
and harbors on the west coast of Graham Island. I have succeeded in 
deciphering the true meaning of the hieroglyphics of the carved col- 
umns, which are in great profusion in every village, and the meaning of 
the tattoo marks on the persons of the natives, I have collected evi- 
S Mis. 33- — 10 



146 REPORT ON THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS. 

dence of the former intercourse between the Haidahs and the Aztec 
races of Mexico, and have accumulated an amount of information re- 
specting the interesting tribe inhabiting the Queen Charlotte group of 
islands never yet made public, but which I shall elaborate in form for 
publication. 

It may perhaps be proper for me to mention at this time, without be- 
ing charged with egotism, that my work in the Queen Charlotte Islands 
has been considered of such value to the Province of British Columbia- 
that I have received an official invitation to deliver a lecture before the 
government and legislature of that province and to other government 
officials in Victoria on the subject of the Queen Charlotte Islands, which 
lecture I propose to deliver this present month, having obtained permis- 
sion so to do from Professor Baird. 

Although I have accomplished much, yet there remains much of in- 
terest to science to be further investigated, not only on the Queen Char- 
lotte Islands, but among the Haidahs of the Prince of Wales Archipel- 
ago, in Alaska; and anything intended to be done among those Indians 
to still further develop objects of interest should be done at once, before 
the tourists gather in aU articles of Indian manufacture, and before the 
Indians themselves shall have passed away. 



EEPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA- 
TION FOE THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE ON INDEX- 
ING CHEMICAL LITERATURE. 

[Extract from the Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII, Philadelphia.rueeting, September, 1884.] 

The Committee ou I ndexiug Chemical Literature, appointed in 1882, 
respectfully presents the following report of progress. 

We have the pleasure to announce that since our last report the fol- 
lowing indexes have been published by their authors, the arrangement 
of material being uniform with that of those previously issued : 

Ozone, second index, by Prof. Albert R. Leeds. 

Peroxide of Hydrogen, second index, by Prof. A. R. Leeds. 

Speed of Chemical Reactions, by Prof. R. B. Warder. 

Starch Sugar, by Dr. E. J. Hallock. 

Besides these a valuable contribution to chemical bibliography has 
been independently published on a somewhat different plan, by Prof. 
Albert B. Prescott and Mr. J. W. Baird. The full titles of the above 
will be found at the close of this report. 

Two hundred and fifty copies of our report for 1883 have been sent to 
chemists throughout the United States, the Smithsonian Institution 
having kindly attended to the distribution by mail without expense to 
the committee. This led to correspondence with several chemists who 
reg-arded the scheme of co-oi^erative indexing favorably, and resulted 
in several offers of assistance. 

Prof. William Ripley Nichols offers an Index to the Literature of Car- 
bon Monoxide. 

Prof. L. P. Kinnicutt offers an Index to the Literature of Meteorites. 

Dr. Henry Leffmann reports progress on his Index to the Literature of 
Arsenic. 

Prof. C. E. Monroe does likewise with reference to an Index to the 
Literature of Explosives. 

Prof. A. B. Prescott and Mr. J. T. Craig offer an Index to the Liter- 
ature of Phosphorus. 

Dr. H. Carrington Bolton has in preparation a second Index to the 
Literature of Uranium. 

An offer was also received of an index to an element already on the 
list of those published, but was withdrawn as soon as the author had his 
attention called to the existing publication. This circumstance shows 
forcibly the advantage of cooperation through this committee. 

We are pleased to announce that in consequence of our representations 
the Smithsoniaij Institation Ijas consented to publish indexes to chemical 



148 REPORT ON INDEXING CHEMICAL LITERATURE. 

literature which shall be indorsed by this committee. The Smithsonian 
places a limit to the number of pages which will be printed per annum, 
but the limit is a generous one. 

By thus securing the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution, chem- 
ists are assured of a reliable and authoritative channel of publication, 
together with a wide circulation, and the plan of co-operative indexing 
will undoubtedly receive a great stimulus. 

Finally, to extend more widely acquaintance with the existing indexes, 
we append a complete list of those printed. A limited number of those 
published by the Xew York Academy of Sciences can be had by ad- 
dressing the chairman of the publication committee of the academy, 
Prol'. D. S. Martin, 236 West Fourth street, New York City. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

H. Cakbington Bolton, Chairman. 

Ira Remsen. 
F. W. Clarke. 
Albert R. Leeds. 
Alexis A. Julien. 
September 4, 1884. 

LIST OF INDEXES TO CHEMICAL LITERATURE. 

Uranium, index to the literature of. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals of the New- 
York Lyceum of Natural History, Vol. IX, February, 1870. 15 pp. 8vo. 

Manganese, index to the literature of; 1596-1874. By H. Carrington Bolton. Annals 
of the Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Vol. XI, November, 1875. 44 pp. 8vo. 

Titanium, index to the literature of ; 1783-1876. By Edw. J. Hallock. Annals df the 
New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, Nos. 2 and 3, 1877. 22 pp. 8vo. 

Vanadium, index to the literature of. By G. Jewett Rockwell. Annals of the New 
York Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 5, 1877. 13 pp. 8vo. 

Ozone, index to the literature of; 1875-1879. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals of the 
New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 12, 1880. 32^pp. 8vo. 

Peroxide of Hydrogen, the literature of; 1818-1878. By Albert R. Leeds. Annals 
of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. I, No. 13, 1880. 11 pp. 8vo. 

7i7fc^ro?//8is, index to the literature of; 1784-1880. By W. Walter Webb. Annals 
of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. II, No. 10, 1882. 40 pp. 8vo. 

Speed of Chemical Reactions, literature of. By Robert B. Warder. Proceedings of 
the Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, Vol. 32, 1883. 3 pp. 8vo. 

Starch- Sugar, bibliography of. By. Edw. J. Hallock. Appendix E to Report on 
Glucose, prepared by the National Academy of Sciences in response to a request 
made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. U. S. luternal Revenue, Washing- 
ton, D. C, 1884. 44 pp. 8vo. 

Ozone, index to the literature of (1879-1883); accompanied by an Historical-Critical 
R<5sum6 of the Progress of Discovery since 1879. By Albert R. Leeds. Annalp of the 
New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. Ill, p. 137, 1884. 16 pp. Bvo. 

I'ei'oxide of Hgdrogen, index to the literature of; 1879-1883. By Albert R. Leeds. 
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. Ill, p. 153, 1884. 3 pp. 8vo. 

Dictionarij of the Action of Heat upon Certain Metallic (Sa?/^, including an index to the 
principal literature upon the subject. Compiled and arranged by J. W. Baird, con- 
tributed by A. B. Prescott. New York, 1884. 70 pp. Bvo. 



ACTS AND EESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, &o. 

In continuation from previous reports. 



ACTING SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

An act to provide for the appoiutmeut of an Acting Secretary of the Smithsonian 

Institution. 

[PubliCi.No. 31, Forty-eighth Congress, First Session.] 

Be it enacted by the Senate and Rouse of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Conr/ress assembled, That the Chancellor of the 
Smithsonian Institution may, by an instrument in writing filed in the 
ofiQce of the Secretary thereof, designate and appoint a suitable person 
to act as Secretary of the Institution when there shall be a vacancy in 
said office, and whenever the Secretary shall be unable, from illness, 
absence, or other cause, to jierform the duties of his office ; and in such 
case the person so appointed may i^erform all the duties imposed on the 
Secretary by law until the vacancy shall be filled or such inability shall 
cease. The said Chancellor may change such designation and appoint- 
ment from time to time as the Institution may, in his judgment, re- 
quire. 

(Ai)proved May 13, 1884. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, first ses- 
sion, chapter 44, page 2i.) 



PROPERTY TO BE TRANSPORTED FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
An act making appropriations for the support of the Army for the fiscal year 1885. 

Provided also, That hereafter the Quartermaster-General and his 
officers, under his instructions, wherever stationed, shall receive, trans- 
port, and be responsible for all property turned over to them, or any one 
of them, by the officers or agents of any Government survey, for the 
National Museum, or for the civil or naval departments of the Govern- 
ment, in Washington or elsewhere, under the regulations governing 
the transportation of Army supplies, the amount paid for such trans- 
portation to be refunded or paid by the Bureau to which such property 
or stores pertain. 

(Approved July 5, 1884. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, first ses- 
sion, chap. 217, p. 111.) 

149 



150 ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

SMITHSONIAN MAIL MATTER FREE OF POSTAGE. 

An act making appropriations for the Post-Office Department for the fiscal year 1885. 

The provisions of the fifth and sixth sections of the act entitled "An 
act establishing post-routes, and for other purposes" approved March 
3, 1877, for the transmission of official mail matter, be, and they are 
hereby, extended to all officers of the United States Government, not 
including- members of Congress, the envelopes of such matter in all cases 
to bear appropriate indorsements containing the proper designation of 
the office from which or officer from whom the same is transmitted, 
with a statement of the penalty for their misuse. And the provisions 
of said fifth and sixth sections are hereby likewise extended and made 
applicable to all official mail matter of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Provided, That any Department or officer authorized to use the penalty 
envelopes may enclose them with return address to any person or per- 
sons from or through whom official information is desired, the same to 
be used only to cover such official information, and indorsements re- 
lating thereto. * * * 

(Approved, July 5, 1884. Statutes Forty-eighth Congress, first ses- 
sion, chap. 234, p. 158.) 



EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AT NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION. 

To enable the several Executive Departments, the Department of 
Agriculture, and the Smithsonian Institution to participate in the 
"World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition to be held at New 
Orleans, Louisiana, under act of Congress of February tenth, eighteen 
hundred and eighty-three, as follows : For the War Department, fifteen 
thousand dollars ; for the Kavy Department, ten thousand dollars ; for 
the State Department, ten thousand dollars ; for the Treasury Depart- 
ment, twelve thousand dollars 5 for the Interior Department, one hun- 
dred and twenty- five thousand dollars ] for the Post-Office Department, 
ten thousand dollars 5 for the Department of Agriculture, twenty-five 
thousand dollars ; for the Department of Justice, three thousand dol- 
lars ; for the Smithsonian Institution (including the National Museum 
and Commission of Fish and Fisheries), seventy-five thousand dollars ; 
for necessary incidental expenses of administration by the board, includ- 
ing office rent, fuel, gas, stationery, telegrams, and expressage, fifteen 
thousand dollars; in all, three hundred thousand dollars, to be dis- 
bursed under the direction of the Board on United States Executive 
Departments appointed under executive order of May thirteenth, eight- 
een hundred and eighty-foar ; and no expense of any kind beyond the 
amounts herein provided for shall be incurred by any of the said De- 
partments, or any officer thereof, on account of said exposition. 

To enable the several Executive Departments of the Government, in- 
cluding the Department of Agriculture and the Smithsonian Institu- 



ACTS OF CONGRESS. 151 

tion, to participate in the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, to be held 
at Cincinnati, Ohio, during the months of September and October, 
eighteen hundred and eighty-four, ten thousand dollars ; and to parti- 
cipate in the Southern Exposition, to be held at Louisville, Kentucky, 
from August sixteenth to October twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and 
eighty-four, ten thousand dollars ; in all, twenty thousand dollars ; 
Provided, That in case more than the said sums is required for the 
execution of this provision the same shall be paid by said Expositions. 
(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved July 7, 1884. Statutes 
Forty-eighth Congress, first session, chap. 332, p. 207.) 



APPROPKIATIONS. 

Forty-eighth Congress, First Session. 

Naval Observatory. — For payment to Smithsonian Institution for 
freight on Observatory publications sent to foreign countries, three hun- 
dred and thirty-six dollars. 

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act. Approved 
July 7, 1884, chap. 331, p. 184.) 

War Department. — For the transportation of reports and maps to for- 
eign countries : For the transportation of reports and maps to foreign 
countries, through the Smithsonian Institution, three hundred dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved July 7, 1884, chap. 332, 
p. 220.) 

Public Buildings. — For paving sidewalk on south and east fronts of 
National Museum building, one thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, Approved July 7, 1884, chap. 332, 
p. 209.) 

National Museum. — For the preservation of collections of the National 
Museum : For the preservation and exhibition and increase of the col- 
lections received from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the 
Government, and other sources, including salaries or compensation of 
all necessary employes, ninety-one thousand dollars. And the Director 
of the National Museum is hereby directed to report annually to Con- 
gress the progress of the Museum during the year and its present con- 
dition. 

For transfer and arrangement of the collections of the American In- 
stitute of Mining Engineers, presented to the Government, including 
expenses already incurred, ten thousand dollars. 

For the preservation of collections of the National Museum in the 
Armory Building : For care of the Armory Building and grounds and 
expense of watching, preservation, and storage of the duplicate collec- 
tions of the Government and of the property of the United States Fish 



152 ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

Commissiou contained therein, including salaries or compensation of all 
necessary employes, two thousand five hundred dollars. 

For furniture and fixtures of the National Museum : For cases, fur- 
niture, and fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of the 
United States National Museum, and for salaries or compensation of 
all necessary employes, forty thousand dollars. 

For heating" and lighting the National Museum : For expense of heat- 
ing, lighting, and telephonic and electrical service for the new museum 
building, six thousand dollars. 

Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved July 7, 1884, chap. 332, 
p. 214.) 

Smithsonian Institution. — For finishing, heating, gas-fitting, plumb- 
ing, and completely furnishing the eastern portion of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and for finishing the fourth and fifth stories, including 
liabilities already incurred, fifteen thousand dollars. 

For North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution : For the 
purpose of continuing ethnological researches among the American 
Indians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, including salaries and compensation of all necessiary employes, 
forty thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act. Approved July 7, 1884, chap. 332, 
p. 214.) 

International Exchanges^ Smithsonian Institution. — For the expenses of 
an international exchange of books, documents, and productions of the 
United States with foreign countries, in accordance with the Paris con- 
vention of 1877, including salaries and compensation to all necessary 
employes, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand dollars. 

(Consular and diplomatic appropriation act. Approved July 7, 1884, 
chap. 333, p. 235.) 

Refund of Duty on Sevres Vase presented to National Museum. — To re- 
fund the duty paid by L. Strauss and Sons, May 23, 1879, upon a Sevres 
vase presented by them to the National Museum, two hundred and ten 
dollars and fifty cents. 

(Act to supply deficiencies. Approved, July 7, 1884, chap. 334, p. 246.) 

Senry Statue. — For expense of freight on statue of Joseph Henry 
from Kome to Washington, and all expenses by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution connected with the erection and ceremonies of unveiling said 
statue, nine hundred dollars. 

(Act to supply deficiencies. Approved, July 7, 1884, chap. 334, p. 
246.) 



ACTS OF CONGRESS. 153 

ELECTION OF REGENTS. 

Joint resolution 15, filling an existing vacancy in the Board of Eegents of the 

Smithsonian Institution. 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in 
the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class "other 
than members of Congress," shall be filled by the reapijoiutment of 
Noah Porter, of Connecticut, whose term of service has expired. 

(Approved, March 3, 1884. Statutes, Forty-eighth Congress, first ses- 
sion, p. 269.) 

Joint resolution 26, filling an existing vacancy in the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Resolved by the Senate and Souse of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in 
the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class "other 
than members of Congress," occasioned by the resignation of Peter 
Parker, be filled by the appointment of James C. Welling, of the city 
of Washington. 

(Approved, May 13, 1884. Statutes, Forty-eighth Congress, first 
session, p. 272.) 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1884. 



155 



.1 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of fbe General Appendix is to furuish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions ; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the " Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
156 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1884. 



INTRODUOTIOISr. 

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich 
the annual report, required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus- 
trating the more remarkable and important developments in phyical 
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of 
the operations of the Institution, this purpose was not carried out on 
any very systematic plan until the year 1880. Believing however that 
an annual report or summary of the recent advances made in the lead- 
ing departments of scientific inquiry would supply a want very gener- 
ally felt, and would be favorably received by all those interested in the 
diffusion of knowledge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of 
1880, by competent collaborators, a series of abstracts showing con 
cisely the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, 
geology, i^hysics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and anthro- 
pology. 

The same general programme has been followed in the subsequent 
reports, with the inclusion of geography and meteorology in the list of 
subjects. The contributors to this record for the present year, and their 
several departments or topics, remain the same as in the last report, ex- 
cepting that the summary of the progress of geology and of that of bot- 
any for the year have been unavoidably omitted. A resume of the sub- 
jects vulcanology and seismology for the years 1883 and 1884 has been 
prepared for this report by Prof. Charles B. Eockwood, of Princeton 
College ; and a review of the bibliography of ISTorth American inverte- 
brate palaeontology for the year has been prepared by Mr. John Bel- 
li nap Marcou. 

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor- 
tunt details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render 
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department 
Avithin the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to 
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports. 

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced 
by an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such 
branches as mathexoatics, physiology, pathology and medicine, micros- 

157 



158 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

copy, &c., but also of the more practical topics of agricultural and hor- 
ticultural economy, engineering, mechanics, and technology in general ; 
but the space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available 
in the present channel. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual pro- 
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of 
the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied ; and very 
many items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. 
While the student in a special field of knowledge may occasionally re- 
ceive hints that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to 
consult for fuller information the original journals and special periodi- 
cals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled. 

The plan of devoting some 350 pages of the annual report to such a 
compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the "Gen- 
eral Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs or discussions 
that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Baibd. 



ASTRONOMY. 



By Professor Edward S. Holden, 

Dire^'tor of the Washburn Observatory. 



The following record of the progress of Astronomy during the year 
1SS4 is in continuation of the rebords for past years, and it is given in 
essentially the same form. Abstracts of some of the most important 
papers of the year are arranged under their appropriate heads. Other 
papers, equally impoitaut, have been omitted, since they do not lend 
themselves to condensation. 

To the professional astronomer these abstracts may serve as a con- 
venient collection of notes. They are, however, primarily intended for 
the large and increasing class of those who are interested in astronomy, 
but whose acquaintance with the subject is more general than special. 
The writer has made free use of reviews, etc., which have appeared in 
the various scientific journals, more especially iu Xature, The Obserra- 
iory^ Bullttin Astronomique, Siriics, The Sidereal Messenger, The Atlie- 

CONSTEUCTIOX OF THE HEAVENS ; NEBULAE HYPOTHESIS, ETC. 

On tlie distribution of the stars in the northern hemisphere, by Prof. H. 

Seeligek. 

[abstract.] 

As is well known, the JDurehmusterung of Argelander contains the po- 
sitions and magnitudes of all stars visible in a 3-inch comet-seeker, with 
a power of 10,fi-om the north pole to — 2^ declination. Professor Schoen- 
feld has completed a similar Durchmusterung from — 2° to — 23° which 
is not yet published. The stars of these lists are between the 1.0 and 9.5 
magnitudes (the last approximate only). In 18G9 von Littrow had the 
stars of the northern D. M. counted by magnitudes and by declination. 
That is, he had the zones of 1^ wide in declination counted, so as to ex- 
hibit the number of stars of each tenth of a magnitude. Unfortunately 
he did not separate the stars so as to exhibit the numbers iu right as- 
cension also, as he might easily have done. Professor Seeliger, of 
Munich, has just completed a count of this kind. He was led to do this, 
he says, because there was no such count in existence, and one was 
needed. It is clear that a kind of aistrouomical " clearing-house," where 

159 



ICO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

accounts can be adjusted, is also needed ! A count of this kind, exists 
in MS. at the Bonn Observatory (see Bonn Obs., vol. v), but is not ac- 
cessible. The Washburn Observatory prints in its vol. iii, the begin- 
ning of a count of this kind (from — 2° to -f 13°), which was stopped 
on hearing of Professor Seeliger's. Professor Seeliger appears also to 
be unaware that Littrow's count has been repeated by Mr. Peirce {An- 
nals H. G. 0., vol. IX) ! With this digression, which is not uninstructive, 
we return to Professor Seeliger's important paper. He has then counted 
the stars of the D. M. accurately, and by R. A. as well as Decl. and Mag. 
Instead of keeping magnitudes down to the tenths, he has wisely se- 
lected the following classes : 

1. Containing stars from 1.0 to 6.5 mags., inclusive. 

2. Containing stars from 6.6 to 7.0 mags., inclusive. 

3. Containing stars from 7.1 to 7.5 mags., inclusive. 

4. Containing stars from 7.6 to 8.0 mags., inclusive. 

5. Containing stars from 8.1 to 8.5 mags., inclusive. 

6. Containing stars from 8.6 'to 9.0 mags., inclusive. 

7. Containing stars from 9.1 to 9.5 mags., inclusive. 

The number of stars for each 20"* of R. A. and each l'^ of Dec. was 
counted. These numbers have been united into sums giving new num- 
bers of stars in areas of 20'" in R. A. by 5° in Dec. The latter tables 
are to be printed by the Munich Observatory. 

Professor Seeliger's paper contains the number of stars for each area 
of 40™ in R. A. by 5° in Dec, the stars of each class 1-7 being enu- 
merated separately. There are, in the northern sky, 4,120 objects of 
class 1 ; 3,887 class 2 ; 6,054 class 3 ; 11,168 class 4 ; 22,898 class 5 ; 
52,852 class 6 ; 213,973 class 7 ; 314,952 in all, besides 126 nebulte, va- 
riables, etc. That is 315,078 in all, by Professor Seeliger's count. Ar- 
gelander gives 315,089. To deal with this mass of figures, Professor 
Seeliger divides the sky^into 8 zones. Zone 1 has its center at the north 
pole of the Milky Way, and extends to Galactic Polar Distance 20° ; 
zone 2 extends from G. P. D. 20° to 40°: zone 3, from 40° to 60° ; zone 
4, from 60° to 80° ; zone 5 (containing the Milky Way itself) from 80° to 
100°, and so on to G. P. D. 140°. 

The number of stars (of each class) per zone is next determined ; and 
next the number of stars (of each class) in each 1° square. We may 
quote the figures for class 1 and classes 2-7 taken together : 

Class 1. Classes 2-7. 

Zone 1 0.15 8.51 

2 0.15 8.95 

3 0.17 11.02 

4 0.21 16.77 

5 0.27 24.60 

6 0.25 18.92 

7 0.15 11.59 

8 0.12 10.19 



ASTRONOMY. IGI 

This table shows the influence of the Milky Way most markedly; but 
if changed so that the number of stars in zone 5 is always 1.00, it be- 
comes even more interesting. 

Class 1. Classes 2-7. 

Zone 1 0.55 0.35 

2 0.57 0.36 

3-: 0.64 0.45 

4 0.79 0.68 

5 1.00 1.00 

6 0.91 0.77 

7 0.57 0.47 

8 0.43 0.41 

If we call these last numbers D, and if we form 1=5, these numbers 
may be called the gradients (G), expressing the rapidity of increase of 
number of stars as we approach the Milky Way. The values of G are — 

Class 1 0.36 Class 5 0.44 

2 0.48 6 0.45 

3 0.42 7 0.45 

4 0.47 8 0.52 

Classes 2-7, 0.50. 

It thus appears probable that G is greater for the fainter stars, but 
not so much greater as has been commonly supposed. For stars of 
the mags. 1, 2, 3, and of the mngs. 4, 5, 6, G results 0.14 and 0.19. These 
numbers show an important difference between the bright and the faint 
stars. If Ave were allowed to assume that stars even fainter than 9.5 
would continue to show the constant gradient that these show it would 
follow that our stellar system was not to be considered as a flat disk, 
but rather more or less spherical, with the stars concentrated near its 
medial plane (the Milky Way). 

The author next proceeds to compute the center of gravity of each 
class of stars, and its position is — 



(?) 



Dec. -f 790.5 
+ 81 
+ 79 
+ 79 

+ 78 

+ 77 

The last column gives the ratio ^ for each class ; where E is the dis- 
tance of the center of gravity of all slars of the class, r that of any star 
of that class. 

The full interpretation of these numbers can only be made when 
S. Mis. 33 11 



Class 2 


-R. 


A. 


= 25'^ 30"^ 


3 






22 32 


4 


. 




23 10 


5 


. 




23 7 


6 






23 9 


7. . 






24 14 



'.5 


0.58 


.5 


0.58 


.7 


0.56 


.3 


0.53 


.3 


0.51 


.3 


0.51 



3 62 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Schoenfeid's D. M. is published. Certain further conclusions may also 
be drawn from the author's figures. This paper is the most impor- 
tant which has appeared on this very interesting question since the pub- 
lication of Dr. Gould's TJranometria Argentina. 

ASTRONOMICAL CONSTANTS. 

New investigations on the constants of precession. — In one of the last 
meetings of the " Kiederrheinische Gesellschaft fiir Natur und Heil- 
kunde," Dr. Schoenfeld presented a lately published article by Dr. F. 
Bolte, entitled " Investigations on the Constants of Precession, based 
upon the Star catalogues of Lalande and Schjellerup." The writer 
here makes the first attempt to take into consideration the systematic 
proper motion of the fixed stars in the determination of these important 
constants ; while up to this time those parallactic changes of star posi- 
tions, at most, have been considered which are due to the motion of the 
solar system. Such systematic proper motions may be of different 
kinds, but the most obvious assumj^tion is that they occur in planes 
which are but slightly inclined to the plane of the Milky Way. This is 
the idea that the writer has adopted, and he has applied it to the 3,300 
stars common to the above mentioned catalogues, supplementing a 
treatise of Dreyer's, in which the latter discusses the E. A.'s of these 
stars, by considering- their declinations at the same time. The result 
for the precession is a very good substantiation of Struve's constant, 
now so commonly used in our almanacs ; as to the assumed common 
motion of the stars however, the result is an entirely negative one, for 
its value, determined as 0".4 per century, is much less than its probable 
error. 

The speaker touched upon various possible explanations of this in- 
teresting result, particularly this : That the attraction of the Milky 
Way upon the individual stars may be counteracted by the attraction 
of the nebul.E which are mostly thickly clustered about the poles of the 
Milky Way. — From Sirius, February, ] 884. 

CATALOGUES OF STARS. 

Progress ofthezone-ohservafions of stars 1-0 mag. of the German Astro- 
nomical Society. — Kasan : Zone 80^-15°. The printing is begun and it 
gives the star places reduced to the beginning of the year. The reduc- 
tion to 1875 is still to be made. 

Borpat : Zone 75O-70'^ ; and Christiania : Zone 70O-65o. The work 
for these zones is nearly completed. 

Helsirujfors- Gotlia : Zone G50-55°. The printing is well advanced. 

Camhridge (U. S.) : 550-50°. The printing has begun ; the work of 
reduction to 1875.0 is about half done. A certain number of stars re- 
quire reobservation. The probable errors of a position are about 0».08 
and 0".8. 



ASTRONOMY. 163 

Bonn : Zone 50°-40o. The observations are not yet finished, although 
near to completion. The mean difference of R. A. of a star from two 
observations is about 0^.08 and I'M. Investigations of the effect of the 
magnitude of a star on its deduced R. A. show a difference (faint m^wMs 
bright) less than+ 0.^008 in the mean. 

Lund : Zone 40O-35'^. The work is nearly completed. 

Leyden : Zoue 350-30°. The observations are finished. 

Cambridge (England): Zone 300-25°. Thirty-eight thousand five hun- 
dred and fifty-nine observations have been made from 1872 to 1883. 
Three hundred and eighty-four stars have not yet been observed once; 
614 have been observed only once; the rest of the total number, 10,691, 
twice or often er. 

Berlin : Zone 25O-20o. Dr. Becker's observations are completed. 
Observations on 13 nights of 247 stars show that fainter stars are ob- 
served later by 0^007 for each magnitude. 

Berlin: Zone 200-15°. Dr. Auwers has long since completed the 
observations. The reductions are not completed. 

Leipsic : Zone 150-5o. The observations are nearly completed for 
the zone I50-IO0, and those for IOO-50 are in progress. 

Albany : Zone 50-I0. The observations are comi:)leted, and the re- 
ductions very far advanced. 

Nikolaieff : Zone +lo-2o. The observations are still in progress. 

JDetermining stars for the southern zones of the Astronomische Gesel- 
schaft. — These 303 stars are being observed at various observatories, 
as follows : 

Gape of Good Hope. — The observations are finished and each star has 
been observed at least twelve times. The results of ol)servatiou are all 
reduced, and for the final publication there are needed investigations 
of the flexure, the latitude, the refraction, the personal equations of 
the observers depending («) on the star's magnitude, (&) on its declina- 
tion. The division errors for each 1° have been investigated. The cir- 
cle is not reversible. The flexure is to be investigated by means of col- 
limators made specially for the purpose by Trough ton & Simms. Each 
collimator is furnished with a reversing apparatus and a level, and the 
horizontal point can thus be determined, either north and south. Com- 
bining these horizontal points with nadir-points will determine whether 
the flexure is the same looking north and south. The latitude is to be 
determined from observations of circumpolar stars, at both culminations 
(already observed in 1880 '81 '82 '83). The declinations of these stars 
are to be determined by observing their azimuths at greatest elonga- 
tions E. and W., with the 3foot theodolite of the India survey. South 
stars culminating at zenith-distances, equal to those of the circumpolar 
stars, are to be observed by Talcott's method. These observations are 
to be combined by Kapteyn's method. 

For the refraction, the Cape has observed a number of north stars 
(near the ?euith of Leyden) and, zenith stars (near the horizon of Ley- 



164 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

deu) wliich have also been observed at Lej'den. A discussion of these 
declinations is now in progress. 

For eliminating personal equation depending on the direction of the 
star's motion, each star has been observed over half the wires in the 
usual way, and over the other half through a reversing prism. 

All the observers make the clock slotcer when the stars move across 
the field from left to right. 

Leyden Observatory. — Since 1881, 427 observations have been made, 
and 1,124 in all ; 165 of the 303 stars have been observed once or oftener. 

Melbourne Observatory. — The observations will be begun in 1883. 

Sydney Observatory. — Sydney also proposes to observe these stars. 

Naples Observatory. — The observations will be begun in January, 1884. 

Washburn Observatory. — The observations were begun in May, 1884, 
and up to January 1, 1885, 1,800 observations have been made and are 
completely reduced. Tlie probable error of a single decl. is 0".41. The 
constant of refraction of the Pulkowa Eefraction.tables requires a cor- 
rection of + 0".30. 

A uniform ephemeris of the clock-stars.* — A noteworthy feature in the 
progress of our astronomical annuals is the rapid increase that has taken 
I^lace within a few years in the number of the clock-stars. This increase 
seems to have been brought about chiefly by the influence of the Berlin 
list of 539 stars, which was published for the use of astronomers who 
were engaged in observing the zones of the northern heavens. The 
convenience of this list for the use of observing parties in the field seems 
to have led to the large increase that we find in the annual publications. 
For the year 1886 the Nautical Almanac gives the mean positions of 198 
stars, the Gonnaissance des Temps of 316, the Berliner Jahrbuch of 622, 
and the American Ephemeris of 383 stars. 

That this great increase in the number of clock-stars has some ad- 
vantages will not be denied, but, on the other hand, there seem to be 
some disadvantages that ought to be considered. In the first place the 
mean positions of the stars given in the different publications do not 
agree as well as might be expected when the great number of observa- 
tions of these stars is taken into account and the number of years over 
which the observations are extended. These differences of position 
are indeed small, and their influence on the observed positions of other 
stars and i)lanets cannot be great ; but we have ah'eady examples in 
astronomy of the extension of such small errors into large catalogues of 
stars and of their development into periodic errors. 

The constants for the reduction of the clock-stars from one epoch to 
another, and to apparent position, are now so well known, and the 
adopted values are so nearly the same, that the differences produced by 
the various reductions are frequently neglected ; but even here it seems 
there is room for improvement. At the present time the values of the 

*Astr.Nachj.-.,No.2602, 



ASTRONOMY. 165 

constants of reduction are known to a good degree of approximation, 
and it onght not to be difficult for astronomers to unite on a common 
system of values of these constants and also on a uniform notation to be 
used in reductions. The great advancement in stellar astronomy made 
by Bessel in his "Tabular Eegiomoutana3 " seems to have been partly 
disregarded and lost, and his methods for bringing the labors of many 
observers into harmony, and of making them all tend towards the ad- 
vancement of the science, have sometimes been overlooked and for- 
gotten. 

Again, if a large list of clock-stars is at hand, the astronomer is apt 
to make his work purely differential. In many cases this may be his 
best course, but such work would be more easily reduced and compared 
if it could all be referred to a common system of clock-stars. The com- 
putation of systematic errors would not be avoided,, but the work would 
be made easier and more certain. 

In order to obtain an extensive and convenient ephemeris of the clock- 
stars, suitable for general use, it would be better to mate such a work a 
special publication. In this way the adoption of the mean positions of the 
stars and the selection of the constants of reduction and the system of 
notation could be brought under the direction of one office. The work 
should be so elaborate that the apparent position of a star could be in- 
terpolated with ease and certainty for any time, but even with such an 
extension the cost of publication would not be great. I hope that the 
Astrouomische Gesellschaft may be willing to undertake a work of this 
kind. (A. Hall, Washington, 1884, Mmj 30.) 

Positions of polar stars. — Vols. I and ii of the Amials of the Observ- 
atory of Kiew are largely devoted to the observations made of a con 
siderable number of circumpolar stars with the object of forming a 
standard set of places. These two interesting volumes cannot be epito- 
mized here, but reference may be made to a very complete review of 
them in the Bulletin Astronomique, vol. i, p. 139, by M. Callaudreau. 

Schoenfeld's Burchmusteriing,from—2'^ to— 23°. — At the Vienna meet- 
ing of the German Astronomical Society, Dr. ISchoenfeld gave an ac- 
count of the progress of his work since the Strassburg meeting. 

699.3 hours of R. A. with 303,351 star-positions have been observed. 
The principal catalogue now contains 113,700 stars between — 2° and 
—23° and 1,101 stars near these limits. In il'', i. c, from O'^ 0"' to (i^ 
0"", the work is completed. (This work is now clone; 1«85.) 

It is expected to begin the printing of the principal catalogue in May- 
or June, 1881. Probably some 40,000 stars brighter than 9.1 mag. exist 
in the region. 

Greemvich catalogue of stars. — The volume of Greenwich Observations 
for 1882 has been published. It was mentioned in the Astronomer 
Eoyal's report to the board of visitors that this had been passed for 
press early in May. It is the first volume relating to a year of which 
the work was wholly under the direction of Mr. Christie, as Sir George 



IGG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Airy resigned on the 15th of August, 1S81. In his report, alluded to 
above, Mr. Christie stated that the next great catalogue of stars formed 
from the Greenwich observations would not be commenced until after 
the end of next year, as it wa ; intended to make it embrace, like the 
preceding, the stellar work of nine years, ending with that of 1885, as 
the last included the observations of 1876. 

New catalogues of stars. — The Armagh Observatory is preparing for 
the press a second Armagh catalogue of about 3,000 stars, most of which 
have been observed from three to five times with the mural circle. 

The Washburn Observatory will print in its vol. iii, now in press, a 
catalogue of 1,001 southern stars, observed by Professor Tacchini in 
1867, '68, '00, and reduced by Rev. Father Hagen, S. J., and Professor 
Holdeu. 

Catalogue 0/6,000 stars. — Professor Schering writes that the Gottin- 
gen catalogue of 6,000 stars is in process of preparation for printing. 
For account of it see Gottinger Nachrichten, 1864, July 13. 

PARALLAX OF STARS. 

Paralkix-hnnting at DunsinJc* — For some years past Professor Ball 
has employed the south refractor of the Dunsink Observatory in mak- 
ing a systematic Search for stars with a large annual parallax. The 
third part of the Observations contains the results of measures of 42 
objects selected for this purpose, and the volume now before us contains 
the observations of 368 additional objects. 

In making out a wor'dng list of stars suitable for examination, Pro- 
fessor Ball has been guided by various considerations. Of course stars 
with large proper motion would be naturally included, though the pre- 
sumption of nearness founded on great proper motion can hardly be 
said to be justified by the results of observation. Many red stars and 
variable stars have been put on the working list. It has been sug- 
gested by Mr. Stouey that some of the former may owe their color to 
being very small, and therefore very close to us. There is also reason 
to believe that some of the variable stars are really very small, and that 
therefore, as we see them, they must be comparatively near us. 

Several other stars have also been included, which were chosen on 
different grounds. 

In the reconnoitering observations carried out by Professor Ball every 
object is observed twice. The first observation is made when the star 
is at one of the extremities of the major axis of the parallax-ellipse, the 
second observation is made after an interval of six months, when the 
star has moved to that part of the parallax-ellipse which is at the other 
extremity of the major axis. The observation consists in the measure- 
ment of the distance and position angle of the object under examination 

* Astronomical Observations and Researches made at Dunsink. Fifth part, Dublin, 

1884. 



ASTRONOMY. 



1(57 



with regard to a suitable comparisou star, wiiicli for the telescope and 
micrometer used should not be more than 300" distant from the star 
whose parallax is to be examined, and not fainter than the 10th 
magnitude. 

By comparing the two observations referred to above it can be de- 
termined whether the object under examination has a parallax of any 
considerable amount or not. Of course it would have been preferable 
to make the observations at times when the effect of parallax on the 
relative positions of the star under examination and the comparison 
star would be greatest ; but the determination of these times would 
have entailed some additional labor, and Professor Ball has been satis- 
fied with the simpler process described. 

Whenever the observations have suggested the existence of a meas- 
urable parallax, the objects have been observed again, and when neces- 
sary a complete series of observations has been made. 

As might be expected, the results of the present work are mainly of 
a negative character; still the observations will be useful to future par- 
allax seekers, and are also valuable as a small instrument of that com- 
Xdete survey of the heavens which is still a desideratum. The observa- 
tions are, however, sufficient to enable us, in Professor Ball's opinion, to 
assert that the parallax of these stars is certainly less than a second of 
arc, and most probably less than half a second of arc. It is, of course, 
possible that no star in the heavens has a parallax larger than a second. 
Professor Ball somewhat naively remarks he often thinks that there 
certainly is not. It must, however, be remembered that comparatively 
very few stars have been examined with this object in view, and the 
induction is founded on really a very small number of instances. 
Professor Ball's parallax-hunting is therefore a class of work which 
ought to be done, and it is most satisfactory to find that it is being done 
so skillfully and well. 

In the present volume there are also included some positive fruits of 
Professor Ball's work, viz, determinations of the parallax of 61 (B) 
Cygni (from differences of declination), of Grroombridge 1618, and of 6 
(B) Cygni.* 

The following are the results : 



Star. 



Maeni- 
tade. 



Parallax. 



Magni- 
tuile of 
compari- 
son star. 



61 (B) Cvffni 
Groom. 1618 
6 (B) Cygni. 



5.9 
6.8 
6.5 



+ 0".4676 + 0". 0321 
4- 0". 322 ± 0". 023 
-I- 0". 482 ± 0". 054 



10.5 



These three stars have large proper motions. 

As these determinations have, we believe, been previously published 

*Flamsteed's 6 Cygui is B of thcat constellation ; the star here referred to is Groom- 
bridge 2789, and the appellation "G Cygni" is taken from Bode. 



16S 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



in scientific periodicals, they need not be further alluded to here. We 
may, however, point out that the series of measures of 61 (B) Cygni 
alluded to on page 159 as having been made at Moscow between 1863, 
May 16, and 1866, October 13, and published in Annales de PObservafoire 
de Moscow^ vol. vii, 1 livraison, page 79 et seq., have been reduced by 
M. Socoloff {loc. cit, vol. VIII, 2 livraisou), who finds — 

From measures of distance, 

parallax of 01 Cygni = 4- 0".4598±0".0550. 

From measures of position, 

parallax of 61 Cygni = + 0".4222±{)".0342. 

From combination of measures, 

parallax of 61 Cygni = + 0".4330±0".0291. 

The observations were made by Schweizer, Struve's comparison star 
(9.4 mag.) being used. — A. M. TF. D., " The Observatory,''^ November, 
1884, p. 335. 

From a report of a lecture by Dr. Gill on stellar parallax the following 
is extracted : 

Parallaxes of stars which have been determined in the northern heavens ivith considerable 

accuracy. 



Kame of star. 



61 Cvgni 

Lalande 21185 

a Tauri 

34 Groom bridge... 

Lalaude 21258 

AOo 17415 

cr Draconis 

a LyrsB 

p Ophinchi 

a Bootis 

Gioombridgo 1830 

Bradley 3077 

85 Pegasi 



Magni- 
tude. 


Proper 


motion. 


6 


5.14 


n 


4.75 


1 


0.19 


8 


2.81 


84 


4.40 


9 


1.27 


5 


1.87 


1 


0.31 


4J 


1.0 


1 


2.43 


7 


7.05 


6 


2.09 


6 


1.38 



Parallax. 



0.50 

0.50 

0.52 

0.29 

0.26 

0.25 

0.36 

0.20 

0.17 

0.13 ? 

0.09 

0.07 

0.05 



Results of recent researches on the parallax of stars in the southern hemisphere. 









i 






'^ 








.s 




D^^ 


°1^ 








.^ 




«£§ 










2 




" S f* 




Name of star. 


Observer.* 






Parallax. 


o O m 


"8° 






a 


o 




O 1- a • 


•« go 






a 


p< 






= »*- 






00 


p 




J» 0-? © 


5.4 to 






53 


a 




% fe •- -^ 


■^aS 






CC 


< 




cc 


t> 




G. &E. 
G. &E. 

G. 
G. &E. 

G. 

E. 

E. 

E. 

G. 


1 
1 

7i 

5i 

4^ 

44 

4 

1 

1 


3.67 
1.24 
6.95 
4.68 
4.10 
3.03 
2.05 
0.00 


0.75 
0.38 
0.28 
0.22 
0.17 
0.14 
0.06 
Insensible.. 


4.36 
8.6 

11.6 

15 

19 

23 

54 


14.4 




0.6 


L'lC'iille 9352 


73 




63 




69 




64 




101 








Insensible.. 















' G. = Gill; E. = Elkin. 



ASTRONOMY. 1G9 

"Time does not permit me to go into more detail as to each of these 
separate results, full of interest though they are, and each of them rep- 
resenting months of labor. 

"My object now is to generalize, to point out the conclusions that must 
be drawn from this table and to see what are the broad lessons that 
it teaches us. 

"A glance is sufficient to show that neither apparent magnitude nor 
apparent proper motion can afford a definitive criterion of the distance 
of any fixed star— that different stars really differ greatly in absolute 
brightness and in absolute motion. 

"The great cosmical problem that we have to solve is not so much what 
is the parallax of this or that particular star, but we have to solve the 
much broader questions — 

"1. What are the average parallaxes of stars of the first, second, third, 
and fourth magnitudes, compared with those of fainter magnitude ? 

" 2. What connection does there subsist between the parallax of a star 
and the amount and direction of its proper motion, or can it be proved 
that there is no such relation or connection 1 

" With any approximate answer to these questions we should probably 
be able to determine the law of absorjition of starlight in space, and be 
provided with the data at present wanting for determining with more 
precision the constant of precession and the amount and direction of the 
solar motion in space. And who can predict what hitherto unknown 
cosmical laws might reveal themselves in the course of such an investi- 
gation? 

" It is important to consider whether such a scheme of research is one 
that can be realized in the immediate future, or one that can only be 
carried to completion by the accumulated labors of successive astron- 
omers. 

"I have very carefully considered this question from a practical point 
of view, and I have prepared a scheme, founded on the results of my 
past experience. I have submitted that scheme for the opinion of the 
most competent judges, and in their opinion, as well as my own, the 
work can be done, with honest hard work, for one hemisphere, within 
ten years. I have offered to do that work for the southern hemisphere 
with my own hands, and a proposal for the necessary instruments and 
api:)liances is now under the consideration of my lords commissioners of 
the admiralty. I need hardly add that in this matter I look confidently 
for that complete consideration and that efficient support which I have 
never failed to receive at their hands since I have had the honor to 
serve them. 

"The like work will be undertaken for the northern hemisphere by my 
friend. Dr. Elkin, who is now in charge of the heliometer at Yale Col- 
lege, in America. It is at present the finest instrument ot the kind in 
the world. 

"I most earnestly trust tbat we may be granted health and strength 



170 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1834. 

for this work, and that uo uuforeseen circumstances will prevent its com- 
plete accomplishment." {Nature.) 

DOUBLE STARS. 

"Jfr. Burnhcmi's doiiMe-star measures. — The recently published vol- 
ume of the Memoirs of the Boyal Astronomical Society contains a further 
series of measures of double stars by Mr. S. W. Burnham, made with 
the 18-iuch refractor of the observatory at Chicago, This series com- 
prises measures of 151 double stars discovered by this eminent ob- 
server, which brings up the number of such objects discovered by him 
during the last ten years to uo fewer than 1,013, amongst which are in- 
cluded some of the most interesting stars of this class ; also measures of 
a selected list of double stars, 770 in number, made chiefly in the years 
1879 and 1880, with an appendix, the results of observations of several 
objects as late as the middle of the past year. Every one who is in- 
terested in this branch of astronomical science will read with much re- 
gret one remark in Mr. Burnham's introduction. He writes : ' The 
present catalogue will conclude my astronomical work, at least so far 
as any regular or systematic observations are concerned.' He expresses 
himself modestly respecting his own labors : ' In a field so infinitely 
large, one can accomplish but little at the most, and how much, or how 
little, the astronomers of a few centuries hence can perhaps best decide. 

- - - At this time I may venture to claim that my work in this 
field has been prosecuted with some enthusiasm, and for its own sake 
only, and that my interest has not been divided among several spe- 
cialities.' 

" But a higher estimate of Mr. Buruham's work in this particular line 
of observational astronomy to which he has devoted himself may be 
justly taken. To read of the discovery of uj^wards of a thousand 
double stars within a limited period by one observer, we might almost 
suppose we were living in the days of Sir William Herschel, when the 
heavens were comparatively an open field, and had not undergone the 
wide and close exploration which they had done when Mr. Burnham 
commenced his work. He has had, it is true, the advantage of instru- 
ments of the finest class, and, we may believe, an unusually acute 
vision ; but he must have exercised an extraordinary and most mer- 
itorious amount of patience, perseverance, and care in the discovery 
and accurate measurement of such a list of double stars, and it will be 
gratifying to the astronomical world that such well-directed exertions 
have met with so exceptional a success. 

" Among the more noteworthy stars included in Mr. Burnham's new 
catalogue (the fourteenth), which may be considered a continuation of 
that published in vol. xliv of the same Memoirs., the following may be 
mentioned : 

" 1. 12G Tauri (,5 1007), ' a most remarkably close and difficult pair, one 



ASTRONOMY. 



171 



of the closest known ; ' ninsniiudes 0.0 and 0.2. With a power of 1,400 
there was only a diglit elon,ua-Tiou. 

" 2. B. A. C. 346; Mr. Burnbam thinks the principal star may be va- 
riable, and he is certainly correct in his surmise. Heis gives it as a 
naked-eye star O.-^T, Gould 7.™0, and it has been several times noted 
8=^; while the writer has recorded it as low as 9™. 

" 3. /3 117 ; a star with a proper motion, according to Argelander, of 
0".438; measures in 1883 show a coiiinion motion of the components; 
their distance is 2". 2. 

" 4. : Sagittarii ; detected by Winlock, probably a retrograde motion 
of 225° in less than fourteen years ; and evidently a change of 48° in 
less than three years, by Mr. Burnham's measures alone. It is an ob- 
ject for large instruments in the other hemisphere. 

"5. /9 Delphini (/5 151).— A very rapid binary; since its detection by 
Mr. Burnham, in 1873, there has been an increase in the angle of about 
180O, and a diminution in distance from 0".0 to 0'^25. He thinks ' it 
may prove to have, with the single exception of o Equulei, the shortest 

period known.' 

" Mr. Burnham collects the measures of o Eqnulei, and infers a 
period of revolution of about 10.8 years. Measures should be easy 
again in 1885. 

" 6. 85 Pegasi {[i 733) —The close pair was not measurable in 1882 ; the 
angle was about 333° at the epoch 1883.75. The mean annual motion 
is about 120.5, at which rate the period would be less than thirty years. 

"In the introduction to the catalogue will be found references to the 
publications where the thirteen previous ones are to be found." {l^ature.) 

MOTIONS OF STARS IN THE LINE OF SIGHT. 

From the Astronomer Royal's report we learn that— 
" For the determination of motions of stars in the line of sight, 412 
measures have been made of the displacement of the F line in the spec- 
tra of 48 stars, 91 measures of the h lines in 19 stars, and two measures 
of the D lines in one star, besides measures of the displacements of the 
h and F lines in the spectra of the east and west limbs of Jupiter, and 
in the spectra of Venus and Mars, and comparisons with lines in the 
moon or' sky spectrum made in Ihe course of every night's observations 
of star-motions, or on the following morning, as a check on the adjust- 
ment of the spectroscope. Some preliminary measures have also been 
made of the F line in the spectrum of the Orion ifebula. The progress 
ive change in the motion of Sirius, from lecession to approach, alluded 
to in the last two reports, is fully confirmed by numerous observations 
since last autumn, and a change of the same character is indicated in 
the case of Procyon. A discussion of the measures of all the stars ob- 
served here, on which I am now engaged, shows that the results of the 
four periods- 1875, June, to 1877, May; 1877, June, to 1880, December; 
1881, January, to 1882, March 10 ; 1882, March 11, to 1884, March 31 ; m 



172 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

each of which the instrumental conditions were different — accord gen- 
erally within the limits of the probable errors, and that there is no sys- 
tematic change from recession to approach, so that the presumption 
against error arising from defective instrumental adjustment appears 
to be strong." {Nature.) 

PHOTOIVIETEY OF STABS. 

The new volume of Annals of the Observatory of Harvard College is 
in many respects the most interesting and important of any of them, 
for it embodies the results of three years' work with an entirely new and 
unique instrument in a field hitherto but little explored, which Profes- 
sor Pickering, the director, has made almost entirely his own by the in- 
vention of novel and efficient apparatus, and by the energetic accumu- 
lation, discussion, and i)rompt publication of results. 

The observations described in this volume consist of 94,476 separate 
measurements of the brightness of 4,260 stars, all those visible to the 
naked eye from the North Pole to 30° of south declination, and many 
somewhat fainter. They were made by Professor Pickering, the di- 
rector, aided by Messrs. Searle and Wendell, assistants in the Harvard 
College Observatory, using the new meridian photometer, devised by 
the director. 

With this photometer each of the 4,260 stars was compared, when 
near the meridian, with the pole star on at least three nights, and 
many of them on six or more. In these comparisons both stars are 
seen under the same magnifying power and on the same background, so 
that the differential effect of moonlight or twilight is eliminated, and- 
any error due to local cloudiness or haziness over one star is sufficiently 
guarded against by the number of different nights and the repetition of 
the observations where this is suspected. Two persons work at the 
same time, the observer managing the pole star image in the field and 
making the settings of the eye-piece Nicol for the four i)ositions of 
equal brightness, and the other bringing the other star into the field 
by the other i^rism and reading off and recording the observer's set- 
tings of the eyepiece. At the beginning, middle, and end of each con- 
tinuous series of observations the prism of the south objective was also 
turned to the pole star, and the two images of this were compared, in 
order to furnish the corrections necessary on account of unequal trans- 
parency and reflecting power of the two objectives and prisms. 

In the preliminary chapters of the work are given the details of the 
various methods employed to discover and eliminate all sources of sys- 
tematic error, and their completeness and thoroughness assure the pro- 
fessional astronomer of the high degree of confidence which can be 
placed in the results. Only a few of the most interesting points can be 
noted here, and those very briefly. The discussion of a long series of 
observations upon a list of 100 circumpolar stars, at upper and lower 
culminations, gives for the co-efficient of atmosi)heric absorj)tion : 



ASTRONOMY. 1 73 

0.25 X secant of the zenith distance, i. e., a star seen from the outside 
of our atmosphere would appear a quarter of a magnitude brighter 
than it does now in the zenith, and half a magnitude brighter than at 
00° from the zenith. The magnitudes given in the final catalogue are 
all reduced to what they would appear if the star were seen in the 
zenith. It would be interesting to see some careful determination of 
the atmospheric absorption made within the last year, for, in the opin- 
ion of many observers, the transparency of the atmosphere and the 
brightness of all the stars have sensibly diminished ever since the red 
sunset phenomena following the Krakatoa explosion in August, 1883, 
and by not a few all these effects, and the still continuing dirty pinkish 
red corona around the sun, are attributed to Krakatoa dust still over- 
head, though now at a considerably lower level than at tirst. 

In all this work the constancy of brightness ►of the pole star was of 
course a much-to-bedesired condition, and this question received very 
careful investigation, and there seems to be no doubt of its reality so 
far as photometric measurements can determine. Besides the use of 
the long series of observations upon the 100 circumpolars, a special 
series of naked-eye comparisons of Polaris, with several neighboring 
stars of nearly equal brightness, was undertaken for this purpose, and 
in connection with the latter some very interesting results come out, 
showing that there is in the case of some observers a very decided dif- 
ference (and very likely to some extent with all) in the apparent relative 
brightness of two stars dej^ending upon their relative positions right 
and left and up and down. This had been shown in the photometric 
work, so that in each comparison the two images in the field of the 
photometer were reversed right and left between the two pairs of set- 
tings of the Nicol. It is interesting to tind that it also aflects naked- 
eye estimates, in spite of the fact that in the latter the endeavor is to 
look steadily at one star and then at the other alternately. 

The most imiiortant question of all is the scale of magnitudes adopted. 
Professor Pickering has adopted that proposed some years ago by Pog- 
son, the director of the Madras Observatory. 

On this scale, then, we receive from a sixth-magnitude star, which is 
about the limit of naked-eye vision, just one-hundredth part as much 
light as from a first-magnitude (about one-fortieth that of a second, one- 
sixteenth that of a third, three-nineteenths that of a fourth, and two- 
fifths that of a fifth-magnitude star). This is the first time that the 
magnitudes of the stars have been measui'ed and catalogued on any 
such extensive plan or with any such degree of accuracy, and at the 
same time upon a true geometrical light-ratio scale, and it marks an 
epoch and an entirely new starting i)oint in stellar photometry. Hith- 
erto there has been much confnsion in this matter, although a j^retty 
general adoption of Argelauder's scales of magnitudes has been slowly 
mending this. But the work of Professor Pickering must inevitably, 
froni its intrinsic merit, at once replace all existing scales of mngni- 



174 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

tudes ; and, besides, it furuisbes the first available data for a rigorous 
comparison and reduction of all ])revious catalogues to a common truly 
photometric scale. Many interesting results of these comparisons are 
promised in part ii, some of which were outlined by Professor Picker- 
ing at the September meeting of the American Association. The bulk 
of the volume is taken up M'ith chapter v, which contains the general 
catalogue and its accompanying explanations. This has been more re- 
cently issued separately, under t]ie name of the Harvard Frotometry, 
and it should be in the hands of every professional and amateur astron- 
omer at once the world over. In it is condensed in remarkably' con- 
venient form a vast mass of detailed information. Beside tlie results 
of the Harvard photometric work with the iiumber of observations and 
the resulting probable error of the mean, arc given the results of a 
series of eye estimates undertaken specially to comi>are the two methods. 
In columns alongside are the corresponding magnitudes in the four 
principal standard catalogues of magnitudes, the Uraiiometria Nova of 
Argelander, the Atlas Coelestis of Heis, the Durchmusteriing of Arge- 
lander, and the Uranometria Argentina of Gould. On the right-hand 
page are the diflerenccs of magnitude between the Harvard Protometry 
and fourteen other catalogues of eye estimates, and the three photo- 
metric catalogues of Seidel, Wolff, and C. S. Peirce, for the com])ara- 
tively small number of stars contained in these last ; also a column de- 
voted to the colors of the stars so estimated by Mr. W. S. Franks, of 
the English Eoyal Astronomical Society, in a special series of observa- 
tions for that purpose. Columns of reference numbers to the original 
series for each observation, and also the residual of each from the mean, 
are given in every case, so that the whole results lie open at a glance 
all in one place. In printing these residuals, a novel use of type is 
made, the negative ones being in italics, thus saving the space of plus 
and minus signs and giving a much better appearance. Where the 
residual is greater than nine and less than twenty, only the right-hand 
figure is printed, but in heavy-faced type. The volume is from the 
Cambridge University Press of John Wilson & Son, and is throughout, 
especially in the tables and the catalogue, a beautiful piece of typo- 
graphical work. 

PHOTOGRAPHY AS A MEANS OF CHARTING STARS. 

In a recent communication to the Paris Academy of Sciences, Ad- 
miral Mouchez, director of the Paris Observatory, states that MM. 
Henry, finding it almost impossible, on account of the great number of 
stars, to chart the part of the heavens which they have now reached 
by the methods heretofore adopted, have had recourse to photography. 
Their first attempt with a provisional apparatus has been so successful 
that Admiral Mouchez considers that the i)robIem will soon be solved. 
Proofs of plates taken with a telescope 0™.1 G in diameter and 2™.10 focal 



ASTKONOMY. 175 

leng'tb, corrected for tlie photographic. rays, were submitted to the 
meeting. Each plate contains a part of the sky extending 2° in E. A. 
by 3° in Dec, and contains about 1,500 stars from the Gth to the 12th 
magnitude, i. c, to the limit of visibility of an instrument of the size 
used. The results have induced MM. Henry to undertake the construc- 
tion of a powerful instrument lor this class of work, and they are now 
engaged in constructing an object-glass of 0"'.34: diameter, which will be 
corrected for the photographic rays and so constructed as to cover 
clearly and without distortion the greatest possible space. In reference 
to the advantages of this method of charting, Admiral Mouchez points 
out that work which ordinarily takes several months to perform can be 
done in a single hour. It is considered that with the new apparatus 
stars to the 13th or even 14th magnitude will probably be secured. 
{The Observatory, October, 1884.) 

Photographic maps of stars. — A catalogue of the magnitudes of 500 stars 
situated in the constellations Auriga, Gemini, and Leo Minor, has been 
determined by the Kev. T. E. Espin from photograi)hs taken with the 
equatorial stellar camera at the observatory of the Liverpool Astronom- 
ical Society. The magnitudes are compared with those given in Arge- 
lander's Durchmusterimg, with which, in the large majority of cases, 
they agree remarkably well. "There can be no doubt," says Mr. Espin 
(in the Observatory for September), "that the photographic impression 
is nearly equal to the eye magnitude in the case of two-thirds of the 
stars. The other third fall into one of two classes : the bluish stars in- 
crease in magnitude, while the reddish ones decrease." No positive 
evidence of fluctuations of stellar light has been obtained ; in fact, of 
the 500 stars whose magnitudes have been reduced from the ])lates, 
only two cases of possible variation have been detected. Attempts 
have also been made to photograph various star clusters and nebulae. 
The results are very promising, but much improvement is to be looked 
for in the practical working and reduction of the plates. (Athenwum.) 

COMETS, METEORS, ZODIACAL LIGHT, ETC. 

Statistics of cometic orbits. — Dr. Paul Lehmann, of Berlin, has reprinted 
a compilation with the above title, which contains much interesting in- 
formation in a tabular form. Two hundred and ninety-four cometic 
orbits are more or less well known. Of these 221 have parabolic orbits, 
and of the elliptic orbits 

7 have a period from 10,000 to 50,000 years ; 
23 have a period from 1,000 to 10,000 years ; 
6 have a period from 500 to 1,000 years ; 
9 have a period from 100 to 500 years ; 
6 have a period from 50 to 100 years ; 
5 have a period from 10 to 50 years ; 
17 have a period from — to 10 years. 
All the comets whose i^eriods are under 10 years nave direct motion^ 



176 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

and of tlie 28 comets whose periods are under 100 years, only 3 have 
retrograde motion. 

An interesting table of comets with similar orbits, which are yet not 
identical, is also given, and further a table of those comets which are 
related to each other in groups, so that all their orbits intersect in a 
line. These comets may be supposed to have had a common origin. 

Definitive determination of comet orhits. — For many years Dr. Bruhns 
kept a general outlook over the matter of the definitive determination 
of comet orbits, and his annual papers in the V. J. 8. der Astron. Gesell. 
were of great value in directing attention to the cases of comets whose 
orbits needed attention, in indicating the sources from which observa- 
tions could be taken, and by preventing unnecessary duplication of 
such work through correspondence. Dr. Weiss, director of the Vienna 
Observatory, has now agreed to fill the same place, and those intending 
to occupy themselves with this branch of computation will do well to 
address themselves to him. 

Periodic comets. — Several periodical comets are expected to return to 
perihelion in 1885. That of Olbers, discovered on the 6th of March, 
1815, has been calculated to have a period of somewhat more than seventy 
years, and will, therefore, probably appear again either in 1885 or 188G. 
Encke's comet was first discovered in 1786, but its periodicity was not 
detected till 1819, since which time it has been observed at every return, 
at intervals of about three and a third years. It will once more be in 
perihelion on the 7th of March, 1885. A comet discovered by Herr 
Tempel on the 3d of April, 1867, was found to be moving in an elliptic 
orbit with a period of about six years ; it was observed in 1873 and in 
1879, and another return is expected to take place in April of the pres- 
ent year. Another comet of short period was discovered by the same 
astronomer on the 27th of November, 1869, but its periodicity was not 
recognized until after it had been rediscovered by Mr. Swift, at Eoches- 
ter, IST. Y., in 1880, in consequence of which it is usual to call it Swift's 
comet. The period is about five and a half years, so that another re- 
turn to perihelion Avill be due about the end of this year; but like that 
which must have taken place in 1875, it is likely to pass unseen, the 
comet being unfavorably placed for observation. Tattle's comet occu- 
pies a position of its own in having a period amounting to about thirteen 
and a half years. It was first discovered bj' Mechain, at Paris, on the 
9th of January, 1790, but its periodicity was not detected until after 
the second discovery by Mr. Tuttle, at Cambridge, United States, on 
the 4th of January, 1858, when it was found that it must have made 
four unobserved returns since Mechain's discovery. It was observed 
again in the autumn of 1871, passing its perihelion at the end of No- 
vember, and another return will be due in the month of July, 1885. 
{Athe7iceum.) 

Comet 1867, II. — M. Eaoul Gautier, of Geneva, has been investigating 
the perturbations produced by the action of the planets Jupiter, Saturn, 



ASTRONOMY. 177 

and Mars upon the inotious of the first periodical comet (II, 1867) of 
Tempel. The periheliou passage in the year of discovery took place on 
the 24th of May; those on the two subseijuent returns (both of which 
were observed) on the 10th of May, 1873, and the 7th of May, 1879, re- 
spectively ; but M. Gautier finds tluit the ettect of the disturbances will 
be to delay the return to peiihelion this year until the end of June or 
the beginning of July. The comet diminished in brightness at each 
successive return, and is likely on this occasion to be even fainter than 
in 3879. M. Gautier has published an ephemeris sufficiently accurate to 
enable astronomers to find the comet when it makes its nearest approach 
to the earth. It was first discovered on the 3d of Ai)ril, 18ti7. 

Brorsen's comet >•/ short period. — We have not yet met with any inti- 
mation that an ephemeris of this comet for the approaching reappear- 
ance is being prepared ; that for the last return, in 1879, was furnished 
by Prof. L. K. Schulze, of Dobein ; the time of perdielion passage was 
about elc>'en hours later than his calculation gave it. Disregarding 
perturbation, the comet would be again due at perihelion in the middle 
of September next, in which case it would be observable in the two 
hours before sunrise, in August and September, under somewhat simi- 
lar conditions to those in 1873. Supposing the perihelion passage to 
occur September 14.5, the comet's position at that time would be in 
about E. A. 1540.5 and K P. D. 7Co.2, the distance from the earth 1.41. 
Since the discovery of this comet within one day of perihelion pas 
sage in 184G it has been observed at four returns, viz, in 1857, 1868, 
1873, and 3879. {Nature.) 

The great comet of 1882. — Professor Howe, of Denver, Colo., notities 
that he has undertaken a definite determination of the orbit of this 
comet, which will doubtless be a work of some labor. Thus far calcula- 
tion appears to indicate that the comet was moving in an ellipse, with 
a period not difiering much from eight centuries ; Kreutz gave 843, 
Fabritius 823, Frisby 794, and Morrison 712 years ; the orbit of Fabri- 
tius depends upon the widest extent of observation. Between the ear- 
liest and latest accurate positions the comet described an orbital arc of 
340O. 

Those who may have unpublished observations of position of the 
great comet of 1882 will do well to communicate them to Professor 
Howe forthwith. (Nature.) 

The great comet of 1882. — In an appendix to the Washington Ohscr- 
vations, 1880, is an account prepared by Mr. W. C "Wiulock, on the great 
comet of 1882 as observed at Washington, first with the 9.6-inch ami 
subsequently with the 26-inch refractor. The latest date on which the 
comet's position was determined is April 4, 1883. Micrometrical meas- 
ures of the nucleus were made on a number of evenings, atid from a plate 
showing its aspect and formation between February 1 and March 3 the 
difficulty of deciding upon the proper ])oint for observations of position, 
owing to the existence of several almost equally luminous condensations 
S. Mis. 33 12 



178 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

in the head of the comet, is very apparent. For a similar reason, in 
another plate the points observed with the transit-circle from Septem- 
ber 19 to March 3 are shown. There has rarely, if ever, existed a greater 
need for precautions of this nature, to assist in tlie combination of the 
places ootained at various observatories for the accurate determination 
of the orbit. {Nature.) 

Comets of 1884 : 

Comet 1884 I = Comet (6) 1883. 

= Pons-Brooks's comet. 
= Pons's comet, 1812. 
= 1812 comet. 
Comet 1884 II = Comet (b) 1884. 

= Barnard's comet. 
Comet 1884 (Wolf) = Comet (c) 1884. 

[Comet 1884 Spitaler, May 26.] (Possibly a return of Comet 1858 III. 

Lost after discovery. No accurate obser- 
vations obtained.) 

A new comet of short period. — M. Schulhof, of Paris, has latelj" ascer- 
tained that the observations of the third comet of 1858 (a very limited 
number) are closely represented by an elliptical orbit with a period of 
about six years and a half. 

Comet c, 1884. — When the observations of the comet (c, 1884) which 
was discovered by Herr Wolf at Heidelberg on the 17th of September 
had been carried on for a few weeks it became at)parent that they 
could no longer be represented by a parabola, but that the comet was 
moving in an ellipse of short period. Its elements have been computed 
by Professor Kriiger, of Kiel, and by Dr. Zelbr, of Vienna, the former 
making the period about 2,391, and the latter about 2,470 days ; that is, 
somewhat more than six years and a half. 

Prof. H. C. Wilson, astronomer in charge of the Cincinnati Observa- 
tory, has issued the seventh i)ublication of the observatory, which con- 
tains the observations of the comets of 1880, 1881, and 1882, made under 
the direction of Prof. Ormoud Stone until June, 1882, Siuce that time 
the work has been carried forward by himself. 

Besides the ordinary observations for positions, interesting physic;il 
studies of the comets for the three years named are also presented. 
The method used in reducing and discussing observations of the trains 
of comets is that of Professor Bredichin, director of the Observatory of 
Moscow. For reduction to the jdaue of the orbit lormulai found in A. 
N. Nos. 300 and 1172 were used. This publication also contains ten 
full page drawings, showing interesting physical changes in nuclei and 
tails of b 1881, a and c of 1862. The notes that precede these drawings 
are instructive, for tJ*ey indicate how the new physical theories of 
Professor Bredichin stand the test in relation to these comets. 

The zodiacal light. — The current \'olume of the Proceedings of the 



ASTRONOMY. 179 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences contains a very valuable paper 
by Mr. .1. Sea'-le on Ibe zodiacal ligbt, in wbich be bas collected and 
reduced on a uniform system tbe evening observations of tbe prin- 
cii)al observers of the zodiacal ligbt. The points taken up are tbe ap- 
proximate position of the zodiacal cone in tbe visible bemispbere of tbe 
sky, tbe elongation of tbe vertex, and tbe latitudes of the northern and 
southern boundaries at successive elongations ^KP apart. Tbe details 
of more than G50 observations by Jones, Ileis, Schmidt, and others are 
exhibited in tabular form, whilst their results are conveniently and com- 
[)lete]y summarized in a number of other tables showing the monthly 
means, &nd means for difl'erent series. 

Mr. Searle supports Jones's view that tbe apparent changes in tbe 
place of the light sliould be referred rather to the corresponding (changes 
in the place of tbe ecliptic in tbe visible bemisphere than to the geo- 
graphical position of tbe observer in latitude, and regards it as probable 
that atmospheric absorption is an important and, perhaps, tbe only 
cause of the variations of the zodiacal light in latitude. But " if atmos- 
pheric absorption bas the importance here assigned to it, in tbe study 
of tbe zodiacal ligbt, we cannot expect to determine tbe true position of 
the ligbt on any occasion by tbe simple methods beiet^ofore in use.'> 
Direct i)hotometric observations must be made, or, failing these, ob- 
servers "must compare together different i)ortions of the ligbt and also 
specified portions of the light and of the Milky Way." And the Milky 
Way must itself be studied in a similar systematic manner. A careful 
photometric inquiry " is indispensable if we are to substitute definite 
knowledge for tbe vague information now before us with regard to 'zo- 
diacal bands,' the singular phenomenon of the 'Gegeuscbein,' and the 
possibly periodic variations in tbe main body of the zodiacal light, as 
well as its apparent changes from hour to hour." 

In dealing with this question of tbe photometric observation of tbe 
light, Mr. Searle mentions the interesting fact that from Celoria's and 
Sir W. Herschel's observations tbe Milky Way would appear tobe about 
two magnitudes brighter than the mean brightness of the skj". On this 
estimate the biigbter parts of the zodiacal ligbt would be commonly 
three or four magnitudes brighter than tbe surrounding sky. 

Mr. Searle remarks in conclusion : " It is not my intention, on tbis 
occasion, to discuss tbe probability of any explanation of the zodiacal 
ligbt; I have merely to remark witb regard to tbe ordinary meteoric 
theory, that it gains greatly in simplicity if we dispense witb all the im- 
aginary meteoric bodies or rings witb whicb it bas usually been con- 
nected and retain merely the conce^>tion of meteoric dust diffused 
throughout the solar system. Jt may be shown uuitbematically, if we 
regard tbe meteoric particles as solids reHectiug light irregularly, that 
an appearance like the zodiacal cone witb an indefinite vertex would 
result." [The Observatory, September, IbSi, page 205.) 



180 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

THE SUN. 

xS'o/ar eclipses. — An interesting investigation respecting two ancient 
eclipses was comirmnicated by Herr Bernhard Schwarz to the Vienna 
Academy last April. The first of these eclipses is one referred to in a 
fragment of Archilochus preserved by Stobaeus {Florilegiuni ex. 10). 

Professor von Oppolzer had already called attention to this passage, 
and suggested that it probably referred to a solar eclipse which occurred 
on the 6th of April, B. C 648, in ordinary or historical chronology (647 
in scientific chronology). Herr Schwarz has made a very careful cal- 
culation of all the solar eclipses which took place during the life-time of 
Archilochus, between the years B. 0. 700 and 640. He finds that the 
only choice lies between an eclipse which was annular in the Grecian 
Archipelago in the afternoon of June 27, B. C. 661, and the above, 
which was total in the morning of April 6, B. C. 648. The probability 
is that the eclipse of 648 is the one mentioned by the poet. 

The other eclipse discussed by Herr Schwarz is mentioned in an As- 
syrian inscription of Asurbanipal, to which attention was directed by 
Dr. Jacob Krall. The inscription may be thus translated : " In the 
month Tammuz an eclipse took place of the Lord of Day, the god of 
light. The setting sun thereupon left off shining, and I in like manner 
put off beginning the war against Elam during [here a gap in the textj 
days." Taking into account all the circumstances here mentioned, there 
can scarcely be a doubt that the eclipse referred to was the earlier of 
the two before mentioned (June 27, B. C. 661), which, annular in the 
Grecian Archipelago, was visible as a large partial eclipse a little before 
sunset in Assyria and Persia. (AtJienwum.) 

Transit of Venus, 1882. — On the occasion of the transit of Venus of 
1882 the commission of the Belgian Government, under the direction 
Dr. J. C. Houzeau, placed its chief reliance upon observations made 
with a new form of heliometer, in which, by employing half objectives 
of unequal focal length, the images of the Sun and Venns were nearly 
equal, allowing an observation of the angular distance of the centers 
of these two bodies to be taken by a single measure. With instruments 
of this pattern, set up in the southern hemisphere at Santiago de Chili, 
and in the northern at San Antonio, Tex., a sufficiently large number 
of measures were made to afford a fair test of the worth of the uaw 
method. The facility with which this instrument can be employed in 
work of precision is shown well enough by the large number of obser- 
vations obtained at the Santiago station, where no clouds interfered 
with the progress of the measurements. Doctor Houzeau has completed 
the discussion of the work of the two expeditions, and the results are 
publitshed as the first fascicule of the fifth volume of the Annales de 
V Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles. The value of the solar parallax which 
he derives is 8".911,or about one-tenth of a second larger than that 
now regarded as the true value, 



1 

I 

Si 



ASTRONOMY. 181 

JSun-spots. — " l\ei)ort to the Solar Physics Committee on a Comparison 
between Apparent Inequalities of Short Period in Sun-spot Areas and 
in Diurnal Temperature Eangesat Toronto and at Kew.' By Balfour 
Stewart, M. A., LL.D., F. E. S., and William Lant Carpenter, B. A., B. Sc. 
Commuuicated to the Eoyal Society at the request of the solar physics 
committee. 

It has been known for some time that there is a close connection be- 
tween the inequalities in the state of the sun's surface as denoted by 
sun-spot areas and those in terrestrial magnetism as denoted by the 
diurnal ranges of oscillation of the declination magnet; and moreover 
the observations of various meteorologists have induced us to susjject 
that there may likewise be a connection between solar inequalities and 
those in terrestrial meteorology. 

This latter connection, however (assuming it to exist), is not so, well 
established as the former, at least if we compare together inequalities 
of long i^eriod. It has been attempted to explain this by imagining 
that for long periods the state of the atmosphere as regards absorption 
may change in such a manner as to cloak or diminish the effects of solar 
variation by increasing absorption when the sun is strongest, and di- 
minishing absorption when the sun is weakest. 

On this account it seemed desirable to the authors to make a com- 
parison of this kind between short-period inequalities, since for these 
the length of period could not so easily be deemed sufiQcient to produce 
a great alteration of the above nature in the state of the atmosphere. 

The meteorological element selected for comparison with sun-spots 
was the diurnal range of atmospheric temperature, an element which 
presents in its variations a very strong analogy to diurnal declination 
ranges. 

It is such a comparison that the authors have made, their method of 
analysis being one which enables them to detect the existence of un- 
known inequalities having apparent periodicity in a mass of observa- 
tions. A description of this method has already been published in the 
Proceedings of the Royal Society for May 15, 1879. The comparison was 
made by this method between sun-spot observations extending from 
1832 to 18G7,' inclusive, Toronto temperature-range observations ex- 
ten«ling from 1844 to 1879, inclusive, and Kew temperature-range ob- 
servations extending from 1856 to 1879, inclusive. The following con- 
clusions were obtained from this comparison: 

1. Sun-spot inequalities around twenty -four and twenty-six days, 
whether apparent or real, seem to have periods very nearly the same 
as those of terrestrial meteorological inequalities as exhibited by the 
daily temi)eratu re-ranges at Toronto and at Kew. 

2. While the sun-spots and the Kew temperature-range inequalities 
present evidence of a single oscillation, the corresponding Toronto 
temperature-range inequalities present evidence of a double oscillation. 

3. Setting the celestial and terrestrial members of each individual 



182 SCIJINTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

inequality, so ?iS to start together from the same absolute time, it is 
found that the solar maximum occurs about eight or nine days after one 
of the Toronto maxima, and the Kew temperature-range maximum 
about seven days after the same Toronto maximum. 

4. The proportional oscillation exhibited by the temperatme-range 
inequalities is much less than the proportional oscillation exhibited by 
the corresponding solar inequalities. [Nature.) 

Variations in the '8urCs diameter. — A pamphlet of 17 pages by Dr. 
Hilficker, of the Observatory of Neuchatel, treats the 3,4G8 observations 
of the Sun made by eight observers during the years 1802-83, with the 
object of determining whether the 8un^s diameter varies. The meridian 
circle has an aperture of 115™™, and a magnifying power of 200 is used, 
and each limb of the Sun is observed on 13 threads, so that these obser 
vations are more suitable for the puri)ose than many other series which 
have been used for the purpose. Besides the Neuchatel series, others 
are quoted, though several papers on the subject are not referred to. 

Dr. Hilficker gives two conclusions, which he regards as satisfactorily 
proved by his discussion. These are (1) that the variations in the 
diameter of the Sun shown by the IsTeuchatel observations are real; 
(2) that these changes depend upon the i:)eriod of the solar spots ; that 
is, that the largest diameters co exist with the minimum Sun-spots, and 
vice versa. 

It will be noticed that this conclusion does not agree with those of 
other discussions, notably with the very satisfactory one of Dr. Auwers, 
based on the results of the observations of seven observatories, or with • 
the discussion of corresponding observations at Greenwich and Wash- 
ington, by Professors Newcorab and Holden. 

Ihe Moon. — Dr. Th. von Oppolzer, of Vienna, has lately published an 
attempt to explain the discrepancy between the observed value of the 
secular acceleration of the moon's mean motion and that derived from 
the mathematical theory by Delaunay and Adams. This difference has 
heretofore been supposed to be accounted for by the continued retard- 
ing action of the tides on the rotational velocity of the earth ; but Pro- s 
fessor Oppolzer, accepting the now generally believed pervasion of in- 
terplanetary space by comminuted cosmical matter, proceeds to esti- 
mate the threefold action of such matter on the motions of moon and 
earth. First, the masses of both bodies are continually receiving slight 
increments from the accumulation of this dust upon.their surfaces. Sec- 
ond, a part of this increment of the moon's mass acts in such a way as 
to decrease its tangential volocity. Third, the continued deposition of 
cosmical dust on the surface of the earth changes its rotational velocity, 
afiectiug thus tile apparent motion of the moon. All these effects are . 
reduced to numbers, in the form of co-efQcieuts of terms in the moon's 
mean longitude multiplied by the square of the time, and by an un- 
known quantity which represents the thickness of a layer of cosmical - 
dust which falls on the surface of the earth in a century. If this latter 



ASTRONOMY. 1 83 

be supposed to be 2.8 millimeters, the entire discrepancy in the secular 
acceleration of the moon's motion disappears. And on the same hy- 
l)oth(>sis. the density of the medium surrounding the earth and moon is 
e(inivj;lent to the density of air divided by 3,7G0,000,0()0,0()(). Dr. von 
0|>j>o'zer's paper will be found entire in ISTo. 2573 of the Astronomische 
Nachricliten.- {The Nation.) ^ 

THE PLANETS. 

Mercury. — Denuing', in a recent number of the Observatory., gives an 
account of certain markings detected by himself upon the surface of 
Mercury., in JSTovember, 1883, from which he deduces a rotation period 
of about twenty tive hours. 'J'he value given in our text books, and 
provisionally accepted, though with much reserve, is twenty-four hours 
five minutes, depending upon certain observations of Sciiroeter and 
Harding, at Lilienthal, early in the century. Schiaparelli, also, has ob- 
served markings on the planet several times during the past two years, 
and says that "the rotation period, as usually adopted, is not exact; in 
fact, is very far from the truth"; but he does not say whether he finds 
the period greater or less than that assigned by Sciiroeter. A memoir 
upon the planet Mercury is expected soon to appear from his ]>en, and 
will j)robabh" add considerably to our present knowledge of the planet. 

The photometry of Saturn's ring.* — In his paper. Professor Seeliger en- 
ters into some investigations with the view of pointing out the knowledge 
that he thinks may be obtained with regard to the construction of 
Saivrn\s ring by means of jthotometrical observations of the amount 
of light reflected from it at different times. Were the ring a body of 
continuous surface, the a]>parent intensity of its illumination would 
(unless, indeed, assum^itions were made of an aitogelher improbable 
kind as to its structure) be very different in difl'erent relative positions 
of the Sun as well as the earth. Changes of this nntnre are not, as a 
matter of fact, indicated by observation, the apparent brightness of the 
ring being always nearly the same, and the amount of light received 
from it would seem to depend entirely upon the proportion of the whole 
surface which is turned toward the earth, or upon the angle of eleva- 
tion of the earth above the plane of the ring. Hence Zolluer concluded 
that Lambert's law of photometry was not applicable to this case. But 
Professor Seeliger shows that, under certain plausible assumptions, the 
observed effects are consistent with that law, the extent of application of 
which can hardly, he thinks, be overestimated. Maxwell pointed out, 
twenty-five years ago, from purely mechanical considerations, that the 
ring could not be a compact solid or fluid mass, but must consist of a 
number of separate discrete particles similar to those which compose a 
meteoric stream. On this supposition, the observed photometric condi- 
tions admit of a simple explanation, though their lull significance can- 
not be worked out until more accurate observations have been made 
with regard to the variation in intensity of the light of the ring at dif- 

* Astron. Nachr., No. 2612. 



184 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

ferent times. Professor Seeli{]fpr'.s hope is that the investigations and 
considerations brought forward by him, in the paper before ns, may have 
the effect of interesting photometric observers in the subject, and in- 
ducing them to devote more attention to it than has yet been done. 
[The Observatory, October, 1884.) 

Mass of Saturn. — From 128 observations of Japetus in 1875, 1870, and 
1877, Prof. A. Ha?ll has determined the mean distance of this satellite 
with a very small accidental error. The periodic time has been deter- 
mined by a comparison with observations by the Herschels. The result- 
ing mass of Saturn is s-i^.o- This is materially larger than the masses 
deduced by Bessel (from Titan) and Le Verrier (from perturbations). 

The figure of the planet Uranus. — Dr. Seeliger, director of the Munich 
Observatory, has employed the lOi-inch refractor (which has been re- 
mounted by the Eepsolds) in measures of the disks of the various plan- 
ets. He employs a total reflecting prism back of the eye-piece, and can 
therefore cause any diameter of the planet to appear at any angle with 
the vertical. 

Measures of this kind have been*made (on ten nights) on Uranus, and 
Dr. Seeliger's result is clearly against any ellipticity of the disk. 

In this he disagrees with several late observers (Schiaparelli, Young, 
and others), but agrees with the conclusions of Lassell, Bruhns, Engel- 
man, and others. The question is not settled, in any event, but this 
latest result is interesting specially on account of the method employed, 
which avoids a dangerous kind of constant error. 

The aspect of Uranus. — At the sitting of the Academy of Sciences of 
Paris on April 21, M. Perrotin presented a note on the aspect of Uranus, 
from observations made with the 15-inch equatorial at the Observatory 
of Nice. On March 18 he had remarked, in company with Mr. Lockyer, 
a bright spot near the lower limb of the planet, as seen in the inverting 
telescope. Further observations showed that it was near the equator 
of Uranus. It was a very difficult object, and much uncertainty existed 
as to its exact position; it was better seen as it approached the limb. 
It was ol^served on April 1 about 11^', at the northern extremity of the 
equatorial diameter, and on the next night about ICi 40™, at the south- 
ern extremity; it occupied the same position on April 7 at 10^^30"^, and 
April 12 at 1V\ These observations,' M. Perrotin adds, made at the 
limits of visibility, required very favorable conditions, and being aware 
of the possibility of illusion in such a case, he invites the attention of 
observers possessed of powerful optical means, in order to control his 
own impressions. The appearance and the indeterminateness in the 
duration of the phenomenon on April 1, when the images were best, 
rather point to a luminous belt than to a single spot, which introduces 
uncertainty in the times of the observations; witli due regard to this, 
M, Perrotin finds a fair agreement with the assumption of a rotation not 
differing much from ten hours. On April 12 Mr. Trepied was present, 
and confirmed the impressions received by the Nice ;tstronomer; he also 



ASTRONOMY. 



185 



remarked in tlie bright part a condensation wliicli bad previously es- 
caped notice. 

By "diametre equatorial" we presume M. Perrotin refers to the di- 
ameter in the plane of the orbits of the satellites. 

Uranus. — In a note communicated to the Academy of Sciences, Paris, 
on June 9, MM. Henry stated that, observing on very line nights with 
the ISinch refractor, they have satisfied themselves of the existence of 
two gray belts, straight and parallel, and placed almost symmetrically 
with respect to the center of the disk of Uranus, and that, hy measures 
of their direction, they have found an inclination of about 41^ to the 
orbits of the satellites ; they assume that the planet's equator is in the 
direction of the belts. *" 

THE MINOR PLANETS. 

That part of the Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbueh for 1887 containing 
its specialty, the ephemerides of the small planets for 1885, has been 
issued in advance of the publication of the volume. There are approxi- 
mate places for every twentieth day of 237 out of the 244 now known, 
with accurately calculated opposition ephemerides of 19. The most re- 
liable elements of the orbits of these bodies to ISTo. 237, inclusive, are 
appended. Aethra continues at a distance of less than 1.0 from the 
earth until February 11, and if the orbit had been moie closely deter- 
mined, would have aftbrded a favorable opportunity of applying the 
method of finding the solar parallax suggested by Professor Galle, as 
the planet has been a 9th magnitude at this apposition. JEva, Stcphenia, 
and Agathe also approach the earth during the present year, within her 
mean distance from the sun ; on August 10 Stephenia will be at a dis- 
tance of only 0.7G, magnitude 11^. 

^tlira has the least perihelion distance of the group, 1.C04, while 
A^idromache, with considerable eccentricity, has the greatest aphelion 
distance, 4.726 ; so that the orbits of 244 planets extend over a space of 
3.122, the earth's mean distance from the being taken as unity. The 
longest period of revolution occurs in the case of Hilda; it is yet doubt- 
ful which has the shortest period ; No. 149, Medusa, is credited with it at 
present, but until his member of the group has been reobserved the 
point is perhaps doubtful. The most recently detected planet appears 
to have the shortest revolution next to Medusa judging from the ele- 
ments in the last circular of the Berliner Jahrbueh. (Nature.) 

Asteroids discovered in 1884. 



Xo. 


Name. 


Discovered by- 


Date. 


236 


Honoria 

Uypatia 




Apr. 26 
Juue27 


9S7 




??8 




July 1 


?S<> 






Aug. 18 


240 


Vanadis 

Germania 

Kriembild 




Aug .27 
Sept. 12 
Sept. 22 


241 
?4'^ 


Luther 

Palisa 


?43 


Palisa 


Sept. 29 


?44 




Oct. 14 











186 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

INTERNATIONAX, ]\IERIDIAN CONFERENCE. 

The full text of the final act of the International Meridian Conference 
is given below, extracted from the official publications. 

The President of the United States of America, in pursuance of a 
special provision of Congress, having extended to the Governments of 
all nations in diplomatic relations with his own an invitation to send 
delegates to meet delegates from the United States, in tlu^ city of Wash- 
ington, on the first of October, 1884, for the purpose of discussing, and, 
if possible, fixing upon a meridian proper to be emplo3ed as a common 
zero of longitude and standard of time-reckoning throughout the whole 
world, this International Meridian Conference assembled at the time 
and place designated ; and, after carelul and patient discussion, has 
passed the following resolutions : 

1. " That it is the opinion of this Congress that it is desirable to adopt 
a single prime meridian lor all nations, ini)lace of the multiplicity of 
initial meridians which now exist." 

2. " That the Conference proposes to the Governments here repre- 
sented the adoption of the meridian i^assiug through the center of the 
transit instrument at the Observatory of Greenwich as the initial me- 
ridian for longitude." 

3. "That from this meridian, longitude shall be counted in two direc- 
tions up to 180 degrees, east longitude being plus and west longitude 
minus." 

4. " That the Conference proposes the adoption of a universal day for 
all pur[)oses for which it may be found convenient, and which shall not 
interfere with the use of local or other standard time, where desirable." 

5. " That this universal day is to be a mean solar day ; is to begin for 
all the world at the moment of mean midnight of the initial meridian, 
coinciding with the beginning of the civil day and date of that merid- 
ian ; and is to be counted from zero up to twenty-four hours." 

G. " That the Conference expresses the hope that as soon as may be 
practicable the astronomical and nautical days will be arranged every- 
where to begin at mean midnight." 

■ 7. " That the Conference exi^resses the hope that the technical studies 
lesigned to regulate and extend the ai)i)lication of the decimal system 
to the division of angular space and of time shall be resumed, so as to 
permit the extension of this application to all cases in which it presents 
real advantages." 

Ihe action in the various countries upon these propositions, so far as 
it is known, is as follows. It should, however, be premised that no one 
of the Governments concerned has yet notified its decisions and that 
the action taken is, in a sense, unotiicial : 

Unghxful. — The Astronomer Koyal has oixlered that the universal day 
be adopted within the observatory at Greenwich. And the public clock 
at the gate in Greenwich Park has been set to the new time, /. e., back 



P 



i 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 187 

12'^. As an experiment, a small almanac is published in Nature in 
the new time. Nothing lias been said of any change in the Xcmtkal 
Almanac. 

jFm«ce.— No official action has been taken, and' there is no prospect 
that the universal day will be adopted either in the National Observa- 
tory or in the computations of the Connaissance des Temps. 

Germany. — Professors Foerster, Auwers, and Tietjeu have declared 
against the universal day on principle, and have announced that the 
Berliner Jalirhiicli will not adopt it. Professor Krueger, the editor of 
the Astronomisclte Nachrichten, is understood to oppose any such change 
as couitemplated. 

United States. — The policy of the officials of the United States has 
been vacillating, but the final decision is to adhere to the present 
mode of reckoning. According to an official publication of the Superin- 
tendent of the Naval Observatory, the opinion among American astron- 
omers is against the change. The superintendent of the American 
Ephemeris has practically announced that no change will be made in 
the Ephemeris before 1900 A. D. 

A consideration of the above statements leads to the conclusion that 
the net result of the Conference has been the adoption of the meridian 
of Greenwich as a prime meridian from which to measure longitudes. 

In this connection it may be of interest to record that the United 
States has legalized the use of " Eastern Time" (the local solar time of 
the 75th meridian W. from Greenwich) in Washington, etc., and that 
the State of Connecticut has adopted this time as standard within the 
State. 

The mean solar time of the 90th meridian, "Central Time," has been 
made the legal time within the State of Wisconsin. 

EEPOETS OF OBSERVATORIES, ETC. 

The article " Observatory " in the ninth edition of the Encyclopccdia 
.Britannica'is from the pen of Dr. J. L. E. Dreyer, director of Armagh 
Observatory, and formerly editor of Copernicus. The article commences 
vritli a brief introduction giving an outline of the development of ob- 
servatories, from thedaysof Hipparchus to the present time. A gazetteer 
of the principal existing observatories follows, in which is given a de- 
scrii)tion of the equipment and work of each, as full as space permits. 
A number of English private observatories, now discontinued, are also 
described, on account of their historical interest and the important work 
which has been performed at many of them. [The Observatory, Sep- 
tember, 1884.) 

Ecp<yrts of English Observatories. — From the Monthly Notices, R. A. S., 
the following short notices of the activity of English observatories are 
condensed : 

Armagh. — A permanent fund of $10,000 is provided, whose income 
heli)S to support the Observatory. A 10 inch Grubb refractor is in 
pro'^ess of construction. The new Armagh catalogue is in the press. 



188 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Dr. Dreyer lias printed (for private circulation) an historical account 
of the Armagh Observatory in a pamphlet of twenty pages. The front- 
ispiece gives an autotype picture of the buildings. This account is of 
much interest, since the history of the observatory extends from 1791 to 
now. 

Cambridge. — Three thousand one hundred and twenty five meridian 
observations have been made, 2,4-^3 of which relate to zone stars between 
25° and 30°. Division errors have been investigated. 

Dunsins]{. — The meridian circle is used to observe stars between 2° 
and 23° south declination. It is not stated what list is under observa- 
tion. It appears that the observations are not diflerential in declina- 
tion since the Nadir gives the zero of declination. 

Edinhurgh. — Is i)ressing upon the Government the printing of the 
remaining volumes of its star catalogue. 

Glasgow. — Is ol)serving a list of proper motion stars. 

Eeic. — Continues drawings of solar spots, and testing of sextants, 
watches, and meteorological instruments, etc. 

Liverpool. — Continues its work on the etiect of temperature on chro- 
nometers. 

The Oxford University Observatory. — The professor of astronomy has 
issued his annual report to the board of visitors of the University Ob- 
serv^atory. The attendance of students at the lectures has been greater 
than at any previous time, and the professor mentions " the phenom- 
enon " of the regular appearance of two ladies at his lectures on the 
planetary and lunar theories, at the same time reminding the board 
what even the approximate mastery of such theory implies. 

On the astronomical work of the staff of the institution during the 
year, Professor Pritchard's report is a most favoral)le one. He refers to 
three memoirs on important astronomical questions which have issued 
therefrom, and which have been printed in the Memoirs of the Eoyal 
Astronomical Society. These include an extensive memoir by him- 
self on the "Photometric Determination of the Eelative Brightness 
of the Brighter Stars North of the Equator," in which his work at Cairo 
is brought to bear, and a memoir by the first assistant, Mr. W. E. Plum- 
mer, on the probable motion of the solar system in space, the data for 
which depend upon Mr. Stone's recent catalogue of southern stars; it is 
a memoir very similar in character to the well-known one by the late 
Mr. Galloway. Further, Professor Pritchard has communicated to the 
Eoyal Astronomical Society a paper, which was read at the last meeting, 
demonstrating, as he thinks, the existence of small displacements among 
the Pleiades. Upwards of a thousand measures of the relative bright- 
ness of stars were made, leaving about the same luimber to be made in 
the next year. This measurement of all the naked eye stars from the 
pole to the equator will furnish a Uranometria Nova Oxoniensis, and 
Professor Pritchard hopes that its publication may be undertaken by 
the University Press. The measures of the Pleiades having been com 



ASTRONOMY. 189 

pleted, he now iuteuus to devote himself to lunar work — the determina- 
tion ofselenographical longitude and latitude of a large number of points 
on the moon's surface by means of a valuable series of lunar photographs 
at the observatory. Eeference is made, in addition to the Pleiades 
work, to the existence of measures of some 250 stars in another cluster 
made at the observatory a few years since, and to be shortly reduced and 
published^ the particular cluster is not indicated in the report, but pre- 
sumably may be M. 39 in Cygnus, described by Messier when he ob- 
served it in 17'J4 as "a star-cluster of 1° diameter." {Mature.) 

Radcliffe Observatory . — Has made over 3,000 transit circle observa- 
tions on the sun (103), moon (02), and stars. 

Savilian Observatory. — Is completing its photometry of naked-eye 
stars, and has begun the triangulation of the lunar surfjxce. 

Temple Observatory, Rugby. — Measures of double stars are continued. 

Stonyhurst College Observatory. — Continues its meteorological work 
and has made 281 drawings of the whole solar disk on 257 days. Atten- 
tion is paid to the spectra of sun spots, and the protuberances are ob 
served. 

Leyton Observatory (Mr. Barclay's). — Is about to publish its volume V. 

Mr. Common's Observatory. — Is about to erect a 5-foot reflector for 
photography alone. The glass disk has been on hand since 1883 and 
seems to be satisfactory. 

Lord Crawford's Observatory. — Vol. Ill is about to be issued. 

Mr. Crossley\s Observatory. — Has been become possessed of Mr, Com- 
mon's 3-foot reflector. 

Lord Rosseh Observatory. — Has been employed in measures of lunar 
radiant heat and in drawings of Jupiter and Mars. 

Colonel Tomline's Observatory. — Has observed the comets of the year. 

Colonel Tupman''s Observatory. — Has just been equipped with an 3^- 
inch meridian circle, a 4^-inch refractor, and an 18^-inch reflector. 

Cape of Good Hope Observatory. — Its work is elsewhere described. 

Hong-Kong Observatory. — Is chiefly meteorological and for time-signals ; 
but will soon possess a Cinch equatorial. 

The V. J. 8. der Astronomischen Gesellschaft for 1884 contains, as 
usual, reports from the various European observatories. The following 
notes are condensed from these reports, and give a connected account 
of the activity of the various establishments for 1883 : 

Athens. — The Sun was observed on 355 days ; the Moon had 534 points 
determined in its topography ; Jupiter was drawn Q'd times. 

A memoir on the comet of 3882 is nearly ready for printing; 39,400 
comparisons of variable stars were made. . 

Berlin. — Dr. Becker has left the observatory to take charge of the 
Gotha Observatory. 

The Zone + 20° to -|- 25° is finished so far as observations are con- 
cerned. To determine the influence of the magnitude of the stars on 
the deduced B. A., the transits of 247 stars were observed ou 13 eve- 



190 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

nings, both Viith the full objective, and through w re nettings held in 
front of 1 he objective, so as to reduce their magnitude to a given stand- 
ard. It was found that faint stars were observed later by 0\007 per 
magnitude. 

It is mentioned in this report that two observers determined the 
places of 240 stars (using 57 fundamental stars for comparison) in four 
nights. One observer made the pointings, the other read the micro- 
scopes. 

Volume V of the Berlin Observations will shortly be printed. 

The computing bureau has issued the Berliner Jahrbuch as usual, as 
well as the two periodicals, Circulars and Correspondence regarding ob- 
servations of planets. 

Bonn. — The observatory continues to concentrate its efforts on two 
great works, the Zone 40° —50°, and the southern Burchmusterung. In 
the latter work 114,615 + 1,101 stars have been observed. The observa- 
tion and reductions of this work are now completed and the printing 
of the catalogue is begun. 

Brussels. — The catalogue of E. Quetelet is printed from 0^ to 12'\ 
The labors of the observatory in sjiherical astronomy, in physical as 
tronomy, and celesti.il mechanics, as well as in regard to the transit of 
Venus, 1882, are described in the report. 

Dresden (private observatory). — Baron v. Englehardt continues at his 
private observatory the observations of minor planets, of comets, and 
of nebula?. Twentj^-one planets have been observed 03 times ; 3 comets 
have been observed 43 times; 47 nebulae have been observed 95 times. 

Dusseldorf. — In 1883, 18 planets have been observed 4!) times ; since 
1847, 144 planets have been observed 1,151 times. 

Six asteroid orbits are computed yearly. 

Franlcfort on-the Main {private observatory). — Herr Eppstein has made, 
since 1881, 444 gauges, containing 8,332 stars in ll;» positions on 23 
nights. In all, about 47,000 stars in 2,420 fields in 774 positions. 

Suns\)ot observations are also regularly made by Herr Eppstein. 

Geneva. — The 10 inch equatorial has been used for observations of 
nebulai, double stars, asteroids, and satellites of Saturn. 

The small equatorial has been used to study the solar prominences. 

Gotha. — Dr. E. Becker has lately been ai)pointed to the charge of the 
Gotha Observatory. • The larger part of the report relates to repairs 
and to changes which have been made in the instruments. 

Dr. Becker continues the reductions of the BerlinZoue + 20° to + 25°. 
The Moon, the inferior planets and those Mayer stars not in the Fiinda- 
menta will be observed on the meridian. 

Grignon. — The observatory" of the Priory of St. John of Grignon, 
was founded in 1879, and this report relates to its instrumental equip- 
ment and to its observations of sun spots, planets, and comets. 

Hereny {Hunf/ary). — Vol. i of its publications has been distributed. 
The observations relate to the spectra of fixed stars, of variables, and 



ASTRONOMY. 191 

of comets, as well us to drawiugs, etc., of Jupiter with meteorological 
observations. 

Kalocsa. — The latitude of the observatory has been accurately deter- 
miued. The Sun is regularly observed. Dr. BrauD, the director, has 
contrived a trigonometer with which any spherical triangle can be solved 
(to about 5' of arc) with great facility (22 triangles in 10 minutes) 

Kiel. — Several additions have been made to the instruments ; notably 
a comet-seeker and a star- spectroscope. 

The Chronometer Observatory has been separated from the Kiel Ob- 
servatory, and constituted a distinct establishment under the charge of 
Dr. 0. F. W. Peters. The Helsiugfors-Gotha Zone is now printing. 
Kiel has been telegraphically connected with one of the longitude sta- 
tions of the European Gradmessung. 

The Astronomisclie Nachricliten is regularly published here. 

Leipsic. — The changes to the instruments appear to bo nearly com- 
pleted. The observatory has acquired the astro-physical apparatus be- 
longing to the late Professor Zoellner. 

The work of observation and reduction of the Zone -4- 5^ to -}- 10° 
continues, as well as the reduction of the old Zone +10° to -\-15^. 

Leipsic {private obsercatory). — Dr. Engelmanu made, in 1882, 1,200 
observations of 400 double stars; in 1883, 1,000 observations of 510 
double stars, as well as other observations. 

Victoria and Sappho were observed to determine the solar parallax 
on Dr. Gill's plan. 

Observatory at Liege. — The Belgian Government has founded an ob- 
servatory at Liege for astronomy, meteorology, and magnetism, under the 
direction of Professor Folic. 

Lund. — The Zone observations are finished. Dr. Duner has measured 
80 double stars, 503 spectra of red stars, and 55 wave lengths in star 
spectra, of tiie III type. Victoria and Sappho have also been observed 
by Dr. Engstrom. 

Milan. — The 18 inch equatorial is not yet received.* 

The 8 inch equatorial has been employed in making (395) observa- 
tions of double stars, (64) observations of 3 comets, etc. 

The most generally interesting work of the observatory is the prepa- 
ration of Baron Dembowski's observations for the press. They will be 
printed in two volumes. The contents of vol. i is as follows : 

I. 2,100 measures of Gil stars made at Naples. 

II. 2,155 measures of 432 stars of Otto Struve's catalogue. 

III. 663 measures of 199 stars, whose distance is between 32" and 
120". 

IV. 1,229 measures of 342 doubles, discovered by Burnham. 

V. 476 measures of 134 miscellaneous pairs. 



*It is uuderstood IIkiI the cost of the dome and Telescope is to be paid from a grant 
of 250,000 iraucs ($50,000). The objective cost 45,000 francs ($9,000), and is mado by 
Mez-z. The mounting (by Repsold) cost 65,000 f-ancs ($13,000). 



.192 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

VI. 910 observations of 2C circumpolar pairs. 

Id all 7,542 measures. 

Vol. II will contain 13,800 measures of W. Struve's Dorpat catalogue. 

. Munich. — The repairs are nearly completed. Among the 37,000 stars 

whose places have been lixed at Munich, some 9,000 have been only 

once observed, and are in no other catalogue. These are to be each 

once observed. 

The Munich Zones are being completely re-reduced and brought up 
to 1880.0 with comparisons with Lalande, Bessel, Santini, Ruemker, 
Schellerup, Copeland. and Argelander. 

O'Gyalla. — Stars are spectroscopically observed in the Zone 0° to — 15°. 
These observations include stars to 7 magnitude, and each star is ob- 
served twice. Special star spectra are more carefully investigated. 
Comet spectra have also been regularly observed. The color of all stars 
to 4 magnitude, inclusive, are observed with a Zoellner's colorimeter. 
The Sim was regularly observed (on 203 days). Many otlier investiga- 
tions are also in progress, for an account of which reference must be 
made to the original report. 

Padua. — The work of the observatory is intimately connected with 
that of the Italian Geodetic Commission. 

The Observatory of Paris. — Admiral Mouchez's report on the state of 
this establishment and the work accomplished therein during the past 
year, commences with some details of his scheme for erecting a succur- 
sal observatory at a distance from Paris, where the disadvantages of 
location in the midst of a great city would be avoided. His proposal 
was to dispose of a parb of the actual grounds of the observatory', a step 
which would be likely to realize a sum adequate to the erection of the 
new building, at the same time re'taiuiug the present one to form the 
headquarters of tne bureau des calculs, the archives, and the museum, 
the two establishments to remain under the same direction and to con- 
stitute together the Observatory of Paris. This scheme, it is known, 
has not met with general acceptance at the hands of the scientific au- 
thorities. 

M. LoBwy, in charge of the meridian service, has been occupied with 
the reobservation of stars in the catalogue of Lalande, while a large 
number of observations of the sun, moon, and planets has also been 
made, eighteen observers taking part in this work in the course of the 
year. The equatorials of 12 and 14 inches aperture and the equatorial 
coude were employed on observations of comets and small planets. The 
Ecliptical Charts Nos. 12, 19, 48, and 67, have progressed, and attention 
has been paid to double-star measures. M. Mouchez reports that the 
construction and installation of the great telescope (0™74.) has been 
retarded by the difficulty of establishing it in the grounds of the observa- 
tory at Paris. In the department of astronomical physics, MM. Thol- 
lon and Trepied had been occuitied lor six weeks on the Pic du Midi, 
wbere, with M, Naussiuat, in present charge of the observatory, they 



ASTRONOMY. 193 

studied the advantages of the station, more especially for solar obser- 
vations, concluding that great scientific interest would attach to work 
that might be accomplished during the four or five weeks of the fine 
season in a small observatory at that point. Funds for the purpose are 
not yet available. 

M. Mouchez further reports upon the distribution of time in Paris, 
the additions to the museum during the year, which consist of instru- 
ments of the last century found in the Observatory of Toulouse, a por- 
trait of Copernicus, etc.; the work of the bureau des Calculs, which re- 
mains in charge of M. Gaillot; the publications of the observatory during 
the year, including vol, xvii, of the Annales, in which are some impor- 
tant memoirs, theoretical and practical; and the«personal work of the 
staff. 

A plan of the grounds of the institution is appended, on which are 
distinguished those portions which M. Mouchez had proposed to alienate 
with the view to providing means for the erection of an observatory at 
a distance from Paris. [Nature.) 

PlonsJc {private observatory). — Solar spots are regularly observed, as 
well as the positions and spectra of comets and the relative situations 
of double stars. 

Potsdam. — Dr. Yogel has had the privilege of using the large Vienna 
refractor during three months of 1883 for the investigation of the spec- 
tra of faint stars. 

Jvpiter and Mars have been regularly observed by Dr. Loehse. 

Sixty-nine uebulai have been observed for position with the helio- 
meter. 

The major planets (except Uranus) were photometrically observed 
each five times or more. Many variable stars have been observed. 
The Sun is observed constantly, and a great number of other researches 
are in hand. 

Prague [private observatory.) — Professor Safarik has made 1,830 de- 
terminations of the magnitude of 97 variable stars on IGl nights, be- 
sides many other determinations of brightness as of the planets, comets, 
zodiacal light, etc. 

Stocl-Jiolm. — Dr. Gyld^n's report relates chiefly to the progress made 
in his new method of determining the absolute elements of the eight 
major planets, and cannot be summarized here. 

The meridian-circle is devoted to the observations of all stars north 
of + 45° which are in the Radcliffe catalogue. 

Zurich. — The Sun was observed on 302 days ; 2,400 single positions 
of solar spots have been determined. Jupiter has been observed on 
28 days, and observations of comets, etc., have been made. 

Observatory of Algiers. — This observatory was reorganized in 1881. 
The dir<}ctor is M. Trepied, and the assistant M. Rambaud. The ap- 
propriation is 12,900 francs (about $2,G00). The principal instruments 
S. Mis. 33 — ^13 



194 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR lae*. 

are a reflector of 20 inches aperture; a reflector of 13 inches aperture; 
a ThoUou spectroscope, giving the dispersion of 31 flint prisms; a small 
meridian circle; spectroscopes; apparatus for solar photography. An 
account of this observatory is given in Bulletin Astronomique April, 1884. 

Australian observatories. — The eighteenth annual report of the director 
of the observatory at Melbourne has been issued. The new transit- 
circle was expected in a short time, and would find the new circle-room 
ready to receive it, but the instrument which had been in use for twenty 
years continued to give excellent and trustworthy results; nevertheless, 
each year had forced upon Mr. Ellery the necessity of greater optical 
scope for the meridian work. The inevitable loss of reflective power in 
the great telescope increases a little year by year, but does not yet 
sensibly affect the work upon which it is employed. Indeed, Mr. Ellery 
says, " some photographs of faint objects obtained lately are clear evi- 
dence of the immense light-gathering power it still possesses, and of 
the ti ivial loss occasioned so far by the slight tarnish apparent." The 
instrument had not been kept quite so closely to its special work — the 
revision of the southern nebulae — as before, owing to the number of 
nights occupied with the great comet, and in experimenting in celestial 
photography. Among the subjects of observation Mr. Ellery refers to 
the transit of Venus, the Port Darwin Ex[)editiou for determination of 
longitude of Australian observatories, and measures of differences of 
declination of the minor planets Sappho and Victoria for determination 
of the solar parallax, according to the scheme arranged by Mr. Gill. 
The great comet of 1882 was kept in view for 250 days, or until April 
26, 1883. A large portion of the work connected with the telegraphic 
determination of the longitude of Australian observatories from Green- 
wich fell upon the Melbourne estalflishment, which is now assumed to 
be in longitude 9^ SO"" 53'.37 E., subject, perhaps, to some very small 
correction. As soon as the new transit-circle was properly adjusted, 
it was Mr. Ellery's intention to devote it to the revision of a rather large 
catalogue of stars, at the request of the Astronomisclie Gesellschafl 
besides its more special work. The great telescope would be applied 
more exclusively to the continuation of the revision of Sir John Her- 
schel's nebulas, several of which, by the way, the Melbourne observers 
have not been able to find. {Xature.) 

Observatory of Natal. — From a late issue of Science we learn of astro- 
nomical work now going on at IS^atal, under the direction of Mr. Edmund 
Neison, Government ast;ronomer at that place. The following subjects 
are being pursued : 

1. " The determination of the exact amount of i>arallactic inequality of 
the motion of the Moon by means of observations of the positions of a 
crater near the center of the lunar surface. 

2. '' The determination of the exact diameter of the Moon by observa- 
tions of pairs of points near the limb. 



I 



ASTEONOaiY. 195 

3. "The effect of irradiation and its variations on the apparent scmi- 
dlametcr of the Moon. 

4. "The systematic variation of the apparent place produced by the 
irregularities on its limb. 

5. "The real libration of the Moon by a method independent of the 
errors caused by abnormal variations in the apparent semi diameter of 
the Moon. 

Bosiccll Ohservatorij. — A new observatory at Doano College, Crete, 
N'ebr., has been recenily erected, and is now being suppbed witii 
astronomical instruments. The equatorial telescope has an object-glass 
of 8 inches aperture, made by the Clarks. The mounting is furnished 
at Madison, Wis. Prof. G. D. Swezey, under whose directions the 
observatory is being equii)ped, has already secured a Uuffand Burger 
transit instrument, a Howard meantime clock, a Sewell break-circuit 
chronometer, a Seth Thomas clock, and a set of meteorological ap- 
paratus. 

The building and instruments have cost about $7,000. 

Chicago Observatorij. — From the annual report of the director of the 
Pearborn Observatory at Chicago, Prof. G. W. Hough, it appears 
"rhat the chief instruments have been kept in constant use. A gas en- 
gine is now employed to turn the dome covering the- great telesco[)e. 
The Pepsold meridian circle is used only for observations connected 
with the time-service. The great telescope, of 18 inches aperture, has 
been exclusively' employed in the observation of a few objects, (I) the 
Pons-lirooks comet, the changes in the structure of whicb were not re- 
markable; (2) diiiicult double stars, thirty two new objects of this class 
having been discovered by Professor Hough ; (3) the planet Jupiter. 
the principal objects of interest being the great red spotlirst noticed in 
1878, and which has maintained its size, sliajjc, and outline with very 
slight change, the great equatorial belt, which has been subject to 
gradual ch-ilt in latitude from year to year, and the equatorial while 
spots, which, with the envelope they aie situate in, move with a velocity 
of 2G0 miles per hour, thus revolving about the planet in a month and 
a half; (4) the planet Saturn, with negative results so far as markings 
on or subdivisions of the rings were concerned ; and (5) the satellites of 
Uranus, which were such difficult objects as not to have been frequently 
seen. Six drawings of Jupiter'' s disk were made, four of which are 
printed in the report. As heretofore, Mr. S. \V. Buruham has con- 
tinued his observations of double stars with the great telescope. {The 
Nati-on.) Professor Hough is experimenting with a printing chrono- 
grajjh. 

Columbia College Observatory. — Mr. Lewis M. Rutherford, of ijfew York 
City, has presented to the trustees of Columbia College the valuable 
astronomical instruments of his private observatory on Second avenue, 
H« follows : A 13-inch equatorial telescope with mounting and clock- 



196 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

■w^ork complete; a photographic leus with accessories for celestial 
photograpliy ; two micrometers for measuring double stars; four mi- 
crometers for measuring star plates ; a transit instrument by Stackpole 
& Brother ; a sidereal clock, and additional appliances for the observa- 
tory. Mr. Eutherford generously bears the expense of moving and of 
remounting the instruments. 

Observatory of the University of Virginia. — Messrs. Warner and Swa- 
sey, of Cleveland, Ohio, have completed the great dome for the new 
McCormick Observatory at the University of Virginia. It is hemis- 
pherical in shape and is 45 feet in diameter, and a personal inspection 
has convinced the writer of its excellent qualities. 

It can be revolved 300° in 80% by a pull of 15 pounds on a rope. The 
direct pressure required to move it is 45 pounds. The three shutters 
can be opened in 20% by a pull of about 10 pounds. 

Willets Point. — A very interesting report is published by General H. 
L. Abbot, of the Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, on the astronomical 
work which has been done during 1884 at the engineer post of Willets 
Point, New York Harbor. It is to this school of apj^licatiou that young 
ofiicers of engineers are sent io learn the practical application of their 
studies at West Point. They are taught the ])ractice of military sur- 
veying, mining, torpedo service, etc., and also the application of astron- 
omy to military and boundary surveys. Each year a general order is 
issued, giving the results of the past year's work in practical astron- 
omy. The order for 1884 may be summarized as follows: 

Each officer makes a long series of determinations of local time with 
various instruments, and in various ways. With the portable transit, 
the time of transit is at first recorded by an assistant, at the word given 
by the observer; next, the observer records his own time by the relay 
heat of a chronometer every 1 second ; next by the chronograpliic method, 
and lastly hy the beat of the chronometer itself (ever^- 0.5 second). Be- 
ginners use these methods in succession in the order named. 

Personal equation is studied by means of Eastman's machine (see 
Wash. Ast. Obs, 1875). 

The time determinations are given for each day of observation, with 
the probable errors. 

Time determinations by sextant observations are also given, and by 
means of the (known) correction of the standard chronometer the error 
of each observation and observer is determined. 

We quote below the errors of the sextant clock cori'ections so deter- 
mined. (Usually 10 altitudes of an east star and 10 of a west were em- 
ployed). 3«.0; 3.8; 2.0; 1.2; G.5; 1.8; 1.9; 0.0; 0.7; 0.1; 0.9; 1.0. 

Observations for latitude weie made by the sextant and by zenith 
•telescopes. With the sextant the errors in seconds of arc were as 
follows (l"=101feet): G".9; 4".3; 2".2; 7".4; 1".7; 1.5; 10".4. 

A table of the separate latitudes obtained by eaclj observer, with 



ASTRONOMY. 197 

each instrument from each pair of stars (Safiord's catalogue), is given 
in detail, and compared with the results of past years. 

The mean of all tbe observations for latitude made in 1884, is as lol- 
lows all- pairs and observations having equal weight: 

Zenith telescope by Wurdemanu (190 observations on 43 pairs) gives 

40O 47' 20".47. . ^ . ,,._ 

Zenith telescope, by Lingke (333 observations on 54 pairs) gives 40 

47' 20".92. . ... 

Grand mean for observations of 1884, giving observations and instru- 
ments equal weight, is 40° 47' 20".75. 

The results of previous years are added for comparison (1 =101 

feet :) 

Transferred from old observatory 40o 47' 21''.70 .-t 0';.575 

In 1880 (320 observations of 84 pairs) -l^^-^^ ± " -"^ - 

1881 (5'Jl observations of 104 pairs) ^^'//o 

• 1882 (235 observntions of GO pairs) '^^','^1 

1883 (497 observations of 118 pairs) '^^'I'l^^ 

1884 (523 observations of 89 pairs) 20". i o 

" The grand mean of 2,172 observations made at the new observatory 
during the past five years is 40o 47' 21".23; but it will be noticed that 
tbere has been a steady reduction in the yearly means during this en- 
tire period, and that the less exact determination at the old observatory 
indicates a change in the same direction." „ , w. .^nino 

Althoun-h the nature of the observations and the small absolute ^ a ue 
of the quantity in question render it quite possible to attribute this 
solely to errors of observation, the fact is, nevertheless an ex remely 
interesting one in its relation to the question of the variability of terres- 
trial latitudes, and deserves furth-er ex-mination. 

Longitude was determined by lunar culminations, and the errors ot 
each separate result compared with the known (telegraphic) longitude 
were: 7«.5: 36.0; 2.2; 15.1; 3.8; 10.4; 14.G; 5.5. 

Lonc^itudes by lunar distances were also determined with errors as 
below ^1G^5; 12.9; 7.3; G.7 ; 4G.4; 39.7; 23 9; 11.7. 

Auroral displays are regularly noted by the sentinels, and an inter- 
esting table of the results since 1870 is given. „w^„^ 

What has been given as an abstract of one year's work m only one 
department of this school of application for young engineer oflicersi^ 
sufficient to show that we have at present no better school of practical 

astronomy in America. r^^Hooa i« now 

Yale College Observatory.-The observatory m Yale ^oHege is no^ 
without a director, Trofessor Kewton having resigned that office last 
M yr^eing now the secretary to tbe board of managers, -^ose presi^ 
dent is Di Porter, the president of the college. The points of most 
?mpo an e n the secretary's report for the year 1S84 relate to he pho- 
To!Z^oi the late transit of Venus taken by Mr. Willson, and now in 



198 sciEJirTmc record for i884. 

the handsof the Government commipsionerat Washington — ])hotographs 
which Professor Harkness reports as "Hliely to yiehl vahiable results"; 
to the partial reduction of observations made with the helionieter; and 
to the appointment in January, 1884, of Dr. Elkin as the astronomer 
in charge of this instrument lor a period of three years. In addition to 
a thorough general investigation of the new heliometer, Dr. Elkin 
reports a series of observations of the diameter of the planet Venus, the 
determination of a large number of positions of the Moon, and good 
progress in his principal work, the triangulation of the group of the 
Pleiades. Mr. Sherman, assistant in the observatory, has been engaged 
in magnetic observations, and in determinations of the form, polariza- 
tion, and position of tbe Pous-Biooks comet. The details of Dr. Wal- 
do's report on the horologic and thermoraetric bureaus occupy more 
than haFf of the entire pamphlet. He notes a marked increase in the 
excellence of tbe watch-movements submitted to the observatory tests. 
An international system of watch trials has been agreed upon, by which 
the operations at Geneva, Kew, and New tlaven will be strictly com- 
parable. The work of the thcrmometric bureau has been much ex- 
tended over previous years, and there has been a total of more than 
GjOOO thermometers examined. {The Nation.) 

ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

lu 1879 Privy Counsellor Otto von Struve, director of the observatory 
at Pulkova, near St. Petersburg, visited America and contracted with 
the Messrs. Clark for the constiuction of an object-glass 30 inches in 
diameter. It was completed last year and accepted by Dr. Struve, who 
came to this country to examine critically its performance. The mount- 
ing for this great glass has been made at the shops of tbe Iiei)solds, 
where many cardinal improvements in the mounting and mecbanical 
accessories generally have been devised.* This telesco])e will be set up 
at Pulkova, and ready for work, at some time during tbe present year. 

A section of Professor Xewcomb's late report relates to the new equa- 
torial coude at the Paris Observatory, a refractor in which the rays of 
light are brought to the object-glass after reflection from two plane mir- 
rors. The chief advantage of this construction is that tbe observer does 
not have to follow the eye-piece of his telescoi)e, but always sits in a 
given position in a comfortable room. This form of instrument is not 
suitable XVhen the highest optical i)ower is sought ; but it surpasses all 
others in convenience of use. 

The French astronomers have lately devised a new method of sup- 
porting a revolving dome, wherein the base of the dome will be an an- 
nular caisson, floating in a similarly shai)ed trough filled with water so 
treated as to prevent its freezing. The dome to which this plan is to 
be applied is 05 feet in diameter. 

* It is understood that the cost of this ekgiint and elaborate mountin^j was yO.STiO 
dollars. 



ASTKONOMT. 199 

We learn from Nature that M. Charles Fell has, after some years' ab- 
sence, returned to the active management of his celebrated manufact- 
ory of optical <?liis« iu Paris, the new firm being "Feil pere et Man- 
tois." M. Fcil is grandson to M. Guinand, who, some sixty years since, 
by a mode of working almost identical with that adopted by the cele- 
brated potter, Palissy, overcame the serious obstacles which occur in 
securing the perfect homogeneity of both crown and flint glass, and 
whose secrets have descended to his grandson. ( The Nation.) 

LasseWs 2foot reflector at Oreemvich. — The new dome for this telescope 
was completed by Messrs. T. Cooke & Sons at the end of last March, 
and is in every respect satisfactory. It is 30 feet in diameter, covered 
with papier-mach6, on an iron frame-work, and turns with great ease. 
The shutter-opening extends from beyond the zenith to the horizon and 
is closed by a single curved shutter (3 feet inches wide at the zenith 
and G feet wide at the horizon), which turns about ajKjint in the dome- 
curb opposite to the shutter-opening, and runs on guiding rails at the 
horizon and near the zenith, the curved shutter being continued by an 
open frame- work to complete the semicircle. This arrangement appears 
to leave nothing to be desired as regards ease of manipulation. The 
equatoriil has required a number of small repairs and general clean- 
ing, some parts of the mounting having been probably strained in 
])rocess of removal, and the bearings in particular having suffered from 
wear and subsequent disuse, so that it has been necessary to raise the 
instrnnjeut and regriud these in several instances. The mirror has 
been cleaned, and appears to be in very good condition as regards pol- 
ish. The definition on stars seems to be very good as far as it has been 
practicable to test it before the mounting of the telescope has' been put 
into proper order. The delay in the completion of the dome has nec- 
essarily delayed the work on the instrument, which is now rapidly ad- 
auciug to completion. {Nature.) 

Dr. H. C. VogeVs opinion of the objective of the great Vienna rrfr actor. — 
" In the spring months (1883), when there were several cou.^ecutive days 
of exquisitely clear weather, I got the impression that the objective was 
rather good, but that the images as regards sharpness were not to be 
compared with those of middle-sized instruments, and on leaving Vienna 
I had formed the opinion that the difficulty of producing so large ob- 
jectives had not been quite surmounted, and that the advantage of large 
objectives i^rincipally consisted in the amount of light through which 
much detail would be revealed (though not with the sharpness of mid- 
dle-sized instruments), which by a smaller amount of light would quite 
escape the eye of the observer. 

"But by my observations in September this opinion wiis completelj' 
upset. I have acknowledged that the Vienna objective as regards the 
precision of the images leaves nothing to be desired, and that it was 
only from want of taking the state of the air into account that I had 
formed my former opinion. I have with advantage, on splendidly clear 



200 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

eveuiugs in September, used a power of ] ,000 and even of 1,500, and 
perceived the fine details of planetary disks with admirable sharpness. 
The images of bright stars were of perfect regularity, and the central 
part of the diffraction disk was so remarkably small that it may be ex- 
pected that the instrument would also be very suited for observing 
double stars." 

The almucantar. — This is the name given by Mr. S, C. Chandler, of 
Harvard College Observatory, to an ingenious instrument devised by 
him. It consists first of a rectangular basin filled with mercury. In 
this mercury is floated a rectangle of metal, which carries a telescope 
movable in altitude. The mercury basin can be moved in a horizontal 
plane. The vertical transits of stars can be observed over horizontal 
threads in the telescope. Such results as have been published show 
the work of this instrument to be of surprising accuracy, and it cer- 
tainly presents some important theoretical advantages. 

Dr. A. Steinheil has given (Ast. IS'ach. 260G) in a brief form, a paper 
on the errors and adjustments of object glasses of two lenses, which 
should be studied by all observers who desire to understand the opera- 
tion of their telescopes. An abstract of this has been printed in the 
Sidereal Messenger. Dr. Steinheil is prepared to furnish sets of objec- 
tives each of which has one of the errors named, but is perfect as re- 
si)ects the remaining ones. These should be of value in our physical 
laboratories. 

Repsol(Vs position-micrometer. — The price of a Repsold micrometer like 
that described in the Encyclopcedia Britanica, vol. xvi — article micro- 
meter — for a 15-inch telescope, is $1,250. This includes, of course, the 
fittings to the telescope which give the bright wire illumination. 

Normal cloch. — Dr. L. "Waldo, Science states, has just completed the 
erection of a normal clock at the Yale College Observatory, to be used as 
a mean-time standard in the horological work of that institution. The 
movement and pendulum are parts of the gravity escapement clock 
built by Richard Bond (No. 3G7), and which had a phenomenal record 
under Mr. Hartnup, at Liverpool, and later under Prof. W. A. Rogers, 
of Cambridge. The case, from Dr. Waldo's designs, is built of cast 
iron, with planed back and front, to which are clamped the plate-glass 
doors. The entire case rests upon two brick piers, which rise to the 
height of the movement, and insure stability to the pendulum suspen- 
sion. Thermometers, a barometer, and a cup of calcic chloride are 
placed within the case, which can be exhausted to any barometric press- 
ure desired by an air pump attached to its side. The escapement and 
arc of vibration can be observed and adjusted with the greatest accu* 
racy. The clock is erected in the clock-room of the observatory, which 
was specially built to secure uniformity of temperature. 

Division errors. — Prof. W. A. Rogers has devised a means of deter- 
mining the division errors of a meridian circle mechanically without re- 
moviuj; the circle from the axis. An abstract of his paper has appeared 



• 



ASTRONOMY. 201 

ill the Sidereal Meseenger, and the metbod is to be applied to the Uar- 
vaid Collejie circle. It need not be said that there is hardly any prob- 
lem in practical astronomy whose solution is more important than this, 
and Professor Kojjers's final lesults will be waited for with impatience. 

Beelinograpli.—Dr. Palisa has had a declinograph, on the plan of 
Dr. Knorre's at Berlin, titted to the lliiuch Alvau Clark refractor at 
Vienna, and he is observing zones with even greater assiduity than 
usual. He reports himself as satisfied with the working of the instru- 
ment, which gives positions accurate to about 0^2 and 2". In a zone 
25™ by 20' 150 stars can be registered. The positions are to be reduced 
to 1875.0, and this is chosen as the equinox for all the new Vienna 
maps. Each map is to have a catalogue of its stars accompanying it, 
which is an excellent addition. Dr. Peters's catalogue of G0,000 zone 
stars would be of great usefulness, if it were available, as a supplement 
to his splendid series of celestial charts. 

The price of the instrument is about $150. 

Heliometer. — A new 7-iuch heliometer is to be made for the Capo Ob- 
servatory, for work in charge of Dr. Gill. It wi 1 cost £2,700, and is 
being constructed by Messrs. Eepsold, of Hamburg. 

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOCIRAPnT, ETC. 

Mr. Winlock is attempting a very extensive bibliographic task. It 
is the formation of a complete subject-index to every book in the library 
of the United States I^aval Observatory. The entries are all to be en- 
tered in one alphabet. This is an immense work and will require much 
time. If special bibliographies of such subjects as Parallax, Photome- 
try, etc., could be printed in advance they would be most useful, and 
the publication of a minute index to the V. J. S. der Astr. Gesell. is a 
want pressingly felt. 

ASTRONOMICAL JOURNALS. 

Besides the transactions of learned societies which have astronomy 
for one of their objects, we have at present the publications of two so- 
cieties which are exclusively devoted to astronomy. These are the 
Montlihj Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, and the Vicrteljahrs- 
schrift of the German Astronomical Society. Besides these there are 
several journals exclusively devoted to astronomy, of which the Astro- 
nomische Nachrichten and the Bulletin Astronomique are by far the most 
important. 

The Monthly Notices are chiefly short papers read at the regular meet- 
ings of the society, and abstracts of the larger ones, which are finally 
printed in full in the Memoirs. One number per year gives an interest- 
ing review of the work of the past twelve months, and a very full ac- 
count of the proceedings of British observatories. The Yierteljahrs- 
schrift devotes one of its four annual numbers to reports from the direct- 
ors of observatories, chiefly in Germany and America. The other three 



-¥fi 



202 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

numbers are largely devoted to reviews of published work. Some of 
these reviews are of the highest order. To quote only recent ones, we 
may name Schoenfckl's review of Dreyers paper on the constant of pre- 
cession, and Auwers' review of Grant's Glasgow catalogue. 

The Geruian Astronomical Society is also concerned in the publica- 
tiou of the Astronomische Nachrichtcn, both directly and through its 
membe?-, Professor Krueger, the editor. 

The new impulse is plainly evident in the editing of this journal, 
which is of the best kind, as will be evident to all its readers and con- 
tributors. ]S'othiug passes without scrutinj', and, in a way, the editor 
makes himself responsible for the accuracy of the articles printed. 

On the theory of editing which is adopted, nothing could be more per- 
fect.* 

CoperwicM.'?, which had reached its third yearofi)ublication, has lately 
been discontinued, to the regret of all interested in the maintainattce of 
high class journals. But even before its last number it found a worthy 
successor in the Bulletin Asironomique, \mh\ished by MM. Tisseraud, 
Kadau, Bigourdan, and Callaudreau, in Paris. This journal has at once 
taken a very high rank. It contains observations, usually such as are 
made at Fieuch observatories, just as the Astronomische NachriclUen 
contains series of observations from all over the world. The Bulletin 
also i)ul)lishes i)apers on special subjects, but its distinctive feature is 
monthly abstracts of other scientific journals, in which the articles cited 
are accom[)anied by very full and complete reviews. In this way the 
Bulletin does for France what the Is achricltten and the Vierteljahrsschn/t 
do for Germany, and what the Monthly Notices does for England. The 
same thing was attempted by Science, in this couutry, but tiually aban- 
doned — unfortunately. England has, moreover, two special journals 
the Observatory iiu(\ the Astrono7nical Register, which cover slightly dif- 
ferent fields; Germany has Sirius, and l-iance has the new journal of 
Flammarion, V Astronomie, In this couutry we have had the Sidereal 
Mtssenyer of Mitchell, the Astronomical Notices of Bruennow, and the 
Astronomical Journal of Goulil, all of which are now discontinued. 

The Sidereal Messenger, published by Carleton College Observatory, 
is our only astronomical journal at this writing. 

A new astronomical journal.] — An astronomical serial, under the 
auspices of the Observatory of Paris, will be a welcome addition to 
the literature of the science, and may well be expected to occupy a 
prominent place on the list of such periodicals. 

Admiral Mouchez, in his introductoiy note, alludes to the great im- 
petus which has been lately given in France to the progress of astron- 
omy by the establishment or resuscitation of observatories, aided as well 
by national funds as by contributions from the municipal authorities 

* Compare Bessel's Itecensionen, p. 2iii. 

t Bulletin Astroiioiiiiqitf, piibli6 sous les auspices de l'0b8«rvatoiie do Paris, paj 
M. F. Ti«»erand, etc. (Paris, Gautliier-Villars, 1884.) 



ASTKOXOMt. 20o 

of the places where they are located. In a few years these various ob- 
servatories will be completely organized, the personnel consisting in 
part of astronomical students who have obtained their acquaintance 
with the practical branches of the science in the Observatory of Paris. 
The director therefore aims at providing a medium in the Bulletin As- 
tronomique whereby the work of French astronomers may be speedily 
made known, and where at the same time an analysis of the contents 
of the principal foreign periodicals, etc., may be available to them. 

The Bulletin will thus ])resent two distinct sections: The first will 
be composed of observations of current interest, ephemerides of planets 
and comets, and memoiis or notices on various questions in theoretical 
and practical astronomy. The second will comprise as com))lete a 
resume as possible of astronomical intelligence and an analysis of the 
principal periodicals and newly-published works. Further, in a sup- 
plementary section it is intended to introduce articles on subjects re- 
lating to the sciences allied to astronomy, as terrestrial i)hysics, geodesj-. 
and meteorology, not excluding points of interest in the history of the 
science. Contributions from foreign astronomers are invited. {Xa- 
ture.) 

The mathematical magazine conducted under the name of the Analyst 
for the past ten years, by Mr. J. E. Dendricks, will, we learn from Sci- 
ence^ be continued under the editorial charge of Ormoud Stone, i)i'ofes- 
sor of astronomy, and William M. Thornton, professor of engineering, 
with the title, Annals of Mathematics, Pure and Applied. The numbers 
will be issued at intervals of two months, beginning February 1, 1884. 
In scope the journal will embrace the development of new' and iuii)or- 
tant theories of mathematics, pure and applied; the solution of useful 
and interesting problems; the history and bibliograi)liy of various 
branches of mathematics ; and critical examinations and reviews of im- 
portant treatises and text-books on mathematical subjects. The office 
of publication will be at the University of Virginia. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The council of the Royal Astronomical Society have awarded the 
gold medal this year to IMr. A. A. Common, for his photographs of 
celestial bodies. President Stone, in placing the medal in Mr. Com- 
mon's hands, remarked to the society that their council had been less 
influenced by originality in the methods adopted than by the great 
practical success which has attended the efforts of Mr. Common in this 
important field of astronomical research. lie began with a 5^ inch re- 
fracting telescope ten years ago, and from time to time enlarged his fa- 
cilities for celestial photography, until in 1879 he was in possession ot 
a great reflector of 3 feet diameter, whose superior character is well 
known in astronomy from its behavior in observing the moons of INIars, 
and the fainter satellites of Saturn. Early in 1880 the first attempt 



204 SCIENTIFIC HECORD FOR 1884 

was made to photograph the nebula of Orion, resulting in failure; and 
it was not until 1883 that his magnificent photoj:raph of the nebula was 
secured. This photograph excels all others, and', except in the very 
finest details, is far superior to any drawing. A few features can be 
seen with a large telescope which are not sbowu in the plate. Mr. Com- 
mon was among the first to obtain a photograph of a comet. His pho- 
tographs of Jupiter and Saturn are described as being beautiful, and 
he has lately applied himself with success in the direction of obtaining 
photographic star-maps. President Stone called attention to the fact 
that Mr. Common is an amateur astronomer, and that the records of 
their society are rich in the labors of amateur workers. The amateur 
who can provide himself with sufficient instrumental means for original 
research need fear no professional rivalry, and it is in work of thig 
class that the most striking advantages in astronomy are to be expected. 
{The Nation.) 

The address of Prof. C. A. Young, as retiring president of the Am. 
Assoc. A. S., at Philadelphia (1884, September 5), on the pending prob- 
lems of astronomy is a careful review of the whole field of investigation, 
and is full of suggestions as to the directions in which research should 
be directed. It has been reprinted in many journals, and most widely 
read. 

Professor Thibaut, of Benares, to whom we owe already many useful 
contributions to Sanskrit scholarship, has submitted to the Asiatic 
Society of Calcutta, a paper on the astronomer Varaha Mihira, which is 
soon to be published in the Journal of that society. ' The abstract of 
his paper contained in the Proceedings of the Asiatic Society, June, 1884, 
informs us that the dependence of Sanskrit astronomy on Greek astron- 
omy is now proved beyond contradiction, and a new confirmation has 
thus been added to a theorj^ lately propounded by several Sanskrit 
scholars, namely, that the so-c^-lled classical literature of India is in re- 
ality a mere renaissance belonging to the VI century A. D. {Athenccum.) 

We are glad to announce the appearance of the fourth fascicule, com- 
pleting the second volume of the valuable BibliograpMe Generate de 
V Astronomic, which is in course of publication by MM. Houzeau and 
Lancaster. It will be remembered that the scheme comprehends three 
great divisions, each to form a separate volume: (1) astronomical works; 
(2) astronomical memoirs and notices contained in serial publications 
and academic collections ; (3) astronomical observations and observa- 
tories. Of these it has been considered convenient and useful to pre- 
pare and publish the second volume first, as it is on matters of more 
pressing and general interest than the others. The final part of this 
volume, which concludes with an index (occupying two hundred and 
thirty pages) of the papers and memoirs contained therein, under the 
names of the respective authors, is now before us, and we congratulate 
MM. Houzeau and Lancaster on the completion of the portion in ques- 



ASTRONOMY. 205 

tion of their laborious task. Ou its great utility to astronomers it is 
unnecessary to enlarge. {Athenccum.) 

We have received from the Bureau des Longitudes their Annuaire 
for the present year, which seems thicker and more complete than any 
of its predecessors, well worth the money it costs (Is. 3d.) even to the 
English reader, on account of the very valuable tables which it contains 
touching astronomical aud geographical subjects. We notice in the 
present edition a very complete table of the different comets, which 
alone would make it a necessity in any astronomical establishment. 
The semi-i)opular article published in the Annuaire for this year is 
entitled "Sur les Grands Fleaux de la Nature"; it is by M. Faye, and 
is well worth reading. {Nature.) 

' NECROLOGY OF ASTRONOMERS, 1884. 

T. Birmingham : d. at Millbrook, Tuam, Ireland, Sept. 7. 

EuLOGio Jimenez : d. at Madrid. 

E. F. W. Ejlinkerfues : b. Mar. 29, 1827 ; d. Jan. 28 at Gottingen. 

C. Moesta: d. at Dresden April 2, aet. fid. 

H. ScHELLEN : d. at Cologne Sept. 5, iet. G6. 

J. F. J. Schmidt : b. Oct. 25, 1825 ; d. at Athens Feb. 6. 

C. W. Stevens : d. at Cordoba Feb. 16. 

I. ToDHUNTER : b. 1820 ; d. at Cambridge, England, March 1. 

astronomical bibliography, 1884. 
{The prices are given in German 7nai-ks.) 

Abney, W. de W., and A. Schuster: On tho total solar eclipse of May 17, 1882. 

London, 1884. 4to. 20 pg. W. 1 plate. 2.80 

Acta matiiematica : Journal de Math^matiques. R6d. ]>. Mittag-Lefiler. Vol. III. 

Stockholm, 1884. gr. iu-4. 12 

Acconut of the Operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India. Dehra 

Dun, 1883. 4to. 
Albreciit, Tii. : Logarithmisch-trigonometrische Tafeln mit 5 Dccimalstelleu. Ber- 
lin, 1884. gr. 8vo. 2 
American Journal of Mathematics, pure aud applied. Published under the 

auspices of the Johns Hopkins University. Edit, by J. J. Sylvester aud W. E. 

Story. Baltimore, roy. 4to. Vol.5: 1884 (4 nrs.). 25 

Analyst, The: Including the Proceedings of the "Society of Public Analysts." Ed. 

byG. W. Wigner and J. Muter. (Loudon.) roy. 8vo. — Vol. IX: ld84 (12 nrs.). 

6.50 
Annalen d. Mliuchen. Sternwarte. Supplementbd. 14. Miinchen, 1884. gr. 

8vo. 196 pg. 4.60 

luh. : Nachtriige zu den Zoueubeobachtungeu der Sternwarte bei Miinchen 
hrsg. V. H. Seeliger. 
Annalen Mathematische. Begriindet v. C. Neumann v. A. Mayer. Leipzig, 1884. 

gr. 8vo. Band 23. (4 Hefte.) 20 

Annales, de I'Observatoire de Moscou. Publ. p. Th. Bredichin. Vol. 10, livraisou 1. 

Moscou, 1884. 4to. Ill pg. av. 5 plchs. 8 

ANXALi;s,do I'Observatoire de Lyon, publi6es p. Ch. Andrd. S<Srie 1. Mdtdorologie. 

Tomo J, Fasc. 2. (1878-'80.) Lyon, 1884. 4to. 136 pg. av. 5 plcjjs. 



206 SCIENTIx^IC RECORD FOR 18C4. 

Aknales, de rObsoivatoire imp6r. de Rio de Janeiro, publi^es par L. Crnls. Tom« 

II. Observations et Mdmoires, 1882. Rio de Janeiro. 1883. 4to. 
AxNAi.ES, de rObservatoire de Paris, publi<5e8 sous la direction de Mouchez. Obser- 
vations pour 1. aundcs l873-'80. 3 vols. Paris. 4t,o. 24 ot 1447 pg. 

MemoLres. Tome 17. Paris, 1884. 4to. 8 et 515 pg. 

A.XNALES, de rObservatoire royal de Bruxelles. Nouv. s6rie. Tome IV. Brux.. 

1883. gr. iu-4t>o. av. 13 pi. 18 

Anxales, du Bureau des Longitudes de I'Observatoirc astronomique de Montsouris. 

Tome III. Paris, 1884. 4to. 21 

Tome I, II. 1877-1883. M. 52. 

AxNALES Nouvelles, d. Matii6matiques. R6d. p. Gdrono et Brisse. Paris. Svo. 

Ann<5e 1884. S6rie IV. tome 3. (12nr8.). 15 

AxXALES, scientifiques de I'Ecolc uormale sup6rieure. Paris, gr. in-4to. Sdrie II, 

tome 13, 1884. 35 

AxXALi, di Matematica pura ed applicata dirett. p. F. Brioscbi. Vol. XII. Fasc. 2. 

Milauo, 1884. 4to. Vol. XII (4 Fasc), completo M. IG. 
Axxals, do Obscrvatorio do Infante D. Luiz, 18.^0-'8l, vol. 18, 19. Lisboa, 1883. 4to. 
Axxai.s, of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. Vol. XIV, pt.l. Cara- 
biidge (Mass.), 1884. 4to. 3-24 pg. 
Cont. : Observations with the Meridian Pliotometer, 1879-1882, by E. C. Pick- 
ering, A. Searle, and O. C. Wendell. 
Annals, of Mathematics, pure and applied, edit, hj' Ormond Stone and W. M. Thorn- 
ton. Virginia. 4to. Year I (1884) in 6 urs. 10 
Coutinuation of the "Analyst," formerly published by J. E. Hendricks. 
AxNUAinK. de rObservatoire R. de Bruxelles, 1884 (51. anu6e). Brux. 12mo. 270 
pg. av. 2 pi. 1.50 
Anxuaire: du Bureau des Longitudes pour 1884. Paris. 12mo. 910 pg. av. fig. et 
1 plche. (ficlip.se totale de Soleil.) 1.50 
Cont.: Jaussen, Mission en Ocdauie pour I'observat. d. I'ficlipse tot.ile de Soleil. 
f) niai 1883. 
L^AsTROXoMiE : Revue meusuelle d'Astronoraie populaire, de M6t6oro]ogie et de Phy- 
sique du Globe, publide p. C. Fiammarion. Paris, gr. in-8vo. av. nombr. fig. 
Auu6e III, 1884. (12 nrs.). 12 
AsTROXOMiCAL AND METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS: mado during the year 1879 at 

the U. S. Naval Observatory. Washington, 1883. 4to. 
Astronomical, Magxetical, and Meteorological Observations : made at the 

Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in the year 1882. London, 1885. 4to. 
ASTRONO.MICAL OBSERVATIONS AND Rkskarciies : made at Dunsiuk, the Observatory 

of Trinity College, Dublin. Part 5. Dublin, 1884. 4to. 
Astronomical Papers : prepared for the use of the American Ephemeris and Nauti- 
cal Almanac, under the direction of S. Newcomb. Vol. II (2 jiarts). Vol. Ill, 
part I. Washington, 1883-'84. 4to. 
Astronomical Register : Loudou. 8vo. Vol. 22 (year 1884). 12 nrs. 12.50 
AsTKONo.MiscHE Bkobachtungex : auf dcr kciuigl. Steruwarle zu Berliu. Heisg. v. 
W. Forster. Baud 5. m. 3 Anhiingeu. Berliu, 1884. Fol. cart. 25 
luh. : Schmidt, Bestimmung d. Theiluugsfchler am Pistor'schen Mcridiankreise, 
d. Bialiu Stornwarto. Miiller, Uutersuchgn. lib. Mikrometcrschrauben, etc. 
Forster, Uutersuchgn. iib d. Fraunhofer'sche Aequatorial. 
AU'VERS, A. : Mittlere Oerter von 83 siidlicheu Sternen liir 1875 .0, zur Fortsetznng des 
Fnndameutal-Catalogs liir die Zouen-Beobachtungeu der astronomisclicu Gesell- 
.schaft Leipzig, 1884. 4tn. 5 
Backlund, a.: Unti rsucluiugen Ubcr die Beweguug d. Eucke'sclieu CiJiieten, 1871- 
1881. St. Petersburg, 188-1. 4t0. 50 pg. 1.50 
: Z'lr Entwickeluug der Storungsfunctjon. St. Peters lurg, 1884. 4to. 33pg. 1 



ASTRONOMY. 207 

Backland, O. : Ueber die Bestimmung der Masse des Jupiters durch Beobac'ntnngen 
der gegenseitigen Entfernungen und Richtiingen seiner Satelliteu. (St. Peters- 
burg), 1884. gr. 8vo. 7 pg. 1 

Beobachtuxgkn : augestellt am astrophysikalischen Observatoriuin in O'Gyalla, 
hrsg. V. N. V. Konkoly. Baud G. Euth. die Beobaehtuugen vom Jahre 1883. 
Halle, 1884. gr. 4to. 140 pg. m. 7 Ttln. 18 

Beobachtuxgkn: Astronomiscbe, magnetisclao und meteorologi.scbe, an der k. k. 
Steruwarte zu Prag im Jahre 1883. (Jabrg. 44.) Prag, 1884. 4to. 9 

DE Bernardieres: M6uioire sur I'Observation du Passage de V^uus an Cbili; do la 
mesure des diffdreuces de Longitude sur la Cote occideutale de l'Am<Srique du Sud. 
Paris, 1884. 4to. 144 pg. av. 6 fig. 

Bessel, F. W. : — Franz, J.,Fe8trede aus Veranlassung v. Bessel's 100 jiihr. Geburts- 
tag gebalten in d. Sitzungd. phys.-ok. Gessellscb. z. Kouigsb. aiu. 5. Juni 1-84. 
Kouigsb. 18-^4. 4to. 24 pg. 1 

Bhatta Hamalakara: Siddbdutatattva-Viveka. Treatise on -Astronomy. Edited 
by Paudt Sudbilkara Diibe. 4 fasc. Benares, 1883. Bvo. 16 

BOEDDICKER, O. : Notes on the physical appearance of the planet Mars during the 
opposition in 1881. Accompanied by sketches made at the Observatory, Birr 
Castle (Dublin), 1883. 4to. w. 2 plates. 1.50 

: On the influence of magnetism on the rate of a chronometer. (Dublin), 1883. 

4to. w. plate. 3 

BOLLETINO, dell' Osservatorio della R. Universita di Torino. Anno 18, 1883. Torino, 
1834. Bvo obi. 152 pg. 

Bouquet de la Grye et Hatt : Observations astronomiqnes et physiques a I'lk 
Campbell, faites p. la Commission ji. I'observation du jtassage de Venus. (Paris) 

1883. 4to. 409 pg. av. 8 pi. 9.60 
BRtoiCHiN, Til. : Histoiro de I'hypothfese des ondes cosmiques, composdo pour I'expli- 

cation des formes com<5taires. Avec supplement. 2 parties. (Moscou), 1883. 8vo. 

27 et 5 Jig. avec 2 plcbs. 1.50 
: Sur quelques anomalies apparentes dans la structui'e des queues comdtaires. 

(Moscou), 1883. gr. in 8vo. 6 pg. 0.60 
: Quelques remarques conceruant mes recherches sur les comfetes. (Moscou), 

1884. 8vo. 20 pg. ' 1 
: Sur la queue du premier type de la Comfetede 1744. (Moscou), 1884. 4to. 7 pg. 

avec 1 plche. 1 
: Les sydynnames et les synchroncs de la Com^te Pons-Brooks (1883-1884). 

(Moscou), 1884. 4to. 30 pg. avec 1 plche. 2.50 
: Sur les anomalies apparentes dans la structure de la grande Comete de 1744. 



(Moscou), 1884. 8vo. 15 pg. av. 1 plche. 1. 

Brosgus, J. E.: Die Theorie der Sonnenflecken. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 8 u. 104 pg. 2 

Bulletin astronomique : dirig6 par Tisserand, avec le concours de G. Brigourdan, 
O. Callandreau et K. Radau. Paris, gr. m bvo. Ann6e 1, 1884. (En 12 livrai- 
sona.) 16 

Bulletin, de la Soci6t6 mathdmat. de France. Paris, gr. iu-8vo. Tome 12, 1884. 
(6nrs.). 15 

Bulletin, des sciences mathdmatiques et astronomiqnes, rdd. p. Darboux, Houel et 
Tannery. Paris, gr. in-8vo. Ann<5e 1884. (Sdrie II, tome 8. ) 18 

Bulletin mdtdorolog. de I'Observatoire royal de Bruxelles. Brux. fol. Annde 
1884(12nr8.). 16 

Burton, C. E.: Notes on the Aspect of Mars in 1882, as seen with a Reflecting Tele- 
scope of 9-inch Aperture, and Powers of 270 and 600. (Dublin), 1883. 4to. w. 
plate. 1-50 

BirRNiiAM, S. W. : Double-Star Observations made in 1879 and 1880 with the 18i-incb 
Refractor of the Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, U. S. I. Catalogue of 151 new 
Double Stars, with measures. II. Micrometiical meaaures of 770 Double Stars. 
London, 1883. roy. 4to. 171 pg,, with 1 map. U 



208 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Cacciatore, G. : Pubblicazioui del R. Osservatorio di Palermo, 1882-'83. Pal., 1883. 
4 to. pg. 14elir>, 

Catalan, E. : Mauuel de Cosmograpbie, 13 6dit. revue et augm. Paris, 1884. 12mo. 
227 pg. av. 2 plcbs. et fig. 2.50 

ClEL ET Terre : Revue poinilaire d'Astron. et de M6t€orologie. Brux. 4to. Aun6e 
1H84 8 

COMMISSIOXE Geodetica Italiana. Operazioni eseguite nel 1875 negli osservatorii 
astrononiica di Milano e. a. per deterniiuare le difierenze di longitudine fni Ge- 
neva, Milano e Padova. Resoc. d. G. Lorenzoni, G. Celoria, A. Nobile. Milano, 

1883. 4to. 128 pg. 

Coxxaissance des temps et des niouvements c€lestes, h I'usage des astronomes et 
des navigateurs, pour I'ann^e 1885, publide par le Bureau des Longitudes. Paris, 
18s4. gr. iD-8vo. 850 pg. av. 2 cartes. 3.60 

CONNAISSANCE des temps et des mouvements celestes h I'usage des astronomes et 
des navigateurs, pour I'ann^e 188G, publico par le Bureau des Longitudes. Paris, 
1885. gr. in-8vo. 944 pg. avec cartes. 4 

CopPERNicus: — Prowe, L., Nicolaus Copperuicus. Band 2: Urkundeu. Berlin, 

1884. gr. 8vo. 15 
CovARRUBiAS, F. D. : Tratado elemental de Topogratia, Geodesia Astronomia priitica. 

2 edic. Tomo 1 : Topografia. Paris, 1884. 8vo. pg. 10 et 577. 

Delauxay, Cii. : Cours ^l^mentaire d'astrouomie. 7. Mit. revue et compl^t^e par A. 
Ldvy. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 

Dembowski, E.: Misure micrometricbe di Stelle doppie e multiple, fatte negli anni 
1852-78. Vol. I, conteuente le osservazioui a Gallarate. Roma, 1884. 4to. pg. 14 
e 413. 20 

Europaische Gradmessung: Die astronomiscben Arbeiten im Konigr. Sacbsen 
ausgef. V. C. Brubus u. Tb. Albrecbt. Heft 1. Berlin, 1883. gr. 4to. 10 

Heft 2 erscbeint Anfang 1885. 

Fabhe, J. H. : Astrouomie 616mentaire. 4. 6dit. Paris, 1884. 16mo. 281 pg. 1.50 

FiEVEZ, Cil. : fitudes spectroscopiques. Le spectre solaire. Brux., 1884. gr. in 4-to. 
6 pg. av. 7 plcbs. in fol. 16 

FiZEAU ET CORNU: Mesures des ^preuves jibotograpbiques obtenues p. les Commis- 
sions frangaises p. I'observation du'passage do V6uus. 6 parties. (Paris Acad.) 
1884. gr. in-4to. 660 pg. av. 2 pi. 10 

Flammarion, C. : Das bewobnto Welten-All. Astronomiscbe u. pbilosopbiscbe Be- 
tracbtungen. Deutscb bearb. v. A. Drecbsler. 2. Aufl. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
352 pg. m. 6 Tflu. 4 

: Les Terres du Ciel. Voyage astronomique sur les autres Mondes et Descrip- 
tion des Conditions actuelles de la Vie sur les diverses Planiites du Systfeme so- 
larie. Paris, 1884. gr. in-8vo, 775 pg. av. beauc. de plcbs. cbromolitbogr. et 
pbotogr. 9 

FoLiE, F. : Douze Tables pour le Calcul des Reductions Stellaires. Li6ge, 1884. 4to. 
131 pg. 10 

FoRTSCURiTTE (DIE) : der Astronomie, bersg. v. H. J. Klein. Nr. 9, 1883. Koln, 1884. 
8vo. 2 

FOERSTER, W. : Ortszeit und Weltzeit. Eiu Beitrag zur Orientirung uud Verstiindi- 
guDg. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 1 

FouCHE, M., ET F. Hement: Livret des Tableaux Astronomiques; Simples Explica- 
tions sur lo Systiiiue du Monde. Paris, 1884. 4to. obi. 48 pg. av. 6 plcbs. 1 

FOhrer: Astrouomiscber, fiir 1885, v. G. Sternfreuud. Jabrg. 10. Miincben, 1884. 
8vo. 2.40 

Gauss, F. G. : Filnfstellige voUstiindige logaritbm scbe und trigouometriscbe Tafeln. 
20.-22. Aufl. Halle, 1884. gr. 8vo. 2 

Gami.ei: Favaro, A., Alcuni Scritti inediti di Galileo Galilei, Tratti dai Mauoscritti 
della Biblioteca naziouale di Fireuze. Firenzo, X884. 8vo. 8,30 



ASTRONOMY. 209 

Galilei, G. : II Saggiatore. 2 ediz. Firenze, 1884. 16mo. 8e. 531 pg. c. ritratto 

etav. 2.23 

Geelmuydex, H. : Nogle Meddelelser om de i Christiania udfoerte Zone-Observa- 

tioner. Christiania, 1884. &vo. 22 pg. 0.80 

Gegenbauer, L. : Ueber die Besscl'schen Functionen. Wien, 1884. gr. 8vo. 29 

pg. 0.50 

Gill, D.jAND W. L. Elkin: Heliometer-Determinations of Stellar Parallax in the 

Southern Hemisphere. Published by the Royal Astronomical Society. Loudon, 

1884. 4to. 
GlNZEL, F. K. : Astronomische Untersuohungen iiber Finsternisse. Abhandlnng 2. 

Wien, 1884. gr. 8vo. 4 

Abhandl. 1. 1882. M. 2. 
GiORNALE PI Matematiche: ad uso degli Studenti delle Universita Ital. Pubbl. da 

G. Battagliui. Napoli. 4to. Anuo 1884, vol. 22 (12 nri.). 16 

GiRAUD, G. : Astronomia svelata dai suoi Fenomeui. Torino, 1884. 8vo. pg. 7 e 109. 

c. tav. 2.50 

Grant, R. : Catalogue of 6415 stars, for tlte epoch 1870, deduced from observations 

made at the Glasgow Uuiversity Observatory during the years 1800-1881. Glas- 
gow, 1883. 4to. Cloth. 34 
Greve, A. : FUnfstellige logarithmische und trigonometrische Tafeln. Bielefeld, 

1884. gr. 8vo. 2 

Gruey, L. J. : Visite h divers observatoires strangers. Besangon, 1884. 8vo. 52 pg. 
Haerdtl, E. v. : Astronomische Beitriige zur assyrischen Cbronologie. Wien, 1884. 

4to. 44 pg. . 2.50 

Hagen, G. : Der Constanten walirscheinliche Fehler. Nachtragzur 3. Anil, der Grund. 

ziige der Wahrscheinlichkeitsrechuung. Berlin, 1884. gr. 8vo. l.GO 

Hagen, J. G. : (S. J.) On the deflection of the level due to solar and lunar attraction. 

(Altona. Astr. Nachr.) 1884. 4to. 7 pg. 1 

Hasselberg, B. : Spectroskopische Beobachtungen der Cometen 1881 b uud e. St. 

Petersburg, 1884. gr. 8vo. 11 pg. m. 1 Kpfrt. 1.-0 

: Unteisuchungen iiber das zweite Spectrum des Wasserstoffes. Abhdl. 2. St. 

Petersburg, 1884. 4to. 30 pg. m. 2 Kpfrt. 1.70 

Abhdl. 1. 1882. M. 1. 
HaUGHTON, S. : New Researches on Sunheat and Terrestrial Radiation, and on Geolog. 

Climate. 2 parts. Dublin, 1882-'83. 4to. 4 

Hepperger, J. V. : Ueber die Schweifaxe des Kometen 1874, III (Coggia). Wien, 1884. 

gr. 8vo. 47 pg. m. Abbild. 0.80 

: Ueber Lage uud Gestalt von Isochronen in Kometenschweifen. Wien, 1884. 

gr. 8vo. 0.25 

Hekschel: Betham-Edwards, M., Caroline Herschel, Astronomer and Mathe- 
matician. London, 1884. 12mo. 76 pg. 0.85 
HiLFiKER, J. : Premiere dtude sur les observations du diamfetre du Soleil faites h I'Ob- 

servatoiro de Neuch^tel de 1862 h 1883. Neuchatel, 1884. 8vo. 17 pg. aveo 

1 plche. 1-20 

HOLETSCHEK, J. : Ueber die Bahn eiues Kometen, der wiihrend seiner giinstigen Hel- 

ligkeit nicht aus den Sonnenstrahlen heraustreten kanu. Wieu, 1884. gr. 8vo. 

64 pg. m. 5 Abbildgu. 1-20 

HOUZEAU, J. C: Le satellite probl^matique de V^nus. (Ciel et Terre, 1884, Nr. 6.) 

Briixelles, 1884. 8vo. 9 pg. 1 

Jahrbuch, Berliner Astronomiscues : f iir 1886, mit Ephemeriden der Planeten 1- 

232 fiir 1884. Hersg. v. d. kongl. Sternwarte unter Leit. v. F. Tietjen. Berlin, 

1884. 8vo. pg. 8 u. 528. 12 

JOrGensen, G. S : Kortfattet Laerebog 1 Astronomi. 3. Oplag. Kj0benhavn, 1884. 

8vo. 2 

Journal, de l':Ecole Polytechnique, publ. par le Conseil d'Instruction de cet 6ta- 

blissement. Cahier 52. Paris, 1883. 4to. 251 pg. 10 

S. Mis. 33 14 



210 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Journal, de Math^matiques €]6mentaires et speciales. Dir. p. J. Bonrget et Koehler. 

Paris.. 8vo. Ann^e 1884. (12 nrs.). 15 

Journal, de Math^matiques puree et appliqndes, fond6 p. Liouville et r^d. p. R^sal. 

Paris. 4to. Ann6e 1884. (S^rie III, tome 10, 12 nrs.). 27 

Journal, fur reine und angewandte Mathematik. Hersg. v. L. Kronecker u. K. 

Weierstrass. Band 96. (4 Hefte.) Berlin, 1884. 4to. m. Tfln. 12 

Journal Suisse d'Horlogerie : Revue horlogfere universelle. Piibl. sous les auspices 

de la Classe d'Industrie et de Commerce. Genfeve. 8vo. Ann^e 8, 1883-'84 

(k partir du 1. juillet 1883). 12 nrs. 10.50 

JURISCH, C. L. H. M. : Tables containing the natural sines and casines to 7 decimal 

figures of all angles between 0° and 90° to every 10 seconds w. proportional parts 

for single seconds, a, appendix comprising various constant numbers, etc. 

Capetown, 1884. 8vo. 20 

Kaiser: De Sterrenhemmel. 4. Aufl., bearb. v. J. A. C. Oudemans. Deel I. Deventer, 

1884. 8vo. 17.50 

Kalender : Astronomiscber, fiir 1885. Nacb dem Muster des Carl v. Littrow'schen 

Kalenders hersg. v. d. k. k. Sternwarte. Neue Folge*. Jahrg. 4. Wien, 1884. Bvo. 

1.20 
KiMBER, T. : Elementary Astronomy for the B. A. and B. Sc. Passes in the University 

of London. London, 1884. 8vo. 2.70 

Klee, F. : Unser Sonneusystem. 2. Aufl. Mainz, 1884. gr. 8vo. 1.50 

KoRTAZZi, J. : Topographische Beobachtungen am Planeten Jupiter. (St. Peters- 
burg.) 1884. gr. »vo. 18 pg. m. 8 Tfln. 2.30 
Krueger, a. : Zoneubeobachtungen der Sterne zwischen 55 and 65 Grad nordlicher 

Declination angestellt an den Sternwarten zu Helsingfors u. Gotha. Band 1 : 

Enthjilt die Zonen 1 bis 338 nebst den mittleren Oerten der Sterne flir 1875.0. 

Leipzig, 1884. 4to. Cart. 20 

Lagrange : (Envres, publ. p. J. A. Serret. Tome X. Paris, 1884. gr. in-4to. 455 

pg. 15 

Lalande, J. de : Tables de Logarithmes pour les Nombres et pour les Sinus. Rev. p. 

Reynaud. Edit, augment, de formules pour la Resolution des Triangles. Paris, 

1884. 16mo. 46 et 236 pg. 3.50 

Lamp, J. : Neue Berechnung der Parallaxe von 61 Cygni aus den Beobachtungen von 

Schweizer in Moskau, 1863-1866. Kiel, 1883. gr. Bvo. 59 pg. 1.80 

Langley, S. p. : On the amount of the atmospheric absorption. (New Haven), 1884. 

Imp. 8vo. 18 pg. 2 
: Experimental determination of Wave-Lengths in the invisible Prismatic 

Spectrum. (New Haven), 1884. Imp. 8vo. 20 pg., with 1 plate. 2.50 

Laplace : (Euvres completes, publ. p. 1' Academic des Sciences. Nouv. 6dit. av. por- 
trait. Tome 6 : Exposition du Systfeme dn Monde. Paris, 1884. 4to. 17 
Lersch, B. M. : Notizen iiber Kometenerscheinungen in friiheren Jahrhunderten. 

Wien, 1884, gr. 8to. 35 pg. 0.60 

LiAGRE, J. : Cosmographie Stellaire. Bruxelles, 1884. 12mo. 278 pg. av. 4 cartes 

celestes. 3 

LiNDEMANN, E. : Uebcr den Lichtwechsel des Sterns V Cygni. (St. Petersburg), 1884. 

gr. 8vo. 16 pg. 0.80 
: Helligkeitsraessungen der Bessel'schen Plejadensterne. St. Petersburg, 1884. 

4to. 29 pg. 0.80 

LiTTROW : Wunder des Himmels. 7. Aufl. bearb. v. E. Weiss. Berlin, 1884. gr. 8vo. 

Liefg. 18. m. Abbildgn. 0.50 

LocKYER, N. : Astronomie. Deutch v. A. Winnecke. 3. Aufl. Strassburg, 1884. 

8vo. 15 u. 121 pg. m. Abbildgn. 0.80 

Loewy: £ph6ra6ride3 des ;fitoile8 de Culmination Lunaire pour 1884. Paris, 1884. 

4to en tableaux. 3 



ASTRONOMY. 211 

LoRENZONi, G. : Sulle determinazioiii di tempo esegiiite ad Arcetri nell' antnnno del 
1882 colla osservazione dei passagi di Stelle pel verticole della Polare. Venezia, 
1884. 8vo. 58 pg. c. 1 tav. 2 

Luther, W. : Ueber die Balin des Planeten Amalthea 113. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 39 
pg. r.50 

Lynn, W. T. : Celestial Motions ; a handy book of astronomy. London, 1884. 16mo. 
76 pg. 1.80 

: Celestial Motions; a bandy book of astronomy. 2. edit. London, 1884. 

12mo. 78 pg. 1.80 

MiDLER, J. H. v.: Der Wunderbau des Weltalls odor populate Astronomie. 8. Aufl., 

neu bearb. u. verm. v. W. Klinkerfuses. Strassburg, 1884. 8vo. m. vielen Tfln. 

Liefg. 1 

Complet in 11 Lfgn. Jede Liefg. 1 

■ : Der Wuuderbau des Weltalls oder populare Astronomie. 8. Aufl. Strass- 
burg, 1884. gr. 8vo. m. vielen Abbildgn. Liefg. 2. Jede Liefg. 1 

Marcuse, A.: UeberdiephysiacbeBeschaffenbeitderCometen. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 5 

MELANGES Mathematiques et Astronomiques : Tir^s du Bulletin de l'Acad6mie 
Imp^riale des Sciences de St.-P6tersbourg. Tome VI. Livr. 1. St.-P^tersbourg, 
1884. gr. iu-8vo. 2.80 

Memoirs : of tbe Royal Astronomical Society. Vol. 47 and 48, pt. 1. London, 
1883-'84. 4to. 

Merriman, M. : Textbook on the Method of Least Squares. New York, 1884. 8vo. 
194 pg. Cloth. 10 

Meyer, M. W. : Le systfeme de Saturne. D6termination des Dimensions et des Anneaux 
de la Planfete, des Orbites de six Satellites et de la Masse de Saturne d'aprfes des 
observations faites k Genfeve avec I'fiquatorial Plantamour pendant I'Opposition 
1881. FT6c6d6e d'uue Description d6taill6e de I'lnstrument p. Thury. Geneve, 
1884. 4to. 192 pg. av. 2 plchs. ' 8 

Meyer, W. : Nouv. recherches s. le systfeme de Saturne. (Genfeve), 1883. 8vo. 28 
pg. 1.80 

MiULOSEViCH, E. : 11 Diametro di Urano. Roma, 1884. 4to. 18 pg. 1.50 

MiTTHEiLUNGEN : Mathematische u. naturwissenschaftliche, aus d. Sitzungsberich- 
ten d. kon. preussischen Akademie d. Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Berlin, gr. 8vo. 
m. Kpfrt. Jahrg. 1884. 8 

Nachrichten : Astronomische, begriindet v. H. C. Schumacher. Unter Mitwirkung 
der astronomischen Gesellschaft hersg. v. A. Krueger. Bd. 108 (24 Nm.). Kiel, 
1884. gr. 4to. 15 

Neissel, G. v. : Ueber die astronomischen Verhaltnisse bei dem Meteoritenfalle von 
M6cs in Siebenbiirgeu am 3. Februar 1883. Wien, 1884. gr. 8vo. 11 pg. 0.30 

Newton: — Kroman, K., Isaac Newton og Hans Betydning for Videnskaben. Kjoe- 
benhavn, 1884. 8vo. 76 pg. m. Portraet. 1.80 

NOUVELLES Annales, de Math6matiques, r6dig6es par G6rono et Brisse. Paris. 8vo. 
Ann6el884. (S6rie IV, tome 3.) 15 

NYRfeN, M. : L' Aberration des Etoiles Fixes. St.-P6tersbourg, 1883. gr. in-4to. 47 



PJ 



1.30 



Oppolzer, Th. v. : Bahnbestimmung des Planeten Coelestina (237). Wien, 1884. 

gr. 8vo. 7 pg. 0.20 

Obrecht, a. : fitude sur les ;ficlipse8 des Satellites de Jupiter. Paris, 1884. 4to. 105 

pg. av. 13 fig. 
Observatory (The): Monthly Journal of Practical Astronomy. London. 8vo. Year 

1883. (12nr8.). 14 
Palisa, J. : Bericht liber die wiibrend der totalen Sonnenfinsterniss vom 6. Mai 1883, 

erhaltenen Beobachtungeu. (Wien), 1883. 8vo. 14 pg. 0.30 

Pearson, J. : Treatise on the Tides, with Tables adopted by the Admiralty. London, 

1884. 8vo. 3.80 



212 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

PECHtJLE, C. F. : Expedition Danoise pour I'Observation du Passage de V6nus, 1882, 

Kjobenhaven, 1884. 8vo. 3 

Photometry, Harvard : A catalogue of the magnitude of 4,260 stars, with their 

approximate places for 1880. Boston, 1884. 4to. 5 

Philosophical Magazine : and Journal of Science, cond. by R. Kane, W. Thomson, 

W.Francis. London. 8vo. Year 1884. (12nr8.). 32 

Proctor, R. A. : Half-hours with the Stars. New edition. London, 1884. 4to. 3.70 

: The poetry of Astronomy. New edit. London, 1884. 8vo. 450 pg. 6.50 

Publicationen, des astrophysikalischen Observatoriums zu Potsdam. N. 14 (Band 

IV, Stuck 1) : Einige Beobachtungen mit dem grossen Refractor der Wiener Stern- 
warte, ausgef. v. H. C. Vogel. Leipzig, 1884. 4to. 39 pg. m. 4 Tfln. 6 

Publications, of the Washburn Observatory of the University of Wisconsin (E. S. 

Holden, Director). Vol. II. Madison, Wis., 1884. 8vo. 5, 347, and 53 pg. With 

5 plates. Cloth. 10 

Pubblicazioni, del R. Osservatorio di Brera in Milano. N. 25. Milano, 1883. 4to 

pg. 20 e 237 c. 7 tavo. 
Quarterly Journal, of pure and applied Mathematics. Edit, by N. M. Ferrers, 

A. Cayley, J. W. L. Glaisher. N. 76. (Vol. 19, pt. IV.) London, 1883. 8vo. pg. 

289-384, title index. 5.20 

The same. No. 77. (Vol. 20, pt. 1.) 1884. 8vo. pg. 1-96. 5.20 

Radau, R. : Recherches s. la th^orio des r<Sfractions astronom. Paris, 1882. 4to. 5 
Rapports: pr^liminaires h PAcad6mie des Sciences sur le Passage de V^nus du 6 d6- 

cembre, 1882. I'aris, 1884. 4to. 133 pg. 
Resal, H. : Trait6 616m. de M6canique Celeste. 2 (Sdit. Paris, 1884. gr. iu-4to. 479 

pg. 21 

Revue Chronometrique : Journal des Horlogers, scientifique et pratique, publ. p. 

C. Saunier. Paris. 8vo. Ann6e 1884. (12nrs.). 12 

Sartorius, M. : Die Entwicklung der Astronomie bei den Griechen bis Anaxagoras 

und Empedokles, in besonderen Anschluss an Theophrast dargestellt. Breslau, 

1883. gr. 8vo. 1.20 

Sauzay, a. : La Verrerie depuis les Temps les plus reculds jusqu'^ nos jours. 4. 6dit. 

Paris, 1884. 16mo. 315 pgs. av. 66 fig. 2.30 

Schram, R. : Ueber die christliche Festrechnung u. die in den "Hilfstafeln fiir Chro- 

nologie" mit Kaleudzahl bezeichuete Grosse. Wien, 1884. 4to. 1.20 

Secchi, A. : Die Einheitder Naturkriifte. Ein BeitragzurNaturphilosophie. Uebers. 

V. R. L. Schulze. 2. Aufl. Liefg. 3. Leipzig, 1884. gr. 8vo. 2 
SiRiuS: Zeitschrift f. populiire Astronomie. Red.: H.J. Klein. Leipzig. 8vo. Bd. 17 

(N. Folge, Bd. 12). Jahrg. 1884. (12Hefte.) 10 
: Zeitschrift fiir populiire Astronomie. Red. v. H. J. Klein. Leipzig, gr.8 vo. 

m. vielen Illustr. Band 18 (Neue Folge, Band 13) : 1885. (12 Hefte.) 10 

SiTZUNGSBERiCHTE : der mathematisch- physikalischen Classe der k. b. Akademie der 

Wissenschafteu zu Miinchen. Jahrg. 1883. Heft 3. Miinchen, 1884. gr. 8vo. pg. 

355-400. m. 10 Tfln. 1.20 

SOCOLOFF, A.: Sur la queue du I. type de la Comfete del858, V(Moscou), 1884. 8vo. 

4 pg. avec 1 plche. 1 

Stechert, C. : Definitive Bestimmung der Bahn des Cometen 1881, IV. Kiel, 1884. 

4to. 30 pg. 2 

: Definitive Bestimmung der Bahn des Cometen 1881, IV. Kiel, 1884. 8vo. 1.20 

Stone, O., and H. C. Wilson: Observations of the comets of 1880, 1881, and 1882. 

Cincinnati, 1883. Imp. 8vo. 12 and 79 pg. with 10 plates. 7 

Struve, O. : Determination do la Parallaxe de a Tauri. (St.-P6ter8bourg), 1884. gr. 

in-8vo. 15 pg. 0.80 
: NeuereUntersuchungen an kiinstlichen Doppelstemen. St. Petersburg, 1884. 

gr. 8vo. 22 pg. 1.20 



ASTEONOMY. 213 

Tidsskrift: f. M.athematik. Udgiv. af J. V. Gram og IT. G. Zeutlien. Kjoebenh. 

8vo. Jahrg. 1884. (6 Hefte.) 8.50 

Troost, B. : Eiue LichtiLther-Hypothese zur Erkliirnng tier Entstehung der Natur- 

kriifte der Grundstoffe der Korper, des Bewusstseins u. der Geistesthatigkeit des 

Menschen. 3. Aufl. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 54 pg. 2 
: Zur weitereii Begrtiudung der Lichtiitlierhypotliese, etc. 2. Aufl. Leipzig, 

1884. 8vo. 31 pg. 1 
: Fortsetznng zur weitereu Begriiuduiig der Licbtatberhypothese, etc. 2. 

Aufl. Leipzig, 1884. Bvo. 26 pg. " 1 

: Abscbluss der Licbtiitberbypotbese, etc. Aacben, 1884. 8vo. 122 pg. 2 

: Nacbweis der Unzuliinglicbkeit der Kircbboff'scben Erklarang der Entate- 



bung der dunklen Fraunbofer'scben Linieu im Sonuenspectrum. 2. Aufl. Leip- 
zig, 1884. 8vo. 20 pg. ni. 7 AbbiJdgu. 1.25 

Uhrmacher-Zeitung: Deutscbe. Berliu. 4to. Jabrg. 1884 (24 Nrn,). 6 

Unification des Longitudes par I'adoption d'uu Mdridien iuitial unique, et intro- 
duction d'une beure universelle. Extrait des Comptes-Eendus de I'Association 
G^od^sique Internationale, Conference de Eome, 1883, p. A. Hirscb et Tb. v. 
Oppolzer. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 48' pg. 3 

Valentiner, W. : Die Kometen u. Meteore. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 240pg., fig.,Lnbd. 1 

Veroffentlichungen, der grossberzoglicben Sternwarte zu Karlarube. Hersg. v. 
W. Valentiner. Hft. 1. Karlsrube, 1884. gr. 4to. 6 

Eutb. : W. Valentiner, Beobacbtungen am Meridiankreis. 

Vierteljahrsschrift, der astronomiscben Gesellscbaft, bersg v. E. Scbonfeld u. H. 
Seeliger. Jabrg, 18. Heft. 4. Leipzig, 1884'. gr. 8vo. 2 

VoGEL, H. C. : Einige spectralaualytiscbo Untersucbungen an Sternen, ausgefubrt 
mit dera grossen Eefractor der Wiener Sternwarte. Wien, 1884. gr. 8vo. 25 pg. 
m. 1 Tfl. 0.70 

VOGELS, J. : Scbolia in Cicerouis Aratea aliaqne ad Astronomiam pertinentia, e codice 
musei Britann. Harleiue, 647. Pars I. Crefeld, 1884. 4to. 25 pg. 

WiNLOCK, W.C: Observations of tbe Great Comet of 1882, made at tbe U. S. Naval 
Observatory. Wasbington, 1883. roy. 4to. 38 pg., w. 5 plates. 5 

Wittram, Th. : Allgemeine Jupiterstorungen des Enckescben Cometen fiir den Babn- 
tbeJl zwiscben 152° 21' 7", 62 u. 170° wabrer Anomalie. St. Petersburg, 1884. 
gr. 4to. 48 pg. 1.30 

WocHENSCHRiFT : f. Astronomie, Meteorologie u. Geograpbie. Eed. H. J. Klein. 
Halle. 8vo. Jabrg. 1884 (52 Nrn.). 9 

Wolf, J. Th. : Pbotometriscbe Beobacbtungen an Fixstemen aus den Jabren 1876 
bis 1883, bersg. m. Unterstiitz. d. preussiscben Akademie der Wissenschaften. 
Berlin, 1884. 4to. 8 u. 169 pg. 10 

Zeitschrift: f. matbemat u. naturwissenscb. Unterricbt, berausg. v. J. C. V. Hoff- 
mann. Leipz. 8vo. Jabrg. 15, 1884. (6 Hefte.) 12 

Zeitschrift : f. Matbematik u. Pbysik, bersg. v. O. Scblomilch, E. Kabl, M. Cantor. 
Leipz. gr. Bvo. Jabrg., 1884. (6 Hefte.) 18 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 



By Charles G. Kockwood, Jr., Ph. D., 

Frofeasor of Mathematics in the Collige of Neiv Jersey, Princeton, N. J. 



The following' snmmary for the years 1883 and 1884 cannot pretend 
to be comijlete. Neither the space nor the time at command would al- 
low of even the mention of all that has happened or all that has been 
done and written in these departments in the two years. The writer has 
therefore preferred to make somewhat more full the account of those 
things which seemed most deserving of such record, even at the expense 
of passing unnoticed many things of interest and much good work that 
has been done, especially in foreign countries, where it is less accessi- 
ble to an American writer. For all else the reader must refer to the 
authorities mentioned in the bibliography. The subjects will be treated 
in the following order : 

Vulcanology : 

Volcanic eruptions of 1883 and 1884. 

Investigations of former volcanic activity. 
'Seismology : 

Earthquake lists of 1882 and 1883. 

Special earthquakes of 1883 and 1884. 

Lists of former earthquakes. 

Theories of earthquakes. 
Seismometry : 

Instruments and their records. 

VULCANOLOGY. 

In the last days of August, 1883, the Straits of Sunda were the scene 
of a catastrophe exceeding in magnitude and destructiveness anything 
that has heretofore come within the observation of civilized men. It has 
been the subject of numerous publications in the various languages (see 
bibliography,) from which the following condensed account is drawn: 

The island of Krakatoa lies midway between Java and Sumatra, iD 
the Strait of Sunda. It was about live miles long by three miles wide> 
rising into a triple mountain peak 2,700 feet high, and clothed with veg- 
etation from base to summit. Near it are two small islands, Verlaten 

•215 



4 

216 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

on the west and Long on the east. It was considered by Junghuhn to 
be a continuation of the mountain system on the adjacent west coast of 
Java, and probably marks the position of an old fissure extending across 
the strait. It was entirely uninhabited, and only occasionally visited by 
fisliermen from the neighboring coasts. The series of volcanic phenom- 
ena of which it was the scene began on ]May20, 1S83, with an eruption, 
the sound of which was heard at Batavia, 100 miles distant, and which 
had its seat in the most northern and lowest of the three peaks. Its first 
effect was the devastation of Long Island and the expulsion of large 
quantities of sand and pumice. 

A visit to the island some time later showed the scene of this outbreak 
to have a maximum length of about 100 yards, and from it volumes of 
vapor and pumice dust were still rising, although as late as August 
11th, trees were still growing on the main peak, which, indeed, was not 
active at any time in 1883. 

The volcanic activity continued during June and July, extending in 
August to the second peak, and reaching a maximum on August 27 ; after 
that diminishing, but continuing for several days thereafter. The fore- 
noon of the 27th was marked by a series of explosions, apparently due 
to the admission of the sea to the crater by the falling in of its north- 
ern walls. By the greatest of these explosions, occurring about 10 A. M., 
the whole northern part of the island, probably reduced to a shell by 
the previous eruptions, and includinghalf of the main peak, was appar- 
ently blown into the air to an unknown height, the heavier dShris fall- 
ing partly upon the remaining portions of Krakatoaand Long and Ver- 
laten, which were entirely covered by the deposit; partly into the sea to 
the east and northeast, where it formed two new islands, at first of con- 
siderable extent but which gradually disappeared by the erosion of the 
waves ; while the finer dust reached the ui)per regions of the atmos- 
phere and was carried away by the winds, to make its presence evident 
around the entire globe, and for many months afterward, in the peculiar 
ruddy glow of the sunset skies, which, first noticed in November, 1883, 
has not entirely ceased now, in the summer of 1885. 

The noise of the explosion was heard over a circle of 30° radius, com- 
prising more than one- fifteenth of the entire surface of the earth, and 
in some directions to even gicater distances. At the island itself the 
greatest changes occurred. Its area had formerly been 33^ square kil- 
ometers, of which 23 square kilometers have entirely disappeared; and 
where there had been a considerable mountain, now the sea has a depth 
of over 300 meters. The remnant of the original area was increased to 
15^ square kilometers by additions on the south and southwest sides, 
while the northern side was left a cliff 800 meters high. The extent 
of Long and Verlaten was also somewhat increased. Verbeek estimates 
the amount of ejected material to have exceeded 18 cubic kilometers. 

The ocean wave caused by this convulsion devastated all the adjacent 
coasts, bringing death to thousands of the inhabitants, and extending 



VULCANOL'GY AND SEISMOLOGY. 217 

its influence to the coasts of America, where it was plainly marked on 
the tide-gauges in California and Alaska. On Java the whole west 
coast was swept by the wave, and the town and light-house of Anjer 
were completely destroyed, the wave there reaching a height of over 30 
meters. In Lampoug Bay, Sumatra, a Government vessel was carried 
three miles inland, and the bay was so tilled with floating pumice that 
for weeks afterward vessels were unable to aproach the site of the 
ruined town of Telok Betong, at its head. Up to isTovember 1, 32,635 
victims of the catastrophe were counted. 

The velocity of this ocean wave m its progress to distant stations 
was investigated by several persons. It was propagated most forcibly 
toward the Indian Ocean, and was distinctly marked at twelve of the 
seventeen Indian tidal stations, as well as at Port Louis, in Mauritius, 
and Port Elizabeth, in South Africa. For the two latter places Maj. A. 
W. Baird deduces the velocity of 407 statute miles per hour {Nature, 
XXIX, 358), both giving the same result, although the distances are 3,400 
and 5,450 miles, respectively. This agrees with Airy's tabulated value 
for an ocean depth of 15,000 feet, which is supposed to be the average 
depth in this direction. The velocities in other directions were less, 
viz, to Galle, 397 miles; toNegapatam, 355 miles; and to Aden, 371 miles. 
Verbeek deduced a velocity of only 306 miles per hour to Port Eliza- 
beth and 109 miles to Padang. {Nature, xxx, 10.) 

Another and unexpected result of the Krakatoa explosion was the 
formation of an immense air wave, which was propagated several times 
about the earth in both directions, making its passage known by irregu- 
larities in the traces of the recording barometers in numerous meteor- 
ological observatories in all ])arts of the world. It was first recognized 
by General Eichard Strachey {Nature, xxix, 181), in a paper presented 
to the Royal Society in December, 1883, and later investigations abun- 
dantly confirmed his deductions. The wave made the circuit of the 
earth in about thirty-six hours, having thus a velocity approximating 
that of sound. The wave propagated from east to west had a mean pe- 
riod of 36^ 57™, that from west to east 35^ 17™, the difference being at- 
tributed to the motion of the atmosphere. The wave returned to the 
same station three or four times, gradually becoming imperceptible. 

The far-reaching effects of the Krakatoa explosion have been traced 
in still another direction in the peculiar ruddy appearance of the sky at 
sunset and at sunrise. This first attracted general attention in America 
and Europe in the latter part of November, 1883. Many causes were 
suggested, and much discussion filled the scientific periodicals about 
them, but it has been pretty generally accepted that the appearances 
were due to the presence in the upper atmosphere of fine dust from 
Krakatoa. In support of this view are the facts that distinct evidence 
of volcanic dust, similar to that ejected from Krakatoa, has been found 
in rain and snow, and that the successive appearances of the red skies 
could be traced around the globe as the dust cloud gradually extended 



218 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

itself to the westward, under the influeuee of the prevailing winds. The 
appearances continued in greater or less intensity through the year 
1884. 

The council of the Eoyal Society (London) appointed a committee for 
the purpose of collecting the various accounts of the volcanic eruption 
at Krakatoa, and attendant phenomena. Under date of Febtuary 12, 
1884, the chairman, G. J. Symous, published a letter invitiug authenti- 
cated communications. (Nature^ xxix, 355 ; Science, iii, 244.) 

Early in 1884 reports were received of the elevation of a new volcanic 
island near BogosloflF, one of the Aleutian Islands, but it was not until 
August that reliable information was at hand in regard to it. The vol- 
canic activity apparently began early in 1883, and culminated in Octo- 
ber, 1883, in a submarine eruption, resulting in the formation of a new 
volcanic peak some 450 feet high, which is not a separate island, but is 
connected with the north end of Bogosloff by a low sand beach. It was 
visited in Blay, 1884, by Lieut. G. M. Stouey, U. S. N., and was then still 
active {Science, iv, 432). The previous history of Bogosloflf has been 
given by Dall {Science, iii, 89) and by Davidson {Science, iii, 282). 

About the same time that the new peak appeared at Bogosloft^ an- 
other Alaskan volcano, Mount Saint Augustiu, on an island in Cook's 
Inlet, also became active. On the morning of October 6, 1^:83, an eruj)- 
tion occurred {Science, iii, 187), which caused an earthquake wave 25 to 
30 feet high at Port Graham, and was at first reported to have split the 
mountain in two from peak to base. It was also said that the northern 
half had sunk away to the level of the cliff. Later accounts, however 
{Science, in, 798), state that the reports were much exaggerated. The 
west side of the summit has fallen in, forming a new crater, but the 
mountain was not split and no waves of impoitauce were observed. 
1 he volcano was, however, still active in November, 1884. {Science, iv, 
474.) 

On July 2G, 1884, the light-house keeper at Cape Eeykjanes, the south- 
west point of Iceland, saw what was supposed to be a new volcanic is- 
land in the sea, to the westward. But after having been the subject of 
various communications in the public press {Nature, xxxi, 37; Science, 
IV, 506), the reports of a new island were at last proved to be founded 
on a mistaken observation of a well-known island not usually visible 
from the mainland. Ko new island could be found. {Nature, xxxi, 
140.) 

Lieutenant Wohlgemuth, the leader of the Austrian polar expedi- 
tion, found traces of still progressing volcanic activity in the island of 
Jan Mayen, and three times, while there, observed well-marked subter- 
ranean shocks. {Nature, xxix, 246.) 

In a monograph upon the volcano El Mayon, in the island of Luzon, 
read before the Seismological Society of Japan, Don E. Abella y Casa- 
riego has given a r(§sum6 of former eruptions, especially those of 1766, 
1814, 1834,1845, 1853, 1871, 1875, and 1881 j and has discussed the liy- 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 219 

drograiphj-, orography, and geology of the mountain. {Trans. S, S. of 
Jcfpan^ V, 19.) 

Capt. C. E. Dutton, U. S. A., describes {Am. Jour. Sci.,xxY, 219) his 
observations during an extended examination of the volcanoes of the 
Hawaiian Islands. He visited the crater of Kilauea, watching the 
action of the lava in the lakes, and reaching the conclusion that it has 
no connection with iMauna Loa. At the latter the results of the great 
erui)tiou of 1880-'81 were jjarticularly examined. The largest lava 
stream from this eruption was 50 miles long and varied in width from 
half a mile to 2 miles. Comparing Mauna Kea with Manna Loa, a 
difference in the character of the lavas is noted, and also their abun- 
dance of fragmental products on the former contrasted with the notable 
absence on the latter. The other volcanoes of Hawaii, as also those on 
Maui and Oahu, were visited, and abundant evidences of recent eleva- 
tion were found, with marked traces also of subsidence in some por- 
tions. 

Messrs. Hague and Iddiugs, of the United States Geological Survey, 
have given {Am. Jour. ScL, xxvi, 222) some results of a reconnaissance 
of several of the extinct volcanic cones of Xorthern California, Oregon, 
and Washington Territory, made in 1870, but not hitherto published. 
The localities described are Lassen's Peak, Mount Eainier, Mount Hood, 
and Mount Shasta, and the article is mostly occupied with the litholog- 
ical and chemical discussion of the rock specimens brought from these 
mountains. These four cones present many close resemblances in the 
character of their rocks. They are all andesite volcanoes, with extru- 
sions of basalt breaking out upon their slopes and along the edges of 
the plain, extending in all directions for long distances. 

SEISMOLOGY. 

The eighteenth annual report of Dr. C. W. C. Fuchs describes the 
volcanic and seismic phenomena of the year 1882, mentioning an un- 
important eruption of Vesuvius in January and February, the slight 
activity of Etna and Stromboli during the spring months, and a little- 
known eruption of Chiriqui, in Central America, in September. 

The catalogue of earthquakes includes 217 items, classified in time as 
follows : Winter, 73 : December, 19 ; January, 30 ; February, 24. Spring^ 
56: March, 34; April, 12; May, 10. Summer, 35: June, 5; July, 20^ 
August, 10. Autumn, 53: September, 13; October, 28; November, 
12. 

Additions to his previous reports are given, numbering, for 1879, 37 
items; for 1880, 56 items; for 1881, 114 items. {Min. u. petr. Mitth., 
1883.) 

The only earthquake of importance in 1882, as reported by Dr. Fuchs, 
accompanied the eruption of Chiriqui, and extended throughout the 
Isthmus of Panama and the atljacent portions of Central America and 
the northern coast of South America. It occurred at 3^ 18°^ on the 



■220 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

morning of September 7, 1882, and injured buildings in many places, 
causing the loss of a few lives. 

The nineteenth report of Dr. Fuchs contains an account of the vol- 
canic eruptions and earthquakes of 1883. {Min. u. petr. Mittli.^ 1884.) 
jModerate eruptions of Etna during March and April are noted, and 
others during the year, from Vesuvius and Cotopaxi, and also in Ice- 
land, iSTicaragua, Colombia, and Alaska; but by far the most important 
outbreak was the great eruption of Krakatoa, already noticed here. 

The record of earthquakes contains 263 items, distributed by seasons 
as follows: Winter^ 56: December, 21; January, 21; February, 14. 
Spring, 66: March, 22; April, 20; May, 24. Summer, 68: June, 20; 
July, 29; August, 19. Autumn, 73: September, 29 ; October, 30; No- 
vember, 31. The only one of importance was that in Ischia on July 28, 
1883. 

In his twelfth " Notes on American Earthquakes " {Am. Jour. Sci., 
XXV, 353) C. G. Ivockwood, jr., gives the record for 1882. It includes 
72 items, classified geographically as follows: Canada, 6; New En- 
gland, 5 ; Atlantic States, 6 ; Mississippi Valley, 11 ; Pacific coast, 19; 
Mexico and Central America, 18 ; West Indies, 5 ; Peru, 1, They may 
be classified by seasons thus : Winter, 11 : December, 5 ; January, 3 ; 
February, 3. Spring, 18: March, 8; April, 6; May, 4. Summer, 14: 
June, 2 ; July, 6; August, 6. Auttimn,29: September, 7 ; October, 16; 
November, 6. 

The only earthquake which caused any damage was that of Septem- 
ber 7, 1882, on the Isthmus of Panama. Others of local interest in the 
United States occurred on September 7, October 22, and November 7. 
Thirty-six items are added to the records for the years 1879-'81, all re- 
ferring to the Central American region. 

In his thirteenth "Notes" (Aw. Jour. Set., xxyii, 358) the record 
for 1883 is given. 

There are 76 shocks noted, distributed geographically as follows: 
Canada, 8; New England, 3; Atlantic States, 2; Mississippi Valley, 
11 ; Pacific coast, 23 ; Mexico, 1 ; West Indies, 4 ; Central America, 14 ; 
Peru and Chili, 10. By seasons they may be classified thus : Winter, 
16: December, 4; January, 7; February, 5. Spring, 20: March, 9; 
April, 3; May, 8. Summer,!^: June, 3; July, 7; August, 8. Autumn, 
22 : September, 8 ; October, 9 ; November, 5. 

Nearly all were but of moderate importance. The oply ones meriting 
individual mention were : January 11, in Southern Illinois and adjacent 
portions of Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee; March 8, on the Isth- 
mus of Panama and in the States of Colombia, in which churches and 
other buildings were injured ; May 19, itr Ecuador, overthrowing houses 
in Latacunga ; October 6, at Mount Saint Augustin, in Alaska. 

In summarizing his lists for the twelve years 1872-'83, Professor 
Eockwood finds that of the 364 earthquakes which are recorded for the 
United States and Canada, 151 occurred on the Pacific slope, Q% in the 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 221 

Mississippi Valley, and 147 ou the Atlantic slope, giving an average 
frequency of about one every twelve days for the whole region, and 
once a month for the Atlantic slope. {Science, iv, 569.) 

On July 28, 1883, portions of the island of Ischia were devastated by 
a severe earthquake, which has given rise to a considerable amount of 
literature. The following account is condensed from a variety of sources 
mentioned in the bibliography : 

Ischia contains about 26 square miles, and in the center of the island 
rises Mount Epomeo, 792 meters high, an old volcano, which during 
historic times has shown its activity only by hot springs and earth- 
quakes. The thermal springs, with the pleasant climate, have made 
Ischia a favorite summer resort, and during the season the town of Cas- 
amicciola is usually crowded with strangers. There had been some pre- 
vious indications of unusual subterranean activity — some hot springs 
had shown abnormal variations of temperature, some slight earthquakes 
were felt, and the instruments in the seisraological observatories at 
Naples and Eome were in increased motion; but nothing gave any 
warning of where the blow would strike. The violent shock came about 
Qh 25ni p^ ju_ Qu Saturday, July 28, and the greatest damage was done 
at Casamicciola and vicinity. This town, built ou two small hills on 
the north slope of Ejiomeo, was entirely destroyed. A performance 
was in progress at the theater, and when the building collapsed at the 
shock many persons were buried in the ruins. Lacco Ameno, on the 
coast northwest of Casamicciola, was also mostly destroj'ed, and Forio 
was much damaged. The town of Ischia, ou the east coast, was severely 
shaken, without suifering serious harm. But the villages of Fontana 
and Serrara, situated in the interior of the island, and indeed within 
the old crater, were great sufferers, as was also Barano. Two large land- 
slii^s were caused on the north slope of Epomeo, but no true fissures 
were found anywhere and no apparent changes of level. The num- 
ber of casualties in the island, as stated by the otficial commission of 
the Italian Government, was 2,313 killed and 762 wounded. In Casa- 
micciola there were before the shock 672 dwellings and 4,300 inhabi- 
tants, of which 537 dwellings were destroyed entirely and 1,784 i)eopIe 
were killed. 

In investigating the origin of this earthquake, L. Baldacci {Boll, del 
B. Com. Geol. d^Italia, iv, 157) traces two lines of hot springs, one east 
and west, the other north-northwest to south-southeast, which he re- 
gards as indicating the position of old cleavage lines intersecting at Casa- 
micciola, and to which he attributes this earthquake. H. J. Johnston- 
Lavis {Nature, xxviii, 437) has drawn isoseismals about the focus, 
finding them to be elongated ellipses whose minor axes are nearly in 
the line of the north and south fissure just mentioned, and concludes 
that they indicate a plate- shaped focus, whose strike extends in a line 
from Fontana to near the beach at Lacco. . C. G. Kockwood finds the 
cause in a rupture taking place along an old volcanic fissure directed 



222 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. i 

rouglily north and south and extending radially in or under the northern 
elope of Epomeo. {Am. Jour. Sci., xxvi, 475.) Palmieri attributes it to 
the collapse of subterranean cavities, probably caused by the abstrac- 
tion of matter carried away in solution by the hot springs. Fuchs says 
{Min. u. petr. Mitth., 1884, 185) it was neither volcanic nor a collapse 
of a cavity, but only a rearrangement of the materials of the hill taking 
place at a moderate depth. 

On August 10, 1884, between seven and eight minutes after 2 p. m., 
a decided earthquake occurred in the Middle and Eastern States, a brief 
j»reliminary notice of which was given by the writer. {Am. Jour. Sci., 
XXVIII, 242.) It extended along the coast from Baltimore, Md., to Port- 
land, Me., and westward to the Alleghanies. The origin was evidently 
not lar from Xew York City. The shock was more violent than any 
which had been felt in that region for a considerable time. 

Part second of the seventh volume (1884) of the Transactions of the 
Seismological Society of Japan is occupied hy John Milne- in the dis- 
cussion of 387 earthquakes observed in i^orth Japan from October, 
1881, to October, 1883. It is accompanied by 123 maps of the areas 
affected by single earthquakes, and one general map shaded to repre- 
sent the distribution of volcanic and seismic activity in Japan, and also 
15 pages containing 6G figures of the tracings made by various record- 
ing instruments. As results of the discussion the author finds that 84 
per cent, of the earthquakes originated under the ocean or on the eastern 
seaboard ; that the winter intensity is nearly three and a half times as 
great as the summer intensity ; that there is a general coincidence be- 
tween the maximum of earthquakes and the minimum of temperature; 
and that there were 11.2 per cent, more earthquakes at low water than 
at high water. Sixteen of the earthquakes occurred simultaneously in 
separated areas, not being felt in the intervening districts. He also 
finds that the indications of exactly similar instruments may vary con- 
siderably at stations only a few hundred feet apart. Whence he concludes 
that the amplitude and period of the vibration constituting an earth- 
quake are very largely dependent on the character of the soil and other 
local circumstances, and that therefore the direction of vibration in an 
ordinary earthquake has usually no immediate relation to its direction 
of propagation. 

Thomas H. Streets, M. D., U. S. N., gives {Am. Jour. Sci., xxv,361) 
a list of earthquakes compiled from the weather statistics kept at the 
United States naval hospital at Yokohama, Japan. It includes all 
shocks, api^reciable without instruments, that occurred in a period of 
four years beginning with 1878. They numbered 124, and, classified by 
seasons, were: Winter, 41; spring, 35; summer, 27; autumn, 21; show- 
ing a greater frequency in winter than in summer, as has been given 
by other lists. If March bo substituted for December as a winter month, 
the contrast is still more striking, as we then find 51, or 41 per cent, of 
the whole number, occurring in those three months. February and 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 223 

March appear to be tlie mouths of greatest earthquake activity. A 
period of earthquake calm is found iu August aud September, coinci- 
dent with the period of greatest cyclonic activity. 

Prof. J. P. O'Reilly, of Dublin, has prepared an earthquake map of the 
British Islands. [Trans. Boy. Ir. Acad., xxviii, 285.) It is based upon 
a catalogue of 53 earthquakes felt in historical times up to 1880, of 
which 8 occurred previous to the year 1700. These are rearranged 
and recatalogued with respect to localities and frequency, and the map 
is shaded accordingly. The most deeply shaded portions, indicating 
the greatest frequency, are found in Southern Scotland and in the neigh- 
l)orhood of Bristol Channel, and generally the map shows much more 
earthquake action in Great Britain than in Ireland ; whence the author 
infers the existence of some barrier, such as great lines of faulting be- 
neath the sea, which prevents the extension of seismic action to the 
adjacent island. He does not, however, allude to what is certainly the 
fact, that the probability of any slight earthquake passiug unreported 
would be much greater in Ireland than in Scotland or England. The 
relationship of the ai^eas marked by frequency of earthquakes to the 
great coast line directions, described in previous i)apers by this author, 
is jiiscussed, and also the relation between the coal areas (which are 
marked on the map) aud the earthquake areas ; and the auggestiou 
is made that if a similar iu vestigation of European earthquakes on which 
lie is engaged should confirm the indications of the map of England 
that coal areas are also earthquake areas, then the earthquake map 
might be an important aid in the search for concealed beds of coal. 

In a memoir on the earthquakes of July, 1880, in the island of Luzon 
(Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap., V, 43), Don J. Centano y Garcia dissents from 
the conclusions of Father Faura, previously published, which jilaced the 
(seismic center in an extinct volcano situated between Lepan to and Ben- 
guet, in the central mountain chain of Luzon. After an extended de- 
scription of the effects produced by the earthquake, mostly based upon 
bis own observation, he reaches the following conclusions : All the 
series of earthquakes from the 14th to the 25th of July, 1880, can be di- 
vided into three classes, corresponding to the 14th, 18th, and 20th days. 
The intensity curves for each of these periods, as drawn on the author's 
map, indicate that the seismic center was in the southern part of the 
island, near the lake called La Laguna, southeast of Manila, the curves 
of maximum intensity for the iirst two periods including the region 
just east of this lake, and for the third period its western shore. 

In an article on Earthquake Disturbances of the Tides on the Coasts 
of India {l^ature, xxix, 358), we find some results reached by Maj. M. 
W. Rogers iu a discussion of the earthquake waves which appeared in 
the Bay of Bengal on December 31, 1881. The probable position of the 
center of impulse was beneath the waters of the western part of tfee Bay 
of Bengal, and the velocities deduced lor the sea wave were : To Port 
Blair, in the Andamans, 360 miles an hour; to Madras and Negapatam, 



224 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884.- 

240 miles; to False Poiut, 180 miles; and to Dublat, at tlie mouth of the 
Hooghly, 120 miles. The average depth of the sea is kuowu to dimin- 
ish in ever\' instance of diminished velocity, and in all these cases the 
crest of a positive wave preceded the trough or negative wave. 

At the Minneapolis meeting of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science {Proc.A.A. A. S., 1883, xxxii, 253), Eichard Owen 
discussed the grand lines of orographic development of the continental 
masses, and their relations to volcanic and seismic regions. He showed 
that a series of mountain chains, in several parallel ranges, extends 
nearly east and west from the land center in Switzerland to the equator 
at Quito and Sumatra, and that active volcanoes are often found in 
this stony girdle, while seismic activity is more often displayed within 
areas inclosed by the great orographic links of this chain. 

G. K. Gilbert offers (Am. Jonr. Sci., xxvii, 49) a theory to account 
for the earthquakes of the Great Basin. The elevation of mountain 
chains being gradual, results in a slowly increasing strain upon the ad- 
jacent strata, which strain is from time to time relieved by the forma- 
tion of faults at the foot of the range. This fault formation constitutes 
an earthquake shock; and the tension of the strata having been thus 
relieved, a longer or shorter period of quiescence will follow, until the 
tension again accumulates to the point of fracture. Applying these 
princii^les to the particular case, it is noted that fault scarps are found 
along the western base of the Wasatch Eange and along the eastern 
base of the Sierra ISTevada, one of the latter having been formed by 
the Owens Valley earthquake, which caused so much damage in 1872. 
Bat the fault scarp of the Wasatch is notably interrui^ted from Warm 
Springs to Emigration Caiion, near Salt Lake City, whence the infer- 
ence is drawn that the strain of the rising mountains has not there been 
relieved in recent time, and consequently the inhabitants of that city 
may anticipate the occurrence of an earthquake shock to relieve this 
tension, which will be more severe the longer it is delayed. 

In the first part of Das Antlitz der Erde (Leipzig, 1883) Edward 
Suess has discussed, in connection with other matters, both earthquakes 
and volcanoes. Having in the second chapter described several regions 
which are subject to earthquakes, as the Northeastern Alps, Southern 
Italy, Central America, and the west coast of South America, in the 
third chapter he discusses the general topic of dislocations and the 
strains which cause them, and in the fifth the different classes of earth- 
quakes and their relation to more extensive movements of the crust. 
The fourth chapter is devoted to volcanoes, tracing the different stages 
in the .life history of an eruptive mountain, as illustrated in the phenom- 
ena of the present day, from those which have broken forth within 
historical time and are still continuously active, through the succession 
of less and less active cones, to those which have not only been long 
extinct, but have been reduced to ruins by the processes of erosion, and 
finally to those masses of eruptive matter which never reached the sur- 



VTJLCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 225 

face at all in a fluid condition, but have made their presence known 
only by the altered condition of the overlying strata. 

On the theory that the motive power of volcanoes and earthquakes 
is due to the vapor of water, it becomes necessary to explain how watei^ 
can be suddenly brought in contact with the heated portions of the in- 
terior of the earth in sufficient quantities to generate the explosive force 
called for by the phenomena. To meet this difficulty S. Meunier {La 
HCature, 1884. i, 379) assumes the crust to be thicker under the oceans 
than under the land, and suggests that at the edges of the thicker parts, 
that is, at the coast lines, masses may, by their own weight or by ex- 
ternal strains, be cracked oft" from the solid crust, and may thus sud- 
denly open a rapid communication between the included water of the 
upper strata and the zone of dissociation by heat below. 

Under the name of Earth Pulsations, Prof. John Milne, of Tokio {Na. 
ture, xxvni, 367), treats of movements of the soil which escape our notice 
on account of the sloicness of their period. Showing that increase of 
atmospheric pressure or the rise of the tide would so change the load 
restiug on the surface as to make such motions probable, he cites the 
increased activity of all microseismic api^aratus, and the increased flow 
of gas from the pores of a coal seam attendant on the fall of the baro- 
metric, column, as indications pointing in the direction of increased in- 
ternal activity. Observation both in Italy and in Japan also shows 
that the position of rest of a suspended pendulum is not invariable, the 
variation from normal position being too great and too uniform to be 
attributed to accidental causes. Other illustrations are drawn from 
motions of the waters in English lakes at the time of the great Lisbon 
earthquake, and from the motions not infrequently reported of the del- 
icate levels of astronomical observatories, which have not been ac- 
companied by sensible movements of the ground. The same writer also 
discusses {Nature^ xxix, 290) the effect of earthquakes on buildings, 
and the kind of buildings best adapted to escape injury therefrom. 
Two plans are suggested: either to make the buildings strong and bind 
them together with iron rods, so as to resist the strains which occur, 
or to employ frame buildings comparable in structure to a wicker basket, 
which may yield without being overthrown. The use of heavy brick 
chimneys joined to wooden houses is especially condemned as danger- 
ous. 

The authorities of the University of Tokio have instructed one of 
their officers to devote himself wholly to the study of seismic phenom- 
ena. The person thus appointed is Mr. Sekiya, the Japanese secre- 
tary of the Seismological Society of Japan. 

In November, 1884, a conference to formulate plans for the systematic 
observation and discussion of earthquakes in the United States was 
held in the rooms of the Geological Survey at Washington. There were 
present Messrs. J. W. Powell, 0. E. Button, and G. K. Gilbert, of the 
Survey; C.Abbe and C. F. Marvin, of the Signal Service; H. M. Paul, of 
S. Mis. 33 15 



226 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

the Naval Observatory; C. G. Rockwoofljr., of Princeton; and W. M. 
Davis, of Harvard College. Plans were arranged looking to the pro- 
curing of more accurate non-instrumental observations, and to the ulti- 
mate establishment of such instrumental observations as might be 
found practicable. To this end subcommittees of those present were 
appointed to consider the selection of instruments and the location of 
stations, &c., which committees are expected to report at a subsequent 
meeting of the conference. 

At the Montreal meeting of the British Association, in August, 1884, 
a grant of £75 was made for the investigation of earthquake phenom- 
ena in Japan, and £25 for volcanic phenomena at Vesuvius. {Science, 
IV, 263.) 

SEISMOMETRY. 

An underground observatory has been established by Professor Milne 
at Takashima, near JSTagasaki, in a coal mine whose workings extend 
beneath the island and the sea and have a total length of about 70 
miles. It is proposed to carry on observations of the motions of the 
soil by means of microphones placed in the solid rock, by instruments 
to measure the '• earth tremors," and by delicate levels, together with 
barometric and thermometric observations and observations of the es- 
cape of fire-damp, with the hope of determining whether any of these 
phenomena are connected with one another. 

In seismometry i^roperthe most imjjortant work is a memoir onEarth- 
quake Measurement by J. A. Ewing, published as ^STo. 9 of the Me- 
moirs of the Science Department of the University of Tokio. It con- 
sists of seven chapters, with twenty-four plates, of which fourteen re- 
late to the instruments and ten are copies of the records made by them. 

The first chapter is devoted to a concise statement of the theory of 
earthquake motion ; the difference between the normal and transverse 
vibrations, both being usually present ; the greater velocity of the for- 
mer, by which the two kinds of vibrations arising from the same shock 
become separated at a distance from their source ; the effect of reflec- 
tion and refraction at the bounding surfaces of the media traversed ; 
the want of agreement between the direction of the wave within the 
ground and the motion impressed upon a particle at the surface; that 
is, in general, to the peculiarities of the -phenomena to be observed. 

In tlie second chapter, after theoretically determining the kinetic and 
static conditions to be fulfilled by the steady point of a seismometer, 
the author applies them to the horizontal i^endulum, describing in detail 
the seismometer based upon it, and the improvements introduced by 
himself and others. The instrument consists essentially of a heavy 
mass pivoted through its center of inertia to one side of a light frame, 
which itself is so supported as to admit of motion with little friction 
about a vertical axis parallel to the line of support of the bob. The 
magnified record is made by a pointer attached to the frame and tracing 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 227 

upon a moving smoked-glass plate. The proportious of the frame and 
pointer are such that the line of attachment of the bob is the center of 
percussion with respect to the vertical axis of support of the frame. 
Most of the important graphic records obtained iu Japan have been 
made with some modification of this instrument. In its improved form 
the frame is made triangular and the bob is a truncated cone of cast- 
iron. Gray's conical pendulum, iu which the upper pivot is replaced 
by an elastic wire, Is also described, and a modification is suggested by 
which the lower pivot also may be dispensed with in a similar way. 

The third chapter describes and discusses several previously used 
seismographs dependent on rolling spheres or cylinders, and various 
forms of pendulums making their records either directl}^ or through the 
intervention of multiplying levers, and especially the author's "duplex" 
pendulum, which combines an ordinary with an inverted pendulum, so 
as to make the equilibrium of the system neutral. 

The fourth chapter is devoted to instruments for recording vertical 
movement, which have already been described elsewhere. 

The fifth chapter gives the results of instrumental observations in the 
case of nine earthquakes, selected from a much larger number recorded 
in Japan between 1880 and 1883, accompanied by fac-similes of the trac- 
ings made by various instruments, and a discussion of them. 

The sixth chapter describes a number of miscellaneous instruments 
and methods of observation, none of which are new; while the seventh 
contains a brief statement of the author's results from a comparison of 
the records obtained with different instruments. He concludes that 
the only seismometers of value are those "which aim at giving a steady 
point or line during the disturbance." 

In a paper read before the Seismological Society of Japan ( Trans, of 
8. 8. of Japan, vi, 22), CD. West suggests a new type of seismograph, 
which is also described in an appendix to Ewing's memoir. It consists 
of a heavy weight supported by a system of links similar to those used 
in the Eichards indicator to secure rectilinear motion. A weight so sup- 
ported would be free to move in a horizontal line through a considerable 
amplitude without losing its astatic iiroperties. 

In the Journal of the German Geological Society (vol. xxxvi, 29), 
G. E. Lepsius describes a modification of Cacciatore's seismometer, in 
which the fluted dish is replaced by a watch-glass containing mercury, 
supported on the elevated central part of a porcelain dish whose outer 
part forms a ring of sixteen deep hollows, into some one of wliich the 
spilled mercury must fall. The whole apparatus has a diameter of 
191™™ and a height of 60™™. 

Several forms of recording apparatus for earthquakes were suggested 
by Johnston-Lavis. (Nature, xxx, 009.) For the steady point in the 
registers of the horizontal component a pendulum was usually employed, 
and the direction and amount of its motion relative to the rest of the 
apparatus were recorded (<i) by the pendulum pulling upon a cord 



228 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

whose other end was attached to a stylus markiug upon a moving 
drum; or {b) by making electrical contact in some one of a number of 
circuits arranged radially about the normal position of the pendulum, and 
thereby causing some one of a series of styles to record on a moving 
drum; or, for strong shocks, (c) by the pendulum turning the whole re- 
cording apparatus into the azimuth of its motion. Another device em- 
ployed as a steady point a disk of lead between parallel glass plates and 
resting on spheres of glass or ivory. 

For measuring the vertieal component he proposed to use the changes 
in the rate of a falling body during the phases of the earth wave, these 
changes being recorded by appropriate apparatus on a moving drum. 
These suggestions were later commented on by J. A. Ewing [Nature, 
XXXI, 4), who justly criticised the want of novelty of some of them and 
the mechanical difficulties involved in others. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Books and separate reprints. 

(1) S. E. Bishop. — The equatorial smoke stream from Krakatoa. 32rao. 16 pp., 

1 pi. Honolulu, 1884. 

(2) Bulletino del vnlcanismo italiano. Anuo x, 1883. Roma, 1884. 

(3) Herm. Credner. — Die erzgebirgiscb vogtlandischeu ErdbeCen wiihrend der 

Jahre 1878 bis Anfang 1884. [Zeitscbr. f. Naturw., Halle a. S. (1884), 
LVii, 1-29. Abstract : Neu. Jabrb. f. Min., Geol. u. Pal. (1885), i, 60.] 

(4) J. Delauney. — Lois des grands tremblements de terre et lenr provision. 

8 vo. 1 broch. Paris, 1884. 

(5) DiENER. — Das Erdbeben auf der Insel Ischia am 28. Juli 1883. [Mittheil. d. 

geogr. Gesellsch. Wien, 1884.] 
(G) J. A. Ewing. — Earthquake measurement. Memoir No. 9, Sci. Dept. Univ. of Tokio. 
4to. 12 + 92 pp., 24 pi. Tokio, 1883. 

(7) A. FoRSTER. — Das Erdbeben der schweizerischen Hochebene vom 27. Januar 1881. 

4to. 29 pp. Berne, 1883 (?). 

(8) C. W. C. FucHS.— Die vulkanischen Ereignisse des Jahres 1882. (18. Jahresbe- 

richt.) [Miner, u. petrog. Mittheil. (1883), 339-381.] 

(9) C. W. C. FucHS. — Die vulkanischen Ereignisse des Jahres 1883. ( 19. Jahresbe- 

richt.) [Miner, u. petrog. Mittheil. (1884), 185-231.] 

(10) L. Gatta. — Vnlcanismo. 16mo. 8 + 267 pp., map. Milano, 1885. 

(11) J. Henriet. — M^moire sur les tremblements de terre de Pile de Chio. 8vo. 24, 

pp. Marseille, 1884. 

(12) E. HusSAiv. — Ueber den Cordierit in vulkanischen Auswiirflingen. [Sitzber. k. 

Akad. Wiss. Wien, No. 9, 1883.] 

(13) H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — Notices on the earthquakes of Ischia of 1881 and 1883. 

8vo. Map. Naples, 1883. 

(14) KUNISCH. — Das schlesisch-bohmische Erdbeben vom 31. Jan. 1883. [Reprint 

from (?).] 

(15) J. P. O'Reilly. — Catalogue of the earthquakes having occurred in Great Brit- 

ain and Ireland during historical times; arranged relatively to localities and 
frequency of occurrence, to serve as a basis for an earthquake map of the 
three kingdoms. (Map.) [Trans. Roy. Ir. Acad. (Science), xxviii, 285-316.] 

(16) A. Sauer.— Die Krakatoa-Aschen des Jahres 1883. [Bericht. d. naturf. Gesellsch. 

zu Leipzig, 1883. Chem. Centralblatt, 1884, No. 8.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 229 

A. Serpieri.— Sismologia. Sul terremo to delP Isola d' Ischia del 28 luglio 

1883. 16mo. 14 pp. Milano, 1884. 
E. SUESS.— Das Antlitz der Erde. (Abth. 1.) 4to. 310 pp. Illus. Leipzig, 

1883. 
O. Sylvestri.— Sulla esplosione eccentrica dell' Etna avvenuta il 22 marzo 

1883. 4to. 195 pp., 7 pi. Catania, 1884. 
C. Velain. — Les volcans, ce qu'ils sont et ce qu'ils noun apprennent. 8vo. 

128 pp. Illus. Paris, 1884. 
R. D. M. Verbeek.— Kort verslag over de uitbarsting von Krakatoa op 26,27 

en 28 Augustus 1883. 8vo. ^.5 pp. Batavia, 1884. 
R. D. M. Verbeek.— OfQcieller Bericht iiber den vulkauisclien Ausbruch von 

Krakatau am 26., 27. und 28. Aug. 1883. Aus dem Holliindischen iibersetzt 

von E. Metzger. 8vo. 16 pp. Halle, 1884. 
R.D. M. Verbeek.— Krakatau. Erster Theil. 8vo. 8-flOOpp. Batavia, 1884. 
R. D. M. Verbeek.— Topographiscbe en geologische beschrijving van eeu ge- 

deelte van Sumatras westkust. 8vo. 20 + 674 pp., maps and pi. Batavia, 

1883. 

Periodicals. 

D'Abbadie.— Sur les petits tremblements de terre. [Conipt. Rend. (1884), 

xcviii, 322-323.] 
T. Alexander. — Note on tbe ball and cup seismograjjb. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of 

.Jap. (1883), VI, 30-31.] 
T. Alexander. — Note on tbe development and interpretation of the record which 

a bracket machine gives of an earthquake. 1 pi. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. 

(1883), VI, 13-18.] 
Baillaud. — Sur les oscillations barom6triques produites par I'^ruption du vol- 

can de Krakatoa, et enr6gistr6es an barom^tre R6dier de I'observatoire de 

Toulouse. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcviii, 349.] 
L. Baldacci. — Alcune osservazione sul terremoto avvenuto all' isola d' Ischia 

11 28 luglio 1883. (Map.) [Boll, del R. Com. Geol. d' Italia (1883), 2* ser., 

IV, 157-166. Translated : Science (1883), ii, 396-399.] 
G. H. Barton.— Notes on tbe lava flow of 1880-'81 from Manna Loa. (2 pi.) 

[Science (1884), iii, 410-413.] 
J. T. Bealby. — The Java eruption and earthquake waves. [Nature (1883j, 

XXIX, 30-33.] 
C. W. de la p. Bere;sford. — Note on the ascent of Ambrym, volcano in the 

New Hebrides. [Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc. (1884), VI, 129.] 
Beuf. — Sur un mouvement subit de la mer a Mont6vid^o. [Compt. Rend. 

(1884), XCVIII, 499-500.] 
J. F. Blake -On the volcanic group of St. David's. [Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. 

(1884), XL, 294-311.] 
Bouquet de la Grye. — Sur la propagation des lames produites par I'^ruption 

des volcans de Java (aoftt 1883). [Compt. Rend. (1883), xcvii, 1228.] 
C. O. Boutelle. — Water waves from Krakatoa. (Map and 2 figs.) [Science 

(1884), III, 777.] 
Breon et Korthals.— Sur I'^tat actuel du Krakatoa. [Compt. Rend. (1884', 

xcix, 395-397.] 
E. Abella y Casariego.— Monografia geol6gica del volcan de Albay 6 El Mayon. 

(2 pi.) [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap., v, 19-41.] 

B. de Chancourtois. — Sur un moyen de constater par enr^gistrement continu 

les petits mouvements de I'^corce terrestre. [Compt. Rend. (1883), xcvai, 
1857.] 
W. H. DAI.L. — A new volcanic island in Alaska. (8 figs.) [Science (1884), iil, 
89-93.] 



230 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

(41) G. Dallet. — Les mouvements lents et p^riodiqnes du sol. [La Nature (1883), 

II, 378,379.] 

(42) T. Dan. — Notes on the earthquake at Atami, in the province of Idzu (Japan), on 

Sept. 29, 1882. (1 fig.) [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap., v, 95-104.] 

(43) A. Daubr^e. — Ph^nomenes volcaniques du d6troit de la Sonde (26 et 27 ao6t 

1883) ; exameu des cendres volcaniques recueillies. [Compt. Rend. (1883), 
xcvii.llOO.] 

(44) A. Daubree. — Rapport sur le tremblement de terre ressenti ^Ischia le28 juillet 

1883 ; causes probables des tremblements de terre. [Compt. Rend. (1883), 
xcvii, 768. Revue Scientif. (1883), xxxii, 465.] 

(45) A. Daubree. — Observations relatives aux ponces du Krakatoa. [Compt. Rend. 

(1884), xcviii,1303.] 

(46) A. Daubree. — Observations extraites du rapport de M. Verbeek sur r6ruption 

du Krakatoa les 26, 27 et 28 aoilt 1883. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcviii, 
1019.] 

(47) George Davidson. — Notes ou the volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Augustin, 

Alaska, Oct. 6, 1883. (Map and pi.) [Science (1884), m, 186-189. Nature 
(1884), XXIX, 441-442.] 

(48) George Davidson. — The new Bogosloff volcano in Bering Sea. (2 pi. aod map.) 

[Science (1884), in, 282-286.] 

(49) C. Detaille. — Statistique des tremblements de terre. [L'Astronomie (1884) 

IV, -.] 

(50) J. S. DiLLER.— Volcanic sand which fell at Unalashka, Ala8ka,»Oct. 20,1883, 

and some considerations concerning its composition. (1 fig.) [Science 
(1884), III, 651-654. Nature (1884), xxx, 91-93.] 

(51) F. DU Bois. — The earthquakes of Ischia. (1 pi.) [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1884), 

VII, 16-42. Noticed : Am. Jour. Sci. (1884), III, xxviii, 312-313.] 

(52) C. E. DuTTON. — Recent exploration of the volcanic phenomena of the Hawaiian 

Islands. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1883), III. xxv, 219-226.] 

(53) DuvEYRiER. — Tremblement de terre ressenti ^ Ghad^mes h, la fin du mois d'aotlt 

1883. [Compt. Rend. (1883), xcvii, 923.] 

(54) F. W. Eastlake. — Earthquakes in Japan. [Nature (1884), xxx, 435.] 

(55) Erington de la Croix. — Eruption da lirakatoa. Vitesse de propagation des 

ondcs marines. [Compt. Rend, (lte'83), xovil, 1575; (1884), Scviu, 1324.] 

(56) J. A. EwiNG. — Seismological notes : I. A duplex pendulum seismometer. II. The 

suspension of a horizontal pendulum. IH. A speed governor for seismo- 
grajjh clocks. (1 pi.) [Traus. Seis. Soc. of Jap., V, 89-93.] 

(57) J. A. EwiNG. — Ou a duplex pendulum with a single bob. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of 

Jap., VI, 19-20.] 

(58) J. A. EwiNG. — On certain methods of astatic suspension. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of 

Jap., VI, 25-29.] 

(59) J. A. EwiNG.— Measuring earthquakes. [Nature (1884), xxx, 149-152, 174-177.] 

(60) C. Flammarion. — Les illunjiuatious cr^pusculaires, le soleil vert et le cata- 

clysme de Java. [L'Astronomie (1884), iv, — . ] 

(61) C. Flammarion. — Le cataclysme de Java, I'^ruption de Krakatoa et les illumi- 

nations cr^pusculaires. (2 figs.) [L'Astronomie (1884), iv, — .] 

(62) F. A. FoREL. — Les tremblements de terre orog^niques dtudi^s en Suisse. 

[L'Astronomie (1884), iv, — .] 

(63) A. Forster.— Remarques 5,propo8 des recherches qui ont 6t6 faites sur la propa- 

gation des ondes atmosph6riques produites par les explosions de Kraka- 
toa. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xoviii, 411.] 

(64) A. FOrster. — Ondulations atmosph6riqne8 produites par l'6rnption du Kraka- 

toa. [La Nature (1884), I, 115.] 

(65) J. Centeno y Garcia. — Abstract of a memoir on the earthquakes in the island 

of Luzon in 1880. (4 pi. and map.) [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap., v, 43-88.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 231 

G. K. Gilbert. — A theory of the earthquakes of the Great Babiu, with a prac- 
tical application. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1884), III, xxvii, 49-53.] 

T. Gkay. — Ou Gray and Milnes's seismographic apjiaratus. [Quart. Jour. Geol. 
Soc. (1883), I, 218.] 

O. GuMAELius. — Sauiling af uuderriittelser om jordstotar i Sverige. (Collec- 
tion of reports of earthquakes in Sweden. ) [Geol. Foren. i Stockholm Forh. 
(1883), VI, 509-522; (1884) vii, 107-109.] 

Guy. — Les pluies et les derni^res <5ruptions volcaniques. [Compt. Rend. (1884), 
xcviJi, 1557-1558. Translated: Nature (1884), xxx, 229.] 

A. Hague and J. P. Iddixgs.— Notes ou the volcanoes of Northern California, 
Oregon, and Washington Territory. [Am. Jour. Sci. (Ib83), III, xxvi, 
222-235.] 

A. Hague and J. P. Iddings. — Notes ou the volcanic rocks of the Great Basin. 
[Am. Jour. Sci. (1884), III, xxvii, 453-463.] 

A. Hague.— Red skies in China five years ago. [Science (1884), III, 121-122.] 

W. Hancock. — On the volcanic and earthquake regions of Central America, with 
observations on recent phenomena. [Rej). 53d Meeting Brit. Ass., Sept., 
1883, 594-595.] 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis.— The Ischiau earthquake of July 28, 1883. [Nature 
(18H3), xxviii, 437-439.] 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — The late eruption of Vesuvius (Jan. 7, 1884). [Na- 
ture (1884), xxix, 291.] 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — Earthquakes. (Instruments.) [Nature (1884), xxx, 
608-612.] 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — The geology of Monte Somma and Vesuvius, being a 
study in vulcanology. [Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. (1884), XL, 35.] 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — Preliminary notice of the earthquake of 1881 in the 
island of Ischia. [Rep. 53d Meeting Brit. Ass., Sept., 1883, 501-503.] 

E. DE JONQUii:RES. — Sur les debris volcaniques recueillis sur la c6te est de File 
Mayotte, an nord-ouest de Madagascar. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcix, 272- 
273.] 

G. Kaesten. — Red skies a century ago. [Science (1884), in, 231.] 

H. G. Kennedy. — Extracts relating to the volcanic outbursts in the Sunda 
Strait, from the log-book of the S. S. Governor-General Loudon. [Roy. 
Soc. Proc. (1883), xxxvi, 199.] 

E. Knipping and H. M. Paul. — Report of the committee on a system of earth- 

quake observations. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1883), vi, 36-39.] 
J. H Kloos. — Die vulkanische Eruption und das Seebeben in der Sundastrasse 

im August 1883. [Verhdl. des naturw. Ver. in Karlsruhe (1884), Hft. 10.] 
A. V. Lasaulx. — Die vulkanischen Vorgange in der Sundastrasse. [Humboldt, 

m. No. 3.] 
A. V. Lasaulx. — Erdbeben auf Ischia, microskopische Untersuchung norweg- 

ischer Gesteine. fSitz. Ber. d. naturh. Ver. d. preuss. Rheinl. und West- 

phaleus (1883), 190-220.J 
John Le Conte. —Atmospheric waves from Krakatoa. [Science (1884), in, 

701-702.] 

F. de Lesseps. — Propagation marine de la commotion du tremblement de terre 

de Java. [Compt. Rend. (1883), xcvii, 1172. J 

F. DE Lesseps. — Courbes du maregraphe de Colon. (Tremblements de terre h 

Santander, Guyaquil, Chio, &c.) [Compt. Reud. (1884), xcviii, 272-273.] 

G. R. Lepsius. Ueber ein neues Quecksilber-Seismometer und die Erdbeben 1. 

J. 1883 in Darmstadt. [Zeitsch. d. deutsch. geol. Gesellsch. (1884), xxxvi, 
29-36. Abstract : Neu. Jahrb. f. Min., Geol. u. Pal. (1885), i, 62.] 
H. Carvxll Lewis. — A near view of Krakatoa in eruption. [Science (1884), m, 
702-703.] 



232 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

(91) LuDW. V. LoczY.— Ueber die Eruption des Krakatoa im Jahre 1883. [Foldtani 

Kozliiny (Geolog. Contributions), herausg. v. d. ungar. geol. Gesellsch 
(1884), I, 122.] 

(92) J. MacFarlane. — The earthquake at New Madrid, Mo., in 1811, probably not 

an earthquake. [Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. (1883), xxxil, 247-248. Science 
(1883), 11, 324.] 

(93) Marie-Davy. — Sur les oscillations barom^triques du 27 aoflt 1883, observ^es 

a Montsouris. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcvui, 246-248. ] 

(94) G. Mercalli.— SulP eruzione Etnea del 22 marzo 1883. [Atti Soc. Ital. di Sci- 

euze Naturali (Milan), xxvi, 111.] 

(95) E. Metzger. — Gleanings from the reports concerning the eruption of Krakatoa^ 

[Nature (1883), xxix, 240-244.] 

(96) S. Meuxier. — Contributions h, la th^orie volcanique. [Compt. Rend. (1883), 

xcvii, 1230.] 

(97) S. Mecxier. — Origine de I'activit^ Tolcanique. (1 pi.) [La Nature (1884), I, 

379-380.] 

(98) J. Milne. — Report of the cornmittee" appointed for the purpose of investigating 

the earthquake phenomena of Japan. [Rep. 53d Meeting Brit. Ass., Sept., 
1883,211-215.] 

(99) J. Milne.— Earth pulsations. [Nature (1883), xxviii, 367-370.] 

(100) J. Milne.— Earthquakes and buildings. [Nature (1884), xxix, 290-291.] 

(101) J. Milne.— Earth tremors. (Illus.) [Nature (1884), xxix, 456-459.] 

(102) J. Milne.— Earth pulsations. [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1883), vi, 1-12.] 

(103) J. Milne.— Earth tremors. (2 figs.) [Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1884), vn, pt. I, 

1-15.] 

(104) J. Milne. — On 387 earthquakes observed during two years (Oct., 1881, to Oct., 

1883) in North Japan. (124 maps, 15 pi.) [Trans. S-iis. Soc. of Jap. (1884), 
VII, pt. ii, 1-87.] 

(105) John Murray. — Volcanic ashes and cosmic dust. (4 illus.) [Nature (1884), 

XXIX, 585-590.] 

(106) A. Newton.— The new volcanic island off Iceland. [Nature (1884), xxxi, 149.] 

(107) K. Oebbeke. — Ueber die Krakatoa- Asche. [Neu. Jahrb. f. Min., Geol. u. Pal. 

(1884), II, 32-33.] 

(108) J. P. O'Reilly.— The earthquake of Ischia, July 28, 1883. [Nature (1883), 

xxvui, 461.] 

(109) Richard Owen.— The earth's orographic framework, its seismology and geology. 

[Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. (1883), xxxii, 253-256.J 

(110) Richard Owen. — The continental type, or normal orography and geology of 

continents. [Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. (1883), xxxii, 256-260.] 

(111) W. G. Spence Patterson. — The new volcanic island off Iceland. [Nature 

(1884), XXXI, 37-38.] 

(112) H. M. Paul.— Krakatoa. [Science (1884), iv, 135-136.] 

(113) H. M. Paul. — Atmospheric waves from Krakatoa. [Science (1884), m, 504, 

531-.')32.] 

(114) H. M. Paul.— Measuring earthquakes. (4 figs.) Review of No. 6. fScience 

(1884), IV, 516-518.] 

(115) Perrotin. — Sur un tremblement de terre ressenti ^ Nice le 27 novembre 1884. 

[Compt. Rend. (1884), xcix, 960-961.] 

(116) Karl Pettersen. — Vulkanische Phiinomene auf Jan Mayen. [Neu. Jahrb. f. 

Min., Geol. u. Pal. (1883), i, 164-165.] 

(117) J. W. Powell.— On the state of the interior of the earth. [Science (1884), 

III, 480-482.] 

(118) J. W. Powell. — On the fundamental theory of dynamic geology. [Science 

(1884), III, 511-513.] 
(U9) R, A. Proctor.— The earthquake. [Knowledge (1884), Y, 301.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 



233 



(120) A. Eenard. — Les cendres volcaniqnes de I'^rnptiou du Krakatoa tomb^es^Ba- 

tavia le 27 aoftt 188:5. [Bull, de I'Acad. Eoy. de Bclgique (188:]), 3e 86r., vi, 

No. 11.] 
S. M. Rexdall. — Krakatoa. [Nature (18-4), xxx, 287-288.] 
E. Kenou. — Sur les oscillatious baroui6tiiques jjioduites par I'^ruption du 

Krakatoa. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcviii, 160-lGl, 245-24(5.] 
H. H. Reuscii. — Vulkauisclie Ascheu vou denletzten Ausbriicbeniu der Sunda- 

strasse. [Neu. Jabrb. f. Miu., Geol. n. Pal. (1884), i, 78.] 
Rey de Morande. — Les tremblements de terre. [L'Astrouomie (1884), iv, — .] 
A. RiNGWOOD.— Red sunsets. [Nature (1884), xxx, 301-304.] 
C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr. — Notes on American earthquakes. No. 12. [Am. Jour. 

Sci. (188:5), III, XXVI, :^53-360.] 
C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr. — Notes on American eaitbquakes. No. 13. [Am. Jour. 

Sci. (1884), III, XXVII, 3rj8-3(;4.] 
C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr.— Notes on Canadian earthquakes. [Canad. Naturalist 

(1883), X, 455-458.] 
C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr.— The Iscbian earthquake of July 28, 1883. [Am. Jour. 

Sci. (1883), III, XXVI, 473-476.] 
C. G. ROCKWOOD, Jr. — The earthquake in the Eastern and Middle States, Aug- 
ust 10, 1884. [Am. Journ. Sci. (1884), III, xxviii, 242.] 
C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr. — Earthquakes in the United States and Canada. [Science 

(1884), IV, 569.] 
H. ROSENBUSCH. — Review of Verbeek's Sumatra. (No. 24.) [Neu. Jabrb. f. 

Min., Geol. u. Pal. (1884), ii, 333-335.] 
A. Saiier. — Zur Zusammeusetzung des Krakatoa- Asche vom 27. August 1883. 

[Chem. Ceutralblatt (1884), No. 12.] 
Fr. Schafarzik. — Ueber die Thiitigkeit der Erdbeben-Commission der ungari- 

scheu geoJogiscben Gesellschaft wiihrend des ersten Jahres ihrea Bestandes. 

[Foldtaui Kozlouy (Geolog. Contrib.), berausg. v. d. uugar. geol. Gesellsch. 

(1883), 11,252-255.] 
Fr. Schafarzik. — Statistik der Erdbeben in Ungaru im Jahre 1883. [Fold- 

tani Kozlouy (1884), i, 151.] 
W. J. Stanley. — Une nouvelle thdorie sur la cause des volcans et des soulfeve- 

ments de la croftte terrestre. [La Nature (1883), i, 275.] 
Richard Strachey.— The Krakatoa air wave. [Nature (18o3), xxix, 181-182. ] 
T. H. Streets. — A four years' record of earthquakes iu Japan, studied in their 

relations to the weather and seasons. [Am. Jour. Sci. (1883), III, xxv, 

361-367.] 
P. Tacchini. — Sur les oscillatious barora^tiiques produites par I'^ruption du 

Krakatoa. [Compt. Rend. (1884), xcviii, 616-617.] 
J. J. Harris Teall. — The Java eruption and the distribution of andesite. 

[Nature (1883), xxix, 170-171.] 
V. Tkdeschi di Ercole. — La r^cente Eruption de I'Etna (22 mars 1883). 

[La Nature (1883), i, 305-306.] 
T. Thoroddsen. — Vulkanerne paa Reykjanes 1 Island. [Geol. Foreu. i Stock- 
holm Forh. (1884), vii, 148-177.] 
T. Thoroddsen. — Explorations iu Iceland. [Nature (1884), xxx, 563-565,584- 

585; XXXI, 173-174.] 
G. TisSANDiER. — Le tremblement de terre de Smyrne, 15 oct. 1883. [La Na- 
ture (1883), II, 382, 401-402.] 
G. TisSANDiER. — Les lueurs cr6pusculaires et la coloration rouge du ciel. [La 

Nature (1884), i, 28,50-51, 106-107, 181.] 
W. ToPLEY. — The earthquake (England, April 22, 1884). (1 map.) [Nature 

(1884), XXX, 60-62. Abstract : Science (1884), iii, 740-742.] 



234 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

(147) M. DE Tkibolet. — Ischia et Java en 188?>. [Conference acad^mique Neuch^ 

tel, 1884.] 

(148) S. Tromholt. — Sun glows and volcanic eruptions in Iceland. [Nature (1884), 

XXIX, 420.] 

(149) W. Uptox.— The red skies. [Science (1884), in, 37-40.] 

(1.50) M. C. VAN DOORN. — The eruption of Krakatoa. (Trans. E. Metzger.) (4 figs. 

and map.) [Nature (1884), xxix, 268-269. Abstract: Science (1884), in, 

211.1 
(151) C. Velain. — Le tremblement de terre d'Ischia du 28 juillet 1883. (2 maps, 2 

pi.) [La Nature (1883), ii, 182-187.] 
(1.52) R. D. M. Verbeek. — The Krakatoa eruption. (Translation.) [Nature (1884), 

XXX, 10-15.] 

(153) R. D. M. Verbeek und R. Fennema. — Neue geologische Entdeckungen auf 

Java. (4 pi.) [Neu. Jahrb. f. Min., Geol. u. Pal. (1883), in, 186-222.] 

(154) F. C. P. Vereker. — Extracts from a rej)ort on the volcanic eruption in Sunda 

Strait. [Roy. Soc. Proc. (1883), xxxvi, 198.] 

(155) H. Vila. — Nouvelle lie volcanique dans Alaska. (] map.) [La Nature (1884), 

I, :i87-388.] 

(150) E. Vi.MUN 1 . — La grande Eruption volcanique du d^troit de la Sonde. [La Na- 

ture (1884), I, 70-76.] 

(157) F. WaHNER. — DaaErdbeben von Agram am 9. Nov. 1880. (2 maps, 2 pi., 17 

figa.) [Sitzber. d. k. Akad. d. Wiss. Wien (1883), Lxxxviii, — .] 

(158) J.T.Walker. — On the earthquake of the Slst December, 1881. [Proc. Asiat. 

Soc. of Bengal (1883), 60.] 

(159) J. T. Walker. — Earthquake disturbances of the tides on the coasts of India. 

[Nature (1884), xxix, 358-360.] 

(160) W. J. Watson.— The Java disaster. [Nature (1883), xxix, 140-141.] 

(161) CD. West. — Suggestions for a new type of seismograph. (Ipl.) [Trans. Seis. 

Soc. of Jap. (1883), vi, 22-24.] 

(162) E. WiiYMPER. — Colored skies after an eruption of Cotopaxi. [Nature (1883), 

XXIX, 199-200. Science (1884), in, 99-100.] 

(163) A. WiTZ. — Coincidences eutre les ph6nom^nes observes en 1831 et en 1883. 

[Compt. Rend. (1884), xcvni, 542.] 

(164) C. Wolf. — Sur les ondulations atmosph^riques attribuees a I'^ruption du Kra- 

katoa et sur la tempete du samedi 26 Janvier 1884. [Compt. Rend. (1884), 
xcviu, 177-179.] 

Printed without author's name. 

(165) The new Bogosloff volcano. [Science (1884), iv, 138-139, 432-434 (map).] 

(166) Catalogue of earthquakes felt in Tokio between Jan. 1, 1882, and March, 1883. 

[Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1883), vi, 32-35. ] 

(167) Catalogue of earthquakes felt in Tokio between July, 1883, and May, 1884, 

[Trans. Seis. Soc. of Jap. (1884), vii, pt. i, 43-45.] 

(168) Tremblemeut de terre en Angleterre le 22 avril 1884. [La Nature (1884), i, 

354-355.] 

(169) An earthquake in England (April 22, 1884). [Nature (1884), xxix, 602-603.] 

(170) The earthquake (April 22, 1884). [Nature (1884), xxx, 17-19, 31-32, 101-102, 

124-125, 145, 170.] 

(171) The Ischian earthquake. [Nature (1883), xxviii, 345-348, 374-375.] 

(172) The Java upheaval. [Nature (1883), xxvni, 443-444.] 

(173) Scientific aspects of the Java catastrophe. [Nature (1883), xxviii, 457-458.] 

(174) The Java eruption. [Nature (1883), xxvni, 577.] 

(175) The Java eruptions and earthquake waves. [Nature (1883), xxix, 153-154.] 
(176^ Krakatoa and the sun glows. [Nature (1884), xxx, 155-156.] 

(177) Krakatoa. [Nature (1884), xxx, 279-280.] 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 235 

(178) The cloud glows. [Nature, xxix, 28, 55, 77, 102, 130-133, 149-153, 174-181, 195- 

196, 222-225, 250-252, 259-260, 283-286, 308-310, 334, 344, 355-356, 381-382, 
403-404, 427, 461, 503, 512, 525, 548-550, 573.] 

(179) The remarkable sunsets. [Nature, xxx, 20, 54, 194, 268, 359, 488-489, 511-512, 

536-537, 5.59-560, 583, 607, 633-634.] 

(180) Le grand tremblement de terre de Java, 27 aoflt 1883. (Map and 2 pi.) [La 

Nature (1883), ii, 260-263.] 

(181) Curieux effets du grand tremblement de terre de Java. [La Nature (1883), u, 

318.] 

(182) La mission frangaiseau Krakatoa. [La Nature (1884), ii, 186.] 

(183) Curieux documents m^t^orologiques. [La Nature (1884), ii, 219-220.] 

(184) The red sunsets. [Science (1884), iii, 3-4, 172, 216, 302.] 

(185) Air waves from Krakatoa. [Science (1884), in, 338, 401.] 

(186) The geological relatives of Krakatoa and its late eruption. (Reviews 21 and 

24. ) [Science ( 1884), in, 762-765. ] 

(187) The volcanic eruption of Krakatoa. [Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc. (1884), vi, 142.] 

(188) The Swiss earthquake of 1881. [Science (1884), m, 28. ] 

(189) Le tremblement de terre du 17 mars 1883 dans les Pays-Bas. [La Nature (1883), 

n, 30.] 



GEOGRAPHY. 



By Commander F. M. Geeen, XJ. S. N. 



Among events of general geographical interest which have occurred 
during the past year, one of the most important is the meeting of the 
International Conference at Washington, in October, 1884, for the pur- 
pose of fixing upon a meridian to be employed as a common zero of 
longitude and standard of time-reckoning throughout the world. 

This conference assembled by invitation of the President of the United 
States, in accordance with an act of Congress passed in 1882, delegates 
from the following countries taking i)art in it : 

Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Chili, Colombia, Costa Eica, Denmark, 
France, Germany, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii, Italy, Japan, Li- 
beria, Mexico, Netherlands, Paraguay, Russia, Santo Domiugo, Salva- 
dor, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United States, and Venezu- 
ela. , 

After several consultations, the conference agreed unanimously that 
a single jjrime meridian is desirable, and, with only the delegates from 
France and Brazil dissenting, agreed to recommend to their respective 
Governments the adoption of the meridian passing through the center 
of the transit instrument at the Greenwich Observatory as the initial 
meridian of longitude, and also voted to recommend that from this 
meridian longitude shall be counted in two directions up to 180° ; east 
longitude being plus, and west longitude minus. 

Resolutions were also adopted in favor of adopting a universal day, 
to be a mean solar day, beginning for all the world at the moment of 
mean midnight of the initial meridian, and to be counted from zero to 
twenty -four hours. 

An extensive chain of longitude measurements has been completed 
recently by the labors of the United States naval officers under command 
Df Lieut. Commander C. H. Davis, U. S. N., in measuring from Panama 
down the west coast of South America to Valparaiso. The results of 
these measurements afford a remarkable proof of the accuracy of com- 
bined astronomical and geodetic observations at the present day, and 
are especially worthy of notice as being entirely homogeneous; that is, 
they are everywhere founded upon telegraphic comparisons of time- 
pieces of which the errors on local time were determined, on the same 

237 



288 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

nights that the comparisons were made, by carefully observed transits 
of standard stars. This chain consists of the transatlantic longitude 
measurements of the United States Coast Survey from Greenwich to 
Washington; a Coast Survey measurement from Washington to Key 
West; a measurement from Key West to Panama, by way of Havana 
and Jamaica, by officers of the United States Navy, in 1874 and 1875 ; 
from Panama to Valparaiso, as mentioned above ; from Valparaiso to 
Buenos Ayres, by way of Cordova, under direction of Dr. B. A. Gould; 
and from Buenos Ayres to Greenwich, by way of Rio de Janeiro, 
Madeira, and Lisbon, by officers of the United States Navy, in 1878 and 
1879. In closing this immense chain of twenty links or connected 
measurements, the entire discrepancy amounted to eighteen one-hun- 
dredths of a second of time. 
The longitude of the Observatory of Cordova was found to be: 

Determined by way of Buenos Ayres 4'' 16"° 48'. 06 

By way of Valparaiso 4 16 48.24 



0.18 
NORTH AMERICA. 

Among the scientific investigations and the geodetic, geographic, and 
hydrographic work which marked the progress of the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey during the past year, the following opera- 
tions deserve special mention. 

In order to complete the connection of the American and European 
initial gravity stations the observations needed were made at the Kew 
and Geneva Observatories. 

A valuable series of comparative observations for gravity was com- 
pleted at Washington with the Kater pendulums. These pendulums, of 
historic importance in connection with determinations of gravity in 
England and India, were swung at the station in the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, wiiere they had been previously swung by an officer of the 
Royal Engineers. 

The work of tracing out and marking the boundary line between. 
Pennsylvania and West Virginia for the joint commission of these ^o 
States was completed ; the resurveys of Long Island Sound and of 
Delaware Bay were advanced toward completion, also the topograph- 
ical survey of the District of Columbia, for the Commissioners of the 
District; lines of level of precision were begun to connect the tidal 
levels of Chesapeake Bay and the Gulf of Mexico with the transcon- 
tinental line of geodesic leveling ; progress was made in the jirimary 
triaugulation near the thirty-ninth parallel for connecting the triangula- 
tion of the Atlantic coast with that of the Pacific; and trigonometrical 
surveys were continued in nine States which made requisite provision 
for their own topographical and geological surveys. 

Developments of much importance to the interests of commerce and 
navigation were made during the year; dangerous shoals and ledges 



GEOGRAPHY. 239 

having been discovered in some of the leading highways of commerce, 
among others in Monomoy Passage, Fisher's Island Sound, and the East 
Eiver, New York. Immediate information of these dangers was given 
by the i^ublication of "Notices to Mariners." 

In pursuance of its plan for making a geographical map of the 
United States, topographic work has been pushed forward rapidly by 
the United States Geological Survey during the year in many different 
localities. In the State of Massachusetts work was commenced, in co- 
operation with the State authorities, under an arrangement by which 
the State agreed to pay one-half the expense, making therefor an apjiro- 
priation of $40,000. Primary and secondary locations being furnished by 
the United States Coast Survey and the Borden survey, there remained 
in this State only the topography proper to be done, the estimated cost 
of which is $10 per square mile. Four parties were engaged upon this 
work through August, September, October, and November. An area of 
about 850 square miles was surveyed, the scale of the field-sheets being 
] : 30000, with a view to publication on a scale of 1 : 62500, or about 1 
mile to an incli. 

In the Southern Appalachian region there were six topographic par- 
ties in the field, two of which were fitted out for carrying on triangula- 
tion as well, while the triangulation for the remaining parties was sup- 
plied by a special triangulation j)arty. The triangulation is m this re- 
gion based upon the Appalachian and transcontinental belts of the 
Coast and Geodetic Survey. The topographic parties were dispersed 
over the area in question, from Mason and Dixon's line southwestward 
into Alabama. An area of about 18,000 square miles was surveyed in 
the States of Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, 
North Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama. This work has been done with 
a view to publication on a scale of 1 : 125000. 

In Southwestern Missouri and Southeastern Kansas an area of about 
14,000 square miles was surveyed, comprising the lead and zinc regions 
of these States. The work was done with a view to publication on a 
scale of 1 : 125000. 

A commencement was made in the State of Texas. A base line was 
measured near Austin, from which triangulation was extended over 
several of the neighboring counties. An area of about 4,000 square 
miles of topography was covered, with a view to publication on a scale 
of 1 : 125000. 

In Northwestern Arizona, Southeastern Utah, and Southern Nevada 
several detached areas were surveyed, aggregating about 12,000 square 
miles. This work was done with a view to publication upon a scale of 
1 : 250000. Besides this, a detailed map was made of the region includ- 
ing the San Francisco Mountains, upon a scale of 1 : 62500, or about 1 
mile to an inch. During the season the triangulation in this section 
was extended so as to form a connection between the work done by the 
old organizations known as the Powell, Hayden, and Wheeler Surveys. 



240 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Work upon a detailed map on a seal 3 of 1:62300, of the Yellow, 
stone Park was carried forward during the season, so that at its close 
nearly all that part of the park Ijing west of the Yellowstone liiver has 
been mapped upon this scale, while the triangulation from the Boze- 
man base has been extended until a connection has been formed with 
that of the old Hayden survey comiug up from the south. 

The season in Northern California proved to be unusually favorable to 
topographic work, and the single party which was engaged upon gen- 
eral work, on a scale of 1 : 250000, made rajiid progress. A second 
party was engaged duriug the season in making a detailed map of Mount 
Shasta and its immediate surioundings, the scale of the field-sheets 
being 1 : 20000. 

Besides the work detailed above, a number of special mining maps, 
upon large scales, have been made during the past year. 

The total area surveyed during the past season, upon all scales, is 
about 54,000 square miles, which has been done at an average cost of 
about $3 per square mile. 

Bulletin No. 5 of the United States Geological Survey is a valuable 
dictionary of altitudes in the United States, compiled and arranged by 
Henry Gannett, esq., chief geographer of the Survey. The States and 
stations are ali)habetically arranged, the number ot altitudes given being 
about 18,000, referred to mean tide-level as the datum point. 

Lieut. G. M. Stoney, U. S. N., commanding the Coast Survey schooner 
Ounalaska, and Lieutenant Cantwell, of the United States revenue 
steamer Corwin, have separately made explor.itions of the river Kowak 
or Kuak, a large river emptying into Hotham Inlet, Kotzebue Sound, on 
the western coast of Alaska, nearly under the Arctic Circle. First entered 
by officers of Captain Beechey's expedition in 1826, it was examined 
partially and its name was ascertained by officers of Her Majesty's ship 
Plover in 1849. It has been proposed to call this river Putnam Kiver, 
after Lieutenant Putnam, U. S. N.,lost from the United States steamer 
Rodgers, but geographers will probably adhere to the earlier name of 
Kowak or Kuak (the big river). The exploring parties traveled a dis- 
tance of about 370 miles from the mouth of the river, finding it very 
crooked. The river banks are thickly wooded, and the country through 
which it runs is rugged and mountainous. Specimens of coal, gold, and 
copper were brought away. From the headwaters of one of the affluents 
of the Kowak a short portage could be made to theTiead waters of an 
affluent of the Yukon, and from the sources of the Kowak it is but a 
short distance across the watershed to the waters of the Colville River, 
which empties into the Arctic Ocean. It is thought that commercially 
the most important result of the expeditions will be the indication of a 
route from the Arctic Ocean, available for the crews of ice-bound 
whalers, by way of the Colville and Kowak Rivers, to the settlements 
on the Yukon. Lieutenant Stoney, with a light-draught steamboat, will 



GEOGRAPHY. 241 

contimie the exploration of the Kowak Eiver and its branches in the 
summer of 1885. 

As stated in the Sitmrnary for 1883, a careful examination has been 
made of Bogosloflf Island, in the Aleutian Archipelago, where an active 
volcanic disturbance took place in 1883. From the report of Lieut. G. 
M. Stoney, U. S. N., by whom the- examination was made, it seems that, 
while no distinctly new island has appeared, Bogosloff Island [lonna 
Bogoslova, St. John the Theologian) has been extended, the old volcano 
being supplemented by another, which is still active, and that where 
there was formerly deep water there is now land 300 feet high. On the 
29th of May, 1884, Lieutenant Stoney, in the Coast Survey schooner 
Ounalaska, anchored close to the still smoking volcano and devoted 
three days to'its examination. What had been reported as a new island 
was found to be a new formation, connected with the old island by a 
sand spit. The whole mass of volcanic rock was found to be constantly 
vibrating, and a thermometer inserted an inch and a half below the 
crust showed 250° F. (its limit) in a few seconds. A compass taken on 
shore indicated the presence of iron by marked local action. Though 
one of the party reached the summit of the crater, no estimate of its 
size or dei)th could be made, probably owing to the volumes of sulphur- 
ous smoke which poured out. By repeated measurements the altitude 
of its summit was found to be 357 feet. 

The Canadian Government is naturally desirous to find a convenient 
outlet by way of IJiidson's Bay for the great grain products of its north- 
western territory^ and with that end in view sent during the summer 
of 1884 an expedition in the steamer Neptune, under command of Lieut. 
A. E. Gordon, R. N., to establish six observation stations on the shores 
of Hudson's Bay and Straits, from the records of which an accurate judg- 
ment may be formed as to the length of the season during which the 
west shore of Hudson's Bay is ai^cessible to steamers. Lieutenant Gor- 
don, in rejwrting the establishment of the stations, argues that the 
stations should be contiuued for two or three years. They will be vis- 
ited and supplies furnished as soon as navigation opens in 1885. The 
average of many years observations at Fort Churchill, a Hudson's Bay 
Company's post, and the only known harbor on the west coast of the 
bay, indicates that the coast cannot be aj^proached before the middle 
of June, nor after Uie middle of November. 

Considerable interest has been excited by an intimation from Sir J. H. 
Lefroy, in his address before the geographical section of the British 
Association at Montreal, that a lake " rivaling Lake Ontario, if not Lake 
Superior, in magnitude" had recently been discovered in the northeast 
territory of the Dominion of Canada. 

In an admirable article in Science for January 2, 1885, Prof. J. D. Whit- 
ney shows that Lake Mistassini, the so-called new lake in question, has 
been known for more than two hundred years, although knowledge of 
its eastern side is yet indefinite both as to form and position, and 
S. Mis. 33 16 



242 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

concludes, from all available evidence, tliat while it is possible that 
Lake Mistassini is larger than Lake Ontario, it is extremely improbable. 
The inference drawn by Sir J. H. Lefroy as to the size of the lake in 
question cannot be justified by any statement in the paper communi- 
cated to the section by the Rev. Abb6 Laflamme regarding it. Explora- 
tions are now in progress to determine its actual extent and configu- 
ration. In a paper read before the annual meeting of the Quebec Geo- 
graphical Society, Mr. Bignell, a land surveyor, gave an account of the 
country surrounding Lake Mistassini, and stated that he had explored 
the lake for 120 miles without reaching the main body of water. He 
expressed the opinion that the lake would be found to be an expansion 
of Rupert River, as the great American lakes are of the Saint Lawrence. 
Mr. R. G. Haliburton (Journal of Royal Geographical Society, Jan- 
uary, 1885) argues very i)lausibly and effectively in favor of placing 
" Vinland the Good," discovered by Eric the Red in A. D, 994, in New- 
foundland instead of Rhode Island. Mr. Haliburton points out that the 
test commonly relied upon to establish the identity of Vinland and Rhode 
Island, viz, the latitude consequent on the length of the shortest day 
there, has been completely disproved by the Icelandic-English diction- 
ary of Vigfasson (Oxford, 1874), which shows that a correct translation 
would make the day much shorter than the shortest day experienced in 
the latitude of Rhode Island, and would consequently i)lace the latitude 
of Vinland farther north. 

r 

SOUTH AMERICA. 

One of the least known of the Brazilian rivers has been the Xingu, 
which was recently explored and mapped by three German travelers, 
Dr. Karl von den Steinen, Wilhelm von den Steinen, and Otto Klaus. 
These gentlemen left Cuyaba, in the province of Matto Grosso, in May, 
1884, and proceeded by land to one of the sources of the Xingu which 
they named Batovy, for the president of Matto Grosso. They then, in 
Julj', embarked in canoes, and proceeding down the river, reached the 
junction of the Xingu and the Amazon in October, thence going to Para 
and Rio de Janeiro, Very many rai)ids were encountered, and numer- 
ous tribes of Indians were met who had never seen a white man and 
who use only implements of stone and of bone. The members of the 
expedition suffered severely from hunger during tlfe first part of the 
trip, living entirely on beans for a month. Large quantities. of India 
rubber trees were found, but the numerous rapids in the Xingu preclude 
the use of the river as a commercial route. 

M. Emile Thouar, who is known from his journey up the Pilcomayo 
River in search of the unfortunate Crevaux expedition, has undertaken 
another journey in the same region. After ascending the Paraguay 
River he will devote some time to the examination of the Pilcomayo 
delta and to seeking an available trade route from Bolivia by way of 
the Paraguay River, and will then carry out the work with which he 



GEOGRAPHY. . 243 

has been charged by the Bolivian Government, viz, the study of the 
whole of Bolivia, in company with some engineers and naturalists, 
from scientific, industrial, and oommercial points of view. 

In the Journal of the Proceedings of the Eoyal Geographical Society 
for November, 1884, is given a sketch of the work of Dr. Paul Guss^ 
feldt in the Chilian Andes in 1882 and 1883. His explorations were 
made in the region surrounding Aconcagua, the position and height of 
which were carefully determined as in latitude 32° 39' south, longitude 
69° 59' west, and its highest peak 22,867 feet above sea level. His ac- 
count of the glaciers of the Andes is very interesting, but cannot well 
be condensed. The detailed results of his labors are contained in a 
paper communicated to the Berlin Academy of Sciences. 

The journey of Lieutenant Bove, of the Italian navy, to Terra del 
Fuego, performed at the instance of the Argentine Government, though 
frequently referred to in scientific periodicals^ does not seem to have 
been productive of any specially new information regarding the geog- 
raphy of that region. 

The first successful attempt to navigate the Rio Negro from its mouth, 
on the Atlantic shore of the Argentine Republic, to its source in Lake 
Nahuelhualpi, in the heart of the Andes, has been made by Capt. E. 
O'Connor, and is described by him in a report published in the Boletin 
de la Sociedad Geograjica de Madrid. The journey was made in a steamer 
as far as the confluence of the Colluucura, but rapids in the Upper 
Limay obstruct navigation so much that the journey was thence per- 
formed in an open boat. The extreme upper part of the Limay is free 
from rapids, but the country surrounding the upper river and lake ap- 
pears to be entirely uninhabited. The information gathered will permit 
the affluents of the Rio Negro to be mapped with much greater accuracy 
than has been possible hitherto. 

The enterprising journey of Mr. Everard im Tliurn to explore and 
ascend Mount Roraima, on the boundary of British Guiana and Vene- 
zuela, has been crowned with success, but as yet no precise details have 
been published. Ascending the Potaro, an affluent of the Essequibo, as 
far as possible, a very toilsome march was made over rugged mountains 
to an Indian village on the southern side of Roraima. After resting 
here, the ascent was made on December 18, 1884. Mr. im Thurn states 
that the scenery ou the top w^as of the most marvelous description, the 
plateau being covered with groups of rocks of most extraordinary 
shapes. The clouds, which are nearly always resting on the mountain, 
constantly precipitate their moisture, forming numerous cascades, the 
sources of rivers which, starting from this point, flow to swell the Ori- 
noco, Essequibo, and Amazon. Mr. im Thurn determined the height 
of the summit from the temperature of the boiling point as 8,600 feet. 
He as well as his assistant suffered severely from malarial fever con- 
tracted during their journey, which was exceedingly laborious, lasting 
three months and a half. 



244 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The German expedition, under command of Dr. Schroeder, which spent 
the year from Sei)tember, 1882, to September, 1883, at the island of South 
Georgia, is the first scientific expedition wliich has visited that island, 
and its report is therefore of great interest. The expedition was located 
at Moltke Harbor, in Eoyal Bay, and while their observations would 
seem to indicate that the neighborhood of Cape Horn was not as stormy 
during the year of their stay as has been generally supposed, one 
curious fact which navigators of those seas have frequently had occa- 
sion to notice was confirmed, viz, the violent storms occurred, without 
exception, when the barometer stood at "fair." 

Explorations of the island were undertaken on several occasions, but 
the slate rocks were very difficult of ascent, aud the enormous glaciers, 
rising in many places to a height of 6,000 or 7,000 feet, preveuted any 
thorough examination. The climate was found to be decidedly colder 
than its latitude would indicate, its mean temi)erature for the year being 
only 350 F, the lowest thermometer reading being 26° and the highest 
570 F. 

EUROPE. 

Measurements systematically made since 1750, and recently reported 
by the Swedish Academy of Sciences, demonstrate that the Swedish 
coast has been steadily rising, while the southern shore of the Baltic 
has been sinking, the general result being that the Swedish coast has 
risen nearly 56 inches during the last one hundred and thirty-four 
years. 

The next ship-canal to be opened to commerce will be that across the 
Isthmus of Corinth. The work is being rapidly advanced, and another 
year only will probably be required for its completion. This canal will 
shorten the distance between the ports of the Adriatic and those of 
Western Turkey about 200 miles, and for vessels from the Atlantic about 
half as much. 

A recent issue of the Isvestia of the Eussian Geographical Society 
shows that geodetic and map-making work is being energetically car- 
ried on in the Russian Eminre. Trigonometrical and hypsometrical sur- 
veys are being pushed in many regions, numerous latitude and longitude 
determinations have been made, and hydrographic work has been car- 
ried on in the Baltic, Black, and Caspian Seas and on the shores of the 
Pacific Ocean. A hypsometrical chart of European Russia, indicating 
the height of more than 18,000 points, has been published by the minis- 
try of public works. 

It has long been believed that Cape iJ^Torth was not the extreme north- 
ern point of Europe, and Captain Sorenson has now demonstrated that 
that distinction belongs to a promontory called Knivskjverodde, a few. 
miles west of Cape North, and extending rather more than a thousand 
yards farther to the northward. 



GEOGRAPHY. 245 

ASIA. 

Colonel Prjevalsky, who spent the winter of 1883-'84 at Chobsen, a 
little to the eastward of Koko Nor, in Northeastern Tibet, resumed his 
explorations in the middle of March, crossing the Tsaidam or country 
west of the Kpko Nor. This region he describes as a vast salt-marsh 
basin, the bed of a mighty lake at a comparatively recent geological 
epoch, and having a height of 9,200 feet above the sea. At the begin- 
ning of May the pass through the Burkhan Buddha Ridge was crossed 
at a height of 15,700 feet, and the table land of Northern Tibet was 
reached, a region quite unknown to geographers even now, and which 
the Chinese have repeatedly but vainly attempted to explore. The 
source of the Yellow or Hoang-ho River was found, about 70 miles south 
of the Burkhan Buddha Ridge, at a height of 13,600 feet above the sea. 
It is formed by two streamlets fed by springs in a wide, marshy valley. 
After flowing about 14 miles it enters two wide lakes in succession, and 
thence rushes furiously toward the boundaries of China proper. Colonel 
Prjevalsky describes the climate of Northern Tibet as inclement in the 
extreme. In the latter part of May wiutery snow-storms occurred and 
the thermometer stood at — O^F. at night. Through May, June, and 
July it rained every day, and sometimes for several consecutive days, 
frosts (23° F.) occurring every clear night. The amount of rainfall caused 
by the southwest monsoon in the Indian Ocean is so great that in sum- 
mer Northern Tibet is almost one vast bog. Numerous herds of large 
animals were seen— yak, wild asses, antelopes, and mountain sheep, and 
bears were very frequently encountered, some thirty specimens being 

killed. 

From the sources of the Yellow River a route was followed southward 
across the ridge separating the sources of the Yellow River from that of 
the Blue River or Yang-tse-Kiang. Journeying southward 60 or 70 
miles, the banks of the Blue River were reached; but as fording was 
impossible, from the depth and rapidity of the current, the expedition 
returned northward along the lakes at the head of the Yellow River. 
These lakes, by right of discovery. Colonel Prjevalsky called Expedition 
and Russian Lakes. They are 13,500 feet above the sea ; are each more 
than 80 miles in circumference, and are surrounded by mountains. 

Fierce attacks were repeatedly made by the Tangutau robbers on the 
little force, fourteen in number, but were bravely beaten off without 
loss, and in July and August, 1884, the expedition returned to the plains 
of Tsaidam. 

On their return journey a party of thirty gold- washers was found 
at the southern foot of the Burkhan Buddha. At these diggings the 
Tangutans went no deeper than 1 or 2 feet from the surface, and the 
' method of washing was of a very primitive character, but whole hand- 
fuls of gold, in lumps as big as peas, were shown, and frequently much 
larger nuggets. Colonel Prjevalsky reports gold as very plentiful, and 
is of the opinion that with proper working vast treasures will be found 



246 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR '1884. 

iu this region. Eeturning to Gast, in Western Tsaidam, the expedition 
would go into winter quarters there, and would continue explorations 
of the surrounding couutry during the winter. 

The Eussian advance in Turkestan, and the surveys and explorations 
consequent thereon, will enable a great deal of detailed information to 
be added to the maps of the trans-Caspian region and Northern Afghan- 
istan. 

In the last volume published by the Caucasus Geographical Society 
are a large number of determinations of latitude and longitude made 
by M. Gladysbeft' iu these regions, and also a great number of heights 
of points in Asia Minor measured by Eussian officers. 

M. Michael Venukoff has called the attention of the Eussian Geo- 
graphical Society to a new map of the island of Saghalin prepared by 
M. Nikitine, the topographer, and differing from all other maps of the 
island in several respects. By it the island is shown to be considerably 
larger than has been supposed, although any conclusions will be ap- 
proximate rather than final, till more exact surveys are completed. 

A journey, the results of which will furnish a mass of information 
regarding the interior of Indo-China and Northern Siam, has been per- 
formed by a party under the direction of Mr. Holt-Hallett. Starting 
from Moulmein in February, 1884, the expedition arrived in Bangkok 
toward the last of July, having spent more than five months in explor- 
ing the Shan country, surveying over 1,500 miles of route and deter- 
mining the position of the Shan Eanges. This journey is another at- 
tempt on behalf of British merchants to find a satisfactory trade route 
from Southern China to the sea through Indo-China and Siam. Explo- 
ration of the southern frontier of China, which was proposed, had to be 
postponed, owing to the unsettled state of those regions. Mr. Holt- 
Hallett's report on his work in 1884 will shortly be published. 

At a meeting of the Geographical Society of Paris on January 9, 1885, 
a paper by M. Francis Deloucle was read, giving an account of an ex- 
ploration, February to June, 1884, made by the commission, of which he 
is the head, to investigate the question of a ship-canal across the Isth- 
mus of Kraw, at the northern part of the Malay Peninsula. In Nature 
a synopsis of the results of the expedition is given. After ascending 
the peninsula to 7° 14' north latitude, the explorers penetrated from 
the eastern coast, by wide and deep channels which lead far into the 
country, to a large inland sea called Tal6 Sah, which M. Deloncle states 
they were the first Europeans to visit. The lake is 45 miles long by 12 
miles wide and about 20 feet deep, and separates the island of Tanta- 
1am from the peninsula proper by a number of arroyos, which extend 
from Siugora in the south to Lacon in the north. Three visits in all 
were made to these regions during the year, and the states of Tsang,' 
Taloung, Lacon, Siugora, and Stouil were thoroughly explored. 

In Nature for December 18, 1884, Mi'. J. E. Tenison-Woods gives an 
excellent deticription of the physical geography of the Malayan state 



GEOGRAPHY, 247 

of Perak, the commercial importauce of which has rapidly increased 
within the last few years, owing to the great quantity of tin which has 
been produced there. Mr. Tenison-Woods considers the tin deposits 
practically inexhajustible. Kow that order and good government have 
been secured by the presence and influence of a British resident, multi- 
tudes of Chinese have flocked to Perak, and, in mining industry, have 
entirely superseded the Malays. 

The surveys and explorations by Russian and English surveyors of 
the territory in dispute between Eussia and Afghanistan have led to 
detailed descriptions of the southern part of Turkestan and North- 
ern Afghanistan from members of the boundary commission on both 
sides. In the January and March (1885) numbers of the Journal of 
the Royal Geographical Society, Major Holdich, R, E., commanding a 
British surveying party, gives a detailed account of the country passed 
over, and in the April number of the same periodical there is a transla- 
tion of an article by M. Paul Lessar descriptive of the Kara-Kum or 
Turkoman Desert. 

Various expeditions have been proposed for the exploration of the 
island of New Guinea, but the diflSculties of hostile savages and a sickly 
climate are so great that very little has been added to our knowledge 
of that island during the past year. A Dutch gentleman, Mr. D. F. van 
Braam Morris, resident of Ternate, made two voyages to the north 
coast, and ascended the Amberno or Ambernoli River for 60 miles, find- 
ing it of much smaller dimensions than heretofore supposed. Mr. van 
Braam Morris discovered another large river and a good harbor, a lit- 
tle west of Humboldt Bay. 

An attempt to penetrate by way of the Baxter River to the interior 
of the island, under the leadership of Captain Strahan (employed by 
the Melbourne Age), was frustrated by the hostility of the natives, who 
forced the members of the expedition to abandon their boat and retreat 
to the coast. 

The proposed expedition of Mr. Wilfrid Powell, mentioned in the 
Summary of last year, has been abandoned. 

AUSTRAI.IA. 

Among the questions arising for discussion at the first annual meet- 
ing, at Melbourne, of the Victoria branch of the Geographical Society 
of Australia, are the necessity of defining the exact meaning of the 
geographical term "Australasia;" the compilation of a geography for 
Australian schools; the exploration of New Guinea, and the discover- 
ing and defining the exact boundaries of British New Guinea. 

Mr. Charles Winnecke, between July and December, 1883, succeeded 
in exploring and mapping about 40,000 square miles of hitherto unknown 
country in South Australia near the western boundary line of Queens- 
land. The country in question lies between 27° 30' and 22° 40' south 
latitude and between 137° and 139° east longitude. In this region, 



248 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

hitherto a blank on the maps, Mr. Winneckehas discovered and named 
various lakes and mountains and one river, the Hay, an important feeder 
of the Marshall. 

As another instance of the enterprise characterizing Australian news- 
papers in geographical matters, it may be mentioned that the Toicnand 
Country Journal, of Sydney, has employed Mr. Shaw, a naturalist and 
artist of Sydney, to make a canoe voyage down the Lachlan, Murrum- 
bidgee and Murray rivers, with a view to enlarge the knowledge of the 
interior river systems of Australia. 

Arnhem Land, the country northwestof the Gulf of Carpentaria, has 
been lately explored by Mr. D. Lindsay. All this region north of the 
Koper Eiver is a blank on even the latest Government maps, but a large 
amount of material for tilling up this blank has been obtained by Mr. 
Lindsay's surveys, made between July and December, 1883. 

Dr. E. von Lendenfeld has been making an examination of the great 
Cordillera range of New South Wales for the geological survey depart- 
ment, and finds that Mount Kosciusko, commonly supposed to be the 
highest peak (7,171 feet), must give way to Mount Clarke, some distance 
farther south, 7,256 feet high. Indications of ancient glaciers were found 
at a height of 5,800 feet above sea-level, the upper tree limit being 
found at a height of 5,900 feet. On the lee side of the main range patches 
of snow are found all the year round above a level of 6,500 feet, con- 
stituting a proof, among many, of the lower temperature and greater 
amount of moisture south of the equator. 

AFRICA. 

In the continent of Africa the area of unknown territory is rapidly de- 
creasing as explorations are made by travellers of different nationalities. 
The expedition commanded by Mr. Joseph Thomson, and fitted out by the 
Eoyal Geographical Society, to explore the area lying directly between 
the eastern coast of Africa and the Victoria Nyanza Lake, left England 
in December, 1882, and, after encountering many obstacles, started in- 
land in July, 1883, from Tareta, at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro, and 
for many months was unheard of. The wide tract of country lying be- 
tween Mounts Kilimanjaro and Kenia and the Victoria Nyanza Lake 
had never been trodden by a European. Mr. Thomson visited and photo- 
graphed both of these mountains. Mount Kenia he describes as a great 
volcanic cone nearly 30 miles in diameter at its base, rising from a thorn - 
clad plain 5,700 feet above the level of the sea. Up to a height of about 
15,000 feet tlie angle of ascent is very low, but from that level the mount- 
ain springs into a sugar-loaf peak, the sides being so steep that in many 
places the snow cannot lie, the uncovered parts showing as black spots; 
hence the name Douyo Egar6 (the gray mountain). From Mount Kenia 
Mr. Thomson pushed on, accompanying a caravan to the northwest, and 
after a six days' march reached Lake Baringo. This lake he journeyed 
round, fixing its shape, extent, and position, and thence pushed on to the 



GEOGRAPHY. 249 

northeast shore of the Victoria Nyanza. Returuiug to the sea-coast the 
same general route was followed, but the energetic traveler was delayed 
by fever and accidents, by which he more than once nearly lost his life. 
He succeeded early in June, 1884, in reaching the sea-coast at Mombasa, 
having perfectly fulfilled the purpose for which the journey was under- 
taken, and having very largely increased the knowledge of the regions 
of equatorial Africa. Mr. Thomson showed the greatest courage, tact, 
and skill as an explorer in this remarkable journey, and the detailed ac- 
count of his travels which has now been published is, throughout, of en- 
grossing interest. 

Mr. H. H. Johnston's exploration of Mount Kilimanjaro, undertaken 
under the auspices of the British Association and the Eoyal Society, 
during 1884, has confirmed and added to the information acquired by 
Mr. Thomson's journey. 

French military geographers have completed, after four years' labor, a 
complete map of Tunisia from Algeria to Tripoli, in twenty-one sheets, 
on a scale of 1 : 100000. The sheets have been completed and published. 

In the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society for November is an 
article by Sir II. W. Eawson giving an exact account of the partition 
of the entire coast of Africa between various European and native pow- 
ers. This paper is accompanied by a map showing in a striking man- 
ner the claims of different nationalities. 

ARCTIC REGIONS. 

By far the most interesting and imijortant event connected with Arc- 
tic exploration during the past year, has been the rescue of the survivors 
of the expedition commanded by Lieut. A. W. Greely, U. S. A., and 
the story of their achievements. Unsuccessful attempts having been 
made in 1882 and 1883 to communicate with the station established at 
Lady Franklin Bay in 1881 as one of the international meteorological 
stations, a squadron of three ships, the Thetis, Bear, and Alert, with 
officers and men of the United States Kavy, commanded by Commander 
W. S. Schley, U. S. K., was fitted out by the United States Government 
in the spring of 1884 and sailed early in May for Smith Sound, to attempt 
the rescue of the survivors or learn the fate of the expedition. The 
Bear and the Thetis were Scotch whalers, purchased for the purpose ; 
the Alert was given by the British Government for the expedition, and 
had already spent a winter in the Arctic, under command of Captain 
Nares, E. K. On June 22 the survivors of the expedition, consisting of 
Lieutenant Greely and six of his men, were found at Cape Sabine, in the 
last stages of starvation, one, Sergeant Ellison, dying after being taken 
on board ship. The rest were brought back to the United States, where 
they gradual!}^ recovered health and strength. 

The expedition left St. John's, Newfoundland, on July 7, 1881, and 
was established on the shore of Discovery Harbor, where, in latitude 
81° 44', longitude 64° 45', a station called Fort Conger was planted. 



250 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The first two winters were passed without loss or serious inconvenience, 
but the summer of 1883 passing away without news of a relief ship, the 
entire party left their camp on August 9, and were obliged to camp on 
the western side of the channel, near Cape Sabine. Here they remained 
till they were rescued, subsisting on what they could find of stores pre- 
viously left in the neighborhood. Hunger and suffering reduced the 
original number of twenty-five to seven before they were rescued, and 
had succor been delayed but a few hours longer it is probable that not 
one would have survived. 

The following sketch of the geographical work accomplished is largely 
taken from a communication to Science of February 27, 1885, by Lieu- 
tenant Greely, where it is accompanied by an excellent map of the re- 
gions visited, and from a paper by the 'same officer read at the meeting 
of the British Associatiou at Montreal. In the spring of 1882 an attempt 
was made by a party, under command of Dr. Pavy, to proceed directly 
northward from Cape Joseph Henry, but they failed to reach the eighty- 
third parallel, owing to disruption of the polar j)ack north of Griunell 
Land. In April, 1882, an expedition under Lieutenant Lockwood, under- 
took to explore the north coast of Greenland. Crossing Eobeson Chan- 
nel to Cape Sumner, a depot of provisions was established, and the ex- 
plorers pushed on to the northeast as far as Cape Bryant, in 55°, west lon- 
gitude, supported by three parties of men hauling provision sledges. 
From Cape Bryant, Lieutenant Lockwood and Sergeant Brainard, with 
an Eskimo and a dog-team, traveled across Sherard Osborn Fiord to Cape 
Britannia, trying the depth of water midway between those capes and 
finding no bottom at 800 feet. From Cape Britannia, which was the 
farthest land seen by the English expedition of 1875, they pushed on 
to the northeastward, till on May 15, 1882, Lockwood Island was reached, 
and its latitude carefully determined by circum meridian and subpolar 
observations as 83° 24' north. To the northeastward land was seen in 
about 83° 35' latitude and 38° west longitude. To the southeast only a 
mass of rounded, snow-covered mountains was seen. The entire coast 
was extremely rugged and precipitous, but only one glacier was ob- 
served. A remarkable feature, stretching along the coast from one 
head-land to another, was a tidal crack in the ice, apparently marking a 
separation between the ice of the bays and that of the ocean. Above 
the eighty-third parallel traces of the polar bear, the lemming, and the 
Arctic fox were seen, and a hare and a ptarmigan were killed. Eeturn- 
ing, the same route was followed, Lieutenant Lockwood and Sergeant 
Brainard reaching Fort Conger without mishap. 

In April, 1882, Lieutenant Greely, with three men, made a journey to 
the interior of Griunell Lajid. Passing to the westward of Miller Island 
by a fiord, a river was reaihed flowing from a large glacial lake named 
Lake Hazeu. Again in June this region was visited by Lieutenant 
Greely, who followed up the valley of Very Elver, flowing into the south- 
west end of Lake Hazen, till on July 4 he stood on the summit of Mount 



GEOGRAPHY. 251 

Arthur, 4,500 feet Ligh. From here could be seen an enormous ice cap 
on the mountains north of the Garflekl and Conger Eanges, through the 
gorges of which numerous glaciers pushed southward, while to the 
northwestward the trend of the mountain range showed its connection 
with the Challenger Mountains of Lieutenant Aldrich. Lieutenant 
Greely found the southern limit of the ice cap covering Grinnell Land 
to closely coincide with the eighty-second parallel, while in July the 
country between the eighty-first and eighty-second parallels, extend- 
ing from Kennedy and Eobeson Channels to the Western Polar Ocean, 
was entirely free from snow except on the very backbone. Vegetation 
was found to be quite plentil'ul willows, saxifrage, grasses, and other 
plants growing in abundance. A more detailed account of this remark- 
ably fertile region, such as Nordenskiold expected to find in Greenland, 
will shortly be given by Lieutenant Greely. 

In 1883 Lieutenant Lockwood's attempt to reach the northern point 
of Greenland was unsuccessful, owing to open water, but on his return 
to Fort Conger he was sent with Sergeant Brainard and a dog-team to 
attempt the crossing to the western shore of Grinnell Land. They suc- 
ceeded in reaching Greely Fiord, which penetrates Grinnell Land from 
the westward, and followed it some distance. From here the western 
shore of Grinnell Land could be indicated in about 87° west longitude, 
while to the southward very high land was seen, ai)parently separated 
from Grinnell Land, and was named Arthur Land. They found stretch- 
ing from Archer to Greely fiord the northern edge of an immense ice 
cap, which had an average height on the perpendicular front of loO feet. 
A journey from Cape Sabine by Sergeant Long developed the extension 
of Hayes Sound to the westward. As will be seen by a comparison of 
Lieutenant Greely's maps with those previously existing, a large addition 
has been made to our knowledge of the configuration of these northern 
shores by the labors of Lieutenant Greely and his gallant associates, 
and it is earnestly to be hoped that his health and strength will soon be 
sufiBciently restored to permit him to give in detail the results of his 
labors, and the inferences which his experience and study enable him to 
draw from them. 

In a paper read before the British Association at Montreal, Lieut. P. 
H. Ray gave an account of the region lying between the Yukon River 
and the Arctic Sea, previously unvisited. In 1883, with two natives, 
he traveled 160 miles due south from Point Barrow, as far as a low 
range of mountains running northeast and southwest and separating 
the northeast watershed from that of Kotzebue Sound. Farther than 
this his guides were afraid to go. Lieutenant Ray found the whole re- 
gion a labyrinth of small lakes, lagoons, and streams, in summer im- 
passable to every one but an Eskimo with his kayak, as at that season 
all that part not covered with water becomes a wet marsh, the traveler 
sinking thiough to the frozen ground underneath at each step. The 



252 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1881. 

country is uninhabitable, destitute of timber, and without soil to sup- 
port vegetation, the earth being strongly impregnated with salt. After 
two years of careful observation. Lieutenant Eay gives his opinion de- 
cidedly against the probable existence of an open polar sea, therein dif- 
fering from Lieutenant Greely. 

For more than a year an expedition, under command of Lieutenants 
Holm and Garde, of the Danish navy, has been engaged in exploring 
the east and southeast coasts of Greenland. Winter quarters for 
1883-'84 were occupied at j^anortalik, 50 miles east of Cape Farewell. 
A journey lasting two and a half months was performed during the 
summer, but no account of the results of their explorations has yet 
been published. During the winter of 1884-'85 one half the expedition 
were to winter in a suitable place on the east coast, the other half re- 
turning to Nanortalik. In consequence of frequent and violent changes 
of temperature, sledge journeys cannot be performed in this part of 
Greenland, the only means of conveyance being the boat. The pro- 
gramme is to explore the east coast by boats as far north as possible, 
and to return from Greenland in the autumn of 1885. 

In June, 1884, Lieutenant Jensen, of the Danish navy, accompanied 
by Herr Lorenzen, geologist, and Herr Riis-Carstensen, artist, left Den- 
mark for Holsteinborg, on the west coast of Greenland, to explore the 
coast southward from Holsteinborg to Sukkertoppen, a region never 
before examined by Europeans. The results of their work have not yet 
been published. From May to September, 1884, the Danish gunboat 
Fylla, Captain Normann, was engaged in examiiriug the west coast of 
Greenland as far as 70° north latitude. This work included a careful 
exploration of theinland glaciers of Greenland, as well as dredging, sound- 
ing, and trawling along the coast and in Davis Strait, Baffin's Bay, and 
Disco Bay. Valuable collections were carried home to Denmark, in- 
cluding a block of ironstone weighing about 1,800 pounds. 

The Russian expedition to the delta of the Lena River, commanded by 
Lieut. N. D. Jurgens, has returned, having lost no members and having 
had no serious case of illness. Scurvy made its appearance during the 
first winter of their stay, but was quickly suppressed. The lowest tem- 
perature experienced was— 50° centigrade, with very frequent storms. 
The, sun was hardly seen during the summer, and the highest tempera- 
ture, 12° C, was only once reached. Many changes in the maps of this 
region will result from the surveys of this party. Sagastyr, where the 
observations were made, was supposed to be the northern point of the 
delta, but the most northerly land was found to be Dunas Island, in 74° 
north latitude. The tidal changes are very small and are largely influ- 
enced by the winds. Dr. Bunge, the naturalist of the party, has spent 
the winter of 1884-'85 in Irkutsk, and in the spring will visit and ex- 
plore (he basin of the Jana, in Northeastern Siberia. In 1886 he proposes 
to visit the New Siberia Islands. 



GEOGRAPHY. 253 

The hopes of those who, like Baron Nordensliiold, looked for success 
for the trade route from Northern Siberia by way of the Kara Sea to 
Europe, seem doomed to disappointment. As has been before pointed 
out in these yearly summaries, no dependence can be placed on the 
navigability of the Novaya Zemlyau Straits in any year. During the 
last five or six years the steamer Louise has only twice succeeded in 
reaching the Yenesei and returning with cargo to Europe, having failed 
three times in the attempt. At Turukhansk, on the Yenesei, large quan- 
tities of wheat, rye, and oats have been collected to be transported to 
Europe, but there seems now but little prospect of these products ever 
reaching there. The tow-boats and lighters built for transporting freight 
to the mouth of the Yenesei are all to be sold, the difficulties of navigat- 
ting the Kara Sea making the success of the scheme hopeless. This 
conclusion agrees with the experience of M. Eakhmanin (cited by Dr. 
Schmidt, in a recent lecture on the Vega voyage), who had wintered 
twice at Spitzbergen and twenty-six times at Novaya Zemlya, and only 
found the way to the Yenesei open on five occasions. 

In Nature for November 13, 1884, is a communication from Mr. W. 
G. S. Paterson, Her Britannic Majesty's consul for Iceland, who states 
that the light-house keeper at Cape Eeykjanes, the southwest point of 
Iceland, had discovered a new volcanic island a few miles off that cape. 
This region has long been known as a center of volcanic activity, islands 
having been thrown up from time to time and afterwards subsiding. 
The island was sought for without success by the French cruisers Du- 
pleix and Romanche, and by Captain Nermann, of the Danish gunboat 
Fylla, on his return from Greenland. Captain Normann, after a careful 
search and many soundings, became convinced that the new island in 
question is no other than the outermost of the Fowlskerries, a well- 
known group of rocky islets. 

An important element toward elucidating the currents of the polar 
seas has been furnished by the discovery by an Eskimo, on an ice floe 
in Julianhaab Bay, Greenland, of several relics of the ill-fated Jean- 
nette expedition. These relics consist of various 2>apers, articles of 
sailors' apparel, part of a tent, &c., and have been positively identified 
as belonging to the crew and officers of the Jeannette. Lieutenant 
Danenhower, U. S. N., one of the survivors of the expedition, states, in 
in a letter to the writer, that the articles were abandoned at the first 
camp, near where the Jeannette sank, on June 12, 1881, in latitude 77° 
15' north, longitude 156° east, and were exhibited on December 1, 1884, 
at a meeting of the Geographical Society of Copenhagen. These articles 
probably drifted north of Franz Josef Land and in close proximity to the 
pole. The direction and rate of the drift can only be approximately reck- 
oned, but the distance being about 2,500 nautical miles, and the time oc- 
cupied not far from 1,000 days, makes an average drift of 2J miles a day, 
without allowing for deviations. 



254 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

HYDROGRAPHY. 

No new or striking developments have been shown by the hydro- 
graphic work of the different Governments engaged in making and cor- 
recting ocean and coast charts during 1884. 

The results of the investigations carried on by the United States 
Coast Survey during past years in the depths of the sea off the North 
Atlantic coast and in the Gulf of Mexico and its approaches, are re- 
vealed in a striking manner by a model which shows the structural 
features of the two great basins of the Gulf of Mexico and the Bay of 
North America. This model, constructed under the direction of the 
Superintendent at the Coast Survey office, presents also representations 
in relief of the Bahamas, the West India islands, and the Bermudas, 
and of parts of the continent. The name "Bay of North America" 
was suggested by the Superintendent at the April meeting of the Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences, 1884, to designate that great embayment of 
the North Atlantic which lies west of the meridian of 60° longitude 
west from Greenwich. 

The United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross, under com- 
mand of Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., has done a large 
amount of valuable hydrographic work, in addition to her regular work 
in connection with the fisheries. In January, 1884, while proceeding 
from Norfolk to St. Thomas, West Indies, many soundings were made, 
disproving the existence of the dangers to navigation called, respectively, 
the Ashton, Perseveranza, and Mouraud Shoals. After leaving St. 
Thomas, numerous lines of soundings were made to define exactly the 
submariue ridge separating the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean, and 
to ascertain the general contour of the bottom, proving at the same time 
the non-existence of many vigias or shoals, the alleged existence of which 
has for many years disfigured the charts. This valuable work was 
continued until May, and data collected for wiping off many alleged 
shoals from the charts, among others the Loos and Leighton Rocks, 
off the south side of Santo Domingo ; Sancho Pardo Shoal, off Cape 
San Antonio; the Ancona Breakers; and the La Vela Shoal. Aves 
islet, 100 miles west of Guadeloupe, was found to be the summit of a 
mountain extremely precipitous on its western slope and extending in a 
SSE. direction over 150 miles to the 1000 fathom line. On many of the 
alleged positions of shoals depths of over 2,000 fathoms were found, 
the greatest depth being 3,169 fathoms, about 60 miles southwest of 
the Grand Cayman Island, between the Misteriosa Bank and Thunder 
Knoll. During 1884 the Albatross made 701 deep sea soundings, located 
with such accuracy as to give them a hydrographic value. In January, 
1885, many additional soundings were made by the Albatross in the 
Gulf of Mexico. 

In a paper communicated to Science for January 30, 1885, Com- 
mander Bartlett, U. S. N., gives an account of the various sounding 



GEOGRAPHY. 265 

and dredging expeditions from •^vliose labors tlie necessary material has 
been accumulated for making a complete relief model of the Caribbean 
Sea. During the cruise of the Challenger it was shown that in a sub- 
marine lake the temperature is constant to the greatest depth, and is 
the same as that of the ocean at the depch of the rim of the lake at the 
deepest point. The labors of Commander Sigsbee, U. S. N., from 1874 
to 1878, while commanding the Coast Survey steamer Blake, showed 
that the temperature of tbe Gulf of Mexico below a depth of 800 fath- 
oms is constant at 39^^^, the normal temperature of the ocean at that 
depth in the region of the equatorial current. It was consequently in- 
ferred that the Caribbean Sea, from which the Gulf of Mexico receives 
its waters, is inclosed by a rim which was 800 fathoms below the sur- 
face at its deepest part. This inference has been completely borne out 
by the researches of Commander Bartlett and Lieutenant Commanders 
Browuson and Tanner, of the United States Navy, and the results of their 
labors are admirably shown by a contour model of the Caribbean Sea ex- 
hibited at the New Orleans Exposition. This model is on a horizontal 
scale of 33 miles to an inch and a vertical scale of G,000 feet to the inch. 

Baron Nordenskiold has communicated to the Journal of the Royal 
Geographical Society a synopsis, by Herr Axel Hamberg, of the obser- 
vations for temperature, specific gravity, and saltuess of the expedition 
of 1883 to East Greenland and the adjacent waters, but no attempt is 
made to form any general deductions from the data presented. 

The Danish gunboat Fylla, of 500 tons, Capt. C. Normann, was en- 
gaged during the summer of 1884 in surveying, sounding, and dredging 
on the west coast of Greenland and in Davis Strait. The greatest 
depth found was about 900 fathoms, while in the narrowest part of Davis 
Strait depths of only 400 fathoms were found. The ship was fitted with 
the very best appliances, a Sigsbee machine being used for sounding. 
In Disco Bay, where no soundings had been before made, depths of from 
200 to 270 fathoms were found, while a ridge on which there are but 
180 to 190 fathoms constitutes a sort of threshold between the bay and 
Davis Strait, preventing icebergs with a greater height above the water 
than 150 feet from passing from the great fiord of Jacobshavn to 
the ocean, the average proportion between the exposed and submerged 
surfaces being as 1 to 8.8. As was the case with the Nordenskiold ex- 
pedition to East Greenland, it was found, in taking serial temperatures 
of sea- water, that the coldest water is not found nearest the bottom, 
but that the temperature increases with the depth in the polar current 
and underlying water layers. 



METEOROLOGY. 



By Cleveland Abbe. 



PREFATORY NOTE. 

The following images take up the subject of Meteorology and closely 
allied matters where our last summary closed, and present a series of 
short abstracts and notes relative to the princijjal meteorological items 
that have been published up to the end of 1884 in the special meteor- 
ological journals, namely, the Zcitachrift of the Austrian Meteorological 
Association {Z. 0. G. 31.), Vols, xviii, xix; the Zeitschrift of the Ger- 
man jMeteorological Association (J). M. Z.), Vol. I; the American Journal 
of Meteorology {A. J. J/.); the English Journal Nature^ Vols, xxvii, 
xxviii, XXIX, and xxx. 

The compiler has, even more frequently than in former years, taken 
the liberty of adding to these abstracts occasional remarks of his own, 
generally historical, which, to avoid confusion, are now inclosed in 
brackets, f ], and he hopes that these will not be taken amiss by the 
reader and those to whom they may refer. 

By numbering each of the items in a heavier type, and by an index re- 
ferring directly to these articles, the reader will, it is hoped, utilize the 
information here brought together more easily than by relying solely 
upon the general arrangement of the twelve chapters. — C. A. 

co3sr teintts. 

Chapter I. — {a) Institutions and periodicals; (&) Special stations; (c) Interna- 
tional Polar work ; {d) Individuals and necrology. 

Chapter II. — (a) General treatises, Meteorology, Climatology, Physics, and History ; 
(/>) Instruction in meteorology ; (c) Weather predictions and verifications. 

Chapter III. — («) Aeronautics; {b) Thermometers; (c) Barometers; (d) Anemome- 
ters ; (f) Rain gauges; (/) Miscellaneous apparatus; (17) Methods of reduction. 

Chapter IV. — (a) Constitution of the atmosphere ; (&) General physical properties 
of the atmosphere, the ocean, and the laud. 

Chapter V. — (a) Solax radiation and atmospheric ahsorption ; {b) Temperature of 
the air, the water, aud the ground. 

Chapter VI. — (a) Evaporation ; {b) Atmospheric moisture; (c) Condensation, fog, 
and clouds; (d) Eain, snow, hail, drought, aud flood; (e) Amount of cloudiness and 
sunshine. 

Chapter VII. — (a) Winds and ocean currents; (6) Dynamic laws of the movement 
of the air, considering the rotation of the earth and the laws of thermodynamics. 

Chapter VIII. — Barometric pressure and its variations. 

257 

S. Mis. 38 17 



258 SCIENTIFIC RECOEJJ F(m 18S4. 

Chapter IX. — (a) General storms ; (b) Lccal storms.; (c) General weatlier relations. 

Chapter X. — (a) Atmospheric electricity ; lightning; (6) Terrestrial magnetism; 
(c) Ground currents ; (d) Auroras. 

Chapter XI. — (a) Refraction and mirage ; (b) Scintillation; (o) Spectroscopy, photo- 
spectroscopy, phosphorescence, etc. ; (d) Halos, rainbows ; (e) Photometry, colorim- 
etry, twilight, etc. 

Chapter XII. — Miscellaneous relations, (a) Periodicity and sun-spots ; (b) Hyp- 
Bometry; (o) Biology and botany; (d) Glaciers and climates of geological epochs. 

I. — {a) Institutions and periodicals; (5) Special stations; (c) 
International Polar work ; [d) Individuals and neorolgy. 

1. Dr. W. Koppeu, in reference to the distribution of meteorological 
stations, says that the complaint still comes, on the one hand, of the 
immense mass of meteorological figures written and published annually 
without corresponding results, and, on the other hand, of the great want 
of proper data whenever any new question is proposed. This state of af- 
fairs results from the nature of meteorological work, and will probably 
continue permanently. [Every new question in physics is tested by 
means of new apparatus and experiments, but in meteorology, as in as- 
tronomy, we can do but little experimenting, and must derive our knowl- 
edge from the discussion of a large mass of observations taken under 
widely diflereu t circumstances. In both these latter studies the observa- 
tions must be published to as great extent as possible, as no one can fore- 
see how soon they will be wanted in reference to some new question, nor 
how long the world must wait to accumulate new observations whereby to 
answer that question in case those already made be not thus rendered 
available. The exi)eriments and apparatus in chemistry and physics 
vastly outnumber the observations in meteorology, but do not need to be 
published in full, as they can be easily repeated at any time.] jNlore homo- 
geneity could jierhaps be given to the work by the formation of an inter- 
national institute for the direction of observations and investigations, 
but in the present system of individualized activity we find stations that 
have the following peculiarities : (1) Those with very comprehensive 
and complete observations, and corresponding publications ; (2) sta- 
tions in such isolated situations that they must be used to fill up great 
gaps in the weather chart of the world ; (3) stations with long-continued 
uniformly-comparable records; (4) groups of stations, such that the dif- 
ferences in latitude and longitude are slight and the differences in topo- 
graphical conditions are large. Each of these groups gives data proper 
to solve some special question, such as the geographical, the chronolog- 
ical, and topographical distribution of climatic peculiarities, the in- 
vestigation of physical and mechanical details as to special storms or 
other phenomena. [Special stations for rainfall, thunder-storms, torna- 
does, auroras, have also been started in great numbers for the solution 
of the respective subjects, and others for the study of glaciers, fog, 
frosts, hygiene, forestry, phtenology, and various agricultural ques- 
tions.] Koppen's idea seemis to be thiit at present w^ uted a greater 



METEOROLOGY. 259 

number of the special statious, or, in lieu thereof, a large number of 
stations with self-registering apparatus, so located as to represent for 
any country the greatest variety of typical altitudes, valleys, slopes, 
summits, forests, shores, plains, &c. Climatic data from such stations 
for ten years would answer any question bearing on any new locality, in 
addition to which are needed two or three temporary experimental fields 
on which ten or twenty stations can be arranged. [The general weather 
service of the Signal Office offering about two hundred stations, or about 
one station to every 10,000 square miles, if it could be extended over 
the whole world, would offer a fair basis for the general study of me- 
teorology as a dynamic problem. It is only when we study the innu- 
merable applications of this science to the wants of mankind that we 
are confronted with the practical impossibility of securing enough sta- 
tions and observations to satisfy all requirements. The best solution of 
the ditficulty seems to be the maintenance of first and second class sta- 
tions for weather telegraphy and general storm study, and the main- 
tenance of third-class and special stations to deal with the special 
questions that are suggested by the meteorological student, as well as by 
the various branches of human industry.] (D. M. Z., i, p. 437.) 

2. [The progress of meteorology in America promises to be greatly 
stimulated by the formation of state weather services, which wiU, it is 
hoped, give for the respective states a detailed study of local climate 
and its relations to agriculture and to human industry. These services 
will also be the medium through which predictions of local thunder 
storms, tornadoes, cold waves, &c., can be communicated to the people 
in detail. The first crgauization of this kind dates from early in the 
century, when New York, Pennsylvania, and possibly other states, 
showed some activity in this direction. After a long period of neglect, 
the subject was revived in 1875 by Professor Hiurichs, who started a 
state service for Iowa, which has ever since been carried on most suc- 
cessfully. The formation of additional services has been the direct re- 
sult of a circular and other correspondence between General William B. 
Hazen and the governors of the respective states. Similar services now 
exist in some fifteen different states, some of which publish very excel- 
lent monthly reviews, while others contribute their observations directly 
to the Army Signal Office for use in its montbly weather review. It is 
evident that in this way the study of meteorology and the utilization of 
the work of the Signal Office will both be furthered, and that, on the 
other hand, the general service, namely, the prediction of general storms 
and weather features, will be more especially fostered by the Signal 

Service.] 

3. An important step for American meteorology has been the start- 
ing of The American Meteorological Journal, a montbly review of 
meteorological matters, edited by Prof. M. W. Harrington, of the Uni- 
versity of Michigan, at Ann Arbor. The desirability of some such 
journal Ji&s be^Ji for a long time felt, but the defiuite impulse to thQ 



2 GO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

present undertaking seems to have been given by letters from various 
meteorologists suggesting to Professor Harrington the hope that he 
might undertake it. So far as the financial success of this journal Is 
concerned there can evidently be no doubt, provided its columns suc- 
cessfully combine the scientific and the popular features that in Ger- 
many have been divided between the two journals published at Ham- 
burg and Magdeburg, respectively. 

Among the principal articles that have appeared in the journal during 
1884 are the following: 

Prof. T. C. Mendenhall, History of the Ohio State Meteorological 
Bureau, established April 17, 1882, 

Prof. H. M. Paul, Barometric Waves of Very Short Period. 

Prof. William M. Davis, Winds and Currents of the Equatorial 
Atlantic. 

A. J. Phiuney, The Oakville Tornadoes. 

Prof. H. A. Hazen, Exposure of Thermometers. The Sling Psy- 
<;hrometer. 

Lieut. J. P. Finley, Tornado Predictions. 

Prof. William M. Davis, The Relation of Tornadoes to Cyclones. 

H. H. Clayton, Meteorologic Cycle. (Showing a barometric and 
rainfall oscillation every twenty-five months.) 

Cr. K. Gilbert, Tornado Predictions. 

Prof. H. A. Hazen, Tornado Generatiou. 

L. A. Sherman, Movements of Weathjer- Areas. 

H. H. Clayton, The Thunder Squalls of July 5, 1884. 

H. M. Paul, Thermometer-Exposure. 

Prof. F. H. Loud, Diurnal Wind Variation at Colorado Springs. 

4. [Beside the State weather services, the meteorological' magazines, 
and the meteorological instruction in colleges, another powerful help in 
scientific progress is the organization of meteorological societies in the 
United States. An occasional paper on some meteorological subject is 
read before some geographical or scientific society, the most active in 
this respect being the Philosojihical Society of Washington, in which 
there is material sufficient to form a special meteorological section. An 
eilbrt was made at the Philadelphia meeting of the American Associa- 
t ion for the Advancement of Science to secure the recognition of meteor- 
ology by organizing a secti(;n of terrestrial physics as distinguished 
Irom molecular physics, and this may possibly be accomplished on some 
future occasion. The honor of establishing the first special society for 
1 he study of our science belongs to Prof. W. Upton and Mr. E. B. Weston, 
])(»tli of Providence; Mr. W. M. Davis and Prof. W. H. Niles, of Cam- 
bridge; Mr. D. Fitzgerald, of Boston, and a. few others (including the 
])resent writer), who held the first preliminary meeting of organization 
in June and the first annual regular meeting on the 21st of October, in 
Boston. This society will for the present make a special effort to secure 
more numerous rainfall, thunder-storm, and possibly other siJecial ob- 



METEOROLOGY. 261 

servers, in IS'ew Eng:laiid ; they have established standard gauges of 
three different patterns, and have pubhshed a monthly bulletin, with 
rainfall map and other data. It is hoped that by the co-operation of 
the states of New England this organization may become a New Eng- 
land weather service.] 

6. In order to collect data for the information of Government on the 
proposition to run steamship lines from England to stations on the 
shores of Hudson's Bay, and thus afford British America a couvenieut 
outlet for its immense product of grain, Lieut. W. E. Gordon has, under 
the Canadian Meteorological Service, established seven stations on the 
shores of the bay, at which observations were begun in the autumn 
of 1884. These stations will contribute invaluable information for the 
study of North American storms and climate. A sketch of the location 
of each is given by W. P. Anderson in the Cambridge journal, {Science 
for March 13, 1885,) full details being given in the report of Lieut. W. 
R. Gordon. (See also Nature^ xxx, p. 041.) 

. 6. Dr. B. A. Gould has published additional volumes of the Annals 
of the Meteorological Office of the Argentine Republic, which contain 
original observations in full, and many interesting items relative to 
Buenos Ayres, Paraguay, and Patagonia. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 130.) 

7. In connection with the proposed canal across the Isthmus of Panama 
regular meteorological observations are being made at several stations. 
The average temperature varies from 25° F. in winter to 85° P. in sum- 
mer. Two large hospitals at Panama and Colon, respectively, and a 
health resort at Taboga afford opportunity for regular observations on 
climate and hygiene. [Nature, xxx, p. 580.) 

8. The Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg proposes a special com- 
mittee to which shall be committed the general direction of the mag- 
netic and meteorological works that have for some years been carried 
on by various Government officials, especially the i)hysical observatory, 
the geographical society, the bureau of agriculture, and the imperial 
navy. 

9. (See sect. 73'.) 

10. H. F. Blanford, in his annual report on the administration of the 
meteorological department of the Government of India for 1883, states 
that work on the physics and temperature of the sun and on the 
absorption of the earth's atmosphere has steadily continued. Special 
reports have been made on the snowfall in India and the Himalayas, 
which have led to a theory of the dry winds and droughts, and he urges 
a special study in the future of the meteorology of this high mountain 
region. Data have been collected together for charts of distribution of 
temperature in Northern India, which will appear in tlie next or second 
part of Vol. II of the India Meteorological Memoirs. A very large and 
elaborate chart of the average annual rainfall in India has been pub- 
lished with the co-operation of the surveyor-general's office. He is 
also himself at work upon a number of interesting questions as to the 



262 SCIENTIFIC RECORD P^OR 1884. 

annual distribution of rainfall and the cause of the droughts. Mucti 
pains have been takeu to increase the number of rainfall observers ; and 
an elaborate discussion of special cyclones by his assistant, Mr. Elliot, 
shows that the origin, contiuuation, and movement of a storm depend 
only upon the atmospheric conditions in the region visited by the storm 
and not on anything outside of this region, so that the weather normal 
to the season jirevails over surrounding countries, while storms move 
over the Bay of Bengal. The great collection of meteorological obser- 
vations made in the Indian Ocean since 1856, as collected by the Lon- 
don Meteorological Office, has been purchased from that office, prop- 
erly corrected by the India office, and is now under discussion by Mr. 
Elliot and Mr. Dallas. The chapter relating to barometric observations 
is substantially completed. The new system of storm signals for Cal- 
cutta has been successfully introduced. A special system for Bombay 
has also been continued as in former years. The daily time-signals for 
Calcutta are in charge of this office. The erection of a first-class me- 
teorological observatory at Allahabad has not yet been . completed. 
The Indian Meteorological Office has published among its Indian Me- 
moirs the following : 

F. Chambers, The Winds of Kurrachee. 

S. A. Hill, Some Results of Meteorological Observations at Alla- 
habad. 

S. A. Hill, The Meteorology of the Northwest Himalayas. 

11. The London Meteorological Council began with January, 1884, 
the publication of its Monthly Weather Eeport, which, although it is 
published very late in the year, yet affords encouraging evidence of the 
energy with which meteorology is studied in Great Britain. [Similar 
monthly weather reviews are now published by many important mete- 
orological offices. We believe that the initial step in this direction was 
taken by the United States in 1872. Its monthly review as re-organ- 
ized in 1873 by the present writer, has continued with praiseworthy 
thoroughness and promptness.] 

12. The report of J. Y. Buchanan on the Physics and Chemistry, the 
Specific Gravity and Deep-Sea Temperatures, observed during the voy- 
age of H. M. S. Challenger, has been published, and is reviewed by 
E. H. Mill. {Nature, xxx, p. 313.) 

13. At the Health Exhibition, London, July, 1884, a meteorological 
conference was held. Papers were read by Dr. J. W. Tripe, on Mete- 
orology and Health ; R. H. Scott, on Equinoctial Gales, and also on 
Cumulative Temperatures, or Phaenological Con^stants. {Nature, xxx, 
p. 351.) 

14. The luternational Geodetic Congress, held at Eome in October, 
1883, adopted resolutions iecommending Greenwich as the initial me- 
ridian for all longitudes, aud also Greenwich noon as the initial point 
of a universal hour and cosmopolitan date. 

15. The International Meteorological Congress, held at Eome, 1879, 



METEOROLOGY. 263 

recommended the general acceptance of Greenwich meridian for the 
reckoning of longitudes. 

16. The International Meridian and Time Conference, held at Wash- 
ington October, 1884, has confirmed these and other recommendations, 
and unanimously recommends an international system of longitude and 
time based on the Greenwich meridian and mean midnight. 

17. [In conformity with the above, the Chief Signal Officer has adopted 
for the use of the Signal Service the 75th meridian, or five hours west of 
Greenwich, as the uniform standard for the United States and for use 
in the Monthly Weather Eeview. For the International Bulletin the 
observations are made at Greenwich noon. The International Polar 
Conference has, we believe, not adopted any especial meridian for gen- 
eral use in the publications of the worlv done by its polar parties.] 

18. Dr. Assmann has published the annual volumes of the meteorolog- 
ical observations for the Wetterwarte or weather observatory of the 
Magdeburg Times. It seems that he has been successful in inspiring 
the owner of this newspaper, Mr. Faber, with something of his own en- 
thusiasm, the result being to establish a very completely organized ob- 
servatory to which a number of subsidiary stations make reports, rep- 
resenting all of Saxony and its neighborhood. Everything is done in 
accordance with the recommendations of the International Congress 
and the best information of the present day. We note especially that 
the records with the Sprung barograph show the great advantage of 
continuous registers over those that record only every ten or fifteen 
minutes, or possibly every hour. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 434.) 

19. Dr. Assmann, on behalf of the Meteorological Observatory at 
Magdeburg, has undertaken the publication of a monthly journal for 
practical meteorology. This journal — tbe Monatschrift — is intended for 
local distribution among non-scientific readers; it treats of all matrers 
in an elementary, popular manner, and is especially rich in everything 
that pertains to agriculture and hygiene, such as the temperature of 
the lowest air strata, excessive heat and frost, the distribution of rain. 
In this latter field good work has been done by establishing numerous 
rain-gauges throughout the neighboring countries, and an interesting 
study is in process on the influence of the Brocken upon the rainfall. 
[In this respect Dr. Assmann seems to be studying a problem similar to 
that which the Signal Office has undertaken in reference to Mount 
Washington.] {Z. 0. 0. M., xix, p. 201.) 

Dr. Assmann at the close of the second year of his monthly journal 
for Practical Meteorology, has changed its title to Das Wetter, and car- 
ries it on now as a popular German monthly" for world-wide distribu- 
tion. Being also recognized as the popular organ of tbe German Mete- 
orological Association, it has at once assumed a high importance. [The 
rapid growth of interest in meteorology in Germany is best realized by 
considering that within two years two new journals have thus been 
started under flattering auspices, and that lectures on meteorology are 



264 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

now given in about twenty universities, whereas scarcely five gave any 
proper attention to the subject in 1883, when Mr. F. Waldo compiled the 
Signal Service Note on this subject] {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 287.) 

The Germau Meteorological Association was organized on the 18th 
of November, 1883, at a meeting in Hamburg of about thirty of the 
most prominent meteorologists of Germany. At this meeting a tempo- 
rary organization was effected, Dr. G. Neumayer being elected president. 
A simi)le form of constitution was adopted, and the first regular meet- 
ing appointed to be held at Magdeburg in September, 1884, at the time 
of the annual meeting of the German Scientific Association (Natur- 
forscher-Versammlung). The formation of local branches is also eu- 
couraged, of which three have already been announced, namely, Ham- 
burg- Altona, Berlin, Magdeburg. 

Like the Austrian, so the German association proposed to hold but one 
annual meeting, but will publish a monthly journal as a means of stim- 
ulating the development of meteorology. 

20. The first annual meeting of the German Meteorological Associa- 
tion was held in Magdeburg, September 19, 1884. The secretary. Dr. 
van Bebber, stated that the nutnber of members was, at that time, 
406; branch associations exist in Magdeburg, Munich, Berlin, Ham- 
burg-Altona, and Kudolfstadt. Of the members, 361 are domestic and 
45 foreign ; 51 are employed in meteorology, 130 as teachers of various 
grades, 47 are meteorological observers, 21 physicians, 30 lawyers, 10 
apothecaries, 71 manufacturers and merchants, 18 agriculturists, 20 
military officers, 12 astronomers. The branch associations have mem- 
bership about as follows : Magdeburg, 200; Ham burg- Altona, 43; Ber- 
lin, 92; Munich, 65; Eudolfstadt, not given. This last association was 
formed in 1880, but is now become a branch of the general association. 
A proposition is on foot looking to the eventual union of the journal of 
the German society with that of the Austrian, probably at the begin- 
ning of the year 1886. At present the German society maintains its 
own and encourages Dr. Assmann's journal, Das Wetter. [It is evi 
dent from the list given elsewhere that it will be very diflicult to con- 
dense into one journal all the emanations from the numerous investiga- 
tors of this most active scientific nation: but for the convenience of 
students it is to be hoped that we may have one or two, but not more, 
special meteorological journals in each lauguage. It would seem that 
one in Russian, one in French, two in German, and two in English, one 
for Great Britain and one for America, with perhaps a third eventually 
for India and Australia, should abundantly answer the local needs of 
the respective communities and the general needs of science.] (D. M. Z., 
I, p. 412.) 

21. Of the German periodicals devoted more or less to meteorology 
we notice especially the WocJiensckriftfUr Astronomie, Meteorolofiie und 
Geograjihie, published by H. J. Klein, of Cologne; I)er Naturforscher, 
published iu Berlin; Humboldt, a monthly journal for natural sciences, 



Meteorology. 2G'5 

published by Prof. Dr. G. Krebs; Astrononiische Nachrichtc7i^ the well 
known astronomical journal now published at Kiel by Professor Krue- 
ger ; Geographische Mittheihingen, the well-known geographical journal 
now published by Professor Su])an, at Gotha; Ryrlrographische Mit- 
theiluiigcn, published by the German Admiralty, Berlin. 

22. Capt. N. IJoffmeyer and I)r. George Neumayer having agreed to 
continue conjointly the daily synoptic weather charts for the Atlantic 
Ocean and Europe, beginning with the 1st of December, 1880, this im- 
portant work has therefore been kept up. The expenses are largely 
defrayed by the subscriptions of those interested in meteorology, and 
more such are solicited. The charts show the eastern half of North 
America, the West Indies, and the northern coast of. Brazil, the whole 
of the North Atlantic, Greenland, Europe, and the western half of 
Siberia. They represent the condition of the weather in the morning 
about 8 A._^ M., or local time. The base chart is apparently a conical 
development on a scale about four times as large as that of the United 
States international map of the northern hemisphere, and three fourths 
of that formerly adopted by Hoffinger ; it therefore shows every station 
and every ship's report. If the British office i^ublishes special charts 
for each day of the international polar campaign, from the 1st of August, 
1882, to the 3lst, then the German Government will probably sui)ple- 
ment these charts by corresponding daily series for the South Atlantic 
Ocean. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 30.) 

23. The Italian Meteorological Association, having its central obser- 
vatory at the Koyal College of Carl Albert, in Moncalieri, has continued 
to publish a monthly bulletin, which is considered as a second series, 
beginning with January, 1881; the first series being the monthly Annu- 
airi\ published by Kagoua. The present bulletin is under the editor- 
shi[) of Denza, who has secured stations not only throughout Italy and 
the Alj)s, but also throughout South America. {Z. 0. G. i)f., xviii, p. 
357.) 

24. The central office for Italian meteorology has continued to publish 
its magnificent series of large quarto volumes of Annates. These vol- 
umes are divided into three portions; the first contains reports on spe- 
cial work, such as Millosevich on rainfall, Eagona on the wind, Chistoni 
on magnetism and barometric comparisons, Ferrari on thunder-storms. 
The second portion contains synopses of^the meteorological observa- 
tions. The third i^ortion contains the astronomical work at the Rome 
Observatory under Tacchini. 

25. The Meteorological Institute of Saxony since 1863 has been a 
bureau of the Astronomical Observatory at Leipsic, but an important 
advance was made on the 1st of April, 1884, in the appointment of Dr. 
P. Schreiber, of Chemnitz, as director of the Meteorological Institute, 
which is now reorganized and placed on an independent basis in the 
Department of the Interior. Dr. Schreiber is well known by his works 
on meteorology and barometric hypsometry, and the new institution at 



266 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Leipsic has, under his management, already shown increased vitality 
and usefulness. 

26. He has begun the publication of a monthly report in a slightly 
condensed form, but containing much appropriate and instructive mat- 
ter, which is arranged in the following divisions : (a) Eesults by dec- 
ades and months for 11 stations ; (b) average variability of the weather 
in Saxony; (c) weather review for Europe; {d) normal weather in 
Leipsic for the month ; (e) veritications of the predictions for the month 
given separately for each locality. There are several features in this 
weather review especially worthy of commendation ; thus the use of 
decades in addition to the months is a step which has been for some 
time past adopted by the meteorological institutes of the Netherlands 
and Italy and the German Seewarte. These are more convenient than 
Dove's pentades, which are in fact only specially applicable to the 
rapid change in temperature. {D. M. Z., i, 417 and 285.) 

27. [The Signal Service in 1870 adopted a form which made it conven- 
ient to reckon by we. kly averages from Sunday to Saturday throughout 
the year, and a number of tables of this kind were prepared; but very 
little was, however, given to the scientific world in this form ; in fact, 
the weekly form was itself adopted almost entirely for executive rea- 
sons, and was replaced in 1881 by a much more convenient monthly form, 
in which the division and summation by decades is very easily made, 
although it seems improbable that it will ever be practicable to publish 
the enormous mass of signal service data in this extreme detail.] 

28. Prof. M. Merino, well known as the author of a memoir on the 
climate of Madrid, has been appointed as director of the Observatory of 
that city, and has published with unexpected promptness the volumes 
of Spanish observations for the years 1876 to 1882, which publication 
had fallen in arrears, owing to successive changes since the death of 
the former director, Aguilar. The number of meteorological stations 
has been more than doubled during the past ten years and the outfit 
of instruments perfected. Most of the stations have means of observing 
solar radiation, terrestrial ground temperatures, evaporation, and wind 
velocity by Robinson's anemometer. The international forms for pub- 
lication of climatological data have been adopted. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, 
p. 340.) 

29. Lieut. E. von Wohlgemuth communicates the general results of the 
Arctic expedition of the Austrian Government to the island of Jan 
Mayen in 1882-'83. He states that no difficulty seriously interfered 
with carrying out every point of the programme, everything being, in 
fact, much more favorable than had been anticipated. Only once did 
the minimum thermometer fall below — 32° C. ; the temperature most fa- 
vorable for work was — 10° or — 15°, since with this temperature came a 
dryness and transparency of the air, and for it clothing could be selected 
that on the one hand protected from the cold and on the other was not 
so heavy as to interfere with outdoor labor or provoke troublesome per- 



METEOROLOGY. ' 267 

Bpiration. Absolute calms or the lightest breezes, up to 5 miles per 
hour, occurred ouly duriug one hundred and forty-one hours out of the 
six months September to February; during the other half of this year 
winds and storms prevailed so that the average wiud velocity was 20 
miles per hour. This very stormy weather necessitated extraordinary 
care with reference to the security of the building. The first part of 
the polar night belonged to the pleasantest period of the residence on 
Jan Mayen 5 it brought cold dry weather and outdoor sports, such as 
sailing with ice-boats, running with snow-shoes, skating, and many 
other new, exciting, and refreshing changes in the otherwise monoto- 
nous occupations. The health of the whole party was excellent; neither 
scurvy, nor catarrh," nor frost-bites were experienced. The prevailing 
winds were east-southeast and south-southeast during the prevalence 
of cyclonic storms, some of which occasionally became almost stationary 
low pressures. During such winds the temperature rose to an average 
summer heat, even in the midst of winter, and the snow melted rapidly 
everywhere. The monthly wiud summary shows a slight percentage of 
the southwest winds that prevail in more southern latitudes; these ex- 
ceptions are explained as due to the formation of cyclones whose front 
sides only attained complete development. On theother hand, the higher 
currents were almost exclusively from the southwest, so that even the 
cirrus clouds, almost without exception, came from this direction. Of 
the cyclones that passed over Jan Mayen, only the front was well de- 
veloped. The greatest wind force was nearer the outer limit of the whirl 
than is the case in ordinary tropical cyclones. The storms did not sud- 
denly stop on the advent of the lowest pressure, but after the passage 
of the center still continued with all vigor. Frequently in the region of 
a barometric depression light winds prevailed, the barometer was fluc- 
tuating, the wind and sea were calm, and the brightest sunshine con- 
tinued for many hours. {Z. O. G. i¥., xviii, p. 441.) 

30. The International Polar Conference held at Vienna April 17, 1884, 
arranged for the publication and discussion of the vast mass of obser- 
vations accumulated by all nations duriug lS82-'83. The chiefs of nine 
expeditions were present. Each country will publish its own results in 
full. The conference will publish the general results through experts, 
to whom each question is referred. The protocol of the conference fills 
the last of the Mittheilungen published by the Polar Commission. 

31. The American expedition to Lady Fratiklin Bay was rescued from 
its position at Cape Sabine in June, 1884; only six survived out of the 
original twenty- five. The objects of the expedition were fully accom- 
plished, the observations and explorations being conducted with remark- 
able success for two years, and the health of the party was jierfect 
the whole time. Lieut. A. W. Greely with perfect success accomplished 
a most remarkable polar journey in the way of a retreat of the whole 
party southwards to Cape Sabine, at which place, however, the Ameri- 
can rescue party of 1883 having been wrecked, Greely found no pro- 



268 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

visious awaiting bim as had been originally contemplated, and, in con- 
sequence, nineteen members of the party died during the early part of 
1884. 

In a general way, Lieutenant Greely reports the lowest temperature 
— 6Q° Fahrenheit; the tidal flow came from the north; currents in 
the bay coming from the north were two degrees warmer than coming 
from the south ; the tidal range was 8 feet ; there was no polar current 
in the open sea to the north. 

The line of perpetual snow on Mount Arthur he places at 3,500 feet. 
(Nature^ xxx, p. 438.) 

32. iST. Ekholm has published the preliminary account and statistical 
summarj^ of the Swedish International Polar Expedition to Spitzbergen. 
Observations began August 22, 1882 ; an anemometer was fixed on the 
mountain top 800 feet above the ocean. The aurora borealis occurred 
every night up to March 25, when the sunlight interfered. The ther- 
mometers in shelter were compared with the sling-thermometer until, 
by frequent breakages, the observers were forced to construct an equiv- 
alent rotation machine. The station was closed August 25, 1883. 
{N'attire, xxix, p. 2G3.) 

33. The Danish Meteorological Institute has published the summary 
of the Danisli luternational Polar Expt dition to the Sea of Kara. 

34. Preliminary reports containing the monthly means and miscella- 
neous notes have been published for the two German Polar Stations, 
namely, at Eoyal Bay in South Georgia, and at Kingawa Fjord in Cum- 
berland Gulf, Baffin's Land. (D. .1/. Z., i, p. 144.) 

35. A. von Danckelman publishes the records for 1882-'83 at the 
Danish International Polar Station, Godthaab, in order that by com- 
parison one may better decide to what extent this was a normal year. 
(D. M. Z., I, p. 163.) 

36. Lieut. J. Lephay, chief of the meteorological work of the Interna- 
tional Polar Station at Cape Horn, occnj^ied by the French Government, 
publishes a summary of the climate at their station, which was on the 
east side of the peninsula Hardy, in a portion of Orange Bay three 
French miles from the Pacific and thirty-five northwest from Cape 
Horn. The daily period of pressure was quite perceptible, the maxi- 
mum being 8 p. m. and the minimun 2 p. m. The diurnal periodicity^ 
of the wind force was very large, maximum being at 2 p. M. and mini- 
mum at 1 A.M.; the prevailing wind direction was from west-south- 
west. {Z. 0. G. M., XIX, p. 131.) 

37. H. P. Dawson, in charge of the English Interna! ional Polar Sta- 
tion at FortEae, reports that the winter of 1882 and 1883 was very mild- 
In January, 1883, a remarkable epidemic influenza was re])orted among 
the Indians in the far northwest, and spread southward to Forts Simp- 
son and Eae, attacking every one in a mild form, {yatvre, xxviii, ]). 
371.) 

38. [If this can be traced fartlier south in connection with the cold 



METEOROLOGY. 269 

northwest winds tliat sweep clown over Manitoba and the United States, 
we shall have to suspect that these epidemics are due to minute organ- 
isms carried by the air, possibly in its upper currents, from some equa- 
torial region, some such mass of air as is throw^n by a hurricane out of 
its normal route, or is carried up over the Pacific and thrown against 
the Alaska coast only to come down upon the east slope of the Rockies 
as a dry wind, or such as is sometimes drawn from Northern Eussia 
over the Polar Sea, only to flow southward as a cold norther over Brit- 
ish America. Thus epidemics and spores, insects, seeds, migratory 
birds, volcanic dust, &c., are distributed over the world by the wands 
obedient to a complication of rigid laws that invite human energy to 
unravel them.] 

39. Among the scientific results noted in his preliminary report to 
the Royal Society, Capt. H. P. Dawson states that Fort Rae is located 
at the southwest extremity of a peninsula that juts out from the north- 
east shore of a long gulf running in a northwest direction for more than 
100 miles from t^e northern shore of the Great Slave Lakej it is there- 
fore almost entirely surrounded by water. The greatest magnetic dis- 
turbance occurred I^ovember 17, 1882. Whenever an aurora occurred 
in the zenith there was a rapid decrease in vertical and horizontal mag- 
netic force. Auroras suitable for measurement of altitude were rare 
and lasted only a few seconds; the wind was usually in a sontheast or 
northwest direction ; when the former prevailed the upper clouds showed 
a northwest current. {Nature., xxix, p. 247.) 

40. A. S. Steen gives a preliminary account, in Nature, of the activity 
at the Norwegian circumpolar station at Bossekop. Auroras were seen 
every night, and accurate measures were taken in conjunction with 
others by Dr. Tromholt, at Kautokeino. The thermometer shelter con- 
formed to Professor Wild's model. Psychrometer and dew-point appa- 
ratus were frequently observed together. The chemical determinations 
of atmospheric moisture were not satisfactory. {Nature, xxviii, p. 5G7.) 

41. The Russian Government decided to maintain a meteorological 
station for some time at Sagastyr on the Lena. The average tempera- 
ture of February, 1884, was -33° C, or 8° warmer than 1883. Strong 
winds were specially frequent during the last year. 

42. A. E. Nordenskiold, in letters to Mr. Dickson, gives an account 
of his journey into the interior of Greenland, starting from Disco Bay 
on July 3, 1883. The ascent to an elevation of 800 meters took place quite 
rapidly ; after that more slowly, until the height 1,492 meters was reached 
on July 22. From this point his Lapp escort went eastward six days, 
accomplishing about 115 kilometers, reaching a height of 2,000 meters 
at a distance about 300 kilometers east of Disco Bay. The whole re- 
gion was, of course, a uniform glacier of ice and snow, with occasional 
lakes of melted-snow water. {Nature, xxix, pp. 11-39.) 

43. Dr. H. ]\};iihry, of Gottingen, in reference to the great problems in 
meteorology, states that he is himself mott impressed with the impor- 



270 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOR 1884. 

tance of understandiug the subject in its widest details as terrestrial 
physics, and that the study of the equatorial region should be taken up 
in full force as this calm belt is the basis and motive of the whole atmos- 
pheric circulation. Whatever may be said as to the importance of 
weather predictions or cyclone theories or the tracks of cyclones or 
anti cyclones or climatic and other applications, yet we must avoid the 
mistake of treating meteorology from too local or empirical a point of 
view. {!). M. Z., i, p. 407.) 

44. [The study of the northers of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf of 
Mexico showed as long ago as 1871 that a very slight diminution of 
pressure in the tropical regions frequently gives occasion for a southerly 
flow of cold air, which, piling up against the northern side of the Mexi- 
can Cordilleras, produces a great area of about '8,000 feet deep of cold, 
cloudy, and rainy weatber, out of which gradually develops a storm that 
subsequently moves northward as a hurricane OA^er the United States. 
And as a generalization it is suspected that the hurricanes originating 
in the Middle Atlantic, whether on the coast of Africa or of South 
America, owe their origin in a similar way to an inflow of cool air into 
a region where higher temijerature, increased moisture, and the forma- 
tion of clouds having strongly heated upper surfaces, had conspired to 
produce an uprising tendency. In this way it became proper to speak 
of the equatorial region as that whose heat was the fundamental cause 
not only of the general atmosi)heric circulation, but of storms and other 
special phenomena, and in this way we were prepared for Koppen's 
demonstration, in 1874, that the solar heat with its variations more di- 
rectly atlected the equatorial regions of the earth whence its influence 
more slowly spreads to distant latitudes. Now that the International 
Polar Commission has given us such a precious collection of data relat- 
ing to the higher latitudes north and south, it is undoubtedly incum- 
bent upon meteorologists to urge a similar and far more thorough cru- 
sade into the torrid zone, where we need a large number of new stations 
on land and sea maintained for the whole of, at least, one sun-spot period. 
The continuous observations needed in tropic seas could be provided 
for if the principal nations of the globe would inaugurate, each in a 
selected district of the ocean in the torrid zone, an exhaustive study of 
its hydrography, fauna, and ocean currents simultaneous with the ma- 
rine meteorological observations.] 

45. Dr. M. Miles, as director of the agricultural experiments at Hough- 
ton farm. Orange County, New York, has, since 1881, carried out several 
distinct lines of investigation mostly relating to animal and vegetable 
nutrition. The proprietor of the farm is Mr. Lossing Valentine, a rich 
merchant of New York, who desires in this way to contribute something 
toward the progress of American agriculture. The work on the con- 
nection between meteorology and agriculture is in the hands of Prof. 
D. P. Penhallow, who, among other things, issues daily bulletins oi" 
loyal >Yey,tljev pi^^dictiows, for wJuuU fi ycrificatiou of P8 per cent, is 



METEOROLOGY. 271 

claimed. The general manager of the farm is Maj. H. E. Alvord. {Na- 
ture, XXIX, p. 238.) 

46. Dr. 0. Lang, of Munich, describes the establishment of a new 
station on the Wendelstein, where observations began on the 8th of 
October, 1883. Up to this time the Bavarian weather bureau had no 
station higher than the Hohenpeissenberg (994 meters), but has now 
taken advantage of the fact that a house for tourists was about to be 
established on the Wendelstein (altitude 1817.4 meters). This mount- 
ain is 1,062 meters above the valley below it, and, therefore, compara- 
tively isolated and steep. In regard to the instruments with which the 
station is furnished, we notice that the thermometer shelters are placed 
on the east and west sides of the building, because the north side is in- 
convenient. The shelters are, however, one meter distance from the 
respective walls. Within these shelters are maximum and minimum 
thermometers and a thermograph manufactured by Steppacher. The 
station also has a rotation psychrometer made by Eung, of Coi)enha- 
gen. For the wind force no instrument is used, but estimates are given 
on the 0-12 scale of Beaufort. It is hoped to establish two self- regis- 
tering thermometers, one at the top the other at the bottom of the 
mountain, and for this purpose probably those manufactured by Eich- 
ard, of Paris, will be selected. {Z. 0. G. .1/., xviii, p. 458.) 

47. The Meteorological Office of the Marine Observatory, at San Fer- 
nando, in January, 1884, began the issue of daily weather charts and 
storm warnings for the Spaui.sh coast. 

48. The Italian Meteorological Office has established a mountain 
station, at an altitude of 2,160 meters, upon Mount (]ymone. 

49. The Melbourne Observatory publishes a monthly record of meteor- 
ology in Vi<'toria. Attention is called to the work being done in Aus- 
tralia, and also to the necessity of more care in reference to certain ther- 
mometer records. {Nature, xxx, p. 126.) 

50. The Meteorological Council of London, having decided to close 
the primary self-recording observatories at Glasgow, Armagh, Stony- 
hurst, and Falmouth, on account of the expense, the authorities at the 
latter place have forwarded a remonstrance, strongly supported by 
Prof. J. C. Adams, of Cambridge. These observatories have been in 
operation since 1868, and if other nations follow the example of Eng- 
land in this respect we shall never attain satisfactory knowledge of 
local peculiarities in climate or meteorology. 

We are, however, glad to have to add that the foundation stone of 
the new meteorological observatory at Falmouth was laid August 12, 
1884 ; this was in consequence of a new agreement with the Meteorologi- 
cal Office, which will continue its apparatus and work under more favor- 
able auspices. {Nature, xxx, p. 240.) 

51. Frequent notices appear in Nature of the work done on the observ- 
atory at Ben Nevis; among others v; 2 note that Mr. Omond, at the 
gummit, ii^ couductiog a series of ubsevvi^tiows witU a hygrometer of 



272 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1S84. 

novel descriptiou especially designed by Professor Chrystal ; ordinarily 
the wet bulb and dry bulb read together, but occasionally the clouds 
clear, the sun shines very hot, and the air acquires a marvelous dryness 
calculated to test the capabilities of this instrument. {Nature, xxix, p. 
342.) 

Dr. C. L. Wragge gives a description with illustrations of the meteor- 
ological observatories on and near Ben jS^evis. {Nature, xxvii, p. 487.) 

The observatory on Ben Kevis is supported by private subscription 
mostly, and it is hoped that means will be forthcoming to maintain ob- 
servations during the winter of 1884-'85. {Nature, xxx, p. 179.) 

A general summary of the meteorology of Ben Nevis from June, 1881, 
to June, 1884, is given by Buchau. {Nature, xxx, p. 336.) 

During the winter of 1884-'85, new rooms and conveniences for self- 
registering wind instruments will be available, over £2,000 sterling 
having been spent on the arrangements for observers and visitors to 
the summit of Ben Nevis. 

52. Dr. W. Doberck, director of the new English observatory at Hong- 
Kong, has taken active steps to carry into effect the system of meteor- 
ological predictions and observations promised by inspector-general of 
Chinese customs, Sir Eobert Hart, as long ago as 1^73. The instru- 
ments were purchased at that time, but have been either injured or un- 
packed, and are of course useless. Doberck has compared them and pro- 
poses to establish 33 stations, mostly on the Chinese coast, whose ob- 
servations shall be published annually, while a daily system of tele- 
graphic storm warnings is maintained for the benefit of commerce. {D. 
M. Z., I, p. 86.) 

53. The activity of the Hong-Kong Observatory commenced January 
1, 1884, with tri-daily meteorological observations, daily and monthly 
weather reports. Weather telegrams are daily received from the treaty 
ports of China, from Luzon, Japan, Vladivostock, and Tonquin. Self- 
registering meteorological observations began April 1; a time-ball will 
be dropped after January 1, 1885. An excellent illustrated descrip- 
tion of the observatory is given in Nature, xxx. It is suggested that 
all observations that can be made available for the formation of a 
meteorological system for that section of the world be concentrated by 
daily and monthly reports at Hong-Kong as the most important center. 
This, however, should not in the least interfere with the remarkably 
successful work going on in Japan. 

54. The Geographical Society of Lisbon having maintained a tempo- 
rary meteorological observatory near the highest point of the Serra da 
Estrella at an altitude of 1,855 meters and a degree and a half east of 
Lisbon, the results of the first year of observation have been reported by 
A. C. da Silva. Among the principal results are the following: Maxi- 
mum pressure at noon, minimum at 5 A. M., while for Coimbra (alti- 
tude 141 meters) we have maximum at 10 A. m., minimum at 6 p. M. 
As to temperature, Estrella has maximum at 2 p. m., minimum at 4 A. 



METEOROLOGY. 073 

M., while Coimbra has maximum at 2 p. m., minimum at 5 A. m. The 
wind velocity for Estrella lias a maximum 30.5 kilometers per iiour at 1 
p. M., and a minimum 20.2 at 9 p. m. The maximum wind velocity was 
65 kilometers per hour at 3 P. m. on August 17, 1882. The prevailing 
winds were west and northwest; the average daily evaporation was 
15.0 ™"; the heights and forms of clouds were regularly observed; de- 
terminations of the altitude and the altitude of cumnlus clouds under 
which thunder-storms were in progress, gave from 5,450 to 0,750 meters. 
{Z. 0. G. ilf., XIX, p. 423.) 

55. Prof. J. M. Pernter communicates some of the latest results of 
observations on the summit of the Obir (2,048 meters), which show the 
following features: 

1. The daily temperature curve is above the mean value for only one- 
third of the whole day, and attains a maximum at about 2 p. m. in Jan- 
uary and 4 P. M. in August. 

2. The amplitude is the same for all months of the year, and depends 
only on the quantity of sunshine. 

3. It must be remembered that the thermometers are on the south 
side of the observatory in a space inclosed by a double board screen ; 
but provision has been made for a perfect circulation of air, and the 
radiation of the screen is cut off by another screen of sheet-tin, and 
although all this is not at all satisfactory, and some local influence is 
probable, yet it is safe to say that the maximum occurs later at these 
high altitudes, in confirmation of which Pernter quotes ten days of 
hourly observations on Mount Ararat (3,333 meters). 

4. Although in Vienna the west wind has an enormous preponder- 
ance both in frequency and total movement, yet on the Obir the south- 
east wind has a decided preponderance, and on the Santis, as Billwiller 
has shown, the southwest wind prevails, and the southeast is the least 
frequent; must we not, then, conclude that the summit of the Obir lies 
within the influence of the Italian area of low pressure, and that it is 
too low to reach up into the southwest current that probably prevails 
above ? 

5. The comparison of the sunshine register on the summit with that 
at Klagenfurt, near the base of the mountain, shows at the summit a 
maximum of sunshine between 10 and 11 A. m., but at Klagenfurt about 
2 P. M. 

6. The total sunshine on the summit exceeds that in the valley from 
October on throughout the winter, but during the summer months 
Klagenfurt exceeds the summit; the number of days without sunshine 
is about the same. On fourteen days the summit had no sunshine, 
while the base had from one to six hours; in general, perfectly sunny 
days are more frequent on the summit than in the valley. {Z. 0. G. 3L, 
XIX, p. 331.) 

56. Rudolph Hottinger-Goldschmidt was born 4th of May, 1834, and 
lived since his fourth year at Zurich, at which place he died September 

S. Mis. 33 -IS 



274 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

30, 1883, after a short illness. Having graduated from the Swiss Poly- 
technic School, he was engaged until 1871 in railroad and topographic 
survey s, in which year he entered into the business of his father-in-law, 
the well-known mechanician, Goldschmidt; after his death, in 1875, 
Hottinger entirely conducted this business, in association with Dr. 
Koppe, until the latter was appointed professor at Brunswick. The 
accurate instruments made by this firm are well known throughout 
Switzerland, especially the so-called Goldschmidt aneroid barometer, 
which in its improved form has in Europe rapidly displaced all other 
aneroid and even mercurial barometers for accurate and convenient 
use in field surveying. {Z. 0. G. 31., xviii, p. 465.) 

57. Baron Vice Admiral von Wiillerstorf-Urbair, born January 29, 
1816, at Trieste, died August 10, 1883, at Vienna. By his command of 
the frigate IS^ovara on a scientific navigation of the globe, 1857 to 1859, 
von Wiillerstorf became well known to the scientific world. He had 
previously, from 1830 to 1848, been the director of the K^aval Observ- 
atory at Venice and professor of astronomy at the Naval Academy. 
{Z. 0. G. iM., XVIII, p. 361.) 

68. Sir Edward Sabine, born at Dublin, October 14, 1788, died near 
London, June 26, 1883. At the age of fifteen, after graduating at the 
military schools, he entered the English Artillery and attained to the 
rank of lieutenant-general in 1850, and general in 1874. His scientific 
activity began in 1818, when he became a member of the Eoyal Society 
of London, and was appointed as astronomer to the i)olar expedition 
under Sir John Eoss. Until 1827 his principal activity related to me- 
teorology and geodesy, but from that time on his life became more com- 
pletely devoted to terrestrial magnetism, which subject had, however, 
attracted his attention and activity since 1821. His whole work in this 
field has marked an epoch in the history of terrestrial j^hysics, and has 
also been of the greatest practical value to navigation. The colonial 
observatories of Great Britain were for many years under the sui)er- 
vision of Sabine, who reduced and published the results. |It is not im- 
proper to add tliat in all this work Lady Sabine has been his most 
active assistant and colaborer.] {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 362; Nature, 
XXVIII, p. 218.) 

59. Prof. M. Kowalski, born August 15, 1821, at Dobrzyn, Russia, dietl 
July 9, 1884. In 1850 Kowalski was made assistant astronomer of the 
University of Kasan, and in 1854 director of the Observatory. His 
memoir on atmospheric refraction shows a thorough knowledge of the 
modern theory of distribution of temperature in the air. 

60. Prof. J. F. J. Schmidt, born October 25, 1825, in Oldenburg, Ger- 
many, died February 7, 1884, at Athens. Schmidt became director of 
the Observatory at Athens in December, 1858, and his activity in ad- 
vancing our knowledge of the climate of Greece is remarkable, the more 
especially when we consider his great labors in astronomy. 

61. L. J. Kapeller, born at Gratz July 20, 1804, died September 14, 



METEOROLOGY. 275 

1883, at Vienna. For many years Kapeller's name Las been well known 
among meteorologists in connection with the beautiful and precise in- 
struments that have issued from his workshops, and which are widely 
used, not only in Austria and Germany, but also in France, England, 
Brazil, Turkey, and America. 

62. N. H. C. Hoffmeyer, born June 3, 1836, served as a military officer, 
but resigned (18G6) on account of rheumatism, since which time he has 
devoted his life to meteorology. In 1872 he founded the Meteorological 
Institute of Denmark. He died suddenly on the IGth of February, 1884. 
(7). M. Z., I, p. 88.) 

63. Prof. Hugo von Schoder, born aSTovember 11, 183G, became di- 
rector of the meteorological stations at Wlirtemberg in 18G5, and 
died April 11, 1884. {D. M. Z., i, p. 171.) 

64. Prof. Dr. George von Boguslawski, born at Breslau, December 
7, 1827, died May 4, 1884, at Berlin. Since 1874 as the editor of the 
Annalen or Hydrograplmclie Mittheilungen, and for many years as secre- 
tary of the Berlin Geographical Association, he has done an important 
work for Germany. 

65. Peter Merian. On February 8, 1883, this honored man died at 
an advanced age in Basle. His life has been given to the advance of 
Switzerland in many scientific directions. In 182G as a member of the 
Swiss Society of Naturalists he began a series of meteorological obser- 
vations at Basle, which he did not relinquish until fifty years later. 
{Z. 0. G. 3L, xviii, p. 467.) 

66. Prof. A. H. Guyot, born at Neuchatel, September 28, 1807, died at 
Princeton, X. J., February, 1884. His investigations on the glaciers, 
bis hypsometric work in the United States, his meteorological tables, 
and other instructions to observers for the Smithsonian Institution, his 
works on physical geography and climate, have made his name well 
known in meteorology. 

67. Thomas Plant, who has maintained uniform meteorological records 
for forty-four years at Birmingham, England, died September, 1883, 
aged sixty-four. 

II.— (rt) General treatises, Meteorology, Climatology, Phys- 
ics, History; (h) Instruction; (c) Weather predictions and 
verifications. 

68. Prof. J. Hann has published, as one of the series of Allgemeine 
Erdkunde, a volume on The Earth as a Planet (Weltkorjjer), which is 
obtainable in separate form. This volume is rich in recent results of 
physical study ; the form of the earth, the force of gravitation, the mag- 
netic phenomena and auroras, and the atmosphere and glacial climate 
and the ocean are especially well treated. 

69. li. H. Scott has compiled an Elementary Meteorology, which has 
also been translated into German by W. von Freeden and simultane- 
ously published at Leipsic. It is divided into two portions, the first 



27G SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

treating of the observations and individual phenomena ; the second 
part treats of the distribution of these phenomena over the earth's sur 
iace. The work claims only to reproduce the best views of the students 
of ^he present day, and therefore introduces but little which can bo 
called individual. It is undoubtedly one of the best works at present 
available in English, but contains some important defects that will, we 
hope, be remedied in a treatise by Ferrel on Recent Advancement in 
Meteorology, about to be published by the Army Signal Office for the 
use of its observers. 

70. Hanu has published a second edition, in two thin volumes, of 
Jelinek's Introduction to Meteorological Observations; he has added sev- 
eral important tables and the description of new important instruments, 

71. Prof. P.O. Tait has published two treatises, on Heat and on Light, 
respectively, which, as might be expected from this eminent author, 
present the best view of the present condition of each subject; the ref- 
erences to meteorological applications give these an especial interest 
in this place. 

72. Excellent elementary books on physics have been published by 
Profs. J. D. Everett, of Glasgow; J, Trowbridge, of Cambridge; W. A. 
Anthony and C. F. Brackett, of Princeton. That of Professor Trow- 
bridge is especially recommended by its thorough fidelity to experi- 
mental instruction. The chapter on the atmosphere, barometer, &c., is 
most admirable for the younger students of meteorology, the experi- 
mental or laboratory side of which science is still susceptible of great 
development, as is shown especially by the works of Vettin and Kiess- 
ling, elsewhere more fully noted. 

73. A. Woeikof, of St. Petersburg, has published a treatise on the 
climate of the earth, especially of Russia. Although in the Russian 
language, and therefore evidently intended especially for the use of the 
Russian universities, this work is of much wider interest because of the 
activity of the author in many branches of statistical meteorology. 
His work is entirely independent of that of Hann, but it has a very 
similar range, and in respect to charts and illustrations is much richer. 
There is, however, very little repetition in the two works. The original- 
ity of Woeikof appears in every chapter. Undoubtjedly the introduction 
of the work into the Russian universities will greatly stimulate the 
education of meteorologists in that country and place it in advance of 
any other nation except [)Ossibly Germany in the recognition of this 
science as a branch of university study. {Z. 0. G.) 

73'. [We hope that the progress of meteorology, thus stimulated by the 
great work of Woeikof, will not meet with the advej:'se fortune which 
was indicated by a recent imperial decree of August 4. 1884, by virtue 
of which the scientific works of Darwin, Agassiz, Huxley, Lubbock, 
Adam Smith, Spencer, and many others have been proscribed; circu- 
lating libraries will not deliver them to their subscribers, and book- 
dealers will not sell them.1 



METEOROLOGY. 277 

74. Dr. A. Woeikof contributes a valuable study on the climate of 
JEastern Siberia, showing that one part of Eastern Siberia is entirely in 
the monsoon region of Eastern Asia, while the other portion can be 
considered as the northern limit of this same monsoon region. Among 
other things lie shows (1) for the greater part of Eastern Siberia that 
since the greatest cold occurs with calms and feeble winds, therefore the 
valleys and lowlands are in winter colder than the high lands; (2) the 
temperature of isolated hills is still higher; (3) the cooling of the val- 
leys is so long continued and intense that even the temperature of the 
year is lower there, as proved by the observed temperature of tli« 
ground ; (4) the depth of the frozen earth is greater in the valleys than 
on the neighboring highlands, probably also greater than on the high 
mountains ; (5) in the Tundra of the extreme north the winter is warmer 
than in the valleys of the forest regions of the south, probably because 
the strong winds prevent the long stagnation of the coldest low stratum 
of air. (D. 3L Z., i, p. 443.) 

75. The Austrian Hydrographic Office has published a hand-book of 
oceanography and maritime Meteorology, in which the separate chap- 
ters are composed by distinguished Austrian scholars ; the whole forms 
a remarkable monument to the industry of the authors and to the 
progress that is being made in everything that relates to the ocean and 
its navigation. The first division of these two large volumes relates to 
;the physiography of the sea, including instruments for measuring the 
depth and the currents, the waves, the chemical constituents, and a 
summary of the results of all the work done in these departments. 
The second division, on maritime meteorology, occupies about 400 pages, 
;and is compiled by Prof. F. Attlmayer, of the Naval Academy. {Z. 0. 
.Q. M., XXX, p. 349.) 

76. Prof. H. Mohn gives a summary of the climate of Norway, based 
•principally upon recent observations conducted in a uniform manner 
with well-verified instruments. The altitudesfor the stations seem gen- 
erally to have been determined barometrically. A permanent baromet- 
ric minimum exists southwest of Iceland, and another, not so deep, in 
the Norwegian Sea. From October to April a maximum prevails over 
the southwestern part of Norway. From May to September in South- 
western Norway a minimum exists. The isobars, like the isotherms, 
show a great tendency to follow the trend of the coast. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIX, p. 145.) 

77. Dr. C. Lang, of Munich, publishes in the fourth volume of Obser- 
vations at Bavarian stations an exhaustive monograph on the climate 
of Munich, a work so complete that scarcely another can be found to 
compare with it. The observations extend from 1781 to 1880. Among 
the numerous tabular and statistical results. Dr. Lang occasionally in- 
troduces matter of general interest, such as his discussion as to what 
constitutes a raw and unpleasant climate. 

78. [In regard to this we are of the opinion that ordinary meteorologi- 



278 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

cal statistics will afford very little satisfaction. The sensations wliicli 
human beings call " raw," " harsh," " depressing," &c., are subjective, and 
are compounds of several factors, such as temperature, moisture, wind, 
sunshine. Moreover, a locality that offers a few hours of such raw 
climate every day is not likely to be detected by observations at three 
hours only. The meteorologist is primarily interested in the physics and 
mechanics of the atmosphere, not in its influence on human sensations ; 
that belongs to hygiene and demands a special apparatus and obser- 
vations, a fine exam^ile of which is to be found in the work on subjec- 
tive climate undertaken by J. E. Osborne, of Washington, from 1875 to 
1877.] {Z. 0. G. i)f., XIX, p. 240.) 

79. Pschrewalski's observations in Thibet have enabled him to locate 
the region of the sources of the Hoang Ho as that to which penetrate 
both the southwest monsoon from the Indian Ocean and the southeast 
monsoon from the Pacific coast of China. He also establishes the diur- 
nal and annual variations of temperature, the former being remarkably 
large, amounting in some cases to from 20° C. at the midday maximum 
to — 30"^ at the morning minimum. Very interesting dustwhirls were 
observed and sketched. The transportation of dust l)y strong winds 
fully confirms Von Richthofen's theory of the formation of the loess. 
{Z. 0. G. M., XVIII, p. 303.) 

80. Prof. J. Partsch, of Breslau, contributes a summary of our knowl- 
edge of the climate of Greece, based largely on the extensive collection 
of data made by the late Prof. J. F. J. Schmidt. [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 
473.) 

81. Lehmann has compiled a complete list of the literature relative to 
the meteorology of Thuringia; he takes as his starting point the titles 
given by Hellmann. Similar works for many other sections of the world 
are desirable. 

82. Zoppritz has brought together the meteorological results of a num- 
ber of expeditions by Americans and others to the Central American 
regions. (D. M. Z., i, p. 302.) 

83. A. Angot, of Paris, has published a valuable study on the climate 
of Algeria, especially the temperature, pressure, and raintall. The mean 
temperature for the year varies from 17.7 C, on the northern coast, to 
21.1 C, on the southern border, namely, at the limit of the Sahara, in 
latitude 34o.l. The monthly ranges are as follows : On the coast, a min- 
imum in January (11.4) and maximum in August (25.0) ; on the southern 
border, a minimum in January (10.4) and maximum July (34.1). We 
see from this that the temperature increase, especially in summer, as we 
proceed southward, is due not to latitude but to the continental pecui- 
arities of the soil, the cloudless sky, and the direction of the wind. {Z. 
0. G. M., XIX, p. C4.) 

84. Dr. W. Koppen collects together the date of first and last rains at 
various points on the southwest coast of Africa as recorded in various 
years from 1874 to 1883. The beginning of the rainy season varied from 



METEOROLOGY. 279 

the 24tli of July to 12tU of October; the last raiu is recorded at dates 
between the 1st of May aud 8tli of June. [D. M. Z., i, p. 287.) 

85. A. YOU Danckelmau, as a member of tbe expedition of tlie luter- 
uatioual Congo Association, Las returned to Europe with a series of 
meteorological observations for fifteen months on the west coast of 
Africa. He reports that the barometric chauges were quite slight, the 
yearly range being 12'"". No perceptible change in pressure occurred 
during the occurrence of the tornadoes peculiar to that coast. The 
rainy season is from April to November, during which nnmerous short, 
heavy thunder-storms precipitate a great quantity of rain, the heaviest 
being 102'"™ in two hours. The thunder-storms come from the north- 
east; the surface wind blows from the point where the thunder-storm 
is. During the dry season the natives set fire to the grass-covered 
plains; these fires continue for months and have an important meteor- 
ological influence ; the air is always full of smoke ; great cumulus clouds 
and occasional lightning form over the burning regions, which cover 
many thousand square miles. The most remarkable phenomenon in the 
valley of the Congo is the frequent occurrence at nighttime of a strong 
southwest wind ; it begins soon after sunset and occasionally lasts until 
the early morning hours. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 88.) 

86. Tbe Physical Society of London has repnblished the scientific 
papers of J. P. Joule. The present first volume contains about 100 
papers, many of them bearing on questions of the utmost im]>ortance to 
meteorology. 

87. [We have now accessible reprints of the scientific papers of Sir 
William Thomson, Professor Stokes, Joule, Helmholtz, Kirchoif, and 
many other scientific names of living men. To meteorology, however, 
nothing would be more acceptable than a reprint of the meteorological 
papers of Joseph Henry, William Eedfield, and James P. Espy. Will 
not some American scientific association do for us what the Physical 
Society has done for England ?] 

88. Dr. G. Hellmann has published his Eepertorium of Gejrnan Me- 
teorology, in which he gives a very complete bibliograpliy of the pub- 
lications, discoveries, and observations made by GerniaDS in the field of 
meteorology and terrestrial magnetism down to tlie end of the year 1881. 
Holding himself to a very strict understanding of the word "German," 
Hellmann has omitted the productions of Germans not citizens of Ger- 
many, and we especially miss the i)ublications of German scientists in 
Austria, Switzerland, Russia, and elsewhere. Hellmann's work is di- 
vided into four principal sections: First, a catalogue by authors; sec- 
ond, subject index; third, index of stations and meteorological data; 
fourth, a historical sketch of meteorological progress in Germany. 

89. [It was T)erhaps only by holding closely to this restriction that 
Hellmann was able to finish his large work in so short a time and pre- 
sent it as a realization of a single idea. But as has been remarked, one 
cannot but feel in using it at every moment that there is here a mass of 



280 ^ SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

broken threads which need to be completed by making a similar collec- 
tion of not only the remaining German, but all other meteorological lit- 
erature. General W. B. Hazen, having decided that in view of the im- 
portance of the subject the Signal Ofiice should complete the index to 
meteorological literature already in its possession in the shape of a 
large card catalogue, has solicited contributions of titles from all inter- 
ested in the subject, and has appointed Mr. C. J. Sawyer as biblio- 
graphic expert to prepare the work for publication. The office will also 
make a special examination of various important libraries, serials, and 
other sources. As this work is, properly speaking, only a hand book for 
the use of working meteorologists, it has been deemed most desirable to 
finish it in a short time without incurring such delay as might be needed 
to i>repare a work of bibliographic elegance. Consequently the major- 
ity of the titles will be taken from Reuss, Poggcndorf, the Royal So- 
ciety, Hellmanu, Symons, and other authorities without directly con- 
sulting the volumes themselves. It is expected that the work will 
occupy two volumes containing forty or fifty thousand titles in all, and 
that a first part will go to press early in 1886.] 

90. Prof. Frank Waldo, of Washington, in a short note on the study 
of meteorology in Europe, shows that in 1883 out of thirty-eight German 
universities only fourteen had established special chairs for this study. 
In respect to this Dr. Koppen remarks that probably this neglect had 
already been partially rectified by 1884. The following is a list of those 
who are more or less devoted to instruction of this class (i>. M. Z., i, p. 
148): 

University of Berlin ; Dr. Thiesen. 

Technological School at Brunswick 5 Dr. H. Weber. 

University at Czernowitz ; Professors Supan and Handl. 

Technological School at Darmstadt : Dr. Giibel and Prof. E. Dorn. 

Technical School at Gratz ; Professor Wilhelm. 

University at Halle ; Professors Knoblauch, Overbeck, and Cornelius, 
and Dr. Lehmann. 

University at Heidelberg ; Professor Kopp. 

University at Inuspruck ; Professors Torre and Pfaundler, and Dr. 
Tollinger. 

Polytechnic School at Carlsruhe ; Professor Sohncke. 

University at Kouigsberg ; Professor Zoi)pritz. 

University of Leipsic ; Professor Bruns. 

University of Rostock ; Professor Mathiessen. 

Polytechnic School at Stuttgart; Professors Dietrich and von Schroe- 
der. 

iJniversity at Vienna : Professors Hanu and Simony. 

High School at Zurich ; Dr. Weilenmann. 

The following have since been announced : 

University of Giessen ; Prof. H. Hoft'mann ; Dr. Frome will begin iu 
1884. 



METEOROLOGY. ^5^ 

University of Berlin ; Dr. Glan. 

Agricultural School at Berlin ; Professor Borustein. 

Polytechnic School at Brunswick ; Dr. Pattenhauseu. 

Academy of Forestry at Eberswalde; Professor Miittrich. 

University at Freiburg, Bavaria; Dr. K. R. Koch. 

University at Gottingen ; Dr. H. Meyer. 

University at Kiel ; Dr. Karsten. 

University at Marburg ; Professor Fischer. 

The High School at Munich ; Dr. Lang and Professor Ebermayen. 

91. [The following American colleges include meteorology and clima- 
tology in their general or special courses : 

Harvard University, Cambridge; W. M. Davis. 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston ; Prof. W. H. Niles\ 
Yale College, New Haven ; Prof. E. Loomis. 

Corcoran School of Science, Washington ; Profs. C. Abbe and P^ 
Waldo. 

Michigan University, Ann Arbor; Prof. M. W. Harrington. 
Brown University, Providence ; Prof. W. Upton. 
University of Iowa, Iowa City ; Prof. G. Hinrichs. 
Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. ; Prof. P. E. Chase. 
Colorado College, Colorado Springs ; Prof. F. H. Loud.] 

92. The very hopeful condition of the study of meteorology in Eng- 
land is evidenced by the following subject announced for the Adams 
prize to be adjudged in 1885 : Investigate the laws governing the in- 
teraction of cyclones and anticyclones on the earth's surface. In order 
to give precision to this the following suggestions are given to the ex- 
aminers : An infinite plane has a surface density ^ (where g is gravity); 

on one side of it is air in equilibrium, the density of which must di* 
minish according to the barometric law as we recede from the plane. 
The system revolves as a rigid body, about an axis perpendicular to the 
plane, with a constant angular velocity oa. 

If one or more vortices with a revolution either consentaneous with 
OD (cyclones), or adverse thereto (anticyclones), be established in the air,, 
investigate their motions. It may be well to consider the axes of the 
vortices either straight or curved, and perpendicular or inclined to the 
plane. If possible, pass to the case in which the vortices exist in the 
atmosphere surrounding a rotating globe. {N'ature, xxix, p. 94.) 

93. Prof. W. J. Beal, of the State Agricultural College at Lansing, 
Mich., in his address on the needs of agriculture before the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, says that if specific warn- 
ings of the weather had been given during the harvest of 1882 most of 
the wheat might have been safely housed and the farmers of Michigan 
saved from a loss of a million dollars. {Nature, xxviir, p. C18.) 

94. H. F. Blanford gives an illustration of the general character of 
long range weather predictions by quotations from the India Gazette, 



282 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

June 2. 1883, wherein he gives reasons for believing tliat the prospects 
for sufficient rain in India and Bengal during the rest of the season 
were wiiolly favorable. This and subsequent predictions in July and 
August were based ui30u the knowledge of snowfall in the Himalayas. 
{Nature, xxix, p. 77.) 

95. C.L.Madsen, in the interest of meteorology and European weather 
prediction, urges the importance of the proposed transatlantic cable, 
whose route will be through Thurso, the Faroes, Iceland, Julianshaab 
in Greenland, the Straits of Belle Isle, and Quebec. The German news- 
papers announce that this cable will be laid by a company already or- 
ganized ; but although this is probably an error, yet there seems no 
doubt but that such a cable will be a profitable investment from a busi- 
ness point of view, and will be of the highest importance in the predic- 
tion of storms, not only for the use of Europe, but especially for the use 
of navigators about to sail westward from those ports. (D. M. Z., i, 
p. 410.) 

96. The British Meteorological Office has entered into an arrangement 
with the Signal Office by which telegraphic warning is sent to British 
ports of the existence of any storm in the middle of the North Atlantic 
into which English vessels are likely to enter unawares. 

97. E. Abercromby, W. Marriott, Lieut. H. H. C. Dunwoody, and Prof. 
H H. Hildebrandssoii, of Stockholm, have all recently published collec- 
tions of popular sayings in reference to the weather. The latter espe- 
cially expresses the following conclusions : (1) Any relation between the 
weather and the days of the week, or holidays, or the positions of the 
heavenly bodieo, or the phases of the moon is absurd ; (2) any predic- 
tion of the temperature of any year or month is impossible in the pres- 
ent state of our knowledge, and popular signs looking to such predic- 
tions are without value; (3) in general, it is desirable for vegetation and 
harvest that the seasons should have their normal temi^erature, rainfall, 
&c., and that is about what is attempted by all popular rules ; (4) there 
are a number of rules for the prediction of the weather a short time in 
advance, some of whioh are quite safe. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 311.) 

98. R. Abercromby presents a summary of prevailing weather types 
for use in predictions in Western Europe. {Nature, xxviii, p. 330.) 

99. E. Gelcich communicates the rules promulgated by P. Jauva, di- 
rector of the Observatory at Manila, for the prediction of hurricanes. 
During the years 1877 to 1880 Jauva has successfully predicted forty 
storms. The following are his rules for Manila: 

1. If the barometer at the time of the afternoon minimum, namely, 
between 3.15 and 3.30, falls to 7o5™"\ or if it exceeds 757 at the time 
of the morning maximum, namely, from 9.10 to 9.20, then one can defi- 
nitely conclude that a cyclone prevails within a few hundred miles. 

2. If at the time when the barometer should rise, namely, li'om 4 to 9 
A. M., or from 4 to 9 p. m., it is observed to fall, then the cyclone is mov- 



METEOROLOGY. 283 

ing towards tbe observer's station, niul lie- may expect its greatest se- 
verity. 

3. If the barometer is stationary the cyclone is moving towards the 
observer, but its greatest severity will not reach him. 

4. Ordinarily we observe high cirrus clouds when the cyclone is still 
GOO miles distant; these stretch out towards a definite point in the hor- 
izon and form cirrus strata that converge towards this point. If, now, 
we observe at equal intervals of time the direction of the vanishing 
point of the cirri and the height of the barometer, we may avail our- 
selves of the following rules: If the vanishing point is in the second 
quadrant and quite stationary, the cyclone is moving towards the ob- 
server, and we can estimate the probable severity of the storm by attend- 
ing to the barometer in connection with the above three rules. If the 
vanishing point changes its position, the observer is outside of the trajec- 
tory of the storm ; if it moves towards the south and east or towards 
the northeast and north, then the storm will pass by the observer on the 
south or the north side, respectively. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 230.) 

100. Mr. Ilerve Mangon, of Paris, president of the committee of the 
French Central Meteorological Burean, reports that 83 per cent, of the 
predictions published by that bureau have been acknowledged good, and 
that of the storm warnings 5L per cent, were wholly verified, 33 partly 
verified, and 21 failed. {Nature, xxvii, p. 530.) 

101. Dr. J. Lugli has coini)arcd the weatlier j»rcdictions made at the 
Central Ofiice at Rome with the resulting weatlxT very much after the 
manner adopted by the Signal Ofiice, and gives the following percent- 
ages of veritication for the three years 1880, 1881, 1882 : For cloudiness, 
84 per cent. ; the condition of the sea, 78. per cent. ; direction and force 
of the wind, 74 per cent. ; tliunder-storms, 0(5 per cent. ; temperature, 68 
per cent. ; general weather, 72 per cent. ; storm signals, 74 per cent. {Z. 
0. 0. M., XIX, p. 4(53.) 

102. Dr. B. Overzier, of Cologne, having undertaken to publish 
weather predictions for each day one month in advance, these have 
been examined and verified by Dr. Assmann, by comparison with actual 
experience. In general. Dr. Assmann allows him 18 per cent, of verifi- 
cations as to the velocity of the wind, 40 per cent, for cloudiness, 20 
l)er cent, for rain, 24 per cent, for temperature, and 23 for thunder- 
storms. 

103. [It would seem that Germany is troubled like America, where 
Vennor and Wiggins have for a long time vexed the ])ublic. The real 
remedy evidently consists in a better education of the public. When 
every person comes to understand that weather predictions do not de- 
pend upon astronomical configurations, but upon the solution of com- 
plicated problems, in which the topography and rotation of the earth, 
the moisture in the air, and the sohir heat are the principal factors, they 
will, it is to be hoped, have learned to distinguish between the true 
meteorologists and the ordinary weather prophet of the admanac, even 



284 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

as they have alreatly learned to distiugnish between tbe educated pro'- 
fessional physician and the uneducated quack.] {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 
383.) 

104. Dr. A. Winkelmann states that in his previous work he showed 
the results of verifying rain predictions by considering only how many 
stations within the prescribed region for which the predictions were 
made had rain at the appointed time. From this he showed how, 
with the help of the knowledge thus obtained, we can so define the 
boundaries of the regions for which predictions are made that the 
separate stations in each group should have the greatest uniformity of 
weather. He showed that a verification of or agreement as to rainfall 
occurred at 85 per cent, of the stations, and that if all were divided into 
two groups the most advantageous arrangement could possibly only give 
87 percent. In this work Winkelmanu had considered only the occur- 
rence of rain without considering its quantity. He now offers a short 
study on the agreement of stations in any region as to the quantity of 
Tain, or what per cent, of the total annual precipitation falls on those 
days for which these stations show a behavior different from that at 
the majority of stations. To this purpose he selects thirteen stations 
in Wiirtemberg, and first shows that for any station on 85.5 per cent, of 
days its weather agrees with that of the majority of stations. He then 
shows that the total rain that falls on the remaining 14.5 per cent, of 
the days amounts only to 5.49 per cent, of the total rainfall of the year; 
and, again, that on a rainy day at any station, which is also a rainy day 
for a majority of the stations, there falls 4.81 times as much rain as on 
a day when its rainfall is not accompanied by rain at other stations. 
He finally urges the imjiortance of hourly or self registers, one of which 
he has constructed. (/>. M. Z., i, p. 387.) 

105. W. Koppen, at the first regular meeting of the German Meteoro- 
logical Association, Hamburg, November 18, J 883, gave a short account 
of his new method of verifying weather predictions. In the same man- 
ner as we examine the connection between different phenomena of na- 
ture, so can we investigate the connection between predicted and actual 
weather. Thus, if w^e count how often after a given prediction the 
weather has any one of the several given characters, then must this clas- 
sification show whether there really was any scientific base for the pre- 
-diction ; if there was no such basis the numbers indicating the actual 
weather would show an entire independence of the prediction if a sufii- 
cient number of cases be examined. His examples show that the tem- 
perature predictions from day to day were sufiBciently verified to justify 
the belief in a rational system of predictions, but the predictions from 
month to month afford no such conclusion. (D. M. Z., i, pp. 39, 40.) 

106. The Deutsche Seewarte states that our present methods of veri- 
fying weather predictions, which had their origin in America [namely 
at the Signal Office in 1871J, and which have been used in Germany since 
1877, consist in this, that the individual predictions are analyzed into 



METEOROLOGY. 285 

their elements, tbe latter compared with the resulting factt? arranged 
in a series of from three to five categories, according to the proportion of 
their verification, and from these the percentage of verified and not veri- 
fied is computed. The verification has, therefore, the character of a 
judgment or opinion ; the arbitrariness that occurs in the grouping of 
the separate values can be very much limited by the exact prescription 
of the terms allowed to be used in the predictions, but it remains very 
difficult to remove all option, and the effort greatly increases the diffi- 
culty of making the verification. Still more difficult is it to make veri- 
fications for different regions of prediction, in order to obtain comparable 
figures that will give bases for estimating the success of the predictions 
within these districts, the value of the so-called local influences [and 
the relative ability of different persons who make predictions]. Espec- 
ially has the present method the great objection that no account is taken 
of the doctrine of chances, and it is chance especially that must be taken 
into consideration in estimating the success or failure of a weather pre- 
diction ; it is evident that this accidental chance of success is, however, 
not 50 per cent., as some are occasionally liable to assume, but the per- 
centage due to chance must lie within very wide limits, according to the 
frequency of the occurrence of any meteorological phenomena; for ex- 
ample, predictions of thunder-storms which are verified to less than 30 
])er cent, can be very good, while predictions of wind force, whose veri- 
fication can exceed 80 per cent., may be worse than if they had beeni 
based only upon the well-known general character of the weather of the^ 
season. For instance, Kiippen's table shows that if we had for the whole 
summer uniformly predicted light and moderate winds, we would have 
attained nearly 100 per cert and have avoided three mistakes out of 
the five predictions of fresh or strong winds ; on the other hand, out 
of 32 predicted thunder-storms 10, or 31 per cent., occurred, and 22, or 
69 per cent., failed, but had we made predictions by chance we should 
have attained 22 per cent, of verifications. There is, therefore, need of 
some niethod which will give assurance whether and how far this class 
of predictions is based upon a real foundation. A method has been pro- 
loosed by Dr. Koppen and has been tested by application to predictions 
for June, July, and August, 1884. In this method of verifying, the pre- 
dictions for the northwest division of Germany as published in the daily 
bulletin are compared directly with the observations at the Hamburg 
Seewarte. The temperature observations are divided into three classes, 
according as they are more than 2° below or above, or in agreement 
with the normal for the month (or possibly: the day). The tem])erature 
changes in twenty-four hours are divided into three classes, according 
as the thermometers have fallen or risen more thantio or remained in- 
variable. Cloudiness is classified as clear, cloudy, and overcast ; strength 
of wind is classified as feeble or moderate, fresh or heavy,^«tormy. The 
wind direction and weather are similarly divided. The verifications are 
summed up in tables wlijish show, .tk^t the poeftdifjtioas aw J:>ai«i^d uj>on 



286 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOli 1884. 

correct kuowledge, since pure cliance would otherwise give the same 
number of verifications and failures in each of the classes. (Z>. M. Z., 
I, p. 397.) 

107. [We are not able to see any radical difference between the exact 
method here proposed by Dr. Koppeii and the actual experience of the 
Signal Office since 1873, at which time the expressions allowed to be 
used in prediction and the method of verifying began to be reduced to 
rules which have remained in force, except a slight steady change to- 
ward greater severity. We do not understand that by choosing Ham- 
burg as an example by which to \ (^rify predictions for Northwest Ger- 
many, he means to imply that in a perfect system one should not take 
a number of other stations in Northwest G trmany, going through a sim- 
ilar process of verifications for each one and take the average of the 
whole as representing the general percentage of verification for the 
whole district; this latter is essentially the process used for each of 
the districts recognized by the Signal Office. These districts were at- • 
tempted to be so limited geographically that the average chance of ver- 
ification at any one station (85 per cent.) should be equal to the average 
uniformity of geograi^hical distribution of any one feature of the weather 
over that district,which latter was also estimated at about 85 per cent., 
and although these limits were fixed in 1871 they have not needed ma- 
terial change. The criterion just mentioned is evidently that which 
will give us the greatest economy in the use of words to predict the 
weather for the whole of a large territory like the United States. It 
was considered incumbent upon the predictor to distinctly predict for 
twenty -four hours in advance in regard to the weather, wind-direction, 
temperature, and pressure changes for every portion of the country, and 
yet but rarely more" than twenty minutes of time was available for this 
prediction owing to the late hour (11 p. 31.) when the observations were 
made and the imperatve necessity of finishing the predictions by 1 A. m. 
The necessity for the utmosteconomy of time and words thus led to the use 
of districts and their limitations in accordance with the above principle.) 

III.— (a) Aeronautics; (6) Thermometers and Dew-point; (c) 
Barometers; {d) Anemometers; (c) Eain- gauges; (/) Miscella- 
neous APPARATUS ; {(j) Methods of reduction. 

108. The Godard captive balloon seems to be a commercial success, 
as we see that it has lately been set up in connection with the Interna- 
tional Exhibition at Turin, where short ascents are made, as at Paris and 
Loudon. Father Denza proposes to have meteorological observations 
taken from the balloon. {Nature, xxx, p. 181.) 

109. [The Army Signal Office has arranged for a number of ascen- 
sions for meteorological observations.] 

110. J. W. Clark, in reference to the condensation of liquid films on 
wet solids, a matter that is of vital importance in the use of the dew- 
point apparatus, submits some notes and experiments which will afford 



METEOROLOGY '287 

good starting points for those at work on the theory of this apparatus. 
[Nature^ xxvii, p. 370.) 

111. [Ahnost the only way to get a physically clean surface of glass 
is by heating it in concentrated sulphuric acid, to which a little nitric 
acid has been added, and then heating, after washing with pure water 
to remove the acid ; such a glass surface exposed to the air for a short 
time is generally imperfectly wetted by water. The hygroscopic prop- 
erties of physically clean surfaces probably need full elucidation be- 
fore the dew-point ai)paratus can become a jjerfectly accurate physical 
apparatus.] 

112. H. Kapeller has modified the construction of his combined maxi- 
mum and minimum thermometer so as to secure the greatest simplicity 
and still accomplish a transportable, safe, and economical instrument. 
{Z. 0. G. M., XVIII, p. 225.) 

113. Dr. R. Leuz described a method of utilizing the telephone for 
the measurement of temperatures at distant points which is applicable 
up to distances of 25 kilometers. {Nature, xxx, p. 346.) 

114. Prof. William Forster describes some results of investigations 
into accuracy of thermometers carried out by the German Kormal Stand- 
ards Commission. Passing from the errors of the mercurial thermome- 
ter he considered the air thermometer, and showed that the chemical 
composition of the glass bulb affects even that, as experiments showed 
that all gases are more or less absorbed by the glass, and the more so 
the longer the gas remains in contact with the inner wall of the bulb, 
thus affecting the result among the hundredths of a degree. {Nature, 
xxx, p. 652.) 

115. Prof. R. Weber has made a most laborious examination of the 
influence of the chemical constituents of the glass upon the depression 
of the freezing point of thermometers ; he finds the best results with a 
pure potash alkaline glass free from soda, and it is probable that he will 
be able to construct a special glass in which the troublesome source of 
error is reduced to a minimum. (D. M. Z., i, p. 286.) 

116. O. Pettersson, of Stockholm, proposes improved methods for 
measurement of heat, namely, that the measurements should be made 
at a constant temperature and that the ice calorimeter of Bunseu should 
be improved by directly transforming the heat into work. In order to 
maintain a constant temperature he had recourse to a thermometric 
combination which proved unsatisfactory and substituted a method of 
measuring the work done by isothermic expansion of air. In this way he 
is able to measure the mechanical effect of radiations the caloric energy 
of which was only 0,08 gramme-calorie per minute. {Nature, xxx, p. 
321.) 

117. Mr. G. M. Whipple, of Kew, communicates preliminary results 
as to the discrepancies between various black bulbs in vacuo; he finds 
that among other things the effect of successively increasing the thick- 
ness of the coat of lamp-black is to raise the temperature, and that the 



288 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

size of the thermometer bulb and of the inclosure is also important. 
[The complete theory of the Arago-Davy conjugate thermometers or 
actinometer has been worked out by Professor Ferrel and is fully 
given in his recent memoir on "Temperature of the Earth's Surface."] 
{Nature, xxix, p. 208.) 

. 118. J, T. Bottomly communicated to the Montreal meeting of the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science, the preliminary 
results of a course of experiments on the loss of heat by radiation and 
convection for bodies of difl'erent dimensions. His experiments are 
made on wires of different sizes both covered and bare, both in ordi- 
nary air and very rarefied air, the wire being heated by an electric cur- 
rent ; he finds that, other things being the same, the smaller the wire 
the greater the emissivity 5 for a diminution of air pressure the emis- 
sivity decreases slowly down to one-half or one-third of the ordinary 
air pressure, after which it becomes very great as the vacuum becomes 
more complete. {Nature, xxx, p. 523.) 

119. Dr. Maurer, of Zurich, contributes a study on the application of 
air thermometers to meteorological observations. He employed a thin 
polished cylindrical copper vessel 5'=" in diameter and 44"™ long, and 
also a thin brass cylinder lO*'™ radius ; in each receptacle was hermet- 
ically sealed a normal mercurial thermometer and the copper vessel 
then filled with pure dry air. This was then established in a double- 
louvre thermometer shelter of sheet zinc in which were also two mer- 
curial thermometers, the whole being constructed entirely in accordance 
with the results of Professor Wild's investigations into the proper 
method of thermometer exposure for thedetermination of the temjjera- 
ture of the air. 

The two free thermometers at a distance of 25<"" from each other 
agreed always within one or two tenths of a degree, but with regard 
to the thermometers within the metallic receptacle the following may 
be noted: If the temperature variations are slight and always slowly, 
steadily, rising or falling, then the inclosed thermometers follow these 
changes quite rapidly ; if the temperature changes are rapid and large, 
followed by a constant temperature, the receptacles also follow closely; 
but if the changes are rapid in opposite directions, as happens in thunder- 
storms, partly cloudy weather, or alternating calms and winds, then 
there is no agreement whatever between the free and the inclosed ther 
mometers, differences of one or more degrees being quite common. He 
therefore concludes that all records with such self-registering air ther- 
mometers must be accepted with great caution, as they frequently give 
results that have no scientific value. From a theoretical point of 
view it can be easily shown, as he has done, that the conduction of heat 
alone will bring the thermometers to equilibrium in about four minutes 
if inclosed within a brass sphere as above and exposed to a sudden 
change of air temperature of one degree. {Z. 0. G. J/., xviii, p. 334.) 

120. Pr. C. Langj of Munich, describes the simple me|;hod of deter- 



METEOROLOGY. 289 

mining the temperature of lakes, springs, and rivers at sliglit depths as 
adopted at the Bavarian stations. [As similar observations are made 
at all the Signal Service stations, and are desirable for all parts of the 
world, it is well to establish uniform rules and methods.] In Bavaria, 
as in the United States, a small metallic vessel is lowered to the desired 
depth, filled with water, and brought to the surface. The thermometer, 
being always in i)lace within the vessel, the reading should be made as 
soon as possible after pulling the apparatus u]). Among the precau- 
tions to be observed, the most important is the necessity for allowing 
the whole apparatus to remain in the water at the proper deptli for a 
sufficiently long time before the observation is to be made. Since the 
water penetrates into all parts of the apparatus as it is lowered into 
position, we shall obtain only an average indefinite temi)eratnro datum 
unless the whole is left at the proper depth until the water and the metal 
attain the proper temperature ; in fact, it is best to leave the apparatus 
in the water for the whole time intervening between two observ^ations. 
With the apparatus used in Bavaria Dr. Lang finds that two or three 
minutes, at least, are required before the thermometer within the case 
experiences any change of temperature, after being taken out of the 
water. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 307.) 

121. A. Angot, of Paris, publishes in the annals of the Central Meteor- 
ological Bureau a new determination of the constant of the psychrome- 
ter formula, based on 3,G70 comparisons with dew-point apparatus, and 
made partly at Paris, and partly on the summit of the Puy-de-Dome. 
He fiuds that the value of A varies with the difference t — t', and con- 
structs tables accordingly. 

122. [The results of Aiiget's work seem still to require revision in 
order to adapt the formula to the extreme conditions which are found 
in the United States. It has, therefore, been Ibund necessary to pur- 
sue an extensive farther system of observations at Wasliington, Pike's 
Peak, and Yuma, the results of which will be eventually deduced by 
Professor Ferrel, of the Signal Office, wlio has already completed a 
thorough analytical study of the theory of the psychrometer. It is, 
however, evident that the various forms of dew-point apparatus have 
also peculiar systematic errors, and our next attention must be given to 
these.] 

123. A. Sprung suggests a new method for determining the dew- 
point. He says, correctly, that it is difficult to determine the exact 
moment when condensation begins in the ordinary use of the Eegnault 
api)aratus, and especially when the temperature is below freezing. He 
suggests that it would be much more convenient and safe to observe 
the moment of condensation when the cooling of the air takes place, 
not in a thin layer, but through its whole mass, so that the condensed 
vapor shall appear as fog. He proposes to produce this condensation 
by a rapid change of volume, using a small air-pump, connecting with 
it a cylindrical receiver whose ends are closed with brass plates j the 

S. Mis. 33 ]9 



290 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

pistou of the pump to have its motion limited by a motionless screw so 
that the exact amount of its motion and consequently of the expansion 
and cooling of the air can easily be determined. 

124. [Esijy's nepheloscope seems to have realized Spning's idea. 
Many observations with it are given in Espy's works.] {Z. 0. G. M., 
XVIII, p. 403.) 

125. Professor Crova, in the Meteorological Bulletin of the depart- 
ment of Hernault, gives some exami^les of the use of his new form of 
dew point apparatus known as the hygrometer with interior condensa- 
tion. The advantage of this method consists in this, that the precipi- 
tation is not influenced by the currents of air, which by their strength 
and variability interfere with Regnault's apparatus. Even with the 
greatest dryness of the air Crova's apparatus gives good results when 
Regnault's refuses to work. In the illustrative observations given by 
Crova we find, as was to be expected, that Regnault's apparatus gives 
dew-points too low by as much as 1^.6 C. [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 45.) 

126. R. H. Scott has published the results of observations made in 
different forms of thermometer shelters and at different altitudes for the 
purpose of determining the influence of these circumstances upon the 
recorded temperature and moisture of the air. 

127. [As a means of deciding on the relative merits of various methods 
of exposure of thermometers this important series of observations lacks 
one essential, namely, simultaneous observations of the true tempera- 
ture of the air of each locality taken by some method whose theory can 
be accurately investigated ; this essential has lately been supplied by 
Ferrel's studies into the theory of the ordinary thermometer, the whirl- 
ing psychrometer, and other apparatus.] 

128. Taking these records as they stand, Hann shows that the daily 
range of temperature diminishes with the height above ground by an 
amount equal to lo.3 C.,in the annual means for exposures, respectively, 
10 and 129 feet above the earth. The lower exposures invariably show 
a higher vapor tension and dew-point than the upper, but the relative 
humidity has no such regularity. Classifying the observations accord- 
ing to the conditions of ihe sky, as being either perfectly clear or per- 
fectly cloudy, rainj' or foggy, he finds that at all times of day, winter 
and summer, during fog the temperature increases with the altitude. 
The differences between temperatures at high and low stations are small- 
est during rain. During clear weather, in the evening, the temperature 
increases with the altitude, but at mid-day it diminishes rapidly; at 9 
A. M., in clear weather, in winter, it is warmer above than below. {Z. 
0. G. j¥.,xviii, p. 395.) 

129. Dr. R. Assmann in some remarks upon the sling-i)sychrometer, 
states that an observation of the temperature of air perfectly free from 
objectionable features is a matter of the greatest rarity in meteorology ; 
so difficult is it to attain a thoroughly satisfactory exposure. Until re- 
cently (and even now in many Prussian, English, American, and otUei' 



METEOROLOGY. 291 

stations) tlie tbermometer is bung in tlie open air against tlie wall of 
some house, entirely unprotected from rain and radiation and without 
any uniform altitude above the earth's surf;ice. Even the most careful 
observations (made in the large thermometer shelter of the Magdeburg- 
observatory, constructed according to all the rules of the art according to 
Wild's plans) show tlwit many errors are still api)arent which interfere with 
the general reliability of this method. During the rapid changes at suii- 
rise and sunset the thermometer in the Wild shelter is very much behind 
the true temperature, especially in calm weather. The wooden louvre 
work and tbe quiescent air within require an appreciable time to change 
their temperature; moreover, we do not wish the temi)erature of amass 
of air thus inclosed, but that of the free air as affected bj radiation. 
It is necessary that the thermometer should give the temperature of tbe 
air with the greatest accuracy, and yet follow the temperature changes 
with great rapidity ; it must be protected from radiation and rain. The 
temperatue must be independent of incidental local surroundings, the 
method must be available with the cheapest possible apparatus, and be 
concludes that the sling-thermometer, hitherto biit little used in Ger- 
many, is the best and most appropriate for general use. It is to a high 
degree sensitive, tbe injurious influence of calms is overcome by its 
rapid movements through the air; tbe radiation has almost no influence 
upon it; even in tbe full sunlight it can be easily protected from rain; 
tbe observer can choose a shady place, and tbe apparatus is the cheapest 
imaginable. Still more is all this true of the psychrometer, which as it 
is now generally used is acknowledged to be tbe most uncertain instru- 
ment in meteorology. It is easy for the observer to give tbe sling psy- 
chrometer such a linear velocity that it will be brought down to the 
proper temperature in a few seconds; some experiments by Assmann 
show that it required only one-ninth of the time given to a stationary 
psychrometer, tbe velocity used by him being G meters per second. The 
form of sling-psychrometer recommended by Assmann is manufactured 
by Fuess of Berlin; it consists of two delicate mercurial thermometers 
divided to one half degrees; these are mounted upon a fork-shaped 
wooden stand through which a silk thread is drawn. The price complete 
is 13 marks. {Z. 0. 0. M., xix, p. 154.) 

130. [Tbe sling-psychrometer, in a well-contrived shape, was issued 
by the late Dr. T. Craig, of the Surgeon-General's Office, in 18G8, to all 
the observers at Army posts, where it is probably now- in occasional use. 
Numerous experiments with various forms of this instrument have been 
made by Prof H. A. Hazen at the Army Signal Oftice during tbe past 
few years, and it is evident that either it or the whirled thermometer or 
tbe ventilation psychrometer are the only ones that can be recomtnended 
for accurate observations, as it is thoroughly essential that a nearly 
uniform rapid current of air should flow past the thermometer.] 

131. Prof. H. Wild makes a lengthy reply to Dr. Assmann's communi- 
cation and gives in full his own views asS to the preseTit Qondition ofQUp 



202 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

knowledge of the nietbods of (letermiuiiig the temperature aud nioistuie 
of the air. He lays it down as a criterion by which to judge of the ex- 
cellence of any thermometer shelter, that if we place within the shelter 
a ventilating apparatus and read the thermometers both with and with- 
out ventilation iheu the exposure is satisfactory if on the average no 
greater difference occurs than ±0°.l C. He then states that the ex- 
periments demonstrate that the motion of the thermometer through the 
air as in the rotation and the sling thermometers or the movement of the 
air past the thermometer, as in the Italian ventilated thermometer, is 
a much less effectual method of overcoming the effects of radiation than 
is the simi)le protection of the thermometer in a properly constructed 
shelter such as his own. [The actual effect of each has been pretty 
thoroughly studied by Ferrel and Hazen.J He recommends urgently 
tlie avoidance of large wooden shelters or other masses of wood, as they 
must retard the temperature changes. 

132. [In 18G5-'GG the present writer, while residing at Poulkova Ob- 
servatory and studying atmospheric refraction, constructed a ther- 
mometer screen of oiled paper, which is possibly still there, and placed 
within it bright and black bulb thermometers side by side, adopting as 
the criterion of excellence of the screen that it must be a perfect pro- 
tection from outside radiations if these two thermometers read alike, 
w hich they in fact generally did. The theory of this method and the 
formula tor correcting the bright bulb in case of any small difference 
have been lately given b3" Ferrel in his inemoir on temperature. A quite 
thorough investigation of the merits of various thermometer shelters 
and the relative effect of solar, terrestrial, and instrumental radiation 
and ( f convection by wind has been recently made by H. A. Hazen, 
from which it would appear that the Wild shelter (a wooden lattice-work 
inclosing a sheet-zinc screen with th,5 thermometers inside) does not 
quite give sufficient ventilation for warm climates; in fact, the meteor 
oK:>gist needs the temperature and moisture of the free air, and the 
criterion of a good shelter must be that the thermometer within gives 
the same temperature as the thermometer outside, after correcting the 
hitter for solar and other radiations, the formuhe for which have also 
been given by Ferrel.] In reference to determining the moisture of 
the air Wild relies largely ui)on the studies of Sworykin, who found 
that with a wind of definite and sufficiently high velocity the j)sychrom- 
eter, with ventilation, gives verj'^ accurate results as compared with 
Alluard's dew-poiut, apparatus and Schwackhofer's volume hygrometer. 
He recognizes the value of the rotationpsychrometer and the sling- 
])syclirometer, but thinks on account of the time required these meth- 
ods should only be employed at special stations, and that for ordinary 
use it is only necessary to add to his own shelter a ventilating appa- 
ratus fastened to the floor of the shelter, and which is rotated by the 
hand rapidly just before making an observation ; this draws the air 
from below up into the shelter and gives the necessary ventilation for 
both dry and wet thermometers. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 433.) 



METEOROLOGY. 29o 

133. [The depeiideiice of the psycbrometer constant upon the veloc- 
ity of the wind, and the effect of barometric pressure, especially at such 
high altitudes as Pike's Peak, are matters that are now being inves- 
tigated by the Signal Ofiice, and it is to be hoped that Ibrmulse and 
tables which may be approved by the International Congress of meteor- 
ologists will soon be available. But still more desirable is it that some 
im[)roved dew-point, chemical or other metbod may be inventedv prac- 
ticable for daily use by all observers, and calculated to replace the 
psychrometer.] 

134. R. Fuess, of Berlin, describes the Assmann anemograph and 
the Sprung-Fuess auemograph, both as made by himself in a high style 
of elegance and perfection. The latter apparatus cost 1,100 marks, and 
is more complicated than that of the former, whose price is 630 marks, 
but the JSpruug-Fuess overcomes several difiliculties, and is probably 
more desirable. Both are in working order at several stations. {D. M. 
Z., p. 350.) 

135. Professor Bornstein, of Berlin, has constructed a pressure ane- 
mometer, consisting essentially of a ball 126""" in diameter at the top 
of a heavy vertical rod, which at some distance below is supported by 
a gimbal or universal joint ; from the lower end of the rod hangs a wire 
by means of which record is made of the deflection ,of the rod from the 
veitical. {Nature, xxix, p. 2S0.) 

136. Dr. Maurer, of Zurich, has established at the station on the very 
summit of the Siintis a self-recording anemometer specially made by 
Munro, of London, for this station. He gives a description of the ap- 
paratus and the lightning protection which may be of value to those 
establishing mountain stations elsewhere. ^ With reference to self- 
recording thermometers he states that the experiments of Prof A. 
Fischer showed uniformly that metallic spirals, &c., always lag behind 
tlie true temperature of the laud. The same result has been deduced 
by ilaun in comparing a Hottinger metal thermograi)h with a Theorell 
self- registering mercurial. Maurer has therefore introduced the so- 
called upset thermometer invented by Kegretti and Zambra. {Z. 0. 
G. i¥., xviii, p. 411.) 

137. [The comparison between the normal or standard barometers 
used in the various national observatories and weather services has 
progressed but slowly through the past year. Owing to the sickness of 
Professor Waldo the extensive and important work undertaken by him 
at St. Petersburg, Berlin, Hamburg, Paris, London, and Washington 
has not as yet been discussed and made available.] 

138. Denza has published the results of the barometric comparisons 
made by Tacchini and Chistoni, from which we quote the following : 

The normal barometers at St. Petersburg, Paris (College de France), 
Kew, and Moncalieri agree with each other to within 0.05™™. The 
barometers at Greenwich, Geneva, Stockholm, Vienna, and Algiers are 
less than 0.05™™ higher than the St, Petersburg normal. The barome- 



294 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOil 1884 

ters at Hamburg, Copenhagen, and Munich are about 0.2™"'. higher than 
the St. Petersburg standard. {Z. O. G. M., xviir, p. 359.) 

139. X. von Klobukofi' describes the method of Bogen for filling 
barometer tubes and explains his own improvement thereupon. It con- 
sists, essentially, in attaching to the main tube another glass tube of 
about equal length by a short flexible-rubber tube. Mercury is poured in 
through the latter, and by a proper manipulation the first is filled, with 
but little chance of leaving any air bubbles. The method is applicable 
to barometer tubes of all kinds. Sprung remarks that by warming the 
mercury the filling is materially assisted. Whipple, of Kew, considers 
the Bogen method (unless the temperature is elevated somewhat) infe- 
rior to that of Captain George, who sweeps the bubbles of air out of the 
tube by means of a feather. The method of Bogen is used to a consid- 
erable extent at the Hamburg Seewarte. (D. M. Z., i, p. 289.) 

140. Professor Mendeleef, of St. Petersburg, has during the past few 
years made a large number of improvements in apparatus for measuring 
the density of the air, as also in barometers, and has done much to deter- 
mine the law of density of the air at various temperatures and press- 
ures ; he has among other things shown that as the rarefaction of gases 
goes on a maximum volume or limit is reached, like the minimum or 
limit for compression, so that the gas when rarefied does not merge into 
the luminous ether,»but becomes, so to speak, like a solid body, so that 
the atmosphere of the earth has a limit. {ISfature, xxvii, p. 568.) 

141. H. Dufour and H. Amstein have described a new form of self-regis- 
tering barometer, based upon a new principle, and which is distinguished 
above all others by the simplicity and ease of its construction, as well 
as by the accuracy and sensitiveness of its records. The principle con- 
sists in this, that the changes in atmospheric pressure shall alter the 
position of the center of gravity of a free column of mercury, and that 
these changes shall be recorded in the simplest possible manner. The 
barometer tube is bent at right angles to itself and is fastened to a hor- 
izontal axis perpendicular to the plane of the bent tube, consequently 
the rise and fall of mercury in this tube alters its center of gravity and 
its position of equilibrium. A poiuter is attached to the axis, and, turn- 
ing with it, gives a magnified record of the changes of i^ressure. The 
authors call this form of apparatus the " Hebel" or lever barometer. 
They develop the theory of the barometer and the methods of install- 
ing and correcting it, and give numerous observations. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XVII, p. 294.) 

142. W. Kiippen, in some remarks upon the use of the barometer as a 
means of measuring gravity, compares together the suggestions of von 
Wlillerstorf-Urbair, Zoppritz, Siemens, Mascart, and others, and shows 
how little likelihood there is of deducing from this anything of value in 
comparison with the pendulum observations of the geodesist. He takes 
occasion to state that it is much more proper to correct the readings of the 
mercurial barometer so as to reduce to a standard gravity of •ib'^ than 
to neglect this and apply the reverse correction of the aneroid barom- 



METEOROLOGY. 295 

eter, for it is certainly rnore scientific and important that we slionld in 
tliis way obtain a correct measure of the gradient force that prodnces 
the movements of the atmosphere, and it is much to be desired that 
this reduction should be applied generally to iudividual observations 
rather than to monthly and annual averages. As the Signal Service 
has announced the adoption (on and after January 1, 1885) of this cor- 
rection in its publications, he hopes that the co-operation of other me- 
teorologists may be prompt and general. [D. ]\L Z., i, p. 323.) 

143. Prof. R. Bornsteiu, of Berlin, has discussed the value of the ingen- 
ious suggestion nuide by Professor Nipher, of Saint Louis, that a protec- 
tion in the form of a funnel be given to a rain-gauge in order that the 
influence of eddies of wind around the mouth of the gauge may be 
diminished. After recounting some of the theories explanatory of the 
diminution in the catch of rainfall, all of which have been reduced 
to one, namely, the greater formation of eddies by the stronger winds 
at high exposures, he states that Nipher's proposition seeming per- 
fectly rational it was tested by experiments by himself. Two simi- 
lar rain-guages, having receiving surfaces of 500 square centimeters, 
sucli as are used at the stations of the Deutsche Seewarte, were estab- 
lished near each other, one protected, the other unprotected ; both were 
on the roof of the Berlin Agricultural High School, near the southwest 
corner, and 26™ above the ground. The position of the gauges was 
changed several times within narrow limits on the roof. The greatest 
individual difference between the catches of the two gauges was during 
alight rain in January, and amounting to over 500 per cent., the pro- 
tected gauge giving the larger figure. The annual average difference 
was about 11.5 per cent. There is therefore no doubt as to the general 
value of Cipher's invention ; but this becomes still more remarkable if 
we classify the precipitation, whence we find the ratios or the catch of 
the unsheltered divided by that of the sheltered gauge. The figures are 
as follows : For snow, the ratio is 0.54; for fine rain, 0.66; for rain and 
snow, 0.82 ; for rain with hail, 0.89 ; for rain, 0.90 ; for heavy rain, O.Oli ; 
whence it seems that Nipher's device gives the rain-gauge a better i)ro- 
tection, and that it therefore makes better measurements in proportion 
as the wind can more easily deflect the precipitation ; and in general his 
device does better in proportion as the wind is stronger. Perhaps the 
most important defect in the Cipher gauge is that with heavy sno\\ fall 
the protecting funnel is soon filled up, and then ceases to work. (7), M- 
Z., I, p. 381). 

144. Dr. C. Lang, of Munich, has experimentally investigated the quan- 
tity of rainfall as dependent on the shape of the rain-gauge, an investiga- 
tion which, as he says, is the more important now that weare establishing 
such a great additional number of rainfall stations and are about to 
discuss the climatic conditions of various portions of limited regions, 
where the natural differences will be slight and comparable with tbe 
errors of observation. In general we do not in meteorology exi^ect ab- 
solutely correct measures of any element, but are satisfied if uniformity 



296 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

is attaiiiou, even ii' slight coustaut errors remain; but in rainfall lueasiiies 
even uniformity has never yet been obtained. Thus the new reorganiza- 
tion of the official stations in Bavaria in 1878 has been productive- of an 
abrupt change in the rainfall records, due to improved instruments and 
exposures, by virtue of which some stations record twice as much rain 
and others only I wo thirds as much as they formerly did. It is correctly 
concluded on the basis of several investigations (Bache, Symons, Jevons, 
&c.) that the greater part of this irregularity is due to the wind and its in- 
fluence either on local distribution or on the instrument and its exposure. 
To obviate this latter, rain-gauges have been established in pits or hol- 
lows, so that their apertures are protected from severe wind, but none of 
these are appropriate forthemeasuremeutof snow, which is easily whirled 
out of the gauge unless the latter is furnished with a conical rim; but in 
any case, however, the measurement of the snow is not of so great import- 
ance, becauseithardly formsone-eighth of therainfall. [Thislatter, which 
is true for most civilized countries, is, of course, not quite true for some 
regions in which meteorology has an especial interest, namely, the ex- 
treme north and south temperate and polar regions and those in which 
glaciers have a tendency to form.] Lang's views as to the proper form 
of a rain and snow gauge were originally about as follows: A conical ad- 
dition as a cap to the gauge will give the wind that blows along its sur- 
face an upward tendency, depending upon the strength of the wind, the 
size and inclination of the conical surface; the air thus forced up will 
carry with it a definite zone of particles, which will depend upon the 
strength of the wind and the size of the surface. Since now, for gauges 
whose mouihs have different sizes and are furnished with the conical 
caps, the sloping surface of the latter increases as the diameter, but the 
catching surface as the square of the diameter, it is evident that by 
reason of this conical cap the ascending air currents will be of more im- 
portance in iiroportion to the ratio between the surface of the cone and 
the mouth, that is to say, in proportion as the gauge is of smaller dimen- 
sions, for the current carries away from the mouth the suspended drops 
of rain or flakes of snow. This source of error is unavoidable, but by a 
proper selection of ratios can be made very small. Lang has, therefore, 
chosen the following four forms for experimental comparisons: 

1. Of the same form as that used at the Bavarian stations since 1878, 
namely, a cjliuder about 40 centimeters diameter, surmounted by a 
cone whose vertical angle is about 60°, and so truncated that the aper- 
ture or mouth of the gauge has a diameter 25.2 centimeters, or an area 
of 2V of ^ square meter. 

2. A similar gauge whose cylinder has about 20 centimeters diameter, 
and whose cap has an aperture of 10 centimeters, or ^ of a square 
meter. 

3. A gauge similar to No. 1 and cylinder of the same size, but with a 
conical cap tb truncated that the mouth has a diameter IG centimeters, 
namelj% the same size as the mouth of No. 2. 



METEOROLOGY. 



297 



4. A simple cyliudrical gan![>e 25.2 aperture, or /„ .square meter, 
wliicb, of course, liaviug uo conical surface, vsliould give results free from 
any error the latter mny introduce. 

This latter proved wholly unreliable in drifting snow ; the comparison, 
tUereibre, between these as snow-gauges was given up for the present, 
but as regards rainfall during the summer months the following results 
are expressed in percentage of the catch given by No. 1, namely: Xo. 1, 
100; No. 2, 97.5; No. 3, 95 ; Iso. 4, 99. The small catch of No. 3 may be 
due partly to the general poor results given by small apertures, but if pre- 
vious hypotheses were correct must also be partly due to the increased 
ratio between the inclined conical surface and the aperture of the gauge. 
These two results, however, suggest that so far as the heavier rainfall of 
the year is concerned one need not be very anxious about the instruments, 
provided they are not too small ; the more important question will be as 
to the proper exposure of the gauges and radical difl'erences in the struct- 
ure or shapes of the gauges. At Munich th^ gauges of the Central 
Meteorological Station, and that at the Observatory of Bogenhausen 
2.7 kilometers apart, on the average of several years, with comparable 
instruments of this same pattern, show that 8.6 per cent, less precipita- 
tion fell on the right than on the left bank of the river Isar, while for a 
period of nine months of special comparative observations 10 per cent, 
less fell on the right than on the left side. Si)ecial observations are now 
being made in this region at three other stations, namely, on the roof 
of one of the public buildings of the city and on the grounds of two of 
the observatory buildings. The differences between the records are such 
that at least live stations would seem necessary if we would have a cor- 
rect result as to the distribution of rain over a spnce of one English mile 
s(iuare, or at the rate of 3,500 stations for one division of Bavaria. We 
must conclude, then, that meteorology will profit least of all by the ordi- 
nary rainfall measurements, although for hydrography and engineering 
they are very important. (Z). M. Z., i, j). 431.) 

145. G. J. Symons, in the British Rainfall for 1880, gives a collation 
of results as to the effect of elevation above the ground u})ou the quan- 
tity of rain caught by the rain-gauge. The following table shows the 
percentage of the upper gauge as compared with the amount caught by 
a aauge at the surface of the ground : 





Station. 


Altitude 
of the 
gauge. 


Per- 
centage. 




Feet. 

200 

213 

174 

100 

151 

112 

99 

90 

89 

87 

07 




53 


York 


60 


Derby 


80 




70 




54 


0\t()i(l 


01 




4'1 


Dublin 


00 




88 




72 




54 







298 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

We see from this that in general the average of 64 pet cent, will rep 
resent all these observations with equal accuracy, and that there is no sen- 
sible diminution in the quantity of rain from 67 up to 260feet above the 
earth's surface. It is also well known that there is only a slight per- 
centage of increase in the velocity of the wind as we go from 67 up to 2G0 
feet, and the conclusion drawn from other observations is, therefore, 
corroborated by this present table, according to which the rapid dimi- 
nution of rain caught by gauges whose altitudes are between zeroand GO 
feet is due almost wholly to the increase of the wind at the high alti- 
tudes. The large deviations from average results shown by different 
gauges, even at the same altitude, depend upon the shape of the rain- 
gauge and its location, and especially upon the configuration of those 
parts of the building that are near it. {Z. 0. G. i¥., xvii, p. 294.) 

[The results given by Bornstein (§143) show that this injurious effect 
of altitude is almost wholly neutralized by Cipher's improvement.] 

146. Capt. C. Rung, of Copenhagen, describes a form of self-registering 
rain-gauge which he calls the sine balance, wherein the weight of the 
water is balanced by a heavy lever arm; the water acts on a constant 
leverage, and the weight on a variable one the sine of whose angular 
variations is pro})ortional to the weight, and is recorded upon an end- 
less sheet of paper. The same principle applies to the record of evapo- 
ration, the growth of plants, &c. The cost of this ombrograph, as 
manufactured by Kemp & Lauritzen in Copenhagen, is about $75. (D. 
M. Z.,i, p. 461.) 

147. Dr. Maurer describes a form of self-registering rain-gauge which 
preserves a continuous record of the rainfall and the time; it is manu- 
factured by Hottinger, of Zurich, and has already been extensively in- 
troduced by Austrian, Roumanian, and other meteorological services. 
{Z. 0. G. .¥., XIX, p. 180.) 

148. Dr. Assmann, of Magdeburg, has established a station upon the 
Brocken, ^vhere he has erected a self-recording rain-gauge, which ap- 
parently runs without trouble throughout the whole winter; the snow 
caught therein is melted by the heat from the chimney, and immedi- 
ately flows to the measuring apparatus in the room below, thereby avoid- 
ing the great loss that occurs when strong winds blow. The rain-gauge 
is surrounded by a large shield of wire net work, as suggested by Mpher. 
The experiments have shown that snow at a temperature of — 6° centi- 
grade, on being thrown into the gauge,was within 6 seconds collected 
within the room below, as warm water at a temperature of 10°. An 
apparatus for the measurement of the quantity of frost formation that 
accumulates on every exposed surface is described as follows : Two iron 
rods, 1 meter high, have at their lower ends a wide-open flask, into 
which flows the water which may result fi-om any melting due to the 
sun's heat. One of these rods and flasks is exposed at the moment 
when the other is taken in ; when brought in all the frost upon the rod 



Meteorology. 299 

is melted and added to that which had been caught in the tiask. [Z. 
G.M., XVIII, p. 68.) 

149. Dr. W. Zenker states that after using for many years a method of 
determining the heights of clouds, which afterwards developed what is 
known as Braun's nephoskope, he then devised a method for photograph- 
ing the clouds, which, however, he was not able to put in practice until 
1882, and with his present experience he is able to describe an arrange- 
ment which he thinks will be thoroughly satisfactory, and which is 
about as follows : Two or three photographic cameras of the same focal 
length are needed, two of which are placed on the ends of a base line, their 
axes parallel to each other, directed toward the cloud, and simultaneously 
exposed and closed. His own apparatus has the focal length 0.5 meter, 
the objective being an achromatic telescope lens, the sensitive plate 
being set at the chemical focus for parallel rays. The plates are gelatine 
dry plates ; the simultaneous opening and closing of the a])paratus must 
be obtained by electric contact, so that only a momentary exposure will 
be made ; a third camera, stationed alongside of these two and parallel 
to them, can be exposed ten seconds later. By this third photograph 
the movements and changes in the clouds can be determined. We can 
also obtain this third photograph by a second exposure of either one of 
the first two cameras, which method has the advantage of being inde- 
pendent of the adjustment of the two axes. The distance of the two 
cameras from each other may ordinarily be 100 meters. There are three 
methods of pointing the cameras, each of which has its advantages : {!) 
if they are pointed towards the zenith we have the best position for 
determining the height of the clouds, while the direction and velocity 
of movement are determined directly without computation; the direc 
tion of the four principal points of the compass can be photographed 
upon the plate by the shadows of wires placed immediately above it; 
(2) pointing the camera towards the sun : this has the great advantage 
that we can utilize the picture of the sun's disk to obtain the direction 
or the i^arallelism of two directions with greatest safety ; measurement 
from the sun to the cloud gives us the parallax of the cloud to a minute 
of arc; (3) pointing the camera toward the horizon: this has the ad- 
vantage that the clouds are photographed in vertical section, and, 
moreover, there is no danger that any cloud feature appearing in one 
photograph will be obscured in the other by intervening portions of the 
same or other clouds ; but this advantage is balanced by the fact that 
the distance of the clouds in the horizon is alwaj^s great, and the base 
line of 100 meters must be proportionately increased ; an error in the 
direction of the axes of the cameras is therefore here of greater impor- 
tance, and to counteract this it is important to photograph on the 
same plate some distant object (e. g., a church spire), from which as a 
base the horizontal and vertical angular measurements can be made. 
Zenker states that we can thus follow in the cirrus clouds the sinking, 
step by step, of the upper warm and moist current of air ; the rising of 



SCO SCIENTIFIC RECORD TOR 1884 

the cuimilns clouds by day and their sinking by nigbt ; tbe true form 
of the thunder clouds and their method of growth, ;ind the locus within 
the cloud where the lightning is developed. {D. M. Z., i, i). 4.) 

150. [It seems strange that the numerous suggestions made in Eng- 
land, Germany, and America for many years past as to the use of pho- 
tography for determining the height of clouds should as yet have been 
earnestly taken up by only one person, Mr. W. Abney, who, in Septem- 
ber, 18S3, began active work on this subject at Kew, A beginning in 
this direction was made in 1871 by the Signal Office, and we are now 
promised that good work will be done by the photographers of the 
TJ. S. Geological Survey.] 

151. A. Richter proposes to determine the altitudes of clouds and 
their true velocity from observations made by two observers at quite a 
distance apart vertically instead of horizontally. This method is espe- 
cially applicable to mountain regions and to those who have access to 
very tall towers. {D. M. Z., i, p. 166.) 

152. Various forms of sound radiometers were described by Dworak 
to the Berlin Physical Society in ]March, 1881. [Either by these or by 
means of Edison's phonautograph we may still hope to obtain some 
method of measurement of the intensity of thunder. The gradual dying 
away of thunder and of the rolling noise frequently likened to an explo- 
sion emanating from a bright meteor can give us some information as 
to the condition of the atmosphere at high regions.] {Nature, xxix, 
p. 363.) 

153. J. H, Gladstone, as a member of the Commission for Light-Houses 
and Marine Signals, has expressed the necessity and possibility of estab- 
lishing some standard for the measurement of the density of fog. His 
observations show that only spots or streaks of country are covered at 
any one time with dense fog; that the fog is much more uniform over 
the sea than over the land, and that its geographical distribution is 
very irregular. Usually only a small portion of Great Britain is allected 
at any one time; the foggiest months are January and June ; J^^ovember 
is the foggy month for London, but not so for the rest of England. The 
foggiest portion of the coast is the southern i)oint of the Hebrides, and 
fog especially occurs where the wind from the sea is turned upwards by 
striking hills and cliffs. Hitherto the observers have simjjly distin- 
guished between mist, fog, and heavy log. Gladstone urges that the 
record should be made more accurate, using Cunningham's proposition, 
nameh' : a staff placed at 100 yards distance in front of a painted red 
circle, and becoming invisible, requires the entry of the word "fog." 
Symous proposes a substitute, as follows: A series of 5 screens, each 
of black and white stripes, screen No. 5 liaving broad stripes, and No. 
1 narrow ones. The fogs to be recorded as of intensity from 1 to 5 
according to the visibility or invisibility of these screens. At night- 
time the screens are to be illuminated l)y i huni) from behind, all being 



METEOROLOGY. 801 

placed upon an axis and at a uniform distance of 20 3'ards from the ob- 
server. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. L'ST.) 

154. G. M. Wliiijple, of Kew, i^roposes to apply Sir Francis Galton's 
method of comjiosite portraiture to the stud}' of meteorological observa- 
tions. Thus, by selecting a large number of typical storm-charts and 
sui^erposing their prominent features upon one chart, we may finally 
obtain a tracing that may be considered as an average normal presenta- 
tion of facts. [This idea of saving the labor of numerical compilations 
has been independently applied to the same study by W. M. Davis, of 
Cambridge, Mass., who has thus thrown upon one chart the results of 
a large number of observations bearing upon tornadoes.] 

155. Prof. K. Weihrauch, of Dorpat, has studied the proper method of 
taking the arithmetical mean of a series -of values of the relative hu- 
midity. The arithmetical mean is always proper when the quantity is 
directly measured and has no algebraic connection with other objects of 
observation ; this is true of temperature, absolute humidity, ])ressure, 
«S:c. But the relative humidity is the ratio of two numbers, and the 
average value of these ratios is not the same as the ratio of the average 
values. The numerators and denominators of the fractions that consti- 
tute relative humidities have each regular diurnal periods, and the diur- 
nal i^eriodicity of the relative humidity is therefore a complicated func- 
tion of the other two. The true average humidity for the day can only 
be found by knowing the true average temperature of the air and abso- 
lute humidity, and it will differ therefore from the simple average of a 
few observed relative humidities. In general Weihrauch finds that the 
true relative humidity is less than the arithmeticar average, and the 
true amplitude greater than the arithmetical difference. Ue shows that 
it is necessary for us to give up taldng the arithmetical mean relative 
humidity on account of systematic errors, which all lie in one direction. 
We must undertake a slightly greater labor, namely, the addition of the 
maximum vapor tension to each table of daily temperatures, with which 
data the true mean humidity can easily be calculated by the method 
which he gives. The hourly, daily, monthly, and yearly mean maxi- 
nmm vapor tension should also be computed for sake of the convenience 
with which we then compute the true average for long periods. {Z. 0. 
G. M. XIX, p. 2G5.) 

156. [Promptedby the many troubles which beset the use of relative 
humidities, and on account of the decided direct advantage of using 
the dew-point in the prediction of frosts, rain, snow, fog, &c., the Sig- 
nal Office has for some years introduced this latter datum into its sta- 
tistical tables and daily weather maps. As the dew-point is a matter 
of direct observation, and has no necessary relation to temperature, its 
mean value can be taken Avithout incurring the objections urged by 
Weihrauch against the relative humidity. If, however, we desire to 
compute the mean absolute or relative vapor tension from the monthly 



302 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

average dew-point, we must add the maximum and minimum values for 
use in a method siniihir to that which he has pointed out.] 

157. F. Erk, from a study of thirty-three years' self-registered tem- 
peratures at Munich and a discussion of the theories of Weilenmauu 
and his predecessors, finds that the best combination of three daily 
observations of temperature is ^ (7 A. M. + 2 p. m. + 2 x 9 P. M.), and 
that almost the same accuracy is attained by the following combination : 
J (8 A. M. + 2 P. M. + 2 X 10 p. M.).' If three observations must be com 
bined into a sim])le arithmetical mean, then the best combinations are 
as follows : ^ (6 A. M. + 2 P. M. -f 10 P. M.) and ^ (7 a. m. + 2 p, m. + 
10 p. M.). l!fumerous other combinations are examined by Erk and 
their advantages discussed. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 254.) 

158. Prof. K. Weihrauch states that the principal objection to the 
use of the four components of the wind — north, south, east, and west — 
as measured in some anemometers, in place of the total velocity and 
the direction, is said to be, that by it the mean velocity and direction 
and the velocity of individual directions as well as the mean value of 
wind force, irrespective of direction, cannot be given. He then proves 
that this objection is a mistake, at least so far as regards the arithmet- 
ical mean velocity, which can be found from the sum of the four com- 
ponents by simply multiplying it by the factor ^. The denominator 4 

is, however, rather small, and the figure 5 will apparently do better. 
(7). M. Z., I, p. 291.) 

159. Jamin, of Paris, proposes that meteorologists, instead of the rela- 
tive humidity, shall introduce the quotient found by dividing the weight 
of the moisture by the weight of the dry air actually found in the same 

volume ; that is to say, for ~ substitute = (^. 0. G. M., xix., p. 408.) 

hj u— e 

160. [This proposition seems not yet to have found very hearty accord- 
ance. Ai)parently Jamin desires by this substitution to obtain figures 
that will express both the quantity of moisture in the air and its relation 
to the quantity required for saturation. As he expresses it, the new ratio 
gives us the hygrometric constitution of the air, and shows the changes 
that are brought about by diurnal and annual variations at different 
altitudes and latitudes. It would seem that if the absolute quantity of 
moisture in the air is really desired it would be simpler to publish it 
directly in the shape of the weight or tension of the aqueous vapor 
alongside of the ordinary percentage of relative humidity, as is in fact 
frequently done. Simi^lest.of all in our estimation is it to publish the 
temperature of the air and the temperature of the dew-point, leaving it 
to the climatologist to deduce such phenomena as most aflect vegeta- 
tion and animal life, and to the physical meteorologist to deduce such 
additional data as he may desire. The daily prediction of the dew-i)oiut 
IS as practicable and desirable as that of temperature ; it is to be hoped 
that the direct determination of the dew-poipt naay soon be made praC' 
J/icable for all observers.] 



METEOROLOGY. 303 

lY. — (ft) Constitution of the atmosphere ; {b) General physical 

PROPERTIES OF THE ATMOSPHERE, THE OCEAN, THE LAND. 

161. E. Eogovski offers to the Journal of the Enssian Chemical and 
Physical Society a mathematical and physical study on the structure of 
the atmosphere. He thinks that the ordinary formulae can be used up to 
10,000 meters, but above that the constitution varies with the height, 
the proportion of oxygen diminishing, and at the height of 1,000 kilo- 
meters the density is nearly zero. {Nature, xxx, p. 118.) 

162. A. Levy, of the observatory at Montsouris, has conducted a daily 
series of observations on the chemical constituents of the atmosphe , 
of which Prof. E. Wollny gives a brief summary : 

1. Ozone. — The average weight in milligrams per 100 cubic meters is 
1.9 for 1877 ; 1.5 for 1878; 0.8 for 1879; 0.6 for 1880. The quantity of 
ozone with southerly winds is very large; that with northwest to north- 
east winds, quite small. 

2. Ammonia. — The average quantity of ammonia in milligrams per 
100 cubic feet is as follows : 3.2 for 1877; 1.8 for 1878; 2.1 for 1879; 
1.8 for 1880. The quantity of anmionia in the warmer half of the year 
is sensibly greater than in the colder half. It also varies very much in 
different localities near the observatory. 

3. Organic nitrogenous substances. — The average quantity was 0.6 
milligram per 100 cubic meters. The deviations therefrom were too 
small to recognize any material changes. 

4. Carbonic acid gas. — The average for the whole period was 30.2 
liters per 100 cubic meters. The variations in the quantity of carbonic 
acid are quite considerable, but probably no more than in similar meas- 
urements by other observers. {Z. 0. G. 31., xviii, p. 380.) 

163. Miintz and Aubin have invented a very accurate method of de- 
termining the quantity of carbonic gas in the atmosphere, and have 
taken a series of determinations at the summit of the Pic du Midi, at a 
height of 2,877 meters. They find that the average at this altitude is 
2.8o parts in 10,000 by volume, and at intermediate altitudes they ob- 
tain the same result, showing that the gas is uniformly distributed 
throughout the atmosphere. {Z. 0. G. ilf., xvii, p. 256.) 

164. Miintz and Aubin have presented to the Paris Academy of 
Sciences the results of observations made on a uniform plan under 
their directions in various parts of the world on the quantity of car- 
bonic gas in the air. Their method consisted generally in making care- 
ful analyses at the seven stations occupied by the French expeditions 
for the observation of the transit of Venus ; they also secured from 
each station a series of glass vessels filled with samples of the air, all 
of which were analyzed at Paris by the authors. It is easily seen that 
the proportion of carbonic gas is not very different at these stations and 
at Paris, and that the variations everywhere depend on the condition 
pf the sky and the velocity of the wind; the general mean is 2.78 in 



304 ' SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1834 

10,000 parts of air, wliicb is somewhat smaller than has been found for 
France and the summits of mountains in France, so that they conclude 
that the general mean value of the carbonic acid in the whole atmos- 
phere is somewhat smaller than had hitherto been assumed from obser- 
vations in Europe. [Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 473.) 

165. Miintz and Aubin have studied the observations made by the 
French International Expedition to Cape Horn with reference to the 
quantity of carbonic gas in the air. They desired to test the theory of 
Schlossing, according to which there should be less CO2 in the southern 
hemisphere because of its absorption by the cold ocean water. The re- 
sults of the observations which were made by Dr. Hyades have con- 
vinced Miintz and Aubin that the mean value 2.56 in 10,000 for the 
southern hemisphere, as compared with 2.84 for the northern hemisphere, 
confirms Schlossing's theory. They also find that the mean of the meas- 
ures taken at night-time is slightly less than the average for the day- 
time, which agrees with the theory requiring the colder waters to absorb 
more of the gas. This view is confirmed by grouping the measurements 
according to the observed temperature, from which they find the aver- 
age 2.5.30 parts of CO^j for temperatures lower than 5°, and 2..")98 for 
temperatures above 5°. {Z. O. G. M., xix, p. 462.) 

166. A. Woeikof remarks upon some desultory observations of Pro- 
fessor Tyndall that these do not demonstrate the transparency of 
dry air to radiant heat; on the other hand, his exposed thermome- 
ters over the snow must have fallen into a lower temperature, because 
the snow itself possesses a great radiating power, and is, moreover, a 
poor conductor. That aqueous vapor must exert some influence on the 
absorption of radiation will be admitted by all; the opponents of Pro- 
fessor Tyndall for these many years past have simply affirmed that its 
influence is by no means so large as Tyndall claims. {Z. 0. G. j1/., 
XVIII, p. 275.) 

167. A. Woeikof also shows that Tvndall's views are inconsistent with 
well-established meteorological facts in dry climates. {Nature, xxvii, 
p. 400.) 

168. J. ]\I. Pernter comments on Professor Tyndall's recent renewal 
of his conviction as to the extreme efficacy of aqueous vapor in absorb- 
ing radiant heat, and makes the following ijoints: 

1. Langley's measurements and Abney's demonstration that the vapor 
in the atmosphere does not exert upon the dark heat rays the absorbing 
power that Tyndall thinks, that on the contrary the bright part of the 
spectrum experiences the greatest absorption. Abney's, Festing's, and 
Becquerel's photographs of the solar spectrum give the direct demon- 
stration that it is fluid and not gaseous water that exert a sensible 
absorption on the ultra-red. 

2. Tyndall's idea that the aqueous vapor prevents loss of heat by 
radiation from the earth's surface is completely answered by other 
explanations of the same phenomena. 

3. With reference to the elegant experiment of Tyndall's with the 



METEOROLOGY. 305 

rddiophone, it has been sliown by Maccaluco and Grimaldi that the 
glass surface itself is the cause of the phenomena and not the interme- 
diate moist air. 

Although the question whether the aqueous vapor absorbs dark heat 
rays is now decided in the negative, still many questions remain for the 
meteorologists with reierence to the absori)tion of the solar rays in tbe 
atmosphere, especially such new questions as the following : How is it 
with the absorption of bright rays by the atmospheric vapor ? What is 
the normal atmospheric absorption, when there is no fluid water sus- 
pended in the air ? How great is the influence of the vaporfor different 
atmospheric conditions "? What part is played by carbonic acid gas, 
aud what by the suspended solid impurities called dust? All these 
questions await their solution, aud can only then be brought to a satis- 
factory solution when in some favorable climate simultaneous observa- 
tions are made like Langley's and Abney's during a long period of time 
at a summit and base station. Why should not this be a proper work 
for the new observatory upon Mount Etna with Catania for a correspond- 
ing station ? 

169. [It is proper here to remark that in view of the probable 
future importance of this class of observations, and at the sugges- 
tion of Professor Langley, the region surrounding Mount Whitney in 
California has been set apart as a public reservation and assigned to 
the Chief Signal Ofiicer of the Army for his use; it is probable that it 
will be occupied as a special signal station at some time in the future.] 
{Z. 0. G. M., XVIII, p. 277.) 

170. The Daily Weather Report of the London Meteorological Office 
for October 1, 1884, states that observations made by navigators crossing 
the Atlantic, on the temperature of the ocean surface water between 
Great Britain and ISTewfoundland, show that during the summer of 1884 
the ocean temperature in the course of the Gulf Stream was abnormally 
high, namely, general average of 3° in June aud 1°.5 in July above the 
normal. {Nature, xxx, p. 545.) 

171. The Hydrographic Office of the United States o^avy publishes 
monthly charts of ocean currents, ice, wrecks, «&c., showing the latest 
information, as also the prevalent normal condition. This is a very 
valuable contribution to both navigators and students of the ocean. 

172. Dr. O. Pettersson, as a part of the report of the Norwegian oSTorth 
Sea Expedition, investigates the constitution and properties of sea- 
water and sea-ice. He finds the ice frozen out of sea-water to be not 
necessarily pure, but a compound of the cryohydrates discovered by 
Professor Guthrie; the sea- water ice is rich in tlie sulphates, aud the 
remaining brine richer in chlorides. The latent heat developed by the 
freezing of sea-water is extraordinarily inferior to that of pure water; 
the contraction of sea- water ice with heat, as the melting point is being 
reached, becomes more marked the greater the quantity of salt in the 
ice. {Nature, xxvii, p. 418.) 

g. Mis. 33 20 



306 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1881. 

V. — [a) Solar radiation and atmospheric absorption ; (6) Tem 

PERATURE OF THE AIR, THE WATER, AND THE GROUND. 

173. Hirn proposes an apparatus for determiuiug the total absolute 
arnouut of solar heat on the princii)lc of the surface condenser of the 
steam engine, namely, a saturated vapor contained within a closed re- 
ceiver has the tension corresponding- to that for the lowest temperature 
of any part of the walls of the receiver. Hirn fills a copper cylinder 
with bisulphide of carbon, the evaporation of which by solar heat fills 
a space within which is a cooling surface; the liquid cooled upon this 
Hows into a receiver and is measured. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 548.) 

174. Prof. Balfour Stewart, secretary of the committee appointed by 
the British Association for the Advancement of Science to consider the 
best methods of recording the direct intensity of solar radiation, re- 
ported at the Montreal meeting in 1884 that the committee has chiefly 
devoted its attention to tbe subject of a self-recording actinometer. It 
was suggested that a modification of Stewart's actinometer might be 
adapted to self registration by taking for the quantity to be observed, 
not the rise of temperature of the inclosed thermometer after exposure 
for a given time, but the excess ot its temperature when continuously 
exposed over the temperature of the envelo[)e. Professor Stokes showed 
that in such a static method the inclosure should be of such a nature as 
to change its temperature very slowly, and that the various portions of 
the interior should be at the same time of the same uniform tempera- 
ture. The committee therefore proposed to make an inclosure of suc- 
cessive layers of polished plates and some non-conductor ; in the center 
of this is placed a thermometer of green glass with a flattened bulb, on 
which the sun's liyht falls continuously, while in the inclosure near by, 
but unaifected by the direct sunlight, is a second thermometer. 

175. [This proposed arrangement for continuous self-registration ap- 
])arently embodies the same priucii)les that are incorporated in Violle's 
absolute actinometer, where the object sought by Professor Stokes's 
arrangement is perfectly attained by using a jacket of circulating cold 
water.] {Nature, XXX, j). 498.) 

176. J. Ericsson, of New York, describes a motor for utilizing the sun's 
radiant heat. This device is less expensive than others hitherto de- 
scribetl, and was able to generate steam enough to work a steam-engine 
of G inch cylinder and 8 inch stroke, under a pressure of 35 pounds per 
square inch, at the late of ,120 oscillations per minute. He reasserts 
hivS belief that the solar temperature cannDt be less than 1,000,000 de- 
grees Fahrenheit. {Nature, XXIX, \^. 217.) 

177. J. Ericsson describes some of his results on the heat of the solar 
rays as determined by a large solar pyrometer. His computed tem- 
perature of 3,000,000 depends upon the assumed law of radiation, but 
the apparatus and observations have some good features. {Nature, xxx, 
p. 407.) 



METEOROLOGY. 307 

178. Dr. Maurer contributes to the Archives of Geneva a study upon 
the theory of the absorption of the soUir rays by the atmosphere. He 
attempts to compute more accurately the thickness of the stratum 
traversed by the rays at any altitude; his figures are slightly larger 
than those of Laplace, but they are still not beyond criticism. {Z. 0. 
G. M., XIX, p. 203.) 

179. Prof. S. P. Langley, of Allegheny Observatory, has finally pub- 
lished the full text of his extensive researches into solar radiation and 
atmospheric absorption as a professional paper of the Signal Service. 
Preliminary' to this full publication, be has communicated some of his 
results to the scientific world through the Philosophical Magazine, the 
Comptes Eendus, and the American Journal of Science ; a Memoir bear- 
ing on the same subject also appears in volume 2 of the Memoirs of 
the National Academy of Sciences. In general he finds the following 
l)oints established : 

1. After the passage of the solar rays through the atmosphere the 
maximum of heat in the diffraction spectrum lies near the wavelength 
O.OOOG of a millimeter, and therefore in the orange portion, agreeing 
with the maximum intensity of light. 

2. Before its passage through the atmosphere the maximum of heat 
intensity was near the blue. 

3. The red and ultra-red rays, especially the latter, suffer the least ab- 
sorption by the atmosphere, while the blue and ultra-blue suffer the 
most. 

4. The energy in the solar rays, before entering the atmosphere, is 
1.569 times the energy for a vertical sun after passing through ttie at- 
mosphere, but this latter corresponds to 1.81 calories, wherefore the true 

'solar constant is 2.84 calories, and Langley believes that the correct 
value may even be 3. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, ]). 233; and Sifjnal Service 
Professional Paper No. xiv.) 

180. O. Frolich contributes to the question of the constancy of the 
solar heat an important series of observations made with apparatus of 
his own invention, being a modification of the thermopile, with which 
he conducted his investigations into the temperature of space and of 
the sky. As a constant source of heat with which to compare the 
radiation from the sun he used a surface heated to a temperature of 
lOOo 0. His observations were made in September, 1879, on the sum- 
mit of the Faulhorn, in Switzerland ; in the winter of 1879-'80, at the 
Koyal Observatory at Berlin ; then, to the end of 1882, at the villa of 
G. Hansemann : and in 1883, in a tower at West-end, near Berlin. This 
constitutes the most extensive series of observations hitheito available, 
and they have been discussed with great care Among his results we 
quote the following : 

In a perfectly clear sky the atmosphere absorbs a variable quantity, 
as shown by the variations in the so-called atmospheric constant, which 
has the least value on the loth of October and the greatest on the 12th 



308 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

of September, the zenithal absorption being 29 per cent, on the latter 
day and 15 per cent, on the former, and this is the more remarkable 
because the air was more decidedly hazy on the 12th of September. 

By observing the temperature of a point in the same vertical plane 
with the sun but on the opposite side of the zenith, one should theoret- 
ically have the means of determining the influence of the atmosphere, 
but his efforts to realize this method have shown that it is not success- 
ful in the latitude of Berlin, partly because the observations are not so 
accurate, and partly because the atmospheric irregularities have a 
larger influence. 

In general, in the day as well as by night, the lowest temperature is 
found in the zenith and the warmest towards the horizon. This, which 
is due to the sky temperature, is apparently exaggerated by the sun's 
heat without a material change in the relative temperatures. 

The diminution of solar heat with the length of path through the at- 
mosphere is such that the former is a linear function rather than a log- 
arithmic function of the latter. 

The observations on the Faulborn show that the atmospheric con- 
stant for that elevation is sensibly smaller than in Berlin. 

The most important result of the work is the proof that the solar heat 
is n (it constant, but subject to very considerable variations, as shown 
by the following values of the "solar constant'^: 

For June 29 , 574±18 

For July 564±15 

For August 14 607±18 

For September 12 573±51 

For October 15 555±19 

The probable errors here given are really three times the probable " 
error as ordinarily understood, and represent the limits within which 
the probabilities are 22 to 1 that the true value must fall. In general 
the change of solar heat is such that it increases by about 6 per cent. 
from the 1st of July to the middle of August, and then diminishes by 
about 8 per cent, by the middle of October. This change is entiiely 
l^arallel to the observed change in the development of sun-spots, as re- 
corded by the observers at Potsdam, who state that at the beginning of 
July and in September and October the development was quite rapid, 
but in August much less, v.hence we may'hope that this method of ob- 
serving the solar heat may give a method of inferring the variations 
in the sun-spots. 

The importance of this variation in solar heat may be estimated by 
the following considerations : The mean temperature of the ground at 
any place on the earth's surface is the result of two factors, namely, the 
mean influence of the heat from the skj^and that of the heat from the sun. 
The first of these, according to the Konigsberg observations, amounts 
to — 82° for that pla^e, and the latter influence amounts to -1-89° C. 
We may therefore assume that in temperate latitudes a change of solar 



METEOROLOGY. 309 

heat of 1 per cent, corresponds approximately to a change of ground 
temperature of 1° C. The variations above found by Frolich would, 
therefore, if they endured for any length of time, produce a change in 
the earth's temperature of six or eight degrees. 

181. [It is certainly very desirable that Frolich's observations should 
be maintained continuously at several stations on the earth's surface 
where atmos})heric changes are comparatively rare, as it is scarcely pos- 
sible to think that we shall ever master the peculiarities of meteorology 
until we thoroughly understand the variations in the prime factor of 
all— the solar heat.] {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 209.) 

182. Dr. H. 0. Vogel, of Potsdam, comments upon these results of 
Frolich's and maintains that the observations do not distinctly show 
changes in the solar heat that are appreciable in comparison with the 
uncertainty of each day's observations ; that possibly in time one may 
accumulate sufficient observations by Dr. Frolich's method to detect the 
short variations, but that five days of observations are not sufficient. 
With reference to Frolich's opinion that variations in the solar heat, if 
any exist, have some connection with the size and nnmber of the sun's 
spots, Yogel states that accurate measures of the sun-spot area in April, 
1882, on a day that was specially rich in spots, showed that the solar 
heat could only have been diminished by about four- tenths of 1 per cent. 
The observations made^t Potsdam on the very days of Dr. Frolich's 
observations show that the influence of the few spots then visible uuist 
have been extraordinarily- small, and that his temi)erature observations 
must have at least ten times greater accuracy than now before he can 
detect such influence. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 259.) 

183. Dr. O. Frolich, in some remarks on methods of measuring solar 
heat, states that he cannot agree with Langley in the assumption that 
tiie atmospheric coefficient of absorption is proportional to the barome- 
tric pressure, nor with his conclusions that the logarithmic law holds 
only for homogeneous rays and not for the whole spectrum. Frolich's 
investigation of the absorption due to the altitude of the sun has the 
advantage of Langiey's, in that the latter uses only two observations at 
.difl'erent altitudes while the former uses from four to lifteen. Frolich 
also doubts the accuracy' of Langiey's reduction to a standard measure. 
He proposes to explain the movements of the granite pillar observed 
by Fiirster (see chapter xii) as due, not to a change in the amount of 
solar neat, but to a change iu its character such that at the time of the 
solar spot frequency the earth or the pillar absorbs relatively more 
or less heat. Frolich defends himself against the criticisms of H. C. 
Yogel to the effect that he has not been fully on his guard against 
constant errors by referring to the fact that the inost important novel 
feature of his work lay iu the constant reference to a normal standard, 
and that nothing can diminish the certainty of the conclusion that his 
observations demonstrate a sensible variation of solar heat during Au- 
gust. In reference to the possibility of detecting changes in the sun's 



310 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

heat by Lanj^iey's, Fiirster's, aud Frolicb^s methods, he recognizes that 
Forster's grauite pillar has a much more constant sensitivciu ss and 
certainly changes very slowly; he has therefore undertaken a modifica- 
tion of his own apparatus looking to an independence of the variations 
of the temperature of the air. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 400.) 

184. Dr. W. Koppen i)ublishes an interesting study of the effect of 
hot, temperate, and cold weather on the organic world, and proposes a 
new distribution of the limits of temi^erate zones, namely, the tropical 
zonCj where every month the temperature is above 20° C; the subtropic 
zone, where four to eleven months are hot, or above 20°; the temper- 
ate zone, where from four to twelve months are temperate, namely, 
from 10° to 20°, and this he divides into three subzones, the nmform 
temperate, having hot summers and cool winters or temperate summers 
and cold winters; the cold zone, where from one to four months are 
moderate and the remainder cold ; and the polar climates, where all 
months are cold, namely, under 10° C. He shows that this empirical 
divi-sion (lower than 10°, from 10° to 20°, and above 20° C.) accords rea- 
sonably well with phenomena of animal and vegetable life. Everywhere 
the progress of civilization has been from the warmer into the cooler 
countries. {D. M. S., i, p. 215.) 

185. Dr. A. Woeikof, on the dependence of the daily variations of 
temijerature upon local circumstances, especially topograph}-, formu- 
lates his views about as follows: 

1. A convex surface, such as a hill or mountain, is a cause that dimin- 
ishes the daily range o( temperature, and by so much the more in pro- 
portion to the ratio of tlie vertical to the horizontal dimensions. 

2. A concave surface, as a valley or hollow, increases the daily range, 
of temperature, but only up to certain limiting ratio of vertical and hori- 
zontal dimensions. 

3. As a normal condition in rcsi)ect to the daily amplitude he adopts 
a perfect plane surface ; he gives numerous examples pf this, quoting the 
data from Asia and Europe; he eliminates the effect of cloudiness and 
winds, and leaves the outstanding daily amplitude to be explained as 
due to the iutluence of the topography. Quantitatirely it would seem 
that the daily amplitude iu the high valleys of the Indus, 3,500 meters' 
above the sea, in January an<l February, is greater than in some of 
the driest places on the low' plains of Northern India. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XVIII, p,211.) 

186. G. J. Symons gives the first results of simultaneous thermometric 
and hj-grometric observations at heights 4, 170, and 260 feet, which were 
made on behalf of the Eoyal Meteorological Society on the cathedral 
tower at Boston. During clear November weather the average temper- 
ature at the highest point was greater than at the earth's surface by 
reason of the excess of cold due to radiation at night, but on cloudy, 
windy weather, the average temperature was lower above than below. 
In foggy weather the temperature at the highest point was always higher 



METEOROLOGY 311 

than at the earth's surface, but this is explaiued by the fact that gener- 
ally the fog did uot reach up to the higher poiut. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 84.) 

187. Professor Wollny, investigating the influence of the ground upon 
the temperature of the air, especially for altitudes up to 2 meters, shows 
Ihat the air above a field covered with vegetation is materially cooler than 
that over one lying fallow, and again that the variations of temperature 
above the former are less than above the latter. This he explains as due 
to the fact that the vegetation prevents the direct warming of the soil 
by the sun; and even more important is the consumption of heat in the 
evaporation of water at the surface of the leaves. Similarly at night 
time the plants prevent the cooling of the earth's surface by radiation 
during clear weather, and on the other hand themselves give out an ex- 
traordinary amount of heat, whereby the cooling of the air is made still 
less. Even this cooling process is, however, checked by the formation of 
dew and the evolution of latent heat. The difference in temperature 
over cultivated and uncultivated land diminishes in proportion as the 
evaporation by day and the radiation by night are modified; therefore 
it almost disappears in the winter season or in severe droughts, and es- 
pecially in cloudy weather. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 539.) 

188. Dr. E. Lamp, of the Kiel Observatory, quotes observations show- 
ing that it is not at all necessary, as frequently implied, that the tem- 
l)erature should be uniform in different portions of a fog. Thus he ob- 
served in a thermometer shelter -f-2o.2 C. ; in the free air near by + 1°.8 ; 
at the summit of the wind tower [for anemometer exposure ?J, -f 4^,2 ; at 
its bottom, +'^°G; at the base of the observatory hill, — 0o.2; on the 
side of the hill rapid variations of temperature within five minutes 
from +2O.0 to +0^.5. The observations were not taken with a sling- 
thermometer, as would have been preferable. (i>. 31. Z., i, p. 474.) 

189. [These, like the numermis observations made by 'Prof, H. A. 
Hazen in various parts of Washington, show that great local tempera- 
ture differences invariably exist, so that the meteorologist, in choosing 
the exposure for his thermometer, must be guided by the object of in- 
vestigation or the use to which his figures will probably be i)ut. At 
Columbus, Ohio, Louisville, Ky., and Davenport, Iowa, differences, on 
cold, clear nights, of 25° V. have been observed. The Signal Service 
rule (partly necessity and partly justified by the results) is to place tbe 
thermometer shelter on the highest available jioint, like the roofs of 
houses or towers, in the cities where the stations must do tbeir work. 
The local difference of temperature of the air over cities and forests and 
prairies is in this way reduced to a minimum in the daily telegraphic 
work, and we attain for general weather i)redictious the average tern 
perature of the mass of air blowing past the station. Were any other, 
especially any very low-ground exposure adopted, it would be proper 
and necessary to reduce such observations up to the uniform height of 
about 100 feet above the surface of the ground.] 

190. A. Buchan has i)ublished in the Journal of the Scottish Meteoro- 



312 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

logical Society a revision of liis work on tlie distribut-ion of tempeiatuie 
over the British islands. All the d;ita accessible to him have been re- 
duced uniformly to consistency with the twenty-four-year interval, 185T 
to 1880, inclusive. The isotherms of January show distinctly the in- 
closed co>d area in the northern part of Iceland and the northeastern 
third of Great Britain. The winter temperature diminishes as we pro- 
ceed inward more rapidly than would correspond to elevation only. The 
influence of the prevailing west-southwest winds is, of course, to bring 
the warmer ocean temperatures up over the laud, and an elevation of a 
few thousand feet would cover the British isles with glacial snow. The 
remarkable difference between the Scottish and Welsh highlands is 
clearly seen in the dry, cool air of the Scotch, and the warm, moist at- 
mosphere of the Welsh. (Z. 0. G. 3L, xviii, p. 401.) 

191. A. G. Hogbom has studied the change in isotherms in the au- 
tumn over Northern Europe in a manner corresponding to Hildebrands- 
son's study of isotherms for the spring. His tables show that the ad- 
vantage of a maritime climate and the disadvantage of a continental 
climate on the growth of vegetation are more marked in the autumn than 
in the spring. {Z. 0. G. Jf., xix, p. 112.) 

192. Prof. H. Kiesenberger has, at his own expense, carried out tem- 
perature observations at thi*ee mountain stations for comparison with 
observations made by himself at Hermannstadt. The altitudes of the 
four stations are, respectively, 411, 953, 1,318, and 1,598 meters. The 
diminution of temperature with altitude is very slow, corresponding to 
that found on -plateaus rather than on mountains. In December the 
diminution occasionally becomes an increase. The rate of diminution 
has also a large daily period, it being slowest at 7. A. M., when it is 1° C. 
for 456 meters, while at 2 p. m. it is 1° for every 144 meters. {Z. 0. G. 
ilL, xix,p. 450.) 

193. Dr. A. Lugli has investigated a formula for expressing the con- 
nection between the monthly and annual mean temperature in Italy 
with the latitude and altitude above sea-level. He finds for the stations 
of the Apennines and those south of the Alps as well as the low sta- 
tions the following formula for the mean annual temperature : f-13o.8G 
+ 0°.67(45° — 4') — 00.0055 h. He then examines the mean temperatures 
for each moiith, and determines for each the special values of the three 
constants in this formula, which vary as follows: The change of tem- 
perature for 1° of latitude is a minimum in the summer, having an aver- 
age value of (>o.30 for April, May, June, and July ; it is a maximum in 
winter, having a value of lo.36 for December. The diminution of tem- 
perature for 100 meters of ascent has an average value t)f 0^.51 for the 
year, the maximum being 0o.G4 for April, and the minimum 0^.36 for 
January. The author then combines the highest Alpine stations with 
those in his sub-Alpine districts, and with these again revises his cal- 
culations, deducing general values, representing especially the condi- 
tions for the latitudes 39o.4, and 45°, respectively. The mean annual 
change for a degree of latitude at 45° is 0o.72 C, and for lOO meters of 



METEOROLOaY. 313 

ascent 00.52 C. At 31o.4 the change for latitude is Oo.SG, and for alti- 
tude 00.58. (Z. 0. G. M., XIX, p. 459.) 

194. [Similar computations for the Rocky Mountain and Plateau re- 
gions of the United States, as made by Prof. W. Upton, will be found 
in the Annual Eeport of the Chief Signal Officer for 1882, and afford 
interesting bases for comparisons witli the above Italian observations.] 

195. O. Doeriug has investigated tbe variability of the temperature 
in the Argentine Eepublic and South America, following out the sug- 
gestions in Hann's memoir of 1875, on the variability of daily tempera- 
tures. Doeriug utilizes twenty years of observations at Buenos Avres. 
His figures give the mean variability as depending upon non periodic 
temperature changes for the individual months and years. Sudden 
changes upward are more frequent than falls in temperature. Ten days 
of more than 5° change are likely to occur in a year. The north wind 
brings the greatest rise in temperature, the southeast wind the least. 
With regard to falls in temperature, these come with southerly winds, 
and are preceded by northerly winds. The greatest falls in tempera- 
ture occur without rain more frequently than with rain. {Z. 0. G. 31., 
XIX, p. 507.) 

196. Sir G. B. Airy compares the temperatures of the water of the 
Thames with the corresponding temperature of the air; he finds that 
the water averages lo.5 F. higher than that of the air according to the 
Greenwich thermometers ; the mean diurnal range of water temperature 
was 20.1 F. {Nature, xxvii, p. 129.) 

197. Prof, von Miller-Haueufels states that the curvature upward 
of the isothermal surfaces inside of a mountain mass has lately been 
quoted as an argument against the melted condition of the earth's in- 
terior, but it seems to him that, independent of any view that one may 
have with regard to this source of heat, such an upward curvature of 
the surfaces must take ])lace under any circumstances. In general, 
temperature increases toward the center of the earth, but with a ra- 
pidity variable according to the time of the year. isTow, according to 
well-known laws, the transmission of heat upwards must take place in 
directions normal to the surface, and these normal lines being perpen- 
dicular to the surfaces of equal temperature, tbe latter must necessarily 
rise up in the interior of a mountain mass. [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 297.) 

198. Prof. W. Schwalbe communicates to the Physical Society nu- 
merous observations as to the formation of natural ice caves, and main- 
tains that a sufficient explanation of this ijhenomenon has notyet been 
offered. {Nature, xxvii, p. 380.) 

VI. — {a) Evaporation ; {b) Atmospheric moisture ; (c) Condensa- 
tion, FOG, AND CLOUDS; {d) EAIN, SNOW, HAIL, DROUGHT, AND 

FLOOD ; (e) Amount of cloudiness and sunshine. 

199. Professor Eagona, of Modeua, presents the results of observa- 
tions upon evaporation since 1872. He finds no well-marked daily 
period, probably owing to some xJeculiarity of his ajixjaratus. The an- 



314 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

nual maximuiu takes place ou the 25tii of July, and the minimum ou 
the 20tli ofJanuary. He finds a negative evaporation during the win- 
ter months, which must be an error in his instruments unless, iudecdj 
the deposit of fog and dew is extraordinarily heavy. He finds the 
ratio between the evaporation in perfectly free spaces and that from 
an evaporimeter established in an ordinary thermometer shelter to 
A'ary between one and three. {Z. 0. G. 31., xvii, p. 242.) 

200. [The relative amounts of evaporation from snow, ice, fresh and 
salt water, in full sunshine and cloud, calm and wind, is a matter that 
still needs to be well determined.] 

201. Dr. J. Hann, in his new edition of Jeliuek's Instructions for tak- 
ing Meteorological Observations, has introduced tables for the con\enient 
computation of the quantity of vapor contained in any atmospheric strata 
as well as its influence on barometric hypsometry. He first states that 
the formula published by him ten years ago still represents more recent 
ob>ervati()us in the higher atmospheric strata. He then applies this 
equation to the computation of the probable moisture at elevated sta- 
tions in Austria, Italy, Ceylon, Java, England, Switzerland, and shows 
that wherever we have observations the prediction by means of this 
formula is well verified, so far as regards monthly' and annual or even 
weekly averages. 

This reliability justifies us in using the computed values of vapor ten- 
sion when actual observations are missing. The etfect of this moisture 
upon the barometric computation of altitudes amounts to as much as 17 
meters for an altitude of 2,000 meters in a moist, warm climate like Cey- 
lon, but oidy G meters in a cooler climate, such as Switzerland ; in both 
cases the correction for vapor gives higher altitudes. 

The effect of vapor in diminishing the density of the air, thus giving 
rise to ascending currents, is sensible, but very slight in comparison with 
the effect of ordinary changes of temperature; thus the entire vapor in 
a mass of air 2,000 meters deep is only equivalent to the influence of a 
change of 1°.3 C. in temperature, and, as the temperature changes may 
easily amount to ten times this figure, they are relatively much more 
important. 

By integrating the i^roper equation Hann deduces the formula for 
computing the weight of water in a column of air of any height, whence, 
of course, the amount contained in the whole earth's atmosphere can be 
deduced. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 128.) 

202. W. K()i)peu describes the j)rocess of growth of a cumulus cloud 
in the warmest part of the day. He finds that the highest point moves 
forward more rapidly than the lower part of the cloud --, that this disap- 
pears little by little, while a lower portion of the cloud has risen up to 
the same height ; this again in its turn disappears, to be replaced by the 
upgrowth of a next lower portion, and so on. He explains this as due 
to the fact that the cumulus is really the head of an ascending mass of 
moist air. and is driven along by winds that have a greater velocity 



METEOROLOGY. 315 

above than below. On the other band, it will occasionally happen that 
the n]>por currents arc slower cr reversed, in which case the summit of 
the cumulus follows instead of preceding- the main cloud. (D. M. Z., i, 
p. L'9.) 

203. [Two facts not mentioned by Koppen should be remembered in 
order to achieve a fuller explanation of cloud phenomena, namely, that 
the upper part of the cumulus cloud is surrounded at a little distance 
by the drier air into which it has risen, which, therefore, tends to evap- 
orate and dissipate the surface of the cloud; and, again, the powerful 
eflect of the solar rays (which increases slightly with altitude) is to 
evaporate the moisture at the surface of the cloud and to surround the 
whole sunny side of the cloud with a thin layer of hot moist air, which 
must have a special ascensional tendency. This action of the sun is 
undoubtedly also very efficacious on the upper surface of extensive lay- 
ers of stratus clouds from which vapor currents rise, which in turn form 
a second layer at some distance above, while the density of the whole 
mass of warmed cloud and air is diminished, and an additional ascensive 
tendency is felt at the earth's suiface over a htrge and extended terri- 
tory.] 

204. The increasing interest in the observations of clouds has led 
van Bebber and Koppen to attemjjt a system of corresponding obser- 
vations, which were planned after consultation with Dr. Klein and 
Moller and Assmann. The same methods of description are used at all 
stations, and the complete record of clouds is made a part of the regu- 
lar entries in the daily journal as well as in the special records. (D. 
M. Z., I., p. 30.) 

205. Eev. Clement Ley, in an essay on the structure of the cirro-filum, 
or thread-like clouds, presumably formed of ice spiculte, states that this 
is one of the most important forms in the prediction of the weather ; he 
has observed it for twenty-tive years, and oilers a classification of the 
more reliable observations and an exi)lanation of some of the more prom- 
inent phenomena. His classification of the clouds relates to their form, 
their structure, and their relations to each other. The following three 
generalizations seem to him of importance: 

1. If we turn the face toward the wind as we stand on the earth's sur- 
face, then in the majority of cases the upper currents of air move from 
the right to the left. 

2. Winds from the west lie above those from the east in the upper re- 
gions of the atmosphere much more frequently than is the case at the 
earth's surface. 

3. The upi)er strata of the air as a rule move much more rapidly than 
the lower, lie gives a table showing the number of cases in which the 
cirro-tilum cloud moves from the respective points of the compass. He 
restricts the name cirrus to the upper clouds formed of bent or twisted 
bundles of threads, whereas those composed of long lines or filaments 
have a much greater velocity, and are characterized by him as linear 



316 SEIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

clouds, or ciiTO fllum ; of these latter we must ilistinguisU the direction 
of the motion of individual particles from the direction in which the 
long threads trend. This latter direction he calls the filature of the 
threads, and is determined by the location in the horizon of the vanish- 
ing point of two or more parallel threads. ' The apparent velocity is 
expressed on a scale of 3, namely, 0, calm; 1, slow movement; 2, mod- 
erate, and 3, a rapid movement. There is a form of cloud which Ley 
calls the pseudo-cirrus, which appears at low altitudes, having an ap- 
parent rapid movement, and is erroneously taken for true cirrus. He 
apparently distinguishes one from the other by the rapidity of the 
movement, and states that he has never seen a true cirrus with a rapid 
movement. Eis tables of the results of over 3,000 observations, mostly 
by himself and friends in England, allow him to conclude as follows: 

1. The movements of the cirro-filum are more frequent in the direc- 
tion of the length than at right angles thereto. 

2. The cases in which the vanishing points lie on the right-hand side 
of the direction from which the clouds themselves move are for north 
and west movements liy far the most frequent, but for south or south- 
east movements the vanishing points more frequently lie on the left- 
hand side of that direction. 

3. Great velocities of movement are confined to those cases in which 
the direction of filature nearly or wholly agrees with the direction of 
motion, and cases in which they are at right angles to each other never 
occur with great velocities. 

The explanation of these rules he arrives at by the study of the lower 
forms of clouds. He finds that on account of the diflerence in rapidity 
and direction of the velocity of different parts of the cumulus clouds, 
evf n the lower cumuli manifest a tendency to assume a form that reminds 
one of streahs and threads. Especially is this the case when streaks of 
snow falling from the summits of these clouds give rise to what he calls 
" pseudo cirruspendulus;" these fall at first vertically, but subsequently 
are deflected or bent and twisted by the movement of the air into 
which they fall. Now the true cirro-filum is often found on the extreme 
limit of a cyclone, and therefore several hundred miles from the center, 
so that it is impossible to observe the process of formation of the 
whole thread. It ha^jpens, however, that in otherwise clear weather a 
local rain cloud sometimes develops a great quantity of cirri-filum, and 
then it is possible to observe the process without difficulty. Some miles 
from the observer on a summer day there forms a heavy cumulus; if, 
as frequently happens, an almost perfectcalm prevails in the atmosphere 
up to an altitude of 12,000 or 14,000 feet the cumulus retains its hemi- 
spherical form, and thus there comes to be an enormous accumulation 
of cloud that can easily amount to a hundred cubic miles, and its daik 
color shows that the water-drops of which it consists are very close to- 
gether. [This statement as to color seems to be rather an assumption 
than a well warranted conclusion ; do not the size, form, and uumberof the 



METEOROLOGY. 317 

drops all contribute to the shade?] So long as such clouds retain their 
sharp upper limit and their general spherical shape, no rain falls from 
them. Suddenly the summit has a softer appearance, extends itself side- 
ways in cirrus-like threads, and immediately the rain plunges down out of 
the cloud. The electric tension which hindered the conjunction of the 
water particles that form the cloud, so long as they retained their spher- 
ical form, is suddenly diminished in the upper part of the cloud as soon as 
the little s])heres freeze into ice needles or spiculte, from whose points 
and corners the electricity immediately escapes. [The easy escape of 
electricity from snow-crj^stals is a matter which should easily be con- 
firmed by observation ; it agrees with the high potential observed dur- 
ing snow-storms.] The minute bodies having lost their electricity, unite 
and absorb in their rapid descent the smaller particles of water with 
which they come in contact. [Do the spicula3 and snow-flakes descend 
rapidly enough to overtake particles of water?] The falling rain, and 
perhaps still more the sudden lightning, when such occurs, further con- 
tribute to draw the electricity from the cloud or lower its electric i)oten- 
tial ; the rain continues until the whole or nearly the whole lovfer part 
of the cloud disappears. In those cases in which not only in the lower 
but also in the upper strata of the atmosphere only slight movements 
prevail, the ice-cloud remaining at the summit becomes a true cirrus, 
whose curled and twisted form is probably a consequence of temporary 
irregularities in the pressure of the air due to the condensation and 
formation of ice. A cirrus which is formed in this way remains some- 
times more than twenty-four hours almost perfectly without motion in 
the sky, but more frequently it moves slowly into regions into which 
the rain-shower out of which it originated has not been visible. If the 
upper and lower parts of this cloud do not move at the same rai)idity 
it will be drawn out into the long cirro-filum cloud, and this probably 
often occurs when the upper part of the original cumulus has penetrated 
some cool upper current of air, whose coolness has, in fiict, frozen the 
vapor into snow. If the motion of the cloud follows the direction of the 
niovement of these threads, or is directly opposed to it, the angle of fil- 
ature will be zero. The actual filature angle is the resultant of the 
movement of the upper current carrying the snow crystals in one direc- 
tion, while the lower current carries the cloud, with its perpetually re- 
newed summit, in another direction; by constructing the triangle or 
parallelogram of motions, we can thus either construct the resulting, or 
analyze the observed, filature. The observed result as above given, 
namely, that the positive angle of filature occurs principally with the 
movement of the clouds toward north and west, and the negative angle 
with movement towards southeast, shows that the upper currents of air 
are from the north and west when the lower current is from the south 
or west, so that the axis of the cloud must then deviate from its summit 
toward the right j on the other hand, southeast upper winds are most 



318 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

freqnent as the immediate followers of southeast lower winds. (D. M. Z., 
1, p. 201.) 

206. fWrthout in the least detracting from the originality and great 
value of Clement Ley's laborious observations and well-grounded defi- 
nite results, it is at least proper to state that on pages -IS, 49, and 179 
of Espy's Fourth Meteorological Report and in others of Espy's writings 
will be found results almosi precisely the same as those of Clement Ley. 
The reader who consults this, the last work published by Espy, scarcely 
a year before he died, will perhaps be glad to have his attention called 
to Espy's labors subsequent to the i)ublication of his Philosophy of 
Storms. After returning from Euro])e, Esi)y was, in 1842, appointed 
meteorologist in the office of the Surgeon-General of the Army (Gen- 
eral Lawson). His first Meteorological Ecixsit, dated October, 1843, 
and printed in February, 1845, was addressed to Surgeon-General 
Lawson. His second report, dated Xovember, 1840, was addressed 
to William B. Preston, Secretary of the Kavy, from which we infer 
that he had been in the mean time transferred to the ifavy Depart- 
ment, but I have not yet been able to find that this report was ever 
separately published. His third report, dated October, 1850, with notes, 
dated January and October, 1851, and an ai)pentlix containing rules 
to mariners, dated January, 1851, seems to have been addressed to 
Secretary W. A. Graham, but to have been juiblishcd by Secretary 
J. C. Dobbin in 1852, and it was preceded by a reprint of the first 
and second reports. The fourth report was evidently written orig- 
inally in October, 1852, but was not forwarded by the Secretary of the 
ISTavy until specially called for by resolution of Congress, July 24, 1854, 
nor was it even then printed until a special order was issued in 1857. 
Ju the printing additional notes were evidently inserted, most of which 
may be considered as dating from 1857. The contents of the resulting 
quarto volume, usually called " Espy's Fourth Eeport," and whose title- 
page bears date of 1857, may therefore be approximately analyzed as 
follows: First report, of 1843, pp. 1-10; second report, of 1849, pp. 10- 
40; third report, of 1850, pp. 40-90; a])pendix to third report, 1851, 
pp. 97-110; fourth report, of 1852, pi). 117-178; additional notes of 
1857, pp. 17^234. 

Both directly and indirectly the United States owes to Espy the 
stimulus and knowledge that made our present Weather Bureau a jios- 
sibility. In all that jjertains to the formation of cloud and rain, the verti- 
cal distribution of temperature, the theory of the psychrometer, the 
diurnal periodicity in the winds, the structure of thunder and hail 
storms, tornadoes, and general storms, he was far in advance of his 
time. The republication of his minor works and an analysis of his life 
and influence would afford a most delightful picture and instructive his- 
tory.] 

207. R. Abercromby contributes a note descriptive of various forms 



METEOROLOGY. 310 

of festooned or pocljy clouds, such as Poey proposes to call globo-cumn- 
Jus. (Nature, xxviii, p. 79.) 

208. Mr. John Aitten and Dr. O. L. Lodge have made numerous ex- 
periments to elucidate tbe reasons for the so called clear spaces which 
are absolutely free from dust in the neighborhood of solid bodies (the so- 
called dark plane of Professor Tyudall and LordEaleigh). They conclude 
that the dust is repelled from hot surfaces in the same way as the vane 
of a Crookes radiometer is repelled when placed in front of a hot sur- 
face, namely, one hotter than the intervening gas, the principal part of 
the energy of the motion being given to the repelled surface or dust 
particle by tlie kinetic energy of the impinging molecules; the attrac- 
tion of a cold surface is explained by the less kinetic energy of the out- 
ward-going molecules of the hotter gas. A wet and hot surlace repelled 
dust twice as strong as a hot, dry surface. Mr. Aitken, led by these 
views, constructed a dust trap by means of a tall metal tube surrounded 
by another larger. The smoke goes up the center tube and down the 
intervening space ; the soot is deposited on the cool inside of the outer 
tube, so that air can be purified by heating and cooling it a number of 
times. Dr. Lodge found the dust coat to increase greatly with high 
temijeratures ; he rejects the exi)lanations given by Tyudall, Franklaud, 
and Lord Ealeigh ; he especially examines the effect of convecti<'n cur- 
rents iu the air under high i)ressure, and even in water, and thinks the 
main causes are the molecular bombardment and the gravitative set- 
tling. His complete theory is published in the Philosophical Magazine 
for March and April, 1884. {Nature, xxix, pp. 322, 417, Gil.) 

209. Prof. Lodge states that the concentrated radiation from an elec- 
tric light is much less effective in warming dustj' air than is the neigh- 
borhood of a slightly warmed solid. [Nature, xxx, p. 53.) 

210. Mr. E. W. Serrell explains the flotation or buoyancy of cloud 
particles, and also of dust, as due to adherent, heated, and dilated air, 
namely", the sclar radiation obstructed by the particle, and consequently 
giving rise to minute convection currents. 

211. [The present writer remembers the conversation had with Mr. 
Serrell in 1880, to which he refers in his letter, wherein I suggested that 
the flotation of vapor particles at upper surface of clouds in the atmos- 
phere, under the influence of sunlight, was due to their evaporation and 
heating, by which the whole cloud is more buoyant. This, however, is 
hardly parallel to the experiments made in a laboratory, where radiation 
is of much less imj^ortauce, in comparison with the condition of heat 
by convection and kinetic molecular processes.] 

212. The observations with silk fibers, suggested by Serrell in 1880, 
seem to have lately been made by Prof G. F. Fitzgerald, of the Dublin 
Koyal Society. [Nature, xxx, p. 331.) 

213. On the 28th of March, 1884, Prof Osborne Keynolds, in a lec- 
ture at the Koyal Institutioai, summarized his results up to that time, 
giving additional new experiments on water and air, which are both 



320 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

novel in hydro-mechanics and aLso extremely suggestive to the students 
of atmospheric motions and cloud formation. {Nature, xxx, p. 88.) 

214. (j. H. Darwin communicates to the Royal Society of London an 
extensive paper upon the formation of ripple marks in sand. This is 
not only a very suggestive phenomenon in hydrodynamics, but, as the 
author suggests, may possibly have a bearing on the mode of formation 
of the " mackerel sky " and other forms of cirrus. [As regards the 
formation of the long cirrus threads, we should prefer the explanation 
by Kev. Clement Ley to that given by Darwin.] {Nature, xxix, p. 161.) 

215. Prof. J. W. Mallet has made an extensive compilation of data 
relating to the analysis of drinking-water and rain-water, which is pub- 
lished as a report to the United States National Board of Health. 

216. A. von Danckelman, of Leipsic, has investigated the observa- 
tions of precipitation made in Saxony, 1864 to 1881. Among his results 
we quote the following : 

The maximum probability of rain (0.63) falls in the decade March 2 
to 11 •, also .June 30 to July 9, and November 27 to December 6. The 
minimum probability (0.40) occurs in the decades September 28 to Octo- 
ber 7, and May 1 1 to 20. 

The relative number of days of snow and days of rain are in the 
winter 56, spring 22, and autumn 13 per cent. The number of days free 
from snow varies from 204 at one station to 157 at different stations. 
{Z. 0. G. 3L, XVIII, p. 392.) 

217. Dr. J. Miiller gives a very complete collection of the results of 
observations of rain and snow in Switzerland, some of the longer series 
representing sixty years of observations. The region of greatest sum- 
mer rain is on the iioi thern side of the Alps ; in this region the winter 
and autumn rains increase from east to west, but the summer rains di- 
minish ; the region of minimum rainfall embraces the Canton of Tessin. 
{Z. 0. G. il/., XIX, p. 343.) 

213. Professor Topfer has published an elaborate investigation into 
the rainfall of Germany, which is ]ninted by the association at Gorlitz. 
He finds that the upper stations have a much more uniform distribution 
of rain through the year. The heaviest rainfall in stations of long series 
occurred at Klausthal and Freudenstadt and the summit of the Brocken ; 
the least occurred at Wustrow and Muhlhausen. (Z>. ill. Z., i, p. 258.) 

219. E. Millosevich has j^nblished an exhaustive monograph on the 
distribution of rainfall in Italy. Italy possesses many stations having 
very long series of observations on rainfall; for instance, Padua, 155 
years; Milan, 116; Verona, 81; Palermo, 74; Pavia, 63; Naples, 59; 
Eome, 55 ; &c. These, therefore, give the author opportunity to study 
not only the geographical but also the chronological distribution and 
periodicity. In a land of such varied topography the variations of 
climate are so great that it would be impossible in the present summary 
to give any idea of the richness of the storehouse of information con- 
tained in this volume. {Z. 0. G, M., xix, p. 49.) 



METEOROLOGY. 321 

220. Dr. V. Kremzer has studied the variability ot rainfall in Europe, 
following the path of Hann, von Danckelmanu, and others. Among 
the general conclusions to be drawn from his tables we note the follow- 
ing: 

1. The mean variability in quantity of lainlall increases with dimin- 
ishing latitude, and the more rapidly in proportion as we penetrate the 
region of subtropical rains. 

2. From the records for Padua for 150 years he finds that the error 
of the mean annual rainfall as computed for any 30 years will be 1 per 
cent, and the largest probable error L*.5 i)er cent. 

3. The sources of variation in rainfall measures due to changes in the 
observers, in the exposure of gauges, and in the general changes of the 
regions surrounding the gauges, are all included in the above figures 
for the actual rainfall ; he makes a special illustration of the effect of 
these sources of error in the case of the records at Breslau, where the 
great mean variability and annual variability is largely traceable to 
instrumental changes. 

4. As to stations that lie in the rain shadow of a mountain chain, they 
also have a higher variability because of this location than do those 
stations that lie on the opposite side of the mountain and receive an 
excess of rain. In this respect he examines especially the records from 
Italy and the Hartz Mountains. 

5. In reference to elevation above sea level, the variability of rain is 
much less for an entirely plane surface considerably elevated above the 
sea, but the contrary if mountains intersect an elevated plain. As re- 
gards the relation between coast and interior stations, the former have 
the greater variability. 

0. As regards the seasons, the greatest variability belongs to the cold 
season of the year, while the least variability or greater uniformity 
belongs to the season of vegetation. 

Kremzer gives convenient general tables for deducing the number 
of years of observations necessary in order to obtain an annual mean of 
a given accuracy; thus for a station whose annual variability is 20 per 
cent., 11.8 years will be required to obtain a mean rainfall correct to 
within 5 per cent. The probable errors of the monthly rainfall for any 
one station as based on observations for 10 years are as follows : For 
Algiers 22 per cent., southern Spain 19, lower Italy 18, Central Italy 16, 
upper Italy 15, Switzerland 14, Germany 12 and 11. 

The above remarks refer to i)ercentages of rainfall, taking the annual 
and monthly mean total quantities as the basis; in a subsequent section 
on the actual rainfall he discusses the occurrence of dry and wet periods. 
By combining together all his rainfall records for Europe, he obtains a 
general mean which must have some cosmic or extended terrestrial rela- 
tion. Combining each year with its neighboring years he obtains a 
smoothed curve, wbich is expressed in the second column of the following 
table in percentages of the departure of the quantity of rain from its 
S. Mis. 33 21 



322 



SCIEISTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



normal value. The wonderful agreement of these variations with the va- 
riations of Wolf's sun-spot numbers shows that we have here to do with 
some general feature connecting the earth and sun. the inflections of the 
rain-curve following those of the sun-spot by an interval of about one 
year. 

Eremzer's variability of rain in Europe. 



Tear. 



1848 
1849 
1850 
1851 
1852 
1853 
1854 
1855 
1856 



Per cent. 



Year. 



+3 3 

3.7 

4.5 

5.2 

4.5 

2.9 

+1.6 

-0.9 

—6.5 



1857 
1858 
1859 
1860 
1861 
1862 
1863 
1864 
1865 



Per cent. 



—8.9 
—7.1 
-1.6 
+2.2 
+1.9 
0.5 
—3.8 
-6.2 
—4.6 



Year. 



1866 
1867 
1868 
1869 
1870 
1871 
1872 
1873 
1874 



Per cent 



0.4 

4.7 

4.8 

+1.6 

0.0 

1.7 

3.1 

+2.5 

-0.2 



(D. M. Z., p. 93.) 

221. G. J. Symons, of London, gives an important discussion of the 
variation in annual rainfall for the years 1830 to 1881 in England. The 
mean of nine stations is reduced to annual percentages, the extreme range 
of which is from 71 per cent, in 1854, up to 136 per cent, in 1853. From 
1853 to 1859, inclusive, the rainfall was below the average^ from 1875 to 
1881, it was decidedly above the average. Hann remarks that this dry 
period prevailed also on the northern side of the Alps, while the wet pe- 
riod prevailed over the whole of Western and Central Europe. The very 
dry period that prevailed in Hungary, 1861 to 1866, was not prominent 
in England. In general, the average variability of English rainfall is 
about 14 per cent, of its mean quantity, but it amounts to about 40 per 
cent, each half century. The wet and dry years apparently arrange 
themselves in series of ten and twelve years respectively ; thus the wet 
years are 1836, 1848, 1860, 1S73 ; the dry years are 1834, 1844, 1854, 
1864, and 1874. (Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 387.) 

222. F. Augustin has studied the rainfall at Prague, especially as to 
its daily periodicity, having at his disposal twenty years' observations 
with a self recording rain-gauge; he finds it impossible to give the mean 
annual periodicity, especially because of the difficulty of measuring the 
snow in winter time, and the loss of occasional very heavy rainfalls in 
summer time, but the daily maxima and minima stand forth very clearly. 
As regards quantity of rainfall, the jmncipal maximum occurs between 
4 and 5 p. M., shortly after the temperature maximum. A second max- 
imum occurs between 9 and 10 P. m. ; a third maximum between 9 and 
10 A. M. The principal minimum occurs about 4 A. m., a second min- 
imum between 7 and 8 p. m., and a third minimum between 11 a. m. and 
noon. With regard to the frequency of rain, there are also threemaxima 
and three minima, as follows: The principal maximum, 7 to 8 p. M.; 
the secondary maxima, between 8 and 9 A. M., and between 2 and 3 p. M.; 
the principal minimum, between 2 and 3 A.M.; the secondary minima, 
about noon and between 4 and 5 p. M. 



METEOROLOGY. 323 

The intensity of tho rainfall or the quantity per hour changes very 
nearly as the total quantity; the probability of rain follows the curve 
of rain frequency. {Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 243.) 

223. F. Seeland, of Klageufurt, has studied the daily record of the 
height of water in the wells fed by subterranean springs at Klageufurt 
during the five years 1878 to 1882; the height of water is, of course, a 
general result of the rainfall of the whole of the surrounding basin, 
which extends from northwest to southeast. All the springs in this basin 
show similar phenomena; the lowest average reading prevailed in 1878; 
the highest in 1879. Comparison with the rainfall at one station, 
Klageufurt, scarcely gives any satisfactory basis for unraveling the 
complicated phenomenon. The highest rainfall occurred in 1787 and 
the least in 1881. [Z. 0. G. J/., xviii, p. 339.) 

224. H. F. Blanlbrd, director of the Meteorological Office in India, 
from a study of the conuection between snowfall in the Himalaya and 
the subsequent dry winds of Northern India, draws the following con- 
clusions : 

1. A remarkably heavy and especially a kite snowfall in the Northwest 
Himalayas is followed by a long i^eriod of drought on tlie plains of 
Northwest and Western India. 

2. A rich winter and spring precipitation at the stations of the North- 
western Himalayas is followed in sixteen cases out of eighteen by a de- 
ficient summer rain on the plains of Northwest India, and vice versa. 

3. The west winds that are characteristic as abnormal during droughts 
in west and north India are identical in character with the normal 
winds of the regular dry season, and appear to be fed by descending 
currents from the Northwest Himalayas and possibly from the mount- 
ains on the west. 

4. It is an ordinary well known phenomenon of the winter months 
that a fall of rain and snow in the Northwest Himalayas is directly fol- 
lowed by a wave of high pressure that progresses from the western hills 
toward the east, accompanied by a cool northwest wind. 

5. The conclusion that seems to follow is that an unusual extension of 
thesnow-coveringin the Northwest Himalaya acts upon the higher levels 
in summer like the ordinary fall of snow and rain in the lower regions 
of the Himalayas in the winter time, and favors the formation of the 
dry northwest winds on the plain of Western India. 

6. That the dependence of the dry winds upon the Himalaya snow- 
fall offers a criterion for the prediction of the probability of a drought 
in Northwestern and Western India. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 378, and Na- 
ture, XXX, p. 40.) 

225. H. F. Blanford, in studying the theory of the winter rains in 
Northern India, concludes that the aqueous vapor evaporated from the 
earth's surface diiiiises gradually upwards in the quiet atmosphere of 
Northern India and reaches an altitude favoring the condensation into 
cloud. When once in this way a moderately thick bank of cloud has 



324 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

been formed, the eqnilibriiim is soon disturbed, the diminution of tem- 
perature under the cloud is slower and the average temperature there- 
fore higher. This suffices to inaugurate an inflow of air from all sides 
and an ascending motion and a falling barometer. Warm, moist air 
blows up from the south and we have the conditions for the winter rains. 
If this is correct we must consider the quiet calm air as the initial con- 
dition, but this calm is due to the existence of the high chain of mount- 
ains that surrounds Northern India on the east, north, and west. Were 
these absent the strong, dry northeast winds would carry away the va- 
por and the weather would be similar to that of Southern China. 

226. [This is also a very fair description of the growth of a storm- 
center in the region west of the Mississippi, such as occasionally takes 
place directly under the observation of the Signal Office.] {Z. 0. G. if., 
XIX, p. 452.) 

227. A. Richter, of Ebersdorf, has discussed the observations made 
at that place for six years on the direction of movement of the upper 
clouds, with the following results: The mean direction of the move- 
ment is from the point south 84° W., but for observations made one or 
more days befor<^, rain the direction is from a more northerly point, and 
for observations made a few hours before rain the direction is from a 
more southerly point. The probability of rain within twenty-four hours 
is greatest (65 per cent.) when the clouds move from the southwest; the 
general probability that rain will follow within twenty four hours after 
an observed cirrus is 56 per cent. ; but rain fell on 58 jjer cent, of all 
the days in these six years 5 therefore, in general, the cirrus precedes 
non -rainy weather. This is explained by the fact that cirrus observations 
cannot be made when low clouds obscure the heavens, on which days 
the probability of rain is greatest. The direction of cirrus n)ovement 
is for winter from the N. 82° W., and for summer S. 74° W. Using the 
wind direction as observed at a more favorable station five miles dis- 
tant, it is found that the cirrus deviates from the wind most frequently 
by angles of plus or minus 45o, but the probability of rain is less when 
the wind is opposed to the cirrus than when the directions agree, and 
similar results are found by conij)aring the cirrus and lower clouds. On 
6i)ecial days of low barometer the direction of the cirrus has no appar- • 
ent influence upon the rainfall, but when the barometer is simply fall- 
ing with a southwest wind the occurrence of cirrus movements nearly 
coinciding with that of the wind is in 73 per cent, of such cases followed. J 
by rain, while with northeast winds only 43 per cent, are followed by « 
rain. (D, M. Z., i, p. 319.) J 

228. Prof. H. Klein proposes to make more use than hitherto of ob- f 
servations of the cirrus clouds for purposes of weather prediction. The ;J 
difficulty lies mostly in the fact that all observations must be made at | 
the earth's surface, and we therefore know but little of their altitude ' 
and thickness. Systematic observations, however, have lately' been 
made both by himself at Cologne and by Neumeyer at Hamburg, from 



METEOROLOGY. 325 

which he indicates a few rules additional to the ideas previously pub- 
lished by others. Thus he states that when a thin cirrus arc appears 
upon the western horizon witli its summit iu the west, this surrounds a 
depression still further west moving eastward, and will be followed in 
four to eight hours by a heavy rain. Again, if for twelve hours the 
cirrus clouds moving from the west occupy only the southern horizon, 
then for the next day we expect an east wind ; but if the cirrus move 
from the southeast many dry days of east winds are to be expected, 
and if the cirri move from the east-northeast, or the east, a continuous 
dry weather may be expected. 

229. [The importance of studying the movements of both upper and 
lower clouds which had already been abundantly indicated by Espy 
and Redfield and otlieis, led the present writer to include all of these 
iu his daily telegraphic dispatches for the Daily Weather Bulletin of 
the Cincinnati Observatory, the publication of which began in Septem- 
ber, 1869. The daily manuscript weather map of the Army Signal Office 
began in 1871 to show the direction and kind of clouds, and the util- 
ization of cirrus and other cloud movements for the anticipation of 
storms, aud even as a first indication of the formation of a new storm- 
center, growing up immediately under one's eyes, became a matter of 
daily practice from that time.] {Z. 0. Q. M., xviii, p. 220.) 

230. J. Damian, of Innspruck, by careful observations of the clouds 
during June, 1882, has endeavored to determine the relation between 
the rainfall and the upper aud lower currents of air. He finds the 
quantity of rain greatest when the lower current is from the southwest 
and the upper current from the north, but least when the lower current 
is from the north with the upper from the south. When the angular 
deviation between the direction of the two currents is 23° he finds one 
case with rain and six without rain ; when it is 45° the numbers are 1 
and 9, respectively; when it is 90° the numbers are 2 aud 8; lor 135° 
the numbers are 8 and 3 ; for 180°, 4 and 1, which results are equiva- 
lent to saying that the more nearly the upper are opposed to each other 
the more likely is rain to follow\ [Z. 0. G. J/., xviii, p. 345.) 

231. G. Mantel gives in the Swiss Annuaire for 1882 a study into the 
connection between the number of clear and cloudy days in any period 
and the mean cloudiness of that period. His investigation is partly 
mathematical and partly based on actual observations. He shows that 
assuming a mean daily cloudiness of 1 on a scale of 10 for the clear 
days, 9 for the cloudy days, and 5 for the remaining days, we can com- 
pute the mean cloudiness even for a period of months in close agree- 
ment with direct daily observation. [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 340.) 

232. Grossman has studied the connection between the mean cloudi- 
ness of any period and the number of clear and cloudy days, in a man- 
ner similar to the study of G. Mantel for Switzerland. Grossman has 
tested Mantel's Swiss formula by application to the German stations; 
he finds that the monthly mean cloudiness (O) can be expressed as a 



326 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

fuuction of the difference between the number of cloudy and clear days 

45 
by the formula 0=53 ^ (cloudy-clear), where n is the whole number 

of days in the period. He, however, does not recommend that we give 
up computing mean cloudiness by taking the actual average of each 
day's actual observation. (/>. M. Z., i, p. 341.) 

233. Roscoe and Stewart publish the results of observations made at 
Kew, 1875-'82 on solar radiation or the heat of sunshine as registered 
by Campbell's sunshine recorder j the original form of this apj^aratus 
consists of a wooden block with a hemisi)herical depression into which 
is inserted a spherical lens so that the focus of the lens lies at the sur- 
face of the wood, and it is assumed that the sun's rays cbar or burn the 
block in proportion to their intensity and duration. One block lasts 
from June 21 to December 21, and is then changed for a second block 
to last from December 21 to June 21. Twenty-four years of observations 
seem to show that the quantity of solar heat received by the block is 
greater from December to June than from June to December (due to 
cloudy weather?); there is also a slight trace of a double variation in- 
side of each sun-spot period. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 546.) 

234. Prof. J. M. Pernter has made a collection of data relative to tbe 
amount of sunshine received at different places on the northern hemi- 
sphere, and the few stations given by him serve to increase the interest in 
this important climatic and meteorologic element. His tables give the 
hourly and monthly averages and totals of the amount of sunshine re- 
corded by the Beck-Cami)bell sunshine register for five stations in Europe, 
one in Asia, and four in Canada, all for the year 1882. [Records have 
been maintained for a number of years with this instrument at Wash- 
ington, but have not yet been reduced and published. In fact some 
doubt seems to have arisen as to the value of these records.] Pernter ex- 
presses the wish that the publication of the results of the sunshine-reg- 
ister should be given by hours and tenths of hours, not the hourly means 
expressed as rates per day, and not the monthly means, but the hourly 
totals and the monthly totals. From his examination of the records 
it seems that the depression in the curve of daily rate that had already 
been established for Vienna at about noon appears with few exceptionsat 
all other stations. St. Petersburg and' Winnipeg, like Vienna, show in 
summer more sunshine in the morning than in the afternoon, and the 
reverse in winter; all stations havemoresunshine in the afternoon than 
morning throughout the year; this peculiarity Pernter attributes to the 
difference between continental and marine climates. 

By making use of Schott's tables of sunrise and sunset on account 
of their accuracy, Pernter computes the percentage of the observed to 
the greatest possible duration of sunshine. In general the annual to- 
tals and the annual percentages diminish with the increase of latitude; 
the annual averages are 01 per cent, for Bola, 4(5 for Toronto, 37 for 
]!ila;ideburg, 47 for Wiuuii>eg, 42 for Vienna, 41 for Sydney, 71 for Alia- 



METEOROLOGY. 327 

h abaci , 39 for St. Petersburg, 27 for Stony hurst. In general there is a 
larger per cent, of suusliine in summer than in winter, or the short 
winter days have more cloudiness than the long summer days; but 
Allahabad shows the opposite, since there the months of longest days 
are the rainy months, and the highest percentages of sunshine occur in 
December and October. {Z. 0. G. M.^ xix, p. 326.) 

VI [.—(a) Winds and ocean currents; (h) Dynamic laws for 

MOVEMENT OF AIR, CONSIDERING THE ROTATION OF THE EARTH 
AND THE LAWS OF THERMODYNAMICS. 

235. Dr. Woeikof has calculated for fifty stations in Siberia and Eus- 
sia the diurnal i)eriod in the velocity of the wind, and shows its inti- 
mate connection with the diurnal change of temperature and the uprising 
currents as explained by Koppen. Where the surface-heating is slight 
the diurnal amplitude is slight. {Nature, xxviii, p. 571.) 

236. The United States National Academy of Sciences has published 
a report of its expedition to Caroline Island, in the South Pacific, for 
the observation of the solar eclipse of May 6, 1883. The meteorological 
results obtained by Prof. W. Upton give, among other things, a new 
value of the atmospheric " constant of absorption of solar heat" and an 
approximate determination of the heat reflected from our atmosphere 
during totality; also a determination of the diurnal period in the force 
of the wind deduced from hourly records of the velocity of the sailing 
vessel as determined by the ship's log. During an interval of about ten 
days the vessel sailed in a uniform trade-wind without a single change 
in the trimming of the sails. Upton's results show a greater velocity 
of wind by night than by day. 

237. [This exceptional result, if no flaw be discovered in the method, 
may possibly be explained (1) as due to the fact that the height of the 
center of wind pressure against the sail is about 40 feet above the sea, 
and (2) by the assumption that above this elevation the wind has its 
normal velocity at night, but a less velocity by day, owing to the upris- 
ing of slowly-moving heated currents from the surface of the sea; in 
other words, the diurnal periodicity of the wind, which over the land is 
observed up to a height of many hundred and sometimes of several 
thousand feet, is over the sea felt up to the height of only a few hun- 
dred feet. Above that level its velocity is uniform ; immediately below 
it the velocity is least in the middle of the day, while at the surface of 
the sea the velocity is greatest in the middle of the day. The Espy- 
Koppen theory has not yet been developed far enough to enable us to 
state the relation between temperature of earth or sea surface, and the 
height of the plane of no diurnal wind-period, but it is evident that the 
height over the sea may really be as small as Upton's observations in- 
dicate. This result explains also the peculiarities of the diurnal land 
and sea breezes at sea-shore stations when the general winds are from 
land or water.] 



328 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR - 1 884. 

238. H. E. Hamberg, of Stockholm, has published a third memoir on 
the diurnal variation of tlie torce of the wind. Tlie author endeavors to 
show that the auiplitude between the daily maximum and minimum of 
wind velocity is greater for strong winds than for feeble ones. As to 
the questions whether the amplitude of the wind is best expressed by 
the diflerence between the maximum and minimum or by the ratio be- 
tween them, Hamberg is of the opinion that the ratio should be pre- 
ferred, but Hanu remarks that the question can only be decided after 
considering the object of the investigation. After discussing this ques- 
tion, which is again fully replied to by Hann, Hamberg communicates 
the results of a large collection of data elucidating the diurnal changes 
for all classes of winds and for numerous stations in Europe ; he then 
passes especially to the daily period for Upsala in the winter time, show- 
ing that the amplitude increases with the strength of the wind, and 
that the influence of cloudiness is but slight. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 303.) 

239. E. Stelling discusses the wind direction in the lower portion of 
the rivers Obi and Jenissei. He shows that the southeast, south, and 
southwest winds of ISTorth and "West Siberia do not belong to anyXorth 
Atlantic cyclonic system, but belong to the anti cyclonic winds attend- 
ing the high barometer of Northern Asia. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 417.) 

240. Prof. n. Fritz shows that the whisper wind, which is a local cur- 
rent at the entrance of the narrow valley of the Rhine, blowing down 
the upper portion of this valley in the evening and early mornings of 
warm, clear days, is simply a part of the general current of air in the 
valley of the river, and not to be attributed to any special influence of 
the Wisperthal which is popularly and romantically associated with the 
wind. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 24G.) 

241. J. M. Pernter, in a second contribution on the winds at high 
altitudes, shows that on the summit of theObir the southeast and south 
winds are most frequent, and therefore the upper trade or return 
trade has no existence there. For both frequency and total movement 
there is a double maximum and minimum. The diurnal wind-changes 
follow the sun, namely, they veer with the sun during the day time, but 
during the night time '• back " or return against the sun. The north 
and northwest winds are the strongest, the south and southwest the 
softest. By selecting fifty-one perfectly clear days the daily period 
becomes still more pronounced, confirming the author in his supposi- 
tion that the sun's heat is the principal cause of the diurnal change of 
wind force. {Z. O. G. M., xix, p. 380.) 

242. R. Billwiller, of Zurich, has published a preliminary discussion of 
the results of the anemometer records for August, 1883, with the Munro 
anemograph on the summit of the Santis. He fears that the instru- 
ment will not work satisfactorily in the winter, owing to the frost and 
ice that accumulate during the prevailing moist west winds, and has 
attempted therefore to make a comparison daring the favorable weather 
with the records of the observatorv at Berne, which is situated in an 



METEOROLOGY. 329 

open, fi'ee space, and fairly represents the wind of tlie northern base of 
the Alps. In general be finds for Berne the southwest and north to 
be the most frequent winds, while for Santis they are the southwest 
and west. The total movement of the wind is, for Berne 2,500, but 
for the Siintis 23,000 kilometers during the month. The strongest winds 
for Berne are southwest, north, and northeast, but for the Siintis 
southwest and west. The altitudes for the two stations are, for Berne, 
570 meters; for the Siinlis anemometer, 2,508 meters, the anemometer 
cups being 4 meters above the summit of the mountain. The diurnal ve- 
locity of the wind is very great at Berne, having a maximum velocity 
of 10.0 kilometers per hour between 1 and 2 p. m., and a minimum of 0.1 
between 4 and 5 A. M., but for the Siintis summit we have a maximum 
38.1 between 3 and 4 A. M., and a minimum 28.2 between 8 and 10 A. 
M., and again between 2 and 3 p. m. {Z. 0. G. M., xVni, p. 41(5.) 

243. The first year of observations on the summit of the Siintis (alti- 
tude 2,467 meters) are published by Haun, from which we see that the 
greatest wind velocity occurred at 9 P. m. ou the average of the year, 
the mean value being 1.60 of the scale on the Wild tablet anemometer, 
the maximum being 2.2 in March and the minimum 1.2 in June; the 
average lowest wind force was 4.10 at 1 P. M., the highest being 2.1 in 
November and the minimum being 0.8 in June. {Z. 0. O. M., xviii, p. 
479.) 

244. Stevenson has from some observations at heights less than 200 
feet endeavored to obtain the rate of increase of the wind with the alti- 
tude. He finds that the following formulae represent his observations : 

For wind velocity y~'\I^- ^^^^ pressure "w^ct 

where the small letters refer to the lower station and the large letters 
to the higher ; the velocities are expressed in miles per hour, the press- 
ures in pounds per square foot, and the altitudes in feet. By means of 
these formulse it should become possible for meteorologists to reduce all 
observed wind velocities and pressures to a uniform standard altitude. 

245. [It would seem that one of the most important steps to be taken 
in the near future, in order to render the study of daily weather maps a 
more precise scientific matter, consists in the correction of anemometer 
readings for instrumental and local peculiarities and their reduction to 
a uniform altitude above the surface of the ground ; similarly the tem- 
perature and moisture observations so far as they relate to the moving 
mass of air should be reduced to a uniform elevation ; as regards rain- 
fall the correction for local and instrumental peculiarities seems almost 
hopeless, but is none the less desirable ; the reduction to a uuiform alti- 
tude, however, is a much simpler matter.] {Z. 0. 0. M., xviii, p. 319.) 

246. E. D. Archibald, of London, has undertaken an investigation into 
the velocity of tlie wind as afiected by the altitude above ground, and 
has ext^inded Mr. Stevenson's experiments (which terminated with a 



330 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

height of 50 feet), by means of kites extending up to 1,500 or 2,000. For 

Y H 

the formula — =-r- given by Stevenson, which should not be used 

V h 

above 100 feet, Mr. Archibald suggests tlie following: — =4 /5 

V V h 

•which is one of Stevenson's .first formulas. This holds good up to 23,000 

feet if we may rely upon the observations of Vettin, and does not vary 

very much from the formula given by Ferrel, viz : 

_ 0.0027 P 2 

•^ ~ixom3moi P'"^ 

{Nature, xxvii, pp. 243-507.) 

247. Mr. Thomas Stevenson, of Edinburgh, replies to Mr. Archibald's 
remarks and maintains that his own second formula is abundantly suf- 
ficient to represent the observed increase of wind velocity. {Nature, 
XXVII, p. 432.) 

248. A. Buclian communicates the results of the Challenger observa- 
tions as to the diurnal velocity of the wind on the open sea near the 
shore and on land. These results are also incorporated in his article on 
Meteorology in the Encyclopaedia Britannica. {Mature, xxvii, p. 413.) 

249. Mr. E. D. Archibald differs from Buchan in the latter's explana- 
tion of the diurnal variation in the variation of the wind, and affirms his 
adherence to the views of Espy and Koppen. {Nature, xxvii, p. 461.) 

250. W. Koppen criticises some passages in Hann's Climatology rela- 
tive to land and sea breezes, and his remarks suggest the importance of 
a few additional observations in favorable localities; thus he says the 
origin of the sea breeze is not primarily due to the increase of pressure 
in the upper part of a warming column of air. Since the sea breeze be- 
gins over the sea and subsequently stretches to the land and up into 
the bays and inlets, this must be attributed to the resistance of the land 
retarding the breeze which is felt at a little distance out over the sea and 
is first overcome when the pressure increases to a certain limit. 

Koppen thinks that since the sum total of the upper and lower circu- 
lation is certainly stronger by day than by night, and as the land breeze 
is feebler than the sea breeze, it is not necessary to conclude that a land 
wind is blowing strongly at some altitude above the earth's surface. 
He calls attention to the fact that although the sea breeze is generally 
intensihed when the i^revailing wind direction agrees with it, yet, on 
the other hand, observation does not confirm the idea that the land 
wind is increased when the prevailing winds agree with it. This rever- 
sion of the preceding law is an apparently natural one, and is, per- 
hai)s, generally supposed to be true, but, as Koppen remarks, actual 
observations do not confirm it, and we evidently still need a correct 
explanation of the mechanism of the sea breeze. {Z. 0. O. M., xix, p. 39.) 

251. [Is not this explanation suggested hy the above note on the re- 
sults of Profess Dr Uptou's study of a ship's velocity in the South Pacific 
Ocean, i. e., the level of uniform maximum velocity is much lower over 



METEOROLOGY. 331 

the sea than over the laud, owing to the leeble uprising carrent, as it 
is also lower over the slightly heated lands of high latitudes and over 
the laud during the night as compared with the day time.] 

252. Dr. A. Sprung, of Hamburg, in reference to the daily period in 
the direction of the wind which has for centuries been recognized, says 
that the theory of vertical ascending currents or topsy turvey move- 
ments would lead us to the following conclusions which are fully ex- 
planatory of this periodicity : 

1. In the northern hemisphere, on the low plains and on high plains, 
the wind has a tendency to change its direction with the hands of a 
watch in the morning and against the hands in the afternoon. 

2. In the northern hemisphere on the summits of mountains a simi- 
lar oscillation in the direction of the wind will occur, but in the oppo- 
site direction. 

3. In the southern hemisphere the oscillation at low stations will be 
against the hands of a watch in the morning nud with them in the 
afternoon, or opposed to the rule for the low lands, and agreeing with 
the rule for the mountain summits in the northern hemisphere. 

4. In the southern hemisphere for mountain summits the oscillation 
is opposite to that of the low lands of that hemisphere. 

5. At the equator the wind direction is not affected. 

G. On the ocean, where the daily period in the strength of the wind 
is slight in consequence both of the slight vertical diminution of fric- 
tion and of the slight warming of the ocean surface, this oscillation in 
direction is also not sensible. 

So far as observations are at hand the above conclusions seem to be 
confirmed, and so strong is the deflection due to uprising currents thus 
theoretically explained that the diurnal change of wind at most north- 
ern stations conseqnent on the eastward movement of storm centers 
whose paths lie north of tlio station is almost entirely annulled by it 
in the afternoon, whereas in the morning the two forces combine to ex- 
aggerate the phenomenon. (Z). M. Z., i, pp. 15-65.) 

253. Dr. A. Sprung gives an elementary geometrical derivation, which 
is more complete than that given by Zoppritz and Buff, of the deflection 
due to the earth's rotation. (D. M. Z., i, p. 250.) 

254. Wm. M. Davis, of Harvard College, gives an elementary proof 
of the deflection, due to the earth's rotation, of bodies moving par- 
allel to its surface, showing the three general principles upon which, 
he says, Professor Ferrel bases his formula for this deflecting force; this 
is reproduced by llann with a few notes from Van Nostrand's Engineer- 
ing Magazine. {Z. 0. G. J/., xviii, p. 299.) 

255. Dr. F. Roth, of Buxtehude, comments upon Professor Davis' pre- 
sentation of the subject to the effect that it does not make clear the 
point under dispute between himself and Dr. Sprung; he, however, 
recognizes that Professor Davis's method of demonstration virtually 
assumes that the earth is a sphere, and that the true or apparent force 



332 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

of gravity is perpeiulicular to the surface of a sphere. He prefers him- 
self, however, to consider the earth as a spheroid formed by the rotation 
of a fluid mass, and to assume that the direction of the i^himb liue is 
always t(^^ards the center of the spheroid ; this h(^ thinks corresponds 
better to the practical taste of the American, and is about the same as 
Professor Ferrel has adopted. He then shows that of the three com- 
ponents into which Professor Davis analyzes the deviating force of the 
earth's rotation, only the first actually exists. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 
376.) 

256. H. Bruns, of Leipsic, in reference to the movement of the atmos- 
phere over the earth's surface, states that Roth and other authors have 
generally assumed the earth's surface as perfectly smooth; he, therefore, 
gives the formulae required when we introduce the consideration of 
friction, and shows that assuming the earth to be a surface of rotation 
the friction will not afiect the azimuthal deviation known as Ferrel's 
law. '(Z. 0. G. ili., xviir, p. 4L»5.) 

257. F. Roth, under date of October, 1883, communicates a note ou 
the deviations of motions of the earth's surface, in which he shows that 
the angle that determines the direction of motion as affected by the 
earth's rotation varies only with the time and is entirely independent 
of the kind offrictional resistance; it is the same for any force that acts 
in the direction of the path, and holds good for locomotives, steamships, 
moving animals, &c. If the frictional resistance is in direct proportion 
to the velocity, but in other respects the moving body is imi)elled by its 
own inertia, then the orbit is a spiral turning with the sun and can be 
expressed by the following equation: 

a d 

r = To e : 

2 w sin g) 

We therefore arrive at a remarkable confirmation of the assumption 

with which Guldberg and Mohn commence their investigations. {Z. 0. 

G. .¥., XIX, p. 41.) 

258. F. Roth, in reference to his development of the path of moving 
bodies on the earth's surface, controverts the position taken by Professor 
Bruns to the eliCect that theoretical and mathematical investigations 
have but little practical interest for the progress of meteorology unless 
every detail is considered instead of the api)roximate solutions frequently 
given; the fact, however, is that Bruns' efibrt to introduce the consid- 
eration of friction can scarcely be called very successful, as he certainly 
has made no greater progress than did Finger in his memoir of 1877. 
However, Roth finds in Bruns' work a confirmation of the correctness 
of his own previous assumption, namely, that the eaith is a sphere to 
whose surface the observed lorce of gravity is perpendicular. Taking 
complete account of the side forces introduced by frictional resistance, 
Roth shows that it is not immaterial in wliich direction a bodj' moves 
on the earth's surface, but that the deviating force is for a motion to- 
wards the east greater than one towards the west. He gives also tho 



METEOROLOGY. 333 

formula for the change n the velocity due to friction, in which respect 
he agrees with Professor Bruus. As has been before stated, the orbit 
of a free particle moving on a horizontal plane under the influence of 
the earth's rotation and its own friction (assumed to be directly propor- 
tional to the velocity) will be a logarithmic spiral. If, however, the fric- 
tion depends upon the square of the velocity, then the differential curve 
is easily given, but the integrated equation involves a series of sines and 
cosines. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 523.) 

259. Prof. L. de Marchi, of Rome, has published in the Annals of the 
Eome Meteorological Office an investigation into the mathematical 
theory of the winds, in reference to which Dr. M. Margueles gives a 
review with criticisms. Marchi aims to show that the quantity which 
in hydrodynamics has been known as Wirbelgeschwindigkeit has an 
important meaning in the mathematical theory of the winds. If we in- 
dicate this quantity by ;', then the total rotation of any parti''le of air 
is equal to C plus the rotation of the earth, and the total rotation is 
always positive or against the rotation of the sun; the lines of equal 
total rotation are also curves of equal density; that any condition in 
which the quantity C is zero cannot long exist over a large surface. If 
we assume that the total rotation of a particle of air is constant for its 
whole orbit, which Marchi thinks rendered probable by actual observa- 
tions, but which Dr. Margueles thinks wholly arbitrary, then it follows 
that the density is greater where C is greater. If a region where C is 
zero divides two regions of positive and negative values of C, then the 
density of the air will increase towards the positive and diminish 
towards the negative C; he thus explains the distribution of pressure in 
cyclones and anti-cyclones, and for the special case that the orbits of 
the particles of air are logarithmic spirals the total rotation is con- 
stant throughout the whole horizontal movement. Assuming the Mohn 
and Guldberg relation between density and temperature, Marchi finds 
that when in the center of a cyclone ^ is negative, this is then a warm 
center, but when C is positive it is a cold center, provided that in both 
cases the curve of C=0 completely incloses the center. After going 
into many details in relation to individual simple cyclones, the author 
remarks that by drawing lines for equal values of C, especially C=0, 
we can easily study the ordinary complicated combinations of the daily 
weather ma\). He lays it' down as a general rule that two lines of 
equal values of C can never intersect each other, and that a line of 
uniform C must either be completely inclosed or must extend to the 
very limits of the fluid; he proves that if the line is closed, then the 
dilatation due to the motion will be greater on the north side than on 
the south side, thus explaining the tendency of cyclones to move towards 
the i)ole and of anti-cyclones towards the center in a different manner 
from that given by Ferrel. {Z. O. G. il/., xix, p. 278.) 

260. In exi)lanation of the above assumption to which Dr. Margueles 
objects^ Professor Marchi states that he did not enunciate this as a 



334 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

general propositioD, but distinctly as a special hypothesis appropriate 
to a miiuber of practical examples, and tliat in general such restricted 
hypothetical cases must first be solved before we can, in the present 
state of our knowledge, proceed to the general solutions which are now 
imi)0ssible. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 480.) 

261. Prof. A. Oberbeck, commenting upon the memoir of Marchi, 
states that his own investigations have led him *o a different conclu- 
sion. In the first place the expression Wirbelgeschwindigkeit (which 
is not used by Helmholtz) is not properly applied to the movements 
represented by Marchi by the letter C ; in the second place the conclu- 
sion that C cannot be zero for any length of time over a large space is 
incorrect; in general the formula for the motion of the air as given by 
Guldberg and Mohn is at present the best for comparison with the 
observations; and if the latest researches of hydrodynamics are to be 
considered, this can best be done by the formulae given by Oberbeck in 
Wiedemann's Annalen for 1882. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 489.) 

262. iMiller-Hauenfels in his Theoretical Meteorology endeavors to de- 
duce philosophically from fundamental principles of mechanics and 
physics all the principal phenomena of the atmosphere. He first shows 
that the density of the atmosphere from the poles towards the equator 
diminishes more rapidly than has heretofore been supposed. Since the 
unequal warming of the strata of air disturbs the equilibrium it becomes 
the office of the winds to.endeavor to restore this normal density. By 
studying the isosteres, or lines of equal density of the air, he finds sim- 
plified laws for the wind movement, based on the principle of continuity. 

The trade- winds girdling the earth can send no equatorial currents 
towiird the pole, but constitute a circulation of their own on both sides 
of the equator. The author shows considerable dexterity in unraveling 
the complicated phenomena, and his work is worthy the study of mathe- 
matical and physical meteorologists. {Z. 0. G. 31., xviii, p. 483.) 

263. Dr. Vettiu, of Berlin, according to Koppen, more than 25years- 
ago published in volume 102 of Poggendorf's Annalen the results of his 
experiments on movements in the atmosphere. These experiments, 
together with his equally long continued observations ui)on the clouds, 
form an invaluable contribution to our knowledge of aerodynamics, 
affording, as they do, abundant opportunity for testing mathematical 
theories. A number of these experiments are described by Vettin in 
the Journal of the German Meteorological Society, and will, it is hoped, 
lead to the complete publication of his work, as he seems to be able to 
reproduce nearly all the phenomena of storms. (J). M. Z., i, p. 227.) 

264. Prof. Osborne Reynolds has communicated to the Eoyal Society 
of London an experimental investigation into the motion of water, which, 
from its comprehensiveness, constitutes an important contribution to 
our knowledge of hydrodynamics; the innumerable ingenious experi- 
ments, the empirical formulae and curves, and the comparison with de- 
ductive or theoretical formulce mark an advance in our knowledge that 



METEOROLOGY 335 

will find many applications in the atmospheric movements. [Nature.^ 
xxiiT, p. C27.) 

265. An anonymous article in Nature expresses some views on the 
upper currents of the atmosphere, and suggests certain liues of research 
into some of the more striking optical phenomena. [So far as the dy 
namic problems are concerned there seems a little confusion as to the 
cause.] {Nature, xxix, p. 154.) 

266. Dr. H. Hertz, of Kiel, presents an elaborate and important conven- 
ient graphic method for determining the changes in the adiabatic condi- 
tion of moist air. [The translation of this in full will, it is hoped, be pub- 
lished for the benefit of American students.] The author states that 
the condition of moist air, after being compressed or expanded without 
addition of heat, has to be considered daily by the meteorologist ; he 
desires therefore to offer to the student the means of solving the various 
questions withont recourse to complicated formulae. At present it is cus- 
tomary to use the little table published by Professor Hann in 1874, but 
he thinks that we can achieve more complete solutions with equal ease 
by employing the graphic methods and the engraved table of curved 
lines that he has prepared. He proposes nothing especially new in ad- 
dition to the publications of Hann, Guldberg, and Mohn, but accom- 
plishes the equally important result of making their formulae easily 
available in daily use. {1). M. Z., i, p. 121.) 

VIII. — Barometric pressure and its variations. 

267. A. M. Pearson, of Bombay, compares the barometric changes of 
monthly means at Zanzibar, Belgaum, and Bombay for three years, and 
shows there are evidences of the movement of barometric waves east- 
ward through these stations, the time of transit being 4.9 months from 
Zanzibar to Bombay, with numerous smaller coincident deflections. He 
verj' properly claims that the atmosphere must have vibrations and 
waves originating in various ways, of which these barometric phenomena 
are the results. Similar studies, by J, Allan Broun, have lately been 
published by the Manchester Philosophical Society. {Nature, xxviii, 
pp. 354-377.) 

268. In a note of September 4, 1883, Mr. Pearson affirms that the at- 
mospheric waves have been traced regularly since 1869 ; and that the 
reason why they have a movement in troijical and sub-tropical regions 
westward more rapid than eastward is owing to their combination with 
the westward movement of the air in those latitudes, but as to the reason 
why the amplitude is greater at eastward stations he advances the hy- 
pothesis that the westward component proceeds from the tropics, where 
all great movements originate. {Nature, xxviii, p. 562.) 

269. A. Schomrock, of St. Petersburg, has comi)ared the occurrence of 
small, sudden, irregular variations of atmospheric pressure as recorded 
on the barographs at St. Petersburg and Pavlosk. These have an an- 
nual periodicity, being most frequent in November, December, July, and 



336 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

January , and somewhat less so in June ami February. Sometimes they 
continue only for a few hours, occasionally even only one occurs, but 
frequently they follow each other in an uninterrupted series for many 
days. Occasionally they attain an amjditude of many millimeters ; they 
occur both with rising and tailing pressure, both during a maximum and 
minimum, but most frequently during the latter, and least frequently 
during the maximum. They have an undeniable connection with pre- 
cipitation, so that whenever they occur there is, in most cases, simultane- 
ously either rain, snow, or fog, or the formation of clouds, but inversely 
they are not an invariable accomi^animent of such phenomena; they do 
not appear to depend on the direction or strength of the wind. They 
have a most interesting and undeniable connection with thunder-storms, 
being, with very few exceptions, invariably to be observed, so tliat one 
may determine the time and duration of a thunderstorm by these irregu- 
larities of pressure. In order to ascertain how general or local these 
perturbations are, Schonrock compares the records at Pavlosk and 
!St. Petersburg and finds that they occur together at both places, but 
the character of the records made by the Wild barograph, namely, one 
record every ten minutes, conceals very many of the details and renders 
the comparison very unsatisfactory. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 396.) 

270. [Schonrock has here initiated a study which must have long 
claimed especial interest on the part of every one who has had access 
to the records of a self-registering barometer. Of the barographs at 
present in existence, one of the most sensitive instruments and one well 
adapted to this class of investigations is that invented and constructed 
by Hough and established at Albany, at the Dudley Observatory, the 
hourly readings of which have been (juite fully published and discussed 
by him. A duplicate of this instrument was set up at the Army Signal 
Office in Washington in 1871, and still continues to j)erform satisfactorily. 
Several others have been constructed introducing modifications of 
Hough's construction, so that abundant opportunity has been oflered 
during the past fifteen years for studying, on a continuous and very 
perspicuous register, the occurrence of these irregular and rather mys- 
terious changes of pressure. We have been accustomed to consider that 
these may be i^roduced by either one or all of tl'e following causes: 

1. Sudden gusts of wind blowing across chimney tops produce drafts 
and lower pressures, or blowing into the window of an otherwise closed 
room produce slight increase of pressures within the room where the 
barometer is placed. 

2. The downfall of rain, cooling and dragging Avith it air, pushes 
out from the region of rainfall as a gust of wind; this gust, as it pushes 
against surrounding resisting masses of air, is compressed, whence a 
temporary increase of pressure results in the locality preceding the 
advancing rainfall, precisely as has been explained by Espy, Henry, 
Koppen, and others. 

3. Every ascending mass of air must be accompanied by the descent 



METEOEOLOGY 337 

of other masses, and these latter may so descend bodily and rapidly to 
the earth as by their inertia to experience a slight compression on reach- 
ing the earth's surface. This is perhaps best seen during the clear or 
partly cloudy weather that accompanies our west winds. These winds 
blow in gusts, the velocity at any one station alternating between and 
5 to J 5 miles per hour. An observer standing on an open free space 
may generally easily recognize the fact th^t when such a gust is blow- 
ing dust and leaves violently towards him, there is a little way beyond a 
simultaneous wind blowing dust in the opposite direction, and by care- 
ful circumspection he will assure himself that a downrush of air over a 
well-defined circular region is being followed by its being pushed out in 
all directions, thereby constituting the gust as observed by him. This 
downrush of air may plausibly be supposed to be due to the fact that 
at a short distance above a quantity of colder or drier and denser air 
was readj' to come down whenever the hot air below came to a state of 
unstable equilibrium. The stoppage of any such downrush gives rise 
to a temporary compression and increase of pressure which usually lasts 
for short spaces of time, a half minute or more, but when great cumulus 
clouds pass by this may continue for five minutes.] 

271. An interesting example of such barometric changes is given by 
the Vienna Meteorological Institute as occurring on the 18th of Octo- 
ber, 1884. The Kreil barograph (continuous register) shows that from 
noon of the 17tb to 7.25 A. M. of the 18th pressure fell steadily, then re- 
mained constant for five minutes, and at 7.30 A. m., entirely unan- 
nounced, jumped up 2.3'""', and continued ascending steadily until noon. 
The Theorell barograph (recording every fifteen minutes) shows an in- 
crease of 2.7""" between 7.30 and 7.45 A. m. The Hipp barograph (regis- 
tering every ten minutes) shows a similar jumj) between 7.20 and 7.40 
A. M. The following were the attending meteorological phenomena: 
A heavy northwest storm jirevailed during the night of the 17th and 
18th, diminishing somewhat in the morning; at 7.30 A. M. the wind sud- 
denly sprang i\\) from the north, it grew dark, and a heavy rain shower 
from the north occurred, the total rainfall being 16'""^, of which 0.3""" 
fell in the first ten minutes; after this shift in direction the force of the 
wind diminished, the temperature sank, and the storm died away. 

As this sudden barometric change corresponds to a sudden increase 
of pressure to the amount of 36 kilograms on the human body it is a 
subject that may interest physicians as well as meteorologists. {Z. 0. 
G. M, XIX, p. 236.) 

272. E. Eenou, of Paris, has published an exhaustive and most careful 
study of the records of barometric pressure at Paris. These records 
begin in 1689, but only in 1809 does the instrumental temperature begin 
to be given, and only sincel834 is the series commensurable in accuracy 
with those of the present day. Assuming that the average pressure 
has remained the same, he corrects the older series of observations, 

S. Mis. 33 22 



338 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

and, among other conclusions, he shows that for Paris we cannot safely 
assume that the mean pressure in winter must be higher than in sum- 
mer, us many years show the opposite condition. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, 
p.*541.) 

273. Mr. H. F. Blanford and Mr. Hill have published contributions to 
the daily periodicity of the barometric pressure in India. The obser- 
vations at Goalpara, Patna, Leh, and Allahabad have been especially 
studied by them. In general it may be noted that the daily change of 
pressure is in the valleys of the warm zone characterized by an early 
occurrence of the morning maximum. The daily amplitude is 0.0048 
of the mean daily pressure, or about 0.14 of an inch. {Z. 0. G. M., xvii, 
p. 258.) 

274. Prof. H. Mohn has published the volume containing the results 
of the Norwegian North Atlantic expeditions, 1876 to ] 878, in which he 
contributes the first observations that we have of the daily periodicity 
of meteorological phenomena in this important region of the North Sea. 
With regard to the pressure, we have a scarcely perceptible minimum 
between 8 and 9 p. m., a principal minimum at 4 A. m., and a principal 
maximum at 2 P. M. Combining this with the results of the Challenger 
expedition it seems likely that there is no evening minimum under nor- 
mal conditions in this region ; so that on the open sea in high latitudes 
in both North and South Atlantic only one minimum and one maximum 
appears in the diurnal curve of pressure. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 470.) 

275. J. M. Pernter contributes to the subject of daily and annual 
variations of pressure on mountains and in valleys a short study of 
some observations in Austria, Switzerland, and on Mount Ararat. He 
finds the following results for mountain i3eaks: 

1. The curve of daily change is flatter for the elevated stations, the 
morning minimum diminishes, while the afternoon minimum grows flat- 
ter, but without disappearing, as it is still very prominent upon Mount 
Ararat ; up to a moderate height the daily amplitude diminishes, but 
then begins again to increase. 

2. The evening maximum, that is quite small in low, flat lands, in- 
creases with the altitude until it finally becomes the principal maximum 
of the day. This has been known in a few instances, and ascribed to 
special local circumstances, but is now recognized as a general law of 
much import. 

3. The periodicity during the day is not the same for summer and 
winter seasons: thus for a low peak in summer the mid-day maximum 
comes later than in winter, and this delay is greater in proportion to 
the altitude, amounting to two hours at the highest station. 

With reference to valley stations, he finds a dearth of material in the 
higher Alpine valleys, but comes to the following co~iclusions: 

4. The daily amplitudes are remarkably large. 

5. The afternoon minimum is remarkably deep. 



METEOROLOGY. 339 

6. The time of afternoon minimum varies from 3 P. M. in winter to 5 
p. M. in summer. 

7. The morning minimum disappears or is very flat. 

8. The morning maximum occurs very earl^" — on tlie average at 8 A. 
M.; and the evening maximum, which is more pronounced than in open 
localities, is much delayeil — even until 1 a. m. 

With reference to the cause of the differences in diurnal periodicity 
between valley and mountain stations, he remarks only that the princi- 
pal cause, as long since recognized, is the expansion and contraction 
with temperature of the stratum of air below the mountain, but that, 
besides this, dynamic causes contribute especially to the formation of 
the evening maximum. A further investigation will be given by him 
when he has secured two full years of all the observations at high and 
low stations. {Z. 0. G. M., xviri., p. 290.) 

276. [Many studies have contributed to show how slight is the diurnal 
change of temperature of the great mass of air, and we may therefore 
doubt whether the expansion and contraction corresponding to this 
slight diurtial temperature change suffice as a static explanation of the 
diurnal barometric differences at the top and bottom of a high mount- 
ain. We are rather inclined to think this a minor factor in the expla- 
nation of the phenomena to be studied by Pernter, and that he will 
find that some kinetic law covers the whole ground. The broadest 
basis for this explanation has been given in the investigations by Ferrel 
and others, and I have for many years taught that the phenomena, after 
allowing for a small static influence, are reducible to three dynamic 
causes: one general for the whole earth's surface; a second, special for 
the latitude and the continent; a third, and least important, special for 
the locality, its altitude and its immediate surroundings, including the 
exposure of the barometer to the influence of winds.] 

277. Andre, of Paris, has studied the diurnal variation of the barom- 
eter at different altitudes above the sea, and confirmed the results re- 
cently announced by Hann, Pernter, and others. He also concludes the 
existence of a third maximum in the winter months, occurring about 
2.30 P. M. {Z. 0. G. il/., XIX, p. 143.) 

278. Dr. E. Maurer publishes in full the results of hourly barometric 
observations for one year — April, 1883, to March, 1884 — on the summit 
of the Santis and the Great St. Bernard, and comj^ares these with ob- 
servations made at other high stations in the Alps. The mean gradient 
between the two stations is as follows : For the spring, 0.10 ; for the 
summer, 0.22 ; autumn, 0.G9 ; winter, 1.10 millimeters. These figures 
give a new demonstration of Hann's conclusion, that only in winter in 
extra-tropical latitudes can great general gradients occnr in the higher 
atmospheric strata, while in summer, with a much more uniform distri- 
bution of temperature, warmth, and moisture, the gradient is slighter. 
{Z. 0. G. ill., XIX, p. 513.) 

^79. Prof. B. Busin, of Eome, suggests that we may derive advantage 



340 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

from studyiug a system of lines similar to isobars and coustructed in 
the following manner : If from the center of the earth radii are drawn 
through the ordinary elliptical isobars we have a system of cones, which 
can be so cut by a plane that the sections shall be concentric circles; if 
then we project this system upon the earth's surface, we have a system 
of circles to which may be directlj' applied the mechanical principles 
deduced by Ferrel, Colding, and others. He suggests it as his own 
belief that the physical reason why we should recur to such a system 
of central ])rojection consists in the fact that the axes of the cyclones 
are ordinarily inclined to the earth's surface, as he has in fact satisfied 
himself by the study of the cyclones that pass over Sicily. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIX, p. 454.) 

280. Prof. Elias Loomis, in his nineteenth contribution to meteorology, 
(American Journal of Science for December, 1883), discusses the baro- 
metric gradient in great storms, and shows that the effect of friction 
is greater than as assumed by Ferrel in his formula. {Nature, xxix, p. 
252.) 

281. In his twentieth contribution (American Journal for July, 1884), 
Professor Loomis especially discusses the reduction of barometric obser- 
vations to sea-level ; he concludes that the pressure coefiicient in the 
hypsometric formula of Laplace is too small. 

282. [As this conclusion is based on the assumption that the tempera- 
ture of a mass of air below the mountain top is correctly given by tak- 
ing the mean of the temperatures as ordinarily observed near the ground 
at top and bottom, which assumption is quite erroneous for the clear 
nights and days that prevail during high pressures, but more nearly 
correct for the cloudy weather and high winds that prevail during low 
pressures and storms, it would seem that systematic errors are hereby 
introduced that must affect his conclusions ] 

IX. — (a) General storms; (&) Local storms; (c) General wea- 
ther RELAIIONS. 

283. Dr. W. Koppen has published charts of the frequency and mean 
paths of barometric minima between the Rocky Mountains and the Ural. 
His charts are based upon the recent work of Eurojiean meteorologists, 
especially Hofi'meyer and Hageman, and upon the work of the Signal 
Office during 1873 to 1879, especially its international bulletin. [His 
frequency charts are similar to those compiled in 1874 by Abbe, and 
published by the United States Census Office, and those of Finley re- 
cently published by the Signal Office, while his charts of mean storm 
tracks are similar to those coin[>iled by Lieutenant Jackson pnder the 
special orders of General Myei, in 1875.] Koppen has, however, greatly 
improved upon i)revions i)ublications of this kind, not only in more 
careful collation of data, but especially in that for the first time he 
brought Ameri(;an and European storms together in sufficient number 
to show the general relations between them. He finds that the move- 



METEOROLOGY. 341 

tnetits and changes of depressions of storm centers on the ocean are 
much more irregular than over the North American continent. The 
main storm tracli: passes from Wisconsin eastward to Newfoundland, 
thence northeast to the North Cape; outside of this track, areas of 
great storm frequency are found in Davis Straits and Northern Ger- 
many. (Z. 0. G. 71/., XYii, p. 257.) 

284. Dr. J. van Bebber has i)resented an admirable discussion of the 
relative position, velocity, and intensity of the barometric minima of 
Europe that have occurred during the years 1S76 to 1880, inclusive. 
His statistics are presented in the shape of charts showing by curved 
lines the regions of equal mean velocity : equal maxima of barometric 
depressions ; equal average barometric de{)ression, and equal average 
barometric departure of the pressures at storm-centers from the nor- 
mal pressure. He finds that the mean velocity of i)rogress of a storm - 
center is greater in the United States than in Europe, it being 100 
myriameters per day in the United States and only (34 myriameters in 
Europe. For both countries, however, the annual periodicity is about 
the same, showing a minimum in August and a maximum during the 
winter, which, as he says, is an important indication of the fact that 
some general causes regulate the movement of storm-centers through- 
out the world. The velocity of the most rapid storms exceeds 150 
myriameters in thirty cases during the live years; the greatest number 
of cases of any one velocity is that of 40 to 50 myriameters, for which 
there were 217 cases. {Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. l97.) 

285. Leyst has made a study of the storm tracks in European Russia 
and Western Siberia for the years 1878-'80. He considers only the 
storms of such a nature as those for which storm signals should issue 
from the central office at St. Petersburg. Out of 250 cyclones there fall 
in summer 17 i^er cent., autumn 29, winter 30, and S])ring 24 j)er cent. 
The mean i^ressure of the central minima is for summer 738 millimeters, 
for October 732, and for November to March 727. The mean velocity 
increases as the storms move eastward, and in the summer time the cen 
tral depression also increases. The velocity of progression is also great- 
est in January and least in July. The strongest gradients are for sta- 
tions south and southwest of the centers, and the strongest winds 
themselves are directed towards ttie southwest in January, February, 
and June, but to the northwest in March and to the east-northeast 
in April. When the cyclone comes into such a position that Eussia 
is in its southwest part, it has already moved further away from the 
high pressure of Southwest Europe, and also has grown weaker by its 
passage towards the north or northeast, and for both these reasons the 
storm in the southwestern quadrant of the cyclone diminishes. (D. M. 
Z., I, 326.) 

286. M. M oiler, in some remarks on the cause of the movement of 
barometric depressions, says these depressions are columns of air of less 
weight than the surrounding masses of atmosphere; the movement of 



B42 SClfeifTlFiC RECORt) FOR 18S4. 

the depressions results partly from renewed formation, partly from j)rO- 
gression; both methods of movement can act in conjunction or in oppo- 
sition. In reference to the movement of progression it can he analyzed 
into three causes : influence of the distribution of atmospheric pressure; 
influence of the mean distribution of temperature; influence of the 
earth's rotation. The first influence is treated of by Dr. Koppen (Z. O, 
G. M., February, 1880), who shows that the presence of a maximum 
pressure increases the lower winds and thereby increases the rapidity 
of movement of the depression. But Moller has also shown that the 
upi^er winds carry the depressions with them, so that the progressive 
movement of a depression is to be considered as a consequence of the 
movement of a thin layer of warm air and of the movement of a space 
of rarefied air due to the vis-viva of the forces in action. The third 
cause of movement, namely, the rotation of the earth, in all latitudes, 
causes a movement from east to west and also towards the nearest 
terrestrial pole. In this way he explains the western movements in the 
torrid zone, where he says this eflect of the earth's rotation is at a 
maximum, while the other causes become efficacious in the middle and 
higher latitudes. [Moller's poleward tendency seems to be the same as 
that first pointed out by Ferrel in 1857, but to which we believe the lat- 
ter now attaches less importance. The poleward tendency for the lower 
winds is balanced by the equatorial tendency due to the higher winds.] 
As regards the second cause, namely, the distribution of temperature 
on the earth, this is principally controlled by the sun's heat; and intro- 
ducing the algebraic expression for this he shows that the combined 
influence of heat and rotation is to produce a motion towards the west 
within 30° of the equator, but toward the east, in more northern lati- 
tudes, up to a certain limit in the polar circle. The rather complicated 
formula given by him can be put in tabular form in such a way as to be 
conveniently used in a strictl}' scientific estimation of the most proba 
ble path that will be pursued by any depression. 

287. [It is important that Moller's formulae be applied to the study 
of the storms of the United States for the purpose of telling more ex- 
actly the value of the considerations that he has given. It cannot be 
doubted but that other more important physical laws, such as the con- 
densation of moisture, the heating of the upper layer of clouds, the 
relation of continents, oceans, mountain ranges, i)lateaus, and lowlands 
have also so large an influence thai the questions of inertia and temper- 
ature of the moving atmosphere have only a partial if not in fact a 
subsidiary interest.] {Z. 0. O. M., xix, p. 274.) 

288. R. H. Scott has discussed the question of the reality of the ex- 
istence of so-called equinoctial storms in the British Islands. To this 
end he has examined statistics since April, 1870. It is evident from the 
tables he gives that they simply confirm the results of studies by Dove, 
Loomis, and others, namely, that no one day of the year is esj^ecially 
storiay, although the maximum number of storms in England increases 



METEOROLOGY. 343 

systematically from in June and July up to 31 or 32 in December and 
January. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 393.) 

289. Prof. M.Dechevrens lias published a monograph on the typhoons 
of July and August, 1882, wherein he traces the history of the whole 
course of several typhoons along the coast of Asia. {Nature, xxx, p. 
388.) 

290. W.Koppen, in reference to the change with altitude of the position 
of the center or axis of lowest pressure, sums up his conclusions as fol- 
lows : The center is at high altitudes pushed towards that side which is 
colder; therefore, in general, towards the left and backwards; ou account 
of the rapid diminution of temperature towards the east in winter in 
Europe the exterior isobars of the depression extend especially toward 
the east, therefore more or less forwards, so that if the position of a cen- 
ter were in general determined by these isobars a shoving towards the 
front would ajipareutly exist. The ordinary expression " axis of the 
whirl is inclined forwards or backwards," which is also used by Clem- 
ent Ley, leads to misunderstanding. A simple mathematical axis for 
the whole whirl never exists in our great cyclones ; these must stand 
perpendicularly on the plane of rotation, and in fact many authors in 
early and recent times, in sj)eaking of the inclination of the axis of the 
whirl, have assumed a corresponding inclination of the jjlane of rota- 
tion. In truth, however, in the case of a cyclone we are dealing with a 
superposition of very thin nearly horizontal disks whose vertical axes 
of rotation do not coincide, but each of which is shoved a little toward 
the colder side as compared with the one lying immediately below. 
(Z). TIL Z., I, p. 168.) 

291. Dr. C. Lang, of Munich, contributes a long review of Ferrari's 
study of thunder-storms in Italy. The observation of thunder-storms 
has been conducted in Italy since 1870 in very much the same manner 
as it has been for a long time in France and Scandinavia. Ferrari's 
monograph is divided into two sections : First, the observations ; sec- 
ond, climatological study ; third, a dynamic study. The greatest fre- 
quency of thunder-storms per square myriameter is in Upper and Cen. 
tral Italy, whence it diminishes raj)idly towards the south, being most 
frequent in a band nearer the east coast of the peninsula; the region 
of least frequency is the whole west coast. This geographical distribu- 
tion, however, may be somewhat affected by the geograjjhical distribu- 
tion of observers, which are also fewest on the west coast, and for whose 
distribution Ferrari has made an approximate correction. The month 
of greatest frequency is July for Northern Italy, but the epoch is de- 
layed as we ijroceed southward until it becomes August and September 
for southern stations. The annual frequency of hail shows no strongly 
marked features; the neighborhood of the Po has a slight immunity, 
and the frequency increases northward, but again diminishes close to 
the foot-hills of the Alps. The frequency of ordinary thunder-storms 
is as usual greatest between noon and 6 p. m., which quarter of the day 



344 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

has a relative number 40, while from 6 p. m. to midnight the number is 
32. More than two-thirds of the thunder-storms come from the west 
and depart toward the east. The wind prevailing during the storm is 
most frequently" from between west and north. In general rain accom- 
panies thunder-storms, and this is more intense in the hilly regions than 
in the plains. The monthly frequency of hail is nearly the same as the 
annual frequency of thunder-storms. The second portion of Ferrari's 
work, or the study of the mechanism of a thunder-storm, is the larger 
and more important. He gives here detailed studies of those storms 
that occurred between April 30 and Sej)tember 17, and for each of 
which he has at least a hundred observations ; charts are published in 
full of ninety-five storms occurring on twenty-eight days. The charts 
show the hourly isochromes for the beginning and end of each storm. 
Ferrari has drawn these lines after smoothing away individual differ- 
ences; a process that may, however, hide from notice some important 
phenomena. The cold air that accompanies or immediately succeeds a 
thunder-storm is by Ferrari exj)lained as due to a ra^jid descent of the 
air from the higher regions, but this is opposed by Dr. Lang, who 
thinks it is rather due to the cooling of the air by precipitation, espe- 
cially hail. The intensity of the thunder and lightning is, after allow- 
ing for local influences, more considerable in extended typical thunder- 
storms than in those of small dimensions, and increases as the annual 
curve of temperature rises. Ferrari finds that distant heat lightning 
does not exist except in connection with thunder-storms there present. 

292. [It was Professor Henry who first showed that in such cases the 
thunder from distant storms might in its progress downwards towards 
the observer suffer total reflection, and thus be carried over him above 
his head.] The shapes of the thunder-storms are generally long bands. 
In general Ferrari's conclusions are in agreement with those quite in- 
dependently evolved a little later by von Bezold from his studies in 
Bavaria. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 353.) 

293. Prof E. Landolt, from an elaborate study of the severe hail and 
thunder storms of the 21st of July, 1881, arrives at the following con- 
clusions : (1) In very heavy thunder-storms the clouds are only a hun- 
dred meters above the earth, and the hail-stones form in the lowest strata 
of air; (2), the topography of the earth has a great influence upon the 
distribution of the storms ; (3), the directions of the strongest currents 
of air dependent upon the thunder-storm follow the axis of the storm, 
and sometimes precede it, and the air flows from both sides toward the 
storm-center; (4), forests, especially when they crown the hilltops, mod- 
erate the extent and severity of the hail ; (5), the hailfall can be very 
severe even on high regions that extend near to the thundercloud. 
{Z. O. Q. M., XVII, p. 254.) 

294. Prof. W. von Bezold, of Munich, gives an account of the methods 
pursued by him for investigating thunder-storms in Bavaria and Wur- 
temburg. The ordinary postal card is converted into a form for the 



METEOROLOGY. 345 

record of the storms — the blank spaces can be rapidly filled out, snggest- 
iuff, as they do, to the most inexperienced observer, the items thatBe- 
zold desires. The reports received during 1883 amount to over 5,000, 
and come from over 300 stations. These reports are studied by entering 
ajjon a chart for each station the time at which the first thunder was 
heard and arrows showing the direction from which the storm came 
and toward which it moved. Lines are then drawn called isobroutons, 
or lines of simultaneous appearance of thunder ; these are drawn for tbe 
full hours, and give a beautiful picture of thi) progress of the thunder- 
storm. This procedure diifers from that which is customary in France, 
Norway, &c., where the attempt is made to picture the progress of the 
center of the storm by taking the mean moment between the first and 
last thunder. Bezold prefers to draw isobroutons for the last thunder- 
claps as well as for the first so far as this is possible, but generally 
finds it difficult to get reliable reports of this last phenomenon. He has 
also, for the years 1881 and 1882, taken special care to reduce his baro- 
metric observations and to draw isobars of great accuracy, as a means of 
studying the relation of a thunderstorm thereto. His conclusions may 
be summarized as follows: 

(1.) Thunder-storms that do not accompany heavy hurricanes origin- 
ate when there arise in quiet air notable local differences of tempera- 
ture and pressure. The isobars drawn for every 5 millimeters show only 
distortions, but by drawing them more minutely, say for every millime- 
ter, they show definite centers. These small depressions appear mostly 
only as partial or auxiliary depressions iu a great area of low pressure. 
The progression of the thunder-storm in general takes place without 
reference to the winds immediately attending these small depressions, 
but in accordance with winds that evidently prevail in the higher regions 
in connection with the great barometric depression. Especially intense 
are the thunder-storms that occur in a ridge of high pressure separating 
two great depressions. 

(2.) If we draw a line inclosing the regions at which in a given instant 
the first and last thunders are being heard we inclose a space over 
which electric discharges are then going on. Tiiis is the area of the 
thunder-storm proper, and, in most cases, this region has the form of a 
narrow band perpendicular to the direction in which the thunder-storm 
is moving ; therefore, in general, the storms move with a very broad front 
and very shallow depth. Cases are at hand where with a front of 300 
kilometers we have a breadth of only 40. 

295. [This peculiarity was long since remarked by the present writer, 
who in 1873 called attention to the fact that numerous thunder-storms 
and even tornadoes frequentl^^ occur nearly simultaneously on what ap- 
pears to be the advancing edge of a broad area of cool or dry and there- 
fore dense air ; it is therefore not proper to say that the thunder-storm 
cools the air, but rather that the thunder storm marks the progress of 
the advancing cool air, which by uplifting tbe moist air in front of it is 



346 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

producing cloud and rain; it is the liownfall of rain which, acting like 
the water-dropper of Sir William Thomson, discharges the electricity 
from uprising manses ol moist air and cloud, and produces those difiei 
ences of electric potential that give rise to lightning and thunder.J 

(3.) There are definite regions that are especially favorable to the form- 
ation of thunder- storms, such as for instance the swampy lowlands be- 
tween the larger lakes and the Alps ; so also the west slope of the Bo- 
hemian forests very often gives rise to thunder-storms. 

(4.) In those cases where the formation of a thunder-storm entirely 
within the area of observation can be clearly proven, the remarkable 
phenomena is noticed that over long distances the electric discharges 
begin simultaneously, so far as this can be determined with ordinary 
clocks ; we are thus forced to the idea that the disturbance of electric 
equilibrium due to the first stroke of lightning is immediately commu- 
nicated by induction from cloud to cloud, and thus provokes a simul- 
taneous outbreak at various places. 

(5.) The observations of heat lightning or distant silent lightning are 
interesting as showing the extraordinarily great distances to which this 
can be observed ; thus on August 26, 1880, lightning was observed in 
the horizon at stations in Saxe-Meiningen that belonged to a thunder- 
storm then prevailing 240 kilometers distant near Ulm ; and on Decem- 
ber 9, 1882, lightning was observed in the south that seems to have 
belonged to storms 270 kilometers distant. 

296. [Observations similar to these have doubtless been made by 
many others, and the present writer, after having satisfied himself that 
with Washington as a center lightning was frequently" observed oc- 
curring near Norfolk and central Pennsylvania, proposed in 1872 to 
map out the course of all such storms by means of observations of 
azimuth and time to be made at all the regular Signal- Service stations j 
special directions were then given to signal-service observers to rec- 
ord carefully these phenomena in the journal kept at each station. The 
result proved that the observed azimuths were not generally recorded 
with sutBcient accuracy; an apparatus to obviate this difidculty was 
designed but not introduced ; the lines of equal thunder-storm frequency 
in the monthly weather review for July, 1874, were largely based upon 
the study of such records.] 

(6.) The diurnal periodicity of the distribution of thunder-storms 
shows that besides the maximum between 2 and 5 p. m., there is also a 
secondary maximum between 2 and 3 A. M. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 200.) 

297. Von Bezold returns again to this subject in August, 1883, and 
dwells especially on the circumstance, that with the outbreak of a thun- 
der-storm there often occurs a decided fall of temperature and sudden 
rise of pressure. As he looks upon the crowding together of isobars as 
the cause of a thunder-storm he enforced the following sentences: 

On the front side of the band of simultaneous electric discharges, 
which band is perpendicular to the direction of progress and therefore 



METEOROLOGY. oil 

a little in front of the region of the tlumder-storm, there exist peculiar 
temperature and pressure relations, namely, the pressure as we approach 
the storm from the front suddenly rises and the temperature falls. 

The front edge of the storm sharply separates an area of high press- 
ure from one of low, and equally separates an area of low temperature 
from one of high. 

By considering the wind directions at the moment of the outbreak 
of a thunderstorm we find that on the front edge, in general, the winds 
are perpendicular to the isobars, if the latter run north and south, or 
that the wind blows direct from the high pressure to the low pressure, 
constituting a departure from the law of Buys-Ballot. 

The existence of this sharply-defined passage from high to low pres- 
sure and from high to low temperature is so uniform that it is sufficient 
to study these isobars and isotherms in order to ascertain where the 
front of the thunder-storm is at any moment. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 
281.) 

298. [For most of the thunder-storms that the ])resent writer has 
examined or observed personally in this country and Europe he is con- 
vinced that the explanation of the outflowing cool wind immediately in 
front of the storm was correctly given by Espy at least as early as 1838. 
This wind is by him and Professor Henry explained as almost wholly 
due to the air dragged down by the falling rain and also cooled and 
rendered heavier, which, striking the ground, must be pushed out. But 
as the storm is undoubtedly advancing, either with the front edge of 
an extensive area of denser air, or else is being carried along within a 
great current of air, it follows, in either case, that the wind due to the 
down-rush of rain will compound with the wind due to the general motion 
of the atmosphere; we therefore generally find strong outward-going 
winds on one side of a thunder-storm and light outward winds or calms 
on the other side of the rain. Ferrel shows that no great barometer 
fall can be caused by these straight-out winds ; there must be a rota- 
tion to produce a depression; on the contrary, air pushed down against 
the earth and outwards may cause a slight temporary rise of pressure, 
so that gusts and a sudden barometrical rise occur simultaneously.] 

299. Br. W. Koppen has given an exhaustive study of the destructive 
thunder-storm of AugustO, 18S1. The chart accouipanying his essay 
shows that at 2 p. m. alow barometer was central just south of Norway 
and east of Denmark, while in the southeast quadrant from this, from 
Denmark to Bavaria, numerous thunder-storms occurred. The study of 
these storms seem to him to aflbrd a striking example by which to test 
the conclusions of his previous investigation, well known as "Contribu- 
tions to our Knowledge of Boen and Thnnder-Storms," to which the 
present study forms a second memoir. After a minute description of 
the phenomena, follows a comparison and discussion on the causes and 
explanation of the thunder-storm from which Haun makes the following 



348 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

summary, bearing especially upon the Boen or wind-gusts that accom- 
pany the thunder-storm. 

Throughout its entire course the Boen was associated with the exist- 
ence of an extraordinary well-developed change in pressure and temper- 
ature. This temperature distribution, as shown by closely compressed 
isotherms, corresponded to a very steep barometric gradient which aver- 
aged 9 millimeters at the place of most compressed isotherms. The 
object of the ibllowing is to explain how this extreme condition could 
originate. In the region which was later in the day to be visited by the 
Boen, there was already on the 8th of August a feeble southerly cur- 
rent and strong insolation with a temperature high above that pre- 
vailing to the westward, and which in Leipsic rose to 29.7 C, by noon of 
the 9th. This high temperature relative to the surroundings must have 
given rise to the formation of a low pressure at the base of the warm 
column of air. But that the isotherms should be so closely crowded is 
due to the fact that on the border of the warm and cold air, rainfall was 
caused by the uplifting of the former, which materially cooled this 
region and thereby propagated the phenomena toward the direction of 
the warm mass of air. With the heavy rain that thus originated air must 
have been dragged down mechanically with the drops and also muvst 
have >sunk down in consequence of its lower temperature and greater 
density. The dynamic warming of this air could onl^- be slight because 
of its mixture with water, and the downfalling cold air must have exerted 
a strong uplifting effect upon the warm air below and adjoining it, and 
thus the phenomena continually increased in severity. Thus, precisely 
on the limit of the warm region the production of cold was mostintense; 
in fact we see the greatest crowding of isotherms there where the pre- 
cipitation is heaviest in the Boen, and where it partly fell in the form 
of hail. The difference of temperature between Neustadtand Segeberg 
at 2 p. M. was 26o.l— 140.6 or llo.S C, for only 39 kilometers distance. 
Koppen attributes the retardation of the lower stronger gradients to 
friction at the surface of the ground, thereby causing the steepness of 
the change of pressure. The effect of this steep gradient is felt almost 
entirely in the acceleration given to the outflowing mass of air, because 
its movement is nearly in the direction of this gradient. [The gradient 
represents a constant force pushing outwards like gravity pulling down- 
wards ] The slight value of the angle between the gradient and the 
wind is ascribed partly to the acceleration, partly to the circumstance 
that the air drawn into the Boen already has amotion nearly in the di- 
rection of the gradient. This distribution of pressure by reason of the 
great horizontal temperature gradient must change very rapidly with 
the altitude, and Dr. Koppen computes that, at an altitude from 600 to 
700 meters, the irregularities in the isobars have disappeared and they 
have become simple ellipses inclosing the principal depression. At the 
place where the warm air is lifted up in front of the Boen thick masses 
of clouds must form, which move with the general air-current towards 



METEOROLOGY. 349 

cast and iiortbeast and cause heavy rainfall. The Boeu is thus pre- 
sented as a whirl around a horizontal axis. Koppen states that, since 
his first memoir in 1879, a slight change in his views has taken place, iu 
that although he retains the important feature of the descent of cool 
air driven down by its density and falling rain-drops, yet he does not 
give so great an importance to this falling air as he did before. 

In general, on the southeast side of any barometric depression, inso- 
lation causes a very warm region and at the same time, within a few 
hundred meters of the earth's surface, a subsidiary depression, although 
iu theatmospliere immediately above this the isobars retain their eUip- 
tical form. The eastern portion of this region is thus withdrawn from 
the influence of the cooling current on the west side, and as a feeble 
southeast current increases in temperature. The western part, on 
the other hand, is early overflowed by the cool air from the west, 
which, by reason of the progressive movement of the i»rincipal depres- 
sion, always comes from a more northerly point. By the pushing up 
of the warmer air rain is caused on this limit of the warm and cool 
region. By this, lower temperatures are caused close to the limit of high 
temperatures, and a temperature gradient produced which, following 
both'the general current of air and the perpetually renewed precipita- 
tion on the temporary edge of the warm region, moves toward the side 
of the higher temperature. By this temperature gradient combined with 
the conditions of motion a pressure gradient is produced in the lower 
600 meters of air which propagates itself in the same direction. This 
pressure gradient (favored by the fact that the remaining or horizontal 
distribution of pressure both above and below causes a current that 
flows approximately with that due to the steep gradient) causes an ex- 
traordinarily strong wind along the whole breadth of the region during 
its passage over, which usually lasts about twenty minutes. This stormy 
portion of the current is about two-thirds due to the air dragged by the 
downfalling mass of rain, while in front of it the air is ascending. 
Special places in this stormy region, which generally crosses the south- 
west current almost perpendicularly, are distinguished by special inten- 
sity of the storm, and other portions by a formation of hail. There thus 
originate regions of hail storm and of destruction, as evidences of the 
passage of the storm, and whose greatest diameters are approximately 
perpendicular to the greatest temporary extension of the Boen. So 
long as the thunder-storm moves against the sun it is subject to the 
influence of a daily period, since it originates in the morning, is best 
develoiied wherever it may be at the warmest time of day, and then 
with the beginning of the night rapidly diminishes in strength and soon 
disappears. {Z. 0. G.M., xix, p. 12.) 

300. [If we properly appreciate the points made by Dr. Koppen in 
his beautiful study, we should say that that which is thoroughly novel 
is the bringing out so clearly the fact that when once the development 
of the thunder cloud has reached the point of decided rainfall, and with 



S50 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

attending downward currents of air, the process from that time on may 
become a self-supporting one, each feature continually increasing in in- 
tensity until a maximum is reached, dependent on temperature, moist- 
ure, and configuration of the earth's surface, when it attains a condi- 
tion of equilibrium, and so continues until nightfall. Koppen's study 
ai)i)lies equally to every form of thunder-storm, tornado, and wiud- 
sqnall. The views developed by him in this essay are accompanied by 
such a mass of exact data as to make it an invaluable contribution to 
our knowledge of a subject that was however already largely eluci- 
dated by Espy, Fourth Meteorological Keport, pp. 106, 164, 165, and 
Prof. Joseph Henry, Lectures on Meteorology, Agricultural Reports, 1854 
to 1859. In fact, we think it would not be an injustice to call the above 
the Koppen-Espy theory of thunder-storms and squalls.] 

301. C. Ferrari writes in reference to Lancaster, Koppen, and von 
Bezold, who maintain that thunder-storms are caused by the small special 
barometric depressions, that he himself in his previous publications had 
really long before defended the same conclusions, and that he was the 
first from a complete investigation to demonstrate by observation the 
truth of these views. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 426.) 

302. Dr. G. Hellmann, in reply to Ferrari's reclamation, states that 
many have published their views on the connection between the thun- 
der-storms and atmospheric pressure; thus the fact that the barometer 
suddenly rises at the outbreak of a thunder-storm and subsequently 
falls was, as far as he knows, first recorded by J. J. Planer, in 1782. 
Eosenthal, and especially Lichtenberg, in 1784, gave a very clear de- 
scription of the whole process. Equally clear and apparently indei)end- 
eut of each other are Grouau (1821), Strehlke (1830), and Kamtz (1836). 
(Z. 0. G. M., XIX, p. 44 ) 

303. M. Moller discusses the suggestion thrown out by von Bezold to 
the effect that the winds in thunder-storms and Boen agree with the 
direction of the gradients, and do not correspond with the law of Buys- 
Ballot. This latter law, Moller states, affirms that, as a result of the 
acceleration due to the gradients, and under the influence of constant 
friction and by reason of the deflecting force of the earth's rotation, 
there will for equal latitudes result also equal deviations of the wind 
from the direction of the gradients. It has many times been shown how 
this deflection must decrease if the air passes from strong to feeble 
gradients. On the other hand, the reverse has not been stated, namely, 
that a length of time to be counted by many hours is necessary to com- 
municate to a mass of air a motion deviating from the direction of the 
gradients, provided the air was originally at rest or did not possess such 
deviation. By a little computation Moller shows that for short distances 
and steep gradients, such as occur near a thunder-storm, the air — im- 
pelled by the difference of barometic pressure, and having both a for- 
ward velocity and a deviation due to the earth's rotation — although it 
obeys them both, yet appears to obey only the first of these forces, be^ 



METEOROLOGY. 351 

cause that is over forty times larger than the second. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, 
p. 80.) 

304. M. M oiler, in his investigation on the temperature and move- 
ment of the air in a Boen, states that in 1880 he first recorded the sug- 
gestion that the shadows of the clouds caused strong winds, which, 
acting like gusts, are called Boen, and which accompany the streaks of 
rain from cumulus clouds. This explanation, however, seemed unsatis- 
factory, because such wind-gusts occur also at night time, when, of 
course, there are no shadows. The true explanation has, he thinks, 
been given by Koppen, namely, that the falling rain carries with it air 
from above, which on reaching the ground spreads out and increases 
the strength of the prevailiug wind. Combining his own and Koppen'a 
ideas, he develops carefully the structure and growth of a thunder-storm, 
and succeeds in explaining very satisfactorily the mode of formation of 
hail and the low-lying scud in advance of the main cloud, and which 
the observer generally easily recognizes as rising u}) to feed the advanc- 
ing edge of the cloud. {D. M. Z., i, p. 230.) 

305. [Views similar, and in most respects identical with Koppen's and 
Holler's, have during the last twenty years been frequently verbally 
communicated both by Prof. Joseph Henry and the present writer to 
fellow-students of meteorology. They date at least as far back as 1838, 
when Espy was in the full tide of his studies of thunder-storms in 
Pennsylvania, a region where storms are developed to their fullest extent. 

Our hearty appreciation of the views of Koppen and Moller is en- 
hanced by their own kindly mention of that most genial of American 
enthusiasts.] 

306. C. G. Finemann, of Upsala, in a study upon the " trombe," or tor- 
nado, of June 7, 1882, draws the following conclusions : 

1. The formation of a tornado is characterized by the simultaneous 
occurrence of great relative and absolute moisture, high temperature, 
almost perfect calm, 

2. Tornadoes and thunder-storms originate under almost identical 
atmosi)heric conditions. 

3. The two phenomena can occur together or separately. 

4. Finley's work seems to suggest that either phenomenon may de- 
velop from the other. 

5. The tornado here studied certainly consisted in a strong ascend- 
ing curreut of air, revolving also in a direction opposed to that of the 
hands of a watch lying face upwards on the ground. 

6. The ascending current formed an inverted cone out of the mate- 
rial carried uj) with it, which moved forwards towards the northeast. 

7. The tornado was fed by moist air, which flowed over the earth's 
surface with increasing velocity. 

8. The moister the air by so much more did the interior velocity of 
the tornado increase. 

9. The air was precipitated into the tornado from below, like cold air 



352 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

drawn iuto tbo fire of a biirning forest ; at some distance this draft was 
noticeable by the lowering of the lower portion of the clouds. 

10. Subsidiary whirls formed under favorable circumstances. {Z. 0. 
G. M., XIX, p. 262.) 

307. William M. Davis, of Cambridge, writing to Dr. Koppen in refer- 
ence to the simoom [German, Sa7num], the latter replies by quoting the 
following as the characteristics of the simoom as experienced in the 
Indian deserts by Dr. Henry Cook : 

Its beginning is sudden; occasionally a cold current of air precedes 
it ; it occurs ordinarily in the hot months, June and July ; it occurs in 
the night as well as by day; its path is straight and definite; its pas- 
sage leaves a narrow trail behind ; it burns and kills the animals and 
vegetables in its path ; it is accompanied by a very noticeable smell of 
sulphur; it is described as like the current of air from a furnace, and 
certainly the temperature of the air within it is very high ; it is not 
accompanied by either dust or thunder and lightning. 

Koppen shows that, assuming the rise of temperature in the simoom 
to be 16° C, then, if the air has been thus heated by the compression 
of a descending current, it must have descended about 4,000 meters ; 
but he thinks it not at all plain why the nir should descend to the 
earth's surface. There is not a perfect parallelism betw^een the simoom 
and ordinary Boen, nor an antithesis between Boen and thunder- 
storms. (D. M. Z., I, p. 245.) 

308. A. Klossowskij has discussed the observations of thunder-storms 
made in Eussia by the observers of the Geographical Association since 
1871. This series of reports was inaugurated at the instance of A. 
Woeikof, who also published the results for the first year (1871). The 
present volume gives a complete summary of the work since that time. 

309. J. Ludevig presents the results of the observations of thunder- 
storms made during 1882-'83, at the Government telegraph stations in 
Germany. The maximum number of storms occurred in May, 1882, but 
this w^as apparently abnormal ; the normal maximum appears in July, 
1882, and again in July, 1883. The maximum number of days on which 
thunder-storms occurred was 28 in June, 1882, and 30 in June, 1883, 
The storms came most frequently from the southwest and next fre 
quently from the west ; the hours during which most storms occur is 
from 3 to 4 P. m., and the minimum frequency of storms from 12 to 3 
A. M. {Z. 0. G. 3L, XIX, p. 429.) 

310. Dr. P. Andries, in a memoir on formation of thunder storms and 
hail, after a review of the older literature on the subject, adopts me- 
chanical theories very similar to those of Ferrel in his Meteorological 
Eesearches, part 2. With regard to the formation of a potential suf- 
ficient to produce lightning, he adopts the a icw that this is explained 
by the combination in one of numerous small drops of water; as to the 
origin of electricity on these small jiarticles, he attributes that to friction 



METEOROLOGY. 353 

and induction. (Annalen der Hydrograpliie und maritimen Meteorologie, 
1884, p. Co.) 

311. Prof. James Ttiomson, of the University of Glasgow, read before 
the Montreal nieetingof the Brit. Assoc., a paper on whirlvviudsand water- 
spouts, in which he adheres to the old view that the diiuiuution of press- 
ure observed at the center of a hurricane is the cause of the movement 
of the wind, and queries whether it may not be possible for the low 
pressure to be abated through the combined influence of rarefaction by 
heat and the whirling motion. He also thinks that in great whirlwinds 
the whirling motion may be propagated upwards to the top of the at- 
mosj^here. He suggests that the dark clouds, and in tornadoes the pen 
dent spout, may be due to the precipitation of moisture on account of 
abatement of pressure due to centrifugal force and ascension above the 
sea level. [Prof. James Thomson's publications on this subject date 
from 1852, and especially 1857, but while his writings are always worthy 
of attention, it would seem that these particular points have already 
been clearly explained by other students of meteorology.] {Kature, 
XXX, p. 048.) 

312. Prof. W. von Bezokl, of Munich, has studied the question of the 
cold days in May. He finds that whenever high pressure prevails in the 
west and lower juessure in the east, and especially in southeastern 
Euroi^e, a cold j)eriod occurs, and that this distribution of pressure is 
particularly liable to occur in May. If this characteristic distribution 
fails, then the cold days also fail ; the explanation of the coid days is 
therefore dependent upon the explanation of the occurrence of this distri- 
bution of pressure. After studying the isobars of Europe, he concludes 
that when in spring the warming of the northern hemisphere begins at 
the south and oceans and continents interchange their relations with 
reference to pressure and temperature, then the Balkan peninsula, to- 
gether with the land between the Adriatic and Black Sea, plays the 
part of a small continent. It is therefore warmed up Avith reference to 
the surrounding region, experiences a low barometric pressure, and es- 
pecially favors the development of storm-centers. These, therefore, cause 
the cool northerly winds and the cold days of Germany. {Z. 0. G. M. 
XVIII, p. 268.) 

313. Dr. Koppen, in reference to the cold days in May, states that 
neither the explanations of Miidler, Erman, Sainte ClaireDeville, Ass- 
maun, von Bezold, nor others seem to him to aflbrd any satisfactory ex- 
planation of the question why the precise days from the 10th to the 13th 
should have such a decided tendency to be abnormally cold. [Z. 0. G. 
M., XIX, p. 133.) 

314. K. Billwiller states that he has been surprised that van Bebber, 
in his essay on the cold days in May, has so strongly stated that these 
always happened on definite dates, whereas Dove had so clearly proved 
that they are not simultaneous in different localities, nor do they hap- 
pen on a definite date at any one locality, whence Dove considers that 

S. Mis. 33 — -23 



354 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR lbd4. 

any cosmic cause is out of the question. Now that this conclusion has 
been confirmed by von Bezold by his demonstration of their purely terres- 
trial cause, and that they occur pretty uniformly distributed through a 
long interval of time, it seems strange that Koppen should state that the 
main point of the question has not yet been touched, and should again 
suggest cosmic explanations. Billwiller's opinion is that there are no 
facts on record from which we can philosophically conclude that there 
Siie three definite cold days in May or that there is any problem here 
to be investigated. [In other words, this problem is to the German 
what the problem of the equinoctial storm is to the American. What- 
ever storm happens to occur within a week or two of the 21st of March 
or September is called the "equinoctial storm," and we frequently find 
some one at work on the problem, "Why are storms especially aj)t to 
occur on the equinoctial day?"] {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 245.) 

315. Dr. W. Koppen, in reply to Billwiller's remarks, states decidedly | 
that he is not a believer in the three cold days of May, nor in their ^ 
explanation by cosmic causes. The essence of the problem seems to him 
to lie in the following questions : 

1. Is there really iiresent that relative maximum tendency to cold 
days which, according to many, especially the older observations and 
according to the investigations of von Bezold, apparently exists during 
the third pentade of May ? 

2. If this is the case, how shall the date be exactly determined ? 
Even if the first question should be denied, it would still remain of 

interest to show why the tendency to a south and a southeast gradient — 
that is, to a northeast wind — should be so decided in May, and should 
also not exist in June, where the excess of temperature of the continents 
above the sea remains the same while north and northeast gradients 
jjrevail. He shows that this may be due to the heating of distant lands, 
and remarks that also the studies of Dr. Krankenhagen on the baro- 
metric phenomena attending the cold period in June combine to show 
that in severely judging the belief in the definite character of special 
days we may have gone too far. 

316. Buys-Ballot writes expressing his entire agreement with Pro- 
fessor Billwiller. He states that every month has its cold days, and May 
least of all, and suggests a method of investigation which he is about 
carrying on. In a parenthesis he exclaims, " Shame, that in America 
climatology is so entirely lost sight of!" {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 320.) 

317. G. Hellmann, in a study of the annual change of temperature in 
Northern Germany, utilizes the averages by pentades for thirty five 
years ; he finds a decided retrogression or cold period about the middle 
of June for Breslau. The cold days of May vary so much as to their 
dates that they do not show in the averages of thirty-five years, while 
the cold days of June are well marked. Another retrogression, but in 
this case warm days, occur iu the last week of September, [Z. 0, G, M.^ 
XIX, p. 384.) 



METEOROLOGY. 355 

318. Dr. KraukeubageD, of Stettin, has investigated the distribution 
of temperature and pressure in Europe in June, and has shown that 
the pentade, June 10 to 14, is peculiarly liable to a slight fall of tem- 
perature, while on the other hand the isobars of June require such 
winds as nuist i)roduce this temperature fall. In general the areas of 
low pressure that pass over Europe have a tendency to take a direction 
toward the northeast, east, or southeast, and are therefore followed by 
cold winds. (i>. M. Z., i, p. 11.) 

319. Dr. Krankenhagen also contributes to the question of three cold 
days in May a study based on the consideration that such may be caused 
by especially cold, clear nights ; he therefore calculates how many days 
have been above the meaj, and how many below; the mean negative 
departure we may call X, and positive departure Y ; then the quotient 
X -^ Y shows how many more times the mean negative departure is 
greater than the positive. This ratio is I.IG for t he third pentade of May. 
(D. M. Z., I, p. 371.) 

320. Dr. J. van Bebber, of the Hamburg Seewarte, publishes the re- 
sults of a study into tyi)ical weather phenomena in anticipation of a 
more exhaustive publication by the Seewarte. This is a continuation of 
his studies upon the geographical distribution, the paths and velocities 
of barom€'tric minima; his object now being to ascertain in what man- 
ner these depressions influence the condition of the weather, especially 
in Germany, and whether it is not possible from any given condition of 
the weather to deduce practical rules for predicting the movement of 
the depressions and the future weather. He first determines the prin- 
cipal paihs followed by the majority of the storm centers, leaving to a 
future time the study of the erratic minima. The tabular view of the 
frequency with which storms traversed these principal paths shows a 
decided tendency of minima to follow in groups along any path once 
inaugurated by a leading storm. He also shows that the mean velocity 
of minima moving along the paths is always much greater than the 
general mean velocity of all minima indiscriminately. Therefore we 
conclude that along these principal paths the conditions are most favor- 
able for maintaining the intensity and rajjid progress of minima. If 
we consider the distribution of pressure for each of these paths sepa- 
rately, we find characteristic relations ; thus, if a line be drawn from the 
minimum to the maximum pressure, or from the minimum normal to the 
closest isobars, we find the storm progress nearly perpendicular to this 
line; in other words, the progress of the mininmm agrees closely with 
the direction of the strongest wind, thus agreeing entirely with the 
principle announced in 1872 by Rev. Clement Ley, namely, " extensive 
areas of very high pressure delay or turn aside the movement of a de- 
pression, iu that each depression moves with the greatest ease in a direc- 
tion such that it shall have the highest pressure on the right-hand side 
of its path." 

A relation is also apparent between the distribution of temperature 



3IJG SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

and the progress of depressions so that the direction of the movement 
forms an augle with the direction of the greatest rise of temperature, 
which angle varies between 45 and 90 degrees, being greater iu summer 
than in winter, the highest temperature being on the right-hand side of 
the storm path. This principle is also indicated by Clement Ley in the 
following words : "The direction of progress of depressions in AVestern 
Europe varies in Europe between north-northeast and south southeast, 
and is primarily dependent on the preceding general distribution of 
temperature, so that the movement is inclined at an angle of 45 degrees 
to the lower isotherms." These principles, announced 11 years ago in 
England, have, says van Bebber, not found the proper consideration iu 
European weather predictions. After some explanatory words, he sums 
them both up iu the following : The progress of depressions takes place 
approximately in the direction of the j)revailing movement of the whole 
mass of air in the neighborhood of a depression. This statement would 
seem to support the assumption that the atmospheric whirl is carried 
along by the prevailing current of air. [We are now giving van Beb- 
ber's statements nearly in his own words and reserve the privilege of 
stating that, although the cojinection between the phenomena is very 
nearly as he gives it, yet the rationale of the process is, we think, not 
at all as he seems to suggest.] By reducing pressures upwards and 
constructing isobars for an altitude of 2,500 meters and also for 
higher altitudes, he is led to the conclusiou that the whirlwind move- 
ment is confined only to the lower strata of air, that the axis of the 
whirl is inclined to the left and slightly towards the front, and that the 
upper currents of air in the neighborhood of the whirl have nearly the 
same direction, so that those belong to a great ring progressing with 
the depression and in which the air that rises within the depression now 
sinks again. This agrees with the fact that the movement of the cirrus 
clouds agrees with that of the progress of the depression ; this also ex- 
plains why the upper clouds, which also move with the depression, are 
so piominont in advance, while on the left side of the path the cirrus 
clouds are so infrequent; this also explains why the principal storm 
])aths marked out by van Bebber are especially followed in the coldev 
season of the year and why the storm paths, numbered 1 and 4 by him, 
moving towards the northeast or east-northeast, occur most frequently 
in the warm season. Equally easy is it to explain why a number of suc- 
cessive storms have a tendency to follow the path pursued by some prom- 
inent leading one, for if atmospheric pressure and temperature are so 
distributed over a large part of the hemisphere as to be favorable to 
the production of a given storm path, then it is clear that succeeding 
depressions will follow the same path so long as the distribution of 
temperature and pressure does not change, and as these changes can 
only go on slowly it necessarily happens that storms and local weather 
changes some times show great similarity for days and weeks together. 
321. [It is certainly to be regretted that the intense study under most 



METEOROLOGY. 357 

favorable circani stances ^iven continuously since 1870 to the tri-daily 
weather maps of the United States and Canada should not long ago 
have hcen supplemented by some general summary of the laws of storm 
progress and weather changes with wbich the officers of the Signal 
Service have become familiar. Guided by the writings of Eedfield, 
Espy, Henry, and Ferrel, the deductive branch of meteorology was 
making rapid progress — greater than could possibly have been fol- 
lowed by those outside of the office. It was already in 1872 a matter 
of common note that storms and also areas of high pressure, &c., pur- 
sue successively the same or very similar paths, each one showing a 
progressive systematic difference from its predecessor, until by a sud- 
den change in distant surrounding circumstances the whole system was 
broken up and a new order of things inaugurated. These similarities 
between storm paths were frequently pointed out, both in the daily 
weather predictions and the Monthly Weather Review. An interest- 
ing illustration of this will be found in the daily predictions of the 
hurricanes of August 18 and 25, 1871, as made by the present writer for 
the official weather "Synopsis and probabilities" of the Army Signal 
Office.] 

Van Bebber continues by saying that only in the rarest cases are press- 
ure and temperature distributed around two storm-centers in the same 
manner, and to this circumstance principally is it to be attributed that 
the progress of and changes in the depressions show such extraordinary 
variety. If the distribution of pressure and temperature is reversed, 
then will the movement of the depression be hindered or entirely an- 
nulled, and at the same time it itself takes a long irregular form [the 
barometric trough of the Signal Service BulletinsJ, its longer axis per- 
pendicular to the pressure gradients, and from its ends frequent small 
minima break ofl" that then follow the general current of air prevailing 
in their region ; if, however, on either side pressure or temperature pre- 
vail, then the direction of the movement of the storm-center will be 
thereby determined. 

From this short explanation we see the great importance of these two 
principles in their application to weather predictions. If, however, we 
would form a correct prediction, we must extend our weather map to the 
greatest possible extent, especially toward the west, and study expressly 
the behavior of the great barometric maxima and minima that charac- 
terize certain regions of the earth. We see also the importance of the 
study of the cloud movements, especially the ui)per clouds, {Z. 0. G. 
M., xviii, p. 447.) 

322. Teisserenc de Bort having studied the general weather condi- 
tions attending abnormal winters, further develops his generalizations 
relative to the " principal centers of action of the atmosphere," and 
shows that the perturbations in the position and intensity of these at- 
mospheric centers correspond with important changes in the chaiacter 
of the weather. If, therefore, we v ould predii-t th'> weather for a long 



obH SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

time in advauee we must tletermine the connection between the local 
weather and the general circulation over a large part of the earth's sur- 
face as due to these centers. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 105.) 

323. [The centers of action, as he calls them, seem to be identical with 
the large areas of maximnm and minimum pressure first marked out by 
the isobars of Buchan and generally known to meteorologists as conti- 
nental and oceanic maxima and minima. Teisseruc de Bort gives in 
detail the types of weather peculiar to France for each location of the 
surrounding maxima and minima areas, but the assumjition running 
through his essay to the effect that the changes of local weather are 
directly due to the changes in the pleiobars and meiobars, as they were 
called by Prestel, seems to us quite unwarranted. This matter is refer- 
red to in a circular ot the Signal Office, published in June, 1871, "How 
to use weather maps," and was for several years carefully studied from 
Teisserenc de Bort's present ])oint of view, but the present writer was 
forced to the conclusion that some ulterior forces controlled both the 
local weather and the permanent or subpermanent highs and lows, so 
that although it is very convenient, for instance, to connect our Atlantic 
coast weather with the Atlantic area of high pressure between latitudes 
20 and 30 degrees, yet it is not possible to say that the latter is cause 
and the other effect.] 

324. H. H. Eildebrandsson has still further investigated the average 
distribution of meteorological elements, wind, clouds, temperature, rain, 
haze,orfog, with reference to the isobars ; he divides these latter into five 
zones, namely, the low center, three intermediate bands, and the high 
area. Each of these zones he divides into eight portions according as 
the gradient therein is directed toward the north, northwest, &c. The 
examination of six years of weather maps shows that for Upsala and 
for southern and central Sweden the following generalizations hold 
good : 

1. The wind makes a greater angle with the gradient in summer than 
in winter and within a minimum than within a maximum ; greater at 
sea than on land ; greater for gradients directed towards the east and 
least for those towards the west. The strength of the wind is greatest 
for gradients directed towards the north and least for those towards the 
west and southwest. 

2. The lower clouds move in directions deviating to the right from 
the direction of the wind at the earth's surface ; the lower clouds move 
nearly perpendicular to the gradients or parallel to the tangents of the 
isobars; for gradients towards the west the lower clouds are inclined 
more than 90°; that is to say, the air is moving away from the area of 
low pressure. 

3. The cirrus clouds move from the minima out towards the maxima; | 
this movement is feeblest near the center of depression and most rapid ^ 
within the maximum zone ; the movement is greater on the advancing 
side of a depression, or on the western side of a maximum; directly be- 



METEOROLOGY. ,'^'0 

hind and above a low center the movement in the npper regions is for 
Sweden ordinarily from north or west, but there are cases in which the 
movement is from south or southeast, which latter is the ordinary case 
in England, according to Clement Ley. 

4. The temperature in the maxima and minima areas is above the 
mean if the gradients incline towards the west, and below the mean if 
inclined towards the east; in winter the temperature is above its mean 
minimum and below in the maximum area ; in summer this is reversed. 
The temperature differences between u])per and lower stations are great- 
est when the gradient is directed towards the north or east, but least 
towards the south or west. 

5. The quantity of clouds or rain are greatest for gradients towards 
the south or west and least towards the northeast. 

6. The transparency of the air for distant objects is independent of 
barometric pressure; greatest fog occurs with gradients towards the 
west, but in the Kattegat the fog is most frequent for gradients towards 
the north. {Z. 0. G. J/., xix, p. 4G9.) 

325. Prof. P. Busin, of Rome, has endeavored to indicate the various 
positions that areas of high and low pressure must have relativeto Italy 
in order to produce any given type of weather; he computes anew kind 
of wind rose for Rome, showing the probability of various types of 
weather for numerous relative positions of the isobars; the number of 
these types may amount to about 100. He concludes that the changes 
in the barometer for intervals of more than eight hours, and equally so 
the changes of temjjerature for twenty-four hours, are of little use for 
weather predictions ; he suggests that it will be probably of more use to 
study the departures of the temperature and pressure for the normal 
values of the day and the hour for which the weather map is drawn. 
{Z. 0. G. il/., XIX, p. 235.) 

326. [The actual pressures and temperatures and the dejxirtures have 
each their special significance — both are used by the Signal Office, but 
of the two the former has greater value in studying the mechanical laws 
of atmospheric motions.] 

327. Dr. J. van Bebber, of Hamburg, reviews the works of Hoffmeyer 
and Teisserenc de Bort, as well as Hildebraudsson, on types of weather, 
and their connection with general distribution of tem])erature and press- 
ure. In conclusion he says: "If we glance back upon the progress 
made in these [and his own equally extensive] works we must come to 
the conclusion that the prevailing character of the weather on any day 
in Germany is determined by the more general distribution of weather 
conditions, and that we shall only understand the general weather 
changes when we take into consideration the seasonal interchanging of 
the general centers of action in the atmosphere. But within this region 
[Europe] rapidly progressing changes are completed that can indeed 
have no important influence on the ijrevailing weather of the larger 
areas but that are of fundamental importance for the weather of small 



SCO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

regions. Often barometric minima, formed on the edge of the greater 
centers of depression, glide in rapid succession along the edge of the 
great barometric maxima, exerting upon the wind and weather of the 
region through which they pass in broad circles an extraordinary influ- 
ence, aud give the weather the character of variability. As a contribu- 
tion to this subject, see my investigatiou on Typical Phenomena, which 
I wrote at the beginning of the year 1883 for the introduction to the 
volume of Monthly Weather Reviews for 1882, and which will soon be 
published in greater fullness in the Archiv of the Deutsche Seewarte* 
In this investigation the effects of the depressions upon the weather are 
referred back to the well established main tracks of storms, and these 
are brought into connection with the general atmospheric conditions. 
These and similar studies give the first foundation for weather predic- 
tion for a long period in advance. We are persuaded that the weather 
predictions for such periods are not among the impossibilities, but that 
hereafter they will at some time exceed in usefulness the daily predic- 
tion." (D. M. Z., I, pp. 22-70.) 

328. [Predictions three and four days in advance based on similar 
considerations were made by the Signal Office in 1871 and 1872 on 
occasions of importance.] 

X. — (a) Atmospheric electricity; Lightning; [b) Terrestrial 

MAGNETISM; (c) GROUND CURRENTS; (fZ) AURORAS. 

329. The subject of atmospheric electricity and terrestrial earth cur- 
rents was dealt with by the Electrical Congress held at Paris April, 
1884, which recommended that the different countries should collect 
reports and forward them annually to the International Bureau of Tel- 
graph Administration at Berne, which bureau will digest and commu- 
nicate a summary in return. It also recommended that observations 
of earth currents be made in all countries. 

330. The United States National Conference of Electricians, meeting 
at Philadelphia in 1884, renewed these recommendations, commending 
them most heartilv to the action of our Government, and appointing a 
committee to confer with the Chief Signal OfiScer, who is commissioned 
to collect the data for the United States, and who has already for two 
years been conducting preliminary observations on atmospheric elec- 
tricity with a view to the addition of this item to the Signal Service 
daily report. 

331. E. Hoppe publishes a history of electricity (Leipsic, 1884). This 
volume of 022 pages shows great industry on the part of the author, 
who has i)robably made his work quite as exhaustive as would be profit- 
able to the most patient reader. He divides the progress in tliis science 
into the following epochs : (1) Before Franklin ; (2) Franklin and Cou- 
lomb; (3) from Volta to 1819; (4) electricity and magnetism; (5) from 
Ohm to Helmholtz ; (0) more recent progress. (D. ill. Z., I, p. 419.) 

332. Prof. P. G. Tait, of Glasgow, in a lecture before the Scottish 



Meteorology. oGl 

Meteorological Society, gives his views on the source of tlie elec- 
tricity of the air about as follows : The new kinetic theory of gases 
teaches that in a cubic inch of saturated aqueous vapor under atmos- 
pheric pressure there are contained some three hundred trillion of par- 
ticles. This corresponds approximately to y-Joo of a cubic iuch of water, 
or to one rain drop of ordinary size. When eveiy particle of vapor be- 
comes electritied for any reason, and all are at the same ])otential, then, 
after the union of all into one rain drop, the potential of tlie latter will 
be fifty billion times greater. From this it is evident that if from any 
reason every particle of vapor received so slight a potential that it is im- 
perceptible to our most delicate electrometers, yet the formation of drops 
of water from these particles would explain the most terrible strokes of 
lightning. Some years ago it occurred to me that the sim])le contact of 
vapor particles with those of the air by the process of diifnsion going on 
between them must be sufficient to produce this extremely small poten- 
tial. Thus the source of atmospheric electricity is the contact of two 
substances, as in Volta's apparatus, where it is the contact of two dry 
metals. Experiments upon a small scale have not as yet confirmed this 
view, nor can it be thoroughly investigated without making them on so 
large a scale that i)rivate means are inadequate to cover the exj)euse. 
{Z. 0. G. TIf., XIX, p. 301.) 

333. Prof. P. G. Tait communicates a critical summary of all suggested 
theories as to the source of atmospheric electricity. His own contact 
theory is given above ; the otlier theories may be briefly summarized as 
follows: (1) Aerial friction; (2) Pouillet, combustion and evaporation; 
(3) Saussure, vapor condensation ; (4) Peltier; and von Lamont, the per- 
manent negative electrical charge of the earth l)y conduction and in- 
duction electrities the air and vapor; (5) Sir William Thomson, air is 
electritied by contact with the ground, and remains so after ascending 
in the ordinary convection currents; (6) Becquerel, electitied corpuscles 
travel from the sun to the earth's atmosphere; (7) Miihry, a- direct effect 
of solar radiation; (8) Liiddens, friction of vapor against the dry air; 
(9) The capillary surface tension of water drops; (10) The production 
of hail-storms; (11) Friction of air against the ground or against cur- 
rents of air. {Nature, xix, p. 517). 

334. Prof. Edlund, of Stockholm, has endeavored to determine numer- 
ically the amount of the unipolar induction due to the relative move- 
ments of the atmosphere and the earth considered as a magnet. The 
measures which he has made in Stockholm give for a layer 1 meter thick 
at the equator an electromotive force of 0.0321 Daniell's cell. Allowing 
that the moist air is a good conductor, and that the clouds have an 
average height of 1,000 meters, he reckons that between the earth and 
the clouds there must exist an electro-motive force of at least 23 Dani- 
ell's, which abundantly explains the electric tension ordinarily observed 
in the air. The extraordinary electric tension necessary to produce a 
lightning flash originates according to him in the increase of tension 



302 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

that takes place when the volume occupied by the aqueous vapor is so 
enormously climiuished as in the formation of rain drops, a view that is 
apparently similar to that of Tait and other authorities. {Z. 0. 6r. il/., 
XIX, p. 535). 

335. Prof. H. Dufour communicates to the Swiss Scientific Association 
the results of his observations on the electricity of the air as made iu 
tlie laboratory at Lausanne. From six months' observations with a 
Mascart self-register, he finds ai)pvoximately the maxima at 7 A. M. and 
9 p. M. ; the minima between 3 and 5 r. m. and 3 and 4 A. M. jSTegative 
electricity occurs frequently during very hard snow; occasionally two 
successive precipitations separated by clearing weather show opposite 
electricities. The conditions recorded by the electrometer are very 
complicated ; they depend upon the potential of the air at the water- 
dropper, and on the induction of electrical layers on the water dropping 
from tbe tube; in tact, the records of the electrometer are like those of 
a thermometer linng freely in the air wbose temperature is that which 
results from conduction to the neighboring air and radiation to more 
distant objects. Dufour has attempted to separate the electric induc- 
tion and conduction from each other as follows : The discharge tube 
was made to end in the center of a metallic cage of 40 centimeters cube, 
each of whose six metallic sides could be removed without disturbing 
the others. If the cage is entirely closed the electrometer shows the 
potential of the mass of air streaming through it ; if one or other side 
be removed, the iustrumentcomes under the additional influence of induc- 
tion through a definite region of space. 

Together with these observations, Dufour, by allowing drops of water 
to fall through unelectrifled air, showed that electricity Avas more evi- 
dent iu air tilled with water-dust than in pure air. Clouds of smoke 
from burning wet straw, carried in currents of air past the apparatus, 
showed for each cloud the presence of electricity, similarly clouds of 
steam from a tube communicating with the earth. If the air of a great 
hall was electrified and strong drafts produced within the hall, the 
electrometer showed variations similar to those recorded by the T.Iaig- 
cart during the prevalence of north winds. Attempts to produce elec- 
tricity in the air by the sudden condensation of vaj^or into fog gave 
negative results. {Z. 0. G. AL, xix, p. 129.) 

338. Prof. L. Palmieri publishes a little memoir summing up all his 
works upon atmospheric electricity. According to him the electricity of 
the earth's surface is induced by that of the air. The potential of the air 
is always positive in clear sky, and so, also, during a cloudy sky, pro- 
vided that no rain has fallen within 70 kilometers ; but as soon as rain 
falls, positive and negative electricity rapidly alternate. Lightning can 
only occur during or in connection with rainfall. The origin of atmos- 
plierit*- electricity is, he thinks, to be found in the condensation of aqueous 
vapor. (Z. 0. G. M., xvili, p. SO.) 

337. Dr. S. Kalischer. of Berlin, has experimentally investigated the 



METEOROLOGY. oGj 

coDdensation of steam as a cause of electrification, and finds wholly neg- 
ative results. {Nature, xxix, p. 227.) 

338. G. Le Goarant de Tromelin publishes in the Comptes Eendus 
of Paris his theory that the principal cause of atmospheric electricity 
consists in the friction of moist masses of air on the surface of the earth 
or ocean. The electrified molecules of water rise above and form clouds 
on whose surface the electricity is expanded, which then gives occasion 
to lightning; during the afternoon and evening the water, vapor, and 
clouds, cool down, the electric tension on the individual particles of mist 
becomes greater, and the electric discharges known as heat-lightning 
occur. [Paris, Comptes Bendus, 1884, p. 248.) 

339. Dr. Linns, of Darmstadt, in reference to the origin of atmos- 
pheric electricity, suggests a laboratory experiment which he thinks is 
new and will go far to elucidate his view of the subject, according to 
which the electricity of the rain and thunder clouds can only affect the 
instruments, and give the phenomena of high tension, through the sepa- 
ration in space of the two principal parts of the cloud, namely, the air 
and the vapor. The three fundamental questions are the following: (1) 
whether electricity is first formed during the fall of the precipitation 
possibly through its friction on the air, or (2) whether it is produced by 
the process of condensation itself, or (3) whether before the precipitation, 
in the mixture of air and vapor, the molecules of these components are 
not laden with the opposite electricities. Linns considers the latter as 
the most plausible, in view of our present knowledge of electricity, 
that in fact the electricity of the clouds results from the well-known 
phejiomena of contact electricity observed in the contact of hetero- 
genous bodies; the molecules of the components of a mixture of gases 
are, in consequence of the enormous number of impacts which, accord- 
ing to the latest theory, occurs in every second, oppositely electrified by 
contact ; this electricity, however, can only produce an exterior effect 
through a rapid separation of the gases ; the original mixture itself 
must always appear uon electric on account of the intimate mixture of 
the oppositely electritied molecules, and since the sum of the positive 
and negative electricities must be equal to each other. His proposed 
experiment looks to the rapid separation of the vapor and gas by ab- 
sorption, and the experiment should succeed with other gases and vapors 
besides those of the atmosphere. 

340. Dr. E. Hoppe, of Hamburg, having opposed this hypothesis from 
a theoretir'al point of view, Dr. Linns replies suggesting other experi- 
ments, and also states that he has now, since August, 1883, conducted 
observations on the loss or dissipation of electricity by conductors ex- 
posed to free atmosphere ; he finds the loss least in winter, greatest in 
summer, less in the morning and evening, greater in the day time. He 
proposes that lines of equal electric loss be constructed on the daily 
weather charts, by the study of which our knowledge of atmospheric 
electricity will be much assisted. {D. M. Z,, i, j). 4G4.) 



364 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

341. Lieutenant Lephay, with a Mascart self-register and a water- 
dropping collector 3 meters above tbe earth's surface and 24 meters 
above the ocean, at the French international station at Cape Horn, de- 
duces the following results as to atmospheric electricity: 

1. The normal tension is positive and between 50 and 70 volts; its 
maximum occurs in clear sky and frosty weather. 

2. The daily maxima and minima ordinarily observed were only ap- 
parent at the cape in beautiful weather, with clear, blue skies free of 
clouds. 

3. Whenever the sky is beclouded after a fine day the normal ten- 
sion immediately changes, and vice versa when the cloudiness clears 
away. 

4. Clouds affect the electrometer in different ways, according to the 
form of the i)recipitated water, and even according to their direction 
from the observatory; cumuli increase the positive tension; high cirro- 
cumuli increase it still further to plus 400 volts ; cirro stratus seem to 
have no influence; fog and fine rain produce a positive tension that is 
sometimes very high. 

5. With hail there always comes an extraordinary strong, negative 
tension, so that even sparks dart from the upper part of the apparatus. 

6. Snow gives always a positive tension, and by so much the greater 
as the snowfiakes are larger, 

7. Eain, with four exce])tious, always gave a negative tension. 

8. A fall of snow-dust and small ice-crystals on the 8th of May oc- 
curred with a decided positive tension. 

9. Of three sleet storms, two occurred with foggy weather, fine rain, 
and positive tension, and one with heavy rain and negative tension. 

10. For twelve or fifteen hours before the outbreak of heavy winds 
and gusts the positive tension increased. It is not possible to say what 
tension prevails during the storm itself, since the rapid-psissing clouds 
obscure the influence of the winds by their own more ])o\verful eflect. 
The dry, warm, north-northwest or northeast winds diminish the posi- 
tive or increase the negative tension; tlie cold west, southwest, and 
south-southwest winds increase the positive tension. The strongest 
electric phenomena occurred with moist winds from the west northwest 
and west southwest. [Z. 0. O. ill., xix, p. 471.) 

342. Prof E. Mach has more accurately investigated the amount of 
protection from a lightning discharge, as actually experienced by an ob- 
ject inside of a metal box representing the wire-cage inclosure in Mel- 
sen's system of protection from lightning. He finds that although the 
theoretical explanation of Melsen's system must be slightly modified, 
still even when the wire of the cage is brought to a red heat by the 
lightning discharge the interior will be almost perfectly protected. {Z. 
0. G. ilf, XIX, p. 264.) 

343. Prof. J. J. Spartsch, of Breslau, in an essay on tlie climatology 
of Greece, states that the statistics of the thunder-storms, or of days on 



METEOROLOGY. 



365 



which thunder is heard, shows that the islt.nd of Corfu belongs to a re- 
gion in which electric discharges are more frequent than in any other 
part of Europe. {Z. 0. G. M , xix, p. 123.) 

344. P. von Salis, telegraph inspector, has collected a mass of statis- 
tics relative to lightning on telegraph lines, and at other stations dur- 
ing the past thirty years in three cantons of Switzerland. He finds— 

1. That in a remarkable way, with extraordinarily few exceptions, 
and even then only where we may safely infer the presence of a great 
quantity of water in the ground, all and every lightning discharge 
occurs upon telegraph lines in the immediate neighborhood of a small 
or large brook or river; further, these also occurred in the case of the 
telegraph poles established for conveying submarine lines on the shore 
of the lakes and never occurred elsewhere. 

2. That the lightning for the past thirty years has occurred more fre- 
quently on lines in the lowlands and valleys inclosed between high 
mountains than on the highest Alpine passes. This latter conclusion 
is borne out by the following table: 



Altitude of the line. 



M. 
TJnder 500 
1,000 
1,500 
2,000 
2,500 



Length of the line. 



Kilometers. 
226 
263 
156 
196 
65 



Number of 
liahlniug strokes. 



{Z. 0. G. M., XVIII, p. 384.) 

345. Prof. W. von Bezold has discussed the cases of destructive light- 
ning in Bavaria during the years 1833 to 1882; this work is a continu- 
ation of a lesser work nndertaken some tifteen years ago Among his 
results we note that the frequency of destructive lightning when re- 
duced to uniformity in the matter of buildings has almost steadily in- 
creased in forty years to more than three times its previous frequency, a 
remarkable phenomenon but apparently well established. As the prin- 
cipal object of his investigation, von Bezold presents on a chart the 
geographical distribution of lightning strokes for the year. (i>. M. Z., 

I, p. 339.) , . , 

346 Dr. Kavser exhibited to the Berlin branch of the Meteorological 
Society photographs of flashes of lightning, one of which showed four 
parallel flashes from top to bottom, which must have occurred simulta- 
neously or in very close succession; his opinion was that a double dis- 
charge going ami coming had occurred, the course of which (through 
air of least resistance) had of course been displaced by a strong wind. 
The amount of the displacement could be observed on the photographs 
whence he calculated the time between the first and second discharge. 
{Mature, xxx, p. G52.j 



3 06 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

347. K. Schering, of Gottiugen, describes a new instrument for de- 
termining the variations of the vertical component of terrestrial mag- 
netic force. This has been used at GoEtingen in connection with the 
International Polar Observations; it has an advantage in that it is en- 
tirely free from the perturbing influences of friction ; is much less influ- 
enced by the torsion of the susijension thread and by the effect of tem- 
perature on the center of gravity of the needle, which consists of a 
magnetized steel tube 300 millimeters long and 10 millimeters interior 
diameter. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 547.) 

348. A. L. von Tillo has collected together all possible data relative 
to the geographical distribution and secular variation of the magnetic 
declination and dip in European Russia. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 550.) 

349. Dr. Guido Schenzl publishes in one volume the result of sixteen 
years' labor on terrestrial magnetism in Hungary. The observations 
extend from 1865 to 1879. All data are reduced to the normal station at 
Munich, and the normal epoch, 1875.0. The charts show by isogonic 
and other lines the general distribution of declination, dip, and inten 
sity. [Z. 0. G. M., xvii, p. 248.) 

350. E. E. Blavier, of Paris, having organized a very careful system 
of observations, publishes a study on earth currents, made in accordance 
with the suggestions of the Electrical Conference held at Paris in 1881, 
As director of the telegraphic administration of France, Blavier has 
had extensive opportunities and has used them skillfully. He finds the 
general direction of the line of maximum electro-motive force in France 
from northwest to southeast inclined 5G° to the magnetic meridian. 
{Kature, xxx, p. lOG.) 

351. Prof. H. Wild has contributed to the subject of earth currents 
an important study upon those observed in his buried telegraph cables 
in the neighborhood of the observatory of Pavlosk. The principal series 
of observations jjreviously made were those by Lament, 1850, with lines 
only 100 meters long; Airy, 1862, with lines 13 and 16 kilometers long; 
Galli, 1880, lines 4 and meters long. [Lieutenant Ray, at Point Bar 
row, 18S2, used four lines, each of about 300 meters length.] Professor 
Wild used four lines, north, south, east, and west of the central mag- 
netic observing station, which is itself underground. The lines of wire 
were each 1 kilometer in length, and crossed each other at the ob- 
servatory, where the galvanometer was established. He deduces the 
following results : 

1. In this neighborhood in seasons of magnetic calm the earth current 
is so feeble that its difference of potential for one kilometer is less than 
the uncertainty of our measurements, or 0.001 of the electro-motive 
force of one Daniell's cell. 

2. The currents observed by Galli at Velletri, on his short line, were 
wholly due to the ground plates ; those obsej-ved by Lamont were partly 
ground-plate and partly terrestrial currents; and those observed by 



METEOROLOGY. Ooi 

Airy on his long line undoubtedly show the presence of terrestrial cur- 
rents, but there is no means of separating the one from the other. 

3. In magnetic calms the tliflerence of electric potential between 
ground plates 1 kilometer apart, so far as it is due to terrestrial cur- 
rents, is less than 0.001 volt, while so far as due to the plates themselves 
it can easily amount to 0.05 volt, or even more ; at times of magnetic 
perturbations it is only rarely that the first difference increases to an 
equality with the second. 

4. In such short lines it is therefore imperative that the observation 
be so arranged that we may distinguish l)etween the terrestrial and the 
ground-plate current, and this is easily done by making different com- 
binations of the four plates by means of the four connecting cables. 

5. For plates 1 meter square and I kilometer apart the resistance of 
the earth may be estimated at from 30 to 60 ohms ; if, therefore, the 
resistance of the cable and that of the galvanometer coil be each about 
40 ohms, so that the total resistance of plate and wire be about 100 
ohms, then a galvanometer must have a sensitiveness of 0.000002 
ampere for one division of the scale in order that the deviations in 
times of great magnetic perturbations shall not frequently exceed the 
limits of the scale, supposing the latter to be 250 divisions long, cor- 
responding to 0.05 volt. 

6. The ratio of the strength of the earth current in any conductor to 
the strength of the ground-plate current is independent of the resist- 
ance of the conductor and of the size of the earth plate, but increases 
with the distance between the latter; therefore an increase in the size 
of the ground plates, or the introduction of resistance in the conductor, 
do not tend to weaken the ground-plate current in comparison with the 
terrestrial current. 

7. If we desire to observe the terrestrial current during magnetic 
calms, the distance between the plates must be at least 50 kilometers; 
for shorter lines, say from 1 to 5 kilometers, the terrestrial current can- 
not be satisfactorily observed unless the ground ])lates are much more 
nearly alike than ordinarily attained. {Z. 0. G. il/., xix, p. 55.) 

352. H. Wild, from a further study of observations made up to Sep- 
tember, 1883, draws the following conclusions: 

1. The earth current appears not like a current of nearly uniform in- 
tensity, but as alternating stronger and weaker currents, which rapidly 
change their direction in space. 

2. The east-to-west components are stronger than the north-and-south 
component, or the direction of the current is nearer the parallels than 
the meridians. 

3. Only by taking the mean of the twenty-four term days during the 
year do we find traces of slight diurnal change whose amplitude corre- 
sponds nearly to 0.0008 volt. The diurnal change of the earth current 
is therefore not the cause of the diurnal change in the magnetic ele- 
ments. 



3G8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

4. As soon as the earth currents in both lines become strong, the mag- 
netic instruments deviate from their ordinary positions, and these per- 
turbations increase with the strength of the earth currents, but not in 
any regular proportion. 

5. The changes in the south-to north line preceded by about five min- 
utes the changes in variation of declination, and similarly the current 
in the east-to-west line preceded the changes in the horizontal intensity, 
so that the earth current would appear as the primary cause. He con- 
cludes that the earth currents are the primary cause of many pertur- 
bations, but not the cause of the periodic variations in the magnetic 
elements. [Z. 0. M. G., xix, p. 510.) 

353. Prof. K. Schering, of Gottingen, criticising Professor Wild's re- 
sults, states that the method is not thoroughly reliable, and expresses 
his conviction that we cannot determine a difit'erence of potential be- 
tween two points of the earth, nor even i)rove its existence, if we use 
ground plates which by contact with the earth become electrified in any 
unknown manner. He recommends the method introduced by W. Sie- 
mens in the programme of the German North Polar expedition for 1882- 
'83 as the only one to be used in determining the currents induced by 
the changes taking place in the magnetic force of the earth. {Z. 0. G. 
M., XIX, p. 552.) 

354. The great magnetic storm and auroral display of November 17, 
1882, is abundantly discussed, with numerous contributions of observa- 
tions, throughout vols, xxvii and xxviii of Nature. 

355. T. W. Backhouse, of Sunderland, collects together all accessible 
observations on the spectrum of the aurora, and shows that the number 
of striking coincidences between it and the modified air spectrum make 
the suggestion that they are identical one worthy of consideration. 
[Nature, xxviii, p. 209.) 

356. O. Jesse discusses the auroral arc observed October 2, 1882, and 
places it at an altitude of 122.2 kilometers, with a probable error of 4.5 
kilometers. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 238.) 

357. O. Jesse, in some remarks on the determination of the altitude 
and position of the aurora, states that the very rapid changes going on 
during a display make it important to have a method of determining its 
altitude by observations made at one place. He has, therefore, devel- 
oped such a method, which is published in full in the Astronomische 
Nachrichteu, No. 2540. This method is based upon the assumption that 
the rays constituting the aurora lie on the surface of a cone whose apex 
[s in the interior of the earth, where the direction of any one ray and the 
osculating magnetic axis of the earth intersect each other. The appli- 
cation of this method requires that we should measure for as many rays 
as i)0ssible the angle under which the ray or its prolongation intersects 
the horizon; also, the azimuth of the point in which the ray cuts the 
horizon, together with an accurate determination of the time; further- 
iiiore, for sojne of the rays the apparent position of their highest exten- 



METEOROLOGY. 



369 



sion is to be determined. For these observations he proposes a binoc- 
uhir attached to a circle having a horizontal axis which revolves around 
a vertical axis, so that the binocular can have the plane of its axes 
brought into the plane of the auroral beams. Many observations show 
that the auroral rays arrange themselves pre eminently along the mag- 
netic parallels in curves that cut the magnetic meridians at right angles; 
they also show that the auroral phenomena as arranged along the mag- 
netic i)arallels follow the curves of equal total magnetic intensity. [Z. 
0. G. J/., XIX, p. 405.) 

358. Dr. H. Ekama, of Haarlem, gives a summary of the observations 
on the aurora made by the International Polar party sent by the gov- 
ernment of the Netherlands to the Sea of Kara. The aurora was in 
general very unsteady and variable, so that drawings could rarely be 
made. Arcs frequently occurred, but soon changed to the form of 
bands ; the dark band below the arc was never distinctly seen. The 
aurora was invariably visible when the heavens were clear and the moon 
not too bright; the finest appearances occurred at about 10.30 p. m., 
when the corona most frequently occurred ; the bands were strongest 
about 9.30 p. m. The auroras were generally on the north side of the 
heavens, and only reached to the south of the zenith after a very bright 
display; the highest point of the arcs did not lie in the magnetic gra- 
dient, but in the astronomical meridian. Out of 86 observed arcs and 
66 bands the summits of 64 and 41, resi^ectively, lay in the astronomical 
meridian. Ekama has computed the altitude of his auroras by the for- 
mula given by Mordenskiold in his account of the Vega's wintering in 
Behring's Sound, 1878-'79; the results of nine nights agree closely, and 
give for the distance of the arc above the earth's surface 0.033 of the 
earth's radius; for the radius of the nearly horizontal arc itself 0.034; 
and for the distance of the center of this circle below the earth's surface 
0.02 of the earth's radius, which value agrees with that of Kordenskiold. 
The auroras were generally very faint ; the arcs had no color. The wave 
length of the peculiar auroral line was determined by the spectroscope 
at 550.53 millionths of a millimeter; no other lines were visible; even 
a wholly red aurora gave only this yellow-green line. No connection 
was found between the polar bands of clouds and the auroral light. Out 
of 203 polar bauds the vanishing or converging points were distributed 
as follows : 



Trend of vanishing 
points. 


No. of 
cases. 


Trend of vanishing 
points. 


No. of 
cases. 


W.-E 


22 
12 

22 
12 


N. S 


24 

27 

75 

9 


WN.-ESE 

KW.-SE 


NNE.-SSW 


KE.-SW 


NNW.-SSE 


ENE.-WSW 





The direction of the polar bands probably depends on the direction 
of the wind prevailing at the cloud level. {Z. 0. G. ilf., xix, p. 482.) 
S. Mis. 33 24 



370 



SCIEISITIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



359. A. Paulsen, of Copeubagren, givos in Xature. xxix, p. 337, the 
results of observation on the height of the aurora as made at Godthaab, 
of which the following notice appears in the Au&«trian Zeitacliri/t fur 
Meteorologie : 

The results of observations at that station on the altitude of auroras 
were as follows : 



^Number of cases. 


Altitude. 


Number of cases. 


Altitude. 


1 


Kilometers. 
G8. 8 
50 to 00 
40 to 50 
30 to 40 


1 1 


Kilometers. 

20 to 30 

10 to 20 

to 10 


'f 


1 


2 

1 


14 



Of the latter 14 cases the lowest were, respectively, 3.72, 3.69, 3.22, 
2.87, 1.99, 1.96, 1.35, 0.61. 

360. Prof. H. Fritz, of Zurich, states that as these observations were 
very carefiill}' made, the distance befeween the two observers being 5.8 
kilometers, they seem especiallj' worthy of study, and undoubtedly 
confirm the observations of S. Fritz, made at Ivigtut, and those of 
Steeustrup, made in Iceland, and assure us that undoubtedly the 
auroral light may exist even at the ground. He has therefore at once 
collated all previous records of low-lying auroras, and makes some 
general remarks upon the present state of our knowledge with regard 
to these and the character of the observations still needed to further 
elucidate the subject. {Z. 0. O. M., xix, p. 290.) 

361. Prof. H. Fritz, in a general review of Tromholt's Xordlysets 
Perioder and of Eubenson's Catalogue of Swedish Auroras, finds that 
the 111-year period, first determined by him in 1802 and confirmed by 
Loomis for the American auroras, is also strongly confirmed by Euben- 
son's catalogue. He also finds that the influence of the bright light of 
the moon in introducing an ai)parent lunar period, as first shown by him 
in 1864, is fully confirmed by Tron)hf:)rt fro-m the study of observations 
at Godthaab and Christiania. {Z. 0. G. ]\J., xviii, p. 321 ) 

362. Prof. Sophus Tromholt, in his " Om Xordlysets Perioder," pub- 
lished by the liistitut IMet. Hanois, deduces the following conclusions 
from the observations of the aurora made at Godthaab, in Greenland, 
during 1805 to 1880 by Professor Kleinschmidt : 

1. Everything ])ertaining to the va'iable frequency of auroras in 
Godthaab proves that the phenomenon exists there under quite different 
conditions from those obtaining in lower latitudes. 

2. The number of observed auroras is inversely proportional to the 
square root of the cloudiness. 

3. After correcting for cloudiness there remains not only no parallel- 
ism between the sun-spots and the auroras, but even an almost diamet- 
rical difference as to frequency. 

4. The maximum of auroras is delayed two years behind the minimum 



METEOROLOGY. 371 

of sun-spots, but the next followinpf auroral minimum coincides with 
the sun-spot maximum. 

5. Some observations by Bloch, 1841 to 1S4G, show that the number 
of auroras is very large at the minimum of sun-spots, but decreases as 
the sun-spots increase. 

G. By separating the evening and morning auroras he finds the former 
twice as numerous as the latter, and that it is probable tliat the evening 
auroras give us the best idea of the true condition of the atmosphere 
with reference to these phenomena. 

7. The morning and evening auroras both show a maximum in the 
polar region at the time of the winter solstice. 

8. Kleinschmidt distinguishes eight types of auroras, three stationary, 
and five of them movable. Of these the most interesting is his type 
number 7, namely, rays arranged in a band stretching from the north- 
east to the southwest and passing through the zenith. This phenomenon 
rises in the east lilve a column of fire from some point in the interior of 
Greenland. The column is narrowest and brightest over the land, while 
its southwestern extremity, namely, over the sea, is slightly broader 
and fainter, so that in general it does not seem to touch the southwest 
horizon. Those arches almost always take the same position. fThis 
form of arch, which is comparatively rare in Europe, is much more fre- 
quent in the United States and Canada. An attempt to locate several 
such arches and to explain their structure will be found in the report 
of the Chief Signal Officer for 187G.] 

9. The aurora very rarely appears to the north of Godthaab, the cen- 
ter of the phenomenon is most frequently between the south and south- 
southeast, and this holds good for the whole of the west coast of Green- 
land. 

10. The color of an aurora is almost invariably white, except only a 
little red or green during the most rapid movements ; not the slightest 
noise has ever been heard. 

11. With reference to the oscillation north and south of the zone of 
greatest auroral frequency, Tromholt finds that the relative frequency 
of auroras which occur in the zenith or to the north of the observer has 
an annual period showing two minima at the equinoxes and a maximum 
at the winter solstice. 

12. In every month he finds that the morning auroras are more fre- 
quent in the zenith and the north than in the south, and that the re- 
verse holds good for the evening auroras. 

13. As regards the auroras in the daytime, his figures confirm Wey- 
precht's conclusion that, in the neighborhood of the autumn equinox, 
the auroral zone stretches toward the south and then turns toward the 
north to reach its northernmost position at the winter solstice, it then 
returns southward and aasits southernmost position at the spring equi- 
nox. 

14. In the course of twentv-four hours the auroral zone moves north- 



372 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

ward during the night and southward during the day. This explains 
at once the daily period which is especially marked in middle latitudes 
where Ihe maximum frequency of auroras occurs some hours before 
midnight. 

15. At the time of the aurora maximum the frequency at Godthaab 
exceeds not only the absolute but also the relative frequency for the 
zenith for this locality, or others more to the north of it; a similar 
statement is true for the time of minimum. Therefore, in the course of 
the eleven-year period, there is a periodic movement of the auroral zone 
which lies further north during the sun-spot minimum than during the 
maximum. 

10. We see thus that a perfect harmony exists between the eleven- 
yeiir perioil and the annual and diurnal periodicity, so that these three 
periods have one and the same cause, namely, the oscillation of the 
auroral zone. 

17. Considering each of Kleinschmidt's seven types separately, Trom- 
holt finds that during the auroral maximum not only the frequency, 
extent, and intensity, but also the variety of kinds surpasses those 
of the minimum. 

18. Between the periodicity of the cirrus clouds and that of the 
a-arora a connection exists, such that these phenomena have their max- 
ima and minima almost at the same time. 

Tromholt concludes that we are not able to establish a satisfactory 
theory as to the nature and cause of the aurora, but that it is not a 
cosmic i)heuomenon is shown by the want of agreement in the auroral 
periods lor the whole earth. For the i)resent, therefore, observations 
are of the first importance. lie has organized a network of observers 
for tScandinavia, Finland, Denmark, England, and Iceland, and has 
already shown that over so small a region as jS^orway no day passes 
without an aurora at one or more points. {Z. 0. G. j1/., xviii, \>. 3UG.) 

S63. Prof. S. Lemstroni, of Uelsingfors, gives the results of his own 
observations on artificial auroras at Oratunturi and Sodankyla and Pie- 
tarintunturi. {Nature, xxviii, p. GO.) 

364. Prof. S. Tromholt communicates a general account of his liitest 
researches, during 1882 and 1883, into the aurora and its phenomena in 
Northern Finniark, where the aurora is seen almost every night in nu- 
merous forms and frequently very low down, although his own estimate 
of its height is 150 kilometers. {Nature, xxvii, p. 391.) 

365. After concluding his special observations in Kautokeino, Nor- 
way, Tromholt took up his residenceiuEedykjavik, Iceland, in October, 
1883, and communicates to Nature some of the results of his work dur- 
ing the winter 1883-'8-L He has never as yet seen any auroral light de- 
scend to the low level of the mountain top of Esja, namely, about 2,500 
feet. The weather, however, has been very unfavorable, and he has made 
but 40 observatiops on 83 thoroughly clear evenings ; apparently Ice- 



METEOROLOGY. 373 

land lies, at least for this year, south of the position of the maximum 
zone. [Nature, xxix, pp. 226, 343, 409, and 537.) 

366. On page 80, vol. xxx, of Nature, Tromholt states that a few- 
lovely days have enabled him to set up his artificial-aurora apparatus 
on the summit of Esja, but without as yet any optical results. 

367. In the autumn of 1884, Prof. Tromholt returned to Bergen where 
he will work on the great catalogue of auroras observed in ISTorthern 
Euro])p, which with other works is being prosecuted at the expense of 
the Norwegian government. {Nature, xxx, p. 592.) 

XL — (a) Eefraction and mikage : (/>) Scintillation ; (c) Spec- 
troscopy AND PhOTOSPECTROSCOPY ; PHOSPHORESCENCE, ETC. 

{d) Halos; Eainbows; (e) Photometry; Colorometry; Twi- 
light, ETC. 

368. T. von Oppolzer, of Vienna, at a meeting of welcome in honor 
of the session of the International Polar Commission April 21, 1884, de- 
livered an address ui)on the connection between atmospheric refraction 
and the distribution of temperature thronghout the air. After explain- 
ing his formula for refraction, based on the assnmption that the change 
of temperature with altitude is proportioned to the change of density of 
the air, and having shown that this empirical assumption agrees with 
the observations at least for the lowest 10 kilometers, he says that it 
may now be aslced whether the observed atmospheric refraction jnay 
not give some clue to the actual temperatures at great heights in the 
air where direct observations can never hope to reach. This, however, 
he answers in the negative, but, in regard to the lower .strptii, it is en- 
tirely possible for meteorology to derive assistance from astronomical 
observations, though the latter will undoubtedly receive much more 
assistance from the former. This essay is printed as an a]ipendix to 
the Zeitschrift of the Austrian xissociation for May, 1884. {Z. 0. G. 
M., XIX, p. 265.) 

369. P. G. Tait gives a thorough elucidation of the atmospheric con- 
dition necessary to produce forms of mirage. This is in continuation of 
his former paper on mirage, and as an example of an ai)plication of 
Hamilton's general method in optics, which is being published by the 
Koyal Society of Edinburgh. {Nature, xxviii, p. 84.) 

370. C. Montigny has for some time observed the colors of the stars 
by means of a scintillometer, and among other things has discovered 
that the bine color ]ire vails remarkably when rain api)roaches, and 
this phenomenon can therefore be used for the prediction of rain. In 
June, 1883, having observed that the blue color had been absent for three 
months, and that the green was becoming more ])rominent, Montigny ven- 
tured the i)rediction that the (piantity of water in the upper strata of 
air had become diminished, and that during the year 1883 fewer long 
rains would occur. This prediction having been well fulfilled, Montigny, 
in April, 1884, made the same observations and renewed the same pre- 



374 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

diction for this year; iu fact, he had observed that the blue was even 
less prominent than in 1883, that the green was more prominent, and 
that even violet occasionally occurred. Montigny suggests that the 
blue tint in the scintilhition is due to the water in the atmosphere, which 
is known to have a bluish tint when viewed by ordinary sunlight. 
[Z. 0. G. M., XIX, p. 534.) 

371. L. Tljollon contributes to the Bulletin Astronomique an elabo- 
rate study into the structure and origin of the lines forming the group 
B of the sohir spectrum, which paper is handsomelj^ reproduced in iWt- 
ture, XXX, Y). 520. This region was c.irefully worked over by Piazzi 
Smyth, and Laugley ; but Thollon has now revised his own previous 
work, and the elegant map given by him shows at a glance, first, the 
metallic Hues ; second, those produced by atmospheric vapors — probably 
the aqueous vapors; third, those produced by atmospheric gases — oxy- 
gen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, and any others that do not materially vary 
in quantity, leaving finally non-telluric lines, twenty-fi\^ in all, or sev- 
enteen if we count double and triple lines as one. The lines due to at- 
mospheric gases constitute a system of twelve pairs, and the whole 
group is distinguished by its regular symmetry. Under such a scru- 
tiny as this there seems no doubt that certain lines are also a perfect in- 
dication of the hygrometric state of the air. In 1882 Professor Egoroff, 
of Warsaw, joined Thollon in his investigations at Paris, where they 
exannued the spectrum of a beam of electric light 10 kilometers long, 
and which gave a perfect reproduction of the telluric rays ; afterwards, by 
condensing oxygen in a short tube, the gaseous rays were obtained for the 
groups A and B, and probably a greaterquantity of oxygen would have 
given the feebler group Alpha; so that these three groups, A, B, and 
Alpha, originate in the absorption of atmospheric oxygen. That the spec- 
trum of absorption for cold oxygen should d ifier so much from the spec- 
trum of emission for incandescent oxygen is, he thinks, attributable to 
the influence of heat. Thollon is at present engaged in the further 
search for lines or groups due to the presence of nitrogen or carbonic 
oxide. Hitherto, apart from the oxygen, or A, B, and Alpha groups, 
he has discovered no lines that may be confidently attributed to the 
coustant gaseous portions of the atmosphere. {Nature, xxx, i). 520.) 

372. Ct. Pizzighelli publishes, through Dr. E. Horuig, a work on Acti- 
nometry, or the photometry of the chemically active radiations. The 
author is a most expert photographer, and has here compiled an almost 
exhaustive account of modern apparatus and methods for measuring the 
intensity of light by photographic and chemical methods. He gives a 
special chapter to the meteorological applications of actinometry, espe- 
cially the results of the studies of Pernter, published in 1882. {D. 21. Z., 
I, p.'420.) 

373. Captain Abney, as the result of photographing the ultra-red 
portion of the solar spectrum iu very various atmospheric conditions, 
found that iu very dry weather the photographs show only absorption 



METEOROLOGY. 375 

Hues, but iu very moist weather tlieysbow strong absoptiou bauds, wliicli 
are more uumerons ami darker as the relative humidity of the air is 
greater. These demonstrate that this absorption is not due to the true 
aqueous vapor iu the air, but to water in a fluid condition, namely, mi- 
nute fog or cloud particles. He also concludes that it is certainl_y 
water in this fluid condition that causes the deep blue of the sky, since 
no other ground can be imagined why the color should be a deeper blue 
in moister weather; this view is also confirmed by the fact that in as- 
cending high mountains the tint changes from a dark to a black blue. 
{Z. 0. G. il/., XVIII, p. 276.) 

374. Captain Abney and Colonel Festing have presented a valuable 
paper on the influence of waiter in the atmosphere on the solar spec- 
trum. They both recognize the fact that the spectrum extends to the 
lower limit established by Langley; they then investigate the radiation 
from the positive pole of the electric arc, and introduce absorbing layers 
of water. These so modify the original curve of distribution of heat 
in the spectrum that even the introduction of an absorbing layer of 
water 1^ of inch thick reduces it to similarity with the curve given by 
sunlight, whence they conclude that the greater part of the absorption 
in the red and ultra red portions of the solar spectrum is due to the 
presence of water. As opposed to Langley's opinion that the maximum 
intensity of the solar spectrum outside of the earth's atmosphere lies 
nearer the blue, their own observations give an extra-atmospheric curve 
having a second maximum in the ultra-red. This they explain as due to 
the superposition of radiations belonging to a low temi)erature upon 
radiations from bodies with a high temperature, the foruier being the 
prevalent. By examples they show that the su[)erpositioii of such 
curves from different sources of heat wnll give such a result. Assuming 
witli Dewar that the areas of these radiation curves are proportional to 
the temperatures of the radiating bodies, they find the temperature of 
the sun's surface to be between 10,000 and 12,000 degrees. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIX, 430, and JS^ature, xxviii, p. 45.) 

375. H. Becquerel has studied the same question by means of the 
phenomena of phosphorescence. He has investigated under diflerent 
atmospheric conditions the ultra-red part of the siiectrum, and, like 
Captain Abney, found that the absorption lines increase with the rela- 
tive humidity. He also found that the absorption bands of layers of 
fluid water agreed for various thicknesses of water with the above lines 
for correspondiiig relative humidities. {Z. 0. G. il/., xviii, p. 277.) 

376. Cornu proposes to determine the absorption of the solar rays by 
observing the intensity of well determined atmospheric lines in the 
solar spectrum, w hich he accomplishes b^' comparing them with the 
constant lines that certainly owe their existence to the absorption in the 
solar atmosphere. This is an extension of tlie })roposition to observe 
the rain band so earnestly advocated by Piazzi Smyth. Cornu chooses 

' that portion of the spectrum between the wave length 587.40 and G{)2.90, 



376 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

and assigns to the various groups of atmospheric lines corresponding 
metallic lines for comparison. {Z. 0. G. M., xviii, p. 239.) 

377. Dr. H. Klein, in reference to the use of the spectroscope, or the 
observation of the so-called rain band, states that his own observations 
confirm those of Smyth, Capron, and others to the effect that a promi- 
nent rain band is regularly followed in a short time by precipitation. 
However, the frequent exceptions to this rule renders the spectroscope 
alone very unreliable; this is to be attributed to the fact that the spec- 
troscope makes no distinction between the moisture near by and that at a 
great distance. When from his observatory Klein examines tbe horizon 
at an altitude of 20°, he finds the vapor lines on the east, southeast, and 
noitheast notably darker and more prominent than in any other direc- 
tion; this be attributes to the fact that a few thousand feet distant on 
the east flows the broad Ehine; but he states that this increase of the 
vapor line does not always occur, and at certain times the influence of 
the Ehine is not to be noticed; he has as yet found no explanation for 
these exceptional cases. The application of the spectroscope to the 
prediction of rain is, he thinks, jiroblematic, except in the case of heavy 
thunder storms for which it frequently gives good indications. Upton's 
comparison showed that G9 per cent, of rain predictions were verified 
within twenty-four hours when based entirely upon the intensity of the 
rain band, but 84 per cent, were verified when other meteorological con- 
ditions were taken into account. The spectroscope has been used at 
the Wetterwarte of the Cologne Zeitung with satisfactory results in 
summer. {Z. 0. G. i¥., xix, p. 531.) 

378. Mr. W. Ackroyd has read before the Physical Society of London 
a mathematical investigation of the rainbows produced by light before 
entering the rain drops. {Nature^ xxvii, p. 133.) 

379. The observation of coronas and fogbows, made at the summit of 
Ben Nevis, promises to give us valuable information in regard to the size 
and shape of the particles composing the clouds ; thus, October 4, 1884, 
strong double corona surrounded the moon; outer diameter of the red 
circle was for the outer corona 7° 46', and for the inner corona 4° 52'. 
When clouds came between the moon and observer three such rings 
were seen, the measurements of which gave for the inner ring 4° 6', 
middle 0° 2', outer 8° 10', the probable error in each ring being about 
8'. A colorless pair of fogbows visible on a distant fog bank gave 
diameters of 75'^ for the outer ring, 65° for the inner and fainter ring; 
the space between the ring appeared quite dark and no color could be 
distinguished. {Nature, xxx, p. 613.) 

380. Professor von Bezold, in the publications of the International 
Polar Commission, described the normal phenomena of twilight as fol- 
lows : 

1. A bright segment appears on that side of the sky below whose 
horizon the sun is found ; this is limited at the top by a special bright 



METEOROLOGY. 377 

zone, above which the ordinary blue or purple skj is visible, while be- 
low we have yellow, theu orange, and on the horizon brownish red. 

2. Opi)Osite to the above is a dark segment which is simply the ashy- 
tinted shadow of the earth, and which is sharply distinguished from 
the remaining portion of the heavens. 

3. A circular region of considerable diameter of a rosy-red that is 
generally described as the purple light; this develops above the bright 
segment a long time before sunrise or after sunset, so that the lower 
part of this region seems to be hidden behind the bright segment. 
The center of this region sinks rapidly after sunset, while at the same 
time its radius increases so that finally the limit of the borders of the 
purple region unites with that of the bright segment, the impression 
being as if the i^urple light slipped in behind the bright segment. The 
purple light plays the part of a very much magnified, very much diluted, 
image of the sun ; at the time of its greatest development the general 
brightness is increased so that objects on the earth's surface that were 
invisible soon after sunset become again visible. The maximum of this 
second illumination occurs in the Ali)S when the sun is four or five de- 
grees below the horizon, at which time the center of the purple light 
is about 18° above the horizon, while its highest point reaches up to 40° 
or 50O. 

As soon as the purple light has completely disappeared behind the 
bright segment there appears a second dark segment on the opposite 
side of the sky. Soon there further develops a second bright segment 
above the slowly sinking first one, and only with difficulty distinguished 
therefrom ; with very clear skies one can later occasicinally also observe 
a second purple light, and therewith a temporary increase of bright- 
ness, so that a third illumination of objects favorably located can be ob- 
served. [It would seem that the occurrence of two separate periods of 
the red or rosy or purple tint, as was observed in the winter of 1883-84 
at many places throughout the world, is therefore simply an unusual de- 
velopment of an ordinary phenomenon. The twilight phenomena of 
1883-84 have been specially due to the remarkable development of the 
second purple light, which has frequently surpassed the first purple 
light.] (I>. M. Z., I, p. 32.) 

381. Dr. G. Hellmann contributes some observations on t\^^light made 
by himself in Spain, 1875 to 1877, and follows this by a comparison with 
Ijrevious authorities, from allot which he deduces the following results: 

1. The depression of the sun under the horizon at the end of the as- 
tronomical twilight is not, as has been generally assumed, constant at 
about 18 degrees. 

2. The dei)ression showi a decided annual period, a maximum in win- 
ter and minimum in summer. 

3. The depression IS greater in the morning than in the evening. 

4. It shows an intimate connection with the relative humidity of the 



oT8 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

iiir, iucreasing and diminisbiug directly with it, so that the items 2 and 
3 are probably exjilicable thereby. 

5. It l'ollo\?s that this an<^le (whose auuual meau value for the even- 
ing twilight is in Athens 15'^.\), southern Spain 15<^.6, South Atlantic 
Ocean 15o.6) must be greater in high latitudes than in low, and on the 
ocean than in dry continental regions, but this conclusion needs further 
confirmation by other observations. 

G. Since the twilight depression of the sun is thus periodically vari- 
able it follows that the various solutions of the problem of the short- 
est twilight thus far offered are no longer sufficient. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, 
p. 57.) 

382. Dr. G. Hellmann, in a second communication on the twilight 
phenomena, analyses numerous observations from all parts of the world 
and formulates the following conclusions relative to the difference be- 
tween this phenomenon in southern Spain and in Germany. 

1. The phases of the phenomenon are better developed in Spain than 
in Germany, the chronological order is more determined, the strata of 
different colors are easier to distinguish from each other, the limit of 
the bright segment against the dark sky is verj^ sharp. 

2. In Germany the extension of the colors in time and space are 
greater than' in Spain, except for the anti-twilight. 

3. In reference to the colors, green was almost regularly observed in 
all its shades in Spain but rarely in Germany. 

4. The red colors of the twilight in Spain had in Germany very fre- 
quently a decidedly flesh color and purple tint. 

5. Violent colors in Germany were more decided than in Spain. 

6. In Sjiain there was a greater contrast between the twilight phe- 
nomenon of the summer and winter (the dry and rainy jjeriods) than in 
Germany. 

The above conclusions, and in fact this whole essay, were completed 
before the appearance of the remarkable skj' colors of lS83-'84, and in 
reference to these Hellman states in a note that, although he has fol- 
lowed it closely and collected numerous reports from others, yet he will 
not at j)resent attempt any analysis or explanation. He however notes 
the great ignorance of observers generally as to what constitutes the 
ordinary jfud typical phenomena of the twilight, and at present his own 
feeling is that the real peculiarity of the phenomena of 1883-84 con- 
sisted in their universality, the length of duration, the intensity and 
variety of colors. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 102.) 

383. Professor Kiessliug, of Hamburg, has reproduced the experi- 
ments of Coulier, Mascart, and Aitken on the effect of dust in the atmos- 
phere. He says that if we understand the word dust to refer to the 
total of all foreign substances in the atmosphere, iucludiug coarse and 
fine i)articles of dust, microscopic or organic forms, the products of pu- 
trefa(;tion and oxidation, even when they are entirely gaseous, a,s, for 
iustauce, the expirations of human beings and animals, there will be 



METEOROLOGY. 370 

found a definite very small quantity of dust M'hich is especially favora- 
ble for the development of color by the process of diffraction, and this 
can therefore be specified as the dust favorable to optical phenomena. 

2. The absolute maximum of color due to diffraction is in moist air 
conditional upon the simultaneous occurrence of this optical dust with 
the maximum relative humidity of the air stratum in which it is con- 
tained. 

3. The twilight colors depend principally upon diffraction in moist 
air. (Z). Jf. ^., I, p.34.) 

384. Professor Kiessling, of Hamburg-, has collected together the ob. 
servations of others and compared them with his own observations on 
the influence of artificial fog on direct snidight, and the consequent ex- 
planation of the twilight i)henomena. lie uses a glass vessel with sev- 
eral apertures in connection with a Sprengel or water air pump ; within 
this vessel he forms fogs of varying degrees of intensity, and examines 
the dillVaction phenonjeiia when a beam of sunlight falls upon the fog 
from the heliostat. besides the fog fj om aqueous vapor, he also utilizes 
the sulphate of ammonia, phosi)b()ric acid, gunpowder, and other sub- 
stances i)rodncing very dens-^ smoke oi- fog ; lor instance, with sulphate 
of ammonia a very dense smoke is ])rodaced consisting of exceedingly 
small hard particles of this salt; after twenty or thirty minutes of set- 
tling a thick white dust covers the base and sides of the vessel. The 
sun, seen through the cloud, does not blind the eye, but shows a re- 
markable change of colors. At the first moment of its formation the 
sun appears of a brilliant dark copper color, but changes its color 
rapidly, first to a violet tint and then through dark carmine red into a 
brilliant azure blue. This change of colors occupies in dry air about 
two minutes, but in moist air scarcely twenty seconds; similar phenom- 
ena take place with other heavy vapors. If the lighL is allowed to fall 
upon a white screen it is seen to be at first of a copper-brown, which 
afterward becomes blue. If in place of these chemical dust-clouds we 
allow a stream of aqueous vapor to escape from a steam boiler, the cloud 
of fog shows an intense blue as soon as the above beam of blue solar 
light falls ui)on it ; if the stream of vapor is, however, properly man- 
aged, it can be made to exhibit in itself all the changes from brownish 
red to blue, which, however, very rapidly disappear on account of the 
dissipation of the cloud. In order to accomplish this best the stream of 
steam must be horizontal and mixed with a feeble current of very cold 
air drawn over ice. It has not yet been possible to Kiessliug to experi- 
mentally reproduce the green colors of the sun. 

If the vessel within which the diifraction ])heuomena are produced is 
full of moist, perfectly filtered air, entirely free from dust, then a fog can 
be produced by simply lowering the temperature, which is, however, 
only visible in direct sunlight. This fog consists of very small, scat- 
tered, rapidly moving particles of vapor, which, however, in transmitted 
light show not the slightest trace of colored diffraction rings, evidently 



380 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

because there are too few of them. This fog renders it very doublftil 
if thelawannouuccd by Aitken in 1879 can be tJ^ue, according to which 
aqueous vapor will not condense from the air without having s solid 
nucleus of dust particles on which to accumulate. If into the vessel 
full of filtered air a small stream of steam enters, then the first cloud 
formation of fine fog soon disappears, but after a few minutes large 
scattered raiu drops strike on the surface of the inclosure, and form a 
rain without fog or cloud. But if we allow a very small quantity of 
dusty air to enter the vessel, then immediately fine fog is ibrmed along 
side of the larger rain drops. If the beam of sunlight falls upon this 
mixture of rain and fog, then a yellow halo with reddish brown borders 
is formed of the same color and magnitude as with ordinary lunar 
halos. If now by lowering the pressure we produce a sudden fall in 
temperature, there is formed a system of larger fog particles and a cor- 
resi^onding system of larger diffraction rings without changing those 
already formed. In order to realize a fine mist or fog or haze of i>$irticles 
having a very uniform size we must evidently have the maximum quan- 
tity of moisture in the vessel, or the most favorable mist and the most 
perfect saturation. This is best attained by introducing quite warm 
moist air and lowering the temperature rather slowly. In this way we 
obtain a very intense development of color, and the amplitude of the dif- 
fraction circle varies between 10° and 30"^ depending upon the size of the 
particles while the intensity of the color depends upon the uniformity of 
their size. By farther diminution of pressure and consequent cooling 
and increase in the size of the particles remarkable changes in color take 
place ; the variations in the colors depend in a very sensitive way upon 
the degree of saturation and the rapidity of cooling. In this way Kiess- 
ling has been able to re-produce so large a number of the appearances 
observed in nature that there can scarcely be any doubt but that the 
diffraction due to particles of aqueous vapor will be found to explain 
nearly all our sky colors. (D. M. Z., i, p. 117.) 

385. Dr. von Danckelman has published an extensive memoir col- 
lating the meteorological observations made on the coast .of southwest 
Africa, and especially at Vivi on the Lower Congo. A summary of his 
results with regard to the cloudiness is given by him in D. M. Z.^ i, p. 
301. 

Von Danckelman calls attention to the fact that the great forest and 
prairie fires of the Congo in central Africa throw up into the atmos- 
phere such an enormous amount of fine dust, that we have here a source 
of production of fine particles that annually throws great quantities 
into our atmosijhere — quite as much or vastly more than could have come 
from the Krakatoa eruption. [D. M. Z., i, p. 311.) 

386. [The corresponding i)rairie aud forest fires in America, giving 
rise to our Indian summer haze, have long been known to produce a 
copper-red tint in the sky and over the solar disk. This haze however 
has rarely been known to spread fai: eastward over the Atlantic, aud 



METEOROLOGY. 381 

certainly never around the world, and to all latitudes from GO north to 
40 south ; neither does it ever give rise to anything like the brilliant 
purple twilight. The great cloid of smoke due to the forest fires of 1871 
(not to the Chicago tire as erroneously assumed) was observed by navi- 
gators in the mid Atlantic. The haze is in fact composed of minute 
particles of carbon, each of which, as is well known, has the property of 
condensing upon itself a small atmosphere of other gases, including 
aqueous vapor. This qnasi-chemical action seems to hold the vapor in 
an invisible state at a lower temperature than would have been the case 
were no particles there; it hinders condensation so that rain and cloud 
are lessened during the prevalence of this smoke. When however rain 
does form, it falls with unusual severity. It is, we think, likely that to 
this property of carbon or to the special radiating and cooling proper- 
ties of fine solid i)articles that we must attribute the phenomena dis- 
cussed b}' Aitken, as there can be no doubt that aqueous vapor will con- 
dense into fog particles and larger drops even in an atmosphere free 
from fog and solid particles.] 

387. [The remarkable red sunsets and sunrises of October to Decem- 
ber, 1883, have formed the subject of innumerable contributions both 
from an observational and theoretical standpoint. Exhaustive investi- 
gations are promised by committees of societies, especially the Royal So- 
ciety, which have undertaken to collect all the data relative to these 
important phenomena. The hypothesis that these were due to the 
gradual si)read over the northern hemisphere of dust ejected from the 
tremendous eruption of Krakatoa, started by Bishop, September 5, 1883, 
and Lockyer, October, 1883, was first modified into the assumption that 
moisture as well as, or even instead of, dust was more plausible ; the 
possibility being granted that the vapor exists in the form of minutest 
spiculai of ice or of minute spheres. Subsequently it became a query 
whether circumstances favorable to the dissemination of ice spiculie or 
vapor in the higher regions might not have existed independent of the 
Krakatoa eruption ; this view was then strengthened by the discovery 
that similar twilight phenomena had been observed some time before 
the Krakatoa eruption, while on the other hand it was also shown 
that several volcanic eruptions in past years had been followed by 
similar sky colors. The renewal of the phenomena in 1884 made it 
highly i)robable that we have to seek the cause of these colors in some- 
thing outside of the earth's atmosphere ; during a whole year the sun 
liad been surrounded by a large irregular cloud of haze, extending 20 
to 40 degrees from its center in all directions. This haze was decidedly 
streaky or sti^ated, and occasionally showed a pinkish tint. At })resent 
the most plausible hypothesis seems to be that the earth in the autumn 
of 1883, and again of 1884, passed through a stream of gaseous or va- 
porous meteoric matter, which temporarily combined with the earth's 
atmosphere, while the great mass passed on to the sun, and has accu- 
mulated as a nebulous cloud about that body. The color phenomena, 



o82 ' SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

as seen in our atmosphere, are most plausibly due to selective absorp- 
tion and reflection from minute solid particles, wliose size is comparable 
with the dimensions of the wave length of light. That these should 
exercise also a selective influence upon the ultra-red rays, such as 
would be detected by Langley's bolometer, seems highly probable. It 
is therefore possible that the general distribution of heat over the earth's 
surftice may have been slightly affected by the novel addition to our 
atmosphere, and especially may have had some influence upon the for- 
mation of rain and snow ; but these influences must have been quite fee- 
ble, and have not yet been demonstt ated from observat ions. Ou several 
occasions during the past century i!io earth has passed near enough to 
comets or their tails to awaken inquiry as to the possible result of actual 
contact; in fact, in tlie summer of 1<S70, ihe earth may possibly have 
encountered the tail of the comet then visible, as several observers re- 
ported the appearance of pinkish and ashen tints in the sky. It would 
not be surprising if we should sometime be able to show that these sky 
and sunset phenomena, as well as the aurora, and possibly other mat- 
ters, such as Wilkes's red fog, may be due to the encounter of cosmic 
meteoric matter by the earth in its annual orbir.] 

388. Dr. Xeumayer publishes a large collection of data relative to 
the twilight and other phenomena, in a series of pai)ers extending 
through the first volume of the Journal of the German Meteorological 
Society. 

389. Prof. H. Krone, of Dresden, communicated through Dr. Nen- 
mayer his observations and conclusions as to the nature of the twi- 
light phenomena. 

1. A fine haze that cannot be called a fog and that does not diminish 
the brightness of the sunshine must be the origin, and has been i^res- 
ent ever since the last of August. 

2. The twilight colors were tested by the use of a number of. colored 
glasses, which showed that the orange was absorbed by the blue, while 
the red was not ; the red region agreed with the ring observed by Falb. 
This ring he considers due, not to diflraction, but that it is the red re- 
gion of the rays of less refrangibility, like the reddish, yellow and red 
caused by the ordinary refraction at sunrise or sunset, and due to the 
air and its vapor. 

3. A variation appeared on the evening of January 2, shortly after 
the outburst of the orange, as an intense rosy red bundle of rays, 
which in a few minutes extended from the sun, then under the horizon, 
in all directions through the red region nearly up to the zenith, and 
sideways for 70<3 in the horizon either side of the sun. Similar i)he- 
nomena were seen by Krone during his journey to India in 1875, and 
both appearances then and now indicated that the sun's rays were 
passing between clouds in our atmosphere beyond the horizon and 
through a stratum of air containing more aqueous vapor, which com- 
municated to them a rosy red tint. 



METEOROLOGY. o 8 3 

4. It is not to be deniocl that the phenomena in general are due lo 
the refraction of the sun's rays in the aqueous vapor of the atmosphere; 
but in order to explain the superposition of color we must also con- 
sider the reflection of colored rays fiom ex(;eediugly small bodies at an 
extraordinary height in the atmosphere. This does not constitute inter- 
ference phenomena. [It has been called, very appropriately, selective 
reflection.] 

5. The ordinary twilight is, to a certain extent, such a phenomenon 
of reflection ; the astronomical twilight disappears at the horizon when 
the sun is about 18^ below that plane from which we compute the alti- 
tude of the layer of haze producing it ; but if the duration of twilight 
increases we must conclude that the layer of haze is proportionately 
higher. Krone's observ^ations, however, in December, 1883, and Janu- 
ary, 1884, seem to show that occasionally the twilight did not disappear 
through the whole night, but that a reddish tint was visible in the hori- 
zon aud even half way to the zenith. That this reflecting material can 
possibly be the finest dust from the volcanic eruption at Krakatoa, is, he 
thinks, entirely improbable ; neither can it be due to the presence of ice 
spiculie, but it must be minute particles of water. Owing to the low 
temperature in the upper regions, this water can only be frozen, but we 
know nothing as yet as to the form of the particles of such very cold 
aqueous vapor. (Z>. iM. Z., i, p. 277.) 

390. [The examination of certain thin hazy clouds that covered Paris 
during January, 1882, was made by Fonvielle, who rose up into them in 
his balloon, aud found that they were formed of the minutest sj^heres of 
water frozen at a temperature many degrees below freezing; the forma- 
tion of the cloud was apparently due to radiation, as it stayed in the same 
locality for several weeks. The atoms of water were quiescent, but if 
set in motion among themselves crystallized into minute spiculiie. Dufour 
has shown that minute drops may be cooled to — 20° 0., so long as the 
surface tension is kept large without crystallizing or even sobMifying; it 
is therefore plausible that the twilight phenomena of 1883-'84 were due 
to selective reflection and diffraction by aqueous spherules of the finest 
size, such as must always exist to a greater or less extent in the upper 
atmosphere. If the particles, whether dust or vapor, were electrified 
before or while being carried up to the height of several miles, they 
would in the thin air of that region not only be carried along by its 
currents, but by their own mutual repulsion would tend to rise still 
higher, forming an appendage to the earth, and reminding one of the 
ascent of an envelope from the surface of the nucleus of a comet, where 
the particles are distinctly seen to ascend on the hot side toward the 
sun and then by mutual repulsion, as shown by Gr. P. Bond aud other 
astronomers, flow away from the sun.] 

391. Among the principal items relating to the sunsets aud Kra- 
katoa, we may mention the following : 

Lockyer's theory of the volcanic dust. {Nature, xxix, pp. 148-174.) 



384 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Clement Ley's theory that the sunsets are due to ice spiculse. {Na- 
tvre, XXIX, p. 175.) 

Mr. Bishop, of Honolulu, made the observations of the sunset colors 
on September 5, 1883, and immediately suggested that they were due 
to clouds of dust from Krakatoa which had come around westward 
three-fourths the circumference of the earth. (Nature, xxix, p. 171.) 

A number of interesting items were published at the May meeting of 
the Mauritius Meteorological Society. {Nature, vol. xxx, p. 279.) 

An excellent map of the Krakatoa region is given in Nature, xxix, 
p. 228. 

The Royal Society has appointed a special committee, of which Mr. 
G. J. Symons, of Loudon, is the chairman, to collect data. 

The report of the French mission sent to Krakatoa in June, 1884, is 
briefly summarized at Nature, vol. xxx, p. 372; the report of Mous. R. 
D. M. Verbeek is translated in full in vol. xxx, p. 10. 

392. .Mr. S. E. Bishop, of Honolulu, from observations at Strong's 
Island, latitude 5"^ X. and longitude 102^ E., fixes September 7 at that 
place, or Se])tember G of London reckoning, as the date when the cop- 
pery sunset became visible, which, with some other data, gives him the 
conclusion that this stream of smoke was progressing westward at the 
rate of 01 miles per hour. J. Joly, of Dublin, from observations by 
Captain Thomson, of the Medea, computes 17 and 21 miles as the 
height of the column of dust seen to shoot up from Krakatoa on Au- 
gust 20. [Nature, xxx, pp. 23 and 72.) 

393. Rev. Samuel Haughton gives a computation of the depression 
of the sun and the height of the dust, and argues the incredibility of 
certain phenomena, especially Mr. Bishop's results. {Nature, xxix, p. 
470.) 

394. A. Ringwood read before the Canterbury Philosophical Insti- 
tute of New Zealand a paper on red sunsets, giving an interesting sum- 
mary of previous records. {Nature, xxx, p. 301.) 

395. A i)revious eruption of Krakatoa had occurred in May, 1883; 
but from a letter from Robert Leslie it appears that the remarkable 
sunsets were observed still earlier by Mr. Neisou at the iS'atal Observ- 
atory, where they increased in intensity from Februar}- to June, 1883. 
{Nature, xxx, p. 463.) But the descri[)tions of the phenomena are not 
such as to assure us that the twilight phenomena at Natal were at all 
equivalent to those seen later in the year in northern latitudes. 

398. Tissaudier communicates to the Paris Academy a comparison 
between the atmospheric conditions of 1831 and 1883. The eruptions 
at Sicily in the former year were analogous to those of Krakatoa, and 
were followed by corresponding optical phenomena. {Nature, xxix, j) 
376.) 

397. M. Gay, on June 23, read a paper to the Paris Academy on i^er- 
sisteut rain and its possible connection with recent volcanic eruptious. 



METEOROLOGY. 385 

He gives a comparison with the eruptions of May, 1783, in Iceland ; 
July, 1831, in Sicily; Cotopaxi, in 185G; Vesuvius, 1862, and Kraka- 
toa, 1883. In all of these cases similar twilight colors have been fol- 
lowed by heavy rains. {Nature^ xxx, p. 229.) 

398. Mr. J. Murray communicates to the Eoyal Society, Edinburgh, 
an extensive paper on volcanic ashes and cosmic dust, showing, among 
other things, that in proportion as ashes are collected at a greater dis- 
tance from a volcano, so are they less rich in minerals, while the pro- 
portion of vitreous matter more and more predominates. {Naturey 
XXTX, p. 585.) 

399. [In 1884 the twilightphenomena of 1883 were renewed, beginning 
in England about September 10, and Berlin, September 13, Vancouver's 
Island, September 30, while the records in England for 1883 were about 
September 20. The maximum brightness in 1883 was about the 20th 
of December, in 1884 it was later, but in general was decidedly infe- 
rior and shorter than in 1883-'84.] 

400. M. Coruu maintains before the Paris Academy of Sciences 
that the white or reddish tinted cloud-like nebulous halo or corona 
that has permanently accompanied the sun during the whole of 1884, 
and of which he gives many observations, i^robably has some connec- 
tion with the Krakatoa eruption. That in fact a cloud of i)articles, 
with a nearly uniform average diameter, was projected by the volcano, 
and is held in suspension in the higher region of our atmosphere. 
(IVature, xxx, p. 55G.) 

401. This cloud has been observed in Dublin since November, 1883. 
[Nature, xxx, }). 663.) [It has also been observed in Washington since 
about that date, with a j^eculiar streaky appearance, visible before sunset, 
the lines being inclined to the west horizon, at an angle of about 30° 
slanting down toward the south. The pink or purple tint has been 
especially visible during the whole of any fair day. When the sun is 
behind a cloud, and the observer examines the tints by sky between 
the clouds, the purple is traceable for 30 to 40 degrees from the sun.] 

402. According to A. Griitzmacher, in Das Wetter for April, 1884, 
and Koppen, in the D. M. Z., this brownish red ring about the sun ap- 
pears to have first been observed in Europe at the end of November 
1883, and not to have existed earlier. It is essentially different from 
ordinary solar halos, and the material from which it comes must exist 
beyond the highest cirrus clouds. Its explanation as a diffraction 
phenomenon is undoubtedly correctly given by Kiessling. [D. M. Z., r, 
p. 250.) 

403. O. Jesse, of Steglitz, near Berlin, has endeavored to compute the 
altitude of the layer of dust or mist that has hypothetically caused the 
twilight phenomena of 1883-'84. After fully explaining his theoretical 
formula he applies it to observations made by himself on eight days at 
Steglitz, from which he concludes an altitude of 17 kilometers, The 

S. Mis. 33 25 



386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

individual determinations range from 12 to 18. These observationss 
properly refer to the upper limit of what von Bezold calls the first pur- 
ple light, and which Jesse has observed as being the limit of the earth's 
shadow. In an appendix Jesse adds to the preceding observations, 
which were taken between November 1863, and March 1884, a few 
taken in the latter part of March with better ai^paratus, and which give 
results varying between 7 and 12 kilometers, as though a decided dim- 
inution had taken place in the altitude of the dust, which was great- 
est in January, and least at the end of March. (D. M. Z., i, p. 127.) 

404. All the phenomena in connection with the green sun, as re- 
corded in India, have been collected by Prof. C. M. Smith, of Edin- 
burgh, from which he concludes that the green sun must be distin- 
guished from the remarkable sunsets of 1883-'84. His own view is 
that there is some definite evidence to show that the phenomenon is 
due to aqueous vapor, for it is not so uncommon as is generally sup- 
posed. {Nature^ xxx, p. 347.) 

405. The Krakatoa eruption has also given rise to an interesting 
series of studies into a so-called wave of pressure that seems to be 
traceable from that region outward throughout the whole globe. Gen- 
eral Strachey {Nature^ xxix, p. 181) seems to have first called attention 
to the fact that a series of remarkable barometric fluctuations recorded 
by self-registers in various parts of Europe harmonized with the hy- 
pothesis that a wave of atmospheric compression, starting from Kra- 
katoa and moving outward in all directions, after concentrating at the 
antipodes returned to Krakatoa, making a complete circuit of the earth 
in from thirty-four to thirty-seven hours ; after crossing at Krakatoa, 
this again made the circuit of the earth in a second period of thirty-six 
hours. Four such circumnavigations are claimed by some of those who 
have studied the subject; where self recording registers are not availa- 
ble, attempts have been made to utilize the automatic registers of press- 
ure kept in connection with the city gas-works. 

406. Eykatchefl", of St. Petersburg, from a study of all known data 
on the velocity of the Krakatoa atmospheric wave, fixes it at 327,9 
meters per second, corresponding to the velocity of sound at the tem- 
perature of — 10 C. , which temperature is attained at an altitude of 4,000 
meters in the atmosphere when the temperature at the earth's surface 
is -fl2 C, so that we may conclude that these great waves of pressure 
move with the velocity of sound. The amplitude of this wave for Euro- 
pean stations was 1.3 millimeters, but it was almost twice as great, 
namely 2.5, at the island of South Georgia. [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 431, 
and Mature, xxx, p. 135.) 

407. General J. T. Walker, of the India Geological Survey, gives the 
results of observations of the earthquake ocean wave. {Mature, xxix, 
p. 376.) 



METEOROLOGY. 387 

XII.— Miscellaneous rela^ ions, (a) Periodicity and sun-spots ; 
(b) Hypsometry; (c) Biology; Botany; {d) Glaciers, and 

CLIMATES OF GEOLOGICAL EPOCHS. 

408. A. Belikoff and M. Eykatschefif, from a study of the anemograph 
records at St. Petersburg-, conclude that although one year's record is 
scarcely sufficient to demonstrate the ebb and flow of the atmospheric 
tide, yet there are indications of a north and south movement during 
the lunar day having one maximum and one minimum, and an east and 
west movement having two maxima and minima, and therefore similar 
to the ocean tide. (Z>.i¥.Z., i, p. 373.) 

409. E. Leyst has investigated the possible influence of the moon 
upon the velocity of the wind as shown by the study of the St. Peters- 
burg records for 1878. He finds a slightly greater velocity for the lower 
culmination of the moon as compared with the upper culmination, and 
again a slightly greater velocity for the six hours after the upper cul- 
mination or the lower as compared with the six hours before ; he finds 
the influence of the moon on the velocity more regular and sometimes 
greater than that of the sun. [^N^othing is said as to the probable error 
of the mean values as used by him, and his results are certainly very 
anomalous.] [Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 142.) 

^ 410. Mr. B. Stewart and W. L. Carpenter communicate to the Royal 
Society a report on diurnal temperature ranges at Toronto and Kew, 
compared with apparent inequalities of short period in sun spot areas! 
They find that periods of 24 and i>G days in the sun-spot and tempera- 
ture coincide ; the solar maximum occurs eight or nine days after the 
Toronto maximum, and the Kew maximum seven days after the Toronto 
and one or two before the solar. [If the phenomena occur in the order 
Torouto-Kewsolar, then the causal connection seems very indefinite.] 
(Nature, xxx, p. 119.) 

411. Charles Chambers, of Bombay, has investigated the relation be- 
tween sun-spots and variations of the daily range of atmospheric tem- 
perature; he finds the maxima of variation in daily amplitude agreeing 
with the minima of sun-spots. By the same method he finds also vari- 
ations parallel with the phases of the moon. 

He has also compared the daily variations of magnetic declination 
with the sun-spots and the moon's phases, and finds an agreement be- 
tween them. He also finds a very large periodicity in declination coin- 
cident with the revolution of the planet Mercury about the Sun. In 
most cases the amplitude of the above i)arallel variations seems too 
small to be real, but in the case of Mercury the amplitude is quite 
large. {Z. 0. G. 31., xix, p. 226.) 

412. J. Lizuar states that while the variation of the declination of the 
magnetic needle with sun-spots has been recognized for some time, yet 
so far as he knows, the other magnetic elements have not been com- 
pared; he therefore compares the horizontal intensity, the vertical in- 



ggg SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

tensity, total intensity, and dip at St. Petersburg with the sun-spots 
and shows that all have a parallelism. {Z. 0. G. 3L, xix, p. 415.) 

413 Prof W. Porster has investigated the periodical changes in the 
azimuth and level of the fundamental bed of masonry established in the 
Berlin Observatory fortbe support of the meridian instruments. He 
concludes from the study of 42 years of observations as follows : 

1. Neither the permanent nor the periodical changes show any de- 
pendence on the water or moisture in the earth. 

2 Those movements that are certainly separated from small move 
ments in the instrument itself and are plainly to be considered as 
movements of the whole pier, go through a distinct annual and an 11- 
year period, and both have a thermal character. 

3. The thermal effect corresponds to a rise of temperature or solar 
radiation at the time of the sun-spot maxima. 

4 These observations have a general interest, and not purely local. 
Professor Porster shows that they depend not on local temperatures of 
the air but on the intensity of solar radiation of which the disturbance 
of the pier is a sort of summation. He has therefore lately sunk three 
thermometers into his pier in order to understand better its internal 

temperature. . ^ ^-u 4. 4^ r, -r a 

414 [If we couple Forster's investigation with that ot ur. a. b.. 
Gould into similar motions throughout the world, we should conclude 
that these changes take place not in the pier but in the ground on 
which the observatory stands; but this seems impossible m the case 
of Berlin, where the observatory is surrounded by trees and buildings. 
The fact that greater solar heat is radiated at times of sun-spot maxi- 
mum was clearly shown by the present writer's study of temperatures 
observed on the Hohenpeissenberg. {Amer, Jour. Sa., 1S69.)] 

415 A similar investigation on the movements of the pillars of thd 
observatory at Neuchatel, 1859 to 1881, has been made by Hirsch and 
Faye, showing the same periodical and irregular variations as at Ber- 
lin. (iVatwre, xxviii, p. 216.) 

416 Prof. Paul Reis has made an exhaustive study of the high ana 
low waters of the Rhine in connection with the question of a possible 
sun-Rpot periodicitv. With regard to the floods he finds maxima agree- 
ing with the principal maxima of sun-spots as given by Wolf's relative 
nirmbers, and concludes that there is very nearly a period of 110 years, 
which is twice Fritz's 55-year period, and ten times Wolf's sun-spot 
period, and which, therefore, would be 111 years. This conclusion 
based upon observations since 1705, is confirmed by the records of high 
waters running back as far as the year 14 B. C. He, of course, main- 
tains that the cause of the overflows is cosmic or extra-terrestrial. 
Dividing his high waters into four classes, he finds that the prediction 
of a high water of the first class can be made with greater certainty 
than a weather prediction. {Z. 0. G. M., xvm, p. 2G1.) 

417. Lieut, v. d. Groeben, of the Engineer Corps in Berlin, endeavors 



METEOROLOGY. 389 

to elucidate the connection between the sun- spots and rainfall by a 
study of the hydraulics and physics of tbe Mississippi Kiver, as giveu 
in the work of Humphreys and Abbot, together with more recent data, 
and offers the following conclusions : From the observed discharge of 
the Mississippi since 1819 there follows neither a confirmation nor a 
refutal of Meldrum's law, according to which there should be heavier 
rainfall at the time of the sun-spot maxima and slight rainfall at the 
time of the minima. On the other hand, from the magnitude and ir- 
regularity of the variations in the discharge compared with the period- 
ical influence which in favorable cases should have been expected 
according to Meldrum's law, we may safely conclude that in the Missis- 
sippi watershed influences of this regular form are completely obscured 
by the incomparably greater effect of apparently irregular variations 
of wind and weather. If, however, this is our result for the Mississippi 
in spite of the magnitude of the area represented by it and in spite of the 
relative simplicity in the form of the North Americancontinent, then it 
follows that a comiiensation of the disturbing influences by the accumu- 
lation of a larger number of observations from all parts of the earth is in 
general not probable and that it is therefore to be recommended that 
the further investigation of the subject be based not upon an empirical 
accumulation of observations but rather upon a more careful, intelligent 
selection. In'this selection the principal circumstances to be attended 
to are as follows: A constant direction of the wind through a whole 
year or at least during the greater part of the year; when possible, such 
a position of the area of observation that this wind shall be from the 
ocean ; the greatest imaginable simplicity of topographic contour. If 
from the observations that have so far been discussed we separate those 
that correspond to this point of view, then from them almost without 
exception can be deduced a confirmation of Meldrum's law. 

If we go still further and inquire into the possible reason of the paral- 
lelism between sun-spot frequency and precipitation, or, what is almost 
the same, between sun-spot activity and radiation of solar heat, it would 
then appear as if a comparison of sun-spot phenomena with the period- 
ical geyser eruptions would give not only a credible answer to this ques- 
tion, but also would be proper to give information on many other prob- 
lematic phenomena observed on the sun-spots. According to the results 
of these comparisons the sun spots are nothing else than the external 
evidences of the peculiar process of cooling on the sun, which goes on 
in such a way that hot masses periodically come from the interior to the 
surface, and in this way the loss of heat caused by radiation must from 
time to time be always renewed ; and in this way these comparisons ac- 
quire still another special interest, for they appear to present a solution 
of the problem of the conservation of solar energy that leaves nothing 
to be desired in the way of simplicity, of course with the important res- 
ervation that this conservation of energy can only be a temporary state 
of transition. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 1.) 



390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

418. Prof. William Ferrel has investigated the effect of uprising cur- 
rents upon the atmospheric pressure both in his original memoir of 1857 
and in his later enlargement of the same published as Meteorolog-Ical 
Eesearches by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. In the 
third part of these Eesearches he gives a hypsometric formula in which 
the terms dependingon the movements of the atmosphere are introduced, 
but, as he himself shows, these can only be appreciable in most extreme 
cases. In other respects, however, his formula also represents our latest 
knowledge on the subject of the attraction of the earth and the effect 
of atmospheric moisture. {Z. 0. O. M., xix, p. 466.) 

419. [The formula given by Upton in his method of reducing the ba- 
rometer to sea-level (Ann. Eep. Chief Signal Officer, 1882) introduces 
some new values of numerical coefficients which, if combined with the 
improvements made by Ferrel, give us a formula more iDainfulIy exact 
than that of Eiihlmann, but the practical value of these in ordinary hyp- 
sometry is, of course, limited by the accuracy with which we can ascer- 
tain the true average temperature of the air.] 

420. Paul Schreiber has published the second e'dition of his Hand- 
Book of Barometric Hypsometry. This work has been for some years 
by far the best general guide to those who wish to derive the best re- 
sults attainable by the use of the mercurial or aneroid barometer. The 
author neglects certain refinements relative to the effebt of aqueous 
vapor, but for general use his work is highly to be recommended. Of 
course, those having a large number of stations at their disposal may 
prefer to work out special methods, as has been done by Mr. G. K. Gil- 
bert for the use of the United States Geological Survey, but it is not 
yet certain that they will obtain results of much greater accuracy. 

421. E. Hult has discussed the mass of phtenological observations 
accumulated for the last 10 years in Sweden. One hundred and fifty- 
seven stations have afforded about 150,000 observations. The previous 
labors of the French botanist, Adamson, had shown that the develop- 
ment of the buds is determined by the sum of the daily mean tempera- 
tures since the beginning of the year. Boussingault had, however, 
shown that the temperature during the period of rest from growth need 
not be taken into consideration, and that the lengtli of the growing 
period is therefore inversely proportional to its mean temperature. 
Linsser concluded that the sums of the temperatures above zero which 
are necessary to effect development of a plant at any two localities are 
in direct ratio to the sums of all temperatures at both stations above 
zero. J. Sachs, the ablest botanical physiologist of the present time, 
has studied the subject from an entirely different side. He has by di- 
rect experiment with different plants determined the influence of tem- 
perature on the development and growth, and found that for each ar- 
rangement of external conditions about any plant there is a minimum, 
a best, and a maximum temperature. That is to say, a certain amount 
of heat is necessary, namely, the temperature minimum j an increase of 



4 



METEOROLOGY. 391 

temperature accelerates the development up to a certain limit, which is 
the best temperature ; every increase above this retards the develop- 
ment up to a certain limit, which is the maximum possible, beyond which 
the growth of the plant must cease. 

The results attained by Halt do not entirely agree with any of the 
preceding. He finds that the precipitation in Sweden is nowhere so 
slight that vegetation is regularly restricted, nowhere so great that 
the blossoming or leafing is disturbed, but the ripening of the fruit 
occurs at the season of greatest rainfall, and this stage of plant growth 
is affected by the rain. The blossoming of any plant throughout the 
whole of Sweden occurs at the same temperature, but when we pass to 
Lapland and Jempland, the very rapid progress of the spring tempera- 
ture cannot be followed by the plant, and the blossoming occurs subse- 
quent to the occurrence of the normal temperature. {Z. 0. G.M.^ xix, 
p. 139.) 

422. A. Spamer communicates the following conclusions as to the de- 
pendence of the growth of wood upon meteorologic;d factors : 

1. Temperature and precipitation are the meteorological phenomena 
that affect the process of the formation of wood. 

2. Of these two variable quantities during the i)rincipal period of 
growth, the rainfall diminishes the formation of wood while the heat 
increases it. 

3. The principal period of wood growth is from July to October, at 
least for the plants which are very sensitive to frost. 

4. The rainfall seems to influence growth more than the temperature. 
[Excess of rain diminishes growth more than excess of temperature in- 
creases it.j 

5. The growth of different plants is not affected in the same degree 
by the rain ; some are affected more by rain and others by the tem- 
perature. 

6. In many ])eriods only one of these factors appear to exert any in- 
fluence, the other being inactiv^e. 

7. Possibly this anomaly may be explained by observations of the 
duration of insolation. 

8. The increase of carbonaceous compounds goes parallel with the in- 
crease in the inorganic constituents of the wood. 

9. The aqueous component of the wood diminishes when the carbon- 
aceous increases. 

10. The so-called ripe wood [the heartwood] differs from that which 
is less ripe by a greater amount of ashes and carbon. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIX, p. 93.) 

423. M. Bergmans, of Flushing, has studied the difference between 
sea and continental climates as shown by the vegetation, especially by 
a study of the plants ordinarily cultivated in the temperate zone. He 
finds that the difference in vegetation is due not to the difference in 
wiean temperature but to the difference in the amount of sunshine ; clear 



392 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

skies and full sunshine means high midday temperature and low tem- 
peratures or frosts at night time ; high temperatures in the summer and 
low temperatures in the winter. These extreme variations in tempera, 
ture decide whether any given plant can thrive or not. The actual de- 
velopment of the plant depends upon the action of sunlight. [Nature, 
XXX, p. 392.) 

424. W. O. Atwater offers experiments to show that certain x>liints 
grown under natural conditions do directly assimilate the atmospheric 
nitrogen. 

425. [Although the amount of this assimilation is not at present suffi- 
cient to be of any importance to meteorology, yet the establishment of 
this fact, which has been controverted by so many eminent chemists, 
would be of importance in studying the climates of past geological 
epochs, when other plants and other gases were present.] {Nature, xxx, 
p. 553.) 

426. C. Ferrari has published in the Agricultural Annals for 1883 a 
comparison for Italy between the statistics of harvests and the meteor- 
ological phenomena. He deduces a number of practical rules, such as 
the more rain we have in summer the greater the harvest of corn ; but 
for wheat, rye, and other grains great rain frequency is injurious, and 
the harvest is greater as the temperature is higher and the cloudiness 
less 

427. Prof. H. Hoffmann, communicating the result of the most recent 
observations on the thermal constant of vegetation, compares the fig- 
ures for a number of plants for Upsala and Giessen, and concludes that 
the results agree quite as closely as can be expected, showing that there 
is no change in the constant depending on latitude or climate. {D. M. 
Z., I, p. 407.) 

428. General Strachey has endeavored to establish a simple method 
of computing the quantity of heat received at any place and ))roper to 
use as a standard for comparison with the progress of vegetation. Kec- 
ognizing the fact that it is not the absolute temperature that should be 
summed up from day to day for this purpose, but that it is the excess 
above a definite minimum and that below this minimum active vegeta- 
tive processes are not possible. General Strachey has endeavored to es- 
tablish the minimum limit and to devise convenient methods for sum- 
ming up the excess above it. Numerical tables are given to assist the 
computation. By assuming 42^ F. a base temperature, it results that 
a very close approximation is given by simply subtracting this figure 
from the true mean temperature on each i)entade and summing the re- 
mainders. (Z. 0. G. M., XIX, p. 425.) 

429. [In studies looking to the prediction of hatching of "locust" 
eggs (see Reports of the United tStates Entomological Commission) the 
present writer used 50? F. as a minimum limit for the development of 
the eggs.] 

430. Dr. A. Frankel gives an account of experiments on the influence 



METEOROLOGY. 393 

of rarefied atmosphere upon the animal system. He concludes that the 
rarefaction influences the metastasis by depriving the blood and the 
tissues of some of their necessary oxygen, aud that this want of oxygen 
entails an excessiv'e destruction of albumen, the constituents of which, 
are in part deposited as fat. {Nature, xxvii, p. 191.) 

431. S. A. Hill, of India, has iuvestigated the connection between 
statistics of death and crime and the variations of the weather in that 
country. He finds that a mere rise of temperature has comparatively 
little effect and the effect of varying humidity is still less, while the va- 
riations of diurnal range in temperature are quite ajipreciable. The 
most prevalent fatal diseases are the malarial fevers, and these are 
doubtless increased by the rainfall, so that dry years are healthy and 
wet ones unhealthy. Crimes of violence in India may be said to be 
proportional in frequency to the tendency to i)rickly heat; that excru- 
ciating condition of the skin induced by a high temperature combined 
with moisture. {Xature, xxix, p. 338.) 

432. X. Alcocli discusses the effect of climate on the color of the hu- 
man skin, and maintains that the effect of great sunshine upon the pig- 
ment is to intensify the skin color and cause the intense blackness of 
the races that live in the tropical regions where the chemical power is 
intense for a vertical sun. {Nature, xxx, p. 401.) 

433. The glaciers of the Straits of Magellan are described by W. J. L. 
"Wharton {Nature, xxx, p. 177), who has made measures upon their 
dimensions and movements. 

434. Prof. F. Simony, in a study of the glacial formation of the Karls- 
Icefield, the largest glacier in the Austrian Alps, finds that during the 
last thirty years a steady diminution has taken place in the average 
quantity of ice, and at the present rate only twelve or fifteen years more 
will be required to bring it back to the minimum condition which local 
report said it had attained some three hundred years ago. It would 
seem, then, proper to assume that long prevailing secular changes in 
climate take place that are best shown by such phenomena as the 
glacier changes of corresponding long periods. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 
127.) 

436. W. R. Browne presented to the Eoyal Society in 1883 a very 
suggestive paper on the causes of glacial motion, which however seems 
not to have been printed until a year after, and which should be read 
in connection with the following. {Nature, xxviii, p. 235.) 

436. A. Irving, in a paper on the mechanics of glaciers, states that 
there is as yet no explanation of the fact that the movement is greater 
by day than by night and greater in the summer than in the winter. 
This he attributes to the fact that the solar rays entering into the inte- 
rior of the glacier are there transformed into heat aud melt the ice, whose 
variations have thus a daily and annual period. {Nature, xxvii, p. 
553.) 

437. Dr. E. von Lendenfeld has made a survey and study of the gla- 



394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

ciers of New Zealand, showing that the present glaciers are as large 
and extend to as low levels as those in Norway, while the mean temper- 
ature of New Zealand is 11° C, as compared with 3° in Norway. The 
cause of this glaciation is considered to be the greater humidity of air 
and more' copious rain and snow of New Zealand, due to the greater 
expanse of water in the southern hemisphere. The author considers 
that the glacial period in New Zealand, during which the sounds in the 
southwest coast were scooped and not filled up with dehris but since 
which time the present small rapidly increasing alluvial deposits have 
all accumulated, must therefore have been very recent. [A greater 
exijanse of water in the northern hemisphere with a north polar conti- 
nent would similarly give us higher temperatures and heavier gla- 
ciers. {jS'ature, xxx, p. 651.) 

438. E. Hill, of Cambridge, England, has given a mathematical in- 
vestigation of the efiect of fluctuations of solar heat and terrestrial ra- 
diation upon terrestrial temperatures, and especially upon the glacial 
epoch. He shows that the temperatures of the continents are now lower 
under the present periodical change from day to night and from sum- 
mer to winter than they would be if precisely the same quantity of heat 
were communicated to them continuously and uniformly. The same is 
also shown for the ocean ; periodical changes in the transmitted heat 
increase the evaporation but diminish the radiation. An increase in 
the amplitudes of these heat variations will exaggerate the increase or 
diminution of the mean values of evaporation, &c. An increase in the 
eccentricity of the earth's orbit exaggerates these amplitudes, and there- 
fore lowers the mean annual temperature in the one hemisphere and in- 
creases it in the other, also increasing the evaporation in the one hemi- 
sphere and diminishing it in the other. Increased evaporation may 
increase the snowfall. This is, therefore, possibly appreciable in con- 
nection with the glacial epoch as discussed by Hill in the Geological 
Magazine, November, 1881. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 260.) 

439. W. F. Stanley maintains the improbability of the theory that 
former glacial periods in the northern hemisphere were due to eccen- 
tricity of the earth's orbit and to its winter perihelion. He quotes Fer- 
rel and Hann to show that the mean temperature of the southern hem- 
isphere is now equal to if not higher than the northern, although the 
northern is the most glaciated, so that, whatever may be the relative po- 
siticm of the earth's orbit and axis, it could have no more influence than 
now lire vails. He explains glaciation as a local phenomenon, dependent 
ujion the distribution of land and water and attending changes in aerial 
and oceanic currents. {Nature, xxx, p. 526.) 

440. A. Blytt, by the study of the distribution of the plants of Scan- 
dinavia at the present time and at the time of the formation of the peat- 
bogs, concludes that since the glacial epoch the climate has experienced 
periodical changes, in that dry continental periods have interchanged 
with moist insular climates. These periodical climatic changes he traces 



METEOROLOGY. 395 

back to periodic variations in the temperature of the sea. He concludes 
that when the winter agrees with the earth's aphelion the currents will 
probably increase, and when the winter agrees with the perihelion the 
currents will slightly diminish ; therefore at present northwestern Eu- 
rope is enjoying relatively gentle rains and a large difference between 
the winter and summer temperatures, which conditions will be reversed 
in about 10,000 years with the change in position of the earth's axis. 
In other regions than Europe the effect of this change may be different. 
Thus the eastern part of North America will, with wii-ter in the aphel- 
ion, have stronger northwest winds, and therefore a more severe climate^ 
the same for Eastern Asia, while the western coast of North America 
will be affected like Europe. But such changes must also affect other 
portions of the ocean and of the world, causing periodic'changes in the 
climate over the whole earth's surface. {Z. 0. G. M., xix, p. 413.) 

441. Dr. Penck, of Munich, in some remarks on the glacial epoch, says 
a numerical expression for the difference between the climate of the 
glacial epoch and that immediately before and after it is found by a 
comparison of the limit of perpetual snow for that and the present 
epoch. This limit was at that time decidedly lower than the present, 
namely, at 45° N. latitude 1,300 meters lower, and at 20° K latitude, 1,000 
lower. lu the southern hemisphere the probable depression of the 
snow limit at 30° S. was 1,000 meters, and at 45° S. at least 800 meters 
lower than now. During the glacial epoch the region of perpetual snow 
in the northern hemisphere was lower than it is to-day in the southern, 
and in the southern it was much lower than now. An interchange of 
the climatic relations of the north and south hemispheres would not of 
itself produce a glacial epoch. The remarkable agreement between the 
intensity of the present glaciation and that of the glacial epoch justifies 
the assumption that the latter occurred under general external relations 
such as now prevail; in fact, it can be proven that the glacial epoch 
occurred during the i^resent arrangement of land and water, and not 
with a lower but rather a higher elevation of the land. The mass of 
sea water that was at that time on the land in the shape of ice was 
approximately 56,000,000 cubic kilometers. A characteristic of the gla- 
cial epoch, the recurrence of the glaciation as recognized in northern 
Europe and America, and which repetitions, as the Alps show, were 
separated by epochs of mild climate whose durations were greater than 
the time that has now elapsed since the last glaciation. The great ex- 
tent of the glaciation is explained b}^ no other theories as to its cause 
except Croll's theory of the alternate glaciation of both hemispheres, 
and the theory of the existence of a sensible cold period over the whole 
earth; but the periodicity of glaciation is explained only by Croll's 
theory, so that this is the most probable, although great difficulties 
stand in its way. (D. M. Z., i, p. 473.) 



o96 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF METEOROLOGY FOR 1884. 
By O. L. Fassig. 

I. — Works by individuals. 
11. — Publications of institutions. 
III. — Articles in periodicals. 

I. — Works by Individuals. 

Abbe, Cleveland. An account of the progress in meteorology in the year 1883. 

Washington, 1884. 8vo. 92 pp. (From Sraithsouian report for 1883.) 
Almerico da Schio, sr. Alraanacco astrouomico meteoiologico per 1' anno 1884 

Verona, Padua. 32mo. 
Andr^e, S. A. Nagra anmiirkningar om luftelcktricitetens variationer vid barome- 

triska minima och maxima. Om sambandet mellan luftelektriciteten och jord- 

magnetismen. Om yrsnou i de arktiska trakterna. Stockholm, 1884. 8vo. 2i 

pp. 12 pi. 
Angstrom, Knut. Un nouveau g^othermometre. Stockholm, 1884. 12mo. 10 pp. 

Ipl. 
Assmann, R. Tascheubuch fiir Wetter-Beobachter. Fiir Stationen II. Ordnung. 

Magdeburg, 1884. 16vo. 190-f-31 pp. (Same for stations of lower order.) 

Magdeburg, 1864. 16mo. 118 + 16 pp. 
Bassler, S. S. The weather : A practical guide to its changes, showing Signal Service 

system, and how to foretell local weather. Cincinnati, 1883. 8vo. 54 pp. Il- 
lustrated. 
Bassnett, T. The true theory of the suu ; showing the common origin of the solar 

spots and the corona, and of atmospheric storms and cyclones, with the necessary 

formulae and tables for computing the maximum and minimum epochs of solar 

activity, aud the passage in time, and the place of the chief disturbances of the 

weather, from the equator to the iiole, in both hemispheres. New York, 1884. 

8vo. 41+263 pp. 1 pi. Illustrated. 
Bezold, W. von. Ueber ziiudende Blitze im Kouigreich Bayern wahrend des Zeit- 

raumes 1833-1882. MUnchen, 1884. 4vo. 60 pp. (From Miinchen, Akad. Ab- 

handl., xv, 1884.) 
Bezold, W. von, und Lang, C. (See Miinchen.) 
Billwillcr, R. Bericht Uber die Errichtung der meterologischen Station auf dem 

Siintis und ihre Thiitigkeit vom 1. Sept. 1882 bis Eude Aug. 1884. Ziirich, 

1F84. 8vt). 20 pp. 
Boguslawski, G. von. Handbuch der Ozeanographie. I. Bd. Rilumliche, physika- 

lische und chemische Beschaffeuheit der Ozeane. Stuttgart, 1884. 8vo. xvii-f- 

400 pp. 
Brioschi, Faustiuo. (See Naples.) 
Broszus, J. E. Die Theorie der Sonneuflecken. Nach den neuesten wissenschaft- 

lii'heu Forschungen dargestellt. Berliu, 1884. 8vo. 4 pp. 
Buys- Ballot, Ch. (See Houzeau, J.-C.) 

Cauipbell, J. F. Sun-spots and world's weather. (Loudon, 1884.) sm. 8vo. 14 pp. 
[Capron, J. Rand.] Meteorological readings taken at Guildown, Guilford, January 

4, 1883, to January 3, 1884. (Guildown, 1884.) 8vo. 365 pp. 
Carlier, H, Observations m6t6orologiques faites h Saint-Martiu-de-Hinx, France. 

19. ann^e, 1883. Bayonne, lb84. 4to. 
Chase, P. E. Elements of meteorology for schools and households. In two parts. 

Part 1. Philadelphia, 1884. 12mo. 2 vols. 
Cory, F. W. How to foretell the weather with the pocket spectroscope. Loudou, 

1884. 8vo. 86 pp. 



METECROLOGY. 397 

Danckelraan, A. von. Association internationale dii Congo. M6moire snr les obserx a- 

tions ni<5t6orologiqnes faites a Vivi (Congo infdricur), et sur la climatologie de la, 

c6te sud-onest d'Afrique en gdn^ral. Berlin, 1884. 4vo. viii 92 pp., 1 ch. 
Die Ergebnis.se der meteorologisclien Beobacbtungen der Herren Herm. Soyaux 

nnd Kapt. R. Mabnke in Ssibange-Farm am Awandu, Gabun, Westafrika, 

wiibrend der Jabre 1882 and 1883, sowio Benierkungen zn den meteorologiscben 

Beobacbtungen ans Omaiuro in Daniaralande. Leipzig, 1884. 15 pp. (From 

Mittb. Verein fur Erdkunde, 1883, 14 pp.) 
Davis, William Morris. Wbirlwinds, cyclones, and tornadoes. Boston, 1884. 16mo. 

90 pp. 
Decbevrens, Marc. Les typbons de 1882. Premiere partie. Les tyijhonsdesmoisde 

jnillet et aofit. Yi-ka-wei, 1884. 4to. 54 pp. 
Tbe typboons of 1882. Part ii. 

Typhons in September and October. Yi-ka-wei, 1884. 4vo. 32 pp. 
Denison, C. Annual and seasonal climatic (wall) map of tbe United States, compiled 

from data of tbe Signal Service. 
Denza, F. II Commodore M. F. Maury e lacorrespondenza meteorologica dello Alpi 

e degli Apennini italiani. Torino, 1884. 8vo. 
Istruzioni per le osservazioni nieteorologicbe e per 1' altimetria barometrica. Par- 
tes I, II. Torino, 1884. 8vo. 312,142 pp. 
Doering, Oscar. La variabilidad interdiuruade la temperatura en algunos pimtos de 

la Reptiblica Argentina y de America del Sur. C6rdoba, Bol. Acad. Cieu., vi, 

1884. 8vo. 15G pp. 
Ducbaussoy, Ab. £tude climatologique du d^partement du Cber. Bourges, 1884, 

8vo. 
Duclarr, S. La science populaire. Le ciel et I'atraospb^re. Limoges, 1884. Bvo. 

17(i pp. Illustrated. 
Dupouy, Ed. M^t^orologie du Soudan. La saison sfecbe an fort de Rita. Paris, 

18c4. 8vo. 
Ekholm, N. L'exp6dition su^doise au Spitzberg, 1882-1883. Upsala, 1884. 8vo. 

32 -+-115 pp. 
Eliot, Jobn. Account of tbe soutbwest monsoon storms of 26tb June to 4tb July and 

lOtb to 1.5tb November, 1883. Calcutta, 1884. 8vo. 134 pp. 10 pi. 
Espma y Capo, A. Apuntesclimatologicose bydro]6gicosacerca de Panticosa. (Pi- 

riueos espafioles. ) Z.Tragoza, 1883. 4to. 104 jip. 
Ferrai, Ciro. Relazioni tra ak-uni elementi nieteorici edi prodottidellacampagnain 

Italia negli anni 1875-79 e 1880-1882. Roma. 1884. 8vo. 60 pp. 1 pi. (From 

Annali di Agricoltura, 1883.) 
Depressioni e anticicloni e relazione delle prime coUe arie di pioggia. Riassuntodi 

17 meicorie di meteorologia del Prof. E. Looniis. Roma, 1884. 8vo. 11 pi. 
Fischer, Adf. L. Die Sonnenflecken und die Wetter-Beobacbtungen seit 1. Juli 

1883. 4 pt. Erfurt, 1884. 8vo. 53 pp. 11 pi. 
Forel, F.-A. Essai sur la temperature des glaciers. Geneve, 1884. 8vo. 11 pp. 

(From Ecbo des Alpes, xx, 1884.) 
Giintber, Siegmund. Der Einfluss der Himmelskorper auf Witterungsverbaltnisse. 

2. Aull. Niirnberg, 1884. 8vo. 69 pp. 
Guillemin, A. Le monde physique ; tom. v : La m6t6or(logie. Paris, 1884. 8vo. Il- 
lustrated. 
Guyot, Arnold. Tables, meteorological and physical. Edited by William Libbey, 

jr. 4 ed. Washington, 1884. 8vo. xxv-|-838pp. (Smithsonian Miscellaneous 

Collection No. 538.) 
Hall, M. Monthly weather report for the year 1884. Jamaica. 1884. 4to. 
Hamberg, Alex. Hydrografisk-Kemiska lakttagelser under den Svenska Expedl- 

tionen till Gronland, 1883. Stockholm, 1884. 8vo. 65 pp. 7 pi. 



398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Hann, J. Einige Resultate aus Major v. Mehows meteorologisclien Beobachtungen 

im Innern von Angola. Wien, 18b4. 8vo. 29 pp. 
Hann, Julius. Die Erde als Weltkorper, ibre Atmospbiire unci Hydrosphare. Prag 

und Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 209 pp. (See Jelinek.) 
Hartl, Heinricb. Praktiscbe Anleitung zum HiJbenmessen mit Quicksilber-Barome- 

tern und mit Aneroideu. 2. Aufl. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Hellmaun, Georg. (See Berlin, Kon. Met. Inst.) 

Hepites, St. C. Serviciulumeteorologicii in Europa. Bucnresci, 1884. 4to. 164 pp. 
Herman, Klein und Tborne. God's glorious creation, or tbe migbty marvels of 

eartb, sea, and sky ; tbe eartb's place in tbe universal plan ; wonders of tbe 

water, wonders of the laud, wonders of tbe atmospbere. Translated from tbe 

German by Wiusbull. London, 1884. 8vo. ;590 pp. Illustrated. 
Hoftmaun, P. Zur Mecbanik der Meeresstromungen an der Oberfliicbe der Oceane. 

Berlin, 1884. 8vo. Vi + 99 pp. 
Holdingbauseu, Ed. Die Sonne und die kosmiscbe Elektricitiit. Hilcbenbacb, 1884. 

8vo. VI + 164 pp. 
Houzeau, J. C, et Bays-Ballot. Observations m6t6orologiques faites aux stations 

Internationales de la Belgique et des Pays-Bas. 4®. ann6e, 1880. Bruxelles, 

1884. 4 to. 58 pp. 
Jelinek, Carl. Anleitung zur Ausfiibrung meteorologiscber Beobacbtungen, nebst 

einer Sammlung von Hiilfstafeln, neu beransgegeben und umgearbeitet von Dr. 

J. Hann. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 2 pts., 80, 105 pp. 
Jousset, A. Trait6 de I'acclimatement et de I'acclimatation. Paris, 1884. 8mo. 154 

pp. 16 pi. 
Kiessling, J. Nebelgliib-Apparat. Hamburg, 1884. 4to. 8 pp. (From Hamb.-Al- 

tona, Abb. naturw. Ver., viii, 1884.) 
Klein, H. J. Allgemeine Witterungskunde. Leipzig und Prag, 1884 12mo. 260 pp. 
Anleitung zur Vorausbestimmung des Wetters. Auf Grundlage der beutigen 

wissenscbaftlicben Meteorologie und eigener Erfabrungen dargestellt. Leipzig, 

1884. 8vo. 100 pp. 
Wocbenscbrift fiir Astronomie, Meteorologie und Geograpbie. Koln, 1884. 8vo. 
(See Herman.) 
Klossowskij, A. Zur Lebre von der elektriscben Energie in der Atmospbare. Die 

Gewitter in Russlaud. (In tbe Russian language.) Odessa, 1884. 8vo. 116 pp. 

5 pi. 
Lancaster, A. La pluie en Belgique. Bruxelles, 1884. 12mo. 113 pi). (From Bru- 
xelles, Annuaire, 1884.) 
Libbey, William. (See Guyot, Arnold.) 
Marriott, W. Tbe meteorological record. Montbly results of observations made at 

tbe stations of tbe Royal Meteorological Society (Quarterly). London, S. A. 8vo. 
Mawley, Edward. Tbe weatber of 1883, as observed in tbe neigbborbood of London, 

and compared in all respects witb tbat of an average year. London [1^:84]. 8vo. 

78 pp. 
Meucci, F. Rivista agraria meteorologica dell' anno 1883. Firenze, 1884. 12mo. 

14 pp. 
Meyer, L. Die Bewolknng in Wiirttemberg, mit Zugrundelegung der Beobacbtungen 

von 1878-82, und mit besonderer Beriicksicbtigung meteorologiscber Gebiete. 

(Stuttgart, 1884.) 8vo. 81pp. 
Millot, C. iStudo sur les orages dans le d6partement de Meurthe-et-Moselle. Nancy, 

18S4. 20 pp. 
Mobn, H. Les pbiSuom^nes de I'atmospbere. Traits illustr^ de m6t6orologio pratique 

traduit par Decaudin-Labesse, prdcM6 d'une introduction par H. de Parville. 

Paris, 1884. 8vo. 472 pp. 24 cb. 
See Cbristiania. 



METEOROLOGY. 399 

Montignj, Cb. De I'influeuce de I'^tat tie I'atmosph^re sur I'apparition de certains 
couleursdans la sciutillatiou des 6toiles, au point de vue de la pr<Svision du temps. 
Bruxelles, 1884. 8vo. (From Bruxelles, Acad. Bnll., vii, 1884, 304-311.) 

Mottez, A. K6flexiou8 sur des points de m6t^orologie. Paris, 1884. 8vo. (2 pam- 
phlets.) 

Neumayer,. Geo. Bericht iiber die Verbandlungen des internationalen meteorologi- 
scbeu Comite's. Versammlung in Kopenbageu, vom 1. bis 4. Aug. 1882. Ham- 
burg, 1884. 8vo. 102 pp. 

Palmieri, L. Die atmospbiiriscbe Elektricitiit. Deutscb von Discher. Wien, 1884. 
8vo. 50 pp. 

Kamsey, Alexander. A bibliography, guide, and index to climate. London, 1884. 
8vo. 449 pp. Illustrated. 

Eagona, D. Sui crepuscoli rossi d(;lP autuuno 1883 e dell' inveruo 1883-'84. Eoma, 
1884. 4 to. 39 pp. 

Eiggenbacb, Albert. Witterungsiibersicbt des Jabres 1883. Basel, 1884. 8vo. 
(From Naturf. Gesell. Verbandl., vii, 1884, £61-587.) 

E6iti, Antonio, col Luigi Pasqualini. Osservazioni continue della elettricit^ atmos- 
ferica istitute a Firenze. Firenze, 1884. 10 pp. 5 pi. (From Firenze, E. 1st. 
Studi, 1884.) 

Eoper, W. Statistics of Lancaster rainfall and other local meteorological informa- 
tion, 1784 to 1883. (Lancaster, 1884.) 8vo. 17 pp. 3 pi. 

Eosser, W. H. Seamt n's guide to the law of storms. The circular theory of storms, 
and its modification, as due to the incurvature of the winds, together -n-ith a sum- 
mary of the results of recent investigation and the questions for masters and 
mates. Loudon, 1884. 8vo. 28 pp. Illustrated. 

Eussell, II. C. Eesults of rain and river observations made in New South Wales dur- 
ing 1883. [Sydney], 1884. 8vo. 27 pp. 

Eusso, E. M. Meteorologia e geografia fisica del mare. Napoli, 1884. 8vo. 591 i)p. 
G pi. 

Eykatchew. Note sur les ondes atmosph^riques produites par I'^ruptiou de Krakatoa. 
St.-Pdtersbourg, 1884. 8vo. (From Acad. Sci. Bull., 1884.) 

Schio. (See Almerico da Schio.) 

Schmidt, J. F. J. Description ph^nomfene physique. M(5t6orologie et ph<^-nologie. 
Athenes, 1884. 4to. 

Schuster, Prof. Observations m6t6orologiques faites h, Metz en 1880. Metz, 1884. 
8vo. 34 pp. 

Scott, Eobert H. Elementiire Meteorologie. Aus dem Englischen iibersetzt von W 
von Freeden. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 

Snow, F. H. Monthly weather report, 1884. Observations taken at Lawrence, 
Kansas. 8vo. Single sheets. 

Strachey, E. On the computation of the quantity of heat in excess of any fixed base 
temperature received at any place during the course of the year, to supply a 
standard for comparison with the progress of vegetation. (London Quart. 
Weather Eept., 1878, Append, ii, 20 pp.) 

Symous, G. J. Distribution of rainfall over the British Isle during 1883. London, 
1883. 8vo. 194 pp. 
Monthly meteorological magazine, vol. xix, 1884. London, S. A. 8vo. 

Thoriie. (See Herman.) 

Toi>fer, H. Untersuchungen fiber die EegenverhaltnisseDeutschlands. Gorlitz, 1884. 
8vo. 153 pp. (From GiJrlitz, Abhandl. Naturf. Gesell., 1884.) 

Trembley, J. B. Eeports and statistics of the meteorology of the city of Oakland, 
Cal., for the year lS82-'83. Oakland, Cal., 1884. 12mo. 

Upton, Wiusiow. Eeport of observations made on the expedition to Caroline Island 
to observe the total solar eclipse of May 6, 1833. (Met. obs.) Washington, 1884. 
4to. 64 pp. 7 pi. (From National Acad. Sci., Mem. ii.) 



400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Weihrauch, Karl. Meteorologischo Peobachtnngeu, angestellt in Dorpat in deu Jah- 
ren 1877, 1878, IdtO. Jabrg. xii, xiii. xv. ^5. Band, 2.-5, Hcfte, 138 pp., 251 pp., 
2 vols. Dorpat, 1884. 8vo. 
Studlen ziir Mittelbildung beider relatlven Feuchtigkeit. Moscow, 1884. 8vo. 47 

PP-. 
Wojeikof, Alexander. (The climates of the globe, particularly of Russia.) (St. Pe- 
tersburg, le84. 8vo. 640 pp.) (Russian language.) 

II. — Publications of institutions. 

AdelaTde Observatory. Meteorological observations made at the Adelaide Observa- 
tory and other places in South Australia and the northern territory during the 
year 1881 under the direction of Charles Todd. Adelaide, 1884. 4to. 
Alabama AVeather Service. Reports, Jan., Dec, 1884. Montgomery, 1884. 8vo. 
Alessandria. Specola del Seminario. Osservazioni meteorologiche fatte in Alessan- 
dria. Anno XXIX, 1882. Alessandria, 1884. Bvo. 3.5. pp. 
Algiers. [Service m^t6orologiriue du Gouvernement G6n6ral.] Bulletin m^tdorolo- 

gique. ix«-x«, 1884, Jan. l.-Dec. 31. sm. fol. sheets. 
Associazione Meteorologica Italiana. Bollettiuo decadico, publicato per cura dell' Os- 
servatorio Centra le del collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncalieri. Anno xiii, 1884. 
Torino, 1884. 1. 8vo. 
Bollettiuo mensuale, publicato per cura dell' Osservatorio centrale del real Collegio 
Carlo Alberto in Moncalieri. Anno 1883-'84. Serie ii. Vol. IV. Moncalieri, 
1884. sm. fol. 
Batavia. Observatorium. Regenwaarnemiugen in Nederlandsch Indie, 1883. Door 

J. P. van der Stok. Batavia, 1884. 8vo. xii-f 360 pp. 
Bengal Meteorological Office. Table of rainfall recorded at stations in Bengal. 1883. 

January-December, and annual tables, sm. fol. 
Berlin. Haupstatioudes forstlichen Versucbswesen inPreussen. Jahresbericht iiber 
die Beobachfcungs-Ergebnisse der von den forstlichen Versuchsanstalten des Kouig ■ 
reichs Preussen, des Konigreichs Wiirttemberg, des Herzogthums Braunschweig, 
der thuriugischeu Staaten, der Reichslaude und dem Landesdirectorium der Pro- 
vinz Hannover eingerichteten forstlich-meteorologischen Stationen, 10. Jahrg. 
1833. Hrsg. von A. Miittrich. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 
Berlin. Ktin. Meteorologischeslnstitut. Preussische Statistik. rxxviii. Ergebnisse 
der meteorologischen Beobachtungen im Jahre 1883. Von Geo. Hellmann. Ber- 
lin, 1884. 4to. xiv-fl58pp. Ipl. 
Berlin. Kon. Statistisches Bureau. AVitterung nach den Beobachtungen des konig- 
lichen meteorologischen Instituts. 1883, Jan.-Dec. Statist. Correspondenz., Jahrg. 
ix-x, l&83-'84. 
Brussels. Observatoire Royal: 

Bulletin m^t^orologique. 1884, Jan. l-Dec. 31. fol. sheets. 
Annuaire. Lii, 1885. Bruxelles, 1884. .32mo. 374 pp. 
Canada Meteorological Service. Report of the Meteorological Service of the Do- 
minion of Canada for the year ending December 31, 1882. Charles Carpmael, 
superintendent. Ottawa, 1^84. xix+137 pp. 
Cape of Good Hope. Meteorological Commission. Report for the year 1883. Cape 

Town, 1884. 4to. 70 pp. 
Ceylon. (See Colombo.) 
Christiania. Norwegisches meteorologisches Institut. 

Jahrbucb, 1883. Hrsg. von H. Mohn. Christiania, 1884. 4to. V. 03-f-ll pp. 
Coimbra. Observatorio Maguetico e Meteorologico. 

ObservagOes meteorologicas, lh83. Coimbra, 1884. 4to. ix+136pp. 
Colombo. Surveyor-General's Office. 
Meteorology of Ceylon, 1883. [Columbc, 1884.] 8vo. 



METEOROLOGY. 401 

Copenhagen. Dansk Meteorologisk Institut. 
Bulletin ra6t^orologique du nord, publi6 par les Instituts m6t6orologiques de Nor- 

v6ge, de Danemark et de Suede. Annde 1884. Copenh.ague, s. a. obi. 8vo. 
E6sum6 destravauxdo I'exp^dition polaiie danoise interuatioualc, suivid'uu som- 
maire des observations mdt^orologiques faites pendant la derive du "Ddjmphua " 
dans la mer de Kara. Copenbageu, 1884. 8vo. 41pp. 2 maps. 
Deutsche Seewarte. Tiigliche synoptische Wetterkarten fur den nordatlantischen 
Ozean uud die auliogeuden Theileder Kontinente. Erstes Quartal (Dez. 1880 bis 
Febr. 1881). Copenhagen und Hamburg, 1884. fol. 200 pp. • 
Cordova. Oliciua Meteorologica. 
Analesde la Oficinameteorol6gica Argentina porsu director, Benjamin A. Gould. T., 
IV. Buenos Aires, 1884. 4to. 598 pp. 1 map. 
Deutsche Seewarte. (See Hamburg.) 
Geneva. Observatoire. E6sum6 m^teorologique de I'aun^e 1883 pour Geneve et le 

Grand Saint-Bernard, par A. Kammennann. Geneve, 1884. 8vo. 44 pp. 
Greenwich Royal Observatory. Magnetic and meteorological observations, 1882. 

London, 1884. 4to. xlviii-|-lxxxi pp. 
Guatemala. Instituto Nacional Central. 

Revista del Observatorio meteoroldgico i 1883. [Guatemala, 1883.] 4to. 42 pp. 
Hamburg. Deutsche Seewarte. 
Tiiglicher Wetterbericht. ix. Jahrg., 1884. Hamburg, fol. 
Monatliche Uebersicht der Witteruug, 1884. Jahrg. ix. Humburg,1884. 8vo. 
Meteorologische Beobachtuugen in Deutschland fiir 1882. Jahrg. v. Hamburg, 

1884. 4to. 226 pp. 
Aus dem Archiv der deutschen Seewarte. iv. Jahrg., 1881. Hamburg, 1884. 

4to. Charts. 
Vierter Jahres-Bericht iiber die Thatigkeit der deutschen Seewarte fiir das Jahr 

1881. No. 1. 57+xxii pp. 
Das Atmosphiirikon. Eine Vorrichtung zur Erliiuterung der bei atmospharischen 

Erscheinungen vorkommeuclen Ausdriicke und Vorgiinge. No. 3. 4 pp. 1 pi. 
{See Copenhagen. ) 
Havana. Colegio de Belen. Observaciones magn^ticas y meteorol6gicas. Habana, 

1875. Benito Vines, director. Habana, 1884. 4to. 58 pp. 13 pi. 
Helsingfors. Soci^t^ des Sciences de Finlande. Observations m6t6orologiques. ix. 

ann^e, 1881. Helsingfors, 1884. 8vo. 
Illinois. Department of Agriculture. Monthly weather review, 1884. Springfield. 

1884. 8vo. 
Calcutta. Meteorological Office : 
Report on the administration of the meteorological department of the Government 

of India in 1883-'84. [Calcutta, 1884.] 4to. 
Report on the meteorology of India in 1882, by Henry F. Blanford, meteorological 

reporter. Calcutta, 1884. 4to. 154+298 pp. 8 pi. 
Registers of original observations, 1884 (monthly). 4to. 
Daily bulletin, 1884. Large sheets. 
Internationale Polar-Commission : 
Mi'ttheilungen. v. Heft. Nos. 79-97. St. Petersburg, 1884. 1. 8vo. pp. 161-214. 
No. 88. Ekholra, N. L'exp^dition su6doise au Spitzberg, 1882-1883. pp. 171-litO. 
No. 89. Paulsen, Adam. Sur la determination des angles que font avec le m6ridien 
magn6tique les aiguilles des instruments j^our mesurer les variations dans I'inteii 
8it6 horizontale et verticalo. p. 191. 
No. 94. Einige Programm-Fragen fiir die Conferenz in Wien and vorliiufige Bemer- 

kungen dazu. pp. 197-202. 
No. 97. Programm der Verhandlungen der vierten interuationalen Polar-Conferenz 

in Wien, am 17. April 1684. pp. 203-214. 
VI. Heft, Nos. 98-110. St. Petersburg, 1884. 4to. pp. 215-334. 1 pi. 
S. Mis. 33 2G 



402 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Internationale Polar-Comndssion— Continued. 
No. 98. Protokolle der vierten iuternationalen Polar-Conferenz za Wien, 17.-24. April 

1884. pp. 215-266. Beilage A— D. pp. 266-279. 
Nos. 99-102. Bemerkungen zum Frograuim der internationaleu Polar-Coniorenz. 

pp. 279-286. 
No. 107. Niederlandiscbe Polar-Expedition, 1882-1883. Tabellarische Uebersichi 

der meteorologisclieu Beobachtungen in dem Karischen Meere. Oct. 1882-Juni 

1883. pp. 292-303. 

No. 109. Stok, J. Q. van der. Neue Methode zur Bestimmung der periodischen und 
aperiodischen Aenderungeu der Elemente des Erdmagnetismus. pp. 305-321. 

No. 110. Lemstrom, Selim. Sur les travaux et les priucipaux r6sultats de l'exp6di- 
tion polaire finlandaise a Sodankylii, 1883-'84. pp. 321-334. 1 pi. 
Iowa Weather Service. 

Bulletin for January-December, 1884. By Dr. Gustavus Hinrichs, director. Iowa 
City, 1884. 12mo. 
Karlsruhe. Centralbureau fiir Meteorologie und Hydrographie. 

Jahresbericht, 1883. Karlesruhe, 1884. 4to. 77 pp. 6 pi. 

Beitriige zur Hydrographie des Grossherzogthums Baden. Karlsruhe, 1884. 4to. 
104 pp. 17 pi. 
Kiel. Ministerial- Kommission zur Untersuchuug der deutschen Meere. Ergebnisse 
der Beobachtungsstationen an den deutschen Kiisten iiber die physikalischen 
Eigenschaften der Ostsee und Nordsee und die Fischerei. Jahrg. 1882. Helt 
i-xii. Berlin, 1884. obi. 
Kraka U. K. k. Sternwarte. Meteorplogische Beobachtungen. 1883, January- 
December. 8vo sheets. 
Lisbon. Observatorio do Infante D. Luiz. Annaes xx, 1882. Lisboa, 1884. 4to. 
143 pp. 

Annaes. Observagoes dos postos meteorologicos regundo o piano adoptado no con- 
gresso de Vienna d' Austria, 1882. Lisboa, 1884. 4to. 131 pp. 
London. Meteorological Council : 

Official No. 33. The quarterly weather report. Parts III, iv. July-September, 
October-December, 1876. London, 1884. 4to. 35 pp. 6 ch., 23 pi. ; 38 pp., 6 ch., 
25 pi. 

No. 52. The quarterly weather report. Part i. January-March, 1877 (with ap- 
pendices). London, 1884. 4to. 48 pp. 6 ch. 5 pi. Append, i.— Scott, R. H. — 
On the diurnal range of rainfall at the seven observatories in connection with 
the Meteorological Office. 1871-'80. 22 pp. 5 pi. Append. Ii.— Shaw, AV.N.— 
Report on evaporimeters. 8 pp., 2 pi. 

No. 54. Hourly readings. Parts ll, in. April-June, July-September, 1882. Lon- 
don, 1884. 4to. 127 pp. 126 pp. 

No. 55. The quarterly report, 1878. Appendices and plates. London, 1884. 4to. 
[32] pp. 73 pi. 

No. 58. Report to the Royal Society for the year ending 31st of March, 1883. Lon- 
don, 1884. 8vo. 118 pp. 1 map. 

No. 59. Sea temperature charts for the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans. London, 

1884. fol. 

No. 61. A barometer manual for the use of seamen. London, 1884. 8vo. 41pp. 2pl. 
No. 62. The monthly weather reports of the Meteorological Office for the year 
1884. London, 1884. 4to. 
London Meteorological Office. Daily weather report, 1884, January 1-December 31. 
2 vols. 8. 1. e. a. fol. 
Weekly weather report. Vol. "vni, 1884. London, s. a. 1. 8vo. 
Loudon Meteorological Society. Memorandum on climatological observations and 
% their relation to public health. [London, 1884.] 12mo. 8 pp. 
Quarterly Journal. (See Periodicals.) 



METEOROLOGY. 403 

Louisiana State weather service. Reports. January-December, 1884. New Orleans, 

1884. 8vo. 
Lyons. Observatoire. Annales. Par Ch. Audr^, director. Premiere s6rie. M6t6o- 

rologie. L 1878-'79-'80. Lyons, Paris, 1884. 4to. 126 pp., 5 pi. 
Madras Meteorological Office. Administration report of the meteorological reporter 

to the government of Madras, 188.i-1884. Madras, 1884. 12mo. 19 pp. 
Madrid Observatorio. Resiimen de las observacioues meteorol6gicas efectiiadas en la 
peninsula y alj^iinas de sus islas adjacentes, durante los anos del mlsmo uombre 
1876, 1877, 1879, 1880, 1882. Madrid, 1883-1884. 8vo. 2 vols, v+578 pp. 
Magdeburg. Vereiu fiir landwirthschaftliche Wetterkuude in Sachsen, Mouatsschrift 
fiir praktische Witteruugskuude. Hrsg. vou Dr. R. Assmauu. ii. Jahrg, Mag- 
deburg, 1884. 12mo. 
Magdeburg. Wetterwarte der Magdeburgischen Zeitung. Juhrbuch der meteoro- 
logischen Beobachtungen. Station i. Orduung. Jabrg. ir, 1883. Hrsg. von 
R. Assmann. Magdeburg, 1884. 4to. 60 pp. 12 pi. 
Melbourne Observatory : 
Results of observations, by R. L. J. Ellejy. 1884 (monthly). Melbourne, 1884. 

8vo. 
Map showing rainfall over southeastern Australia and Tasmania for 1883. Mel- 
bourne, 1884. 1 sheet. 
Milan. R. Osservatorio astronomico di Brera. Osservazioni meteorologiche eseguite 

nell' anno 1833 col riassunto composto sulle medesime da E. Pini. 8vo. 61 pp. 
Milan. R. Osservatorio di Brera. Osservazioni meteorologiche orarie otteuute da 
strumenti registratori durante 1' anno 1882. Rilevate e calcolate da C. Foruioni. 
Milano, 1884. sm. fol. 
Publ. No. XVII. Schiaparelli, Pini, und Frisiani. Gewitter in Oberitalieu im Jahre 
1878. Milano, 1834. 4to. 99 pp. 8 pi. 
Missouri Weather Service. Monthly weather review, 1884. St. Louis. 8vo. 
Montpellier. Commission M6t6oroIogiqne. Bulletin m6t6orologique du departement 

de rH6rault, 188.3. Montpellier, 1884. 4to. 61 pp., 14 pi. 
Montsouris. Observatoire. Anuuaire pour Pan 1884. M6t(5orologie, Agriculture, Hy 

gii^ne. Paris, s. a. 16mo. 
Munich. K. meteorologis'che Central-Station. Beobachtungen der meteorologischen 
Statiouen im Konigreich Bayern unter Beriicksichtigung der Gewittererschei- 
nungen im Konigreich Wiirtemberg. Hrsg. * * * durch W. von Bezold und 
C. Lang. V. Jahrg., 1883. Miiuchen, 1884. 1. 4to. LViii. 207 pp., 4 pi. 
Nancy. Commission M6t6orologique. Observations m^t^orologiques de la Commis- 
sion de Meurthe-et-Moselle, 1883. [Nancy, 1884.] 4to. 50 pp., 41 ch. 
Naples. R. Osservatorio di Capodimonte. Riassunti decadici e mensili delle osserva- 
zione meteorologiche nell' anno 1883, ^ler Faustino Brioschi. Naples, 1884. 4to. 
8 pp. 
Nebraska Weather Service. Bulletin January-December, 1884. Crete, 1884. 8vo. 
New England Meteorological Society. Bulletin, Nos. 1,2, November-December, 1884. 

Providence, R. I. s. a. 8vo: 
New Jersey Montlily Weather Review, 1884. Newark, N. J., 1884. 8vo. 
Ohio Meteorological Bureau : 

Report for the month of January-[December], 1884. Columbus, 1884. 8vo. 
Annual report for the year ending October 31, 1883. By T. C, Meudenhall, director. 
Columbus, 1834. 8vo. 125 pp. 
Oviedo. Estacion Meteorol6gica. Resiimen general de las observacioues heahaa 
durante el auo de 1883. Por Luis Gonziilez Frades. Oviedo, 1884. 8vo. 10 pp. 
Palermo. R. Osservatorio. BuUettino meteorologico agrario meusile. v, 1884. 
[Palermo, 1884.] 12mo. 



404 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Paris. Bureau Central M6t6orologique de France. Annales publi^es par E. Mascart 
Ann6e 1882. Parties i, in, iv. Paris, 1884. 4to. 
I. — Etudes des orages en France et m^moires divers, xvi + 99 PPv 38 pi. — Con- 
tents : 
Tenip6rature8 du sol et de I'air observ^es au Museum d'histoire uaturelle 

pendant I'annee 1882, par E. et H. Becquerel. 6 pp. . 
Etude sur la marche des phdnomenes de la veg6tation en France pendant lea 

ann^es 1880 et 1881, par Alfred Angot. 5 pp., 14 pi. 
Observations sur les migrations des oiseaux, par Alfred Angot. 8 pp., 2 pi. 
III.— Sur le regime des pluies en France pendant I'ann^e 1882, par Th. Moureaux. 

300 pp., 5 pi. 
IV.— M^t^orologie g^u^rale. 134 pp., 20 pi.— Contents : 

Observations sur la temp6rature de la mer faites pendant le cours de la mis- 
sion de Laponie, par G. Poucbet. pp. 1-24. 
Observations m6t<5orologiques faites dans les postes consulaires fran^ais, par 

L<<on Teisserenc de Bort * » * . pp. 25-123, 19 pi. 
Sur une iiluie terrense tombde s*us lies Canaries le 21 f6vrier 1883. Par L6ou 
Teisserenc do Bort * * * , pp. 125-134, 1 pi. 
Paris. Bureau Central M6t^orologique de France. Rapports du comit6 mdt^orolo- 
giqtie international. Reunion de Copenhague, 1882. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 147 pp. 
Paris. Bureau des Longitudes. Annuaire pour I'an 1884. Paris, 32mo. 910 pp. 
Paris. Service. Hydrom^trique du Bassin de la Seine. R6sum6 des observations cen- 

tralisees, 1882. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Paris. Manuel bydrologique du Bassin de la Seine, par A. de Pr^andeau. Paris, 1884. 

4to. 117 pp., 7 pi. 
Perpignan. D^partement des Pyr^n^es-Orientales. Bulletin m6t6orologique. xn, 

1883. Perpignan, 1884. 4to. 86 pp. 
Polar-Commission. {See Internationale.) 

Prag. K. k. Sternwarte. Astronomische, magnetiscbe und meteorologische Beobacb- 
tuugen im Jabre 1883. Hrsg. von L. Weinek. 44. Jahrg. Prag, xix+56 pp., 1 
pi. 
Puebla. Colegio del Sagrado Corazon. Observaciones meteoro]6gicas, 1883. [Pue- 

bla], 1884. obi. 4to. 
Radciitfe Observatory. Results, 1881. Oxford, 1884. 8vo. 100 pp. 
Rome. Ufficio Centrale di Meteorologia. Bollettino meteorologico. Anno vi, 1884. 
^ January 1-December 31. 1. 8vo. sbeets. 

Revista Meteorico-agraria. Anno v, 1884. (Roma, 1884.) 1. 8vo. 

Annali. Serie II, Vol. IV, partes I, II, III, 1882. Roma, 1884. 4to.— Contents : 

I. 

Cbistoni, Ciro. Modificazione dell' igrometro ad appannamento e cenuo sto- 

rico di questo appareccbio. pp. 19-32., 1 pi. 
Ferrari, Ciro. Relazioui tra alcuni element! meteoric! ed i prodotti della 

campagua in Italia negli anni 1875-79 e 1880-'82. pp. 167-214, 1 pi. 
Gambara, G. Sul clima di Como. pp. 101-149, 1 pi. 
Lugli, Aurelio. Sulla variazione media della temperatura in Italia con la 

latitudine ed altezza. pp. 47-75. 
Lugli, Aurelio. *Primi risultati statistic! sui presagi del tempo fatte uell' 

Ufficio Centrale di Meteorologia in Roma. pp. 153-164. 
Marcbi, Luigi de. Ricercbe sulla teoria matematica de! vent!. i)p. 79-97, 

Ipl. 
Pin!, E. Tracciamento ed illustrazione del percorso di alcuui temporal! regis- 

trati nell' anno 1878. pp. 221-223. {See, also, Scbiaparelli, G. V.) 

*Also published separately. 



METEOROLOGY. . 405 

Ragona, D. Pioggia a differenti altezze. pp. 35-44. 

Scliiaparelli, C. V., ed Piiii, E. luvestigazioni teoriche sui temporali osser- 

vati neir Italia superiore durante il 1878, e siilla loro dipendenza dai 

movimenti dell' atinosfera nell' Europa occidentale. pp. 225-280, 8 pi. 
Semmola, Eugeuio. Sulla variazione anuuale di temperatura delle acque del 

gulfo di Napoli con un' appendice sulle temperature estreme diurne nell' 

ottobre 1879. pp. 217-219. 

II. 

Osservazioni meteorologiclie fatte in Italia nel 1883, ridotte ed ordinate dalla 
sezione dei compilatori diretta dal P. Busin. 589 + 148 pp. 

III. 

Tacchini, P. Osservazioni solari dirette e spettroscopiche fatte nel 1882 nel 

E. Osservatorio del Collegio Romano, pp. 3-50, 2 pi. 
Taccbini, P. Sul clima di Roma. pp. 87-116, 2 pi. 

Taccbiui, P., ed Millosevicb, E. Osservazioni meteorologicbe dell' osserva 

torio del Collegio Romano e reviste mensili dell' anno 1882. pp. [) ]-[123] 

St. Petersburg. Pbysikaliscbes Central-Observatorium. Meteorologisches Bulletin. 

1884, Jan. 1-Dec. 31. fol. sbeets. (lu tbe Russian language also.) 
San Fernando. Observatorio de Marina. Anales. CecilioPujazon, director. Seccion 
2». Observaciones meteoroWgicas, 1883. San Fernando, 1884. 4to. iv -|- 134 pp. 
Santiago de Cbile : 
Comision Central de Meteorologfa. Anuario de la Oflcina central meteoroldgica de 

Chile. VII. 1875. Santiago de Chile, 1884. 1. 8vo. xiii+377 pp. 
Observatorio Astron6mico. Observaciones meterol6jicas. Jos6 Ignacio Vergara, 
director. 1873-1881. Santiago de Chile, 1884. 8vo., xcv-|-266 pp. 25 pi. 
Singapore. Straits Settlements. Meteorological returns. 1883. [Singapore, 1884.] 

8vo. 
Stockholm. Kongl. Vvenska Vetenskaps-Akademieu. Meteorologiska lakttagelser 
i Sverige utgifna af Kongl. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademien, anstiilda och utar- 
betade under inseende af meteorologiska Central-Austalteu. viii. 1880. Stock- 
holm, 1884. 1. 4to. 
Stockholm. Meteorologiska Central-Anstalt. Manadsofversigt af Viiderleken i 
Sverige till Landtbrukets tjenst utgifven under meteorologiska Central-Anstal- 
tens inseende af H. E. Hamberg. Tredje Argaugen, 1883. Stockholm, 1884. &f]. 
Stonyhurst College Observatory. Results of meteorological and magnetical obser- 
vations, 1883. By S, J. Perry. Roehampton, 1884. 12mo. 
Sydney Observatory. Results of rain and river observations in New South Wales in 

1883. By H. C. Russel. Sydney, 1884. 8vo. 
Tennessee. Bureau of Agriculture. Report of the Tennessee weather service. Janu- 
ary-December, 1884. Nashville, 1884. 8vo. 
Tokio : 

Imperial Meteorological Observatory. Tri-daily weather maps, 1884. Tokio, 1884. 
4to. Sheets. [In the Japanese language also.] • 

Toronto Magnetical Observatory. General meteorological register for the year 1883. 

R. 1. e. a. 8vo. 6 pp. 
United States Hydrographic Office : 

Pilot charts of the North Atlantic Ocean, 1884. Nos. 2-13. Washington, 1884. 
1. fol. sheets. 
United States Naval Observatory : 

Meteorological observations, 1880. Washington, 1884. 4to. 18 pp. 
Astronomical and meteorological observations made during the year 1880. Rear- 
Adniiral John Rodgers, U. S. N., Superintendent. Washington, 1884. 4to. Ixxix 
+211+38 pp. 5 pi. 



406 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

United States Signal Service: 
War Department weather map (daily, 7 a. m.), 1884. 1. fol. sheets. 
Bulletin of international meteorological observations, taken simultaneously at 7 a. 
m., Washington time, 1883. (Daily, with monthly summary.) Washington, 1834. 
1, 8vo. 
Monthly weataer review, 1884. Washington, 1884, 1. 4to. charts. 
Annual report of the Chief Signal Officer, 1882-1883, Washington, 1884. 8vo. 
v+1,164 pp. 68 charts. 

Professional papers of the Signal Service: 
No. VII. — Finley, John P. Report on the character of six hundred tornadoes. (Re- 
vised edition. ] Washington, 1884. 4to. 29 pp. 3 pi. 
No. XIII.— -Ferrell, William. Temperature of the atmosphere and earth's surface. 

Washington, 1884. 4to. G9 pp. 
No, XIV,- -Finley, John P, Charts of relative storm frequency for a portion of the 

northern hemisphere. Washington, 1884, 4to. 9 pp. 13 pi. 
No. XV. — Laugley, S. P. Researches on solar heat and its absorption by the earth's 
atmosphere. Washington, 1884. 4to. 242 pp. 19 pi. 
Signal Service notes : 
No. XII. — Finley, J. P. The special characteristics of tornadoes. Washington, 

1884. 8vo. 19 pp. 
No. XIV. — Lamar, W. H., and Ellis, Frank W. Physical observations during the 

Lady Franklin Bay exi^edition, 1883, Washington, 1884, 8vo, G2 pp, 13 pi, 
Ifo. XV. — Hazen, H. A. Danger lines and river floods of 1882, Washington, 1884, 

8vo. 30 pp. 
No, XVI, — Curtis, G, E. The effect of wind currents on rainfall. Washington, 

1884. 8vo. 11 pp. 2 pi. 
No. XVII. — Morrill, Park. A first report ujion observations of atmosphere elec- 
tricity at Baltimore, Md. Washington, 1884. 8vo. 8 pp. 6 pi. 
Upsala. OI>servatoire M6t6orologique de l'Universit6. Bulletin mensuel, par. H. H. 

Hildebrandsson. xv, 1883. Upsal, 1883-'84. 4to. 74 pp. 
Utrecht. Kon. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. Jaarboek voor 1883. 35. 

jaarg. Utrecht, 1884. 1. 8vo. 340 pp. 
Nederlandsch meteorologisch jaarboek voor 1877. 26. jaarg. Tweededeel. Utrecht, 

1884. obi. 4to. 
"NJfinice, Osservatorio di Venezia. Bollettino meteorologico, Compilato dal Massimi- 
lianoTono, Anno 1883. Venezia, 1884. 12mo. 58 pp. 
Annuario Astro-Meteoiologico. iii. 1885. Venezia, 1884. 16mo. 
Vienna, K, k. Ceutral-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie uud Erdmagnetismus. Jahrbiicher, 
Jahrg. XVIII, 1881, Heft IV, Jahrg, xix, 1882, Hefte i, iv, Wien, 1884. 4to. 122 

pp., 325 pp. 
Internationaler telegraphischer Wetterbericht. Jahrg. viii, 1884, Jan, 1-Dec, 31 

1. 4to sheets. 
Beobachtuugen, 1884, Jan.-Dec. 8vo. 
Zi-ka-wei, Observatoire Magn6tique et M<?t6orologiquo. Bulletin mensuel, x, 1884. 

Zi-ka-we*i, 1884. sm. fol. 
Zurich. Schweizerische meteorologische Central-Anstalt. Meteorologische Beobach- 
tungen an 16 Stationen der Schweiz, 1884. ZUrich, 1884. 4to sheets. 

III. — Articles in periodicals. 

(Articles marked * are also separately publisbcd.) 

American Journal of Science. Principal editors, James D. and Edward S. Dana. 
Third series, xxvii, xxviii, 1884. New Haven, 1884, 8vo, 
Buysman, The difference between sea and continsntal climate with regard to 
vegetation, xxvui, 1884. pp, 354, 360. 



METEOROLOGY. 407 

Americau Joiirual of Science — Continued. 
Dnttou,*C.E. The effect of a warmer climate upon glaciers, xxvii, 1884. pp. 1-18. 
Hazen, Henry A-. Tbe enu glows, xxvii, 1884. pp. 201-212. 
Hazen, Heui-y A. Thermometer exposure, xxvii, 1884. pp. 3G&-378, 
Hazen, Henry A. Tornadoes, xxviii, 1884. pp. 181-189. 
Keeler, J. E. Ou tke absorption of radiant heat by carbon dioxide, xxvill, 1834. 

pp. 190-198. 
Langley, S. P. On the amount of the atmosi)heric absorption, xxviii, 1884. pp. 

163-180. 
Loomis, Elias. Contributions to meteorology. Twentieth paper. Reduction of 

barometic observations to sea level, xxxiii, 1884. pp. 1-17, 81-93. 
Americau Meteorological Journal : Edited by M. W. Harrington. Vol. i, No. 1, May, 

1884. Detroit, Mich. s. a. 8vo. 
Bent, Silas. ^Meteorology of the mountains and plains of North America, as affect- 
ing the cattle-growing industries of the United States, i, 1844-85. pp. 481-486. 
Clayton, H.H. The thunder-squalls of July 5 [1884]. i, 1884-'85. pp. 263-272, 

355-3.59,471-473. 
Clayton, H. H. A lately discovered meteorological cycle, i, 1884-'85. pp. 130-144. 
Davis, W. M. The winds and currents of the equatorial Atlantic, i, 1884-85. pp. 

48-56. 
Davis, W. M. The relation of tornadoes to cyclones. I, 1884-'85. pp. 121-127. 
Hazen, H. A. Determination of air temperature and humidity. 1,1884-85. pp. 342- 

347, 395-402. 
Meudenhall, T. C. Ohio meteorological bureau. (Organization.) i, 1884-85. pp. 

10-15. 
New England Meteorological Society. (Organization.) i, 1884-'85. pp. 300-305. 
Paul, H. M. Barometric waves of very short periods, i, 1884-85. pp. 17-27. 
Aunaleu der Physik nnd Chemie. Hrsg. von G. "Wiedemann. Neue Folge, xxi., xxii., 

xxiii. Biinde, 1884. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Frolich,0. Messnngeu der Sonnenwiirme. xxi, 1884. pp. 1-31, 1 pi. 
Boutgeu, W. C. Neue Versucho iiber die Absorption von Wilrme durch Wasser- 

dampf. XXIII, 1884 pp. 1-49. 
Vogel, H. C. Bemerkungen zu der Abhandlung <lt'S Hrn. Dr. O. Frolich iiber die 

Messung der Sonnenwiirme. xxi, 1884. pp. 615-622. 
Aunales de Chimie et de. Physique. N. a. Vols, i, ii, iii, 1884. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Boussingault. Sur la temperature de la grele. i, 1884, pp. 425-429. 
Nordenskiohl, A. E. * Sur les aurores bor^ales observ6es pendant I'hivernage de la 

V(Sga an d^troit de Behring (1878-'79). i, 1884. pp. 1-72. 
Perrotin et Thollou. Note sur les cr^puscules extraordin aires de 1883-1884. i, 

1884. pp. 433-449. 

Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles. Troisifeme p6riode, tomes xxi, 
XII, 1884. Genfeve, 1884. 8vo. 
Forel, F.-A. La couronne solaire de V6t6 de 1884. xii, 1884. pp. 173-184. 
Kammermann, A. * R^sum^ m^t^orologique de I'annde 1883 pour Geneve et le 

Grand Saint-Bernard, xii, 1884. pp. 253-296. 
Tyndall, John. Suples arcs-en-ciel. xi, 1884. pp. 575-592. 
Archiv der deutschen Seewarte. {See Hamburg.) 
Berlin. Annalen der Hydrographie und maritimen Meteorologie. Organ des hy- 

drographischen Amtes und der deutschen Seewarte. xii. Jahrg., 1884. Berlin, 

s. a. 1. 8vo. 
Andries, P. Ueber Gewitter- und Hagelbildung. xii, 1884. pp. 1-17, 65-72. 
Bebber, J. von. Typische Witterungs-Erscheinungen. xii, 1884. pp. 183-190. 
Ueber einigeErgebnisse der franzosischen Siidpolar-Station auf Feuerland, 1882-83. 

XII, 1884. pp. 127-132. 
Die allgemeine Ergebnisse der danischen internationalen Polar-Expedition in God- 

haab und der Fahrt der " Dijmplina," 1883-'83. xii, 1884. pp. 247 ; 254. 



408 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

British Association for the Advancemeut of Science. Report for 1883. London, 1884. 
8vo. Ixxx, 700 + 103 pp. 
British Associaion. Sixteenth report of the committee on underground temperature. 

1883. pp. 45-49. 
Capron, J. Rand. On some points iu Lemstrom's recent auroral experiments in 

Lapland. 1883. pp. 439-440. 
Roscoe, H. E., and Stewart, Balfour. On the heat of the sunshine at the Kew Ob- 
servatory, as registered by Campbell's method. 1883. pp. 414-418. 
Ciel et Terre. Revue populaire d'astronomie, de mdt^orologie et de physique du globe. 

5e anu^e, 1884. Bruxelles, 1884. 8vo. 
Bergsman. Les climats marins et les climats continentaux au point de vue de la 

v^gdtatiou. V, 1884. pp. 401-406. 
Danckelmanu, A. von. Leclimat du Congo, v, 1884. pp. 177-183. 211-218,261-287. 
Espietines, C. d'. Recherches sur la nature et la cause des orages. V, 1884. pp. 

306-313. 
F. C. Les vagues atmosph^riques provoqu6e8 par I'^ruption volcanique du Kraka- 

toa. IV, 1884. pp. 505-508. 
Lagrange, E. La variability des pluies en Belgique suivant la situation topogra- 

phique. V, 1884. pp. 321-327. 
Lancaster, A. L'hiver de 1883-'84. V, 1884. pp. 25-29. 
Perry, C. La borne gnomom^t^orologique de r6cole militaire. rv, 1884. pp. 

483-496. 
Russell, C. Peut-on provoquer la chute de la pluie ? V, 1884. pp. 97-108. 
Francaise Association pour I'Avancement des Sciences. Compte rendu de la 

12"= session. Rouen, 1883. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 1202 pp., 13 pi. 
Bouvier. Etude m6t6orologique sur les inondations du bassin du Rhdne des 27-28 

octobre 1882. xii, 1883. pp. 406-411. 
Brito-Capello. Temperature du sol h diverses profondeurs {h Lisbonne). xii, 1883. 

pp. 375-380. 
H6bert, F.-F. De I'origine et de la nature dii mistral. Xll, 1883. 393-397. 
Hubert, F.-F. L'hiver en 1879. xii, 1883. pp. 398-404. 
Bougerie, P. E. L'an^mog^ne, appareil producteur de courants semblables aux 

courants atraosph6riques. xii, 1883. pp. 373-375. 
Hamburg. Meteorologische Zeitschrift. Hrsg. von der deutschen meteorologischen 

Gesellschaft. Redigirt von Dr. W. Koppcn. i. Jahrg., 1884. Berlin, s. a. 1. 8vo. 
Bebber, J. von. Die Untersuchungen von Hoffmeyer und Teisserenc de Bort iiber 

Wintertypen und der Winter 1883-'84. I, 1884. pp. 22-29 ; 70-78, 2 pi. 
Bebber, J. von. Die Untersuchungen von H. H. Hildebrandsson iiber die Verthei- 

lung der meteorologischen Elemente im Umkreise der barometrischen Maxima 

und Minima, i, 1884. pp. 111-116. 
Blanford, Henry F. Bericht iiber die Verwaltung der meteorologischen Abthei- 

lung der Regierung von Indien im Jahre 1882-'83. I, 1884. pp. 199-215. 
Danckelmann, Dr. von. Vorliiutiger Bericht iiber die Ergebnisse der meteorologi- 
schen Beobachtungen der deutschen Polarstationen. i. Royalbay auf Siidgeor- 

gien. II. Kingawa-Fjord im Cumberland-Golf, Baffinsland. i, 1884. pp. 144- 

155. 
Fuess, R. Ueber zwei neue Registrirapparate fiir Windgeschwindigkeit und Wind- 

richtung. 1,1884. pp. 356-362. 
Hamburg. Deutsche Seewarte. Eine rationelle Methode zur Priifung der Wetter- 

prognosen. i, 1884. pp. 397-404. 
Jesse, O. Die Hohe der Dunstschicht durch welche die merkwurdigen Diimme- 

riings-Erscheinungen der letzten Monate hervorgerufen worden sind. i, 1884. 

pp. 127-137. 
Kopi)en, W. Die Wiirmezonen der Erde, nach der Dauer der heissen, gemiissigten 

und kalten Zoit und nach der Wiiliung der Wiirme auf die organische Welt be- 

trachtet. i, 1884. pp. 215-226, 1 pi. 



METEOROLOGY. 409 

K6ppen,W. Principien derVertheilnng meteorologischer Stationcn. i, 1884. pp. 

437-443. 
Kremser, V. Ueber die Veiiinderlicbkeit der Nicdorscbliige. i, 1884. pp. 93-110. 
Ley, W. Clement. Ueber die Struktiir des " Cirro-tilmu," oder der fadenformigen 

Eiswolko. I, 1884. pp.2()l-271. 
Moller, M. Uutersucbnng liber die Lnfttempcratur nud Lnflbewegung in einer 

Biie. I, 1884. pp. y3U-243. 
Neumayer, Georg. Bericbt liber die viilkaniscben Ansbrlicbe des Jalires 1883 in 

ibrer Wirkung auf die Atmospblire. i, 1884. pp. 1-4, 49-65, 15G-163, 181-189, 277- 

282, 311-319. 
Sprung, A. Die tiiglicbe Periode der Ricbtung des Winds, i, 1884. pp. 15-22, 

65-70. 

Vettim, Dr. Expcriinentelle Darstelinug von Luftbewegnngen nnter dem Eiuflusse 

von Tempevatur-Unterscbieden und Rotatious-Impulsen. i, 1884. pp. 227-230, 

and 271-276, 2 pi. 
Woeikof, Alexander. Klima von Ostsibirieu. i, 1884. pp. 443-461. 
Zenker, W. Die pbotograpbiscbe Beobacbtungen der VVolken. i, 1884. pp. 4-11. 
Journal de Pbysiquo Tb(5oretique et Appliqu^e. Publi<5 par E. Bouty, A. Cornu, E. 

Mascart et A. Potier. 12<' s6rie. iii, 1884. Paris, 1884. 8 vo. 
Crova, A. Sur une m^tbode de graduation des bygi'ometres h absorption, iii, 1884. 

pp. 390-393. 
Diakonoff. Nouveau baromfetre ^ sipbon. iii, 1884. pp. 27-29. 
Janjin,J. Sur I'bygrom^trie. iii, 1884. pp. 469-473. 
London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Pbilosopbical Magazine and Journal of Science. 

Conducted by Sir R.Kane, Sir W. Tbomson, and W. Francis. Vols. xvii,xviii, 

1884. London, s. a. 8vo. 
Baily, Walter. On an integrating anemometer, xvii, 1884. pp. 482-487. 2 pi. 
Langley, S. P. On the amount of tbe atmospheric absorption, xviii, 1884. pp. 

289-307. 
McLeod, Herbert. Preliminary notice of a new suusbiue-recorder. xviii, 1884. pp. 

141, 142. 
Tyndall, Jobn. On rainbows, xvii, 1884. pp. 61-04. 
Tyudall, John. Noie on tbe wbite rainbow, xvii, 1884. pp. 148-150. 
Loudon Meteorological Society. Quarterly Journal. Vol.x. London, 1884. 8vo. 
Abercromby, Ralph. On tbe explanation of certain weather prognostics, x, 1884. 

pp. 26-44. 
Abercromby Ralph. On tbe origin and course of tbe squall wbicb capsized H M. 

S. Eurydice, Marcb 24, 1878. x, 1884. pp. 172-180. 
Abercromby, Ralph. On tbe physical insignificance of concave and convex ba.u- 

grapbic or tbermograi^bic traces, x, 1884 pp. 241-249. 
Ai"cbibald, E. Douglas. Tbe beigbt of the neutral plane of pressures and depth 

of monsoon currents in India, x, 1884. pp. 123-139. 
Ghaisber, James. Meteorology of England during tbe quarter ending June 30, 

1884. X, 1884. July, append. 16 pp. 
Harding, C. On tbe storm which crossed tbe Britisb Islands between September 

1 and 3, 1883, and its track over the Nortb Atlantic, x, 1884. pp. 7-25. 9 pi. 
London Meteorological Council. Report of tbe tbermometer screen committee, x, 

1884. pp. 92-94. 
Marriott, William. Tbe great storm of January 26, 1884. x, 1884. pp. 114-122. 
Marriott, William. Some occasional winds and tbeir influence on bealth. x, 1884. 

pp. 290-294. 
Mawley. Report on temperatures in two different patterns of Stevenson screens. 

1884. pp. 1-7. 
Pearson, Alfred Naylor. Some results of an examination of tbe barometric varia- 
tions in western India, x. 1884. pp. 219-236. 1 pi. 



410 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1881. 

Russell, F. A. Rollo. The sunsets and sunrises of November and December, 1883, 

and Jauuary, 1884. x, 1884. pp. 139-152. 
Scott, Robert H. Brief notes on the history of thermometers. X, 1884. pp. 167-172. 
Scott, Robert H. The equinoctial gales. Do they occur in the British Isles ? x, 

1884. pp. 236-240. 2 pi. 
Scott, Robert. Cumulative temperature, x, 1884. pp. 297 -300. 
Stanley, W. F. On certain effects which may have been produced in the atmos- 
phere by floating particles of volcanic matter from the eruption of Krakatoa and 

Mount St. Augustiu. x, 1884. pp. 187-194. 
Tripe. John W. On some relations of meteorological phenomena to health, x, 

1884. pp. 276-281. 
Whipple, G. M. Preliminary inquiry into the causes of the variations in the read- 

iugs of black-bulb thermometer i« i-acHO. x, 1884. pp. 45-52. 
Whipple, G. M. The Helm wind. X, 1884. pp. 267-275. (Numerous short papers.) 
Whipple, G.M. Meteorology in relation to health. (A discussion.) x, 1884. i)p. 

275-289. 
London. Proceedings of the Royul Society. From November 15, 1883, to April 24, 

1884. Vol. XXXVI. London, 1884. 8vo. 
Scott, Robert H. Note on a series of barometrical disturbances which passed over 

Europe between the 27th and the 31st of August, 1883. xxxvi. pp. 139-142. 1 pi 
Strachey, R. Note on R. H.Scott's paper "On a series of barometrical disturb- 
ances which passed over Europe between the 27th and the 31st of August, 1883." 

xxxvi. i)p. 143-151. 
Meteorologische Zeitschrift. (See Hamburg.) 

Nature. A weekly illustrated journal of science. Vols, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 1884. Lon- 
don and New York, 1884. 1. 8vo. 
Archibald, E. Douglas. An account of some preliminary experiments with Biram's 

anemometers attached to kite springs or wires, xxxi, 1884-'85. pp. 66-68. 
Paulsen, Adam. On the heights of the aurora borealis. xxix, 1883-'84. jip. 337, 338. 
Ringwojd, Alexander. Red sunsets, xxx, 1884. pp. 301-304. 
Smith, C. Michie. Observations on a green sun, and associated phenomena, xxx, 

1884. pp. 347-349. 
Thompson, James. Whirlwinds and waterspouts, xxx, 1884. pp. 648, 649. 
Tromholt, Sophus. Measuring the aurora borealis. xxix, 1883-'84. pp. 409-412. 
Nature, La. Journal hebdomadaire illustr6. R<Sdacteur en chef, G. Tissandier. 12« 
anude, 1884. 1 et 2. sem. 2 vols. Paris, s. a. 1. 8vo. 
Freres, Richard. Hygromfetre enregistreur. 1884. 2. sem. j). 84. 
Lemstrom, Sellm. L'61ectricit^ atmosph6rique. 1884. 2. sem. pp. 177-178. 
- Plants, Gaston. La foudre globulairc. 1884. 2. sem. pp. 195-196. 
Plumandon. Les Eclairs. Observations m6t6orologiques. 1884. 2. sem. pp. 173-174. 
Tissandier, Gaston. Les Incurs cr6pusculaires, et la coloration du ciel. 1884. 

1. sem. pp. 106-107, 181. 
Tissandier, Gaston. Observation d'un nuage ^lectrique. 1884. 2. sem. p. 125. 
Tissandier, Gaston. L'observatoire m6t6orologique du Mont-Ventoux. 1884. 2. sem. 

pp. 385-386. 
Zurcher, F. Les typhous. Observations de P. Dechevrens. 1884. 2. sem. pp. 

30r>-307. 
Naturforscher (Der). Hrsg. von Wilhelm Sklarek. xvii, 1884. Berlin, 1884. 1. 8vo. 
Bly tt, A. Ueber die periodischen Aenderur gen in der Starke der Meersstromungen. 

XVII, 1884. pp. 253-254. 
Kiessling. Die Ditfractionsfarben in kiinstlichen Nebcin und die Dammerungs- 

Erscheinungen. xvii, 1884. pp. 397-402. 
Hoppe, Edm. Ueber atmospharische und Gewitter-Elektricitiit. xvii, 1884. pp. 

410-412. 
Liebenow, Carl. Zur Theorie der Gewitter. xvii, 1884. pp. 465-468. 



METEOROLOGY. 411 

Eoutgen, W. C. Neue Versnclie uber die Absorption dor Wiirme durch Wasser- 

dampf. XVII, 1884. pp. 298-301. 
Paris. L'Acaddniie des Sciences. Coiuptes rendus hebdoraadaires. Tomes xcviii, 

xcix, 1884. Paris, 1884. 4 to. 
Ciuls, L. Sur les pli^nomenes cr^pusculaires. xcviii, 1884. pp. 1013-1016. 
Descroix, L. Sur rexag<Sration du ponvoir ^vaporant de I'air h I'dquiuoxe du 

printemps. xcviii, 1884. pp. 1352-1355. 
Dufour, Cb. Sur les Incurs crdpusculaires et aurorales de I'biver de 1883-1884. 

XCVIII, 1884, pp. 617-620. 
Faye. Controverses au xviii" si^cle, an sujet des trombes, h propos d'une note de 

J.Luvini. xcviii, 1884. pp. 400-406. 
France. D6pt. Postes et des T61egraj)be8. Revel6 des coups de foudre observds en 

France pendant le premier semestre de I'annee 1883. ccviii, 1884. pp. 328-341, 

866-881. 
Goarant do Tromelin. (See Le Goarant. ) 

Hiru, G.-A. Actiuomfetre totaliseur absolu. xcviii, 1884. pp. 324-328. 
Jamin, J. Sur I'bygrom^trie. xcviii, 1884. pp. 1561-1565. 
Le Goarant de Tromelin, G. Sur les causes : 1" de la production de I'dlectricitd at- 

mospbdrique en gdndral ; 2" dans les orages ; 3" dans les Eclairs de cbaleur. 

xcviii, 1884. pp. 248-250. 
Lepbay. Rdsum6 des notes prises au cap Hoi"u, sur r<^lectricit6 atmospbdrique. 

xcviii, 1884. pp. 483-487. 
Plants, Gaston. Snr la foudre globulaire. xcix, 1884. pp. 273-276. 
Poincard, A. Scbdnias des mouvenients atmospbdriques sur I'Europe dans les dirers 

regimes, xcviii, 1884. pp. 890-892. 
Scbloesing, Tb. Influence de la temperature sur I'bygroscopicitd de la terre v^g^- 

tale. xcix, 1884. pp. 215-223. 
Paris. Anuuaire de la Soci6t<5 Mdtdorologique de France. 32* annde, 1884. 8vo. 

(Jan.-June.) 
Angot, A. Sur la marcbe des pb(5nomenes de v6g6tation en France pendant lea 

aundes 1880 et 1881. xxxii, 1884. pp. 186-194. 
Caron. Barometre ^ glyc<Srine. xxxii, 1884. pp. 137-140. 
Coust6. Tbdorie des variations brusques que prdsenteut les courbesdu baromMre- 

enregistreur pendant les orages. xxxii, 1884. pp. 40-44. 
Houvel, Cb. La provision du temps par une mdthode grapbiqne. xxxii, 1884. pp. 

194-199. 
Poincard, A. Observations sur quelques-unes des opinions dmises dans la brocbure 

de M. Hildebrandsson. xxxii, 1884. pp. 119-123. 
Poincard, A. Scbdmas des mouvenients atmospbdriqnes sur I'Europe dans les divers 

regimes, xxxii, 1884. pp. 141-148. 
Poincard, E. Monvements de Pair audessus d'une depression ou d'un surbausse- 

ment barom^triques. xxxii, 1884. pp. 116-119, 2 pi. 
Remise. Les crues de la Sa6ne et de ses principaux affluents en 1882. xxxii, 1884. 

pp. 200-205, 1 pi. 
Ritter, Cbarles. Statistiqne met^orologique de Constantinojjle. E6sum6 des ob- 
servations m6t6orologique8 faites de 1856 h 1875. xxxii, 1884. pp. 148-172, 1 pi. 
Tastes, M. de. L'orage du 1" f6vrier 1884, ^ Tours, xxxii, 1884. pp. 10.5-110. 
Petermaun's (Dr. A.) Mittbeilungen aus Justus Pertbes' geograpbiscber Anstalt. 

Hrsg. von E. Bebm. 30. Band, 1884. Gotba, s. a. 4to. 
Fritz, H. Das Ueberscbwemmungsgebiet an der Grenze des Mittel- nnd Ober- 

rbeines. xxx, 1884. pp. 241-250. 
Hovgaard, Andr. Die Eiszusttinde im Kariscben Meere. xxx, 1884. pp. 253-259. 
Mobn, H. Beitrage zur Hydrograpbie des sibiriscben Eismeeres, nacb den Beob- 

acbtungen der " Vega "-Expe iition im Sommer 1878. xxx, 1884. pp. 250-253, 

Ipl. 



412 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Wiclimaun, H. Die amerikanische Polarexpedition nach Lady Franklin Bai, 1881- 

1884. XXX, 1884. pp. 339-348. 
Quarterly Jour. Met. (See L ondon Met. Soc.) 
Repertorium der Physik. Hrsg. von Dr. F. Exuer. 20. Band, 1884. Miinchen u, 

Leii)zig, 1884. 8vo. 
Angstrom, K. Ueber ein neues Giiothermonieter. xx, 1884. pp. 639-646. 
Braun, Willielm. Die Abliiingigkeit der Luftdampfung von Temperatur-Sdiwan- 

kungen. xx, 1884. pp. 821-824. 
Hautefeuille, P., und Cbappuis, J. Untersuchungen tLber das Ozou. xx, 1884. 

pp. 507-521, 761-770. 
Science. An illustrated weekly journal. Vol. Iii, 1884. Boston. 8vo. 

Davis, W. M. *Wliirlwind8, cyclones, and tornadoes. Ii, 1884. pp. 589-591, 610- 

612, 639, 640, 701-705, 729-731, 758-761. iii, 1884. pp. 40-44, 63-66, 93-98. 
Davis, W. M. Tlie older wind-charts of the North Atlantic. lu, 1884. pp. 593- 

597. 
Davis, W. M. Meteorological charts of the North Atlantic. Ill, 1884. pp. 654- 

657. 
Finley, Juo. P. The progress of tornado investigation. Ill, 1884. pp. 767-768. 
Mendenhall, T. C. A question of [thermometer] exposure, iii, 1884. pp. 306- 

308. 
Ray, P. H. The U. S. meteorological station at Point Barrow, m, 1884. pp. 478- 

480. 
Trowbridge, John. Thunder-storms, iv, 1884. pp. 97-99. 
Upton, W. The red skies, in, 1884. pp. 37-40. 

[Waldo, Frank.] The Russian meteorological service, iii, 1884. pp. 117-121. 
Vienna. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math-naturw. 

Classe. Lxxxix. xc. Band, 1884. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Hann, Julius. *Einige Resulte aus vonMechow's meteorologischenBeobachtungen 

im Innern von Angola, xxxix, 1884. pp. 189-217. 
Hann, Julius. ^DieTemperaturverhiiltinsse der osterreichischen Alpenliindcr. i. 

Theil. xc, 1884. 99 pp. 
Pernter, J. M. *Beitrag zu den Windverhaltnissen in hoherenLuftschichten. xc, 

1884, pp. 186-200. 
. Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Zeitschrift. Redigirt von 

Dr. J. Hann. xix. Band, 1884. Wien, 1884. 1. 8vo. 
AssmanUjR. Das Schleuderpsychrometer. xix, 1884. pp. 154-162. 
Frolich, O. Messungen der Sonnenwiirme. xix, 1884. pp. 209-222. 
Graeben, von der. Ein Beitrag zum Thema " Sonnenflecken und Regenmengen." 

XIX, 1884. pp. 1-12, 115-123. 
Hann, Julius. Tafeln zur Bestimmung des Wasserdampfgehaltes der Luft. xix, 

1884. pp. 228-235. 
Hellman, G. Beobachtilngen iiber die Diimmerung. xix, 1884. pp. 57-64, 162-175. 
Jesse, O. Die merkwiirdigen Dammernngserscheinungen des Herbstes und Win- 
ters 1883-'84. XIX, 1884. pp. 313-320. 
Lang, Dr. C. Gewitterstudien in Italien. xix, 1884. pp. 353-372. 
Marchi, Luigi. Untersuchungen iiber die mathematische Theorie der Winde. xix, 

1884. pp. 278-286. 
Maurer, Dr. Ueber den taglichen Gang des Luftdruckes auf dem Santis und Gros- 

sen St. Bernard, xix, 1884. pp. 513-523. 
Mohn, H. Klima von Norwegen. Luftdruck und Temperatur. xix, 1884. pp. 

145-154, 1 pi. 
Oppoizer, Theodor von. Ueber den Zusammenhang der Refraction mit der Tem- 

peraturvertheilung in der Atmosphiire. xix, 1884. 16 pp. (Sujjpl. to May No.) 
Scott, R. H. Die Krakatoa Luftwelle. Notiz iiber eiue Reihe barometrischer Sto- 

rungen, August 27-31, 1883. xix, 1884. pp. 97-104 



METEOROLOGY. 413 

Teissereuc cTe Bort. Ueber abnormale Wiuter. xix, 1884. pp. 105-112. 
Weihrauch, K. Ueber die Bildung von Mittelwerthen boi der relativen Fouchtig- 

keit. XIX, 1884. pp. 265-274. 
Wild, Heiuricli. Ueber die Bestimmuug der Temperatur und Feuchtigkeit der 

Luft. XIX, 1884. pp. 433-444 
Wetter (Das). Meteorologische Monatschrift fiir Gebildete aller StJinde. Hrsg. von 

Dr. R. Assmann. Band i, Nos. 1-9. April to December, 1884. Magdeburg, 1884. 

8vo. 
Assmann, R. Die Gewitterbii vom 13. Mai 1884. i. 1884. pp. 17-26. 
Bebber, J. von. Die Regenverhiiltnisse Dentschlands. i, 1884. pp. 71-77. 
Borustein, R. Ueber lokale Wetterprognose. i, 1884. pp. 3-10, 42-48, 65-71, 

97-101. 
Griitzemacber, A. Der braunrothe Ring um die Sonne, i, 1884. pp. 10-17. 
Hoppe, Edm. Ueber die Theorien des Nordlicbts. i, 1884. pp. 121-124, 149-152. 
Kiessling. Zur Erkliirung des braunrotben Ringes um die Sonne, i, 1884. pp. 

48-52. 
MUnter. Ueber die Ursaebe des Windes. 1, 1884. pp. 152-159. 
Seemann, K. Ueber Land- und Seewinde und deren Verlauf. i, 1884. pp. 79-83, 

101-105, 124-131. 
Zeitschrift fiir Meteorologie. (^See Vienna.) 
Miscellaneous papers — 

Englemann, George. Mean and extreme daily temperatures in Saint Louis for 

forty-seven years [1836-1882], as calculated from daily observations. Saint Louis, 

Acad. Sci. Trans., iv, 1884. pp. 496-508. 
Gurley, W. C. Pbotograpbing a flasb of ligbtning. Scientific American, l, 1884. 

p. 355. Knowledge, vi, 1884. p. 6. 
Lehmann. Meteorologiscbe Literatur Thxiringens. Jena, Geogr. Gesell. Mitth., ii, 

1884. pp. 152-179. 
Mark, E. H. Tbe Jamestown [Obio] tornado [April 27, 1884]. Obio Meteorolog- 
ical Bureau, Rep., April, 1884, pp. 6-23. 
Thorpe, J. On the Bowen cyclone of 30th January, 1884. Queensland, Rcy. Soc. 

Proc, I, 1884. pt. 1. 5 pp. I pi. 
Vincent, J. Ciimatologie de Bruxelles. Bruxelles, Annuaire Obs., LU, 1885. pp. 

158-192. IpL 



414 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



SUBJECT AND AUTHOR INDEX. 



No. of paragraph. 
A.bbe, Prof. C. : 

State weather services 2 

Meteorological societies 4 

Scientific freedom iu Russia 9 

Monthly weather reviews 11 

Standard time , 17 

Meteorological education 19 

Meteorological journals 20 

Signal Service heptades 27 

Geographical distribution of epidemics 38 

Meteorology of equatorial regions 44 

Subjective climate 78 

Reprint of writings of American meteorologists 87 

Bibliography of meteorology 89 

Meteorological study in United States 91 

Meteorologists v. weather prophets 103 

Methods of verifying 107 

Criterion for size of districts 107 

Source of errors in dew-point apparatus Ill 

Signal Service iJsychrometer studies 122 

Espy's nepheloscope 124 

Thermometer exposure 127 

Sling psychrometer experiments 130 

Criterion for thermometer exposure 132 

Psychrometer studies 133 

Measurement of thunder 152 

Use of dew-point 156 

Value of the dew- point 160 

Utilization of Mount Whitney 169 

Violle and Stokes' actinometers 175 

Importance of pyrheliometry 181 

Temperature and locality 189 

Evaporation, observations needed 200 

Formation of clouds 203 

Espy's cloud studies 206 

Flotation of tops of clouds 211 

Growth of storm center , 226 

Daily cloud map 229 

Explanation of Upton's velocity of sailing vessels 237 

Explanation of diurnal land and sea breeze 237, 251 

Wind force, reduction to standard elevation 245 

Temperature, reduction to standard elevation 189, 245 

Moisture, reduction to standard elevation 245 

Rainfall, reduction to standard elevation 245 

Explanation of sudden changes of pressure 270 



METEOROLOGY. 415 

No. of paragraph. 
Abbe, Prof. C. — Continuecl. 

Sudden pre8.siir(3 cbau<;e at Wasbiuj^rou 270 

Dinrual variat iou of barometer 276 

Hypsometric formula of Laplace 282 

Cbarts of storm frequency 283 

Causes of storm progress 287 

Origin of ligbtniug 295 

Location of thunder-storms 295 

Observations of heat lightning 296 

Disti ibution of thunder-storms 296 

Gusrs preceding thunder-storms 298 

On t he Koppen-Espy theory of sipialls and gusts 300 

Structure of tbuuder-storms 305 

Systems of weather changes 321 

Pri ncipal centers of action 323 

Long range predictions 328 

Auroral arches in United States 302 

Indian summer smoke haze 386 

Extraordinary twilight pbenomena of 185J3-'84 387 

Twilight due to aqueous spherules 390 

Eenewal in 1H84 of twilights of 1883 399 

Nebulous cloud about the sun 401 

Sun-spot period in temperatures 414 

Vegetation daring geological climate 425 

Thermal constants for locusts' eggs 429 

Abercromby, R. : 

Popular weather sayings 97 

European weather types 98 

Describes pocky clouds 207 

Abney, Captain, photograx)by of aqueous absorption bauds 373, 374 

Abney aud Festing, spectra at low and high temperatures • 374 

Actinometer : 

Hiru's absolute 173 

Stewart's improved 174 

Stokes' improved 174 

Langley's bolometer 179 

Frolich's thermopile 180 

Actinometry 173, 183 

Ackroyd, W., formation of rainbows 378 

Adamson, phtenological laws 421 

African coast, climate of 84 

Aerodynamics, experimental : 

Reynolds ...^ 213,264 

Darwin 214 

Vettiu 263 

Airy, Sir G. B. , temperature of the Thames 196 

Aitken, dust phenomena 208 

Agricultural experiments, Houghton farm .• 45 

Alcock, N., climate and complexion 432 

Algeria, climate of . .' 83 

Allahabad, meteorology of 10 

Amstein, H., barometer, self- registering 141 

Andries, Dr. P. : 

Origin of atmospheric electricity 310 

Formation of thunder-storms 310 



416 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Ko. of paragraph. 

Andre, barometric variation at liigh and low stations 277 

Anemograph, new forms of 134, 136 

Anemometer, new forms of 135, 136 

Anemometry lunar period in 408, 408 

Angot, A. : 

Climate of Algeria 83 

Improved psycbrometer formula 121 

Annals, Italian Meteorological office 24 

Anthony, W. A., and Brackett, C. F., text-book of physics 72 

Archibald, E. D. : ' 

Wind, increase with altitude 246 

Wind, diurnal periodicity 249 

Assmann, Dr. R. : 

The Magdeburg Wetterwarte 18 

Meteorological Journal 19 

Sling psychrometer 129 

Anemograph 134 

Rain-gauge, self-registering 148 

Frost-gauge 148 

Association : 

Italian Meteorological 23 

German Meteorological 20 

Atlantic Ocean : 

Currents of the 171 

Temperature of the 170 

Structiire of ice 172 

Winds of the 

Atmosphere : 

Constitution of 161, 162, 163 

Limit of 140 

Atmbspheric absorption : 

Maurer 178 

Langley 179 

Friilich 180,183 

Vogel 182 

Upton 1 236 

Attlmayer, Prof. F., treatise on maritime meteorology 75 

At water, assimilation of nitrogen by plants 424 

August in, F., rainfall at Prague 222 

Aurora: 

Height of 356,357,362 

Spectrum of 356 

Observed 358,359,360,362,367 

Polar bands 358 

Periodicity of 361 

Artificial 362,367 

Australia, meteorology of 49 

Backhouse, T. W., aui-ora spectrum 355 

B<51ikoff, A., lunar period in anemometry 408 

Balloon, observations in 108, 109 

Barometer : 

Correction for gravity 142 

Comparisons of 137, 138 

Mercurial, tilling of 139 

Improvements in , ,. .... 140 



METEOROLOGY. 417 

No. of paragraph. 
Barometer — Continued. 

Eeductiou to sea-level 281,282,419 

Self- registering 141 

Barometric pressure : 

Sudden changes in 269, 273 

At Paris 272 

In India 273 

Waves of 3,267,268 

Diurnal periodicity 273,278 

Krakatoa waves , 3, 391,405,407 

Beal,Prof, W. J., local weather predictions 93 

Bebber, Dr. J. van : 

Membership of German Meteorolgical Association 20 

Formation of clouds 204 

Statistics of barometric minima 284 

Long weather periods 320 

Progressive movement of storms 320 

Loug-range predictions 327 

Distribution of weather and pressure 327 

Becquerel, II., spectra of phosphorescence 375 

Ben Nevis, observations on 379 

Bergmaun, climate and vegetation 423 

Bezold, Prof. W. von: 

Thunder-storms in Bavaria 294 

Study of thunder-storms 297 

Cold days in May 312 

Lightning strokes in Bavaria 545 

Twilight, normal phenomena of 380 

Bibliography : 

Hellmann's Repertorium of German 88 

Signal Service, general 89 

Tburiugia by Lehmanu 81 

Biliwiller, R. : 

Winds of the Siintis '^^42 

Diurnal wind period 242 

Cold days in May 314 

Bishop E. , red sunsets due to Krakatoa dust 387, 391, 392 

Blanford, H. F. : 

Annual report of -- 10 

Long-range weather predictions 94 

Barometric pressure, India 273 

Suowfall and dry winds 224 

Winter rains of Northern India " 225 

Blavier, E. E., earth currents in France 350 

Blytt, climatic changes and ocean currents 440 

Btien. (See Wind-gusts.) 

Bogeu, method of tilling barometers 139 

Bottomley, J. T., emissivity for heaf. 118 

Bornsteiu, Professor: 

Anemometer, self- registering 13o 

On theNipher rain-gauge 143 

Boussingault, phienological laws 421 

Brocken, apiiaratus at station on summit 148 

Broun, J. A., movement of barometric waves - 267 

S. Mis, 33- — 27 



418 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

No. of paragrai)h. 

Browne, W. R., causes of glacial motion 435 

Br<ins, Dr. H. , effect of friction on Ferrel's law 256 

Buchanan, J. Y., physics of the ocean 12 

Buchan, A. : 

Temperature of British islands 190 

Wind, diurnal period at sea 248 

Bays-Ballot, cold days in May 316 

Buzin, Prof. P. : 

Modified isobars 279 

The value of departures 325 

Distribution of weather, in reference to storm-centers 325 

Carpenter, W. F., solar periods in daily temperature 410 

Central America, climate of 82 

Chambers, F., the winds of Kurrachee 10 

Chambers, C, sun-spot and planetary periods 411 

Chinese meteorological service - 52 

Chistoni, Professor, barometer comparisons in Europe 138 

Chrystal, Professor, new hygrometer 51 

Cirrus clouds, formation of 205 

Clark J. W., hygroscopic surfaces 110 

Clayton, H. H. : 

Meteorologic cycle 3 

Thunder-squalls of July 5, 1883 3 

Climate: 

Of JanMayen 29 

Of Ben Nevis 51 

Estrella 54 

Proposed new zoues of 184 

During geological epochs 425, 433, 441 

Clouds : 

Altitude of, by photography 149, 150 

Altitude of, vertical parallax 151 

Altitude of, new forms of 207 

Altitude of, formation of 201,206,213,214 

Altitude of, observations of 204 

Absorb sola r heat 211 

Flotatiouof. 210,211 

Photography of 149,150 

Formed of minute unfiozen drops 390 

Cloudy days and mean cloudiness 231, 232 

Comets and clouds of cosmic dust 390, 399,401,402 

Composite portraiture applied to meteorology 154 

Congo: 

Climate of 85 

Observations in the region of the 385 

Congress : 

Electrical, Paris, 1884 329 

National conference, Philadelphia, 1884 ? 330 

Cornu : 

Intensity of rainband „ 376 

Nebulous cloud about the sun 400 

Corona, observed on Ben Nevis 379 

Craig, Dr. T., introduces sling p.sychrometer 130 

Cro va, Professor, improved dew-point apparatus ,,...... ^ , 12f» 



METEOROLOGY. 419 

Ko. of paragraph. 

Cunuingliam, measurement of fog density 153 

Currents : 

Asceudiug, influence of vapor 201 

Upper, suggestions as to 265 

Cycle, barometer and rainfall 3 

Dainiau, J., cloud movement and rain 230 

Danckelmau, Dr. A. von: 

Meteorology of Congo region 85, 385 

Kainfall in Saxony 216 

Darwin, G. PL, formation of ripple-marks and cirri 214 

Davis, William M. : 

Winds of the Atlantic 3 

Tornadoes and cyclones 3 

Composite portraiture 154 

Elemen tary proof of Ferrel's law 254 

Characteristics of the simoom 307 

Dawson, H. P., climate at Fort Eae 37,39 

Days, periods of cold 313, 319 

Decades : 

Used at Leipsic 26 

Possible in the Signal Service 27 

Dechevreus, P. M., typhoons of 1882 289 

Denza, F.: 

Observations in captive balloon 108 

Barometric comparisons in Europe 138 

Deutsche-Seewarte, method of verifying predictions 106 

Dew-point apparatus: 

Modifications of 123,124,125 

Advantages of use of 156 

The value of, in predictions 1(30 

Doberck, Dr. W. , director at Hong-Kong 52, 53 

Doering, O., temperature and variations in South America 195 

Drainage, subterranean, into wells 223 

Droughts and floods 220,221 

In India 224 

Dnfonr, Prof. IL: 

Self-rpgisterir g barometer 141 

Electrical observations 335 

Minute unfrozen fog pai'ticles 390 

Dunwoody, Lieut. H. H. C, popular weather sayings 97 

Dust phenomena, explanation of 208, 209, 210, 211, 213 

Dworak, sound radiometers 152 

Earth currents 350, 353 

Eccentricity of the earth aflecting climate 433, 441 

Edlund, Professor, theory of uuipolar induction 334 

Education, meteorological 19, 90 

Egorofi", Professor, atmospheric spectrum lines 371 

Ekama, Dr. H. : 

Aurora observed at Kara 358 

Aurora and polar bands 358 

Ekholm, N., climate of Spitzbergen 32 

Electricity: 

Congress for 329, 330 

History of ^31 



420 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

No. of paragraph. 
Electricity — Continued. 

Observations of 330,334,341 

Theories of 332,340 

Storm 343 

Epidemics, distribution of 38 

Equatorial region, study of 43, 44 

Ericsson, J. : 

Improved solar motor 176 

Results with solar pyrometer 177 

Erk, F., temperature at Munich 157 

Eruptions, volcanic and resulting meteorology 395,396, 397 

Esi)y, Prof. J. P. : 

Study of cloud movement 229 

Cause of wind-gusts 270 

Gusts preceding thunder-storms 298 

Sketch of his labors 206 

Struct ure of thunder-storms 305 

Evaporation 199.200 

Everett, Prof. J. D., text-book of physics 72 

Faye, sun-spot period in position of pier 415 

Ferrari, C. : 

Italian thunder-storms 291 

Cause of thunder-storms .' 301 

Climate and harvests in Italy 426 

Ferrel, Prof. William : 

Author of a general treatise on meteorology 69 

Theory of wet and dry bulb thermometers 127 

Poleward tendencj^ of storms 286 

Hy))sometric formula 418 

Festing, Colonel, aqueous absorption bands 374 

Fiiiemann, C. G., studies on tornadoes 306 

Finley, Li ut. J. P. : 

Tornado predictions 3 

Charts of storm frequency 283 

Fischer, Prof. A., metallic thermometers 136 

Fitzgerald, Prof. G. F., flotation of silk fibers 212 

Fog, measuremeut of density of 153 

Fogbow, observed on Ben Nevis 379 

Forster, Prof. William : 

Errors of thermometers 114 

Suii-s]iot period in position of pier 413 

Frankal, Dr. A., animal growth in rarefied air 430 

Friction, etffct on barometric gradient 280 

Fritz, Prof. II. : 

The whisper wind of the Rhine 240 

Low altitude of aurora • 360 

Periodicity of aurora ,361 

Frolich, Dr. O. : 

Atmospheric absorption 180 

Reply to cntici.sms 183 

Frost-work, method of measuring 148 

Fuess, R., anemograph 134 

Gay, twilights and eruptions of ])revious years 397 

Gelcich.E., Jouva's rules for hurricane predictions .. r--.T- 99 



METEOROLOGY. 42 1 

, Ko. of parriKtaph, 

General treatises: 

Meteorology, Hann G8 

Meteorology, Scott 69 

Meteorology, Ferrel 69 

lustrnmeuts, Hanu 70 

Heat, Tail 71 

Light, Tait 71 

Physics, Everett 72 

Physics, Trowbridge 72 

Physics, Authony and Brackett 72 

Climate, Woeikof 73, 74 

Maritime meteorology, Attlmayer 75 

George, Captaiu, filling barometers 139 

Gilbert, G.K.: 

Tornado predictions 3 

Hypsometric met hod 4-30 

Glaciers and glacial epoch 433, 441 

Gladstone, J. H., measurement of fog density 153 

Godard balloon, activity of 108 

Gordon, Lieut. W. R., Hudson Bay meteorological stations 5 

Gould, Dr. B. A. : 

Argentine meteorological ofBce 6 

Sun-spot period in position of pier 414 

Gradient, barometric, in storms 280 

Grand St. Bernard, hourly barometric observations 278 

Gravity measured by barometer 142 

Greece, climate of 80 

Greely, Lieut. A. W., climate ot Lady Franklin Bay 31 

Green sun, iu India 404 

Greenland, exploration' of, by Nordenskiold 42 

Grossman, cloudy days and mean cloudiness 232 

Groeben, Lieut, v. d,, sun-spot period in Mississippi River 417 

Griitzmacher, A., brown-red ring about the sun 402 

Guldberg ami Mohn, assumi)tions verified 257, 261 

Hamberg, H. E., diurnal wind variation 238 

Hamilton, Sir William R., general weather iu optics 369 

Hann, Prof. J. : 

Author of a general treatise on meteorology 68 

General introduction to meteorological observations 70 

Thermometer exposures 128 

• Metal thermograph 136 

Hygrometric tables 201 

Distribution of droughts and floods 221 

Harringtoii, Prof. M. W., American Meteorological Journal 3 

Haughtoii, Kev. S., altitude of twilight dust 393 

Haze : 

Of Indian summer 386 

Of smoke 385 

Of dust and moisture 381, 384 

Ilazon, Prof. H. A. : 

Thermometer exposure 3 

Tornado generation 3 

Thermometer shelters 132 

Local temperature variations 189 



422 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Jfo. of paragvnph. 

Health exhi bitiou Jit London 13 

Health and meteorology 13 

Heat-lightning, distance of 294, 296 

Hellmann, Dr. G. : 

Repertorinni of German meteorology 88 

Thnnder-storms and atmospheric pressure 302 

Cold periods of Breslau 317 

Twilight, normal, in Spain 381 

Twilight, normal, in Europe 382 

Henry, Prof. Josepli : 

Reflection of thunder 292 

Structure of thunder-storms 305 

Hertz, Dr. H., thermodynamic problems, graphic solution of 266 

Hildebrandssun, Prof. H. H. : 

Popular weather sayings 97 

Distribution of weather phenomena with reference to a storm-center 324 

Hill, E., climate as aifected by eccentricity of earth's orbit 438 

Hill, S. A.: 

Meteorology at Allahabad 10 

Meteorology of the Himalayas 10 

Weather and crime statistics in India 431 

Himalayas, meteorology of 10 

Hirn. absolute actinometer : 173 

Hlrsch, sun-spot period in position of pier 415 

Hogbom, A. G., autumn temperature of Europe 191 

Hofifmanu, Prof. H., permauency of thermal constants 427 

Hoffmeyer, Capt. N., daily weather charts 22 

Honolulu, observations of red sunsets 392 

Hoppe, Dr. E. : 

History of electricity 331 

Dissipation of electricity 340 

Proposes lines of equal electric loss 340 

Hough, B. F., valuable barograph records 270 

HuU, R. , phajnological results 421 

Hydro-mechanics, experiments in 213,214,263,265 

Hygrometers : 

Errors of 110,111 

New form, by Professor Chrystal 51 

Hypsometry : 

Influence of aqueous vapor 201 

Barometric 418,420 

International : 

Geodetic Congress 14 

Meteorological Congress -. 15 

Meridian and Time Conference 16 

Irving, A. , motion of glaciers 436 

Isobrontons, defined by von Bezold 294 

Italian central office for meteorology 24 

Jamin, Professor, new hygrometric ratio 159 

Jesse, O. : 

Height of auroral arch, October 2, 1882 356 

Aurora altitude, method for finding 357 

Height of twilight dust 403 

Joule, J. P., scientific papers of, reprinted , -■ 86 



METEOROLOGY. 423 

No. of paragraph. 
Journals of meteorology : 

Aruericau,Prof. M. W. Harrington 3 

Assmann, Dr. A 19 

German association '. , 21 

General needs 20 

Kalisclier, Dr. S., origin of electricity 337 

Kapeller self-registering thermometer 112 

Kayser, Dr., photograph of lightning 346 

Kiessling, Professor : 

Diffraction due to dust and fog 383,384 

Twilight due to diffraction 383,384 

Artificial production of fog and diffraction 384 

Exiilauation of brown-red ring 402 

Klein, Prof. H. : 

Cirrus-cloud and rain *. 228 

Value of rain-baud predictions 377 

Kleiuschmidt, Professor, auroras at Godthaab 362 

Klossowskij, A., thunder-storms in Russia 308 

Klobukoff, N. von, filling barometers 139 

Kcippen, Dr. W. : 

Distribution of .stations 1 

Climate of African coast 84 

Method of verifying 105 

Gravity and the barometer 142 

Climatic zones 184 

Formation of cumulus 202 

Observation of clouds ''^04 

Land and sea breeze, theory of 250 

Charts of storm- track frequency 283 

Inclination of axis of cyclone 290 

Thunder-.stormof August 9, 18S1 299 

Characteristics of simoon 307 

Cold days iu May 313,315 

Brown-red ring around the sun 402 

Krakatoa, eruption and its consequences 382, 407 

Krankenhagen : 

Cold days in June 318 

Cold days and nights 319 

Kremzer, Dr. V., rainfall in Europe 320 

Krone, Prof. H., observations and hypothesis on twilight 389 

Kurrachee, winds of 1^ 

Lamp, Dr. E., temperature within fog 1^° 

Landolt, Prof. E., study of thunder-storms 293 

Lang, Dr. C: , 

Station on Wendelstein 4" 

Climate of Munich '^^ 

Temperature of water - •'■20 

Comparison of various gauges l''^ 

Thunder-storms in Italy "■^^ 

Laugley, Prof. S. P. , Mount Whitney expedition 1 ' ^ 

Le Goarant de Tromelin, f fictional electricity '^^^ 

Lehmann, bibliography for Thuringia ^'■ 

Lemstrom, Prof. S., artificial auroras "*"'' 

Lendenfcld, Dr. R. von, glaciers of New Zealand 437 

Lenz, Dr. R., telephone for measuring temperature --•- 113 



424 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

No. of paragraph. 
Lephay, Lieut. J. : 

Climate of Cape Horn -. 36 

Electric observations at Cape Horn 341 

L^vy, A., constitution of the atmosphere 162 

■ Ley, Rev. Clement : 

Twilight due to ice spiculse 391 

Studies of cirrus clouds 205 

Leyst, E. : 

Storm statistics for Russia and Siberia 285 

Lunar period in anemometry 409 

Lijijhtning flash : 

Origin of 295,310,333,334 

Distance of 294-296 

Lightning-rods : 

Melseu's sysfem 342 

Strokes, destruction by 344, 345 

Flash, photograph of 346 

Linss, Dr., origin of electricity 339 

Linsser, phaenological laws 421 

Liznar, J., sun-spot period in magnetism 412 

Lodkyer, cause of red sunset phenomena 387, 391 

Lodge, Dr. O. L., dust phenomena 20 

London : 

Meteorological office 11 

Royal Society committee on Krakatoa 389, 391 

Loomis, Prof. E. : 

Barometric gradients 280 

Reduction of barometer to sea-level 281 

Laplace hypsometric formula 281 

Loud, Prof. F. H., diurnal variation of the wind 3 

Ludevig, J., thunder-storms in Germany 309 

Lugli, Dr. J. : 

Verification of weather predictions 101 

Temperature distribution in Italy , 193 

Mach, Prof. E. , Melsen's system of lightning-rods 342 

Madsen, C. L., transatlantic cable weather reports 95 

Magnetic storm of November 17, 1882 354 

ilagnetism, terrestrial 347-349 

Mallet, Prof. J. W., chemical analysis of rain-water 215 

Mangon, H., verification of weather predictions 100 

Mantel, G., cloudy days and mean cloudiness 231 

Marchi, Prof. L. de, mathematical theory of winds 259, 260 

Margueles, Dr. M. , mathematical theory of winds 259 

Marriott, W., popular weather sayings 97 

Maurer, Dr. R. : 

Air- thermometer 119 

Anemometer, self-registering 136 

Rain-gauge, self-registering 147 

Atmospheric absorption 178 

Barometric observations on Siiutis and St. Bernard 278 

Mauritius Meteorological Society, observations relatin<i to Krakatoa 391 

Meudeleef, improvements in barometers 140 

Mendenhall, Prof T. C, Ohio State meteorological bureau 3 

Merino, Prof. M., appointed director , 28 



METEOROLOGY. 425 

Meteorological Office : 

Argentine, Gould, Dr. B. A 6 

India, Blauford, H. F 10 

St. Petersburg i^ 

Meteorological stations : 

In Hudson's Bay 5 

In Panama 7 

Meteorology : 

Instruction in, England 92 

Instruction in, Germany 90 

Instruction in. United States 91 

Deductive philosophical 262 

Miles, Dr. M., director of Houghton farm 45 

Miller-Hauenfels, Prof. A. von: 

Earth temperature 197 

Theoretical meteorology 262 

Millosevich, rainfall in Italy 219 

Mirage and temperature 309 

Mohn, Prof. H. : 

Climate of Norway 76 

Barometric variations in North Atlantic 274 

Moller, M., causes of storm progress 286 

Monthly weather reviews 11 

Montigny, C, scintillation .370 

Mount Whitney expedition, report of 179 

Miihry, Dr. A., study of equatorial meteorology 43 

Miiller, Dr. J., rainfall in Switzerland 217 

MuUer, M. : 

Gradients and thunder-storms 303 

Temperature and Boen or gusts 304 

Munich : 

Climate of 77 

Local distribution of rainfall 144 

Hourly temperature records 157 

Munro, anemograph constructed by 136 

Muntz, A., and E. Aubin, carbonic acid in atmosphere 103-165 

Murray, J. , contents of volcanic ashes 398 

Natal, twilight observed at 395 

National Academy of Sciences, eclipse expedition '^30 

Necrology : 

Goklschmidt, R. H 56 

Wiillerstorf-Urbair, von 57 

Sabine, Sir E 58 

Kowalski, M 59 

Schmidt, J. F. J 60 

Kapeller, L. J 61 

Hoffmeyer, N. H, C 62 

Schoder, H. von 63 

Boguslawski, G. von ^'1 

Merian, P 65 

Gnyot,Prof. A. H 66 

Plant, Thomas 67 

Neisou, ol)serves twilight at Natal "^^o 

Nephoscope, invention of Braun's 1^ 



426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Ko. of paragiaph. 
Neumayer, Dr. George : 

Daily weather charts 22 

Data relative to sunsets 388 

Nordenskiold, A. E., exploration of Greenhmd 42 

Norway, climate of 76 

Oberbeck, Prof. A. , mathematical theory of -winds 261 

Obir, summit of wind force and direction 241 

Observatory, meteorological : 

Falmouth 50 

Magdeburg 18 

Ocean currents affecting climate 440 

Ocean, physics of, Buchanan, J. Y 12 

Oppolzer, T. von , refraction, atmospheric 368 

Optics, Hamilton's general method 369 

Osborne, J. R., subjective climate 78 

Overzier, Dr B., verification of long-range predictions 102 

Palmieri, Prof. L. : 

Atmospheric electricity ~ 336 

Origin of atmospheric electricity 336 

Partsch, Prof. J., climate of Greece 80 

Paul, Prof. H. M., barometric waves 3 

Thermometer exposure 3 

Paulsen, A. , aurora observed aC Godthaab 359 

Pearson, A. M., barometric waves move eastward 267,268 

Penck, snow line as index of climate 441 

Penhallow, Prof. P. P. , meteorologist at Houghton farm 45 

Periodicity in meteorology „ 408-417 

Pernter, Prof. J. M. : 

Climate of the Obir 55 

Diathermancy of aqueous vapor 168 

Total sunshine i 234 

Winds of the Obir ., 241 

Diurnal wind period 241 

Barometric variations at high and low stations 275 

Pettersson, Dr. O. : 

Improved calorimeter 116 

Atlantic Ocean, physics of 172 

Phaenological: 

Constants 13 

Results 421-428 

Phinney, A. J., the Oakville tornadoes 3 

Pizzighelli, G., photography and actinometry 372 

Polar Conference, International 30 

Popular weather sayings 97 

Predictions of: 

Tornadoes .- 3 

Long range 327, 328 

By spectroscopic rain-band 376, 377 

Of tornados 3 

Prestel, principal centers of action 323 

Pschre walski, climate of Thibet 79 

Psychrometer, improvement in 121,122 

Pyrheliomerry. (See Actinometry.) 

Ragona, Professor, evaporation, observations cf 199 



METEOROLOGY. 427 

No. of paragraph. 
Rain : 

Wiutei' raiu in India 225 

Drags down cooled air 270 

Preceded by blue scintillations 370 

Fostered by smoke haze 386 

Rain-baud : 

Observation of 371-377 

Verification of predictions by 377 

Rainbow, by reflection from exterior of drops 378 

Rainfall : 

Distribution in Muuicb 144 

Distribution in Saxony 216 

Distribution in Switzerland 217 

Distribution in Germany 218 

Distribution in Italy 219 

Distribution in Europe 220 

Distrilsution in England 221 

Distribution in Prague 222 

And cloud movement 227-230 

And solar periodicity 220,416,417 

Rain-gauge : 

Value of NipLer's gauge 143 

Nipher's, used on the Brockeu , 148 

Comparative observations 144 

Effect of altitude 145 

Self-registering 146,147,148 

Effect of exposure 220 

Rain-water, chemical analysis of 215 

Redfield, Prof. J. C, study of cloud movement 229 

Refraction and atmospheric temperatui-e 368 

Reis, Prof. P. , sun-spot period in the Rhine 416 

Relative humidity : 

Computation of averages 155, 156 

Jamin's new ratio 159 

Rcnou, E. , barometric pressure at Paris 272 

Reynolds, Prof. 0. : 

Motions in air and water 213, 265 

Hydrodynamics 264 

Richard, self-registering thermometers 46 

Richter, A. : 

Altitude of clouds 151 

Cirrus movemeut and rain 227 

RiescMiberger, Prof. H. , temperature and altitude 192 

Riugwood. A., twilight observed in New Zealaud . 394 

Rogovski, E., constitution of the atmosphere 161 

Roscoe and Stewart, total sunshine 233 

Roth, Dr. F.: 

Approximations assumed by himself and Davis 255 

Deflection due to earth's rotation is independent of the surface friction.. 257 

Friction affects deviation of eastward motions more than westward 258 

Rykatcheff,M. : 

Krakatoa wave "^^^ 

Krakafoa barometric wave 405 

Lunar period in atjcuiouietry 40a 



428 SCIENTIFIC ftECORD FOR 1884. 

'So. of paragraph. 
Rung, Capt. G. : 

Rotatioa psychrometer 46 

Rain-gauge, self-recording 146 

Sachs, pliaenological laws 421 

SUntis, summit of: 

Winds, force, and direction 242, 243 

Hourly barometric observations 278 

Salis, P. von, lightning strokes in Switzerland 341 

San Fernando, Spanish storm-warnings 47 

Sawyer, C. J., bibliographer to the Signal Service , 89 

Sasouy, Meteorological Institute of 25 

Schenzl, Dr. Guido, magnetic charts for Huugary 349 

Schering, Prof. K. : 

Vertical magnetic force 347 

Observation of ground currents 353 

Schlossing, distribution of carbonic acid gas 165 

Schmidt, Prof. J. F. J., climate of Greece 80 

Schomrock, A., sudden changes of pressure 269 

Schreiber, Dr. P. : 

Appointed director 25 

Recommends decades instead of pentades 26 

Barometric hypsometry 420 

Schwalbe, Prof. W., formation of ice-caves 198 

Scintillation preceding rain 370 

Scott, R. H. : 

Cumulative temperatures 13 

On equinoctial gales 13 

Author of elementary meteorology 69 

Thermometer shelters , 126 

Existence of equinoctial storms • 288 

Seeland,F., height of well- water 223 

Serrell, E. W., flotation of dust and fog 210 

Sherman, L. A., movement of weather areas 3 

Siberia, climate., Woeikof 74 

Siemens, Prof. W. , method of observing ground currents 353 

Signal Service ; 

Gravity correction 142 

State weather service 2 

Tornado studies 3 

Thermometer studies 3,127,131,132,133 

Monthly weather review 11 

Standard time 17 

Meteorological education 19 

Decades and heptades 27 

Bibliography 89 

Transatlantic telegrams 96 

Size of weather districts 107 

Psychrometer studies 122, 130 

Photography of clouds 150 

Uses the dew point 156 

Observations at Mount Whitney 169 

Tri-daily cloud map ^ 229 

Barograph records at Washington 270 

Observations of thunder-storms 296 

Uses both departures and reduced 326 



METEOROLOGY 429 

No. of paragraph. 
Signal Service — Continned. 

Will collect electrical observations 330 

Reduction of barometer to sea-level 419 

Simony, Prof. F., glaciers of Austria 434 

Sliug psychrometer 122,127,130,133 

Smith, Prof. C. M., green sun in India 404 

Suowtall in Himalaya and drought in India 224 

Snow-lino, index of climate 44I 

Societie.s, meteorological : 

New England 4 

Value of 4 

Solar heat absorbed by clouds 203 

Solar-motors, Ericsson 176, I77 

Spamer, phrenological results 422 

Spanish meteorological service 28 

Spartsch, Prof. J. J. , thunder-storms of Greece 343 

Spectrum : 

Atmospheric 371-377 

Aqueous 372-374 

High and low temperatures 374 

Photography of 373 

Phosphorescent 375 

Rain-band 376, 377 

Sprung, Dr. A. : 

New dew-point apparatus '. 123 

Wind direction, explanation of daily periodicity 252 

Geometrical proof of Ferrel's laws 253 

[Sprung Fuess, anemograph 134 

jStandard meridian and time 14, 15, 16. 17 

Stanle^\4, W. B., climate as aft'ected by eccentricity of earth's obit 439 

State weather services : 

1; Value of 2 

Ohio 3 

stations : 

General distribution of 1 

International : 

Lady Franklin Bay 31 

Jan Mayeu 29 

Spitzbergen 32 

Sea of Kara 33 

Cumberland Gulf 34 

South Georgia 34 

Godthaab 35 

Cape Horn 36, 165 

Fort Rae 37,39 

Bossekop 40 

Sagastyr 41 

Stations, mountaiu : 

Hohenpeissenberg 46 

Wendelstein 46 

Mont Cymone _. 43 

Ben Nevis 51 

Estrella 54 

TheObir 55 



430 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

No. of paragraph, 

Stations, special, Hong-Kong 53 

Steen, A. S. , international stations 40 

Stelliug, E., winds of Northern Siberia 239 

Steppacher, self-rci^istering apparatus 46 

Stevenson, wind, increase of, with altitude 244,247 

Stewart, Prof. B.: 

Report on solar radiation 174 

Solar periods in daily temperature 410 

Stokes, Professor, improved actinometer 174 

Storms, general : 

Barometric gradient 279, 282 

Frequency 283-285 

Causes of progress 286, 287 

Equinoctial 13,288 

Typhoons 289 

Axes of , 290 

Development of center 225, 226 

Storms, local thunder : 

In Italy 289 

In Bavaria 294 

Storm warnings, Spanish 47 

Strachey, General : 

Krakatoa barometric wave 405 

Computation of thermal constants 428 

Subjective climate, Osborne, J. R 78 

Sunshine register : Beck-Campbell 234 

Sunshine, total annual 233, 234 . 

Symons, G. J. : 

Rain-gauge, effect of altitude 145 i 

Measurement of fog density 153 i 

Temperature and altitude 186 

Rain in Englaud 221 : 

Tait, Prof. P. G. : 

Author of treatises on heat aud on light 71 I 

Theory of origin of electricity 332 1 

Other theories of origin of electricity 333 ^ 

Mirage 369 ' 

Tacchini, barometer comparisons 138 ^ 

Teisserenc de Bort, principal centers of action 322 -* 

Temperature of air : 

Hours best for observing 157 7 

Affected by local topography 185 h 

Affected by total eclipse 236 < 

Atmospheric refraction 368 ■ 

Mirage 369 

Solar periods in 410-415 

In general 185-195 ' 

Of water 196 

Of earth 197,198- 

Thermometer : 

Exposure 3 it 

Shelters and exposures 126-132 W 

Self-registering ,,..,,....,. ^ .. . 136 



METEOROLOGY. 431 

Ko. of paragraph. 
Tliermometer — Continued. 

Solar radiations, black bulb in vacuo 117 

Errors and improvements 112-119 

For water temperatures 120 

Thermodynamics, graphic solutions of problems 266 

Thibet, climate of 79 

Thollon, L. , atmospheric spectrum lines 37I 

Thomson, Prof. J. , studies on whirlwinds 311 

Thunder, measurement of — 152 

Thunder-storms : 

Study of 294 1 

In Bavaria 294 

In Italy 291 

Thundor-squalls in United States 3 

Tillo, A. L. von, magnetic charts for Russia 348 

Tissaudier, twilights of past years 396 

Topfer, Professor, rainfall in Germany 218 

Tornadoes : 

Generation of 3 

Relation to cyclones 3 

At Oakville 3 

Tripe, Dr. J. W., meteorology and health 13 

Tromholt, Prof. S. : 

Aurora at Godthaab 362 

Aurora observers reporting to him 362 

Observations and experiments in Finmark, Iceland, Norway , 304-367 

Trowbridge, Prof. J., author of elementary test-book on physics 72 

Twilight : 

Ordinary 380-384 

Extraordinary 382,387-404 

Twilight dust, height of 380, 384, 393-403 

Typical weather phenomena 320 

Upton, Prof. W. : 

Temperature distribution in United States 194 

Meteorology of eclipse expedition 236 

* Hypsometric formula 419 

Valentine, L., proprietor of Houghton farm - 45 

Verification of rain-band prediction 377 

Verbeek, R. D. M., report on Krakatoa .•. 391 

Vettin, Dr., experiments in aerodynamics 263 

Vogol, Dr. H, C, actinometric methods 182 

Waldo, F. : 

Meteorological education 90, 91 

Barometer comparisons 137 

Walker, Gen. J. T., Krakatoa wave observed in India 407 

Weather areas : 

Movement of ^ 3 

Charts, America and Europe 22 

Review, monthly, Italian 23 

Reports, transatlantic 95, 96 

Weather predictions : 

Local, 45,93 

Rain-band "^77 

Long range - — r----- 94 



432 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOit 1884, 

No. of paragraph. 
Weather predictions — Contiuaed. 

Poi^ular 97 

Transatlantic 95, 9« 

Euro^iean 98 

For Manila 99 

Verification of 93,100,102 

By prophets 103 

Of rain 104,377 

Method of verifying 105,106,107 

Size of districts 107 

Distribution iu high and low areas 320, 327 

Webber, P. R., errors of thermometer 115 

Weihraiich, Prof. K. : 

Computation of average humidity , 155 

Wind components 158 

Wells, height of water in 223 

Wharton, W. J. L., glaciers of Patagonia 433 

Whipple, G. M. : 

Errors of the black bulb in vacuo 117 

Methods of filling barometers 139 

Composite portraiture 151 

Wild, Prof. H. : 

Exposure of thermometers 131 

Earth currents at Pavlosk 351, 352 

Winds, uppei". {See Currents.) 

Wind force : 

Diurnal period on land 248, 249 

Diurnal period at sea 23G, 248 

Diurnal period at sea explained 237 

Diurnal period in Europe 233 

Diurnal period in Siberia 235 

Diurnal variation 3 

Wind direction, diurnal period in, explained 252 

Win.l : 

Theory of sea breeze and land breeze 250, 2^1 

Computation of mean velocity 158 

Mathematical theory of 253-262 

Effect on barometric readings 270 

Origin of gusts orBoen 298-307 

Winkelmaun, Dr. A., verification of rain predictions 104 

Woeikof, Prof. A. : 

General treatise on climate 73 

Author of treatise on climate of Siberia 74 

Diathermancy of the air 166, 167 

Temperature and topography 185 

Diurnal period iu winds of Siberia 235 

Wohlgemuth, Lieut. E. von, Austrian Arctic expedition of 1882-'83 29 

WoUny , Professor, temperature and soil 187 

Zenker, Dr. W. , photography of clouds 149 

Zcippritz, climatology of Central America . 82 



PHYSICS. 



By George F. Baekee, M. D., 

Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GENERAL. 



The address of Lord Eayleigh, president of the British Association, 
at the Montreal meeting, reviewed very ably the recent progress of 
physical science. One of the most striking advances is in the produc- 
tion and application of electricity upon a large scale, the reaction of 
which upon the advancement of pure science has been most salutary. 
The electro-magnetic rotation of the polarized ray, which Faraday used 
the most refined means to detect, can now be produced through 180° ; 
the question of magnetic saturation, in the hands of Joule a purely sci- 
entific one, is now a fundamental one in every dynamo macliine. The 
laws of alternating currents show some curious modifications by induc- 
tion in powerful machines. Suppose an electro-magnet wound with 
two i^arallel wires, through one of which an alternating current passes 
and develops a certain amount of heat in the circuit. If now the sec- 
ond wire receive the current, it would at first be supposed that the heat 
effect would be doubled. In fact, however, the total current, since it 
is governed by the self-induction of the circuit, would not be increased 
at all; and hence the heating effect would be actually halved in the 
doubled conductor. On the question of electric standards. Lord Eay- 
leigh mentions his own measurements of the Clark cell as 1.435 theo- 
retical volts, and of the electro-chemical equivalent of silver, 4.025 
grams per ampere-hour, as closely according with that of Kohlrausch. 
Another direction of marked progress is in thermo-dynamics. Some 
confusion has arisen in consequence of applying the first law too rigidly, 
unmodified by the second. The latter teaches that the real value of 
heat as a source of mechanical power depends upon the temperature of 
the body in which it resides. Every change, chemical, thermal, or me- 
chanical, which takes place or can take place in nature does so at the 
cost of a certain amount of available energy. If, therefore, we wish to 
inquire whether or not a proposed transformation can take place, the 
question to be considered is whether its occurrence would niA'olve dissi 
pation of energy. If not, the transformation is absolutely excluded 
• S. Mis. 33 28 ^'^'^ 



434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The fraction of the total energy which can be converted into work, ac- 
cording to the second law, depends on the difference of the initial and 
final temperatures. In optics, Cornu's ingenious application of Dop- 
pler's principle to determine whether a spectrum line is solar or terres- 
trial in origin is mentioned. An image of the sun is thrown on the 
slit of the spectroscope and caused to vibrate two or three times a sec- 
ond, so that the light entering the instrument comes alternately from 
the advancing and the retreating edge. Since the line, if solar, suffers 
in this way alternate displacements, it appears to tremble,, while if ter- 
restrial it appears fixed. In acoustics the curious fact is stated that 
while when a pure note, such as that of a tuning-fork, is sounded, we 
cannot tell whether the sound comes to us from in front or from behind, 
when any other sort of sound is produced, from a clap of the hand to 
the clearest vowel sound, the discrimination is not only possible but 
easy and instinctive. The address concludes with a discussion of the 
importance of experimental science in a system of education. {Natitre, 
August, 1884, XXX, 410-417.) 

As president of the mathematical and physical section, Sir William 
Thomson gave an address entitled " Steps toward a kinetic theory of 
matter," in which, after giving a resume of the kinetic theory of gases, 
and discussing especially the theory of the repulsive action between 
molecules in collision, he takes up the question of elasticity and shows 
that any ideal system of material particles acting on ooe another mu- 
tually through massless connecting springs, may be perfectly imitated 
in a model consisting of rigid links jointed together, and having rapidly 
rotating fly-wheels pivoted on some or on all of the links. He figures 
two systems, each consisting of two hooked rods, connected in the first 
to an elliptical spring, and in the second to the opposite corners of a 
square frame loosely articulated, upon each of the sides of which, as 
an axis, is a fly-wheel or gyrostat in rapid rotation. If either of these 
systems be hung up by the hook on one of its projecting rods, and a 
weight be placed on the hook on the other rod, the weight when first 
put on will oscillate up and down, and will go on doing so forever if the 
system be absolutely unfrictional. Thus, out of matter jjossessing ri- 
gidity, but absolutely devoid of elasticity, a perfect model of a spring 
has been made in the form of a spring- balance. {Xature, August, 1884, 
XXX, 417-421.) 

The second and third volumes of the " Travaux et M^moires " of the 
Bureau International des Poids et Mesures have been published during 
1883 and 1884, the first volume having appeared in 1881. The second 
volume contains papers by Dr. Benoit on his expansion experiments, 
by M. Marek on the methods and results of the weighings made at the 
bureau from 1879 to 1881, and by Dr. Broch, the director, on the ex- 
pansion of mercury. The third volume contains an account of the modes 
of comparison of the standards, with descriptions of the ai)paratus used 
and a complete statement of the observations and the methods pf their 



PHYSICS. 435 

reduction; a careful account by M. Marek of the excellent normal ba- 
rometer and catbetometer in use at tbe bureau, and a description of the 
methods of calibrating the thermometers used during the weighings; 
and illustrations of the specific gravity apparatus, and of the method 
of Stas for clearing the surfaces of metals by a jet of alcohol vapor. 
Besides these memoirs, the International Committee publishes reports 
to the Govern ments represented, of which the seventh appeared in 1884. 
Great Britain has now a representative on this committee. {Nature^ 
April, xxis, 529 ; October, 1884, xxx, 612. Science^ iii, 305, March, 
1884.) 

Herschel has given a short method of converting yards into meters, 
and the converse, based upon the ratio of the meter to the yard ob- 
tained by W. A. Rogers, in his comparisons of the " metre des archives" 
with the standard yard. This ratio, which is 39.37027 : 36, agrees with the 
simpler one, 35: 32, very closely, the error being only 1 part in 8,000. Her- 
schel's rule is as follows : To convert yards into meters, subtract one- 
tenth and add oneseventh^f that tenth. If great accuracy be required, 
add one oue-hundred-and-tbirtieth of that seventh. The result is ac- 
curate to the sixth decimal place. To convert meters into yards, add 
one-tenth, subtract one-sixteenth of that tenth, two one-hundredths of 
that sixteenth, and one-twentieth of that two one-hundredths. The error 
is less than 5 inches in the kilometer, or less than 2 decimeters in the 
mile. {Wature, July, 1884, xxx, 312.) 

Johnstone Stouey has called attention to the fact that Clarke's deter- 
mination of the yard in metrical units dititers from Kater's by more than 
the diiierence between Clarke's and the simple value 914.4 millimeters 
for the yard. Hence the yard may be assumed to have this value, with 
an error of less than a fifth metret (lO"'^) in the meter. So the pound 
may be assumed .as 453.6 grams, with an error of one-fourth of a grain 
avoirdupois, on the authority of Professor JMiller; and the gallon may 
be considered as 4,544 cubic centimeters, with an error of less than one 
cubic centimeter in 10 liters. {Nature, January, 1884, xxix, 278.) 

Rowland has proposed to cous,truct scales with his ruling-engine, which 
will enable the physicist at any time, by purely optical means, and 
without knowing the coetficieut of expansion of the metal or its temper- 
ature, to obtain the value of the length of the scale in terms of the wave- 
length of any given ray of light. These scales are simply to be straight 
pieces of speculum metal, ruled with lines just like an ordinary grating, 
except that the length of the lines is to be only about one centimeter, 
every one-hundredth line being somewhat longer than its neighbors ; the 
whole ruled slip is to be one decimeter in length. From the manner of 
ruling it will be easy to count the whole number of lines in the length 
of the strip, and then, by a simple use of the scale as a grating in a 
suitable spectrometer, the whole length may be immediately found at 
any time, in terms of any specified wave-length of light. {Science, Sep- 
tember, 1884, IV, 296; WaUtre, October, 1884. XXX, 596.) 



436 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

F. J. Siiitli has described a new transmitting dynamometer or ergom- 
eter, as he calls it, which resembles the early dynamometer of ^Morin 
in having two pulleys, the angular advance of one being regulated by 
a spring. In the Morin instrument, however, an extended piece of steel 
formed the spring; and in the modified form of it proposed by Ayrton 
and Perry spiral springs were used. In the latter form the springs are 
liable to fly out by centrifugal force, and, moreover, a special optical 
arrangement is required for reading the angular advance. In Smith's 
ergometer there is no tendency in the spring to fly, and the tension is 
read directly upon a dial. {Nature, July, 1884, xxx, 220.) 

Brackett has devised a dynamometer especially adapted for measur- 
ing the energy expended on a dynamo-machine. The machine to be 
tested is so supported that it can turn freely through a small arc of a 
circle, the center of which is in the armature axis. When the armature 
is rotated, the circuit being closed, a mechanical couple is set up be- 
tween this armature and the field maguets, which tends to make the 
latter revolve in the same direction as the ajjjnature. The value of this 
couple is ascertained by measuring the value of the equal and opposite 
couple required to maintain equilibrium. This is done by means of a 
lever-arm fixed to the machine or cradle, provided with a sliding weight 
sufficient to maintain the machine at zero. The length of the lever- arm 
and weight being known, it is necessary to know only the number of 
revolutions in order to calculate the energy. If W denote the weight, 
L the lever-arm, and n the number of revolutions in a minute, the en- 
ergy expended will be represented by 27:LWw. {Am. J. Sci., January, 
1884, III, XXVII, 20.) 

Boltzmann, by means of Carnot's principle and the theory of proba 
biiities, has calculated the energy developed in chemical combination, 
considering only the cases where the substances are gaseous both before 
and after the reaction, and where the diatomic molecules dissociate into 
atoms of the same kind. Assuming that the heat of dissociation is in- 
dependent of the temperature, the formula gives as the number of ca- 
lories (gram-degrees) required for the dissociation of one gram of nitro- 
gen tetroxide, 151.3 ; and of iodine vapor, 112.5. {Ber. AJ{. Wien, 1884, 
181; J. Phys., II, ill, 274, June, 1884.) 

Sir William Thomson described at Montreal a gyrostatic balance for 
measuring the vertical component of the earth's rotation, which con- 
sisted of a gyrostat supported on knife-edges attached to its contaiuing- 
case, with their line perpendicular to the axis of the interior fly- wheel, 
and above the center of gravity of the fly-wheel and frame- work, by an 
exceedingly small height when the frame- work is held with the axis of 
the fly-wheel and the line of the knife-edges both horizontal, and the 
knife-edges downward in proper position for performing their function. 
The apparatus, when supported on its knife-edges, with the fly-wheel 
not spinning, may be dealt with as the beam of an ordinnry balance. 
Let now the frame- work bear iwo small knife-edges or knife-edged holes, 
like those of the beam of au ordinary balance, giving bearing-points 



PHYSICS. 437 

for weights in a line cutting the line of the Iciiifeedges as nearly :is 
possible, and of course approximately perpendicular to this line, and, 
for convenience of putting ou and off' weights, hang, as in an ordinary bal- 
ance, two very light pans, by hooks, on these edges, in the usual way. 
Now, with the Hy-wheel not running, adjust, by weights in the pans, if 
necessary, so that the frame-work rests in equilibrium in a certain marked 
position, with the axis of rotation inclined slightly to the horizontal, in 
order that the axis of the fly-wheel, whether spinning or at rest, may 
always slip down so as to press on one and not on the other of the two 
end i)lates belonging to its two ends. Now unhook the pans and take 
away the gyrostat and spin it, replace it on its knife-edges, hang on the 
two pans, and find the weight required to balance it in the marked posi- 
tion, with the fly-wheel now rotating rapidly. This weight gives an 
accurate measure of the vertical component of the earth's rotation. 
{Nature, September, 1884, xxx, 524.) 

Respighi has made a series of experiments at the Roman Observatory 
in order to determine the^intensity of gravity. For this purpose he 
used a pendulum composed of a sphere of lead 0.11098 meter and weigh- 
ing 9.43515 kilograms, suspended to a steel wire varying in length in 
the different experiments from 5 to 7.8 meters. The total weight of the 
wire and the other accessories was only y^o of the weight of the lead 
si)here. A correction of 3.4"™ was, however, necessary, in consequence 
of the rigidity of the wire, between the length of the actual pendulum 
and that of the equivalent simple pendulum. The osciUations were 
determined by the method of coincidences, a mercury surface being 
raised at the proper time until a point attached to the pendulum made 
contact with it at each oscillation, and made an electro-chronographic 
record. The results gave for the value of the seconds pendulum 
0.9934891 meter, and for the value of g 9.805343 meters. These figures 
differ by only the J-^^oo P'^ii't. of their value from those calculated by 
Biot— 0.9933380 and 9.803851. {Atti Ace. Lincei, III, xn, 346 ; J. Fhys., 
February, 1884, II, in, 95.) 

An article by Hall upon inertia has called out replies from Hastings, 
Mendenhall, and others. Hastings says that tlie difficulty in the correct 
use of the word arises from the fact that it has been used in two perfectly 
legitimate senses — one qualitative, the other quantitative. In the qual- 
itative sense it simply implies the trnth of Newton's first law of motion; 
in the quantitative sense it is mass and nothing else. Ou account of 
this ambiguity all careful writers and teachers have long since practi- 
cally abandoned it. {Science, in, 482, 559, April, iVIay, 1884.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. Of Solids. 

Dobbie and Hutcheson have described an apparatus for the rapid de- 
termination of the specific gravity of solids, founded on the measure- 
ment of the volume of water displaced. It consists of a U tube, one 



438 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

limb of wbich is about S*"" in diameter and somewhat longer tluiu the 
other, which is muclS larger, and closed at the top by means of a movable 
piece of tube of the same size, carrying a stoi)-cock and attached by a 
rubber band. The'small tube is graduated into cubic centimeters above 
a point on the same level as one of several lines drawn on the larger tube. 
To make an observation the tube is filled up with water to one of these 
lines and the substance whose specific gravity is required is dropped in 
the larger limb. Of course if it sinks it displaces its own volume of 
water, and by blowing through the stop-cock the level of the water is 
depressed below the original mark. It is then allowed to rise again 
slowly until the surface reaches the line at which it stood before the 
solid was introduced. By reading the bulk of the water displaced in 
the smaller tube, which may be done with much accuracy, and by di- 
viding the weight of the body previously ascertained by this number, 
the specific gravity is obtained. {Phil. Alag., V, xvii, 459, June, 1884.) 

Belli has observed that if two glass plates be made to adhere by ap- 
plying them exactly to one another, and are then left so that gravity 
acts upon them, they always separate, no matter how small may be the 
weight of the one united to the other by adhesion. Obviously molecular 
attraction cannot be the cause of this phenomenon. The long duration 
of the adhesion arises simply from the slowness with which air pene- 
trates between the plates. Stefan has come to the same conclusion 
from a mathematical investigation. {II Nuovo Gimento^ xiii, 34: J. 
Phys., December, 1884, II, iii, 552.) 

Turpin and Warrington have repeated Bottomley's experiment of cut- 
ting through a block of ice by means of a wire having weights attached 
to its ends, with a view of noting the effect of varying conditions. Bot- 
tomley had observed that string would not cut through the ice, and ex- 
plained the fact by supposing that the string is not a sufficiently good 
conductor to relieve itself of the cold in front and pass it back to the 
water behind. To test the effect of conductivity, wires of silver, copper, 
brass, iron, and German silver, 0.67™™ diameter, were employed, each 
carrying 2.5 pounds. The results show that the time increases as the 
conductivity decreases. In a second experiment the wire was of iron, 
and was loaded in the first case with 5 pounds, in the second with 7^, 
and in the third with 12^ pounds. It was found that the time taken 
was approximately inversely proportional to the load. Pfaff's experi- 
ment of placing a tube upright on a block of ice, pressing it down by a 
weighted lever, while maintaining it at 0° by surrounding it with snow, 
was then repeated, using tubes of copper, brass, lead, and glass, each 
about a foot long and of three-eighths inch bore, the weight being 
2 pounds. In four hours the copper tube had penetrated 100""", the brass 
tube 35"™, the lead tube 7""" and the glass tube 3"™; showing con- 
clusively that when the temperature is not lower than 0° C. the chief 
factor is the lowering of the freezing point by i^ressure, and not the plas- 
ticity of ice. If the result takes place below 0°, as Pfaff states, the 



PHYSICS. 439 

explanation is not easy witliont admitting a certain amonnt of plasticity 
in ice. {Phil. Mag., August, 1884, V, xviii, 120.) 

Krouchkoll has noticed that perfectly clean platinum readily amal- 
gamates with mercury, but that aluminum and iron do not. On at- 
tempting to unite mercury with a scraped surface of aluminum, this 
metal oxidizes with great facility. If, however, the aluminum be made 
the negative electrode in acidulated water, this metal becomes strongly 
charged with hydrogen; and now if it be dipped into mercury at the 
bottom of the vessel, it unites with it instantly. On exposure to the air 
it is tarnished at once. A wire of iron acts in the same way. The au- 
thor suggests that the action of sodium in fticilitatiug amalgamation is 
due to its reducing action. {J, Phys., March, 1884, If, iii, 139.) 

2. Of Liquids. 

E. Wiedemann has calculated, from certain experiments made by Ber- 
thelotj that the force necessary to separate two adjacent layers of water 
cannot be less than 55 atmospheres. {J. Phys., December, 1884, II, iii, 
555.) 

Reinold and Eiicker have continued their studies on liquid tilins, and 
have observed that the disturbing action of the electric current, previ- 
ously noticed, is due to the transference of liquid by this current in its 
own direction, thus thinning the film, or the reverse, according to the di- 
rection. By forming a plane film between two horizontal wires, illumi- 
nating it by the calcium light and projecting its image on a screen, the 
authors showed the motions of the bands of color in tlie direction of the 
current. {Nature, December, 1884, xxxi, 186.) 

Schiff has determined with care the capiHary constant of a large 
number of liquids at their boiling j)oints. For this purpose he used two 
capillary glass tubes, one 1.3""" in the bore, the other half as much, con- 
nected so as to form the legs of a U tube. This tube, after being filled 
with the experimental liquid, is hung in a wider vessel, at the bottom of 
which a little of the liquid is kept boiling. From the diflerence in level 
of the liquid in these two connected capillary tubes, as measured at a 
temperature which must be very nearlj^ the boiling point, the surface 
tension at that temperature is readily deduced. To this surface ten- 
sion, in milligrams per millimeter, divided by the relative molecular 
weight (and multiplied for convenience by 1,000), Schiff assigns the 
symbol N. He illustrates its significance by pointing oat that in the 
case of a capillary elevation against a vertical wall wetted by the liquid, 
it represents the number of molecules raised above the free surface per 
unit length of the wall. The results obtained show that not only is 
this number jST the same for isomeric substances, but that it is often the 
same for liquids of very different chemical constitution, and that it is 
possible to replace a certain number of atoms of one kind by a certain 
number of another kind, without producing in the value of N an alter- 
ation which comes within the limit of precise observation. In these 



440 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

replacements C = 2H, O = 3H, and Cl = 7H ; so that from the formula 
of a body the vahie of oS^ can be deduced, and thus the surface teusion 
at the boiling point calculated. {Liehig's Annalen, March, 1884, ccxxiii, 
47 ; Nattire, October, 1884, xxx, 618.) 

Krouchkoll has observed that isolating liquids, such as carbon disul 
phide, ether, and turpentine, not miscible with water, acquire a conduc- 
tivity when in contact with this liquid. He then made an investiga- 
tion to ascertain whether the capillary constant at the surface of con- 
tact between one of these liquids and water varied under the action of 
an electro motive force. The results of his experiments prove that 
this variation actually takes place, and that it is in the same direction 
as in the case of the surface of separation between water and mercury. 
{J. PMjs., II, III, 303, July, 1884.) 

Wroblewski's experiments on the direct liquefaction of oxygen by 
compression gaveforthedensity of the liquid only a superior limit, given 
as 0.94. By observing that the teusion of oxygen at — 130<^ is near that 
of carbon dioxide and nitrogen monoxide at 0<^, knowing that the den- 
sity of liquid CO2 is 0.9471 and of N2O is 0.9370, the author has calcu- 
lated the density of liquid oxygen to be 0.899. This agrees well wij;h 
Cailletet and Hautefeuille's results, who obtained, by compressing a mixt- 
ure of 7 volumes of CO2 and 1 of O, the value 0.89 at —13^ C. and300 at- 
mospheres pressure; and from a mixture of X2O and O, the value 0.94 
at —23° and 300 atmospheres. The value 0.899 also agrees with the press- 
ures observed by Pictet in his experiments on the com})ression of oxy- 
gen. {Wied. Ann., xx, 80; J. Phys., II, iii, 93, February, 1885.) 

Bender has investigated the law of density of saline solutions by 
comparing together solutions containing, for a given volume, a given 
number of equivalents of various salts. Using, for example, chlorides, 
he finds that the difference between the density of the solution of any 
salt whatever and that of a solution of sal-ammoniac is proportional to 
the number of equivalents contained in the solution, provided always 
that this number does not exceed four. The law extends to other radi- 
cals besides chlorine, so that the density of any saline solution what- 
ever may be represented by the formula — 

(l^.= {df.) KH4C1 + /il (Wb + '"s) 

in which /< is the number of equivalents of the salt contained in the so- 
lution and Wb and wjg the moduli of the metal and of the acid radical. 
These moduli have been experimentally determined by the author, and 
from these the density of any normal solution whatever may be calcu- 
lated. ( Wied. Ann., xx, 560 ; J. Phys., May, 1884, II, iii, 221.) 

Mendelejeff has communicated to the Kussian Chemical Society a 
paper on salt solutions. It would be easy to prove, he says, with the 
data of Gerlach, Marignac, Cremers, and Schifif, that the volume of a 
given amount of a salt in its solutions (of a molecule, for instance) va- 
ries with the variations of temperature and the degree of concentration 
of the solutions. It increases with both of these values; and it might 



PHYSICS. 441 

be coiiclnded therefrom that the force on which solntioii depends varies 
with the degree of concentration. Still, another coiichhsion may be ar- 
rived at if Grassy's measurements of the decrease of volumes ofNaCl 
and of CaCl2 be taken into account. Interpolation shows that these so- 
lutions are reduced in volume by pressure as the amount of the dis- 
solved salt varies : aud the reduction of volume which accompanies the 
solution enables us to calculate the corresponding pressure. It ap- 
pears that to each molecule of NaCl dissolved in 100 i)arts of water cor- 
responds a nearly permanent pressure of about 120 atmospheres, what, 
ever be the degree of concentration. For CaCl2 the ])iessure also re- 
mains constant, but is nearly three times as great. Thus, if the tendency 
towards solution be measured by pressure, it results, for the two salts 
above mentioned, th.at the lirst amounts of salt dissolved exert the same 
pressure as the last, which bring the solution near to saturation. (AV 
ture, March, 1884, xxix, 512.) 

Nicol has published a series of papers on salt solutions. In the first 
he considers the phenomenon of equilibrium in these solutions, and con- 
cludes that when salt solutions are mixed the tendency is to form tho 
system which will occupy the smallest volume, since then the eqnilib- 
rium is stable. In the second he discusses the saturation of salt solu- 
tions, and finds that, as a general rule, the solubility of two salts 
together is greater than when separate. In the third he continues the dis • 
cussiouou the molecular volumes of salt solutions, and treats especiall.\ 
of water of crystallization. He points out that water of crystallization 
has no effect on the molecular volume of a salt in solution ; and 
hence draws the inference that in all probability water of crystallization 
does not exist in solution. In the fourth i)aper he gives the results of 
his investigations on the nature of solution, particularly on the boiling 
points of salts solutions; and he shows that by rise of temperature the 
attraction of salt for salt is so greatly diminished that it is equivalent 
to an increase in attraction of salt for water. {Pliil. Mag., February, 
June, September, October, 1884, xvii, 150, 537 ; xviii, 170, 304.) 

Guthrie also has continued his researches upon solution, and has 
published the results of a study of the ammonia group (including the 
ethylamines and aniline) in its behavior with water, aud also the results 
obtained by shifting the temperatures up on the scale until the solid 
fuses, 80 as to establish the continuity of the phenomena of fusion with 
those of solution. He establishes the fact that certain bodies originally 
solid may at high temperatures become miscible with water in all pro- 
portions—a fact of great geologic interest, since it throws light on the 
pyrohydration of igneous formations, as cryohydration has done for 
floes. {Phil. Mag., Y, xviii, 22, 105, July, August, 1884 ) 

3. Of Gases. 

Andrese proposes the following lecture experiment to illustrate 
Boyle's law : In a glass tube about a metet long and from U""" to 2"™ 



442 , SCIENTIFIC RECORt) t'OU 1884 

intci'Dal diameter, closed at one end and open below, is introduced a 
thread of mercury about 250""" in length. This incloses a certain vol- 
ume of air, about 40 cubic centimeters. The tube is supported on a 
stand, which has a scale on white paper divided into centimeters, and can 
be placed on the table with either end vertical. When the closed end 
is uppermost, the pressure on the inclosed air is the difference between 
the barometric height and 250 ; and when inverted, it is the sum of the 
barometric height and 250. If the barometer stand at 750""", the press- 
ure in the former case is 500"'"' and in the latter 1,000"'". Consequently 
the volume is reduced from 40 cubic centimeters to 20. {Phil. Mag., 
July, 1884, XVIII, 80.) 

Diakonoff has devised a new form of siphon barometer, which, being 
easily filled, is more readily portable than the ordinary forms. The 
barometer tube proper, which at its upper third has a diameter of 0.012 
meter, is continued above by a capillary tube of the same length, which 
turns downward. At bottom it opens into the side of a larger tube, the 
upper end of which is closed with a cork, while the lower end is drawn 
out to enter one end of a rubber tube, the other end of which is fastened 
to the lower end of a funnel tube the length of the barometer and a 
little more. After the apparatus has been thoroughly cleaned, it is 
filled by pouiog mercury in the funnel tube, whence it rises through 
the barometer tube and overflows at top, the excess of mercury falling 
through the small tube into a reservoir below, into which its end dips. 
When all the tubes are full, the rubber tube is detached from the funnel 
tube, and a portion of the mercury is allowed to flow out till the column 
stands at the proper height. It is read by means of a graduated scale 
and two verniers. {J. Phys., II, iii, 27, January, 1884.) 

Grurauach has suggested the use of a vacuum tube in connection 
with the barometer, so that by electrical means the rarefaction may be 
ascertained. He states that the opinion entertained until recently that 
the electric discharge would not take place through the best attainable 
vacuum is not absolutelj^ trne, since recent experiments have shown 
that the passage of the electric discharge depends largely upon the form 
of the electrodes. In a vacuum in which the spark will not pass if the 
electrodes are simple wires, it readily passes when they are of the form 
of balls or cylinders. The author's barometer is connected with a mer- 
cury pump and with a Geissler tube, operated by asmallindiiction coil. 
As the exhaustion proceeds, the nitrogen bands first disai)pear, then the 
lines F and G of hydrogen and some lines of mercury. Finally the 
phosphorescence of the glass appears first at the negative end, then at the 
positive end, and finally throughout the tube. At last the discharge 
is totally arrested or is slowly intermittent. Comparisons with this nor- 
mal barometer show differences too large to be attributed to errors of 
observation. The author finds that a difference of 0.07° C. produces 
an error of 0.01'""' in the barometer reading. {Wied. Ami., xxi, G98; 
J. Fhys., II, HI, 264, June, 1884.) 



PHYSICS. 443 

Frank Waldo bas suggested the use of Wright's apparatus for dis- 
tilling mercury in the direct filling of barometer tubes. By attaching 
the tube to be filled to the end of the distilling-tube, the mercury, as it 
condenses, passes into it at once, and without coming in contact with 
the air. Certain precautions are detailed in the paper. {Am. J. ScL, 
January, 1884, III, xxvii, 18.) 

Schumann has made a long series of experiments on the coefiHcientof 
friction of gases and vapors and its dependence on temperature. He 
concludes (1) that values of this coefficient calculated by the formula 
of Maxwell show greater deviations from each other than would corre- 
spond to errors of observation, and this jjarticularly at high tempera- 
tures; (2) that by introducing a correction this formula gives numbers 
which at ordinary temperatures show close agreement with those ob- 
tained by the method of transpiration ; (3) that, owing to absorption, the 
method of transpiration gives for gases too high values and for vapors 
too low values of the coefficient of friction; (4) that the dependence of 
the coefficient on the temperature increases with the temperature; (5) 
that the coefficients of all the vapors examined have almost the same 
function of temperature; and (6) that the relation found by Puluj to 
exist between length of path and refractive index holds for the vapors 
of homologous ethers at corresponding temperatures. ( Wied. Ann.^ 
XXIII, 353, November, 1884 ; Phil. Mag., December, 1884, V, xviii, 544.) 

Winkelman has studied the phenomena of diffusion of gases and va- 
pors, in order to compare the results obtained with those calculated from 
the formulas of Stefan and Meyer. His experiments were made in a 
tube drawn out at the lower end into a portion of uniform but of much 
finer bore than the upper portion, and graduated. This lower portion 
contained the liquid which was to be vaporized, the gas into which it 
was to diffuse being passed into the upper portion by means of an 
entrance and exit tube. For diffusion of steam into hydrogen, into 
carbon dioxide, and into air, discrepancies between the actiial results 
and the theoretical ones deduced by Meyer's formula were observed. 
For alcohol and for ether vapor diffusing into these three gases, a fair 
agreement with Stefan's formula was observed. The mean length of 
free path of the vapor molecule can be obtained from the latter for- 
mula, at least approximately. {Wied. Aim., June, 1884, xxii, 1; Am. 
J. Sci., July, 1884, III, xxviii, 70.) 

Guglielmo also has determined the coefficient of diffusion of the vapor 
of water into air, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. He gives for the first, 
12.86 at 8o and 13.05 at 15°; for the second, 40.95 at 18°; and for the 
third, 8.38 at 18^. The last two values are 3.52 and 0.628 times the co- 
efficient of diffusion into air. By Meyer's formula the author has cal- 
culated the mean length of free path of the molecule of vapor of water 
in an atmosphere of this vapor. He finds the value 0.00000891, that 
directly obtained by Kiindt and Warburg being 0.00000649. The fun- 



444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18a4 

(laraental units used are the centimeter, gram, minute. {II Nuovo Ci- 
viento, XIII, 104 ; J. Phys., December, 1884, IT, iii, 555.) 

Bunsen has investigated the condensation of carbon dioxide gas on 
the surface of glass. The glass employed was the fine-spun variety 
used in weaving. The space occupied by 150 grams was only 100 c. c. 
The length ot filament was 62 geographical miles and its surface 23 
square meters. The spe(;ific gravity of the glass was 2.50500. The ap- 
paratus consisted of a graduated glass tube, closed above by a stop- 
cock ; above this is a length of the same tube, in which the spun glass 
is placed, and which is closed above by a second stop cock. The whole 
is placed over a mercury cistern, and the lower part filled with dry QO^. 
The upper part is then exhausted, and the experiment commences by 
opening the communicating stopcock. At the end of a given time the 
pressure of the gas is determined anew, and from this the weight of the 
gas which has been condensed is readily calculated. Bunsen's experi- 
ments began on the 20th of April, 1880, and at the end of three years 
the condensation did not seem to have terminated. During the first 
year it was 49.21 c. c, during the first two years 57.94 c. c, and during 
the three 09.98 c. (;., or for the three years 5.135 c. c. per square meter. 
Granted that capillary attraction can be perceived, as Quincke states, 
at a distance of 0.000005"™ from the surface, the 5.135 c. c. condensed 
on a surface of 10,000 sq. cm. would occupy a space of 0.05 c. c. and 
have been condensed by a pressure of 102.7 atmospheres. Since carbon 
dioxide is liquid at 57.5 atmospheres at the temperature of the experi- 
ments, there can be no doubt that the surface of the glass was covered 
with a layer of liquid carbon dioxide. ( Wied. Ann.^ xx, 545 ; FhU. 
Mag., March, 1884, V, xvil, 161 ; J. Fhys., June, 1884, II, in, 262.) 

Blondlot has considered the influence of electrification on the maxi- 
mum tension of a vapor in contact with its liquid, and concludes that 
the maximum tension of the vapor in contact with this electrified sur- 
face is smaller than it would be if the surface was not electrified, by an 

amount represented bv 2-/^^ ' ,in \vliich/>. represents the electric surface 

density and - the ratio of the densities of the vapor and the liquid. 
(J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 442.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Martini has studied the phenomena of the production of sound by the 
flow of liquids. His apparatus consisted of a vertical tube either of 
glass or metal, within which was a metallic disk perforated at its center 
with a hole, the diameter of which was equal to the thickness of the 
plate; The production of the sound is determined by the periodicity 
of the flow, the tone produced being either the fundamental note of the 
liquid column or one of its harmonii-s, according to the ])ositiou of the 
regulating cock. The sounds produced seem like those of a closed pipe. 



PHYSICS. 415 

They are the same whatever the position of the disk iu the tube. Two 
vibrating cylinders give notes whose pitch is inversely as their linear 
dimensions. If the disk is on the side where the water enters, the 
number of vibrations given by the same cylinder is proportional to the 
square root of the charge. The nature of the tube is without influence 
on the pitch of the note. (.7. Phys.^ May, 1884, II, iii, 218.) 

i'J'eyreneuf, following Tyndall, has called attention to the facility with 
which sound traverses the interstices of solid bodies when the air iu 
them is continuous. If the conjugate-mirror experiment be repeated 
with a thick sheet of cotton wool between the mirrors, the sound does 
not seem to be sensibly altered iu intensity. Two such sheets may be 
interposed without preventing a sensitive flame from showing agitation 
when placed in the conjugate focus. A sheet of filter paper is equiva- 
lent to two sheets of cotton. To prove how difficult it is to destroy 
resonance, the author states that he has performed the reflection ex- 
periment with one of the mirrors covered with cotton upon its reflecting 
surface. {J. Phys., May, 1884, II, in, 209.) 

Neyreueuf has also cojitinued his researches on the transmission of 
sound by gases, and now gives the results obtained with nitrogen 
monoxide and dioxide, ammonia, and ethylene. With nitrogen mo- 
noxide and air the ratio of the flame distances was as 1.32 : 1 as a mean, 
a value identical with that obtained for carbon dioxide. For ammonia 
and air the ratio of the flame distances was 1.46 in place of 1.42. No 
differences were observed between air, nitrogen dioxide, and ethylene. 
He has observed that the damping effect of solid particles is very 
marked. By using a long inverted U-tube of rubber filled with hydro- 
gen the author has shown that the sound is much less enfeebled than 
when traversing the same thickness of air. (C. E., xcviii, 980, 1264, 
April, May, 18S4.) 

Elsas has studied the laws of the forced vibrations of plates; /. e., 
those which the plate is made to execute under the influence of a vibrat- 
ing body in communication with it. The plate, circular in form, and 
made of cardboard, gelatin, ebonite, &c., is fixed by its center to a sew- 
ing needle iierpendicular to its plane. A flexible cord, stretched by a 
MTight, is attached to the needle by one entl, and by the other to the 
prong of a tuning-fork. By means of sand and lycopodium on the plate 
the position of the nodes and venters could be determined. The results 
siiow (1) tliat such a plate givjes the nodal figures of Chladni, the cen- 
ter being a node; (2) that these figures never have an uneven number 
of diametral nodal lines ; (3) that, while always even, these lines degen- 
erate frequently into hyperbolic curves, the vertices of which are on the 
same straight line; (t) that for the same reasons the nodal lines are 
wanting in the central portions, but appear on the i^eriphery of the 
plate; and (5) that the nodal lines of communicated vibrations never 
cut each other. These results are iu accord with those })revious]y ob- 
tained with membranes. {Wied. Ami., xix, 474; J. Phys., January, 
1884, II, III, 33.) 



446 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Mercadier has presented to the French Academy the results of his re- 
searches ou the laws of transverse vibration of elastic rods. The rods 
were made of iron and steel, were rectangular in section, and were vi- 
brated electro- magnetically, the vibrations being recorded on the chron- 
ograph. He finds (1) that the vibrations are independent of the width, 
(2) are directly proportional to the thickness (measured in the direction 
of vibration), and (3) are inversely as the square of the length. Rep- 
resenting these results by the formula n=1c^^ Mercadier has calculated 

the value of the coefficient k for steel from his measurements, and finds 
it to be 5,329,503, while Poisson's formula gives 5,310,866. The mean 
value, 5,320,134, being adopted, the author has calculated the number of 
vibrations for different rods and compared them with those given by 
experiment. The results are in very satisfactory accord, and show that 
by means of this coefficient the dimensions of a rod required to give 
any special pitch may be readily calculated. {G. B., xcviii, 803, 911, 
March, April, 1884; J. Phys., May, 1884, II, m, 189.) 

R. Weber has devised an electric siren, which is simple in principle 
and which has many advantages. Its principal element is a disk, whose 
periphery is divided into alternate segments of conducting and non- 
conducting substance. Fifteen of these disks are placed upon an axis, 
each being 4"° in diameter and separated by 3™'" from the others. The 
first w^heel has twenty-four metallic contacts, the second twenty-seven, 
the third thirty, and so on up the gamut. Upon the edges of these 
disks fifteen springs press, for the purpose of making electric contact 
with the metallic segments, and so completing the circuit through the 
axis. Each spring has its own cell of battery, the current passing 
through a telephone, in which is heard a note corresponding to the 
number of interruptions made by the disk in the same circuit. The 
siren may be driven by any form of power, but a small electric motor the 
author finds very serviceable. A counter permits the number of rota- 
tions to be determined. One curious result was obtained when four 
disks were used, having the same number of teeth but differently spaced, 
the metallic part being in the first -j^2, i" the second -^, in the third 1%, 
and in the fourth 1^2 of the insulating part. The sound produced by 
the first, though feeble, was accompanied by its double octave ; by the 
second, the tones 1:2:3:4:5:0:8; the third gave 1:2:3; and the 
fourth, 1 :2 :4. Resultant tones were also very satisfactorily studied. 
{J. Phys., December, 1884, II, iii, 535.) 

Blaikley has continued his studies upon the phenomena connected 
with the determination of the velocity of sound in air by means of the 
nodal points in smooth brass tubes. He concludes (1) that these tubes 
must speak with a pure tone; (2) that if partials are present the tubes 
must be of such form as to have their proper tones in exact agreement 
with the harmonic series ; (3) that the air-blast must not constrain the 
j)ipe to speak any other than its natural resonant pitch ; (4) that iu 



PHYSICS. 447 

smooth tubes the diminution of velocity is proportional to r-^ and to 
n-^, as determined by Helmholtz; (5) that the velocity in free air for 
sound waves of low intensity, or just audible, is 331.G7G meters at 0°C; 
and (0) that the ratio between the two specific heats of air, as deduced 
from the Newtonian velocity, 279.955 meters, and the above value, 331.G7G 
meters, is 1.4036. {Fhil. Mag., October, 1884, Y, xviii, 328.) 

Eayleigh has examined the conditions of sensitiveness of smoke-jets 
and jets of colored liquid, paying especial attention in the former to 
the illumination, and exalting the efiect by means of resonators. The 
maximum sensitiveness was reached at 25G vibrations. By using the 
stroboscopic method, the serpentine motion of the jet previous to rupture 
was clearly seen. For liquid jets, water colored with permanganate was 
used in water containing ferrous sulphate. The notes for maximum 
sensitiveness were far lower than for smoke-jets, forks vibrating from 
20 to 50 times a second producing the maximum efiect. This is due, 
not to the difference of density, but to a difference ol viscosity. {Phil. 
Mag., March, 1884, Y, xvii, 188.) 

Fuchs has suggested a simple method of analyzing the vowel sounds, 
which is easy to put in practice. One of the ears is closed with a piece 
of wet tissue paper, and to the other is applied one end of a rubber 
tube tipped with horn, the other end being placed in the mouth. The 
mouth is then given the configuration corresponding to the vowel A, 
for example, and the various keys of a piano in good tune are struck, 
beginning with the highest notes of the scale. The mouth cavity acts 
like a resonator, so that when a note is struck which accords with it 
this note is re-enforced by resonance and appears stronger than the others. 
In this way the harmonics which are characteristic of the vowel for 
which the mouth is set may be easily determined. The sonometer may 
be used in this experiment in place of the piano. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 
513; J. Plnjs. II, III, 548; Phil. Mag., May, 1884, Y, xvii, 410.) 

Melde has investigated the efiect of placing the vibrating fork at a 
position on a string other than its extremity. If it is at the middle 
point, the vibrations are symmetrical and the two halves take identical 
forms. Since the point of attachment cannot be a node, the cord does 
not vibrate if the sound of the fork is that of an even harmonic of the 
cord. In short, each half vibrates as if it was an entirely distinct string, 
vibrated at their common extremity. If the fork is not at the middle 
point, the form of the string during the vibration is dissymmetrical with 
relation to the middle. The forks were vibrated electrically. ( Wied. 
Ann., XXI, 452 ; J. Phys., December, 1884, II, iii, 547.) 

Thomx)Son has given an illustrated description of the sound-mills con- 
structed by Dvorak. Two of these act by the repulsion of resonant- 
boxes. In the first four, resonators are mounted so as to revolve horizon- 
tally ; in the second the resonator is a cylindrical box, which revolves 
on its axis. The third is called a "sound radiometer" and the fourth 



448 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

an " acoustic anemoineter." They are all ingeniously constructed. 
{Nature, February, 1884, xxix, 363.) 

St. George has patented a novel form of phonograph. A round photo- 
graphic plate is revolved on its axis by means of any suitable motor. 
The light falls on the plate perpendicularly through a small opening, 
which, by means of a screw connected to the axis by bevel gear, is car- 
ried slowly toward the center. If the light were uniform, a spiral line 
would be traced on the jilate. But over the opening is a slide connected 
by a lever with a diaphragm and mouth-piece, so that on talking into 
the latter the vibration of the diaphragm varies the size of the opening ; 
so that there is produced on the plate a spiral band of varying width 
corresponding to the vibrations of the plate. If now the prepared plate 
be rotated under such conditions that a beam of light sent through this 
photographic image falls upon a selenium jDhotophoue transmitter, the 
tones of the voice are reproduced. [Science, iv, 124, August, 1884.) 

Dr. Zintgraff, who has gone into the interior of Africa with Cha- 
vanne, has taken with him a phonograph, for the purpose of fixing the 
speech and melodies of hitherto unknown tribes, which when received 
by the instrument will b^ forwarded to scientific men in Germany. The 
apparatus, now used for this purpose for the first time, was made by 
Fuhrmann, of Berlin, in fac simile of one kept in that city, so that the 
jilates made in Africa can be put upon the Berlin machine and caused 
to reproduce the sounds received. {Nature, March, 1884, xxix, 4G0.) 

Cross has given a lecture on the determination, history, and present 
standards of musical pitch. Under the first head he considered the 
methods by the sonometer and the tuning-fork and the tonometer of 
Scheibler. The fork he considered the only good standard, since it 
changed its rate by less than -^^^q per degree centigrade. He gives the 
following table, prepared in 1880, giving the results of some of his mea-s- 
urements : 

Number of 
vibrations, Cs. 

Ritchie, copy of Chickering standard 209 

Masou & Hamlin, French pitch 259. 1 

Hook & Hastings, old flat organ pitch 2fi4. 6 

Organ in Chnrch of the Immaculate Conception, Boston 266. *! 

Chickering's standard fork 268. 5 

Smith American Organ Company 267. 2 

New Euglaud Organ Company 268. 2 

H. F. Miller pianos 268.9 

Hook & Hastings standard 270 

Weber pianos 270. 3 

Thomas pitch, 1879 271.1 

Boston Music Hall organ 271. 2 

Steiuway's pitch 272. 2 

Highest New York pitch 273. 9 

In 1882-'83 the standard used by the Boston symphony orchestra 
Avas an A fork of 448 double vibrations ; in 1883-'84 it wa^ a French 
A of 435 vibrations. The standard French jjitch of the New England 



PHYSICS. 449 

Conservatory of Music is a middle 0, a true sixth below the uoimal A; 
hence 261 \ibrations. Hence the C fork used with an orchestra which 
has A for its standard does not agree with this. Chickeriug's and Miller's 
forks are standards, a tempered sixth below the French A ; hence 
258.7 vibrations. Thomas's present pitch is au A, a little sharper than 
the French A, In Handel's time the C fork had 249.G vibrations ; hence 
the difficulty now experienced in singing old music, {Science, May, 1884, 
m, 667.) 

Compton has devised a method for autographically recording the 
vibrations of a tuning-fork in terms of the beats between it aud a siren. 
Three pens make records on a strip of chemical i)aper. The first marks 
seconds, the second the revolutions of the siren, and the third the beats. 
Since the first pen is connected to the back contact of a relay, and the 
second to the front contact, both pens cannot record together ; and when 
the coincidence is perfect, the siren mark is omitted. The beat record 
is made by placing a membrane over the small end of a resonator, with 
an adjustible platinum contact in the main circuit of a relay, the pen 
being in the secondary circuit. The adjustment is so made that when 
a fork placed in front of the resonator beats with the siren, the circuit 
is broken, the armature falls back and closes the secondary circuit, pro- 
ducing a dash on the paper. The record, therefore, shows three sets of 
marks: First, the beat dashes ; second, the siren revolutions; and third 
the seconds marks. From the two latter the pitch of the siren is deter- 
mined ; and this, with the two former, determines the pitch of the fork. 
{Am. J, Sci., June, 1884, III, xxvii, 444.) , 

HEAT. 

1. Production of Heat. — Thermometry. 

Lippmann has objected to the thermometric scales in use as being 
entirely arbitrary. ]^either temperature nor intervals of temperature 
are measurable magnitudes, in the proper sense of the word. To meas- 
ure a quantity is to find its ratio to a magnitude of the same kind taken 
as a unit. The only physical magnitudes capable of measurement are 
those of which multiples can be constructed. But this is not true of 
temperature, since intervals of temperature cannot be added. He sug- 
gests, therefore, an absolute thermometric scale founded on the quantity 
of mechanical work done by heat-engines. According to Carnot's prin- 
ciple, the maximum efficiency is the same for all heat-engines working 
between the same limits of temperature. If such an engine take a quan- 
tity of heat, Q, from the source of heat and give up the quantity Q' to 

the refrigerator, then the ratio ^ has a minimum value for a given in- 

terval of temperature, independent of the nature of the engine. The 
temperature-interval is represented by that fraction of a heat-unit which 
is transferred to the refrigerator without having been transformed 
S. Mis. 33 29 



450 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

into work. The interval between two temperatures is represented not 
by a difference but by a ratio, the ratio between the quantities of heat 
received and rejected by a perfect engine working between these tem- 
peratures. {J. Phys., February, II, in, 63; July 1884, II, iii, 27V.) 

Pettersson has laid down the following principles with reference to 
the measurement of heat : First, measurements of heat should be executed 
at constant tem^jerature, i. e., without the aid of thermometers ; second, 
the amount of heat developed in calorimetric experiments should be 
directly transformed into work and measured in absolute units ; third, the 
principle should be applicable to the measurement of all kinds of ca- 
loric energy, such as specific heat, radiant heat, the heat absorbed or 
evolved in chemical reactions, &c. Several forms of apparatus are de- 
scribed which the author has used for such measurements, including 
the form finally adopted. (Nature^ July, 1884, xxx, 320.) 

Guthrie has studied the thermal and corresponding volume-changes 
attending the mixture of liquids, the substances used being alcohol, 
carbon disulphide, amylene, ether, chloroform, and benzene. {Phil. Mag., 
December, 1884, Y, xviii, ^95.) 

CaiUetet has constructed an apparatus for the continuous production 
of intense cold, which consists of a closed steel cylinder containing a 
coil of copper pipe projecting from each end. Two copper tubes are 
screwed into the cylinder ; one of these communicates with the author's 
mercurial piston-pump, the other receives the ethylene, which has been 
compressed by the pump and cooled by methyl chloride. In this way 
a circuit is formed , in which the same quantity of ethylene is repeatedly 
evaporated in the copper coil, producing intense cold, and then com- 
pressed again by the j)ump, it being cooled sufficiently by the evaporation 
of methyl chloride. {Science, April, 1884, in, 526.) 

Barbier has demonstrated Regnault's principle between weight and 
stem thermometers, that if they are in accord at two fixed points they 
remain in accord at all temperatures, as follows : If the temperature 
P be defined by saying that 5,550"^™ of mercury at 0° become 5,550+ 
<"•" at t°, then in the stem thermometer it will occupy at 0° 5,550"^™ 
of volume = w; and at f^, n-]-t volumes. In the weight thermometer, 
containing all the mercury at 0°, t volumes will flow out at <o, leaving 

n volumes : i. e., the fraction will flow out, and will remain. 

n-{-t ' n+t 

The ratio of these values is — , which is proportional to t as in the 

stem thermometer. Since t = -^p—^ — , the two thermometers are di- 

cP — p^ 

rectly comparable with one another when c is made equal to b-bVo- {(^• 

B., iS'ovember, 1884, xcix, loQ.) 

Mayengon has devised an instrument, which he calls a thermogalvan 

oscope, for the purpose of rendering the expansion of wires visible at 

a distance, serving, therefore, as an indicator of temperature. It con- 



PHYSICS. 451 

sists of a raetallic wire fixed at the ends, and connected at its middle 
point with a cord passing over a jmlley above and having a counter- 
weight below. When the wire elongates by heat, its center falls, rotates 
the pidley, and causes an index to traverse a graduated scale. The ap- 
paratus is very sensitive as a thermoscope, and by passing a current 
through the wire it may be used as a galvanoscope. {J. Phys., Septem- 
ber, 1884, II, III, 393.) 

Clodig has proposed to furnish steam-boilers with mercury thermom- 
eters, the reservoir (which is of iron) being placed in the steam, while 
the stem (which is' of iron within dnd glass without the boiler) passes 
through the metal. The pressure of the steam compresses the reservoir 
of the thermometer and increases the rise of the mercury in the tube, 
thus acting as a manometer. {J. Phys., May, 1884, II, in, 222.) 

Browne has given a resume of the most important pyrometers at pres- 
ent in use. In Siemens's instrument the temperature is determined from 
the increase in the resistance of a platinum wire as the heat increases. 
Tremeschiui uses the expansion of a thin plate of platinum which is 
heated by a mass of metal previously raised to the temperature of the 
medium, in order to determine the temperature. Trampler's pyrometer 
is based on the differential exi)ansion of iron and graphite. The Gaunt- 
lett instrument is similar, except that fire-clay is used instead of graph- 
ite. Ducomet's pyrometer consists of a series of rings having progress- 
ively lower melting points. These are strung on a rod, which is pushed 
into the medium to be measured, the rings being pressed together by a 
spring. When any ring softens it is pressed out, the column shortens, 
and a simple apparatus shows the temperature. The instrument known 
as the thalpotasimeter is based on the principle that the tension of a 
saturated vapor is proportional to the temperature. A tube of metal 
is partly filled with a liquid suited to the temperature to be measured, 
and connected with a pressure-gauge. Ether is used from 100^ to 220° 
F., water up to 680°, and mercury above this. Saintignon's pyrometer, 
as improved by Boulier, depends on the water-current principle, the 
temperature being determined by noting the amount of heat communi- 
cated to a known current of water circulating in the place whose tem- 
perature is desired. At Limoges and at Sevres this pyrometer has been 
satisfactorily used for determining the temperature of the porcelain fur- 
naces. {Nature, August, 1884, xxx, 366.) 

Von Baumhauer has contrived a modified form of thermo-regulator 
for use with paraffin baths to render the temperature constant. It con- 
sists of an air reservoir containing mercury, plunged into the paraffin. 
As the temperature rises, the expansion of the air forces the mercury 
up a central tube until it cuts off the flow of gas entering by a smaller 
tube adju8ta,ble within the latter. (C. B., August, 1884, xcix, 370.) 

Ericsson has published a description of the sun-motor which he had 
in operation in the summer of 1883, as the result of twenty years' experi- 
ments. Its leading feature is that of concentrating the radiant heat 



452 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

by meaus of a rectangular trougli having a curved bottom, lined on the 
inside with polished plates, so arranged that they reflect the sun's rays 
towards a cylindrical boiler placed lougitudinally above the trough. 
The trough is 11 feet long and 16 broad, and receives a beam of sun- 
light of 23,400 square inches in section. The boiler is 6^ inches in 
diameter and 11 feet long. The motor employed is a steam-engine 
with a cylinder 6 inches in diameter and 8 inches stroke. In the trials 
the previous summer the average speed of the engine was 120 turns a 
minute, the pressure on the piston being 35 pounds per square inch. 
From these results, Ericsson deduces some conclusions with reference 
the solar temperature. The area of a sphere whose radius is equal to 
the earth's mean distance from the sun being to the area of the latter 
as 214.5^ : 1, while the reflector of the solar motor intercepts a sun- 
beam of 23,400 square inches section, it follows that the reflector will 

receive the heat developed by* ^ ', ^, = 0.508 square inch of the solar 

214.5^ 

surface. Hence, as the boiler of the motor contains 1,274 square inches, 

the solar rays acting on it are diffused in the ratio 1,274 : 0.508, or 2,507 : 

1. Since the radiant heat transmitted to the reflector by the sun is 

capable of imparting a temperature to the boiler of 520° F. above that 

of the atmosphere, accepting Newton's law that " the temperature is 

as the density of the rays," the temperature imparted to the boiler of 

the sun-motor proves that the temperature of the solar surface cannot 

be less than 520° x 2,507, or 1,303,640° F. (Nature, January, 1884, 

XXIX, 216.) 

Ayrton and Perry have i)resented a paper on the indicator diagram 
of the gas-engine to the London Physical Society, intended to teach 
engineers a new mode of studying these diagrams. The paper gives the 
most recent results obtained with Dowson gas, a large wooden model 
of the Otto engine enabling the operations during the cycle to be un- 
derstood. By means of tables of the composition of the Dowson gas 
and coal gas, of the air required for their combustion, and of their spe- 
cific heats, as w^ell as those of their products, the characteristic equation 
of the fluid used in the engine may be determined. Three practical 
methods of determining the rate of gain of heat by the fluid during the 
forward stroke are given, this rate being compared everywhere with 
the rate of doing work, by means of a diagram. If W represent the 
indicated work in one cycle, 5.64 W is the total energy of combustion 
of one charge ; and this is expended as follows : 1.45 W is the work 
done in the forward stroke, 2.22 W is given to the cylinder by radiation 
in the forward stroke, 1.5 W is carried off through the exhaust-pipe, 
0.47 W is given to the cylinder as heat after the exhaust- valve opens. 
{Phil. Mag., July, 1884, V, xviii, 59 ; Nature, May, 1884, xxx, 47.) 

Thurston has published the results of tests made on an Otto gas-en- 
gine by Brooks and Steward at the Stevens Institute of Technology. The 
air and gas were both measured by meter, and the fact was proven that 



PHYSICS. 453 

combustion continues even after ex])ansiou has i)rogressed considerably. 
The heat consumed was distributed as follows : Indicated work, 17 per 
cent.; exhaust, 15 J per cent.; water-jacket, 52 per cent. ; loss by radia- 
tion, &(i., 15d ])er cent. The engiue was rated at ten-horse power, and 
the cost of operating it is given as 8f cents per horsepower per hour. 
( Van Nostrandh Mag., February, 1884, xxx, 89 ; Science, April, 1884, 
III, 49G.^ 

2. Expansion and Change of State. 

Thorpe and Eiicker have applied the theory of Van der Waals to 
the establishing of an important relation between the absolute tem- 
perature of boiling of a liquid, the volume at this temperature, an<l a 
constant, which they have determined to be 2, or very near this number. 

Mendelejeff had already established the formula ^=1 — T^t for the ex 

pansion of liquids, in which Ic is a modulus varying with the liquid. 
This author now show^s that if the dilatation of gases be expressed by 

1 11 

Vt =1 + at, and that of liquids by Vt=^ — ^ , then 2ti= -^— , and put- 

1 — kt k a 

ting a equal to 2, we have - = 2i + 273, in which either k or t being 

given the other can be determined. (J. Ghem. Soc, April, 1884, xlv, 
135; J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Busne, xvi, 232; Nature, August, 1884, xxx, 396.) 
De Heen, assuming that the molecules of a liquid attract each other 
in the inverse ratio of the seventh power of their distance, and that the 
work done by the molecular forces during expansion through 1° in 
temperature is a constant for the same liquid, has given the formula 

~-= «V2-^3^ as true for the volumes of all liquids. In this formula a 
at 
represents the expansion coefficient at 0°. The author has compared 

the values of ^ calculated by this formula with those deduced from 

the empirical formulas of other authors, especially Kopp and Is. Pierre, 
and finds a satisfactory agreement. {J. Phys., December, 1884, II, iii, 
549.) 

Thoulet has suggested a very simple method of determining the vol- 
nme expansion-coefficient of solid substances in small fragments. For 
this purpose he uses a solution of mercuric iodide in potassium iodide, 
of specific gravity from 2.75 to 2.85, the coefficient of which has been 
accurately determined by Goldschmidt. The solid is placed in the 
solution, and water is added until it remains in equilibrium, having the 
same density as the liquid. The temperature and density are noted. 
A small quantity of the concentrated solution is now added, and the 
solid rises to the surface. The density is again noted. Then the tem- 
])eraturc is slowly raised, the liquid expanding more than the solid, 
until the temperature is reached at which the solid is again in equilib- 
rium. Noting' the final density of the liquid and its temperature, the 



454 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR ]884. 

d.ita are at hand for the calculation of the coefiicient of the solid, (0 
E., March, 1884, xcviii, 020.) 

As long ago as 18G7 Govi had propounded the hypothesis that the 
contraction which takes place when stretched rubber is heated was due 
to the expansion of the gas contained in its i)ores. When the caout- 
chouc is stretched the spherical cavities elongate; and on heating, the 
gas dilates more than the solid, and tends to make the ellijjsoidal cavi- 
ties spherical again, thus shortening the rubber. Hesehus has tested 
this hypothesis by performing the experiment in vacuo. Placing the 
stretched caoutchouc under an exhausted receiver, the expansion of 
the air due to diminished pressure should have the effect of shortening 
the rubber. But not the smallest effect was observed. {J. Soc. Phys. 
Chim. Russe, xv, 103; J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 459.) 

Fromme has made an investigation into the changes produced in the 
molecular condition of iron by heating to redness and cooling. He con- 
cludes that in the temperiug of a steel bar, besides the mechanical and 
purely physical process of sudden contraction, another change, also of a 
chemical nature, takes place, this consisting in a combination between 
the free carbon and the iron. {Phil. Mag., December, 1884, xviii, 473.) 

Gernez has studied the duration of the solidification of surfused sul- 
phur in both the prismatic and octahedral forms, and finds that the time 
required for the latter to solidify is much longer, in some cases 100 
times, than the former. During these experiments he succeeded in ob- 
taining a third form of crystal, in long prismatic rods with a nacreous 
luster. Hence he concludes that the measurement of the velocity of 
solidification constitutes a new method of investigation, which applied 
to sulphur developed some unexpected facts, such as the modifications 
produced at constant temperature under the prolonged influence of heat, 
and the order of transformation under various conditions. {J. Phys., 
11, III, 58, 286, February, July, 1884.) 

, E. Wiedemann has experimented to determine the change in volume 
which metals and their alloys undergo on fusion. He used a thermom- 
eter containing the metal to be examined, in the form of a cylinder, sur- 
rounded with oil. The points of solidification were determined by the 
method of cooling. Zinc melts at 226^ and increases in volume at the 
moment of fusion, this increase being from 1.7 to 2.2 per cent., according 
to the specimen. Plumber's solder increases in volume also about 2 per 
cent. Lead-bismuth alloys of various compositions show two different 
points of fusion, to each of which corresponds a notable increase of vol- 
ume, but which, however, is not sudden. ( Wied. Ann., xx, 228; J. Phys.f 
II, III, 148, March, 1884.) 

Raoult has examined the laws of congelation in solutions, and con- 
firms essentially the principles established by Blagden in 1788. The 
conclusion reached is enunciated in the following general law : A mole- 
cule of any compound whatever, in dissolving in 100 molecules of any 
liquid whatever, different in character, lowers the solidifying point of 



PHYSICS. 455 

this liquid by a quantity nearly constant, which is not far from 0.63o. 
{J. Phijs., January, 1884, II, iii, 16.) 

Guthrie has given the name eutexia to the property jwssessed by cer- 
tain compound l*)dies of fusing at very low temperatures, such bodies 
being called eutectic bodies or eutectics. He uses the term for bodies 
made up of two or more constituents, which constituents are in such 
proportion to one another as to give the resulting compound body a 
minimum temperature of liquefaction. Taking up metallic alloys, he 
finds that the eutectic alloy of bismuth with lead contains 44.42 of 
lead and fuses at 122.7o ; with tin, 53.90 per cent, of tin and fuses at 
133<^ ; with cadmium, 40.81 per cent. Cd, melting at 144°; and with zinc, 
7.15 per cent, of zinc, fusing at 248°. A tetra-eutectic alloy, containing 
47.38 of bismuth, 19.36 of lead, 13.29 cadmium, and 19.97 of tin, fused 
at 71°, below the temperature of boiling alcohol. His next experiments 
were made with salt alloys. With niter, fusing at 320°, the eutectic 
alloy with potassium sulphate fused at 300°, with potassium chromate at 
295°, with barium nitrate at 278, with strontium nitrate at 258°, with 
calcium nitrate at 251°, and with lead nitrate at 207°. The analogy 
between eutectic alloys of this sort and cryohydrates is pointed out, and 
the geological and mineralogical importance of eutexia is discussed in 
the original paper. (Phil. Mag., June, 1884,V, xvii, 462 ; Nature, June, 
1884, XXX, 139.) 

Trouton has compared together the quantities of heat necessary to 
evaporate at constant pressure quantities of different liquids taken in 
the ratio of their molecular weights, and finds that the amount of heat 
required by any body is approximately proportional to its absolute 
tem])erature at the point of ebullition. By multiplying the latent heat 
by the density, the amount of heat required to evaporate a quantity of 
a body proportional to its molecular weight is obtained ; and the ratio 
of this value to the absolute temperature of the boiling point is approxi- 
mately constant. Thus, the latent heat of bromine is 45.9, it boils at 

63°, and its density is 79.75. Hence, ^^^^-^'^^ = 10.89. The la- 

Z to -^ Do 

tent heat of butyric acid is 114.7, it boils at 162°, and its density is 44. 

Hence, — ~ — ^^— -r = 11.59, a nearly identical value. The author con- 

- 273 + 162 ' . 

eludes that the molecules of bodies, and especially of chemically related 
ones, in changing from the gaseous to th^ liquid state at the same press 
ure, disengage quantities of heat which may be called the molecular 
latent heat, directly proportional to the absolute temperature of the 
boiling point. (Phil. Mag., July, 1884, V, xviii, 54.) 

Klobakow has devised an instrument for determining the vapor den 
sity of bodies of high and of low boiling points, respectively. For lo^ 
boiling points the apparatus (which he calls a vapor-density dilato 
meter) resembles a weight thermometer. For bodies of high boiling 
point 1 e uses an apparatus resembling an araometer, consisting of a 



458 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

glass vessel with an opening at its lower part, whicli allows a part of the 
liqnid in the instrument to flow out as the vapor in the upper portion 
expands. By means of a weighing apparatus the pressure of the in- * 
closed vapor is ascertained. The results seem to be satisfactory. ( Wied 
Ann., XXI, 406; Am. J. Sci., November, 1884, III, xxviii, 390.) 

Meunier has modified the apparatus of Crafts and Meyer so as to ob- 
tain with it, under greatly reduced pressure, the vapor density of certain 
additional products of benzene which decompose at their boiling point 
under the ordinary pressure. The results given agree closely with 
theory. {C. B., xcviii, 12G8, May, 1884.) 

Clark has described an apparatus for the purification of mercury by 
distillation, which differs from those hitherto suggested chiefly in being 
supplied with the mercury to be distilled from a movable reservoir in 
the form of a constant-level regulator, the raising of which fills the dis- 
tiller with mercury, thus rendering unnecessary a Sprengel pump to 
start the operation. The apparatus described will distill about two 
pounds of mercury in an hour. {Fhil. Mag., January, 1884, V, xvii, 24.) 

Many experiments have been made on the liquefaction of the so-called 
permanent gases. Wroblewski has XJroduced liquid oxygen in such 
quantities as to use it as a refrigerating agent. When liquefied in large 
quantity and allowed to evaporate briskly by the sudden removal of the 
pressure, it does not solidify like carbon dioxide, though it deposits a 
crystalline residue. Hitherto he has not found it possible to obtain 
oxygen in a stable liquid condition under the pressure of one atmos- 
phere. Hence the objects to be cooled must be placed in the apparatus, 
which is then filled with the liquid oxygen. By means of a thermo- 
electric apparatus, controlled by a hydrogen thermometer between 100° 
and —130°, the author estimates the temperature produced by boiling 
oxygen at —186°. When nitrogen is compressed, cooled in boiling 
oxygen, and then slightly released from pressure, it solidifies and falls 
like snow, in crystals of remarkable size. {Phil. Mag., February, 1884, 
V, xviii, 158; Am. J. Sci., April, 1884, III, xxvn, 319.) 

Dewar, in a lecture at the Eoyal Institution, produced and experi- 
mented with 1.5 c. c. of liquid oxygen, prepared by an apparatus of great 
simplicity. In an iron reservoir oxygen is compressed to 150 atmos- 
pheres. A copper tube, on which is a manometer, connects this reser- 
voir with a glass tube 5""" diameter and 3'"'" thick, in which the lique- 
fied gas collects. This is inclpsed in a glass tube containing the liquid 
ethylene, solid carbon dioxide, or liquid nitrogen monoxide, which is to 
be boiled in vacuo as the refrigerant. Outside of this is a larger tube, 
through which the cold vapors pass on their way to the air-pump. When 
the pump has reduced the pressure to 25""", the ethylene has a temper- 
ature of about —140° ; and then a pressure of between 20 and 30 at- 
mospheres is suificient to produce liquid oxygen in the tube. When 
solid CO2 is used, a temperature of —115° is obtained ; and with liquid 
N2O, one of —125°. As the critical point of oxygen is —113°, both 



PHYSICS. 457 

these refrigerants enable *be condensation to liquefy the oxygen, pro- 
vided the pressure is above 50 atmospheres. But it is convenient to 
have a stopcock attached to the tube, whereby a sudden expansion may 
be efiected and a lower temperature thus obtained. By knowing the 
volume of the liquid oxygen and the corresponding volume of the gas- 
eous oxygen, the density of the liquid may be obtained. A rough ex- 
periment gave Dewar 0.65 as the density near the critical point. As 
early as 1883 Dewar had made experiments on liquefied marsh gas, and 
pointed out the fact that the ratio of the critical temperature to the 
critical pressure is proportional to the molecular volume. Hence, since 
the critical temperature of marsh gas is less than —100°, and its crit- 
ical pressure only 39 atmospheres, he believed he could approach the 
absolute zero by its evaporation. In his paper he gives a valuable 
table of the critical temperature, the critical pressure, and the ratio of 
the two for 21 gases, in parallel columns. {Phil. Mag., September, 1884, 
V, XVIII, 210.) 

Olszewski, using a hydrogen thermometer, has shown that under a 
pressure of 1 atmosphere oxygen boils at —181°, and that when it evap- 
orates under a pressure of 6""" of mercury the temperature is —198° 
But even this latter temperature was not sufficiently low to liquefy hy- 
drogen, being above its critical temperature. Recourse was therefore 
had to nitrogen. This gas, under a pressure of 60 atmospheres, cooled 
to —142° by ethylene boiling in vacuo, liquefied, but showed no meniscus. 
On diminishing the pressure to 35 atmospheres, the nitrogen boiled so 
rapidly that it appeared white and opaque in the upper part of the tube. 
Keeping the pressure at this point, the boiling ceased, the liquid became 
clear and showed a well-pronounced meniscus. About 3 or 4 c. c. of 
liquid were obtained, which evaporated slowly, increasing the pressure 
until it reached 30.2 atmospheres, the critical pressure, when the menis- 
cus disax^peared. Exposed to the atmospheric pressure the liquid evap- 
orated at first rapidly, then more slowly, the liquid remaining transpar- 
ent, with no trace of the crystals observed by Wroblewski. Indeed, by 
no sudden expansion could it be frozen. But when a sudden expansion 
was produced with hydrogen in a tube placed within the liquid nitro- 
gen, the pressure falling from 160 to 40 atmospheres, the hydrogen con- 
densed as a colorless and transparent liquid, running down the walls of 
the tube. An instant after, the outside of this tube became covered 
with a white, opaque layer of solidified nitrogen, produced by the intense 
cold given by the boiling hydrogen. Subsequently Olszewski employed 
liquid ethylene under a pressure of 10'""' of mercury and obtained a tem- 
perature of —150°. He studied the temperatures obtained at various 
pressures, as follows: At 750™", —103°; at 546""', -105°; at 441""", 
-108O; at316""", -llio; at 246'""', -115.50; at 146""", -122°; at 107""", 
-126°; at 72'""', -129.7°; at 56™", -132°; at 31""', -139°; at 12"", 
— 148° ; and at 9.8"", — 150.4°. At this latter temperature the liquefaction 
of several cubic centimeters of nitrogen presents no difficulties, it being 



458 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

entirely uunecessary to use liquid oxygen. Studying nitrogen as abov(i, 
he obtained the following values of pressure and temperature : At 35 at- 
mospheres (the critical pressure) the temperature was —146° (the critical 
temperature) ; at 31 atmospheres —148.2° ; at 17 atmospheres — 100.5° ; 
at 1 atmosphere, —194.4; and in vacuo, —213°. This, then, w^as the tem- 
perature actually attained in the experiments with hydrogen above de- 
cribed. The author diifers from Wroblewski, since with oxygen boiling 
under a pressure of only one atmosphere, and even under an expansion of 
100 atmospheres, he obtained no trace of liquefaction with hydrogen. In- 
deed, it was only with oxygen boiling in a vacuum, and hence giving a 
lower temperature by 17°, and under expansion of the gas compressed to 
190 atmospheres, that the first trace of liquefaction appeared. The liquid 
hydrogen enabled Dumas to say that it certainly was not a metal, as 
many had been led to believe it would be. It was a colorless, transpar- 
ent liquid. Continuing his researches, Olszewski next used air as the 
refrigerant, having obtained 6 c.c. of it. The air was compressed in bat- 
terer's apparatus and allowed to pass into a glass tube cooled to —142° 
to —150° by means of ethylene. 'So meniscus was observed at 50 at- 
mospheres, although this is superior to the critical pressure. On dimin- 
ishing the pressure to 37.6 atmospheres, the air began to boil and the 
meniscus appeared at once. This pressure is below the critical press- 
ure, the meniscus disappearing at 39 atmospheres. The following are 
the observed values of pressure and temperature for air: At the press- 
ire of 39 atmospheres the temperature was —140° (the critical point); 
at 33 atmospheres, —142°; at 27.5 atmospheres, —146°; at 20 atmos- 
pheres, — 152°; at 14 atmospheres, —158.5°; at 12.5 atmospheres, 
—160.5°; at 6.8 atmospheres, —169°; at 4 atmospheres, —176; at 1 at- 
mosphere, — 191.4° ; and in vacuo, —205°. Since the temperature under 
which air boils in vacuo, calculated from that of oxygen, —198°, and ni- 
trogen, —213°, differs considerably from —205°, it would seem that when 
air is liquefied the relative proportion of its constituents is not pre- 
served. (O. R., April, 1884, xcviii, 913 ; July, 1884, xcix, 133, 184.) 

Olszewski has liquefied carbon monoxide also, and has studied its prop- 
erties. The gas was carefully purified from carbon dioxide, and com- 
pressed to 70 atmospheres in batterer's pump, from whence it passed 
to the apparatus used in liquefying oxygen and nitrogen. The follow- 
ing values were observed : Under the pressure of 35.5 atmospheres the 
temperature was —139.5° (the critical temperature); at 25.7 atmospheres, 
—145.3° ; at 23.4 atmospheres, —147.7° ; at 21.5 atmospheres, —148.8°; 
at 20.4 atmospheres, —150.0° 5 at 18.1 atmospheres, -152°; at 16.1 at- 
mospheres, —154.4° ; at 14.8 atmospheres, —155.7°; at 6.3 atmospheres, 
—168.2° ; at 4.6 atmospheres, —172.6° ; at 1 atmosphere, —190° ; and in 
vacuo, —211°, the solidifying point. At temperature* between —139.5° 
and —190° liquid carbon monoxide is colorless and transparent. In 
vacuo the temperature falls to —211°, and it solidifies either in a snowy 
mass, if the vacuum is rapidly made, or a compact, opaque mass, if the 



PHYSICS. 459 

process be slow. If it be so slow that the evaporation is allowed to 
take place from the surfiice only, the solid mass is entirely transparent 
Increasing the pressure to 1 atmosphere liquefies it. (C. i^., October, 

1884, xoix, TOG.) 

In hygrometry, Jamin has called attention to the unsatisfactory char- 
f 
acter of the ratio ^, / being the elastic force of the vapor as observed 

and F the maximum tension for that temperature, this ratio being called 
the relative humidity, to express the quantity of vapor in the air. This 
ratio varies with the jiroportion of vapor in the air, with the altitude 
and the barometric pressure, and with the temperature. He therefore 

f 
proposes the ratio - / , which measures the hvgrometric composition 

^— / 
of the air. This value he calls the hygrometric richness. (J. Phys., 
November, 1884, II, iii, 469.) ' 

Crova has pronounced in favor of the Saussure hair-hygrometer, and 
says that, well made and with a good table of calibrated values, it 
will give very satisfactory results, entirely comparable with those of 
other instruments. He gives in his paper the details of a plan of gradu- 
ating absorption instruments, which, is simple and apparently accurate. 
{J. Phys., September, 1884, II, iii, 390.) 

Pernter has made a series of psych rometrical observations on the 
Obir, 6,722 feet above the sea-level, using Wild's ventilation-hygrom- 
eter, Eegnault's dew-point hygrometer, and Schwackhofer's volumetric 
hygrometer. The general result obtained is that an exact formula foi 
the psychrometer can scarcely be obtained, and that therefore we can- 
not expect by means of the psychrometer to determine the pressure of 
vapor to within 0.1""". {Beihldtter der Physik, viii, 31 ; Phil. Mag., May, 
1884, V, XVII, 412.) 

LIGHT. ' 

1. Production and Velocity. 

Lecher has made an experiment to determine whether the velocity ot 
light is affected by the motion of a current in the medium. A beam 
of light was divided into two parts, which, after passing through two 
parallel glass troughs, were united by an interference prism, giving the 
usual fringes. The troughs contained a strong solution of silver nitrate. 
and, by means of suitable silver electrodes, an electric current of six 
amperes strength was carried in opposite diyections through the trough, 
so that in one the electric current flowed in the same direction as the 
light, and in the other in the opposite direction. But in no case was 
any displacement of the fringes observed. Hence he concludes that 
the velocity of light is not influenced by a current flowing through the 
medium. {Nature, xxix, 559, April, 1884.) 

At the Electrical Congress held in Paris in April it was decided to 
adopt the light emitted from a square centimeter of platinum at its 



460 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

meltiug" point as the photometric staudard. This standard was sug- 
gested by Violle, who has made many experiments, first with silver and 
subsequently with platinum. Having assured himself that the radia- 
tion from silver was constant during solidification, he i^roposed as the 
absolute unit of light the radiation emitted by a square centimeter of 
surface of melted platinum at the temperature of solidification. The 
platinum must be perfectly' pure and must be melted in a lime crucible. 
By means of a diaphragm blackened on its surface, having a square 
opening, it is easy to obtain a beam of definite cross- section. When 
the measurement is to be made, the gas is shut oif and the liquid metal 
is, allowed to cool. This, which is at first rapid, becomes slower and 
slower, becoming finally stationary. . Then a "lightening" passes over 
the surface, and the cooling continues. The moment of measurement 
is at the instant when the temperature is stationary. By continuing 
the flow of gas, instead of cutting it entirely off, this point may be pre 
served for a longer time. The author has compared the light thus ra- 
diated with that of a staudard carcel lamp, first, when the light was 
emitted by the platinum at an angle of 45^, and, second, when it was 
emitted normally and reflected from a mirror at 45°. The photometer 
used in the first comparisons was the E-umford instrument, as used in 
the light-house service ; in the second, besides this instrument, a Fou- 
cault photometer was used, of the form used in testing officially the gas 
supplied to Paris. By the first method the light emitted by the plati- 
num was 2.118 carcels; by the second, 2.079 for series 1, group A, and 
2.077 for group B, series 2 giving 2.077. The mean of the whole is 2.08 
carcels. Assuming the flame of the carcel lamp to have 5.25 sq. 
cm. of surface, an equal surface of platinum would emit 2.08x5.25, 
or 10.92 carcels. The intrinsic intensity of the platinum staudard is 
then 11 times that of the carcel lamp. Comparisons were also made 
with a Swan incandescent lamp, the light emitted by it under known 
current conditions having been carefully determined. The mean of 
these comparisons gave 2.069 carcels. ( C. J?., April, 1884, xoviii, 1032; 
J. FMjs., June, 1884, II, in, 241; Phil. Mag., June, 1884, V, xvii, 503; 
Am. J. Sci., July, 1884, III, xxviii, 72.) 

Werner Siemens has contrived an apparatus for putting the above 
unit into practice, although it determines the light emitted by plat- 
inum at its melting point and not at its solidifying point. A very thin 
j)latinum plate is inclosed in a metallic case provided with a hole 0.1 
sq. cm. in section, which is immediately over the metal. The sides 
about the hole are inclined toward it, the platinum plate being consider- 
ably larger. At the instant of melting, the light radiated through 
the opening is 0.1 of the standard. By suitable arrangements the 
current may be modified- and controlled so as to produce the melting 
at will when the comparison is to be made. Preliminary experiments 
show that the light emitted is about 1.5 standard candles. ( Wied. Ann.^ 
XXI, 304 ; Am. J. Sci.j August, 1884, III, xxviii, 150.) 



PHYSICS. 461 

Weber has described a photometer depeuding upou equal visual acute- 
uess, the two sources of light which are to be compared being made to 
illuminate two similar halves of a glass plate on which are photographed 
concentric circles very close together. The advantage claimed for this 
method is the facility -which it gives of comparing a diffuse light with 
a standard, or even two lights of different colors with one another. In 
the latter case the observation is facilitated by the use of a red glass. 
( Wied. Ann., xx, 326 ; J. Phys., March, 1884, 11, iii, 143.) 

Wild has shown that his polarizing photometer may be converted 
into a specti^ophotometer by interposing an Amici prism between the 
double-image prism and the polariscope. The slit is placed close to the 
terminal faces of the total-reflection prisms. A collimating lens is 
placed against the Foucault prism. Under these conditions each of 
the sources of light shows a channeled spectrum, the bands being alter- 
nate in the two. Hence when the spectra are superposed, the fringes 
disappear for one particular portion of the spectrum. A slit attached 
to the eye-piece, movable by a micrometer screw, serves to limit the re- 
gion in which the measures are taken. {Wied. Ann., xx, 452; J. Phya.. 
March, 1884, II, iii, 142.) 

Crova has pointed out that the complete determination of the photo- 
metric value of a powerful light requires : first, a comparison of two 
lights of differing colors ; second, an estimation of the color by means of a 
numerical factor; and, third, the determination of the photometric ratio 
between a very intense light and a relatively feeble standard. The first 
point he solves by the use of a solution consisting of 22.321 grams of 
ferric chloride and 27.191 grams crystallized nickel chloride, dissolved 
in distilled water to a volume of 100 c. c. at 15°, which is placed between 
the eye and the screen. A thickness of 7'"'" of this solution allows rays 
of wave-length 630/^ to 534yu only to pass, the limiting value being 580/< 
which is the best for solar photometry. The second point is attained 
by making two successive determinations by means of the spectropho- 
tometer — one through the above solution, giving the intensity r.itio; 
the other through a red glass colored with cuprous oxide, which allows 
rays from 726// to 752/< to pass, and which gives a ratio as much be- 
low the former one as the light is whiter than the carcel. The quotient 
of the first ratio by the second is a constant which fixes the color, 
having a higher value as the light is whiter, and is equal to unity when 
the light has the same color as the carcel. For an incandescent lamp 
it varies from 1.05 to 1.23, and for the arc 1.5 to 1.7. The third i^oint 
requires a special photometer. (0. R., December, 1884, xcix, 1067.) 

Crova has subsequently described this instrument, which he calls a 
diffusion photometer. On a plate of ground or of opal glnss, or on a 
Foucault screen, acting as a diffuser, a uniform luminous field is thrown, 
the incident rays falling normally. Each of the points of the plate may 
be considered as a luminous source, and sends back of the screen an 
amount of light depending on the character of the screen and varying 



462 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

with the angle of emission, though in a nearly normal direction the. 
rays have the same intensity. Behind the diffuser an opaque screen is 
fixed, furnished with a variable slit. The amount of light passing through 
this opening is proportional to the extent of the luminous field covered 
by it, to a coefQcient depending on the diflfuser itself, to the area of the 
opening, and to the inverse square of the distance. By means of such 
a photometer the author has determined the sun's light to be equal to 
7,500 carcels, that of the Serrin lamj) used by him being 230 to 320 
carcels. The coefficient of his diffuser is the value in carcels of the 
field in which the diffuser should be placed in order that 1 sq. cm. of 
its surface should emit the light of one carcel. Thus a ground glass of 
400 carcels is a glass 1 sq. cm. of which placed in a field of 400 carcels 
emits a light of 1. {C. B., December, 1884, xcix, 1115.) 

McLeod has proposed a new sunshine-recorder, consisting of a camera 
so fixed that its axis is parallel to the polar axis of the earth, the lens 
pointing northward. Opposite the lens a silvered sphere is placed, from 
which the rays of the sun are reflected through the lens of the camera 
on to the sensitive paper, on which a distorted image of the sun is formed, 
the positions of the lens and sphere being so arranged that the image 
is a linear and radial one. By the motion of the earth the solar image 
is carried over a circular arc, and traces a curve on the sensitive paper. 
The ordinary ferricyanide paper is employed, and the instrument is 
sufficiently sensitive to register gleams of sunshine and also the pas- 
sage of small clouds. Eadial lines are drawn from the center of the cir- 
cular band, 15° apart, to serve as hour lines. {Phil. Mag., August, 1884, 
V, XVIII, 141.) 

2. Reflection and Refraction. 

Basso has studied the phenomena of reflection from crystalline sur- 
faces, using a Bunsen photometer illuminated on one side by sunlight 
which has traversed orange-yellow glass, and is polarized in a suitable 
azimuth by means of a Nicol prism, reflected to the screen from the 
crystalline face to be studied, the other side receiving the light from a 
disk of ground glass, illuminated by a petroleum lamp. The crystal 
used was a plate of Iceland spar, cut perpendicularly to the axis. The 
intensity of the light reflected from the spar was calculated for various 
angles of incidence and for various azimuths of polarization. For azi- 
muth the formulas become those of Fresnel. Assuming the value 
for this azimuth and rotating the Nicol, the intensity may be determined 
for various azimuths by varying the distance of the lamp from the disk. 
The results are in fair accord with theory. {II Nuovo Gimento, xiv, 5 ; 
J. Phys., December, 1884, II, in, 558.) 

Conroy has communicated to the Eoyal Society the results of his 
measurements of the amount of polarized light reflected by metallic 
surfaces. He used mirrors of steel and of speculum metal, highly pol- 
ished, the incident light being polarized by a Nicol prism. The experi' 



PHYSICS. 463 

osents appear to show that the jjenerally received formulas for metal- 
lic reflection are approximately correct, but that the actual iutensity of 
the reflected light is always less than the theoretical intensity. Hence, 
unless the surfaces be defective, these formulas do not express the laws 
of metallic reflection. If, as appears to be the case, .a change in the re- 
flective power of a plate can occur without any change in the values of 
the principal incidence and azimuth, the formulas must be regarded 
as only approximately true, and there is additional reason for thinking, 
with Stokes, that three constants are required to define a metal optic- 
ally. {Wature, February, 1884, xxix, 398.) 

Gouy has studied the light diffused from depolished glass and metal 
surfaces. The apparatus consisted of a mirror and attached polarizer, 
by which a beam of light polarized in any plane could be thrown at 
any incidence upon the roughened plate, placed horizontally. The dif- 
fused light was observed by means of a j)olariscope. Taking a plate 
of ordinary ground glass, the incident ray being polarized in a plane 
perpendicularly to the plane of incidence, and the angle of incidence 
being 60°, he finds that there are two ne.utral directions, making an 
angle of 47° with the normal to the i^late and symmetrically situated 
with reference to plane of incidence, so that that plane which contains 
either of them and the normal makes an angle of 22° with the plane of 
incidence. On the one side of the incident i^lane the light is circularly 
or elliptically polarized in the right handed direction, and on the other 
side left-handed, while in the plane of incidence it is plane polarized. 
If, however, the incident light is polarized in the plane of incidence, 
the two neutral directions still exist, and are symmetrical with refer- 
ence to this plane, but are otherwise quite diflerent from those just de- 
scribed. The two angles are 77° and 95°, respectively, and the gyration 
of the rays is inverted, so that the right and left handed rays have 
changed sides. (C. B., April, 1884, xcviii, 978.) 

Dufet has examined the influence exerted by temperature on the re- 
fractive index of quartz, studying, first, the variation of the double refrac- 
tion, and, second, the variation of the ordinary and extraordinary indices. 
The quartz used was a rectangular parallelopipedon, 14.07""" in the 
direction of the axis and 14.614'"™ in the perpendicular direction. The 
refractive indices taken were those of Mascart, and the expansion co- 
efficients those of Benoit. The variation of the double refraction was 
measured by the displacement of Fizeau's and Foucault's fringes, and 
that of the two indices by the displacement of Talbot's bauds. He finds 
that the indices of both rays diminish with the temperature by values 
considerably above those of Fizeau. (0. B., May. 1884, xcviii, 1265 ; 
J. Phys., June, 1884, II, iii, 251.) 

Bauerwald has determined the refractive indices of rutite, the speci- 
men being a remarkably transparent crystal from Syssert, in the Ural, 
cut into a prism of 25°. The ordinary index for the lithium line was 
2.5671, for the sodium line 2.6158, and for the thallium line 2.6725. The 



464 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

extraordinary index for these three lines was 2.8415, 2.9029, and 2.9817, 
respectively. The only minerals having higher indices are zigueline, 
red silver, and cinnabar. {Zeitschr. Kryst. & 3Iin., vii, '167 ; J. Phys., 
February, 1884, II, iii, 105.) 

Soret has determined the refractive indices of the alums for the eight 
principal lines of the spectrum. He used seven alumina alums, four 
chrome alums, five iron alums, two gallium alums, and an indium alum. 
{G. R., November, 1884, xcix, 8(57.) 

Quincke has investigated the change which takes place in the volumes 
and refractive indices of liquids when subjected to h^^drostatic press- 
ure. The liquids were contained in glass or metal tubes 230"""' long, 
which were placed in an interference apparatus. One of the two inter- 
fering pencils traversed the liquid, and by measuring the number of in- 
terference bands which corresponded to a given Fraunhofer line, before 
and after the j^ressure was applied, the change in the index could be 
calculated. He draws the conclusion that at constant temperature and 
varying hydrostatic pressure, the specific refraction, at least for the 
liquids examined, which is .w — 1 — ff, is equal to a constant; in other 
words, the decimals of the refractive index are proportional to the den- 
sity. {Phil. Mag., January, 1884, V, xvii, 65.) 

Shaw has described a means of verifying the phenomena of refraction 
by the prism, especially the focal lines, by using a piece of wire gauze 
as the object, placed so that one set of wires is horizontal and the other 
vertical, and illuminated by a sodium flame behind it. If the light pass 
directly from the gauze to the prism, the focal lines are of course vir- 
tual, but they may be easily viewed and their positions identified by 
means of a telescope which will focus an object at a short distance. For 
one position of the eye-piece of the telescope the vertical wires are seen 
distinctly, but not the horizontal wires; while for another position these 
latter may be seen, but the former ones are not visible unless the prism 
is at minimum deviation. The experiment is more striking if the fo'tal 
lines be made real by interposing between the gauze and the prism 
a convex lens of somewhat long focus. The vertical and horizontal 
images may then be viewed by means of an ordinary magnifier, or, bet- 
ter, by a telescope eye piece placed behind a second gauze, with its wires 
at 450 to the vertical. In this way the images corresponding to the two 
focal lines can be seen very clearly, and their distances from the prism 
accurately measured. If the prism be placed first in the position of 
minimum deviation, and the magnifier be focused upon the image of the 
gauze, both horizontal and vertical wires are seen sharply defined. On 
gradually turning the prism the vertical lines disappear completely. 
If the eye-piece be drawn back some way, a badly defined image of the 
gauze can be obtained, corresponding to the circles of least confusion; 
and on withdrawing the eye-piece still farther, the horizontal wires dis- 
appear entirely, while the vertical ones come out sharply as a set of bars 
across a uniform field. (Nature, December, 1884, xxxi, 185.) 



PHYSICS. 4G5 

Haycraft Las described tbe model of a lens which he has used suc- 
cessfully in his lectures. It consists of a piece of deal board cut in the 
shape of the cross section of a double-convex lens, and mounted so as 
to stand vertical. Four small squares of board are fixed on the two 
sides of this model, near the toi> and bottom, so that they can move 
about a center. To each of these a glass tube bent at an obtuse angle is 
fastened, and strings passing through these tubes represent the visual 
rays. {Nature, October, 1884, xxx, 543.) 

3. Dispersion and Color. 

Demar9ay has pointed out the advantage of employing in spectrum 
work an induction coil having a shorter and larger secondary wire than 
is usual. His coil gives a spark only about 5'"™ long, though it is 11.5*='" 
in diameter and 23*^^ long. The primary and secondary wires are both 
^mm jjj diameter, but the latter is nearly three times as long as the 
former and the coil has three times the usual condensing surface. The 
spark, though short, is quite thick, its aureole being S'"'" in diameter. 
For the examination of liquids the author uses a sort of wick made of 
platinum wires twisted together and then rolled into a circle, with one 
end rising out of the middle. This is placed in the small dish contain- 
ing the solution to be examined, and the spark, which need not be 
more than one fourth to one-half a millimeter, is passed to the upright 
end from a positive electrode of large wire. (0. R., December, 1884, 
xcix, 1022, 1069.) 

Thollou has published an illustrated monograph of the line, or rather 
the group, D of the solar spectrum, as observed with his new compound 
prism. He gives for comparison the group as observed by Huggins in 
1863, by Campbell in 1865, by Russell in 1877, by Vogel in 1879, by 
Gassiot in 1863, by Cooke in 1866, by Fieves in 1882, and by Cornu in 
1884. The last two were obtained by means of a Rutherfurd grating. 
The author's spectroscope separates the components proper of the line 
D by 12 minutes. Between these extremes this instrument shows twelve 
shari^ly defined lines, the wave-lengths of which are given. Of these 
nine are telluric, j)roduced by some variable constituent of our atmos- 
phere, moisture probably. Two are not telluric, the one belonging to 
nickel, the other to an unknown element. The last seems to possess 
the characteristics of both, and hence the author concludes must be 
made up of two comiioneuts superposed, one telluric, the other metallic. 
A drawing is given showing the appearance of this group, first, when the 
eastern limb of the sun is on the slit, and, second, when the western 
limb is so placed. The displacement of the solar lines and the non-dis- 
placement of the telluric ones are marked. {J. Phys., January, 1884, II, 
III, 5.) 

Cornu has published a valuable memoir on the group « of the solar 
spectrum, having devised an exceedingly ingenious method of distin 
guishing at a glance solar from telluric lines. On the slit of the col- 
S. Mis. 33 30 



466 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

limator a small iuiage of the solar disk is projected by means of an 
achromatic lens of 10 or 12 inches focus. On causing now this lens to 
oscillate rapidly two or three times per second, so as to bring the two 
opposite edges of the disk alternately on the slit, the lines of solar ori- 
gin oscillate with the lens, while those which are telluric remain fixed. 
Moreover, a singular illusion appears : the trembling lines seem to stand 
out in relief, and to oscillate in front of the fixed ones. By means of 
this neat device the author has determined the group « to consist of 
three entirely distinct sets of lines : first, those which are solar, and of 
which twenty-five are figured ; second, those which are due to the dry at- 
mosphere (the structure and grouping of these lines strikingly recalls 
that of the groups A and B ; and since Egoroff has shown these latter 
to be due to oxygen, it is probable that the former are due to the same 
element); and, third, lines due to aqueous vapor, of which only a few are 
given. {J. PMjs., March, 1884, II, in, 109.) 

Thollou has also described and figured Avith minute accuracy the 
seventeen lines which constitute the group B of Fraunhofer, arranging 
them in four sections : First, when the sun is at 80° from the zenith ; sec- 
ond, when the sun is 60° from the zenith, air damp ; third, when the sun 
is 60° from the zenith, air dry; and, fourth, lines not of telluric origin. 
Egoroffs discovery that this group is due to oxygen mainly, disposes of 
most of the lines. The others are due to solar absorption and to atmos- 
pheric moisture. {J. Phys., October, 1884, II, in, 421.) 

Egoroff has exhibited before the physical section of the Eussian 
Physico-Chemical Society the production of the Fraunhofer lines A and 
B by passing the rays from a calcium light through a layer of dry oxy- 
gen 20 meters long, under a pressure of 8 atmospheres. (J. Phys., Oc- 
tober, 1881, II, III, 467.) 

Liveing and Dewar have investigated the production of spectrum 
lines of the metals developed by exploding gases. Observing the flash 
of a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases, exj)loded in a Cavendish 
eudiometer, in the spectroscope, the authors were struck with the bright- 
ness of the lines not onlj^ of sodium but also of calcium, and were thereby 
led to make a series of experiments in iron tubes, half an inch in diameter 
and 3 feet long, closed at one end by quartz plates held in place by 
means of a screw-cap. The stronger iron lines were distinctly seen, 
and so various substances in powder were introduced into the tube. 
In the case of lithium, when the mixture was fired at the remote end of 
the tube, so that the flame traveled toward the slit, the red line was re- 
versed, a fine dark line being visible in the middle of the band ; thus 
proving that there are gradations of temperature in the flame, the front 
of the advancing wave being somewhat cooler than the following part. 
Sixty iron lines in the indigo, violet, and ultra-violet developed in this 
way were photographed. Other metallic salts were introduced into tlie 
tube, and also other gaseous mixtures. {Phil. Mag., September, 1884, V, 
XVIII, 161; Nntiire, April, 1884, xxix, 614.) 



PHYSICS. 4g7 

H. Becquerel has examined the emission-spectra of metallic vapors 
in the infra-red region, making use of a suitable phosphorescent sub- 
stance, previously rendered luminous by insolation, as the screen for 
receiviug these spectra. Under the influence of the infra-red rays a 
temporary excitatioH preceding extinction is developed, and the lines 
otberwise invisible appear brilliant. Certain of these phosphorescent 
powders, notably calcium sulphide, were so sensitive as to allow the wave- 
lengths of the more brilliant lines of potassium, sodium, and cadmium 
to be determined at once by means of a Eutherfnrd grating. In other 
cases the spectra were obtained by means of a carbon disulphide prism, 
the wave-lengths beiug determined by interpolation. The wavelengths 
of 4 lines of i)Otassium, 1 of sodium, 5 of strontium, 2 of calcium, 4 of mag- 
nesium, 2 of aluminum, 2 of zinc, 1 of cadmium, 5 of lead, 2 of silver, 
2 of tin, and 1 each of bismuth and thallium are given. (C. B., xcix, 
374, August, 1884 ; Phil. Mag., October, 1884, V, xviii, 386 ; Am. J. Sci., 
December, 1884, III, xxviii, 457.) 

Becquerel has applied the same method to the investigation of the 
infra-red region of the solar spectrum. A beam of light reflected from 
a diffraction grating was concentrated by a lens and traversed a car- 
bon disulphide prism whose sides were normal to the slit and the lines 
of the grating, and formed on the phosphorescent surface a series of 
oblique spectra, in which the radiations with spectra of difierent orders 
were juxtaposed and not superposed. The slit was so narrow that the 
principal lines of the luminous spectra could be seen, so that by com- 
paring the lines and bands in the infra-red of the first spectrum with 
the known lines of the second and third their wave-lengths could be 
obtained. The author claims that this method allows of a further ex- 
ploration than the photographic one, and is not exceeded by the bolom- 
eter or thermopile. Indeed, if the phosphorescent agent is sensitive, 
the details can be made out far better than with the bolometer. The 
wave-lengths measured are given in the paper. {G. B., xcix, 417, Sep- 
tember, 1884; Phil. 31ag., November, 1884, V, xviii, 465; Am. J. ScL, 
III, XXVIII, 391, 459.) 

Soret and Sarasin, members of a commission appointed by the Natural 
History Society of Geneva to study the properties of the water of their 
lake, have observed a distinct absorption band in its spectrum, which 
is visible when the light passes through a layer of the water only 2™ 
in thickness. This band is a little less refrangible than D, beiug 
located in the orange, about one-fifth the distance between D and C, 
corresponding to a wave-length of about 600. This band was observed 
in distilled water even when carefully purified by distillation with per- 
manganate in a vessel of platinum. (0. B., March, 1884, xoviii, 624.'i 

Soiet has published a later paper, in which the question of the color of 
water is discussed with especial reference to the color of the Lake of 
Geneva. {J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 427.) 

Abney and Festing have shown that, when light traverses a thick- 



468 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

ness of 2™*" of a solution of iodine in carbon disulpMde containing 
4 per cent, of iodine, a photograph of its spectrum proves the non- 
absorbed light to consist of two bands, one beginning near G and termi- 
nating in the ultra-violet, the other including the infra-red and extend- 
ing to a point near D. As the richness of the solution in iodine increases 
up to 32 per cent., the former of these bands narrows from both ends, 
finally becoming a mere strip near h, while the latter contracts toward 
the red, the extreme red not being reached by the absorption. This 
solution, therefore, is very useful in the study of these regions of the 
spectrum. {Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxiv, 480 ; J. Fhys., March, 1884, II, iii, 
145.) 

The absorption of the ultra-violet rays by different media has been 
made the subject of investigation by several physicists. Liveing and 
Dewar employed as a source of light an induction spark between iron 
points, a condenser being in circuit, the iron lines furnishing points of 
reference. The prisms, lenses, and tanks used were of quartz or of 
rock salt, and the absorbing bodies tried were chlorine, bromine, iodine, 
sulphurous oxide, hydrogen sulphide, carbon disulphide and tetrachlo- 
ride, chlorine tetroxide, chrome alum, mica, silver, gold, Iceland spar, 
&c. The spectra were photographed. {Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxv, 71 ; J. 
Phys., May, 1884, II, iii, 218.) 

Soret used a revolving spark-carrier, consisting of two disks, whose 
axes were at right angles, and whose circumferences carried different 
metals for producing the spark. The liquid whose absorptive effect 
was to be studied was contained in a glass vessel closed at bottom 
by a quartz plate, and the light of the spark, after being rendered par- 
allel by a quartz lens, passed through this liquid, the thickness of which 
was varied by the immersion in it of a glass tube having quartz plates 
at the ends. Beneath this colorimeter was a spectroscope with a fluo- 
rescent eye-piece. After determining the thickness of a liquid required 
to extinguish any of the metal lines, the author constructed curves 
having the deviations of these lines as abscissas and the thicknesses of 
the layers as ordinates, and thus obtained curves for the comparison 
of the absorption of the substances used. {J. Phys., July, 1884, II, iii, 
311.) 

Atmospheric absorption has received considerable attention. Lang- 
ley read a paper before the National Academy, in which he showed that 
the ordinarily assumed coefficient, about 20 per cent., was too low prob- 
ably by an amount equal at least to the whole amount in question. 
The cause of this lies in the assumption by Bouguer's formula, employed 
by Herschel, Pouillet, and others, that the coefficient of transmission 
through the atmosphere is a constant. That this is impossible follows 
from the composite character of the radiation, asMelloni long ago proved. 
From his own reasoning, founded upon the best data he has been able 
to obtain, the author believes the actual mean absorption of sun and 
starlight to be not improbably over 40 per cent, at the sea level. {Am, 



PHYSICS. 469 

J. 8cL, September, 1884, III, xxviti, 1G3; Fhil Mac., October, 1884, V, 
XVIII, 289.) 

Abney and Festing, by photographiug the iufia red solar spectrum 
under different atmospheric conditions, have shown that when the air 
is nearly saturated with moisture this part of the spectrum is covered 
by a dark band extending to wave-length 8330. In a v^ry dry time 
the band extends only from wave-length 9800 to wave-length 9420. At 
a great altitude, with a cold northeast wind, this band disapjiears 
almost entirely, but can be reproduced by placing a suitable thickness 
of water before the slit. These i^hotographs serve as indicators of at- 
mospheric moisture. {Proc. 'Boy. Soc, XXXV, 80 ; J. Phys., May, 1884, 
II, III, 219.) 

Nichols has studied the character of thclight reflected from j^igments 
by means of a spectrophotometer, in which one-half of the slit is cov- 
ered by a right-angled prism, the other half by a Nicol prism, while the 
eye end of the observing telescope is furnished with a second Nicol and an 
adjustable diaphragm . By these means two spectra, one above the other, 
are produced, the lower one polarized in a vertical i^lane. In order to 
compare the spectrum of the light reflected by any object with the 
spectrum of daylight, the object is placed beneath the reflecting i^rism, 
and illuminated either by direct sunlight or diffused daylight. Sky- 
light reflected through the Mcol gives the polarized spectrum, and by 
rotating the Nicol in the eye-piece it may be given any intensity re- 
quired. Whatever be the character of the light reflected by the object 
to be studied, it is always possible to find a position of this Nicol for 
which any region of the spectrum under observation and the corre- 
sponding wave-length of the jiolarized spectrum are equally bright. 
Knowing the angle between the principal sections of the Nicols, the in- 
tensity of this region, in terms of the intensity of the corresponding 
wave-length in the spectrum of daylight, can be calculated. The au- 
thor examined in this way red lead, chrome yellow, chrome green (chro- 
mic oxide), and artificial ultramarine, and gives the results iu tabulated 
form and in the form of curves. {Am. J. ScL, November, 1884, III, 
XXVIII, 342.) 

Eosenstiehl has made a valuable contribution to the science of color 
in a little book published by the Society Industrielle of Eouen, intended 
to show the imperfection of methods founded on the study of coloring 
matters in distinction froija those which recognize color simply as a prop- 
erty of matter, and, in the physiological sense, as simply an affection 
of the organ of sight. Attention is specially directed to the study of 
color by means of color sensations ; and it is shown that it is to the 
analysis and synthesis of the retinal impressions that we are to look for 
exact views on the relationships of the colors. For the investigation 
of colors the author uses concentric disks rapi illy rotated. These disks 
are divided into sectors of different magnitudes, variously colored. 
For the white disk barium sulphate is used, applied to a. suitable sur- 



470 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOK 18B9. 

face. It revolves in front of a small chamber lined witii black velvet, 
and the proportion of black to white is determined by the size of the 
sector cut from the white disk. {Nature, November, 1884, xxxi, 58.) 

Hofiert has devised a new apparatus for producing color combinations, 
which consists of a flat box irregularly hexagonal in shape, on one side 
of which six prisms are placed, arranged in two pairs and all set at the 
angle of minimum deviation. The first prisms have their refracting 
edges in contact, and, by means of a screen in which is a small rectangu- 
lar aperture, small equal strips of the adjacent faces of these prisms are 
visible from an eye-piece which is simply a tube of brass in which is 
a slit one-tenth of an inch wide. If light entered through the eye- 
piece, each set of the prisms would deviate it about 150°, one to the 
right, the other to the left, aftd each beam would then fall on a lens of 
about 10 inches focal length, the two spectra thus i>roduced being 
brought to a focus on the sides of the box immediately to the right and 
left of the eye-piece. At these points, on each side, are placed three in- 
candescent wires ; so that, conversely, if these be the sources of light, the 
rays follow an inverse course, and the corresponding half of the aperture 
in the screen is seen illuminated with a color which will depend on the 
position of the incandescent wire. {PJiil. Mac/., August, 1884, V, xviii, 
81.) 

4. Interference and Polarization. 

Kissliug has investigated the influence which foreign admixtures 
exert on the formation of fog in moist air, in the course of which he has 
observed a series of diffraction phenomena, the law of whose formation 
can only with difficulty be made to agree with Fraunhofer's law. He 
finds that in general the law of Aitken is true, and that when aqueous 
vapor is condensed in the air it always takes place on some nucleus. 
In the ordinary unfiltered air of a dwelling-room, when the space in 
which diffraction occurs is but slightly cooled, the fog is so strong that 
it greatly enfeebles even a powerful source of light. If this air be 
gradually admixed with filtered air, the formation of fog gradually di- 
minishes, while at the same time phenomena of diffraction set in, the in- 
tensity of whose color increases until the quantity of vapor has sunk to 
a definite though extremely small amount. Small admixtures of sul- 
phurous oxide and of ammonia with the unfiltered air of a room pro- 
duce so strong a fog that any action of diffraction ceases. {Phil. 
Mag., August, 1884, V, xviii, 160.) 

Madan has called attention to a simple method of producing the in- 
terference pTienomena known as Ohm's fringes. Ohm himself directs 
that two ,)lates of equal thickness are to be cut from a uniaxial crystal, 
their parallel surfaces making an angle of 45° with the optic axis. If 
now one of these be placed on the other in such a position that the optic 
axes lie in the same plane but upon opposite sides of the normal common 
to the two plates, and the combination be held in a convergent beam of 



PHYSICS. 471 

monochromatic piano polarized light, iiumei aus alternations of bright 
and dark elliptical bands are seen, most distinctly when the plane con- 
taining the optic axes makes an angle of 45^ with the plane of polar- 
ization of the light. Since in Iceland spar the natural ftices of the 
rhombohedrou make an angle of nearly 45° with the optic axis, Madau 
suggests the use of a simple cleavage plate, 2 by l-"-" in size and 2™"' 
thick, broken in halves, and one half turned round ISQo, superposed on 
the other, and cemented with Canada balsam. On placing this on the 
eye-lens of a microscope, with the analyzer just above it, the ellipses will 
be well seen when sodium light is used. (Xature, November, 1884, xxxi, 
83.) 

Mace de Lepinay has shown that the graphic method of Cornu may 
be applied with great facility to the study of the diffraction fringes pro- 
duced by an opaque rod, by means of an auxiliary curve, which is the 
same in all cases, since it is only th e primitive spiral displaced par- 
allel to itself by a fixed quantity. {J. Phys., January, 1884, II, iii, 11.) 

Hartley has described a simple method of observing faint lines with 
diffraction spectroscopes. The operation is conducted in a darkened 
room, the goniometer of the spectroscope being illuminated by a shaded 
lamp placed on the right of the telescope. The grating is movable, 
the collimator and telescope being fixed so as to include as small an 
angle between them as possible. The telescope being to the right of 
the collimator, a small gas-jet is placed on the left, the rays of which 
are reflected into the telescope from the grating. By the adjustment of 
this light the field may be illuminated with any color of the spectrum, 
and by selecting that tint which is complementary to tiie color of the 
lines to be measured they are sure to stand out, apparently, in relief on 
a bright ground. {Nature, March, 1884, xxix, 470.) 

Mertchifjg, under Egoroff's direction, has determined experimentally 
the focal distances for monochromatic light of a reflecting grating of 
Rutherfnrd having 17,296 lines in an inch, for all incidences. In the 
spectra of the first and the second order the variations of the focal dis- 
tances of the images situated to the right of the reflected image of the 
slit were inconsiderable, while those on the left were much greater and 
of contrary sign. The results, represented graphically, give a curve in 
which the focal distance is a function of the angle of deviation, and 
which the author regards as a variety of the hyperbola of the second 
degree. (J.- Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 459.) 

Bucking has submitted crystals to i^ressure, with the view of deter- 
mining the influence thus exerted on their double refraction. The crystal 
plate is i^laced on the stage of a polarizing microscope, pressure l)eing 
exerted by a screw and measured by a dynamometer. In the case of 
apatite, for example, the angle between the axes, in the plane parallel 
to the direction of the pressure, but before the pressure was applied, 
was 3°. The plate used was 5"""' square and 4""" thick, and the press- 
ure varied from to 100 pounds. The angle between the axes became 



472 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1884. 

zero for a pressure of 6 pounds, equal to 10° for a pressure of 33 pounds, 
and to ] 7° for one of 100 pounds. After the removal of the pressure 
the angle between the axes was 5° in the primitive plaue, and did not 
varj^ on repeating the experiment. Beryl gave no permanent variation. 
Vitreous orthoclase, whose axes are either in the plane of symmetry or 
perpendicular to it, shows, under pressure perpendicular to this plane, 
an increase of the angle in this plaue and a decrease in the perpendic- 
ular plane. {J. Phys., February, 1884, II, iii, lOG.) 

Von Fleischl has communicated to the Vienna Academy the dis- 
covery of double refracting liquids. The apparatus used was a com- 
pound hollow prism resembling, in general, Fresnel's quartz combination. 
Concentrated solutions of tartaric acid and of various sugars were em- 
ployed, and also certain optically active oils. These doubly refracting 
liquids possess no optic axis, and the wave surfaces are in every instance 
two concentric spheres. [Nature, January, 1885, xxxi, 204.) 

Eontgen has i)ublished a valuable memoir on the variation of the 
double refraction of quartz produced hj electric force. Pressure ex- 
periments show that in a crystal of quartz of normal structure the sur- 
face of a section normal to the principal axis may be divided into six 
fields by lines intersecting at an angle of 60°. A pressure exerted in, 
any direction passing through this point develops contrary electricities 
at its extremities. When a fragment of quartz is submitted to electric 
induction, so that the lines of force, without being parallel to an axis oi 
no pressure-electricity, are normal to the x>rincii)al axis, the natural 
polarization is modified by the action of the electric forces, and at the 
same time the double refraction of the rays normal to the i)rincipal axis, 
and to the lines of force is increased or diminished according to the di- 
rection of the lines of force. These results are of importance in connec- 
tion with the theory of pyroelectricity proposed by Sir. W. Thomson. 
{Wied. Ann., xviii, 213 ; J. Phys., January, 1884, II, ill, 35.) 

Two new forms of polarizing prism have appeared, one contrived by 
Feussner and the other by Bertrand. Sleeuian has described the former, 
giving at the same time an illustrated account of the various polarizing 
prisms thus far proposed, six in number. The prism of Feussner con- 
sists of a thin jjlate of a doubly refracting crystal cemented between 
two wedge-shaped pieces of glass, the terminal faces of which are normal 
to their length. The refractive indices of the glass and the cementing 
medium should correspond with the greater index of the crystal, and 
the directions of greatest and least elasticity in the latter must stand in a 
plane perpendicular to the direction of the section. One great advan- 
tage of this prism is that other crystalline substances may be used in- 
stead of calc spar, provided the difference between the ordinary and the 
extraordinary index is greater than in calc spar. Feussner has used 
for this purpose a jilate of sodium nitrate, whose indices are 1.587 and 
1.330. In this, as in calc spar, cleavage plates may^ be used. As a 
cementing material a mixture of gum dammar with m'onobromnai)htha- 



PHYSICS. 473 

lene was used, having an index of 1.58. {Zeitschr.f. Inst.-Kunde, Feb- 
ruary, 1884, IV, 42; Mature, XXTX, 514, March, 1884.) 

Bertraud constructs his prism by taking a prism of flint glass of index 
1.G58 and cutting it along a plane making an angle of 76° 43' 8" with 
the terminal faces. These new faces are polished and cemented Avith a 
substance of index equal or superior to 1.658, placing between these 
surfaces a cleavage prism of calc spar suitably adjusted. A ray of light 
falling on the prism enters it and is incident on the plate of calcite, 
which divides it into two, polarized in planes at right angles to each 
other. The ordinary ray, whose index is 1.658, continues its part in a 
direct line; but the extraordinary ray, whose index is less, does not 
enter the spar at all. In this way a polarizing prism is produced which 
has a field of 44° 46' 20". This prism closely resembles that of Feuss- 
uer above described. (C. R., September, 1884, xcix, 538.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

The magnetic moment of a bundle of iron wires has been frequently 
compared with that of an iron cylinder, but the influence of the diame- 
ter of the wire seems not to have been studied. Bakmetieff has filled 
the core of a cylindrical coil, 148""" long and 32.2™" in interior diame- 
ter, with iron wires of l""", of 2""" and of 5""" diameter, and magnetized 
them by more or less intense currents. The magnetic moment of the 
bundle of the finest wires, as well as its specific magnetism, was notably 
superior to that of the two others, especially for intense magnetizing 
currents. But when, instead of filling all the sjiace within the coil with 
the wire, only an annular layer of wire was placed within it, the spe- 
cific magnetism of the fine wire, for the same current, was many times 
greater than that of the larger wires. (J. Soc. Phys. Ghim. Russe, xv, 
142 ; J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 463.) 

According to Auerbach, an iron cylinder free from magnetism re- 
ceives from a magnetizing force a normal magnetic moment correspond- 
ing to that force, and which is measured by the current induced during 
its development. Bakmetieff now shows that this law does not apply 
to iron already possessing remanent magnetism. His experiments 
show that for electro-magnets not forming a closed magnetic circuit 
the normal magnetism has for its measure the arithmetical mean of the 
two induced currents obtained by closing the magnetizing circuit, di- 
rectly and inversely. For a closed circular electro- magnet the normal 
magnetism has double this value. {J. Soc. Phys. Ghim. Russe, xv, 173; 
J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 464.) 

Some time ago Quincke showed that electric force produces a press- 
ui^e upon insulating liquids placed in an electric field. He has now 
extended his investigation to magnetic and diamagnetic fluids placed 
in a magnetic field. Calling .the diamagnetic constant for air unity, he 



474 SCIENTIFIC RECOR]) FOR 1884. 

finds that if the magnetic field is bounded by air the magnetic dif- 
feience of pressure in the fluid and in the air may be expressed by a 
hydrostatic pressure, and thus its diamagnetic constant, less unity, can 
be measured. Using fields varying in strength from 300 c. g. s. to 
12,000 c. g. s., the increase in height in some cases was more than 32""" 
for magnetic fluids and — O.T""" for diamagnetic ones. {Ber. Ak. Berl., 
January, 1884 ; Phil. Mag., June, 1884, V, xvii, 447 ; Am. J. Sci., Sep- 
tember, 1884, III, XXVIII, 223.) 

Von Helmholtz has applied the ordinary chemical balance to the 
determination of magnetic moments. Even when the balance is itself 
not absolutely free from iron, values can be obtained which are con- 
stant and accurate to within a quarter of 1 per cent. ; moreover, the 
most essential advantage of the method is that it is quite free from 
disturbances due to the incessant changes in the terrestrial magnetism, 
{Ber. Ale. Berl., April, 1883 ; Phil. Mag., January, 1884, V, xvii, 75.) 

Wleiigel and Henrichsen have examined the magnetism of some com- 
iwunds of the alcohol radicals CnHg^+i, by placing them in long glass 
vessels suspended bifilarly between the pointed half armatures of a pow- 
erful electro-magnet, charged by the current from IC to 18 Buuseu cells. 
The magnetism developed was measured by a torsion method by means 
of a mirror and scale. The conclusions are : (1) The introduction of CH2 
into the molecule produces an increase in the molecular magnetism which 
is nearly constant and has —1,640 for its mean value; (2) the molecular 
magnetism of a chemical body is equal to the sum of the partial mag- 
netisms of the alcohol radical and of the other parts of the compound ; 
(3) HO, I, S, and Br have the same specific magnetism, the mean value 
of which is —44.3 ; (4) CI, on the other hand, has a dift'erent specific 
magnetism, about —61, a value nearly the same as that found for the 
radical of acetic acid, —63 ; (5) the alcohol radicals possess the same 
specific magnetism as their isomers ; and (6) the magnetism of the alco- 
hol radicals is made up of the atomic magnetisms of the carbon and 
hydrogen. {Phil. Mag., July, 1884, Y, xviii, 78.) 

Leduc has shown (^7. Phys., II, ill, 133) that when a plate of bismuth 
is x)laced in a magnetic field at right angles to the lines of force, the 
equipotential surfaces of a current traversing the plate are deflected 
from their proper direction. Hence the physical condition of the metal . 
must have experienced some alteration. Hurion has taken advantage 
of Kerr's observation that a mirror placed between the poles of an elec- 
tro-magnet rotates the plane of polarization of an incident perpendicular 
'•ay when the magnet is excited, to test this change in the physical 
properties of bismuth. By pouring the melted metal on a hot plate of 
glass he prepared a mirror, which was placed between XIxq poles of a 
Faraday's electromagnet. It was found that the bismuth rotated the 
plane of polarization through 18' in the opposite direction to the cur- 
rent which excites the magnet, and that its electric resistance is in- 
creased when it is placed in a magnetic field. {Phil. Mag., Octobt '', 
1884, V", XVIII, 389.) 



PHYSICS. 475 

Bosaoquet lias tested experimentally the idea of a repulsion between 
magnetic lines of force, by the use of rings magnetized by means of a 
continuous wire uniformly wound around tbem, and has shown that they 
present no external magnetic action even though they may be the seat 
of closed circuits of magnetic lines of force of very great intensity. 
Since we may suppose the ring divided into a number of separate rings, 
each containing lines of force, and since such rings will be wholly with- 
out action on one another, it follows that if such similar rings be placed 
parallel and close to each other they do not repel each other, as they 
should do if there existed a repulsion between parallel lines of force. 
{Phil. Mag., December, 1884, V, xviii, 494.) 

McGee has described a novel magnetic engine, based on the diminu- 
tion in the magnetism of iron by heat. It consists of a ring 13*"" in 
diameter, made up of one or more turns of iron wire and supi)orted on 
radial arms so as to revolve about a vertical axis. Near it, and with 
its axis in a radial direction, is a permanent bar-magnet. If now the 
ring of wire be heated to bright redness on one side or the other of the 
magnet, this magnet exerts a stronger attraction upon the wire on the 
opposite or cooler side than upon the heated side, and the ring revolves. 
By means of a pulley and string on the axis, using a powerful electro- 
magnet, a weight of six grams was raised SO*^'"- in six minutes. The 
source of energy is of course the gas-burner emjiloyed. {Science, iii, 
274, March, 1884.) 

Stracciati has studied the currents produced in iron by its demag- 
netization, and their influence upon the rapidity of this demagnetization, 
using for these experiments the method of Felici. He concludes that 
the rapidit}' with which the magnetism of a mass of iron disappears 
when the magnetizing force ceases, diminishes at first rapidly, when 
this force increases, but appears finally to tend toward a constant value: 
and that this velocity in the case of a bundle of iron wires separated by 
silk from each other diminishes notably when the mass is rendered a 
continuous conductor, as by plunging it in a bath of mercury. {J. Phys., 
December, 1884, II, iii, 552.) 

Trowbridge and Hill have made an elaborate investigation of the heat 
produced in iron and steel by reversals of magnetization. Their con- 
clusions are as follows: (1) The heat developed is probably due to in- 
duction currents and not to molecular vibrations ; (2) the heating is 
confined to the surface until equalized by conduction ; (3) the musical 
note emitted is the note of the coil, due to the number of reversals of 
the machine, and is merelj^ strengthened by the metalhc core; and (4) 
these experiments confirm what has long been known on the efiect of 
vibrations and shocks on the magnetic condition of iron and steel. 
{Am. J. ScL, January, 1884, HI, xxvir, 58.) 

Bakmetieff, who has also investigated these phenomena, arrives at 
the conclusion that magnetism by itself produces variations of tempera- 
ture in magnetized bodies, and that this magnetic heat is equal to the 



476 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

product of the magnetic moment by the magnetizing force multiplied 
by a constant, increasing with the frequency of interruption of the cur- 
rent, and still more when the current is alternated. {Nature^ Jidy, 1884, 
XXX, 223.) 

Warburg and Honig have also experimented in the same direction, 
and have come to the conclusion that a large proportion of the heat 
observed, nearly 75 per cent., is due to magnetic friction. {Am. J. 8ci., 
March, 1884, III, xxix, 238.) 

2. Electric Generators. 

Kalischer has tested the hypothesis that the condensation of steam 
may be a source of electrification, using twelve largo glass vases covered 
with tin foil and filled with ice, placed on a sheet of tinned iron, insu- 
lated by a block of glass ; the whole being placed within a large insu- 
lated metallic box, the metallic cover of which was perforated to allow 
the access of air. An insulated wire connected the sheet of iron on 
which the vases rested with one of the pairs of quadrants of a Kirchhofl 
electrometer, the other pair being put to earth. The atmos|)heric 
moisture condensed on the outside of the vases. The observed devia- 
tions of the electrometer were of the same order of magnitude whether 
the vases were empty t)r full of ice, being sometimes in one direction, 
sometimes in the other. The best results were obtained, however, by 
compressing air into a glass reservoir, connecting the metallic rod pass- 
ing into its interior with the electrometer. During the expansion the 
moisture condensed on the rod, but the needle showed no deviation. 
It cannot, consequently, be affirmed that condensation of aqueous vapor 
is a source of atmospheric electricity. ( Wied. Ann.., xx, 614 ; J. Phys., 
May, 1884, II, iii, 219.) 

It is generally assumed that ordinary zinc is i^ositive to amalgamated 
zinc in a solution of zinc sulphate. But Eobb has shown that if care 
be taken to employ pure zinc, and solutions of sulphate free from acid, 
the couple shows no sensible electro-motive force. Lippmann has 
discussed this result, and shows that the contrary result is in direct 
contradiction to the second law of therrao-dynamics, since the action of 
the current developed would cause the deposition of zinc on the pure 
zinc, which could then be amalgamated again, and so on; a finite quan- 
tity of work being done at the expense of the amalgamation only. With 
cadmium in cadmium sulphate, however, the polarity is reversed, and 
hence there is no conflict, with the above law. {J. Phys., September, 
1884, II, III, 388.) 

Carhart has determined the relation between the electro-motive force 
of a Daniell cell and the strength of the zinc sulphate solution, employ- 
ing for the purpose the compensation method of Poggendorft". With 
a 1 per cent, solution the electro-motive force was 1.125 volts ; 3 per cent., 
1.133; 5 percent., 1.142; 7^ per cent, 1.120; 10 per cent., 1.118; 15 per 
cent, 1.115; 20 per cent., 1.111 ; and 25 per cent,,. 1.111; the mean of 



PHYSICS. 477 

the whole beiug 1.122. Testing a Latimer Clark standard cell by this 
method, the author obtained for its value 1.434 volts. Hence the vari- 
ation in the strength of the zinc sulphate solution aflects the electro- 
motive force. {Am. J. ScL, November, 1884, III, Xxviii, 374.) 

Beetz has ju-oposed a simplified form of Daniell cell for use as a nor- 
mal element, which is of remarkable constancy at different temperatures, 
and which, owing to its high resistance, falls off only slightly on closed 
circuit. The battery for charging the quadrants of an electrometer is 
made by filling glass tubes, S*^™ long and 5'"™ in diameter, one-half full 
of plaster of Paris mixed with solution of copper sulphate, and the other 
half with plaster mixed with zinc sulphate solution, wires of copper 
and of zinc being placed in the corresponding mixture, the external 
ends being soldered together alternately. Twelve of these form a row, 
and twelve of these rows form the battery, the difference of potential 
of the 144 cells being 152 volts. The entire battery occupies a space 
of only 16'''" square. {Wied. Ann., kxii, 402; Phil. Mag., September, 
1884, V, XVIII, 173; Am. J. Sci., November, 1884, 111, xxviii, 390.) 

Another standard cell devised by Beetz is a modified Latimer Clark 
cell. It consists of a tube in which a compressed cake of mercurous 
and zinc sulphates is placed, the zinc being on one side of this cake 
and the mercury on the other. The electro- motive force was 1.44 volts, 
whicl) on short circuiting for 48 hours fell only to 1.408. Its resistance 
is 15.7 ohms. {Nature, October, 1884, xxx, 568.) 

At the Montreal meeting of the British Association one of the sub- 
jects for general discussion was the seat of the electro-motive forces of 
(he voltaic cell. It was opened by O. J. Lodge, who inclined to the 
chemical theory, in opposition to Sir William Thomson and others, who 
favored the contact theory. Printed copies of notes prepared by Dr. 
Lodge, containing the points involved in the question at issue, were 
distributed before the meeting. {Nature, October, 1884, xxx, 594.) 

Quite a number of new forms of voltaic cell have been proposed. 
Eeynier has studied the effect of varying the size of the elecirodes in a 
battery upon its electro-motive force, and has constructed two cells 
w^hich he calls maximum and minimum cells. The former has a copper 
plate plicated so as to have a surface of 30 square decimeters, or 300 
times as large as that of the zinc plate, which is simply a wire 3""" in 
diameter. The containing vessel has a capacity of 800 c. c. and the 
cell has a resistance of 0.2 to 4 ohms, according to the liquid used. 
The latter, while exteriorly of the same size, contains a negative elec- 
trode 5 sq. dm. in size, the positive being a copper wire 0.5™'" in diam- 
eter, the surface immersed being 1 sq. cm. With these batteries he has 
measured the maximum and minimum electro-motive force of the or- 
dinary electrolytes. In dilute sulphuric acid, the zinc being amal- 
gamated, the maximum electro- motive force observed was 1.072 volts 
and the miuimum 0.272. The maximum cell, charged with a liquid 
composed of 20 parts salt in 100 of water, he proposes as a standard 



478 SCIENTIFIJ RECORD FOR 1884. 

cell, its electromotive force being 0.82 volt between 5° and 40°. {J. 
Phys., October, 1884, II, in, 444, 448.) 

Lahmde and Chaperon suggest ciipric oxide as tLe depolarizing agent 
in the battery. The oxide is placed on the copper plate, which is 
covered with a solution of caustic potash, and a plate of zinc is suspended 
in it. The electro-motive force is 0.98 volt and the cell is remarkably 
constant. (Nature, Jauuar3% 1884, xxix, 227.) 

Tommasi and Eadiquet have constructed a battery with two carbon 
electrodes. The positive plate is placed at the bottom of a porcelain 
jar and covered with lead peroxide, the negative plate is covered on 
its surface with platinized coke, the two being separated by a sheet of 
parchment paper. A solution of common salt is used as the electro- 
lyte, which must not completely cover the upper plate. The electro- 
motive force on closed circuit is 0.6 volt. (C E., July, 1884, xcix, 129.) 

Pabst has invented an iron cell, the electrodes of which are carbon 
and wrought-iron in a solution of ferric chloride, and which is claimed 
to be non-i)olarizable and self- regenerating. The oxygen of the air is 
absorbed in the working of the battery, and ferric oxide is deposited at 
the bottom of the cell. Its electro-motive force is about 0.78 volt. [Na- 
ture, January, 1885, xxxi, 203.) 

Bartoli has designed a battery in which the material consumed is 
carbon, which is in the form of a compacted mixture of Ceylon graphite 
and retort coke. This constitutes one of the electrodes, while the other 
one is platinum. The exciting liquid is sodium hypochlorite, and the 
electro-motive force is only about 0.2 volt. {Nature, January, 1885, 
XXXI, 203.) 

Jablochkoff has produced a battery of considerable scientific interest. 
A small rod of sodium, weighing about 8 grams, is squeezed into con- 
tact with an amalgamated copper wire and flattened. It is then wrapped 
in tissue paper and fastened by wooden pegs to a plate of very porous 
carbon.. The sodium absorbs the moisture of the air and no solution is 
required. Its electro-motive force is 2.5 volts, but its resistance is 25 
ohms. (Nature, January, 1885, xxxi, 203.) 

Skrivanow's battery consists of zinc and of silver chloride enclosed 
in parchment paper and immersed in a solution composed of 75 parts 
caustic potash in 100 of water. The enclosing vessel is a hard rub- 
ber cup which is hermetically sealed, and the whole weighs 100 grams. 
The electro-motive force is from 1.45 to 1.50, and the cell will give a 
current of 1 ampere for about an hour. Then the solution must be re- 
newed, and after two or three renewals of this the silver chloride must 
be replaced. (C. B., January, 1884, xcviii, 224.) 

Gore has constructed a new and convenient form of thermo-electric 
apparatus for measuring small electro-motive forces by the method of 
opposition. It consists of about 300 horizontal, slender, parallel wires 
of iron and German silver, the former covered with cotton. These 
wires are about 8 inches long, fixed side by side in close mutual con 



PHYSICS. 479 

tact, though iuisuhited from each other, as a continuous flat hiycr about 
16 inches long, soldered end to end in an alternating series. About 1^ 
inch in length at each end is bent downward so as to dip into two 
liquids of different temperatures contained in two long, narrow troughs. 
The hot one is melted paraffin , kept at 120°; the cold one is a non- vola- 
tile petroleum. The resistance of 295 pairs of such wires was 95.G ohms 
at 10° 0.5 and when the difference of temperature in the two baths was 
100° the electro- motive force was 0.7729 volt, and when it was loO©, 
1.005 volts. Each element gave, therefore, 0.0000262 volt lor 1°. With 
this apparatus measurements have been made to the 35-5-00 P^rt of a 
volt. The author finds it very useful in practice. {Nature, March. 
1884, XXIX, 513.) 

Von Waltenhofen has observed that the ISToe thermo-battery is capa- 
ble of taking a charge like an accumulator, When the current of a 
battery is sent for a few^ moments through one of these generators, it is 
capable of yielding a counter-current, due, of course, to the well-known 
Peltier effect. A different effect, however, was observed according to 
the direction of the charging current. When this current was in one 
direction, the discharge currents were proportional to these and were 
always in. the opposite direction. But when the charging current was 
reversed, the discharge current at first increased to a maximum, then 
decreased to zero, then began in the reverse direction, or that of the 
charging current. The author ascribes this anomalous result to the 
unequal heating of the junctions. {Nature, January, 1884, xxix, 227.) 

Two important papers have appeared having for their object the dis- 
cussion of the theory of the dynamo-electric machine. ' The first of these 
is by Clausius ( TT/a?. Ann., xx, 353; Pliil. Mag., January, February, 
1884, V, XVII, 46, 119; J. Phys., July, 1884, II, in, 313), and the other, 
on machines with alternating currents, by Lucas ((7. B., March, 1884, 
xcviii, 670), who used the Meritens machine in his experiments. 

Fitzgerald has sought to produce a non-sparking dynamo by apply- 
ing the principles of Maxwell's modification of Thomson's electric doub- 
ler to a dynamo, in which the current passes through two or more coils 
in parallel circuit. Under these circumstances it is possible to arrange 
the magnetic field and the brushes so that when the terminals of any coil 
come into contact with their brushes the terminals shall be at the same 
difference of potential as the brushes, so that when they break contact 
there shall be no current circulating in the coil, and therefore no sparks 
produced. The energy of self-induction, usually wasted on local cur- 
rents and sparks will now be spent in the i)roduction of useful current: 
{Nature, July, 1884, xxx, 331.) 

3. Electrical Units and Measurements. 

The International Electrical Conference held in Paris in April con- 
cluded the business before it and adjourned finally. Each section 
adoi)ted resolutions as follows : First section, electric units : (1) The 



480 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

legal obm is the resistauce of a column of mercury of a square millime 
ter in cross-section and 106*=™ in length, at the temperature of uult- 
ing ice. (2) The conferimce expresses the wish that the French Govern- 
ment should transmit this resolution to the different states, and recom- 
mend an international adoption of it. (3) The conference recommends 
the construction of primary standards in mercury conformable to th^i 
resolution previously adopted, and the concurrent employment of scales 
of secondary resistances in solid alloys, which shall be frequently com 
pared amongst one another and with the primary standard. (4) The 
ampere is the current the absolute value of which is 10 to the power 
minus 1 in electro-magnetic units. (5) The volt is the electro-motive 
force which maintains a current of 1 ampere in a conductor the resist- 
ance of which is 1 legal ohm. Second section, earth currents and 
atmospheric electricity : (1) It is to be desired that the results of ob- 
servations collected by the various administrations be sent each year 
to the International Bureau of Telegraph Administration, at Berne, 
which will make a digest of them and communicate it to the various 
Governments. (2) The conference expresses the wish that observations 
of earth currents be pursued in all countries. Third section, standard of 
light: (1) The unit of each kind of simple light is the quantity of 
light of the same kind emitted in a normal direction by a square centi- 
meter of surface of molten platinum at the temperature of solidification. 
The practical unit of white light is the quantity of white light emitted 
normally by the same source. {Nature, May, 1884, xxx, 20; J. Phys., 
June, 1884, II, iii, 229.) 

Eowland has completed his determination of the length of the mer- 
cury column 1 sq. mm. in cross-section which has a resistance of 1 
ohm. The experiments were made at Clifton, 2 miles from Balti- 
more, the expense being defrayed by the Government. The resist- 
ance of columns of pure mercury, contained in glass tubes of various 
calibers and lengths, was first determined in B. A. units, and then the 
determination in ohms of the B. A. standard completed the measure- 
ment. Three methods were used in the latter comparison. The first 
consisted in heating some non-conducting liquid, such as alcohol or tur- 
pentine, by the current, in a conductor whose ends were kept at a known 
difference of potential, the same heating being then i>roduced mechan- 
ically, thus determining the resistance of the conductor in terms of the 
work-equivalent of the heat. The secoiid method used was that of 
Kirchhoff, as modified by Rowland in his 1870 determination of the ohm. 
The third method was the earth-inductor method of Weber. Unfortu- 
nately the experiments were not completed in season to have the results 
communicated to the Paris conference in Ajjril, but they were commu- 
nicated to the American Electrical Conference held in September in 
Philadelphia. Rowland gives as the length of the mercury column, as 
the mean of his experiments, 100.27"". {Science, January, 1884, iii, 10; 
Elec. World, September, 1884, iv, 101.) 



PHYSICS. 481 

Mascart, De Nerville, and Benoit bave made a deteriniuatiou of the 
length of the mercury column required by the legal oliui, using for this 
purpose the methods of Kirchholi" and Weber. They conclude as fol- 
lows : " The experiment appears to us to show that the value of the 
ohm is surely comprised between 106.2 and 106.4™'; we may consider 
the value 106.3 as exact, at least to yJ^^. part." (0. B., April, 1884, 
XCViii. 1034; J. Fhys., June, 1884, II, in, 230.) 

Benoit has constructed for the French Government four mercury 
standards corresponding to the ohm of the conference. These are 
straight glass tubes whose caliber is nearly 1""". The resistances as 
measured were 1.000017, 0.999996, 0.999960, and 1.000003 ohms, or 
0.999994 as a mean. (0. R., xcix, 864, November, 1884.) 

The committee of the British Association has announced that arrange- 
ments have been completed for testing resistance coils at the Cavendish 
Laboratory, and issuing certificates of their value. They assume the 
B. A. unit to be 0.9867 of a standard ohm. {Nature, xxix, 465, March, 
1884.) 

Edelmann has modified the quadrant electrometer of Thomson by 
making the quadrants cylindrical, formed by slitting a metal tube into 
four parts b,y four equidistant cuts parallel to the axis. The needle 
consists of two portions of metal cut from a cylinder, united above and 
below and hung by a single fiber, directive force being given by a small 
attached magnetic ueedle. {Nature, January, 1884, xxix, 239.) 

Chervet has described a new form of capillary electrometer with hor- 
izontal tube, in which this tube is slightly conical, and which is empir- 
ically graduated. With a lens magnifying six times, a difference of po- 
tential of 0.00001 DauielLcell may be observed. {J. Fhys., June, 1884, II, 
III, 258.) 

Garbe has laid down the two following laws in relation to the cap- 
illary electrometer of Lippmann : (1) The capillary constant of mer- 
cury is greatest when the electrical difference at the meniscus is nil, 
and as a rule its value is independent of the sign of this ditference. 
(2) The electrical capacity at a constant surface of an electrode plunged 
in a liquid is purely a function of the electrical difference, independent of 
the sign of that difference, and is least when that difference is nil. {Na- 
ture, October, 1884, xxx, 568.) 

Lippmann has contrived a mercury galvanometer based on the ac- 
tion of magnets on currents. A mercury manometer in the form of a 
U-tube is placed between the poles of a permanent magnet, so that 
these poles are on the right and left side of the horizontal portion. 
The current to be measured is made to traverse this horizontal portion 
in a vertical direction ; i. e., perpendicular to the axis of the tube. A 
difference of level is thereby i)roduced in the manometer columns pro- 
portional to the strength of the current. In one of the author's instru- 
ments this difference is equal to 23"'" for 1 ampere ; in another to 58""" for 
1 ampere. The apparatus is reversible; by moving the mercury me- 
S. Mis. 33 31 



482 SCItNTIFlC RECORD FOR 1884. 

chanically a current is developed. {C. B., May, 1884, xcviii, 1256; J. 
Phys., September, 1884, II, iii, 384.) 

Au obvious modification permits this instrument to be converted 
into au electro-dynamometer. A small retangular chamber filled with 
mercury is placed at the center of a coil of copper wire. The current 
to be measured passes successively through the coil of wire and the 
layer of mercury, which communicates laterally with the two branches 
of a manometer^ and causes a diflerence of level in the mercury columns 
which is rigorously proportional to the square of the current strength. 
It may be graduated in absolute measure ; in one of the author's instru- 
ments a current of 1 C. G. S. unit, or 10 amperes, produces a pressure 
of 650 dynes, or about 650 milligrams per square centimeter. It may be 
used for direct or alternating currents, and when once graduated may 
serve as a standard. {C. B., June, 1884, xcviii, 1534 ; J. Phys., Septem- 
ber, 188^, II, III,- 387.) 

Several new formf? o f gal vauometer have been described. T. and A. Gray 
have constructed a very sensitive instrument, consisting of two pairs of 
coils with hollow cores, arranged so that the axes of each pair are parallel 
and in a vertical plane, and act on a needle system consisting of two 
horseshoe magnets of thin steel wire, connected by a very light frame 
of aluminum, and hung with their planes vertical, so that a horseshoe 
corresponding to each pair of coils has its poles within the hollow cores. 
Each pair of coils is carried by a vertical brass plate, the two plates 
being placed so as to make an angle with one another of about 100°. 
Certain other instruments are described, in which two perfectly ver- 
tical and straight needles are used to give an astatic system. {Nature^ 
March, 1884, xxix. 444.) . , , . 

In D'Arsonval and Deprez's galvanometer the coil is movable and 
the magnet fixed. A powerful horseshoe magnet placed vertical, with 
its poles upward, has a rectangular coil suspended between these poles 
by fine silver wire. A small cylinder of soft iron is supported within 
the rectangle for the purpose of re-enforcing the magnetic field. A mir- 
ror above the rectangle enables the deflections to be read. The instru- 
ment is very dead-beat and will indicate a millionth of an ampere. 
(Nature, November, 18S4, xxxi, 86.) 

Bosanquet has devised what he calls a standard tension galvanometer, 
which is a form of tangent galvanometer independent of any process 
of calibration, and whose accuracy depends only on the usual measures 
of dimensions and the knowledge of the horizontal component of the 
earth's magnetism, together with its resistance. {PUl Mag., January, 
1884, V, XVII, 27.) 

Bottcher's soleuoidal galvanometer consists of a soft iron cylinder i to 
l^c- in diameter and 20«'" long, suspended by a thread to a spring- 
balance, so that one half projects from a firmly fixed coil of wire. iPM. 
Mag., March, 1884, V, xvii, 248.) 



PHYSICS. 483 

Diicretet's instrument has the two astatic needles in the same hor- 
izontal plane. (C R., October, 1884, xcix, 605.) 

Stone has described an electro-dynamometer with an extremely light 
suspended coil made of aluminum wire. {Nature, xxx, 035, October, 
1884.) 

Bellati has substituted for the needle of a reflection galvanometer a 
small cylinder of soft iron suspended bifllarly in a direction perpendicu- 
lar to the magnetic meridian, the vertical coil through which the current 
passes being inclined 45° to this meridian. Since the electro-magnetic 
action preserves always the same sign, the instrument acts as an elec- 
tro-dynamometer. If a bundle of soft-iron wires be used, els'"" in diam- 
eter and 17'"'" long, the instrument readily indicates telephone cur- 
rents. (J. Phys., May, 1884, If, iii, 220.) 

4. Electric Spark and Electric Light. 

Foster and Pryson have given a simple formula to represent the dif- 
ference of potential required to give sparks in air. If this difference of 
potential be represented by Y, and the length of the spark in centimeters 
be Z, their experiments give approximately V = 102/ + 7.07. The results 
were obtained with brass balls 1.35*''" in diameter, africtional machine, 
and a Foster absolute electrometer. When /=0.142, the difference of 
potential was 154.70 ; with /=0.284, V= 133.35 ; for Z = 0.497, V = 131.66; 
and for I = 0.9, V = 138.57 ; the value of V diminishing then and increas- 
ing again. {Nature, March, 1884, xxix, 446.) 

In his Bakerian lecture, Schuster has ably discussed the experiments 
which have made on the electric discharge through gases, and has given 
a sketch of a theory of this action. He shows that the negative glow 
is divisible into three layers, increasing in thickness with decreasing 
density. In the first place, a luminous layer closely surrounds the elec- 
trode, which, when this is new, is of a golden color. The spectroscope 
shows in this the presence of sodium and hydrogen. The second layer is 
known by the name of the dark space. The third layer is the glow 
proper. The theory proposed is this : that within the first layer the 
gaseous molecules are decomposed, that their respective parts are pro- 
jected with great velocity through the dark si)ace, that this velocity is 
gradually reduced by impacts within the glow, and that in the positive 
part of the discharge the discharge takes place by diffusion, except when 
stratifications appear. {Nature, July, 1884, xxx, 230.) 

E. Wiedemann has also investigated the phenomena of the electric 
discharge in gases. He supposes that the positive discharge consisting 
in a current preceded by a polarization of the gas is an electrical phe- 
nomenon proper, and he attributes it to a longitudinal motion. The 
negative rays are the true luminous rays, of very short wave-length, 
energetically absorbed by the ponderable medium, in which they excite 
phosphorescence. The negative electrode is a source of transversal 
waves, exerting on their front, according to Maxwell, a pressure which 



184 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

the Crookes phenomena prove, {Wied. Ann., xx, 756; J. Phys., 11, iii, 
210; Phil Mag., July, August, 1884, V, xvili, 35, 85.) 

De la Hue and Miiller have studied the discharge of 15,000 cells of 
the silver chloride battery, using two very slightly convex disks, a point 
and disk, and two paraboloidal points, the potential being increased a 
thousand cells at a time. Inspection of the curve shows that it is con- 
tinuously concave for the disks, while for the disk and point and two 
points it is concave only for a certain distance and then turns off and 
becomes convex. The intensity of force per centimeter decreases con- 
tinuously up to 15,450 volts in the case of planes ; but in the other cases 
the decrease ceases after a certain potential has been reached, and then 
increases so as to be nearly a constant quantity. At 9,000 volts, and 
beyond, the jjoteutial between a point and a disk is very nearly 9,200 
volts; hence, if the law holds good, to produce a spark 1*^™ long, 
92,000 volts ; l*" long, 920,000 volts : and a flash of lightning a kilo- 
meter in length, 920,000,000 volts, would be required. This would, of 
course, be lessened by the diminished atmospheric pressure at that 
height. Under a mean pressure of 939,211 M it would require 864,- 
000,000 to produce a discharge between a cloud a kilometer high and 
the earth. In an induction coil a spark of 1 inch requires 23,367 volts, 
1 foot 280,400 volts, and 1 yard 841,230 volts. {Nature, January, 1884, 
XXTX, 327.) 

Lucas has determined the resistance of the arc produced in the Ser- 
rin lamp, between two Carre carbons 16°^"' in diameter. With a 50- 
ampere current, the carbons being separated 4™™, he finds the resistance 
to be 0.58 ohm. (0. B., April, 1884, xcviii, 1040.) 

Schneebeli has examined the radiation from the Swan incandescent 
lamp at various temperatures, employing the method of Svanberg and 
Langley. The resistance of the lamp, cold, was 80 ohms. The current 
strength, the total radiation of the lamp, and the luminous radiation were 
measured, and it appeared that for each current strength C there exists 
the following relation: C^R = K\Y, in which R is the resistance of the 
carbon at the designated temperature, W the energy emitted by the 
lamp, and K a constant. If R is constant between 900° and 1,500°, then 

- -- is constant. The results show that the resistance of carbon between 
W 

a red and a white heat is apparently independent of temperature. The 
absorption coefiicient of the glass globes of the lamp is also apparently 
independent of temperature. ( Wied. Ann., xxi, 430 ; Am. J. Sci., Sep- 
tember, 1884, III, XXVIII, 225.) 

The electric light systems exhibited at the Cincinnati Exposition were 
tested by a jury consisting of Meudenhall, Eddy, French, and Laidlaw, 
and their report has been published. .The dynamometric measurements 
were made by means of the Brackett dynamometer, specially constructed. 
The current strength was measured b^" one of Thomson's current gal- 
vauonieters find a Brackett differential galvanometer. The electro-mo- 



PHYSICS. 485 

live force was measured on Thomson's potential galvanometer, a high- 
resistance Thomson galvanometer and a condenser being used to check 
the indications. The ijhotometric power of the lamps, both arc and in- 
candescent, was determined in terms of an Edison 10-candle lamp taken 
as a standard. The efficiency found for the Thomson-Houston arc dy- 
namo was 81.5 ; of the Weston arc dynamo, 86.5 ; of the Weston in- 
candescent dynamo, 87.9 -, and of the Edison incandescent dynamo, 95.1. 
In the case of the arc lamps the jury found a diflereuce of more than 40 
per cent, in favor of the Thomson-Houston, and in that of incandescent 
lamps they found a difference of 25 per cent, of light per electrical 
horsepower in favor of the Edison. (Science, February, 1884, iii, 174.) 

5. Electro -chemical Decomposition. 

Jahn, in a paper communicated to the Vienna Academy, has shown 
that in the electrolysis of solutions of copper sulphate and of zinc sul- 
phate between two electrodes of platinum, the quantities of heat which 
become free during the decomposition of equivalent weights of the two 
salts are inversely as the quantities of heat evolved during the formation 
of these salts by means of the two metals, of oxygen and of sulphuric 
acid. (J. Fhys., June, 1884, 11, iii, 274.) 

Warburg has succeeded in electrolyzing glass by heating it to 300^ 
between mercury electrodes. The glass used was a soda-lime glass, 
which is a conductor at this temperature. The current of 15 to 30 Bun- 
sen cells was used, and at first passed freely; but in a few moments the 
current diminished, and in the course of an hour fell to joVoi from the for- 
mation at the anode of a layer of insulating silica. This siliceous layer 
acted as the dielectric of a condenser between two conductors ; and by 
charging it with from 5 to 20 Buusen cells, the condenser was found to 
have a capacity of from 0.021 to 0.041 microfarad, according to the 
thickness of the layer. If sodium amalgam be used as the anode, no 
layer of silica results, but sodium is found in the mercury' on the cath- 
ode side, the amount of which was found to agree with the weight of 
silver deposited in a voltameter in the same circuit. Potassium amal- 
gam is without action. [J. Phys., October, 1884, II, iii, 452 ; Phil. Mag., 
August, 1884, V, xviii, 159.) 

Gore has propounded a theory of the relation of heat to electrolysis 
which assumes that metals and electrolytes are throughout their masses 
in a state of molecular vibration; that the molecnles of these sub- 
stances, being frictionless bodies in a frictionless medium, and their 
motion not being dissipated by conduction or radiation, continue inces- 
santly in motion until some cause arises to prevent them; that each 
metal or electrolyte when unequally heated has to a certain extent an 
unlike class of motions in its differently heated parts, and behaves in 
those parts somewhat like two metals or electrolytes, and those unlike 
motions are enabled, through the intermediate conducting portion of 
the substance, to render those parts electro-polar; that every different 



486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

metnl and electrolyte has a diiferent class of motions, and in conse- 
quence of this they also, by contact alone with each other at the same 
temperature, become electro-polar. The molecular motion of each dif- 
ferent substance also increases at a different rate by rise of temperature. 
{Nature, January, 1884, xxix, 300.) 

Hammerl has studied the conditions of accuracy in the copi)er vol- 
tameter, and finds them to be as follows : (1) The liquid should not be 
heated above 40°, for fear of oxidizing the deposit; (2) the plates should 
be nearly rectangular, preferably circular, parallel, and varnished on 
the back ; (3) if they are not less than l.S'^'" apart, the density of the 
current for exact measurement should not exceed 7 amperes per square 
decimeter. (J. P%s., April, 1884, II, iii, 178.) 

Mascart has repeated his determination of the electro-chemical equiv- 
alent of silver, and now flndj that a coulomb will deposit 1.1156 milli- 
grams of silver and will decompose 0.09303 milligram of water. The 
values found by Kohlrausch were 1.1183 and 0.09325, respectively. {J. 
Pliys., July, 1884, II, ni, 283.) 

Eayleigh has also determined the electro-chemical equivalent of sil- 
ver and finds 1,118x10-^ for its value in C. G. S. units. One ampere- 
hour deposits 4.025 grams silver. {Proc. Boy. Soc, March, 1884; J. 
Phys., July, 1884, II, in, 307.) 

Lodge, in a paper on storage batteries, concedes that at the present 
time it is i^retty generally felt that no existing form of storage battery 
is perfect, and that on the whole such batteries are extravagant and 
wasteful to an extent sufficient to more than compensate for their un- 
deniable convenience. " It is perfectly certain," he says, " that their em- 
ployment has not become at all general, and that they have failed to 
realize the somewhat sanguine hope of their early promoters." Storage 
batteries would be useful, he thinks, (1) to economize now wasted power, 
like water-power; (2) to obtain regular from irregular action, as wind 
and tides; and (3) to obtain strong but short — from long-continued 
though weak action. {Nature, October, 1884, xxx, 585.) 

NECROLOGY OF PHYSICISTS, 1884. 

GiNTL, J. WiLHELM, professor emeritus of mathematics and physics at 
Gratz, a telegraph engineer and inventor of a duplex system of tele- 
graphy. Died at Prague December 2B, 1883, aged 80 years. 

Mereifield, 0. W., principal of the royal school of naval architecture, 
South Kensington. Died at Brighton, Eng., January 1, 1884, aged 
56 years. 

Dallmeyer, John Henry, physicist and optician, celebrated for his 
photographic lenses. Died in London in January, 1884, aged 53 
years. 

Du MoNCEL, Theodore, electrician and physicist, editor of La Lu- 
mi^re Electrique. Died in Paris February, 1884, aged 03 years. 



PHYSICS. 487 

HagI^eN, G. H. L., a well kuowu hydraulic eiigiueer. Died in Berlin 
February 3, 1884, aged 86 years. 

ToDHUNTER, IsAAC, an eminent professor of mathematics and mathe- 
matical physics. Died at Cambridge, Eng., March 1, 1884, aged 64 
years. 

BouTiGNY, G. H., a well known physicist and investigator, especially 
in the domain of heat. Died in Paris March 17, 1884. 

Dumas, J. B. A., the eminent chemist and physicist. Died at Cannes 
April 11, 1884, aged 84 years. 

BoNTEMPS, Charles, telegraph engineer, director of pneumatic tele- 
graphs in Paris. Died in Paris in May, 1884, aged 45 years. 

MoiGNO, F. N. M., mathematician and physicist, editor for many years 
of the French Journal Les Mondes. Died in Paris July 13, 1884, 
aged 81 years. 

Woodward, J. J., a surgeon in the U. S. Army, well known as a mi- 
croscopist and investigator. Died in Philadelphia August 18, 1884. 

SCHELLEN, Heinrich, director of the Realschule at Cologne, and au- 
thor of several electrical and scientific works. Died at Cologne in 
September, 1884, aged 66 years. 

Sabine, Egbert Henry, a telegraphic engineer, and son-in law of Sir 
Charles Wheatstone. Died in London October 25, 1884, aged 47 
years. 

Lartigue, Henry, a telegraphic engineer of eminence, director of the 
Paris Telephone Company. Died in Paris in November, 1884, aged 
54 years. 

Von Jolly, Philip, professor of mathematical and experimental phys- 
ics in the University of Munich. Died in Munich in December, 1884, 
aged 74 years. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PHYSICS, 1884. 

The Scientific papers of James Prescott Joule, D. C. L., LL. D., F. R. S., &c. Lon- 
don, 1884. (Physical Society.) 

Textbook of the Principles of Physics. Alfred Daniell. 8vo., pp. xx, 053. London, 
1884.) 

Histoire des sciences math^niatiqnes et physiques. M. Marie. Tome I. Paris, 1883. 

Physique math^matique ; electrodynamique, capillarity, chaleur, Electricity, magn6- 
tisme, 61asticit6. H. Resal. 4to. pp. vi, 376. Paris, 1884. 

Collection de m6moires relatifs h la physique publics par la Socidtd franfaise de phy- 
sique. Tome I. Mdmoires de Coulomb. 8vo. Paris, 1884. 

Cours de physique, comprenant les matieres-d'enscignemeut de la classo de niathd- 
matiques spdciales. Tome I. J, Montier. 8vo. pp.927. Paris, 1884. (Dunod.) 

The new Physics; a manual of experimental study for high schools and preparatory 
schools for college. J. Trowbridge. 12mo. pp. xix, 3G7. New York, 1884. 

Cours El€mentaire de physique. A. Boutau & C. d'Almeida. Two vols. 8vo. Paris, 
1884. 

Cours 616meutaire de physique. H. Gossin. Ifimo. pp. 275. Paris, 1884. 



488 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Elementary Text 'book on Physics. W. A. Anthony & C F. Brackett. 12n)0., pp. viii, 

246. New York, 1884. 
Traits 616mentaire de physique appliqu6e. Pesanteur, hydiostatique, chalenr, optique, 

aconstique, Electricity, m^t^orologie, E. Gripon. 16mo. pp. 588. Paris, 1884. 
The elements of Physiological Physics; an outline of the elementary facts, principles, 

and methods of physics and their applications in physiology. J. McG. Robertson. 

12mo. pp. 520. London, 1884. 
Th6orie de la capillarity. E. Mathieu. 4to. pp. 199. Paris, 1884. 
Elemente der reinen Mechanik, als Vorstndien fiir die analytische und angewandte 

Mechanik nnd fiir die mathematische Physik an Universitiiten und technische 

Hochschulen. J. Finger. Lief. 1. 8vo. pp. viii, 128. Wien, 1884. 
Die Elemente der Mechanik und mathematischen Physik. G. Helm. 8vo. pp. iv, 

221. Leipzig, 1884. 
Theorie elastischer Korper. Eine Einleitung zur mathematischen Physik und tech- 

nischen Mechanik. J. J. Weyrauch. 8vo. pp. viii, 279. Leipzig, 1884. 
Legons de statistique. E. Carvallo. 8to. pp. 94. Meulan, 1884. 
Applied Mechanics ; an elementary general introduction to the theory of structures 

and machines. J. H. Cotterill. 8vo. pp. xx, 584. London, 1884. 
Theorie de I'ElasticitE des corps solides. Traduit par BarrE de Saint- Venant et Fla- 

mant, avec des notes 6tendues. Clebsch. 8vo. pp. xxii, 932. Paris, 1884. 
Heat. P. G.Tait. 16mo. pp. xi,368. London, 1884. 
The Theory and Action of the Steam Engine. H. Northcott. 8vo. pp, 180. New 

York, 1884. 
Lenses and systems of lenses treated after the manner of Gauss. C. Pendelberry. 8vo. 

pp. 90. London, 1884. 
On light. First course. On the nature of light. G.G.Stokes. 8vo. pp.134. Lon- 
don, 1884, 
Teoria degli stromenti ottici con applicazioni al telescopii ad alia topografia celeste. 

L.Billotti. 4to. pp, XX, 237. Milano, 1883. 
Light. P. G. Tait. 8vo. pp. 278. London, 1884. 
Note sur les experiences effectuEes pour la determination de I'^talon absolu de lumifere. 

J. Violle. 8vo. pp.20. Paris, 1884. 
Das Mikroskop und die mikrographische Technik. S. T. Stein. 8vo. Halle, 1884. 
Traite pratique d'61ectricite, comprenant les applications aux sciences et h I'industrie. 

Tome 1. C. M. Gariel. 8vo. 450 pp. Paris, 1883. 
Bibliography of electricity and magnetism, 1860 to 1883. With special reference to 

electrotechnics. G. May. 8vo. pp. xii, 203. London, 1884. 
Anleitung zur Messung und Berechnung der Elemente des Erd-Magnetismus. J. Seiz- 

nar. 8vo. pp. 79, Wien, 1883. 
Recherches sur I'flectricite. G, Plants, 8vo. pp. 332. Paris, 1883. 
Untersuchungen liber das elektrische Verhaltung des Glimmers als Condensatorme- 

dium. F. Kagi. Inaug. diss. 8vo. pp. 54. Ziirich, 1883. 
Vorlesungen iiber elektrische Strome gehalten an der Universitiit zu Konigsberg, F. 

Neumann. 8vo. pp. x, .308. Leipzig, 1884. 
A history of electricity and the electric telegraph to the year 1837. J. J. Fahie. 8vo 

pp. 500. New York, 1884. 
Galvauoplastic manipulations, a practical guide for the gold and silver electro-plater 
and the galvauoplastic operator. W. H. Wahl. 8vo. pp. 656. New York, 1884. 
I recenti progressi delle applicazioni elettriche. R. Ferrini. 8vo. pp. xvi, 748. 

Milan, 1884. 
Histoire et application de r61ectricit6. J, Le Breton. 8vo. Paris, 1884. 
Elektriciteten och desstekniska anvandning. Del i. Elektrioitetsliiran. A. Billman- 

son. 8vo. pp.232. Stockholm, 1884. 
Das elektrische Potential oder Grundziige der Elektrostatik. Die neuere Theorie der 
elektrischenErscheinungen. A. Serpieri. 8vo. pp.256. Wien, 1884. 



PHYSICS. 489 

Dae Potential und sein Anivendung bei der Erkliinnig Elek trische Erscheinungen. O. 
Tumlirz. 8vo. pp. 202. Wien, 1884. 

Die Generatoreu hochgespannter Elektricitiit mit vorwiegender Beriicksichtigungdor 
Elektrisirmaschinen in engeren Sinne. J. G. Wallentin. 8vo. pp. 202. Wien, 
1884. 

Historia y progresos de la electricidad. J. Gomez y Pallete. 8vo. pp. 48. Madrid, 
1884. 

La elettricit^ e le sue applicazioui. E. Bignami. 8vo. pp. 219. Milan, 1884. 

A practical treatise on electric lighting. J. E. H. Gordon. 8vo. pp.228. London, 
1884. (Low.) 

Sistema de transmisidn telegr^fica. R. Hernandez. 4to. pp. 38. Bueuos Aires, 1883. 

E^sum^ d'exp^riences sur la determination de I'ohm et de sa valeur en colonne mer- 
curielle. Mascart, F. de Nerville, & R. Benoit. .8vo. pp. 71. Paris, 1884. 

A pocket-book of electrical rules and tables for the use of electricians and engineers. 
J. Munro and A. Jamieson. 32rao. London, 1884. 

The practical telegraphist and guide to the telegraph service. W. Lynd. 8vo. pp. 
220. London, 1884. 

II telefono. V. Piccoli. 16mo. pp. 119. Milano, 1884. 

Electrical appliances of the present day. D. P. Heap. 8vo. pp. 287. New York, 
1884. 

Recent progress in dynamo-electric machines, being a supplement to "Dynamo- 
electric machinery." S. P. Thompson. 24mo, pp. 113. New York, 1884. 

Laran om magnetism och elektriciteteu. A. Wijkauder. 8vo. pp. 129. Lund, 1884. 

The electric light; its history production and applications. E. Algeave and J. Bou- 
lard. Translated by T. O'C. Sloane. 8 vo. pp. xviiij 458. New York, 1884. 

Magneto-electric and dynamo-electric machines; their construction and practical ap- 
plication to electric lighting and the transmission of power. H. Schellen, 
Translated from the 3d German edition by U. S. Keith and Percy Neymann. Vol. 
1. 8vo. pp. 510. New York, 1884. 

Eecherches sur la conductibilit6 galvanique des dlectrotytes. S. Arrhenius. 8vo. 
pp. 152. Stockholm, 1884. * 

Dynamo-electricity; its generation, application, transmission, storage, and measure- 
ment. G. B. Prescott. 8vo. New York. 

Le transport de la force par l'61ectricit6 et ses applications industrielles. M. Deprez 
& Japing. 8vo. Paris, 1884. 

Die Kabeltelegraphie. M. JUllig. 8vo. pp. 272. Wien, 1884. 

Manuale di magnetismo ed elettricitk. G. Poloni. 16mo. pp. xi, 203. Milano, 1884. 

Die Electricitat und ihre Anwendungen. A. Wassmuth. 8vo. pp. 202. Leipzig, 
1884. 

Bell's electric speaking telephone ; its invention, construction, application, modifica- 
tion, and history. G B. Prescott. 8vo. pp. 350. New York, 1884. 



%' 



CHEMISTRY 



By H. Carrington Bolton, 

Professor of Chemlstrij, TrinHij College, Hartford. 



GENERAL AND I'HYSICAL. 

The Color of Chemical Compounds (is a Function of the Atotnie Weights 
of their Constituent Elcmcnts.^-Thomixs Carnelly liods tliat the color of 
chemical compoumls depends on at least three conditions — (1) the tem- 
perature, (2) tlie quantity of tlie electro-negative element, and (3) the 
atomic weights of tbe constituent elements. Of these three conditions 
the two former have been especially studied by Mr. Ackroyd, whose re- 
sults are thuc, summarized: 

(1) All the chromium compounds change their color in a definite serial 
order, that of the spectral colors, in such a manner that as the tempera- 
ture rises the color approximates more and more to the red end of the 
spectrum, and ultimately, at a sufldcieutly high temperature, passes into 
brown and black. Most frequently the transition of color is direct from 
white to a pale yellow, while violet, indigo, blue, and green are passed 
over as transition stages. 

(2) In binary compounds an increase of the quantity of the electro- 
negative element involves a change of color to the red end of the spec- 
trnm, and ultimately into brown and black. 

(3) Dr. Carnelly expresses his law as follows. Influence of the atomic 
weight: in some series of compounds. Ax Ry; Bx Ry; Cx Ry; &c., 
in which R is an element or a group of elements, while A, B, C, «&;c., 
signify elements belonging to the same subordinate group in Men- 
delejeff's table of the natural classification of the elements, the color 
passes entirely or partially through the following scale : White or 
colorless, violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, brown, black, 
with the increasing- atomic weight of the elements A, B, C, &c. In 
other words, the higher the atomic weight of the elements A, B, C, rises, 
the more the color of the compound approaches the red end of the 
spectrum, and passes in certain cases into brown and black. This rule 
applies only when the elements A, B, C, &c., belong to the same sub- 
group. In 42G cases examined the author found only 14 exceptions, 4 
four of which, DiClajVoO^, C1O3, and CdO, do not admit of satisfactory 

491 



492 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

explanation. The author thinks that there are indications that the 
color of compounds is a i>eriodic fuuctiou of their atomic weights. 
This is best seen in the normal iodides. He proposes extending his re- 
searches to the colors of organic bodies. {Berichte d. cliem. Ges.^ xvii, 
2151.) 

The Periodic Laic and the Occurrence of the Elements inNature, by Thomas 
Carnelly. — The theory concerning the occurrence of the elements in 
nature is based upon the periodic law, and comprises four points : 

(1) Elements which belong to the odd series (of the periodic classi- 
fication) are as a rule readily brought into the free condition. On the 
other hand, those elements belonging to the even series are only set 
free with difficulty. Carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, sodium, magnesium, 
and silicon are the only exceptions to this rule, which is explained by 
the inverted character of the " curve of the elements." 

(2) Elements belonging to the even series, with the exception of 
carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen, and the group VIII, never occur in nature 
in a free state. The elements belonging to the odd series frequently 
occur in this condition. 

(3) The elements belonging to the odd series occur in nature ordinarily 
as sulphides or double sulphides (selenides, arsenides, &c.), i. e., in com- 
bination with a negative element belonging to an odd series, rarely as 
oxides. Elements belonging to the even series are commonly found as 
oxides or doubleoxides (with formation of silicates, carbonates, sulphates, 
aluminates, &c.), that is to say, in combination with a negative element 
belonging to an even series, and never (with two exceptions) as sul- 
phides. 

(4) The halogens chlorine, bromine, iodine, fluorine, the most electro- 
negative elements, occur in nature in combination with the most electro- 
positive metals, as chlorides, bromides, iodides, and fluorides, and (omit- 
ting certain metallic oxychlorides and sulphochlorides) in combination 
with oxygen or sulphur. 

The above-mentioned facts may be thus expressed with reference to 
Lothar Meyer's curve of the elements : Elements whose place is on fall- 
ing parts of the curve are difficult to reduce, and never occur in nature 
in a free condition or in combination as sulphides, but always in com- 
bination with oxygen as oxides or double oxides (silicates, sulphates, 
carbonates, &c.) ; while the elements whose place is on ascending parts 
of the curve are easily reduced, and occur almost always — more or 
less — in a free condition, and also in combination with sulphur and very 
rarely with oxygen. {Berichte d. chem. Ges., xvii, 2287.) 

Explanation of Gladstone and, Tribe'' s 2-"^ Law in Chemical Dynamics, 
by John W. Langley. — Gladstone and Tribe showed that if a plate of 
metal is suspended in a solution of another metal which it can precipi- 
tate, the rate of chemical action, as shown by the loss of weight in the 
suspended plate (for a given period of immersion), will vary with the 



CHEMISTRY. 493 

percenta/j^e streugth of the solution iu a remarkable mauuer, which they 
epitomize in the following statement : If the percentages of the salt be 
expressed by a series of the powers of 2, the chemical action will be ex- 
pressed by the corresponding powers of 3. In their experiments they 
employed a plate of copper suspended in a solution of silver nitrate. 
Since the authors offered no explanation of this law, Professor Langley 
raised the following questions : Is the rate of metallic precipitation for 
^'arying strengths of the solution due to the chemical action alone, or 
is the operation of chemical affinity compounded with one or more purely 
physical forces ; and, if so, what is the relative part contributed by each? 

To solve the problem Professor Langley devised apparatus for bring- 
ing the solution against the plate with uniform velocity ; this was sug- 
gested by an observation of Gladstone and Tribe that two currents, one 
ascending and one descending, formed during the precipitation. Pro- 
fessor Langley arranged a plate of copper so that it revolved 5^- times 
per second, and as a result of many trials, made iu divers ways, he arrived 
at this law : In metallic precipitations of dilute solutions the chemical 
action varies directly as the mass, i. e., percentoge of the dissolved 
salt. 

Gladstone and Tribe's experimental work was confirmed, and Pro- 
fessor Langley offers the following explanation of their law : When the 
plate is suspended in the liquid a film of copper nitrate is at once formed 
against it. ISTow, the access of fresh silver nitrate de])ends on the re- 
moval of copper nitrate ; this film, being heavier than the main solutioii, 
begins to fall (a part also rises), and thus drags in fresh liquid from 
above to attack the copper. The rate at which it falls depends upon 
its density, that is, on the quantity of copper dissolved, but it is resisted 
by the inertia of the surrounding fluid which it must displace. Now, 
as the percentage of silver nitrate in the solution is increased the den- 
sity of tbe copi^er nitrate increases, and it will descend faster. The rate 
of motion, however, is dependent on several considerations, which the 
author discusses fully, and he concludes that the observed rate of 
action will be made up of two factors: twice the chemical action 
because of chemism, and H because of gravitative action ; or, when the 
percentage of silver salt is doubled, the quantity of copper dissolved 
will be tripled. This is Gladstone and Tribe's law. 

The author thinks it probable that the true law of chemical action, 
where one metal precipitates another, should be that the time during 
which one atom replaces another in a compound molecule is constant, 
and hence that the rate of total chemical action varies directly as the 
mass of the reacting body in solution. {Journ. Chem. ISoc, December, 
1884.) 

Certain Phenomena attending Mixture, by Prof. F. Guthrie.— Experi- 
ments conducted with a number of different liquids show that mixtures 
can be arranged in two distinct classes. Of the first a mixture of 
water and ether is an example ; wdien shaken up together they mix, heat 



494 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

is evolved, and a diminution of bulk takes place. If any excess of etber 
present be poured off", and tlie lower clear liquid heated in a sealed tube, 
it becomes turbid, owiug to the separation of the ether. This is accom- 
panied by an increase in bulk aud absorption of heat. 

Alcohol and carbon disulphide foini a typical case of the second class 
of mixtures. These liquids mix with each other, in all i)roportions above 
0° C, with increase of bulk and ahsorption of heat. Upon cooling the 
mixture to about —17° C. the liqnids separate. In these cases the 
action is regarded as a chemical one. {Chvm. Xeics, l, 233.) 

Ow a Relation between the Molecn'ar Weights of Liqnids and their Veloc- 
ities of Evaporation, by C. Schall. — On distilling successively in the same 
apparatus given volumes of benzene and of water, the author found that, 
even when the boiling was maintained as nearly uniform as possible, 
very different weights of these two substances passed over in the same 
time. Even in a rough experiment the quantity of benzene in the re- 
ceiver was double that of the water. With a view to give the experi- 
ment greater exactness, the time of evaporation of equal volumes of these 
liquids was carefully determined. Knowing, then, the density of the 
liquids at the boiling point, their weights could be calculated, and hence 
the exact time of evai)oration of equal weights. 

On comparison the values thus obtained appeared to be very nearly in 
the inverse ratio of the mi)lecular weights of the liquids en)j)loyed. Thus, 
benzene, with a boiling point of 70.2° and a density of 0.81 36, evaporated 
in 12.7, 12.U5, and 12.3 minutes ; while the same volume of chloroform, 
boiling point 61.5° and density 1.4048, evaporated in 14.3, 14.5, and 14.3 
minutes; or, reduced to equal weights, in 8.25, 8.4, and 8.28 minutes. 

Since m : m' = t' : t, the .first value gives for the molecular weight of 
chloroform 119.64, the second 120.25, and the third 119.88, the true value 
being 119.5. Benzene, when compared with carbon disulphide, boiling 
point 45.3'^ and density 1.2212, evaporated in 12.3 minutes, while the 
same volume of OS2 required 19 minutes ; or, reduced to equal weights, 
12.66 minutes. This gives, by calculation, a molecular weight of 75.79 
in place of 76. Water, boiling point 99° and density 0.9596, evaporated 
in 64 minutes ; or, reduced to equal weights, in 54.26 minutes. This gives 
a molecular weight of 17.68 instead of 18. Moreover, the ratio of the 
volumes of two liquids evaporated in equal times is the ratio of their 
molecular volumes. Thus, the ratio for benzene and chloroform above 
given is 1.126:1; whence 1.126:1=95.94 (the molecular volume of 
benzene) : 85.2 (the molecular volume of chloroform). Schiff" obtained 
84.65. The author has further observed that on comparing Kegnault's 
values of the heat of vaporization of several liquids, these numbers de- 
crease as the molecuiar weight increases. From which, of fifteen liquids 
whose heat-data are known, thirteen fall readily into five groups, in each 
of which the product of the heat of vaporization by the molecular weight 
is approximately constant. Thus, water gives 536.67x18=9660.06, 



CHEMISTRY. 405 

while alcohol j>ives 214:.3x 40=9857.8; aBctoue gives 7523.76, chloro- 
form 7289.5, aud carbou tetrachloride 7101; ethyl oxide 0711.8, carbon 
disulphide 03G1.2, aud ethyl chloride G128.7 ; stannic chloride 11736.4, 
arsenious chloride 12292.99, and ethyl acetate 12820.72; phosphorous 
chloride 8970 5 and ethyl iodide 8938.8. The remaining two are amyl 
alcohol, which gives 17954.04, aud bromine, 7963,2. These do not seem 
to belong to auy of the above groups, unless the latter be placed in 
that coutaining acetone. {Am. Journ. Sci., cxxvii, 233, in abstract by 
G. F. B. from Berichte d. chem. Ges.) 

On the Connection between Pseudo Solution and True Solution,. hy W. 
W. J. Nichol. — The well-known Browuian motion of small particles 
suspended in a liquid beiug regarded as a consequence of molecular im- 
pacts is applied by the author to support the molecular as distinguished 
from tlie hydrate theory of solution. According to the former theory, the 
solution of a salt in water is a consequence of the superior attraction of the 
molecules of water for those of the salt as compared with the cohesion 
of the salt itself. Substances are soluble in inverse proportion to their 
cohesion. Cohesion beiug destroj^ed by subdivision, a finely divided 
substance remains suspended for a long time in water. Such suspen- 
sion or pseudo solution difiers only from true solution in respect to fine- 
ness of division of the solid. If subdivision could be carried to the iso- 
lation of the molecules, true solution would result, and substauces thus 
dissolved could separate from solution only slowly, in spite of the supe- 
rior cohesioH of their molecules, because aggregations of these mole- 
cules sufficiently larger to separate themselves from solution could only 
occasionally be found. As an instance of this we have slow precipita- 
tion of many insoluble substauces from solution when cold and dilute. 
(A. A. B., from Chem. News, L, 124.) 

INORGANIC. 

Liquefaction of Hydrogen. — S. Wroblewski has subjected hydrogen to a 
pressure of 100 atmospheres in a glass tube of 2™™ external diameter and 
of 0.2-0.4'"'" internal diameter. The tube was placed vertically', and by 
means of a screw the compressed gas could be released instantaneously. 
The tube and contents were cooled by boiling oxygen. At the moment 
of releasing the hydrogen an ebullition appeared in the tube similar to 
that observed by Cailletet in oxygen, in his experiments made in 1882. 
The phenomenon is i)roduced in the same manner at a certain distance 
from the bottom of the tube ; it lasts for a much shorter time and is less 
decided and much less easy to perceive. The reason of this difficulty 
may perhaps be explained by the very low density of liquid hydrogen. 
Cailletet and Hautefeuille, in their researches on the density of oxygen, 
hydrogen, and nitrogen liquefied in the ^^resence of i liquid having no 
action on these elements, have inferred that liquid hydrogen has a den- 
sity of 0.033. Since the same method yielded under the same conditions 



496 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

the number 0.89 for the density of oxygen, Wroblewski admits that the 
figures 0.033 are not far from the trutli. On the other hand, gaseous 
hydrogen reaches this same density, 0.033, at a low temperature, under 
inconsiderable pressures; hence arises an optical difficulty in distin- 
guishing the liquid from the gaseous hydrogen, a difficulty which prob- 
ably prevented Wroblewski from reproducing Cailletet's experiment on 
hydrogen. The analogy between the phenomenon described and those 
presented by oxygen permit the supposition that the temperature nec- 
essarj" for the complete liquefaction of hydrogen is not far from that 
which maj^ be obtained by means of boiling oxygen. {Comptes rendus 
xoviii, January 28, 1884.) 

Boiling Point of Hydrogen. — Dr. Edmund J. Mills, on purely. mathemat- 
ical considerations, has calculated the boiling point of hydrogeu at —215° 
C. This figure remains to be confirmed by Wroblewski and Olzewski, 
who are separately engaged in investigating the subject. According to 
the former, oxygen boils at —184° and nitrogen at —193*^, under the ordi- 
nary pressure. Olzewski, who uses a hydrogen thermometer, claims to 
have measured a temperature of —213° C. {Chem. News, l, 179.) 

Liquefaction of Oxygen by the Aid of Marsh Gas. — Cailletet has discov- 
ered that marsh gas (formene) can be used to liquefy oxygen, without 
employing mechanical means for lowering the temperature of boiling of 
the cooling liquid. The formene is compressed and cooled in ethylene 
boiling under atmosi>heric pressure; in the liquid state it is very mobile, 
and in vaporizing lowers the temperature sufficiently to immediately 
hquefy oxygen. This process greatly simplifies the liquefaction of oxy- 
gen gas. {Comptes rendus, xcix, 15G5.) 

Atomic Weight of Carbon determined, by Combustion of the Diamond, by 
C. Friedel. — Having obtained, through the generosity of Mr. Chatrian, 
a number of very fine white diamonds from Africa, the author made 
combustions in a current of oxygen, with a view to determining the 
atomic weight of carbon with unusual accuracy. The experiments gave 
C = 12.007 when = 1G. The ashes remaining after the combustion were 
small white flakes, yellowish in places, with small black spots. Some 
were attracted by the magnet ; several were transparent, and of these 
some were acted on by polarized light, having preserved their crystal- 
line form. The weight of the ashes was about 0.058 per cent, of the 
diamond. 

During the combustion the diamond did not change into coke, as has 
been claimed by others, but was merely roughened on the surface, as if 
attacked by an acid. {Bull. soc. chim., xli, 100.) 

The Atomic weight of Glucinnm, by L. F. Nilson and Otto Pettersson. — 
A few years ago these authors concluded, from their experiments on the 
specific heat of glucinum, that the atomic weight of this element is 13 65, 



CHEMISTRY. 



497 



and not 9.1, as had been generally admitted. Lothar Meyer attempted 
to show that their results are capable of a different interpretation, quite 
in harmony with the atomic weight 9.1. Afterward Nilson replied to 
Meyer, and, taking into account the specific heats of the oxide and sul- 
phate of glucinum, found confirmation of his view that the atomic weight 
is equal to 13.65. If this figure be correct, the periodic law receives a 
seriohs blow, for with the larger atomic weight glucinum does not tit 
into the scheme based on the law. In the article under review the 
authors named give the results of the determination of the specific 
gravity of gaseous glucinum chloride, and find that tha correct formula 
is BeCl2, in which the atomic weight is equal to 9.1. In view of this re- 
sult, they add, and of the fact that Avogadro's law is, without exception 
in the whole field of chemistry, the basis for the conception of the 
molecule, we must give up the idea formerly held by us that gluci- 
num is a trivalent element, to which we were led by the agreement 
of the atomic heat (Be '"=13.65) with the law of Dulong, and the 
numerous analogies between the physical constants (molecular heat 
and volume) of the compounds of glucinum, on the one hand, and of 
the rare metals scandium, erbium, yttrium, &c., on the other. While 
recognizing in this imjiortant case the validity of the periodic law, 
we at the same time call special attention to the t^ingular fact that 
the laws of Dulong and of Avogadro lead to exactly opposite conclu- 
sions regarding the atomic weight and value ot the element of gluci- 
num, a fact which is unique in the field of metallic elements. {Ber. d. 
chem. Ges., xvii, 987.) 

Redetermination of the Atomic Weight of Cerium^ by Henry Eobiuson. — 
The author details the precautions taken in prepaiing the cerous chloride 
and in conducting the experiments. The mean of seven determinations 
of the chlorine (made by titration with silver nitrate) gives 139.8584 as 
the atomic weight of cerium if H=l, or 140.2154 if 0=16. {Chem. 
Reics, L, 251.) 

Redetermination of the Atomic Weight of Platinum ^hj W. Halberstadt.— 
As a result of 97 analyses of no less than five different compounds of 
platinum, conducted in two distinct series, the author finds for the 
atomic weight of platinum the value 194.57592. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., 
XVII, 2962.) 

Additional determinations of atomic iceights. 



Element. 


Atomic weight 
found. 


Authority. 


Reference. 


Aluminium 


27.0 
1.^)0. 
125. 


Bauhigny 

Clove 


Compt. rend., xovii, 1369. 
Vompt. rend , xcvii, 94. 
Bull. soc. cliiiH., XLi, 320. 


Samarium 


Tellurium 


Branuer 







S. Mis. 33- 



-32 



498 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Iodide of Xitrogen and its Use in Actinometry, by Antony Guyard. — 
The author prepares iodide of nitrogen by acting on one gram of iodine 
with 8 c. c. of aqua anmionia at 22° B. With less ammonia, the am- 
mouiura iodide which forms removes some of the iodine from the prod- 
uct. Exposed to direct or diffuse sunlight, the iodide of nitrogen is 
immediately decomposed, with liberation of nitrogen, and the reaction 
is so clean as to be useful in actinometry. Explosions result occasion- 
ally if the iodide be subjected to the action of light under water, but 
under ammonia at 22° B. the decomposition ensues quietly, with effer- 
vescence. By determining the weight or volume of the nitrogen liber- 
ated in a specified time, the reaction may be applied to measurement of 
the energy of sunlight. The reaction is expressed thus: 2 NH2l = 
NH4I2 + N. Iodide of nitrogen is decomposed rapidly, sometimes with 
explosions, by dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acids; it dissolves 
without danger in sodium hyposulphite and in potassium sulphocyanide, 
ammonia being set free. {Bull. soc. cliim. [2], XLI, 12.) 

Antiseptic Value of Carbon Bisulphide. — In October, Prof. Eug. P^ligot 
presented a paper to the French Academy of Sciences on the utility of 
an aqtieous solution of carbon disulphide in the treatment of the vine 
attacked by phylloxera. He showed that the liquid is far more soluble 
in water than the determinations made by Mr. Ckiandi established ; at 
ordinary temjDeratures water dissolves 3.5 c. c. per liter, or 4.52 grams, 
its density being 1.293. Its antiseptic properties have also been fully 
confirmed by the further investigations of Pasteur, who anticipates that 
it will become the most efficacious of all antiseptics, it being also the 
cheapest, costing only a few centimes per liter. It is, moreover, the 
best known insecticide, and has already rendered great services in the 
destruction of phylloxera. At present 30,000 hectares (about 74,000 
acres) of vineyards are yearly treated with over 4,000,000 kilograms 
of carbon disulphide, with excellent results. When applied in the form 
of potassium sulphocarbonate, it has a double action, the sulphur deriv- 
atives killing the insect and the potash enriching the soil. {Nature, 
XXX, 028.) 

Disinfection by Combustion of Carbon Disulphide. — Carbon disulphide 
forms on burning, carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide. In consequence 
of the yield of the latter product, the liquid has been recommended by 
a French commission as the best material for disinfecting rooms in 
which patients suffering from contagious diseases had sojourned. The 
licpiid carbon disulphide is more easily burned than sulphur, and is less 
injurious to furniture or metallic articles in the apartments. 

Presence of Carbon in ordinary Phosphorus, by Ira Remsen and E. H. 
Keiser. — As a contribution to the question regarding the action of moist 
phosphorus on carbon monoxide, Professors Ecmsen and Keiser have 
quantitatively determined the amount of carbon in ordinary phosphorus. 



CHEMISTRY. 499 

Six analyses gave results varying between .026 and. 043 per cent, carbon. 
{Am. Chem. Journ.^ vi, 153.) 

Researches on Titanium Compounds, by Otto Freiherr v. d. Pfordten. — 
Ebelmen obtained TiS? by heating together titanium chloride and sul- 
phuretted hydrogen; the anthor obtains TiS in small crystals by heat- 
ing the disnlphide in a cuirent of hydrogen, carefully excluding oxy- 
gen. The former is yellow, the latter black in color. Attempts to 
reduce TiO^ in a similar way yielded only the indigo-blue oxide TigOg 
discovered by Deville. The anthor noticed the formation of gelatinous 
titanic aeid, analogous to the silicium compound, noticed by H. Rose in 
his investigations. {Berichte d. chem. Ges., xvii, 727.) 

Extraction of C cesium- and BuMdium from Hebron Lejndolite, by F. C. 
Robinson and C. C. Hutchius. — The authors recommend mixing the 
powdered mineral with an equal weight of fluor spar and heating the 
mixture for some hours in a sand-bath with strong sul[)huric acid. 
When cold the mass is broken up, lixiviated and filtered. The filtrate 
contains the Cs, Rb, and K as alums, w'hich are easily separated by their 
great differences in solubility at 17°. One thousand grams lepidolite 
yielded about 30 grams csesium and rubidium alums. {Am. Chem. 
Journ., VI, 74.) 

Electrolytic Magnesium. — Adolph Gratzel, of Hannover, Prussia, has 
devised a method of preparing pure magnesium on a large scale by the 
electrolysis of carnallite. This mineral, which abounds in the upper 
part of the salt formation at Stassfurt, consists essentially of the chlo- 
rides of magnesium and potassium with water, and contains from 31 to 
36 j)er cent, of MgCl2. At the session of tLe German Chemical Society 
in Berlin held March 10, 1884, Dr. Gratzel exliibited a bar of magnesium 
weighing one-half kilogram and of great purity. The absence of sodium 
is especially noted, a metal present in all commercial magnesium hith- 
erto made. The electrolytic magnesium does not decompose water at 
ordinary temi^eratures. If the new process will furnish magnesium in 
abundance at a low price, the importance of this discovery will be very 
great. {Berichte d. chem. Ges.) 

Magnesium Hydrosulphide ISolniion as a tSource of Hydrogen Sulphide., 
by E. Divers and Tetsukichi Sbimidzu. — The authors wishing to obtain 
a regular stream of pure hydrogen sulphide found that this could be 
effected by gently heating a solution of magnesium hydrosulphide. 
Ordinary hydrogen sulphide (from ferrous sulphide and hydrochloric 
acid) is passed into water containing magnesia in suspension. The gas 
is absorbed and the magnesia dissolves. On heating the colorless so- 
lution to 60O-659 it gives out a steady current of hydrogen sulphide, 
free from hydrogen and from hydrogen arsenide. The magnesia which 
is precipitated during the evolution of the ga? may be again used in the 
preparation of th'e magnesium hydrosulphide. {Chem. N'ews, L, 233.) 



500 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1S84. 

Compounds of Chromium Sesquichloride with metallic Chlorides, by Abb6 
Glodefroy. — The author fludsthat the sesquichloride of chromium forms 
with chlorides of several metals well defined and crystallized combina- 
tions. The method of preparation is as follows : To obtain a compound 
of chromium chloride with the chloride of a metal, R, pass a current of 
chlorine gas iuto a mixture of 700 grams of alcohol aud 300 grams of the 
chromate (or dichromate) of E, until the liquid fumes freely when ex- 
posed to the air. If the liquid separates into two layers, add enough 
alcohol and continue to pass the chlorine. Decant, filter through glass 
wool with the aid of a filter-ijumi), wash with concentrated HCl, and 
dry on a i)late of porcelain at a gentle heat. Transfer to dry and well- 
corked bottles. These double salts are decomposed by water with the 
formation of HCl. Bromides and iodides of chromium and the metals 
are obtained in a similar manner. The potassium salt has the formula 
4 KCl . CraCle + 2 H2O. " {Bull soc. chion., XLii, 194.) 

Recovery of Zinc from the Residues of Pyrites. — At theWocklum Works 
a process has been in operation for many years by which zinc chloride 
is recovered from the burnt pyrites. The burnt ore is lixiviated, thus 
extracting the iron and cupric sulphates ; the lixivium is concentrated 
to crystallization, is mixed with a quantity of sodium chloride equiva- 
lent to the zinc sulphate in the solution, and thereby deposits Glauber's 
salts, the value of which alone covers the whole expense of treatment. 
The mother liquid is concentrated ; various mixed ferrous and sodium 
sulphates crystallize out ; the zinc chloride remaining in solution is ob- 
tained by evaporating to dryness. The dry salt contains, however, 
about 15 per cent, sodium salts. {Revue scientifique Quesneville.) 

On the Bromides of Tin, by Bohuslaw Rayman, and Karl Preis. — The 
authors describe the dibromide and tetrabromides of tin, and several 
compounds of the latter with other metallic bromides. SnBrg forms a 
crystalline, yellowish, transparent mass, meltiug at 215.5^. to a pale 
yellow liquid. It forms with water a crystalline hydrate, which appears 
in colorless needles or thin prismatic crystals, soluble in water with 
turbidity. SnBr4 distills at 196'^ to 198°, and the distillate solidifies to a 
ijiass of crystals with a white, mother-of-pearl luster. They rapidly 
deliquesce on exposure to the air, aud form a hydrate, SnBr4 . 4 H2O. 
The following compounds are also described : Stannohydrobromic acid 
and its salts of sodium (Na^SnBre + 6 H2O), of calcium, strontium, mag- 
nesium, manganese, iron (FeSnBre + 6 H2O), nickel, and cobalt ; also the 
oxybromide of tin (SnaBrgO + 12 H2O). {Liehiifs Annalen, coxxiii, 323.) 

Permeability of Silver by Oxygen Gas, by L. Troost. — The author shows 
that pure oxygen and the oxygen of the atmosphere are capable of 
passing through the sides of a heated tube of silver, while only a trace 
of nitrogen permeates the metal. Carbon monoxide and dioxide also 
penetrate the silver, though less rapidly than oxygen. The author 



CHEMISTRY. , 501 

suggests fiat pure oxygen may be manufactured from air on this prin- 
ciple. The silver must not be heated above 800° 0. {Comptes rendus, 
xcvni, June 9, 1884.) 

On Bismutliic Acid, by Carl Hoffmann. — The highest oxide of bismuth, 
bismuthic acid, has the formula BijOs. The potassium salt is obtained by 
passing chlorine into a solution of potassium hydroxide (specific gravity 
1.539) in which bismuth hydroxide is suspended. The operation is re- 
peated three times, with the addition of fresh lye. The potassium bis- 
muthate so obtained is of the composition 2 BiOgK -f iiElil);,. It is of a 
red-brown or dark violet-brown color, and contains more or less potas- 
sium according to the strength of the lye. By treating the body re- 
peatedly with water holding carbon dioxide in solution, a lighter-brown 
compound is formed, not quite free from potassium. These compounds 
treated with acetic acid leave an orange-colored bismuthyl-bismuthate, 
Bi409, and treated with dilute nitric acid, a yellow-brown body, Bi408. 
{Liehig^s Annalen der Chemie, ccxxiii, 110.) 

The Alkali Industry, by Walter Weldon. — In our review of the prog- 
ress of chemistry in 1883 we gave an abstract of Mr. Weldon's paper 
before the London section of the Society of Chemical Industry, Janu- 
ary 8. This eminent authority on the alkali industry delivered (July 
9, 1884) an address as retiring president of this society, in which he 
continues to trace the decline of the Leblanc method and the increasing 
growth of the ammonia method. The ammonia process being more than 
70 per cent, cheaper than the Leblanc process per given quantity of soda, 
the only claim the latter has for continuance is in its production of the 
necessary article hydrochloric acid. In order to avoid closing Leblanc 
soda works, the makers have temporarily combined to reduce production 
and force up prices. 

One of the important problems connected with the ammonia-soda in- 
dustry is the recovery of the chlorine at present thrown away in the cal- 
cium chloride. Mond has recently patented the following process : The 
residual liquor, consisting of a nearly saturated solution of sodium and 
ammonium chlorides, is evaporated to such a degree that the sodium 
chloride deposits, leaving the ammonium chloride in solution; this 
is then evaporated to dryness and the solid salt treated with enough 
sulphuric acid to convert it into hydroammonium sulphate, the chlorine 
going off as HCl. The residual sulphate is then treated with free 
ammonia, and so converted into neutral ammonium sulphate, for sale 
as such, or it is sold to manufacturers of ammoniacal phosphatic fer- 
tilizers. This process is, after all, not the recovery of chlorine from the 
calcium chloride, but from the sodium chloride, and it involves, more- 
over, a ra<lical change in the process, viz, the abandonment of the plan 
of regenerating the ammonia employed, and the necessity of finding a 
sale for the ammonium sulphate produced. Mr. Mond is said to manu- 



50? SCIENTIFIC RELORI) FOR 1884. 

facture 50,000 tons of ammonia-soda annually ; and if the above process 
were applied to the whole of 'the product, he would- not only produce 
128,000 tons of ammonium sulphate, but he would be obliged to consume 
one-third more ammonia than the total quantity at present produced in 
all Great Britain and Ireland. Obviously the process cannot be exten- 
srvely ajiplied so long as we depend on the distillation of coal for am- 
monia. 

A combination of the first step in .he Leblanc process, and the sub- 
stitution of sodium sulphate for the chloride in the subsequent treat- 
ment bj' the ammonia process, has been found theoretically possible, but 
its commercial merits remain to be proven. The natural objection to 
this modification is that the first step of the Leblanc process is tbe 
costly one. 

Messrs. Carey, Gaskell, and Hurter have devised a more practicable 
process, based upon the decomposition of sodium sulphate by bicarbo- 
nate of ammonia, and the recovery of both tlie ammonia and the sul- 
phuric acid. These chemists find that if a mixture of equivalent quan- 
tities of ammonium sulphate and sodium sulphate be heated to fusion, 
and steam be injected into the liquid mass, the whole of the ammonia is 
set free, and the sulphuric acid combines with the sodium salt, forming 
hydro-sodium sulphate, which alone remains behind. This hydro-sodium 
sulphate can then be used to decomjiose sodium chloride. The nor- 
mal sodium sulphate resulting is decomposed by bicarbonate of an.«io- 
nia, with i)roductiou of bicarbonate of soda and ammonium sulphate, 
which last can be used to repeat the first step.* These processes have 
the advantage of no waste, a merit not shared by the Leblanc process, 
invented ninety-seven years ago by the immortal Nicholas. [Ghem. 
News, L, 41.) 

Use of Nickel Vessels for Operations icith fixed Alkalies, by Professor 
Dittmar. — Fleitmann, in 1879, suspecting that the brittleness of nickel 
was due to the presence of occluded carbonic oxide, had the happy 
thought of fusing the metal with a small proportion (one-eighth part) of 
magnesium, and obtained thereby a regulus capable of being rolled into 
thin sheets and drawn into fine wires. • Since this important discovery 
the inventor has made a business of manufacturing kitchen utensils 
which are nickel inside and outside, with a core of iron between. Basins 
of this make are found by Professor Dittmar very useful in operations 
with caustic alkali solutions, and they are far cheaper than silver. 
These nickelized vessels cannot be used with fused potassium or so- 
dium hydroxides, since the latter attack strongly every metal save 
gold. {Ghem. News, L, 3.) 

Gonstifuents-of Snow- Water, by Dr. Elwyn Waller. — A sample of snow 
was carefully collected in a stoi)pered bottle after snow had been fall- 
ing foi" three or four hours and the ground was well covered. After 



CHEMISTRY. 503 

the large particles of sand, coal, &c., from neighboriug- locomoldves had 
settled out, the water was analyzed, with the following results: 

Parts per 100,000. 

Chlorine Trace 

Phosphates None 

Nitrates - None- 

Nitrogen in nitrates 0.0494 

Free ammonia 0.0396 

Albuminoid ammonia 0.0318 

Hardness 0.91 

Total solids 6.3 

While the water was settling, a slimy fungoid growth collected on 
the bottom and sides of the vessel. The presence of volcanic ash (pre- 
sumably from Krakatoa) was not established. {Ghem. News, l, 49.) 

Occurrence of Manganese in Plants and Animals, by E. Maumene. — 
Wheat, rye, rice, and barley are shown to contain manganese, probably 
combined with an organic acid. The bran and starch of wheat do not 
contain the element. It is also found in potatoes, beets, carrots, lentils, 
peas, parsley, and in exceedingly minute quantities in apples and grapes. 
It is found in a large proportion in cocoa, still larger in coffee, and most 
of all in tea. It is absent in oranges, lemons, onions, &c. Human 
blood does not always contain it; very small traces occur in milk, urine, 
bones, and hair. It is almost entirely eliminated in the solid excrements, 
and should be regarded as non-essential to life; hence manganese 
must not be substituted for iron in medicine. {Comptes rendus, xcviii, 
June 9, 1884.) 

■ Notes on Explosives. — Panclastite, the new explosive invented by 
Eageue Turpin, consists essentially of a mixture of liquid nitrogen 
tetroxide with carbon disuli)hide in the proportions of 3 N2O4 + 2 CS^. 
The mixture is exploded by a fulminate primer, with a result more 
powerful than that of nitroglycerine. If ignited without confiuemeut 
in a vessel it burns with a brilliant flame, which M. Turpin proposes to 
utilize as a signal in the field br for photographic purposes. The heat 
of coml)ustiou is also very great, being estimated at about 3,000^ C; 
platinum fuses instantly under the action of this flame. The advantages 
claimed for this explosive are great^^r power than dynamite, perfect 
safety of the separate constituents in transport and storage, insen- 
sitiveness of the mixture to blows, and easy control of the manufacture 
by the Government, owing to the fact that nitrogen tetroxide is not 
met with in commerce. 

Explosive gelatine, or gelatine dynamite, is made by dissolving photo- 
graphic gun-cotton in nitroglycerine, or by mixing nitro-glycerine with 
collodion, removing the solvent by evaporation. The solution is aided 
by heat, and yields a gelatinous mass of a consistency varying with the 



504 SC'IENTIFIO RECORD FOR 1884. 

amount of the soluble gun-cottoD. Tlie jelly is very insensitive to blows, 
and is not easily exploded, requiring a very powerful fuse, and is not 
injured by water. It is said to be 75 i)er cent, strouger than dynamite, 
and it is very free from liability to accident or injury in use or trans- 
jjortation. On the other hand, its stability is questioned. Geueral Abbot 
fouud that samples underwent spontaneous decomposition, separating 
into cellulose and free nitro-glycerine, with a copious evolution of nitrous 
fumes. 

Sir Frederick Abel, chief of the chemical bureau of the Woolwich 
Arsenal, had a miraculous escai^e from death early in March, 1884. 
He was barely ninety feet from the place where 1,000 kilograms of gun- 
cotton accidentally exjiloded with terrific violence; he was knocked 
down by the concussion and injured in several places by Hying missiles, 
but in no wise dangerously. Sir Frederick ascribes his wonderful escape 
to the fact that a strong wind was blowing at the time from him to- 
wards the scene of the explosion. {Munroe's Rotes on the Literature of 
Explosives^ No. VI.) 

Toughening Gold and Silver in the Gritcible. — Dr. James C. Booth, of 
the United States mint, Philadelphia, describes a general method of 
refining gold in the crucible as practiced in the mint. Some brittle 
gold, having been accidentally melted with a quantity of well-refined 
and tough gold, was found to have rendered the whole mass very brittle, 
with a highly crystalline fracture, and therefore useless for coinage. To 
avoid loss of time and greater cost of refining by acid, it was toughened 
wholly by fluxing. This was accomplished on 75,162.55 ounces (5,154 
pounds avoirdupois) in one and a half days, at a trifling cost, and with 
scarcely apparent loss. The 75,000 ounces were divided into fourteen 
melts of about 5,400 ounces each, and each melt was separately tough- 
ened. The ingots, easily broken into pieces by striking them on the edge 
of a wooden box, were put into the crucible with soda ash and anhydrous 
fused borax, in the ratio of 1 or 2 ounces to a melt, until the crucible 
was nearly full. It then appeared as a quiet mass of metal covered 
with a rather viscid slag, disposed to swell and puff. A few crystals of 
saltpeter, say 1 or 2 ounces, were then dropped successively into the 
center of the metallic surface, and, as they melted, their spreading out 
over the whole surface was aided by the concentric motion of the bot- 
tom of a small crucible. The moment the visible oxidizing action began 
to slacken the melter skimmed off by a small black-lead dipping cruci- 
ble the fluxed matter, as rapidly as was consistent with the care neces- 
sary to avoid taking up metal. The remainder in the melting-pot 
was the toughened metal. The points to be noted are (1) that one 
part of foreign matter sufiflced to impart brittleness to 75,000 parts of 
good standard gold ; (2) by a slight oxidizing process the matter causing 
brittleness was removed with no appreciable loss of gold ; (3) moreover, 
the ratio of copper remained constant after the fluxing; (4) the tough- 



CHEMISTRY. 505 

eniiig proceeds from the top downward to the depth of 9 to 12 inches of 
its own accord. {Ghem. Netvs, L, 37.) 

Determination of Nitrogen by Combustion with Calcium Hydroxide. — 
Prof. S. W. Johnson showed in 1873 {Am. Chemist, iii, 161) that the 
mixture of sodium hydroxide and calcium hydroxide proposed by Will 
and Varrentrapp as a reagent for converting organic nitrogen into am- 
monia, for the purpose of analysis, may be advantageously replaced by 
a mixture of sodium carbonate and calcium hydroxide. In the Annual 
Keport of the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station for 1883, 
the same chemist gives a series of analyses made with calcium hydrox- 
ide alone, and the results warrant this further simplification of the 
Will and Varrentrapp method for most substances ordinarily encountered 
in technical work. A tube 14 inches long is recommended for the com- 
bustion of 0.5 grams of substances containing 8 per cent, of nitrogen or 
less. Cochineal solution is preferred as an indicator, being not seriously 
attected by carbonic acid, quite sensitive in its reaction, and keeping 
better than litmus. [Am. Chem. Journ., vi, GO.) 

Occurrence of Zinc in Drinking- 'Water. — Mr. C. W. Heaton reports find- 
ing G.41 grains per gallon of zinc carbonate in a drinking water carried 
from a spring through half a mile of galvanized iron pipe. The spring 
water itself was very pure, containing no ammonia, only nitrogen as a 
nitrate; this, however, was wholl3^ converted into ammonia by the zinc. 
{Chem. Ifews, XLix, 85.) 

Prof. F. P. Venable, of the University of ;N^orth Carolina, also calls 
attention to this impurity. The water from a spring 200 yards distant 
was brought by galvanized iron pipes to a dwelling house, and. there 
stored in a zinc-lined tank, which was painted with white lead. The 
water became somewhat turbid and metallic- tasting, and its use for 
drinking purposes was discontinued. Analyses were made after the 
pipes had been in use about one year. A somewhat full analysis of the 
spring water was made by Mr. J. C. Roberts. The anahvses of water 
from the tank and directly from the pipe are carried out only so far as 
zinc, iron, and tests for lead were concerned. The results are calcu- 
lated in grains per gallon of 231 cubic inches : 

Analysis of spring. 

Grains. 

Silica.--' 2.45 

Lime • 23 

Magnesia 17 

Alkalies 43 

Chlorine 35 

Sulphuric acid 19 

Carbon dioxide (calculated) 45 

Total residue on evaporation 4.34 



506 SCIENTIFIC nECORD FOR 1«14. 

The tank contained 4.48 grains of zinc carbonate per gallon, with a 
trace of iron and no lead. Water from the pipe gave 4.29 grains of 
zinc carbonate per gallon and a trace of iron. 

It is evident, then, when the dangerous nature of zinc as a poison is 
taken into consideration, that the use of zinc coated vessels in connec- 
tion with- water or any food-liquid should be avoided. 

Ammonium Fluoride asa Blowj^ipe Reagent, by Prof. N. W. Lord. — The 
author recommends ammonium fluoride as a substitute for hydro-potas- 
sium suli)hate and fluor-spar in developing flame colorations. It has 
the advantages of being free from fixed alkali and of being easily ap- 
plied. For testing feldspar or similar silicates a little of the powdered 
mineral is mixed with ammonium fluoride, placed on a piece of platinum, 
and moistened with sulphuric acid ; the mixture is gently warmed, 
taken upon a loop of platinum wire, and tested in the flame of a Bunsen 
burner or of the blowpipe. The alkali flame is nearly as well shown 
as with the pure salts. A sliglit change in treatment renders the re- 
agent very useful in detecting boron. A high heat must be avoided. 
The delicacy of the reaction is surprising. {Engineering and Mining 
Journal.) 

The Reversion of Pliosplioric Acid has been further investigated by 
Thomas S. Gladding. In a previous paper he showed that commercial 
superphosphates contain the reverted phosphoric acid in three forms — 
combined with lime, with iron, and with aluciina. The artificially pre- 
l>ared phosphate of lime (whether dicalcic or tricalcic form) is, under 
given conditions, wholly soluble in a neutral solution of citrate of am- 
monia^at the temperature of 40° C, while the iron and alumina phos- 
phates treated in the same way become largely insoluble. The citrate 
of ammonia solution dissolves every form of reverted phosphate at a 
temperature of 05° (150° F.), and hence should be used at this tempera- 
ture. These points are fully sustained in the present publication by ad- 
ditional experiments, and the investigation is extended to a considera- 
tion of the reversion of soluble phosphates in artificial and natural soils. 

The author recommends the following method of analysis of sui)er- 
phosphates, based on the principles stated : 

(«) Preparation of Sample. — Pass the sample through a twelve-mesh 
sieve. If too wet, a portion must be air dried and thtn sifted, and an 
allowance made by calculation for loss of moisture. 

{h) Determination of Moisture. — Dry 5 or 10 grams at 100"^ C. 

(c) Determination of Total Phosphoric Acid. — Weigh 2 grams, brush 
into a 200 c. c. flask, add 50 c. c. nitric acid, together with several c. c. HCl, 
when working with difiBculty soluble iron and alumina phosphates. 
Boil gently for fifteen minutes, cool, fill to mark, mix, hlter through a 
dry filter-paper into a dry receiver, take 50 c. c. of filtrate, place in a 
beaker, add 25 c. c. concentrated ammonia, then nitric acid to acidity. 
To the hot liquid add molybdic solution, let stand for one hour at about 



CHEMISTRY. , 507 

650 C, filter, wash with nitrate of ammonia sohition, dissolve on paper 
with hot ammonia solution, and wash with same. Run in magnesia mix- 
ture from a burette at the rate of one drop a second, stirring con- 
stantly. Let stand several hours, filter, wash with ammonia solution, 
dry, ignite to whiteness, and weigh. 

'{(].) Determination of ^Soluble Fhosphoric ^cid.— Weigh 2 grams, rub up 
in a mortar with a soft, rubber- tipped pestle (grinding is avoided), digest 
in 25 c. c. of cold water, decant clear liquid into a filteri)aper, filtering 
into a 200 c. c. flask, add 25 c. c. of w^ater to residue, digest for several 
minutes, and again decant. Repeat five or six times, and finally bring 
all upon the fllter-paper and wash till flask is filled to the mark. Mix, 
take 50 c. c, and estimate P2O5 as in (c). 

{€) Determination of Insoluble PJwsplioric AciW.— Wash the residue upon 
the paper into a 200 c. c. flask with 100 c. c. citrate solution, cork the 
flask, digest in a water-bath at constant temperature 05o C. (150° F.) 
for thirty minutes, with frequent agitation. Filter the warm solution 
quickly (by the aid of a filter-pump if convenient) and wash with cold 
water.' Return paper and contents to the same 200 c. c. flask, add 50 
c. c. nitric acid, boil for 15 minutes, and estimate the P2O5 as in (c). 

(/-) Determination of Reverted Phosphoric Acid.—Tha soluble -f insolu- 
ble phosphoric acid subtracted from the total will give the reverted 
phosphoric acid. 

Memoranda.— The uiolybdic solution is made, as usual, to contain 5 per 
cent. M0O3, and GO c. c. are used to every 0.100 gram P,05. The mag- 
"nesia mixture is made up as follows : 110 grams cryst. MgCl2, 300 grams 
NH4CI, 400 c. c. cone, ammonia, 1,500 c. c. water; 10 c. c. are used to 
every 0.100 gram P2O5. The citrate solution is made of specific gravity 
1.09,^ carefully neutralized. The ammonia solution contains 1 part 
strongest ammonia to 3 parts of water. The nitrate of ammonia so- 
lution is a 10 per cent, solution, slightly acidified with nitric acid. {Am. 
Chem. Journ., vi, 1.) 

ORGANIC. 

Nomenclature of Organic Compounds.— A& the prodigious number of 
organic bodies rapidly augments, the difficulty of providing for them a 
satisfactory system of terminology likewise increases. Prof. Adolf 
Baeyer proposes certain changes and some novelties; he favors the 
use of the letter B to express the benzene-ring, and of the letters Py to 
indicate the pyridine-ring, employing them as in the following example : 

B-1, 4-dichloro-Py 1, 3-dioxychinoliue. 
He also proposes to use the Greek letter a? to denote the first carbon 
atom in case of the derivatives, this to be followed by a, /i, y, &c., as 
u^uil To distinguish substitutions in the rings from those in the side 
chains the autbor proposes to employ the syllable eso in the first m- 



508 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

stance and exo in the second. Thus, we might have esotrichlor exo- 
dichlor-ethylbeuzene, a name self-explanatory. 

Prof. H. Kolbe subsequently attacked these proposed innovations in 
a severe and sarcastic manner. {Berichte d. ehem. Ges., xvii, 960.) 

Production of Hydroxylaminefrom Nitric Acid, by Edward Divers. — In 
investigating the reducing action of various metals upon nitric acid the 
author finds that the action of tiu, ziuc, cadmium, magnesium, and 
aluminium gives rise to the production of hydroxylamine, especially in 
the presence of hydrochloric or sulphuric acids. The function of the 
second acid is to decompose the nitrate as fast as it is produced, and so 
(1) to hold the hydroxylamine in a more stable state, (2) to preserve 
it from the destructive action of nitrous acid by preventing the forma- 
tion of this acid from the reaction of the metal on the nitrate, and (3) 
to determine the reduction of the nitric acid to hydroxylamine by sup- 
plying the hydrogen for reproducing it. Tbe author divides metals 
into two classes, according to their action on nitric acid. In the first 
class are silver, copper, mercury, and bismuth ; these metals form 
nitrite, nitrate, and water, and exert no further action, producing neither 
ammonia nor hydroxylamine. They decompose the nitric acid into 
hydroxyl and nitroxyl, combining with these radicals to form hydrate 
and nitrite, which by secondary reactions become water, nitrous acid, 
and metal nitrate. They therefore separate nitrogen from oxygen 
(hydroxyl) in decomposing nitric acid, and not hydrogen from oxygen. 

Iq the second class are tin, zinc, cadmium, magnesium, aluminium, 
lead, iron, and the alkali metals; these form ammonia and generally 
hydroxylamine, but do not produce nitrous acid or nitrite with free 
nitric acid. On the other hand, they readily form nitrite by acting on 
their own nitrate. Two actions are noted: First, upon seven molecules 
of acid separating as hydroxylamine, the hydrogen of six of them form- 
ing nitrate and leaving the seventh converted to water and the said 
hydroxylamine; Second, they combine with hydroxylamine to form me- 
tal-ammonium hydrate, which decoin[)Oses with water into metal-hydrate 
and ammonia. The author considers that nitrites have a constitution 
indicated by the name "nitrouates," the metal being directly united to 
their nitrogen. The radical is the same as that existing in nitrates — 
NO2 — these being its metal-oxyl compounds. {Am. J. Sci., cxxvii, 
234, abstract from Journ. Chem. Soc, xliii, 443.) 

Action of Nitrous Anhydride on Glycerine, b^' Orme Masson. — At the 
ordinary temperature glycerine absorbs nitrous anhydride rapidly, loses 
its viscidity, and turns yellow ; the temperature soon rises and nitric 
oxide is evolved, with decomposition of the product. If, however, the 
glycerine is well cooled and the nitrous anhydride is dried over calcium 
chloride, the decomposition is arrested. As the gas is absorbed, the 



CHEMISTRY. 509 

volume of the liquid increases greatly (2J times) aud the yellow color 
passes to browD, and at the end of the reaction to a dark green. The 
products form two layers ; one is aqueous and contains nitrous acid 
and the oxidation products of glycerine ; the other, which is three times 
greater in volume, contains chiefly a nitrous ether of glycerine. To 
isolate the latter the two layers are separated, and the larger portion is 
distilled on a water-bath in a strong current of hydrogen. The dis- 
tillate is the trinitrous ether of glycerine, C3H5(N02)3, mixed probably 
with the dinitrous compound. 

This new body is a yellow, mobile liquid, volatile at ordinary temper- 
atures, distilling at 150°, and decomposing in part with liberation of 
reddish vapors. Its density at 10° is 1.291. It burns with a white flame 
and does not detonate when struck. It has a strong nitrous odor. It 
is soluble in ether, in chloroform, aud in benzine, and insoluble in car- 
bon disulphide. It dissolves in acetic acid, with a green color and lib- 
eration of NO ; it is rapidly reduced by H2S ; it is decomposed by 
K2CO3, forujing KNO3. This ether is insoluble in water, but the latter 
liberates NO at the point of contact, especially when warmed or agi- 
tated. Exposed to the air in presence of moisture the body forms crys- 
tals of oxalic acid. It cannot be preserved in sealed tubes, for it spon- 
taneously decomposes with evolution of gas in such quantities as to 
break them. {Journ. Chem. Soc, XLiii, 341.) 

Synthesis of a Coloring Matter similar to that of Litmus^ by M. 0. Traub 
and C. Hock. — By the action of small quantities of sodium nitrite on 
resorcine at 150° a deep-blue material is obtained, which is reddened 
by an acid in the same manner as a litmus solution. 

The best method of preparing the new body is as follows : 100 parts 
of resorcine, 5 of sodium nitrite, and 5 of water are heated in a flask 
over an oil-bath gradually to 110°. The yellow mass becomes darker 
and a lively reaction sets in, necessitating moderation of heat; the con- 
tents of the flask becomes raspberry-red and the action is quieter; 
then the heat is increased to 115°, or 120° at the highest, ammonia be- 
ing disengaged and the material becoming blue. 

The deep-blue solution is diluted and a quantity of hydrochloric acid 
is added, forming a precipitate, which is collected on a filter aud dried. 
As thus obtained it forms a shining, red-brown, amorphous body, insol- 
uble in chloroform, benzene, and benzine, and soluble in methyl-, ethyl- 
aud amyl-alcohol, in ether, and pure water. All these solutions show 
a peculiar red color, which is turned to blue by the slightest trace of an 
alkali. The alkaline solution shows a broad band in its spectrum near 
the line D, which shades off toward E. In acid solution it cuts off the 
more refrangible parts of the spectrum. 

The exact nature of this substance is under investigation. {Berichte 
d. chem Ges. xvii, 2015.) 



510 



SCIE^'T1F1C RECORD FOR 1884. 



A7itipyrine, by Ludwig Kiiorr. — In the course of tli'e autboi'a re- 
searches on derivatives of cbinizine, a liypotlietical base having the con- 
stitution — 

N NH 



CH 




CH 



CH, 



he discovered a body having notable antipyretic properities. This sub- 
stance he calls antipyriue, and it is, in fact, diraethyloxychiniziue. It 
is very soluble and can be used hypodermically. (Berichte d. chem.Ges., 
XVII, 2032.) 

Perseite, a neiv Sugar, by A. Muntz and Y. Marcano. — The fruit of 
Lauruspersea contains a sugar closely resembling mannite, and to which 
the authors give the name j)erseite. Its formula is CeHnOe. It crystal- 
lizes in small needles, melting at 1830.5 to 184^, and is very soluble in 
warm water and in alcohol. It is without action on alkaline copper solu- 
tions, is optically inactive, and cannot be fermented by the aid of yeast. 

The ripe nuts of Laurua persea contain 6 to 8 per cent, of the sugar. 
{Gomptes rendus, xcix, 38.) 

SynthestH of Umbelliferone and of Daphnetine, by H. von Pechmann. — 
In 1860 Zwenger and Sommer discovered in the bark of the spurge 
laurel, and in the products of the dry distillation of the resins of um- 
belliferous plants, a neutral body, to which "they gave the name um- 
belliferone. Later researches showed it to be paraoxycumarine — 

^O . CO 
OH . C6H3< 

The author has made this synthetically by the action of resorcine on 
malic acid. 

By the action of pyrogallol on malic acid the author obtained daph- 
netine, a derivative of daphnine, a glucoside occurring in the spurge 
laurel {Daphne mezereuni). This synthesis proves it to be dioxycumarine ; 
its identity with the natural product was tully established. Daphnine 
is isomeric with jesculine, and further researches by the author are in 
progress with a view to its synthesis. {Berichte d. chem. Ges., xvii, 929.) 

On the Physiology of the Carhohydratef! in the Animal System, by F. W 
Pavy. — This invcMtigation was undortakeu with the object of ascertain- 
ing the changes undergone by the four chief carbohydrate elements 
of food, viz, grape-sugar, cane sugar, lactine, and starch, during diges- 
tion. Begiuniug niili the stouuich, (he attempt is made to follow the 



CHEMISTRY. 511 

chuiiges 111 tlieSe substances as they proceed towards absorption, up to 
their arrival within the portal system of vessels. -The experiments were 
performed upon the digestive organs of freshly-killed rabbits, portions 
of the stomach or intestines being left in contact, for a given time, with 
solutions of known weights of the carbohydrate in question, and the 
copper-reducing value of the substance, after this digestion, was com- 
pared with that which it had been found to have before contact with 
the animal substance. Inasmuch as grape-sugar is characterized by 
the property of possessing the same reducing power after treating with 
sulphuric acitl as before, while the carbohydrates which represent steps 
in an operation of which glucose is the final product are altered in re- 
ducing- power by the action of the acid, the author took the precaution 
to boil one portion of the modified liquid with sulphuric acid in all cases 
before estimating the reducing power. The copper reducing value of 
the digested liquid may thus be comi)ared with that of glucose, while 
the relation of the modified product to glucose is also ascertained. The 
most striking result of these experiments is the indication that trans- 
formation of glucose into ' bodies of lower reducing power is possible 
under the influence of a ferment existing in the stomach and intestines. 
Boiling of the animal substance with water previous to the experiment 
was found to annul the action of this ferment. The latter body seems 
to exist rather within the walls of the vessels examined than upon the 
mucous surface. So far as the experiments have gone, the author re- 
gards them as indicating that this ferment is more abundant in the 
stomach and intestines of the rabbit than in those of the dog, cat, horse, 
sheep, or i)ig. (A. A. B., from Chem. Xeics, xlix, 140.) 

Kanarine, a new Dye^tuf\ by W. Markownikow. — The preparation 
of this dyestufl", discovered in 1883 by O. Miller, is as follows : 

Dissolve one part of sulphocyanide of potassium in two parts of 
water, and add about one- fifth of the total amount (one-half part) of j)o- 
tassium chlorate and one i)art of hydrochloric acid. The reaction begins 
in a few minutes, with evolution of ^as and the formation of a yellow 
precipitate; the vessel is placed in cold water, and the rest of the potas- 
sium chlorate and another part of hydrochloric acid is ad<led to the mix- 
ture. The temperature should not fall below 80"^. An orange-colored 
precipitate results, which is crude kanariue ; this is then purified by 
solution in warm caustic-potash solution and i)recipitation with alcohol. 

Dried at 100^ puie kanarine forms a red-brown powder, with an 
almost metallic luster. It is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and ben- 
zene, but easily dissolves in alkaline solutions. Kanarine is destined 
to become an important dye-stuff, since it can be fixed on vegetable fibers 
without a mordant. It possesses great tinctorial power and is a fast 
color. {Journ. d. Buss. ;phys.-cheni. Ges., 1^84 (1), 380.) 

On the Fracthnal Distillation of American Pet role ion, by D. ]\Iende- 
lejeft^ — In the fractional distillation of petix.'k'um from Baku the author 



512 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

noted an abnormal feature, viz, the rise in temperature from 55° to 62°, 
80° to 90°, and l()a° to 110° was accompanied by a decrease in the spe- 
cific gravity of the portions distilling at the temperatures named. A 
carefully conducted fractional distillation of petroleum of American 
origin showed that this has the same peculiarity. The petroleum was dis- 
tilled in an apparatus arranged so that the result was equivalent to 50 
simple distillations. At 60° very little distilled over, the specific grav- 
ity was 0.6G42 at 17© C. and rose to 0.7347 at 80° C, products being 
collected separately every 2° of rise. The first decrease in specific 
gravity occurred at 92°, the distillate showing at 75^ a specific gravity 
of 0.7069. A regular increase in the specific gravity followed up to 
104°, at which point the sj^ecific gravity was 0.7543; then a decrease 
was noted, the distillate at lloo to 117° having the specific gravity 
0.7270. From 117<^ to 125° the specific gravity increased regularly. 

The author ascribes the failure of others to notice this peculiarity to 
the lack of delicacy in the distillations previously conducted. {Protok. 
d. Buss, phys.-chem. Ges., 1884, 458.)' 

Composition of Chlorophyll. — Dr. Adolph Hansen has published im- 
portant investigations on the nature of chlorophyll. Chemists will re- 
member that Fremy claimed that green chlorophyll consisted of a blue 
and a yellow constituent. He mixed an ethereal chlorophyll solution 
with hydrochloric acid, when two layers formed, a lower blue layer 
and an upper yellow ethereal layer ; the blue coloring matter was named 
by Fr6my phyllocyanin and the jellow phylloxanthin. Hansen shows, 
however, that this is not due to a splitting up of the chlorophyll green 
into a blue and a yellow component, but only an incomplete separation 
of the chlorophyll green from the chlorophyll yellow, the former becom- 
ing changed to blue by the hydrochloric acid. He further shows that 
an ethereal solution of pure chlorophyll green treated with hydrochloric 
acid does not furnish any yellow constituent, the ethereal layer remain- 
ing colorless. 

It will be remembered that Kraus also supposed he had decomposed 
chlorophyll green into a blue-green and a yellow component; he called 
the blue-green cyanophyll, the yellow body xanthophyll. Hansen shows, 
however, that Kraus is wrong, and his supposed decomposition is only 
an incomplete separation, and that his cyanophyll is nothing more than 
an ordinary chlorophyll solution from which a part of the yellow color- 
ing matter has been removed. Both Fr^my and Kraus were correct in 
assuming the existence of yellow and of green bodies, but mistaken in 
supposing they existed in combination. Hansen shows that they exist 
side by side, and that chlorophyll is a mixture of these coloring matters. 

In preparing pure chlorophyll Hansen used the leaves of young wheat- 
plants. These are first boiled to remove extractives, the water is 
decanted, and the material washed; it is quickly dried at a low tem- 
perature, and then extracted with alcohol of 90 per cent., in a dark room, 



CHEMISTRY. 513 

to prevent decompositiou of the cliloropbyll by light. The extractiou 
with alcohol was repeated and the united solutions were concentrated 
and saponified. This saponification was carried out thus : The alcoholic 
extract was treated with a moderate quantity of caustic-so<la solution (1 
part NaHO to 5 H2O) at a boiling temperature. The alcohol is evaporated 
by degrees, water is added, and the soap separated by the aid of sodium 
chloride, the soap precipitating in granular form. It is then shaken in 
a separating funnel with petroleum ether, which assumes a darkyellow 
color, since it removes only the yellow constituent. On evaporating the 
ethereal solution the yellow constituent remains ; it crystallizes in dark- 
yellow needles and gives all the chemical and spectrum reactions of a 
lipochrome. 

The soap is next treated with ether, which removes various impuri- 
ties, and then with a mixture of alcohol an<l ether, which removes the 
green constituent; and this, after purification, crystallizes in "sphsero- 
crystals" of great beauty. From 450 grams dried wheat-leaves Hansen 
obtained 3 to 4 grams solid coloring matter. 

In the solid state chlorophyll green is opaque and does not fluoresce; 
in solution it possesses a red fluorescence. 

Chlorophyll yellow occurs in small proportion as compared with chloro- 
phyll green (1 : 100). Its solutions show no fluorescence. It possesses 
the reactions of Krukenberg's lipochromes, viz, a blue coloration with 
sulphuric acid, the same with nitric acid, and a green-blue with a mix- 
ture of iodine in potassium iodide. It shows three bands in the blue 
half of the spectrum, but no absorption of red. " 

Chlorophyll green has four bands in the red half of the spectrum, 
agreeing with the four bands of the ordinary chlorophyll solutions. (C. 
A. Mac Munu, in Nature, xxx, 224; condensed from Hansen's Der Ghlo- 
rophyllfarbstoff, Abeiten des botan. Instituts su Wiirzburg, Vol. Ill, Heft 
I, iixxA Sitzungsberichte der physik-medeoin. Geselkchaft, Wiirzburg, 1883.) 

Composition and Methods of Analysis of Human Milk, by Dr. Albert R. 
Leeds. — In this comprehensive memoir the author gives results of the 
examination of eighty samples of human milk. After a careful study 
of many methods of analysis, he greatly prefers that devised by Eitt- 
hausen and modified by Gerber, the main points of which are as follows: 
(1) The total solids are determined by evaporating 5 grams in a plati- 
num capsule, after coagulating with absolute alcohol. (2) Ash: The 
residue is ignited gently and then to a dull-red heat. (3) The albumi- 
noids are precipitated by sulphate of copper solution, with the addition 
of sufiicient potassium hydroxide solution to exactly neutralize the ex- 
cess of the sulphate. (4) The precipitate is separated by filtration, with 
due precautions, and treated with ether to extract fat; the residue, 
dried at 110"= (less the weight of ash), gives the amount of albuminoids. 
(5) The filtrate from the albuminoids, with washings, is used for the 
determination of milk-sugar by Fehliug's solution. Results are very 
satisfactory, 

S. Mis. 33 ^33 



514 SCIENTIFIC RECOPD FOR 1884. 

Results of analyses of eighty sxinples of womaiVs milk. 





Reaction uniformly alkaline. 




Average. Minimum. 


Maxi- 
mum. 


Specific gravity 


1. 0313 

1.995 
6.936 
4.131 
9.137 
0.201 
13. 267 
86. 732 


1. 0260 

0.85 

5.40 

2.11 

6! 57 

0.13 
10.91 
83.21 


1.0353 


Albuminoids 


4.86 


Sugar 


7.92 


Fat 


6.89 


Solids not fat 


12. 09 


Ash 


0.37 


Total solids 


16.66 


Water 


89.08 







With the exception of the ash, these figures agree very closely with 
those of Konig, deduced from the analysis of 190 samples by a great 
variety of methods. Kouig's mean for albuminoids is 1.95, Leeds's 1.995 ; 
2 per cent., therefore, may be regarded as the average amount of albu- 
minoids in woman's milk. 

The author considers also the relations between the physical history 
of the milk and "its composition, especially the (1) color, taste, consist- 
ency, and specific gravity ; (2) age of the mother ; (3) period of lactation 
and interval since nursing ; (4) nationality ; (5) physical constitution of 
the mother. 

Unlike cow's milk, the appearance is no indication of the quality of 
the fluid. Bluish samples often contain most fat, while thin samples 
often give most total solid matter. A fatty acid of a greenish color was 
extracted from human milk, which the author thinks is particularly 
characteristic, and unlike anything obtained from cow's milk. Unfort- 
unately the entire mass of fats was lost by accident in the early stages 
of manipulation. The characteristic point was the emerald-green color 
of the ethereal extract of the copper albuminate obtained from numerous 
samples. 

The results of analysis are presented in a graphic chart, which exhib- 
its in a striking manner the great variability in the constitution of 
woman's milk. (Read before the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, 
May 7, 1884, and published in Cheni. News, l, 263 et seq.) 

Continuous Etherijieation as applied to other Alcohols than Ethylic, hy L. 
H. Norton and 0, F. Prescott. — The authors worked ui^on mixtures of 
various alcohols with sulphuric acid and studied the conditions neces- 
sary to produce the best results. Beginning with ethyl alcohol, they 
found that by dropping the alcohol into mixtures of sulphuric acid and 
alcohol, with boiling-points ranging from 120° to 150° C, they obtained 
from 7.35 to 28.87 per cent, of the theoretical yield of ether. The best 
temperature to obtain the maximum yield of ether was found to be from 
140° to 145° C, higher temperatures giving no greater yield, while lower 



CHEMISTRY. 515 

oues gave less. At 160° C. the formation of ether stops, sulphurous 
acid is evolved, and decomposition takes place. The same results are 
obtained with propyl alcohol. With isobutyl alcohol decomposition 
takes place at 120° to 135o C. In the case of isoamyl alcohol the decom- 
position occurs at 100<^ C. By mixing the alcohols the authors obtained 
mixed ethers by the same treatment as with single alcohols. By mixing 
methj] and ethyl alcohols in molecular proportions, they obtained 
methyl-ethyl ether in large quantity, together with methyl ether and 
ethyl ether. Applied to ethyl and propyl alcohols, the corresponding 
ethyl-propyl ether was obtained. But a mixture of ethylic and isobu- 
tylic alcohols did not give ethyl-isobutyl ether, and methyl-isoamyl 
etlier was not obtained from the corresponding alcohols. The conclu- 
sions of the authors are that the method of continuous etherificatiou 
is only applicable in the case of simple ethers, and does not work with 
those containing more than three atoms of carbon. {Am. Assoc. Adv. 
Science, Philadelphia meeting.) 

Liquid Paraffin a Reagent for detecting Water in Alcohol, Ether, and 
Chloroform, by L6on Crismer. — The new German Pharmacopoeia treats 
of a little-known substance called " liquid paraffin." It forms an oily 
liquid, consisting of a mixture of hydrocarbons of the methane series, 
boiling, under 6""" pressure, between 215° acd 240° C. 

This substance mixes in all proportions with chloroform and ether 
when they are deprived of water by means of sodium, and forms clear 
solutions; but the slighest trace of water, or of alcohol containing water, 
renders the liquid turbid ; hence the liquid paraffin forms a delicate test 
for water in alcohol. Direct experiments show that by it ^ J^j volume 
of water can be detected in alcohol. It forms a useful reagent for recog- 
nizing absolute alcohol. Liquid paraffin readily dissolves chlorine, bro- 
mine, and iodine, and colorless phosphorus to a less degree. The author 
uses the substance in question in the preparation of hydrobromic and 
hydroiodic acids, as well as of iodide of ethyl. The fact that it is not 
volatile is of great advantage. {Berichte d. chem. Ges., xvii, 049.) 

Glucose. — In response to a request made by the Commissioner of In- 
ternal Revenue of the United States, a committee of the National Acad- 
emy of Sciences, consisting of Profs. • George F. Barker, William H. 
Brewer, Wolcott Gibbs, Charles F. Chandler, and Ira Eemsen, has 
published an exhaustive report on glucose. The letter of the Commis- 
sioner called for information " as to the composition, nature, and prop- 
erties of the article commercially known as 'glucose' or 'grape-sugar'; 
its saccharine quality as compared with cane sugar or molasses; and 
also especially as to its deleterious effect when used as an article of food 
or drink, or as a constituent element of such articles." Accordingly 
the report gives details concerning the history, manufacture, and use of 
starch-sugar, with statistics showing the magnitude of the industry; 
it also describes the nature of the commercial products, and narrates 



516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

the results of new experiments to determine whether the use of glucose 
is injurious to health. 

There are twenty-nine factories of starch-sugar in the United Siates, 
using, as nearly as can be estimated, 43,000 bushels of corn per day. 
yielding products of the annual value of nearly $10,000,000. In Ger- 
many the industry is an old one ; in 1881-'82 there were thirty- nine 
factories, consuming over 70,000 tons of starch and producing about 
40,000 tons of starch-sugar. 

The products are of various grades, appearing in commerce under the 
following names: (A) Liquid varieties: Glucose, mixing-glucose, mixing- 
siruj), corn sirup, jelly-glucose, confectioners' crystal glucose. (B) The 
solid varieties: Solid grape-sugar, clipped grape-sugar, granulated grape- 
sugar, powdered grape-sugar, confectioners' grape-sugar, brewers' grape- 
sugar. The process of manufacture consists, first, in extracting the 
starch from the corn in a state of sufficient purity, then transforming this 
into sugar by treatment with dilute acid, and subsequently neutralizing 
the acid, purifying, and concentrating the product. The steps in the ex- 
traction of starch are steeping, grinding, mechanical separation, cleans- 
ing, collecting, and washing. A bushel of corn weighing 56 pounds 
yields, on theaverage,30poundsof starch, 14 pounds of cattle food, and 12 
pounds of waste. The transformation of the starch into sugar, termed 
conversion, is effected in either open or closed converters ,• the former are 
wooden vats of 3,000 to 4,000 gallons capacity, the latter are copper 
vessels furnished with safety-valves and capable of withstanding a 
pressure of six atmospheres. The acid used is usually sulphuric, and 
the quantity employed varies with the object of the manufacturer, the 
liquid product requiring less acid than the solid j the proportion varies 
from one half pound oil of vitriol to 1^ pounds per 100 pounds of starch. 
In the open converter the starch and acid liquid are boiled until the 
iodine test ceases to give a blue color, which usually requires about four 
hours. In the closed converter less time is required, since the pressure 
is raised to 45 to 75 pounds per square inch. 

The sulphuric acid is then neutralized with marble-dust, and the sul- 
phate of calcium removed by filtering through bags of cotton cloth or 
filter-presses. The liquor is next passed through bone-black filters, 
concentrated in vacuum-pans, and further purified. The liquid and 
solid varieties receive different treatment in the final stage. 

Both glucose and grape-sugar find extensive application for a great 
variety of purposes as substitutes for cane-sugar or for barley. The 
most general purposes for which starch-sugar is used are (1) for the 
manufacture of table sirup; (2) as a substitute for barley malt in brew- 
ing ale or beer; (3) as a substitute for cane-sugar in confectionery; (4) 
for the adulteration of cane-sugar, to which it is added to the extent of 
20 per cent, or more; (5) for the manufacture of artificial honey; (G) in 
the manufacture of vmegar; (7) in the manufacture of liquor-coloring, 
and in many minor applications, such iis in cooking, in prej)aration of 



CHEMISTRY. 



M7 



chewing-tobacco, in the manufacture of printers' rollers, and of some 
kinds of ink. 

The following- table shows the composition of fair samples of the 
solid product : 



Constituents. 


No. 7. 


No. 12. 


No. 13. 


No. 15. 


Dextrose 


Per cen t. 

7-2.7 

1.8 

4.2 

15.1 


Percent. 

7-2.0 

3. (5 

6.4 

17.5 


Per cen t. 

73.4 

1.3 

9.1 

14.0 


Per cent. 

72 1 


Maltose 




Dextrine .. - 


9 1 


Water 


16 6 






Total 


93.8 


99.5 


97.8 


97.8 



The liquid products contain from 34.3 to 42.8 per cent, of dextrose 
and 29.8 to 45.3 per cent, of dextrine. 

The inorganic constituents consist of ash, sulphuric acid, chlorine, 
ferric oxide, lime, magnesia, and alkalies. No traces of tin, cojjper, or 
other metallic impurities were found. The total ash was only between 
0.325 to 1.000 per cent. 

The question as to the effects of glucose on the health was carefully 
investigated by Dr. J. R. Duggan, of the Johns Hopkins University. 
Earlier experiments, chieliy in German}-, were unfavorable to the use of 
glucose made from potato-starch. Dr. Duggau's experiments occupied 
two months, duriag which time he repeatedly took large quantities of 
concentrated extracts from fermentation (in doses from 120 grams to 100 
grams), without the slightest observable effect. 

In conclusion the committee thus summarize the results of their in- 
vestigations : (1) The manufacture of sugar from starch is a long-estab- 
lished industry', scientifically valuable, and commercially imijortant; 
(2) the processes which it employs at the present time are unobjection- 
able in their character and leave the product uncontaminated ; (3) the 
starch-sugar thus made and sent into couimerce is of exceptionable 
purity and uniformity of composition, and contains no injurious sub- 
stances; (4) although starch-sugar has only about two-thirds the 
sweetening power of cane sugar, yet starch-sugar is in no way inferior 
to cane sugar in healthfulness. 

Appendixes to the report give lists of the starch-sugar factories of 
the United States, the results of examination of commercial sugars with 
reference to their adulteration with starch sugar, and a very full bibli- 
ography of starch-sugar, prepared by the late Dr. E. J. Hallock. A list 
of patents relating to the manufacture of starch and starch -sugar com- 
pletes this valuable report. {Report on Glucose., prepared by the National 
A-cademy of Sciences. United States Internal Bevemie, Washington, 1884. 
108 pp. 8vo. 



518 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOE 1884. 

GaUisin^ an utifermentablc Substance in Starch- Sugar^ by C Scbmitt and 
A, Cobenzl. — ^^ ith aviewtoascertaining whether popular estimation of 
starch sugar as an exceedingly unwholesome dietetic article is correct, the 
authors made a careful investigation into the more obscure ingredients 
contained therein, and especially of the unfermentable substances. They 
succeeded in isolating a deiinite body, which they name gallisin. The 
process for its extraction and purification is a follows : Five kilograms of 
commercial starch-sugar were allovNed to ferment in a 20 per cent, solu- 
tion, ata temperature of 28° to -O^ C. After five or six days the fermen- 
tation was comi)leted. After filtering, the nearly colorless liquid was 
concentrated as mnch as possible on a water bath, and the still warm 
sirup introduced into a large flask. The sirup was then sliaken with 
a large excess of absolute alcohol, when it became viscous, but did not 
mix with the alcohol. The latter was decanted and the sirup re- 
peatedly agitated with fresh quantitesof alcohol, which finally left behiijd 
a pulverulent yellow-gray mass. This was then vigorously rubbed in a 
large mortar with a mixture of alcohol and ether in equal parts, where- 
by the whole mass was changed into a gray i)0wdcr. These operations 
raustbe conducted as rapidly ; s possible, to prevent absorption of moist- 
ure and deliquescence of the mass. The resulting material is dried 
under a strong vacuum-pump, washed with alcohol and ether, and dried 
under. a bell jar, over concentrated sulphuric acid ; calcium chloride will 
not suffice, for the body is more hygr()Scoi)ic than the calcium chloride 
itself. This material is further purified by dissolving in water, boiling 
with animal charcoal, and evaporation to a sirup, which is then poured 
iu a thin stream into a mixture of anhydrous alcohol and ether. 

Gallisin so prepared forms a fine white powder, which under the 
microscope proves to be completely amorphous. As stated, it is far 
more hygroscopic than calcium chloride. Tieated with dilute mineral 
acids or with oxalic acid it yields dextrose. It does not ferment with 
fresh yeast. It is slightly sweet to the taste. Analyses lead to t\u 
formula Ci2H240in^ Treated in an aqueous solution with an alcohol so- 
lution of barium hydroxide, it yields a flocculent precipitate of gallisin- 
barium, Ci2H.22Ba6in . 3 HoO. Heated to 130° to 140°, under pressure, 
with three times its weight of acetic anhydride, it dissolved, and subse- 
quent treatment yielded a product which a])peared to be hexacetylgallisin. 
The presence of gallisin in doctored wine was directly i>roved ; at the 
same time by experiments on lower animals and on human beings it 
was found to be quite innocuous. {Berichte d. chem. Ges.^ xvii, lOOU.) 

Sulphon-Fhthaleins, by Ira Remseu. — The analogy in constitution be- 
tween phthalic and orthosulphobenzoic acids suggested to the author 
that sulpho compounds analogous to the phthaleins might be obtained 
by the action of the latter acid upon phenols. Preliminary experiments 
confirm these views, and the author pi'oposes to make an exhaustive 
study of the new class of bodies. {Am. Chem. Journ., vi, 180.) 



©HEMISTRT. 510 

^l new :Syiitliesis of Saligenin^ by William H. Greene.— Since by the re- 
action of cliloroform or of carbon tetrachloride on an alkaline solution 
of .sodium phenato, salicylic aldehyde may be obtained, the author ex- 
pected to synthesize salijL>euiii, an oxybenzylio alcohol, by the action of 
methyleu chloride on the sodium pheuate. Experiments confirmed his 
views, though the yield of saligeniu was small, {Ghem. News, L, 7<i.) 

Action of Meialson Chloral Hydrate, by S. Cotton. — An aqueous solu- 
tion of chloral hydrate is decomj^osed by most metals, with formation of 
a metallic chloride. The degree of decouiposition depends upon the 
temperature, the nature of the metal, and the state of fineness of the 
metal used. 

Zinc decomposes chloral hydrate slowly at the ordinary temperatures, 
but at 80° to lOOc the action goes on ra|)idly, disengaging in one hour 
125 c. c. of gas when operating with GOO grams of metal and 10 of chlo- 
ral. This gas is a mixture of hydrogen with formene and traces of 
chlorine products. At the same time chloride and oxy chloride of zinc 
are formed, the latter covering the metal and stopping the action. The 
operation is impeded rather than quickened by amalgamating the zinc. 
If zinc dust be used, the reaction begins vigorously at the ordinary tem- 
perature. Iron acts very differently unless finely divided, in which case 
-it gives the same results as the zinc. {Bull. hoc. ehim., XLii, 622,) 

New Forms of Albumose. — Profs, W. Kiihne and R. H. Chittenden in 
a previous paper described hemialbumose, a cleatage product of the 
albumins. In studying its req^ctions the authors noted differences of 
solubility and inconstancy in the reactions with sodium chloride, circum 
stances which have led them to the separation of four different forms 
of albumose, viz : I, protalbumose; II, deuteroalbumose ; III, hetero- 
albumose ; atid, IV, dysalbumose. These bodies were obtained in part 
by digestion of fibrin with pepsin-hydrochloric acid, or from the com- 
mercial " pepton " manufactuied by Witte, and in part from preserved 
hemialbumose from the urine of a patient with osteomalachia. For de- 
tails of j)reparation and properties we refer to the original articles. 
{Am. Ghem. Journ., Yi, 31 and 101.) 

Investigations on Sinapine and lSinaj)ic Acid, by Ira Eemsen and Iv. D. 
Coale. — In 1825 Henry and Garot discovered a new substance in white 
mustard seed to which. they gave the name sulphosinapic acid. In 
1852 von Babo and Hirschbrunn published an elaborate investigation of 
this substance, since which practically nothing has been added to our 
knowledge of the subject. Professors Remsen and Coale have undertaken 
a new investigation of siuapine and its decomposition products. From 
100 pounds of ungrouud white mustard seed they obtained 80 grams 
I)ure sulphocyanate of sinapine, which crystallizes from water in beauti- 
ful feathery masses. It melts at 170°. The sinapic acid is best ])re- 
pared from this product by treating it ^vith barium hydroxide, This 



620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884, 

acid crystallizes from ho' alcohol ia small, transparent prisms of a 
yellowish hue. Carefully puritied material was repeatedly analyzed, 
and the authors came to the conclusion that the composition is repre- 
sented by the empirical formula C11H12O5. Further researches showed 
the acid to be monobasic and led to the conclusion that it is butylene- 
gallic acid, as shown in the formula — 

Oe^2< OH 
[CO2H 

{Am. Ghem. Journ., vi, 50.) 

Conversion of Organic Isocyanates into Mustard Oils, by Arthur Michael 
and George M. Palmer. — The action of phenylisocyanate on iihosphorus 
pentasulphide yielded a liquid, boiling- between 222° and 223°, having 
all the properties of phenyl mustard oil. The yield is almost theoretical. 
The same oil was also obtained by the action of the sulphide on phenyl- 
urethane. The authors believe the process is capable of generalization, 
and that the oils may be advantageously prepared. Ethyl mustard oil 
was obtained by an analogous process. Sulphur estimations made in 
the products gave results close to the theoretical amounts, and their 
behavior with aniline further established their identity. {Am. Ghem. 
Journ.j VI, 257.) 

On Fluohenze7ie and Flnotoluene, by Paterno and Oliveri. — Schmitt 
and Gehren described fluobenzene as a solid body, melting at 40° and 
boiling at ]80o to 183°. Knowing that the chlorides, bromides, and io- 
dides of benzene are liquid and boil at 132°, 155°, and 185°, respectively, 
the authors questioned the accuracy of tiie experiments of the German 
chemists, and repeated them. They found to their surprise that the 
fluobenzene of Schmitt and Gehreu is nothing but i)henol. 

Paterno and Oliveri succeeded in obtaining a true fluobenzene by 
heating in a sealed tube fluobenzene-sulphonic acid, derived from 
paradiazophenylsulphurous acid and concentrated hydrofluoric acid. 
Fluobenzene forms a limpid liquid, with the odor of benzene, boiling at 
850 to 86°, and not solidifying at 20°, The analogous fluotoluene ob- 
tained by the authors boils at 114° and has a characteristic odor of 
bitter-almond oil. {Gazz. chim. italiana, xiii, 533.) 

Occurrence of Phenol in Finns sylvestris. — Dr. A. B. Grifl&ths announces 
the discovery of phenol existing in a free state in the stem, acicular 
leaves, and cones of Pinus sylvestris. The phenol was simply extracted 
by heating with water to 80° C, stirring, and filtering. The filtrate 
yielded six-sided prisms of phenol hydrate, which were carefully identi. 
fled. The quantity varies with the age of the stem, the older portions 
yielding 0.1021 per cent, and the younger portions only 0.0G54 per cent. 
The leaves yielded from 0.0936 to O.O'ilT) per cent, and the cones from 
0,0774 to 0.0293 per cent., a-ccording to their maturity. 



CHEMISTRY. 



521 



The author discusses the important bearinp^ of this discovery on the 
theoiy that petroleum is produced by moderate heat on vegetable 
ma,tter. (Chem. N'etcs, xlix, 95.) 

Synthesis of Anthrachinoline, by C. Graebe. — By heating a mixture of 
anthramine with nitrobenzol, glycerine, and sulphuric acid the author 
obtained an anthrachinoline, having a melting point of 17'^ and identical 
with that from alizarine blue. This synthesis confirms the author's views 
concerning the constitution of anthrachinoline, which is shown in the 
formula : 




CH 
/ 
CH =CH 

{Berichtc d. chem. Ges., xvii, 170.) 

Synthesis of Pipericline, by A. Ladenburg and 0. F. Eoth. — By the 
action of sodium in alcoholic solution on pyridine the authors obtained 
a base having all the properties of i^iperidine. Piperidine was first 
obtained by Wertheira and Kochleder from the piperine discovered by 
Oersted (1819) in long and black pepper. Its formula is C5H10 . HN. 
Pyridine (CsHslST) was discovered by Anderson in bone-oil, and after- 
wards established as a constituent of coal naphtha. The indentity of 
the artificial product with that of pepper was fully established. {Ber- 
ichte d. chem. Ges., xvii, 514.) 

Fluid Hydrocarbons obtained by Compression of Petroleum Gas, by Gre- 
ville Williams. — When the gaseous hydrocarbons obtained by subjecting 
petroleum to a high temi)erature are compressed into cylinders (for the 
purpose of lighting railway cars), a volatile fluid is condensed contain- 
ing benzene, toluene, and certain oleflnes. Seven specimens of the liquid 
gave percentages of benzene and toluene from 65.G to 24.0. ( Chem. Mews, 
XLIX, 197.) 

Anthracene in the Tar of Water- Gas. —Di: Arthur H.Elliott has estab- 
lished the presence of anthracene in the tar of water-gas. That so 
heavy a hydrocarbon should result from the destructive distillation of 
light petroleum naphtha is interesting and instructive. Details will be 
found in Am. Chem., Journ. VI, 248. 

Absorption Spectra of the AJlaJoids, by Prof. W. N. Hartley. — Experi- 
ments have been made to ascertain whether absolute physical measure- 
ments can be substituted for the uncertain chemical reactions and vari- 
able physiological tests employed to detect alkaloids in medico legal 



522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

examiuations. About forty alkaloids of autbentlc origin and great 
purity have been examined; these may be divided into two groups, as 
follows: 

(1) Alkaloids and derivatives exhibiting Absorption bands in their Spec- 
tra. — Aconitiue, pseudoaconitiue, japaconitine, morphine, narcotine, 
codeine, thebaine, papaverine, oxynarcotine, apomorphine hydrochlo- 
ride, cotarniue liydrobromide, tetracetyl morphine, diacetyl codeine, 
quinine, quinine sulphate, cinchouine sulphate, quinidine sulphate, 
ciuchonidine sulphate, veratrine, piperine, brucine, strychnine. 

(2) Alkaloids yielding continuous Spectra. — Narceine, aconitiue (foreign), 
cevadine, atropine, solanine, hyoscyamiue, digitaline, picrotoxine, nico 
tine, caffeine. 

Solutions were carefully made of the same strength in most cases, 
usually in alcohol. Cells, with quartz sides, varied in thickness from 
1""" to 20™"". By using electrodes consisting of alloys of tin and cad- 
mium or of lead and cadmium (20 per cent.), well-defined spectra are ob- 
tained, with lines of the same intensity, numerous and evenly distrib- 
uted thronghout a spectrum extending from wave length 4414.5 to 2145.8. 
The spectra were photographed and the plrotographic impressions were 
measured by an ivoiy scale divided in liundredths of an inch. The ab 
sorption curves cannot be here reijroduced. The conclusions drawn from 
the investigation are in part as follows : The absorption spectra offer a 
ready and valuable means of ascertaining the purity of preparations of 
the alkaloids, and j)ractically of establishing their identity. Tlie quan- 
tity of some of the alkaloids present in a solution may be estimated by 
means of the absorption curves. The different character of the various 
aconitines, so called, may be recognized ; thus, the comparatively harm- 
less base may be distinguished from those of great physiological ac- 
tivity by its transmission of a continuous spectrum, while the three 
specimens of [)liysiologically active aconitines are distingnished from one 
another by characteristic absorption curves. The purity of quinine and 
absence of any admixture of cinchonine can be readily determined; 
drugs of such potency as acouitine, morphine, stiychnine, &c., which 
ought to be prescribed only when of absolute purity, should have their 
exact nature and degree of purity guaranteed by an examination of 
their absorption spectra. {Ghem. Wews, l, 287.) 

(k)caine Hydrochhride, a new Anwsthetic. — ^The wonderful anaesthetic 
l>ioperties of this substance, discovered by Dr. Koller, of Vienna, have 
given it an interest entirely new. 

The leaves ot UrythroxyJon coca, a plant cultivated in the mountain- 
ons districts of Peru and Bolivia, have been extensively used by th« 
natives as a substitute for tobacco, their practice being to chew the 
leaves to secure power of enduring fatigue even with a scanty supply of 
food. The plant, especially the leaves, contains an alkaloid which was 
t^rst extracted in 1853 by Clanlelcc and named l)y him erythroxyline ; 



CHEMISTRY. 525 

but Albert KiemanD, of Goslar, subsequently made a more thorough 
study of the leaves and extracted the alkaloid, which he called cocaine. 
Niemann's process was as follows : 

The leaves were exhausted with alcohol (85 per cent.), to which was 
added 2 per cent, of sulphuric acid, and to the resulting- tincture milk 
of lime in sufficient quantity. The mixture was filtered, the filtrate 
neutralized with sulphuric acid, and the alcohol distilled off. The resin 
was separated from the sirupy residue by treating- with water, and so- 
dium carbonate then added. The deposited matter was then exhausted 
by ether, and the ethereal solution, after most of the ether had been 
distilled, was allowed to evaporate. The crystals were obtained mixed 
with a dark-yellowish matter having a disagreeable odor from which, 
however, they can be separated by washing with cold dilute alcohol. 

Purified by recrystallization, cocaine forms colorless transparent 
prisms, inodorous, of a bitterish taste, soluble in 704 parts of cold water, 
more soluble in alcohol, and' freely so in ether. The solution has an 
alkaline reaction and a bitterish taste, leaving a peculiar numbness on 
the tongue, followed by a sensation of cold. The alkaloid melts at 
07^.7 G. (208° F.), and on cooling congeals into a transparent mass, which 
gradually becomes crystalline. Heated above this point it changes 
color and is decomposed. It is inflammable, boiling with a bright flame 
and leaving charcoal. With acids it forms crystallizable salts, which 
are more bitter than the alkaloid itself. The composition of this al- 
kaloid, as determined by Losson, is Ci7H2i]S^04. 

Its combination with hydrochloric acid, commonly called the hydro- 
chlorate, crystallizes in white, slender needles, easily soluble in water. 
As stated in Watts' Dictionary of Chemistry, Vol. I, p. 1060 (1866), "it 
has a bitter taste and produces on the tongue temporary insensibility." 
This interesting observation, after eighteen years, has borne abundant 
fruit. Dr. Koller, of Vienna, again noticed its power of benumbing sen- 
sation during the course of some experiments on lower animals ; a 5 per 
cent, solution of the hydrochloride of cocaine dropped into the animal's 
eye entirely deprived the eye of sensation. Koller at once proceeded to 
experiment on himself and in the hospital, with astonishing results. He 
communicated his discovery to the International Ophthalmological Con- 
gress held at Heidelberg in September, and his results were speedily 
confirmed by a host of experimenters. 

Its chief use is in connection with operations on the eye. A few drops 
of a 4 jjer cent, solution are introduced into the eye, and if necessary 
i-epeated after a minute or two, until the organ loses entirely its sen- 
sitiveness. The loss of sensation begins in three to five minutes and 
continues from fifteen minutes to half an hour, the eflect being su])er- 
ficial. The insensibility is not absolute. The patient feels the opera- 
tion as he would feel anything laid on his hand or arm, but the sense 
of pain is almost wholly destroyed. Usually there is a slight feeling, 
which is said by the patient to ■)e not worth mentioning. 



524 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

It is uniiecessary to repeat that the effect is confined to the part to 
which the anaesthetic has been applied. There is no general anaesthesia 
and no iijfluence on the mind. The patient is left free to aid the opera- 
tion by turning the eye in any required direction, holding down the 
lid, or in any such way, and can give this help almost as indifferently 
as a third person, and often more successfully. The absence of the 
tendency to close the eye, which accompanies general anaesthesia, is a 
great advantage. 

Before the close of the year an immense demand arose for the new 
drug, and, owing to its rarity and the small supply on hand, its price 
rose to $225 per. ounce, or, according to another report, $7,000 per 
pound. The leaf yields less than one-fifth of 1 per cent, cocaine. 
Fortunately only a 4 per cent, solution is used, and only a few drops 
of this are needed to produce the effect desired. 

The new anaesthetic proves to be a great boon to ophthalmologists, 
and experiments are being made to extend its usie to other departments 
of medical and surgical practice. Dentists, in particular, hope to find 
in it a remedial agent of value. Hypodermic injections of the 4 per 
cent, solution anaesthize the nervous centers. It has been used to 
narcotize the throat and larynx when covered with ulcers, to remove 
violent headaches, &c. It can well be classed among the great dis- 
coveries of the decade. 

The question naturally occurs to a chemist, compiling this brief notice 
from various sources, how many more obscure substances await useful 
applications ? Who dare say hereafter that the newly born chemical 
infant of polysyllabic name may not become a giant in strength and a 
blessing to Christendom? 

NOTES. 

Idunium is the name of a new element discovered in lead vanadate 
from La Plata by Prof. Martin Websky. It resembles vanadium in its 
reactions. [Sitzungsb. AJc. Wiss., Berlin^ xxx, 661.) 

According to L. Ricclardi, the lavas and ashes of volcanic origin con- 
tain 0.0034 to 0,013 per cent, of vanadium, and even the plants growing 
in the lava of Etna contain appreciable quantities of this widely dis- 
tributed yet rare element. {Gazz. chini. italiaiia, xiir, 259.) 

Eed and yellow litharge are two varieties obtained according to tem- 
perature and treatment of the material. Geuther has studied their 
formation, and regards the yellow as PbsOs, and the red variety as its 
isomer, PbeOg. The yellow variety is orthorhombic and the red tetrag- 
onal in crystallization. Friction converts the former into the latter. 
(Liebig^s Ann. d. Chemie, ccxix, 56.) 

The alleged transformation of brucine into strychnine by the action 
of hot dilute nitric acid, announced by Sonnenschein in 1875, is denied 
by Hanriot, who believes the strychnine pre existed in the imperfectly 
purified brucine. Hanriot also finds that brucine masks the presence of 



CHEMISTRY. 525 

strychnine, even when jhe latter is present in comparatively large quan- 
tity. {Comptes rendus, xcvii, 267.) 

A redetermination of the vapor density of ferrous chloride leads Vic- 
tor Meyer to the conclusion that it consists at lower temj^eratures of 
molecules of the formula re2Cl4, and as the temperature rises these 
break up into molecules represented by the formula FeClg. In the ex- 
periments made the temi^erature reached was not sufficiently high to 
entirely produce the latter molecular condition. {Berichte d. diem. Ges.^ 
xviT, 1335.) 

Ammouiacal chloride of silver and the corresponding iodide have 
been obtained by M. Terrell in crystals. The ammoniacal salts were 
heated with a saturated solution of ammonia, in a sealed tube, to 100° 
C, and the silver salt dissolved, when heated, and crystallized out in 
needles on cooling the tube. Exposed to the air the crystals lose am- 
monia rapidly. {Bull. soc. cliim., xli, 597.) 

The composition of bleachingjpowder has been again investigated by 
Edmond Dreyfus. He comes to the conclusion that the active principle 
in the powder is CaHC102, and that the correct formula for the mixture 
is 2 CaHClOz -f CaClj + 2 H2O. It will be seen he disregards the cal- 
cium hydroxide, commonly included in the formulae prevailing. {Bull, 
soc. chim., xli, GOO.) 

Investigations made by O. Fisher and G. Thomer on the structure of 
chrysaniline lead them to believe that it is a diamidophenylacridine, 
as they were enabled to obtain not only j^henylacridine from chrysani- 
line, but also to produce the latter in a new way, synthetically. The 
material used in these experiments was Oehler's phosphine, which, after 
being purified, crystallizes in long, golden-yellow needles. 

According to a report on the sugar beet industry by M. Pellet, there 
are in France 527 manufactories, of which 482 were in operation in 
1883-'84. They produced 425,000,000 kilos of sugar, extracted from 
6,500,000,000 kilos of sugar-beets. {Bull. soc. chim., xli, 342.) 

Palmitic acid and the palmitius have been studied anew by Dr. E. 
H. Chittenden and Herbert E. Smith. The numerous variations .in the 
melting points of the individual fats described lead the authors to be- 
lieve in the existence of various physical modifications. {Am. Chem. 
Journ., VI.) 

Prof. Albert E. Leeds published a second memoir on the literature 
of ozone and peroxide of hydrogen, in which he gives a summary of 
the discoveries since 1878. {Ghem. News, L, 215.) 

Liquid carbon dioxide is now a commercial article, being manufact- 
ured by the AMiengesellscliaft fiir KoJilensaure Industrie, in Berlin, and 
sold in iron flasks containing 8 kilos of the liquid. Professor Landolt 
finds the liquid as sold very convenient for the preparation of solid car- 
bon dioxide, and describes experiments with the same. {Berichte d. chem. 
Ges., xvii, 309.) 

Urea had been obtained by E. Drechsel by electrolyzing with alter- 



526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

iiatiag currents a solution of carbamate of ammonium. The electrolysis 
of phenol gives rise to ;/-diphenol, breuzcatechin, hydrochinon, formic 
acid, normal valerianic acid, oxalic acid, succinic acid, malonic acid, and 
other bodies not yet examined. {Journ. praJct. Oiemie, xxix, 229.) 

Prof. Harvey W. Wiley, chemist to the Bureau of Agriculture, has 
devised optical methods of determining lactose in milks, which give ex- 
cellent results. Details will be found in Am. Ghem. Journ,, vi, 289. 

Antonio Longi recommends paratoluidiu sidphate as a delicate test 
for nitric acid; the latter gives rise to a red color, slowly changing to 
yellow. If chlorates, chromates, &c., are present, an intense blue color 
results; i^hto P^^t of nitric acid can be recognized. Diphenylamin 
sulphate, which yields an intense bine color, is even more sensitive, 
surpassing brucine in this respect. 

Prof. C. L. Bloxam reports a boiler incrustation containing 0.73 per 
cent, of strontia. The water used in the boiler was from a deep well in 
the chalk at Harrow, England. Owing to an increasing demand for 
strontia, the author suggests chemists should be on the lookout for it. 
(Ghem. News, XLix, 3.) 

In both Germany and France attention is called by chemists to a 
fraudulent tartar emetic found in the market, in which oxalic acid takes 
the place of tartaric. The true emetic contains 43.70 per cent, of oxide 
of antimony, while the false emetic contains only 23.67 per cent., and 
dyers are defrauded in proportion. (Bull. soc. cMm., XLI, 105.) 

A detailed and interesting description of the manufacture of vermil- 
ion in China will be found in Ghem. News, L, 77. 

The International Congress of Metric Weights and Measures has 
adopted the following abbreviations, which are recommended for gen- 
eral use : 

1. Measures of length: Kilometer, 1cm; meter, wj decimeter, dm; 
centimeter, cm ; millimeter, mm. 

2. Surface measures: Square kilometer, Tcm^; square meter, w*; 
square decimeter, dm^ ; square centimeter, cm* ; square millimeter, mrn^ ; 
hectare, ha; are, a. 

3. Measures of volume: Cubic kilometer, hm^] cubic meter, w^; 
cubic decimeter, dm^ ; cubic centimeter, cm^ ; cubic millimeter, mm^. 

4. Measures of capacity: Hectoliter, hi-, liter, l; deciliter, dl; centi- 
liter, cl. 

5. Measures of weight: Ton of 1,000 kilograms, t) metrical quintal of 
100 kilograms, q; kilogram, Teg; gram, g; decigram, dg; centigram, eg; 
milligram, mg. 

For the abbreviations italic letters are to be used ; these are not to 
be followed by a dot on their right, and should be written on the same 
line as the figures, and after the last of them, whether the number be 
entire or decimal. 

At the meeting of the cheihical section of the Association of German 
Naturalists and Physicians held in September at Magdeburg, Dr. Frank, 



CHEMISTRY. 527 

of Cbarloilenburg, read a paper on the technical development of the 
alkali industry io Stassfurt, and stated that in July, 1882, 20,000,000 
cwts. of carnallite were consumed in the preparation of chloride of po- 
tassium. 

The sessions of the chemical section of the American Association for 
tbe Advancement of Science at Philadelphia in September were more 
largely attended than at any time during tlie last eight years. Several 
eminent chemists from Great Britain were present. A new feature was 
the discussion of topics previously announced in a circular issued by 
the chairman. The section was presided over by Prof. J. W. Langley, 
of Ann Arbor, who mafle an address on chemical affinity, of great in- 
terest and value. 

At the Philadelphia meeting of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science,,Prof. W, O. Atwater read a paper on the chem- 
istry of fish. This embraced the results of an investigation into the 
economic and nutritive value of fish, and a study of the chemical con- 
stitution of the flesh of fishes and invertebrates. The flounder was 
found to be the least nutritive of fishes, whil^, the salmon, when fat, was 
the most nutritive. Among the invertebrates the crab is the most nu- 
tritious, while the oyster is least. Speaking of oysters, the author said 
that those from Northern waters were more nutritious than those from 
the South; and the amount of nutriment in the oyster was about the 
same as that in milk. Digestive ferments (as i>epsiu, &c.) act upon the 
flesh of fish in the same manner as upon that of vertebrates, about 98 
per cent, of the albuminoids being digested in both cases. 

Prof. F. W. Clarke, chief chemist to the United States Geological 
Survey, has issued a report of work done in the Washington Labora- 
tory during the fiscal year 1883-'84. The report gives results of the 
analyses of twenty-two rocks, minerals, and ores, and of twenty three 
water analyses. The latter include waters from Montana, the Utah 
Hot Springs, and the Virginia Hot Springs, The water of Mono Lake, 
California, contains 5L85 grams to the liter total solids; that of the 
larger Soda Lake, near Ragtowu, I^ev., contains no less than 125.13 
grams to the liter, the solids consisting chiefly of sodium carbonate, 
chloride, and sulphate. Lake Tahoe, California, sustains its reputation 
for purity, the water containing only 0.073 gram total solids per liter, 

-According to the annual report for 1884 of the Russian Chemical and 
Physical Society, situated in St. Petersburg, the chemical section had 
162 members, its income, including several grants, reached 5,731 rubles 
(about $2,750), and its capital amounted to 13,932 rubles. 

At the regular meeting of the Societe chimiqne de Paris held May 23, 
1884, it was voted, 30 to 12, to adopt a resolution looking to a change in 
the name of the society by substituting "France" for "Paris" in its 
title. A committee was appointed to carry the change into effect in a 
legal manner. The society numbers 468 members, and had an income 
in 1883 of 20,000 francs. 



528 SCIENTIFIC -RECORD 'FOR -1884. 

The Deutsche chemische Gesellschaft continues" to pro>s])er. At the 
close of the year 1884 it had 2,901 nieuibers (including 13 honorary 
members), having gained 170 members during the year. In 1883 the 
society received 535 original communications, and in 1884, 040; in 1883 
it published 3,101 pages in its Berichte, and in 1884 3,005 pages, exclu- 
sive of abstracts, a necrology, and an index, which have an independent 
pagination. It received from all sources during the year 57,307 marks, 
and expended about 4,000 marks less. It holds productive properly 
valued at 68,000 marks. 

At the anniversary meeting of the Chemical Society (of London) held 
March 31, 1884, the piesident called attention fo the fact that notwith- 
standing the increased number of laboratories in Great Britain, and 
greater facilities for the prosecution of research through the aid of the 
Government grant and the Chemical Society '§ fund, the number of 
papers read before the society is declining year by year. 

Prof. W. N. Hartley, in Nature, considers somewhat at length the 
circumstances which have brought about this "startling and anomalous 
fact." In 1880-'81 the Chemical Society (of Londou) received from its 
members 113 communications: in 1881-82, ^7 ; in 1883-'84, G7. It is true 
there are seven other societies which publish chemical pai)ers, besides 
two in Ireland. The Society of Chemical Industry received in the sec- 
ond year of its existence (1883-'84) 68 papers. It is evident that the 
number of communications to the Chemical Society has declined in i)ro- 
portion as those to the younger Society of Chemical Industry increased. 
Papers on industrial chemistry abound, those on pure research are rel- 
atively' few, and in this respect a great contrast is ottered to the work 
of the German Chemical Society, which publishes 3,000 pages annually 
of exclusively pure researches. 

Professor Hartley is not willing to admit that the decline of interest in 
original researches is the fault of the teachers in Engl.md, though he 
regrets that m~ny professors are obliged to teach several branches of 
science. He recognizes the influence of the requirements for the de- 
gree of doctor of philosophy in German universities upon originality of 
thought, but thinks this alone insufiScient to account for the diSerence. 
" It is rather that which is not required which is so advantiigeons to 
students; it is the Lehre und Lehen Freiheit which professors and i)upil8 
both enjoy." On the Continent the motive for scientific education is 
mental culture, while in Britain it is utilitarianism ; while the former 
tends to the advancement of learning, the latter involves nothing further 
than the diffusion of hiowledge. 

Does not the above criticism of English culture apply to a large ex- 
tent to the sj'stem of education in America ? 

Cooperative Indexing in Chemistry. — At the Montreal meeting of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science a committee was 
appointed to devise and inaugurate a plan for the proper indexing of 
the literature of the chemical elements. This committee reported in 



CnEMIRTRY. :,-^'J 

Ang:nst, 1882, that they had considered tliree methods of collectiiiji:^ "fil- 
ter ial for the indexes, viz : 

1. Reviewing the Catalogue of Scientific Papers published by the 
Koyal Society (8 vols., 4to). 

2. Indexing sjiecial journals by dilferent individuals and collating 
t lie matter. , 

3. The independent plan, -whereby each chemist indexes all the jour- 
nals available to him with releren<;e to a given element in which he is 
presumably especially interested. 

Each of these schemes is open to objections, which need not be named. 
Oa the whole, the third plan seeme<l to a majority of the committee the 
only feasible one for the present. 

The report considers also the best arrangement of material, and three 
ways are suggested : (1) Curonologically ; (2) alphabetically by authors ; 
(3) topically. 

The committee do not venture to dictate to volunteers an<l independ- 
ent, workers, but recoL'imend the chronological arrangement, accom- 
])anied by a topical index. 

In September, 1884, the committee reported that several indexes had 
b<'Cii published during tlie twelve months intervening, and that more 
were in progress. They also announced that the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion has consented to publish the indexes to chemical literature in- 
dorsed by the committee, limiting somewhat the number of pages per 
annum. The Smithsonian Institution also distributes free of expense 
the circulars of the comnn'ttee. 

The indexes already published include the following : Uranium, by 
n. Carrington Bolton, 15 pp.; Manganese (1596-1874), by H. Carrington 
Bolton, 44 pp.; Ti't a nium, hy Edward J. Hal lock, 22 pp.; Vanadium, 
by G. Jewett Bockwell, 13 pp.; Ozone, hy Albert E. Leeds, 32 pp.; 
Peroxide of Hydrogen (1818-'78), by Albert R. Leeds, 11 pp. ; Elec- 
trolysis, by W. Walter Webb, 40 pp. ; Speed of Chemical Reactions, by 
Robert B. Warder, 3 pp. ; Starch- Stigar, by Edward .1. Hallock, 44 pp.; 
Ozone (1879-83), by Albert R. Leeds. IG pp.; Peroxide of Hydrogen 
(1879-'83), by Albert R. Leeds, 3 pp.; Dictionary of the Action of Heat 
upon Certain Metallic Salts, by J. W. Baird and A. B. Prescott, 70 ])i>. 
8vo. New York. 

The first two were published in the Annals of the New York Lyceum 
of Natural History and all the rest in the x\nnals of the New York Acad- 
emy of Sciences, except that on Starch-Sugar, which was published by 
the LTnited States Internal Revenue Department, Washington, D. C; 
and that on Speed of Chemical Reactions, which appeared in the Proceed- 
ings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. , 

A limited number of those published by the New York Academy of 
Sciences can be had of Prof. D. S. Martin, 23G West Fourth street, New 
York City, the chairman of the publication committee. 
"S. Mis. 33 34 



530 SCIf:NTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The iudex committee consists of R. Carrington Bolton, Ira Remsen, 
F. W. Clarke, Albert R. Leeds, and Alexis A. Julien. 

Comnnmications should be addressed to H. Carrington Bolton, care 
of Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. 0. 

NECROLOGY OF CHEMISTS, 1884. 

J. A. Barral, a well-known agricultural chemist of France, the edi- 
tor of Arago's works, as well as of many important agricultural journals, 
died in Paris in September, aged 65 years. 

Adolf von Bruning died April 21, 1884. He was born January 10, 
1837 ; Briining was one of the founders of the important establishment 
for the manufacture of the coal-tar dye-stuffs, located at Hochst-am-Main, 
and known by the firm-name Meister, Lucius & Briining. 

Otto Burg died November 9, 1884. He had been for many years 
director of large chemical works in various parts of Germany. 

AMliiDEE Caillot died November, 1884, aged nearly SO years. He 
was for many years professor of chemistry in Strassburg, and counted 
among his pupils Wurtz, Willm, Schiitzenberger, and many other emi- 
nent men. For a fuller biography see Bull. soc. chim.. xlii, 610. 

E. Carstanjen, professor of chemistry at the University of Leipsic, 
died in Leipsic, July 13, aged 49 years. 

Robert Roscoe Felix Davey, born about 1842, in London, died in 
1884. Since 1867 he was a fellow of the Chemical Society of London. 

Victor Dessaignes, born at Vendonie, December 30, 1800, died in 
1884. He was the author of much original work chiefly in pliysiological 
chemistry. He was one of the honorary foreign members of the London 
Chemical Society. 

Jean Baptiste Dumas died April 1 1, 1884, at Cannes, where he had 
gone for his health. Dumas was born in 1800, at Alais, France, and for 
sixty years past has been one of the foremost chemists of France. A 
full biography (with portrait) was published in Nature, xxi, February 6, 
1880. 

J. P. L. Girardin died early in June, 1884, in the eighty-third year 
of his age. He filled chairs of chemistry in Rouen, Lille, and Clermont, 
and published several important works. 

Edward J. Hallock died March 22, at his home in Peekskill, X. Y. 
He was born June 19, 1845, was graduated at Columbia College in 1869, 
and at the University of Heidelberg in 1878. He had filled chairs ot 
(;hemistry in several colleges, and was also engaged in editorial work. 

A. Henninger died in Paris, October 4, 1884, aged 34. He hehl 
the chair of chemistry in the lilcole Muuicipale de Chimie, and was 
one of the editors of Science ct Xature. He was a pupil of Wurtz. 

Jaimes Hogarth, born November 17, 1858, iq Androssau; died in 
Philadelphia in 1884. He was at one time in the employ of Mr. J. B. 
Hannay, of Glasgow, and later of the United States Government, at 
Newport, R. I. 



CHEMISTRY. 5;-} i 

Hans Hubner, director of the chemical laboratory of the University 
of Gottiugeu, died in that ciry July 13, 1884, aged 47 years. Dr. 
Hilbuer will long be cordially remembered by many Americans who 
received instruction at his hands. 

Edward Hunt, born about 1830, at Hammersmith; died August 12, 
1884, in Manchester. He was an enterprising industrial chemist, and 
since 1851 a fellow of the Chemical Society of Loudon. 

Hermann Kolbe died November 25, 1884, in Leii)sic. Kolbe was 
born in 1818, near Gottingen, at the university of which city he was 
educated. After serving as Bunsen's assistant, in Marburg, and Play- 
fair's, in Loudon, he was called to the chair of chemistr;v in Marburg, iu 
1851. Since 1865 he has filled the same position in the University of 
Leipsic. Kolbe was a man of great activity; his contributions to or- 
ganic chemistry are voluminous and valuable; his labors as editor of 
the Journal fur praMische Ghemie and as writer of several works, have 
left a lasting impress on the science of this century. For a full biogra- 
phy see Chem. News, XL, 282. 

L. Lichtenstein died in July, 1884. He was assistant at the agri- 
cultural experiment station in Bamberg. He was a member of the Ger- 
uuiu Chemical Society. 

James Napier, a Scotch chemist, died in 1884. He was the author of 
several technological manuals and of a historical work entitled: Man- 
ufiicturmg Arts in Ancient Times, ("Paisley, 1879, 8vo.). He was a 
member of several learned societies. 

Jacob Natanson died September 16. He was nt one time professor 
of chemistry in the high school at Warsaw. He was the author of a 
text-book (in Polish) and made several original investigations. 

William Henry Aston Peake, born at Dublin, March 28, 1855, 
died Jane 28, 1883, at Cape Colony, where he filled the chair of chemis- 
try and physics in the college at Stellenbosch. 

William Plunkett, born in Dublin, died in 1884. He was assist- 
ant in chemistry, under Professor Galloway, at the Royal College of 
Science, Dublin. 

Eugene Ritter died in July, 1884. Dr. Ritter had been professor 
of medical chemistry and toxicology in the School of Medicine at Nancy, 
France, since 1872. 

Robert E. Rogers died September 6, 1884. He was born iu Bal- 
timore in 1814. Until a short time before his death he held the profess- 
orship of chemistry in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. He 
was the last of four brothers, all distinguished in science. 

Henry Young Darracott Scott, born in January, 1822, died in 
1884. He was a major-general in Her Majesty's service, and in 1851 
had charge of the chemical laboratory at Woolwich, He is best known, 
however, as the builder of the Royal Albert Hall, London. 

Robert Angus Smith died May 12, 1884, aged GS years. Dr. Smith 
has been for forty years one of the most conscientious and zealous work- 



532 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

ers in the field of eliemistry in Great Britain. His contributions, espe 
cially in sanitary matters, have been most valuable. A biography will 
be found in Ghem. News, xlix, 222. 

QuiNTiNO Sella, born July 7, 1827, died in March, 1884. He was 
the author of many investigations in chemical mineralogy, and at the 
time of his death was one of the honorary members of the German 
Chemical Society, as well as president of the Accademia dei Lincei, 
in Rome. 

Sten Stenberg, a Swedish chemist, born in 1825, died in July, 1884. 

PaulE.ThiSnaed died August 10, at his residence in the Cote d'Or. 
He was the author of many original papers, especially in the field of 
agricultural chemistry. 

Augustus Voelcker died in November, aged G2, having been born 
September 24, 1822, at Fraukfurt-am-Main. He was professor of 
chemistry to the Eoyal Agricultural Society of England, at Cirencester, 
a position held by him since 1859. He contributed many original 
]mpers on agricultural chemistry, and was the author of several works 
on the same subject. 

Henry Watts, born in London, January 20, 1815 ; died June 30, 
1884. He has left behind him an enduring monument in the superb 
"Dictionary of Chemistry" to which his name is attached. For a full 
biography see Nature^ xxx, 217. 

James Thomas Way died in 1884, aged 63 years. He was eminent 
in agricultural chemistry, having held the position of chemist to the 
Royal Agricultural Society . He x\ as the author of many original papers 
and a member of several learned societies. 

G. W. WiGNER died in November. He was former editor of the 
Analyst, the organ of the Society of Public Analysts, and the author 
of a prize essay on food adulteration, a subject on which he had a wide 
reputation. 

Charles Adolphe Wurtz died in Paris, May 12, 1884. He was 
born at Strasburg, November 26, 1817, and was graduated at the School 
of Medicine in that city in 3843. In 1845 he went to Paris, and since 
that date has held important positions in the Academy of Medicine and 
in the medical faculty of the university. His researches, especially 
in the field of organic chemistry, were numerous and of great influence. 
For a full biography see Bulletin de la 8oci6l4 chimique de Paris, numSro 
supplSmenta.ire, January, 1885, 

C. ZwENGER, professor of pharmaceutical chemistry at the University 
of Marburg, died March 15, 1884. 

In addition to the long list of chemists whose. decease is above no- 
ticed, the following names of members of the German Chemical Society 
must be briefly recorded : 

H. VON Baur, of Berlin. 

J. Brantlecht, of Wendeburg. 

R. Brix, of Brod, Hungary. 



CHEMISTRY. 633 

J. H. Orossley, of Widnes. 
K. DiEHL, of Offenbach. 

E. Dietrich, of Helfenberg. 
K. Gehrke, of Goslar. 
Frank Hatton, of London. 
Julius Haupe, of Nuremberg. 
IWAN Hynen, of Bonn. 

A. W. Kahlbaum, of Berlin. 
M. Kretschy, of Vienna. 

R. S. Paykull, of Stockholm. 

B. SCHULTZ, of Baden Baden. 
G. Telle, of Leipsic. 

J. J. VAN Valkenburg, of Amsterdam. 

GusTAV VoLLMAR, of Biedenkopf. 

And to complete the necrology of the year, we add the names of 
members of the Chemical Society of London, not previously noticed, 
who died within the twelve months ending March 30, 1885: 

G. D. Atkinson. W. J. Lansdell. 

Adrian Blaikie. H. B. Pritchard. 

James Forrest. T. K. Rogers. 

Robert Harvey. Juwansnigje Jarwatsnigje. 

J. W. Hudson. J. L. Shuter. 

F. M. Jennings. Sidney Gilchrist Thomas. 
Robert Jones. 

bibliography of chemistry. 1884. 

Alii;n, J. E. Om nagra deri vat Naftalius a- och S disulfonsyror. Upsala, 18S3. 8vo. 
ANDi!f:AE, B. Die uenesten Erfolge des Wassergat-es in der Leucbtgasindustrie, deren 

tecbniscbe, finanzielle und volkswirtbscbaftlicLe Bedeutung. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Andkk, G. fitude cbimique et tbermique de quelques oxycblorures metalliques. 

Paris, 1884. 4to. 
Appleton, J. H. Cbemistry developed by tbe facts and principles drawn cbiefly 

from tbe non-metals. New York, 1884. 16mo. 
Arendt, R. Griiudziige der Cbemie. Hamburg, 1884. 8vo. 

Leitfaden fiir den Unterricht in der Cbemie. Hamburg, 1884. 8vo. 

Arnold, C. Eepetitorium der Cbemie. Mit besonderer Beriicksicbtigung der fiir 

die. Mediziu wicbtigen Verbindungen sowie der " Pbarmacopoja Gennanica." 

Hamburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Aschan, Ossian. Om sulfokarbamiders iuverkan pS. amidosyror. Akademisk- af- 

baudling. Helsiugfors, 1884. 
Bapst, Germain. Les m6taux daus I'autiquitd et an moyen Age. L'^taiu. Paris, 

1884. 8vo. 
Barth, M. Die Weiuanalyse. Hamburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Bauer, A. Ueber die Siedepunktsanomalien der cblorirten Acetouitrite und einiger 

ibrer Abkommlingeu. Tiibingen, 1884. 8vo. 
Bi^iCllAMP, A. Mdnioire sur les mat iferes albuminoides. Paris, 1884. 4to. 
Beck, L. Die Gescbicbte des Eiseus in tecbniscber und kulturgescbicbtlicbor Bezie- 

buEg, Abtbeil. I. Von dor altest«u Zeit bis uni das Jahr 1500 n. Cbr. Braun- 

scbweig, 1884. 8vo. 
Bkhkend, G. Das Braueu mit uugemalztem Getreide> Halle. 1884. 



1- 



534 SCIENTIFIC EECOED FOR 1884. 



Beilstein, F. Handbuch der organischen Chemie. 2. ganzlichumgearbeitete Anf. 

lage. 1. Lieferung. Hamburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Bellmann, Th. ProductederEiuwirkung von Fiinffach-Chlorpliosphor aufKomen- 

amiusaure. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Beegholz, a. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Kinogerbsaure. Dorpat, 1884. 8vo. 
Bernard, J. Repetitoriuni der Chemie fiir Mediciner, Pharmaceuteu, etc. In zwei 

umgearbeiteten imd vermelirten Auflagen nach dem neuesten Stande der Wis- 

senschaft bearbeitet von J. Spenratli. Theil I. Auorganisclie Chemie. Aachen, 

1884. 
Bersch, J. Die Verwerthung des Holzes auf chemischem Wege. Eine Daretelluug 

der Verfahren zur Gewiunuug der Destillationsproducte des Holzes, der Essig- 

siiure, des Holzgeistes, des Theeres und der Theerole, des Kreosotes, des Russes, 

des Rostholzes und der Kohlen, sowie zur Fabrikation von Oxalsaure, Alkohol 

(Holzspiritus) und Cellulose, der Gerbstoflf- und Farbstoff-Extracte, der atheri- 

scheu Oele und der Harze aus Rinden und Holzem. Fiiv Praktiker geschildert.' 

Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Berthelot, M. Les origines de I'alchimie. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 

BiNG, J. Ueber die Verbindung des Pyridin's mit Metallsalzen. Jena, 1884. 8vo. 
Bleuxard, a. Lectures sur la chimie et la physique, mises a la port^e de tout le 

moude, avec une introduction par Gaston Tissandier. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Bloem, F. Ueber Orthoamidophenylpriolsaure und Orthoamldoacetophenon. Miin- 

chen, 1884. 8vo. 
Borgmann, E. Anleitung zur chemischen Analyse des Weines. Wiesbaden, 1884. 

8vo. 
B5TTCHER, Willy. Ueber Umlagerungen in der Orthoreihe der Bi-derivate des 

Benzols. Berlin, 1884. 
Brieger, L. Ueber Ptomaine. Berlin, 1884. 
Br5mme, E. Ueber Anhydrobutyryldiamidotoluol (Butenyltoluylendiamin) und ^^ 

sein Verhalten gegeu Brom. Gottingen, 1884. 8vo. 
BoUANTj E. Cours de physique et de cMmie (Programme des ^coles normales pri- 

maires des institutenrs. ) 2. 6dit. Paris, 1883. 12mo. 
Bourgoin, E. Aldehydes propremeut dits et acetones. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Bkunton, T. L., and J. T. Cash. Contributions to our knowledge of the connection 

between chemical constitution, physiological action, and antagonism. London, 

1884. 4to. 
C. L. M. Science of food. A text-book specially adapted for those who are preparing 

for the Government examinations in domestic economy. London, 1884. 
Cameron, Ch. A., and E. W.Davy. On some undescribed compounds of Selenium. 

Dublin, 188.3. 4to. 
Cartuyvels, J., F. Renotte, et E. Reboux. De ladifl'usion et des proc6des r^cents 

de fabrication dn sucre an moyendel'osmose, on de la separation. Louvain,1884. 

8vo. 
Chalon, J. Quelques experiences de chimie. Vervieis, 1884. l'2mo. 
Chemiker-Kalender 1885. Ein Hiilfsbnch fur Chemiker, Physiker, Pharmaceuteu, 

Hiittenmanuer, etc., von R. Biedermann. Jahrgang 6. 2. Theile Berlin, 1884. 

8vo. 
Christensen, C. Uuorganisk Kemi. 3. Udg. Kj0benhavn, 1884. 8vo. 

Organisk Kemi. Kj^benhavn, 1884. 8vo. 

CiAMiclAN, G., and P. Silber. Sopra alcuni derivati dell' imide succinica. Roma, 

1884. 4to. 
oLARKE, F. W. The elements of chemistry. New York, 1884. 8vo. 
Clermont, A. Recherches sur I'acide trichloi"ac6tique et ses derives. Paris, 1884. 

8vo. 
Cleve, Lecoq de Boisbaudran et Sabatier. M6taux terreux. Glucinium, Zirco- 

jaium, Thorium, cerium, Lanthane, Didyme, Samarium, etc. Paris, 1884. 8vo. Vj'. 

i; 



CHEMISTRY. 535 

CZUMPELIK, E. Die Cbeuiie als Mecbauik der Atomo. Wieu, 1«8;;. 8vo. 

CZYRNIANSKV, Emil. Theoryia chemiczuo-fizyczna. Krakowie, 1884, 

Debray, H., et A. JoLY. Cours de chimie. 4. ^dit., revue ct auj^meut^e. Tome I, 

Paris, 1884. 
Delfos, F. C. Begiuseleu dcr Schcikuudc. I. Aiiorganiscbe Gedeelte. 2. Dnik. 

Groniugeu, 1884. 8vo. 
De Luca, G. Elementi di cbimica indiistrialo. 2 vols. Milauo, lb84. IGuio. 
DiETSCH, OsCAU. Die wicbtigsten Nabrnugsmittcd uud Getriinkc, dcreii Vpniiire'- 

iiigiuigen uud Verfalscbnugeii. 4. Aufl. Ziiricb, 1884. 8vo. 
DiTTE, A. Traits 61eiueutaire do cbimie Ibudee sur les priucipes de la therniocbiinio 

avec euiploi des douuees Ciilorim^trique.s. Paiis, 1884. 12mo. 
DiTTMAii, W., witb tbe assistance of J. McArtbur, A. Kliiig, and T. Barbour. Tables 

to facilitate cbemical calculatious. Glasgow, 1884. 
DiTTMAR, W. Eeport ou reseaicbes iuto tbe couipositiou of oceau water, niadeduriug 

tbe voyage of tbe Cballeugi r. . London, 1884. Imp. 4to. 
Edek, J. M. Eiuleituug iu die Negativ-Verfabreu uud die Daguerreotypie, Talbo- 

typie, uud Niep9otyx)ie. Halle, 1884. 8vo. 
Eder, J. M. Tbe cbemical eil'ect of tbe spectrum. Translated and edited by W. de 

W. Abuey. Loudou, 1884. T2rao. 
EISSLER, Manuel. Nitroglycerine aud dynamite ; tbeir mauufacture, tbeir u.se, and 
tbeir application to mining and military engineering ; pyi'oxyline, or gun-cot- 
. -ton; tbe fulminates, picrates, and cblorates; also tbe cbemistry aud analysis of 
tbe elementary bodies wbicb enter into tbe mauufacture of tbe j)rincipal nitro- 
compounds. New York, 1884. 8vo. 
Elion, H. Diacetylazijnaetber en aetbyldiacetylazijnaetber. Leiden, 1884. 8vo. 
Encyclop^die cbimique publico sous la direction do Frf'my. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Vol. II, Append. 2. Meteorites, par S. Meuuier. 

Vol. Ill, Cab. 3. Litbium et ammonium, jiar de Forerand et Villiers. 
Vol. Ill, Cab. 4. M6taux alcaliuo-terreux, par Nivoit et Margottet. 
Vol. Ill, Cab. 9. Fer et cbrome, par Joanuis et Moissan. 
Vol. Ill, Cab. 11. Uranium, ^taiu et antimoine, par Ditte et Guntz. 
Vol. V. Api)licatious de cbimie iuorganicxue. Sect. 1. Produits cbimiques, 
par Pommier et P6cbiney. Partie II, Livr. 5 et 6. Sulfate d'alumine et 
alun. Cblorates. 
Vol. V, Cab. 4. Cuivre, par Gruner et Koswag. 
Vol. VII, Fasc. 1. Ald6bydes, par E. Bourgoin. 

Vol. X, Fasc. 4. Industrie des produits ammoniacaux, par C. Vincent. 
Erlenmeyer, E. Lebrbucb der orgauiscbeu Cbemie. Tbeil II. Die aromatiscbou 

Verbiuduugen, von R. Meyer. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Fabre, J. H. Notions de cbimie. Ann^e III. M6taux. Paris, 1883. 12mo. 
Feichtinger, G. Die cbemiscbeTecbnologieder Mortelmaterialen. Lief. 1. Brauu- 

scbweig, 1S84. 8vo. 
Ferko, p. Ueber pyrogeue Syutbeseu. Erlaugen, 1884. 8vo. 

FiLETi, M. Tavole di aualisi cbimica qualitativa. 3. ediz. accresc. Torino, 1883. Svo. 
Fleisciiei!, E. DieTitrir-Metbode als selbststiiudige quantitative Analyse. 3. viel- 

facb umgearbeitete uud stark vermebrtc Aufl. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Fontaine, H. L'e'lectrolysc. Renseignements pratiques sur le nickelage, le cuivrage, 
la dorure, Targentiue, I'affiuage des m6taux et le traitemeut des minerais an 
moyeu de I'^lectricite. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
Fortschritte (Die) der Cbemie 1883. Herausgegeben vou H. J. Klein. Kolu, 1884. 

Bvo. 
Franchimont, a. p. N. Begiuseleu der Cbemie. Anorgauiscbe Cbemie. Tiel, 1884. 

8vo. 
Frankland, E., and F. R. Japp. Inorganic chemistry. London, 1884. 



Fj?>G " SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1884. 

Fi:i;i;sE, C Bezieliuiigeu zUisclieu <len ijliysikalischeii EigeiiochartBU und dor Zu 

Kainmeiisclzinig oliouiischer Yerbiudungeu. Brieg, 1884. 
FiacsKNius, li. CliouiLsclit) Analyse des Oberbruiinens zu Salzbnuiu iu Sclilesien. A. 

Anil. Wiesbaden, 188:5. Bvo. 

Chiiiiiscbe Untersucbuug der Stettiuer Stahlquclle. Wiesbaden, 1684. 8\o. 

FiUEDBEKG. W. Die Verwertliung der Knocheii aiifchemischem Wege. EiueDarstci- 

luug der Verarbeituug von Knochen uuf allc aiis denselben gewiuabareii Pro- 

dncte, etc. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
FniKBLAEXDKR, E. Ueber eiuige Derivate des alpha- mid beta-Napbtols. Ziiticli, 

1883. 8vo. 
FiUKDLAEXDKK, P. Untersucliuugeu Uber diojnnern Anhydride der OrtLoaiuido- 

zimmtsiiure und der OrthoamidobydrozinimtsJiure. Miinchen, 1883. 8vo. 
1 I XAKO, A. Cbimica agraria. Vol.2. Chiniica del conoimi. Milano, 1884. 8vo. 
GA15BA, L. Trattato elemeutare di cbimica iuorganica ed organica. Milano, 1884. 
Gardner, J. Bleaching, dyeing, and calico-printing, with formulie. London, 1884. 

8vo. 
(jASLOROWSKI, K. Ueber die UmwamUuug von Alkolioleu in Amine. Ziirjch, 1884. 

8vo. 
Geerts, a. J. C. Les produits de la nature japonaise et chinoise et leurs applications 

aus arts, a I'iudustrie, ^ lam^decine, etc. Partie Inorgauique et mineralogique. 

II. M^taux. Yokohama, 1883. 8vo. [Vol. I, Metalloids, waspublishediulS78.] 
Gerekoth, H. Uarstellung der drei isomeren Kitroacetox)henoue. Erlangen, 1884. 

Hvo. 
Gerber, N. Chemical and physical aualysis of milk, condensed milk, and infants' 

milk-foods, with sjiteial regard to hygiene and sauitarj' milk inspection. A lab- 
oratory guide developed from vrnctical experience, intended for chemists, physi- 
cians, sanitarians, students, &c. Translated from the revised German edition, 

and edited by Dr. Hermann Endemaun. Kew York and London, 1884. 
German, L. Ueber Salze und Abkommliuge der Hydroxyalphaisobutylessigsiiurc. 

Erlangen, 1884. 8vo. 
GiGLiOLi, J. Chimica agraria, campestre e eilvana, ossia chimiea delle piante colti- 

vate, dell' aria, del terreno, del lavori rurali e doi concimi. Napoli, 1884. 
GiRARD, Ch., et Pabst. S<Srie aromatique des matieres colorautes et ses applications 

industrieiles. Cahier II. Paris, 1833. Bvo. 
GoDEFFROY, R. Tabelleu und Formulare fiir qualitative und quantitative Analyseu, 

Titrirmethoden, Harnanaiysen,etc. W^ien, 1884. Svo. 
GoRZ, J. Handel und Statistik des Zuckers. Berlin, 1884. 
Graham, Thomas. Life ahd works of ; by R. Angus Smith. Illustrated by jiortrait, 

14 unpublished letters, etc. Edited by J. J. Coleman. London, 1884. 8vo. 
Graiiam-Otto. AusfUhrliches Lehrljuch der auorganischcn Chemie, neubearbeitc: 

von A. Michaelis. 5. Aufl. Abth. Ill, 2. liiilfte. Braunschweig, 1884. Bvo. 
Greene, W. H. Lessons in chemistry. Philadelphia. 1884. 12mo. 
Grimaux, £douard. Thdories et notations chimiques. Premieres legons du cours 

jirofesse a I'ficolo poly technique. Paris, 1884. 12mo. 
Groshaus, J. A. Ueber wiissrige Losungeu. Nach den Untersuchungen von Cer- 

lach, Kremers und J. Thomsen. Deutsch von Fr. Roth. Lei^jzig, 1884. Bvo. 
GuMPRECHT, O. Wie studirt man Chemie und die beschreibcnden Naturwi.ssc u- 

schaften ? Mit Beriicksichtiguug der siichsischeu, prouesischen und bairisclicii 

Priifungsorduungen.' Leipzig, 1884. Bvo. 
GUNTZ, A. Recherches thermiques sur les combiuaisons du lluor. Paris, 1884. 4to. 
llandbuch der chemischeu Technologic. IlerausgegcbenvonP. A. Bolley r.nd K. Dirn- 

baum. Band VI. Abtheil. 2. Lief. I. Braunschweig, 1884. 
llaudworterbuch der Cheuiio. Ilerausgegeben von Ladenburg. Baud 2. Breslan, 

1884. 



CHEMISTRY. 537 

Haudworterbuch (Neues) derClieuiie. Vol. IV. Liel'eruug 8. Brauuttchweig, 1884. 

8vo. 
Hands, T. Numerical exercises iu chemistry. (Inorganic.) London, 1884. Bvo. 
Hankel, E. Laboratoriumsversuclie liber die Kliiruug der Abfallwiisser der Far- 

bereieu. Hygienisclie Studie. Glauchau, 1884. 8vo. 
Hanssex, a. Studiuni iiber den chemisclieu Nachweis fremder Fette im Butterfettc. 

Erlaugeu, lc84. bvo. 
Haraucourt, C. Le^-ous 61t}meutaires de chimie. Nouvelle Edition. Paris, 1883. 

Conrs 616mentaire de cbimie. 2. 6dit. Paris, 1883. 

Hautefeuille, p., et J. Cuappuis. Recherclies sur I'acide perazotique. Paris, 

1884. 4to. 

Recherches sur I'ozouo. Paris, 1884. 4to. 

IIeim, E. Ueber einige Phenolester der Phosphorsauie. Ueber die Umwandluug der 

Pheuole in Nitrite uud Siiuren. Ziiricb, 1883. Bvo. 
Heinen, H. Einwirknug von Jodallyl auf Anbydrobenzdiamidotoluol. Gottingen, 

1884. Bvo. 
Heinzerling, Ch. Die Gefabreu imd Krankbeiteu in der chemiscbeu Industrie und 

die Mittel zu ihrer Vcrhiitiiug imd Beseitigung. Halle a. S., 1884. Bvo. 
Herrmaxn, a. Ueber sogenannte nugesiiUigte Siiuren. Ziiricb, 1883. Bvo. 
Hess. Synthese vou Indolderivato und iiber eine Verlundung von Acetophenon mit 

Pbenyl-Hydraziu. Erlangeu, 1884. 8vo. 
HOFFMAXX, L. Ueber das Tetrabydrncbinoliu. Miiucben, 1883. Bvo. 
HOMOLKA, Bexxo. Ueber das Cbiuisatin. Miinchen, 1884. 
Hoppe-Seyler, F. Ueber die Entwickeluug der physiologiscben Chemie und ilire 

Bedeutuug fiir die Mediciu. Strassburg, 1884. Bvo. 
Horstmaxx. Ueber den Zusammenbang zwiscben dem Wiirmewerth und dem Ver- 

lauf cbemiscber Eeactionen. Heidelberg, 1884. 
Hosaeus, a. Gruudriss der Cbemie. 3. Auti. Hannover, 1884. Bvo. 
HuBXER, R. Ueber einige Abkommlinge der Isatbionsiiure (Hydroxyliitbansulfon- 

saure). Jena, 1884. 
HuMPiDGE, T. C. On the atomic weight of gluciunm( beryllium). London, 1884. 4to. 
HUTH, E. Das periodiscbe Gesetz der AtomgeAvichte uud das naturliche System der 

Elemente. Frankfurt a. O., 1884. Bvo. 
J.\GXAUX, R. Traite jiratiquc d'analyses chimiques et d'essais industriels. Me- 

tbodes nouvelles pour le dosage, des substances min^rales. Minerals, m6taux, 

alliages et produits d'arts. Paris, 1884. 12mo. 
.Jakmaix", George. Systematic course of qualitative analysis, arranged in tables. 

5th ed. London, 1884. Bvo. 
JOLV, A. Cours ^l^raentaire de chimie et do manipulations chimiques. Paris, 1884. 

16mo. 
Kauer, a. Elemente der Chemie. 7. AuU. Wieu, 1884. Bvo. 
Kemp, W. J. Chemical tables for elementary students. London, 1884. Bvo. 
KiX'KELix", F. Ueber Maguesium-Salze der Arsen- uud Pbosphorsiiureund ihre Zer- 

setzungsproducte. Erlangen, 1884. Bvo. 
KxORR, L. Ueber das Piperyl-Hydrazin. Erlangen, 1B84. Bvo. 
KoEiiLER, L. Ueber Di- uud Tribrombenzoesauren. Gottingen, 1884. 8vo. 
KoLUE, H. Ausfiihrlicbes Lehr- und Handbuch der organischen Chemie. (Zugleich 

als 3.-5. Baud zu Graham-Oito's ausfiihrlichem Lehrbuch der Chemie.) 2. um- 

gearbeitete und vermehrte Anflage, von E. von Meyer. Baud II, Abtheil. 3. 

[Completing the work.] Braunschweig, 1884. Bvo. 
KoLRE, li. A short text-book of inorganic chemistry, translated by T. S. Humpidge. 

Loudou. 1884. 8vo. 

Kurzes Lehrbueli der Cliemio. Tlieil I. Anorgauische Chemie. 2. Auti. 

Ijrauuschweig, 1881. Bvo. 



538 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Kofj.vfjvoi, Tr]XEi.iaxoi. 'H dzoiuJKOtrji rwv droix^i^y £Z5 rd? svcbdEzS tS)v trpay- 

ixazeia kTtt vq)rp/E6icL 'Ev 'A'&ijvai?, lb'84. 
Kreis, H. Vcijrleicliende Untersucliungeu iiber die Methodeii der Iractiouirteu Des- 

tillatiou. lieitriige zur Keuutniss der Thiophengruppe. Zurich, 1884. 8vo. 
Kreusler, U. Atoiiigewicbtstulelu, enthalteud die neuereu Atomgewiclite der Ele- 

mente, nebst luultipleu Wertbeu. Bonn, 1884. 8vo. 
Krukenberg, C. F. W. Die eigenartigen Methodea der cliemischen Physiologie. ," 

Vortrag. Heidelberg, 1884. 8vo. 

. Grnndrissdermedicinisch-chemisclieu Analyse. Heidelberg, 1884. 8vo. 

liANG-E, W. DE. Boerbaave's Elemeuta chemice. Rotterdam, 1884. 8vo. 
Laxglebert, J. Chimie. 36. Edition, teuue an courant des progrfes de la science 

les plus r(icent8, et augment6e d'un appendico sur la m6canique obimique. Paris, 

1884. 16mo. 
Lauber. Handbucb des Zi;igdrucks. Mit Abbilduugeu uud Zeugprobeu, Unter 

Mitwirkuiig von A. Steiubeil uud M. Kobu. Leipzig, 1884. Svo. 
Lazarus, M. J. Uebcr Nitrirung von Zininitsiiurederivaten. Miincben, 1884. 8vo. 
Leblanc, li'. Mauipulatious de cbimie. 3. 6dit. Paris, 1883. • 

Ledebur, a. Handbucii der Eiseubiitteukunde. Leipzig, 1884. 
Le Docte, a. Controle chimique de la fabrication du sucre. Tableaux num^riques 

suppriniant les calculs des analyses. Bruxelies, 1884. 4to. 
Lefemanis', H. Organic cbemistry; including medical cbemistiy and tbe analysis 

of water, air and food. Pbiladelphia, 1884. 12mo. 
Lehmaxx, F. Ueber die Eiuwirkuug von Salpetersiiureauf Diatbyl-m-amidobenzoe- 

stiure. Gottingeu, 1884. 8vo. 
Lehmamn, R. Ueber Liivulose. Halle, 1884. 4to. 

Lexardsox, R. Cbemiscbe Untersucbungen der rotbeu Manaca. Dorjpat, 1884. 8vo. 
Liebig's Aunaleu der Cbemie. General-Register zu den Biinden 165-220 (1873-'83). 

Bearbeitet von F. Carl. Leipzig, 1884. &vo. 
Limousin, F. Le Blanc et Sciimitz. Le materiel des arts chimiques, de la pbar- 

macie et de la tannerie a I'Exposition Univcrselle Internationale de 1878. Paris, 

1884. 8vo. 
LoBRY VAN Troostenburg de Bkuyn, C. A. Verboudiug der 3 dinitrobenzolen 

tegen-over cyankalium iu aicoboliscbe oplossingen. Leiden, 1883. Svo. 
Lorscheid, J. Lebrbucb der anorganiscbeu Cbemie nacb den neuesten Ansichteu 

der Wissenscbaft. 10. Aufl. Freiburg, 1884. Svo. 
LowENTHAL, R. Ueber die Amidinc der Koblensiiure. Miincben, 1883. Svo. 
LuANCO, J. R. Compeudio de las leccioues de quimica general explicados en la Uui- 

versidad de Barcelona. 2. eilic. Barcelona, 1884. 4to. 
LuBWiG, E. Mediciniscbe Cbemie iu Auwendnug auf gericbtlicbe, sanitatspolizei- " ' 

licbe uud bygieniscbe Untersucbuugen, sowie auf Priifiing der Arzneipriiparate. 

Wien, 1884. Svo. 
Lunge, G., and F. Hurter. Tbe alkali-maker's pocket-book. Tables and analytical 

methods for manufacturers of sulphuric acid, nitric acid, soda, potash, and am- 
monia. London, 1884. 
Macii, E. Die Giibruug und die Tecbnologie des Weines. Wien, 1884. 8vo. 
Mahly, .J. Ueber Diuitrozimmtsaure. Miincben, 1883. Svo. r--' 

Mainzer, K. Ueber die Spaltuugsverbiiltnisse gcmiscbter aromatischer Sch^-efe!- «'v 

barnstofie durcb Siiuren. Zurich, 1883. Svo. '^♦A, 
Mann, L. Die Atomgestalt der chemiscbeu Grundstofl'e. Berliu, 1884. Svo. 
Der Atomauf bau in den chemiscbeu Verbiudungen mid seiu Einfluss auf die 

Erscheinungen. Berlin, 1884. Svo. 
Mauro, F., R. NaSini, E. a. Piccini. Analisi cbimicadelF acquepotabili delhifitta 

di Roma, eseguite per incarico del municipio. Roma, 1884. Svo, 
Marignac, C. V6iiflcation de quelques poitls atomiques. I. Geneve, 18!;53. Svo. 
Meddolelser fra Carlsborg Laboratoriet, udgivne vcd Laboratoricts Bestyrelse. Vol. 

II, Part 3. Kj())benhavn, 1884. Svo. 



CHEMISTRY. 539 

Meykr, a. Handbucli dcr qualitativen chemiscben Analj-se auorganibcber iiud or- 

ganischer Substauzen, uebst Anleitung zur volumetrischeu Analyse. Berliu, 

la84. 8vo. 
Meylr, L. Die moderue Theorieu der Cbemie imd ihro Bedeutung fur-die cbeinisclie 

Mecbanik, 5. Aufl. Breslau, 1884. 8vo. 
Meyer, L.,uudK. Seubert. Die Atomgewicbte der Eleuiente. Zum Gcbraucbe im 

Labovatoriiim bericbtigt. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
MULLER, W. VON, uud H. KiLiAXi. Kuizes Lebibiicb der aualytiscbcu Cbemie. 

MUucben, 1884. 8vo. 
Morgan, C. Lloyd. Facts around us. London, 1884. 
MiJLLER, A. Ueber eiuige Isonitrosiiuren. Ziiricb, 1884. 8vo. 
Naf, p. Ueber den Scbwefelsaurebildiiugsprocess in den Bleikamuiern. Ziiricb, 188:!. 

8vo. 
Nageli, E. Beitriigo zur Keuntniss der Hydroxybiminreaction. Ziiricb, 188o. 8vo. 
Neumann, Carl C. O. Repetitorium der Cbemie fiir Cbemiker, Pbarmaceuten, 

Mediciner, etc., sowie znm Gebraucb an Realscbulen und Gynmasien. Diissel- 

dorf, 18i34. 
Newlands, John A. R. On tbe discovery of tbe periodic law and on relations 

among tbe atomic weigbts. Loudon, 1884. 
Oehme, J. Die Fabrikatiou der wicbtigsten Autiuion-Priiparato mit Beriicksicbti- 

gung des Brecbweiusteines uud Goldscbwefels. Wieu, 1884. 8vo. 
Orschiedt, H. R. Lebrbucb der anorganiscbeu Cbemie uud Miueralogie au der Hand 

des Experiments. Nicbtmetalle. Neue Ausgabe. Strassburg, 1884. 8vo. 
Ostwald, W. Lebrbucb der allgemeiuen Cbemie. Baud 1. Stocbiometrie. Hiilffc 

1. Leijizig, 1884. 
Otto, F. J. Anleitung zur Ausmittelung der Gifte uud zur Erkennnug der Blut- 

flecken bei gericbtlicb-cbemiscbcn Untersucbungen. 6. Aufl. Von R. Otto. 

Braunscbweig, 1884. 8vo. 
Pape, K. Ueber Siliciumpropylverbiudungeu. "Kiel, 1883. 8vo. 
Pavesi, A. Guida alio studio dell' aualisi cbimica qualitativa; manuale pratico. 

3. ediz. Milano, 1884. 16mo. 
Pechmann, H. von. Ueber gemiscbte Pbtbaleiue. MUncben, 18r)3. 8vo. 
Perkin, W. H. Untersucbungen Uber die Benzoylessigsiiure. Miincben, 1884. 8vo. 
Perl, Jacques. Ueber einige Tbiosulfon&aureu und Sultinsiiureu des Toluols. lier- 

liu, 1g84. 
Pettersson, O. On tbe properties of water aud ice. Stockbolm, 1883. roy. 8vo. 
Pfordten, O. von der. Beitriige zur Kenutniss des Molybdiius und Wolframs. 

Giessen, 1883. 8vo. 
Pinner, A. Repetitorium der orgauiscben Cbemie. G. Aufl. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 
Piria-Cannizzaro. Discorso sulla vita e sulle opere di Rafiaele Piria. Torino, 

1884. 8vo. 
PizziGHELLi, G. Die Actinometrie oder die Pbotometrie der cbemiscb-wirksamen 

Strableu fiir Cbemiker, Optiker, Pbotograpben, etc., in ibrerEntwickeluugbis zii 

Gegenwart zusammengestellt. Wieu, 1884. 8vo. 
PoLECK, Th. Cbemiscbe Analyse des Oberbruunens zu Flinsberg in Scblesien. Bres- 
lau, 1883. 8vo. 
Post, J. Trait6 coniplet d'analyse cbimique appliquee aux e.ssais industriels. Avec 

la collaboration de plnsieurs cbimistes, traduit parL. Gautier. Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
PoULSON, V. A. Botanical niicrocbeniistry. Bostou, 1884. 12mo. 
Prescott, a. B., and Baird, J. W. A dictionary of tbe action of beat upon certain 

metallic salts, including au index to tbe principal literature upon tbe subject. 

New York, 1884. 8vo. 203 pp. 
I'RiEBS, B. Die Condensation des Benzaldebyds mit Nitrometban und Nitroetban. 
Halle, 1884. 8vo. 



540 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1884. 

Pr5ppek, M. Ueber dio Einwirkuug vou rauchender Saltpetersaure auf Acetessig- 

iither imd dessen Chlorsubstitutionsproducte. Leipzig, 1^84. Svo. 
Proost, a. Manuel de chimie agricole et de physiologie v6g6tale et auimale aj)- 

pliqu6e a I'agriculture. Biuxelles, 1884. 12mo. 
RahxexfuhreRj C. Ueber einige iso- und terephtbalyllialtige Derivate des Hydro- 

xylamins und die Ueberfiihrnng des Isophtbalsiiure InMeta-, der Terephtbalsaure 

in Parapbeuyldiamiu. Konigsberg, 1884. 8vo. 
Rajvimelsberg, C. Ueber die essigsaureu Doppelsalze des Uraus. Berlin, 1884. 4to. 
Ramsay, William. Experimental proofs of chemical theory for beginners. Lon- 
don, 1884. 18mo. 
Rapp, M. Ueber die Phenyl- und Kresylester der Phosphorsiiure und ihre Nitrirung. 

Tubingen, 1884. 8vo. 
Rei)ort on glucose prepared by the National Academy of Sciences, in response to a 

request made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Washington, D. C, 

1«84. 8vo. 
Reychler, a. Les d6riv6s ammouiacaux des sels d'argent. Bruxelles, 1884. 
Richardson, Clifford. An investigation of the composition of American wheat 

and corn. Second report, Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry. 

Washington, D. C, 1884. 8vo. 
RiEDEL, C. Ueber Abkommlinge der Aethylzimmtsiiure. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss 

der Carbonsiiureu des Chinolins und des Pyridius. MUnchen, 1883. Svo. 
RiEMERSCHMiD, C. Ueber einige Derivate des Chinolins und Pyridins. Miinchen, 

1883. 8vo. 
Reisenegger, H. Ueber Phenol- und Orthoanisolhydrazin und iiber die Verbindun- 

gen der Hydrazine mit den Ketouen. Eriangen, 1884. 8vo. 
Ripper, W. Practical chemistry, with notes and questions on theoretical chemistry. 

New edition. Loudon, 1884. 8vo. 
Romen, C. Bleicherei, Fiirberei und Appretur der Baumwoll- und Leinen-Waaren. 

Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 
RoscoE, H. E., and Schorlemmer, C. A complete treatise on inorganic and organic 

chemistry. Vol. Ill, P^art II. The chemistry of the hydrocarbons and their de- 
rivatives. London, 1884. roy. 8vo. [Completing the work.] 
RoSENBERGER, F. Die Geschichte der Physik in Gruudziigen mit synchronistischen 

Tabellen der Mathematik, der Chemie und beschreibenden Naturwissenschaften. 

Theil 2. Geschichte der Physik in der neueren Zeit. Braunschweig, 1884. 8vo. 
Ross, W. A. The blowpipe in chemistry, mineralogj', and geology. Containing all 

known methods of anhydrous analysis, &o. London, 1884. 
Rossmassler, F. a. Fabrikation vou Photogen und Schmieiol aus Baku'scher 

Naphtha. Halle, 1884. Svo. 
Roswag. D68argentation des minerais de plomb. Paris, 1884. Svo. 
RuDORFF, F. Grundriss der Chemie. 8. Aufl. Berlin, 1884. Svo. 
Sbriziolo, M. Trattato di chimica moderna inorganica ed organica, compilato sni 

lavori di Hofmann, Wurtz, Grimaux, etc. 2. ediz. Napoli, 1884. Svo. 
ScHAEDLER, C. Die Technologie der Fette und Oele der Fossilieu (Mineralole) 

sowie der Harzole und Schmiermittel. Liefg. 1. Leipzig, 1884. Svo. 
SCHAPPHAUS, R. Ueber Formanhydroisodiamidotoluol (Methenylisotoluylendiamin). 

Gottingen, 1884. Svo. 
SCHROEDER, Georg VON, uud JuLius VON ScHROEDER. Waudtafelu fiir den Unter- 

richt in der allgemeinen Chemie und chemischen Technologie ; mit erlauterndem 

Text. ■ Erste Lieferung, Tafel 1-6. Kassel, 1884. 
SchCtzenberger, P. Traits de chimie g6u6rale, comprenant les principales appli- 
cations do la chimie aux sciences biologiques et aux arts iudustriels. Vol. IV. 

Paris, 1884. Svo. 
Schwab, Friedricii. Ueber die nicht-sauren Bestandtheile des Bienenwachses. 

Stuttgart, 1884. 



CHEMISTRY. 541 

S<u\VA(:KHf)FER"8 Lflirbiich tl(>r huulwirthschiiftlichtn oLcmisclieii Technologic. 

Bd. II. Die Giihrnng nnd die Tochiiologie des Whines, von E. Mach. Wie.n, 18H4. 

8vo. 
Scott- White, A. H. Chemical analysis for schools and science classes. London, 

1884. 
Setielikn, J. Beitriige zur Geschichte der Atomgowichte. Braunschweig, 1884. 8vo_ 
Semple, a. Tablets of chemical analysis for tiie detection of one metal and one 

acid. Loudon, 1884. l*2mo. 
SixMON, W. Manual of chemistry. A guide to lectures and laboratory work for begin- 
ners. Philadelphia, 1884. 8vo. 
Spice, R. P. A treatise on the purification of coal-gas and the advantage of Coop- 
er's coal-liming process. Loudon, 1884, 
Spiegel, A. Ueber Vulpinsliure. Giessen, 1883. 8vo. 
Spiegler, E. Ueber einige hochmoleknlare Acetoxime der Fettreihe. Wien, 1884. 

8vo. 
Staub, L. A. Recherches snr Faction de I'acide nitreux sur le furfurbutyline. Ge- 
neve, 1883. 8vo. 
Stein, G. Die Bleicherei, Druckerei, Farberei und Appretur der baumwollenen Ge- 

webe. Braunschweig, 1884. 8vo. 
Stoddard, John T. Outline of lecture notes on general chemistry. The non-metals. 

Northampton, Mass., 1884. V2mo. 
Storch, V. Mikroskopiske og kemiske Undersoegelser over Smcerdannelseu ved 

KjjBrniugen samt Smoerrets fysiske og kemiske Sammenssetning. Kj^benhavn, 

1883. 8vo. 
Sundstrom, K. J. Traits g6n6ral des matitres explosives h base de nitroglyc6)ine. 

Bruxelles, 1884. 8vo. 
SWAERTS, Th. Principes fondamentaux de chimie h Tusage des 6coles moyennes et 

de I'enseignement normal primaire. Gand, 1884. 8vo. 
Tafel iiber Indazol und Chinazol. Erlangen, 1884. 8vo. 
Tarleton, F. a. Ou chemical equilibrium. Dublin, 1882. 4to. 
Technisches Centralblatt. AUgeraeines Repertorium fur mechanische und chemische 

Technik. Herausgegeben von G. Behrend unter Mitwirkuug vou Ch. Heinzer- 

ling. No. 1. Januar. Halle. 1884. 4to. 
Thal^n, R. Om de lysande spektra hos Didym och Samarium. Stockholm, 1884. 

8vo. 
TiiATE, A. Ueber die Einwirkung.von Reductionsmitteln anf Orthonitrophenoxyl- 

essigsiinre. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 
Thomsen, a. Forelsesninger over technisk Chemie ved den Polytechniske Lserean- 

stalt. 3. Halvaar. Kj0benhavn, 1883. 8vo. 
Thudichum, J. L. W. Aids to physiological chemistry. London, 1884. 12mo. 
TiLDEN, W. A. Answers to problems in the introduction to chemical philosophy. 

London, 1884. 8vo. 
— Introduction to the study of chemical philosophy. Third edition. London, 

1884. 
TiLDEN, W. A., and W. A. Shenstone. On the solubility of salts in water at high 

temperatures. London, 1884. 4to. 
Treadwell, F. p., und V. Meyer. Tabellen zur qualitativen Analyse zum Gebrauch 

im chemisch-analytischen Laboratorium des eidgenossischen Polytechnikums. 

2. vermehrte und verbesserte Auflage. Berlin, 1884. 8vo. 
Tschirch, A. Untersuchungen iiber das Chlorophyll. Berlin, 1884. royal 8vo. 
Valentine, W. G. A course in qualitative chemical analysis. Revised and cor- 
rected by W. R. Hodgkinson audH. M. Chapman. Sixth edition. London, 1884. 
Van 't Hoff, J. H. fitudes de dynamique chimique. Amsterdam, 1884. 8vo. 
Vincent, C. Industrie des produits ammoniacaux. Paris, 1884. 8vo. * 



^, 



542 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR lfl84. 

VoGKi,, H. Die ehemisrljen Wirkuugen des Lich<s iind die Photograpbie iu ibrer 
Anwendnngin Knnst, WisspiiscbalY iind Indnstrio. 2. Aufl. Leipzig. 1884. 8vo. 

VoGKi., H. W. Die Fortschritle in der Pliotograpbieseit deui Jabre 1879. Bescbrei- 
buug der atif pbotograpbischein, etc., Gebiete gfiuachteu Erfabriiugen. Zugleicb 
.Supplement zum Lebrbucb der Photograpbie. :?. Aufl. Beiliu, 18?53. 8vo. 

VoGEL, H. Progress of pbotograpby since 1879. Philadelpbia, 1884. 8vo. 

Waas, E. Ueber die Einwirkung von Dicbloratber auf Benzol bei Gegeuwart von 
Aluminiunichlorid. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 

Wachtel, A. VON. Hilfsbucb fiir cbeniiscb-tecbuische Uutersuchungeu auf dem 
Gesauimtgebiete der Zackerfabrikation. Prag, 1884. 8vo. 

AVagner, Julius. Tabellen der im Jabre 1882 bestimmten pbysikalischen Kon- 
stanten cbemiscber Korper. Leipzig, 1884. 

Wagner, L. von. HandbucbderStarkefabrikation, mitbesondererBeriicksicbtigung 
der mit der Stiirkefabrikatiou verwaudteu Industriezweige, naraentlicb der Dex- 
trin-, Starkesyrup- uud Stiirkezuckerfabrikatiou. 2. Aufl. Weimar, 1884. 8vo. 
und Atlas in folio. 

Handbucb der Bierbrauerei. 6. Aufl. Weimar, 1884. 2 vols. 8vo. 

Walque, Fr. de. Manuel de manipulations cbimiques, suivi d'un manuel de cbimie 

6p6i"atoire. Louvain, 1884. 

Wanklvn, J. A., andE. T. Chapman. Water analysis. A practical treatise on tbe 
examination of potable water. 6tbedition, entirely rewritten. Londou,1884. 8vo. 

Warden, C. J. H., and L. A. Waddell. Tbe nou-bacillar nature of abrus-poison, witb 
observations on its cbemical and idiysiological properties. Calcutta, 1884. 

Watt, A. Tbe art of soap-making, a practical bandbook of raauufactnre of .soaps, 
etc., including many new processes, etc. London, 1884. 8vo. 

Weltz, Heinrich. Ueber einige Abkomralinge der Cblornitrobenzole. Freiburg 
i. B., 1884. 

Wilde, P. de. Traite 616mentaire de cbimie generale et descriptive. ;{. <5dit. 
Bruxelles, 1884. 2 vols. 12mo. 

WiLDT, E. Katecbismus der Agriculturcbemie. 6. Aufl. Leipzig, 1884. 8vo. 

Wiley, H. W. Diffusion, its application to sugar-cane and record of experiments 
witb sorgbum in 1883. Bulletin of tbe Department of Agriculture, Cbemical 
Division; \o. 2. W^asbingtou, D. C, 1884. 8vo. 

Winckler, E. Tecbuiscb-cbemiscbes Recept-Tascbenbucb, eutbalteud in circa 
10,000 Recepten und Mittbeilungen die niltzlicbsteu Entdeckungen aus dem Ge- 
biete der tecbniscbeu Cbemie und der Gewerbskunde. Halle, 1884. 8vo. 

Winkler, C. Lebrbucb der tecbniscbeu Gasanalyse. Kurzgefasste Auleitung zur 
Handbabung gasanalytiscber Metboden bewiibrter Braucbbarkeit. Freiburg, 
1884. 

WiRTH, E. Ueber die Condensation von Metabromortbonitrobenzaldebyd mit Aceton. 
Stuttgart, 1883, 8vo. 

WdHLER und Berzelius. Brucbstiicke aus den Briefen F. Wiibler's an J. J. Berze- 
lius, herausgegeben von E. Hjelt. Berlin, 1884. 12mo. 

Woodward, C. J. Aritbmetical cbemistry. Part II. London, 1884. 8vo. 

WuRTZ, Adolphe. Elements of modern cbemistrj'. Second American edition trans- 
lated and edited, witb tbe approbation of tbe autbor, from tbe fiftb Freucb edi- 
tion, by William H. Greene, professor of cbemistry in tbe Pbiladelpbia Higb 
Scbool. London and Pbiladelpbia, 1884. Svc, 770 pp. 

Dictiounaire de cbimie pure et appliqu^e. Supplement. Fasc. 8. Paris. 

l'-84. 8vo. 

Ztt itscb rift fiir Mineral wasser-Fabrikation. Herausgegeben vou P. Lobmann. Ber- 
lin. Jabrgang I, 1884-'85. 8vo. 



1 



MINERALOGY. 



By Edward S. Dana, 

Yale CoUec/e, Xew Haven, Conn. 



GENERAL WORKS ON MINERALOGY. 

The additious to the list of miueralogical treatises Lave uot been 
numerous duriug the past year. Perhaps the most noteworthy is the 
Text-Boole of Descriptive Mineralogy, by Mr. Hilary Bauerman, ot the 
Eoyal School of Miues in Loudon. It forms a companion volume to the 
Text-Book of Systematic Mineralogy, published three year ago, and 
noticed in the report for 1882. The present volume is devoted to the 
descriptions of species, which, though necessarily brief and not al- 
ways as fully up to date as might be desired, are on the whole satisfac- 
tory. It is interesting to note that the figures through the work are 
for the most part printed from the original blocks used in the revised 
edition of Phillips's Mineralogy, prepared by Brooke and Miller in 1852, 
a volume to which every working mineralogist now refers almost dailj', 
notwithstanding the fact that it was prepared so many years since. An 
elementary text-book of mineralogy has been published in Germany by 
Dr. H. Baumhauer, whicli deserves mention, though of modest propor- 
tions. Dr. Weisbach has issued a new edition of his i^ynopsis Minera- 
logica,* which gives a summary of mineral species, arranged according 
to their chemical composition, with notes as to their crystalline form 
and some other points. More important than this last work is the open- 
ing portion (first 80 pages) of the ninth volume of the MateriaUen zur 
Mineralogie Russlands, by N. y. Kokscharow. The species treated at 
length in this part are caledonite and wollastonite, but supplementary 
notices are also given of monazite, rutile, pachnolite, and xaut hophylite; 
the whole work is a monument of careful and accurate labor. 

A large volume (630 pages) has been published, under the editorship 
of Dr. J. B. Marvin, of the Original Researches in Mineralogy and Chem- 
istry of the late Dr. J. Lawrence Smith. Dr. Smith was for many years 
one of the most active contributors to these sciences in the United States, 



* For tbe frill title of this and other works, see the Bibliography at the close of this 
article. 

■^' 543 



5H 



.SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR \HSd. 



iiiid it is woll that, those, his jnost import.'iiit papers (miifibcrinf;- nearl , 
one linndrod), should bo put in permanent form. The volume, con 
tains also l)io;,^raphi(!al sketches by Dr. Marvin, Dr. Michel, nnd by tin- 
late rrofessor Silliman. 

Of the works devoted to special departments of inincralojjy the 
Trait /i <le ("rititallofjrdphie of I^iofcssoi- Mallard, of tlie "T'colc <U^s Mines 
in I'aris, must be mentioned lirst. The first volume of this most vnlu- 
able work was issued in 1870, and the second has followed <iuiiii;; ihe 
I)ast year. The two vrlumes endtrace njnvard of a thousrind pM;;es, nnd 
an atlas with numerous i)lat<\s a(;(!omi>anies them. It is the most ex- 
haustive treatise upon crystallosrajihy and pliysical niineraloj;y which 
has been ])ublishe(l in many years, and covers soiiu; branches of (he sub- 
ject more fully than has ever been <1oih' l)efor<'. Dr. Ai-istides Ihvzina, 
of Vienna, has i)ublished the first part of a work entitled Kryufdllo- 
(/raphische Untcrsuchungen an homoJogcn vnd imme^en Rcihcn, ;i nienmir 
which has received Ihe Baumsarluer ]»rize from the Vienna A<'iid(M]jy. 
This part is devoted to a discussion of the methods of observation, 
measurement of crystals, &e., and also the methods of calculation. 
These tojnes are discussed with almost an excess of fullness of detnil. 
Dr. Kuf;en Ilnssak, of Graz, has issued a work entitled AnleilinH/ zum 
liefitmrnen der gcHlcinhildcnden Mineralien, which i)romises to be of value 
to those who are esi)e(M!dly interested in the application of mineralo<;y 
to i)etro.i;ni]thy. The excellent tables for the deteiniination of mineials 
prei)ared by von Kobell, and of which 11 editions were issued Ijefoie 
the death of the author, have been revised by K. Oebbelce, and a 12tli 
edition published, with the additions which th<'! rapid develoj)ment of the 
science has nuule necessary. 

The Encyclopedic Chimiqve., published at Paris under the direction of 
M. Fr6my, contains two volumes which are interesting- to the mineral- 
ojifist. The first of these is by L. liour^cois, on the artificial jiroductiou 
of niiiu'rals. Thisis a subject to which French chemistshavemade impor- 
tant contributions and upon which we already have an excellent French 
woik (1.SS2) by MM. i^\)U(pi6 and L6vy.' This new volume is a valuable; 
contribution, giving with unusual fullness the methods employed in ihe 
syntiu'sis of min(u-als, with figures of the apparatus em]doyed, and then 
the sj)e<;ial results obtained in the case of the different mineral species. 
Another volume of this encyclopedia, by M. Meunier, is devoted to the 
subject of nu^teorites. This is a large volume, i)rofusely illustrated, and 
covering the whole subject very thoroughly. 

A second part has been ])ubliKhed of the work, by Tschermak, men- 
tioned in t he last volume of this report, devoted to the illustration of the 
microscopic structure of meteorites. This part contains eight jdates 
devoted to (»li\iii(>, l)i()n/,ite, augile, and ]ilagio<'lase, &c. They sliowmost 
satisfactorily the peculiar radiated structure which characteiizes these 
minerals when forming the spherical gniiun so common in the chon- 
dritic varietv of meteorites. 



MINERALOGY. 545 

Mr. G. F. Kunz has issued in separate form tlie (;liai)t(ir prepared by 
Liiii, on American Gems and Precious tStones, Toi- Uic, MiiK^ral ItesoiirceH 
of the United States of Mr. A. Willianhs. A pojiular volume, entitled 
Leisure Hours Among the Gems, has ai)])eared from the pen of Mr. A. 
C. Ilamlin. Dr. Fletehei-'H Guide to the Mineral Gallery of the British 
Museum, with an iiitiodiiction to tlie .study of minerals, is a work of 
some interest even to those who are not so fortunate as to have the op- 
])ortunity to study tlie beautiful eollcclion of minerals at South Ken- 
sington. 

CRYSTALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY. 

Many contributions have been made to our knowledge of tluj (crystal- 
line form of different mineral species, and numerous additions have been 
made to the already long lists oi" known i)laneH. Only a few memoirs 
of more than ordinary 8Coi)e and interest will be mentioned. Two ex- 
fended articles on this branch of mineralogy have been published by 
II. A. Mieps, of the British Museum. One of these {Min. Mag., v, .'325) 
is devoted to the descrI])tion of crystals of iiH;n(!ghinite ftom Bottino, 
near Serravezza, in Tuscany. The same subji-cf was a little earlier dis- 
cussed by Krenner, inthe Proceedings of the Hungarian Geological 
Society. The results of the two investigations agree closely, they i)ro\'e 
that the species is to ])e iclerred to the orfhorhombic; system; not mon- 
oclinic, as has been hitherto assumed. The crystals are highly comi)lex 
in form. A second paper by Miers is a moiU)graph of the species 
l)ournonite [Ih., vi, ]>. 5<)), in whi(;h IIm; author re\i(;ws the work of earlier 
crystallographers, Irom the time of Bournon (1804) down. To the list 
of 50 forms already identified, Miers adds twenty-nine nccw on(;s, deter- 
mined beyond doubt, and twenty-one others, which are of jare> occur- 
rence and need confirmation. Miers accepts the eh^ments of Miller 
(1852), and from these calculates a list of upwards of one thousand an- 
gles, being the angles between the normals of all the known planes and 
the most important planes of reference;. The memoir is accomj)ani(;d by 
two plates, with num<irous figures, and a si)herical proje(;tion. 

Another monograph is by W. J. Lewis, of Cambridge, on miargyrife 
{Zeitsch. Kryst., viii, 545), which adds much to our knowledge, of the com- 
I)lex crystals of that rare species, and removes some donbtfid jioints 
about them. The paper contains a large number of figures and a long 
list of measured angles compared with the angles calculated from the 
accepted elements. A pai)er by Max Schuster (Min. Petr. Mitth., vi, 
301), on the structure and character of the crystalline surfaces of the 
Swiss danburite, certainly leaves nothing unsaid on that subject. It 
covers upwards of two hundred ])ages, and is the second part of a 
memoir, the first of which was published a year ago. The detailed 
description of the vicinal i)romiuences on the planes, and all the other 
peculiarities, especially in their infliu'uce upon the; int(;r- facial angles 
HKiasured with flu; refle(;ting goni)neter, is not without ijit<;rest, but the 
S. Mis. ;« 35 



646 dCIENTIFIC RECORD I'OR 1884. 

subject would seem to be a little overdone when two hundred and 
seventy-five pages are given to its discussion. Schuster, after a very 
careful comparison of the angles measured by him on the Swiss crystals, 
confirms the conclusion of Hintze that they have almost identically the 
same axial relations as the crystals from Kussell, N. Y. Of other 
papers devoted to a similar class of subjects may be mentioned one by 
P. W. von Jeremejew on Eussian linarite (abstract in Zeitsch. Kryst., 
IX, 430) ; another by C. Morton on the stephanite of Kongsberg, Nor- 
way {(Efversigt K. Yet. Akad. Fork., February 13, 1884), on the am- 
phibole of the Aranyer Berg by Franzenau (Zeitsch. Kryst., viii, 568), 
on epistilbite by Hintze (ib., p. 605), on andalusiteand topaz by Griinhut 
{lb., IX., 113). Solly has described {Min. Mag., vi., 80) a crystal of 
tourmaline from Pierrepont, N. Y., which showed a tetartohedral devel- 
opment of the scalenohedral planes ; the matter needs confirmation. 

Hj. Sjogren has settled {(Efv. E. Vet. Alad. Fork., April 9, 1884) 
finally, it would seem, the disputed crystalline form of graphite, a species 
which has generally been referred to the hexagonal system in accord- 
ance with the early observations of Kenngott, but which was afterwards 
made monoclinic by Nordenskjold. Finding the direct determination of 
the form by accurate measurement impracticable, because of the imper- 
fection of the crystals, he attacked the problem indirectly. He shows 
that the etching figures and the figures produced by partial combustion, 
also the isothermal curves, all agree with the hexagonal system. 

The subject of the double refraction of minerals, isometric in geomet- 
rical form, has received some important contributions during the past 
year, and we now seem to be approaching to a full understanding of 
the true relations, A few years ago it appeared as if the only species 
of those formerly included in the isometric system, which were likely to 
be allowed to remain there, were those which from their opacity (like 
galena) did not allow of an optical examination, so general a phenome- 
non had this anomalous double refraction been shown to be. The new 
light recently thrown upon the subject has come from the observation 
of Mallard, that boracite loses all its double refraction and becomes 
isotropic at a temperature of 265° C. To appreciate the significance 
of this it is necessary to recall the fact that while the geometrical 
form of boracite crystals is in strict accordance with the require- 
ments of the isometric system, sections examined optically uniformly 
show double refraction, the section being seen to be divided, when ex 
amined in polarized light, into parts more or less regularly arranged, 
with different optical orientation. Instead of assuming, then, that the 
crystalline form is only a case of pseudo-symmetry, an imitative, or " mi- 
metic " (to use Tschermak's word) form due to the comj)lex twining ol 
a number of orthorhombic crystals, we must conclude that the isomet 
ric form was the original one, and that the conditions under which 
the crystals were formed were similar to those we now obtain by an eleva 
tion of temperature to 265^ 0. Under these conditions of formation then 



\ 



MINERALOGY. 547 

the molecular structure was isotropic, and the geometric form and oj^ti- 
cal character .were iu harmony with each other. Under jireseut condi- 
tions, however, the molecular structure is anisotropic, double refraction 
has arisen from secondary causes, while the geometric form remains un- 
3hauged — form and optical properties being then contradictory to each 
other. This subject has been discussed by Klein [Jalirh. Min., 1884, i, 
235), and he describes the best methods of observation in order to show 
this change from the isotropic to the anisotroi)ic state and back again. 
Mack has discussed at length ( Wied.Ann., xxi, 410) the pyro-electricity 
of boracite, and shows the close relation which exists between the elec- 
trical and the optical phenomena. 

It will be inferred from what has been said about boracite that a sim- 
ilar explanation of the optical anomalies in other crystals may be ex- 
pected to be found to hold true, although it is not to be supposed that 
this is the only cause of the secondary double refraction shown by so 
many minerals. Klein has extended his observations to a number of 
other species, the most important of which is leucite. This species, 
though long known to show more or less distinct double refraction, was 
included in the isometric system until vom Eath (1873) showed that the 
form could be interpreted as tetragonal ; since then most mineralogists 
have accepted vom Rath's conclusion. It is now shown by Klein 
{Nacliricliten K. Ges. Wiss. Gotiingen, May 3 and August 2, 1884) that at 
an elevated temperature leucite also loses its double-refraction and be- 
comes isotrojiic, and on cooling again becomes anisotropic, though the 
structure was somewhat altered. From this observed fact, he naturally 
concludes that at its formation the conditions were such that the min- 
eral was isometric in form and its molecular structure correspondingly 
isotropic. 

The memoir by Klein on leucite is a model of careful, accurate work. 
In his introduction he describes the special form of microscope employed, 
which had been constructed according to his plan, and which was in 
many respects an improvement upon earlier forms (as thatof Bertrand) 
made with the same object of allowing exact optical determinations. 
The material under examination was ample, embracing crystals from 
a variety of occurrences, and, of these, some 350 thin sections were 
prepared. Without going too far into details, it is enough to state 
the general conclusions, that in form and optical characters leucite cor- 
responds to the orthorhombic system (as first urged on geometrical 
grounds by Weisbach), but approximates closely to the tetragonal. The 
structure is in general that of a complex twin, three fundamental indi- 
viduals crossing each other, which may or may not be equally developed; 
in some cases, one of these may predominate over the others. These in- 
dividuals are twinned parallel to the planes which on the old view 
would have been called a dodecahedral plane. A good deal of irregu- 
larity is observed in the angles, both crystallograpliic and optical; it is 
found, moreover, that the inclusions do not correspond in their distri- 



548 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

bution to the optical limits of the individuals ; from these and other simi- 
lar facts, together with the most important point of all, that mentioned 
above, that the crystals become isotropic at a high temperature, he 
reaches the conclusion stated, that the orthorhombic form and anisotro- 
pic optical characters are both of secondary origin. This view seems all 
the more probable in the case of leucite, since we know that it must 
have been formed at very high temperatures, an assumption which is 
not so natural for boracite, although we know here that artificial crys- 
tals formed at a high temperature were originally isometric and isotropic, 
though losing the optical simplicity at ordinary temperatures. Increase 
of temperature is not the only change of conditions, however, which 
may bring about a change of optical characters. It has recently been 
shown by Mallard and Le Chatelier (Bull. Soc. Min,, vii, 478), that hexa- 
gonal silver iodide, which becomes isotropic at a temperature of 146° C, 
undergoes the same change at ordinary temperatures (20oC.) if subjected 
to a pressure of 2,500 kilograms per square centimeter. A mineral, 
then, which has crystallized at a high temperature, or under a great 
pressure, or both, may have taken a form which does not correspond to 
its molecular structure under ordinary conditions of pressure and tem- 
perature. This change may manifest itself in optical character alone 
(as boracite) or in this and in geometrical form as well, as in leucite. 

Some other contributions to the same subject deserve to be mentioned. 
Merian has proved {Jahrb. .¥w.,1884, i, 193) that crystals of tridymite, 
which in optical character correspond, as shown by Lasaulx, to complex 
tricliuic twins, become normally uniaxial in accordance with their hex- 
agonal form at an elevated temperature. Analcite underwent consid- 
erable change in optical character when heated, although it did not be- 
come completely isotropic. Merian did not succeed with leucite, but 
Penfleld {Jahrb. 3Iin., 1884, ii, 224) confirms Klein's results in this 
respect, though he shows that elevation of temperature does not re- 
move the optical anomalies of garnet. 

Klein has also shown {Jahrb. 3lin., 1884, ii, 49) that aragonite, a 
mineral which is optically biaxial and orthorhombic in form, though 
often imitating hexagonal forms by twinning, becomes uniaxial upon 
heating, the section changing into an aggregate of uniaxial particles 
with negative double refraction. In other words, the molecular change 
brought about in aragonite by elevation of temperature corresponds to 
a change of aragonite to calcite. It may be remembered that G. Eose 
showed a long time since that the powder into which heated aragonite 
separated was probably calcite, as suggested by its lower specific grav- 
ity. A similar optical change takes place, according to Miigge {Jahrb. 
Min., 1884, i, 63), in leadhillite (mouoclinic) upon carefully raising its 
temperature. These results recall the discussion of a similar subject by 
Prof. J. P. Cooke, in his paper on the vermiculites (1873), and later in 
that on haloid comi)ounds of antimony (1877). Cooke shows that at a 
moderate temperature (about 114° C.) the yellow orthorhombic antimony 



MINERALOGY. 540 

iodide cliauges suddeuly to the red hexagonal, and he argues that true 
hexagonal structure may result from molecular twmningof orthorhombic; 
molecules. 

Other investigators have worked on the same subject, of the change 
produced by elevation of temperature. Doelter [Jakrh. Min., 1884, ii. 
217) has experimented upon vesuvianite, apatite, and tourmaliue. W. 
Klein, of Bonn, has published an extended paper (Zeitsch. Erijst., ix, 
38), in which he gives the results of similar experiments with apatite, 
quartz, apophyllite, zircon, iolite, heulaudite, and other minerals. 
Forstner {Ih., p. 333) gives the results of a very interesting series of 
experiments upon the changes in optical characters brought about by 
artificial change of physical conditions on the feldspars of Pantelleria. 
These lead to essentially the same conclusions as the experiments of 
Klein on boracite and leucite. Among other things Forstner says, 
with respect to microcline-albite, that, considering the volcanic origin 
of the feldspars, it is natural to conclude that at the time of its forma- 
tion the conditions as to temperature, &c., were such as to cause a 
monoclinic arrangement of the particles, and that the present (triclinic) 
oj)tical characters are the result of subsequent changes. 

From a theoretical standpoint, perhaps the most interesting and sug- 
gestive contribution to this subject is a paper by Mallard {Bull. Soc. 
Min. France, vii, pp. 349-401), in which he discusses the probable molec- 
ular arrangements in the different types of crystals and the changes 
which they undergo under changes of conditions, as of temperature, &c. 
He calls attention to the cubic type, and the fact tkat the crystals of 
other systems often approximate to it; and, moreover, that the crystal- 
line parameters of a very large number of crystals are simple multiples 
(1, 2, 3) of the parameters of the cubic " r^seau." From this he concludes 
that for all crystals, without exception, the r^seau formed by the centers 
of gravity of the molecules is the same, and very nearly that which char- 
acterizes the cubic " r^seau." The relatively slight differences which 
exist between this last and the one actually existing could constitute 
with the special molecular twinning, and the molecular volume, the crys- 
talline individuality peculiar to each substance. This molecular twin- 
ning, which heat and other causes can alter, is regarded as giving rise to 
the true crystalline molecules. Eeference must be made to the original 
paper for the full discussion of the subject. 

Des Cloizeaux has continued his investigations of the optical charac- 
ters of the feldspar species; A recent paper {Bull. Soc. Min., vii, 249) 
is devoted to oligoclase and andesine, and covers nearly 100 pages, 
giving a large number of determinations of the position of the axes of 
elasticity, measurements of the axial angles, and so on. His observa- 
tions go to show that, in the albite-anorthite series of plagioclase, 
the species or subsi^ecies andesine deserves a more definite place than 
many mineralogists have of late years been inclined to give to it. It 
may be added here that Gylling has recently described [Jcihrh. Min.^ 



550 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

1884, II, 19 lef.) good crystals of andesine from Oiijarvi in Finland. 
J. H. Kioos has contributed {Jalirh. Min., 1884, ii, 87) a series of optical 
observations on ortboclase and microcline. He concludes that the two 
species are thoroughly distinct, ortboclase being strictly monoclinic and 
microcline triclinic, although the latter by very fine twinning may imi- 
tate the monoclinic mineral. He does not sui)port the view which has 
been advanced that ortboclase is nothing but a mimetic microcline. The 
observations of Forstner (see above) bear upon this subject. 

Of researches bearing upon the cohesion in crystallized substances two 
new papers by Miigge must be referred to {Jahrb. Min., 1884, i, 50, 216). 
Becke discusses at length the etching-figures on galena {Min. Petr. 
Mitth., VI, 237). 

CHEMICAL MINERALOGY. 

Of contributions to the general subject of chemical mineralogy several 
papers by Eammelsberg deserve to be mentioned first. These are de- 
voted to the discussion of some points bearing on the isomorphism of 
minerals {Jahrh. Min., 1884, ii, 67) ; on the chemical relations of the 
natural borates {lb., p. 158). Blomstrand discusses {Geol. For. Fork., 
Stockholm, vii, 59) the composition of the native compounds of uranium. 
An important paper by Doelter and Hussak {Jahrb. Min., 1884,1,18) deals 
with the action of a melted rock upon difterent minerals, with a view to 
throwing light upon the contact phenomena observed in nature. Fine 
pulverized rock, as basalt, andesite, or phonolite, was melted in a por- 
celain crucible, and then the mineral to be experimented upon was in- 
serted into the molten mass. The minerals chosen for the experiment 
were pyroxene, hornblende, biotite, feldspar, olivine, quartz, garnet, 
iolite, and zircon. The results of the experiments are not without in- 
terest, though of too special a character to be detailed here ; they do 
not lead to any broad conclusions. Another paper {lb., p. 158) by the 
same authors describes the results of trials with different varieties of 
garnet and vesuvianite, these minerals being fused and the products 
resulting from the recrystallization of the melted material studied. For 
exami^le, melanite yielded in this way meionite, anorthite, and a variety 
of olivine ; grossularite, from Wilui, gave meionite, a little anorthite, a 
mineral like melilite and perhaps hematite, and so on. The original 
mineral was not reproduced, and, moreover, the fusing together of ne- 
phelite and augite, and also of meionite and olivine, failed to yield garnet. 
Doelter has also made an interesting series of synthetic experiments 
{lb. II, p. 51, Zeitsch. Kryst., ix, 321) on the pyroxenes and nephelite, 
the results of which deserve to be studied in detail. 

In the line of chemical studies of individual mineral species, Pen- 
field's paper on the composition of beryl {Amer. Jour. ScL, xxviii, 25) 
is perhaps the most interesting. The formula of beryl, as previously ac- 
cepted, was that of a simple bisilicate of aluminum and beryllium, and 
the only uncertainty surrounding it was supposed to be that connected 



MINERALOGY. 551 

with the question as to the true Jitomic weight of beryllium. Peuficld 
has made a series of careful analyses on pure specimens of beryl from 
seven different localities, and shows by them that beryl uniformly con- 
tains both alkalies and basic water, which earlier analysts have over- 
looked. Thus the Hebron, Me., beryl contains nearly 3 per cent, of 
csBsium oxide, with 1 per cent, lithia and 1.8 soda and 2.3 water. The 
beryl from Branchville, Conn., contains 1 .5 per cent, of soda and 0.7 
lithia, with 2.7 water, and that of Aduutschilon, Siberia, contains 0.25 
per cent, soda and 1.1 water. The true formula of the species must, 
therefore, take account of both alkalies and water, but additional 
chemical work is needed to establish it thoroughly. Another point of 
interest is the identity of the rare mineral, scovillite, from Salisbury, 
Conn., with the even rarer rhabdophane from Cornwall. A paper by 
Brush and Penfield (26., xxvii, 200) discusses this subject, and shows 
that the mineral is essentially a hydrous phosphate of yttrium, erbium, 
lanthanum, and didymium. 

A new analysis of the haydenite of Baltimore has been made by Morse 
and Bayley {Amer. Gheni. Journ., vi., 24), which proves that the earlier 
analysis was incorrect, and that it is, as has been assumed, identical 
with chabazite. A hydrous sulphate of manganese and aluminum from 
Sevier County, Tennessee, has been investigated by "W. G. Brown {lb., 
p. 97). It is shown not to correspond exactly to any of the known sul- 
phates, though related to the afjohnite of South Africa and bosjemanite 
of several localities. The same chemist has analyzed the cassiterite 
from Irish Creek, Rockbridge County, Virginia (16., p. 185). Messrs. 
Clarke and Chatard have published {Amer. Jour. Sci., xxviii, 20) analy- 
ses of a series of minerals from different localities, including allanite 
from Tojisham, Me., some jade-like minerals, the material of Eskimo 
implements collected at Point Barrow, Alaska, &c. Renard and Kle- 
ment have a paper in the Bulletin of the Eoyal Academy of Belgium 
(November 8, 1884) on the chemical composition of crocidolite and fibrous 
quartz of South Africa. 

NEW MINERAL LOCALITIES IN THE UNITED STATES. 

The most interesting discovery of the past year is that of the rare 
mineral herderite at Stoneham, Me., a locality which has already fur- 
nished fine crystals of topaz and a number of other interesting minerals 
(see the Report for 1883). The original herderite was described by 
Haidinger in 1828, from a specimen from the tin mines of Ehrenfried- 
ersdorf, in Saxony. The form was then made out fully, but the compo- 
sition was left uncertain, there being only some blowpipe trials made, 
according to which it was decided to be probably a fluo-phosphate of 
aluminum and calcium. Only three or four specimens have been known 
to exist, and from 1828 till 1884 nothing was added to our knowledge 
of the species. Now, however, it has been found, as first described, by 



552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

W. E. Hidden {Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 73), atStoneham, and in suflfi 
cient quantities to allow of its thorough study. The crj talline form has 
been found to be near that of the original mineral {lb., p. 229), and also 
its optical characters {Bull. Soc. Min., France, vii, 230). An analysis 
was made by J. B. Mackintosh {Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 135), which 
resulted in proving that it was a fluo-phosphate of beryllium and cal- 
cium. Some doubt was thrown upon this determination by analyses by 
Winkler {Jahrh. Min., 1884, ii, 134), on both the Maine mineral and that 
from the original Saxon locality. The analyses of Winkler, however, 
were made upon minute quantities, and have since been proved by Genth 
to be inaccurate {Amer. Phil. Soc, October 17, 1884), Genth's results con- 
firming those of Mackintosh most fully and establishing the identity of 
the two minerals. 

Another mineralogical discovery of hardly less interest is that of the 
beautiful new borate Called colemanite, a description of which is given 
among the new species beyond. The new Colorado minerals, zunyite 
and guitermanite, are also mentioned in the same place. 

Dr. Hillebrand has described a number of mineral occurrences which 
present points of novelty. One paper {Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 349) con- 
tains an account of an unusual variety of nickeliferous lollingite occurring 
in complex twin crystals, from Teocalli Mountain, on Brush Creek, Gunni- 
son County, Colorado ; of a variety of cosalite containing 8.4 per cent, of 
silver and 7.5 per cent, of copper, from the Comstock mine near Parrott 
City, La Plata County j of a sulphide of bismuth, silver and copper, per- 
haps new, from the Missouri mine, Hall's Valley, Park County: of hiib- 
nerite, from the Uncompahgre district, Ouray County, and also from 
Phillipsburg, Montana. 

Another paper by the same author {Proc. Colorado Sci. Soc, i, 112), 
contains descriptions of a number of rare minerals, the majority new to 
America, from the American Eagle mine, Tintic district, Utah. These 
are olivenite in fine crystals, also in the brown compact fibrous form 
called wood copper; conichalcite in emerald-green globular forms, with 
radiated structure; chenevixite, in olive-green to greenish-yellow, com- 
pact masses imbedded in the ore; also jarosite and a hydrous calcium 
arsenate in fine, silky, white needles. He also describes bindheimite from 
Secret Caiion, Nevada; zinckenite from the Brobdignag mine, Red 
Mountain, San Juan County, Colorado ; and the rare nickel telluride 
melonite from Boulder County, Colorado. Mr. Richard Pearce mentions 
{lb., p. Ill) the occurrence of native bismuth with bismutite from Cum- 
mins City, North Park, Colorado. The same volume of Proceedings re- 
ferred to also contains a list of the important minerals of Colorado, with 
localities, prepared by Mr. Whitman Cross. 

Prof. W. P. Blake has described the occurrence of gigantic crystals 
of spodumene at the Etta tin mine in Pennington County, Dakota. One 
crystal is spoken of penetrating massive quartz and feldspar, which was 
36 feet long and from 1 to 3 feet in thickness. At the Ingersoll claim, 



MINERALOGY. 553 

in the same region, the Kime writer mentions the occurrence {Am. J. 8cl, 
xxviii, 341) of crystallized masses of a mineral wliicli appeared to be col- 
umbite. One mass weighed by calculation about a ton. This mineral is 
probably in fact tantalite, for an analysis of a similar mineral from the 
same locality by C, A. Schaeffer proved it to contain 79 per cent, tanta- 
lum pentoxide; moreover, the specific gravity was 7.72; that of typical 
tantalite ranging from 7 to 8, and of ordinary columbite from 5.4 to 
G.5. Fine crystals of vanadinite are described by F. H. Blake {lb., 
XXVIII, 145), from the Black Prince mine. Pioneer mining district, Pinal 
County, Arizona. They vary in color from yellow to deep red, the latter 
being the most common; wulfenite also occurs at the same mine, but not 
in very perfect crystals. S. B. Newberry {lb., xx\ ni, 122) mentions the 
discovery of nickel ore in large quantities in Cottonwood Campus, 
Churchill County, Nevada. The specimens obtained from a depth of 80 
feet were pure massive niccolite; these from deptlis of 60 feet and -45 feet 
showed more or less oxidation and hydration; and specimens from near 
the surface consisted of annabergite, the hydrated arsenate of nickel. 

An interesting occurrence in New Jersey is mentioned by Prof. Geo. 
H. Cook in his annual report of the Geological Survey, that of grains 
of metallic iron in the triassic red shales near New Brunswick. They 
were brought up by a drill used to bore a deep well, and were found also 
in the surface soil — the correctness of the observations is regarded as 
being above doubt. Prof. H. Carvill Lewis has given a preliminary ac- 
count of an interesting mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals in calcite 
at Wakefield, Canada. It has the form of sarcolite, but a microscopic 
examination has proved it to be an altered mineral pseudomorph, after 
some original mineral, which has not yet been found at the locality. In 
occurrence and relations it is suggestive of the gehlenite from the Tyrol. 
The name cacoclasite was suggested for it, in allusion to the absence of 
cleavage, before its i)seudomorphous character was established. The 
same author describes a variety of dark-bluish spinel, also from Wake- 
field; it is remarkable for having an apj^roximately cubic form, the 
planes, however, being much rounded. Barite crystals from DeKalb, 
Saint Lawrence County, New York, have been described by Dr. Geo. 
H. Williams. From Topsham, Me.. Prof. F. C. Robinson has obtained 
crystals of allanite {Amer. Jour. Sci., xxvii, 412), which he has subjected 
to chemical analysis. Additional points of interest are the occurrence 
of kaolinite in microscopic crystals, showing pyramidal planes, at the 
National Belle mine at Red Mountain, Ouray County, Colorado, as noted 
by R. C. Hills {lb., xxvii, 472) ; also the occurrence of leucite in lava in 
the vicinity of the volcano, Cerro de las Virgines, in Lower California. 

NEW MINERALS. 

Aimafibrite, Aimatolite. — See Hemafibrite, Hematolite, below. 
AllaMite.— This is one of a group of manganese arsenates recently 
discovered in Nordmark, Sweden. This group includes allaktite, dia- 



554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

delpbite (or aimatolite=hematolite), bemafibrite (eimafibrite), synadel- 
pbite. From tbis locality comes, too, manganostibiite, a related mineral 
containing also antimony, and xantboarsenite is still anotber manga- 
nese arsenate (and antimonate) from a different Swedisb locality. As 
announced by A. Sjogren, allakite occurs in small .crystals, rarely 4 
by 2""° in lengtb and breadth, tabular parallel to the ortliopinacoid. 
They occur in cavities and druses, in a manganese calcite, together witb 
fluorite, pyrocbroite, chrysolite, &c. The crystals, which are fully de- 
scribed by H. Sjogren, are monoclinic in form and closely related to 
pbarmacolite and vivianite. They are quite complex, showing some fif- 
teen different planes, half of them in the prismatic zone ; the optic axes 
lie in the plane of symmetry. The hardness is 4 to 5, the specific gravity 
3.83 to 3.85. The crystals are strongly pleochroic, with blood-red, yel- 
low, and bluish-green as the axial colors. The luster is vitreous, trans- 
parent to translucent; ttie fracture is splintery. An analysis leads to the 
formula MnaAsjOg -f 4 H2Mn02. {Geol. For. Fork., Stockholm, vii, 109, 
220, 407.) 

Broggerite. — This name has been given by Blomstrand in honor of the 
Norwegian mineralogist, W. 0. Brogger, to a uranium mineral, near 
cleveite in composition — cleveite, it will be remembered, is closely allied 
to uraninite or pitch-blende. The specimen examined by Blomstrand was 
from the neighborhood of Moss, Norway. It formed part of an octahe- 
dral crystal ; the mineral, consequently, like the others named, is to be 
referred to the isometric system. The hardness was 5 to 6, the specific 
gravity 8,73, and the color iron black. An analysis showed it to con- 
sist of about 80 per cent, of the oxide of uranium, with 8^ per cent, oi 
lead oxide, 5.J per cent, of thorina, and small quantities of other ele- 
ments, including the cerium yttrium metals. The author accompanies 
his description of this mineral with an extended discussion of the vari- 
ous minerals containing uranium. {Geol. FUr. ForhandL, Stockholm, vii, 
59.) 

Colemanite. — This is a new mineral of rare beauty and perfection of 
form. It was first described by J. T. Evans, and named by him after 
William T. Coleman, of San Francisco. Later the crystalline form has 
been exhaustively studied by Jackson, and other contributions have 
been made by mineralogists abroad. As shown by the analyses of 
Evans, it is a hydrous borate of calcium, having the formula 2 CaO, 
3B2O3 + 5 H2O, and very closely related to (if not identical with) the 
priceite from Oregon and pandermite from the Black Sea. It occurs in 
splendent crystals, sometimes attaining a size of 30""", lining cavities in 
the massive mineral. They belong to the monoclinic system, and have 
perfect clinodiagonal cleavage. In habit the crystals are near datolite, 
and a hasty examination of them might lead to their being referred to 
that species. The crystals are very highly modified, about forty differ- 
ent forms having been observed, half of them on a single crystal. The 
hardness is about 4 and the specific gravity 2.43. The crystals vary 



MINERALOGY. 555 

from white to clear and colorless ; the massive mineral is white. The 
locality of this beautiful borate is in Southern California, in the Calico 
district, San Bernardino County, and Death Valley, Inyo County. 
{California Acad., Bulletins Nos. 1 and 2.) 

Diadelphite. — This name was given by H. Sjogren to a manganese 
arsenate from the Moss mines in Nordmark, Sweden, and simidtane- 
ously the same mineral was announced by Igelstrom under the name 
aimatolite (properly hematolite). In its method of occurrence it is like 
allaktite described above. The crystals are small, from a fraction of a 
millimeter to 2'""'. In form they belong to the rhombohedral division of 
the hexagonal system, but optically they show anomalies, and Ber- 
trand calls them pseudo-hexagonal. The color is brownish-red to gar- 
net-red, the streak light chocolate brown. The crystals become super- 
ficially oxidized easily, and then turn black and opaque. The hardness 
is 3.5. The name refers to the close relation the hiineral bears to syn- 
adelphite and the other manganese arsenates from Nordmark. {Geol. 
For. Fork., StocMohn, vii, 210, 233, 369, ^07 ; Bull. Soc. Min. France, 
VII, 121, 124.) 

Goyazite. — A new hydrous phosphate of aluminum and calcium, de- 
scribed by Damour, from the diamond-bearing gravels of the province 
of Minas Geraes, Brazil. It occurs in small rounded grains of a yellowish- 
white color, showing one cleavage, normal to which the black cross of a 
uniaxial crystal can be observed in the polariscope. The hardness is 5, 
the specific gravity 3.26. The name refers to the province where the 
principal diamond deposits occur. [Bull. Soc. 3Un., vii, 204.) 

Guifermanite. — A name given by W. F. Hillebrand, after Mr. Frank- 
lin Guiterman, to a new metallic sulphide from the Zuui mine, near 
Silverton, San Juan County, Colorado. It occurs intimately mixed with 
zunyite (see below). When in the fresh state it has a bluish-gray color 
and slight metallic luster. The hardness is about 3, the specific gravity 
5.94. The formula deduced, after deducting the impurities present in 
the material analyzed, is 10 PbS, 3 AS2S3. 

Memafibrite {or Hiemafihrite). — Another of the new manganese arse- 
nates from' Nordmark, Sweden, described by Igelstrom, and named in 
allusion to its color. It occurs in globular forms, with fibroas struct- 
ure, mixed with magnetite and serpentine. According to Bertrand the 
mineral is orthorhombic, with the acute positive bisectrix i^arallel to the 
prismatic edge, and an optic axial angle of 70°. The color is blood- red, 
to which the name given refers. Its composition is near that of allak- 
tite, but it contains more water. {Geol. For. Fork., Stockholm^ 210, 407 ; 
Bull. Soc. Min. France, vii, 121, 124.) 

Hematolite {or Hcemalolite). — The proper form of the name aimato- 
lite, given by Igelstrom to the mineral also called diadelphite (which 
see) by H. Sjogren. Keferences as for hemaflbrite above. 

Hillangsite. — Described by Igelstrom as a new mineral, but probably 
only a variety of amphibole. It is said to resemble the anthophyllite 



656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FCR 1884. 

from Texas, Pa. It is properly colorless and transparent, but some 
times has a black metallic color from included microscopic crystals ol 
magnetite. The luster is silky. The hardness is 6. It is difficultly 
fusible to a black magnetic slag. An analysis makes it a bisilicate of 
iron and manganese, with a little magnesium and calcium. The locality 
is the iron mine of Hillang, Lndvika parish, Sweden ; it occurs with 
garnet, magnetite, and igelstromite. {Bull. Soc. Min., Yii,232.) 

KonincJdte. — Described by Cesaro as a new hydrated phosphate of iron, 
corresponding to the formula re2P208 + 6 H2O. It occurs in small 
globular or semi-giobular forms, consisting of radiating needles, which 
are translucent and almost colorless, and are to be refeixed to the mono- 
clinic system. It has a vitreous luster, a hardness of 3.5, and a specific 
gravity of 2.3. It fuses readily to a black bead. Koninckite is found 
with the fluo-phosphate of iron, richellite, recently described by the 
same author at Vise, Belgium. It is named after Prof. De Koninck, of 
Liege. {Ann. Soc. Geol. Belg., xi, 247.) 

ManganoHtibiite. — Still another new mineral from Nordmark, Sweden. 
According to Igelstrom, it occurs in black grains, probably to be re- 
ferred to the orthorhombic system. These are found in crystalline lime- 
stone with other manganiferous minerals, as hausmannite, pyrochroite, 
allaktite. An analysis leads to the formula 5 MnO (Sb, As)2 O5, with 
the antimony predominating. The name refers to its composition as 
containing both manganese and antimony (stibium). {Geol. For. Fork., 
Stockholm, vii, 210 ; Btdl. Soc. Min. France, Yii, 120.) 

FolylitMonife. — A variety of lithia mica described by Lorenzen as 
occurring at Kaugerdluarsuk, Greenland, with rinkite (see below), arved- 
sonite, aegirite, eudialyte, &c. It is found in pale green to white six- 
sided tabular crystals. These are divided, after the manner of zinn- 
waldite, into six sectors, with striations diverging from the center; the 
optical characters are also very near those of zinnwaldite. In composi- 
tion it shows a higher percentage of silica and lithia, less alumina, and 
almost no iron. The name has reference to the large amount of lithium. 
{Zeitsch. Eryst, ix, 251.) 

EinMte. — Associated with the lithia mica just described, and with the 
other minerals named, is a mineral to which Lorenzen has given the 
name rinkite, after Dr. Eink. It occurs in monoclinic crystals, tabular 
in habit, parallel to the orthopinacoid. The color of the fresh mineral is 
yelloAvish-brown, but the crystals are often slightly altered on the sur- 
face, and these straw-yellow. The luster is vitreous to greasy. The hard- 
ness is 5, the specific gravity 3.46. An analysis shows it to be a titano- 
silicate of the cerium metals and calcium with sodium fluoride. {Ibid.) 

Salmite. — This is a manganesian ^ ariety of chloritoid from Vielsalm, 
Belgium, described by Eug. Prost. It occurs in irregular masses with 
coarse saccharoidal structure and grayish color. The hardness is 5 to 
G, and the specific gravity 3.38; this determination, however, is a little 
low, in consequence of admixed quartz. Au analysis shows the pres- 



MINEEALOGY. 557 

ence of 7 per cent, manganese protoxide, which is the only distinguish- 
ing- feature of the variety. {Geoh Soc. Belg., 1.S84.) 

Sijnade'pMte.—A new arsenate of manganese from Nordmark, Swe 
den, described by H. Sjogren. It occurs sometimes with scheelite, some- 
times in cavities in the porous calcium carbonate. The crystals belong 
to the monoclinic system, and are very near liroconite in angle; also 
not far off from lazulite. The color is blackish-brown to black, being 
considerably darker than that of the other manganese arsenates de- 
scribed from the same locality; it is translucent to nearly opaque. The 
luster is vitreous on the fracture, submetallic on crystalline faces. The 
hardness is 4.5, the specific gravity 3.46 to 3.50, The composition is 
stated to be that of a hydrated arsenate of manganese, with also alumina 
and iron, being near that of diadelphite, from which, however, it differs 
in containing less water. The crystalline forms of the two species are 
also distinct. The name has reference to the close relation to diadel- 
phite and the other allied species from the locality. {Geol. For. Fork., 
Stockholm, VII, 235, 382, 407.) 

Utahite. — A mineral from the Eureka Hill mine, in the Tintic district, 
Utah, described by Arzruni. It occurs in fine scales forming an aggre- 
gate with silky luster as a coating on quartz. Under the microscope 
the scales are found to be hexagonal plates with rhombohedral planes on 
the edges. Notwithstanding the minuteness of the crystals it was found 
possible to measure them, and so to determine the length of the vertical 
axis, namely, c = 1.1389. The mineral has been analyzed by M. Damour 
and sliowu to correspond with the formula 3 Fe203, 3' SOy+4 HoO ; it is 
consequently a basic sulphate of iron sesquioxide. {Zeitsch. Kryst., ix, 
558; or Bull. Soc. Min. France, vii, 120, 128.) 

Xantlioarsenite. — Described by Igelstrom as a new arsenate of man- 
ganese from the Sjo mines in the parish of Grythyttan, Sweden. It 
occurs in sulphur-yellow masses, resembling the yellow compact garnet 
found with rhodonite at the L&ngban mines. It is associated with haus- 
manuite, magnetite, and hematite. Ko crystals were found, but Ber- 
trand has shown that it is optically biaxial; whether it belongs to the 
orthorhombic, monoclinic, or tricliuic system could not be decided. An 
analysis showed it to be a hydrous arsenate of manganese chietly, with 
also a little antimony replacing the arsenic, and small quantities of iron, 
magnesium, and calcium replacing the manganese. It is very near the 
chondroarsenite of the same author, only differing in containing a little 
more water, and having a more decidedly yellow color; it is also related 
to the manganese arsenates from Nordmark described above. {Bull. Soc. 
Min., VII, 237.) 

Zunyite. — A remarkable new mineral described by Hillebrand from 
the Zuiii mine on Anvil Mountain, near Silverton, San Juan County, 
Colorado. It occurs iutimately intermingled with the sulphide of ar- 
senic and lead, guitermanite (see above), from which it was separated 
for examination by removing the sulpnide by nitric acid. The crystals 



558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

thus obtained \¥ere found to be tetrabedral in habit, with also the 
planes of the minus tetrahedron, cube, and perhaps the dodecahedron } 
there is cleavage parallel to the faces of both tetrahdrons. The crystals 
are clear and transparent, except as rendered black and opaque by in- | 
elusions of black grains of titanic oxide. The luster is vitreous. The f 
narduess is about 7, and the specific gravity 2.875. Several careful ■'[ 
analyses were made which fix in general the composition of the mineral. \ 
but without entirely establishing its exact formula. It is shown to be .1; 
a silicate of aluminum, very low in silica, with nearly 11 per cent, of | 
water assumed to be basic, as it does not go off at 270°C., also 5.6 per 
cent, fluorine and 3 per cent, chlorine. The mineral is then as remark- ; 
able in composition as in crys talline form, and deserves further study. 
[ProG. Colorado Scientifie Soc, vol. i, 124.) 

NECROLOGY OF MINERALOGISTS, 1884. 

Friedrich EJ[.0CKE. — Born May 28, 1847, in Breslau ; died June 17., 
1884. He was assistant in mineralogy at Heidelberg in 1868-'70 ; in 
1879 he became " ausserordentlicher Professor" at Freiburg, in Breis- 
gau ; in 1881 he became "ordentlicher Professor" of mineralogy and 
petrography at Marburg. The list of his scientific papers includes 17 
articles, many of them devoted to physical mineralogy 5 his most im- 
portant contributions are those upon the cause of "optical anomalies" of 
crystals as due to secondary causes. (See the Keports for 1882, 1883.) 

Johannes Lorenzen. — Born November 23, 1855, in Sender- Jylland ; 
died May 5, 1884, when on his way from Copenhagen to Greenland. He 
was curator of the Mineralogical Museum at Copenhagen, and the author 
of a number of important mineralogical papers. Among his contribu- 
tions may be mentioned his memoirs on the metallic iron of Greenland, 
and the minerals occurring in the sodalite-synite of the Tunugdliarfik 
and Kangerdluarsuk fiords of Southern Greenland. 

QuiNTiNO Sella. — Born at Mosso, in Piedmont, July 17, 1827 ; died 
March 14, 1884. He was a mathematician and mineralogist of the high- 
est rank, and at the same time one of the foremost statesmen of United 
Italy. In the last capacity he served in several distinguished positions, 
being for many years minister of finance. His scientific contributions 
were chiefly in crystallography ; he also took an active part in the ar- 
rangements with reference to the geological survey of Italy. He was 
president of the R. Accademia dei Lincei. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MINERALOGY; 1884. 
I. — Mineralogical works. 

Bauerman, Hilary. Text-book of descriptive miueralogy. 399 pp. 12mo. Lon- 
don, 1884. 

Baumiiauer, H. Kui^(^sLebrbuchderMineralogie. 190 pp. 8vo. Freiburg, Baden. 

BoiTRGEOis, L. Reproduction artificielle des min^raux. 288 pp. 8vo. Paris, 1884. 
(EncyclopMie Cbimique.) 



MINERALOGY. 559 

Brezina, a. Krystallographische Untersuchungen an homologen und isomeren Eeihen. 
Eine von der kais. Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien mit dem Freibcrrn 
von Baumgartner'schen Preise gekronte, durch einen metbodologischen Tlieil 
vermelarte Sclirift. 1. Theil. Methoden. 359 pp. 8vo. Vienna, 1884. 

Fletcher, L. A guide to the mineral gallery of the British Museum (Natural His- 
tory) ; with an introduction on the study of minerals. 120 pp. 8vo. London. 
1884. 

Hanks, H. G. Third Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California for the 
year ending June 1, 1883. Ill pp. 8vo. Sacramento, 1883. 

Fourth Annual Report. 410 pp. Svo. Sacramento, 1884. 

HCSSAK, E. Anleitung zum Bestimmen der gesteinbildenden Mineralien. 

KoBELL, F. VON. Tafeln zur Bestimmung der Mineralien, etc. 12. neu bearbeitete 

und vermehrte Auflage Ton K. Oebbecke. Munich, 1884. 
KoKSCHAROW, N. VON. Materialien zur Mineralogie Russlands. Vol. ix, pp. 1-80. 

S*. Petersburg, 1884. 
Landero, Carlos F. de. Informe sobre las especies minerales des Estado de Jalisco. 

41 pp. Svo. Guadalajara, 1884. 
Mallard, E. Trait6 de Cristallographie g^om^trique et physique. Tome second. 

Cristallographie physique, avec 184 figures et 8 planches tiroes en couleur. 599 

pp. 8vo. Paris, 1884. (Tome premier, 1879.) 
Meunier, Stanislas. M^t^orites. 532 pp. 8 vo. Paris, 1884. Encyclop^die chim- 

ique. Tome ii. M6talloide8. Appendice, 2^^ cahier. 
Phillips, J. Arthur. A treatise on ore deposits. 652 pp: Svo. London, 1884. 
Smith, J. Lawrence. Original researches in mineralogy and chemistry, edited by 

J. B. Marvin. 630 pp. 8 vo. Louisville, Ky. 
Tschermak. Die mikroskopische Beschaffenheit der Meteoriten erliiutert durch 

photographische Abbilduugen. Die Aufnahmen von J. Grimm in Olfenburg. 

Lief. 2. 
Weisbach, a. Synopsis mineralogica. Systematische Uebersicht des Mineralreiches. 

87 pp. Svo. 1884. 

II. — Mineralogical memoirs.* 

Barus, Carl. On the thermal effect of the action of aqueous vapor on feldspathic 
rocks (kaolinization). School of Mines Quaterly, November, 1884. 

Becke, F. Aetzversuche am Bleiglanz. Min. Petr. Mitth., vi, 237. 

Blomstrand, C. W. Om ett uranmineral frSn trakten af Moss samt om de uativa 
uranaterna i allmanhet. Geol. For.. Forh. Stockholm, vii, 59. 

Cross, W. A list of specially notevrorthy minerals in Colorado. Proc. Colorado Sci. 
Soc, I, 134-144. 

Des Cloizeaux. Oligoclases et and^sine. Bifll. Soc. Min. France, vii, 249-336. 

DOELTER, C. Zur Synthese des Pyroxens. Jahrb. Min., 1884, ii, p. 51. 

Zur Syuthese des Nephelins. Zeitsch. Kryst., ix, 321. 

DOELTER and Hussak. Ueber die Einwirkung geschmolzener Magmen auf verschie- 
deue Mineralien. Jahrb. Min., 1884, i, 18. 

Synthetische Studien. iZ>., p. 158. 

DuFET, H. Influence de la temperature sur les indices de refraction du quartz. 

Bull. Soc. Min. France, vu, 182. 
FOrstisier, H. Ueber kiinstliche physikalische Veranderungen der Feldspaihe von 

Pantelleria. Zeitsch. Kryst., ix, 333. 
GRtJNHUT, L. Beitriige zur la-ystallographischen Kenntniss des Andalusites und des 

Topazes. Zeitsch. Kryst., IX, 113. 

*In this list are given the full titles of the more important mineralogical memoirs 
of the past year, especially those of a general and theoretical character. Many others 
are referred to in the preceding pages. 



560 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Kaxkowsky, E. Ueber die Polarisationsverhaltnisse von senkrecht gegen einer 

optische Axe geschnittenen zweiaxigen Krystallplatten. Zeitsch. Kryst., ix, 486, 
Kettelek, E. Zur Dispersion des Quarz. Wied. Ann., xxi, 438. 
Klein, C. Optische Studien am Leucit. Nachr. k. Ges. Wiss., Gottingen, pp. 421- 

472. 

— Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Boracit. Jabrb. Min., 1884, i, 235. 

Kjlein, W. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der optiscben Aenderuugen in Krystallen unter 

dem Einflusse der Erwarmung. Zeitscb. Kryst., ix, 38. 
Kloos, J. H. Beobachtungen an Ortboklas und Mikroklin. Jabrb. Min., 1884, ii, 87. 
KOLENKO, B. VON. Die Pyroelektricitiit des Quarzes in Bezng anf sein krystallo- 

grapbiscbes Sy.stem. Zeitscb. Kryst., ix, 1. 
Kkoustchoff, K. de. Sur I'analyse spectrale appliqu^e aux etudes micromin^ralo- 

giques. Bull. Soc. Min. France, Vli, 243. 
LoMMEL, E. Die Fluorescenz des Kalkspatbs. Wied. Ann., xxi, 422. 
LORENZEN, J. Untersucbungen einiger Mineralien aus Kangerdluarsuk. Zeitscb, 

Kryst., IX, 243. 

Acbeniieal examination of Greenland telluric iron. Min. Mag., vi, 14. 

Mack, K. Ueber das pyroelectriscbe Verbalten des Boracits. Wied. Ann., xxi, 410. 
Mallard, E. Sur I'isomoriibisme des cblorates et des azotates, et sur la quasi-iden- 

tite vraisemblable de rarrangement mol^culaire dans toutes les substances cris- 

tallis6e8. Bull. Soc. Min. France, vii, 349-401. 
Mallard, E., and Le Chatelier. Sur la variation avec la pression de la tempera- 
ture k laquelle se produit la transformation de I'iodure d'argent. Bull. Soc. 

Min. France, vii, 478. 
Mann, P. Untersucbungen liber die cbemiscbe Zusammensetzung einiger Augite aus 

Pbonolitben und verwandtenGesteinen. Jabrb. Min., 1884, ii, 172. 
Merian, a. Studien an gesteinsbildenden Pyroxenen. Jabrb. Min., Beilage-Bd., 

HI, 252. 
Michel- Ll5;vy, A. Note sur la birefringence de quelques min6raux ; application h 

retude des rocbes en plaques minces. Bull. Soc. Min. France, vii, 43. 
Miers, H. a. Tbe crystallography of bournonite. Min. Mag., vi, 59; Meneghinite- 

ib., V, 325. 
MiNNEGERODE, B. Ueber die Symmetrie-Verbaltnisse und die Elasticitat der Krys- 

talle. Nacbr. k. Ges. Wiss., Gottingen, pp. 374-384; pp. 488-492. 
MtJGGE, O. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Cohasionsverbaltnisse einiger Mineralien. 

Jabrb. Min., 1884, i, 50. 

Ueber Scblagfiguren und kiinstlicbe Zwillingsbildung am Leadbillit, und 

die Dimorpbie dieser Substanz. /&., p. 63. 

Bemerkungen liber die Zwillingsbildung einiger Mineralien. lb., p. 216. 



Rammelsberg, C. F. Ueber isomorpbe, cbemiscb nicbt analoge Mineralien. Jabrb. 
Min., 1884, ii, p. 67. 

Ueber den Boronatrocalcite und die natiirlicben Borate iiberbaupt. lb., ii. 

158. 

RiNNE, F. Beitrage zur Kenntniss des Krystallsystems des Zinkoxyds. Jabrb. 

Min., 1884, ii, 164. 
SCHRAUF, A. Vergleicbend-morpbologiscbo Studien iiber die axiale Lagerung der 

Atome in Krystallen. Zeitscb. Kryst., ix, 265. 

Ueber die Trimorpbie und die Ausdebnungs-Coefficienten von Titandioxid. 

lb., p. 433. 

Schuster, Max. Studien iiber die Fliicbenbescbaflfenbeit und Bauweise der Dan- 
buritkrystalle vom Scopi in Graubiindten. Min. Petr. Mittb., vi, 301. 

Sjogren, A. Mineralogiska Notiser, vii. Geol. For. Forb., Stockholm, vii, 109; 
viii, ib., p. 177. 

Sjogren, Hj. Kristallografiska Studier, vil. Geol. For. Forb., Stockholm, Vll, 
124; VIII, ib., p. 220 ; ix-xi, ib., p. 369. 



MINERALOGY. 561 

Sjogren, Hj. Om mauganarseniatemas fran Nordmarken fbrekomstsatt och par- 

ageoesis. lb., p. 407. 
Smith, Eugene A. List of the Ores and Minerals of Industrial Importance occurring 

in Alabama. Montgomery, Ala., 1884. 
Steenstrup, K. J. V. On the existence of nickel-iron with Widmannstatten figures 

in the basalt of North Greenland. Min. Mag., vi, 1. 
Thotjlet, J. Mesure du coefficient de dilatation cubique des min6ranx. BuU. Soc. 

Min. France, vn, 151. 
Traube, H. Ueber den Nephrit von Jordansmiihl in Schlesien. Jahrb. Min., Beil. 

Bd., Ill, 412. 
VoiGT, W. Zur Theorie der Absorption des Lichtes in Krystallen. Nachr. k. Ges. 

Wiss. Gottingen, pp. 137 and pp. 337-363. Wied. Ann., xxin, 577. 
Webskt, M. Ueber die Ein- und Mehrdeutigkeit der Fundamental-Bogen-Complexe 

fiir die Elemente monoklinischer Krystall-Gattungen. Sitzber. k. Preuss. Akad. 

Wiss., Berlin, April 17, 1884. 

S. Mis. 33 36 



A. REVIEW OP THE PROGRESS OF NORTH AMERICAN IN- 
VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY FOR 1884. 



By John Belknap Maecou. 



In this work I have endeavored to collect the titles of all of the works 
on North American invertebrate palsBontology published during the 
past year. An attempt has been made to give a brief idea of the con- 
tents of each work, the new genera and species described, and the general 
conclusions of the authors. The alphabetical arrangement by authors 
seemed, after a good deal of thought, the best method of arrangement 
and has consequently been adopted. The explanatory notices are placed 
after each title. The work I hope will prove useful, and I will be glad 
if those who notice them will call my attention to any omissions. 

Ami, H. M. — Notes on TriartJms spinosus Billings. (Trans. Ottawa 

Field Naturalists' Club, No. 4. Ottawa, 1883.) 

Interesting notes on this Trilobite with two figures, one a copy of 
Billings's, the other original, with some of the furrows and grooves on 
the occipital segment imperfectly figured. 

Beecher, C. E. — Ceratiocaridce from the Chemung and Waverly Groups 
at Warren, Pa. (Rep. of progress, P. P. P., 2d Geol. Surv. Penna., 
pp. 1-22, pis. i and ii, Harrisburg, 1884.) 

A very interesting imper on a grouj) of which but little is known. 
Gives descriptions of two new genera, Elymocaris and Tropidoearis, El. 
siliqua n. sp. and T. Mcarinata, T. interrupta, T. alternata n. sp., and 
also a new species of Echinocaris, E. socialis u. sp. He also redescribes 
and gives good figures of E. punctata Hall. The figures and descrip- 
tions are excellent 5 a short bibliography of the subject is also given. 

Billings, W. R. — Notes on, and description of, some fossils from the 
Trenton Limestone. (Trans. Ottawa Field Naturalists' Club, No. 4. 
Ottawa, 1883.) 

Describes a new species, Heterocrinus hellevillensis, with good figures. 
Gives a good illustration showing the arms of Dendrocrinus jewettii 
Billings, 1859 ; he estimates their number at least at forty. Describes 

563 



564 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1834. 

a nef/ variety of Amygdalocystites Jiorealis as var. Icevis. The illustra- 
tions are good. He records the existence in the Trenton limestone at 
Brigham's Lake, Hull, of locrinus subcrassus, Glyptocrinus decadactylus, 
and Gl. parvus. 

Chapman, E. J. — A Classification of Crinoids. (Trans. Eoyal Soc. Can- 
ada, vol. I, section iv, 1882, pp. 113-116. Montreal, 1883.) [Ap- 
peared 1884.] 

This classification is based on the presence or absence of a canalicu- 
lated structure in the calyx and arm-plates. The author makes three 
divisions with a subdivision in the first and second divisions. In the 
first division the plates (apart from the stem segments) are without in- 
ternal canals ; in the second the arm-plates are perforated internally ; 
and in the third a system of canals radiates from the base of the calyx 
to the extremities of the arms. The following is a summary of the clas- 
sification : 

I. Emedullata : 

1. Amplicincta : 

1. Proclinata (e. g. Cheirocrinus). 

2. Attenuata {e. g. Pisocrinus; Hybocrinus). 

3. Spatiosa (e. g. Platycrinus). 

4. Piunigera {e. g. Poteriocrinus). 

5. Disjuncta {e. g. Marsupites). 

2. Multicincta: 

1. Squamosa (e. g. Ichthyocrinus). 

2. Copulata (e. g. Melocrinus ; Eucalyptocrinus). 

3. Ornata {e. g. Actinocrinus ; Glyptocrinus). 

4. Opulenta {e. g. Polypeltes). 

5. Mutica {e. g. Uintacrinus). 

II. Fistulata: 

1. Eamosa {e. g. Cyathocrinus) 

2. Foliata [e. g. Crotalocrinus). 

3. Fimbriata (e. g. Cupressocrinus). 

4. Quadrata (e. g. Gasterocoma). 

III. Canaliculata : 

1. Orassicincta : 

1. Frondosa {e. g. Pentacrinus). 

2. Vagata (e. g. Antedon). 

3. Florifera {e. g. Encrinus). 

4. Coadunata (e. g. Eugeniacrinus). 

5. Conformata {e. g. Apiocrinus; Bourgetticrinus ; Khi^o- 

crinus). 

2. Tenuicincta: 

1. Carinata (e. g. Hyocrinus). 

2. Truncata (e. g. Holopus). 



NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 565 

ClaypolE; E. ay. — On the occurrence of the Genus Balmanites in the 
Lower Carboniferous Rocks of Ohio. (Geol. Ma^^azine, 3d Decade, 
July, 1884, vol. i, ISTo. vii, pp. 303, 307, London.) 
The author describes Balmanites^ Giiyahogw, illustrated by a wood- 
cut, and he discusses the Trilobitic fauna of the carboniferous. 

DwiGHT, William E.— Recent Exi)lorations in the Wappinger Valley 

Limestone of Dutchess County, New York, No. 4. 
Descriptions of Calciferous ? Fossils. (Amer. Journ. of Sci. and Arts, 

April, 1884, vol. xxYii, article xxix, pp. 249-259, pi. vii, New Haven, 

1884.) 

The figures are clear. The new species described are as follows: 
Bathyurus taurifrons, B. ? crotalifrons, Gyrioceras vassarina, G. % dac- 
tyloidcs, G.micro.^copic7(m, OHJwceras spinsisepfinn, 0. Henrietta, and On- 
coccras vasiforme. 

FoEESTE, Aug. F.— The Power of Motion in Crinoid Stems (January. 
1884). (Amer. Naturalist, vol. xviii, No. 1, pp. 57, 58; figure in text, 
Philadelphia, 1884.) 

The author, from the fact that he found a crinoid stem disposed in a 
perfect natural coil, argues that it placed itself in that position, was de- 
stroyed while in that position, and must have had the power of motion 
to place itself in that jjosition. 

Fontaine, W. M. — Contributions to the Knowledge of the older Meso- 
zoic Flora of Virginia. Monogi aphs of the United States Geological 
Survey, vol. vi, pp. 1-144, pis. i-liv. 4to. Washington, 1883. [Ap- 
l)eared December, 1884.] 

This work is divided into three parts. In the first Professor Fontaine 
gives a brief description of the geology of the Virginia Mesozoic areas. 
In the second he describes the flora, among it the two new genera, Mer- 
tensides n. g. and Bseudodana'opsis n. g., and twenty-seven new species: 
ScMzoneura virginiensls, Acrostichides rJtojnhlfoUus, A. microphyllus, A. 
densifolius. Mertensides distans, Asterocarpus mrginiensis, A. platyraclm^ 
A. penticorpaj Pecopteris rarinervis, GladophlehiH Hid)falcata, G. auricidata, 
G. ovata, G. microphylla, G. pseudoivliitbiensis, G. rotundiloha, Lonchop- 
teris virffiniensis, Bseudodanmopsis reticulata^ P. nervosa, Petroplujlliim in- 
a'qnale, Gtenophyllnm truncatiim, G. grand if oliidn, G. gigantenm, Podo- 
za mites emmonsi, Sphenozamites rogersianns, Gycadites tenuinervis, Zamio- 
strohus virginiensis, Baiera multifida. 

A table comparing them with plants from the Triassac, Jurassic, and 
Rhfetic of other regions is given ; 9 j^er cent, show affinities with Tri- 
assic forms, 19 per cent, with Jurassic forms, and 28 per cent, with 
Rh^etic forms. The flora must therefore be considered not older than 
the Rhcetic. 

In the third part he republishes Emmons's figures of the Mesozoic flora 



56 G SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

of North Carolina and compares this flora with that of Virginifi in a 
table, showing also the affinities to Jurassic, Ehsetic, and Triassic plants 
of foreign countries. This list contains thirty-nine species. Twenty- 
three per cent, of these are peculiar to North Carolina, 41 per cent, are 
found in Virginia, 20 per cent, are allied to or identical with Jurassic 
forms, and 3S per cent, are allied to or identical with Ehaetic forms, and 
therefore the North Carolina flora may be considered of the same age as 
that of Virginia. 

Ford, S. W. — Note on the Discovery of Primordial Fossils in the Town 
of Stuyvesant, Columbia County, New York. (Amer. Jour. Sci. and 
Arts, July, 1884, art. vi, vol. xxvni, pp. 35-37.) 
Mr. Ford considers that the 120 feet of strata he finds in Columbia 

County are simply a southern prolongation of the Troy primordial 

series. 

Hall, James. — Notes on the Family Dictyospongidce. Observations on 
the Genera Cyathophycus, Bictyophyton, Phragmodictya, Clathrospo7igia, 
Physospongia, and their relations to Uphantcenia. (35th Eeport of the 
New York State Museum Nat. Hist., pis. xvii-xx.) 
Plates published in advance ; one hundred copies have been distrib- 
uted. 

Hall, James. — Descriptions of the Species of Fossil Eeticulate Sponges, 
constituting the Family Dictyospongidce, pp. 1-19. Albany, 1884. 
(Abstract of a i^aper to be issued in the 35th Museum Eeport.) 
Contains further description of the forms indicated in the previous 
title. The new genera Ectenodictya, Lyrodictya, Thamnodictya, Phrag- 
modictya, Gleodictya, and Physospongia, are characterized, and the follow- 
ing new species are described : Dictyopkyton hamiltonense, D.patulum, D. 
prismaticum, D. teltim, D. irregulare, D. haculum, D. paralellum, D. cine- 
turn, D. sacaulum, Ectenodictya burlingtonensis, Lyrodictya roniingeri, 
Phragmodictya patelliformis, Gleodictya gloriosa, G. f mohri, Physospongia 
colletti. 

Hall, James. — Palaeontology. Vol. v, part 1. Lamellibranchiata I. 

Text and plates. Containing descriptions and figures of the Mono- 

myaria of the Upper Helderberg, Hamilton, and Chemung Groups. 

(Geological Survey of the State of New York, pp. i-xviii and 1-268. 

Explanation of plates i-xxxiii and Ixxxi-xcii. Albany, 1884.) 

Plates i-xxxiii were published last year in advance ; plates Ixxxi to 

xcii have not yet appeared, and no plates at all are bound in the volume. 

Another volume will appear next year containing the descriptions of 

the remainder of the forms illustrated on plates xxxiv-lxxx, inclusive. 

In this the author proposes to give a resumS of all the genera described, 

and, in the same connection, a comparison with genera described in other 

publications, with some notice of the bibliography of this class of fossils 



NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 567 

SO far as relates to the palseozoic forms. In that notice the reasons for 
the generic subdivisions used in the present vohiiue will be given in full. 

The following new genera are proposed in this volume :. Grenipecten, 
Lyriop€cten, Fterinopecten, Actinopteria, Ptycliopteria, Limoptera, Gh/p- 
todesma, Leiopteria, Leptodesma, Palceopinna, Uctenodesma, Byssopterla, 
and three subgenera, Plethomytilus a s. g. of Mytilarca Hall, Mytilops a 
s. g. of Modiola, and Vertumnia a s. g. of Pterinea. All these are re- 
published, except Vertumnia, with but few modifications from the few 
pages of text preceding the volume of plates published the year previous. 

The following new species are described: Aviculopecten cequilateralis, 
Pterinopecten reflexus, P. nodosus, P. Iwtus, P. intermedius, P. regularis, 
P. dispandus, Pterinea grandis, Pterinea inter strialis, P. {Vertumnia) 
reproha, Actinopteria doris, A. pusilla, A. tenuistriata, A. auriculata, A. 
eta, A. theta, A. iota, A. Jcappa, PtycJioptteria thetis, P.falcata,P.spio, P. 
eudora, P. trigonalis, P. elongata, P. galene, P. beecheri, P. spatulata, P. 
lata, P. perlata, P. thalia, P. gibbosa, P. lobata, P. 'vanuxemi, Leiopteira 
sayi, L. troosti, L. leai, L. gabbi, L. linguiformis, L. torreyv, Leptodesma 
shumardi, Leptodesma agassizi, L. billingsi, L. stepliani, L. medon, L. cad 
mus, L. creon, L. demus, L. loxias, L. mentor, L. hector, L. clitus, L. trun 
catum, L. corydon, L. jason, L. pelops, L. orcus, L. nereus, L. alatuvi, L 
orus, L. biton, L. lesleyi, L. aviforme, L. flaccidmn, L. patulum, L. arci 
forme, L. pliaon, L. propinqimm, L. quadratum, L. acutirostrum, Ptero 
nites inoptatus, Mytilarca (Plethomytilus) Jcnappi, Mytilarca regularis, M 
gibbosa. 

Hambach, G. — iS'otes about the Structure and Classincation of the Pen- 
tremites. (Trans. Acad. Sci. Saint Louis, vol. iv, No. 3, pp. 537-547. 
Saint Louis, 1884.) 

A portion of the paper is devoted to answering Mr. Carpenter's criti- 
cisms on the author's paper on .the Anatomy of the Bhistoidea. The 
author considers Penlremites more closely related to Echinus than to 
the Crinoidea; he considers it impracticable to divide the genus Pen- 
tremites into four or five new genera, as has been proposed by Mr. Carpen- 
ter. Mr. Hambach thinks that all described Pentremites (except those 
which belong to the genus Codaster orCodouites) can easil}^ be distributed 
in one of these three divisions, viz: First division comprises all species 
in which the horizontal i^ortion of the deltoid piece is very narrow, the 
sinus to both sides in the deltoid and lancet pieces comi)aratively large, 
and so snrrounded bj" the zigzag plicated integument that two* of the 
80 formed openings appear externally only as one, e. g., P. florealis 
Say, and P. reimcardtii Troost. The second division comprises all 
species in which the deltoid pieces are very broad, the lancet pieces 
very narrow, and the sinus for the formation of the spiracle openings 
in both deltoid and lancet i^ieces very little ; the zigzag plicated in- 
tegument corresponding to the narrow ambulacra! field is not wide 
enough to surround these openings fully, hence they have to remain 



568 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

separate, or, in other words, where we have ten distinctly visible 
openings, e. g., P. mels Owen & Shumard, and P. crenulatus Eoemer. 
The third division comprises all species in which the deltoid pieces are 
perforated, because the lancet pieces do not reach far enough to the 
summit to enter into the composition of the spiracle openings, e. g., P. 
norwooM Owen & Shumard, and P. ellipticus Sowerby. The article is 
Illustrated by six figures in the text. 

Hambach, G. — Description of new Palaeozoic Bchinodermata. (Trans. 

Acad. Sci. Saint Louis, vol. iv, No. 3, pp. 548-554, pis. C and D. Saint 

Louis, 1884.) 

The author describes the following new species from the subcarbou- 
iferous limestones : Melonites erassus, M. irregularis, Oligoporus parvus, 
Archceocidaris newherryi, Pentremites sampsoni, P. gemmiformis, Codo- 
nites campanulatus. 

Heilprin, Angelo. — North American Tertiary Ostreidse. Appendix I. 
(White, 0. A. A Eeview of the Fossil OstreidsB of North America.) 
N. B.— See Dr. C. A. White's work. 

Heilprin, Angelo. — On a Carboniferous Am monit-e from Texas. (Proc. 
Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1884, pp. 53-55, figs. 1 and 2, p. 53.) 

Describes Ammonites ParTceri, considers it closely related to " Arcestes 
antiquus^^ Waagen. It is associated with Zaphrentis, Phillipsia, Bel- 
lerophon, Gonularia, Ghonetes, and Productus. Professor Heilprin refers 
this form to the "old genus Ammonites,^'' but as nearly as can be 
judged from the figures and descriptions we would place it in the genus 
Popanoceras Hyatt, of which Arcestes antiquum Waagen is an extreme 
form. 

Heilprin, Angelo. — Contributions to the Tertiary Geology and Palae- 
ontology of the United States. Pp. 1-117. 4to. Philadelphia, 1884. 
This paper contains discussions of the various Tertiary formations of 
the United States, lists of fossils occurring therein, and a comparison of 
some American and European forms, most of which have already been 
published in substance in the Proc. of the Acad. Nat Sci. of Philadel- 
phia. It is to be regretted that the book is not provided with an index, 
and that Mr. Heilprin has not given the names of the authors when cit- 
ing species and giving lists of them. 

Hyatx, Alpheus. — Evolution of the Cephalopoda. (Science, vol. iii, 
Nos. 52 and 53, pp. 122-127 and 145-149. Cambridge, 1884.) 
An illustrated article containing in a condensed form Professor Hyatt's 

views on the subject. 

Hyatt, Alphetjs. — The Protocouch of Cephalopoda. ( Amer. Natural- 
ist, vol. xviii, No. 9, pp. 919, 920. Philadelphia, 1884.) 
Mr. Hyatt says that his observations establish the fact that in the 



NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 569 

iSTautiloidea the bulb is covered by a true protoconch continuous with 
the shell of the apex. 

Hyatt, Alphexjs. — Genera of Fossil Oephalopods. (Proc. Boston Soc. 
Nat. Hist., April 4, 1883, vol. xxii, pp. 253-338. Boston, 1884.) 
This paper is i)relirainary to a monograph which will appear in the 
memoirs of the Museum of Comp. Zoology. The first dozen pages are 
devoted to a discussion of the Cephalopoda. The rest of the article is 
a description of genera arranged according to the author's system of 
classification and based on his studies of the development of the Cepha- 
lopoda. The following new genera are established : Vagi7ioceras, Plecto- 
ceras, Litoceras, Diadiploceras, Metaeoceras, Tainoceras, Mojsvaroceras, 
Gry])oceras, Enclhnatoceras, Sactoceras, Geisonoceras, Cycloceras, Kiono- 
ceras, Spyxoceraa, Dawsonoceras, Rizosceras, Acleistoceras, Tetramero- 
ceras, Hexameroceras, Trimeroceras, Pentameroceras, Septameroceras, Bil- 
lingsites, Mwlonoceras, Oonoceras, Granoceras^ Ncedyceras, Uremoceras, 
Ftyssoceras, Anomaloceras, Centroceras, Zittelloceras, Halloceras, Buto- 
ceras^ Triplooceras, KopMnoceras, Strophiceras, Solenoceras, Phloioceras, 
Tripteroceras^ Edaplioceras^ Tripleuroceras^ Apsidoceras, Titanoceras, Ep- 
hippioceras, Stroboceras, Discitoceras, Phacoceras, Aphelwceras, Tribolo- 
ceras, Koninckioceras, Aipoceras, Sphyradoceras, Uranoceras, Barrandeo- 
ceras, PseUoceras, Nejyhriticeras, Cenoceras, Gymatoceras, Mimoceras, 
HeminautUinus, Gelceccras, Gephuroceras, Manticoceras, Parodiceras, Tor- 
noceras, Mcvneceras, tiporadoceras^ Braucoceras, Munsteroceras, Gastrio- 
ceras, Paralegoceras, Prinoceras, Glyphioceras, Dimeroceras, Eomoceras, 
Nomismoceras, Dimorphoceras^ Sandbergeoccras, Beloceras, Pharciceras, 
Schistoceras, Triamoceras, Popanoceras. 

Hyatt, Alpheus. — Fossil Cephalopoda in the Musuem of Comparative 
Zoology. (Proc. of the Amer. Ass. for theAdv. of Sci., vol. xxxii, 
pp. 323-361, Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883.) [Not distributed till 
1884.] 
This is also a partial abstract from the monograph just mentioned, 

and a very interesting discussion of the classification and evolution of 

this group. 

James, J. F.— Two Species of Tertiary Plants. (Science, vol. iii, No. 

62, p. 433. Cambridge, 1884.) 

Mr. James criticises two of the determinations made by Professor Les- 
quereux in his Tertiary Flora (U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. Terr., F. V. 
Hayden in charge.) [Not yet published.] 

Jasies, J. F.— The Fucoids of the Cincinnati Group. (Jour. Cincinnati 
Soc. Nat. Hist, October, 1884, vol. vii, pp. 1-9, pis. v and vi.) 
The author is a little premature in condemning to the rank of mud 

bubbles some of the Silurian fossils. A little inquiry would have elicited 



570 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

the fact that sponge spicules have been found in Cyathophycits suhspner- 
icus Walcott, which he degrades to the rank of a mud bubble. 

James, U. P. — Description of Three Species of Fossils. (Jour. Cincin- 
nati Soc. Nat. Hist., April, 1884, vol. vii, pp. 1-4.) 
Decribes Stromatopora subcylindrica, Fisiilupora owe^ii, Cerampora ? 

beani, illustrated by cuts in the text. They occur in the Cincinnati 

Group. 

J AMES, U. P, — Description of Four New Species of Fossils from the 
Cincinnati Group. (Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., October, 1884, 
vol. VII, pp. 137-140, pi. vii.) 
Describes MonticuUpora ohioensis, M. falesi, Stromatopora tubulcris, 

and S. ludlowensis. 

James, tJ. P. — On Conodonts and Fossil Annelid Jaws. (Jour. Cincin- 
nati Soc. Nat. Hist., October, 1884, vol. vii, pp. 143-149, pi. vii.) 

Mr. James concludes that the weight of evidence favors the view that 
Conodonts are the jaws and lingual teeth of Mollusks. He describes 
two new species of Conodonts^ Prioniodus Dijchei and Polygnathus Wil- 
soni, and also two new species of Annelids, Arrabellites aciculatus and 
A. hindei. 

Jones, T. E., and J. W. Kirkby. — On some Carboniferous Entomostraca 
from Nova Scotia. (Geol. Magazine, 3d Decade, August, 1884; vol. 
I, No. viii, pp. 356-362, pi. xii. London.) 

Describes and makes notes on about ten species and varieties, of which 
two are new, Beyrichia nova scotia, and Candona 1 elongata. 

Jones, T. E., and H. Woodward. —Notes on Phyllopodiform crusta- 
ceans, referable to the genus Echinocaris, from the Palseozoic Eocks. 
(Geol. Mag., Decade iii, vol. i, pp. 1-4, pi. xiii. London, 1884.) 
Echinocaris wrightiana Dawson sp. The fossils discussed in this 

paper are from New York State. 

Lesqxjereux, Lt:o. — Description of the Coal Flora of the Carboniferous 
Formation in Pennsylvania and throughout the United States. (Sec- 
ond Geol. Surv. Pennsylvania, Eep. Progress P, vol. ni, pp. 695-977, 
pis. 88-111. Harrisburg, Pa., 1884.) 

This third and last volume contains besides new matter, additions 
and corrections to the first and second volumes (published in 1880) 

It contains a table of species referred to localities, a table of species 
referred to formations, and a revised index of generic and specific names 
referred both to pages and to plates for all three volumes. This volume 
contains twenty-six good lithographic plates ; the pagination of the 
three volumes is continuous, making a total of 977 pages and 111 plates. 
The- autbor has endeavored to find out if, as it has been surmised by 
Bujopeau luthors, it would be possible to recognize, by the presence 



I 



NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 571 

of certain species of plants, the divers horizons of coal strata in differ- 
ent localities. But with the exception of a few cases of marked iden- 
tity, as long as the observations were confined to a field of limited area, 
he considers it is right to say that generally the data furnished by re- 
mains of fossil plants are either insufficient or deceptive ; insufficient, 
because the specimens of fossil plants are rarely found representing 
such a number of species that a satisfactory comparison can be made 
between the plants of different localities ; deceptive, because the vege- 
tation of the coal period, like that of the present epoch, has been sub- 
jected to great variations, according to geographical distribution or 
local influences. Professor Lesquereux makes four distinct modifica- 
tions of the essential characters of the pre-Carboniferous and Carbonifer- 
ous floras. The first, comprising the Lower or j)re-Carboniferous, is per- 
sistent in the Devonian, Chemung, and the Catskill ; the second, partly 
marked in the Pocono, becomes modified and persistent in the sub and 
intra conglomerate measures 5 the third pertains to the lower pro- 
ductive coal measures from above the conglomerate to the base of the 
barren beds of Pennsylvania; the fourth is that of the upper pro- 
ductive coal measures, including the Pittsburgh coal and a few hun- 
dred feet above. Of course some species of each group have a greater 
degree of persistence, and pass from a lower to an upper stage. 

The author describes the new genus Dendrophycus and the following 
new species : 

Dendi'ophycus desorii, Galamostacliys lanceolata, C. brevifolia, Volk- 

mannia crassa, V. fertilis, Anmdaria ciispidata, EqvAsetites gracilis, 

Neuropteris carrii, JV. ohlongifoUa, N. blissii, N. Griffithii, Odontopteris 

patens, 0. monstruosa, 0. affinis, Tceniopteris truneata, Megalopteris recti- 

nervis, Callipteridiitm rigidum, Alethopteris crassa, Pseudopecopteris his- 

pida, Pecopteris carrii, Pecopteris georgiana, Pecopteris ornata, Sphenop- 

teris communis, 8. inrnquilateralis, S. harveyi, S. {Diplothmema) tracyana, 

8. royi, 8. solida, Eremopteris cheathami, Archceopteris denticulata, A. 

sphenophyllifolia, A. macilenta, Lycopodites arborescens, L. flexifolius, L. 

lacoei, Lepidophloios dilatatus, LepidophyUum cultriforme, L. fallax, L. 

campbeUianum, L. gracile, L. minutum, L. coriaceum, L. elegans, Tceni- 

opJiyllum brevifoUum, 8igillaria Grand ^Euryi, 8. leverethii, Cordaianthus 

flexuosus, G. spicatus, G. rugosus, Gordaicarpus cinctus, Gordaicarpus sta- 

bilis, G. lineatus, Gardiocarpus dilatatus, Gardiocarpus patens, G. sped- 

osus, G. Harveyi, G. longicollis, G. ovalis, G. conglobatus, G. divergens, G. 

latior, G. crassus, G. cireidaris, (7. diplotesta, G. pusillus, Bhabdocarpus 

late-cosiatus, B. inflatus, B. sub-globosus, B. pacliytesta, B. emarginatus, 

B. tenax, B. abnormalis, B. apiculatus, Trigonocarpus adamsii, T. perpu- 

sillvii, Trigonocarpus grandis, T. starMafius, T. kansaseamts, T. multistri- 

atns, T. ampulla' formis, Garpolithes conicus, G. butlerianus, G. perpusillus, 

G- Latior, G. transectus, Dictyopliytum ramosum, Macrostacliya communis, 

M. minor, Odontopteris dilatata, Lesleya microphylla, Megalopteris dentata, 

M. serrata, Alethopteris evansii, A. robusta, Stemmatopteris microstigma, 

ll. anceps f, Bachiopteris squamosa, Lepidodendron rigidum, Knorria com- 



572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

pacta, Lepidostrobus butleri, L. latus, Lepidophyllum stantoni, Whittlescyo 
microphylla, Cordaianthus scdber, C ebracteatus. 

Lesquereux, Leo. — Principles of Paleozoic Botany. (Indiana depart- 
ment of Geology and Natural History, 13th Ann. Rep., Part ii, 
Palaeontology, pp. 7-106, pis. i-xxi, John Collett, State geologist, 1883. 
Indianapolis, 1884.) 

In the descriptive part of this work Mr. Lesquereux gives descrip- 
tions of the coal flora, a part of which are modified or borrowed from 
his U. S. Coal Flora, Report P, of the 2d Geol. Surv. Penna. The plates 
and figures are very good of their kind, and the whole work answers 
very well its purpose of an elementary treatise on the subject. The 
Geological Survey of Indiana has done excellent work in this direction, 
and it is to be hoped that its labors will not be permanently discon- 
tinued. 

Lesquereux, Leo. — The Carboniferous Flora of Rhode Island. ( Amer- 
Naturalist, No. 9, September, vol. xviii, pp. 921-923. Philadelphia, 

1884.) 

The author gives a list of eighty-eight species, of which fifty-six are 
ferns, and describes two new species, Sphenopteris fuciformis and Cal 
lipteridium sp. n. ?, or variety of Alethopteris urophylla Brgt. 

Marcou, J. B. — A Review of the Progress of North American Inver- 
tebrate Palaeontology for 1883. (Amer. Naturalist, April, vol. xv, 
No. 4, pp. 385-392. Philadelphia, 1884.) 

Mathew, G. F. — The Primitive Conocoryphean. (Geol. Mag. 3d De- 
cade, vol. I, pp. 471, 472, 1884. London, 1884.) 

Relates to the development of the species Gtenocephalus Mathewi and 
other Conocorypheans of the Acadian fauna, and is considered under 
the three heads, development of the Glabella, acquisition of sensory 
organs, and the decoration of the test. 

Mathew, G. F.— The Geological Age of the Acadian Fauna. (Geol. 
Mag. '3d Decade, vol. i, pp. 470, 471. London, 1884.) 
An attempt is made to show more accurately than has yet been done 
the position of the Saint John Cambrian. It is shown that the genera 
and species of the Acadian trilobites do not agree with those of the 
Menevian in its more restricted sense. Mr. C. D. Walcott considers 
the Saint John fauna as the oldest known Cambrian fauna. Both the 
above papers are apparent^ abstracts of papers prepared for the meet- 
ing of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, at Mon- 
treal, in 1884. 

Matkew, G. F. — Illustrations of the Fauna of the Saint John Group, 
No. 1. The Paradoxides. (Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, section iv, 1882, 
pp. 87-108, pi. ix, 1883. Montreal, 1884.) 
Contains a brief history of the discovery and study of the Saint John 

group, an account of the conditions under which the fossils are found. 






NOKTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 573 

a discussion of the iuterrelatioushii) of the forms of Paradoxides and 
descriptions of species and varieties. The new species are Paradoxides 
eteminicus, with five varieties, breviatus, suricoides, malicitus, quacoensis, 
pontificalis ; Paradoxides acadicus, and P. lamellatus Hartt var. loricatus. 
The figures are very fair. 

Mathew, G. F. — llkistrations of the Fauna of the Saint John Group, 
No. 1. The Paradoxides. (Supplementary section describing the 
parts.) (Trans. Koy. Soc. Canada, section iv, 1883, pp. 271-279, pi. x. 
Montreal, 1884.) 

Describes and illustrates some of the parts of the previously-described 

sj)ecies. 

MiCKLEBOROUGH, JoHN. — Locomotory Appendages of Trilobites. 
(Geol. Magazine, 3d Decade, February, 1884, vol. i, No. ii, pp. 80-84. 
London.) 

A reprint from the Journ. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi, 1883. 

Miller, S. A. — Description of a Beautiful Star-fish and other Fossils. 
(Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., April, 1884, vol. vin, No. 1, pp. 16- 
20, pi. iv.) 

Describes the following new species from the Cincinnati Group: Pate- 
asttr magnijieus, Gomphoceras faberi, and G. cincinnatiense. 

Myer, Otto. — Notes on Tertiary Shells. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil- 
adelphia, 1884, pp. 104-112.) 

The author identifies a few American forms with European ones in 
addition to those already identified by Mr. Heilprin, and describes the 
following new species from the Eocene sands of Claiborne, Ala. : Tibiella 
marshi, Bulla biumhilicata^ Cadulus depressus. Tibiella is proposed as a 
new genus o( Pteropoda, but no synopsis of generic characters is given. 
The new species are illustrated by cuts in the text. 

Neumayer, M.— (Neu. Jahrb. fiir Min. Geol. und Pal. Stuttgart, 1884.) 
The author notes the parallel position occupied by the Laramie group 
in Northwestern America and the intertrappean beds of the Deccan in 
Hindostan, both being placed between the Cretaceous and Eocene, and 
the resemblance of the fossil faunas is well brought out by a compar- 
ative list. 

RiNGUEBERG, E. N. S. — New Fossils from the Four Groups of the Niagara 
Period of Western New York. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 
1884, pp. 144-150, pis. ii and iii.) 

Describes the following new species : Sphirophyton arcMmedes, Tria- 
crimis pyriformis, T. globosus, Stictopora obliqua, Fungispongia irregu- 
laris^ Stictopora graminifoUa, Eucalyptocrinus inconspectus, Cornuliteso 
contractus, C. nodosus, Lingula bicarinata. The two genera Triacrinus 
and Fungispongia are described. 



574 SCIENTIFIC RECOSD FOR 1884. 

ScuDDEK, S. H. — Triassic Insects from the Eocky Mountains. (Amer. 
Jour. Sci. and Arts., September, vol. xxviii, pp. 199-203. IN'ew 
Haven, 1884.) 

All but two or three of the specimens obtained belong to the group of 
cockroaches ; and although Mr. Lesquereux thinks the beds of Permian 
age according to the fossil flora, Mr. Scudder thinks the evidence of 
the insects is in favor of their Triassic age. Eleven of the seventeen 
species of cockroaches and five of the nine genera founds at Fairplay, 
Colorado, belong to the Palaeoblattarise. The genera are as follows : 
Etohlattina (1 sp.), Petrablattina (2 sp.), Anthracoblattina (1 sp. ?), Spilo- 
blattina n. g. (4 sp.), and Poroblattina n. g. (3 sp.). As seen above two 
of the genera are new. 



i 



Scudder, S. H. —Two New and Diverse Types of Carboniferous Myria- 
pods. (Mem. Boston Soc. Nat, Hist., March, 1884, vol. iii, No. ix, „ 
pp. 283-297, pis. xxvi and xxvii.) |j 

A discussion of Carboniferous Myriapods. The author proposes the ' 
new suborder Protozyngnatha for the reception of the genus Paloeocampa I 
M. and W., and in the suborder ArcMpolypoda, in the family of the 
JSuphoberidce, he places and describes his new genus TricMulu^, and 
describes the following species : T. villosus, T. nodulosus, and T. ammoniti- 
formis. 

Scudder, S. H. — The Species of Mylacris, a Carboniferous Genus of 
Cockroaches. (Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., March, 1884, vol. in, 
No. X, pp. 299-309, pi. xxvu.) 
Besides mentioning the previously described species, the author gives 

the following new ones : Mylacris antiquum^ M. lucifugum^ M. carbonum^ 

M. j^riscovolans, and 3t. ovale. The illustrations of both of these articles 

are excellent. 

(Scudder, S. H. — A Contribution to our Knowledge of Paleozoic Arach- 
nida. (Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., June, 1884, pp. 13-22. Bos- 
ton.) 

This article contains both American and European forms. The new 
family Poliocheridce is established and the new genus PoUochera is placed 
in it. The new family Eoscorpionidce is also established and in it the 
genera Uoscorpius, Cyclophthalmus^ and Mazonia are placed. The new 
genera Geralinura and Geraplirynns are described. The following new 
species are described : PoUochera punctulata, Geraphrynus carbonariu^, 
Anthracomartus trilobitus, A. pustulatus, Geralinura carbonaria. 

Scudder, S. H. — Dictyonema and the Allied Insects of the Carbonif- 
erous Epoch. (Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., December, 1884, pp. 
167-173. Boston.) 

This is a brief paper in advance of a fuller memoir with detailed de- 
scriptions and full illustrations. Mr. Scudder establishes the new gen- 



i^ 



NORTH AMERICAN iNVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 575 

p-.TaLitoneura, Poliojytenvs, Goldenhergia, and describes the following new 
American species : Titanophasma jucunda, Ilaplophlebiujn longipennis, 
Paolia sxiperha, P. lacoana, and P. Gurleyi. The author restricts the 
genus Dicfyoneura to D. Schmitzii Gold., D. humboltiana Gold., D. siim- 
osa, Kliv., and Z>. offiwis. {Termes affinis, Gold.). 

Spencer, J. W. — Niagara Fossils. (Bull. Mus. Uni. State of Missouri, 
pp. 1-61, pis. i-ix. Saint Louis, 1884.) Published also in Saint 
Louis Acad. Sci., vol. lY, Xo. 4. 

This work is divided into three parts : Part i, " Graptolitidfe of the 
Upper Silurian system:" part ii, " Stromatoporida3 of the Upper Silu- 
rian system;" part iii, fifteen new species of ^N'iagara fossils. Part one 
contains the descriptions of twenty-one new species : Phyllofjraptus f 
dubius, Dendrograptus raynosus, D. Simplex^ J). Dawsoni, D.frondosus, 
D. praegraciUs, D. spinosus, Callograptus granti, Q. multicaulu, G. mi- 
niitm, Dictydneura expansum, Galyptograptus micronematodes, G.f radi- 
aius, Acanthograptus pulclier, TnocauUs icalkeri, J. diffusus, t. eervi- 
cornis, t. phycoides, t. ramulosus, Thamnograpius ? multiformis, Cyclo- 
graptus rotadentahis, and of one new genus Cyclograptus ; besides there 
are descriptions and illustrations of nine species previously described by 
the author in the Canadian Xaturalist, 1878. In part ii the following 
new species are described: Cannopora tcalkeri, C. mirabilis, Gcetiostoma 
ristigoncJiense, Gcenostoma botryoideum, Dictyostoma reticulaium. Part iii 
contains the following new species : Palceaster granti, EMnopora venosa, 
Glatliropora ? gracilis, Fenestella bicornis, Polypora {Feriestella ?) albion- 
ensis, Lingula ingens, Discina clara, Grania anna, Pleurotomaria clipei- 
formis, Gonularia rugosa, G. icilldnsi, OrtJwceras bartonense, Gyrtoceras 
reversum, Lituites niagarensis. It is much to be regretted that the illus- 
trations are so poor that it will be very dif&cult, if not impossible, for 
future workers to recognize Mr. Spencer's types. 

Spren'Gee, Frank:. — On the Occurrence of the Lower Burlington Lime- 
stone in iS"ew Mexico. (Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, February, vol. 
xxvn, pp. 97-103. :New Haven, 1884.) 

The author endeavors to identify a formation in the Lake YaUey 
mining district in Southern Xew Mexico with the lower Burlington 
limestone. For this purpose he gives a list of the fossils found there. 

Ulrich, E. O. — American Pala^zoic Bryozoa. (Jour. Cincinnati Soc. 

Kat. Hist., December, 1883, ^^o. 4, vol. vi, pp. 241-279, pis. xii-xiv. 

Continued from Vol. vi, p. 168.) 

In this portion of the work, Mr. Ulrich restricts the genus Atactopora, 
and establishes the new genera Atactoporella, Idiotrypa, Anisotrypa, 
and HeUotrypa. He describes the following new species: Atactoporella 
typicalis, A. neicportensis, A. schucherti, Trematopora halli, T.icMtfieldi, 
Gonstellaria fischeri, Idiotrypa parasitica, Anisotrypa symmetrim, Eelio- 
trypa bifolia. The work is to be continued. 



676 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1884. 

Walcott, C. D. — Paleoutology of the Eureka District. (Monographs 
of the United States Geological Surrey, vol. viii, i^p. i-xiii and 1-298, 
pis. i-xxiv, and seven figures in the text. Washington, 1884.) 
Gives an account of the very interesting paleozoic fauna of this dis- 
trict. The first chapter contains a fair summary of the results. A com- 
mingling of Upper Devonian and Lower Carboniferous fossils occurs. 
The discussion of the development of Olenelliis HoiceUi is very interest- 
ing. The succession in the fauual series from the Olenelius beds, 
through a well-defined fauna of the character of the Potsdam group of 
New York and the Mississippi Valley, to one containing a mixture of 
Cambrian and Silurian types passing upward to a fauna comparable 
to that of the Chazy and Calciferous groups, is shown. The transi- 
tion is said to be very gradual, and such as would occur where there 
had been no marked physical disturbance. Here is another instance of 
the occurrence of passage beds between faunas before considered per- 
fectly distinct, and it is very interesting to note this fact in our earliest 
faunas, which is so common in our later ones. 

The author gives carefullj'^ prepared systematic lists of the fossils in 
each formation and a paleozoic section of Nevada showing the vertical 
range of the genera. Two new genera are described, Scldzambon, referred 
to the SiphonotretidaB,from theL. Silurian Pogonii? group abndZaptychius, 
an auricula-like shell, from the Carboniferous. The author describes one 
hundred and seventy-three new species, of which thirty are from the 
Cambrian: Acrothelef dicJiotoma, Scenella f conula, Kutorgina whitjieldi, 
K. prospectensis, Orthis eiirel'ensis, Stenotheca elongata, Agnostus richmond- 
ensis, A, seclusus, Olenelius iddingsi, Dicellocephalus nasutus, D. richmond- 
ensis, D. ? angtistifrons, D. iolCj D. marica, D. f expansus, Ptychoparia f 
prospecterisis, P. f linnarssoni, P. {Solenopleura f) breviceps, P.? {Soleno- 
pleura ?) pernasutus, P. [Euloma) dissimiliSj P. {Euloma) Occidentalism P. 
{Euloma)similis, P. {Euloma) affinis, P. (Euloma) laevieeps, P. {Petro- 
cephalua) occidetia, Anomocare ? parvum, Agraulosf glohosus, Arethusina 
americana, Ogygia ? spinosa, 0. f problematica. From the Pogonip 
group of the Lower Silurian thirty-one species are described : Beceptacu- 
lites mamillaris Newb. n. sp., li. elongata^ E. elUpticus, Obolella ambi- 
gua, Sdiizambon typicalis, Orthis haniburgensis, 0. lonensis, Streptorhyn- 
cus minor, Tellinomya f haniburgensis^ Modiolopsis occidens, M. pogoni- 
pensis, Pleurotoniaria lonensis, Maclurea annulata, M. subannulata, M. 
carinata, Metoptoma phUlipsi, 71/. f analoga, Coleoprion niinuta, Ryolithes 
vanuxemi, Dicellocephalus Jinalis, D. inexpectans, Ptychoparia f annectans, 
Bathyurus ? tuberculatus, B. ? congeneris, B. f simillimus, Oyphaspis ? 
brevlmarginatus, Amphion nevadensis, Symphysurus ? goldfussi, Barran- 
dia f McCoyi, Illaeiiuru,s eurelcensis, Asaphus caribounensis. From the De- 
vonian sixtj'-one new species are described: Palaeomanon roemcri, Lin- 
gula alba-]}inensis, Lingula lonenHis, L. ichitei, PhoUdops bellula, P. quad- 
rangularis, Ikercidium devonicum, Chonetes macrostiiata, C. Jilistriata, 
Productus {Productella) hallanus^ Productus hirsutiforme, Cyrtina david- 



.NORTH AMERICAN INVERTEBRATE PAL^ONIOLOGY. 577 

soni, Trematospira h'frequeas, EhynchoncUa f occidens, R. [Lciorhynchus) 
nevadensi.s, Pentamerus lotis, Cryptonella ? circula, G. pinoncnsis, Ptcrinea 
neicarhousis, Leptodesma trantivcrsa, Llmoptera sarmcnticia, MytUarca 
duhia, Modiomorpha altiforme, M. oblonga, M. obtusa, JS^uctda rescueitsis, 
JJystacteUa insularis, Meyambonia occidualu, Kyassa i)arva, Grammy.sia 
minor, Saitgulnolitefi / combousi.s, S. f gracilis, Conocardiuin nevadensis, 
Poridonomya laevis, P. dtvonica, Microdon [dypricardella) macrostriatiiH, 
Anodontopsis amygdalaeformis, Schizodiis [Cytherodon) orbicularis, Platy- 
ceras conradi, P. undulatum, P. ihetiforme, Euompludus eurekensis, Eccu- 
liomphaJuH devonicus, Stra2)aroUus neicarkensis, Platysclrisma? 2IcCoyi, 
P. 1 amhiijuum, Callonema occidentalis, Loxonema curelcensis, L. nobile, 
L. approximatum, Bellerophon perplexa, B. combsi, Scoliostoma americana, 
M&toptomaf devonicu, Coleolus laevis, Gomplioceras suboviforme, Cyrtoceras 
nevadense, Goniatites desideratus, Beyrichia {primitia) occidentalis, Leper- 
ditia rotundata, Dalmanites meelm. From t be Carboniferous tifty-oiie new 
species are described: Biscinna connata, ^pirifcra annecfaits, S. desider- 
ata, Rhynchonclla eiirckcnsis, R. tliera, ATiculopecten haguei, A. eurekensis, 
A. pcroccidens, A. pintoensis, A. affinis, Strebloptera similis, Crcnipecten 
Jiallanus, Pterinopecicn lioosacensis, P.spio, Pterinea pintooisis, Ptychopte- 
ria protoforme, Pinna inexpectans, P. cosimilis, Myalina congeneris, 21. ne- 
mesis, M nessus, Modiola nevadensis, Modiomorpha ambigna, M. ? desiderata, 
M. ? pintoensis, Nucula insiilaris, N. levatiforme, Solenomya curta, Macro- 
don triDicatm, Edmondia medon, E. f circidaris, Pleuroplwrus meeki, 
Sanguinolites retvsns, S. simplex, S. salteri, S. ? naenia, 8. striatus, 2licro- 
don {cypricardclla)connatus, Gardiola f fJicostata, Schizvdtis deparcus, JS. 
ciirtiforme, S. 2nnto€nsis, Platyceras occidens, P. piso, Platyostomainorna- 
tiim, Bellerophon majuscidus, Loxonema bclla, Plcurotomaria nevadensis, 
2Ictoptoma perocvidens, HijOlitlies carbonaria, Orthoceras curekcnsis. 

Tbe discovery in the Devonian of tbe interior of a dorsal valve of a 
rather large species of Lingula, Lingida u-hitci, afforded the means of 
comparison of the same parts of the shell with a Silurian and recent 
species of this genus, and proves the great structural similarity of tbe 
three species so widely separated in geological time. 

Walcptt, C. D. — On the Cambrian Faunas of North America. Pre- 
liminary studies. (Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., vol. ir, No. 10, pp. L'83-354, 
pis. i-s. Washington, 1884.) 

Tbis work consists of three parts ; the first " a revicAv of tbe fauna of 
the Saint John formation, contained in the Hai'tt collection." Tbis 
work is not meant to encroach on Mr. Mathew's work, iuid contains 
merely illustrations and descriptions of specimens in tbe TTartt collec- 
tion belonging to Cornell University, and Mr. Mathcw proposed speci- 
fic names for tbe new species excepting one, Harttia mathewi, the typo 
t)f the n. g. Harttia Wii]iioU, a very curious form . belonging to tbe 
Calypira'ida'. Tlie new-<>pecies are Lingvla f dinvsoni 3Iatbew. Hyolithes 
danianus, iiiid //. micmac Matliew. Conocoryphe icalcotN Mntliew is 
also me::! itmcd Iktc for tbe first time. The new subgenus Salteria is i)ro- 
S. Mis. 33 37 



£»7S SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

posed in i^lace of the generic use of the name Erinnys anticipated. Mr« 
G. F. Matthew having proposed the name Bailiella., Conocoryphe {Bai- 
liella) bailey i, this name will be substituted for Salteria, in referring to 
the St. John species. Mr. Walcott does not accept the genus Conocc- 
phaUtes, and refers its different species to some of Ptychoparia and one 
of ConOiOryx)he. 

The second part is on the "fauna of the Braintree argillites." Mr. 
Walcott gives excellent figures of Paradoxides harlani and doubts its 
specific difference from P. hennetti. He describes two new species from 
this iovmaiio-a^HyoUthes shaleri aud Ptychoparia rogersi, and refers Whit- 
field's Arionellus quadrangularis to the genus Agraulos. 

Part three contains the description of a new genus and species of 
Pkyllopoda from the middle Cambrian slates of Parker's farm, Georgia, 
Yt., Protocaries n. g. type P. marshi. The illustrations are all wood- 
cuts, and are very good of their kind. 

Walcott, C. D. —Appendages of the Trilobite. (Science, Ko. 57, March 

7, vol. Ill, pp. 279-281. Cambridge, 1884.) 

An interesting paper on the appendages of the Asaphiis megistos, de- 
scribed by Prof. John Mickleborough. Mr. Walcott notes the verifica- 
tion of the hypothesis that the legs were jointed beneath the pygidium 
as the only addition to our knowledge furnished by this specimen. An 
excellent ligure accompanies the paper ; there are also figures of Caly- 
mene senaria, copied from those in Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. viii, p. 
204, 1881. 

Ward, L. F. — On Mesozoic Dicotyledons. (Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, 

April, vol. XXVII, p. 293. New Haven, 1884.) 

Mr. Ward reviews briefly the present condition of our knowledge of 
the subject, and gives a history of its progress, and some generaliza- 
tions and attempts at comparisons with European beds. 

Ward, L. F. — Caulhiites and Zamiostrobus (Science, No. C5, May 2, vol. 
Ill, pp. 532,533. Cambridge, 1884.) An answer to J. F. James's 
" Two species of Tertiary Plants." 

White, C. A. — A Keview of the Fossil Ostreidae of North America, aud 
a Comparison of the Fossil with the Living Forms. With appendices 
by Prof. Angelo Heilprin and Mr. John A. Ryder. (Eep. of the Sec. 
of the Interior for 1883, vol. iii. Rep. of the director of the U. S. 
Geol. Surv., pp. 273-430, pis. xxxiv to Ixxxii. Washington, 1883.) 
[Appeared 1884.] 

A valuable condensation of the known North American oysters, with 
copious illustrations. The plan is the same as that followed in the Re- 
view of the Non-marine Fossil Mollusca published the year previous. 

White, C. A. — On a small Collection of IMesozoic Fossils collected in 
Alaska by Mr. W. H. Ball, of the United States Coast Survey. (On 
Mesozoic Fossils. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., vol, i, No. 4, p^). 98-103, 
pi. vi. Washington, 1884.) 



NORTH AMERICAN l.N VLKTLIiRATE PALEONTOLOGY. 579 

The author describes n variety of Aucclla concentrlra Fisher, a new 
species Cyprina ? dallH^ and a h)ug veiy slim ceplialopod, Belemnites 
macritatiH. He discusses the a.aje of the strata containiug them, and 
coucludes that they occupy a transitional position between the Creta 
ceous and Jurassic, as indicated by Mr. J. Marcou. 

White, C. A. — Description of certain Aberrant P'orras of the Chamidte 
from the Cretiiceous Eocks of Texas. (Ou Mesozoic Fossils. Bull. U". 
S. Geol. Surv., vol. i, No. 4, pp. 9.3-07, pis. i-v. Washinjiton, 1884.) 
Describes the following;- new species : Requieniapatagiata, MonopJeura 
marcida and M. pingidscnda. Numerous figures accompany the descrip- 
tions. 

White, C. A. — On the Xautiloid Genus EncUmMocerns Hyatt, and a 
descri])tion of the tyi)e species. (On Mesozoic Fossils. Bull. (J. S. 
Geol. Surv., vol. i, No. 4, pp. 104, 105, pis. vii-lx. Washin<>ton, 1884.) 
The generic description is by Mr. A. Hyatt, and the specific descrip- 
tion of ^. ulrtcJii is by Mr. C. A. White. 

White, C. A. — On the Macrodtcihf.s of Phillips, Plectosfjjins of Conrad, 
and SoIenisc7is of Meek & Worthen. (Proc. U. S. National Museum, 
vol. VI, pp. 184-187, pi. viii. Washington, 1883.) 

Kefers to Soleniscus a number of sjiecies previously described as 
Macrocheilns. 

White, C. A. — Enemies and Parasites of the Oyster, past and present. 
(Science, vol. in, p. G18. Cambridge, 1884.) 

The author shows that Cliona or a similar burrowTng sponge infested 
certain brachiopod shells as early as the Devonian, and that similar forms 
were as common upon the fossil Ostreida^ as they are uj)on the living. 
He also shows that the remains of star-tishes are rarely found with fossil 
Ostreidie, although they are so common an enemy to living oysters. 

White, C. A. — The Fossils of the Indiana Rocks, No. 3. (Indiana de- 
partment of Geol. and Nat. Hist, (thirteenth annual report), i)art ii, 
Palaoutology, pj). 107-180, pis. 23-39. John Collett, State geologist. 
Indianapolis, 1884.) 

In this work Mr. White gives excellent descriptions of the character- 
istic in vertebrate animal remains of the Carboniferous period, illustrated 
by figures drawn by Mr. McConnell. Many of the figures are borrowed 
from previous works, but their execution is good and gives an excellent 
idea of the characteristic Carboniferous forms of the central coal basin. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — Mesozoic Fossils. Vol. i, i)art iii. On the fossils of 
the coal-bearing deposits of the Queen Charlotte Islands, collected by- 
Mr. G. M. Dawson in 1878. (Geol. and Nat. Hist. Survey of Canada, 
pp. 191-202, pis. 21-32. • Montreal, April, 1884.) 
In this report the fossils occurring in a section 13,000 feet thick are 

described as Cretaceous. The three lower beds, aggregating 9,iT00 feet 



580 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOR 1884. 

in thickness, are su])posed to represent the lower part of the middle Cre- 
taceous, notwithstanding" the fact that they contain many fossils consid- 
ered Jurassic by previous American authors. However, tlie identity of 
these species is very doubtful. The upper division, containing- Inocera- 
mus prohlematicus, is 1,500 feet thick and is separated from the three 
lower divisions by 2,000 feet of unfossiliferous strata, the whole mass 
resting unconformably upon what is considered the Triassic. The au- 
thor is driven by his conclusions to assert that the Jurassic of the Black 
Hills and Eocky Mountains is Cretaceous. In order to make a more com- 
plete Cretaceous series, he cuts out the entire Jurassic formation. Mi\ 
Whiteaves seems to have overlooked the work of Mr. C. Grewingk, who 
described the fossils brought back by Ilia Wossuessensky, the work of 
Eichwald, who described the fossils brought back by Doroschin, and 
that of Pinart, all three describing a somewhat similar fauna in Russian 
America. He has also not noticed the fact that traces of a Jurassico- 
cretaceo fauna occur from the neighborhood of Moscow, through Siberia 
to Alaska, and that very ])ossibly he has similar i)assage beds in British 
Columbia and Queen Charlotte's Islands, that such passage beds are 
found between every formation, and that the occurrence of some of our 
Jurassic fossils in such a conne(;tion is a poor reason for calling Creta- 
ceous the beds where there is no such associytion. 

The following new species are described : Belcmnites slddegatensisf, 
Spiroceras carlofiensis. SpJienodiscKs viavdensis, Hnploceras cnmsheicaense, 
Stephanoceras ohlatnm^ tStephonoceras ce/Ku'den, Eamites? fjlaher^ Xerincca 
mandensis, Cerithivin sMdegatenfte, VaniJcoro pulchellaf, Calliostoma con- 
stricfum^ Cinulia jmsiUa, Corbula concinna, Periploma cufipidnfum, Thru- 
cia aemiplanata, Tellina .sMderjatensis, TlieUs affinis f, Cyprina occiden- 
talism Trigonia mandemis, Yoldia aiafa, Trigonoarca tuinida, Lithodomus 
jnanden.sisj Melina .slidegatensis, Inocerainus moreshyensis, Amusium len- 
ticulare f Osfrea slidegatensis ?, Astroea'nia irregularis, Schloenhachia pro- 
pinqiia, Cardium ininididum, Fecfen, carJottensis, RhynchoneUa mandtnsis, 
Discina semipolita. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — On the Lower Cretaceous Rocks of British Colum- 
bia. (Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, section iv, 1882, pp. 81-80.) 
Describes three new species, illustrated by three woodcuts in the 
text: Olcostephanus quairinoensis, PhoJadomya ranc(niverensis, Inocera- 
inus quatsinoensis. I\Ir. Whiteaves holds with Eichwald that the pres- 
ence of an abundance of Aucellw is a sure proof of the Neocomiau age 
of the rocks in which they occur. 

Whiteaves, J. F. — On some supposed Annelid tracks from the Gasp6 
Sandstone. (Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, section iv, 1882, pp. 109-111, 
pis. xi and xii.) 

Mr. Whiteaves i)roposes the name of Gyrichnites gaspensis for certain 
supposed annelid tracts of the Lower Devonian of Point Gaspe, and 
illustrates them on two i)lates, unfortunately on a reduced scale. 



NORTH AMERICAN IW'ERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY. ,581 

T\' niTEAVES, J. F.— Paleozoic Fossils, (vol. iii, part 1, Geol. and Nat 
Hist. Siirv. Canada. Montreal, March, 1884, pp. 1-43, pis. i-viii.) 
This part is on some new, imperfectly characterized, or previously 
unrecorded species of fossils from tlie Guelph Formation of Ontario. 
The lists of the fossils of this formation in the "Geology of Canada" 
contain the following names, for the species of which no descriptions or 
figures have ever been published, and which, consequently, it has been 
impossible to recognize : Columnaria galtensis, Biphj/phj/liiim irregulare, 
Am.plexus lascatus, Cyclonema galtcnsis, G. Tliysbe, G. Fsyche^ G. depressa, 
Pleuroiomaria Iiaroneiisin^ MurchiHonia tulUa, Gijrtoceras jonesi The 
present author describes two new genera, Pyanostylus ami Coflonocheilus, 
and the following new species: Fycnostylus guelpliensis, P. eleyans, Mono- 
merella orata, 3L ovata var. lata, Goitiophora crassa, Anodontopsis con- 
cinna, Tlionia galtensis, T. f eostulata, tSuhulites compactus, Godoncheilus 
striatum, Troclionema inornatum, Straparolbis crenulatuH, Pleurotomaria 
cyclostoma, P. durJiamemis, Murcliisonia lieHpelerensiH, M. constricta, M. 
soluta, M. tropidophora, Tryhlidium canadense, Scenella conica, EccuUom- 
phalm circinaius, Ascoceraa townsendi,, EurypteruH boylei. 

Whitfield, K. P. — Notice of some new Specnes of Primordial Fossils 
in the Collections of the Museum, and Corrections of previously de- 
scribed Species. (Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., February, 1884, vol. 
I, No. 5, pp. 139-154, pis. xiv and xv. New York.) 
Mr. Whitfield thinks that the typical New York Potsdam is about 
equivalent to the lower portion of the Wisconsin areas, and that the 
Acadian beds of Canada and Vermont and perhaps the other Atlantic 
areas are not appreciably different in age, but that the difference in 
faunae is more the result of conditions upon which life depended than 
a difference in time. Mr. Whitfield was probably unaware of the fact 
that 3,000 feet of limestone without a break separate the Georgian 
from the Potsdam fauna in Central Nevada. He describes the following 
new species : Lingulepis minima, Orthisina orientalis, Nothosoe rermon- 
tana, Gonocephalltes verrucosii,s, ArioneUus quadrangular is, Angelina 
hitchcocld, JJikellocephalus? marcoui, Maclurea wadsworthi. 

Williams, H. S. — On th<; Fossil Faunas of the Upper Devonian along 
the Meridian 70° 30' from Tompkins County, New York, to Bra<lford 
County, Pennsylvania. (Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., vol. i, No. 3, pp. 
55-86. Washington, 1884.) 
This paper is the first of a series ; it contains an interesting discussion 

of the relative positions of the Upper Devonian faunas of the meridian 

of Ithaca, N. Y. Mr. Williams does not always explain clearly where 

his stations, designated by numbers, are located. 

Williams, H. S. — The Spirifers of the Upper Devonian. (Science, 

vol. Ill, pp. 374, 375. Cambridge, 1884.) 

The author criticises the stratigraphical ]>osition assigned to some of 
the fossil species in Eeport of Progress G. 7, Ud Geol. Surv. of Pennsyl- 
vania. 



682 SCIENTIFIC RECOiRD FOR 1884. 

Woodward, H. — On the Structure of Trilobites- (Geol. Magazine, 
3d Decade, February, 1884, vol. i, No. 2, pp. 78, 79. London.) 
A reproduction of the author's views on the appendages of trilobites, 

and Asaphus platyceplialus Stokes, in particular, as published in 187 L in 

the Geol. Magazine, July, pp. 289-294, pi. viii. 

Woodward, H. — Notes on the Appendages of Trilobites. Note to ac- 
company three woodcuts of Asaphus niegistos, a Trilobite discovered 
by Mr. James Pugh, near Oxford, Ohio, in the upper portion of the 
Hudson River group. (Geol. Magazine, 3d Decade, April, 1884, vol. 
I, No. 4, pp. 162-105. London.) 

Reproduces Mr. John Mickleborough's figures of Asaphus megistos 
with a few remarks. He suggests, concerning Mr. Walcott's restoration 
of Galyit,ene senaria, tliat the last seven pairs of appendages belonging 
to the pygidium were more probably lamelliform branchigerous append- 
ages as in Limulus and in living isopods. (See Mr. Walcott's article 
in Science, vol. in, pp. 279-281.) 

WoRTHEN, A. H. — Descriptions of two new species of Crustacea, fifty- 
one species of Moll usca, and three of Crinoids, from the Carboniferous 
formations of Illinois and adjacent States. (Ball. No. 2, Illinois State 
Mus. Nat. Hist., March, 1884, pp. 1-27. Springfield, 111.) 
No illustrations accompany the descriptions of these species : Colpo- 
caris Chester ensis, Solenocaris St. Ludovici, Nautihis montgomeryensis, 
Pleurotomaria iUinoiensis^ P. giffordi, P. adamsi, P. nauvooensis, P. cox- 
ana, PorcelUa 2>eoriensls, Loxonema peoriensis, L.quadricarinatus, Ortho- 
nema carhonaria, Traehydomia nodulosa, Bellerophm giganteus, Naticop- 
sis madisonensis, Polyphemopsis f heolvJc, Schizodus magnus, S. varsovi- 
ensis, 8. nauvooensis, S. depressus, S. f circulus, Allorisnia ilUnoiensis, A. 
elongata, ISolenomya varsoviensis, IS. monroensis, S. iowaensis, Avicnlopin7ia 
illinoiense, Sanguinolites f multistriatus, S. hurlingtonensis, Balcevellia illi- 
noiensis, Myalina monroensis, Nucula illinoiensis, Modiola illinoiensis, Car- 
diomorphaf pellacnsis,Pleurophorus ehesterensis, P. minima, P. monroensis, 
Edmondia varsoviensis, E. illinoiensis, Aviculopecten orestes, A. niotense, 
A. elsahensis, A. ehesterensis, A. spinuliferus, A. monroensis, A. talboti, A. 
colletti, A. edwardsi, Lima f menardi, Discina varsoviensis, Terehratula 
rou'leyi, Athyris squamosus, Rhynchonella illinoiensis, Lingula varsoviensis, 
Lepetopsis ehesterensis, Batocrinus montgomeryensis, B. subconicus, Poterio- 
crinus spinuliferous. The typical specimens will be placed on exhibition 
in the cases of the State museum. 



ZOOLOGY. 



I>\' PioiVssor Theodore Gill. 



INTRODUCTION. 

lin(\sti<i;iti()iis into the st'ciets of tlie nuiinal world have been con- 
ducted by most of the investigators ijroniiuent for the past few years, 
and by the usna] number of recruits to the ranks of zoologists. The 
addition to our knowledge of the various types of the animal kingdom 
has been substantial and important, but as usual chiefly confined to 
matters of detail and refinement, which can be oidy appreciated by the 
skilled biologist. Some noteworthy discoveries that can beset forth in 
a few words, and whose importance can readily be api)reciated by all 
have likewise been made. Among them are the find of a Silurian scor- 
pion which takes the class of Arachnids much farther back in time, a 
like extension backwards of tlje fishes by the exhumation of reumius 
near the base of the ui)per Silurian beds of Pennsylvania, by Mr. Clay- 
pole, and the confirmation of the oviparity of the Monotremes, of the 
only two known family types ( Jruithorhynchids and Tachyglossids), 
by Messrs. W. D. Caldwell and W. Haacke, as well as some insight into 
their embryonic stages. 

There are also two features of special interest as signs of the time, 
in the accessions to the ranks of true investigators from sources from 
which in times past none looked for work of an exact or highly original 
nature; such are the female sex and people formerly called barbarous. 

A most pleasant feature is the number of recent female contributors, 
and there is a most laudable absence of ignorant wonder and congratu- 
lation in all of tbem. America and England have been especially for- 
tunate in the number of able female investigators. We maybe i)ardoned 
for recalling the names of a few. In the United States, Miss Eosa 
Smith, of San Diego, Cal,, has described new species and a gvnus of 
fishes; Miss Katherine J. Bush has i)ublished a useful catalogue of 
mollusca and echinodermata of Labrador; Miss Mary H. Hinckley has 
made known the habits and transfornmtions of a tree-fiog {HyJu Piclccr- 
ingii) in a special monograph; Miss Sara Gwendolen Foulke has made 
known the structure and habits of many of the lower forms of animal 
life; Miss Mary Esther Murtfeldt has given several communications ou 

583 



584 SCiENTiFIO record for 18.-^4. 

insects; and Miss Genevieve Jones ;in<l Miss Eliza Scbulze have given 
to the world a most magnificent illustrated work on the nests and eggs 
of the birds of Ohio. In England, Miss E. A. Ormerod has published 
excellent reports on the insects affecting agricnltnral interests; Miss 
Catherine C Hopley has been active in the study of reptiles, and espec- 
ially the snakes, and published a very creditable volume on the latter; 
Miss Agnes Crane has contributed to the history of Brachiopods, Poly- 
zoans, and other animals ; and Miss Alice Johnston has attacked, with 
a well-equipped mind and training, some of the most profound problems 
in morphology. Further, we may name two who have done excellent 
work in presenting in poj^ular form the results of recent researches, Miss 
Arabella Buckley, and Mrs. Martin, who, in conjunction with her hus- 
band, Professor Martin, of the Johns Hopkins University, has published 
a manual of physiology. 

Distant and formerly isolated Japan has also furnished to the scien- 
tific corps a notable contingent, who have demonstrated the ability of 
the Mongolian race to hold their own with the best of the Caucasians. 
Professor Kakichi Mitsikuri, a graduate of the Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity, and now professor of zoology in the University of Tokio, and Dr. 
Isao lijima have been working successfully in fields wherein only the 
best trained minds, supi)lemeuted by extraordinary skill in anatomy 
and manipulation generally, can hope for success. Laborers such as 
these, of either sex or any country, will always be welcome. 

A pleasant and in some ways an important event of the year was the 
meeting, for the first time in its long history, of the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science on American soil or even outside of 
the British Isles, The session at Montreal in September was as largely 
attended as could have been expected under the circumstances, and 
there was a pleasant interchange of courtesies between the association 
and its younger American sister. Many naturalists long known to 
each other by reputation, and often through correspondence, met face 
to face for the first time, and doubtless misapprehensions wTre rectified, 
better knowledge of each other obtained, mutual respect insured, and 
personal friendship cemented. 

As in the previous reports, the language of the original from which 
the abstract is compiled is generally followed as closely as the case 
will permit. It has, however, been found necessary to limit the ab- 
stract to the illustration of the i)romiuent idea underlying the original 
memoir, and pass by the proofs and collateral argumeuis. At the 
same time it has been often attempted to bring the new discovery into 
relation with the previous status of information respecting the group 
under consideration. As to the special discoveries recorded, they have 
been generally selected (1) on account of the modifications the forms 
considered force on the system; or (2) for the reason that they are or 
have been deemed to be of high taxonomic importance; or (3) because 
the animals j?er se are of general interest; or, finally, (4) because they 



/:ooT.OGY. 585 

are of special interest to the American natnralist. Of course zoolo^^ists 
cultivating limited fields of research will find in omissions cause for 
censure, and may urge that discoveries of inferior importance have 
been noticed to the exclusion of those better entitled to it. It is freely 
admitted that this charge may even be justly made ; but the limits 
assigned to the record have been much exceeded, and the recorder has 
studied the needs of the many rather than of the few, The summary 
is intended, not for the advanced scientili<; student, but for those who 
entertain a general interest in zoology or some of the better-known 
classes. 

A very partial bibliography of noteworthy memoirs and works relat- 
ing to diflerent class of animals is supplied, and will, it is hoped, prove 
to be of use to some to whom the voluminous bibliographies and rec- 
ords of progress in science are inaccessible. 

It has been a difficult matter to select the titles which might be 
most advantageously introduced in a limited report like the present. 
Articles of a general interest or of special importance as contributing 
to throw light on the affinities of certain groups, or monographs have 
been given the first place. Necessarily many very important papers 
have not been referred to, and very few descriptive of species have 
been admitted, and only when unusual interest attaches to the new 
species or the groujis which they enlarge. 

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most ma- 
terial assistance to the ZoohnjiHclier Anzeiger of Professor Cams and to 
the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society. 

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT. 
I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

II. PROTOZOANS. Sporozoans ; liliizopods 5 Infusorians. 

III. PORiFEES. Sponges. 

IV. CCELENTERATES. Polyps ; Acaleplis. 

V. ECHINODERMS. Crinoids; Asterioids; Echinoids; Holothurians. 
VI. WORMS. Rotifers; Piatyhelminths; jSTematelminths; Annelids. 
VII. ARTHROPODS. Merostomes ; Crustaceans; Arachnids; Insects. 
VIII. MOLLUSCOiDS. Polyzoaus; Brachiopods. 
IX. MOLLUSKS. Acephals; Gastropods; Cephalopods. 
X. PROTOCHORDATES. Tunicatcs. 

XL VERTEB..ATES. Fish-likc Vertebrates; Leptocardians ; Selachi- 
ans; Fishes; Amphibians; Keptiles; Birds; Mammals. 

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

Ihe deep-sea researches of the United States Fish Commission in 1884. 

Professor Verrill has given an account of the work of tlie steamer 
Albatross in 1884. The exploration of the Gulf Stream region was con- 
tinued under nearly the same conditions as in 1883, and four trips 



586 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

were made between July 20 and September 13. Sixty-nine dredgings 
were made. Of these, five were in depths between 2,000 and 2,G00 
fathoms and the rest in less deep water. The results were "highly 
satisfactory, both in the way of physical observations and zoological 
discoveries." Large numbers of additions were " made to the fauna, iu- 
ckuling representatives of nearly all classes of deep-sea animals. Many 
pelagic species were also secured in surface nets, and especially in the 
trawl- wings. Among these there are some new forms, and many of 
them have previously not been observed so far north and near tbe Gulf 
Stream." 

The deep-sea deposits were especially noteworthy. " The bottom be- 
tween 000 and 2,000 fathoms, in other regions, has generally been found 
to consist mainly of ' globigerina ooze,' or sometimes of a mixture of 
globigerina and pteropod ooze. Off our northern coast, however, this is 
by no means always the case. The ooze is always mixed with some 
sand and frequently with much clay-mud. In a number of instances 
the bottom, between 500 and 1,200 fathoms, has beeu found to consist 
of tongh and compact clay, so thoroughly hardened that many large 
anguhir masses, sometimes weighing more than fifty pounds, have beeu 
brought up in the trawl." 

The animals obtained were sometimes of singular interest. " Many 
additions to the fauna of great depths were made, and a large portion 
of them are undescribed forms. Some of the fishes were of great inter- 
est. Huge spiny spider crabs {Lithodes Agassizii) over three feet across 
were taken in 1,000 to 1,230 fathoms, and another very large crab 
{Gerijon quinquedens) occurred in great abundance in 500 to 1,000 fath- 
oms." aSTumerous species of handsome shrimps, many "of a brigiit color 
and some of very large size, occurred as usual in the deeper di edgings. 
Some of these had not been taken before." 

Of tiie Echinoderms, the star-fishes were numerous, and two species 
of a very singular genus, called Brisinga^ were obtained in many locali 
ties, sometimes in large numbers. Ophiurans of many species were 
also obtained in numerous localities. {Am. Journ. Sc. (3), xxviii, pp. 
378-384.) 

Origin (^f the deep-sea fauna. — In a monograph of the Pourtalesiidai, a 
family of dee[> sea Echinoidea, Professor Sven Loven has expre sed some 
thoughts respt cting the origin of the deej^-sea fauna, and suggested how 
the forms characteristic of the depths may have been evolved, distrib- 
uted, and modified from species of the littoral zone. 

"In the adult state most of the marine evertebrates remain in their 
native station, wandering within its precincts. Their embryonic and 
larval age is their period of dispersal. Of numerous littoral forms, of 
different classes, tribes, and orders, currents must occasionally carry 
away the free swimming larsTe far into the sea, and during the course 
of succeedinsf generations early stages of many a species will have in this 






ZOOLOGY: 587 

way reached the wide oceau. There they will have sunk, their de- 
velopment accomplished all through dt^])ths full of danger and more 
and more uncongenial, and a few of them will have settled on the bot- 
tom of the abyss, and fewer still will have come to thrive there. Among 
these some will long have their original character, and but slowly beeu 
modified, while others will have exhibited a latitude of variation un- 
known or rarely seen where they came from, but upon the whole there 
will be reasons for assuming the less altered forms to be new comers, 
the more deviating to be old inhabitants of the deep." 

Organisms in ice.~A Philadelphia gentleman gave Prof. Joseph Leidy, 
for examination, a vial of water obtained from a lump of ice which had 
been used to cool ordinary drinking water. '' From time to time, among 
some sediment taken from the water-cooler, the gentleman had observed 
what he supposed to be living worms, which he susjiected were intro- 
duced with the water into the cooler and not with the ice." On exami- 
nation of the water melted from this ice. Professor Leidy was "surprised 
to find a number of worms among some flocculent sediment, mainly con- 
sisting of vegetal hairs and other debris. Besides the worms, there were 
also immature Anguillulas, and a number of Rotifer vulgaris, all living. 
It would appear that these animals had all beeu contained in the ice, 
and had been liberated on melting. It was an unexpected source of 
contamination of our drinking water that Professor Leidy liad previ- 
ously supposed very improbable. The little worms he was not familiar 
with." 

A study of the worms showed that "they belong to the family Lum- 
bricidw, and probably may be an undescribed species of Lumhri cuius. 
They are white or colorless, from 4 to G millimeters long by a third of a 
millimeter in thickness;" there are about thirty segments. "Several 
dead worms swarmed in the interior with large, ovate, beaked, ciliated 
infusoria, measuring from 0.05 to O.OG '""^ long by 0.0-4 to 0.048'""" broad." 
{Froc. Acad. Nat. ISc. Phila., 1884, p. 2G0.) 

Microscopic fauna in water reservoirs. — An accidental breaking of a 
valve, necessitating the drawing off of the water from the Fairmoiint 
reservoir, was taken advantage of by Mr. Edward Potts to study the 
minute fauna to be found. 

" The commensal habit of many of the lower animals who feed by 
the creation of ciliary whirlpool currents has beeu frequently referred 
to; the weaker current-makers, such as vorticellae, stentors, and the 
errant and tubicolous rotifers, planting themselves about the heads of 
the stronger polyzoa to supply their own nets with what may have es- 
caped from the others. The same instinctive in-iuciple which leads all 
these to locate themselves most i)lentifull3' amongst the stones in the 
rapids of streams, was particularly noticeable in promoting their ag- 
gregation ui)on and in the neighborhood of the inlet and outlet gates 



588 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

of tlie reservoirs. The feeble curreDt.s produced by each can only 
bring within its reach the floating provision frnni a ver}' limited area ; 
the volume of water poured through these gates brings to them a rich 
supply, and the numbers and variety of these organisms increase in pro- 
portion. Of the fixed forms were seen amongst the bryozoa, besides one 
or more undetermined si)ecies of Plumatella, PeciinateUa magnijica, and 
Urnatella gracilis of Leidy, and the newly described Paludicclla erecta. 
Attached to these were vorticella), epistilis, and steutors innumerable; 
Pyxicola and Acineta^ rotifers of various names, including prominently 
Limnias and other probably undescribed forms among the melicertidae. 
Very abundant among these was the interesting chaetobranch annelid, 
Manuyiinlda speciosa Leid\', which has of late been frequently noticed 
in this vicinity, and the wonderfully marine-looking hydroid Cordylo- 
pliora lacustris. This last was particularly abundant around the south- 
east outlet, its stems forming a complete matting over many yards of 
surface, commingled with bryozoa and sponges in intricate confusion." 
{Proc. Acad. Nat Sc. PMla., 1884, pp. 217-219.) 

Symbiosis of Hermit Crab and Sea-Anemone. — The subject of Sym- 
biosis, or the association for mutual benefit of different animals, or, 
may be, of an animal and a plant even, has of late been attracting much 
attention. The name was first suggested by the French botanist, De 
Bary, in connection with certain phenomena of the vegetable world. 
The associates come together and associate "like two partners in a well 
regulated business concern, co-operating in the work of life, taking part 
in all its toils and troubles, and honorably sharing the common profits." 
The symbiotic relationship of one of the hermit crabs and a sea-anemone 
[Adamsia paUiata) has been studied in the Naples aquarium by Pro- 
fessor Hertwig. The sea-anemone, a beautiful species, " attaches itself 
to the roof of the common abode in such a position that its mouth and 
prehensile apparatus are always turned toward the head of its associ- 
ate. It is thus enabled to join in all the expeditions of the restless 
hermit crab and conveniently share in the common plunder. In return 
for this service the anemone i)rotects its companion from his many 
enemies by means of the numerous long threads which it shoots out at 
the least alarm, and which are provided with millions of capsules 
charged with a stinging acid like that of the common nettle. So close 
is the compact entered into by the two partners that both have become 
indispensable to each other," and, " if the crab be removed from his 
house, and this be stopped up so as to prevent his re entering it, he will 
cast about for another shell, and never stop until his old associate is 
also transferred to their new abode." Many similar cases of symbiosis 
of actinians and decapod crustaceans are now known, and the relation- 
ship is probably as intimate in almost all cases as the one studied. 
(Am. Nat., x\iu. pp. 83, 81.) 



ZOOLOGY. 589 

11. PEOTOZOANS. 

Sporozoans. 

A neic Sporozoan type. — In 1883 Dr. A. Scbueider described a new 
type of Sporozoans to whicli he gave tlie name Ophnjoci/fit is hutschlii. 
Later studies have not only confirmed the distinctness of the form, but 
revealed characteristics so different from those manifested by others of 
the class, as to have impelled the author to distinguish it as the type of 
"a new order of Amcebosporidia." The Amcebiiorm stage is very ver- 
satile in its phases and has "a facies altogether different to that of any 
known Sporozoan;" there is "a large number of nuclei," and in this 
respect it presents an analogy " to certain Amcebina, and distantly to 
the Myxosporidia." A "conjugation of two always uninuclear indi- 
viduals has been observed, but conjugation is not known among the 
Coccidia, and this i)eculiarity allies Ophrijocystis to the most differen- 
tiated Gregarines. The mode of sporulation allies them possibly to the 
Myxosporidia, while, on the other hand, the production of falciform 
bodies or sporozoites in the spores is the exact opposite of what takes 
place in the Myxospoiidia." In fine, the process of conjugation and 
the mode of sporulation distinguishes Ophryocyslids "from the Coc- 
cidia, as do the pseudopodia and the sporulation from the Gregarinidse, 
and the falciform corpuscles from the JMyxosporidia." {Arch. Zool. 
Exp6r. ct Gen., ii, pp. 111-12G, 1 pL; J. R. M. S. (2), v, pp. 82-83.) 

Rkizopods. 

A continental Foraminifer. — The Foraminifers hitherto known are in- 
habitants of the ocean, and the discovery of a species of the order in 
saline continental waters is therefore of unusual interest. The form in 
question proved to be not only a new species but a previously unknown 
generic type. Its infusorian companions were mostly of marine types 
of new species or conspecific with already known sea-forms, but "a 
fourth of the whole number are only known as fresh- water forms." 

The new foramiuiferous genus has been named Entzia and belongs 
to the group of ffelicostcf/ia ; the shell inform resembles the i?o^«?tna; 
of the group Oiohigerincv, in structure the Trochanimincc, and " the chem- 
ical constitution is that of Bifflvgia^ Trochammina^and some of the Glohi- 
gerina ;'''' it is stated that it closely connects the last with the Lagenidcc 
by means of Trochammina and the Uotcdince. {Zeitschr. f. wins. Zool., 
XL, pp. 46O-480 ; J. R. M. S. (2), IV, pp. 700-76L) 

Dimorphism in Orhulina. — Long ago it was shown that in the interior 
of the foraminiferous " shells" of the Orhulina type or genus were giobi- 
gerina-like bodies, and it was even urged that one was a stage of the 
other. Valid objections, however, were brought against this view, but 
the relations of the two required elucidation. Eecentlx' numerous 
specimens of Orhulina miiversa, most of which were dredged from a 



690 SIJIENTIF.C m.CORD FOK 1884. 

depth of about 2,000 fathoms by the " Talismau," were subject to a criti 
cal examination by 0. Schlumberger. The appearance previously indi- 
cated was observed anew ; "a succession of globuhir chambers, arranged 
in a spiral fashion, like those of certain Globigerinw,''^ were found within 
the shells of some of the small OrbuUnw, but not in all In many, even 
of the small ones, no manifestation whatever of such contents existed, 
and " the very large specimens also were nearly always emiity.'' Fur- 
ther, on Djinute examination it was discovered that there were essential 
histological and structural differences between the globigerina-like 
bodies of OrhuUna; and true GlohUjcrincv. 

The ''plasmostracnm" of the globigerina-like contents of the Orhti- 
lincc is "extremely fine and traversed by widely scattered perforations ;" 
the chambers forming the two first turns of the spiral are quite smooth, 
while the following ones are provided with spines which reach as far as 
the outer wall of the Orbttlina and are there fixed firmly to it, and the 
several chambers communicate with each other and also with the inte- 
rior of the OrhuUna. 

The i)lasmosti'acum or cell walls of the true Glohigerincc are relatively 
thick, and punctured by closely approximated and numerous perfora- 
tions. 

In fine, the resemblance between the contents of the OrhuUnw and 
true Glohigerince is simply superficial, and, apparently, the most prob- 
able explanation is that Orbulina is another instance of dimor|)hism 
among the Foramiuifers such as has already been shown to exist in 
other genera of that order by the author and Munier-Chalmas. ( Comptes 
Mendns, xcviii, pp. 1002-1004; J. R. M. 8. (2), iv, pp.57D-580.) 

Life history of a Helizoan Rhizopod. — The life history of a beautiful 
Heliozoan, named ClathruUna eJegans, has been studied by a lady of 
Philadelphia, Miss Sara Gwendolen Foulke. This little rhizopod was 
found "in myriads" attached to the roots of the Duck weed or Lemna. 
In many cases they were seen in groups of "about twenty-five colony- 
■stocks, so matted together by the twisting of the pedicels, and so sur- 
rounded by waste matter, as completely to conceal at that point the 
supporting root fibre. The animals were in a most active condition, 
feeding by means of their characteristic pseudopodial rays, and multi 
plying so freely by self-division, that the water was full of the 
Actinophrys-like bodies, and almost every capsule supported from one 
to ten young individuals. After being kept in captivity for two weeks, 
the large social groups had decreased in number, although solitary 
individuals were much more numerous. Reproduction was still going 
on, but not so freely, and by more varied methods. The phenomena 
exhibited during the act of reproduction are the subject of this com- 
munication. 

"The modes of reiiroduction are four in number, two of these being 
slightly similar, while the otiiers essentially differ in character. These 



ZOOLOGY. 591 

four modes arc: firfit^ by divisicu ; second, by the iustantaneous throw- 
ing off of a small mas'^ of sarcode; ihircl, by the trausformation of the 
body iuto flagellate mcv.ads; nwl fourth, by the formation and libera- 
tion of minute germs. 

"By the first mode (and this is the most common), the sarcode mass 
within the capsule withdraws its rays, constricts, and divides into from 
two to four granular masses, which, after a varying period of rest, i)ass 
out from the capsule and instantly shoot forth pseudopodial rays on all 
sides, thus assuming the appearance of an Actinoplirijs sol. These Acti- 
nophrys-like bodies after a time develop a protoplasmic stalk, or j^edi- 
cel, by which they attach themselves, usually to the parent capsule. A 
thin film of protoplasm is then thrown out and subtended by the rays, 
at a sbort distance from tbe body, and tliis, by development and secre- 
tion, becomes tbe latticed siliceous capsule. The pedicel also becomes 
more rigid, though always retaining a degree cf flesibleness. This 
manner of reproduction was first described by Cienkowski, the great 
Eussian observer, and discoverer of Clathrulina clegans (see Leidy's 
Rhizopods of North America). 

" lu the second mode of reproduction, the rays are not withdrawn, nor 
does the body divide, but the sarcode becomes finally vacuolate, i)resent- 
ing knob like projections. Suddenly a small mass of sarcode, usually 
one of the knob-like projections, detaches itself, and, passing out of the 
capsule, shoots out rays and develops, though more slowly, in the man- 
ner above described. This contmues until the parent body is much re- 
duced in size, when the i^ays again protrude and the animal returns to 
its normal condition. 

"The third mode of reproduction is by the formation and liberation 
of minute germs. In this state, also, the rays are not withdrawn, but 
the body of the Clathrulina becomes filled with minute green particles, 
which, even before liberation, exhibit active motion. A number ot 
these are expelled, inclosed in a thin protoplasmic film or globular sac, 
which bursts shortly, and the liberated germs swim away. The devel- 
opment of these germs, after this point, is yet to be followed. 

"The/o?/>-^//- mode is still more remarkable, and is also significant in 
bringing to light a new phase in the life history of the Heliozoa. The 
Clathrulina, in which these phenomena were first observed, withdrew 
its rays and divided into four parts, as in the ordinary method ; but the 
sarcode, instead of becoming granular and of a rough surface, grew 
smootherand more transparent. Then followed the period of quiescence; 
in this case of five or six hours' duration, although in other instances 
lasting three days and nights ; after which one of the four parts began 
slowly to emerge from the capsule, a second following a few moments 
later." 

For the further progress of the last mode of multiplication, reference 
must be made to Miss Foulke's own communication. She thinks that 
" this mode of reproduction secures a luoix wide spread (listributiou of 



592 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1884. 

the young tliaii would be possible did this depend on the sluggish Acti- 
nophrys form." (Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1884, pp. 17-19.) 

l')i/usona7is. 

A marginal membrane in Trichomonas. — A hitherto unobserved pecu- 
liarity of Trithomonas has been observed, which should incite to a re- 
examination of related forms. At the anterior end of Trichomonas 
vaginalis as well as T. hatrachorum, aljout the base of the three flagella, 
T. Blachmaun discovered an " undulating membrane" which "extends to 
about the middle of tbe body ; this membrane, never hitherto observed, 
may be best seen if the creature is allowed to die gradually." 

It is also recorded of Trichomonas hatrachorum and Trichomastixlacertcc 
at least, that " if the monad is allowed to remain for some time under the 
])ressure of the sun-glass the whole margin cf the animal is seen to ex- 
hibit an active undulatory movement, though of course this is not so 
regular as that of the membrane." {Zeitschr. f. iciss. ZooL, XL,, pp. 42- 
49; J. B. M. S. (2), iv, p. 759.) 

POKIFERS. 

Sponges. 

Fossil sponges. — Although many fossil sponges have been described, 
the information regarding them has been very scattered and altogether 
in an unsatisfactory condition. To a large extent this defect has been 
remedied by the publication of a "Catalogue of the Fossil Sponges in 
the Geological Department of the British Museum, with descriptions of 
new and little-lcnown species," by Ur. Gedrge J. Hinde. Xo less than 
141 genera were represented by specimens in the ^luseum ; of these 120 
contained siliceous sponges, and the rest calcareous. Of the si)ecies, 
32 belonged to tbe Pahieozoic times, 10 to the Triassic, 96 to the Jurassic, 
245 to the Creta(;eous, and only 3 were of Tertiary origin. The species 
have been illustrated by 38 plates. 

Some modifications of sponge spicules. — A notable modification of char- 
acter induced in fresh -water sponges has been encountered by Mr. 
Edward Potts. This modification has " apparently been affected by th«i 
peculiar condition of the environment.'^ Amongst the sponges which 
Mr. Potts found " encrusting certain old pipes, recently removed, from 
the water-works in the Schuylkill river in Philadelphia," some portions 
of the one called Meyenia Leidyi were "much more deeply colored with 
rust than others, the statoblasts, particularly, seeming to be mere pseu- 
domorphs of their originals in iron oxide. Fragments of this character 
were boiled in nitric acid, washed out and mounted for comparison with 
other matter similarly treated, bit free from such discoloration." "The 
normal skeleton spicule of the Meyenia Leidyi is "smooth, robust and 
shorter than tliat of any otlun* American species. Very rarely the tine 
line of the axial channel is visible, but in the specimen under examiu- 



ZOOLOGY. 593 

atiou the size aud exterior appearauce of the spiciilaj remaiuiug as be- 
fore, the bardlj^ noticeable chanuel has become a wide caual, open at 
both ends, aud occupying more than one half of the breadth of the spi- 
cule. This does not occur merely in occasional instances, but univer- 
sally throughout the fragment of sponge so affected. 

" Thebirotulate spicules of this sponge also are short and of a pecu- 
liarly substantial appearance, with entire reflexed margins, yet in the 
present preparation they could with difficulty be detected as mere ghosts 
of their normal shapes. The two discs rarely remained together, their 
characteristic entire margins were gone, the rotules being represented 
merely by a line of very tine rays." {Proc. Acad. Nat 8c. Phila., 1884, 
pp. 184-185.) 

Fresh-ivatcr sponges and water polhition. — It has been stated that 
fresh-water sponges, in their decay, are a notable source of ])ollutiou 
of drinking-water, and that the supply thereof derived from the reser- 
voirs may be materially injured by them. Mr. Edward Potts has taken 
measures to inquire into the truth of these allegations. In the month 
of February, 1884, he examined " the fore-bay at Fairmount Water- 
works, on the Schuylkill Eiver", when the water had been temporarily 
withdrawn. He found, on the bottom and sides, wherever he could get 
within reach, and as far as his eye could detect in other places, the 
surface "covered by a mud colored incrustation of considerable thick- 
ness, which a more minute examination showed to be composed almost 
wholly of statoblasts and spicules of the sponge Meyenia Lcidyl,^^ which 
was the prominent one. Some few remains of Meyenia JiuviatiUs and 
Spongilla fragilis were also seen. 

" While considering the effect of the presence of so large a sponge 
growth at the very inlet to the supply pumps, Mr. Potts stated that this 
particular species was conspicuous among the known Xorth American 
sponges by its great relative density and the small proportion of its 
sarcode or flesh. Its <;ecay, therefore, at the termination of its period 
of summer growth would be a less cause of pollution to the water-supply 
than that of any other sponge. 

"Moreover, from recent investigations into the life history of these 
low organisms, he was inclined to believe that decay was not the normal 
or necessary result of the close of each season's growth. The fragile 
branches of some species inhabiting exposed situations may, of course, 
be broken off and destroyed while the sarcode still covers them ; but 
in the sessile portions, and in all when sufficiently protected, the cells 
of the sarcode at the period of full maturity, forsaking tbeir places 
along the lines of the skeleton framework, gather together by sinudta- 
neous amaiboid movements into dense groups, where they are soon 
covered by a tough chitinous ' coat,' which, in time, generally becomes 
surrounded by a 'crust' of minute granular cells, and armor-plated by 
a series of protective si)icules. These groups are now recognized as 
the statoblasts, gemmules or winter eggs of the sponge — eggs only in 
S. Mis. 33—38 



594 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

appearance — iu reality the resting spores or protected germs which con- 
serve the life of the individual through the cold and storms of winter, 
and awake very early in the springtime into new life, yet a continuance 
only of the same existence which was seen a few months before nestling 
into this winter's sleep. 

" If tLis is the ordinary course with these organisms there seems no 
reason to regard them as serious causes of the pollution of our streams, 
though violent freshets before this resting period is reached may tear 
them to pieces, and their decay may give a temporary taint to the 
water." {Proc. Acad. Nat. &c., PhUa., 1884, pp. 28-30.) 

CCELENTERATES. 

Polyps. 

Variation in corals. — The Astraugiacea(Madreporaria) have been stud- 
ied by Mr. S. O. Ridley, and have been found to present striking indi- 
vidual variations in characters wliich have been assumed to be constant 
and employed for the detinitioii of generic or supergcneric groups. 
Such variations affect the columella, costae, and paliform lobes, and 
characters depending on their modifications must be emj^loyed with 
gi^eat caution in tbe study of the Astrangiacea, "whatever may be the 
value for classification of the corresponding parts iu the Turbinoliidse 
and Oculinidae." (Joiirn. Linn. Soc. London, ZooL, xvii, pp. 395-399. 1 
pi.; J. B. M. K (2) V, p. 73.) 

Acalephs. 

The hydriform .stage of Limnicodium. — Notices have been published 
in previous issues of these records of progress in zoology, of the re- 
markable little fresh-water Medusa, named IJmnicodium Sowerhii, in 
the Victoria tank of the Royal Botanic Gardens in Regent's Park, Lou- 
don. About four years and a half had elapsed since the discovery of 
the mature form before the hydriform stage was discovered, although 
assiduous search had beeii made for it. But, on the occasion of the clear- 
ing out of the tank in December, 1884, more than usual thorough search 
Avas instituted, and this was at length rewarded by the finding of the 
hydra on some Pontederiw imported from South America several years 
ago. Professor Lankester immediately communicated a notice of the 
discovery to the London Times and Mr, A. G. Bourne (who first de- 
tected it) to Nature (v. 31, p. 107, December 4, 1884). The details were 
not published in 1884. 

ECHINODERMS. 

Origin of Echinoderms. 

The development of the germinal layers of Echinoderms has been 
studied by Prof. E. Seleuka. The cleavage of the egg is said in general 
terms to be regular, but really " pseudo-regular" in the Asterioids or 



ZOOLOGY. 595 

starfishes and Opbiuroids, aud "regular with puhir difl'ereutiatiou " 
iu the Ecbiuoids. " The various modes of eleavage are of no value for the 
ph,vlogeuetic history of the group ; the iuflueuce of cenogeny is appar- 
ent enough." For further and explanatory details the memoir of Pro- 
fessor Selenka must be consulted, but his conclusions as to the genetic 
relations of the group are of sufiicient general interest to warrant re- 
peating here: " Evidence of the verniian origin of Echinoderms is af- 
forded by the primary mesoderm having the form of two primitive cells 
and by the bilateial symmetry of the larval organs. The division of the 
archenteric diverticulum into codomic sac and water-vessels correspond 
physiologically to that which the mesodermic sac undergoes in verte- 
brates, and to some extent in worms." {^elenka's Studien iiber Entwicke- 
lungsgescldclite, ii ; J. R. M. S. (2), iv, j)p. 573-574.) 

Crinoids. 

Reproductive function in Comatida. — interesting observations have re- 
cently been made on the actions and apparent copulation of two indi- 
viduals of the Comatula meditteranea by Dr. C. F. Jickeli. The phe- 
nomenon resembled that previously noticed in a starfish {Asterina gib- 
hosa) by Dr. H. Ludwig. The arms fell off as a climax, and this appeared 
to confirm IStuder's sni)position that the loss of the arms, which often 
occurs in star fishes, is ci)nnected with the discharge of the sexual pro- 
ducts. {Zool. Anzeiger, Vii, pp. 444-^441) ; Ann. tt Mag. Nat, Hint. [6)^ 
XIV, pp. 307-3(38; J. R. M. S. (2), y, pp. 70-71.) 

Asterioids. 

A deep-sea star-fish. — An interesting star-fish, obtained in Faeroe 
Channel, at a depth of 555 fathoms, has been described by Mr. W. 
Percy Sladen, under the name Mimaster Tizardi. Its interest arises from 
the bonds of union with several quite diverse types, and it is indeed 
what used to be called a synthetic or comi)rehen8ive type. It recalls 
in different parts some Asteriidae {Solaster), Astropectinidie, Goniaster- 
idiB, and Asteriuidae. It appears to he nearly related to a genus also 
lately described, called Radiaster. {Trans. Royal Soc. Edinh., xxx, pp. 
579-584, ] pi. ; J. R. M. S. (2), iv p. 903.) 

Echinoids. 

Morphology of the Echinoids. — In connection Avith studies of the Echi- 
noids, and especially of the deep-sea species constituting the family 
Pourtalesiidae, Prof. S. Loven has considered the general characters of 
the order. Tlie skeleton is " a hollow sac inclosing the visceral organs, 
and constituted by three distinct systems — ambulacral, ])erisomatic or 
interradud. and calycinal or apical." On a careful study of this skeleton, 
it is found mat "itsconstitueutelemcnts are in reality and fundamentally 
arranged bilaterally and symmetrically on either side of the mesial 



596 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

plane, iudicated by its anteroposterior axis. The arcbseonomous or old- 
fasbioned type of the Clypeastridse as well as the neonomous or new- 
fashioned Spatanjiidae give distinct indications of the bilateral form of 
the adult. Though more difBcult to detect, this bilaterality obtains 
also in the ancient CidaridiB, and we have here " another instance of the 
validity of the laws more than once ascertained to underlie evolution, 
namely, that structui-es which are gradually but forcibly worked out 
during the course of geological ages into specialized and highly char- 
acteristic features are virtually present within the fabric of the earlier 
forms, though dormant, and, as it were, lying in abeyance, and to be 
detected only by a close scrutiny." 

In another place, in a discussion of the " calycinal system " (which is 
defined as consisting of a central ossicle, live costals, and five radials), 
Professor Loven speculates on the evolution of certain forms and parts. 
" Ti(irc(himf,Sj with its enormous calyx, appears to be the most antique 
of Echinoids. While a number of forms retain a stable relation of the 
parts, we find that, when this is disturbed, the anal orifice is the first to 
alter its ] osiiion; it is followed by the madreporic and generative parts, 
but the eyes remain stationary," &c. 

The manner in which changes may take place are summarized by the 
author m the following terms : " A large and powerful structure, closely 
specialized for a function of fundamental importance in the economy of 
some remote ancestral type, is inherited in an early state by a descend- 
ant in which, from a total change in the mode of life, the very purpose 
no longer exists for which it was originally contrived and to which its 
parts \vere adapted. It long retains certain marked features which even 
to this day reveal its origin, but, unlike its Crinoidean sister-structure 
which, with functions unaltered, multiplies its components, it remains 
simple as from the beginning, and superfluous as it has become, grad- 
ually declines in intrinsic vigor, and is given up to subserving activities 
that had no share in its previous existence. Invaded by contending 
organs and yielding to their various tendencies, it has its parts deeply 
modified and even to some degree suppressed, and although still true 
to its type, and asserting, so to say, its unimpaired independence by 
redintegrating its injured frame, it dwindles, nevertheless, from age to 
age in every succeeding form and is seen to fall into decay and dismem- 
berment" and to lose one by one its characteristics, till at last little re- 
mains of its original constitution." {K. SvenslaVef. Al'ad. Eandl.,xix, 
95 pp., pi. 21; J. K. M. 8. (2), iv, pp. 751-754.) 

Holothunans. 

A large ffolothurian. — The ])harynx of a very large Holothurian, 
dredged up in the Sulu Sea, has been described by Prof. H. N. Moseley. 
No traces of the rest of the animal were found, but the pharynx exhibits 
unusual characters and the calcareous skeleton is remarkably developed. 
It is, however, most noteworthy here on account of its large size, being 



ZOOLOGY. 597 

t| inches long, tlius exceeding- in size the corresponding part of any 
other species and indicating the existence of a Holothurian larger than 
any previously" known. [Quart. Journ. Mic. Sc, xxiv, pp. 255-261, with 
pi.) 

WORMS. 

Rotifers. 

Classification of Rotifers. — A new classification of the Eotifers has 
been proposed by Dr. C. T. Hudson, who, it is understood, has been 
for souie time engaged in company with Mr. H. P. Gosse on a monograph 
of the class. Twelve families are recognized and defined, and these 
are segregated under four groups called " orders " and distinguished 
chiefly by the mode of progression. At first sight this might seem to 
be an unsafe guide, and it remains to be seen whether it will stand the 
test of critical analysis. The ordinal characters and families are as 
follows : 

"Order I, Rhizota," including fixed forms, with the foot attached, 
transversely wrinkled, non retractile, and truncate. 
Family 1, Flosculariidse. 
Family 2, Melicertidse. 
''Order II, Bdelloida," including Rotifers "that swim and creep like 
a leech," with the "foot retractile, jointed, telescopic," and with 
its " termination furcate." 
Family 3, Philodinidfe. 
" Order III, Ploima," composed of Rotifers " that only swim." 
Illoricatcd. 
Family 4, Hydatinidfe. 
Fa^nily 5, Synchoetidae. 
Family 6, Notommatidae. 
Family 7, Triarthridae. 
Family 8, Awsplanchnidae. 

Loricated. 
Family 9, Brachionidse. 
Family 10, Pterodinidae. 
Family 11, Euchlanidae. 
" Order IV, Scirtopoda," embracing " Rotifers that swim with their 
ciliary wreath, and skip by means of hollow limbs with internal 
locomotor muscles. 
Family IL', Pedalionidae." 

{Quart. Journ. Mic. Sc, xxiv, pp. 335-356; J. R. M. IS. (2), IV, pp. 
748-750.) 

Platy helminths. 

Free-living Nemaioids. — The free-living fresh- water Nematoids of the 
Dutch fauna have been investigated hy Mr. J. G. de Man, conservator 
of the zoological museum of Leyden, and the results published in a spe- 



598 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

cial moDOgraph. These "worms are not easily found ; to obtain tbeui, it 
is necessary to dig with a knife into moist ground, and especially to seek 
for them about the roots of trees. The fieshwater species are generally 
found among the leaves of plants, filaments of algae, or confervae, while 
others are met with in the muddy bottoms of ponds and brooks. 

A rare human Tapeicorm. — At least eight species of tapeworms or 
intestinal worms of the family Tccniidw have been found in the human 
body in varying numbers. Of course, the most common are the Tcenia 
solium and the Tcniia- meiliocancllata, the former being derived ordinarily 
from pork, and the latter from beef. There is one species of the family 
— the Tcenia {Eymenolepis) Jlavopunctata — that has only once been tbund 
in the intestines of man. It was in 1858 that Dr. Weinland discovered 
some specimens discharged by a child in Boston. Dr. Leidy recently 
obtained evidences of the same species expelled from a child three 
years old by a dose of santonin ; tlie specimens, consisting of a dozen 
fragments, appeared to be portions of three worms, Avhich reached a 
length of from twelve to fifteen inches or more. Unfortunately the 
head was lost, but enough remained to identify the species. " The 
mature eggs are spherical, measure some 0.072 millimeter in diameter, 
and contain, fully developed, six hooked embryos." 

Although so rarely met with, it was thought by Dr. Leidy to be 
jirobable that the worm is more common than would be supposed from 
the rare instances of its observation, and that it has generally escaped 
notice only " from its suiall size, and from the general ignorance of 
the distinction, not only of this, but of the ordinary species of tape- 
worms." Nothing is known respecting the life history of the worm or 
its other hosts. {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1884, p. 137.) 

Xematelminths. 

The orifjin of the eggs and sperm of Ascaris. — The direction of the 
studies of zoologists nowadays is well illustrated by several very elab- 
orate memoirs on the genesis of the eggs and sperm in the common 
intestinal thread-worm of the horse {Ascaris megalocephala). One by 
Dr. E. Van Beneden on the ovum and its fertilization takes up 375 
pages; another, by Van Beneden and Julin, on the spermatogenesis, is 
30 ])ag('S long; and another, also on the spermatogenesis, by Dr. P. 
Hailez, is 3 i)ages long. The most important of these memoirs is pub- 
lished in the Archives de Biologic (iv, pp. 265-G40, with 1 pi.). 

Annelids. 

An American fresh icatcr Worm. — In certain rivers of Eastern Amer- 
ica, beyond the intiow of salt or brackish water, is found a species of 
tube-making chictobranch worm which is closely related to certain sea- 
worms, and which has no known relation in fresh waters elsewhere. 



ZOOLOGY. 699 

Tliis wns first described hy tlie grenf American naturalist, Dr. Leidy, 
and has recently been the subject of renewed examination by two other 
naturalists of Philadelphia, Miss Sara G. Foulke and Mr. Edward Potts. 

The tentacular crown, or branchial organ, is considered by Miss 
Foulke to be the feature of special interest. 

"According to Dr. Leidy, the tentacles present in an adult are eighteen 
in number, besides two larger and longer tentacles situated midway 
between the two lophophores. These larger tentacles are conspicuous 
by their bright green color, and are, in fact, external continuations of 
the blood- vessels extending lengthwise throughout the body. In shape 
these tentacles taper from base to apex; are convex on the outside, but 
concave on the side which faces the center of the tentacular crown, so 
that a transverse section would present the shape of a crescent. The 
two edges thus formed are fringed with cilia. When closely watched, 
the green tentacles are seen to pulsate with a rhythmical motion, con- 
tracting and expanding longitudinally. The i)nlsation takes place in 
each tentacle alternately. 

"At the moment of contraction the tentacle turns slightly on its axis, 
outwards and towards the end of the lophophore on that side, at the 
same time giving a backward jerk, returning to its former position at 
the moment of expansion. 

"By force of the contraction, the green blood tilling the tentacle is 
forced downward out of the tentacle, and tlows along the blood-vessel 
on that side of the body. On the expanding of the tentacle, the blood 
instantly returns and suffuses it, and thus the process goes on." 

Mr. Potts's observations were chiefly devoted to the manner in which 
the worm takes its food. 

Although the crown of the tentacles imparts to the w^orms some re- 
semblance toapolyzoan, " there is a noticeable difference in the effect pro- 
ducer! by the motion of their cilia. In the latter a i)owerful inciirrent 
bears food particles, &c., towards the mouth as a vortex; in the former 
case, while the motion draws these particles from without or behind the 
circle towards the tentacles, the moment they pass between them they 
are influenced by an excurrent bearing them forcibly away. This out- 
flowing current is further shown by the fact that excrementitious mat- 
ters are drawn rapidly forward through the tube, and ejected at its 
anterior extremity. 

" As food, therefore, cannot be sticled into the mouth of the worm, we 
find that it is car-ried in. Acceptable i^articles which touch the tentacles 
are grasped by the cilia, and rapidly passed down among them in near 
contact with the tentacle into grooves at the base of the above-men- 
tioned processes, and thence into the digestive tract." 

Mr. Potts was also fortunate enough to be able to study the worm in 
the act of building a tube. 

In its earliest stages, the tube "is a transparent, smooth, and homo- 
geneous slime-like excretion, within which the worm may be verj'^ clearly 



600 SCIENTIFIC REf!OT?r> FOR 1884. 

Been, as it works its way forward or dings itself backwaid by means of 
its pedal hooks and f-pines. Later on, the anterior extremity thickens 
and becomes more' and more opaque, and, as Dr. Leidy has observed, 
'feebly annulated,' presumably from the adherence of effete particles, 
and their compression by the re]ieated withdrawal of the ciliated tenta- 
cles into the mouth of the tube. This Aethod of prolongation must con- 
tinue during' the residence of the worm, and in consequence, if supported, 
it may sometimes reach a length which is several times that of its inhab- 
itant." {Proc. Acad. iVat. Sc. Phila., 1884, pp. 48, 49, 21, 22.) 

Earth-n-orms in Neic Zealand. — The extensive modifications which the 
boring and concoinitant habits of earth-worms effect upon the land, 
have become familiar through the work of Darwin on those humble 
animals. The surprising results effected by worms ou ordinary English 
land might be made, according to the estimate of Darwin, by an army 
consisting of an average of about 26,886 to the acre. Later, Henson, 
from observations conducted in Germany, estimated that in favorable lo- 
calities about twice as many as were calculated for by Darwin (53,767) 
existed in garden grounds, while in green fields the number would closely 
approximate that presented by the great English naturalist. The abun- 
dance of a New Zealand species has recently been brought to light, and 
Mr. A. T. Urquhart gives, as the result of his investigations, to au acre 
of pasture land near Auckland, the large number of 348,480 worms as 
found therein ; and on his results being challenged, even this number 
was greatly increased by subsequent experience. A piece was "laid 
out into squares of 120 feet, and a square foot of soil was taken out at 
each corner ; worms hanging to the side walls of the holes were not 
counted, and in one hole, where the return of worms was a blank, the 
walls were crowded with worms." As the result, there was an average 
of 18 worms per square foot, or 784,080 worms per acre. Although this 
average is in number so striking, when compared with those of Darwin 
and Henson, the difference between the actual weight of the worms is 
very much less in proportion. "According to Henson, his average of 
53,767 worms would weigh 350 pounds, while Mr. Urquhart finds that 
the average weight of the number found by him came to 612 pounds 9 
ounces," or less than twice the aggregate of the German percentage. 
The value of the observations on the New Zealand worms would have 
been much enhanced had their relationship been determined. {Trans. 
New Zealand Inst, v. 20 ; Nature, V. 31, p. 23.) 

Myzostomids. 

The species of Myzostomids. — More than forty years ago Prof. F. S. 
Leuckart discovered certain singular organisms parasitic ou the arms 
of the crinoid known as Antedon rosacea, which were recognized as two 
species of a previously unknown type, and which received from him the 
generic name Myzostoma; one of the species was called M. glabrum and 



ZOOLOGY. COl 

the other J/, cirriferum. The relations of this type to other animals 
have been involved in doubt, and various discrepant opinions have been 
entertained respecting its proper systematic position. 

TheMyzostomids are minute disk like animals, sometimes almost per- 
fectly round and with markings recalling- the marks on the face of a 
watch. They are parasitic on Crinoids. The question of their relation- 
ships has recently been discussed by Dr. L. von Graff and Dr. J. Beard. 

Dr. von Graff thinks that they are related to the Tardigrades, and in- 
deed proposes to take that group, as well as the Linguatuloids, from the 
Arachnids and combine them with the Myzostomids in a special class, 
which he names Stelechopoda. 

Dr. Beard had the opportunity to stud}^ the embryology of the type 
and has been led to consider them a»chffito[)od worms which have be- 
come degenerate through parasitism. 

The collections of the Challenger expedition of Crinoids were examined 
for these parasites, and a large number of new s])ecies were thus ob- 
tained. Of sixty-eight species detected on the Challenger Crinoids, fifty- 
two were new, and one of these was the type of a very peculiar family 
named Stelechopodidae. {Rep. Voyage Challeng<r, ZooL, Y. 10', Mature, 
V. 31, pp. 165,166; Mitth. Zool. Stat. Neapel, V. 5, pp. 544-580, 2 pi.; 
J. R. M. S. (2), V. 5, pp. 66-69.) 

ARTHROPODS. 

Crustaceans. 

The stomach of stalk- eyed Crustaceans. — The stomach of the podoph- 
thalmous or stalk-eyed Crustaceans and its api)roaches exhibit some 
interesting features, and especially in the armature by the stone-like 
grinding pieces. The entire subject has been made the theme of 
study by M. F. Mocquard, and his investigations have not been limited 
to the stomachal armature, but have extended likewise to the muscles 
as well as the nerves. In every natural family, according to M. Moc- 
quard, the stomachal apparatus is, as a rule, disposed on some special 
plan which is typical for each of them. There is, iu the first place, 
a distinction which is quite trenchant between the brachyurous and 
macrurous Crustaceans. In the former, there is a 'narrow triangular 
mesocardiac piece, and elongated horizontal pterocardiac ones, but in 
the latter, the mesocardiac piece is very wide and the pterocardiac ones 
short and almost vertical. The anomurans show, in this apparatus, 
the heterogeneous character of the group, for some are like the macru- 
rans and others like the brachyurans. In the brachyurans, the gastric 
skeleton, with but few exceptions, is quite uniform, but in the macrurans 
there is great diversity. The various modifications are of systematic 
importance, and in many cases may give essential help in determining 
the relations of the various forms. As an instance, one of the results 
reached by M. Mocquard may be noticed. Ocypcdidse are divided into 



602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

two groups, one restricted to the "Ocypodiacea," aud the other com- 
prisiug the Gehisimi and related genera as well as the Piunotherians, 
"Whether such a combination is natural luaj' be questioned, but a re- 
newed examination of the detailed structure of the several types may 
be demanded as the result of the investigation. 

The muscles of the stomach and its armature are described in con- 
siderable detail, both in respect to their connections and functions. 
The median tooth is advanced forward and the two lateral pieces are 
approximated at their anterior extremities. The median tooth is lodged 
in an angle between the lateral, and all together are worked for a sec- 
ond to grind the food taken in, then there is relaxation, and then again a 
new contraction, and so on. The urocardiac piece serves to maintain 
the food in the special region. M. Mocquard thinks that these move- 
ments are not reflex, but voluntary, as Cuvier had already contended. 

The muscles which work the gastric pieces are innervated by nerves 
issuing from the stomatogastric. The functions of this are analogous 
to those of the sympathetic nerve, and are complex ; in one place 
it is subservient to sensation and involuntary movements, and it also 
regulates voluntary movement as of the labrum and oesophagus; per- 
haps even it has filaments of special sensibility. Several questions of 
this kind are left in doubt, and M. Mocquard disclaims having ex- 
hausted the subject. {Revue Scientijique, t. xxxiv, pp. 204, 205.) 

Peculiarities of deep-sea Crustaceans. — In asummary of the "Crustacea 
of the Albatross dredgiugs in 1883," Prof. Sidney I. Smith has enunci- 
ated some generalities respecting the characteristics of the deep-sea 
crustaceans. A striking characteristic is their red or reddish color. 
"A few species are apparently nearly colorless, but the great majority 
are some shade of red or orange," and he had met with " no evidence 
of any other bright color." A few species "from between 100 and 300 
fathoms are conspicuously marked with scarlet or vermilion, but such 
brighter markings were not noticed in any species from below 1,000 
fathoms. Below this depth, orange red of varying intensity, is ap- 
parently the most common color, although in several species the color 
was an excessively intense dark crimson." 

The eyes of the* abyssal species are even more remarkable than their 
colors. In sixteen species especially examined, the eyes were present 
in the normal position, and distinctly faceted. In six they were well 
developed, but smaller than in average prawns, and of a black color. 
In one the eyes were "black, but conspicuously smaller than in the 
allied shallow-water species." In another they were "black, and of 
moderate size"; and in still another they were "apparently black, or 
nearly black, and small." In one they were "nearly colorless in alco- 
holic specimens, and rather larger than usual in the genus, but con- 
siderably smaller'' than in rchited speciies found at less depth. In three 
they were "not cons[)icuously different in size from those of allied shal- 



ZOOLOGY. 603 

low-water species, and are dark brown." Professor Smith, from these 
dnta, concludes that, '-however strong may be the arguments of the 
physicists against the possibility of any light penetrating the depths 
from which these animals come, the color and strength of their eyes, as 
compared with blind cave-dwelling species, show conclusively that the 
depth beneath 2,000 fathoms of sea-water is very different from that 
of ordinary caverns. While it may be possible that this modification 
of the darkness of the ocean abysses is due to phosphorescence of the 
animals themselves, it does not seem ])robable that it is wholly dug to 
this cause." 

Another feature characteristic of the deep-sea crustaceans is the large 
size of the eggs, which becomes a very marked feature in many of the 
deep water decapods. The largest crustacean eggs known to Professor 
Smith are those of " Parapasiphaesii Icatifrons, a slender shrimp, less than 
three inches long, taken between 1,0()0 and 3,000 fathoms. Alcoholic 
specimensof these eggs are fully 4 or 5 millimeters in shorter and longer 
diameter, fidly ten times the volume of the eggs of Pasiphae tarda from 
100 to 2U0 fathoms, more than three hundred and fifty times the volume 
of those of a larger shallow-water Fahvnion^ and each one more than a 
hundredth of the volume of the largest indi\i<lual of the species." Pro- 
fessor Smith concludes that "from the peculiar environment of deep- 
water species, it seems probable that many of them ])ass through an 
abbreviated metamorphosis within tlie idgg, like many fresh water and 
terrestrial species, and these large eggs are apparently adapted to pro- 
ducing young of large size, in an advanced stage of development, and 
specially fitted to live under conditions similar to those environing the 
adults." 

These conclusions of Professor Smith appear to be highly probable, 
and are consonant with the facts observed in fishes. In those forms of 
the class which do not take any care of their eggs, the number of eggs 
is extremely large, while in those which guard the eggs or young, they 
are very much reduced in number but increased in size. {Am. Jour. Sc:^ 
(3), V. 28, pp. 53-50.) 

Arachnids. 

An ancient Scorpion. — The oldest of the scorpions until lately known 
were inhabitants of the earth in the Carboniferous epoch. Two of the 
four described types were tlie results of American investigations; but 
during the past year several exam4)les of a species were obtained from 
Upper Silurian rocks in Europe. One specimen was found by Prof. Gus- 
tav Liudstrom, in the Swedish island of Gothland. It was in a good con- 
dition of preservation and showed the "chitinous brown or yellowish 
brown cuticle, very thin, con)pressed and corrugated by the pressure of 
the sui)eri)Osed layers." The dilierent segments, " the ceplialothorax, 
the abdomen, with seven dorsal laniinte, and the tail, eonsistingof six seg- 
ments or rings, the last narrowing and sloping into the venomous dart," 



604 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

could all be distinguishecj. The surface of the baclv was scnlptnred by 
tubercles and longitudiiial keels coirespouding with those developed iu 
recent species. , "One of the stigmata on the right is visible, and clearly 
demonstrates that it must have belouged to an air bieathing animal, 
and the whole organization indicates that it lived on dry laud." "In 
the couformatiou of this scorj^ion there is one feature of great impor- 
tance, namely, four pairs of thoracic feet, large and pointed, resembling 
the feet of the embryos of several other tracheates and animals like the 
Campodea. This form of feet no longer exists in the fossil scorpions of 
the Carboniferous formation, the appendices belonging to which resem- 
ble those found in the scorpicms of our own day." The form in question 
was named by Professor Lindstrom PakcopJionens nundus, and is " the 
most ancient" of all known "land-animals." 

Some time before the description by Professor Lindstrom of this new 
animal was published, Dr. Hunter, of Carluke, obtained a fossil scorpion 
also from the Upper Silurian, but in Scottish Lanarkshire, in June, 1883. 
It was not, however, until Professor Lindstrom's description of the 
Swedisli find appeared that Dr. Hunter recognized the importance of 
his own discovery. " The rocks from which the Scottish example was ob- 
tained are the well-known Upper Silurian beds of Dunside, Logan Water, 
Lesmabagow, Lanaikshire, which have yielded such a magnificent 
suite of Eurypterids, and supplied a great part of the materials for Dr. 
"Woodward's work on the Merostomata. The animal in this specimen 
is about an inch and a half long, and lies on its back on the stone. Its 
exposed ventral surfiice shows almost every external organ that can be 
seen in that position, and in this way seems to supplement the evidence 
supplied by the Swedish sp'ecimeu. As in the northern individual, the 
first and second pairs of appendages of the cephalothorax in the Scottish 
example are chelate, but the ])alpi are not quite so robust. The walk- 
ing limbs, though not so dumpy as in P. mincius, also terminate each in 
a single claw-like S])ike. The arrangement of the sternum shows a large 
})entagonal plate (metasternite) against which the wedge-shaped coxf© 
of the fourth pair of walking-limbs abut. The coxse of the third pair 
bound the pentagonal plate along its upper margins, and meet in the 
mid line of the body, where they are firmly united. The coxse of the 
first two pairs, as well as the bases of the palpi, are drawn aside from 
the center line of the bodj', showing that, as in recent scorpions, these 
alone were concerned in manducation, or rather the squeezing out of the 
juices of the prey. From the circumstance of these being drawn aside, 
the medial eyes are seen pressed up through the cuticle of the gullet, 
and a fleshy labium (camerostome) appears between the bases of the 
chelicerae." 

The characteristics exhibited by these very old scorpions are such as 
to separate them quite widely from any of the recent types, aud although 
evidently belonging to the same order, and thus related to the latter, 
they indicate a peculiar family, the Pal{eophoneid?e. Doubtless renewed 



ZOOLOGY. 605 

seaicliiiig for fossils iu the Siluriau rocks, aud especially for terrestrial 
types, will be prosecuted, for such discoveries will serve as very efficient 
stimulants. {Nature, V. 31, pp. 295-298.) 

Curious mimicry hy a Spider. — A curious case of mimicry by a spider 
has been recorded by Mr. H. O. Forbes. The spider in question is found 
iu Sumatra, and has been named Thomisus decipiens. On June 25, 1885, 
iu a forest of Sumatra, Mr. Forbes' attention was excited by his " eyes 
resting on a bird-excreta -marked leaf." On examination it was fouud 
that the appearance was deceptive and had been i)roduced by a spider 
which had so closely copied nature that the imitation would readily 
deceive the uncritical observer. "The spider is in general color white, 
spotted here and there with black ; on the under side its rather irregu- 
larly shaped and prominent abdomen is almost all white — of a pure 
chalk white; the angles of the legs are, however, shining jet black. 
The spider does not make an ordinary web, but only the thinnest film 
on the surface of the leaf. The appearance of the excreta rather 
recently left by a bird on a leaf is well known. There is a pure white 
deposit in the center, thinning out round the margin, while in the 
central mass are dark portions variously disposed ; as the leaf is rarely 
horizontal, the more liquid portions run for some distance. Now, this 
spider, one might almost imagine to iiave in its rambles marked and 
inwardly discerned what it had observed, and had set about practicing 
the wrinkles gained -, for it first weaves a small irregular patch of white 
web on some prominent leaf, then a narrow streak laid down towards 
its sloping margin, ending in a small knob. It then takes its place on 
the center of the irregular spot on its back, crosses its black-angled 
legs over its thorax and waits. Its pure white abdomen represents the 
central mass of the bird's excreta, the black legs the dark portions of 
the slime, while the -web above described represents the more watery 
marginal part (become dry), even to the run-ofl' portion with the thick- 
ened knob (which was not accidental, as it occurred in both cases), like 
the residue which semi-fluid substances, ending in a drop, leave on 
evaporation. It keeps itself in jjosition on its back by thrusting under 
the web below it the spines with which the anterior ui)per surface of 
the legs is furnished." 

The most interesting fact of all, in the oi)iniou of Mr. Forbes, is " not 
so much that of the spider having gaii.ed, which it can, of conrse, have 
no consciousness of, by natural selection, the color and form of an ex- 
cre turn, but that it has acquired the habit of supplementing its own 
color and form by an addition in such absolute harmony with that of 
which itself is the similitude." 

This species, on being reexamined by the l^ev. O. P. Cambridge, the 
distinguished arachnologist, was con.sidered to represent a peculiar 
genus which was named Ornithoacatoidbs, from its simulation of a bird's 
excreta, Further, Mr. Cambridge recognized in various collections 



606 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

four species of the genus, all of which inhabit India and the neijjhbor- 
iug islands. It seamed to Mr. Cambridge that tlie whole phenomenon 
described is " easily explained by the oper;ition of natural selection, 
without supposing' consciousness in the spider in any part of the pro- 
cess. The web on the surface of the leaf is evidently, so far as the 
spider has any design or consciousness in the matter, spun simply to 
secure itself in the proper position to await and seize its prey. The 
silk, which by its fineness, whiteness, and close adhesion to the leaf 
causes it to resemble the more fluid i)arts of the excreta, would grad 
ually attain those qualities by natural selection, just as the spider 
itself would grailually, and probai)iy pari passu, become under the in- 
fluence of the same law, more and more like the solid portion.'' {Proe. 
Zool. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 586-588, pi. 51 ; 1884, p. 190-203, pi. 15.) 

Inseets. 

The mouth parts of suctorial Insects. — In connection with a memoir on 
the systematic position of tlie Fulicii1a\ Dr. Karl Krapelinhas disc;;ssed 
the structure of the mouth parts not only of the Fleas, but of tlie forms 
with which they have been associated by other authors, the Di[)tera 
and Hemiptera, and the results are of considerable systematic imjior- 
tance. It is found that the suctorial insects segregate themselves into 
two primary groups. lu one, consisting of the Hymenoptera and Lep- 
idoptera, the suctorial organs are characterized by the lower parts of 
the mouth, maxillce and labium, being employed in the formation of a 
sucking ai)paratus, while in another group, represented by Ibe Diptera, 
Siphonaptera, and Khynchota, it is almost exclusively the upper parts, 
labium and mandibles, that are implicated in the formation of the true 
food canal. The characteristics of the mouth j^arts of the three orders 
of the latter section are thus diagnosed by Dr. Kriipelin : 

(1) Diptera. — " Insects with perfect metamorphosis. Hend free, with 
facetted eyes. Sucking-tube formed by a dorsal and a ventral half- 
channel (labrum and hypopharynx), more or less inclosed throughout 
its length by the labium, which is bent up like a sheath, and furnished 
with uniarticulate apical palpi. Mandibles deficient or styletiform, 
pushing in between the labrum and hypopharynx. Maxillae, when i)res- 
ent, with palpi. Salivary efferent duct an unpaired closed canal in the 
interior of the hypopharynx. A 'sucking-stomach.' Thoracic segments 
amalgamated, usually with a pair of wings and a pair of halteres." 

(2) Siphonaptera. — " Insects with perfect metamorphosis. Head at- 
tached to the thorax by a wide surface, without facetted eyes. Bucc;d 
organs suctorial. Sucking-tube formed by a dorsal and two lateral 
channels (labrum and mandibles), its anterior section only more or less 
inclosed laterally by the mulitiarticulate terminal palpi of the labium, 
and at the base, besides the latter, by the lamelliform palpigerous max- 
illae. Salivary efferent ducts paired, dev( lojjod as a chaun<.'l along the 
inner surface of the mandibles. Xo ' sucking-stomach.' Thoracic seg- 



ZOOLOGY. 607 

meiits free, without wings and halteres, with pleural processes upon the 
last two segmeuts." 

(3) Bynchota. — "Insect usually- with imperfect metamorphosis. Head 
free or broadly united to the thorax, with or without fticetted eyes. 
Buccal organs usually suctorial. Sucking-tube (in the higher groups) 
composed of two lateral half-channels (the mandibles), only in the 
anterior portion inclosed by the labium and its apical multiarticulate 
palpi, which are united nearly to the apex; at the base by the labrum. 
Maxillae styliform, without palpi, applied laterally to the mandibles in 
the channel of the labium or the labrum. Salivary efl'erent duct un- 
paired, formed by two half-channels of the mandibles closing together 
from the sides. No 'sucking-stomach.' Thoracic segments free or 
amalgamated. Four, two, or no wings ; no halteres." 

Relations of the Emhioid Insects. — In a contribution to our knowledge 
of the Emhiidce, a family of Orthopterous insects, Mr. J. Wood-Mason 
has added to our knowledge by. describing the various phases of devel- 
opment of some Embiidce, and expresses his opinion as to the relations 
of those curious insects. The Emhiidce, bethinks, "undoubtedly belong 
to the true Orthoplera," but thej" are " in some respects the lowest 
term, and in others the lowest term but one, of a series represented by 
the families Acridioidea, Locustidw, Gryllidce, and Phasmatidce;^^ their 
"resemblances to the much lov,'eY Ptrlidcc, which may well be direct de- 
scendants of a form closely related to Campodea, are due to their low 
position in the division of Orthopterous insects to which they belong, 
and do not imply any such close genetic relationship to them as has been 
suggested." {Proo. Zool. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 628-634, pi. 56.) 

MOLLUSCOIDS. 

Polyzoans. 

Morphology of Flustra. — The investigation of the marine Bryozoans 
has been undertaken by W. J. Vigelius, who proposes to publish a 
monograph on the subject. A treatise on the morphology of Flustra 
memhranacco-truncata is a precursor of and an introduction to the 
work. The Flmtrce corroborate the dictum that the mode of growth 
of the Bryozoan stock is of no value as a means of distinguishing 
families, for which it has often been used. The nutrient animal and 
the avicularium are alone distinctly differentiated individuals, for the 
brood-capsules are simply organs. The nutrient animals may be (1) 
budding, found on the marginal zone of the colony ; (2) perfect or re- 
productive forms; (3) resting; and (4) decaying. The last two are only 
found near the proximal part of the stock, and are much rarer than the 
others. " The cystid and polypid make up the complete nutrient animal, 
and in the normal condition consist of integument, nutrient apparatus, 
and parenchymatous tissue." No nervous system has been distinctly 



608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

recoguize-tl, but it ls supposed tbat " its center is perhaps represented by 
the small rounded mass of cells which lies on the anal side of the an- 
terior wall of the pharynx." Spermatoblasts are '' derived from the re- 
peated su'.-divisiou of the spermatophores, but they do not form roande<l 
or oval mass.es of regularly arranged cells placed on a nutrient blasto- 
phore"; when they become converted into spermatozoa they are at first 
l)yriform, and only later does tbe tail arise at the narrow end and become 
of some length. The histolysis of the digestive tract was investigated, 
and to the brown body is attributed a nutrient function. The cystid and 
polypid are parts of a single individual, as is proved by the history of 
the process of germination as well as by the organization of the complete 
nutrient animal. 

The perigastric space is regarded as a true ccelon, but the jiolyzoa 
are claimed to be pseudo-ccelia. [Biol. Centralblatt, iii, pp. 705-721; 

J. R. M. 8. (2), IV, p. 571.) 

Brachiopods. 

Anatomy of Arujiope. — Several species of Argiope have been dissected 
and studied within the last two years by Dr. A. E. Shipley and Dr. A. 
Schulgin, the former having worked at Naples on the A. Xeapolitana 
?md- A. cu7ieata, -dnd the latter on the A. Koipalevshii. The brachial 
appendages, to which in typical Terebratulids the gills are attached, 
are wanting in Argiope. There is, according to Schulgin, a feebly de- 
veloped subcesophageal ganglion overlooked by Shipley, who mistook 
the external sensory for the central nervous system. 

The relationships of the Bracbiopods are considered by both authors. 
Dr. Shipley accepted essentially the views of Professor Gegenbaur. (See 
S. I. Report for 1883.) Dr. Schulgin thought it " probable that the 
Polyzoa and. Brachiopoda arose from a side branch or phylum, which 
also gave rise to Annelids," and they maybe "grouped together under 
the class of Vermoidea." {Zeitschr. f. Wis. ZooL, v. 41, pp. llG-141, 2 
pi. ; J. R. M. S. (2), V. 5, pp. 49, 50.) 

MOLLUSKS. 

Acephals. 

A new Classification of Bivalve Shells. — Much dissatisfaction has been 
expressed with all the current arrangements of the Acephals, or bivalve 
moUusks, and Dr. M. Neumayr has proposed a new one which he 
thinks has some advantages compared with the others. The shells are 
considered from a i)alieoiit()logical point of view, and the data derived 
from palceoutology being co-ordinated with those obtained from a study 
of the hinge of the shell, Dr. Neumayr was led to segregate all the 
known forms into three oiders, all differing from those of his ])redeces- 
sors, and to which he has given new names. The definitions of the 
groups, as rendered in English by Dr. von Martens, are as follows : 

" Qrd, 1. Pal^oconch^, or Cryptodonta, Shell thiDj without teeth, 



ZOOLOGY. G09 

or ouly with feeble indications of tb-em in tbe binge; two equal muscu- 
lar impressions; pallial line entire. Palaeozoic. 

"Orel. 2. Desmodonata. Teetb of tbe binge none or irregular, con- 
nected witb tbe ligamental processes ; two equal muscular im])ressions; 
piillial line sinuated. FhoIadoinykUc, CorbuUdw, Myida\ Anatinidce, 
Macfridw, Fapliiidce, Gli/cymerid(v, {f) Solenidw, and all Tuhicola. 

"Urd.3. Taxodonta. Teetb of tbe binge numerous, not differen- 
tiated, in a straight, arcuated or angular row ; two equal muscular im- 
pressions. Arcidci'. Niiculidcc. 

"Ord.4. Hetekodonta. Teetb of tbe binge few, distinctly separated 
as cardinal and lateral, alternating, exactly tilling tbe pits of the op- 
posite valve; two equal muscular impressions. Unionidce, CardinUdw, 
Astartidce, Craf^satelUdcc, Megalodontidw, Chamidce, Tridacnidcc, Erijci- 
nidcc, Lucinidw, Cardiidce, Cyrenidce^ Gyprinidce, Veneridcv, Gnathodon- 
tidcc, Tellinidcc, Donacidie. Tbe Trigoniidw will form a distinct sub- 
order. 

"Ord. 5. Anisomyaria, or Dysodonta. Teetb of tbe binge none or 
irreguhir; two very inequal or only one muscular impression ; pallial 
line entire. 

(«) Heteromyaria : AvicuUdce, 3Iytilidw, Prasitiidce, Pinnldic. 

(h) Monomyaria : Pectinidce, Spondylidcv, Anomiidce, Ostreidcc.^^ 

{Zoological Record, 1883, pp. 86 and 87, Moll.) 

^r. von Martens, certainly a most competent judge, bas expressed 
ibe opinion tbat tbis classification "bas several advantages in com- 
parison witb bitberto accepted classifications: (1) tbe distinction of a 
limited number of natural types, instead of an artificial separation into 
Monomyaria and Dimyaria, or Asipbonida and Siphonida ; (2) the union 
of tbe Heteromyaria and tbe Monomyaria into one common chief di- 
vision;" and (3) "tbe constitution of a special chief division for the 
Arcidfe and Xuculidae, as these families offer very peculiar characters 
as well in tbe shells as in tbe gills and foot." 

Tbe present recorder is unable to appreciate anj- superiority of the 
new arrangement over tbat based on the muscles, and there are cer- 
tainly more exceptions of the contents of the so-called "orders" to their 
diagnoses than in the case of tbe groups defined bj^ tbe muscles. As 
Dr. Paul Fischer bas already remarked (Journ. Conch,, v. 24, p. 121), a 
single family (tbe Unionidse) has representatives not only deviating 
from the diagnosis of tbe including "order" (Heterodonta), but exhibit- 
ing characters assigned to two others, Anodonta recalling tbe Palaeo- 
concha^ or Cryptodonta, and Pleiodon tbe Taxodonta. Undoubtedly 
Dr. Neumayr knew of these exceptions and regarded the forms and 
questions as derivatives from tbe normal Heterodonta. But the dif- 
ferences from the type and assumption of characteristics of others 
nevertheless exist. For tbis, if for no other reason, the value of such 
characters for orders is nullified. There is also a want of co-ordination 
between tbe binge structure and modifications of other parts which 
S. Mis. 33 39 



610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

casts suspiciou ou the value of the former. There are likewise many 
other failures thau those mentioned of constituents of groups to embody; 
the requisites of the diagnoses of such groups. On the whole, then, we 
cannot concede that the new arrangement is Superior to those that have 
preceded. It is, nevertheless, of some value as an incentive to further 
study of the subject, in order to test the value of various propositions. 

The Eyes of Bivalve Mollnslis. — If the edges of the mantle of even our 
common bivalve moUusks, such as the oyster, the hard clam, and the 
soft clam, are very closely examined, specks may be found which prove 
to be rudimentary eyes. These organs have been recently examined by 
Dr. Benjamin Sharp, of Philadelphia, who has studied them in the 
oyster, the hard clam, the soft clam, the common mussel {Mytilus edulis), 
the big clam [Mactra solidissima), and two razor-fishes [Solen ensis and 
Solen vagina). The pigmented cells found in these parts are essentially 
the same in all. The smallest of the cells were found in the oyster, and 
the largest in the hard clam. Experiments on these forms show their 
sensitiveness to light and shadow, and the cells showing the retinal 
character described leaves little doubt as to the power of vision. No 
nerves could be demonstrated passing direct to these cells, and proba- 
bly those distributed to the general epidermis serve in transmitting thii 
impressions. The visual power is so low that nerves have not yet been 
specialized for this purpose." {Proc. Acad. Nat. iSc. Phila., 1884, p. 10). 

The Greening of Oysters and its Cause.— There is always a reason or the 
appearance of a reason for a given phenomenon engendered by popular 
opinion, and one was devised to explain the cause of the green color so 
prevalent in the British oysters especially. The reasoning in this case 
was very facile. 

Oysters are green; copper in oxidization becomes green. Therefore 
the green color of oysters is due to the absorption of copper; conse- 
qeutly the bottom of the sea, or the sea itself, is pregnant with copper. 
The oysters have a " coppery taste," and thus give proof of the exist- 
ence of copper. 

Science doubted and suggested explanations, but not until lately has 
the question been approached in a severe critical and experimental man- 
ner. An old suggestion was then proved to be practically correct. The 
most recent and skilled of the inquirers into the cause and origin of the 
greening of the oysters are Mr. Puys6gur, an assistant commissioner of 
the navy department of France, and Mr. John A. Ryder, of the United 
States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. 

Mr. Puysegur has recalled the history of conjecture and research on 
the cause of the green color of oysters and given the results of his own 
investigations. 

He tested the popular view that the color was the result of suffusion 
with copper. Even a meritorious chemist, Mr. Gaillard, had found cop- 



ZOOLOGY. 611 

per iu oysters. But Mr. Gaillard, from scieutific cousiderations, himself 
concluded that this was because some process was fraudulently em- 
ployed to color the oysters, and that it consisted merely iu immersing 
them in a solution of a salt of copper, and leaving them in it till they 
were saturated by it. 

Mr. Puys6gur sought by experiment to ascertain whether copper was 
absorbable by the mollusk, and found that— 

1. "An oyster which is placed in a bath of sulphate of copper is not 
colored at all." 

2. " Death quickly follows when they are plunged into such a mix- 
ture." 

He did not deny that chemists may have found copper in oysters, but 
his own direct experiments did not verify the absorption of the metal 
by the animals. 

Copper, then, being out of the question, he sought to learn what was 
the cause. 

Various observations and experiments were instituted, for a detail of 
which reference must be made to the original memoir of the author. 
His conclusions are thus summarized : 

"There remains no longer any doubt as to the fact that the viridity of 
oysters is entirely due to the absorption or digestion of the soft parts of 
the Naviculw held in suspension by the surrounding water ; this definite 
experience also completely overturns the hypotheses which attribute 
it to the influence of the soil, to the mixture of fresh and salt water, to 
northeast winds; in a word, all the other conjectural causes to which 
this simple phenomenon has been childishly atrributed are shown to be 
inadequate. 

" It is evident, moreover, that the coloring matter is directly absorbed 
by the mollusks, and that the process takes place inside of tlie animals. 
If, in fact, dissolution of the coloring matter tojk place in sea-water, 
the water would be tinged as soon as the diatoms were blanched, Now, 
this is not the case. In fresh water, on the contrary, the coloring mat- 
ter is immediately dissolved, and as a result the diatoms are blanched. 
A single drop of water placed on a slide containing the diatoms causes 
them to lose their color instantly. Finally, if a piece of filtering paper 
is saturated in the fresh water which has been placed on the diatoms, 
and it is afterwards dried, it will present absolutely the same color as 
the green oysters. 

" These laboratory observations are, moreover, perfectly in accord 
with the phenomena observed by the oyster-culturists. Heavy rains 
cause the greenness of the claires to disappear, and the dry and salt- 
laden northeast winds, which augment the saturation of the waters, are, 
on the contrary, favorable to the production of the green coating in the 
claires." 

Mr. Ryder supplemented Mr. Puysegur's researches by observations 
of his own. His investigations convinced him of the correctness of Mr, 



612 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Puys^gur's conclusions. He had ascertained that the common Ameri- 
can oyster {Ostrea virginica) "is affected by an acquired viridity at cer- 
tain times and in certain places in precisely the same way as the com- 
mon 0. edulis of Europe and the 0. angulata of the Tagus,'' as he had 
been able to learn from fresh material from Liverpool, obtained through 
the efforts of Professor Baird. "The cause of this peculiar staining of 
the soft jjarts of these animals is, therefore, very probably the same 
throughout both the European and the American oyster-growing re- 
gions." 

Mr. Ryder further extended his studies to the florula of the water 
about the oyster beds and to the contents of the oyster's stomach. He 
found the special oyster diatom (Kavicula ostrearum) abundant, and also 
other diatoms, and has thus summarized his results : 

"Taking a survey of the lower groups of the vegetable world, which 
contain bluish-green pigments, and which are at the same time free- 
swimming in their habits, so as to place them within reach of the sta- 
tionary oyster as food, there is none which actually seems more likely 
to be the source of the green tinge here discussed than the Diatomacece. 
And as there is no other class of forms so commonly and constantly 
met with in the alimentary canals of marine mollusks generally, I think 
we might take it for granted, for this reason alone, that they are the 
source of the coloration. In fact, it is rarely that I have met with any 
other vegetable organisms in the stomachs of oysters except diatoms, 
after having examined hundreds, by the excellent method of first re- 
moving the recently-swallowed contents of the gastric cavity with a 
])ipette thrust into the mouth and through the short gullet. The 'bill 
of tare' of the animal can then be very deliberately studied under the 
microscope after the contents of the i)ipette have been pressed out upon 
and prepared for observation under a compressorium." 

Mr. Ryder also endeavored to ascertain the elementary nature of the 
green thus dissolved out of the diatomaceous food of the oyster. His 
investigations could not be completed, but were carried far enough to 
Justify an opinion. This was that "the coloring material in green oysters, 
on account of its solubility in water, its instability and color, is prob- 
ably allied to phycocyanin, since we know that it is not chlorophyll, 
because the latter is insoluble in water." The spectroscope, however, 
gave him "entirely negative evidence upon this point." 

Mr. Ryder concludes with the assurance that the belief or fear that 
green oysters are injurious or hurtful is without foundation. {Ann. Hep. 
Com. Fish., dr., 1882, pp. 793-804, 1884.) 

The assumption of the Spat stage hy the Oyster. — The " metamorphosis 
and the post-larval stages of the development of the oyster" have been 
studied and described by Mr. John A. Ryder. His memoir is a long 
one and gives details of his methods of investigation and his various 
observations. The results have been summarized by himself in the 
following terms: 



ZOOLOGY. 613 

• 

" 1. Tbe mouth in the larval oyster is nearly ventral in position, while 
in the. adult it opens more nearly in the direction of the hinge or towards 
the antero-dorsal region. 

" 2. TLe retractor muscles of the velum probably atrophy at the end of 
the larval period; if they fire to be regarded as the musculature of the 
primitive mantle organ, they are replaced in the spat and adult by the 
radiating and marginal pallia! muscles. . 

" 3. The intestine of the larva is a simple tubular organ ; in the spat it 
has an internal ridge developed on one side, which tinally becomes a 
pronounced induplicature in the intestine of the adult. 

"4. The anterior adductor muscle of the larva is replaced by a per- 
manent potsterior adductor in the spat and adult. (Huxley.) 

" 5. Tbe heart and gills are wanting in the larva ; they are developed 
as post-larval organs. The gills are at first represented by only two 
folds ; the outer i)air are developed later, and apparently from before, 
backwards, or dorso-ventrally. 

" 6. The connective tissue of the spat and adult, including the organs 
derived therefrom, seems to be almost entirely developed during post- 
larval life. 

" 7. The blastoccel is mostly obliterated by the development of the 
connective tissues. 

'' 8. The liver is represented by a pair of diverticula which grow out 
laterally from the walls of the stomach of the larva ; its subsequent 
development and subdivision into a vast number of follicles is accom- 
plished during 2iost-larval life. 

" 9. Sometime after fixation the larval oyster seems to lose the straight 
hinge border of its valves, which then acquire umbones ; the valves 
retain their symmetry up to the time when the spat shell begins to be 
formed, and it is probable that most of the larval characters of the 
animal have disappeared when the formation of the spat shell begins; 
in other words, the veliger stage is past and is at once replaced by a 
structual condition of the soft parts which approximates that observed 
in the adult." {Ann. Rep. Com. Fish., for 1883, pp. 779-791, 1884.) 

A remarlcahle new Type of Mollnsls. — All the acephalous mollusks 
hitherto known have distinct external valves on each side, although in 
some, such as in the ship-wornas (Teredinids) and the watering pot 
shells (Aspergillids), the valves are extremely reduced; bnt in a lorm 
recently obtained from California, external valves are not at all ap- 
parent. When living, the animal is apparently of the " shape of a small 
globose Gyprma [or cowrie] of inflated ovoid form, and being translucent, 
jelly-like, dotted above with small rounded papilla?, which appear of an 
opaque white on the general translucent ground." When fresh, accord- 
ing to the discoverer of the specimens, Mr. C. H. Orcutt, the animal was 
"over an inch in length," but the contraction in alcohol is such that the 
specimens, when received by Mr. C. II. Dull, were reduced to "less than 
half an inch in length." • 



614 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

"The mantle which covers the dome of the body is tough and thick; 
the sides are smooth and nearly free from papillje. The superior me- 
dian line is a little depressed. The basal part of the anterior end in 
life is prolonged beyond the general mass in a wide trough, with the 
convexity upward, and somewhat expanded at its anterior extremity. 
About one-third of the way from the anterior end, the mantle is perfo- 
rated by an orifice, which ]>ierces it in the vicinity of the mouth. The 
edges of this orifice project from the general surface, and it is lined with 
close-set small pajiillse. At about the same distance from the posterior 
end is another tubular perforation, holding a similar relation to the 
anus ; which has, however, plain edges, and is not internally papillose." 
When the mantle is open, the small valves become apparent. These 
are "inclosed in two little sacs in the substance of the mantle. The 
umbones are near together, apparently connected by a brown gristle, 
resembling an abortive ligament, and are nearly over the heart. The 
valves are about ten millimetres long, and one millimetre wide, destitute 
of epidermis, prismatic or i^early layers. There are no muscular or 
pallial impressions, no adductors, hinge, or teeth." They resemble in 
form the exterior of the shell called Gervillia, and have a pure white 
color. "As they lie in the body, they diverge at a rather wide angle 
from the beaks, forward. The embryonic valves are retained like two 
tiny bubbles on the umbones." 

The affinities of this new form are even doubtful. The classification 
chiefly in vogne for the bivalve mollusks is based upon the number and 
relations of the adductor muscles of the shell, and Mr. Ball remarks 
that, if such classification is retained, the new form should be distin- 
guished as the representative of a distinct order, which might be called 
'•'■AmyariaP He doubts the propriety of such a separation, however, 
but very properly claims that it is the tyi)e of a new family which he 
calls Chlamydocojichce, and which would be geiierally named, with the 
ordinary family termiwation, ChlamydoconcliMoe. The species is named 
after its discoverer, Mr. C. E. Orcutt. It is evident, observes Mr. Ball, 
that " the genus does nothing toward bridging the gap between the 
gastropods and pelecypods [or bivalve mollusks], but is simply a remark- 
ably aberrant form of the latter group, and probably derived from some 
form with an external shell. It is able, according to Mr. Orcutt, by 
sphincter-like contractions of the mantle, to produce currents of water 
over the gills, which are probably finally ejected by the anal tube." 
{Science^ IV, pp. 50, 51.) 

Qastropods. 

The Operculum of Gastropods. — The development of the operculum of 
the Gastropods has been studied by F. Houssay on examples oi'Littorina, 
Murex, and Purpura. The foot alone is implicated in the formation of 
the operculum, but "only a small, very clearly defined portion of it." 
Quite close to the margin of the operculum which adjoins the columella 
when the length is restricted, a small transverse fissure was found which 



ZOOLOGY. 615 

penetrated about a millimeter into the thickness of the columellar muscle 
and which occupies the whole length of the foot. " The walls of this pedal 
fissure are lined with a peculiar epithehum, folded, or rather goffered, 
so as to somewhat resemble the polypary of a Maeandrina." Then it has 
a v<?ry delicate and very flexible transparent lamella, which can be taken 
out with a fine needle, and which after remaining some time in the airdries 
and acquires a horny appearance. It is found that " the epithelial cells 
of the fissure excrete a structureless material of a yellowish color and 
strongly refractive, which, by agglomeration, constitutes the hyaline 
lamella. The latter issues from the pedal fissure and adds itself to the 
old operculum." 

" The newly-formed parts apply themselves to the epithelium situated 
between the fissure and the parts of the operculum which are already 
fixed. At this point the epithelial cells are but feebly adherent to each 
other, and only by their basal part, a remarkable exception among epi- 
thelia. From this it results that the still plastic opercular material in- 
vests these cells, and even difluses itself somewhat among the elements 
of the subjacent tissues (muscular fibers and connective cells). It is 
thus that by successive appositions of new parts issuing from the pedal 
fissure the striae are formed, of which only the most salient are visible to 
the naked eye or the lens." 

"On the other surface of the operculum we must distinguish two re- 
gions, the surface of insertion of the columellar muscle, and the free 
internal surface. It is very easy to see that the free internal surface 
and the outer surface of the operculum have not the same constitution. 
The inner surface is covered with a homogeneous layer which forms, as 
it were, a varnish without any striae perceptible to the eye. This coat- 
ing may even be so thick that we cannot see through it the striae of the 
other surface. In other cases it is delicate enough not to hide them. 
This difference of constitution arises from a difference of origin. In 
front of the surface of insertion the metapodium forms an interior ex- 
pansion or lip, which, during the life of the animal, is constantly applied 
against the inner unattached part of the operculum. The epithelial 
cells of this anterior lip produce the varnish. 

"It still remains to ascertain why the opercular material is rolled into 
a spiral. To elucidate this point we must study the muscular impression. 
As the operculum grows, the surface of insertion of the operculum is dis- 
placed with a slight movement of rotation, since during the same time the 
shell grows in a spiral. The muscle attaches itself to the newly formed 
parts, abandoning the old parts on the side of the parietal margin. These 
stages of the columellar muscle are marked by striae independent of 
those of the superior surface. We observe them when preparing an 
operculum after removing all traces of muscle. By studying these lines 
we can even understand why there are opercula of which the form 
always remains the same, while there are others of which the form 
varies with the age of the animal. The latter are said to have a nucleus 



616 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

of formation. The posterior secreting portion of the foot always retains 
the same form in the first case, whereas in the second we see it from 
nearly circular become almost straight." {Comptes Rendus Acad. Sci., 
1884, Jan. 28, p. 236; Ann. &'Mag. Xat. Hist. (5), Xiii, pp. 304-300; Arch. 
Zool. Uxper. et Gen. (2), iv, pp", 869, 870; Rev. Set., xxxw, pp. 343, 344; 
J. R. M. S. (2), IV, pp. 869^ 870.) 

Geplialopods. 

Development of the Gills in Gephalopods. — The development of the gills 
in Cephalopods has, until recently, been but little, if at all, known. The 
subject was investigated in 1884 by M. L. Joubin. It seems from 
his investigations that "the branchiae of the embryo make their appear- 
ance at the beginning of the development in the form of two small buds, 
situated symmetrically with relation to the anteroposterior plane upoit 
the middle of what will eventually become the posterior wall of the 
pallia! cavity. The bud, produced by a pushing force of the epithelial 
layer by the cells of the subjacent layer, soon elongates and forms a 
small, well-differeutiated eminence, rounded at the apex and attached 
by a broad base." Xo vibratile cilia, such as line the pallial cavity, 
were detected. "The bud afterwards flattens so as to present two sur- 
faces: a posterior one, applied against the visceral mass, and an anterior 
one, which is subsequently covered by the mantle which bounds the re 
spiratory cavity superiorly." 

Upon this Mttle lamina "a first horizontal fold appears towards the 
middle, then a second nearer to the point, then a third still nearer the 
free extremity, and so on. These folds form depressions upon one of 
the surfaces corresponding with elevations upon the other surface ; the 
branchial bud has, therefore, become an undulated lamina; gradually 
other folds appear, always toward the point, while the whole organ at 
the same time increases in dimensions." 

Of the vessels which form the branchia, "the one which conveys the 
blood to it appears early at the commencement of the formation of the 
laminse; it occupies nearly the center of the organ, and is comprised 
within the base of the laminae and the gland of the branchia, which is 
also distinctly marked at this period. The efferent vessel is formed 
upon the crest of the branchia and on the outer border of the laminae; 
it is undulated like the parts which bear it, and issues from the branchia 
at the base, to be continued by the auricle of the heart." {Comptes Ren- 
dus Acad. Sci., 1883, Xov. 12, p. 1070; Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xiii, 
pp. 67-69.) 

PROTOCnORDATES. 

Tunicates. 

Development of Salpa. — Much has been written about the development 
and morphology of Saljja, but some obscurity still hangs over the sub- 
ject. The group has been investigated recently by Prof, ^y . Salensky, 



ZOOLOGY. 617 

who has examined four species — 8. innictata, S. fnsiformis. 8. hicaudata, 
and S. democratica. The sum of his researches has been thus recorded 
in the Journal of the Eoyal Microscopical Society: "'The developmental 
process of Saljyais so peculiar that it is very difficult to compare it 
with other known types of development; the fact that the follicular 
cells take a share in the production of the embryo (the process of de- 
velopment being therefore both sexual and asexual) is not, however, 
confined to this group. Lankester has described a very similar state of 
things in Cephalopoda, where the inner capsular membrane, the follicle 
itself, grows into the ovum and partly forms the nutritive yolk ; recent 
researches also into the Vertebrata tend to show that the yolk is partly 
from the cells of the follicle. Sal2)a bicaudata appears to represent the 
most simple development of all the species, while further complications, 
such as the formation of a part of the embryo by cells of the oviduct, 
tend to remove other Saljxv further from the normal mode of develop- 
ment exhibited in the animal kingdom." {2IittJieil. ZooJ. Stat. Neapel^ IV, 
pp. 327-102, 6 pi. ; J. R. M. S. (2), iv, pp. 368, 3G9.) 

VERTEBRATES. 

Fish-like vertebrates 

British Fishes.— The work of Dr. Francis Day, on " The Fishes of Great 
Britain and Ireland," has been lately completed, and in it we have an 
excellent resume of what is knowu of the finny inhabitants of the home 
empire. The system and nomenclature as well as definitions of Dr. 
Giinther are essentially adapted for the generic and supergeneric groups, 
and a full synonymy and description are given of each species; then 
follows information respecting the "names," "habits," " means of cap- 
ture," "baits," "breeding," "life history," "diseases," "uses," "as 
food," and " habitat " of the species if known or so far as known to the 
anthor. 

It may be of interest to compare the constitution of the British fauna 
with that of a limited region of Eastern America, and in the following 
tables the comparative data are given. The data in the work of Day 
for the British fishes, and Goode and Bean for the American, as given 
in "A List of the Fishes of Essex County, including those of Massachu- 
setts Bay," are accepted for the species. To bring the information to a 
common denominator, the most recent systematic results of the Ameri- 
can ichthyologists (who are all in essential accord in this respect) are 
applied to the snperspecific groups. The data are given (Huder family 
names adopted by American authors) as to {a) the number of species 
recorded from (1) Great Britain and (2) Massachusetts Bay, &c., (6) the 
number of genera represented in (3) Great Britain and (4) Massachu- 
setts, and (c) the (5) species and (G) genera shared in common by Great 
Britain and Massachusetts. The Massachusetts region is limited pur- 
posely in the tables to the waters north of Cape Cod, as the exhibit 
thus brings out best what are the features common to the two. The 



618 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



families represented south of the cape are, however, added and distin- 
guished by italics (but without detailed information) to indicate the 
peculiarities of the western side of the Atlantic. The Bassalian forms 
are omitted unless they have actually been caught near the shore. In- 
asmuch as very deep water occurs much nearer the British coast than 
the New England, considerably more deep-sea fishes have been found 
on the British coasts than along the American. 

In the following tables those families whose names are bracketed in 
one set in the margin are included in a single family by Dr. Day, under 
the name indicated by the letter (D); the families here adopted are 
as a rule more restricted than Dr. Day's. In one case, however, as will 
appear by one of the notes, the constituents of one family are scattered 
among three by Dr. Day, who has followed Dr. GUnther. 



Class, order, suborder, and family. 


Spe 


3ies. 


Genera. 


Common. 
















G.B. 


M. 


G.B. 


M. 


Sp. 


Cren. 


CLASS OF LEPT0CAEDIAN8. 














Order Amphioxi. 


1 





1 











CLASS OF MYZ0ST8. 














Order Hyperotreta. 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


Order Syperoartii. 


3 


1 


2 


1 


2 


1 


CLASS OF SELACHLANS. 














Order Holocephali. 


1 





1 











Order Opistharthri. 
HoxanchidiB (Notidanid£6 D.) 


1 





1 











Order Anarthri. 














(Suborder Sqnali.) 


1 

1 
J. 
1 
3 
3 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 




1 
1 
1 



2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 




1 

1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
] 
1 

1 
1 

1 




1 
1 
1 


2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 





1 
1 

1 



1 
1 



1 

1 































f Alop4idiB 




J Odontaspididffi 








(Suborder KhinsB.) 
Squatinidae (KbindjB D.) 





Order Platysomi. 














(Suborder Pachyura.) 
Kaiidas (D.) 


10 


5 


1 


1 


1 


1 


(Suborder Electromi.) 




Torpedinidse (D.) 


2 


1 


1 


1 





1 


(Suborder Masticura.) 














TrvgonidsB (D.) 


1 
1 

1 







1 
1 
1 





















) Myliobatidae (D) 










ZOOLOGY. 



619 



Claes, order, suborder, and family. 



CLASS OF TELEOSTOMES OK FISHES. 

Order Chondrostei. 
Acipenseridae (D.) 

Order Malaeopterygii. 

fAlbulidce 
Elopidce 
DuiiSumieridcB 
Clupeidaa (D.) 

I Dorosomidce 

I Eufcraulididae 

I AigeDtinidse 

< ThymallidsB 

( Sal'monidsB (D.) 

Order Iniomi. 

Sternoptychidae (D.) 

Maurolocidae (') 

ParalcpididsB (Scopelidse D.) . 

Order Plectospondyli. 
C Cyprinidse (D.) 

< Cobitidaj 

( Catastomidse 

Order Nematognathi. 
SilnridsB 

Order Apodes. 

(Suborder Enchelycephali.) 

iCoiiKridas 
Anguillidse 
(Suborder Coloccphali.) 
MuraenidsB (D.) 

Order Opisfhnmi. 
Notacanthidae (D. ) 

Order Teleocephali. 

(Suborder Haplomi.) 

EsocidsB (D.) 

Umbridce 

Cyprinodontidffi 

(Suborder Syren tognathi.) 

C Exoceetidae (Scombresocidae U. ) 

I Belonidae 

(Suborder Percesoces.) 

Sphyrjenidae (D. ) 

Ath'erinida) (D. ) 

MugilidsB (D.) 

(Suborder Ehegnopteri.) 
Polynemidce 

(Suborder Acanthopterygii.) 

Holocentridoe 

( Pomatomidae 

) Caraneidaj (D)2 

( Bramiaae 

) Coryphcenidce (D)' 

Sfcromateidfe (D)* 

Scombrida) ( D) 

< Lepidipodidae 

} Trichiaridae (D) 



Species. 



G.B. M 



Genera. 



G. B. M 



Common. 



Sp. Gen. 



' The genua Maurolicus was included by Day in the family StemoptychidsB. 

^In the family Carangidae was also included by Day the genus Capros, type of the family Caproidae 
related to the Zenidae. 

3 In the family Coryphaenidae were also included by Day the genera Lampris and Litvarns, types of 
very different families. 

■•Other species if the family Stromateidae are referred by Dr. Day to two other families, the Leirus 
perciformis (Pammieas perciformis Day) being included with Carangidas and the Schedopiihns meduso- 
phagtcs being placed in the family CoryphaenidaB. 



620 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



Class, order, suborder, and family.' 



CLASS OF TELE08T01IES ou FISHES — Continued. 
Order Teleocephali — Contiuued. 

(Suborder Acanthopterygii) — Continued. 

J HistiqphoridcB 

) Xipbiidae {D> , 

ZoniuJB iCyttid;!! D) 

Caproid^ (Carancida; gen. Day) 

Luvaridao (Coiypba;nida3 gen Day) 

Laniprididio (CorypbjenidiB gen. Day) 

Elacalidce 

( EphipxiiidcB 

\ Cha'toilontidoi 

Tenthididce 

C TiacbiuidfB (D.) 

\ JJranoscopidce 

Bjtiacbidffi 

Sciienida) ( D. ) 

Sparid;c (D) 

Pristipomidce 

Lv.tjanidce 

Geireidce 

Piinelcpteridce 

Lobotidce ,. 

C CentrarcbidtB ■ 

1 Serranida) ; 

•J LabracidsB 

I Percidaj (D.) 

i Priacani bidse , 

MuUidiB (D. ) 

Poiiiaceritridce 

Labrida3(D.) 

<i Scoipasnidae (D.) , 

\ HemitiipteridiS 

Oottidaj (D.) 

Agonidaj ( D)5 ; 

Tiiglida}"^ : 

Dact,\ loptoridai 

( Lipaiiilidai 

I Cycloptprida} (Discoboli D ) 

(rohiidiB (D.) , 

Callionyniidifi (D.) ". 

Cepolidte 

f Bleunida> (D.) 

I Anai rbicbadidoB 

) Sticbffiidaj 

't Xipbidiontidas 

Cryptacantbodidae .' 

[ Zoarcoidas' 

I OpbidiidiTi (D.) .- , 

< Kierasferidaj .■". 

t Ammodytidas , 

(Suborder Tfeniosomi.) 

^ Traobvpteridaj (D.) 

\ ICegalecidfe 

(Suborder Xenopterygii.) 
Gobiesocidte 

(Suborder Discocephali.) 
Echoneidida) (Scombridaj g. D.) 

(Suborder Anacanthini.) 

( Ranioepitidas , 

<GadidiU(D.) 

( Merluciida) , 

Macruridae (D.) 



Species. 


Genera. 


G.B. 


M. 


G.B. 


M. 





2 





2 




1 




1 




1 




1 
























1 




1 


2 





2 








1 





1 


1 


3 


1 


3 


10 


1 


5 


1 





5 





4 


3 


1 


3 


1 


1 


2 


1 


^ 2 


2 


3 


2 


3 





1 





1 


1 





1 





7 


2 


6 


2 


1 


1 


1 


1 





1 





1 


4 


6 


3 


4 


1 


1 


1 


1 


7 


2 


2 


1 





1 





1 


2 


2 


1 


1 


1 


2 


1 


2 


9 





3 





2 





1 





1 





1 





4 





o 





1 


2 


1 


1 


1 


3 


1 


3 


1 


1 


1 


1 





1 





1 


1 


2 


1 


2 


1 





1 





1 





1 





3 


2 


2 


1 


1 





1 





1 





1 





1 


3 


1 


3 


1 





1 





16 


10 


11 


7 


1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 


1 


1 
1 


1 



Common. 



Sp. 


Gen. 








1 


1 




















1 


1 















































1 















*Tbe Affonida3, as well as tbe Dactyloptcridas and some Triglidaj (Poristedion), were included by 
Dav in a jrroiip called (bo family Catapbracii. 

"TlioCotluL'c includes tbe Trifrbe; the genus Pemiadion is referred by Day to tbe Catapbr.icti. 

'Tbe Zoarciidaa wtne divided by Day, tbe tvpical spi'cies bcin:: iucllidcd' in ibe faniilv Bknuiidae, 
and tlie Lycodime aud Gyinnelinaj conslituted the taiuily l.vcodkla). 



ZOOLOGY. 



G21 



Class, order, suborder, and family. 



CLASS OF TELK08T0ME8 OR FISHES — Continued 
Order Teleoccphali — Continued. 

(Suborder Heterosomata.) 

< PlcuroDPctidffl (D.) 

( Suleidso 

Order Hemibranchii. 

GastcrosteidaB (D ) '. 

Fistnlaiiiilae 

Ceuiiisculso (D ) 

Order Lophobranchii. 

C Synsnathidaj (D.) 

I liipi)ocampida3 

Order Plectognathi. 

(Suborder Sclerodermi.) 
( Balistid£B • 

■) (Suborder Ostracodermi.) 

i Ostraciontidre 

(Suborder Gymnodontes.) 
C Teti odontidaj ^ 

< Diodoiilidce^ 

(Molidai^ 

Order Pediculati. 

( Antennariidce 

I Ceratiidce 

'] LopbiiilfB^ 

I ilallheidce 



Species. 



G. B. M 



Genera. 



G. B. M 



Common. 



Sp. 



Gen. 



' Sclerodermi D. 



3 Pediculati D. 



* Gymnodontes D. 

Some interesting and curious deductions flow from a comparison of 
tlie data embodied in these tables. 

Tlie fresh-water fishes are mostly very different in the two regions. 
The British isles are not distinct from the neighboring- continent, so far 
as its fishes are concerned, and almost all are conspecific with conti- 
nental forms, the only difference being that there are fewer species and 
an absence of some characteristic European types. Massachusetts and 
its neighbors exhibit a similar relation to the rest of the American con- 
tinent, in the paucity of species as well as deficiency of peculiar Ameri- 
can types, and this feature is so well marked that more than a quarter 
of a century ago Professor Agassiz denominated the region the "Zoolog- 
ical island of New England." Both regions, however, so far as the fau- 
nas go, are true to their continents. Notwithstanding the so much 
talked of small size of the British area, the fishes of the same diversiform 
families are on the whole larger than those of America, or, in more 
eract terms, there is a lack of the very small species. The special 
British Cyprinids and Percids, for example, are larger than those of 
New England, and none are ns small as the peculiar American types, 
such as the little minnows, shiners, and darters. (It may be remarked 
that for size, the suckers take the place of the large Euroi)ean Cypri- 



622 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1384. 

nids.) The generic types common to the two regions are, however, about 
equally developed, such as the lampreys, eels, salmonids, pike, yellow 
perches, millers-thumbs, burbot, and sticklebacks. On one hand the 
family of Loaches is the only one wanting in America, although there is 
no grayling in Kew England ; on the other, the suckers, catfishes, mum- 
michogs or Cyprinodontids, and sunfishes of New England are wanting 
in Britain. The common American charr or brook-trout is larger than 
the British species and takes the place in New England of the true trout 
of England, a type deficient from the Eastern American fauna. The 
peculiar American species of the pike family are smaller* than the com- 
mon pike common to the two countries, and which alone is a native of 
Britain, and indeed of Europe generally. 

There is another feature of interest. It is that, with the exception of 
the sticklebacks, none of the British fresh- water fishes take special care 
of their eggs or young, while, of the American types, the catfishes and 
sunfishes are noted for their care of both the eggs and young. 

If now we compare the salt-water species, we find that Britain has a 
lancelet, a six-gilled shark, an Oxynotid, three Scylliorhinids,many more 
rays, a Murray (Murienid), a scabbard-fish (Lepidopodid), a John Dory 
(Zenid), a boar-fish (Caproid), very many more Sparids, seven Labrids 
to New England's two ; many more Triglids, and all of a special genus 5 
two Callionymids, nine gobies, four true blennies, and more Gadids, 
flatfishes, and soles, a Centriscid, and more pipefishes, types wanting 
or more poorly represented in New England. 

To somewhat balance all these absentees, New England has an Odon- 
taspidid, several Cyprinodontids, more Scisenids, more Labracids, a He- 
mitripterid, a Dactylopterid, three Stichseids, a Cryptacanthodid, a Eis- 
tulariid, an Antennariid, and aMaltheid — types entirely unknown or less 
represented in England. 

In this comparison no account has been taken of deep-sea types 
(which, on account of the proximity of deep water, are more numerous 
near the British shores) or those that are mere wanderers to either 
shore. On the other hand, types that are represented in the waters of 
Massachusetts, though they may not have been credited to Massachu- 
setts Bay, have been kept in view. 

The oldest known JisJi. 

Until lately the oldest known fishes had been obtained from the 
English Ludlow beds, which are near the top of the Upper Silurian, 
and none had been found in America lower than the Devonian. In the 
past year, however, remains were found which indicate the existence 
of what have been supposed to be fishes in still lower beds of the Silu- 
rian, in Pennsylvania. They were discovered by Prof E. W. Claypole 

*Oue of tbe American jtikes (JE'sox noiilior), but uot occurring iu Massachusetts, 
18 larger tliau tbo European, ami tUe largest ami finest of the fauiily. 



" ZOOLOGY. 623 

wliile engaged "on work on the palseoutology of Pennsylvania." First, 
be found in wbat he calls the " Bloomtield sandstone," which "lies at 
the top of the variegated shale or marl, the middle portion of the great 
mass of the Onondaga," certain remains analogous to those occurring 
in the Ludlow beds. The Ludlow beds are believed to have their 
equivalents in America in the Lower Helderberg, and inasmuch as the 
Onondaga is below the Helderberg, the time in which the animals lived 
that have left their remains in the Bloomfield sandstone must be still 
further back. The remains in question indicated a species of the genus 
OnchuH and two of a genus related to Scaphaspis of the Pterichthyidae, 
but different to such an extent as to have impelled Professor Claypole 
to refer them to a new genus called Palceaspis. 

Next, ^' a thousand feet lower down, in the middle of the red shale," 
Professor Claypole found in a thin bed comminuted fish scales or shields 
resembling in many i)oints those of Palceaspis. 

Further, "five hundred feet lower still, below beds indisputably of 
Clinton age," in the "well-known iron sandstone," is "a thin layer 
thickly charged with comminuted scales in much better condition than 
those in the red shale. With these occurs a spine somewhat like those 
from the Bloomfield sandstone," which Professor Claypole considered 
to indicate a new Onchns — the 0. cl'mtoni. 

Professor Clayi^ole asserts that "it is evident that in these fossils we 
have the most ancient relics of vertebrate life yet known from any part 
of the world." 

The Professor concludes that, "in thus carrying down the remains of 
fihh almost to the base of the Upper Silurian rocks, it becomes evident 
that we must seek in some part of our Cambro-Silurian series to find 
yet earlier forms. It is not likely that these are the first that existed. 
Lower beds must be searched." (Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 1222-1226.) 

Leptocardians. 

Number of Branchiostomids. — The lowest type, by all odds, of true 
Vertebrates is the genus BrancMostoma, a representative at the same 
time of a i^eculiar family, order, and class. The first example obtained 
was described over a century ago by the celebrated Pallas as a Limax^ 
or slug. Since then, several species have been proposed on difi'erences 
in the number of transverse impressions representing the limits of what 
are now called myocommas. These^ however, were all ignored by Dr. 
Giinther, in 1S70, and the species were all "lumped" together under 
BrancMostoma lanceolatum. " The recent discovery of a second undoubt- 
edly distinct species of Leptocardian on the coast of Australia [Upi- 
(jonichthys cultellus]^ as well as the acquisitiou of several well-preserved 
examples," induced Dr. Giinther " to re examine all the specimens in the 
British Museum,"and he" convinced" himself thattheviewformerly held 
by him " is incorrect, and that Suudcvall was quite right in drawing atteu* 



624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

tion to the number of niyocommas as an excellent taxonomic character.'* 
Dr. Giintber was thus led to recognize six species of BrancMostoma: 
(1) B. elo/ignfnm, Peru; (2) B. bassamcm, Bass Straits; (3) B. Belcheri, 
Borneo; (4) B. caribccnm, West Indies; (5) B. lanceolakan, Europe; (6) 
B. [Epiffonichthys] ciilteUus. The B. hassanum was new. {Rep. Zool. Coll. 
Alert, itp. 3l-3o.) 

Selachians. 

An Uel-WxC Shark. — Perhaps the most interesting discovery of the past 
year among new vertebrate forms is a species of shark made known by 
Mr. Samuel Garnjan,of Cambridge, under the name of Chlamydoselachus 
anguineiis. All the ])reviously known sharks are pretty uniform in hav- 
ing the body of a more or less fusiform contour and comparatively stout; 
any differences in contraction or elongation are comparatively slight. 
The new form, however, differs widely from all other described species, 
and is so elongated as to suggest the snake- or eel-like form, which has 
struck Mr. Garnjau and induced him to give to it the name anguineus or 
snake-like. In other respects, it has more characteristics in common 
with the Notidanids or Hexauchids (that is, the family represented by 
the gray shark of Europe) than with any other. As in the Notidanids, 
there is only one dorsal tin, and in the new shark this is reduced in size 
and far behind, opposite the anal; the latter is much larger than tlie 
dorsal and is elongated ; the ventral tins are also behind the middle of the 
length and reach to the anal. "The head is broad, slightly convex on 
the crown, and has a look about it," says Mr. Garman, "that reminds 
one of some of the venomous snakes." The mouth opens at the ante- 
rior extremity, and is not overhung by the snout, as in most sharks. 
The gape is very' wide, lateral, and extends far behind the eyes. Tlic 
nostrils are also unlike those of ordinary sharks in being lateral. As 
in the Notidanids, the branchial apertures are in increased number (six), 
but those iu front are very wide, and are quite characteristic in that 
"the frill or flap covering the first opening is free across the isthmus, 
as in [some] fishes, and hangs down about an inch." The teeth are also 
very peculiar. As in other sharks, they are arranged in rows across 
the jaws. In detail, "they are all alike; each tooth has three slender, 
curved, inward-directed cusps, and a broad base, which extends back 
in a pair of points under the next tooth, thereby securing firmness and 
preventing reversion. In the twenty-eight rows of the upper jaws and 
twenty-seven of the lower there are three times as many rows of the 
fangs or cusps." 

Mr. Garman, in considering the relations of this remarkable animal, 
thought that most resemblance was to be found in the dentition to the 
teeth of Cladoclus, of the Devonian, "but the cusps were erect instead 
of reclining, and the enamel was grooved or plicate instead of smooth." 
He was impressed by a study of the animal "with the idea that, away 
back iu times wlien selachia and fishes were more alike, he would 



ZOOLOGY. 625 

have a better cbauce to trace the affiuities." Mr. Garnian was finally 
iuclined to consider the species as the type, not only of a new genus 
and family but even of " a new order, to which the name Selachoph- 
ichthyoidi might be given, and which stands nearer the true fishes 
than do the sharks proper." 

The new shark was 5 feet long and less than 4 inches in greatest 
diameter. It was obtained in Japan. 

Next, P.rofessor Cope, soon afterwards, in a communication to Science, 
expressed the opinion that the newly described shark was congeneric 
with the Diplocli(S or Didymodus of the Devonian epoch, and that there- 
fore it was the oldest living type of Vertebrata. 

In a subsequent number of Science, Professor Gill commented upon 
the views already expressed and had to difl'er from both gentlemen. 
He was disposed to agree with Mr. Garman in the conclusion that 
Chlamydoselachus angnineus approached nearer the true fishes than 
do the sharks proper, not because it appeared to be in the line of des- 
cent between the two, but because it was nearer the primitive line 
from which both types have diverged. It is doubtful, however, wliether 
it is a more primitive type than the Notidanids. As to its relations to 
extinct types, however, he dissented from both Mr. Garman and Pro- 
fessor Cope, and doubted whether it was closely related to any known 
extinct forms, urging that both of the forms to which it had been ap- 
proximated hj Messrs. Garman and Cope were very widely separate. 
The Cladodus and its relatives were at least subordinally distinct, and 
Biplodus or Didymodus (which, he showed, should be called Pleur acan- 
thus) appeared to have had no relations whatever to it, and apparently 
did not belong to the same order or even subclass. On the whole 
Chlamydoselachus appeared to him to be quite clearly related to the 
Notidanids, but in a revised natural system of the Squali, the two 
families might be considered as representatives (and the only known 
representatives) of distinct suborders — the Notidanids of the suborder 
Opistharthri, and the Chlamydoselachids of the suborder Pternodonta 
or Selachophichthyoidei. The two seem to be closely related, however. 
{Science, v. 3, pp. 110-117 {Garman); v. 3, p. 275 {Cope); v. 3, pp. 345- 
346 {Garman, Gill) ; V. 4, p. 484 ; {Garman) V. 4, p. — {Gill}; Bull. Essex 
Inst, V. 16.) 

Teleostomes or fishes. 

The lateral line of Fishes. — The so-called lateral line of fishes and its 
extension on the head has been a subject of many investigations. One of 
the latest published on the subject is by M. Paul De S6de, who has paid 
special attention to the histology and development thereof. We cannot 
enter upon the anatomical details and must remain content to briefly 
consider the results of some of the experiments made by the author. 
He had undertaken the vivisection of certain fishes, subjecting them to 
aufesthesia and then experimented upon them in several ways. He 
chiefly emi)loyed chloroform, and placed the fish in a glass jar three- 
S, Mis. 33 40 



626 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

fourths filled with water and closed by a glass cover. lu the center of 
the jar, a small bottle filled with chloroform had been previously at- 
tached so that it should not be thrown out of place. The neck of this 
bottle extended about a centimeter above the level of the water and 
allowed the vapor of the chloroform to circulate freely. The eflect of 
the chloroform on the fish was manifested at first by violent attempts 
to escape; then the animal swam on one side, made some turns round 
the jar, and, at the end of several minutes, fell to the bottom of the 
jar completely ansestheticized. If in this condition it is allowed to re- 
main three to four minutes, the cover being- taken off, it dies and floats 
belly upwards to the surface; consequently, it should be taken out as 
soon as it falls to the bottom of the jar and is motionless. 

Water charged with carbonic acid may be substituted for the chloro- 
form. It has been suggested, as a result of the experiment of Brown- 
S<§quard, that carbonic acid brought directly in contact with mucous 
surfaces possesses powerful aniesthetic i^roperties. Thus anaesthet- 
icized, the subjects can e.isily stand a resection of the lateral nerve for 
a length of one or two centimeters according to size. The lateral nerve 
was vAxt out and the animal did not manifest i)ain in any manner. But 
the operation must be performed with delicacy and quickness, and this 
result was not obtained without numerous attempts. The fishes oper- 
ated upon, while living, were placed in a large bottle where they were 
allowed to rest. Thej^ exhibited at first the characteristic sluggishness 
which follows the absorption of chloroform, and it was manifested in 
various incoherent movements. When they had entirely recovered from 
the effects of their being subjected to the chloroform, their movements 
were watched with interest. The fishes operated upon, it was observed, 
swam with great slowness and hesitancy in the jar, evidently feel- 
ing their way ; while those in which the lateral line was perfect passed 
through the water and between obstacles with little or no diminution of 
speed. It seemed evident to M. De S^de, as a result of his experiments, 
that the lateral line has a tactual or sensitive function and supple- 
ments or supplies the place of vision. The lateral line takes cogni- 
zance of the currents and other movements of the water and the fish 
knows its own swiftness and how to regulate it. Moving in an ele- 
ment agitated without cessation, it perceives the least disi)lacement; 
living in the midst of enemies which surround it on all sides it becomes 
conscious of their approach by the slightest movements of the water. 
The lateral line is, then, the result of an adaptation to aquatic life, an 
adaptation which ceases with this mode of existence and disappears, 
as we know is the case in the amphibians, when the animals become 
adult and leave the water. The organs of general sensibility, these 
tactual corj)uscles, are grouped in a more delicate apparatus, affecting 
special dispositions absolutely different from those which characterize 
the other organs of the definite senses. It may be said, therefore, that 
in the lateral line a sixth sense in the full meaning of the word is de- 



ZOOLOGY. 627 

veloped. In other words, the lateral line is a tactual organ specialized 
to the same extent as those organs in certain deep-sea fishes which 
give light. The anatomical characteristics of the lateral line are A^ery 
diversified, but in all cases there is a similar adaptation for the per- 
ception of sensations, and the apjiaratus is more or less protected by 
the integuments; it is for the purpose of communicating with the seu- 
sorium through the intervention of the lateral nerve. {Revue Bcien- 
tijique, t. XXXIV, pp. 407-470.) 

Hermaphroditism of Fishes. — It has long been known that hermaphro- 
ditism occurs in a number of fishes, and in some of them it is so general 
as to almost constitute the normal form. The subject has lately been 
reinvestigated by Max Weber. He has re-examined especially the well- 
known cases of hermaphroditism of the sea perches of the Mediterra- 
nean, of the genus Sernimis, and also of certain Sparids. The greatest 
number of species in which hermaphroditism is manifested are Physo- 
clists or Acanthopterygians ; only three phystomous fishes (the carp, the 
herring, and the pike) have yielded hermaphrodites. Besides the three 
species of Serranus and one of Sparus, hermaphroditism has been de- 
tected more or less frequently in various species related to Sparus. The 
family of Sparids, indeed, furnishes no less than six species subject to 
hermaphroditism. These are (1) Sparus aurata, (2) Pagellus mormy- 
rvs, (3) Sargus a^mularis, (4) Sargus Salviani, (5) Charax puntazzo, and 
(6) Box salpa. 

In the family of Scombrids, hermaphroditism has been observed in the 
common mackerel {Scomber scombrus) ; in the Percids, in the river perch ; 
and in the Labrids in Lahrus mixtus. One species of Ophidiids, no less 
than three species of the family of Gadids, and one of the Soleids have 
also yielded hermaphroditic individuals: of the Ophidiids, the OpMdium 
barhatum : of the Gadids, the common cod, the whiting, and the fresh- 
water burbot or cusk; and of the Soleids the common sole. It is espe- 
cially the characteristics of hermaphroditism in the ])erch and codfish 
that Mr. Weber has studied, and he has sought to learn the causation 
of the phenomenon. The result, he contends, arises from the primordial 
sexual indifference of the materials out of which are, in time, developed 
the genital glands. At the moment of sexual specialization, a portion 
of the elements of which these embryonic materials are constituted 
develop toward the male sex, while the other portion undergoes succes- 
sive modifications which tend to the female sex, and from these diverg- 
ing tendencies arises without doubt the appearance of true hermaphro- 
ditism. It is recalled that hermaphroditism is most common in fishes 
and becomes rarer in the higher vertebrates in which sexual differenti- 
ation has become more decided. 

The species studied by Dr. Weber are all common European fishes. 
Hermaphrodites have likewise been found in extra-European fishes, es- 
l)ecially among the Serranime and the Lutjanina?. {Nederland. Tijdschr, 
JDierMmde^ l, p. 84; Revue Seientijique, t. xxxiv, pi). 370, 377.) 



628 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Serrated Throat Appendages of Amia. — The so-called "mud-fish" or 
"lawyer" [Amia calva) of our Western and Southern lakes and rivers, Is 
especially interesting to the morphologist on account of the peculiarities 
of structure and the habits coincident therewith which it exhibits, and 
also, more especially, from the fact of its being- intermediate between 
the old-fashioned and the new-fashioned fishes. One of the peculiari- 
ties of this fish is the existence of " serrated appendages" or " flagella" 
beneath the throat, which are attached by their bases to the lateral as- 
pect of the sternohyoid muscles. Experiments have been made, under 
the direction of Prof. R. Ramsey Wright, of University College, Toronto, 
to elucidate the physiology of these appendages. His specimens of 
Amia, " after being in captivity for some time, became very sluggish, 
and hardly any movements of respiration could be detected. After the 
fish had been removed for a little out of the water, however, and then 
returned to it, the movements were sufiiciently active to disclose the fol- 
lowing facts : 

" During the enlargement and filling of the cavity of the mouth, the 
posterior flexible (and muscular) border of the gill-opening is tightly 
applied to the soft parts behind the gill-opening. When the mouth-cav- 
ity is quite full, the mouth closes, the muscular border of the gill-cover 
releases its sucker-like hold of the soft parts, and the water is driven 
out by the contraction of the walls of the mouth-cavity." {Science, v. 
4, p. 511.) 

Development of the common American Catfish. — Mr. John A. Ryder 
has published the results of an investigation into the embryology of 
a common American catfish, the Amiurus alMdus. The eggs of this 
species are laid in a large depressed mass, and are adherent together 
and to the object upon which they are laid. They are about one-eighth 
inch in diameter and hatch in about six days, when the water is of the 
temperature usually prevalent duriug the breeding season of the species, 
which, about Washington, is in July. The male, after the eggs are laid, 
faithfully guards the eggs, hovering over them, and fanning the mass 
of ova with his lower fins, apparently for the purpose of forcing water 
through them. 

Each egg is covered by two envelopes, an inner true zona radiata 
and an outer elastic adhesive lamina, which is raised up from the inner 
one upon a series of columns consisting of the elastic substance. It 
thus results that a space is formed between the inner and outer envel- 
opes of the egg, which is filled with water. The outer elastic envelope 
permits the male to make comparatively violent movements while re- 
newing the water over the ova without detaching them from one 
another or from the objects to which they are afBxed. Indeed, the elas- 
ticity of this outer membrane is surprisingly extensive in the living ova. 

On the second day the barbels appear in blunt processes, thus early 
defining the order to which the embryos appertain, They arise at th^ 



ZOOLOGY. 629 

angles of the mouth; then the chin and the nasal barbels make their 
appearance. All but the nasal barbels, upon examination with the 
microtome, are found to contain a cartilaginous suj^porting axis. 

The yelk is very coarsely granular and is composed of spheroidal 
bodies which are more or less misshapen by mutual i^ressure. At the 
end of about two weeks the yelk-bag becomes outwardly imperceptible. 
The pecnliarly wide or extended cerebellum of these fishes begins to be 
apparent at a very early stage in the embryo. The segmentation is 
meroblastic, a very sharply defined germinal disk being formed. The 
way in which the embryos swing their tails back and forth within the 
egg on the second and third days reminds one forcibly of this habit in 
an angry cat, and is worthy of note on account of the name of this 
group, viz, the Catfishes. 

The young, after hatching, cluster together and seem to follow the 
male parent. When feeding upon chopped meat the yonng were fre- 
quently taken into the mouth of the male parent, who would, however, 
always reject his progeny alive and unharmed from his mouth before 
swallowing, showing that he was able to discriminate between his young 
and his food. {Bull. U. S. Fish Com., in, i)p. 225-230.) 

The Saccopharyvgidce relatives of the Uurypharyngidw. — In the search 
for relations of the strange Eurypharyngidse, Messrs. Gill and Ryder 
became convinced that the genus ^accopharynx, jiroposed in 1824 by 
Mitchill, and the Ophiognathus, named three years later by Harwood 
(1827), were closely related, and consequently the family embracing the 
two has been approximated to the Eurypharyngidse as a related type. 
Some modifications were also found to be necessary in the diagnosis of 
the ordinal group. The Lyomeri are now distinguishable as Teleost 
fishes with five branchial arches, none of which are modified as branchi- 
ostegal or pharyngeal, far behind the skull; an imperfectly ossified 
cranium, deficient especially in nasal and vomerine elements, articulat- 
ing with the first vertebra by a basiocipital condyle alone ; with only 
two cephalic arches, both freely movable, (1) an anterioi' dentigerous 
one (the supramaxillary) and (2) the suspensorial, consisting of only 
hyomandibular and quadrate bones ; without opercular elements ; with- 
out palatine or pterygoid bones; with the scapular arch imperfect, lim- 
ited to a simple cartilaginous piece, remote from the skull ; with the rays 
of the pectorals sessile directly upon them, and with separately ossified 
but imperfect vertebrae. 

A peculiar type of Fishes. — Over 100 years ago (in 1781) a very curious 
fish was described by the German naturalist, Hermann, under the name 
Sternoptyx, but the old naturalist was deceived by ap])earances and 
quite misunderstood the structure and relation of the species. Al- 
though its anatomy has been worked at, its peculiarities have not been 
appreciated. Attracted by certain appearances. Professor Gill ex- 
amined the skeleton and found that it exhibited differences of such a 



630 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

character as to isolate it from most other fishes. In the typical fishes, 
generally, the scapular arch is connected with the cranium directly 
through the intervention of the supra-scapula or post-temporal bones 
which abut upon the paroccipital bone. In Sternoptyx the scapular 
arch, however, has no connection whatever with the sides of the cra- 
nium, but the post-temporal or its homologue advances upwards and 
meets its fellow of the opposite side and the two abut upon the middle 
of the cranium or supraoccipital bone behind and at the nape. Con- 
sequently the genus is not only the type of the family Sternoptychida?, 
but has been taken as the type of a grouj) which may be considered as 
of ordinal value and to which the name Iniomi has been given. Tiiis 
order includes not only the Steruoptychidae, but, according to the obser- 
vations of Mr. John A. Eyder, also the Chauliodontid£e; and quite likely 
some other fishes which have been confounded with the Scopelidse and 
Stomiatidae may also belong to it. 

The Sternoptychids, it may be added, exhibit such differences among 
themselves as apparently to necessitate a recognition of two sub-families, 
the Sternoptychinae and Argyropelecinae. 

The American Mullets. — The true mullets or those constituting the 
family Mugilidte, are fishes which are gregarious, moving together in 
large schools. They have a peculiarly modified and complex pharyngeal 
apparatus, by means of which they strain the mud in which they chiefly 
find their food in the form of the microscopical organisms included 
therein. The family is abundantly represented in the tropical as well as 
temperate waters, although much less so in the latter than in the former. 
According to the latest views of ichthyologists, two species ascend on 
the coasts of Europe to the British waters and even further northwards, 
and two species likewise reach the American coast a« far north as Mas- 
sachusetts. Messrs. Jordan and Swain have recently investigated the 
salt-water American species of the family occurring in the temperate as 
well as tropical waters, and find that in the seas on both sides of the 
continent there are representatives of three distinct genera, Mtigil, 
Chccnonmgil, and Querimana. 

The genus Mugil contains the largest species, and is the one most 
generally distributed and represented by numerous species throughout 
the range covered by the family. Six species of the genus are recog- 
nized as American, and two of these are very abundant along the 
southern coast of the United States and form the subjects of a very 
important fishery. Our two species are now endowed with the names 
Mvgil cepJialus and 2Ivgil curema. Mugil cephalns is the designation 
which it is proposed to adopt for the species formerly known as Mugil 
albula, for it is now declared that the American form is not specifically 
distinct from the European Mugil cephalus. Mugil curema is the name 
substituted for the one generally called Mugil hraziliensis. The Mugil- 
cephalus is the species which has the soft dorsal and anal fins almost 



ZOOLOGY 631 

uaked, aud the sides ornamented with ciark longitudinal stripes ; it is 
the largest of the east coast species. The Mugil curema has the soft 
dorsal and anal fins scaly, and the sides are plain and without any dark 
stripes. 

A very little mugilid is quite abundant about Key West and other 
parts of Florida, and also occurs in Charleston Barbor ; it is known as 
the whirligig, and has been named Quenmana gyrans. 

The American Par rot- fishes. — Under the name of Parrot-fishes are 
included quite a number of typical fishes distantly related to the 
blackiish or tautog of the iSTorth American waters, but differing in the 
development and exposure of the jaws and the more or less confluence 
of the teeth with the jaws, and also by the modification of the pharyn- 
geal bones, which are provided with broad pavement-like teeth. The 
rays of the fins are very constant in number, there being in the dorsal 
fin nine spines and ten rays, and in the anal two spines and nine rays. 
The scales are large and also quite constant in number, there bein^ 
about 24 vertical rows, of which those ending on the caudal fin are 
elongated and pointed backwards. The colors are usually quite gay 
and striking. The fishes themselves are mostly found about coral reefs 
or in coral groves, and the peculiar character of the jaws and teeth has 
reference to their habits, the fishes feeding upon the coral, which they 
bite off and then ingest. They may to some extent be called ruminating 
fishes, and have a peculiar apparatus exercising an analogous function, 
as has been lately demonstrated by Dr. Sagemehl. These fishes are well 
represented in the Caribbean Sea, and have been recently investigated 
by Messrs. Jordan and Swain. These gentlemen regard the group as 
a sub-family of the labrids, and recognize for the American species 
three genera, for which they adopt the names Scams, Sparisoma, and 
Cryptotomus. Their nomenclature is somewhat peculiar for the genera. 
(1) The one called by them Srarus is the same as that generally known 
as rseudoscarus ; (2) the Scarus of European and most other authors is 
called Sparisoma ; (3) the genus generally known as Calliodon is also 
called by a different name, Cryptotomus, inasmuch as the former was 
originally given as a generic name for all Scaridw, but with specific 
mention of only true Scari of Jordan aud Swain. The celebrated Scarus 
of the ancients, a well-known inhabitant of the Mediterranean Sea, must 
now, it seems, be known as a Sparisoma, and as congeniers of it in the 
Caribbean Sea we have eight species ; of the genus Scarus, five species 
are recognized by Jordan and Swain, and of the genus Cryptotomus only 
two are known from the West Indies. The species have been neatly 
defined by Jordan and Swain, and the result of their labors is a substan- 
tial addition to systematic ichthyology, and especially the West Indian 
fish fauna. 

The use of the Bemora in fishing by Africans. — It has long been known 
that fishes of the Remora kind, or salt-water "suckers," as they are 



632 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

called by American fishermen, have been used for fishing purposes, 
but a recent account by Mr. Frederii; Hobnwood, the British consul at 
Zanzibar, adds additional information. It appears that the use of the 
remoras for fishing: is still in vogue in that country. The fishes are 
mostly kept in small canoes and come to the surface of the water on the 
approach of the fishermen, and they have learned to allow themselves 
to be taken from the water and submit to being handled without at- 
tempting to plunge or break away. The owners call them with "a soft 
whistling sound," but Mr. Holmwood had " no means of observing 
whether this Avas recognized by the fish." Each fish had a strong iron 
ring or loop fixed in front of the tail or caudal fin for attaching a line 
to when it was to be employed in fishing. " In some cases these ap- 
pendages had evidently remained on for years, during which the fish 
had so grown that the iron had become embedded in a thick fleshy 
formation. In two instances the ring had been inserted in the muscular 
substance at the root of the tail, but generally a simple iron band was 
welded round the thinnest part of the body a few inches from the tail, 
which kept it from slipping off. To this was riveted a small movable 
ring or loop resembling that of a watch-handle. In one case this loop 
was fastened on by servings of brass wire in a similar manner to the 
rings of a fishing-rod." 

The fishes are taken out by the fishermen on their trips, which, ac- 
cording to Mr. Holmwood, never occupy less than fifteen days, A 
specimen was brought to him with the ring gone and with a large 
wound or rent before the tail, part of which was also gone. The owner 
declared that it had caught two turtles, and that it had afterwards 
" affixed itself to a large shark, and holding on after all the spare line 
had been i^aid out, the tail had given way. He stated that the remora, 
or, as it was called by the natives, chozo, had then relinquished its hold 
and returned in its mutilated state to the boat." The fishermen assured 
Mr, Holmwood that " this was not an unusual occurrence, and that 
after a time a fresh ring would be attached and the fish become as 
useful as before." 

The sucker of one of the specimens examined by Mr. Holmwood had 
twenty-three pairs of lamellae, and the species was probably the Echeneis 
neucrates, or slender remora. {Proc. Zool. Soc. London^ 1884, pp, 411-413,) 

Amphibians. 

A new family of Toad-Wee Amphibians. — A toad-like animal was ob- 
tained by the British Museum from Mr. H, B. Guppy, which is of in- 
terest on account of its distinctness from previously known forms; it 
inhabits three oi^ the Solomon Islands and presents such peculiar char- 
acters that it has been regarded by Mr. Boulenger as the representative 
of a new family. The species has been named Ceratobatrachns Guen- 
theri; the generic name alludes to the development of "a small curved 



ZOOLOGY. 633 

spiue at the angle of the jaws." It belongs to the group of Firmis- 
ternia and is related to the other species of the group as the Hemi- 
phractidfB are to the Arcifera. Tlie family named Ceratobatrachidse 
in fact is definable as Firmisteruials with teeth in the upper as well as 
lower jaw, cylindrical (non-dilated) sacral diapophyses, and with precora- 
coids and an omosternum. {Proc. Zool. Soc. London^ 1884, pp. 212, 213.) 

Pugnacity of a Frog. — The frog will appear in a new light to many, 
through the observation of an English gentleman, Mr. Edwin H. Evans, 
recorded in Nature. A short time before dark this gentleman heard "a 
squeaking noise" below his reranda, and on inquiry found that it came 
from a bat in contest with a frog. The bat was " evidently getting the 
worst of it, but at last succeeded in getting away for a time from its op- 
ponent; the frog again attacked it, but this time lie was glad to cry 
'quits,' as the bat turned on him and beat him oft, afterwards managing 
to hide somewhere," so that he could not be found. The frog was found 
badly " bitten about the nose, and was in a sad plight." Mr. Evans ' 
remarks that the bat had " probably fallen from its nest during the day 
and was waiting for the evening, when the frog espied it and attacked 
it, with the before-mentioned result." (Nature, xxxi, p. 55.) 

Reptiles. 

A new group of extinct Jurassic Beptiles. — In Wyoming Territory, in 
beds of the horizon of the Atlantosaurus beds of the Upper Jurassic, 
the lower jaw, or rather the dentary bones, of a peculiar reptile were 
obtained. These are believed by Professor Marsh to indicate a new 
"order" of extinct Jurassic reptiles, to which he has given the name 
Macelognatlia. The bones in question " resemble in many resi)ects the 
corresponding parts of a turtle, but are broader and more nearly hori- 
zontal. The jaws were evidently covered with a horny beak in front, 
but further back they contained teeth. The edentulous portion is flat 
and thin, and nearly horizontal. The two rami meet in nearly the same 
plane, and are united at the symphysis by a close suture." The teeth 
had fallen out, but their places were indicated by sockets, the walls be- 
tween which "become thinner backwards, and a groove appears to grad- 
ually take their place." Such were the only evidences of the nature of 
the extinct animal, but Professor Marsh considers that he was justified 
in assigning to the species {MacelognatJius ragans) not only anew ftimily 
name but a new ordinal one. He thought that the "jaws are too solid 
and massive for birds or pterodactyles," and that " the close union of the 
rami by suture separates them from Dinosaurs, and the edentulous beak 
from crocodiles." He surmises that the animal "was nearest allied to 
the Chelonia, although turtles without teeth occur in the same strata 
with them." (Am. Journ. /S'c. (3), xxvii, p. 340.) 



634 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Keiv American Dinosaurs.— Fi of t^ssor Marsh has contiEued his iuvesti- 
gations of Hie American Jurassic Dinosaurs, notices of which have been 
published in previous numbers of these reports of progress, by the de- 
scription of anew family of "Sauropoda." A considerable portion of 
the skeleton of one of the species of the group was exhumed, and it 
was ascertained that the new family called Diplotlocidce was related to 
the Atlautosanridse and Morosauridae, and distinguished by the follow- 
ing characters : 

Sauropodous Dinosaurs with the ischia having straight shafts directed 
downward and backward, the ends meeting at median line; a large 
pituitary fossa, and anterior caudal vertebrae deeply excavated below. 

Two si3ecies of the family have been made known, which have been 
named Diploclocus Jongus and Diplodocus laciistris. The D. longus was 
intermediate in size between the previously known Sauroi)ods, and is 
supposed to have been about forty or fifty feet long when alive. The 
teeth show, according to Professor Marsh, that "it was herbivorous, and 
the food was probably succulent vegetation. The position of the exter- 
nal nares indicates an aquatic life." The remains of the I>. Jongus were 
found in Upper Jurassic beds near Canon City, Colo., and those of the 
J), lacustris near Morrison, Colo. All of the American Sauropod Dino- 
saurians, hitherto obtained, have been found in Upper Jurassic rocks, 
and no Cretaceous forms of this group are known. The group is sup- 
posed by Professor Marsh to have the nearest affinities, of all the Dino- 
saurs, with the Crocodilians. [Am. Journ. Sci. (3), xxvii, pp. 162-168, 
pi. 3, 4.) 

United metatarsal Bones in a Reptile. — Last year a Dinosaurian reptile 
was described as Ceratosaurus nasicornis, whose most interesting fea- 
ture is to be seen in the metatarsal bones. "There are only three me- 
tatarsal elements in each foot, the first and fifth having apparently dis- 
ai)peared entirely," while the remaining three had become "completely 
aukylosed," and very much shorter and more robust than in the other 
members of the group to Avhich it belongs. In fact, the union of the 
metatarsal elements in the Dinosaur is as perfect as is that in ordinary 
birds. The position of the foramen, so characteristic of recent birds, 
is also the same in the Dinosaur. Professor Marsh summarizes that all 
known adult birds, " with possibly the single exception of Arclueopteryx^ 
have the tarsal bones firmly united, while all the Dinosauria, except 
Ceratosaurus, have these bones separate. The exception in each case 
brings the two classes near together at this point, and their close affinity 
has now been clearly demonstrated." {Am. Jour. 8c. (3), xxviii, pi>. 
161, 162.) 

The Pteranodons or toofJiless Pterodaetyles. — In 1872 Professor Marsh 
briefly noticed some remains of reptiles exhumed from middle Cretaceous 



ZOOLOGY. 635 

rocks of Western Kansas, which were regarded by him as indicative of 
not only a new family, bnt a new order related to the pterodactyles, 
and distinguished by the absence of teeth. His previous communica- 
tions have been recently supi)lemented by a well illustrated article on 
the "principal characters of American Cretaceous pterodactyles," in 
connection with which he gives figures of the skull and bill from four 
ditierent views. The skull is certainly very remarkable, and extremely 
different from those of all the typical pterodactyles ; it is much elon- 
gated, the facial portion being greatly i)roduced forwards, and a sagit- 
tal crest of enormous size, and reminding one somewhat of a helmet, 
but compressed, extending " far backwards and somewhat upward." 
The jaws are also quite peculiar and '"project forward like a huge pair 
of pointed shears; they are very long, sharply pointed in front, and 
entirely destitute of teeth," and indeed the margins are as smooth 
and thin as in recent birds. It is supposed by Professor Marsh that 
the jaws were inclosed in a horny sheath. Tlie bones of the skull are 
mostly extremely thin, and, "with the exception of the occipital con- 
dyle, the lower ends of the quadrates all f^eem to have been pneu- 
matic." A noteworthy feature is the existence of large antorbital 
openings near the middle of the skull and directly over the posterior 
nares. The skull is described as having a length of 760 millimeters. 
Professor Marsh sums up the evidence furnished by the skull with the 
statement that it differs especially from that of the other pterodactyles 
"in (1) the absence of teeth; (2) the absence of anterior nasal apertures, 
distinct from the antorbital openings; (3) the presence of the elongated 
occipital crest"; and (4) the encasement of the jaws with a horny sheath. 
{Am. Jourri. 8c. (3), xxvii, pp. 422-426, pi. 15.) 

The classification of Lizards. — The system of the Lacertilian order 
has been revised by Mr. G. A. Boulenger. Commendation is given 
of Professor Cope's work on that gioup as showing the best appre- 
ciation of the characters and relationships of the families of the order. 
Physiognomy and external characters, which were much relied upon by 
the old naturalists, are of little consequence and very apt to mislead. 
The anatomical characters and especially the modifications of the cran- 
ium nre the safest guides and the best clew to the affinities of the an- 
imals. The suborders of Professor Cope's system are reduced to two: 
(1) the Lacertilia vera, and (2) the Ehiptoglossa, including only the 
Chamseleons. Twenty-one families are recognized; many of these arc 
more or less modified and two new ones established, Uroplatidoi for 
Uroplatijs, formerly confounded with the geclcos, and Bibamidw, based 
on Bibamus, one of the most degraded of the lizards. (Ann. & Mag. 
Nat. Hist. (5), xiv, pp. 117-122.) 

The Bidl snake's Fo/ce.— A large and well known snake, although of 
local distribution in the United States, and known in Kew Jersey by 



636 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1884. 

the uarae of Bull or Pine snake {Pityopliis mclannleucvs) is notorious on 
account of the sounds it emits. This was described by the old natural- 
ist of Philadelphia, William Bartram, as " a terrible hiss, resembling- 
distant thunder," but there are few who have heard it who would not 
regard such a description as very much exaggerated. By Dr. Charles 
A. White, the hiss of the bull-snake is described as having "a peculiar 
hoarseness which is sometimes so loud that, with the help of tbe imagi- 
nation, it appears to have suggested a likeness to the low rumbling 
bellow of the bull," and in reference to this similarity the serpent owes 
one of its names. Dr. White has inquired how the sound is produced. 
He found that it is due to the character and posture of the epiglottis. 
This organ is absent, or represented only by a tubercle, in all other ser- 
pents which he had seen: in the bull-snake it is "a thin, erect, flexi- 
ble, flag-shaped or curved spatulate body, situated upon the median 
line immediately in front of the riraa-glottidis, and with its free end 
directed upward and backward, its posterior edge curving partly over 
the rima. It is evidently this epiglottis that i^roduces the hoarseness 
of the hissing sound, which it accomplishes by dividing, and fluttering 
in the strong current of air which is forced from the lung out of the 
rima." {Am. Nat., xviii, 19-21.) 

Birds. 

Coues' Key to North American Birds. — One of the most important 
books on ornithology published during the past year is the second edi- 
tion of Coues' " Key to North American Birds," and, in the words of 
one of the most distinguished of European ornithologists, it is "one of 
the best and most useful bird-books ever written." The first edition of 
this well-known work was issued in 1872, and the changes have been so 
great as to necessitate a thorough revision and recasting of the work. 
Indeed, the so-called second edition is really a new work, for very little 
of the old is retained unchanged; to it are added the "Field Ornithol- 
ogy," formerly published as a separate work, and above all a most 
important introduction on the anatomy of birds in general, in which 
the osteology, neurology, angeiology, pneumatology, splanchnology, and 
oology are successively considered. In the words of the European 
ornithologist, already quoted, " So much information that cannot be got 
at elsewhere is brought together in this comprehensive treatise, that it 
ought to be in the hands of every ornithologist, whether he is a special 
student of the American avifauna or not." 

Baird, Brewer, and Bidgicay^s Water-Birds of North America. — The 
great work on North American Water-Birds, whose completion has been 
so long and eagerly looked for, has at length been finished. The three 
volumes on the Land-Birds were published about ten years ago (in 1874) 



ZOOLOGY. 637 

with the general title ''A History of North American Birds," by Little, 
Brown & Co., of Boston, bnt, as we are inforioed m the jireface to the 
Water-Birds, " the cost of the publication of the ' Land-Birds of North 
America' was so great that tlie publishers of that work were unwilling 
to continue it at their risk and expense.'' At last. Professor Whitney, 
the former State geologist of California, and Prof. A. Agassiz, the di- 
rector of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, assumed the cost of pub- 
lication. The volumes of "The Water-Birds of North America," thus 
brought out, are nearly uniform with, and the practical completion of, 
the old " History of North American Birds." A full figure of the bird 
and figures of generic details in outline illustrate each genus, and the 
head of each sj^ecies is also figured. Both colored and uncolored copies 
are published. 

The water-birds are segregated under nine groups, four of waders and 
five of swimmers. The orders of waders are Herodiones (i, p. 1) with 
four families, LimicolaB (i, p. 107) with seven families, Alectorides 
(I, p. 350) with three families, and Phoenicopteri with one family ; 
those of the swimmers are Auseres (i, p. 419) with one family, Stega- 
nopodes (v. 2, p. 12G) with six families, Longipenues (ii. p. 191) with 
three fiimilies, Tubinares (ii, p. 344) with two families, and Pygo- 
podes (II, p. 420) with three families. This arrangement was not pre- 
sented as "strictly natural," but as the most apt at present "for the 
convenience of the student." It was suggested that "the orders most 
nearly related are the (1) Herodiones and Steganopodes, (2) Limicolse 
and Alectorides, (3) Phceuicopteri and Anseres, and (4) Longipenues 
and Tnbiuares. Of the Pygopodes the Alcidye present many points 
of true relationship to the Tubinares and Longipenues, while the 
latter are not far removed from thf^ Limicolas. The Podicipidte also 
appear to resemble in some respects (perhaps only teleological) the 
Steganopodes." 

The most noteworthy features, in the way of novelty in the new work, 
are the revised groupings of the Tubinarine families, and especially of 
the family of Albatrosses or Diomedeidse, the increase in the species of 
gulls of the family Larid*, and the arrangement of the family of Alcidae. 

Although published in the same year as Dr. Cones' " Key," the later 
date of printing and the sudden acquisition of specimens and comparison 
of all the forms enabled the authors of the Water-Birds to incorporate 
two additional species of large northern gulls (Laruft Nelsoni of Hen- 
shaw, and Larus schistisa(/us of Stejneger), thereby increasing the number 
of North American si)ecies of the genus (including the Chroicocephali) 
to nineteen'. 

The large collections of skins of Alcids, or auks, murres, &c., and 
various data resulting from the experience of Dr. Stejneger, in their 
homes, threw fresh light on their characters and relationships, and a 
new arrangement of the entire family was thei^esult, which is here given 



G38 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



iu comparison with that retained by Dr. Coues, which essentially ex- 
pressed the previous views of American naturalists. 



I. ALLIN^. 

1. Alle. 

II. ALCIN^. 

(Alcew.) 

2. Plautus. 

3. Alca. 
( Urice.) 

4. Uria. 

III. PHALERIN^. 

{Geppheoe.) 

5. Cepphus. 
{Brachyramphcce. ) 

6. Brachyramphus. 

7. Synthliboramphus. 
{Plialerece.) 

8. Ciceroiiia. ^ 

9. Phaleris. I 

10. Simorhynchus. i 

11. Cyclorhynchus. \ 

12. Ptychoramphus. 

13. Cerorhyncha. 

IV. FRATERCULIN^. 

14. Fratercula. 

15. Lunda. 



II. ALCIN^. 

6. Alle. 



12. Alca. 

11. Utamania. 

10. Lomvia. 



9. Uria. 

8. Brachyrhamplius. 
7. Synthliborhamphus. 

1. PHALERIDINJE. 



4. Simorhynchus. 



5. Ptychorhamphus. 
3. Ceratorhina. 

1. Fratercula. 

2. Lunda. 



Miocene Tertiari/ Indian Birds. — The Tertiary beds of India, belonging 
to the series of Siwalik beds (so called on account of their being devel- 
oped in the Siwalik Hills), have furnished numerous remains of mam- 
mals, which have been the subject of various elaborate monographs. 
The bones of birds bave also been found in considerable numbers, but 
have not been investigated until lately. Mr. Eobert Lydekker has re- 
cently applied himself to the determination of the relationships of these 
remains, and has been able to j^rove to his satisfaction that the bones 
belonged to species of Pelecanus, Phalucrocoax, Leptoptilus^ Mergus^ 
StrutJiio, and Dromceus, or at least very closely related genera. The 
most interesting is the so-called Dromceus. Tbis form, called Droimcus 
iivalensis, has been based upon four phalangeal bones; which so closely 
resemble those of the living Dromceus or emu as to leave little doubt in 
his mind that they belonged to at least a nearly allied genus of the class, 
although perhaps generically separable*. {Ibis (5), iii, p. 107.) 

Shedding of Claws in Birds. — Long ago Prof. Sveu Nilsson, who re- 
ieutly died at a very advanced age, called alteution to tbe fact tliat 
n certain species of grouse the claws were periodically shed, but bis 



ZOOLOGY. 



G39 



aud other observations liave been generally forgotten of late years. 
Ur. L. Stejneger has lately had occasion to recall them in connection 
with new facts discovered by himself, exhibited in a ptarmigan {Lagopus 
albus). He states that in this bird the shedding of the claws " takes 
place in July or August, according to locality and other circumstances, 
at the time when the toes are most denuded, in fact almost wholly 
naked, and the dark summer plumage is most complete. The claws 
grow very rapidly, however, and reach their full length long before the 
white winter plumage with the densely clothed toes is fully developed." 
So far as known, continues Dr. Stejneger, "this process is confined to 
the members of the family Tetraonidae," but has been now found in 
Bonasa bonasia, Urogallus urogallus, Lyrurus tetrix, Lagopus albus, and 
L. Ridgicayi. According to Dr. Collett, of Ohristiania, a specimen of the 
common quail of Europe {Goturnix coturnix) also shed its claws in con- 
finement, but this, says Dr. Stejneger, " may have been due to some 
l^athological process." 

As is generally known, the claws of the ptarmigans in winter become 
much elongated, and Dr. Stejneger quotes some observations of Pro- 
fessor Meves upon the habit of the bird bearing upon this development. 
The species of Lagopus have, " all through the winter, to struggle with 
the snow, upon which they are forced to walk. The snow is often 
loose, and, with a foot like that of the common fowl, they would need 
much greater exertion of their strength in order to keep themselves on 
the surface. But the ptarmigan, by having the under side of the toes 
thickly covered with feathers, which can be spread out, and by means 
of the long and straight claws, which may be compared with snow- 
shoes, are enabled to run easily over the snow. The iisefulness aud the 
necessity of the lengthening of the nails are self-evident. In the genus 
Tetrao ( Urogallus, -f Lyrurus, + Bonasa) the lateral horny fringes of the 
toes render the same excellent service, aud may fitly be regarded as a 
kind of snow-shoe. During the summer this whole outfit becomes super- 
fluous, which may be the main cause of the periodical shedding." 
{Am. Nat., xviii, pp. 774, 775 ; Ibis (5), iii, pp. 50-52.) 

The number of Parrots. — A useful work by Dr. Anton Eeichenow 
has been brought to a close, and, as it has been finished, constitutes a 
monograph of the family of Parrots. It has appeared in 11 folio parts, 
with 33 colored plates ; 448 species of the group are recognized, and 
thus we have, including species described meanwhile and since, nearly 
i60 species of that family or group of families. These, some or other, 
inhabit all the tropical countries aud are represented by a few outlyers 
in both the northern and southern temperate regions. {Ibis (4), iii, p. 
112.) 

Light iveight of the Hornbill. — Some interesting observations have 
been published by Prof. Alidionse Milne-Edwards on one of the horn- 
bills {Galao rhinoceros). The individual serving for these observations 



640 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

was takeu to Parits by M. F. Fauque, the chief of a scientific mission to 
Sumatra, sent by the French minister of public instruction. The bird 
is apparently almost as large as a turkey, but on account of the pecu- 
liar disposition of its breathing apparatus and the large air-sacs it is 
remarkably light; its weight scarcely exceeds 1,500 grammes. {Comptes 
Rendus Acad. So. Farts, November 17; Nature, xxxi, p. 95.) 

Tivo tSicann from one egif. — A remarkable case of the development of 
two birds from an eg^ with two yelks has been recorded by Mr. Albert 
A. C. le Souef, of Melbourne. A black-necked swan of Australia had 
commenced sitting on three eggs, but one of them was broken and not 
replaced by another, leaving only two behind. Nevertheless, to the 
astonishment of Mr. le Souef and the keeper, three cygnets came forth 
from the two eggs. At first the cygnets were nearly of a size, but in a 
very short time one commenced to grow much faster than the other two, 
and at the age of seven months one of them was as large as the parents, 
but the other two very much smaller, although unequal in size, and the 
smallest was a queer little fellow, and although apparently quite healthy 
remained covered with down and looked as if it were only two months 
old. {Proc. Zool. Sac. London, 1884, p. 390.) 

Mainmals. 

Tuberculosis in Menagerie Animals. — It has been asserted that a very 
large proportion of tropical animals, and especially of the monkeys, die 
in the menageries from consumption — phthisis tuberculosis. The sub- 
ject-matter has been investigated by Mr. J. B. Sutton, lecturer on com- 
parative anatomy'in the Middlesex Hospital Medical College, and his 
conclusions contradict the views generally current. On a superficial 
examination, indeed, he says, " it would seem that half the animals dying 
in the Society gardens succumb to this affection. It so frequently hap- 
pens that if the lung presents a spotted appearance or on section shows 
caseous spots of any description, the condition is set down as 'tubercu- 
losis.' " But after careful inquiry, the conclusion was forced on Mr. 
Sutton that " tubercle is by no means so common among animals as is 
generally supposed. Three diseases are especially liable to be con- 
founded with consumption, and the latter must be diagnosed carefully. 
The precision afforded by microscopical examination of diseased tissues 
has led to a more rigid definition, and consequent restriction, of the term 
' tubercle ' from such appearances as the lungs present in lobular pneumo- 
nia, or lung-tissue consolidated by pneumonia, which, instead of resolv- 
ing, ends in suppuration, and, lastly, encysted parasites. If these three 
morbid conditions be excluded, then tuberculosis is very tincommon. The 
larger carnivora (lions, tigers, and leopards) are exceedingly vulnerable 
to attacks of jincnmonia, and bears frequently die from this affection, 
due to the sui)[)uration of the consolidated portion of the lung. The 
coati (Nasua) is very liable to suffer from cavities in its lungs due to 



ZOOLOGY. 641 

this breaking-down of inflammatory products, and on three occasions 
pneumothorax has resulted from the rupture of a vomica." Even en- 
cysted parasites may be mistaken for tubercle. After due study of the 
disease and its conditions, Mr. Sutton reached the conclusion that "the 
disease had its origin in the food or at least in the alimentary canal," 
and bacilli were found by " thousands and tens of thousands." The 
viscera of such animals as had died of consumption exhibited certain 
lesions, and it was supi)osed that the disease was due to feeding on 
fowls that already had consumption. Two animals afforded the means 
for determining' whether such was likely to be the case or not. The two 
animals were " fed on birds' heads and viscera, and as their livers con- 
tained ' bacilli 'it was fair to infer that they had accidentally contracted 
the disease by feeding on tuberculous fowls." But " what the precise 
nature and origiu of these organisms may eventually turn out to be, is 
of course very uncertain ; the matter is still being investigated and 
must for the i)resent remain sub judiceP As to the monkeys, tubercle 
was found only in three cases among 110 individuals that died ; of these 
two were Ehesus monkeys and one a Vervet monkey, all Old World spe- 
cies. In these cases " the disease was unmistakable tubercular phthisis 
associated with cavities in the apices of the lungs, in every point re- 
sembling the disease as met with in the human subject." {Proc. Zool. 
Soc. London, 1884.) 

The Monotremes, egg-laying Mammals. — In 1799, Shaw ventured to de- 
scribe, as a new generic type of mammals, a skin obtained from Australia 
which combined the body of a quadruped with a bill resembling that of 
a duck. On account of such a combination, Shaw was at first doubtful 
whether it was not an artefact, but, seeing no evidence of the handi- 
work of man, he proceeded, with some hesitation, to describe the object 
as a new species, giving it the name of Platypus anatinus. Very soon after 
(in 1800), Blumeubach, in Germany, also described a similar specimen 
under the name of Ornithorliynchus paradoxus. The name Platypus being 
pre-occupied, the animal, for such it proved to be, bears now the name 
of Ornithorhynchus anatinus, its validity as a true animal being estab- 
lished. But later, skepticism was awakened on another point. It was 
afBrmed that this animal laid eggs, and, indeed, a couple of anatomists in- 
ferred that it did from observations of its genitalia. Inasmuch, however, 
as all other mammals were supposed to be viviparous, and in such the 
ovarian eggs are excessively minute, it was thought by many that there 
must be some error in the observations, or falsification. The assertion 
was taken up and corroborated later by several observers of the animal 
in nature, and an egg was even figured by Geoffroy St. Hilaire. Sev- 
eral of the old naturalists, including Charles Bonaparte, on account of 
its ovii^arity, regarded it as the representative of a peciiliar class inter- 
mediate between mammals and birds. A French naturalist claimed 
to have found a specimen pregnant with young, but skepticism pre- 
S. Mis. 3:3 41 



642 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

vailed, aud in time not even the remembrance of the facts was left. 
During the past year, however, the reliability of the old naturalists has 
been verified by two independent observers, Mr. W. H. Caldwell and 
Dr, Wilhelm Haacke. Mr. W. H. Caldwell, who, it may be remarked, 
was the first Balfour student, went to Australia, partly at the expense of 
the British Association for the Advancement of Science, for the purpose 
of studying the embryology of the Monotremes and Geratodus. In Sep- 
tember a telegram was sent to the British Association informing its mem- 
bers that "Caldwell finds Monotremes oviparous; ovum meroblastic." 
About the same time Dr. Haacke found an egg in the Australian 
Ecliidna or Tachyglossus. The two animals, however, differ consider- 
ably in their disposition of the egg. The aquatic Ornithorhynchus ex- 
cavates a deep hole in the banks, which it enters by an opening under 
the water, and in its burrow it forms a kind of a nest in which it de- 
posits two eggs. The terrestrial Tachyglossus produces only one large 
egg having an essential resemblance to that of the Ornithorhynchus, hut 
transfers it to its mammary pouch, wherein it is hatched. 

The statement that the egg is meroblastic, which the telegraph con- 
veyed to the British Association, demands a word of explanation. This 
means that only a portion of the egg is involved in the original segmen- 
tation, and that the rest is a food-supply for the early developing em- 
bryo. In other words, the egg resembles that of a bird or reptile, and 
differs from the minute one of the other mammals. 

For other facts in the long and interesting history of the Monotremes 
the various articles elicited by the new discovery may be referred to. 
{Zool. Anzeiger, December 1; Science, V, p. 3; Science, iv, p. — ; Nature, 
XXXI, pp. 132-135 ; Revue Scientijique, xxxv, pp. 657-659.) 

The spe^cies of Tachyglossids. — In the early part of the past century a 
strange spine-bearing mammal of Australia was made known under 
the name of Echidna aculeata, and is now generally known as the Tachy- 
glossus acxdeatus, the former name having been previously given to a 
genus of fishes. For a long time it was the only known species of the 
type, and the genus was supposed to be peculiar to Australia ; but 
within the past decade no less than three species have been obtained 
from New Guinea, and two of these are so different from the long- 
known Australian species (and another related one discovered in New 
Guinea) that they have been generically separated. We have, there- 
fore, now four species, or, if we give specific rank (as some may con- 
sider to be most natural) to the form occurring in Tasmania, we have 
five species of this interesting family. These are as follows : 

1. Tachyglossus aculeatus, of Southern Australia. 

2. Tachyglossus setosus, of Tasmania or Van Dieman's Land. 

3. Tachyglossus Lawesii, of Southern New Guinea. 

4. Zaglossus Bruynii, of Northern New Guinea. 

5. Zaglossus villosissimus, also of New Guinea. 



ZOOLOGY. 643 

It may be remarked here that the name Zaglossus was the first given 
to the genus later called by others Acanthoglossus, Proechidna, and 
Bruynia. The name was proposed by Gill, in 1876, in the Annual Kec- 
ord Ox' Scientific Discovery. 

The sliull of a Triassic Mammal from Soiith JL/rica.— Although quite 
numerous evidences of the existence of mammals in the Triassic and 
Jurassic formations have been obtained, that evidence has been chiefly 
limited to what could be obtained from the lower jaw and the dentition 
thereof. The discovery of more or less entire skulls is therefore of 
great interest. Such a find has been made in South Africa in the Trias 
beds, distinguished by the richness of their reptilian remains. The 
specimen in question is a nearly entire skull, wanting only the hinder 
part, and measuring " about 3f inches in length from the broken end of 
the parietal crest to the point of the united premaxillaries. The upper 
surface shows the anchylosed calvarial portions of the parietals and the 
frontal bones divided by a suture; the contiguous angles of these four 
bones are cut off, so as to leave an aperture, occupied by matrix, which 
may be a fontanelle, or a pineal or parietal foramen. The frontals 
form the upper borders of the orbits, which are bounded in front by the 
lacrymal and malar bones, and were not completed behind by bone. 
Each frontal is narrowed to a point at the suture between the nasal and 
maxillary. The nasals are narrow, but widen in front to form the upper 
border of the exterior nostril, which is terminal, and is completed by 
the premaxillaries. The maxillaries are widened posteriorly, then con- 
stricted, and again widened before their junction with the intermaxil- 
laries." 

It will be thus seen that Professor Owen has not been able to obtain 
characteristics of great importance, and the structure of the l^ase of the 
cranium, the roof of the mouth, and the interior of the skull remains 
unknown. In fact merely superficial characters have been determined. 

The teeth of this form in the upper jaw consisted of a i^air of large 
round incisors, behind each of which was a smaller premaxillary tooth. 
On each side were six molar teeth, " the first of which has a subtriangular 
crown with the base applied to the second tooth." The latter and the 
following teeth are " nearly similar, subquadrate in form, with the crowns 
impressed by a pair of antero-posterior grooves, dividing the grinding 
surface into three similarly disposed ridges, and each ridge is separated 
by cross notches into tubercles. Of these there are in the second to the 
fourth molar inclusive, four tubercles on the mid ridge, three on the 
inner ridge, and two on the outer ridge." Between the premaxillary and 
molar teeth was "a ridged diastema," no canines being developed. 

The dentition thus indicated was different from that exhibited by re- 
cent forms, resembliDg that of the Microlestes from the Keuper of Wiir- 
temburg and the Khaetic of Somersetshire and those of the Oolitic 
genus Btereognathus and the three forms apparently belonged to the 
same family, the Stereoguathidae, 



644 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The dentition of the Capyhara. — The Capybara is distinguished by a 
very remarkable dentition which has impelled some naturalists to recog- 
nize it as a peculiar family type — the Hydrochoeridse. The milk-teeth 
have been lately examined by Professor Flower. The little animal, 
eight days old, had just the same number of teeth as the adult. " The 
incisors and four molariform teeth were all present and in an equal state 
of development. A small jjortion of the surface of each, including the 
posterior molar, has been already abraded by wear. The molar teeth 
show the same form and pattern as in the adult, being each divided by 
deep lateral grooves into distinct lobes corresponding to those of the 
full-grown teeth. They are, however, all very much smaller, the length 
of the whole series in the upper jaw being 30 millimeters instead of 72 
as in the adult. They evidently represent the narrow apical portion of 
the permanent teeth, which, as growth proceeds, wears off, and they are 
not in any case milk-teeth. As the first of the series, or premolar, is as 
fully developed as the one which follows it (or first true molar) it must 
either have no predecessor, or one which has disapjieared at an early 
stage of intra-uterine life." [Proc. Zool. 8oc. London, 1884, pp. 252, 253.) 

A new generic type related to the Musl'-rat. — A naturalist would scarcely 
look for a new generic type of mammals as large as a rat in any part of 
the United States, and yet such a form was obtained last yeai- by the 
National Museum aud described by Mr. Frederick W. True, the curator 
of mammals. The specimens were obtained at Georgiana, Fla., by 
Mr. William Wittfield. The animal resembles an ordinary musk-rat in 
general appearance, but has neither the compressed rudder-like tail nor 
the large webbed hind feet and bent toes characteristic of the musk-rat. 
It looks, indeed, in the words of Mr. True, '' like an overgrown and 
dropsical'house-rat, and was at first entered in the catalogue of the 
Museum," by his assistant, "as a doubtful species of that genus." A 
closer examination, however, demonstrated that it was very distinct not 
only from any BIus, or the musk-rat, but from any other known mammal. 
It has the " general form and color," as well as the " head, eyes, and fore- 
legs," characteristic of the musk-rat, but the hind limbs are less than 
twice the length of the fore-feet and have "straight slightly webbed 
toes and naked soles;" the tail is round and very thickly covered with 
duli-brown hair, through which the scales which encase it are apparent. 
The length of the head aud body is 20.2 centimeters, and that of the 
tail 12,7 centimeters ; the hind-feet (without the claws) are 3.9 centi- 
meters long. 

No particulars have been received respecting the habits of the animal, 
but, in Mr. True's opinion, " the slight webbing of its toes, and their 
unbent condition, taken together with the rounded tail, would lead one 
to prophesy that it is not so thoroughly aquatic as the ordinary musk- 
rat, probably no more so than many of the field-mice." The name 
Xeofiber Alleni has been given to the new Murid. {Science, iv, p. 34.) 



ZOOLOGY. 645 

A 7iew suborder of extinct Mammals. — lu 1882 l*rofessor Cope described, 
from a fragment of the lower jaw, a new generic type of mammals under 
the name Paniolamhda hathmodon. A considerable part of the skeleton 
having been since secured, Professor Cope was able to form a more 
adequate idea of its characters and considered it as the type of not only 
a distinct family but of a "new" suborder of Amblyi)oda. The refer 
ence is somewhat doubtful owing to the inability of Professor Cope to 
examine the carpus, but the co-ordination of characters seems to indi- 
cate the place claimed for the genus by him. Assuming, then, that 
the Pantolambdidse form a peculiar family of Amblypoda, Professor 
Cope proposes to define and limit the suborders as follows: 

The Pantolambdidae represent the suborder Taligrada distinguished 
by the " astragalus, with a head distinct from trochlea, with distal articu- 
lar facets." 

The Pantodonta may be known by the astragalus destitute of a head 
and the distal facets subinferior. {Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, xx, jyp. 557- 
559.) 

The acclimatization of the Japanese Deer. — There is a small deer found 
in Japan, Cervns sika, related to the Sambur deer, or Eusa, which may 
become a subject of some economical importance. The Viscount Pow- 
erscourt imported some of these animals and turned them into his 
park, and bad considerable success in raising them. He commenced 
with one male and three females, and these. Viscount Powerscourt 
thinks, "have been the only deer of any newly-introduced kind which 
have been a real success." These deer were introduced about the year 
1860, and in 1884 Viscount Powerscourt had " upwards of one hundred 
of them, besides having shot two or three yearly, and also having given 
away a great many and sold others." The viscount sums up his opinion 
that the Japanese deer are " a most satisfactory little deer; the venison 
when dressed is about the size of Welsh mutton and very well flavored. 
The little stags, with their black coats and thick necks, like miniature 
Samburs, are very picturesque and ornamental, and I think they are a 
decided addition to our varieties of hardy park deer." They have "a 
most peculiar cry in the rutting season, a sort of whistle, varying some- 
times into a scream." The Japanese deer interbred with the red deer 
in the viscount's park, and there were three or four deer in the park 
which were regarded as being certainly hybrids, the red hind in each 
case being the dam. 

Early Lemuroids. — The Lemuroids, which are now so characteristic of 
Madagascar and represented sparingly in other parts of Africa, instead 
of being peculiar t6 a limited continent, were in early times widely dis- 
tributed, and the forms of Africa are really the relics of a once widely- 
spread type. The old forms, however, were not very closely related to 
the modern, and represent even distinct families. They were at home 
in America as well as in Europe during the Eocene, and in late years 



646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

mucb light has been thrown upon their relationship. One was known 
to Cuvier and indicated under the generic name of Adapis. But the 
great French naturalist had no idea as to its true affinities, and in fact 
mistook its remains for those of a hog-like animal. In America, accord- 
ing to Professor Cope, two families were represented in the Eoeene 
period, one of which, the Mixodectidae, had three j^remolars in the upper 
jaw, and the other, the Anaptomorphidse, had two. The Mixodectidse 
were represented by as many as five generic types, and of the Anapto- 
morphidae, two have been made known. Of the latter, the typical genus 
is Anaptomorphus, and another one has been called Indrodon. 

The name Anaptotnorphus has reference to the similarity of the cra- 
nium to that of man, while Indrodon refers to some similiarity between 
the dentition of the form so named and that of the extinct Madagascar 
genus, Indris. (Atn. Nat., xviii, pp. 59-62.) 

Breeding mid dispOHttionof MonTceys and Lemurs. — The extent to which 
the Primates (monkeys, &c.) may breed in confinement will probably be 
new to most persons. Mr. Arthur Nichols ascertained that at least 
twelve out of about eighty species kept in the Zoological Gardens have 
bred during the past thirty years. Lemurs formed a large proportion. 
The Rhesus monkey bred more frequently than any other species. 
According to Mr. Nichols, "the disposition and moral character (in the 
widest sense) of no species of monkey whatever approaches that of the 
dog," and he suggests that this may be due to the absence of inheritance 
of the " gradually accumulated cultivation of these qualities through 
association with man" which the dog has enjoyed. The monkey cannot 
benefit by such experience, " owing to the impossibility of rearing a 
succession of generations in captivity." {Nature, xxxi, p. 54.) 

Diseases of Monlceys and Lemurs. — The diseases of the monkeys and 
lemurs have been investigated by Mr. J. B. Sutton, who had special 
access, for that purpose, to the Zoological Gardens of Loudon. He con- 
tinued his investigations from December 1, 1881, to March 30, 1883, dur- 
ing which time one hundred and ten of the quadrumana died, and the 
viscera of ninety-three were specially examined with the following re- 
sults : (1) tubercle was found in three instances only ; (2) bronchitis was 
met with in twenty-two cases ; (3) pneumonia in its lobar form is not 
<^ommon, only three deaths being traced to that disease, but "the lobu- 
jtir form is frequent, seven deaths having been occasioned by it;" (4) 
empyema was manifested in two cases ; (5) " abscess of lung burst into 
a bronchus, filled the trachea and thus suffocated a baboon ;" (6) " oedema 
of lung killed a squirrel monkey ;" (7) alveolar al^cess was a not un- 
common mode of death in young animals, " leading to ulceration and 
sloughing of the gums;" the purulent discharges being swallowed, septic 
pneumonia is established, "sometimes leading to gangrene of the lung;" 
(8) scrofula was well marked in three cases ; (9) " intussusception of the 



200L0GY. 647 

jejuium killed a very fine lemur ;" (10) leucocy themia was met with in 
a lemur, " the spleeu of the auimal having become enlarged to fifty times 
the normal bulk ;" (11) " typhoid fever proved fatal in four cases, three 
lemurs and one monkey." 

A " very unexpected cause of death manifested itself in bone disease, 
in the form of typical rickets. Kext to bronchitis this is the most fre- 
quent cause of death among the monkeys." For a detailed clinical 
account reference must be made to Mr. Sutton's original communica- 
tion. {ProG. Zool. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 581-586.) 

A new fresh-water Manatee. — It has recently been shown that not onlj^ 
is there a difference between the African and American Manatees, but 
that there are two species of the genus represented along the American 
coast, one being that of Florida and the other found along the South 
American coast. Still more recently, the mammals collected many years 
ago by Dr. Natterer, the Austrian naturalist, so well known for his 
travels in Brazil, have been worked over by Dr. Von Pelzeln, who has 
now charge of the collections in Vienna of which the old traveller's 
gatherings form a part. It seems that among' them were found speci- 
mens of a manatee that lives high up the Amazon as well as the Eio 
Negro, the Eio Brancho, and Madeira. It is stated that Natterer him- 
self had perceived the differences between this manatee and the others 
that are known, and had given it the name Manatus inunguis, referring 
to its nailless fingers. The specific distinction of the form has been in- 
sisted upon by Dr. Von Pelzeln, and theanimal has been fully described. 
{Am. Nat., xviii, p. 941.) 

The fltikes of Whales. — What are the flukes of whales ? This, it ap- 
jiears, is a question that cannot be satisfactorily answered at the pres- 
ent time, and at least there is a diversity of opinions in respect to their 
homologies. Do they simply represent a laterally expanded tail, or are 
they the remnants of the posterior feet of quadruped ancestors? A 
difl'erence in interpretation has long prevailed, and the subject has been 
made prominent recently by some memoirs or addresses of Prof. W. 
H. Flower. By some old naturalists, and even by Linnaeus, the flukes 
were regarded as tantamount to the entire hind limbs. Not long ago, Gill 
suggested that the flukes represent the hypertrophied integuments of the 
hind limbs, while the osseous portions partially persist in the rudimentary 
bones located far in front of them. Lastly, Professor Flower has again 
taken up the question. " One of the methods," says he, "by which a land 
mammal may have been changed into an aquatic one is clearly shown 
in the stages which still survive among the carnivora. The seals are 
obviously modifications of the land carnivora, the Otaria, or sea-lions and 
sea-bears, being curiously intermediate. Many naturalists have been 
tempted to think that the whales represent a still further stage of the 
same kind of modifications. But there is to my mind a fatal objection 
to this view. The seal, of course, has much in common with this whale, 



648 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

inasmuch as it is a mammal adapted for an aquatic life, but it has been 
converted to its general fish-like form by the peculiar development of 
its hind limbs into instruments of propulsion through the water, for, 
though the thighs and legs are small, the feet are large and are the 
special organs of locomotion in the water, the tail being quite rudi- 
mentary. In the whales the hind limbs are aborted and the tail devel- 
oped into a powerful swimming organ. Now, it is very difficult to sup- 
pose that when the hind limbs had once become so well adapted to a 
function so essential to the welfare of the animal as that of swimming, 
they could ever have become reduced and their action transferred to the 
tail. It is far more reasonable to supi)0se that whales were derived 
from animals with large tails, which were used in swimming, eventually 
with such effect that the hind limbs became no longer necessary, and so 
gradually disappeared. The powerful tail, with lateral cutaneous flanges, 
of an American species of otter {Pteronura Sandbachii), or the still more 
familiar tail of the beaver, may give some idea of this member in the 
primitive cetacea." 

Such are the arguments, in brief, of Professor Flower. But it is not 
necessary to suppose that the whales have evolved from a specialized 
form like the Pinnipeds, which he indeed denies, for he rather contends 
that they show ungulate affinities. It appears to be more reasonable to 
infer that the cetaceans have descended from quadrupeds with rather 
weak or ordinary hind limbs. Nevertheless, we find, in the feet of the 
Otariids, or eared seals, some clew to the possible genesis of the flukes 
as modifications of the limbs. 

Let us suppose, then, that a terrestrial mammal with even ordinary (but 
not ungulate) hind limbs should take to the water, and its descendants, 
following it in habits, should develop processes analogous to the mem- 
branous extensions of the hind limbs in the eared seals. These maybe em- 
ployed in swimming, and the osseous parts not assisting, or even being 
prejudicial to such progress, might become atrophied, and. in the course 
of atrophy would be overgrown by the integument and muscles, and ap- 
pear to be pulled forward, while the membranous portions of the feet 
would become hypertrophied ; this hypertrophy would extend to the mus- 
cles as well as to the integuments, and, of course, all would become very 
much modified. In fine, we would in time have a case where the posterior 
limbs of the ancestral quadruped would be represented in part by the 
flukes and in part by the included rudimentary bones, the flukes repre- 
senting the hypertrophied integuments of the primitive members and the 
bones the atrophied remains of the skeletal portions. The fact that in the 
specialized aquatic or rather pelagic forms, the tail is always very much 
reduced or rudimentary, may be considered as entitled to some value as 
an argument in favor of the view presented, although not much. The 
transversely expanded tails of the South American otter and beaver 
are quite exceptional. In most aquatic forms, the tail is more or less 
compressed. 



ZOOLOGY. 649 

NECROLOGY OF ZOOLOGISTS, 1884. 

BoDiNUS {Dr. Heineich), director of the Zoological Garden of Berlin, 
died I^ovember 23, 1884, at Berlin ; born at Drewelow in Pomerania, 
July 29, 1814. 

Brehm {Dr. A.LFRED Edmund), a well-known German ornithologist, 
died November 11, 1884, at Eenthendorf; born in 1829. 

Fahraeus (O. J.), an entomologist, died May 28, 1884, at Stockholm, 
in the 88th year of his age. 

FiTZiNGER {Dr. Leopold Joseph), a zoologist, especially an author 
in Mammalogy and Herpetology, died September 22, 1884, at Hietzing, 
near Vienna; born April 13, 1802. 

Forester {Prof. Dr. Arnold), an entomologist, died August 13, 
1884, at Aachen (Aix-la-Chapelle). 

Jeffreys (John Gwynn), a conchologist, died January 21, 1885, 
at London; born at Swansea, January 18, 1809. 

Keferstein (D. a.), a well-known entomologist, died November 28, 
1884, at Erfurt. 

KosTLiN {Prof. Dr. Otto), an anatomist, died September 1, 1884, at 
Stuttgart. 

Euppell {Dr. Wilhelm Peter Edward), a celebrated traveler and 
zoologist, died December 11, 1884, at Frankfort; born November 20, 
1794. 

Smith (Sidney), an entomologist and conchologist, died December 
28, 1884, at Waliner, in the 80th year of his age. 

SowERBY (George Brettingham), a well-known conchologist and 
paleontologist, died July 25, 1884, at London ; born March 2, 1812. 

Thomson {Prof. Dr. Allen), a very able anatomist and physiologist, 
died March 21, 1884, at London; born at Edinburgh, April 2, 1809. 

ToMOSVARY {Dr. E.), an entomologist, died August 25, 1884, at Buda- 
pest. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ZOOLOGY, 1884. 

GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

Systematic Zoology. 

B08(EiTZEMA, andH.). Leerboek der Dierkunde. Groningen, 1884. (8vo, 8, 333 pp.) 
Brehm ( A. E. ). Merveilles de la nature. Les Vers, les Mollusques, les fichinodermes, 

les Zoophytes et les Protozoaires, Edition frangaise par A. T. de Eocliebruue. 

Livr. 1-10. Paris: 1884. (8vo.) 
. Merv'eilles de la nature. Les Insectes. Edition frangaise par J. Kunckel 

d'Herculais. T. 2 (pp. 393-802). Paris: 1884. (8vo.) 
Bronk's (H. G.). Klassen und Orduungen des Thierreichs. Lief. Leipzig nnd Hei- 
delberg, 1883. (8vo.) 

1. Bd. Protozoa. Neu.bearbeitet von O. Biitschli. 26, 27 Lief. 

2. Bd. Porifera. Neu bearbeitet von G. C. J. Vosmaer. 3-6 Lief. 

5. Bd., 2. Abtb. Gliederfiissler, von A. Gerstaecker. 11-15 Lief. 

6. Bd., 3. Abtb. Reptilia. Neu bearbeitet von C. K. Hoffman. 41, 42 Lief., 

6. Bd. 
6. Bd., 5. Abtb. Mammalia. Forlgesetzt von Dr. \V. Lecbe. 27. 



650 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S4. 

CLAtJS(C.)- Elementary Text- Book of Zoology. Creneral part and special part. Pro- 
tozoa to lusecta. Translated and edited by Adam Sedgvrick and F. C. Heathcote. 
With 7<36 woodcnts. London: Sonnenschein. 18S-1. (3vo, 60S pp., "21 sh.) 

Desplats (V.). Elements d'Mstoire nainrelle. Zoologie, comprenant I'anatomic, la 
physiologic et la classification. Xoav. 6dit. Paris: lSs4. (8vo, 539 jip.) 

Emery (Carlo). Corso di Zoologia sistematica. Torino: 1S34. (8vo, viii, 396 pp., 

Fleischer (H. Emxl). Lehrbuch der Zoologie ftir Landwirthschafrsschulen und An- 

stalten verwanciren Characters, ilit 435 in den Text gedmckten Holzschnitte. 

Brannschweig: 1SS4. (Svo, xii, 519 pp.) 
FOL (H.). Zoologie g^nerale. Lemons donnees a I'Universit^ de Geneve pendant le 

semestre d'hiver lS8-2-ldS3. 1. Htf. Geneve, 1884. (4 to, 72 pp., 6 pi.) 
GiGLiOLi (E. H.) and G. Cavaxxa. Zoologia. P. I. Invertehrati da G. Cavanna. 

Milano, 1854. (8vo, 200 pp.. Tsith 45 fig.) 
H-ECKEL (E.). Histoire de la creation des etres organises d'.ipres les lois naturelles. 

Tradoite par Charles Letonmeau et revne sur la 7. ^dit. allem. 3. 6d. Paris : 

1S84. (~vo, xii. 6<J6 pp., 17 pi.) 
Holder (C.F. and J. B.). Elements of Zoology, New York, 1884. (12mo, x, 38opp.) 
KcfGSLET (J. S.). The Standard Natnral History, hy the leading American authori- 
ties. Edited by J. S. Kingsley. Boston. (8vo, parts 8-32.) 
Leuckart (Rubolf) und H. Xitzsche. Zoologische WandtafeLn. 8. Lief., Taf. xxi- 

xxT. Mit deutschen. franzosischen tmd englischen Text. Cassel: 1884. (4to.) 
JIartix (Philip Leopold). UlnstrirteNaturgeschichtederThiere. Mit zahlreichen 

ninstrationen von F. Specht, R. Friese, E. Schmidt, etc. (55.-60. [Schluss -] Lief. ) 

Leipzig : 1884. (8to, v. 1, 632 pp. ; v. 2, 645 pp.) 
Plateau (Felix). Zoologie 616mentaire. 2. €d. revue et augment €e. Mons: 18-^4. 

(8vo, 555 pp.) 

Histology. 

Brass (Arnold). Die Organisation der thierischen Zelle. (Biologische Studien. 1. 

TheU.) HaUe a. S. : 1884. (Svo, Bog. &-11, Taf. v-viu, mit Tafelerkliirung.) 
FoL (Heemaxx). Lehrbuch der vergleichenden mikroskopischen Anatomic mit Ein- 

schluss der vergleichenden Histologic und Histogemie. 1. Lief. Die mikrosko- 

pisch-anatomische Technik. Leipzig: 1554. (8vo, Bog. 1-13, mit Fig. 1-84 in 

Holzschnitt.) 
Geddes ''Patrick). A restatement of the cell-theory, Tvith applications to the 

Morphology, Classification, and Physiology of Protists, Plants, and Animals, 

together with an hypothesis of cell-structure, and ah hypothesis of contractility. 

Proc. Royal Soc. Edinburgh, v. 12, pp. 266-292. 
. On some recent contributions to otir knowledge of the Morphology and 

Physiology of the Cell. Proc. R. Phys. Soc. Edinburgh, v. 7, 13 pp., 1 pi. 
Hertwig (O. and R.). Untersuchungen zur Morphologic und Physiologie der ZeUe. 

Jena : 1554. (Svo, 32 pp., 1 pi., M. 1..50.) 
Hyatt (Alphecs). The larval theory of the Origin of Cellular Tissue. Am. Nat., 

V. 15, pp. 460-4&4 ; Science, v. 3, p. 337. 

Physiology. 

B^CLARD ( J. ). Traits 61^mentaire de Physiologie, comprenant les principales notions 

de la physiologie compar^e. 7 6d. 1. partie, 2. tirage. Paris : 15S4. (Svo, xvi, 

774 pp.)' 
DusLKG (C). Die Regulirang des Geschlechtsverhaltnisses bei der Yermehrung der 

Menschen, Thiere und Pflanzen. Zeitschriffc £ NaturwisB., v. 17 (n. F., v. 10), 

pp. 59.3-940. 
Gbaber (Vitus). Gmndlinien zur Erforschung des Helligkeits- und Farbensinnes der 

Thiere. Prag: Leipzig: 1884. (Svo, viii, 322 pp., 4 Abbild.) 



ZOOLOGY. Gol 

Ernbrjiology. 

Bameeke (Chaeles vax). Contributions a rhistoire de la constitution de I'oenf. I. 

Rapport m^diat de la Tesicnle germinative avec la p^ripherie du vitellus. BulL 

Acad. R. Sc. Belg. (3), v. 6, pp. 843-579.: Arch, de Biolog., t. 4, pp. c03-532: 

(Abstr. J. E. M. S. (2), v. 4, pp. 354-355). 
Sedgwick (Adam). On the Origin of Metameric Segmentation and some other 

Morphological Questions. Quan. Joum. Micr. Sc.,n s.. v. 24, pp. 43-S2. 
Selenka (E.). iStudien iiber Entwicklungsgeschichte der Thiere. III. Die Blatter- 

nmkehmng im Ei der Xagethiere. "Wiesbaden : lee4. (4to, pp. 67-99, 6 pi.) 

Zoo-geography. 

Blytt (A.). Eiiiige Bemerktmgen zu Charles Konig's "CntersuchuDgen uber die 
Theorre der wechselnden continentalen nnd insularen KLunate in Kosmos, 15^S3. 
Kosmos. Jahrg. 1SS4, v. 1, pp. 254-268. 

Carxts (J. Tictor). Prodromus Faunae Mediterranete sive descriptio animalium 
marls mediterranei incolaruni quam comparata silTa rerum quatenus innotuit 
adiectis locis et nominibns Tnlgaribos eomiaqne auctoribus in conmioduna zoolo- 
gornm congessit. P. I. Cc&lenterata, Echinodermata. Vermes. Stuttgart : 1S~4. 
(Svo, vi, 252 pp. ) 

Gnx (Theodoee). The Principles of Zoogeography. Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washing- 
ton. (40 pp.) 

HtrsEET (Thomas Hexey). Physiographie. Eine Eii. . das Studium der 

Xatur. Fiir deutsche Leser frei bearbeitet von H-: _..:-_ Jordan. Leipzig; 
1854. (Svo. X5, 521 pp. ) 
(Intemat. wiss. Bibl., v. G3.) 

iLiJOR (C. J. Forsyth). Zoogeographische Uebergangsregionen. Kosmos, 1834, y. 
1, pp. 102-113. 

Semper (Care). Reisen im ArcMpel der Philippinen. 2. Th. Wissenschaftliche Ee- 
sultate. 4. Bd., 1. Abth. Die Siptmculiden Yon J. G. Deman, C. Billow tmd Emil 
Selenka. 2. Halfte. Wiesbaden: 1554. (4to, pp. i-ssxii, 57-131, 7 pi. ) 

rERRELE (A. E.). Evidences of the existence of light at great depths in the sea. 
Xature, v. 30, pp. 280-a51. 

. Notice of the remarkable Marine Fauna occupying the outer banks off the 

ponthem coast of New England. Am. Joum. Sc. (3), y. 28, pp. 213-220. 

Miscellanea. 

Brass (Arx. ). Die thierischen Parasiten des Menschen. Im Anhang Tabellen, enthal- 

tend die wichtigsten Merkmale der Parasiten. Cassel: 1S54. (Svo, vii, 123 pp.. 

e pi.) 
Lubbock (Sir John). Teaching Animals to converse, yamre. v. 29. pp. 216: 547, 

548. 
.Morris (Charles). Colonial Organisms. Am. Nat., v. IS, pp. 140-149, pp. 240-249. 
Rathbitn* (Richard). American appliances for deep-sea investigation. Science, y. 

4, pp. 4Ch.>-404. 
Ryder (J. A.). The Protozoa and Protophytes considered as the primary or -indirect 

source of the food of Fishes. (2 ed. revised.) U. S.Fish Comm. Eeport for 1881, 

pp. 755-770. 

Periodicals. 

American (The) Naturalist, devoted to Natural Sciences in their widest sense, v. 18. 
Philadelphia: 1584. (Svo.) 

Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoologie et Paleontologie. Publi^es sons la direc- 
tion de H. et Alphonse Milne-Edwards. 6. s^rie. Tome 16. Paris : 1854- 



652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOIl 1884 

Annals (The) and Magazine of Natural History, including Zoology, Botany, and Ge- 
ology. Conducted by Albert Giinther, W. S. Dallas, W. Carruthers, and W. 
Francis. 5 sex-., v. 13, 14. London: 1884. (Bvo. ) 

Arcliiv fiir Anatomic und Physiologic. Anatomische Abtheilung. Herausgegeben 
von W. His und W. Braune. Jahrg. 1884. Leipzig : 1884. (8vo.) 

Archiv fiir uiikroskoijische Anatomic. Herausgegeben von v. La Valette St. George 
und W. Waldcyer. v. 23. Bonn : 1884. (Bvo.) 

Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Herausgegeben von E. von Martens. 50. Jahrg. Ber- 
lin: 1884. (Bvo.) 

Archives de Biologie, publi6es par fidouard van Beneden et Charles van Bambeke. v. 
4. Gand et Leipzig : 1883 (paru 1884). (Bvo.) 

Archives de Zoologie Exp<5rimentale et G^n<Srale, publi6e8 sous la direction de H. de 
Lacaze-Duthiers. 2. s6r., t. 2. Paris: 1884. (Bvo.) 

Archives Italiennes de Biologie, publi^es sons la direction de C. Emery et A. Mosso. 

3. ann6e, 1884. v5. Turin: 1884. (Bvo.) 

Internationale 'Monatsschrift fiir Anatomic und Histologie-. Herausgegeben von E. 

A. Schafer, L. Testnt und W. Krause. v. 1. Berlin : 1884. (8vo.) 
Journal de Micrograph ie. Revue mensuelle des travaux frangais et strangers, pu- 

bli^e sous la direction dn Dr. J. Pelletan. v. 8. Paris, 1884. (Bvo.) 
Morphologisches Jahrbuch. Herausgegeben von C. Gegenbaur. 9 Bd. Leipzig: 

1884. (Bvo.) 
Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. Stiftet af Henrik Kroyer. Udg. af J. C. ScModte. 3. R. 

Kjbenhaven: 1884. (Bvo.) 
New Zealand (The) Journal of Science, v. 2. Dunedin,N. Z., 1884. (Bvo.) 
Quarterly (The) Journal of Microscopical Science. Edited by E. Ray Lankester, 

with the co-operation of W. T. Thiselton Dyer, E. Klein, H. N. Mosely, and Adam 

Sedgwick. N. ser., v. 24. Loudon: 1884. (Bvo.) 
Recueil Zoologique Suisse. Publi6 sous la direction de H. Fol. T. 1. Geneve: 

1884. (Bvo.) 
Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Mikroskopie und fiir mikroskopischeTechnik. Her- 
ausgegeben von W. Julius Behrens. 1 Bd. Braunschweig: 1884. (8vo.) 
Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Herausgegeben von C. Th. v. Siebold, v. 

Kolliker und E. Ehlers. 40 Bd. Leipzig : 1884. (Bvo.) 
Zoological (The) Record for 1883; being vol. 20 of the record of Zoological Litera- 
ture. Edited by Edward Caldwell Rye. London: 188-. (8vo.) 
Zoologische (Der) Garten. Zeitschrift fiir Beobachtuug, Pfiege und Zucht der Thiere. 

Redigirt von F. C. Noll. 25. Jahrg. Frankfurt a. M. : 1884. (Bvo.) 
Zoologischer Anzeiger. Herausgegeben von Prof. J. Victor Carus. 7. Jahi'g., 1883. 

Leipzig: 1884. (8vo.) 
Zoologischer Jahresbericht fiir 1883. Herausgegeben von der zoologischen Station 

zu Neapel. 1. Abth. 2. Abth. Arthropoda. 3. Abth. Mollusca, Brachiopoda. 

4. Abth. Tunicata, Vertebrata. Leipzig: 1884. (Bvo.) 

(Penodicals of Societies.) 

Arbeiten aus dem zoologisch-zootomischen Institut in Wiirzburg. Heransgegebeu 
von C. Semper, v. 7. Wiesbaden : 1884. 

Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, v. 11, nos. 8, 
9. Cambridge, Mass., 1883. (Bvo.) 

Bulletin de la Soci6t6 Zoologique de France pour l'ann6elBB4. v. 9. Paris, 1884. 
(Bvo.) 

Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society; containing its Transactions and Proceed- 
ings. Edited by F. Crisp. 2 series, v. 4. London: 1884. (Bvo.) 

Mittheilungen aus der zoologischen Station zu Neapel. Zugleich ein Repertorium fur 
Mittelmeerkuude. 5. Bd. Leipzig: 1884. (8vo.) 



ZOOLOGY. 653 

Notes from the Leydeu Museum. Founded by the late H. Schlegel. v. 6. Leyden : 

1884. (8vo.) 
Nouvelles Archives du Mus6um d'Histoire Naturelle. 2. s6r., v. 6. Paris: 1884. (4to.) 
Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1884. Philadel- 
phia, 1884. (Svo.) 
Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, v. 22, p. ii-iii. Boston, 1884. 

(Svo.) 
Proceedings of the Scienfilic Meetings of the Zoological Society of London for the 

year 1883. London, 1884. (8vo.) 
Sitzuugsbericht dcr Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin, 1884. Berlin, 

1884. (8vo.) 
Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschafteu. Math.-nat. CI., 

88 Bd., 1. Abth. Wien : 1884. (8vo.) 
Verhandlungen der kais.-kon. zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. Heraus- 

gegeben von der Gesellschaft. Jahrg. 1883, v. 33. Wien: 1884. (Svo.) 

PROTOZOANS. 

Sporozoans. 

Balbiani (E. G.). Les organismes unicelhilaires. Les Protozoaires. Lemons, etc. 
(Suite). Journ. de Micrographie, v. 8, pp. 9-13; 66-7.''., 134-142; 249-257. 

. Legons sur les Sporozoaires. Recueillies par le docteur J. Pelletan, revues 

par ]e professeur. Paris: 1884. (8vo, viii, 184 pp., 5 pi.) 
Schneider (Aim^). Ophryocystis Biitschlii, Sporozoaire d'nn nouveau type. Arch. 
Zool. Exp6r. (2), v. 2, pp. 111-12.5; Tr. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 
301-313, 1 pi.) 

Myxomycetes. 

ZoPF (W.). Die Pilzthiere oder Schleimpilze. Nach dem neuesten Standpuncte 
bearbeitet. Breslau : 1884. (8vo, viii, 174 pp.) 

Rhizopods. 

Brady (H. B.). Report on the Foraminifera dredged by H. M. S. Challenger during 

the years 1873-1876. Report Scient. Res. Challenger, Zoo]., v. 9 (814 pp.; atlas, 

115 pi.) 
Carpenter (William). On an abyssal type of the genus Orbitolites; a study in 

theory of descent. Phil. Trans. Royal Soc. Loudon, 1883, ii, pp. 551-573, 2 pi. 
Daday (E. von). Ueber eine Polythalamie [Entzia tetrastomella n. g., n. sp.] der 

Kochsalztumpel bei D6va in Siebenbiirgeu. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., v. 41, pp. 

465-480 ; Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 4, pp. 349-363. 
Foui.KE (Sara Gwendolen). Some phenomena in the life-history of Clathrnlina 

elegans. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1884, pp. 17-19. 
Gruber (Aug.). StudienUber Amoeben. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., v. 41, pp. 186-225. 
Haeckel (Ernst). The Orders of the Radiolaria. Translated by Miss N. Maclagan. 

Nature, V. 29, pp. 274-276 ; 296-299. 

Infusorians. 

Klebs(G.). Ueberdie Verwandtschaft der Flagellatamit Algen und Infusorien. 130 

pp., 2 pi. Untersuch. Botan. Instit. Tubingen, v. 1. (Abstr. J. R. M. Soc. (2), v. 

4, pp. 68-69.) 
Maufas (E.). Contribution a P^tude morphologique et auatomique des Infusoires 

cili^s. (Suite.) Arch. Zool. Experiment. (2), v. 1, pp. 43.3-664. 
Stokes (Alfred C.). Notes ou some apparently undescribed Inf/isoria from putrid 

waters. Am, Nat., v, 18, pp. 133-140. 



654 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

PORIFER8. 

Sponges. 

HiNDE (George J. ). Catalogue of the Fossil Sponges in the Geological Departmeitv ,/ 

the British Museum (Natural History), with Descriptions of New and Little 

Known Species. London, 1884. (4to, 248 pp., 38 pi.) 
Lendexfeld (R. von). Monograph of the Australian Sponges. I. Introduction. 

Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 9, pp. 121-154. 
PoL]f:jAEFF (N.). Report on the Calcarea dredged by f'. M. S. Challenger. Report 

Scient. Res. Voyage Challenger, Zool., v. 8. (76 pp., 9 pi.) 
Potts (Edward). Fresh-water sponges as improbable causes of the pollution of 

river water. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1884, pp. 28-30; Ann. & Mag. Nat. 

Hist. (5), V. 13, pp. 486-487. 
VosMAER (G. C. J.). Porifera 3-6 Lief. (Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier- 

reichs). Leipzig u. Heidelberg : 1884. (8vo.) 

CCELENTERATE8. 

General. 

Fewkes (J. Walter), and Mark (E. L.), Acalephs. Polyps. Selections from Em- 
bryological Memoirs. III. Mom. Mus. Compar. Zool. Harvard College, v. 9. 
Cambridge, 1884. (8vo, .52 pp., 13 pi.) 

. Bibliography to accompany selections from Embryological Monographs. Com- 
piled by Alexander Agassiz, Walter Faxon, and E. L. Mark. III. Acalephs. By 
J. Walter Fewkes. Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool., v. 11 , pp. 209-238. 

Polyps. 

Andres (Aug.). LeAttinie. Monografia. v. 1, coutenente bibliografia, introduxion© 

specigrafia. Leipzig : 1884. (4to, xi, 459 pp., 13 pi.) 
[Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel. 9. Monographic.] 

Duncan (P.M.). A revision of the families and genera of the sclerodermic Zoan- 

tharia Ed. and H.or Madreporaria (M. nigosa excepted). Joum. Linn, Soc. 

Loudon, Zool., V. 18, pp. 1-204. 
KoBY (F.). Monographic des Polypiers jurassiques de la Suisse. 3. partie. (Bfl.le, 

1884, pp. 109;-149, 12 pi. ) Abhandl. Schweizer. Paheontol. Gesellsch., v. 9. 
Ridley (Stuart O.). On the classificatory value of growth and budding in the 

Madreporidae, and on a new genus [Anacropora] illustrating this point. Ann. 

& Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 13, pp. 284-291, 1 pi. 

Acalephs. 

Bourne (Alfred Gibbs). On a hydriform phase of Limnocodium Sowerbii. 
Nature, v. 31, p. 107. 

lliNDE (G. J.). On the structure and affinities of the family of the Receptaculitidse, 
inchuliug therein the genera Ischadites Murch (=Tetragoni8 Eichw.), Sphaero- 
spongia Pengelly, Acanthochonia n. g.,and Receptaculites Defr. Quart. Joum. 
Geol. Soc. London, v. 40, pp. 795-849, 2 pi. 

QuELCU (John J.). The Milleporidse. Nature, v. 30. p. 539. 

Wilson (Edmund B.). The development of Renllla. Phil. Trans. Royal Soc. Lon- 
don, 1883, pp. 723-815, 16 pi. 

ECHINODKKM8. 

General. 

Carpenter (P. Herbert). Notes on Echinoderm Morphology. No. VU. On the 
Apioiil System of the Ophiurids. Quart. Joum. Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 24, pp. 1-23, 

1 pi. No. VIII. On some points in the Anatomy of Larval Comatul.T. Ibid., 
pp. 319-327. 



ZOOLOGY. g55 

Crinoida. 

Chapman (E. J.). On the Classification of Crinoids. Proc. and Trans. Eoyal Soc 

Canada, v. 1, sect, iv, pp. 113-116. 
Marshall (A. Milnes). On the Nervous System of Antedon rosaceus. Ouarf 

Journ. Micr. Sc, v. 24, pp. 507-548, 1 pi. -% ■ 

Sladen ( W. PERCY). On the Homologies of the Primary Larval Plates in the Test ol 

Brachiate Echmoderms. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 24, pp. 24-42. 

Asterioida. 

Danielssen (D. C.) og JoHAN KoREN. Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition 1876-1878 
XL Asteroidea. Christiania, 1884. (4to, 119 pp., 15 pi., 1 map.) 

Echinoida. 

AGASSiz (ALEXANDER). . Reports on the results of dredging, &c., by the Blake 
XXIV. Eeport on the Echini. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambridge v 10 nn 
i-viii, 9-94. " ' ■ ' i^i ■ 

DUNCAN (P. M ) and W. P. Sladen. The fossil Echinoidea from the Khirthar serie. 

aVo^pp Ts l') ''^ ^''*'™ ^'"'^' ^'^^^^'^t^l^g'a I^'ii'^^. «er. xiv, v. 1 

LoviN (SVEN). On Pourtalesia, a genus of Echinoidea. (Stockholm, 1883, 1884 ) 
K. Svensk. Akad. Handl., v. 19 (4to, 95 pp., 21 pi.). 

Holothiirians. 

BELL(T.JEEEREY). Studies on the Holothm-oidea. IIL On Amphicyclus, a new 
genus of Dendxochirotous Holothurians, and its bearing on the Classification of 
the Family. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 253-258 

-. Studies in the Holothuroidea. IV. On the Structural Characters of the Cot- 
ton-Spmner (Holothuria nigra), and especially of its Cuvierian Organs. Proc 
Zool. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 372-376. 

■ tl^^^ ^"*''^ Holothurian (Holothuria nigra). Nature, v. 30, pp. 146-147 
. Ihe Cotton-Spinner (Holothuria nigra). Nature, v. 30, p. 335. 

WORMS. 

General. 

GOETTE (Alexander). AbhandlungenzurEntwicklungegeschichtederThiere Un- 
tersuchungen zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Wiirmer. Vergleichender Theil 
Hamburg u. Leipzig: 1884. (8vo, 214 pp ) ut^ixneu. 

"^'Tnhvre";' ^O^'l ^^^^^^^^^f S-g-P^^i^k Oversigt over de nordiske Anmilata, 

i^';;%i^s:iT ^' '''''' ^''- ""'''''• '-^ ^^^^- ^^'^-^^ 

ZSCHOKKE (FRITZ) Recherches sur I'organisation et la distribution zoologique des 
vers parasites des poissons d'eau douce. Arch, de Biolog., v. 5, pp. 153-^1 2 pi 

Plaiyhelminths. 

BiEHKiNGER (JOACHIM). Beitrago zur Anatomie und Entwicklungsgeschichte der 
Trematoden. Arb. zool.-zoot. Instit. Wurzburg, v. 7 pp 1-28 1 pi 

IiJiMA (ISAO). Untersuchungen iiber den Bau und die Entwicklungsg'eschichte der 
Susswasser Dendroccelen (Tricladen). Zeitschrift f. wiss. Zool^ v. 40, pp. 359- 

Lano (ARNOLD). Die Folycladen. 1. Hiilfte. Leipzig : 1884. (4to, pp. 1-240, 24 pi ) 
(Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel. IL Monographie. ] ^ "^ 



656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

* 

Schneider (Ant. )• Neue Beitrage zur Kenutniss tier PlatbelnGinthen. Zool. Beitr. 

(Sclineider), v. I, pp. 116-126, 2 pi. I. Mnsculatur der Stammform. II. Eut- 

Aviclilung der Cestoden aus der Stammform. III. Die einzelligen Driisen und die 

Stellung von Peripatus im System. 
SiLLiMAN (W. A.). Beobachtungen iiber die Siisswassertnrbellarien Nordamerikas. 

Zeitscbrift f. wiss. Zool., v. 41, pp. 48-78, 2 pi. 

Nematehninths. 

De Man (J. G.). Die frei in der reineii Erde nnd im siissen Wasser lebenden Nema- 
toden der Niederlandiscben Fauna. Leiden: 1864. (4to, vi, 206pp. 34 pi.) 

Manson (Patrick). Tbe Metamorpbosis of Filaria sanguinis hominis in tbe Mos- 
quito. Trans. Linn. Soc. London (2), v. 2, pp. 367-388, 1 pi. 

Van Beneden (£douard). Recbercbes sur la maturation de I'ceuf et la f6conda- 
tiou (Ascaris megalocephala). Arcb. de Biolog., v. 4, pp. 265-640, 13 pi. 

Saefftigen (A.). Zur Organisation der Ecbinorhyncben. Morpbol. Jabrb., v. 10, 

pp. 120-171,3 pi. 

Archannelidea. 

Fraipont ( JiiLiEN). Recbercbes sur le syst^me nerveux central et p^ripb^rique des 
Arcbiann^lides (Protodrilus et Polygordius) et du Saccocirrus papillocercus. 
Arcb. de Biolog., v. 5, pp. 243-304, 5 pi. 

Amielids. 

( ChcBtopods. ) 

Marenzeller (E. von). Zur Kenntnissder Adriatischen Anneliden. 3. Beitr. [Te- 
rebellen Ampbitritea. ] Sitzgsber. Akad. Wiss. Wien, Matb.-nat. CI., v. 89, 1. 
Abth., pp. 151-214, 2 pi. 

W EBSTER (H. E. ) and James E. Benedict. The Annelida Cbsetopoda from Province- 
town and Wellfleet, Mass. U. S. Fish Comm. Report for 1881, pp. 699-747, 8 pi. 

{Hirudinea. ) 

Bourne (Alfred Gibbs). Contributions to the Anatomy of the Hirudinea. Quart. 

Journ. Micr. Sc, v. 24, pp. 419-506, 11 pi. 
Foettinger (Alexandre). Recbercbes sur I'organisation de I'Histriobdella bomari 

P. J. Van Ben, rapport^e aux Axcbiann^lides. Arcb. de Biolog., v. 5, pp. 435-516. 
Whitman (C. O.). Tbe External Morphology of the Leech. Proc. Am. Acad. Arts 

andSc.,v.20,pp.76-87. 
Beddard (F. E.). a gigantic Earthworm [from South Africa]. Nature, v. 30, pp. 

570-571. 

Myzoatomoidea. 

Beard (J.). On tbe Life-History and Development of the Genus Myzostoma F. S. 
Lenck. Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, v. 5,pp.544-580,2 pL 

Rotifers. 

Hudson (C. T. ). An attempt to reclassify the Rotifers. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc. , v. 24, 

pp. 335-356. 

Balanoglossi. 

Bateson (William). Tbe Early Stages in tbe Development of Balanoglossus (sp. 

iucert.). Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 24, pp. 208-236, 4 pi. 
Spengel (J. W.). Zur Auatomie des Balanoglossus. Mittbeil. Zool. Station Neapel, 

v. 5, pp. 494-508, 1 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 657 

▲RTHKOPODS. 

General. 

Berlese (A.). Acari, Myriapoda et Scorpioues hucusque in Italia reperta. Fasc. 
i-xiv. Padova, 1882-1884, (8vo.) 

Merostomes. 

Benham (W. B. S.)- On the Testis of Liniulus. Trans. Linn. Soc. London (2), Zool., 

V. 2, pp. 362-366, 1 pi. 
Lankester (E. Ray). On the Skeleto-trophic Tissues and Coxal Glands of Limulns, 

Scorpio, and Mygale. Quart. Joum. of Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 24, pp. 129-162,7 pi. 

Cruataceana. 
{Entomostracana. ) 

Herrick (L. C). Final Report on the Crustacea of Minnesota, included in the 
orders Cladocera and Copepoda, together with a synopsis of the described species 
in North America, and Keys to the more important genera. Minneapolis, 1884. 
(8vo, 192 pp., 22 pi.) 

Brady (G. S.). Report on the Copepoda obtained by H. M. S. Challenger during the 
years 1873-1876. Reports Scientif. Results Voyage Challenger, Zool., v. 8. (142 
pp., 55 pi.) 

MtJLLER (Wilhelm). Zur naheren Kenntnis der Cytheriden. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 
50. Jahrg., pp. 1-18, 2 pi. 

( Cirripeda. ) 

HoEK (P. P. C). Report on the Cirripedia collected by H. M. 6. Challenger during 
the years 1873-1876. Anatomical Part. Rep. Scientif. Res. Challenger, Zool., 
v.lO. (47 pp., 6 pi.) 

. Report on the Cirripedia collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the years 

1873-1876. Rep. Scientif. Results Voyage Challenger, Zool., v. 8. (169 pp., 
13 pi.) 

{Amphipods.) 

Blanc (Henri). Die Amphipoden der Kieler Bucht, nebst einer histologischen Dar- 

stellung der Calceoli. Halle, 1884. Nova Acta Acad. Leop.-Car., v. 47, pp. 39- 

96, 5 pi. 
KossMANN (R.). Neueres iiber Cryptonisciden. Sitzgsber. k. preuss. Akad. Wiss. 

Berlin, 1884, pp. 457-473. Transl. by W. S. Dallass. Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. 

(5.), V. 14, pp. 1-17. 
SCHiOEDTE (J. C.) and Fr. Meinert. Symbolse ad Monographiam Cymothoarum, 

Crustaceorum Isopodum familiae. IV. Cymothoidse Trib. II. Cymothoinae. 

Naturhist. Tidsskr. (3), v. 14, pp. 221-352, 7 pi. 

(Decapoda.) 

Andrews (E. A.). On the Anatomy of Libinia emarginata Leach, the Spider Crab. 

Trans. Connecticut Acad., v. 6, pp. 99-121, 3 pi. 
Brook (Geo.). On the rate of Development of the Common Shore-Crab (Carcinius 

mseuas;. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 202-207, 1 pi. 
Claus (C). Zur Kenntniss der Kreislaufsorgane der Schizopoden uud Decapoden. 

Arbeit, zool. lustit. Wien, v. 5, pp. 271-318, 9 pi. 
Mocquard (P\). Rccherches anatomiques sur Pestomac dcs Crustac^s podophtha} 

maires. Auu. So. Nat., Zool. (6), v. 16, art. 1, 311 x>p., 10 pi. 

S. Mis. 33 42 



658 SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOR 1884. 

Parker (T. Jeffery). On the Structure of the Head in Palinurus, with especial r*.-!- 

erence to the classification of the genus. Trans. N. Zealand Inst., v. 16, pp. 
■ 297-307, 1 pi. 
Plateau (F. ). Recherches sur la force ahsolue des muscles des Invert6br6s. 2. partie. 

Force ahsolue des muscles fl^chisseurs de la pince chez les Crustac^s. Bull. Acad. 

R. Belg. (3), V. 7, pp. 450-474, 1 pi. 
Sars (G. O.). On the Metamorphosis of Decapods. Bidrag til Kundskab on Deca- 

podernes Forvandlingar. Kristiania, 1884. (8vo, 50 pp., 7 pi.) 

Arachnids. 
(Mites.) 

Michael (Albert D.). British Oribatidae. London, printed for the Ray Society, 
1884. (vol. 1, 8vo, xi, 336 pp., 31 pi. ) 

. The Hypopus Question, or the Life History of certain Acarina. Journ. Linn. 

Soc. London, Zool., v. 17, pp. 371-394, 1 pi. 

Nalepa (Alfred). Die Anatomic der Tyroglyphen. Sitzungsber. Akad. Wiss.Wien, 
V. 90, 1. Abth., pp. 197-228, 2 pi. (Abstract.) Anzeiger Kais. Akad. Wiss. Wien, 
1884, pp. 134-138. (Ann. «&Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 369-371.) 

Wood-Mason (J.). Report on the Tea-mite (Tetranychus bioculatus) and the Tea- 
bug (Helopeltis theiovora) of Assam. London, 1884. (8vo, 20 pp., 3 col. pi.) 

(Linguatuliva. ) 

Hoyle (W. E.). On a new species of Pentastomum (P. protelis), from the mesentery 
of Proteles cristatus. With an account of its Anatomy. Trans. Royal Soc. Ed- 
inburgh, V. 32, pp. 165-191, 2 pi. 

(Scorpions.) 

Joyeux-Lapfuie (J.). Appareil venimenx et venin du Scorpion. Etude anatomique 
et physiologique. Arch. Zool. Experiment. (2), v. 1, pp. 73)3-783, 1 pi. 

LiNDSTORM (G.). Sur un Scorpion du terrain silurien de SuMe (Palseophoneus nun- 
cius). Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 99, pp. 984-985. 

(Solpugidce.) 

Putnam (J. D.). The Solpugidae of America. Papers of J. D. P., arranged forpub- 
lication by Herbert Osborn. Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sc, v. 3, pp. 249-310, 
4 pi. 

(Araneans. ) 

Cambridge (O. P.). On two new Genera of Spiders. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 

1884, pp. 196-205, 1 pi. 
Dahl (Friedrich). Das Gehor- und Geruchsorgan der Spinnen. Arch. f. mikro- 

skop. Anat., v. 24, pp. 1-10, 1 pi. ; transl. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, 

pp. 329-337, 1 pi. 
Emeuton (J. H.). New England Spiders of the family Therididae. Trans. Con- 
necticut Acad., V, 6, pp, 1-86, 24 pi. 
Forbes (H. O.). On the habits of Thomisus decipiens, a spider from Sumatra. 

Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 586-588, 1 pi. 
Keyserling i^Graf E.). Die Spinnen Amerikas.— Theridiidae. 1. Hiilfte, v. 2. Niiru- 

berg : 1884. (4to, 222 pp., 10 pi.) 
MacLeod (J.). Recherches sur la structure et la signification del'appareil respira- 

toire des Arachnides. Arch, de Biol. , v. 5, pp. 1-34, 2 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 659 

MacLeod (J.) La structure de I'intestin ant6rieur des Arachuides. Bull. Acad. R. 

Sc. Belg. (3), V. 8, pp. 377-391; 394-396. 
Pavesi (P.). Studi sugli Aracnidi African!. III. Aracnidi del regno di Scioa, etc. 

Mem. Soc. Geograph. Ital., v. 2, pp. 1-103. Eoma, 1883. 
Peckham (G. W.) and E. G. Peckham. Descriptions of new or little-known spidera 

of the family Attidte, from the various parts of the United States of North Amer 

ica. Milwaukee, 1883. (8vo,35 pp.,3 pi.) 
SCHIMKEWITSCH ( Wladimir ) . Etude sur I'Anatomie de I'Epeire. Ann. Sc. Natur., 

Zool. (6), V. 17, art. 1, 94 pp., 8 pi. 
Simon (EuoiiNE). Description d'une nouvelle famille de I'ordre des Araneae (Brady- 

stichidae). Soc. Entomol. Belg. Compt. rend. (3), No. 50, pp. ccscvii-ccci. 
Les Arachnides de France, v. 5, 2. et 3. parties. Paris: Roret, 1884. (8vo, pp. 

181-808; ^frcs. 12.) 
. Etudes arachnologiques. 14. M^m. XXI. Matdriaux pour la Fauue arach- 

nologique des lies de I'oc^an Atlantique. (Fin.) Ann. Soc. Entomol. France 

(6), V. 3, pp. 273-314. 

Malacojiods. 

Kennel (J.). Entwicklungsgeschichte von Peripatus Edwardsii Blanch, und Peri- 
patus torquatus n. sp. Arbeit, zool.-zoot. Inst. Wiirzburg, v. 7, pp. 95-229, 7 
pi. 

Insects. 

(Myriopods.) 

BoRRE (A. Preudhomme de). Tentamen Catalogi Lysiopetalidarum, Julidarum, 

Archijulidarum, Polyzonidarum atque Siphonophoridarum hucusque descripta- 

rum. Ann. Soc. Entomol. Belg., v. 28, pp. 46-82. 
Haase (Erich). Das Respiratioussystem der Symphylen und Chilopoden. Zool. 

Beitr. (Schneider), v. 1, i)p. 65-96, 3 pi. 
Latzel (Robert). Die Myriopoden der osterreichisch-ungarisehen Monarchie. Mit 

Bestimmuugstabellen alier bisher aufgestellten Myriopoden -Gattuugen und zahl- 

reichen, die morphologischcn Verhiiltuisse dieter Thiere illustrirenden Abbildun- 

gen. 2. Hiilfte. Die Symphylen, Pauropodeu und Diplopoden. Wien: 1884. 

(Bvo, xii, 413 pp., 16 pi.) 
Packard (A. S., jr.). On the morphology of the Myriopoda. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 

V. 21, pp. 197-209. 
Sazepin (Basil). Ueber den histologischan Bau und die Vertheilung der nervosen 

Endorgane auf den Fiihlcrn der Myriopoden. M^m. Acad. Imp. St.-P6tersbourg 

(7), V. 32, No. 9, 20 pp., 3 pi. 
Scudder (Samuel H.). Two new and diverse types of Carbonifei-ous Myriopods. 

Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 3, pp. 283-297, 1 pi. 
Seliwanoff (A.). Myriopodes de Rnssie. HoraB Soc. Entomol. Ross., v. 18, pp. 

69-121. 
Tom5svary (Edm.). Eigenthiimliche Sinnesorgane der Myriopoden. Math, und 

naturwiss. Ber. Ungarn, v. 1, pp. 324-326. 

(Chilognaths.) 

Berlese (A.). Studi critici suUa sistematica dei Chilognati. I. Julidse. Venezia, 

1884. (8vo, 34 pp., 2 tav.) 
Haase (Erich). Schlundgeriist und Masillarorgan von Scutigera Zool. Beitr. 

(Schneider), v. 1, pp. 97-108, 1 pi. 
Packard (A. S., jr.). . Arevisioi: of the Lysiopetalida), a family of Chilognath Myria- 

poda, with a notice of the genus Cambala. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, v. 21, pp. 

177-196. 



660 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

(Rexapods. — General.) 

Christy (Robert Miller). Ou the metbodic habits of insects when visiting flowers. 

The Entomologist, v. 17, pp. 81-86. 
Daiil (Fr. ). Beitriige znr Kenntnis des Baues iiud der Fuuctionen des Insekten- 

beines. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 50. Jahrg., pp. 146-193, 3 pi. 
Illinois. Thirteenth report of the State Entomologist on the noxious and beneiicial 

iusectsof the State of Illinois. Second Annual Report of S. A. Forbes, for the year 

1.^83. Springfield, 111., 1884. (8vo,203, xxi pp.) 
Plateau (F^lix). Recherches exp^rimentales sur les mouvements respiratoires des 

insectes. M6m. Acad. R. de Belg., 1884, 219 pp. 7 pi. 
Simmermacher (G.). Uutersuchungen iiber Haftapparate an Tarsalgliedern von 

Insecten. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., v. 40, pp. 481-556, 3 pi. 
United States Department of Agriculture. Bulletin No. 1.2ded. Reports of experi- 
ments, chiefly with kerosene, upon the insects injuriously affecting the orange 

tree and the cotton plant. Washington, 1883. (8vo, 62 pp.) 
. Bulletin No. 4. Report of observations and experiments in the jiractical work 

of the Division, made under the direction of the Entomologist. Washington, 

1884. (8vo, 102 pp.) 
United States Entomological Commission (Third Report of the) relating to the Rocky 

Mountain Locust, the Western Cricket, the Army Worm, Canker Worms, and 

the Hessian Fly, &c. With mai)s and illustrations. Washington, 1883. f8vo, 

xiv, 347, 12 pp. ; Append. [90] pp., 4 maps, 63 pi.) 
Zeiller (R.). Sur des traces d'insectes simulant des empreintes v6g^tales. Bull. 

Soc. G6olog. France (3), v. 12, pp. 676-680, 1 pi. 

( Thysanurans. ) 

Grassi (B.). Notice prdliminaire sur I'anatomie des Thysanoures. Arch. Ital. Biol., 
V. 5, pp. 381-389. 

( Neurorth optera. ) 

Brongniart (Charles). Sur un gigantesque Neurorthoptfere [Dictyonueura Golden- 
bergi], provenaut des terrains houillers de Commentry (Allier). Compt. rend. 
Acad Sc. Paris, v. 98, pp. 832-833. 

(Trichopters.) 

McLachl AN (Robert). A Monographic Revision and Synopsis of the Trichoptera 

of the European Fauna. First additional supplement. London: 1884. (8vo, 

7 pi.) 
Patten (William). The Development of Phrygauids, with a preliminary note on 

the development of Blatta germanica. Quart. Journ. Microsc. Sc, v. 24, pp. 

549-602, 3 pi. 
POLETAJEFF (N.). Ueber die Ocellen und ihr Sehvermogen bei den Phryganiden. 

Horae Soc. Entomol. Ross., v. 18, 23 pp., 1 pi. 

( Orthopters. ) 

Brunner von Wattenwyl (C). Ueber das Stimm- und Gehororgan der Heu- 

schreckeu. Schrift. d. Ver. z. Verbreit. naturwiss. Kenntn., v. 24, pp. 461-474, 

4 pi. 
Packard (A. S., jr.). The systematic iwsition of the Orthoi>tera in relation to other 

orders of insects. Third Rep. U. S. Entomol. Comm., pp. 286-345, 41 pi. 
Saussure (Henri de). Prodromus CEdipodlorum lusectorum ex ordiue Orthoptero- 

rum. M6m. Soc. do Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. Geneve, v. 28, No. 9. (4to, 254 pp.) 
Wood-Mason (J.). A contribution to our knowledge of the Embiidae, a family of 

Orthopterous Insects. Proc. Zool, Soc. London, 1883, pp. 628-634, 1 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 661 

(N€uro2}ters.) 

DiMMOCK (G.). Curious habit of Forficula auricularia. Psyche, v. 4, p. 186. 

Eaton (A. E.). A i-evisional Monograph of recent Ephemeiidas or Mayflies. Lon- 
don, 188:^., 1884. (4to, pp. 1-152, 45 pi.) Trans. Linn Soc. London (2), Zool., v,3. 

Redtenbacher (Joseph). Uebersichtder Myrnielconiden-Larven. Denkschr. d. kais. 
Akad. d. Wiss., Wien, Math.-nat. CI., v. 48, 2. Abth., pp. 335-368, 7 pi. 

{Hemipterous Rynchoiefi.) 

LocY (William A.). Observations on the pulsating organs in the legs of certain 

Heniiptera. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 13-19. 
Reuter (O. M.). Heniiptera Gymnocerata Europae. H6miptfere8Gymuoc6ratesd'En- 

rope dn bassin de la M6diterran6e et de I'Asie Ruese. 3. Tome. Acta Soc. 

Scient. Fenn., v. 14, pp. 317-.568, 5 pl. 

{Homipterous Bynchoies.) 

Balbiani (6.). Le Phylloxera du ch§ne et le Phylloxera de la vigne ; etudes d'Ento- 
mologie agricole. (Observations sur le Phylloxera et sur les parasitaires de la 
vigne. IV.) (Inst, do France, Acad. d. Sc.) Paris, 1884. (4to, 61 pp., 11 pl.) 

LiCHTENSTEiN (J.). La Flore dcs Aphidiens. Extr. de la Monographic des Aphidiens. 
Montpellier, 1884, (8vo, 55 pp.) 

Witlaczil (Eman.). Entwicklungsgeschichte der Aphiden. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 

V. 40, pp. 559-696, 7 pl. 

(Siphonapters.) 

Kraepelin (Karl). Ueber die systematische Stellung der Puliciden. Festschr. 

zum 50-jahr. Jubiliium des Realgymnasiums des Johanneums Hamburg (Nolte). 

Hamburg, 1884. (4to, 17 pp., 1 pl.) 
. On the Systematic Position of the Pulicidse. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), 

V. 14, pp. 36-54. 

{Cohopters.) 

DoNCKiER DE DoNCEEL (H.). Liste dcs Brenthidcs d^crites post^rieurement au 

catalogue de MM. Gemminger et von Harold. Soc. Eutomol. Belg. Compt. 

rend. (3), pp. ccciii-cccx. 
Ganglbauer (Ludwig). Bestimmungs-Tabellen der europaischen Caleopteren. 

VIII. Cerambicidae. (Schluss.) Verhandl. k. k. zool.-bot. Ges., v. 33, pp. 437- 

586. 
Harrach (A.). Der Kafersammler. Praktische Anleitung zum Fangen, Prapariren, 

Aufbewahren und zur Aufzucht der Kafer. 1884. (12mo, viii, 308 pp.) 
Olivier (E.). Essai d'une revision des esp^ces europ^ennes et circummMiterran^- 

ennes de la famille des Lampy rides. Paris, 1884. (8vo, 56 pp., 2 pl.) 
Petit (H.). Calendrier col^opt^rologique, suivi d'un tableau indiquant les (Spoques 

des chasses aux col^opt^res. Chdlous-sur-Marne, 1884. (8vo, 51 pp.) 
Redtenbacher (L.). Tables dischotomiques pour servir h la determination des 

families et des genres des Col^optferes de Belgique d'aprfes L. Redtenbacher. 

Bruxelles: 1884. (8vo, 184 pp.) 
Reitter (Edmund). Bestimmungs-Tabellen der europaischen Coleopteren. X. 

Nachtrag zu dem 5. Theile, enthaltend Clavigeridse, Pselaphidae und Scyd- 

mtenidai. Verhandl. k. k. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1884, pp. 59-94. 
Rey (Cl.). Histoire naturelle <les CoMopt^res de France. Br6vipennes, Habroc^- 

r^ens, Tachypor6en8, Trichophyens. Paris: 1884. (8vo, 299 pp., 4 pl.) 
Smith (Herbert H.). Antennae of a beetle [Scorpionus] used as a defensive weapon. 

Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 727-728. 
Stierlin (Gustav). Bestimnuingstabelle europiiischer Riisselkiifer. II. Brachy- 

derida?. Mittheil. Schweizer. Entoniol. Ges., v. 7, pp. .57-98. 
Wytsman (P.). Ciitalogne syst6ni;itiqne dcs Passalides. Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. 

Genova {•>}, v. I, pp. 326-348. 



C62 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

{Hymenopters. ) 

Aman's. fitiule de I'or^aue du aoI chez les Hym^noptferes. Revue Sc. Natur. Mont- 

pellior {■■]) V. 3, pp. 485-523, 2 pi. 
AxDn6 (Ernest). Species des Formicides d'Europe et des pays limitrophes en Asie 

et en Afrique. Beaune, 1884, (8vo, 438 pp., 27 pi.) 
Carlet (G.). Sur le venin des Hym^uopt^res et ses organes s^cr^teurs. Compt. 

rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 98, pp. 1550-1551. 
. Sur le venin des Hym^uopt^res et ses organes sdcr^teurs. Ann. Soc. 

Eutoiuol. France (6), v. 4, pp. cviii-cix. 
Ki.UG (Friedrich). Gesammelte Aufsatze iiber Blattwespen. Heransgegeben von 

Jos. Kriechbauiiier. Berlin: 1884. (4to, iii, 300 pp., 1 col, pi.) 
McCooK (Henry C). How a Carpenter Ant. (Campouotus peunsylvanicus) founds a 

Formicary. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. PliiJa., 1883, pp. 303-307; Ann. & Mag. Nat. 

Hist. (5), V. 13, pp. 419-423. 
. The Rufous or Thatcliing Ant (Formica rufa) of Dakota and Colorado. Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1884, pp. 57-65. 
MiJLLER (Hermann). Ein Beitrag zur Lebensgescbichte der Dasypoda liirtipes. 

Verbandl. Nat. Ver. d. preuss. Rheinlaud, 41. Jabrg. 52 pp., 2 pi. 
Radoszkowsky (O. ). Revision des armures copulatrices des m3.1es du genre Bombus. 

Bull. Soc. Imp. Natural. Moscou, 1884, pp. 51-92, 4 pi. 
Saunders (Edward). Further Notes on the terminal segments of Aculeate Hymen- 

optera. Trans. Entomol. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 251-267, 1 pi. 
. Synopsis of British Hymenoptera. Anthophila. Part II. Apidse. Trans. 

Entomol. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 159-250, 8 pi. 
Launders {Sir Sidney S.). Further Notes on the Caprification of Domestic Figs, with 

reference to Dr. Paul Meyer's comments thereon. Trans. Entomol. Soc. Lon- 
don, 1884, pp. 97-106. 
Stein (Richard R. von.). Tenthredinologische Studien. v, vi. Katter'p Entomol. 

Nachrichten, 9. Jahrg., pp. 247-258; 10. Jahrg., pp. 95-105. 
Westwood ( Josiah Obadiah). Further notice concerning the fig-insects of Ceylon. 

Traus. Entomol. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 375-381, 1 pi. 

(Dipters.) 

Hansen (H. J.). Fabrica oris Dipterorum: Dipterernes Muud i anatomisk og eys- 
tematisk Henseende. I. (Tabanidaj, Bombyliidse, Asilidie, Thereva, Mydas, 
Apiocera). Naturhist. Tidsskr. (3), v. 14, pp. 1-220, 5 pi. 

LABOULBi:NE (Alexandre). Observations de Myiasis due a la Sarcoj^haga magnifica 
Schiner, avec reflexions. Ann. Soc. Entomol. France (G), v. 4, pp. 28-44. 

Lee (Arthur Bolles). Les organes chordotonaux des DiiJteres et la m6thode du 
Chlorure d'or. (Observations critiques). Recueil Zool. Suisse, v. 1, pp. 685-689, 
Ipl. 

Packard (A. S.,jr.). The Hessian Fly; its ravages, habits, and the means of pre- 
venting its increase. Third Rep. U. S. Entomol. Comm., pp. 198-248, 2 pi., 1 
map. 

VViLLiSTON (S. W.). Dipterous Larv* from the Western Alkaline Lakes, and their 
use as human food. Transact. Connecticut Acad. v. 6, pp. 87-90. 

(Lepidopters. ) 

Cholodkovsky (N.). Contributions h I'anatomie et la morphologic des vaisseanx 
Malpighiens des Ldpidopt^ros. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 99, pp. 816-819. 

Distant (W. L.). Rhopalocera Malayana: a Description of the Butterflies of the 
Malay Peninsula, Part 7. London, 1884. (4to, pp. 193-248, 2 pi.). 

Gruber (August). Ueber nordamerikanische Papilioniden- uud Nymphaliden-Rau- 
neu. Jena. Zeitscbrift f. Naturwisa., v. 17 (u. F., 10. Bd.), pp. 465-489, 2 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 663 

HoFMANN (Ernst). Die Schmetterlinge Europas. 1. Lief. Stuttgart: 1884. (4to, 
viii, 8 pp., 4 pi.) 

KiRBY (W. F.). On a copy of Peale's Lepidoptera Americana in the Library of the 
Zoological Department of tbe British Museum. Papilio, v. 5, pp. 103-104. 

Lang (Henry Charles). Rhopalocera Europse descripta et delineata : the Butter- 
flies of Euiope described and figured. Illustrated with more than eight hundred 
coloured figures, drawn mostly from nature, under the direction of the Author. 
London : 1884. (8vo, 2 vols, with 82 pi. £3 188.) 

MoscHLER (H. B.). Die Nordamerica und Europa gemeinsum angehorenden Lepi- 
dopteren. Verhdlg. k. k. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1884, pp. 273-320. 

Mt'LLER-BLUMENAU (Wilhelm). Ucber einige im Wasser lebende Scbmetterlings- 
raupen Brasiliens. Arch, f. Naturgesch., 50. Jabrg., v. 1, pp. 194-212, 1 pi. 

Newman (Edward). Illustrated Natural History of British Butterflies and Moths. 
Newed. London: 1884. (8vo, 490 pp. 25s.) 

NicoLAi (MiCHAiLOWiTSCH RoMANOFF). M6moires sur les L^pidopt^res. v. 1. St.- 
P6tersbourg, 1884. (8vo, 181 pp., 10 pi.) 

Pabst (M.).- Die Gross-Schuppenflugler (Macro-Lepidoptera) der Umgegend von 
Chemnitz und ihre Entwicklungsgeechichte. 1 Th. Rhopalocera, Heterocera 
(Sphinges, Bombyces). Chemnitz, 1884. (4to, 50 pp.) 

PouLTON (Edward B.). Notes upon, or suggested by, the colours, markings, and 
protective attitudes of certain Lepidopterous larvsB and pup*, and of a phytoph- 
agous hymenopterous larva. Trans. Entomol. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 27-60, 1 pi. 

Riley (C. V.). Canker Worms (Paleacrita vernata and Anisopteryx pometaiia) ; 
being an account of the two species injurious to fruit and shade trees. 3 Rep. 
U. S. Entomol. Coram., pp. 157-197, 1 pi. 

Robin (Gharles) et Al. Laboulbi5ne. Sur les d^g^ts causes au mais et au chancre 
par les chenilles du Botys nubilalis Httbn. Ann. Soc. Entomol. France (G), y. 
4, pp. 5-16. 

RotJAST (George). Catalogue des Chenilles europ6ennes connues. Lyon: 1884. 
(8vo, 200 pp.) 

SAALMtJLLER (M. ). Lepidoptercn von Madagascar. Neue und wenig bekaunte Arten 
zumeist aus der Sammlung der Senckenberg'schen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft 
zu Frankfurt a. M., unter BerUcksichtigung der gesammten Lepidopteren-Fauna 
Madagascar's. Abth. 1. Rhopalocera, Heterocera, Sphinges et Bombyces. Frank- 
furt a. M : Senckenb. Ges., 1884. (4to, 246 pp., 7 pi.) 

Smith (J. B.). Synopsis of the genera of the North American Rhopalocera. Brook- 
lyn, 1883. (8vo, 9 pp.) 

Staudinger (O. ). Exotische Schmetterlinge. Abbildungen nnd Beschreibungen der 
wichtigsten exotischen Tagfalter in systematischer Reihenfolge mit Beriicksich- 
tigung neuer Arten. Unter technischer Mitwirkung von Dr. H. Langhans. Mit 
gegen 1,500 colorirten Abbildungen auf 120 Taf. 1. Lief. Text von Seite 3-6 u. 
Taf. 1-5. Furth: 1884. (Fol.) 

Walter (Alfred). Palpus maxillaris Lepidopterorum. Jena. Zeitschr. f. Nat., v. 
18, pp. 121-173. 

MOLLUSCOIDS. 

Polyzoans. 

Busk (George). Report on the Polyzoa collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the 

years 1873-76. I. Cyclostomata. Rep. Scientif. Res. Challenger, Zool., v. 10. 

xxiv, 216 pp. , 36 pi. 
HiNCKS (Thomas). Contributions towards a general history of the Marine Polyzoa. 

Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 276-285, 2 pi. 
Lankester (E. Ray). A contribution to the knowledge of Rhabdopheura. Quart. 

Journ. Microsc. Sc. (n. s. ), v. 24, pp. 622-647, 5 pi. 



664 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Leidt (Joseph). Urnatella gracilis, a fresh-water Polyzoan. Journ. Acad. Nat. 

Sc. Phila., V. 9, 1883, 16 pp., 1 pi. 
Potts (Edward). On a supposed new species of Cristatella (C. lacustris.) Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1884, pp. 193-199. 
Shrubsole (George W. ) and George R. Vine. The Silurian species of Glauconome, 

and a suggested classification of the Palaeozoic Polyzoa. Quart. Journ. Geol. 

Soc. London, v. 40, pp. 329-332. 
ViGELius (W. J.). Morphologische Untersuchungen iiber Flustra meinbranaceo-trun- 

cata Smith. Biolog. Centralbl., v. 3, pp. 705-721. (Abstr. J. R. M. S. (2), v. 4, 

p. 371.) 
Vine (George Robert). Notes on species of Ascodictyon and Rhopalouaria from 

the Wenlock Shales. Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 77-89. 
. Fourth Report of the Committee, consisting of H. C. Sorby and G. R. Vine, 

appointed for the purpose of reporting on Fossil Polyzoa. Part I. Cretaceous 

Polyzoa, British area only. II. Classification of Cyclostomatous Polyzoa. III. 

Pseudo-Polyzoau forms. IV. Bibliography. Rep. 32 Meet. Brit. Ass. Adv. Sc, 

pp. 161-209. 
Waters (Arthur W.). Closure of the Cyclostomatous Bryozoa. Journ. Linn. Soc. 

London, Zool., v. 17, pp. 400-404, 1 pi. 

Brachiopoda. 

SCHULGLN (M. A.). Argiope Kowalevskii. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Brachio- 
poden. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., v. 41, pp. 116-141, 2 pi. 

M0IXUSK8. 

General. 

Braun (M.). Beitriige zur Kenntnia der Fauna Baltica. II. Die Land-und Siiss- 

wassermoUusken der Ostseeprovinzen. Arch. f. d. Naturkde. Liv-, Ehst- nnd 

Kurlands (2), v. 9, pp. 401-504. 
Dall (W. H.). On the constitution of some appendages of the MoUusca. Am. 

Nat., V. 18, pp. 776-778. 
. Report on the Mollusca of the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, collected by 

Leonhard Stejneger, in 1882 and 1883. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 7, pp. 340-349. 
Ehrenbatjm (E.). Untersuchungen iiber die Struktur und Bildung der Shale der 

in der Kieler Bucht hiiufig vorkommenden Muscheln. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 

V. 41, pp. 1-47, 2 pi. 
Fischer (Paul). Manuel de Conchyliologie. Fasc. V. Paris, 1883. (8vo., pp. 417- 

512.) 
Jordan (Hermann). Die Binnenmollusken der nordlich gemassigten Lander von 

Europa und Asien und der arktischen Lander. Mit Verbreitungstabellen 1-14. 

Nova Acta Acad. Caes. Leop.-Carol., v. 45, pp. 181-402, 8 pi., 2 maps. 
KOLLMANN (J.). Pori aquiferi und Intercellnlargiinge im Fusseder Lamellibr.anchia- 

teu und Gasteropoden. Verhandl. Naturf. Ges. Basel, 7. Th., pp. 325-351. 
Lankester (E. Ray). The supposed taking in and shedding-out of water in relation 

to the vascular system of MoUusks. Zool. Anz., 7. Jahrg., pp. 343-346. 
Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet. Fortgesetzt von W. 

KobeltundH.C.Weinkauff. 328., 329., 330. Lief. Nurnberg: 1884. (4to.) 
Mollendorff (O. F. von). Materialien zur Fauna von China. Jahrbiich. d. d. Ma- 

akozool. Ges., 11. Jahrg., pp. 30-390, 3 pi. 
Pechaud (Jean). Excursions malacologiques dans le Nord de I'Afrique, de la Calie k 

Alger, d'Alger k Tanger. Fasc. 1. Paris : 1884. (8vo, 112 pp.) 
Rossmassler's Iconographie der europiiischen Land- und Siisswasser-Mollusken. 

Fortgesetzt von W. Kobelt. N. F., v. 1, 5.-6. Lief. Wiesbaden : 1884. (8vo.) 



ZOOLOGY. G65 

SCHIEMENZ (P.)- Ueber die Wasseraufualiuie bei Lamellibranchiaten und (jrastro- 

poden (einschliesslich der Pteropoden). Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, v. 5, pp. 

509-543. 
Tryon (George W. , jr.). Manual of Concbology, structural and systematic. With 

illustrationsof the species. Vol. vi. Pbiladolpbia. (8vo. Col., $20; plain, |12.) 
. Structural and systematic Concbology. An introduction to tbe study of the 

Mollusca. Vol. III. Philadelphia. (8vo, 430 pp., pi. 23-91.) 
Verrill (A. E.). Second catalogue of Mollusca recently added to tbe Fauna of tbe 

New England coast and tbe adjacent parts of tbe Atlantic, consisting mostly of 

deep sea species, with notes on others previously recorded. Trans. Connecticut 

Acad., V. 6, pp. 139-294, 5 pi. 
White (Charles A.). A review of tbe Non-Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America. 

Washington: Government Printing Office, 1883. (8vo. 144 pp., 32 pi.) Rep. 

Geol. Survey U. S. 1881-'82. 

Journals. 

Journal de Conchyliologie [etc.] public sous la direction de H. Crosse et P. Fischer. 

[T. 32, or] 3. s6r., t. 24. Paris. (8vo.) 
Journal (The) of Concbology. Vol. 5, parts 5-8. London: D. Bogue. (8vo.) 
Malakozoologiscbe Blatter. Fortgesetzt von S. Clessin. 7. Bd. Kasael : Th. Fischer. 
Proc^s-verbaux des stances de la Soci6t6 Eoyale Malacologique de Belgique. T. 13. 

Ann6e 1884. Bruxelles. (8vo.) 

AcephaU. 

Barrois (Theodore). Sur I'introduction de I'eau dans le systfeme circulatoire des 

Lamellibranches et sur I'anatomie du pied des Lucinidae. Lille, 1884. (8vo, 12 

pp.,1 pi.) 
Dall (W. H.). New Type of Mollusc [Chamydoconcha]. Science, v. 4, pp. 50,51. 
HUBRECHT (A. A. W.). Oestercultuur in afgesloten ruimten. L'ostr^iculture dans 

les enclos. Comparaison des r^sultats obtenus k I'^tranger et des essais faits dans 

les Pays-Bas. Tijoscbr. d. nederl. Dierk. Veerenig. , Suppl., D. 1, Aflever. 2, pp. 

319-367. 
Lacaze-Duthiers (H. de). Morphologie des Ac6phales. l.M6m. Anatomie de 

I'Arrosoir (Aspergillum dichotomum L. Reeve). Arch. Zool. Experiment. (2), v. 1 

pp. ()65-732, 5 pi. 
Plateau (FjJlix). Recberches sur la force absolue des muscles des Invert6br6s. 1. 

Partie. Force absolue des muscles adducteurs des Mollusques Lamellibranches. 

Arch. Zool. Experiment. (2), v. 2, pp. 145-170. 
Sharp (B.). On tbe Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata. Mittheil. Zool. Station 

Neapel, v. 5. pp. 447-470, 1 pi. 

Gastropods. 

AsHFORD (C). The Darts of British Helicidse. Joum. Conchol.,T. 4, part iii, pp. 

129-133, 1 pi., part iv), pp. 164-170, 1 pi.; (Part v), pp. 195-202; (Part vi), pp. 

239-244. 
Barrois (THifeoDORE). Sur i'introduction de I'ean dans le syst^me circulatoire des 

Lamellibranches, et sur I'anatomie du pied des Lucinidse. Lille, 1884. (8vo, 12 

pp., 1 pi.) 
Bergh (Rudolf). Report on the Nudibranchiata dredged by H. M. S. Challenger 

during tbe years 1873-1876. Rep. Scientif. Res. Challenger, Zool., v. 10, 154 pp., 

14 pi. 
• . Ueber die Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen der Onchidien. Morpholog. Jahrb., 

V. 10, pp. 172-181 (Tr. Ann. &, Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 259-206). 



666 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Bix.NKY (W. G.)- A supplement to the fifth volume of the Terrestrial Air-breathing 

Molliisks of the United States and adjacent Territories. Bull. Mus. Compar. 

Zool., V. 11, pp. lo5-166, 3 pi. 
Blochmann (F.). Die im Golfe von Neapel vorkommenden Aplysien. Mittheil. 

Zool. Station Neapel, v. 5, pp. 28-49, 1 pi. 
BouRQUELOT (Em.). Rechcrches sur les ph^nomfenes de la digestion chez les Mol- 

lusques C^phalopodes. Paris: impr. Hennuyer, 1884. (8vo, 131 pp., 3 pi.) 
HoussAY (Frederic). Recherches sur I'opercule et les glandes du pied des Gast^ro- 

podes. Arch. Zool. Exp^rim. (2), v. 2, pp. 171-288, 8 pi. 
. Sur I'opercule des Gast^ropodes. Gompt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 98, pp. 

236-238 ; Tr. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 13, pp. 304-306. 
JousSEAUME (F.). Etude sur la famille des Cyprteidae. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, v. 

9, pp. 81-100. 
OsBORN (Henry L.). Of the gill in some forms of prosobranchiate Mollufeca. Stud. 

Biol. Labor. Johns Hopkins Univ., v. 3, pp. 37-48,. 3 pi. 
RossLER (Richard). Ueber die Bildung der Radula bei den kopftragenden Mollus- 

ken. Zool. Anz., 7. Jahrg., pp. 540-543. 
Semper (Carl). Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2. Theil. Wissenschaftliche 

Resultate. v. 2, Malacologische Untersuchungen von Dr. Rud. Bergh. XV. Heft. 

Nachtriige nnd Erganzungen. Tritoniaden. Wiesbaden : Kreidel, 1884. (4to, 

8 pi.) 
Tausch (Leopold). Ueber einige Conchylien aus dem Tanganyika-See und deren 

fossile Verwandte. Sitzsber. k. Akad. Wiss., Wien, Math.-nat. CI., v. 90, 1 

Abth., pp. 56-70, 2 pi. 
Wegmann (Henri). Contributions k I'histoire naturelle des Haliotides.' Compt. 

rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 98, pp. 1387-1389. 
. Contribution h I'histoire naturelle des Haliotides. Arch, de Zool. Exp6rim. 

(2), V. 2, pp. 289-378, 5 pi. 

Cephalopoda. 

Brock (J.). Das Mannchen der Sepioloidea lineolata d'Orb. (Sepiola lineolata Quoy 

& Gaim.) nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Familie der Sepioladen im Allgemeinen. 

Zeitschrift f. wiss. Zool., v. 40, pp. 105-120. 
Collins (J. W.). A large Squid. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, 1884, 15 pp. 
GiROD (Paul). Recherches sur la peau des C6phalopode8. La Ventouse. Arch. 

de Zool. Exp^rim. (2), v. 2, pp. 379-402, 1 pi. 
Grenaciier (H.). Abhandlungen zur vergleichenden Anatomie des Auges. I. Die 

Retina der dephalopoden. Abhandl. Naturforsch. Ges. Halle, v. 16, pp. 207-256, 

Ipl. 
Grobben (Carl). Morphologische Studien tiber den Ham- und Geschlechtsapparat 

sowio die Leibeshohle der Cephalopoden. Arbeit. Zool. Inst. Wien, v. 5, pp. 

179-252, 3 pi, 
Hyatt (Alph.). The Protoconch of Cephalopoda. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 919-920. 
. Genera of Fossil Cephalopods. (Concluded.) Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 

V. 22, pp. 252-338. 
NiNNi (A, P.). Catalogo del Cefalopodi dibranchiati osservati nell' Adriatico. Pa- 

dova, 1884. (8vo, 16 iip., 1 tav.) 
Rociiebrune (A. T. de). Etude monographique do la famille des Eledonidae. Bull 

Soc. Philom. Paris (7), v. 8, pp. 152-160. 
. fitude monographique de la famille de Loligopsidae. Bull. Soc. Philom. 

Paris (7), v. 8, pp. 7-28, 2 pi. 
. Etude monographique de la famille des SepiadsB. ball. Soc. Philom. Paris 



(7), v. 8, pp. 74-122. 
Panetu (^Joseph.) Boitriige zur Histologic der Pteropoden und Heteropoden. Arch, 
f mikrosk. Aiiat., v. 24, pp. 230-288, 3 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 6G7 

PROTOCHORDATES. 

Tunicates. 

Bkooks (William K.)- Is Salpa an example of Alternation of Generations ? Nature, 
V. :W, pp. 367-370. 

DOLLEY (Charles S.). Some observations opposed to the presence of a parenchym- 
atous or intra-cellular digestion in Salpa. Zool. Anz., 7. Jabrg., pp. 705-708. 

Goodman (R. N.). Alternation of Generations in Salpa. Nature, v. 30, p. 463. 

Herdman (W. a.). On the Homology of tbe Neural Gland in tbe Tuuicata witb tbe 
Hyiiopbysis cerebri. Proc. Royal Soc. Edinburgh, 1882-83, pp. 14.5-161. 

Seeliger (Oswald). Die Entwicklungsgescbichte der socialen Ascidien. Jena. 
Zeitschrift f Nat., v. 18, pp. 45-120, 8 pi. 

Uljanin (Basil). Die Arten der Gattnng Doliolum im Golfe von Neapel und den 
angreuzenden Meeresabscbnitten. Eiue Monograpbie. Heransgegeben von der 
Zool. Station zu Neapel. Leipzig: 1884. (4to, viii, 140pp., 121., 12col.pl., 10 
zincogr.) 

Van Beneden (Edouard) et Charles Julin. La segmentation chez les Ascidiens et 
ses rapports avec I'organisation de la larve. Arch, de Biolog., v. 5, pp. 111- 
126, 2 pi. 

vertebrates. 

General. 

Albrecht (P.). Sur la valeur morphologique de la Trompe d'Eustache et les d^riv^a 
de I'arc palatin, de I'arc mandibulaire et de Tare hyoidien des vert6br^s, suivi 
de la preuve, que le symplectico-byomandibulaire est morphologiquement iudd- 
j)endant de I'arc hyoidien. Avec 13 grav. Bruxelles: 1884. (8vo, 41 pp.) Soc. 
d'Anat. pathol. Bruxelles. 

Carlier (Auguste Ad.). Anatomie philosophique. Les 5 vertebras c^phaliques ; la 
3. paire de membres chez I'homme et les autres Vert6br6s. Paris: 1884. (8vo, xi, 
363 pp.) 

Cope (Edward D.). Note on the Phylogeny of the Vertebrata. Am. Nat., v. 18, 
pp. 1255-1257. 

Dohrn (Anton). Studieu znr Urgeschichte des Wirbelthierkorpers. Mittheil. 
Zool. Station Neapel, v. 5, pp. 102-195. 

IV. Die Entwicklung und Differenzirung der Kiemenbogen der Selachier. 
(102 pp., 7 pl.) 

V. Zur Entstehung und Diiferenzirung der Visceralbogen bei Petromyzon 
Planeri. (152 pp.) 

VI. Die paarigen and unpaarigen Flossen der Selachier. (161pp.) 
LuDWiG (Ferdinand), Prince von Bayern. Zur Anatomie der Zunge. Eiue ver- 

gleichende- anatomische Studie. Mit 51 dopp. und 2 einf. Taf. in lith. Farben- 

druck. Miinchen : lit.-ai-t. Anst., 1884. (4to, x, 108 pp.) 
Merriam (Charles Hart). On the Vertebrates of the Adirondack region (conclud- 
ing the Mammalia). Trans. Linn. Soc. N. York, v. 2. 
MuNK (Hermann). Ueber die centralen Organe fiir das Sehen und Horen bei den 

Wirbelthieren. Sitzsber. k. preuss. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1884, pp. 549-568. 
Packard (Alpheus S.). Aspects of the body in Vertebrates and Arthropodes. 

Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 855-861; Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 245-249. 
Parker (T. Jeffery). A course of instruction in Zootomy (Vertebrata). With 77 

illustr. London : 1884. (8vo, xxiii, 397 pp.) 
Pleske (Th.). Uebersicht der Siingethiere und Vogel der Kola-Halbinsel. 1. Th. 

Saiigethiere. St. Petersburg, 1884. Beitr. z. Kenntnis d. Russ. Reichs (2), v, 

7, 212 pp. 



668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Retzius (Gustav). Das Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere. Morpbologiscli-histologisclie 

Studien. II. Das Gehororgan der Reptilien, der Vogel und der Siiugethiere. 

Stockholm: Samson & Walliu in Comm.,1884. (4to, viii,368 pp., 37 pi., 37 1.) 
Sacchi (Giuseppe). Nouvelles recherches sur la structure de la ndvrologie de la 

rdtine des Vertdbr^s. Arch. Ital. Biolog., v, 6, pp. 76-96. 
WiEDERSHEiM (R.). Grundriss der vergleichenden -Anatomie der Wirbelthiere fiir 

Stndirende bearbeitet. Mit 22.^> Holzschn. Jena: 1884. (8vo, xii, 272 pp.) 

Fishes. 
( General. ) 

Claypole (E. W.). Preliminary Note on 8»me Fossil Fishes recently discovered in 

the Silurian Rocks of North America. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 1222-1226. 
Day (Francis). The Fishes of Great Britain and Ireland. Parts 6-8. Loudon: 

1884. (Svo.v. 2,part4.) 
Fritsch (G.). Die elektrischen Fische im Lichte der Descendenzlehre. Berlin, 

1884. (8vo.) 
Klunzinger (C. B.). Die Fische des Rothen Meeres. Eine kritische Revision mit 

Bestimmungstabellen. l.Theil. AcanthopteriveriOwen. Mit ITuterstiitzung der 

Kon. Preuss. Akad. d. Wiss. herausgegebeu. Stuttgart: 1884, (4to, is, 133 pp., 

13 pi.) 
Pennell (H. Cholmondely). a popular history of British Freshwater Fish, 

adapted to the use of schools and colleges. Illustr. by 150 wood engr. London : 

1884. (8vo,424pp. Ss. 6d.) 
SuNDMAN (Gosta). Fiulands Fiskar, malade after natures. The Fishes of Finland 

drawn and coloured from life, with text (Swedish &, English) by O. M. Reuter. 

I-II. Helsingfors: 1883-1884. (Fol.) 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. P. IX. Report of the.Commissioner 

for 1884. A. Inquiry into the decrease of Food-Fishes. B. The Propagation of 

Food- Fishes in the Waters of the United States. Washington, 1884. (8vo, Ixxi, 

1146 pp.) 

Myzonts. 

AiiLBORN (F.). Ueber den Ursprung und Austritt der Himnerven von Petromyzon. 

Zeitschrift f. wiss. Zool., v. 40, pp. 286-308, 1 pi. 
Parker (W. K.). On the skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes. Part I. The My- 

xinoids (Myxine and Bdellostoraa). Part II. Petromyzon. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, 

1883, pp. 373-457, pi. 8-26. 
Weldon (W. F. R.). On the Head Kidney of Bdellostoma, with a Suggestion as to 

the origin of the Suprarenal Bodies. <]Quart. Journ. Micr, Sc.,n. s.,v. 24, pp. 

171-182,1 pi. 

Selachians. 

Cope (E. D.). On the structure of the Skull in the Elasmobranch genus Didymodus. 

Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., v. 21, pp. 572-590, 1 pi. 
Garman (Samuel). An extraordinary Shark [Chlamydoselachus anguinens]. 

Bull. Essex Inst., v. 16, 9 p. 
Rosenberg (Emil). Untersuchungen iiberdioOccipitalregion des Cranium und den 

proximalen Theil der Wirbelsaule einiger Selachier. Eine Festschrift. [F. H. 

Bidder's Doctorjubiliium.] Dorpat (Karow), 1884. (4to, 26 pp., 2 pi.) 

Teleostomes. 
( General. ) 

Agassiz (Alexander) and C. O. Whitman. On the development of some pelagic 
fish eggs. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sc, v. 20, pp. 23-75, 1 pi. 

Gill (Theodore). Three new families of fishes added to the deep-sea Fauna in a 
year. Am. Nat., v. 18, p. 433. 



ZOOLOGY. 669 

GOldi (Emil Aucust). Kopfskelett und Schultergiirtel von Loricaria cataphractae 

Balistes capriscue und Acipenser ruthenus. Vergleichend anatomische und 

entwicklungsgeschiclitliclie Studien zur Deckknoclieufrage. Jena. Zeitschrift 

f. Naturwiss., v. 17, pp. 401-451,3 pi. 
Gkassi (B. ). D6veloppenient de la colonne vert^brale chez les Poissons osseux. (Fin.) 

Arch. Ital. de Biol., v. 3, pp. 251-26S. 
Klein (Adolph von). Beitriige zur Bilduug des Schiidels der Knochenfisclie. 

Jahresliefte d. Ver. f. vaterl. Naturk. Wiirttemberg, 40. Jahrg.,pp. 129-257. 
Eabl-Buckhard (H.). Das Gehirn der KnochenfiacLe. Biolog. Centralbl., v. 4, 

pp. 499-510; and pp. 528-541. Deutsche medic. Wochenschrift, 1884, No. 

33, 25 pp. 
Ryder (John A.). A contribution to the embryography of osseous fishes, with 

special reference to the develoiiment of the Cod (Gadus morrhua). Washington, 

1884. (8vo, 149 pp., 12 pi.) Ann. Eep. Comniiss. of Fish, for 1882. 
Sagemehl (M.). Beitrage zur vergleichenden Anatomie der Fische. II. Einige 

Bemerkungen iiber die Gehirnhiiute der Knochenfische. Morphol. Jahrb., v. 9, 

pp. 457-474. 
. Beitriige zur vergleichenden Anatomie der Fische. III. Das Cranium der 

Characiniden nebst allgemeinen Bemerkungen fiber die mit einem Weber'schen 

Apparat versehenen Phyfostomenfamilien. Morphol. Jahrb., v. 10, pp. 1-119, 

2 pi. 
Si;DE DE Li:^oux (Paul de). Recherches sur la ligne lat^rale des Poissons osseux. 

Paris, 1884. (8vo, 115 pp., 4 pi.) 
Weber (Max). Ueber Hermaphroditismus bei Fischen. Nederl. Tijdschr. v. d. 

Dierk., 5. Jahrg., pp. 21-43, 1 double pi. 
Westwood (T.) aud T. Satchell. Bibliotheca Piscatoria. A catalogue of books on 

angling, the fisheries, and fish culture, with biographical notes and an appendix 

of citations touching on angling and fishing, from old English authors. London: 

1884. (4to.) 

(Nematognaths. ) 

Wright (R. Ramsay), and others. Contributions to the Anatomy of Amiurus. By 
R. Ramsay Wright, J. P. McMurrich, A. B. Macallum, T. McKenzie. Toronto, 
1884. (8vo, 8 pi.) Proc. Canad. Inst., Toronto, n. s., v. 2, pp. 251-457, 8 pi. 

Wright (R. Ramsay). The relationship between the air-bladder and auditory or- 
gan in Amiurus. Zool. Anz., 7. Jahrg., pp. 248-252. 

{Malacopterygians. ) 

Emery (Carlo). Intorno alle macchie splendenti della j)elle nei pesci de genere 
Scopelus. Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, v. 5, pp. 471-482, 1 pi, 

Les taches brillantes de la peau chez les poissons du genre Scopelus. Arch. 



ItaL Biol., V. 5, pp. 216-325, 3 fig. 

{Iniomes.) 

Gill (Theodore). Note on the Sternoptychidte. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 7, pp. 
349-351. 

(Acanthopterygians. ) 

HoLMWOOD (Frederick). On the employment of the Eemora by native fishermen on 

the east coast of Africa. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 411-418. 
iiENDENFELD (R. von). Ou Lepidopus caudatus Giinth. (Frost-Fish). New Zea- 

laud Jouru. Sc, v. 2, pp. 108-109. (In German.) Zool. Anz., 1883, pp. 559-560. 
Parker (T. Jeffery). On a specimen of the Great Ribbon Fish (Regalecus argen- 

teus u. sp.), lately obtained at Moeraki, Otago. Trans. New Zealand Inst., v. 

J 6, pp. 284-296, 2 pi. 
Sagemehl (M.). Ueber die Pharyugealtascheu der Scarinen und das Wiederkauen 

dieser Fische. Morphol. Jahrb., y. 10, pp. 193-203. 



670 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

(Plectognaths.) 

Trois (Enrico F.)- Ricerche sulla struttura della Ranzania truucata. P.I. Atti 
R. Istit. Venet. Sc. Lett. (6), v. 2, 38 pp. P. II. Con 1 tav. ibid., pp. 39-56. 

Amphibians. 

Caxmels (G.). Sur le venin des Batraciens. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 98, 

pp. 536-539. 
Cope (E. D.). The Batrachia of the Permian Period of North America. Am. Nat., 

V. 18, pp. 26-39, 4 pi. 
EwART (J. C). The Dissection of the Frog. Edinburgh: London: 1884. (8vo. 

Is. 6d.) 
Gautier (A.) et Etard. Observations relatives h nne Note de Mr. Calmels sur le 

venin des Batraciens. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 98, p. 631. 
Hinckley (Mary H.). Notes on the Peeping Frog (Hy la Pickeringii Le Conte). 

Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 3, pp. 311-318, 1 pi. 
OsBORN (Henry F.). Preliminary observations upon the brain of Menopoma. Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1884, pp. 262-274, 1 pi. 
Paulicki. Ueber die Haut des Axoloths. Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat., v. 24, pp. 120- 

173, 2 pi. 

Beptiles. 

{General.) 

Garman (Samuel). The Reptiles of Bermuda. Washington, 1884. (8vo.) From 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., pp. 285-303. 
. The North American Reptiles and Batrachians. A list of the species occurring 

north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, with references. Salem, 1884. (8vo, 46 

pp.) Bull. Essex Inst., v. 16. 
Hoffmann (C.K.). Reptilia (Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen). 41. Lief. Leipzig 

und Heidelberg : C. F. Winter'sche Verlagshandl., 1884. (8vo.) 
Owen (Sir Richard). History of British Fossil Reptiles. London: 1884, 4 vols. 

£12 12s. 

(Dinosaurians.) 

Dames (W.). Metatarsen eines Compsognathus-ahnlichen Reptiles von Solenhofen. 

Sitzgsber. Ges. Nat. Fr. Berlin, 1884, pp. 179-180. 
DoLLO (L.). Cinquifeme Note sur les Dinosauriens de Bernissart. Bull. Mus. R. 

Hist. Nat. Belg., v. 3, pp. 129-150, 2 pi. 
Marsh (O. C). Principal Characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs. P. VII. On 

the DiplodocidfB, a new family of the Sauropoda. Am. Joum. Sc. (3), v. 27, 

pp. 162-168, 2 pi. P. Vm. The order Theropoda. Ibid., pp. 329-340, 7 pi. 
. United Metatarsal Bones of Ceratosaurus. Am. Journ. Sc. (3), v. 28, pp. 

161-162. 

(Maoelognatha. ) 

Marsh (O. C). A new order ofextinct Jurassic Reptiles (Macelognatha). Am. Journ. 
Sc. (3), v.27,p.341. 

(Pterodaetyles.) 

Marsh (O. C). , The Principal Characters of American Cretaceous Pterodaetyles. 
P. I. The skuH of Pteranodon. Am. Journ. Sc. (3), v. 27, pp. 423-426, 1 pi. 

(Crocodilians.) 

DOLLO (L.). Premiere Note sur les Crocodiliensde Bernissart. Bull. Mus. R. d'Hist, 
Nat. Bclg., v. 2, pp. 309-340, 1 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 671 

(Bhyncliocephalians.) 

Bayer (Franz). Ueber die Extremitaten einer junger Hatteria. Sitzgsber. Akad. 
Wiss. Wien, v. 90, 1. Abth., pp. 237-244, 1 pi. 

(Saurians. ) 

Bedriaga (J. von). Ampliisbsena cinerea Vand. und A. Stranchi v. Bedr. Erster 
Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Doppelschleichen. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 50. Jahrg., 
pp. 23-77, 1 pi. 

B:^RANECK ^E.). Rechercbes eur le d^veloppement des nerfs crdniens chez les Li- 
zards. Eecueil Zool. Suisse, v. 1, pp. 519-603, 4 pi. 

BouLENGER (G. A.). Sjnopsis of the Families of existing Lacertilia. Aun. & 
Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 14, pp. 117-122. 

Chelonians. 

Charbonnel-Salle (L.). Recherches anatomiques et physiologiques sur le m6ca- 
nisme de la respiration chez les Ch^loniens. Ann. Sc. Nat. (6), Zool., v. 15, 20 
pp., 1 pi. 

DoLLO (L.). Premiere Note sur les Ch^loniens de Bemissart. Bull. Mus. R. d'Hist. 
Nat. Belg., v. 3, pp. 63-84. 

Birds. 

{General.) 

Baird (S. F.), T. M. Brewer, and R. Ridgway. The Water Birds of North America. 

Issued in continuation of the publications of the Geological Survey of California. 

.J. D. Whitney. Boston: 1884. (2 vols., 4to. I. ix,537 pp.; II. vi, 552 pp., with 

plain and col. pi.) 
BoGDANOW(M.). Conspectus Avium Imperii Rossici. Petropoli, 1884. (fol., 122pp.) 
Cory (Charles B.). The Birds of Haiti and San Domingo. P. I. Boston: 1884. 

(4to, 5 pp., G pi.) 
CouES (Elliott). Key to North American Birds. Containing a concise account of 

every species of living and fossil bird at present known on the continent north of 

the boundary line between Mexico and the United States, including Greenland. 

Boston: 1884. (8vo, 900 pp., 562 fig.) 
CouES (Elliott) and D. Webster Prentiss. Avifauna Columbiana. Being a list 

of birds ascertained to inhabit the District of Columbia, with the times of arri- 
val and departure of such as are non-residents, and brief notices of habits, &c. 

2 ed. Washington, 1884. (8vo, 133 pp., with 100 woodcuts and 4 maps.) 

[Bull. U. S. Nation. Mus., BuUetin No. 26.] 
Langville (J. H.). Our Birds in their Haunts. A popular treatise on the birds in 

Eastern North America. With comprehensive index. Illustrated. Boston, 1884. 

(8vo.) 
Layard (E. L. ). The Birds of South Africa. A new edition, thoroughly revised and 

augmented by R. B. Sharpe. London : 1884. (8vo, 855 pp., 12 col. pi.) 
Lydekker (Robert). Siwalik Birds. Pal^ontol, Indica, ser. x, v. 3, pp. 18. 
Marchand (Arm. and Albert). Les Poussins des Oiseaux d'Europe ; recueil de 150 

planches d'oiseaux en duvet. V. l,pp. 176 et p. 1-75, Chartres: 1884. (8vo.) 
Olpiie-Galliard (Leon). Contributions h la Faune Oruithologique de I'Europe 

Occidentale. Recueil comprenaut les esp^ces d'oiseaux qui se reproduisent dans 

cette region, etc. Bayonne : Berlin: 1884. (8vo, xxviii, 1-116 pp.) 
Ra]>de (Gustav). Oniis Caucasica. Kassel: 1884. (4to, xi, 592 pp.,26 pL, 1 map.) 
Ridgway (Robert). On a collection of Birds made by Messrs. J. E. Benedict and 

W. Nye, of the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross. Proc. U. S. 

Nat. Mus., V. 7, pp. 172-180. 



672 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Russ (Kaul). Die Webervogel und Widafinken. Ihre Naturgeschichte, Pflege und 

Zucbt. Magdeburg: 1884. (8vo, xiii, 216 pp.) 
Salvadoki (T.). Prodromus Ornithologiae Papuasiae et Moluccarum. XII. Gralla- 

tores. Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, v. 18, pp. 318-337. 
Shufeldt (R. W.). Concerning some of the forms assumed by the patella in Birds. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 7, pp. 324-331. 
WUNDERLICH (Ludwig). Beitriige zur vergleichenden Anatomie und Entwicklungs- 

geschichte des unteren Keblkopfs der Vogel. Nova Acta Acad. Caes. Leop. Carol., 

V. 48, No. 1, 80 pp. 

Periodicals. 

Au-k (The). A Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Editor : J. A. Allen. Associate 
editors: Ell. Coues, Rob. Ridgway, Wm. Brewster, and Mont. Chamberlain. 
(Continuation of the Bull. Nuttall. Ornitholog. Club.) Published for the Ameri- 
can Ornithologists' Union, v. 1 (old ser. v. 9, n. ser. v. 1). Boston: 1884. 
(8vo.) 

Ibis (The). A Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Edited by O. Salvin and Ph. L. 
Sclater. 4 ser., v. 8. London: 1884. (8vo.) 

Zeitschrift fiir die gesamrote Ornithologie. Herausgegeben von Julius von Madarisz. 

1. Jahrg. Budapest, 1884. 

(Saurura.) 

Dames (W.). Ueber Archjjeopteryx. Palaeontol. Abhandl. von Dames und Kayser, v. 

2, 80 pp., Ipl. 

(Batitai, ) 

DoLLO (L.). Note sur la presence du Gastornis Edwardsii, Lemoine, dans Passise 
inf^rieure de l'6tage landenien, h Mesoin, pr^s Mons. Bull. Mus. R. d'Hist. Nat. 
Belg., v. 2, pp. 297-308, 1 pi. 

{GalUnacea.) 

StejNeger (Leonhard). a brief review of the Lagopodes. Zeitschr. f. d. ges. 

Ornithol., 1. Jahrg., pp. 86-92, 1 pi. 
. On the Shedding of the Claws in the Ptarmigan and allied Birds. Am. Nat. 

V. 18, pp. 774-776. 

(Psittad.) 

Sclater (Philip L.). Remarks upon a very singular Habit of one of the Greater 
Vasa Parrots (Coracopsis vasa). Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1884, p. 410. 

( Coccyges. ) 

Dresser (H. E.). A monograph of the Meropidae or family of the Bee-eaters. P. 1, 
2, with 3 col. pi. by Keulemans. London, 1884. (Imp. 4to.) 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Sur les sacs respiratoires du Calao Rhinoceros. 
Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 99, pp. 833-836. 

(GrallcB.) 

Ridgway (Robert). Remarks upon the close relationship between the White and 
Scarlet Ibises (Eudocimus albus and ruber). The Auk, v. 1, pp. 239-240. 

Weldon (W. F. R.). On some points in the Anatomy of Phceni copter us and its 
Allies. . Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1883, pp. 638-652, 2 pi. 

( CypselomorphcB.) 
Green (Joseph R.). The Edible Bird's-Nest. Nature, v. 31, p. 126. 



ZOOLOGY. 673 

(Alece.) , 

BlasiCs (W.). Znr Geschichte der Ueberreste von Alca impennis L. Joum. f. Orni- 
thology, 32. Jahrg., pp. 58-176. 

Mamvtala. 
( General. ) 

Boas (J. E. V.). Ein Beitrag zur Morpliologie der Nagel, Krallen, Hufe, und Klauen 
der Saugethiere. Morphol. Jahrb., v. 9, pp. 389-400, 1 pi. 

Cope (E. D.). The evidence for evolution in the history of the extinct Mammalia. 
Nature, v. 29, pp. 227-230 ; 248-250. 

— . . The Origin of Mammalia. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 1136, 1137. 

Ellknberger (W., editor). Handbnch der vergleichenden Histologie und Physiolo- 
gie der Haussiiugethiere. Fiir Thierarzte and Stndirende bearbeitet von Bon- 
net, Csokor, Elchbaum, etc., herausgegeben von W. EUenberger. V. 1, 1. Tb. 
(Histologie der Haussiiugethiere. 1. Th. mit204Holzschn.) Berlin: 1884. (8vo, 
308 pp.) 

Ercolajji (G. B.). The Reproductive Process : its Histology, Physiology, and Path- 
ology, demonstrating the Unity of the Anatomical Type of the Placenta in all 
the Mammalia and the Physiological Unity of the Nutrition of the Foetus in all 
the Vertebrates. With a quarto atlas of 16 illustrations engraved by Bettini 
and reproduced in heliotype. Translated by H. O. Marey. 2 ed., enlarged and 
revised. Boston, Mass. ; London, 1884. (8vo, 2 vols.) 

Flower (William Henry). Catalogue of the Specimens illustrating the Osteology 
and Dentition of Vertebrated Animals, recent and extinct, contained in the Mu- 
seum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Part II. Class Mammalia, 
other than Man. By William Henry Flower, assisted by J. George Garson. Lon- 
don : 1884. (8vo, xliii, 779 pp.) 

Gegenbaur (Carl). Ueber die Unterzunge des Menschen und der Saugethiere. 
Morphol. Jahrb., v. 9, pp. 428-456, 2 pi. 

Grimm (J.). Atlas der menschlichen und thierischen Haaie sowie der iihnlichen 
Fasergebilde. Fiir die Bediirfnisse der Staatsarzneikunde, des Handels, der 
Techuik und der Landwirthschafc. Mit erklarenden Text von W. Waldeyer. 
Lahr: 1884. (4to, 196, iv pp., 12 pi.) 

KoERNER (Otto). Weitere Beitrage zur vergleichenden Anatomic und Physiologie 
des Kehlkopfs. Abhandl. hrsg. v. d. Seneckenb. Naturf. Ges., v. 13, pp. 261- 
276, 1 pi. 

Leboucq (H.). Recherches sur la morphologie du carpe chez les Mammif^res. 
Arch, de Biol., v. 5, pp. 35-102. 

Leche(W.). Mammalia. (Bronn'sKlassenund Ordnungen.) 27. Lief. Leizpigund 
Heidelberg: 1884. (8vo.) 

Leisering (A. G. T.) and C. MtJLLER. Handbnch der vergleichenden Anatomie der 
Haussiiugethiere. 6. Auflage des E. F. Gurlt'schen Handbuchs der Anatomie. 
Mit 248 Holzschn. Berlin: 1884. (8vo, x,926 pp.) 

Lenz (H. O.). Die Siiugethiere. 6. Auflage berbeitet von Prof. O. Burbach. Gotha : 
Thienemann's Hofbuchhandlung, 1884. (8vo, 717 pp.) 

MCller (Franz). Lehrbuch der Anatomie der Haussaugethiere mit besonderer Be- 
riicksichtigung des Pferdes und mit physiologischeu Bemerkungen. 3. verb. 
Aufl. mit 75 Holzschn. Wien : 1885. (Nov. 1844.) (8vo, xv, 544pp.) 

Parker (W. K.). On Mammalian Descent. The Hunterian Lecturch, 1884; beiug 
nine Lectures delivered in the Theatre of the Royal College of Surgeons during 
Feb., 1884; with Addenda and Illustrations. London: 1884. (8vo, 236pp. 10«. 
6d.) 

Pelzeln (August von). Brasilische Saugethiere. Resultate von Johann Natterer's 
Reisen in den Jahren 1817-1835. Herausgegeben von der k. k. zool.-bot. Gesell- 
schaft. Beiheft zu Band 33. Wieu : 1884. (8vo, 140 jip.) 
S. Mis. 33 43 



674 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Schmidt ^scar). Die Siiugcthiere in ILrein Verbiiltuis zur Vorwelt. Mit 51 Ab- 

bildungen. Leipzig: 1884. (8vo, xii, 280 pp.) 
Sterndale (R. a.). Natural History of the Mammalia of India and Ceylon. With 

170 illustrations by the author, T. W. Wood and others. London : 1884. (8vo, 

582 pp. 18s.) 
WiLCKENS (M.). Uebersicht iiber die Forschungen auf dem Gebiete der Paliionto- 

logie der Hausthiere. 2. Die Pferde des Diluviums. Biol. Centralbl., v. 4, pp. 

294-310; pp. 327-344. 

(Monotremes.) 

Caldwell (H.). Ova of Monotremes; Nature, v. 30, p. 577. 

LuTKEN (Charles V.). On a second' species of Tachyglossus. Proc. Zool. Soc. 

London, 1884, pp. 1.50-1.52. 
s'pENCEK (W. Baldwin). The Eggs of Mouotromcs. Nature, v. 31, pp. 132-135. 

(Marsujnals.) 

Cope (-E. D.). The Tertiary Marsupialia. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 686-697. 

Owen (Sir Richard). On the Skull and Dentition of a Triassio Mammal (Tritylodon 

lougjcvus Ovv. ) from South Africa. Quart. Jouru. Geol. Soc. London, v. 40, pp. 

146-152, 1 pi. 
Poulton (Edward B.). The Structures connected with the Ovarian Ovum of Mar- 

supialia-and Mouotrem.ata. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 24, pp. 118-128, 1 pL 
. On the Tongues of the Marsupialia. Proc. Zool. Soc. Londou, 1883, pp. 

599-628, 2 pi. 

(InsecUvores. ) 

KOBER (J.). Studien iilier Talpa enroi):ea (Fortsetz.). VerhaniU. Nat. Ges. Basel, 
7. Th., pp. 465-484. 

(Creodunts.) 

Cope (E. D.). The Creodonta. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 2.55-267; 344-353 ; 478-485. 

{Eodents.) 

Flower (W. H.). Note on the dentition of a young Capybara (Hydrochoerus capy- 

bara). Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 252-'^53. 
SciiOLOSSER (M.). Die Nager des europaischen Tertiiirs, ncbst Betrachtuugcn iiber 

die Organisation uud die geschichtliche Entwickluug der Nager iiberhauj)t. 

Palseontographica, v. 31. i>p. 19-162, 3 pi. 
True (Frederick W.). On a new Muskrat (Neofiber Alleni) from Florida. Proc. 

U. S. Nat. Mus., V. 7, pp. 170-172. 

( Condylarthrans. ) 
Cope (E. D.). The Condylarthra. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 790-805, pp. 892-906, 3 pi. 

{Amhhjpods.) 
Cope (E. D.). The Amblypoda. Am. Nat., v. 18, pp. 1110-1121, pp. 1102-1202. 

( Ungulates. ) 

Guldberg (G. a.). Undera^gelser over en subfossil flodhest fra Madagascar [Hip- 

popotauius madagascariensis]. Chrlstiania Videnskabsselsk. Forhandl., 1883, 

24 pp., 2 pi. 
Nehring (Alfred). Fossile Pferde aus deutschen Diluvial-Ablagerungen und ihre 

Beziehungeu zu den Icbendon Pferden. Landwirthschaftl. J-ahrbiicher, 1884, 

pp. 81-160, 5 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 675 

NiriiER XFkancis E.). The Evolution of the American Trotting Horse. Trans. 

Acad. Saint Louis, v. 4,i)p. 509-516. 
PowERSCOUKT (Viscount Mervyn). On the Acclimatization of the Japanese Deer 

[Cervus sika]. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1884, pp. 207-209. 
IvLiTiMEYER (Ludwig). Beitriige zu einer natiirlichen Geschichte dor Hirschc. 3. 

Tbeil. Abhandl. d. Schweiz. Palason. Ges., v. 10, 1884, 4to, 120 pp., 6 pi. 
. Studicu zii der Geschichte der Hirschfamilie. II. Gebiss. Vcrhandl. Nat. 

Ges. Basel, v. 7, pp. 399-4(;4. 
ScLATER ^Philip L. ). Przevalski's Wild Horse [Eqnus Przevalskii PoliatolT. Anon. ]. 

Nature, v. 30, pp. 391-392. 
Teller (F. ). Neue Anthracotherienreste aus SUdsteiermark uud Dalmatieu. 

Bcitr. znr Paltcontol. Oesterr.-Ungarns, v 4, pp. 45-134,4 pi. 
Wellauer (F.). Die Ziihne des Riudes und deren Substanzon. Ein Beitrag zur 

Kenutnis derselben nebst Auweisung zur Anfertigung microscopischer Zahn- 

schliffo. Frauenfeld: 1883. (Publ. 1884. 8vo,50 pp., 6 pi.-) 

( Carnivores. ) 

Blasius (Wilhelm). Der japanische Norz, Fcetorius Itatsi (Temm.) in seinen 
Beziehungeu zu den iibrigen Arten der Gattung Fcetorius im Allgemeinen und 
der Uutergattuug Lutrcolai im Besonderen. XIII. Ber. naturf. Ges. Bamberg. 
(Svo, 34 pp.) 

Corneli (R.). Der Fischotter, dessen Naturge8chichte,Jagd und Fang, nebst einer 
Abhandlung iiber den Otterhuud und dessen Gebrauch. Mit 30 Holzschnitten. 
Berlin: 1884. (8vo, vi, 148 pp.) 

Hermes (0.). Ueber das Walross (Trichechus rosmarus) des Berliner Aquarium 
Sitzgsber. Ges. Nat. Fr. Berlin, 1884, pp. 67-70. 

NicOLS (A.). Natural History Sketches among the Carnivora, Wild and Domesti- 
cated ; -with Observations on their Habits and Mental Faculties. Illustrated by 
J. T. Nettleship, C. E. Brittan, and T. W. Wood. London: 1834. (Svo, 242 pp. 

5s. ) 

(Primates.) 

Edwards (Alpiioxse Milne). Sur la disposition des enveloppes fcetales de I'Ayt 

Aye. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc. Paris, v. 99, pp. 265-267. 
Hai'.tman (Robert). Le Scimmie antropomorfe e la loro organizzazioue in cod 

liouto con qnelhi dell' uomo. Versione di Giac. Cattaueo. Milano, 1884. (8vc 

xiv,320pp.) 
ROHON (Joseph Victor). Zur Anatoraie der Hirnwindungeu bei den Primaten. 

Miinchen : 1884. (4to, 42 pp., 2 pi.) 
Sutton (J. B.). On the Diseases of Monkeys in the Society's Gardens. Proc. Zool. 

Soc. London, 1883, pp. 581-586. 

( Cetaceans. ) 

Flowep> ( W. H. ). On the Characters and Divisions of the family DelphinidjB. Proc. 

Zool. Soc. Loudon, 1883, ])p. 466-513. 
I^OUTHWELL (Thomas). Bidental Skulls of the Narwhal. The Zoologist (3), v. 8, p. 

141. 
TuLLBERG (Tycho). Ban uud Entwicklung der Barten bei Balajnoptera Sibbaldii 

Nova Acta Reg. Soc. Sc. Ui)8al., ser. iii, 36 pp., 7 pi. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The summary of progress in Anthropology for 1884 will contain the 
titles of many illustrious works in every department of the science. 

The programme of anthropology has been admirably sketched by 
Professor Flower in his anniversary address before the Anthropological 
Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 

'' One of the great difficulties with regard to making anthropology a 
special subject of study and devoting a special organization to its pro- 
motion, is the multifarious nature of the branches of knowledge com- 
prehended under the title. Anthropology, as now understood, treats 
of mankind as a whole. It investigates his origin and his relations to 
the rest of the universe. It involves the aid of the science of zoology, 
comparative anatomy, and physiology ; and the wider the range of 
knowledge met with in other regions of natural structure, and the more 
abundant the terms of comparison known, the less risk there will be of 
error in attempting to estimate the distinctions and resemblances be- 
tween man and his nearest allies, and fixing his place in the zoological 
scale. Here we are drawn into contact with an immense domain of 
knowledge, including a study of all the laws which modify the condi- 
tions under which organic bodies are manifested. Furthermore, it is 
not only with man's bodily structure and its relation to that of the lower 
animals that we have to deal : the moral and intellectual side of his 
nature finds its rudiments in them also, and the difficult study of com- 
parative psychology is an important factor in any complete system of 
anthropology. 

" The study of ' prehistoric archaeology,' as it is commonly called, in- 
vestigates the origin of all human culture, endeavoring to trace to their 
common beginning the streams of all our arts, customs, and history, 
knowledge of the origin and development of particular existing cus- 
toms, throws immense light upon their real nature and importance, and, 
conversely, it is often only from a profound acquaintance with the 
present, or comparatively modern, manifestations of culture that we 
are able to interpret the slight indications afforded us by the scanty 
remains of primitive civilization. Even the more limited subject of 
ethnology must be approached from many sides, and requires for its 

677 



678 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

cultivation knowledge derived from sciences so diverse, and requiring 
such difi'erent mental attributes and systems of training as scarcely 
ever to be found combined in one individual. The difi'erential charac- 
ters of the groups or races of mankind, are : 

" 1. Structural or anatomical characters. 

" 2. The mental and moral characters by which races are distinguished. 

" 3. Language. 

"4. Social customs, including habitations, dress, arms, food, cere- 
monies, beliefs, laws. 

"The subject of ethnography, or the discrimination and description of 
race characteristics, is perhaps the most practically important of the 
various branches of anthropology." 

The following works of general import were issued in this country 
during the past year : 

" The Second Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1880-'81, by J. W. Powell, 
Director," this year issued from the Government press, bearing the date 
of 1883. The volume is uniform in appearance with the first, and con- 
tains xxxvii-477 pages, 77 plates, 714 figures, and 2 maps. The follow- 
ing is the table of contents : Report of the Director, pp. xv-xxxvii ; 
Zuiii Fetiches, by F. A. Gushing, pp. 9-46; Myths of the Iroquois, by 
Erminnie A. Smith, pp. 47-116; Animal Carvings from the Mounds of 
the Mississippi Valley, by H. W. Henshaw, pp. 117-166 ; Navajo Sil- 
versmiths, by Dr. Washington Matthews, pp. 179-306; Art in Shell 
of the Ancient Americans, by W. H. Holmes, pp. 185-305. Catalogue 
of Collections, &c., by James Stevenson, pp. 307-422 ; Catalogue of 
Collections, by James Stevenson, pp. 425-466. 

The Director's report reviews the work of the Bureau, with comments 
upon the papers published in the volume. 

3Ir. Cushing discusses the subject of fetiches in general, but devotes 
the most of his paper to a very interesting explanation of the hunter 
gods of the north, south, east, west, above, below. 

Mrs. Smith's chapter is a collection of Iroquois myths, taken partly 
from literature, but mostly from the lips of the' Indians by the writer. 

Mr. Henshaw reviews the works of Squier and Davis, as a naturalist, 
to show that the suggestions of the mound pipes and other carvings 
existed in the Mississippi Valley, and none of the animals represented 
are tropical. 

Dr. Matthews, while serving on the frontier, employed a jS^avajo silver- 
smith to make some jewelry, watching him, and reporting every step 
in the process. 

Mr. Holmes's paper relates especially to the use of shells by the 
ancient mound-builders, the most interesting chai)ter being devoted to 
carved gorgets resembling in ornamentation Aztec specimens. 

Colonel Stevenson gives an account of a year's collecting, his cata- 
logue being illustrated with numerous cuts. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 670 

The American Autifiuarian continues to be tlie only periodical in 
America devoted entirely to a department of anthropology. 

The Sixteenth and Seventeentli Annual Reports of the Trustees of the 
Peabody Museum, forming ¥os. 3 and 4 of Vol. Ill, contain the fol- 
lowing anthropological papers : 

Sixteenth report of the curator. 

List of additions to the museum and library. 

Social and political position of women among the Huron -Iroquois 
tribes, by Lucien Carr, assistant curator. 

Human remains from caves in Coahuila, Mexico, by C. A. Studley. 

The White Buffalo Festival of the Uncpapas. by Alice C. Fletcher. 

The Elk Mystery of the Ogallala, by Alice C. Fletcher. 

Ceremony of the- Four Winds, by the Sanlee Sioux, by Alice C. 
Fletcher. - 

The Shadow or Ghost Lodge, an Ogallala ceremony, by Alice C. 
Fletcher. 

The Pipe Dance of the Omahas, by Alice C. Fletcher. 
Seventeenth report of the curator, with lists of additions. 

Report on Meteoric Iron from Mounds, by R. P. Kennicott, Ph. D. 

The curator's report gives a flattering account of the work of the mu- 
seum in 1884. In addition to the usual appropriation the sum of $3,350 
was subscribed for arcli?eological research in America. 

Professor Putnam gives a reaume of su(;cessful exi)lorations in the 
shell-heaps of Maine and in the mounds of Tennessee and Ohio. The 
explorations at Madisonville, Ohio, especially, were of the mostthorough 
character, and the results were in many respects new to American 
archteology. 

Mr. Carr takes the ground tbat woman among the Huron-Iroquois 
Indians was not the drudge she is commonly represented to be, but 
had only her fair share of labor, and great influence in the councils of 
the tribe. 

Miss Studley gives an account of the osteological collections from four 
caves in the limestone formation in the State of Coahuila, Mexico, col- 
lected in 1880 by Dr. Edward Palmer. 

Miss Fletcher describes the festival given to the man who among the 
Uncpapas has the good fortune to kill a white bufialo ; tlie Santee cere- 
mony of seeking the black stone or the raven ; symbols of the four 
winds; and the Ogallala-Sioux custom of keeping a ghost lodge for 
deceased kinsfolk. 

By far the most important things found by Professor Putnam, in the 
altar of the Turner mound, were several pieces of meteoric iron and 
ornaments made of this metal. Dr. Kennicott gives an analysis of this 
iron at the close of the report. 

M. D<?sire Charnay published in a quarto volume the results of his 
explorations under the patronage of Pierre Lorillard. 



680 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

The international geographical exposition at Toulouse included an 
authropological section, with the following subdivisions : 

(1) Anthropology. — Crania, skeletons, anatomical preparations, fig- 
ures, and busts. 

(2) Demography. — Statistics, graphic methods, charts, «&c. 

(3) Prehistorics. — Human remains, quaternary fauna and flora, arms, 
utensils, &c., charts, books, reproductions, views, &c. 

(4) Ethnology and ethnography. — Lay figures, illustrations of the ori- 
gin, crosses, character, cults, manners, and industries of peoples. 

(5) Linguistics. — Geographical distribution and filiation of languages, 
patois, books, globes, charts, tables. 

(6) Societies. — Publications, aj^paratus of demonstration, programmes 
of courses, instructions, plans of museums and laboratories. 

The Academy of l^^atural Sciences in Philadelphia has created a chair 
of ethnology and archaeology, and appointed Dr. Daniel G. Brinton 
professor. 

Two works continue to be issued from the Surgeon-General's Office in 
Washington of which the value is incalculable to anthropologists — the 
Index-Catalogue and the Index-Medicus. The former is a classified list 
of the literature in the great library of the Surgeon-General, and the 
latter is a monthly classified bibliography of the medical literature of 
the world. 

Three volumes in the series of H. H. Bancroft appeared: the first of 
the history of California forms volume xviii of the series ; the first and 
second of the history of the Northwest Coast form volumes xxvii and 
XXVIII of the series. 

The Dictionnaire des Sciences Authropologiques completed its first 
volume, and two numbers of the second volume appeared during the 
year. 

"In Eussia," says L'Homme, "there are eight universities: Peters- 
bourg, Moscow, Kief, Kharkof, Kazan, Odessa, Dorpat, and Varsovie. 
The professors number 385. Among the chairs lately created in each 
university there is to be a professor of geography and ethnography." 

Among the English visitors at the British Association in Montreal 
was Prof. E.B. Tylor, who took occasion to visit Washington and the 
Pueblos. Three addresses were delivered by Mr. Tylor, all of them 
worthy of thoughtful attention, ujion sociological topics in aboriginal 
and civilized America. 

THE ORIGIN OF MAN. 

No progress seems to have been made during 1884 towards settling 
the question of the place, time, or conditions of man's origin. The 
conference of the anthropological section of the Association Frangais 
at Blois reveals a multiplicity of opinions, not only respecting the dis- 
coveries of Abbe Bourgeois, but M. Mortillet has wrested the case 
altogether from human hands and given it to Anthropopithecus. This 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 681 

will not do; the word was pre-empted by Blainville for a genus of 
Simiinae, and we should rather say Pithecanthropos. But what ignis 
fatuus are we pursuing that becomes man or ape, according as geolo- 
gists say man shall or shall not appear in the Miocene? If the flints of 
Thenay are artificially wrought, that is man's work, whether it was 
done in Eocene or post-Pliocene. Even then we are far from the first 
man, who did not imbibe knowledge of flint dressing with his mother's 
milk. 

ARCHAEOLOGY. 

A permanent contribution to archaeological and proto-historic litera- 
ture is the work of Dr. Charles Eau, on prehistoric fishing, forming part 
of Vol. XXV of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. The au- 
thor divides his treatise into two parts,, the first relating to Europe, the 
second to America. An appendix gives extracts fro^ the early writers, 
Egede, Crantz, Lloyd, de Laet, de Champlain, Sagard Theodat, Le 
Jeune, Charlevoix, Henry, Hearne, Mackenzie, Williams, Johnson, Ogil- 
by, Josselyn, Vander Donck, Kalm, Morgan, Loskiel, DeBry, John 
Smith, Beverly, Lawson, Brickell, Adair, Du Pratz, Wyeth, Catlin, 
Powers, Stone, Dunn, Swan, Meares, Captain Cook, and Captain King. 

In the discussion of European fishiug, a chronological order is fol- 
lowed. Of the Palaeolithic Age, the drift period furnishes no relics of 
fishing implements, the cave period contributes fish-hooks, harpoon- 
heads, and fish remains. The Neolithic and the Bronze Ages, in all 
their periods, are rich in the evidences of great activity in this industry. 
The second part of the volume, relating to North America, is divided 
into chaj)ters by subjects : Fishing implements, boats, and appurte- 
nances ; prehistoric structures connected with fishiug ; representations 
of aquatic animals on pipes, &c. ; and artificial shell deposits. 

In the month of November, 1883, some workmen brought to Dr. Anton 
Fritsch, from the clay behind the brewery at Podbaba, near Prague, 
the remains of a human skull. It was taken from undisturbed brick 
clay (loess) two meters thick, lying under one meter of dense loam, and 
at the same level at which, about a week previously, a tusk of the mam- 
moth had been obtained. The skull consists of the frontal bone, the 
whole left parietal, a fragment of the right as well as a part of the left 
temporal bone, with the petrous. The comparison of this skull with a 
modern normal one reveals a low arch, a forehead slope of 50°, strongly 
developed eyebrows, as in the Neanderthal skull. In the layer above 
that containing this skull are found skeletons and artefacts of the 
Bronze Age, while in the loess occur remains of the mammoth. Rhinoc- 
eros tichorhihus, reindeer, and horse. Professor Schaafihausen is of the 
opinion that there is not enough of the skull remaining to justify definite 
conclusions. 

The horse has been so long associated with man that its history is 
considered to be necessary to a study of human environment. The 
horses, which constitute the genus Equus of Linnaeus, and are the sole 



682 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

representatives of tlie family EqitidcVj fall into two sul)geiiera, Equvy, 
and Asinus. Of the subgenus Asimis the best-known species are (1) the 
wild ass of Upper Nubia {Equus twmopus), probably the origin of the 
domestic assj (2) the wild ass of Persia and Kutch {E. onager); (3) the 
hemippe, or wild ass of the Syrian desert •(^. hemippus)) (i) the kiang, 
or wild ass of Thibet {E. hemionus)', (5) the quagga {E. qnagga) of 
South Afdca; (C) the Burchells zebra {E. bnrchelU) of Southern and 
Eastern Africa; (7) the zebra (J5J. zebra) of Southern Africa. No recent 
species of horse referable to the subgenus Equus was known until 
Prjevalskey on his third great journey to Central Asia brought back to 
St. Petersburg an example of a new species of wild horse. This ani- 
mal was described in 1881 in a Kussian journal by J. S. Poliatow and 
named Equus prjevalsMi. There are some asinine characteristics about 
the animal, but the preponderance of characters is towards the horse. 
(Nature, August 21.) 

Miss Frances E. Babbitt has succeeded in shifting the interest with 
regard to glacial man from New Jersey to Minnesota. The investigation 
was conducted with the greatest care, and the result now depends ui)on 
two* considerations ; the geological age of the bed, and the human work- 
manship upon the objects. 

The report of Mr. Bandelier upon his archaeological studies among 
the pueblos of New Mexico in 1881 was printed during the year, and is 
a permanent contribution to our literature upon that subject. His results 
are based upon careful and extended measurements. 

The Stone Age in China is a new inquiry, and should lead to good 
results. Mr. Mark Williams announces that from Kalgan to Yiicho, 
100 miles south, are ancient mounds in clusters on the plain, or singly 
on eminences. They are about 30 feet high, circular or oval in shape. 
At Kalgan is a group of forty mounds. The Kalgan mounds, 110. miles 
west of Peking, have been investigated by Dr. Joseph Edkins. 

The Marquis de Nadaillac follows up his volume on prehistoric Amer- 
ica with a compilation of what has been written upon the antiquity of 
man on our continent, and an essay on the latest writings respecting 
the mound-builders and the modern Indians. But the most remarka- 
ble production of the last-named topic is th/it of Dr. Emil Schmidt on 
the mound-builders and their relation to modern Indians, published in 
Kosmos (Leipzig). In the same line are the papers of Carr, Henshaw, 
Thomas, Royce, and Brintou. 

The first volume of the celebrated work, Mexico d traves los Siglos, 
was prepared by Alfred Chavero. The volume comprises the ancient 
history from prehistoric times till the capture of the city of Mexico by 
Ilernan Cort(S«, and is composed of the following parts : 

Introduction : Comprising a review of all the sources of Mexican his- 
tory, and an extensive bibliography of Mexican and foreign works on 
its antiquities, and on all the unpublished hieroglyphics and manuscript 
documents which are known. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Booh 1. — Prehistoric timcfi : Comprising- antliropological researches, 
cosmogonic traditious, the autoclitliouic race, the origins of civilization 
iu the south and in the north, *. e., ^^ maya-Jciche^^ and ^^naoha," primi- 
tive monuments, hmguages, religions, customs, &c. 

Boole 2. — The ^'■Meca,^'' comprising the various emigrations of this 
X)eriod, the change of civilization, &c. 

Booh 3. — The " Tdlteca,^^ comprising the history of all the contempo- 
raneous nations, the new civilization, new customs, new monuments, &c. 

Boo1c_4:. — The '■'■ Mexica^^'' comprising the Aztec migration, the history 
of the Anahuac people, and of the nations related to them, with a special 
treatise on their sociology. 

Booli 5. — Greatness and downfall of Mexico, comprising the Con- 
quest. 

Two works on Japanese prehistoric archaiology appeared in 1884, 
composed, printed, and illustrated by natives. The impetus to this 
work was tirst given by Professor Morse in his explorations among the 
Omori shell-heaps. The two volumes just mentioned arrest the atten- 
tion both by the similarity of humbler forms and ornamentation with 
the same classes iu America, and by the existence of higher forms 
(juite different from American. If this has any bearing upon the ques- 
tion of ethnic contact, it speaks against rather than for the theory. 
(See " Jijima" and " Kanda" in the bibliography.) 

BIOLOGY. 

The final agreement of the German anthropologists upon a method 
of cranial measurement has been reviewed during the year by Dr. J. G. 
Garson. After a careful study of the code, the conclusion is reached 
that the importance of the following measurements (numbered the same 
as in.the text of the agreement) has been recognized, and the method of 
making them is now agreed upon generally: 

Bi-jugal breadth. 
Bi-zygomatic breadth. 
Interorbital breadth. 
Heiglit of nose. 
Breadth of nose. 
Orbital breadth. _ 
Orbital height. 
Basioalveolar lenath. 



Infra-jugal face-width. 

Maximum horizontal orbital breadth. 

Vertical height of orbits. 

Palatal length. 

Palatal breadth. 

Posterior palatine breadth, . 

Profile angle. 



2. 


Maximum length. 


17a 


4. 


Maximum breadth. 


18. 


5. 


Maximum frontal breadth. 


ISrt 


7. 


Height (basio-bregmatic). 


21. 


10. 


Basio-nasal length. 


22. 


12. 


Length of foramen magnum. 


2:?. 


i:). 


Breadth of foramen magnum. 


25. 


15. 


Fronto-occipital arc. 


30. 


The following measures are deem 


ed u 


1. 


Horizontal length. 


\n 


G. 


Total height. 


24. 


8. 


Ear-height. 


26. 


9. 


Auxiliary ear-height. 


27. 


11. 


Basilar length. 


28. 


\?.a 


Bi-mastoid width. 


29. 


W). 


Breadth of skull-l)asc. 


•n. 


IG. 


Transverse vertical arc. 





684 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 



At the fourteenth general meeting of fhe German Anthropological 
Society, Dr. Johannes Ranke presented a bronze skull which counter- 
feited as near as possible the human cranium, and could be subjected 
to the same measurements. Moreover it could be filled with water, and 
its exact contents determined. Copies of this bronze skull were sent 
to the most distinguished cranioscopists throughout the world, for the 
purpose of testing their methods. 

At the fifteenth meeting in Breslau, some of the results of various 
craniometric processes were reported as follows: 

The true cubage of the bronze skull is 1,316.4 cubic cemtimeters. 



Kumber of measurement. 



1 (minimum) . 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 (maximnm) 

Average 

Minimum 

Maxiiuum 

Difference 

Do 

Do 



Von Holder 
(with beads). 



1,311 
1. 312 
1,317 
1.319 
1,319 
1,320 
1,320 
1,321 
1,321 
1,323 

1, 318. 2 

1,311 

1,323 
+1.8 
-7.2 
+6.6 



S^baaffhausen 
(with millet). 



1,300 
1, 30,5 
1,305 
1,315 
1, 315 
1,315 
1,320 
1, 320 
1,320 
1, 325 

1, 314. 3 

1,300 

1,325 

-2.1 
-16.4 

+8.6 



Virchow 
(small shot). 



1,300 
1,310 
1,320 
1, 320 
1,320 



1,314.0 

1,300 

1,320 

-2.4 

-16.4 

+3.6 



Dr. Emil Schmidt and Dr. Johannes Ranke subsequently measured 
a bronze skull, whose true cubage is 1,344.5 cubic centimeters, with the 
following result: 



J. BanJce. — Millet in 2,000 cubic centi- 



meter vessel. 

1. 

2 

3. 

4. 

5. 



1,340 
1,340 
1,345 
1,347 
1, 350 



E. Schmidt. — Shot with Broca's method. 
Schmidt's adaptation 1,337-1,338. Dif. 
— 6.5 to — 7.5 without adaptation, iilini- 
mum 1.421; diiference 76.5 cubic centime- 
ters. 



Average 1,344.4; difference ...—0.1 

Minimum .. 1,340 ; difference ...—4.5 
Maximum . . 1, 350 ; difference . . . -j-5. 5 

Dr. Ranke made five experiments with the bronze skull by Broca's 
method, giving average 1,345.3 cubic centimeters, minimum 1,343.3, 
maximum 1,347. This was the best result of all. 

The British Association Anthropometric Committee. — In 1875 the Brit- 
ish Association appointed a committee on anthropometry, of which Dr. 
William Farr was chairman until 1878. The reports of the committee 
are as follows : 1878, 5 p., Annual Report 182-6; 1879, 35 p., ibid. 175- 
209; 1880, 41 p., ibid. 120-159; 1881, 48 p., iftrV/. 225-272; 1882, 3 p., 
iUd. 278-280 ; 1883, final report, 54 p., separate. The points to which 

Ij stature ; 2, weight ; 3, chest girth ; 



inquiries were addressed are; 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



685 



4, color of eyes; 5, color of hair; 6, breathing capacity; 7, strength of 
arm; 8, sight; 9, span of arms; 10, size and shape of head; 11, lower 
limbs ; 12, measures of other parts of the body. These measures were 
applied to the different elements of the mixed population of Great 
Britain and compared with those of other parts of the world. The 
stature is shown in the following table: 



Eace or nationality. 



I 



f Samoa 1. 853 

I Tahiti and Pitcairn 1.782 

■D«i^..„;„., J Marquesas 1.763 

Polynesian. <^ New Zealand 1. 755 

I Polynesians 1.753 

I Sandwich 1.731 

English professional class 

C 1 778 
Patagonians < ,' .^oq 

Angamis (Naga hills) 

Negroes (Congo) 

Scotch 

Amakosa Kaffirs 

Iroquois Indians 

Todas (Nilghiries) 

Negroes (Calabar) 

North American Indians 

Irish 

United States whites 

English • 

Norwegians 1.727 

Norwegians, immigrants, United States 1. 717 

Zulus , 

English laborers 

Canadians. United States, French immigrants 

Tajiks of Feyhana and Samarkand 

Swedes, United States, immigrants 

Chippeway Indians 

Kahvles 

Welsh 

Danes, United States, immigrants 

Dutch, United States, immigrants 

American negroes 

English, United States, immigrants 

Hungarians .* 

English Jews , 

Germans, United States, immigrants 

Swiss of Geneva 

Swiss, United States, immigrants 

Russians, United States, immigrants 

Belgians 

French. United States, immigrants 

Poles, United States, immigrants 

French upper classes 

Germans 

Mexicans 

Berbers of Algeria 

Arabs , 

Usbeks of Ferghana and Samarkand 

Javanese 

Persians 

Italians, United States, immigrants 

South American immigrants , 

Australians (aborig.) , 

Austrian Sclaves 

Galchas, Iranian mountaineers 

Spaniards, United States, immigrants 

Berbers of Aleeria 

Portuguese, United States, immigrants 

Ainos , 

Austrian Germans 

French working classes 

Eskimo, North America 

Hungarian (military statistics) 

Caucasians ' , 

New Guinea 

Hindoos 

Bavarians 

Eutheniana 



Authority. 



La Perouse 

Gamot, Beeohey 

Porter, Cook, &o 

Various 

Wilkes, Novara 

Lesson, RoUin 

Anthrop. Com 

Musters 

D'Orbigny 

Woodthorp 

Topinard 

Anthrop Com 

Sir A. Smith 

Gould 

Marshall 

Topinard 

Baxter 

Anthrop. Com 

Baxter 

Anthrop. Com 

Beddoe 

Baxter 

Roberts 

Anthrop. Com 

Baxter 

Ujfalvy 

Baxter, Beddoe 

Oliver 

Topinard 

Anthrop. Com 

Baxter 

Baxt«r 

Baxter 

Baxter 

Baxter 

Anthrop. Com 

Baxter 

Dunant 

Baxter 

Baxter 

Quetelet 

Baxter 

Baxter 

De Quatrefages 

No\T[ra 

Baxter 

Topinard 

"Various 

Ujfalvy 

Novara 

Shuiz 

Baxter 

Baxter 

Various 

Novara 

Ujfalvy 

Baxter 

Topinard 

Baxter 

Rosky 

Novara 

Pe Quatrefages 

Various 

Scheiber and Beddoe. . 

Shortt 

Various 

Shortt 

Novara 

Majer and Kopemioki . 



Meters. 



1.762 



1.754 

1.754 
1.752 
1.746 
1.741 
1.785 
1.727 
1.727 
1. 726 
1.725 
1.719 
1.719 

1.719 

1.707 
1.705 
1.703 
1.705 
1.700 
1.700 
1.699 
1.695 
1.694 
1.693 
1.693 
1. 692 
1. 692 
1.692 
1.691 
1.688 
L687 
1.687 
L687 
1.683 
1.682 
1.681 
1.680 
1.680 
1.680 
1.679 
1.679 
1.679 
1.678 
1.677 
1.675 
1.669 
1.669 
1.668 
1.663 
1.666 
1.663 
1.660 
1.658 
1.657 
1.654 
1.652 
1.650 
1.646 
1.645 
1.643 
1.640 



Feet and 
inches. 



5 9.14 



686 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1884. 



Kace or nationality. 



Authority. 



Meters. 



Feet and 
inches. 



Dravidians 

Cingalese 

Austrian Konmanians 

Chinese 

Italian conscripts 1.620 

Fuegians 

Polish jews 

Poles 



Finns (Beddoe, 5 feet 5.81 inches) 

Papuans 

Japanese 

A jmaras, Peru 

Pern vians 

(.'ochin Chinese 

Malays 

Veddas of Ceylon 

Lapps 



Andamanese 

Aetas 

Semangs 

Mincopese 

Bogjesman 

Differences between the tallest and the shortest. 
Average stature of man 



Shortt 

Davy 

Novara 

Novara 

An. di Statist. 1879 

Kovara 

Mayerand Koperniclci. 
Mayer and Kopemicki. 

Xovaia 

Various 

Mrs. Ayrton 

Forbes 

D'Orbigny 

Finlay.son . ..; 

Rafil('8, Crawfurd, &c . 

Bailey 

Horch 

Man 

Do Quatrefages 

De Quatrefages 

De Quatrefages 

Various 



1.639 
1.638 
1.631 
1. 630 
1. 626 
1. 625 
1. 623 
1. 622 
1.617 
1.606 
1.604 
1.601 
1.600 
1.593 
1.583 
1. 536 
1.500 
1.492 
1.482 
1.448 
1. 436 
1.341 
.421 
1.658 



4.54 
4.48 
4. .37 
4.17 
4.00 
3.98 
3.88 
3.87 
3. CO 
3.20 
3.11 
3.00 
3.00 
2.70 
2.34 
0.42 
11.2 
10.7 
10.3 
9.0 
8. .53 
4.78 
4.55 
5.25 



One of the raost importaDt contributions to ethnic anatomy during 
the year is that of Prof. W. H. Flower, on the size of teeth as a char- 
acter of race. As a test of the size of the teeth, the length in a straight 
line (as measured with a sliding compass) of the crowns of the five upper 
molar teeth, in situ between the anterior surface of the first premolar 
and posterior surface of the third molar, is called dental length {d). The 
standard of length, as indicating the general size of the cranium, is the 
craniofacial axis (B N), the distance between the nasion (nasofrontal 
suture), and basion (middle of anterior ridge of foramen magnum). In 
the average male skull the length is very nearly 100"""; in the female, 
95. Between the basio-uasal length and the dental length ^n index can 



be established on the formula i^ -vt = the dental index. 



The 



j^-j^T — «»^ uvntuv vnucu.. ^ u^, average 

indices range from 40-48; general average, 43. The following series 
will be convenient in the study of races: 

Microdont, below 42. 

Mesodont, between 42 and 44. 

Migadont, above 44. 

Professor Fowler's table for the apes is as follows : 



Animals. 



BN 



Index. 



Average, 
both sexes. 



Male gorilla, average of 3 

Female gorilla, average of 3 

Malf chiinpanzfe, average of 3... 
Femalii cliinipanzce. average of 3. 

Male orang, average of 4 . 

Female orang, average of 2 

Male siamang, 1 



124.0 
108.7 
96.7 
88.3 
109.2 
90.0 
79.0 



63.0 
63.3 
46 
42.7 
58.0 
51. 5 
33.0 



50.8 
57.3 
47.6 
48.1 
53.1 
.57.2 
41.7 



|54. ] 



5.5. 2 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



687 



Ba«es. 





•§ • 


^ 




i 1 










'd 




"S 


m 


■« 


.9 














SI'S 

s ^ 


i 
< 




1 
1 


d" 


20 


100.0 


41.0 


41.0 


9 


13 


95.0 


39.5 


41.6 


r^ 


52 


101.3 


41.0 


40.5 


9 


14 


95.1 


39.6 


41.6 


W 


7 


101.4 


41.4 


40.8 


9 


8 


95.9 


39.5 


41.2 


d- 


22 


105. 3 


42.2 


40.1 


d- 


42 


99.5 


41.2 


41.4 


d" 


12 


98.8 


42.1 


42.6 


d 


31 


99.2 


42.5 


42.8 


d" 


70 


99.7 


43.2 


. 43.3 


d' 


44 


103.0 


44.5 


43.2 


9 


26 


97.9 


43.6 


44.6 


d" 


21 


102.3 


45.2 


44.2 


d 


9 


94.4 


41.9 


44.4 


9 


8 


88.8 


41.2 


46.5 


d" 


22 


102. 5 


45.9 


44.8 


9 


14 


95.5 


44.0 


46.1 


d- 


9 


100.0 


47.5 


47.5 


9 


4 


95.5 


46.5 


48.7 



MICRODONT RACES. 

British ^ 

Do 

Mixed Europe, not British 

Do 

Ancient Egyptians 

Do...: 

Polynesians, chiefly Sandwich Islands* 
Low Caste, Central and Southern India 

MESODONT aACES. 

Cljinese 

American Indians of all parte 

Malays, Java, Sumatra 

African negroes of all parts * 

Do 

MEGADONT RACES. 

Melancsians of various islands 

Andaroaneso t 

Do 

Australians 

Do 

Tasnianians 

Do 



1 41. 3 
1 41.1 



■43.9 



J45.5 
^8.1 



* This index is reduced by the length of basis oranii. 

t The relative, not the actual, size of teeth makes them Megadont. 

Mr. Natbauiel Alcock has advanced a curious theory about the black- 
ness of the tropical man. The gist of this theory is, that the pigment 
of the negro skin offers an impediment to the undue excitation of the 
nervous system by the actinic rays of light. 

Considerable interest has been excited by a physiological paper of 
Dr. Clevenger upon the disadvantages of the upright position. Assum- 
ing that man once progressed on all fours, it is shown that the valves 
in the veins facilitated the return of blood to the heart. But in the up- 
right position there are certain veins in which such return is rather im- 
peded, producing hemorrhoids and other disorders. 

One of the most practical investigations now going on is that which 
essays to bring into some relation measurement of the living and of 
the skeleton. Dr. Paul Topinard, while finding the most satisfactory 
jigreement between these two measures, has discovered that in some 
respects, notably in the nasal index, the living subject gives better 
ethnic results. 

PSYCHOLOGY. 



Comparative psychology has received an important addition in the ef- 
fovtn of Sir John Lubbock to teach a dog to understand card language 
and to communicate his wishes in the same manner. Dr. P. A. Chad- 
bourne, of IS^ew York, ha^evived the study of what is called instinct in 
animals, comparing it with the mental powers of man. The scrutiny of 



688 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

animal mind is useful to the comparative psychologist in two ways : It 
enables him to trace the dividing line between human thinking and ani- 
m-al thinking, and it affords the opportunity of watching the movements 
of thought in its humblest manifestations. Another very fertile field of 
anthropological study is child mind. Mr. T. S. Clouston publishes in 
Edinburgh Health Society's Journal, a paper on the growth and devel- 
opment of a child in body and mind. Again, the Italian psychologists 
excel in the study of the delinquent classes — examining their brains es- 
pecially to find out what are the anatomical concomitants of depravity 
and insanity, and also, if possible, to approach the cradle of our race. 
But really, psychology is a science of the future. The Society for 
Psychical Eesearch devotes its time to ghosts, spirit rappings, mind 
reading, rhabdomancy, &c. This is well enough, and such things as 
exert an influence on masses of people should be studied. But the so- 
ciety for ijsychical research that we would encourage is one in which 
thousands, or at least hundreds, of individuals should sit down beside 
the simplest mental phenomena until they understand them. I^o doubt, 
good results will come from the study of telepathy, and Science does 
well to publish the account of all such researches. Th« American Nat 
uralist also continues to publish in a separate department the manifesta- 
tions of animal intelligence. 

ETHNOLOGY. 

E. F. im Thurn contributes to Timehri many interesting articles on 
the ancient inhabitants of British Guiana. His greatest work is a vol- 
ume entitled "Among the Indians of Guiana," in which the following 
tribal names occur : 

Branch or stock. 

Ackawoi Carib. 

Amaripas Wapiana. 

Arawaks Arawak. 

^^^"^'^ ; Carib. 

Arecuma ) 

Atarois Wapiaua . 

^^"^^^^^ Carib. 



Caribs 

Carinya Cariba, call themselves ^cop^e. 

Cobrungrus, hybrids between Indians and Negroes. 

Daurais, same as Atarois. 

Engaricos, hybrids between Macusis and Arecnnas. 

Kapohn Ackawois, call themselves peo^'^*- 

Lokono Arawaks, call themselves jjeqpZe. 

Macusi Carib. 

Maiongkongs beyond the British border. 

Maopityans, unclassed. 

Nikarikarus, hybrids between Macusis and Brazilians^ 

Paramona J gQb-tribe of Ackawoi Carib. 

Fartaraona ) 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 689 

Pianoyhotto, sub-tribe of Macusi.. Carib. 

Piriana beyond the British border. 

Pshavaco, hybrids, 

Tariima, common vocabulary with Moapityans. 

Taurais, same as Atarois. 

Waccawai, same as Ackawoi. 

Wapiana Wapiana. 

Warrau Warrau. 

Woruma, hybrids. 

Woyowai, only the name is known. 

Zurumutas, sub-tribe of Macusi Carib. 

Bessels has made an interesting addition to our knowledge of the Es- 
kimo in his chapter on the northernmost inhabitants of the earth, whom 
he calls the Itanese. 

The opinion is gaining ground that the present Eskimo are the sur- 
vivors of a very ancient stock once spread much farther south on this 
continent, and, according to some, dwelling in the caves of France. 
Professor Dawkins is commonly regarded as the apostle of this theory, 
and has published a paper in JUature upon the subject. 

Dr. Otto StoU's volume on the ethnography of the Eepublic of Gua- 
temala is an excellent guide-book to the tribes of that country. Com- 
parative vocabularies are given, as well as a colored chart showing the 
tribes, and a dissected chart exhibiting the affiliations of the different 
branches of the stock. 

Von Hellwald's Natural History of Man has added twelve numbers 
during the year. Prof. A. H. Keane has brought this work to the notice 
of English readers in his appendices to Sanford's Compendiums. 

The same gentleman contributes to Nature, of January 24, 1884, a 
paper on the Egyptian Sudan and its inhabitants, an abstract of which 
is given below. Sudan is the Arabic equivalent of Nigritia (Negroland). 
Its sections are: 

(1) Western Sudan. — The basins of the Senegal and Quovra-Benue 
(Niger). 

(2) Central Sudan. — The basins of the Komaduga and Shaw, with 
lands draining into Lake Chad. 

(3) Eastern Sudan. — East of Waidai, the Upper and Middle Nile Basin, 
now known as Egyptian Sudan. 

The provinces formed out of this territory in 1882 were : 

West Sudan. — Darfur, Kordofan, Bahrel-Ghaz al, and Dongola, with 
capital Fasher. 

Central Sudan. — Khartum, Senaar, Berber, Fashoda, and the Equator 
(Hatel-Istwa), with capital Khartum. 

Uast Sudan. — Taka, Suakin, and Massowah, with capital Massowah. 

Harrar. — Zeyla, Berbera, and Harrar, with capital Harrar. 
S. Mis. 33 44 ^ 



690 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884 

The following is Mr. Keane's ethnologic chart: 



Race. 


Main divisions. 


Localities. 


Hamites* 


Tibbu : Baele, Zoghawa, "Wanyanjra 

Bishari (Beja) : Hadendoa, Hallenga, Ab- 
abdeh, Beni-Amer. 


Xorth and Kortbwest. Darfnr. 

Between Red Sea and Nile, 15°-25o north. 

Between Abyssinian coast, 10°-lo° iioi"th. 












Gulf of Aden coast. 


Semitest 


Oalla {drma) ■ Teju, Wollo, Mecha, &c... 
Arab: Kababish, She>aieh, Robabat, &c .. 


East and south of Gojam. 

W. f. Nile, Ixitween Dongolatind Khartum. 




Homran, Hamr, El-Homr, Habauieb, (tc . . . 


Korfodan and Darfur. 
North Dai fur. 




Himyantic : Tigr6, Dembela, Lasta 

H* rari 


North and East Abyssinia. 
East from Shoa. 




Barabra (mixed) : Kenus, Mabasi, Dongo- 

Liwi. 
True Xtiba : Kargo, Kulfan, Kolaji, Jebel 

Xuba, Tuinali. 
Fur: Fnr, KoDJara, rongoro, &c 


Nile Valley, Egypt to Old Dongola. 




Kordofan. 

Darfur. 
Gillibat. 






Taka, Mareb Valley. 


Negro§ 


Funj : Hamagh 

Siulaneise: Birkit, Masalit. Abu-sarib, &c. 


Senaar. 
Darfur. 
"White Nile and B. el Arab. 


Bantu II 


Fallaugb, Knmkung. !Ninak. &c 

KreJ, Bongo (Dor), Mittu (Moro) 

B;iri, Madi, Lur, Latuka 

Waganda, Wanyoro, Wasoga, Wagamba.. 


Sobat Baain. 

About west tributaries of White Nile. 
B. el .Jebel. north of L. Albert Nyanza. 
Extreme south frontier, north side of L. 
Victoria Nyanza. 



*Hamite, Eushite of some writers, answering to the African division of the Mediterranean or Can- 
casic anthropologic type. For the removal of Tibbu from the Negro to the Hamite race, see Nature, 
March 1, 1883 (North African Ethnology). Most of these are zealous Muhamraedans. 

t The Arab Semites are recent intruders, mainly via Isthmus of Suez and Egypt. The Himyarites 
are intruders from prehistoric times from South Arabia via Strait of Bab-el Mandeb. The fonner 
Muhammedans, the latter monopbysite Chnstians. 

J Nubas, intermediate between the Negro and the Hamite. Speech, Negro. No connection with the 
Fnlah of West Sudan. The Kordofan Nnbas, original stock, Pagans. Those of the Nile. Negroid 
Christians from V-XIV century. Since then mild Muhammedan. They are the tJaua of Egyptian 
records ; Nvhce of Strabo, later Nubatas. 

§ Most of these negroes still Pagans. Some, as Mittu, Krej, and Bongo, red-brown, rather than black, 
but the tj-pe is negro. Speech of all except the Diuka shows grammatic gender. 

II BantuB not reduced. Included in the Moudirie de 1' fiquaetenr of Messedaglia's oflBcial "Carte du 
Sudan " (Khartum, 1883). 

Prince Koland Bonaparte is conferring a lasting benefit upon science 
by his portfolios of racial types. Each person is taken in profile and 
in full face, and a short biography is in most cases attached. 

COMTAEATIVE PHILOLOGY. 

In the philological camp during the past year there was little activ- 
ity. Neither the Smithsonian Institution, the Bureau of Ethnology, the 
Peabody Museum, the Antiquarian Society, nor the Archreological In- 
stitute published a paper or a volume on language. Aleman's Quiche 
Grammar, Brintou's Grammar of the Cakchiquel, Campbell's Khitan 
Studies, Charency's Maya-Quich^ l)apers, Gatschet's Substantive Verb 
in North American Languages, and Powell's Classification of North 
American Languages are about all that mi§^t be called permanent lit- 
erature upon our side of the Atlantic. 

The last-named paper is a compilation of the labors of all past inves- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. G91 

tigators, supplemented by the critical study of the best linguists and the 
original investigations of the author. Excepting a small part of our 
west coast, we are now able to refer every square league of our territory 
to some linguistic stock, and to declare to what stock each tribe be- 
longed. In round numbers there are, or were, within the territory of 
I>rorth America seventy stock languages, each spoken in one or more 
separate tongues or languages, and each of these ofttimes divided into 
several dialects. 

Dr. Allain's investigations concerning the first rudiments of infantile 
language open up a wonderful vein of inquiry, leading not only to the 
study of order in the production of sounds, but to the psychological 
manifestations revealed in the process. 

The development of language among children is the subject of a paper 
by M. Sikorsky. 

Tolmie and Dawson have prepared a volume of comparative vocabu- 
laries of the Indian tribes of British Columbia, with a map illustrating 
distribution. The stocks from north to south are the Thlinkit, Tshim- 
sian, Haida, Kwakiool, Kawitshin, Aht, Bilhoola, Selish, Tinne, Tshi- 
nook. 

Prof. John Campbell, of Montreal, has continued his investigations 
upon the probable relationship between the Aztec and other American 
aboriginal languages and the Khitan. 

Through the studies of Brinton, and Charency, the knowledge of the 
Central American languages has advanced. Brinton especially has 
made solid contributions £o knowledge by the addition of new matenal. 

Mr. Eobert Needham Cust has published in two volumes, with a map, 
a sketch of the modern languages of Africa. It is a work of the great- 
est value, albeit in some places the author confounds blood and lan- 
guage. The work is reviewed in Nature by Mr. A. H. Keane, and the 
defects are pointed out. It is just such work as preceded the formation 
of our own Bureau of Ethnology, which will sift the evidence and give 
us an accurate account of linguistic stocks. 

MYTHOLOGY AND FOLK-LORE. 

Mr. J.O. Dorsey has made two contributions to theliteratureof Indian 
mythology. Several other myths have been recorded. The Bureau of 
Ethnology is especially engaged in this work, and will publish a large 
volume on the subject. 

Mr. Cushing's paper on Zuiii fetiches, before mentioned, is an account 
of the deities presiding over space, of the animal forms in which these 
deities are embodied, the manner in which they are represented in stone, 
and the conceptions which underlie their worship of these animals. 

Major Powell, in commenting on this paper, uses the following lan- 
guage : 

" The philosophy of the Zunis is an admirable example of that stage in 



692 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

savagery where a transition is shown from zootheism into physitheism, 
with survivals of hekastotheism. In this stage fetichism is the chief 
religious means of obtaining success and protection. The fetiches most 
valued by the ZuQis are natural concretions or eroded rock-forms, having 
an obvious or fancied resemblance to certain animals, or objects of that 
nature in which the evident original resemblance has been heightened 
by artificial means. It is supposed that these fetiches are actual petri- 
factions of the animals represented by them, which retain their vital 
forces for certain magic powers and religious purposes. This belief is 
explained in a remarkable epic, metrical and sometimes rhythmical, and 
filled with archaic expressions, which is in part translated by Mr. Gushing. 

"A noticeable point in the paper is the elaborate and systematized 
relationships shown among and between the animals, the animal gods, 
and other supernatural beings having animal or combined animal and 
human personalities. This constitutes a theistic society with an elabo- 
rate hierarchy and regulated domains, powers, and obligations. Such 
minuteness in multiformity, as well as the precision of the beliefs and 
ceremonials stated, will be surprising, not only to persons who have 
been taught the old fiction of the Indian's monotheism, but to those who 
have regarded his religious philosophy to be vague and chaotic. The 
facts are presented with the same corroboration of etymologies in lan- 
guage used so successfully by scholars in the study of Eurasian myths, 
and with further verification by objects figured in the illustrations." 

Folk-lore is a term applied to the learning or pbilosophj" of unlettered 
people. Long before the systematic, recorded, multiplied observation 
of phenomena, people come to have a body of sayings about them. 
There is lore about the weather, medicine, every human occupation. 
Observe, also, that this lore may be concerning the causes and effects 
of i)henomena, commonly expressed in the words, "That will make it do 
this or that "; or it concerns natural coucomitaucy, when we say, " That 
is a sure sign of something happening." This folk-lore among sav^ages 
runs into mythology, or lore about spiritual beings, the unseen forces of 
phenomena. For this reason societies of folk-lore spend much of their 
labor in gathering what might be called the unwritten bibles of peoples, 
rather than in the saving of their books of practical wisdom or lore. It 
will be observed, also, that writers on lore are not careful to discriminate 
between cause and effect. When they write about flower-lore, for in- 
stance, we are not sure whether they mean the lore about what flowers 
will do or are the signs of, or lore about causes and signs relative to the 
growth of flowers, or, finally, all the lore in which flowers occur in any 
connection. 

The greatest praise is due to those anthropologists who spare no pains 
in gathering the lore of the lowly and uncivilized peoples. The English 
people are far in the lead in this matter, although America, peopled by 
all races from all lands, offers a most inviting field. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 693 

SOCIOLOGY. 

Sociological studies in our country bave been pursued in two direc- 
tions. Under the supervision of Major Powell the study of Indian so- 
ciology has been prosecuted with great thoroughness. Chief among 
the students in this line are Major Powell himself and the Rev. J. Owen 
Dorsey, the former devoting himself more especially to the philosoph- 
ical side of the question, the latter to the phenomenal side. One of the 
most interesting inquiries connected with these investigations, relates to 
those influences internal and external to the tribe which have led from 
mother right to father-right. Similar researches have been carried on 
among Australian tribes, and reported in the Journal of the Anthropo- 
logical Institute in Great Britain. The other direction which sociolog- 
ical studies have taken is that which leads to the customs prevailing 
in the early communities of Europeans settling within our territory. 
These studies have been prosecuted especially under the patronage of 
the elohns Hopkins University. Mr. C. Letourneau has given much 
attention to the definition and limits of sociology and the relation of 
race to social structure. 

A popular work of more than ordinary interest is the account of the 
snake-dance of the Mokis, written by Captain Bourke, U. S. A., from 
his personal observations. 

The sociological studies of Dr. Ploss have become famous through his 
great work upon the treatment of children among savages, entitled, 
'' Das Kind im Branch und Sitte." During the year he published an- 
other volume, of no less interest and importance, upon the Wife. These 
subjects are worked out with true German scrupulosity. The works 
abound in reference to authorities. 

The ingenuity of Francis Galton was not exhausted by his invention 
of composite photographs. During 1884 he devised not only family 
and life history albums, but set up anthropometric laboratories. It is 
said that when he could not persuade the people to be measured, he 
secured his end by charging them a shilling for the privilege, carefully 
preserving the stubs of the printed record furnished to each visitor. 

TECHNOLOGY. 

The examination of the bibliography accompanying this paper reveals 
the fact that there is a technical side to every investigation. There are 
certain tools of all human activities, be tin ;• food-quest, fabrication of 
clothing or shelter, amusement, social life, or religion. Each tool and 
each process has had its life history. The study of the life history of 
tools and their functions is comparative technology. Mr. Simmonds of 
London has published a dictionary of useful animals, with their prod- 
ucts. The collectors for the Smithsonian Institution have spared no 
pains in obtaining the vulgar and scientific names of the animals and 
plants entering into domestic economy of savages. A very complete 



C94 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

iiivestigation iu aboriginal technology is a sboit paper in Major Powell's 
Second Aunual Report, on Navajo silversmiths, by Dr. Washington 
Matthews. It is impossible to tell when this art of metal-working wa.s 
introduced among the Navajos. It is well known that the Navajos are 
related to the Tinn6 Indians of British America, a stock well £rd- 
vauced in artistic conceijtions. Coming southward into contact with 
l>eople acquainted with primitive metallurgy, this natural bent would 
make it easy for them to practice this art. Their tools and methods are 
of the most primitive character, and yet some of the works which they 
produce are of great beauty. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY FOR 1884. 

A. C.,leP. — S. M. — Essai de grammaire de la laugne de Viti, d'aprfes les mamiscrits 

des Missionnaires Maristes coordonn6s. Paris. 288 pp. 8vo. 
Academy, The. Loiidou. (See Index for many references to Folk-lore.) 
Academy Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. Proceedings. I. Leidy et at. 8vo, 
Adam, L. Congres international des Am6ricauistes. Session de Copenhague (21-24 

Aug., 188;}). Rennes. Br. in-8vo. 
Alcock, Nathaniel.— Why tropical man is black. Nature, Aug. 21. [Rev. by A. T. 

Fraser. Nature, Nov. 6. ] 
Aleman, a. — Grammaire 61(5mentaire de la langue Quich^e, ijubli^e par A. Blomme. 

Congres international des Am6ricaniste8. ^openhague, 188.3. (Supplement du 

Compte rendu.) Copenhague, 1884. Br. in-8vo. 
Allaire, Dr. Des premiers rudiments du langage enfantin. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de 

Paris, VII, 484-490. 
Almanacs, history of. Science, Nov. 28. 
American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Edited by Rev. Stephen D. Peet. Vol. 

VI. Published bi-monthly. Chicago. 
American Association for the Advancement of Science. Thirty-third meeting, Phila., 

Sept. 4-11, inclusive. 

The address of Professor E. S. Morse, as vice-president of Section H of the Ameri- 
can Association, was upon Man in the Tertiaries, the full text of which was 

given in the October Naturalist. 
The following papers were read at the meeting : 

Uses of the emblematic mound.s. Stephen D. Peet. 

The lineal measures of the semi-civilized nations. D. G. Brinton. 

Description of the skeletons and skulls found in the large mound of the Turner group. 
MissC. A.Studley. 

The sacred pipes of friendship. Frank LaFlecho. 

Some observations upon the usage, symbolism, and influence of the sacred pipes of fellow- 
ship among the Oniahas. Alice C. Fletcher. 

Notes upon some quartz oVyects from Central Minnesota. Miss F. E. Babbitt. 

The importance of the study of primitive architecture to an understanding of the pre- 
historic age in America. Stephen D. Peet. 

Local weather lore. Amos W. Butler. 

Some characteristics of the Indian earth and shell mounds on the Atlantic coast of Florida. 
Andrew E. Douglass. 

The manner in which Indians made their stone implements. P. E. Hoy. 

Disputed points concerning Iroquois pronouns. Erminnio A. Smith. 

The use of the plow in Japan. Edward S. Morse. 

The sacrificial stone of San Juan Teotihuacan. A. W. Butler. 

Mythology of the Wintuns. J. W. Powell. 

Archiuologiial explorations by the Puabody Museum of American Archteology and Eth- 
nology, communicated at llie request of the trustees of the museum. F. W. Putnaoc. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 005 

Interviews with a Korean. Edward S. Morse. 

Some parallelism in the evolution of races in the old and new world. Daniel Wilaon. 

On the geographical distribution of labretifery. W. H. Dall. 

Eemarks ou North American races and civilization. E. B. Tylor. 

Upon the evolution of a race of deaf-mutes in America. A. Graham Bell. 

The occurrence of man in the Upper Miocene of Nebraska. Edward D. Cope. 

The three culture periods. J. W. Powell. 

A search in British North America for the lost colonies of Northmen and Portuguese. D' 

G. Haliburton. 
Eastern archery. Edward S. Morse. 
Formation of Iroquois words. Erminiiie A. Smith. 
The ditfereut races who built mounds in Wisconsin. Stephen D. Peet. 
Evolution of animal life illustrated by study of emblematic mounds, Stephen D. Peet. 
Etymology of the Iroquois word Kha-wen-ni-yu. Erminnie A. Smith. 

American Joiuual of Philology. Vol. iv, No. 4 ; Vol. vi, Nos. 1, 2, 3. Jobus Hopkins 

University, Baltimore. 
American Naturalist, The. Monthly. Vol. xviii. Philadelphia. 
American Philological Association, Trans. Vol. xiv of the meeting in 1883. Pub. 

Cambridge, 1884. 79-|-XLViii pp. 8vo. Sixteenth An. Session at Hanover, N. H., 

July 8-10. 
American Philosophical Soc, Proceedings. Philadelphia. Vol. xxi. Apr., 1883, to 

Jan., 1884. 
Anales del Museo Nacioual de M6xico. Vol. iv. [Many archaeological papers of great 

value by Sanchez, Troucoso, Chavero, &c. ] 
Andeksox, John. — Catalogue and hand-book of the arcluBological collections in the 

Indian Museum. Part ii. Gupta inscriptions and galleries. Calcutta, 1883. 
Andhee, K. — Die Metalle bei den Natnrvolkeru mit Beriicksichtiguug i)rahi8torischer 

Verhiiltnisse. Lpzg., xvi+16() jip., 57 illustrations. 
— — — War das Eiseu im Vorcolunibischen Amerika bekaunt? Mittheil. anthrop. 

Gesellsch. in Wien, xiv [97-99]. 8vo. 
Anualcs (lu Mu.see Guimet. Tome V. Paris: Leroux. [The MusccGuimet isdevoted 

exclusively to the history of religions.] 
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, Vol. xm, 3 and 4; 

Vol. XIV, 1+2. London. 
Anthropologische Gesellschaft, in Wien. Mittheiluugeu. Vol. xiv. 
Bd. I-X. Wien 1870-1880. Svo. 
Bd. n-X, zusammeu. 
Bd. XI und xn. Wien 1881, 18f:2. 4to. 
Bd. xni und XIV. Wien 1883 und 1884. 4to. 

[See Mittheil., Heft iv, for proceedings of the extraordinary meeting in April, 

and for the best account of the anthropological literature of 1884 in existence at 

the time of this report. ] 
Anthropometric Committee of the British Association. [See Am. Naturalist xviii, 

646. J 
Anthropophagy. Boston Med. and Surg. J., cxi, 185-187. 
Auzeiger des germanischen National-Museums. Bd. 1, Nos. 1-5. 
Archteological Institute of America. Fifth An. Report and Thii'd An. Report of the 

committee on American school of classical studies at Athens. Boston. Papers of 

the Am. series. No. 2, Report of an archjuological tour in Mex. in 1881, by A. F. 

Bandelier. 
Archaeology of North Africa. Science, IV, 438. 

Archinakd, L. — La Fabrication du Fer dans le Soudan. Rev. d'Ethnog., iii, 249. 
Archiv fiir Anthropologic. Vol. xv. Parts 3 and 4. 
Archivio per r antroi)ologia e la etnologia. Vol. xiv. Florence. Dr. Paolo Maute- 

gazza. 
Ardouin, L6on. — Aperyu sur I'histoire de la m6decine an Japon. Paris: 49 pp 
Armengol Font Sanmarti. El Duelo. Barcelona. 31 pp. 8vo. 



696 SCIENl'IFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Arzruni, a.— Ueber das Vorkommen von Zinnstein and die Bronzeindnstri© des Kan- 
kasua. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Authrop., 58 pp. 

Association Fran^aise pour I'Avancement des Sciences. Papers of general interest, 
(xiii. session, Sept. 5 — 11, Blois. Zabarowski, M., Les cliiens domestiques de 
I'ancienne figypte. Nadaillac, Marqnis de, Cinerary and burial mounds of North 
America. Cartailhac, E., Un cr4ne humain n6olithique avec trepanation cica- 
tris6e et perforation posthume. Chantre, Ernest, Les n^cropoles ballstattiennes 
du Caucase. Pruniferes, Dr., Le dolmen de D6vezes, commune du Massegros, 
Loz^re. Conference at Thenay, and the labors of the section of Anthropology 
Matinau. Compte rendu de la 12* session. Rouen, 1883 ; Paris, 1884. 8vo. 
XVIII. October.) 

ASTARLOA, P. P. — Discursos filosdficos sobre la lengna primitiva 6 gramitica y 
anillisis razonada de la eiiskara 6 bascuence. Madrid, viii -\- 784 pp. 4to. 

AsTRiE. — Le Royaume d'Orakan, dans I'Archipel des Bissagos. Bull. Soc. G6og. de 
Marseilles, vii, 357-364. 

AuDiBERTi, G. — Tipi di criminali nati. Arch, di psichiat., etc., Torino, v, 115-119. 

Ausland, Das. Stuttgart. Vol. LVI. 52 numbers. 

Avery, John. — The Hill tribes of India. Am. Antiquar., vi, 307-316. [Also author 
of notes in same journal.] 

The races of the Pacific Ocean. Am. Antiquar., vi, 361-368. 

Babbitt, Frances E. — Some implements of the Minnesota Ojibwas. Science. Dec. 
12, 1884, vol. IV, pp. 527-529. 

Vestiges of glacial man in Minnesota. Am. Naturalist, xxiil, 594-604 ; 697- 

707. 

Bajenoff, N. — fitude anthropologique sur les criminels. Ann. m^d. -psych., Paris. 
6 8. XII, pp. 285-289. 

Etudes c6phalom^trique8 sur des busies d'assassins supplici^s et de person- 

nages distingu^s. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., Par., vii, pp. 502-514. 

Bailli&re, J. B., et fils. — Catalogue g6n€ral des livres anciens et modernes, frangais 

et strangers, etc. Paris. 447 pp. 8vo. 
Bancroft, H. H. — History of California. Vol. i, 1542-1800. Vol. xviii of the series. 

History of the Northwest Coast. Vols, i and ii, 1543-1800. Vols, xxv^i and xxviii 

of the series. 
Bandelier, a. F. — Report of an archeeological tour in Mexico, in 1881. V. An. Rep. 

Archseol. Inst. America. Boston. 326 pp. 8vo. 
Bapst, G. — Les m^tauxdans l'antiquit6 et an moyen-Age. Paris. 320 pp. ill. 8vo. 
Barber, E. A. — The LenniLenape Indians in Pennsylvania. Am. Antiquar., vi, 385- 

388. 

Report on the accessions to the society's cabinet (Rep. Proc. Numism. Antiq. 

Soc. Phila., 1883). Philad. 1884, 21-25, fig. 1-4. 8vo. 

Bardey, M. — Traditions et divisions du SomM (pays des Somalis). Bull. Soc. d'An- 
throp., VII, 331-348. (Analytical table of Somalis Ischaqs.) 

Barney, E. G. — Native races of Colombia. Am. Antiquar., vi, 1-7. 

Bartkls, Maj. — Ueber den Aft'enmenschen und den Barenmenschen. Ztschr. f. Eth- 
uol., XVI, 106-113. 

Bastian, Adolf. Allgemeine Grundzuge der Ethnologic. Berlin : D. Reiraer, 
1884, XXXIV, 144 pp., 8 vo. 

Die Ethuographie in ihren geographischen und historischen Gcsichtspunkten. 

Ztschr. f. Ethnol. Berlin, xvi, 60-68. 

Indonesien, oder die Inselu des malayischen Archipel. Lfg. 1. Die Molukken. 



Berlin, 3 tables. 8vo. 
Baye, Joseph, Baron de. — Sujets d^coratifs emprunt^s an rfegne animal dans I'iu- 

dustrie Gauloise. M6m. Soc. Nat. des Autiquaires de France. XLiv, Paris. 8 pp. 
Beal, S. — Budhist records of the western world. Translated from the Chinese of 

Hiuen Tsiang (A. D. 629). 2 vols. London : TrUbner. 620 pp. 8vo. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 697 

Beau de Saint Pol Lias, X. Lef Bat taks.— (From De Frauce h Sumatra.) Rev. 

d'Elhiiog., Paris, iii, 227-248. 
Beaunis, H. — Recherches exp6rimentale8 sur les conditions de I'activit^ c6r6brale et 

surla physiologic des uerfs. Paris, 166 pp., 19 pi., dvo. 
Bbiaukegard, Ollivier. — L'antiquit6 du fer on figypte. Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de 

Paris, VII, 104-127. 

L'Etliuique Singalais. Leyde, br. 21 pp., 8vo. (vi. Sess. Cong, interuat. des 

Orieutalistes i\ Leyde.) 

Beck, Ludwig. — Die Geschichte des Eiseus in tecbniscliei uud kulturgeschichtlicher 

Beziehuug. Pt. i. Braunschweig. 315 wood-cuts. 8vo. 
Benedikt, M. — Ueber Kraniometrie uud Kepbalometrie. Wien. Med. Presse, xxv, 

737-739. 
Beni, C. — Di alcuni maniere di scrittura usate dagli Aztecbi. Arcb. per I'Antrop., 

Firenze, xiv, 53-62. 
Berthoud, E. L. — The Aztecs. Kansas City Rev., vii. April. 
Bertrand, Alex. — Cours d'arch^ologie nationale. La Gaule avaut les Gaulois. 

Paris. 215 pp., ill., 8vo. 

La Gaule avant les Gaulois. Paris, 204 p., 77 tig., 8vo. 1884. 

Histoire do la pbilosophie chez les m6decins. Rev. Scieut., Paris, xxxiii, 

137-143. 

Bessels, Emil. — The northernmost inhabitants of the earth. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 

861-881. 
BiAJJCHi, S. — Abnorme creste frontale in uu cranio di demente. Boll. d. Soc. tra i 

cult. d. sc. med. in Siena, ii, 21. 
BiQALKE, Herman. — Explorations in Guatemala. Science, February 1. 
Block, G. — Les origines du s6nat romain. Paris, vii, 334 pp. 8vo. 
Bock, C. — Temples and elephants, or the narrative of a journey of exploration 

through upper Seau and Lao. London, ill., 8vo. 
Bonaparte, Prince Roland. Collections anthropologiques. Portfolios of photo- 
graphs with anthropometric descriptions. St. Cloud, France. 
Bollinger, Dr. — Ueber die Feuerlilnder. Corr.-Blatt., xv, 2.5-27. 
BoNVALOT, G. — En Asie Centrale. De Moscou en Bactriane. Paris : grav., cartes. 

12mo. 
BoNWiCK, J. — The lost Tasmauian race. London, 216 pp. Svo. 
BoRDiER, A. — La colonisation scieutitique et les colonies frangaises. Paris, xvi+506 

pp. Svo. 
BouHKE, John G.— The snake dance of the Moqnis of Arizona. New York. 1 vol. 

30 pi. 8vo. 
Bowers, Stephen. — Relics of the Santa Barbara Indians. Kansas City Rev., vii, 748. 
Brabrook, E. W — Hereditary hypospadias. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. Paris, vii, 

358-360. 
Brain : A journal of Neurology. T. C. Buckuell, d aZ. London. Vol. vii. Quarterly. 
Brauns, Professor. — The Ainos of Yezo. [Mem. Berlin Anthrop. Soc] Science, 

January 18. 

The island of Yesso and its inhabitants. Germ. Assoc, Magdeburg. Nature, 

Octobej 23. 

Brass, A. — Die thierischeu Parasiten der Menschen. Kassel. vii+143 p., 6 pi. 
Breslau. Die anthropologische Sammlung des anatomischeu Instituts der Univer- 

sitiit Breslau. By Dr. G. Wiedler. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv. Supplement, 45 pp. 
Bridges, M. T. — Moiurs et coutumes des Fu6gians. Bull. Soc. d'AnthroiL de Paris, 

III 86r., Vol. VII, 169--183. 
Brinton, D. G. — The Congress of Americanists. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 103, 104. 

Memoir of Dr. H. C. Berendt. Proc. Am. Antiq. Soc, iv, 205. 

On the Indians of Guatemala. (American Philosophical Society. October, 

1884.) 



608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Brinton, D. G. — A grammar of the Cakchiqnel language of Guatemala. Phila., 67 
p. 8vo. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. No. 115, pp. 345--413. 

Ou the cuspidiform petroglyphs, or so-called bird-track sculptures of Ohio- 

Proc. Acad. Nat. So. Phila., October 28, 1884. pp. 275-277. 

Fired stoues and prehistoric implements. Id., 279. 

Impressions of the figures on a " Meday stick." Id., 278. 

On the Xinca Indians of Guatemala. Am. Phil. Soc, October 17. 9 pp. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science, Montreal. Science, iv, p. 316. 

Bkoca, p. — Description el^mentaire des circon volutions c6r6brales de I'homme 
d'apr^s le cerveau 8ch6matique. Rev. d'anthrop, Paris, vir, pp. 1-21. 

Brodhead, G. C. — Flint chips. Kansas City Ee v., vii, February. 

Brugsch, H. — Thesaurus inscriptionum iegyptiarum, etc. iii. Abth. Leipzig. 
vii+531-618 pp. 4to. 

BuCHAN, J. M. — Comiilexion, climate, race. Proc. Canadian Inst. Toronto, ii, 158- 
181. 

BuCKLAND, Miss A. W. — On traces of commerce in prehistoric times. J. Anthrop. 
Inst., XIV, 3-11. 

Bureau of Ethnology. Annual Report, 1880-'81. Dated 1883. Printed in 1884. Wash- 
ington: Government Printer. xxxvii-SOOpp., 77pl., 714 fig., G maps. [For con- 
tents see Cushing, Smith, Heushaw, Matthews, Holmes, Stevenson.] 

Burton, R.F. — The book of the sword. London. 320 pp. ill. 8vo. 

Butler, Amos W. — Local weather-lore. Am. Meteorological J., Dec. Detroit. 

Campbell, John. — The Khitau languages; the Aztec and its relations. Proc. Cana- 
dian Inst. Toronto, ii, pp. 158-181. 

Canadian Institute in Toronto. The Canadian Journal. Proceedings. Vol. I. 1879- 
1882. Proceedings, being a continuation of Canadian Journal. Vol. i, 1882-1883. 
Vol. II, 1884. 

Candolle.A. de. — Origin of cultivated plants. London. (Internat. ser.) 468 pp. 
8vo. 

Capus, G. — La musique chez les Khirghizes et les Sartes de I'Asie Centrale. Rev. 
d'Ethnog., Ill, 97. 

Une reception dans le Bochara. Rev. d'Ethnog., iii, 474-483. 

Caradec, L. — Origine des peuples de la Bretagne et du Fiuistfere en i)articulier. J. 

d'hyg, Paris, IX, 329-332. 
Carr, L. — The mounds of the Mississippi Vallfey historically considered. Cincinnati. 

4to. 
Carr, L., and N. S. Shaler. — On the prehistoric remains of Kentucky. Cincinnati. 

311 pp. 8vo. 
Carri£;re, G. — Recherches c6phalom6trique8 faites dansle d^partement de I'Ardfeche. 

L'Homme. Paris, I, 365-367. 
Cartailuac, E. — Anthropologie. (Extr. du Catalogue de I'Expositiou de Toulouse.) 

Toulouse. 18 p. 8vo. 

Faculty des sciences de Toulouse. Coiirs libre d'anthropologie. Bull. Sc. D6p. 

du Nord. Paris, vi, 161-178. 

Georges Ciivier et I'ancienuet^ de I'homme. Matdriaux, xvm, 27. 



Carter, W. — Observations on the normal temperature of the human body. Liver- 
pool, Med.Ch. J., IV, 108-116. 

Cassel, Paulus. — Aus Literatur nnd Symbolik. Leipzig, 1884. 

Castaing, M. — Dates in the ancient history of South America. Am. Antiqnar., vi, 
295-299. 

Cat, E. — D6couvertes et explorations du xvii<= an xix^ si^clc. Paris. 279 pp. 18nio. 

Chadbourne, p. a. — Instinct : Its oflQce in the animal kingdom and its relation to 
the higher powers of man. N. York. 323 pp. 8vo. 

Chamberlain, Basil Hall. — Transactions As. Soc. Japan, x. Sup)>l. Translation of 
the Kojiki, or Records of Ancient Matters Yokohama. [Rov. in Nature, Mar. 20, ] 



ANTHROPOLOGV. 690 

CnANTRE, Eknest. — Sur qiielquesNdcropoles Hallstattieniies de I'Autriclie et de Pita- 

lie. Material!, xxviii, 1. 
Chapek. — Rapport siir une mission scientifique dans le territoire d'Assinie (c6te occi- 

dentale d'Afrique). {Arch, des missions scient. et litt.) Paris. 8vo. 
Charencey, H. de. — Recherches sur le calendrier Zotzil. Rev. d'Etliuog., iii, 398-401 . 

Des suffixes en langue Quicli<Se. Le Mus^ou, 188:5. 

De la coujugaison dans les langues Maya-Quicli6. Le Museon, iii. Nos. 1, 2, 

3.4. 

Note sur an passage du manuscrit Troano. Rev. d'Ethiiog., iii, pp. 256-258. 

Une 16geudc} cosmogouique. Havre. 48 pp. 8vo. 



Charnay, Desir6. — Les Toltecs et leurs njigratious. Bull, Soc. d'Antbrop., Paris, 
VII, pp. 87-89. 

Voyage aux anciennes villes du Nouveau Monde fMexique, Yucatan). Paris. 

250 figs, and charts. 4to. 

Charpy, a. — De I'angle xiphoidien. Rev. d'Authrop., Paris, vii, pp. 268-276. 
Chavero, Alfredo. — The stone of the sun, pt. 11. Anales d. Mus. nac. de M6xico. 

Vol. III. (See also the author's contribution to a gorgeous work entitled, Mexico 

a travfes de los siglos. ) 
Cheminade, G. — M^decine sociale ; 6tudc sur le c61ibat au point de vne physiologique 

et medical. Bordeaux. 8vo. 
Chervin, a. — Proc^d6 rationnel et metbodique pour la uiise en serie des moyennes 

proi^ortionnelles. Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de Paris, vii, jip. 134-147. 
Chinese music, weights, and measures; the connection between them. Nature. 

Oct. 9. 
Chouquet, E. — Sur la i^r^seuce de I'Elephas primigeuius dans les alluvions de Chelles. 

Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de Paris. \ii, pp. 392-411. 
Chudzinski, T. — Quelques notes sur Tanatomio de deux negres. Rev. d'Antbrop., 

Paris, viii, pp. 603-616. 
Clajjke, W. p. — The Indian sign language, &c. Pbilad. 443 p., map, 1885. 8vo. 

Ancient earthworks in Rock Co., Wis. Am. Antiquarian, vi, pp. 317-322. 

Clavel, M. — La depopulation aux lies Marquises. Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de Paris, vii, 

pp. 490-500. 

Le tatouage aux lies Marquises. Rev. d'Etbnog., iii, pp. 134-149. 

Mutilations ethniques. Arch, de M6d. Nav., Paris, xli, ])p. 211-215. Tatouage. 

lb., 198-211. 

Les Marquisiens. Arch, de M^d. Nav., Paris, xli, 177; xlii, 103. 

Clevenger, S. V. — Disadvantages of the upright position. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 1-y. 
Clouston, T. S. — The growth and develofnuent of a child in body and mind. Edinb. 

Health Soc, 21-48. 
CoDRiNGTON, R. H. — On the languages of Melanesia. J. Antbrop. Inst., xiv, pp. 31-42. 
COLINI, G. A. — Cronaca del R. Museo Preistorico-Etnografico, iv, v, vi, pp. 563-569 

652-657, 883-892. Boll. Soc. Geog. Ital. in Rom., ser. ii. Vol. ix. 
CoLLETT, 0. W. — Death of Blackbird, the Omaha Chief. Kausas City Rev. vii 

August and October. (See also note in September number by A. R. Fulton.) 
Colleneau. — Les iuf6rieurs. L'Homme. Paris, i, pp. 432-436. 
Congrfes arch^ologique de France. Held in May, in Arriege. 
Congrfes international d'anthropologie et d'arcbeologie prdbistorique. Compte-reudu 

de la ueuvieme session h Lisbonne, 1880. Lisbonne: Acad. Roy. Sc.,xlix + 723 

pp., 43 pi., 8vo. 
Cooper, J. C. — Recen* archaeological discoveries in New Mexico. Kausas City Rev., 

VII. Feb. 
CORLIEU, A. — Les m^decins grecs depuis la mort de Galieu jusqu'^ la chute de 

I'empire d'Orient. (210-1453.) Paris med. ix, 217; 229; 289; 325; 349; 372; 

397 ; 421 : 445. 



700 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Correspondenzblatt der "deutschen Gesellscbaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie uud 

Urgescbichte. Munich : Ed. J. Ranke. Vol. xv, 12 nos. 
COUES, E., and J. S. Kingsley. — The Standard Library of Natural History by the 

leading American authorities. Boston. Nos. 
Cresson, H. T. — Construction of ancient terra-cotta pitch-pipes and flageolets. Am. 

Naturalist, xviii, pp. 498-509. 
Curious funeral ceremonies. Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxv, pp. 831-839. 
CusHiNG, F. H. — On the development of industrial and ornameHtal art among the 

ZunisofN. Mexico. Brit. Assoc, Montreal. Nature, Oct. 9. 

Zuni Fetiches. Bur. Ethnol., 2 An. Rep., 9-46. 

CusT, ROBEKT Needham. — A sketch of the modern languages of Africa. London. 

[Rev. Nature, Feb. 21.] 
Dabry de Thiersant, p. — De I'origine dos Indicus du Nouveau Monde et do leur 

civilisation. Paris. 8vo. 
Daleau, F. — Sur les lesions que pr^sentent certains os dc la p^riode pal6olithique. 

Paris. 8vo. [Tr. Assoc. Fraug., Rouen.] 
Dall, Wm. H. — A Mussulman propaganda. Science, Nov. 14, 457. 

The geographical distribution of labretifery. Am. Assoc. 

Dalton, J. C. — The diflerences in form of the adult head. N. Y. Med. J., xxxix, 279. 
Dawson, J. W. — Notes on prehistoric man in Egyi>t and the Lebanon. [Victoria In- 
stitute, May 4, 1884, and separate.] 
Deutsche anthropologische Gesellscbaft, xv. AllgemeineVersammlung. 

LIST OF COMMUNICATIONS: 

Opening address. By Dr. R. Virchow. 

New publications npon diluvial man. By Johannes Ranke, general secretary. 

The end of the Stone Age in Europe. Id. 

Copying of Antique Jewelry. By Herr Telge. 

Upon a norma for pelvimetry. By Schaa£Fhau.sen. 

Cranial cubature methods tested by the bronze skull. By J. Ranke. 

Upon the greater length of the second toe among the Greeks. By Herr Albrecht. 

The greater bestiality of the human female sex, anatomically considered. Id. 

Difiference between the human pelvis and that of the higher apes. Id. 

Prehistoric plants in Schlesien. Ford. Cohn. 

Primitive and mixed races of the Philippines. By Herr Schadenberg. 

The explorations in Tiryns. By Henry Sohliemann. 

Anthropology in Hungary. By A. von Torok. 

Magyar cranial types. Id. 

Finds from the Caucasus. By Herr Tischler. 

First dwellers between the Weichsel and the Elbe. Herr .Szulc. 

Upon the Rhine alluvium. Herr Schaaffhauseu. 

Alaric's grave. By St. Miiller. 

Report of the hair commission. Ranke, Schaafl hauseu, Waldoyer. 

The site of the national altar of the Suevi in Semnoncnwalde. By Herr Bela. 

Significance of symbols on two lances with runic inscriptions. By H. Szumowski. 

Ethnic types of further Asia. By von Luschau. 

Craniological apparatus. By A. von Tiirok. 

Anthropometi ic apparatus for tiavclcrs. By R. Virchow. 

Measurement of the. living. J. Ranke. 

Macrocephalic and other crania. By A. von Torok. 

Investigation on enamels. By H. Tischler. 

Epiphyses between the occipital and the sphenoid. By Herr Albrecht. 

South Sea crania. By R. Krause. 

Old surgical instruments. By Herr Nengebaner. 

Dawkins, W. Boyd. — On the range of the Eskimo in time and space. British Asso- 
ciation, Montreal. Nature, Oct. 2. 

Day, Sherman.— The Indian census. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 215, 216. 

Deakin, C. \V. S.— The length of the intestines in the natives of India. Proc. N. W. 
Prov., &c., Brit. Med. Assoc , Allahabad, 1883. a. 90. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 701 

Debreyne, p., et A. Fekuand. — La th^ologie morale et lea sciences m^clicales. Paris. 

18mo. 
Dechambue, A., et L. Thomas. — Diviuation. Diet, eucyc. d. sc. indiL, Paris, xxx, 

•24-90. 
Dehoux, J.-B. — Du sacrifice hiimaiu et de I'anthropophagie dans le Vaudou. Bull. 

Soc. d'Authrop. de Paris, vii, 20(3-216. 
Delesle, Fehnand. — La fabrication du fer dans le Haut Ogowe. Rev. d'Ethnog. 

iii,4t)5. 
Delitscii, Friedr. — Die Spracbe der Kossaeer. Leipzig. 1884. 

The Hebrew language viewed in the light of Assyrian research. Loudon. 8vo. 

Deniker, .1. — Etude surlesKalmouks. Rev. d'Authrop., Paris. vi,671; vii,277; 493; 

Viii,(i40. 

La Cor^e et les Cordens (Science et Nature, janv. 1885). Paris. 8vo. 

Deutsche authropologische Gesellschaft, xvth general meeting in Breslau, 4-7 August, 

Prof. Dr. J. Ranke, Munclieu, general secretary. Corr. Blatt, XV, No. 9, sq. 
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Natur und Volkerkunde Ost- Asians. Mittheilungen. Vols. 

I, II, III. Yokohama, 187:5-1884. 
Dictionnaire dcs sciences anthropologiques. Paris: tomei., A-G. ; also livr. l.i& 14. 

Paris. 111. 8vo. [To becomi»leted in 24 livr.,2 vols.] 
DiETZSCH, Oscar.— Die wichtigstcu Nahrungsmittel xiud Getriiukc, deren Verunrei- 

nigungen und Verfiilschungeu. Zurich. 352 pp. 8vo. 
DoNNER, O. — Ueber den Eintluss des Litanischen auf die hnneschen Spracheu. Inter- 

nat. Ztschr. f. allg. Sprch., i, 257-271. 
DoLBESCHEFF, W. — Archiiologischo Forschungen im Bczirk des Terek (Nordkauka- 

sus). Ztschr. f.EthnoL, XVI, 134-141; 145-163. 
DoRSEY, J. Owen. — Letter in reply to Dr. Riggs respecting click-sounds in Pouca 

and Omaha. Am. Antiquarian, p. 203. 
The myths of the raccoon and the crawfish among Dakota tribes. Am. Anti- 
quarian, VI, pp. 237-240. 

An account of the war customs of the Osages. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 113-133. 

Siouau folklore and mythologic notes. Am. Antiquarian, vi, pp. 174-176 ; 237- 



240. 
Drummond, Henry. — Natural law in the spiritual world. N. York. 
DUBOR, G. DE. — Les laugues et I'espece humaiue. Le Mus6on, iii, pp. 100-116. 
Duncan, W. S. — A new method of comparing the forms of skulls. Rep. Brit. Assoc, 

Liii, 570. 
Dun, Walter A. — Ancient earthworks in the State of Ohio. J. Ciu. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

VII, 1884. pp. 83-87. 

Swiss lake-dwellers. Ibid., 87-91. 

DuREAU, A. — Documents pour servir a I'histoire de la mddecine. Gaz. M6d. de Paris, 

I, pp. 157-160. 
Duval, Matthias. — Cours d'anthropologie zoologique ; le transformisme. Rev.d'An- 

throp., vi; continued vii, 22; viii, 577, 
Essai de representation plauispherique des circonvolutions cdr6br<ales. Bull. 

Soc. d'Authrop. de Paris, vi, 902-908. 

L'embryologie et I'anthropologie. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv, 129-136. 



Edkins, Joseph. — Stone hatchets in Chiuu. [Found in a mound 40 feet high, near 
Kalgau, 110 miles west of Pekiu.] 

Effect of marriage on life. Indian Med. J., Allahabad, iii, 79-82. [From Knowl- 
edge. ] 

Ell, M.— Dokibati, or the god of the Puget Sound Indians. Am. Antiquar., vi, 389- 
392. 

Ellacombe, H. N. — The plant-lore and garden craft of Shakespeare. London, 430 
pp. 8vo, 



702 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1834. 

Ely, Richard T. — The past and the present of political economy. Johns Hopkins 
Univ. Studies, ni, 2 ser. 

Engelmann, G. J. — Die Geburt bei den Urvolkern. Wien, 212 pp., 4 pi. 8vo. 

English catalogue of books for 18S3, &c. Also the principal books published in tho 
United States of America. London, 128 pp. Svo. 

Erxst, a. — Archiiologischo Gegenstiinde aus Venezuela Verhandl. Bcrl. anthrop. 
Gesellsch., 453-458. 

Ernst, Ferdinand vox. — Niederlandisch-Indien. vi. Jahresb. d. geog. Gesellsch. v. 
Bern, pp. 7-28. 

fitrange (Une) soci6t6. Un diner pour la vulgarisation de la dissection mutuelle. 
[Morning News, Feb. 7.] Pop. Sc. Month., xxv, 113-115. 

Exposition Internationale G^ographique a Toulouse. 1 June — 15 August. 

Fallot, Ernst. — Histoiredela colonic frangaisedu S^n^gal. Bull. Soc. de G6ogr. de 
Marseille, vi, pp. 113-1:^3, 221-238, 337-359; vii, pp. 196-278. 

Field, B. Bush. — Medical thoughts of Shakespeare. East on : Pa., 16 pp. 8vo. 

FiNSCH, O. — Anthropologische Ergebuisse einer Reise in der Siidsee und dcm Malayi- 
schen Archipel in den Jahren 1879-1882. Berlin. xi-78pp.,6pl. Svo. [Rev. in 
Matdriaux, xviii,356.] 

FisiiER, F.H., J. E. Gill, D. T. Roberts. — Statistical, descriptive and historical ac- 
count of the northwest provinces of India. Vol. xiii. London. 

FisrHER,H. — Ueber die Asiatischen Pilger-Amulete. Corr.-Bl. deutsch. Ges. f. An- 
throp. , Miinchen, XV, 12. 

Ueber den Alaska-Jadeit. /rf., 53. 

The stone implements of Asia. Proc. Am. Antiq. Soc. iv, 178. 

FisKE, John. — The destiny of man viewed in the light of his origin. Boston. 

Fisox, LoRiMER. — The Nauga or sacred stone inclosure of Wainimala, Fiji. London. 
18 pp. Svo. [From J. Anthrop. Inst, xiv, 14-30. ] 

Fleay, F. G. — Lectures on polytheism. III. German mythology. Am. Antiquar., vi, 
225-231. Hindoo mythology, pages 289-294. 

Flower, W.H. — Additional observations on the osteology of thenativesof the Anda- 
man Islands. J. Anthrop. Inst., London, xiv, 15-120. 

On the size of the teeth as a character of race. Ibid., 183-185. 

Address delivered at the anniversary meeting of the Anthrop. lust, of Gr 

Brit, and Ireland, Jan. 22. br. 14 p. Svo. • 

On the aims and prospects of the study of anthropology. J. Anthrop. Inst. 

London, Xlli, 488-501. 

Aims of the study of anthropology. Pop. Sc. Month. N. Y. xxv, 605-609. 



Nature, Jan. 31. 
Focke, W. O. — The origin of species from mongrels between races and other species. 

J. Sc. London, vi, 409-412. 
l'''olklore society. 
Forbes, H.O. — On some of the tribes of the island of Timor. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiii, 

402-429. 
FouREREAU, L.— La fete des Polygoudoux. Rev. d'Ethnog., iii, pp. 120-133. 
Friend, Hilderic. — Flowers and (lower-lore. London : Sonnenschein. 2 vols, xvi- 

352,35:^701 pp. Svo. [1884.] 

The mythology of flowers and plants. London. Svo. 

FoRTSCH, A. — A human skull from the Loess of Podbaba, near Prague. Science, iii, 

785. 
Gabelentz, Georg von DER. — Zur grammatischen Beurtheilnng des Chinesischeu. 

Internat. Ztschr., i, 272-280. 
Galton, Francis.— Record of family faculties, etc. London. iv+68pp., 4to. [Rev. 

Am. Naturalist, xviii, 515.] 

Life-history album, viii + 172 pp., 8 pi. 4to, 

The identiscope. Nature, October 30. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 70o 

Galton, Francis.— The weight of British noblemen dnring th<; hist three genera- 
tions. 

Anthropometric laboratory ; arranged for the determiuavion of height, weight, 

span, breathing power, strength of pull and squeeze, quickness of blow, hearing, 
seeing, color sense, and other personal data. London. 12 pp., tab. 8vo. 

Garsox, J. G.— On the cranial characters of the nations of Timor-laut. J. Anthrop. 
Inst., Loud., XIII, pp. 386-402, 2 pi. 

Anthropometry. Rep. Brit. Assoc, Lond., Liii, .%9. 

On the Frankfort cranioraetric agreement, with critical remarks thereon. J. 

Anthrop. Inst., xiv, pp. 64-82. 

Gatschet, a. S.— Editor of linguistic uotes in American Antiquarian. Contribu- 
tions in each number. 

A migration legend of the Creek Indians. Vol. i. Briulon's library of abo- 
riginal literature. No. iv, 251 p. 8vo. 

On the substantive verb in some North American languages. Froc. Am. 

Philolog. Assoc, sixteenth anuual session. 

( iKiGER, WiLHELM.— La civilis'ation des Aryas. Le Mus6ou, iii, pp. 430-438 ; 627-682. 

(;iBB, JOHX.— The original homo of the Aryans. Brit. Quarterly, Lxxx, pp. 377-339. 

[Review of " Sprachvergleichuug und Urgeschichte : Liuguistisch-historischo 

Beitriige zur Erforschung des indogermanischen Alterthums." Jena, 1883 ; and 

" Origines ariacie. Linguistisch-ethnologischo Untersuchuugeu zur iiltesten 

Geschichte der arischeu Volker und Sprachen." Wein und Teschen. 1883.] 

Gibbons, H.— On some of the relations of body to mind. Pacific Med. & S. J. San 
Francisco, xxvi, pp. 337-362. 

Globus. Illustiirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander- und ViJlkerkuude. Braunschweig. 

XLV, XLVI. 

GoBiNEAU, A. DE. — Essai sur I'indgalit^ des races humaines. 2. 6A. Paris. 2 v. 
592,566 pp. 12mo. 

Goldstein, E.— Des circonfdrences du thorax et de leur rapport a la taille. Rev. d'An- 
throp., Paris, vil, 460-485. 

Du plan horizontal du crane. Rev. d'Anthrop. Paris, viii, pp. 680-720. 

GoLLMER, C. A.— On African symbolic messages. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, pp. 169-180. 

Gonzalez Serrano, W.— La sociologia cientlfica. Madrid. 153 p. 8vo. 

Gkassman, R.— Die Menschenlehre, oder die Anthropologie. Stettin. 8vo. 

Gratacap, L. p. — Antiquities of Mexico. Am. Antiquar., vi, 241-247. 

Central America at the time of the Conquest. Am. Antiquarian, vi, 369-376. 

Gravier, G.— Note sur I'lnde franyaise. Bull. Soc. Normande de GtSogr., 241-253. 

Gros, Jules.— Voyages, aventures et captivit6 de J. Bonnat chez les Acbantis. 
Paris. 8vo. 

Grotius, Hugo.— On the origin of the native races of America. To which is added 
a treatise on foreign languages and unknown islands, by Peter Albiuus. Trans- 
lated by E. Goldschmid. Edinburgh: Priv. Print. (Bibl.curiosa.) 63 p. 16mo. 

IIaberlanct, Michael. — Sind die ludogerraauen in Europa eingewaudert ? Mit- 
theil. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien. Vol. Xiv, [86-90.] 

Haeckel, E. — ludische Reisebriefe. 2. Aufl. Berlin. 392 p., chart. 8vo. 

IIaldane, J. S.— Life and mechanism. Mind. London, ix, pp. 27-47. 

Hale, Horatio. — On the origin of wampum. Brit. Assoc, Montreal. Nature, Oct. 9. 

The Tutelo tribe and language. Am. Philosoph. Soc. Philad. xxi, 1-45. 

Hamilton, D.J. — On the sti-ncture and significance of the human corpus callosum. 
Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxvi (1884), 349. 

Hamy, E. T. — Mission scientifique au Mexique et dans I'Am^rique Centrale. 1 pt. 
Anthropologie du Mexique. Paris, 1884. 40 pp., 8 pi. 4to. 

Note sur les rccherches ethnographiquesde M. Guesde dans les petites Antilles. 

Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 293. 



704 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Hamy, E. T. — Rapport sur le Concours dn Prix Logerat, pr^sent^ h la S()ci6!6(le 

G^ograj-hie. [Conferred on D. Chavnary. ] Paris: Soc. de G6og., 12 pp., 8vo. 
• Les Hovas ou Merinas. J. Sc. et Nature, 12 Jan., 1884. 

Decades AmericanaB ; m6nK)ire8 d'arch^ologie et d'ethnograpliie ani^ricaines. 

Rev. d'Ethnog. ; Paris, iii, 51-67, 150-160, 508-520. 

Sur des peiutures etbniqnes d'un Tomboau Th6ban. Id., 273-294. 

Presidential address. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., Paris, pp. 1-5. 



L'othnog^nie de I'Europe occideutale. [Extr.] Mat6riaux, xviii, 35,14 pp. 

Hanausek, T. F.— Die Nahrungs- uud Genuss-Mittel aus dem Pflanzenreiche. Kass'l. 

XIV + 485 pp. ill. 8vo. 
Handelmann. — Uebereingegrabene uudeiugemauerteMUhlsteiue. Verhaudl. Berlin. 

Anthrop.Gesellsch., 1884, 133-140. 
Handworterbucb der Zoologie, Autbropologie uud Etbuologie. Breslau. 8vo. 
Hahmand, J. — Birmanie. Rfeunid etliuograpbique et liuguistique. Paris: Maison- 

nouvc. br. in-8vo. 
IIartmann, R. — La scimmie antropomorfe e la loro organizzazione in coufronto con 

quella dell' uomo. Tr. G. Cattaneo. Milauo. 8vo. 
Harvey, A. — Choosiug one's father. Med. Times and Gaz., London, i, 42. 
Havaiu), V. — The Mezquit. Am. Naturalist, xxiii, 451-459. 
Haynes, Henry W. — Some new evidences of cannibalism among New England 

Indians from Mount Desert, Me. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxii, p. 60. 

Agricultural implements, New England Indians. Id., 437. 

Ancient soap-stone quarries. Am. Antiquar. Soc, ii, p. 364. 

Copper implements of America. Id., iii, p. 335. 

Aluwick Castle autiquities. Science, ii, 136. 

ArchsBology in Portugal. Id., 764. 

The bone caves of Poland. Id., in, 489. 

llELLWALD, F. V. — Naturgeschichte des Menschen. ill. Lf. 40-52. Stuttgart. 
Hennig, C. — Uebor die Beckenueiguug bei verschiedeuen Volksstiimmen. Corresp. 

Blatt deutsch. Ges. f. Authroj)., Miiuchen, xv, 3. 
Henrot, II. — De I'inliuence de la presse sur la criminalit6. Paris: Chaix. 8vo. 
Henshaw, H. W. — Animal carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi Valley. 2. 

An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., 117-166. 
Herschel, J. — The yard, the meter, and the old French foot. Nature, July 31. 
Herv/:, G.— L'authropologie anatomique. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv, 225-230. 
Himly, K. — Ueber die oiusilbigen Sprachen des sudostlichen Asiens. Internat.- 

Ztschr., I, 281-294. 
Hirschfeldek, C. a. — Prehistoric remains in Canada. Brit. Assoc, Montreal. 

Nature, Oct. 9. 
HiltTH, G. — Kulturgeschichtliches Bilderbuch aus d-rci Jahrhuuderten. 17-24 Lfg. 

Miinchen. Fol. XX, 515-768 p. 
His, W. — Die Anfiinge unseres korperlichen Daseins. Cor.-Bl. f. schwor-/. Aerzte, 

Basel, XIV, 337-348. 
Historical Museum of Moscow, Alneis S. Orwarof, director, 
Hoffmann, W. J.— Selish myths. Bull. Essex Inst., xv, 3-20. 

Der Indianische Mediziumann. Das Ausland, No. 9, 17.3-176. 

Ein Beitrag zu dem Studium der Bilderschrift. Id., No. 33, 646-651, 1 pi ; No. 

34, 666-669, 1 pi. 

La fete annuelle des Indious Aukaris. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 

526-534. 

Holmes, W. H. -Art in shell of the ancient Americans. 2 An. Rep. Biir. Ethnology, 
179-306. 

Burial masks of the ancient Peruvians. Science, July 4. 

-o Eccentric figures from Southern mounds. Science, April 11, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 705 

Holmes, T. V. — The geological positiou of the human skeleton found at Tilbury. 

Nature, March 6. [There is no proof of the palseolithic age of the Tilbury relic] 
HORSLEY, Victor, and Edward A. Schafer. — Experimental researches in cerebral 

physiology. Proc. Roy. Soc, xxxvi, (1884), 437-441. 
HovELACQUE, A. — L'homme et la faculty du langage. Pop. So. Month, xxv, 33^2. 
HowiTT, A. W., AND L. FISON. — On the deme and the horde. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

London, xiv, 142-169. 

On some Australian cerehiouies of initation. Id., xiii, 432-458. 

Hyades, Dr. — Ethuographie fiiegienne. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop. Paris, vii, 147-183. 

Notes hygieniques et medicales sur les Fu6gians de I'archipel du Caj) Horn. 

Rev. d'Hyg., Paris, vi, .550-590. 

et Galippe. (Observations sur le systfeme dentairedesFu^gians. Paris. 8vo. 



(Repr. J.d. conn. m^d. prat.) 
Ibbetson, Denzil Charles Jelf. — Outlines of Punjab ethnography; being extracts 

from the Punjab census of 1881, treating of religion, language and caste. Cal- 
cutta: Gov't Print., 1883. 4to. 
Ikow, M. C. — The color of the eyes and hair. Bulletin of the Paris Society of Anthro- 
pology, vol. XVI, pp. 440-457. 
Im Thurn, Everard.— Review. See Athenajum March 29. Index. 
Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, United States Ai'my. 

Authors and subjects. Vol. v. Flaccus to Hearth. Washington: Government 

Printer. 4to. 
Index-Medicus. — A monthly classified record of the current medical literature of the 

world. Compiled under the supervision of Dr. John S. Billings, surgeon, U. S. 

A., and Dr. Robert Fletcher, M. R. C. S. Eng. Vol. vi. Jan. -Dec, 1884. New 

York : Leypoldt. 8vo. 
Indian Affairs. Annual Report of the Commissioner. Washington, Gov't Printer. 
Indian Commissioners. Fifteenth annual Rep. Washington, Gov't Printer. 
Indian languages of South America. Science, iv, 138. 
Internationale Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft. F. Techmer. Band i, 

Heft I and ii Lpzg., xvi + 256 p. 257-518, 4 pi. 8vo. 
Jacobsen, Captain. — Ethnologische Gegenstande aus seiner im Alaska-Territorium 

zusammeugebrachten sammlung. Verhandl. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., Mar. 

15, 221. 

Reise an der Nordwestkuste Amerikas, 1881-83. Lpzg. : Spohr. ill. 

Jacobsthal, Professor. — On the evolution of forms of ornament. Nature, July 

10, 17. 
Jacolliot, L. — Histoire naturelle et sociale de I'humauit^. Le rnond^ primitif, les 

lois naturelles, et les lois sociales. Paris : Marpon et Flammarion. 591 pp. 8vo. 
Jaeger, G.— Entdeckung der Seele. 3. Aufl., 7 Lief. Lpzg. 8vo. 
Jean, Le P. — fitude comparative des langues Malgache et Malaise. Bull. Soc 

Gdog. Paris. 135-144. 
James, D. H.— Heredity. Obst. Gaz., Cincin., vii, 225-230. 
JiJiMA, J., and C. Sasaki. — Okadaira shell-mounds at Hitachi, being an api)enuix to 

memoir, vol. I, pt. 1, of the science department. Tokio Daigabu (university), 

188.3. 7 pp., 11 tables. 
Johns Hopkins University studies in historical and political science, H. B. Adams, 

editor. 
Johnston, H. H. — On the races of the Congo and the Portuguese colonies in Western 

Africa. J. Anthrop. Inst., Lond., xili, 461-479, 2 pi. 
The river Congo, from its mouth to B616b6, with a general description of the 

natural history and anthropology of its western basin. London, xvii-470 pi., 
maps and ill. 8vo. 1884. (Rev. in Nature, by A. H. Keane, Ap. 17.) 
Johnston, Keith. — Africa, 3 ed. London. 8vo. 
S. Mis. 33 45 



706 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

JUBAINVILLE, H. d'ARBOis DE. — Le cycle mythologique irlandais et la mythologie 
celtique. Paris. 1 vol. xii-411 p. Bvo. 

Kanda, T. — Notes on ancient stone implements, &c., of Japan. By T. Kanda, ex- 
governor of Hiogo, member of Genvoin (senate), member of Gakushikwaiiu. Trans- 
lated by N. Kanda. With 24 lith. pi. and 1 map. Tokio. 8 pp. sm. 4to. 

Kansas City Review of Science and Industry. Kansas City, Mo. Vol. vii. Monthly. 
[Publishes anthropological papers in each number.] 

Katalog der anthropologischen Sammlung des anatomischen Museums zu Breslau. 
Braunschvreig. 40 pp. 4 to. 

Katalog der prahiatorischen Ausstellung bei dem Kongress zu Breslau. Breslau. 

Keane, a, H. — Ethnology of Egyptian Sudan. J. Anthrop. Inst., Lond., xiv, 91-112. 

The tribes of Egyptian Sudan. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 5.53. [Nature, Jan. 24.] 

Pathological anthropology. Nature, March 27. [Author of many ethnologi- 
cal reviews in Nature.] 

Native American literature and ethnology. Nature, Aug. 7. 



KiRCKHOFFS. — Le criine n^anderthaloide de Podbaba. L'Homme, Paris, i, 528-531. 

Klein, Hugo. — Der Totencultus in Ungarn. Ausland, No. 19. 

KoBYLiNSKi, O. — Ueber eine flughautiihnliche Ausbreitung am Halse. Archiv f. 

Anthrop., XV, 343-348. 
KoLLMANN, A. — Der Tastapparat der Hand der menschlichen Rassen und der Aflfen in 

seiner Entwickelung und Gliederung. Hamb. & Lpz'g : L. Voss, 1883. 77 pp., 2 

pi. 8vo. 
KoLLMANN, J. — Craniologische Griiberfunde in der Schweiz. Verhandl. d. naturf. 

Gesellsch. in Basel, vii, 352-386. 

Hohes Alter der Menschenrassen. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., xvi, 181-212. 

Deux especes de variations correlatives dans le crane facial de I'homme. Paris. 

8vo. [Assoc. Fr. Avanc. Sc, h Rouen, 1883.] 
KoNiG, J. — Chemische Zusammensetzung der menschlichen Nahrungs- und Genussmit- 

tel. 2. ed. 8vo. Berlin, i, 351 p., ii, 820 p. 
Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift-Selskab i Kj0benhavn. Aarb0rger for Nordisk Old- 

kyndighed og Historie. Kj0benhav'a. 
Kosekitz, San Carlos. — Bosquejos ethnologicos. In Gazeta de Porto Alegre, and 

separate. [Study based upon over 2,000 objects collected in Rio Grande do Sul, 

Brazil. ] 
KoSMOS. — Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Entwickelungslehre. Stuttgart, vii, 12 

numbers. 
Kotelmann, L. — Die Augen von 22Kalmucken. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xvi, 77-84. 

Die Augen von 23 Singhalesen und 3 Hindus. lb. 164-171. 

Krause, H. Aurel. — Fischfang, Jagd, und Handel bei den Thlinkit-Indianen. Ver- 
handl. Berl. Gesellsch., Anthrop. April, 232-235. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., xvi. 
Krauss, Fried. S. — Sagen uud Miirchen der Siidslaven. ii, Lpzg. See also Mittheil. 

Anthroj). Gesellsch. in Wien, xiv, 13-48. 
Kruszewski, N.— Prinzipen der Sprachentwickelung. Internat. Ztschr., i, 281-307. 
KucHHOFF, Dr. — Darwinism and racial evolution. Germ. Assoc, Magdeburg. Na- 
ture, October 23. 
Kunstgewerbe-Museum zu Berlin. Siebeute Sonder- Ausstellung, 27. Nov. — 1. P^eb. 1884. 

Berlin. 1883. 18mo. 
KuNZ, G. F. — Korean curios. Science, iv, 172. 
Laboulb^ne. — Histoire des m6decin8 arabes et de I'ficolo de Salerne. Gaz. d'h6p., 

Paris, LVi, llGl ; LVii, 25, 73. Also, Union mdd., Parisj xxxvii, 145, 185, 321, 357, 

381, 393. 
Laillet, E. — La France orientale. L'llede Madagascar, etc. Paris. 18vo. 
Le Bon, Gustav. — La civilisation des Arabes. Paris: xv -i 709 pp. 10 lith., 4 

maps, 366 figs. 4to. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 707 

Le Bon, Gustav. — Sur ]a de'temiiuation de la ciicouf6reuce dii crAne en fouction de 
ses diam^tres. Bull. Soc. d'Autlirop. de Paris, vii, 240-243. 

L'Homnie. Jourual illustiiS des sciences antbropologiques. Director, Gabriel de 
Mortillet. [The tirst number appeared on the lOtb January, 1884, coutainiug 32 
pp. Tbe succeeding numbers bavo appeared fortnightly (10th and 25th of each 
month) and contain the same number of pages.] 

Leland, C. G. — Tbe Algonkin legends of New England. Boston. xvi4-379pp. ill. 
12mo. 

Lemire, Cii. — Cochincbiue frau^aise, royaume do Cambodge, rovaizme d'Annam et 
Tonkin. Paris: Cballemel. 1 v., charts, plans, illustr. fevo. 

Lenz, Oskar. — Timbuktu. Keise durch Marokko, die Sahara uud den Sudan. Leip- 
zig: Brockhaus. I : x-|- 430 pp., 20 ill., 1 chart ; II: x+408 pp.,20 ill.,8 charts. 

Lesson, A. — Les Polynesiens. Vol. IV. Paris. 431 p. 8vo. 

Letourneau, C. — Couf6reuce annuelle transformiste de la Soci6t6 d'anthrojiologie. 
Tribune m^d., Paris, xvi, 313,325,385,397. 

Du droit d'h^ritage. Pop. Sc. Mouth., xxv, 417,420. 

La sociologie ; ce qu'elle est, ce qu'elle doit etre. Id., 4-7. 

L'evolution de la morale. Rev. Sc. Paris, xxxiii, 673-G84. 

La sociologie d'apres rethnogra|)hie. 2. <5d. Paris, xvi, 608 pp. 12mo. 

Sur I'anthropophagie (a poem). Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 517. 

LiEBLEiN, J. — Le Mythe d'Osiris. (Translated from the Norwegian by M. Larsen.) 

Eev. d. I'Hist. d. Relig., ix, 307. 

LiND, G. D. — Man. Embracing his origin, antiquity, primitive condition, races, lan- 
guages, religion, superstitions, customs, physical structure, &c. Chicago. Bvo. 

LiNDENSCHMiDT, L. — Die Alterthiimer unserer heidnischen Vorzeit. iii and iv vols. 
Mainz. 

LiNGAKD, A. — The hereditary transmission of hypospadias, and its transmission by 
indirect atavism. Lancet, London, i,703. 

LiPPERT, J. — Allgemeine Geschichte des Priesterthums. 2d vol. Berlin. 1884. 

Die Geschichte der Familie. Stuttgart: Ferd. Enke. 1884. 260 p. 

Livi, R. — Sulla statura degli Italiani. Ai'ch. per 1' Antrop., Firenze. xiii, 317-377. 
Map. 

LoHER, Fred. v. — Gab es bei den Germanen Meuschenopfer ? Archiv f. Anthrop. 
23-36. 

Beitriige zur Geschichte und Volkerkunde. Vol. I. Frankfurt. 1885. 

Lombrose.— L'antbropologie et la criminalite. Rev. Scient., Paris, xxxiii, 303-308. 

LoviSATO, D. — Sulla coUezioue etnografica della Terra del Fuoco. Boll. Soc. Geog. 
Ital. Rom. 719-724. 

LuciOLi, B. — Gli Indiani dell' alto Amazoni. Boll. Soc. Geog. Ital. Rom. ix, 528-555, 
708-717. 

Lubbock, Sir John. — Teaching animals to converse. Nature, Jan. 3, 10, 17 ; Ap. 10. 

Litndel, J. A. — Sur I'^tude des patois. Internat. Ztschr., 1,308-328. 

Luys, J. — Nouvelles recherches sur la structure du cerveau et I'agencementdes fibres 
blanches c^r^brales. Eucdphale, Paxis, iv, 513-528. 1 pi. 

MacCauley, E. Y. — Inscription on a mummy case of the XlXtb Dynasty, in Memo- 
rial Hall, in Philadelphia. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, xxi, 488-491. 

Maler, Teobert. — M6moire sur l'6tat de Chiapa (Mexique). Rev. d'Ethnog., in, 
295-342. 

Manouvrier, L. — Apercju du voyage du Dr. Ten Kate chez les Indiens de I'Am^rique 
du Nord. Pop. Sc. Month., xxv, 102-105. 

I7ethnologie et I'ethnograiihie dans l'antbropologie. Pop. Sc. Month., 161-171. 

Sur quelques erreurs dynamom^triques. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 

271-284. 

and others. — Discussion sur des contes analogues rdpandus on diverses con- 



tr€es. Bull. Soc. d'Anrtbrop., vii, 265. 



708 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Maxtegazza, Paolo. — Stiulii suU' etuologia dell" India. Anbiv. per rAutvop., 
XIV, fase. 2. 

La phvsiouomio et I'exprossiou iles soutiuients. Paris. 272 pp. 8 pi. 8vo. 

Masox. F.— Bnriua: its people and productions. I. Geology, mineralogy, and zool- 
ogy. 11. Botany. 2 vols, xx^^ — 5G0; xvi, 788, xxx^'^ pp. 8vo. 

Materianx pour I'histoire de rhomme. Vol. xviil. A'"ol. i, od series. Paris: E 

Cartailbac and E. Chantre. 12 numbers. 
Matthews, "NVashixgtox. — Navajo silversmitbs. 2d. Au. Kep. Bureau Etbnology, 

1G7-178. 
Matturi, Katfaklle. — lutroduzioue alia storia della medicina. Mediciua preisto- 

rica. Xapoli. 154 pp. 8vo. 
Mavdsley, Henry. — Body and will, «Scc. New York. 341 pp. 
Maurel, Dr. — De Tiutlneuoe des olimats et do la race sur la tempcJraturo iiormale de 

Ibomme. Bull. Soe. d'Antbrop. de Paris, Ani, o71-'3i>2. 

. De la couvado. Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de Paris, "\^I,■ 542-551. 

Mayer, Aj^EX. — Des rapports couiugaux considert^s sous le triple point do vuo do la 

population, do la santo ot de la morale publique. Paris. 385 pp. 12mo. 
Medina, .T. T.— Tbe aborigines ofCbili. Santiago. 1882. 427 pp. 232 fig. 
Mejov, V. I. — Kecueil du Turkestan,. oonipreuaut des livres et des articles sur I'Asie 

Ceutrale en general, et la Province du Turkestan en i>articulier. L' indicateut 

syst^matique et alpbabetiqiie. St.-Petersbourg. vi. 167 jip. 4to. 
Merriam, A. C. — Notes and papers on classical arcbjeology. Am. Antiqnar., vol. 

VI, Nos. 1-G. 
Mestorf, Julia. — Ans der skandinaviscbeu Literatur. Arcb. f. Antbroi)., xv, pp. 

127-151. 
Mestre, Josi5 Manuel. — Una raza i)rebistorioa de Norte America. Los Terraple- 

neros (Mound-Builders). Habana. [Sociodad Antropologica de la isla pe Cuba.] 

30 pp. 8vo. 
Mexico a trav^s los siglos. Printed in Barcelona, Spain, by Espasa & Co., and pub- 

lisbed in Jlexico by Ballesca & Co. [A beautifully illustrated work on ancient 

Mexico. ] 
Meyer, A. B. — Ueber Nepbrit, uud iibnliches Material aus Alaska, xxi. Jabr. des 

Yereius fiir Erdk. zu Dresden. Dresden. 
Altertbiimer aus dem ostindischen Arcbipel und angrenzenden Gebieteu. iv. 

Kiinigl. Etbnog. Msueum zu Dresden. 19 tables, 4 cbromolitb., I chat. Leipzig. 

24 pp. Folio. Leipzig. 
On artificial deformation of tbe bead in Sumatra. Celebes, and tbe Philip- 
pine Islands. Loudon. 3 pp. 

Publicationen des.koniglicben etbnographischen Museums zu Dresden. Leip- 



zig. Br. in 4to. 
Meyer. E. — Gescbicbte des Altertbunis. Erster Band. Geschichte des Orients bis zur 

Begriindung des Kaiserreicbs. Stuttgart. 8vo. 
MiCAULT, Y., ct DU Duexeuc DE LislJ5. — luventaire des t?p6es et poiguards de bronze 

trouves dans les cinq departements de Bret.tgne. Saint-Bricuc. 8vo. 
Mission Arcboologique Franfaise an Cairo. M. Maspen, dirccteur. i:i2 pp. Colored 

plates. 4to. Paris: E. Leroux. 
Mittbeilnngen der Eiebek'schen Niger-Expedition. Leipzig. 2 vols. 108 and 82 pp. 
MoxTAXO, Dr. — Sur les races des Philippines. Bull. Soc. d'Antbrop. de Paris, vn. 

51-58. [Classified table of races given.] 
MoxTAXO, J. — Voyage aux Philippines, 187i)-183]. Tour du Monde, Jul , Aug. 
MoNTET, Edward. — Les origines de la croyauce li la vie future chez les Juifs. Rev. 

d. I'Hist. d. Religions, IX, 307. 
Monti, L. — Studio autropologico sni cranii dei delinquenti. Bologna. 22 pp. 8vo. 
MoKG.vN> C. Lloyd.— Instinct. Nature. Feb. 14, 21, 28; Mar. (i, 13, 20. 
Morse, E. S. — Man in the Tertiaries. Am. Naturalist, xviii, lOlU-1030. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 709 

MOKSE, E. S. — Man in the TcrtiarieB. LVice-Presidcnt'n AddresH before the Section 

of Anthropology, A. A. A. S. ] 
MoiiTiLLET G. Nt'gres et civilisation <jgyi»tieuue, etc. Lyon, 8vo. [Fr. Mat<?riaux 

pour rili.st. prinj. del'IIoninie, xviii, li:j-l"^0.] 
Le i)r6ciirsenr de I'homme, a TAssociation Fran^aiHC. L'Honinie : Paris. I, 

545-054 . 

CrAue do la race de Neanderthal. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 10-12. 



MuiR, J. S. — Note of a curious instance of abnormal development of adventitious 
fingers and toes in five consecutive generations. Glasgow Med. J., xxi, 420-423, 
Ipl. 
MuLLER, J. H. — Catalogue of anthropological literature, archaiology and uncivilized. 

Archiv. f. Anthro|),xv, supp. 1-35. 
MuLLEK, SOPHUS [Copenhag]. U'cl)er die barbarischen Gemmen. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., 

XVI, 89-92. 
Miudro Bidrag til den forhistoriskc archajologis Methode. Aarb0rger Nord. 

Oldkyndfghedre, p. 161-182. 
Ursprung und erste Entwickelung der europaischen Bronzecultur, etc. Arch. 

f. Anthrop.,xv, ;52:5-355. 
Murray, Alex.S. — Manual of Mythology, etc. New York. 307 pp. 12mo. 
Mus6on, Le. Revue Internationale, Soci<St6 des Sciences et Lettres. Ath^n^e Orien- 

tale, III, Nos. 1,2,3,4. Paris. 
Museo Nazionale jjreistorico ed etnografico di Roma. [Review of the Director's Re- 
port. Mat<5riaux, xviii,3G3.] 
Nai>aillac, Marquis de. — Les d6couvertes rdcentes en Aro6ric]ue, (i figures. Mat6- 

riaux, Sept. 1884. 
Die Ersteu Menschen und die Praehistorischen Zeiten, niit besonderer Beriick- 

sichtiguug der Urbewohner Amerikas ; trans, by Schlosser & Siler. Stuttgart, 

pp. i524. ' 
Les descendants des Mound Builders. Rev. d'Anthrop. de Paris, 20, vii, 110- 

122. 
De la periode glaciaire et de I'existence de I'honiirie duraut cette p6riode en 

Am6rique. Matdriaux, xviii, 140-1.^j5. 

Silex taill6s de Tuuisie. Bull. Soc, d'Anthrop. do Paris, vii, 316. 

Nature. A weekly illustrated jounial of science. Vols. 29 and 30. London. 
Neill, Edward D. Life among the Mandans. Am. Antiquar., vi, 248-253; 377- 

384. 
Newcomb, Simon. Can ghosts be investigated? Science, iv, .525. 
New Zealand Institute. Transactions and proceeaings. J. Rector : Wellington. 

Vol. XVI, pp. 650, 44 pi. 
NoRDEXSKioLD, N. A. E. DE. Uu chapitre de I'ethnographie des Tschouktschis 

Rev. d'Ethnog. 111,402-423. 
Oloriz Aguilera, F. — Coleccion de craneos, etc. Diario ra<;d.-farm., Madrid, i, 

nos. 118,119. 
Oppert, G. — Die Verschiedenheiten des Sprachcharacters und deren natiirliche Ur- 

sache. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xvi, 1-17. 
Overloop, E. VAX. — Sur une m6thode k suivre dans les 6tudes pr6historiqaes. Bm- 

xelles. 114 p., 3 pi. 8vo. 
Owen. — Description of parts of a human skeleton from a Pleistocene (i^alseolithic) 

bed. Tilbury, Essex. Proc. Roy. Soc. London, xxxvi, 136. 
Owen, Richard. — Antiquity of man as deduced from the discovery of a human skel- 
eton during the excavations of the East and West India Dock extension at Til- 
bury. London: J. Van Voorst. 32pp., 5 pi. 8vo. 
Pamdtky archaeologickd a mistopisn6. Bd xu. Prag, 1882. [Contents leviewed m 

Mittheil. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, xiv, 224-227.] 



710 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Pausch, Ad. — Catalogue of anthropological literature. Anatomy. Archi%'. f An- 
throp., XV, suii])l., 3n-4u. 

Passavant, C. — Craniologisclie Untersuchung der Neger uud der Negervolker. Ba- 
sel. 94 pp., 1 table, 8vo. 

Peabody Museum of American Arcbasology and Ethnology. Cambridge, Mass. : F. W. 
Putnam, 16 and 17 Annual Reports, ill. 8vo. 

Peal, S. E. — Pile-dwellings on hill-tops. Nature, June 19. 

Peale, Titian R. — Men ignorant of fire. Am. Naturalist, xviii, 229-231. 

Peculiarities of conformation in tLe skulls of criminals. Phila. Med. Times, xv, 50. 

Peet, Stephen D. (Editor of the American Antiquarian, Chicago). — Emblematic 
mounds. Am. Antiquarian, vi, Nos. 4 and 5. 

Penck, a. — Mensch und Eiszeit. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 211-228, 2 maps. Braun- 
schweig. 4to. 

Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur. iii. Volkerkunde uud Reisen. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., xv. Appendix, 48-12rt. 

Peney, A. — Ethuographie du Sudan Egyptien. iv. Fazoglou. Rev. d' Ethnog., iii, 

Pengelly, W. — Kent's cavern and glacial or preglacial man. Tr. Devonshire Assoc. 
Adv. Sc, etc., XVI, 480-488. 

Peralta, M. M. de. — Costa Rica, Nicaragua, y Panama en el siglo xvi, etc. Madrid, 
XXIV, 810 p. 4to. 

Petermanu's MiLtheiluugen, and J. Perthes geogr. Anstalt. Gotha, 12 Hefte. 

Petitot, Emile F. S. — "La Ferame au Serpent," a Chepewayan legend in the Indian 
(Tinn6) dialect and in French. La M^lusine, Paris, ii. No. 1 (published April 5, 
1884). Review directed by Gaidoz & Rolland. Col. 19-21. 

De la pr^tendue origine orientale des Algonquins. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop., 

Paris, VII, 248-256. 

Sur I'habitat et les fluctuations de la population peau rouge, en Canada. Bull. 



Soc. d' Anthrop. de Paris. 
Phillips, Henry. — A brief account of the more important public collections in the 

United States. Proc. Am. Philosoph. Soc, xxi, 111-120. 
On a supposed rare inscription at Yarmouth. Proc. Am. Philosoph. Soc, xxi, 

491-492. 
Phillips, W. A. — Arrow-points atEvanston, 111. Science, March 7. 
Pi:&trement, C. A. — Note sur les chars de guerre gaulois. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop., vii, 

518. 

Sur les origines du fer. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 238. 

Sur I'anciennet^ du cheval en flgypte. Ann. Fac des Lettres de Lyon, 1884, 1 

fasc. ; also Rev. d'Ethnog., iii, 369. 
PiGOViNi, L. — II Museo nazionale preistorico et etnografico di Roma. Secunda re- 

lazione. Roma. 8vo. [Rev. in Mat^riaux, xviii, 356.] 
PiNART, Alph. L. — Catalogue de livres rares et pr6cieux. [Rare and valuable works 

on America.] 
Pitt-Rivers. — On the development and distribution of primitive locks and keys. 

London. 31 pp., 10 pi. 4to. 
Platner, Carl.— Dass die "Sueven," Slaven gewesen seien. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., 

xvi, 93-100. 
Ploss, H. — Das Weib in der Natur- und Volkerkunde. Anthropologische Studien. 

Leipzig : Grieben. Lief, i, 134 p. 8vo. 
Poljakow, J. S. — Reise uach der lusel Sachaliu in den Jahren 1881-'82. From the 

Russian of JC. Arzuni. Berlin, Asher., 134 p. 
Poole, S. L. — Social life in Egypt. A description of the country and its people. 

London. 136 pp. 111. 4to. 
POTANIN, G. N. — Ethnographical materials for the northwest Mongols.' iv. St. Pe- 
tersburg. 1025 pp., 26 tables. [In Russian.] 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 711 

PoTTi, A. F. — Einloituug iu die allgemeiue Sprachwissenschaft. luteruat. Ztsclir., 
■:,29. 

Powell, J. W. — Certaiu priuciplcs of primitive law. Science, iv, 436. 

Marriage law in savagery. Science, iv, 471. 

The marriage laws of the North American tribes. Brit. Assoc. Montreal. 

Nature, Oct. 9. Science, iv, 471. 

The classification of North American languages. Brit. Assoc. Montreal. Na- 
ture, Oct. 9. 

II Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smith- 



sonian Institution, 1880-'81. 1883. Washington, Gov't Print. .514 pp., 175 pi., 2 

maps. 4to. Introd. by Major Powell. 
Powell, W. — Wanderings iu the wild country; or three years amongst the cannibals 

of New Britain. Loudon: Low. 282 r> p. ill. 8vo. 
Preyer, W. — Die Seele des Kindes. Beobachtungen iiber die geistige Entwickelung 

des Menschen in den ersten Lebensjahren. 2. Aufl. Lpzg. Bvo. 
Price, E. C— Spiromtery. N. Y. Med. Times, xii, 39-41. 
Price, F. G. Hilton. — Notes upou some ancient Egyptian imjilements. J. Anthrop. 

lust., XIV, 5(i-63. 
Projet d'un questionnaire d'anthropologio physiologique. [See discussion Bull. Soc. 

d' Anthrop., Paris, vii, 351.] 
Przevalsky, N. M. — Reiseu in Tibet uud am obereu Laut des Gelben Flusses in den 

Jahren 1879 bis 1880. [Trans, from Russian into German by Stein-Nordheim, 

Jena. ] 
Third journey in Central Asia. From Zaizau through Khami to Thibet and 

the sources of the Yellow River. St. Petersburg. [Rev. in Nature, Apr. 24.] 
Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society and Monthly Record of Geography. 

London, vi. 
PULSKY, Franz V. — Die Kupferzeit in Ungarn. Budapest. 103 pp., 1C7 ill. 8vo. 
Psychical research in America. Science, iv, 359, 369, 372, etc. * 

Psychology. The American Naturalist contains each month notes on comparative 

psychology. 
QUATREFAGES, A. DE. — Hommes fossiles et hommes sauvages. Paris. 644 pp., 209 

fig., 1 chart. Bvo. 
QuiN, C. — Origine des populations normandes; etude ethnologique du nordouest de 

la France. Le Havre. 8vo. 
Rae, John. — Contemporary socialism. New York. 8vo. 
Ram Chandra Bose. — Brahmaism; or the history of reformed Hinduism. New York. 

222 pp. 
Ranke, H. — Ueber eineu Fall von abnormer Behaarung bei einem Kinde. Archiv f. 

Ant., XV, 339-342. 
Ranke, J., uud N. RtJDiNGER. — Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Urgeschichte Bayerns. 

Vol. V. Munich. 
Ranke, Dr. J. — Wissenschaftlicher Jahresbericht (Analyse des voj'ages de M. E. de 

Ujfalvy (Correspoudenz-Blatt der deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Anthropologic, Ethnolo- 
gic uud Urgeschichte, Miiuchen, September, 1884). 4to. 
Rau. Charles. — Archajological circular. Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum. 
Prehistoric fishing in Europe and North America. Smithsonian contributions to 

Knowledge (509). Washington: Government Printer. 342 pp., 405 ill. 
Ratjber, a. — Urgeschichte des Menschen. Bd. i. Die Realien. Bd. ii. Territorialer 

Ueberblick. Leipzig. 4 to 436 p. 2 tables. 8vo. 
Reclus, fi. — Etudes sur les populations primitives ; les Cafres et plus spdcialement 

les Zoulous. Rev. d' Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 210-267. 
Reiss, W., and A. StObel. — The Necropolis of Ancon in Peru. Parts 1-12 have al- 
ready appeared. [This is a superbly illustrated work in folio, reprinted by Dodd 

& Mead, New York, from a London edition by Asher & Co.] 



712 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Renan, Ernest. — Nouvelles Etudes d'histoire religieuse. Paiis: C. L6vy, 1884. 
xxi+5:>3 pp. 8to. 

Revllle, Albert. — Lectures ou tbe origin and growth of religion. Tlie Hibbert 
Lectures for 1884. 

The native religions of Mexico and Peru. The Hibbert Lectures for 1884. New 

York. 1 vol., 12mo. 

Study on the Greek mythology, according to Carl Obfried Mliller. [Prolego- 
mena zu einer wissenschaftlicheu Mythologie. Goettingen, 1825. ] Rev. de I'Hist. 
d. Religions, ix, 133, 273. 

Revue d'Authropologie. Ed., Paul Topinard, Paris. 2d ser., Vol. vi. Quarterly. 

Revue d'Ethographie. Ed., E. T. Hamy, Paris. Vol. in. 6 numbers. 

Revue Scientifique. Paris. 

Rey, Philippe. — Notes sur les Botocudos et sur les Purys. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., 
VII, 89-101 ; also in L'Homme, i, 231-235. 

Reyer, E. — Die Kupferlegerungen, ihre Darstellung uud Verwendung bei den Viilkern 
des Alterthums. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 357-372. 

Rhepstorff, F. a. de. — A dictionary of the Nancowry dialect of the Nicobarese lan- 
guage, Nicobar-English and English-Nicobar. xxv+?79 pp. Calcutta. 8vo. 

RlCHET, C. — L'homme et I'intelligence. Paris, vii — 570 pp. 8vo. 

RiMMER, William. — Art anatomy. 

Roberts, C, and R. W. Rawson. — Final report of the anthropometric committee. 
Rep. Brit. Assoc, Liii, 2S3-306, 2 diag., 3 maps. 

Rochebrune, a. I. DE. — De I'emploi des mollusques chez les peuples anciens et mod- 
ernes. Angers. Bvo. 

Rochet, Ch. — Explication des trois planches murales dounant la loi naturelle des 
Ijroportious humaines. Paris, br., 3 pi., 8vo. 

Le prototype humain ; donnant les lois natnrelles do proportions dans les deux 

sexes. Paris : PI on. br. 12mo. 

The prfttotype of man ; giving the natural laws of human proj)ortion in both 



sexes, etc. Trans. by C. Carter Blake, Loudon. Paris: Bailliere. 8vo. 
Romanes, G. J. — Mental evolution in animals. Reviewed in Nature, Feb. 7. Dis- 
cussions, Feb. 7, 14, 21, 28 ; Mar. 6 ; July 17. 
Mental evolution in animals. With a posthumous essay by Charles Darwin. 

N. Y. : Appleton. 411 pp. [Nature, Feb. 7, 14, 21, 28 ; Mar. 6 ; July 17.] 
Romanes, H. — L'imagination des animaux. [In press. J Rev. Scieut. , Paris, xxxiv, 

397-403. 
ROmer, Dr. Ferd. — The bone caves of Ojcow in Poland. [Translat. by John E. 

Lee.] London. [Rev. in Nature, Mar. 13.] 
ROSNY, Leonde. — La grande D^esse Solaire, Ama-Terason Oho-Kami, et les origines 

du sentauisme. Rev. d. I'Hist. d. Religions, ix, 202. 
Rothlisberger, E. — Zur Indianer-Sprache in den Vereinigten Staaten der Repub- 
lic Columbia. [5 p. of vocabulary.] 
ROUSSELET, L. — Le Kafiristan et les Kafirs. Rev. d'Ethnog., Paris, in, 218-266. 
Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, new series, vol. xvi. 
Sabatier, C. — Essai sur I'ethnologie de I'Afrique du nord. Rev. d'Anthrop., Paris, 

VII, 404-459. 
Saffre. — Archipel des Tonga, des Samoa, des Wallis, lie Futuma, les Fidji. Arch. 

de M6d. Nav., Paris, xli, 433-452. [Reji. M6d. sur la campagne du croiseur le 

Segond, 187G-'79.] 
Sammlungen d. anthropologischen Gesellschaften Deutschlands. E«n Verzeichniss 

des in Deutschlands vorhandeneu anthropologischen Materials. Zusammen- 

gesetzt von H. Schaafthausen, Braunschweig, 4to. 
Sanchez, Senor. — Archieological papers in Anales d. Mus. Nac. de Mexico, vol. iii. 
Sanson, Andr6.— Sur les Equides quaternaires. Bull. Soc. d'Anlhroi). de Paris, vii 

37-51. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 7 1 3 

SCAKAMUCCi, Fkancesco, iiucl ExRico H GiGLioTi. — Notizie 8ui akil, e piu special, 
meiite sii Quelli di Assab. [Ou the Ked Sea Arcli. per FAutrop., Fireuze, xiv, 
17-44.] 

SCHAAFFiiAUSEN, H. — Ueber die grossere Bestialitiit des weibliclieu Meuscbeuge- 
schlechtes iu auatoiuiscber Hiasiclit. Coir. Blatt., xv, 99. 

SCHLIEMANX, H. — Ti'oja. 434 PI)., 150 wood-cuts, 4 charts and plans. London. Leip- 
zig : Brockhaus. 1S84. 

Das eogeuanul^ Grab der 192 Atbeuer in Marathon. Ztschr. f. Ethuol., xvi, 

85-88. 

SCHLOSSER, Max. — Catalogue of anthropological literature. Zoology. Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xv. Supplement, 125-154. 
Schmidt, E. — Die Mouudbuilders uud ihr Verhiiltuiss zu den historischen ludianern. 

"Kosmos," I. Band, Leipzig. 
Schmidt, K. — Der Streitiiber das Jus prims© noctis. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, xvi, 

18-59. 
SCHRADER, O. — Thier- und Pflanzgeographie im Licht der Sprachforschuug. Berlin. 

8vo. 
SCHROTER, Paul. — Anthropologische Untersuchungen am Becken iebender Menschen- 

Dorpat. 82 pp., 4 tab., 1 pi. 8vo. 
SCHWATKA, F. — The inijilements of the igloo. Science, iv, 81. 

The Netschilluk Innuit. Science, iv, 543. 

The Netschilluk Eskimo (of Adelaide Peninsula and King William Land). 

Science, Dec. 19. 

SCRIBNER, G. H. — Where did life begin ? vi, 464 pp. New York. 12mo. 
Sebillot, Paul. — L'eau de mer dans les superstitions et les croyances populaires. 

Paris. 7 pj). 8vo. 
SOCQUET, Jules. — Contribution a I'^tude statistique de la criminality en France. 

Paris. 91 pp., 9 tab., 8vo. 
Seggel, Dr. — Ueber die Augen der Feuerliinder und das Sehen der Naturvolker in 

Verhiiltuiss zudem der Kulturvolker. Arch. f. Anthrop., xv, 349-356. 
Semerie, E. — Des sources biologiques de la nation d'hnmanit^. Vichy. Bvo. 
Shrubsole, O. a. — Palaeolithic flint implements from the gravel of Eeading. 
SiGiSMUND, Reinhold. — Die Aromata in ihrer Bedeutung fiir Religion, Sitteu, 

Gebraiiche, Handel und Geographie des Alterthums bis zu den ersten Jahrhunder- 

ten unserer Zeitrechnung. Leipzig. 1884. 
Sikorsky. — Du d6veloppement du langage chez les enfants. Arch, de Neurol., Paris 

VI, 319-336. 
SiMMONDS, P. L.— A dictionary of useful animals and their products, with a glossary. 

1883. London. 
Smith, Erminnie A.— Myths of the Iroquois. 2 An. Rep. Bureau Ethnology, 47-116. 
Smithsonian Annual Report for 1882. Washington : Government Printer. 
Socl6t6 Am^ricaine do France. (Founded in Paris, 18.53, reorganized 18G3.) 
Sociedad Antropol6gica de la Isla de Cuba. 
Societa di Geografia ed Etnografia, founded at Turin, under the auspices of Prof. Guide 

Cora, whose Cosmos became the official organ. 
Soci^t^ d'Anthropologie de Bordeaux et du Sud-ouest. Founded in 1884. Dr. Azam, 

president. 
Soci6t6 d'Anthropologie de Bruxelles. Bulletin. Tome i published 1882-1883. Tome 

II, 1883-1884. 
Soci6t6 d'Anthropologie de Paris. Bulletins, Vol. xiv. 
Soci6t6 d'Anthropologie de Lyon. Vol. iii. 

Societa Geografica Italiana in Roma. Bolletino, Ser. ii, Vol. ix. 
Society for Psychical Research. [Proceedings published in parts. Sixth in July, 

1884.] 
Soldi, Emile.— Sur le fer en figypte. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop. , Paris, vu. 63-69, 



714 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Spegazzini, Carlos. — Costumbres de los Patagones. Anales Soc. Cient. Argentina, 
XVII (1884). pp. 221-240. 

Stair, U. P. — The physical and hereditary nature of vice. J. Ana. Med. Assoc. Chi- 
cago, II, 477-479. 

Stoll, Otto. — Znr Ethnographic der Republik Guatemala. Zurich. 176 p., chart, 
map. [An excellent monograph.] 

Steffen, M. — Die Landwirtschaft bei den altamerikanischen Kulturvolkern. Leip- 
zig. 1883. I. Vol. 8vo. 

Stevenson, James.— Catalogue of collections. 2 An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnology, 307- 
466. 

Stoddard, J. H. — The seven sagas of prehistoric man. London. 8vo. 

Steebel, Hermann. — Die Ruinen von Cempoallan im Staate Vera-Cruz (Mexico). 
Separat. Abhandl. d. Naturw. Vereins. Hamburg, viii. No. 1. 

Strauss, Adf. — Bosnien : Land und Leute. Historisch-ethnographisch-geographische 
Schilderuug. II. Band. Wien : vii. 328 pp. 8vo, 

Studer, Th. — Das Kreuz von Teotihuacan. vi Jahresb. d. Geog. Gesellsch. v. Bern, 
pp. 1-6. 

Tarry, H. — Les villes Berbferes de la valine de I'ouest Mya. Rev. d'Ethnog., Paris, 
III. 1-44. 

Tashiro.Ittoeu.— The limit of human life. Iji Shinbun. Tokio, 1884, No. 109, 
Jan. Ifi. 

Tautain, Dr. — Les croyances et pratiques religieuses des Banmanas. (Revue d'ethno- 
graphie.) Paris. 8vo. 

Notes sur les castes chez les Mandigues et en particulier chez les Banmanas. 

Revue d'ethnographie, Paris. 8vo. 

Temple, Richard. — Oriental exjjeriences, a selection of essays and addresses deliv- 
ered on various occasions. London. 1884. 8vo. 

Ten Kate, H. — Matdriauxpourservir al'anthropologiede la presqu'lle californienne. 
Bull. Soc. d'Authrop. de Paris., vii, 551,569. 
Notes sur Fethuographie des Zunis. Rev. d'Ethnog., Paris, iii, 161-163. 

Quelques observations sur les Indiens Iroquois. 8vo, 5 pages. (Visited the Ir. 

in December, 1883.) 

Eeubezoek bij de Irokeezen. (The same in Dutch language), 4to. 

Sur la synonymie ethnique et la toponymie chez les Indiens de I'Am^rique du 



Nord. Amsterdam : MUller, br. in 8vo. 
Tenth Census of the United States. Volumes iv, v, vi, vii, Vlii, ix, x. Published in 

1884. Containing the following monographs, of use to the anthropologist: 
Vol. VII. Valuation, taxation, and public indebtedness. 
"Vol. VIII. Alaska, by IvanPetrotf; Fur seal islands, by Henry W. Elliott. 
Vol. IX. Forest trees of North America, by C. S. Sargent. 
Testut, L. — Dissection d'une jeune ndgresse d'origine sdndgalienne ; myologie. Gaz. 

M€d. de I'Algdrie, Alger, xxix, 12-14. 
Contribution k I'anatomie comparde des races humaines; dissection d'un 

Boscbisman. Compt. rend., Acad. d. Sc, Paris, xcix, 47-51. 
Les anomalies musculaires chez I'hommeexpliqudes par I'anatomie compar^e; 

leur importance en anthropologic. Paris: G. Masson. 859pp. 8vo. 
Thiel, Bernardo Augusto. — Apuutes lexicogrtificosdelas lenguasydialectos de los 

Indios de Costa Rica. San Jos6 : Imprenta Nacional. 1882. 8vo. 
Theile, Friedr. Wilh. — Gewichtsbestimmungen zur Entwickeluug des Muskel- 

systems und des Skelettes beim Menschen. Nov. Act. Acad. Caes., «fec., Halle. 

339 pp. 4to. 
Thomas, Cyrus. — Grave mounds in North Carolina and East Tennessee. Am. Nat- 
uralist, xviii, 232-239. 

Letter relating to "The Destruction of Mounds." Am. Antiquarian, p. 14. 

" Cherokees probably Mound-Builders." Mag. Am. Hist., 396-407. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 715 

Thomas, Cykus. — "A Mouud of the Kanawha Valley." Science, May 23. p. 619. 

" Spool-shaped Ornaments from Mounds." Science, April 11. p. 434. 

"The Codex Cortesianns" (notice of). Science, April 11. pp. 458-460. 

■ " Iron from North Carolina Mounds." Science, March 14. pp. 308-310. 

"The Etowah Mounds." Science, June 27. pp. 779-785. 

"Directions for Mouud Explorations." Proc. U. S. National Museum. Ajt- 

pendix. 3 pp. 

"Letter relating to the "Archaeological Collections made by the Bureau of 



Ethnology." Eevue d'Ethnographie, 3.59-361. 

— "Who were the Mound-Builders?" Am. Antiquarian, pp. 90-99. 

— "Manner of Preserving Mouud Relics." Am. Antiquarian, py3. 103-lOG. 
The Houses of the Mound-Builders." Mag. Am. Hist., 110-116. 



Thompsox, Daniel Greenleaf. — A system of psychology. London. 2 v., 627, 597 

pp. 8vo. 
Timehri : Being the journal of the Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society of 

British Guiana. [The first part appeared June 1, 1882.] Vol. iii. 
TiLLEY, F. C. — Hereditary congenital malformation of hands and feet. Lancet, 

London, ii, 733. 
TisCHLER, Otto. — Die Ausgrabeu von Urnen und deren weitere Behandlung. Cor. 

Blatt, Mlinchen, xv, 57-60. 
ToLMiE, W. F., and G. M. Dawson. — Comparative vocabularies of the Indian tribes 

of British Columbia. Montreal. 131 pp., map. 8vo. 
ToPiNARD, P. — Les mesures craniom^triques allemandes en 1883. Rev. d'Anthrop., 

Paris. VII, 367-374. 

L'anthropologie de Liun<5. Mat^riaux xviii, 177-186. 

TOUNTAIN, Dr.— Castes chez les Maudingues, et en particulier chez les Banmanas. 

Rev. d'Ethuog., iii, 343-352. 
Troltsch, E., Freihekr von, Fuud-Statistik der vor-romischen Metallzeit imRhein- 

gebiete. Stuttgart, ill. 119 pp. 4to. 

On the Kubus of Sumatra. Id., xiv, 121-132. 

Troncoso, Senor. — The medicine and botany of the ancient Mexicans. Anales d. 

Mus. nac. de Mexico. Vol. iii. 
Tschudi, J. J. VON. — Orgauismus der Khetsua-Sprachc. Lpzg. : Brockhaus. xvi-f- 

534 pp. 8vo. 
TuKE, D. H. — Illustrations of the influence of the mind u]ion the body in health and 

disease, &c. Philadelphia. 8vo. 
TuPPER, A. M. — Anthropophagy. Boston Med. and S. J., cxi. 236. 
Turner, George. — Samoa a hundred years ago, and long before, together with notes 

on the cults and customs of twenty-three other islands in the Pacific; with a 

preface by E. B. Tylor, F. R. S. London, xvi-395 pp. 12mo. [Rev. in Nature, 

Ap. i7.r 

Turner, William. — Report on the scientific results of the voyage of H. M. S. Chal- 
lenger during the years 187:3-'76. Vol. x, pt. xxix. Report on the human skele- 
tons. 130 jjp. 7 tables. London. 

Tylor, E. B. — Old Scandinavian civilization among the modern Eskimo. J. Anthrop. 
Inst., XIII, 348-357. 

American aspects of anthropology. Pop. Sc. Month., xxvi, 152-168. 

How the problems of American anthropology present themselves to the Eng- 
lish mind. Science, December 19. 

Opening address, section of anthropology, British Association, Montreal. 

Ubaghs, C. — L'3,ge et I'homme pr^historique, et ses utensiles de la station lacustre, 

pr6s Maestri cht. 94 p., 4 plates, 8vo. 
Ueber die Steinalterthiimer auf dem Zobtenberge. Als Festgabe f iir die Mitglieder 

dee in Breslau lb84 tagenden Kongresses. Breslau. 
Ujfalvy, Ch. E.— Cachmiris et Paudites. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, vii, 243-248. 



716 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1884. 

Ujtai.vy, Ch. E. — Au8 dem westlichen Himalaya. Leipzig. 

L'art des cuivres anciens daus I'Hiuialaya occidental. Rev. d. Arts decora- 

tifs, mars 1884. Paris. 43 tigs. 4to. 

Les opinions r6cemment 6mises en Allemagne snr le berceau des Aryas. Bull. 

Soc. d'Anthrop. Paris, vil, 411-443. [An extended review of the European origin 

of the Aryans, with numerous bibliographic references.] 
v., G. D. — Alcune cp.nzoni degli Indian! abitanti sull' alto Ucayali e nel dipartimento 

di Loreto. Bull. Soc. Geog. Ital. Rom. ix, pp. 717-719. 
Van de Warker, Ely. — A gynecological study of the Oneida Community. New 

. York. '28 pp. 8vo. [Repr. Am. J. Obstet.] 
Vanni, I. — Lo studio comparative delle razze inferior! nella sociologia contemporanea. 

Perugia. 8vo. [Tr. Ann. d. lib. Univ. di Perugia. ] 
Vaux, Baron L. de. — Les lies Loyaltj*, les Nouvelles Hebrides et les Viti. Rev. 

d'Ethnog., Ill, 484. 
Vekneau. — Les pintaderas de la Grande Canarie. Rev. d'Ethnog., Paris, iii, 193- 

217. (Ann. de hist. nat. de Madrid.] 
Verri^r, E. — Cours d'obst^trique compar^e suivaut les difl'^rentes races humaines. 

Rev. mdd.-chir. d. mal. d. femmes, Paris, vi, 241, 301, 361, 421. [See also L'Homme, 

I, 513-522. ] 
Nouvelle classification du bassin suivant les races an point de vue de I'obst^- 

trique. Bull. Soc. d^Anthrop., Paris, vii, 317-324. 
Verzeichniss der anthropologischen Literatur. Archiv fiir Anthropologie. Bd. xiv 

and XV. Supplements. [These are by far the most extended catalogues of 

anthropological literature published in the world.' Very many of the titles are 

accompanied with a short digest of the works. The very thoroughness of these 

catalogues compels their late appearing. Very few of their titles are for 1884.] 
ViRCHOW, H.— Zur Frage der Schlaugenmenschen. Sitzber. phys.-med. Gesellsch. 

Wiirzburg, 1-12. 
ViRCHOW, R. — Schiidel mit zerschlagenem Hinterhaupt und Unterkiefer. Ztschr. f. 

Ethnol., Berlin, xvi, 53-56. 
Priihistorischen Beziehungen zwischen Deutschland und Italian. Verhandl. 

Berl. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., Mar. 15, 208-218. 

Ueber alte Schiidel vou Assos und Cypern. Berlin. 4to. [Abdr. Abhandl. 

k. j)reuss. Akad., *fec.] 

Waldeyer, W. — Atlas der menschlichen und thierischen Haare sowie der ahnlichen 

Fasergebilde. Lahr. v+195 pp., ill. 4to. 
Walhouse, M. J. — A Hindu prophetess. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 187-191. 
Walshe, W. H. —Physiology versus Metaphysics in relation to mind. London, Lan- 
cet, I, 51-55. 
Ward, L. F. — Mind as a social factor. Mind, No. xxxvi. 
Webster, Wentworth, Webster, Castaing. — The ancient dates in the history of 

South America. Am. Antiquarian, vi, 295-299. 
Wheeler, C. G. — The course of empire. Outlines of the chief political changes in 

the history of the world. Boston, xviii, 459 pp'. 8vo. 
WiLCKENS, M. — Uebersicht iiber die Forschungen auf dem Gebiete der Palaontologie 

der Haustiere. Biol. Centralbl., Erlangen, IV, 137-183, 294-327. 
WiLKiE, F. B. — The great inventions ; their history from the earliest period to the 

present; their influence on civilization. Chicago. 687 pp., 59 figs. 8vo. 
Williams, J. — Life in the Soudan: Adventures among the tribes and travels in 

Egypt. London, ill. 8vo. 
Williams, Monier. — Religious thought and life in India, i, Vedism, Brahmanism, 

and Hinduism. London. 
Williams, S. Wells. — Map of the Chinese empire. N. York : C. Scribner's Sons. 

From Williams' "Middle Kingdom." 



ANTHROPOLOGY 717 

WiLSOX, Daniel. — The Huron Iroquois, a typical race of American aborigines. Brit. 

Assoc. Montreal. Nature, Oct. 9. 
WiTHiNGTOX, C. F. — The perils of rapid civilization. Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxvi, 

224-239. 
WoLDRicii, JouANN N. — Beitriige zur Urgeschichte Bohmens. Pt. 2, 1 table, 22 ill. 

Mittheil. Anthrop. Soc, Wien, xiv, 200-219. 
Woodward. — The Nez Perces on the Indian reservation being destroyed by malaria. 

GaiHard's Med. J., N. Y., xxxvir, 225. 
Wright, W. — The empire of the Hittites. N. York. 8vo. 
Wrzes'xiowski, August. — Catalogue of Polish anthropological literature. Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xv, Sup., 152-162. 
Wynter, H. B. — Modes of death in the execution of English criminals. Lancet, 

Loudon, II, 1060. 
Young, John T. — Palseolithic implements from Stoke-Newington and Clapton grav- 
els. J. Anthrop. Inst., xiv, 83-84. 
Year Book of the scientific and learned societies of Great Britain and Ireland, &c., 

with appendix comprising a list of leading scientific societies throughout the 

world. London. 8vo. 
Zabarowski. — Un cerveau do microc6phale. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., Paris, vii, 101-104. 

Les chiens domestiques de I'Ancienne Egypte. Mat6riaux, xviii, ,^)29-553. 

Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie : Organ der Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, etc. 

A. Bashan et al., editors. Vol. xvi in 1884. Berlin. 
ZucKKRKANDL, E. — Craniologische Untersuchungen in Tirol. Mittheil, Wien, xiv, 

117-128. 
ZuLiNSKi, T. — Influence of tobacco smoke on different nations and animals. Przegl. 

lek., Krakow, xxiii, 3, 72, 88, 111, 127, 138, 154. 

ADDENDA. 

Macy, Jessie. — Institutional beginnings in a Western State. No. vii, 2d ser., Johns 

Hopkins University studies, Baltimore. 38 pp. 8vo. 
Ely, Richard T. — Institutional beginnings in a Western State. No. vii, 2d ser., 

Johns Hopkins University studies, Baltimore. 74 pp. 8vo. 
Weeden, William B. — Indian money as a factor in New England civilization. No. 

viii-ix, 2d ser., Johns Hopkins University studies, Baltimore. 51 pp. 8vo. 
Johnson, John*.— Rudimentary society among boys. No. xi, 2d ser., Johns Hopkins 

University studies, Baltimore. 56 pp. 8vo. 
Folk-Lore Journal. Vol. ii. London. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 
ANTIQUITIES AT PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 

By Lieiit. Charles E. Vreeland, U. S. N., 

and 

J. F. Bransford, Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. N. 

Some 28 miles from the Pacific, on the railroad from Sau Jose to the 
city of Guatemala, the town of Escuintla is situated in a piedmont belt 
of extremely fertile land. In the same belt, about 30 iniles from Es- 
cuintla in a northwesterly direction, is the magnificent estate of Panta- 
leon, within one league of Santa Lucia. 

This neighborhood was brought to the attention of archaeologists a 
few years ago by the discovery of the very interesting antiquities at 
Santa Lucia which were studied and drawn by Dr. Habel, who wrote 
a paper for ijublication by the Smithsonian Institution. Several of the 
finest of these specimens were removed to Berlin, where an account of 
them was published by Professor Bastian. 

The result of the interest thus awakened was tbe further discovery 
of great numbers of relics of the old inhabitants in that vicinity. 

In 1882 Dr. Bransford visited this locality in the interest of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and saw some most interesting figures at Pantaleon, 
a slight account of which he furnished for the Smithsonian Report of 
1882. 

At the request of Professor Baird, the United States steamer Hart- 
ford stopped at San Jose, July 31, 1884, and we were allowed to visit 
Pantaleon for the purpose of photographing the antiquities. The super- 
intendent of tbe estate, Don Miguel Garcia Salas, informed us that 
the objects had never been photographed, but drawings had been made 
and photographs taken from them at Guatemala. 

The objects were all of black basalt or hard lava. Nos. II, III, IV, 
and V, the small heads in Fig. 1, were mounted on a low wall around 
the fountain in the court-yard. Just to the rear and center of these 

719 



720 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 









Pig. 1.— Group of sculptures at Pantaleon, Guatemala. 



ANTIQUITIES AT PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 



721 




Fig. 2. — Sculpture from San Juan, near Pautaleon, Guatemala. 

S. Mis. 33 46 



722 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



mm- 




Fig. 3.— Quarter view of Fig. 2, San Juan, near Pautaleon. 



ANTIQUITIES AT PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 723 






'i^'' 







r ^-> 



\ "-" c 




1 i 



Fig. 4. — Side vitw of Fig. 2, San Juan, near Pantaleon. 



724 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

was the grand figure, No. I (Fig. 2), on a pedestal, while No. VI was 
fixed in the wall of the court, behind No. I. Originally there projected 
from the lower back part of each head a sort of tenon, which was proba- 
bly inserted into a wall supporting the figure. This projection is par- 
tially shown in Figs. 7 and 9. 

Far the finest of these objects in size and workmanship was No. I, 
shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 4. This was found in a low mound on a hill in 
the hacienda San Juan, about 7 miles northwest of Pantaleon. Seuor 
Salas informed us that a sculpture similar in size and design, but not 
in such good condition, was left at the mound. The figure was in high 
relief, fronting a tablet 50 inches high, 43 wide, and 9 in thickness. A 
crest rose 17 inches from the upper edge of the tablet, making the total 
height of the object G7 inches. It was in a state of excellent preserva- 
tion, the only serious defect being the loss of the greater portion of 
the nose. The quiet strength and simplicity of the face is something 
new in the art of the ancient Americans. It was well formed, the lines 
simple and clear cut, and without a shadow of the conventional. Maj- 
esty was so plainly stamped on the countenance that it was known by the 
Indians as El Eey — The King. The brow, the eyes, and the nose, as far 
as could be judged, were in good shape and proportion. The mouth 
was hard and the chin firm and full of character. 

On the head was a turban with a banded edge, coming well down on 
the brow. On the front of the turban an elaborate arrangement of 
plumes was secured by a double band, knotted in front. Lying on its 
left side, supported by the band, was a mask of a human face nearly 
half the size of that of El Eey. This mask, the ear-rings, and the gor- 
get suspended by the necklace were probably chalchihuitls, as we may 
well imagine that a man of his consequence would naturally choose the 
favorite green stone wherewith to adorn his person. As a background 
for the mask was apparently a broad leaf — it was too broad to have been 
a feather — supported in turn by two others of similar design. These 
may have been beaten gold, worked into the form of broad leaves or 
plumes. Behind these and mounting well above, on each side, were long 
plumes. If the last were furnished by that royal bird the quetzal,, our 
cazique surely rejoiced in a head dress which in gorgeous brilliancy left 
nothing to be desired. 

From the lower edge of the turban, behind the ears, depended braided 
folds, as of cloth, which mingled with the banded ornamentation on the 
chest. From the lobe of each ear was suspended a medallion-shaped 
object, and a larger gorget was supported by the necklace. Around 
the neck and upper chest other circular ornaments were apparently fast- 
ened to the dress. 

The tablet had ornamented bands and lines near the sides, but there 
was no appearance of hieroglyphs. From the upper margin arose a 
sort of crest, which curved over to the front and ended in a tasseled 
arrangement pendent above the head. The appearance of the tablet 



ANTIQUITIES AT PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 



725 



and crest suggested the back of a chair of state. On the rear surface 
a fresh cut nearly 3 feet square showed where the tenon had been re- 
moved. 

The head I^o. II, Fig. 5, was that of an ohl person, whose venerable 
appearance was heightened by the deep lines on brow and cheek. Nearly 
the whole of the ear was taken up by the cylindrical ornaments. The 
head-dress ended below in a fluted baud, above which, in front, was 
the body of a bird. The tail and most of the body of the bird had been 
broken away, but the outstretched wings remained to give evidence of 
the nature of the cap. 




Fig. 5. — Sculpture from Pantaleon, Guatemala. 

The extreme height of No. II was 21 inches. No. Ill, Figs. G and 7, 
was another head of an old person, but instead of the calmness of the 
preceding face there was depicted the inexpressible sadness of age 
with blindness. Both eyes were represented as hanging from the sock- 
ets, the balls resting on the cheeks. The chid and lower lip protruded, 
the upper lip fallen in as from loss of teeth. To the long ears were 
appended large, pear-shaped ornaments. The head-dress was arranged 
in braided folds, turban-like, with a little Tarn O'Shanter cap on top. 



726 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

This specimen was IS J inches high. 




FiCi. 6. — Sculpture I'loni i'autalfoii, (Uiateiiuila. 




Fig. 7.— Side view of Fig. 6, Pautaleou. 



ANTIQUITIES OF PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 



727 





728 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 




Fig. 10. — Sculpture from Guatemala, quarter view of Fig. 8. 

Figs. 8, 9, and 10, full, three-quarter, and side views of the head No. 
TV, show what was jirobably the most strongly characteristic face of the 
lot. The prominent brow and cheek-bones, aquiline nose, and well-formed 
chin were here given their full effect, as in this one figure the nose was 
complete. The right eye was hanging from its orbit ; around the mouth 
and eyes were few but deep wrinkles ; and between the eyes the skin 
was drawn into two heavy perpendicular folds, giving an expression of 
agonizing pain. 

The few simple lines by which this effect was produced showed in the 
artist real strength, far removed from the elaborate but fantastic style 
of conventional Copan. 

The long ears were probably exaggerated in size by the heavy orna- 
ments in the lower lobes. The head-dress was arranged in folds, and 
secured by a band, marked with longitudinal and transverse lines, which 
passed behind the ears and under the chin, well back against the 
throat. On the upper left side was an elaborate bow, on which was a 
circular ornament with graven outlines of eyes, nose, and mouth. On 
top and a little to the left side of the head a small cap was jauntily 
placed. The cap was one feature in the tout ensemble which gave this 
more the look of a woman's head. 

The height was 23 inches. 



ANTIQUITIES AT PANTALEON, GUATEMALA. 729 

The object of the sculptor in portraying these eyes as hanging from 
their sockets is rather puzzling. It has been suggested that tearing 
out the eyes was a mode of punishment among the ancients. But it re- 
quired long time and much labor to carve one of these heads in hard 
stone, with the tools at their command, and it does not seem likely that 
such honor would have been shown to criminals, Don Manuel Herrera 
thought that the fact that eye complaints were i)revalent in that sec- 
tion should be considered in the study of this subject. It seems as 
likely as not that these were representations of individuals whose mis- 
fortune was depicted in the sculptures, the artist adopting this mode 
of indicating blindness. 




Fig. 11. — Sculpture from Pantaleon, Guatemala. 

In Ko. V, Fig. 11, we again had the head of an old man. 

There were wrinkles on the venerable face around the mouth and 
eyes and particularly strong on the brow. The supraorbital region 
and cheek-bones were prominent, the mouth firm, and the large nose 
was aquiline in form. The tip of the nose was broken. 

In front and on top of the turban-like arrangement on the head a 
broad sash or band was tied in a double bow-knot, the ends widening 
and falling behind and to the lower edge of the ear on each side. The 



730 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



little cap on the vertex was pretty well demolished. The beard-like ar- 
raugemeiit on the chin may have been intended to represent a chin strap 
as it passed up behind the ear-rings, and was apparently continuous with 
the head-dress. 

This is one of the most striking of the faces, and in a general collec- 
tion would suggest the patriarch of Western Asia. Its height was 21 
inches. 




>'J^r ■^f M 






Fig. 12. — Sculpture from Pantaleon, Guatemala. 

Fixed into the wall of the court, behind El Rey, was No.YI, shown in 
Fig. 12. It was the roughest of the specimens, and without peculiar 
features. The ear-rings were large, and on the cap a broken surface 
showed where was probably a knot, as on No. IV. 

Lying in the court-yard was a rough representation of the head of a 
wild-cat, and a skull somewhat similar to those in Habel's drawings 
from Santa Lucia and others at Copan. 

These figures in simplicity and strength differ from all specimens of 
ancient American sculpture we have seen pictured or described. They 
stand as far apart from the grim statues of Nicaragua as from the fan- 
tastic and hieroglyph-covered monoliths of Copan, and surely deserve 
the careful consideration of American archseologists. 



THE GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN POINTE-A- 
PlTRE, GCJADELOUPE, WEST INDIES. 

By Otis T. Mason. 

INTEODUCilON. 

The stoue implements and other objects described in these pages be- 
long almost exclusively to the celebrated collection of M. Louis Guesde, 
of Pointe-^-Pitre, Guadeloupe. M. Guesde is the son of M. Mathieu 
Guesde, whose series of Carib stone implements attracted so much at- 
tention in the Paris Exposition of 1867, and Louise Loyseau, a Creole, 
of Guadeloupe. He was born at Hamacas, Porto Rico, in 1844, but at 
two years of age was brought by his parents to live at Pointe-a-Pitre. 
From 1856 to 1867 M. Guesde pursued his studies in Paris and returned 
to Pointe-a-Pitre as register to the minister of finance, in whose ofitice he 
is at i)resent director of the third bureau. He has inherited from his 
father his love for collecting the relics of the ancient Caribs, and for 
nearly twenty years has been assiduous in his efforts. His duties call- 
ing him to reside successively in various quarters of the island, he 
profited by these opportunities to carry on his researches. To his zeal 
as collector M. Guesde fortunately adds the skill of the artist, and he 
has prepared two albums of aquarelles, in natural size and color, of all 
the types in his museum. One of these albums is in the Trocadero 
Museum at Paris, the other has been kindly presented to the Smith- 
sonian Institution at Washington. So life-like are these portraits that 
one has no difflculty in imagining the objects before hiui. 

In a former publication (Smithsonian Annual Report for 1876, pp. 
372-393) a very large collection of somewhat similar objects, gathered 
by Mr. George Latimer in Porto Rico, was described and some reflec- 
tions indulged in respecting those who made them. Since that jjaper 
appeared, Mr. E. F. im Thurn, of Georgetown, British Guiana, has given 
great attention to this subject, and is the author of several illustrated 
articles respecting the stoue implements of the ancient Caribs. Without 
entering into a discussion upon this subject, and taking for granted that 
the Indians of the " discovery " were sufficiently advanced in culture 
to produce such works of art, we may better improve the present oppor- 
tunity by instituting comparisons with well-known peoples. 

If we would look for the evidence of the reappearance of similar forms 
and customs in regions wide apart, we must search out those portions 
of the earth that present the same general features, the same natural 
materials, and the same external suggestions or motives. While the 
similarities in art products which point to consanguinity of their makers 
often thrive in quite contrary circumstances, so outlandish frequently 

731 



732 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. • 

as to seem like the distorted memory of a story, or little snatches of a 
melody suug- in a distant laud, those similarities which indicate the 
passing of a certain milestone of human progress are so nearly identical 
that the older anthropologists were wont to believe that like effects 
sprung from the same rather than from like causes. 

Fortunately, there are two regions where the ground has not been so 
denuded as to prevent our knowing a great deal about the primitive 
inhabitants; where, also, the natural environment is so similar to that 
of the West Indies as to lead us to anticipate even the discoverers of 
their relics. These two areas are Oceanica and the Northwest coast of 
America from Sitka to Vancouver Island. In the first-named area we 
must include the Papuan, the Malay, aiul the Polynesian ; in the sec- 
ond, the Thlinkit, Haida, Chimsian, Kwakiul, Nutka, and Selish stocks. 
We might also include the tribes of British Guiana and Venezuela, 
which have been so exhaustively described by Schomburgh and im 
Thurn.* 

In all these regions we have: (1) Proximity to the sea, abounding in 
edible marine animals ; (2) abundance of the finest timber in the world 
for savages to work upon ; (3) lack of flint and plenty of volcanic and 
metamorphic rocks susceptible of the highest polish ; (4) almost entire 
absence of clay or of some of the other natural resources for the man- 
ufacture of fire-proof vessels. 

In the descriptions which follow, frequent allusions will be made to 
similar shapes in order to guess at the functions of M. Guesde's speci- 
mens. 

The editor of this monograph sincerely regrets that he has not the 
specimens before him ; but it was impossible to transport with safety so 
many valuable objects to Washington, and equally impossible for the 
editor to make the journey to Guadeloupe. Fortunately, M. Guesde 
has painted in water-colors, with scrupulous care, all of the examples 
figured, preserving both the color and the size. The omission of the 
thickness would somewhat mar the description in many cases, were we not 
familiar with the two typical forms of blades so frequently figured here. 

A few objects not belouging to M, Guesde's cabinet will be introduced 
to throw light upon his figures and to supply omissions in West Indian 
archaeology. 

The classification adopted here is for convenience of comparison, and 
it may be that things with different function will be found side by side. 

The nomenclature of the jiarts of stone implements is taken from John 
Evans' classic work, "Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain." An 
ax when completed consists of haft and blade. The parts of the blade 
are the head or butt; the neck, or groove; the body, having sides, 
faces, and edge. When the hafting excavation is not encircling we 
may have either lateral notches or facial grooves. 

* AmoDg the Indiaus of Guiana, bein;; sketches chiefly anthropologic, from the in- 
terior of British Gniana. By Everard F. im Thnrn, M. A. Oxon. With 53 illns- 
trations. London : Kegan, Paul & Co., 1883. 445, i»p., 8vo. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 733 

The editor cannot conclude this introduction without paying- the 
highest tribute of praise to M. Guesde, who has, at great cost, brought 
together so luauy wonderful specimens of ancient Carib ait. 

As a guide to the understanding of the true size of the specimens by 
the drawings, a line is i)iaced by the side of each picture, and upon 
these lines true inches on the specimens are indicated by dots. This 
plan is resorted to because by i)hotograi)hic reductions exact propor- 
tions are not always observed. Whatever reduction the camera makes 
upon the drawing it will also make on the accompanying line, and the 
inch spaces will be reduced accordingly. 

M. Guesde gives the following bit of personal history concerning 
these antiquities (pp. 53-60) : 

From my youth I liave always been deeply impressed with what I 
have read about the Caribs. The sight of the stone objects which once 
belonged to these primitive inhabitants of the Antilles produced an 
indescribable impression on me. 

As years went by the stronger became my desire to collect together 
all that the soil of Gaudeloupe might contain relating to the Caribs. 

I accordingly went to work in the year 1860, and after eighteen years 
of constant research, never allowing myself to be discouraged by any 
difficulty, I have the satisfaction of being able to exhibit to ethnolo- 
gists this collection, which I believe to be more complete than all others 
now existing, in Paris as well as in America. 

My collection includes roughly-worked stones indicating an industry 
in its infancy ; and others, on the contrary,»which are brought to such 
a degree of perfection that it would be difficult to improve on them, 
either in design or workmanshi]>. 

It is necessary to state the fact which permitted John Lubbock to 
class the aboriginal inhabitants of the American islands among the 
neolithic i)eoples; it is because the stone is always i)olished. There 
is not a single relic formed solely by being chipped, for those rare 
pieces (axes or chisels) which present such an api)earance also have the 
surface very well polished. Besides, these volcanic stones cannot be 
worked by chipping, like flint, quartz, or obsidian. 

We come across axes so small that we ask ourselves if they were not 
used by pygmies, and these alongside of others so large and heavy 
that we dream of Titans, and no longer of men like ourselves. 

In addition to all these relics, which I have gathered from the ground 
in all parts of the colony, both on the seashore and in the interior, and 
at altitudes of from 200 to 900 meters, enormous stones covered with 
strange designs are found, especially in a single quarter of Guadeloupe 
proi)er. The dimensions of these stones vary considerably. In some 
the drawings are so high up that it is difficult to reach them; in others 
they are near the ground or buried under the surface. They are scat- 
tered without order about the country and in the beds of the rivers. 
At St. Vincent, also, the last refuge of the Caribs, stones with inscrip- 
tions on them are found in the beds of rivers. 



734 PAPERS RELATING TO i^THROPOLOGY. 

It is uow very difficult to find wrought stones in the ground. Here 
and tbere the plow or the hoe turns up some occasional fragments. 
These stones lie in fact in the arable layer or stratum, and this has been 
so well worked that everything it contained has been brought to light. 
New clearings alone would favor the collector. In the deep strata 
would other things belonging to an earlier race be found? In the case 
of Grande-Terre it would be impossible, for as soon as we have passed 
the vegetable mold we reach calcareous rocks, Madrejioric formations 
containing numerous fossil shells and dog-fish, which i^reclude all idea 
of the presence of man. It appears to me more probable in the case 
of Guadeloupe, which is of more ancient formation, and which must at 
all times have offered more resources to man. 

However large may be the number and variety of the types which I 
possess, I still consider my work incomplete. 

It constitutes only the prolegomena of what I would wish to accom- 
plish. 

In the presence of this collection, one is led to ask if these wrought 
stones are the work of the Yguiris or of the Caribs, or if they would 
not belong to these two races. We are in almost complete darkness on 
this point. It is necessary to throw some light on the subject. This 
could be done only by visiting all the Lesser Antilles, which were al- 
ready occupied by the Caribs on the arrival of Columbus; the Greater 
Antilles, from Porto Rico to Cuba; and Trinidad, which is but a frag- 
ment recently detached from the continent ; by gathering carefully in 
each island all the wrought stones which would certainly be found there; 
hj studying with the utmost care the inscribed stones ; by classifying 
separately the inscriptions and relics according to locality, and finally 
by comparing the whole together in order to determine the points of 
relationship 

Having completed this first labor in the Greater and Lesser Antilles, 
it would be necessary to collect together the relics from the soil of 
Guiana, and, taking them as types, to compare them with those of each 
Antille separately. Then only could we come to some conclusion. We 
would have laid open to us, in fact, the now silent history of these 
aboriginal inhabitants. 

I have been able to obtain some pieces from Porto Eico, as follows : 
1st. Celts of all sizes, in general well polished, but some with a fine 
brilliant glazing. 2d. A mortar representing a bat — a very curious 
piece which must have required long months of labor. 3d. An idol 
representing a man lying on his belly, and supporting a mountain on 
his back. A very remarkable peculiaritj^ is that the legs are bent as 
if in the act of swimming. I think that this idol is the personification 
of some marine deity, protector of an island. 4th. An enormous 
necklace, covered with inscriptions on one of its lower surfaces: This 
necklace was evidently slung over the shoulder like a hunting-horn. 
5th. The lower part of another necklace, but without any inscription. 
6th. A small netting-needle. 7th. Some remains of i)ottery (heads of 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 735 

men aud monkeys modeled with great boldness, evidently forming cup- 
handles) and the ujoper riiii of a cup which must have been of great 
diameter. Some of these fragments of pottery still bear traces of a 
flue red glazing. 

I must acknowledge that during two sojourns at Porto Rico — one of 
six and the other of two months — I never came across an ax. More- 
over there is not a single ax in the superb collection presented to the 
museum at Washington by Mr. G. Latimer, and which is entirely from 
Porto Eico. The abundance of axes in the Lesser Antilles and their 
complete absence in Porto Rico would seem to indicate a difference of 
race in the inhabitants of these different islands. 

I have been able to obtain five i^erfect celts and four fragments from 
Martinique, one single celt — but very remarkable for form and polish — 
from Dominica, two celts and three axes from St. Lucia, and one celt 
from Santo Domingo (the Hispaniola of Columbus). 

No typical difference can be established between the celts, whether 
they come from Porto Rico or from Martinique, Guadeloupe, Dominica, 
and St. Lucia. 

Now, since the strata of the Lesser Antilles do not contain the mate- 
rial used in some of these celts, it is certain that they were not made 
where they were found. Should we not, therefore, infer from this that 
they all have the same origin, that they all come from the continent or 
from the Greater Antilles ? 

I have in my possession a club (baton) from the Galibis of Dutch 
Guiana. This club has a certain age. The wood, of a red color when 
freshly cut, has assumed a very deep black hue ; the cotton thread 
around the handle is very dirty. The weapon has seen service. This 
club is exactly like those used by the Caribs of the islands, and which 
Father Dutertre has described, but the peculiar part of it, the thing 
that gives it an enormous interest, is the green celt fixed in its lower 
extremity. Now, this celt resembles all those which I have found in 
Guadeloupe and the other islands. Is it of modern manufacture ? Is 
it not rather the work of the first inhabitants of the continent ^ Has it 
not been found in the soil and used by its discoverer? I would decide 
without hesitation in favor of the latter hypothesis, for it is covered 
with a patina which only a long continuance in the soil could give it. 

Here is another fact which seems to prove that the Caribs of Colum- 
bus and of Father Dutertre are the same as those of Guiana. 

The exterior distinguishing color is not always that of the stone of 
which they are made. The color, wJiich is black, red, yellow, brown, 
or bluish, partakes essentially of that of the soil from which they were 
taken. Those from Grande-Terre, whose calcareous soil is covered with 
a thin layer of black and compact vegetable earth, all have the colors 
more or less dark — brown, red, black — while those from Guadeloupe 
proper, whose soil is covered with a thick layer of more or less ferru- 
ginous red earth, have the tints lighter. Yellow specimens are numer- 
ous there. Many of them have preserved their normal tint. These 



736 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ar«^ the ones found near rivers. Continually washed by their waters, 
they have not acquired the coating of rust with which those buried in 
the ground are covered. 

So true is the above that every fresh break shows the interior of the 
stone to be of a different color from the exterior. 

All these rocks are volcanic, and are naturally either black, blue, or 
green. 

This peculiarity does not generally exist in polished celts. Tbe glaz- 
ing has unalterably fixed the color of the stone. They have, in conse- 
quence, remained fx^ee from all oxidation, and appear as if just from the 
hands of the workmaif. 

Axes. — Axes are more numerous than all the other pieces. That may 
be easily understood, the ax being of prime utility to man. Some are 
long and narrow, others short and wide. Some are very flat, others 
very thick. Some are very small, while others are of enormous size and 
weight. I have two weighing, respectively, 4 kilograms, 750 grams, 
and 4 kilograms, 775 grams. Some are of very simple construction, 
merely the natural stone of appropriate form, which a little working 
transformed into an instrument; while others, on the contrary, are true 
masterpieces, which will bear comparison with those found in Denmark 
only. The latter are very rare. They were evidently used for purposes 
of parade, for it cannot be allowed that the author of such a work 
would have exposed it to be broken at the first shock, thus losing the 
product of the labor of several months, I might even say of several years. 

The ax admits of four distinct parts — the head, the neck, the blade, 
the cutting edge. 

The head is sometimes round, sometimes flat, sometimes very small, 
sometimes as large as the blade. Some axes have one or several trans- 
verse grooves, some have none at all, others a single longitudinal groove. 
The last are very rare. Pierced axes are very rare. The holes served, 
if they offer any assistance, to fasten the stone to the handle ; if not, to 
suspend ornaments. The head played an important part in attaching 
the ax to the handle, for there can be no doubt that all these axes had 
handles. The small as well as the large ones were fixed, on a wooden 
handle by means of cords made of cotton or mohot. 

The neck is more or less lengthened. Sometimes it is formed by lat- 
eral notches only, but generally by a circular depression. 

The blade varies considerably in form, length, and thickness. There 
is no proportion between it and Jhe other two parts. 

The edge is more or less distinct. In sonie axes it is so perfect that 
one would think they had been sharpened the day before. 

I have three double-edged axes — two of moderate size, the other very 
small. I have four axes of which the head is i)rolouged into a long 
tail, and which resemble (one of them especially) that which has been 
termed Montezuma's ax. I have also a certain number, both small and 
very large, with a slight but decided protuberance on the lower part of 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 737 

one side of tbe cutting edge, which suggests the idea of a tool appro- 
priated to some special purpose. Finally, I have some axes with the 
blade curved like that of a cimeter. These are rare. 

Celts. — Celts vary much in form, size, and color. Some are slender 
with a sharp point, others are massive with a blunt point; some are 
broad and flat, others narrow and deep ; some reach enormous propor- 
tions, while others are very much reduced in size. 

Celts are scarcer than axes in Guadeloupe. Most of them are made 
of a handsomer, harder material than that used for axes, such as ser- 
pentine, jade, or jadite. The fine glazing of the stone, also, is found 
only in celts. I have some, large and small, made of the volcanic stone 
used ordinarily for axes. These are very well polished, but not glazed. 
This handsome glazing gives an exalted idea of the industry of these 
savages, for it could not be done better in our days. 

The Caribs made use of the living forces of nature to fix the celts on 
the wood. But to introduce a celt into a young tree and let the tree 
grow till the resistance was sufficient, required many years. I believe, 
therefore, that they rarely had recourse to this process. They evi- 
dently followed the same method employed by the Canaques and other 
savages of the present century ignorant of the use of metals, whose 
celts do not differ from those found in our islands. This method con- 
sisted in fixing the stone by the aid of very fine cords in a socket pre- 
pared in the wooden handle. 

I must not forget to mention the shell celts. These are not made of 
living shell, which would not have been hard enough for the purpose, 
but of fossil shell. They are very rare. They were extracted from the 
outer edge of the Stromhus gigas, very common in the Caribbean Sea. 

It is to be supposed that the glazed celts were rather warlike weapons 
than instruments of labor, for they offer more resistance in proportion 
to their size, and we know besides that the savages used in war what- 
ever had most value in their eyes. The very large-sized celts must have 
served as wedges in splitting trunks of trees. 

Casse-tetes. — The casse-tete type is furnished by a stone, either round 
or with bilateral facets, in the center of which is a more or less deep 
groove for the wooden handle. One can easily conceive the power of 
such a weapon wielded by a muscular arm in hand-to-hand combat. 

Some are more perfect in form than others. Every one was free to 
fashion so important a weapon as best suited him. 

But what astonishes the observer is the small size of one of these 
relics. Evidently it could have been only an amulet, worn with the 
idea of preserving its owner from the blows of the weapon it represented. 

Other casse-tetes were used without handles. Only two types figure 
in my collection. This weai)on had not the value of the preceding. 

Pestles, grinders. — Pestles and grinders are of various forms and sizes. 
My collection includes a certain number of them. I possess a single 
specimen, which was used with both hands. 
S. Mis. 33 47 



738 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Mortars. — Mortars are not very numerous. This is explained by the 
fact that any hard stone which was flat and smooth would take their 
place. The complete mortar could have been only a,n article of luxury 
belonging to a cacique. 

Shall I designate as mortar that rounded concave stone with regular 
grooves descending from the central point to the rim % Although quite 
hollow on its lower surface, I do not think it could have been anything 
but the lid of a large vase, grooved or fluted in like manner. In fact 
this mortar would have had no fixed position. It could not remain 
stationary in the position necessary to make use of it. Or should we 
not rather think that the maker of this piece wished to represent a mili- 
form cactus so common in the Antilles ? And in this case should we not 
rather class it among the idols 1 (Fig. 172.) 

Dishes. — There are but two dishes in my collection : 1st. A large one 
of rude workmanship. The concavity only is polished; the exterior 
rough and very irregular. 2d. A small one of very remarkable finish. 
It is in fact very well polished on all its inner and outer surfaces. 

Harpoon. — One single harpoon, slightly broken at the three extremi- 
ties. The absent parts can, however, easily be restored in following 
the lines traced on the body of the piece. This instrument is very 
remarkable. 

Hools. — I have two hooks very difl'erent in form. Both are a little 
broken, but easy to reconstruct by following the method indicated 
above. 

Awls. — Awls are rare. My collection includes only two of them, but 
I must state that the material employed is harder than that of the 
ordinary tools and instruments. 

Chisels. — Chisels are numerous and of various forms and sizes. The 
basil of the cutting-edge is perfect. Some of them are made of the 
same material used in the fine celts, and, like the latter, have the 
handsome glazing mentioned above. 

Vases. — I have only two vases. One is of guaiacum. The handle is 
perfectly isolated from the body of the vase. This piece is of very great 
interest. As the guaiacum is incorruptible, we need not be surprised 
that it has come down to us. It was lound at Bertram Creek, the last 
quarter of Guadeloupe inhabited by the Caribs. Its edges are worn 
and hacked, and bear evidence of having been a long time in the earth. 
I have seen a small tortoise of the same wood found in a cave at St. 
Vincent. 

The other in my .possession is of stone. It is- an astonishing piece 
from its general regularity and its contour. 

Shall I class among the vases that small cup with a rather long 
spout? It rather resembles a spoon, and I think that it might be des- 
ignated as such, taking into consideration the break, which leads us to 
suppose that a prolongation forming a handle formerly existed. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 739 

JSletting -needles. — There is one small nettiug-needle, very well made 
and very regular, which evidently seived to net cotton, and two other 
larger, more massive ones, which served to prepare cords. 

Idols. — The idols are six in number. 

1st. One representing a man extended on his back, the legs bent 
under him, the arms applied to the chest, the head covered with a cap, 
the sexual organs very conspicuous. It is well finished and must have 
cost years of diligent labor. (Fig. 200). 

2d. One representing a man on one face and a monkey on the other, 
is very interesting (Fig. 210). It was found at Matouba. The work 
on this statuette is rude. The hand that made it was wanting in skill. 
But what shall we say of the genius which inspired this combination of 
man and monkey"? Should we not consider Darwin only a plagiarist? 

3d. Another found in Guadeloupe, of the same type as that from 
Porto Kico, but much larger and so rough that it cannot be determined 
what it represents. The under surface is slightly concave. 

4th. A small granite pyramid, with three grooves or furrows on its 
lower part. It was found on the island of Desirade. 

5th. A head with two faces surmounted by a Phrygian cap. This 
head was to be fixed ou another stone or a j)iece of wood forming the 
body of the idol, for it is much too heavy to admit of the supposition 
that it was carried in the hand. I have vainly searched for this com- 
ple&ental lower portion at the place where I found the head. 

With this last idol we must place an ax and one other piece, both 
having lines identical with those of the idol head, I think they repre- 
sent faces. 

Amulets. — The principal amulet is of carbonate of lime in bladed 
crystallization. It represents a maboya (evil spirit) with bended arms 
and legs, and the virile organ in a state of action. The shoulders are 
pierced posteriorly to allow of the suspension of the amulet. The 
other amulets are medallions of different sizes, more or less round, all 
pierced with a small hole to admit of suspension. I have a single 
small crescent of stone, an evident representation of the caracoli of 
metal. This crescent must have been set in wood, unless it was pro- 
vided with a cotton string terminating at each extremity in a small 
cord for suspension. 

Disks or quoits. — I have six disks, large and small. One especially 
is a very remarkable piece of work. There is no doubt about the 
determination of these relics. The Caribs played quoits. 

Edicule. — A small monument having handles on each side, on top of 
the handles a i)latform disappearing under a vault. There is a hole in 
the middle, presumably the place for an idol. This relic is very curious, 
and reminds one of the Mexican teocalli. (Fig. 194). 

Chisels of shell. — Besides the various stone tools, my collection in- 
cludes a series of very fine chisels extracted from the outer edge of the 



740 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Strombus gigas. This part of the shell is very thick and harder than 
stone. It is certain that the Caribs did not use the living Strombus, 
but were careful to take the fossil Stronibi, which had in time acquired 
the hardness of ivory. 

Stone for mciking axes. — I have in my possession a very interesting 
stone, which has inscribed on it the use for which it was intended. It 
has concavities on three of its surfaces. It is evidently a kind of 
grind-stone, on which stones were rubbed in order to shape them. 

Since writing the above, I have had the good fortune to discover in 
Grande-terre, in a piece of ground which had not been plowed for 60 
or SO years, two tools of flaked flint— a knife and hacking-knife. This 
discovery somewhat modifies the theory held to this day by writers on 
America that fidked flint does not exist in the Antilles. 

It is very evident however that these two flints were not dug from 
the soil of the island and then flaked by their possessor, for this stone 
does not exist in Grande-terre or Guadeloupe in a state of nature. 

These two fluked flints establish, in an irrefutable manner, the fact 
of a migration of men from the valleys of the Orinoco towards the 
islands. 

I. UNPOLISHED IMPLEMENTS. 

These do not form a class apart, but they are exceedingly useful as 
showing the method of blocking out the more elaborate implemqjits, 
when nature has not supplied a polished pebble suiflciently near to the 
desired pattern. The three methods of chipping, picking, and grinding 
are all outlined in this group (Figs. 1-8). 



■^'W= 



% 


'^'^^ 




""^''^^iiikiSi 


■ 'i 








SiiSii^i^^^^i^^^^ 






Fig. 1. 







Fig. 1. An unsymmetrical, rude blade, of mottled brown and gray 
color. The surfaces are nearly as they were left by the removal of great 
spalls; but the edge is ground, and has that peculiar slope belonging 
to old axes battered on the corner away from the workman. There is 
as yet no indication of groove or haft notches, and, therefore, if the 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 741 

specimen was used with a handle, the blade must have been inserted or 
lashed (see Fig. 14). 

Length, 4-^^j inches; greatest width, 3 inches. 

Fig. 2. A rndely-chipped blade of black color. The outline is bell- 
shaped, and with sufhcieut grinding and polishing would resemble some 
of the more beautiful objects in the collection (see Fig. 65 and others). 



"''^^■v. 



K.i-ii'' 



The implement has already a pleasing outline, and the form re-appears 
in Costa Eica and Chiriqui, where great numbers of celts of this shape, 
but smaller, were recovered. 

Length, 5^0 inches ; width, S-j-q inches. 









Fig. 3. 

Fig. 3. A chipped blade of very light brown surface, subtriangular 
in outline. Much of the surface is untouched, and there is just enough 
of lateral notching, &c., to show that the great variety of form in such 
implements after they are finished is jDartly due to nature and partly 
to the workman's desire to produce a certain kind of imj)lement. It is 



742 PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

very much like our handwriting ; we try to imitate certain copies, but 
we only preserve the type while we stamp our own individualities upon 
them. All sorts of pebbles lie at the hand of the savage mechanic, 
none of them just what he wants. He selects the best and founds a 
new type for the learned archaeologists. A collection of pebbles from 
the West Indies would be very instructive in showing just how far 
nature had been the draughtsman and the teacher of the aboriginal 
artisan. This implement, though rude, shows much use, and rather 
hints that fine polish is evidence of age and much use in many cases. 
Length, 5-1^0 inches ; greatest width, 3^ inches. 



Fig. 4. 

Fig. 4. A coarsely-chipped blade of purplish-brown surface. The 
spalls have been taken off with great boldness from the faces and the 
groove. The specimen is so broken at the edge as to make it uncertain 
whether it has been used at all. 

Length, 7-^ inches ; width, 4 inches. 



^^.j^^'!'?^*^- 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 5. A chipped blade of beautiful orange-brown surface, which has 
been much modified by grinding. In type it belongs to a low order of 
axes, having only lateral notches. On the faces are very slight haft 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 743 

cavities, showing plainly the pecking. Flint implements with smooth 
edges and partially ground sides are quite numerous in European col- 
lections, leading to the conviction that polished celts are of two kinds, 
those polished at once and those polished by years of grinding. . 
Length, 7^ inches 5 widthj 4r^Q inches. 



Fig. 6. 

Fig. 6. A chipped blade of slate-brown color. The shape is that of 
the typical hoe, the sides being rather incurved than decidedly notched. 
The surfaces are much worn and the edge ground away unevenly, fur- 
nishing another example similar to those of England and the Continent, 
above noticed, made of flint. It is in many cases difficult to decide how 
much the change of surface is due to use and how much is due to 
weathering. 

Length, 7-i^o inches ; width, 4^ inches. 



Fig. 7. 



Fig. 7. A chipped blade of light-brown color. The form decidedly 
resembles that of the chipped hoe occurring in many parts of the United 



744 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



States. By this it is not meant that the maker of the implement was an 
agriculturist. There are slight indentations at the sides for hafting, and 
the edge is slightly worn off on what we may be allowed to call the out- 
side. 

Length, G-^^ inches ; width, 4-i% inches. 

Fig. 8. A chipped blade of brown color on the weathered portions. 
There can be no question, from the general outline of this rude speci- 
men that we have here blocked out, what was designed to be a finished 






'■'**!iji>S^^"'" -'"-*!<; 



^-^ 



Fig. 8. 

blade with small butt (Figs. 193, 191). The edge chippiugs exhibiting the 
natural black color of the stone, seem to be much more recent than the 
rest, and may have resulted from accidental breakage. 
Length, 6 inches ; greatest width, 83%. 

II, POLISHED BLADES AYITHOUT HAFT-GROOVES. 



The typical " celt" of the West Indies is the almond-shaped variety, 
called " petaloid " by Mr. im Thurn, so distinctly recognizable that 
John Evans receives an alleged Scottish specimen of the same shape 
with suspicion. But this petaloid or almond variety runs into other 
forms, notably what we might call the Papuan type. The petaloid 
type was doubtless inserted or " perserted " ; but the flatter Papuan 
form was always inserted, and served with sennit or other twine. The 
hafts also were of different shapes ; that of the former was straight, 
that of the latter lambdoidal. In certain portions of the Antilles the 
greatest abundance of shell chisels are found, and it would not be mar- 
velous to discover in stone implements a close resemblance to some of 
these. 

When we remember that we are speaking of a maritime people who 
had the greatest abundance of ship timber at hand and leisure to work 
it, and that they had the very best volcanic rocks to convert into imi^le- 
ments, we have only to turn either to New Guinea or Queen Charlotte 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES 745 

Islands to reconstruct in part the lost social fabric of those who used M. 
Guesde's stone adze blades. 

The Caribs had two kinds of boats — a very large canonia and a small 
couliala. both dug- out of a single trunk. The former attained a length 
of 40 feet and ts ere 7 or 8 feet wide. They could carry fifty persons 
with arms and baggage, and were worked with oars and sails. The 
coulialas were not more than 20 feet long and 3 or 4 wide ; they were 
proi)elled with jjaddles. The Indians of the Northwest Coast have the 
same distinction of dug-outs. In the Xational Museum at Washington 
may be seen both the immense family boat, over 60 feet long, and the 
smaller, more shapely whaleboat, about 12 feet long, from the same 
people, carved from the Thuja gigantea. 



Fig. 9. 

Fig. 9. A celt or blade of the simplest form, and dark brown in 
color. In this specimen we have an example of economy in working. 
Just as the ancient flint-workers of France began their celts by grind- 



Fig. 10. 



""^^"^^^^^KiS^S^- 



Fig. 11. 



ing down the edge of a chipped core ; so the ancient West Indian levied 
upon Nature for all the work he could extort from her, and was more 
fortunate than his brethren of France, for Nature did his polishing for 



746 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

him. There woukl seem to be two edges to this specimen, but the 
smaller one is a little modified from the natural shax)e. 

Length, 7^ inches; width, 2 inches. 

Figs. 10 and 11. Two blades or celts of brown surface and highly 
polished. These objects should certainly be called chisels if any are to 
receive that name. Figure 10 has sloping sides, while in Fig. 11 they 
are almost i)arallel. The outline of each is perfectly symmetrical and 
the edges so neatly bevelled as almost to create a suspicion of their sav- 
age origin. These specimens would be considered unique in any area of 
lithic culture, and certainly the West Indies have produced no others 
similar. (See Timehri i, p. 265, 1-7.) 

Length of 10, 6^^\ inches ; of 11, 5^ inches. 



Fig. 12. 

Fig. 12. Polished blade from Kew Caledonia. The material is of a 
clear green color resembling jade. Professor Baird has given the name 
jadoid to this whole class of minerals so well known to archaeologists. 
This shape is well known throughout the Papuan area, most of the 
blades being mounted in curiously-wrought lambdoidal handles, very 
thin and wide above and at the blade. The wonder is how such tools 
could have been used with any effect (see Fig. 14). 

Length, 5-^^ inches ; width, 3 inches. 

'^ 



Fig. 13. 



Fig. 13. Polished blade from New Caledonia, of light-mottled green 
color. It resembles Fig. 12 in general appearance, but the edge has 
been much used, indicated clearly by the battering on the outer side. 

Length, 7-^ inches ; width, 3^ inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 747 

Fig. 14. Hafted blade from New Guinea, of dark-green colored 
material, probably serpentine. The lambdoidal haft and the serving are 




Fig. 14. 



shown, but M. Guesde's figure conveys too much the idea of an adze. 
The plane of the blade splits the haft, is not perpendicular to the' plane 
of the haft. 
Length of shank and blade, 12^ inches ; width of blade, 3 inches. 




Fig 15. 



Fig. 15. A beautifully polished blade of hard, black-colored material. 
This specimen is remarkable for its curved butt, straight sides, flattened 



748 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

faces, and fine edge. The elongated hexagon in section is not uncom- 
mon in the West Indies, and occurs very frequently in Costa Eica. The 
bent butt of the blade is a very common feature in shell blades. Per- 
haps the only truth about the shape is that the savage found it so and 
let it stay. 
Length, 4^ inches ; greatest width, 1-jV inches. 

III. FACES CONTINUOUS, SIDES INCURVED OR NOTCHED. 

The next type which is to be considered is that in which the faces are 
continuous from the edge to the opposite extremity, but the sides, near 
the butt, have been modified in various ways, apparently to aid in haft- 
ing. The butt, or head, also passes through a variety of modifications, 
almost as numerous as the proximal end of leaves. Such implements or 
forms have a certain number of possibilities. They may have been fell- 
ing axes, hoes, adzes, battle-axes, ceremonial axes, or simply works of 
art. That is to say, similar objects have been found performing these 
functions in different parts of the world. Keverting to our typical areas 
we are at a loss to proceed. The Haida do not use implements of these 
shapes ; the Mound Builders did, however, and many of this class can be 
duplicated in our collections. 



V 



Fig. 16. 

Fig. 16. A long, slender blade, of blackish-brown color. The butt is 
irregularly curved, and rimmed or hollowed at the notches. The haft- 
ing space is hardly to be called a notch, i^assing imperceptibly into the 
sides below. The latter are not alike and the edge has been recently 
broken. A natural seam mars the surface from top to bottom. 

Length, IH inches ; greatest width, 4^ inches. 

Fig. 17. A rude blade, of very dark-colored material that has weath- 
ered to a creamy yellow on the exposed surfaces. The butt is rough, 
and truncated. The hafting spaces have different curves and widens 
sharply to the sides of the specimen ; the latter pass insensibly into the 
edge. In Mr. E. F. im Thurn's Timehri Plate viii. Fig. 6, is a similar 
lingulate form, where the sides continue to the truncated butt, and the 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 749 

little notches for hafting are only about one-fourth of an inch wide and 
deep, and are squarely cut in. 
Length, 7 inches -, greatest width, 4j^ inches 5 notch, 3 inches wide. 



--w"^'" 



4 



Fig. 17. 



Fig. 18. 



-■^l..- 






•^ 



:,^ 



Fig. 19. 



Fig. 18. A rude, massive blade of bright brown color. The butt is 
triangular in outline. The attachment of the handle was secured by 



750 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

concavities at the sides and a very slight pecking on the faces. The 
edge is much broken, and large fractures on the sides, as well as the 
weathering, give to the implement the appearance of great age. This 
form is very common throughout the United States, especially in those 
areas where the aborigines were agriculturists. 
Length, 10| inches ; width, 6i inches. 

Fig. 19. A massive blade of orange-brown patina. In general appear- 
ance the specimen resembles Fig. 18, but the polish is finer and the butt 
more acute, the unlikeness of the two lateral haftiug spaces being 
very notable. The edge has been broken and ground again. 

Length, 11| inches ; greatest width, 5J Inches ; the edge could not 
have beeu more thau 4 inches. 

Fig. 20. An elongated ellipsoi- 
^.r :"•'• '^''''''^'''^'^**^'^""^''^^ dal blade of light-brown color. 

'^;: The butt is gracefully rounded 
; ^^ and rimmed or bent down over 
■^: :.■/-■■:-{'-:,:■■■■■:■, '^ -^ the notches like the rim of a pot. 
; : • ■ ■ - \'-\j The latter notches pass insensl- 
*" bly into the unsymmetrical 
sides. 
Length, 5 inches ; width, 2-1% 
FIG. 20. inches. 



■*%-, 






><"; 



Fig. 21. 



Fig. 21. An enormous blade of cafe au lait color, not only the largest 
in M. Guesde's collection, but no other has been reported from this area 
that approaches it in size. The attractiveness of the specimen is equal 
to its size. The butt, concavities, sides, and edge form one unbroken 
curve. A slight bulging on the lower side and the Avorn appearance 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 751. 



of the edge on the same vside lead to the suspicion that blades of this 
type were made with inner and outer sides. 
Length, 12J^ inches ; greatest width, 7f inches. 





Fk;. 22. 



Fig. 23. 



Fig. 22. A meri shaped blade of slate-brown color. The interesting 
feature about the specimen is that the sides and butt are squared even 
more than is shown by the drawing. 

Length, 4 j^o- inches ; width of blade, 3 J inches. 

Fig. 23. A thin, flat blade of mottled-blue and cream-colored marble. 
In type it is similar to several in Sir Thomas Graham Briggs' collection 
from St. Vincent and Antigua {TimeJiri, ii, 263; in. 111). M. Guesde 
says that identical forms have been found in Dutch Guiana. Mr. im 
Thurn believes this form to have been used like a hoe or adze rather 
than as an ax. The side notches relegate the specimen to the hoe class. 
Especial attention is here called to the slight offset on the left of the 
butt and the beaked form of the right. Both of these features will 



5-¥, : 






'^VJ^-^ 



^g^** 



..-JiA^'^'^il^iass^iSsS^f^^^it^M^^'*^'' 



m" 



:,:i:^ 






Pig. 24. 



appear again in many forms much more elaborated. This specimen was 
fo.und in St. Anne. 
Length, 7-fV inches; greatest width, 6fo- inches. 



752 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 





^^^PP 




|S'- -:'"': ::/;■...::■ 




|:''-' ; ;i , '.:"-:■■:■■ 




M>^--^'--' '.-^/v "• 




L.^^;^^^^^v,..-:.: :•:;;::. 


• . ^ft;*:i:H-:: ::;-;" '.^-^v.-.- - ■ .■ - ; 


. .^ii^s)^?;?::':::;;'^:'-:-,;.- '■ '•. . .• 


^m^-,-:-^--:-::- ■_ :. 


m^mm--y -■ - 


J^f-^r--:-:'---.-'- ■ 




.^{]^-^ r'^V" ■ ' -1 ■ 


fii\^,l\y^-^^ '--•:' - 




K'i^-Z'i' ':'■-■•■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 






M^W-^S^v]: -.•■•■. ■ ■. 


r\:;o- . --Tt''^, , -•-•.-. 


mm^ 


■&■ - "',■:.- ■ ■ - 


JJ(.;>:;-,-; - ■ ■ -^ 


^-;.^^' "■, -.■,^.:- ■ • " ' '- 


S^^'V'';-''.-'--. :■■ 


'W?^;';;^■":■'^^■■ •- ■ ■...■■ 


^5- 





; •■ i'^SK 















i>3- 



'^'^mmm^^^^ 



Fig. 25. 



"Si 



Fig. 26. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 753 

Fig. 24. A bell-shaped blade of brown patina and elongated body. It 
is difiScult to conjecture how such a blade could be fastened in a haft. 
There are found in the Antilles frequently implements for smoothing, 
shaped like this specimen inverted. This form with the edge at the 
small end is unique. 

Length, 5/o inches ; width of blade, 2-i% inches. 

Fig. 25. A very plain blade, of light-brown color. It is rude and 
irregular in outline, and shows considerable age. This type, however, 
is well preserved, one continuous line bounding the specimen from one 
extremity of the butt to the other. 

Length, Sn,- inches; width, 4--^-q inches. 

Fig. 26. A blade of very light color, but of better finish than the 
preceding. The butt is well curved, and the rest of the outline forms 
a continuous curve. It is very interesting to observe the multitude of 
forms in which a continuous curve bounds the imijlement below the 
butt. 

Length, 5^ inches; width, 5 ij inches. 






















■J-^ ' '.^^4i.-Jit.*A- ■ 



Fig. 27. 

Fig. 27. A square-edged blade of very dark patina. If one were allowed 
to use the term ax for West Indian stone implements, this example should 
be called a broad-ax. The characteristic features are the convex butt, 
the deep antero-posterior notches, the very slight swelling over the 
notch on the faces, not always shown in the drawing, the dissimilar 
sides — the one convex, the other straight — and the squared and beveled 
edge. The difference of sides again points to the conclusion that these 
savages had begun to have a front and rear to their axes. 

Length, 5j^ inches; width, 4i\ inches. 
S. Mis. 33 48 



754 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig-. 28. A large, broad blade, of blackish-brown color, and in contour 
resembling a wide-mouthed jar. At the butt the upper line is a long 
curve and the beaks quite slender. The lateral notches are tolerably 



t 
fee 

f 

I 






• i^'Tc. 



Fig. 28. 



M 






.^ 






\ 



Fig. 29. 








M 






W 


'^^©a 




Fig. 3u. 







symmetrical, their lines passing gracefully into the sides. The edge is 
squared, but broken on the right corner and regrounci. 

Length, 8^ inches; width of body, 6^ inches; of neck, 3 inches; of 



buttj 5 inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 755 

Fig. 29. A pear-shaped blade of very dark material aud exquisite 
polish. Especial attention is called to the longitudinal groove at the 
butt, the length of the beaks, the unequal notches, the asymmetry of 
the sides, and the obliquity of the edge. From Marie-Golante. 

Length, 8^ inches; greatest width, 5^% iuches; width of neck, 2^% 
inches. 

Fig. 30. A broadly-spatulate blade, nearly black. It is tolerably 
symmetrical until the sides merge into the edge. On the upper margin 
are seven scallops, the same feature occurring in another type. M. 
Guesde thinks the scallops were useful in lashing. 

Length, 7^^ inches; greatest width, 5 j^^- inches. 



.^-^'--^^ 



^vi 



<*:. 



M' 



/- 



'"5- 



•AU'':'''':-- - ■ '':"'■ C-"-*!, 



fe-v* 










.»- \. vr: .'S- ■■ 



J>- 



Fig. 31. 



Via. 32. 



:I if 



Fig. 31. A hoe-shaped blade, of the double-beaked variety and light, 
marble color. The beaks are reduced to the simplest form and divided 
by an emarginate curve. The lateral notches are not separated from the 
other parts, their lines being continuous from beak to beak. The highly 
polished and finished condition of this specimen separate it from the 
agricultural class, although its shajje is that of the plantation hoe. A 
similar, but clumsier, butt is seen in im Thurn's volume (Timehri in, 
Plate vii. Fig. 2). His blade, also, is nearly rectangular. 

Width, 3-j% inches ; width of neck, l-^,- inches. 

Fig. 32. A massive blade of mottled yellow and brown color. The butt 
is very gracefully rounded and rendered beak-like by a notch or chamfer 
on each side. This feature of the beak and crest should be especially 
noticed, because it will have a higher evolution further on. The oi'fginal 
curves of the haying-space are unequal and terminate abruptly at the 



756 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

sides, which are tolerably straight. They are also of unequal length, 
and the edge has the customary appearance of one sidedness. 

Length, 8-^^ inches ; greatest width, 6-f^ inches : shank, S-^^ inches. 

i ft -::'t 



^J' 



Fig. 33. Fig. 34. 

Fig. 33. A massive blade of yellowish-brown color, belonging to the 
two-beaked variety. The butt is narrow and deeply scalloped ; i^ossibly 
it was formerly mucronate at the apex and had a double countersunk 
l^erforation. The beaks are mere bosses or projections. The concavi- 
ties of the haft-space are very unequal, prejiaring us for the type further 
on characterized as the bill-hook (Figs. 77-83). The edge is correspond 
ingly modified. 

Length lO'f^ inches ; width 5^ inches. 

Fig. 34. A finely-polished, massive blade of dark, slate-brown color. 
It is of the two-beaked type, but severely plain and symmetrical. The 
butt is squarely truncated, and the beaks are without fl.utings of any 
kind. There is a double countersunk perforation midway between the 
beaks. No depressions are made for hafting, the lower jjart being 
shaped like a tunic. Mr. im Thurn (Timehri, i, 263, Fig. 1), an interme- 
diate form between this and the next exami)le. The crests are made 
distinct by a median square notch, and there is just the least attempt to 
j)rod»ce the long, trapezoidal neck of our next figure. The most re- 
markable feature about im Thurn's specimen is the engraving on the 
face of a lozenge, ha\'ing lunate figures above and on Either side. Sim- 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 757 

ilar implements are reported to be iu the Biackmore Museum, one from 
Guiaua. 
Length, 10-^; inches ; width, 5^o inches. 



k 
^"^ 



Fig. ■:.:,. Fig. 36. 

Fig. 35. A very symmetrical blade, of purplish -black patina. The 
butt, thougli very plain, belongs to the double-beaked variety, and has 
a long, shallow chamfer on the top. A slight swelling on the sides of 
the butt relegates this specimen to the rimmed class. It is retained 
here, however, as a connecting link to more elaborate forms. The haft- 
ing space or neck is long, tapering, and shouldered at the sides. The 
sides also taper outward and the edge is uusymmetrical. The surface 
of this example is pecked, and it is quite possible that it is a " double- 
eagle" blade unfinished. 

Length, 7^ inches ; width of edge, 3^^ inches ; of haft-space, l-j^. 
inches. 

Fig 3G. A finely-polished blade, of brown color. The general outline is 
that of a shouldered hoe-blade. The edge is quite regular, the tapering 
sides nearly alike, the neck symmetrical, and the fVices continuous nearly 
to the perforation. . The butt is flared out at the sides like a crutch, the 
concave of which is occupied by a narrow, perforated ridge. With this 
should be compared a specimen from St. Vincent (Timehri, Vol. I, p. 
264, Fig. 3). The latter is more ornamented on the upper border, but 



758 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the body falls far below that of M. Guesde's specimen. A spleudid ex- 
ample from St. Lucia is also in the collection of Mr. Cropper. (Timehri 
T, 263, &g. 2.) 
•Length, 7^% inches ; greatest width, 4 inches. 



J-'^ST^ri 



k 



Fig. .37. 



Fig. 37. This beautiful blade, up to whose form the last few specimens 
have been leading us, is of a dark-green color, and presents some inter- 
esting characteristics. The butt resembles two eagle heads facing- 
outward. The long haftspace or neck widens gracefully outward to 
where it is joined to the sides by abruj^t shoulders. The faces are 
highly polished and continuous over the entire specimen. The lower 
side of the edge has been broken and reground. 

Length, 9 ^l inches ; greatest width of blade, 4fo inches j greatest 
width of haft-space, 2-^ inches. 



*■ V.' 



Z"!^^ 



X. 



'-5.3 



Flu. 38. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 759 

Fig. 38. A massive and graceful blade of dark sooty-brown patina. 
It is in perfect preservation, bighly polished, and almost perfectly sym- 
metrical. The butt has the double eagle head, the crests forming a 
gradined depression in the center. The haft-space or neck has nearly 
parallel sides, connected with the body by shoulders. The sides spread 
rapidly outward to meet the broad, finely curved edge. 

Length, 11^ inches ; width of edge, 7^ inches ; top of blade, 4 inches ; 
width of shank, 3 inches ; width of butt, 5-fo inches. 






■1^ ti-'.yw^:- 'W. •■•■':':•■ ■:v-.--''-S^ 



yi^W ';r>^',-' •...'..: .-..■. .. . ■ ■ ,■.■■■■■■,■'.;'.,■■■:■ :-'^ : ■.-rA-:-^^:-- -^t'^ 

^SS; •■.-■•■•,.':'.'••%■■•.■;••• • •. ■ .. • •' ■-.- ■■■"•■■■■.■■'■ I •■",.■■■■;••!■■.' I ' ' '.'■.'■'■th^ 









I '■--''<.s,T.'<;^--'>" • 



FUi. 39. 

Fig. 39. An elaborate blade of deep brown color. This specimen 
really belongs to three of our classes. The butt is two-beaked and per- 
forated, the beaks with long, prominent crests, (Fig. 38). There is no 
wide extension of these beaks, however, and the long, tapering haft- 
space or neck is abruptly shouldered. The body is of the meat-chopper 
form to be seen further on (Figs. 116-118). Its upper side has the coun- 

j.^'-.' ■ . ' ■•..;■ ■■. • ■■■..- ■ ■ - ■ ,.;.:fr\'ffi 



x.JiiLst'^iJjiC'J''^''^''""" 

Fig. 40. 



f^'- 



760 , PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tersunk perforation to be observed on several specimens in this collec- 
tion. 

Length, 6^ inches ; width, 4^ inches. 

Fig. 40. A doable edged blade of rich brown color. The butt is large 
and irregularly- rounded. The lateral notches are deep and long, giving 
to the object the contour of a shoe-sole. The curved sides approach each 
other, reducing the edge to a very narrow line. The faces, indeed, are 
continuous, but this is the only mark in common with its predecessors. 
The following examples in this section will all exhibit striking individ- 
ualities. 

Length, 6^ inches ; greatest width, 3 inches ; width of neck, 1^ inches. 






Fig. 41. A long and slender blade, of light brown color. Indeed, we 
have here something like a true northwest coast adze. The butt is 
wedge-shaped. The hafting space consists of a shallow notch on either 
side and a groove along one side. The faces are flatfish and the sides 
are so inclined as to give a slight curve to the whole blade. 

Length, 6^ inches; width, 1^ inches. 




Fig. 42. 

Fig. 4-. A blade of reddish brown color. It is long, narrow, hollowed 
on one side, and slightly notched on the other. It resembles Fig. 41, but 
it is more graceful and brighter colored. 

Length, 6f^g inches ; width, 1^ inches ; notch, 1 yV inches from the top. 

Fig. 43. A two-edged blade, of dark brown color. This object needs 
only a pierced cylindrical short axis to bring it into formal relationship 
with the North American ceremonial tomahawks. 

Length, 2 -^ inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES, 761 

Fig. 44. An unique blade, of dark brown color. This specimen is 
noticeable for its very long butt and short blade, the former being twice 
the latter. The surface is also quite rough, the result of pecking ; a 
kind of manipulation very rare in M. Guesde's edged specimens. 

Length, 3 ,% inches ; width of edge, l^i; inches. 



i^fe^..: 



















Fig. 43. 









Fic;. 44. 



Fi(i. 45. 



Fig. 45. In this specimen we are getting farther from the preceding 
examples, the common bond being a continuous surface. This blade 
is black and presents three edges of different form.' The lower resembles 
that of an axe, the two upper ones are different from the lower and from 
each other. It would not be difficult to lash this blade to a handle, but 
the form is very rare. 

Length, 4-^^ inches ; greatest width, 3-i^ inches. 



762 



PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 46. A curiously formed blade of dark color, and highly polished. 
It is not altogether unlike Fig. 45, the chief peculiarity being the pro- 
jection upon the upper side. This characteristic does not appear on any 
other specimen in the collection. 

Length, 6^% inches; greatest width, 3^- inches. 



^"^M^^' 



Fig. 46. 



Fig. 47. A three-edged blade, of very dark color and veined with 
white. It resembles Fig. 45, but the workmanship is far superior. The 
faces and sides are quite flat, giving a rectangular section. One feature 
is to be remarked, not only here but further on. -It is the decided turn 
of the edge to the bottom, making a pyriform curve. 

Length, 8^ inches ; greatest width, 4^o inches, 





Fig. 47. 



TV. BUTT DISTINCT, FACES NOT CONTINUOUS. 

* The next form of blade to be considered is that in which the butt or 
head is distinct. This implies a more definite hafting-space, an encir- 
cling groove or ueck,of some kind rather than autero-i)osterior notches 
or concavities. It will be seen by running along the members of this 
section that there are gradations of form, and that this idea of a sepa- 
rate butt is not co-ordinated with any especial kind of haft-space, sides, 
faces, or edge. Commencing with the simplest type of ax, we pass 



GTJESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 763 

through one series of forms to the graceful patn-patu; through another, 
shouldered variety, to the chopper-knife pattern. 

It must be repeated that no such designs of classification are here 
attributed to the ancient Antillians. They may or may not have been 
tlomiuated by them. We are only looking at three forces compounding 
and resolving to bring about a great variety of results, according to 
the influence of each in any example. These forces are the nature and 
original form of the pebble, the type-form into whose neighborhood the 
artist aimed to come, and that sense and pride of achievement which 
rules in the savage and civilized bosom alike. 



Fin. 48. 



Fn;. 49. 



Fig. 48. An asymmetrical tongue-shaped blade of gray-brown color. 
The butt is nearly flat^ The groove is very shallow on the faces and 
deeper on the sides. The latter are not curved alike, a feature quite 
common in these West Indian specimens. From Canoe. 

Length, 4-^%- inches; width, 2-i% inches. 

Fig. 49. A very common type, of chocolate-brown patina. The butt 
is quite flat and bounded by a sharp rim. The haft-space or neck has no 
boundary below, and the sides are continuous with the edge. These fea- 



' ''•'-•••i^, ,^ i-*V-v*»'''^^*' 



Fig. 5u. 



764 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



tures, with greater or less rudeness, are characteristic of the class now 
under consideration. From Abymes. 

Length, 4 inches; widih of neck, l^o inches; of blade, 8/0 inches. 

Fig. 50. A very un symmetrical meri.-shaped blade of seal-brown color. 
The butt is conoid, with irregular base, and overhangs like a cham- 
pignon. The pyriform outline, to be subsequently considered, is quite 
marked in this specimen. The edge is oblique and very irregular. 

Length, 7^ inches; greatest width, 3^ inches; least width, -^ inch. 

Fig. 51. An unique blade, semi-ovoid in shape, made of smooth ma- 



M 



%, 



%K 



'.X 



\ 



"X 






^■M 






^m 










<^ 









Fig. 51. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 765 

terial of a dark brown T3olor. M. Gruesde compares the edge with that 
of a yataghan. In American archaeology its general outline is that of 
the " woman's" knife, so common in collections of Eskimo implements. 
The latter are mere blades of slate, to be inserted into a grooved handle. 
In a large collection of these in the National Museum there is a great 
diversity in the method of attaching a handle. 

Length, 6-j% inches ; width, 3i inches ; width of groove, IfV inches. 

Fig. 52. A very plain blade, of deep brown color. It consists of two 
elements — the rounded butt, bounded by a much fainter line than the 
drawing shows, and tbe right portion, conforming to the type we are now 
considering. The asymmetry of sides and edge is again thrust promi- 
nently into view. This tji^Q is said by im Thurn to occur in remark- 
able abundance in St. Lucia and St. Vincent. 

Length, 8 inches ; greatest width, 4 ^^ inches. 




,B' 



-v/.~ -.•■;'• -v^-w- 




■ . .. ■ ■." ,.*•-■ ■> .■ 


:.-■;:• z-:::^ 


^■''^■' ••••:••■: '•-•'- 






■-•■•.'■.■■-'&? 


' '■"■■ ■ ■ ■ '' " i 




•iSjhi^tsiiV!?***"'"'' ' 





Fig. 52. 












Fig. 53. 



766 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Fig. 53. A very gracefully outlined blade, of drab material. The butt 
is gently rounded and bounded by a trenchant rim, whose plane is 
curved upward in the middle. All the other parts are continuous. 
The sides, however, remind us how averse the ancient Antillians were 
to symmetry. 

Length, o/f,- inches; width, 4-j^ inches. 






Fig. 54. 

Fig. 54. This figure represents a large and beautiful blade, very heavy 
and close-grained, and black in color. It would take a strong arm to 
wield this implement. In shape it approaches still nearer to the !N"ew 
Zealand meri, but the handle is still too wide. The sides are very much 
alike. From St. Kose. 

Length, 9^^ inches; greatest width, 5^^ inches ; neck, 2^ inches. 






.-> 






^2iSi£Stj;;gj^-^4^j,jj^j;^^i;jj^ '■" 



TUi. 55. 

Fig. 55. A long, thin blade of peculiar pattern, and dark brown in 
color. The liutt is large in proportion to the body. The two sides do 
not quite correspond, and the edge is adapted to this fact, showing just 
the slightest tendency to the bill-hook variety, to be described further 
on. 

Length, 8 inches ; greatest width, 2i% inches. 

Fig. 56. A broad, meri-shaped blade of dark surface. The butt is 
small, rounded, and overhanging. The lower side is much more pronii- 
nent. The whole appearance of this specimen indicates that it came to 
its present shape without much artificial modification. 

Length, 7-i% inches ; width, 4-1^0 inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 767 

Fig. 57. A broad, meri-shaped blade of dark seal-brown color. Ex- 
ceptiDg the slight fractures on the face, the implement is perfect, unless 
the truncated portion on the lower side at the edge is an afterthought. 



^^k 



Fig. 56. 

having been ground off to hide a break. We are now approaching the 
real meri and may imagine ourselves in the neighborhood of New 
Zealand. 
Length, 5 inches ; width, 3^ inches ; neck, 1-^ inches. 
















Flu. 57. 

Fig. 58. A beautifully polished blade of Ijght brown color. Jt is 
meri-shaped. The butt is gently rounded, bounded by a ridge, (furved 
transversely in a "line of beauty," and ornamented with nine mam- 
miform x>rotuberances. The other elements form one continuous and 
graceful outline, save a slight fracture on the right extremity of the edge- 

Length, G^j inches ; width, 4/^; inches ; width of neck, 2-^ inches. 

Fig. 59. A broad, meri-shaped blade of bright brown color. The 



768 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



butt is very slightly rounded and the neck or handle almost long 
enough for the hand. There is a very slight division in this specimen 
between the butt and the neck, and between the sides and the edge. 
Length, 8 inches 5 width, 6 inches. 



j0>i. MS. 




m 



^ 






■'i 



■i 



J 









m: 



Fig. 58. 

Fig. 60. This blade of green and brown mottled appearance approaches 
nearer still to the typical men. The butt is formed by a bent surface 
having a rim about two millimeters in thickness. The neck or handle is 
nearly three inches long. The straight and the bulging side can read- 
ily be seen here, and the edge shows good signs of use. From Lamen- 
ton. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 769 



■=-^^ 



■'M^^ 



\ V , 






m 






Fig. 59. 



LeDgth, 7tV inches; width of butt, 2 inches; of neck, l-^^ inches; of 
blade, 3^^ inches. 



^i?'A'A^: . 



■. "■"■;« 






yA' '■■ ■': 



■a 



1^ 



Fig. 61. 



Fig. 61. A very finely polished, massive blade of black color. The 
m^ri shape is apparent, but tlie general appearance is too stout and 
broad. Especial attention is called to the unlikenessof the sides. The 
S. Mis. 33 49 



70 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



right is uot unlike many others, with a tapering neck shouldered at the 
side. The left side repeats this character, adding sinuosities on the 
side below the neck. The edge is quite symmetrical, and the specimen 
is a very attractive one. From Marie Golaute. 

Length, 9i inches ; width of butt, Sfo inches ; of neck, 3 inches ; 
greatest width of blade, 5^^ inches. 

Fig. 62. Xew Zealand meri, introduced here bj' M. Guesde to illus- 
trate the type and climax of blade which is now under consideration. 
The material is a green jadoid. Gustav Klemm draws attention to the 



,^^- 
^^? 



^ 



-tft 






%5 



Tig. G?,. 



&' 

b^-- 






.-.. .,-^- 



^^■ 



X*- 

A 



mz 



•^i; 



Fig. 62. 



Fic. 04. 



GUERDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 771 

fact that on the coast of New Zealand extensive layers of flat and blade- 
shaped pebbles of nephrite furnish the natives with ready materials for 
the fabrication of hatchets, knives, and other implements. No less true 
is it that in the West Indies, where no calcareous flint occurs, "Nature, 
the kind old nurse, took her child upon her knee," and taught him to 
utilize the materials at hand for their convenience and happiness. The 
term meri (pronounced may-ree) is preferred to patu, the latter term 
meaning- generically any striking weapon. 

Length, 13 inches; width, o-^g inches. 

Fig. 63. A blade of slaty-black material. The butt is very small and 
knob-like, and the haft-spacc shallow. The sides widen out unevenly, 
so as to give the contour of a scapula or hand- ax. The form is rare, 
and serves to connect the ruder meri with the two following examples. 

Length, 6 inches ; width, 3-^^ inches. 



.*V.i 
























,^*S? 












'J 



Fio. 65, 



772 



PAPE^ RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 64. A blade of the hand-ax type, of a bright brown patina. The 
butt is gradined in a peculiar manner and bounded by a prominent ridge. 
The work of ornamenting the butt is admirably done, giving the ap- 
pearance of hollow dishes fitting one into another. The unsymmetrical 
sides are also visible here, although the implement does not show much 
use. A similar butt and edge with parallel sides is seen in a specimen 
from St Vincent, belonging to E. B. Griffith {Timehri, iii, p. Ill, Fig. 5), 
and a very much ruder specimen in Fig. 1, j). 264, of Volume i. 

Length, 5 inches; width of edge, 4 inches ; of neck, 2 inches. 

Fig. 65. A finely polished blade of brown color. This is one of the 
most beautiful specimens in the collection. The butt has a bounding 
ridge very prominent, the curved surfaces above and below nearly alike. 
Two gradines above this are carved in the shape of an opera hat or the 
sheath of the lace palm doubled in and dented on the top. The unlike 
sides are very well seen here. 

Length, 5^o inches ; greatest width, 4^^ inches. 



~% 



';^'- 



,-*■< 



iS--'' ■ 



W: 







^'^'^^^^^g^ 



vM^^'^ 



Fig. 67 



Fig. 06. A very common form of blade, of light brown color. The 
butt is coarsely made and slightly ridged. The hafting or lateral notches 
very unlike, which also causes asymmetry in the sides and edge. This 
specimen will serve as an introduction to what may be called the meat- 
chopper type, more fully developed further on. From Marie Golante. 

Length, 4J inches ; width of blade, '6-^ inches. 

Fig. 67. A very smoothly finished blade, but of the same type as the 
last and very dark in color. Without ornamentation or wear, the parts 
are all strikingly distinct. 

Length, 5 j% inches ; width, 4-i\- inches. 



GUE.SDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. ?73 

Fig. 68. A very common form of blade of seal-brown color, seeming to 
have been cut from a simple pebble by excavating an encircling groove, 
hooded above and running out on the si"des and faces. The difference 
of depth in the groove between the sides and the faces is well marked 
by the contour of the neck on its lower border. The asymmetry so 
frequently noticed is very strong here. 

Length, 2-i% inches ; width, 2 inches. 



j*{^ 






'"■^% 






Pig. 68. Fig. 69. 

Fig. 79. A much worn blade of black color. The original shape may 
have been like a meri, but constant grinding has brought it more to the 
chopper form. 

Length, 3J inches ; width, 3/o inches. 

Fig. 70. A much worn blade of black color, quite like the modern 
chopping knife, or Eskimo woman's knife. The butt is rough and small, 
the neck long and tapering, suddenly widening below to the edge. From 
one of the islets of Pointe-a-Pitre. 

Length, 3-^ inches ; neck, 1 inch ; width of blade, 3 1% inches. 






r-mi^ 



1^^ 



Mm 



Vu:. 70. 



YlG.Tl. 



774 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Fig. 71. A blade of very dark color, which in outliue resembles a 
shoemaker's hammer. The butt is nearly as wide as the blade, neatly 
curved, and bounded by a flat border. The neck is gracefully curved 
and hooded. The faces are flat as if much worn. A portion of the 
edge is wanting. From Marie-Golante. 

Length, 6 inches ; width of blade, 4i inches ; of neck, 1-^^^ inches ; 
of butt, 3-^ inches. 

Fig, 72, A very symmetrical and substantial looking blade of dark 
brown color. The lines on this specimen are all nearly true, but the 
noticeable feature is the appearance every where of sharp boundaries. 
The butt is bordered below by a flat band, and a chamfered surface on 
both faces bounds the haft space or neck and the edge. Here we have 
the chopper sha'pe completely developed. 

Length, 5^ inches; width, 4^ inches. 



^Mh 






--C>J;^;/i^pV-/'^-- ■ -,- i :-^% 


M^<^^m^- 






' ■''"•:•':•.'■:. V;='-" ';■%"■, 


Mmm:: 






Wc^'^-A:..... -^il. 


iv^:^<^V^': 




■•• V-\;i • : 








•'*^'^^".* "'."V'.-' 


"-• '■''■■'.'.':■'■'■'■ -i''^ 






.■■';i' •■'.'•:■ 


'I;-: ;."'•;■; ■■/!'^;Vv-: ..; i-lV^ 


fe^"vV'--'-;-:Ji'' 




.;. -.;';■■•!■'..■•■,'-'../ 


■.".■.'■■■■ ■ ■ ■ I .■.'-'.■ '■•'t'»'-'''".i' 


fi?^;;^;;'^ ;'^>^t;i' 






'••■:■;■■■; r^:., . ■ •... w i •-;^: viK^^v:? 




V,- . 


^<ii 
■^ 


■■■>■•■ .'i:'-f^j^ 











Fio. 72. 

Fig. 73. A chopper-shaped blade, very thin and well preserved, of 
brown color. The lines on this specimen are still more sharply defined, 
but the edge has no bevel. Especial notice should be taken of the 
square sides, giving a true rectangular section to the haft-space, and the 
hooks at the ends of the edge. 

Length, 3,^^ inches; width of butt, 1-^ inches; of neck, 1^ inches; 
of blade, 4-i"u inches. 

Fig. 74. An ornamental blade of the chopper-knife variety, and in 
color a seal brown. By comparing this with the last specimen an ad- 
vance in elaboration will be noticed in the curves and gashes at the 
extremities of the edge. 



GTTESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 775 

There are several chopper-blades iu the collection, remiudiug oue of 
the Gaveoe Indians of !>razil, mentioned in Flint Chap. p. 141, qnoted 
from Proc. Soc. Antiquaries, 128 S, vol. 1. 






Fig. 73. 



Fir;. 74. 



Length, 4 inches ; greatest width, 4-jV inches; least width, l-j% inches. 

Fig. 75. A very beautiful blade of light brown color. The butt has 
a sharply-defined ragged border. The terraced appearance before 
noticed is here visible, but curtailed, the middle ridge not being con- 
tinuous. The neck slopes gracefully to the edge, the extremities of 
which rise out of the sides so as to give the effect of a thin edge in- 
serted. There is not the slightest defect in this example. 

Length, 4-^^ inches; width, 4ji- inches. 



"^■ 



^^vr,^ 



'^v 






•m^:^ 



Fig. 75. 



776 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Fig. 76. A highly-polished blade, of dark, sooty brown jjatina. The 
elemeuts of several previously-mentioned blades are here to be seen. 
The butt has the double eagle head with central perforation, seen in 
figure. The tapering haft-space has been frequently mentioned, while 
the triple scallop with perforation of figure 39 is here bilateral. This 
example will form the climax of this type of blades, and it is well worthy 
to hold that position. 

Length, 9^ inches; width of blade, 8 inches; of haft-space below, 
4^ inches; width of butt, 4^ inches. 












% 



■'■•■i»V.tif-iiiisiiiiA».>-t'-''" 
Fig. 70. 

Y. BLADES WITH HOOKED EDGES. 

In the small series of blades now to be presented, a characteristic 
previously noticed as being more or less apparent in the work of those 
barbaric i3eoples who work without compass or rule, will be brought 
more prominently into view. Indeed, to use the language of biology, 
varietal marks become fixed and specific. Another wonderful law of 
biology is also noticeable. It is this, that no part of a structure can 
undergo any great modification without profoundly affecting many 
other parts. Mature has changed her key-note and the whole com- 
position must be played on another scale. It is hard to guess what 
this bill-hook form in so many bladescan signify. In vain we turn to 
Polynesia or Queen Charlotte Sound for help. In higher civilization 
the bill-hook does good service, first in the hands of the soldier,*theu in 
those of the hedger. Coming to view in this Carib environment we are 
left to wonder. Most of M. Guesde's specimens of this class are very 
large, massive indeed, and most carefully polished. We shall be able to 
show a gradation of form beginning with suggestion and ending with 
unmistakable realitv. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 77? 

Fig. 77 A massive blade of black color, the largest specimen in M. 
Guesde's collection. The general type is common enough in the Antilles, 
and indeed may be seen almost everywhere. However, the two sides 






In-i „ / 






■^'2 
#" 









Fig. 77. Fir.. 78. 

are decidedly unlike, the right nearly st raight, the left bulged out ; and 
by this fact the edge is so modified that the left is continuous with the 
side, and the right nearly arrested by a corner. 

Length, 16 f^ inches; greatest wadth, 6 inches. 

Fig. 78. A specimen resembling the last described, of light gray-brown 
color. The butt is not elevated, and its band is emarginated at the sides. 
Here we may see a little greater modification from the type by the in- 



778 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



curving of the left side and a nearer approach to a hook below. The 
surface is finely i)olished and the combination of marks unique. 
Length, 8^ inches; width of butt, 2^j inches; of blade, 3j% inches. 



«f ■. 



.is^ 



%_ 



'•k^&t^itS} 



XY- 



Fio. 70. 



FlC. 80. 



Pig. 79. A massive blade of brown color. The lower border of the 
rounded butt is nearly square with the axis of the specimens, and 
evenly rimmed; the sides, however, are very different. The break at 
the most important point qjt the bottom prevents our knowing just how 
the hook was finished. 

Length, 12i inches; greatest width, 5 inches. 

Fig. 80. A massive blade, of dark brown color. The lower margin 
of the butt is not horizontal, its facial outline forming a sigmoid curve.. 



GUESDE CELLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 779 

lu some other examples the butt is modified by the lateral asymmetry. 
The poiut of coalesceuce of the left side with the edge is quite distinct 
although it is not yet quite a hook. 
Leugth, 11 iuches ; greatest width, 4-^- inches. 



%. 

'^.' 



Fig. 81. A beautifully polished massive blade, of light drab color. 
The inner edge of the butt is nearly straight and banded. In the 
other parts our type is carried out, the only advance being the change 
of curve near the edge at the lower side. The specimen is highly fin- 
ished and would be an attractive object in any collection. 

Length, 13i% inches; greatest width, 4^o- iuches. 



Fig. 82. 

Pig. 82. A giant blade, of mottled color, resembling marble. Here 
will be seen the bill-hook type quite fully developed. The sloping ^utt, 
the totally unlike sides, and the extension of the edge well beyond the 
line of the lower side are all noteworthy. The remains of fluting, visible 
all around the sides and edge, stamp this specimen with a form to which 
i^ature has not contributed a suggestion ; they also show how such im- 
plements were constructed. 

Length, 14:-^^ inches ; greatest width, 6^ inches. 

Fig. S3. A massive blade of light brown color and highly polished. 
The small, lough butt belongs to quite another order, indeed, in this 



780 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

respect, the specimen ranks very low. Aside from this, however, it is 
an attractive example of its type. The bulging of the hooked side is 
noteworthy but not unique. 
Length, 10^ inches ; width, 4f inches. 



%,,. 



Fig. 83. 

Fig. 84. A broken blade, of blackish brown color. It is placed here 
for the purpose of showing that in archaeology a little prediction may 
be indulged in. In every other particular the specimen resembles the 
bill-hook type. Should the missing portions be found, therefore, the 
upper side would pass on in a continuous curve with the edge to the lower 
extremity of the under side, where it will form an angle or a hook. 

Length, llj inches ; greatest width, 4^ inches. 



% 



i"*---.. 



Fig. 84. 



*: 



Fig. 85. A smaller bill-hook or pyriform blade, of light brown color. 
The rudeness of the butt and groove is remarkable. The other lines 
are very graceful, especially that of the upper side. "ti 

Lctfigth, -i-fo inches ; width Iff, inches. 



^^^^'-''''''^'^^^i^isifi'-^ii^^i^^t^ 



Fig. 85, 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 781 

¥ig. 86. A massive blade, of the billhook type, and slate brown in 
color. The butt still has some eccentricities, more than compensated 
for, however, by the elegance of the other portion. 

Length, 9 inches ; greatest width, 4 inches. 



Fig. 86. Fig. 87. 

Fig. 87. A perfect blade, brown in color and of exquisite polish. It 
is not massive. The butt is horizontal and the hooked side unusually 
curved. The hook is more decidedly formed in this than in any other 
members of the class. 

Length, 5^ ; width of blade, 3 inches ; neck, 1-^^ inches. 

Fig. 88. A finely-polished blade, of the bill-hook type and of a rich 
brown color. Aside from the fidelity with which the typical ideas are 
carried out, should be noted also the change of curve in the edge and 









3?:- - Wi\v • , •■ •. - • . ■ ■ •■■•', . •■ • ■••,... , ' . .'.,:,'<C''t 

'^r^^y'^'\--X&'^ ■: '-'^ ■'.'■■'■'■' ■■'.'■' ' ■••'•;■ •.■■■.'•■"'-■■■•■ • ••■■. --.''X.^i^V 

5iJ-v-,'/,7;;,;..-,.-';^;j' ■,•■, . .• ■ , . .. . . . • '.••...■.■. ■.-. •.■-■'•;--, •;rWi<:* 









m^m 



"^W""" -,._ /'" /■,^'^■'v■^5lv/■;^■•::;.i:^^^^ 



w 



Fig. 88. 



782 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

iu the margin of the butt nearly over it. This is the last specimen 
of this variety which will receive notice. 
Length, T/o inches ; width, i^^o inches. 

VI. BLADES WITH ENCIRCLING GROOVES. 

The next type of blades embraces many examples in the Antillian 
area, extending from a very rude form to some of the greatest beauty. 
The encircling grooves or excavations for hafting in a large series of 
stone implements will be found to include many geometric figures in 
other parts of the implements, such as the circle, ellipse, vesica piscis, 
and any of these may have one or two truncations. The grooves will 
also differ iu their position on the blade, in depth, width, and the con- 
struction and parallelism of their borders. In the series of hafted ham- 
mers, hoes, adzes, and axes in the National Museum at Washington, 
one can readily perceive that even the savage workman was not shut 
up to a single device in hafting his tools. Indeed, such is the diversity 
of methods that one familiar with a large number of si)ecimens learns 
to pick out localities and nations by the methods used. 

Another fact illustrated in this series is the easy transition from use- 
ful to highly ornamental forms. Beginning, as Klemm has advised us, 
with little modified pebbles, we culminate in examples wherein every 
vestige of nature and use is lost. 

Fig. 89. A small blade of blackish color. The very least opportunity^ 
is afforded for hafting, but we may refer again to John Evans. Marie- 
Golante. Neither this nor the following example can fully claim to be 
a grooved blade. 

Length, ly% inches. 

Fig. 90. A small blade of dark brown color. This specimen is a little 
more highly finished than the last, but the characteristics are identical. 

Length, 2 inches. 



;<^:j^?^s?v?;t. 



Fi(i. 8S». Fig. 90. Fig. 91. 

Fig. 91 . The smallest blade in M. Guesde's collection ; light drab color 
mottled with brown. The groove is now encircling and distinguishes 
the butt entirely from the body. 

Length, 1^ inches ; width, l^v inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 783 

Fig. 92. A grooved blade of very dark brown color. There is a de- 
lightful negligee about the lines of this example. There is neither sym- 
metry nor i>arallelism where either one should be found in a i)erfect 
specimen. The marks of much wear are visible on the edge. 

Length, 2^^ inches. 



Fig. 92. 

Fig. 93. A very irregular blade of light brown color. There is every 
reason to believe that the only change wrought in the original stone is 
the groove or neck hooded above and running nearly out below, so as 
to be undistinguishable from the faces and the ground edge. 

Length, 7-^^ inches ; width of edge, 4^ inches. 







Flii. 93. 



Fic. 94. 



Fig. 94. A beautifully polished blade of drab color. The type is very 
similar to that of the last described, but the original stone was more 



784 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



shapely. Here for the first time we encounter a definitely-cut encircling 
groove. 
Length, 2^ inches ; width, 2 inches. 



Fig. 95. 



Fi<^ ixi. 



Fig. 97. 



Fig.! 



Fig. 95. A grooved blade, of light brown color. The butt is quite 
symmetrical, the groove uniform and transverse, and the edge nearly 
regular. The type is common all over the world. From Marie-Golante. 

Length, 4r^ inches; width, 3 inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 785 

Fig. 96. A. massive blade, with very small head and groove, of very 
dark brown color. The asymmetry of the sides is noticeable, and there 
is just a slight hook on the left. This stamps our classification as 
jjurely artificial. If we regard the groove we must cast neglect some- 
times upon the edge. From San Mahault. 

Length, 11 inches ; width, 6 inches. 

Fig. 17. A grooved blade, of dark slate color. The butt and the body 
are nearly regular ; the former occupying one- third of the object. 

Length, 2^ inches. 

Fig. 98. A grooved blade, of light brown color. The noticeable fea- 
ture is the hatchet edge extending on both sides to the groove. The 
butt is the most finished yet in this class. 

Length, 2-^ inches. 



Hi.- 












m. 






i'lG. 99. 

Fig. 99. A giant blade, of light brown color. When entire this must 
have been an imposing object. The butt originally was flat-topped and 
very symmetrical, the groove broad, deep, and parallel-sided. The 
body is of the chopper variety mentioned in the last class (Figs. 70 and 
following). 

Length, 10 inches ; greatest width, S^ inches. 
S. Mis. 33 50 



786 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 100. A much worn blade of very light color, showing that it has 
been " battered by the shocks of doom to shape and use." The con- 
formity to the shape so common in the United States ought to be 
noticed. The edge and faces are well ground away. 

Length, 4 inches; width, 3^0 inches. 



.^ 



<<i&; 



■mm 






-■Si^ 






FUi. 101. 



Fig. 100. 



Fig. 101. A small grooved blade, which M. Guesde calls a mace. 
Unless the painting is misleading it is a very pretty, unpretentious ex- 
ample of the small, grooved ax. 

Length, l-^j- inches ; width, 1-^ inches. 

Fig. 102. A long thin blade of light brown color. The butt is cylin- 
droidal and rough topped. The notch is shallow and the sides are 
nearly parallel. This is a rare form in the Antillian area. 

Length, 7^- inches; width, l-]\ inches. 



I 

Fk;. 102. 

Fig. 10;3. A long slender blade, of blackish color, shaped' something 
like a ten-pin. The butt and encircling groove are one. The long, flat 
face.s terminate in a squared edge. 

Length, 6-^ inches; width, 2^ inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OP ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 787 






,^',^ 



I 



Hi^': 



^^r'/ ■:^i 



Fu;. 104. 






mm 



^^^^■':^'::0'^:'r 



I'll;. li.;i. 

Fig. 104. A grooved blade of dark brown 
color. It resembles Fig-. 103, excepting that 
the butt is more distinct and the sides diver- 
gent. The edge is much worn by use, and 
the concave grinding very uncommon. 

Length, 4 inches; width of blade, 3-i^, 
inches. 

Fig. 105. A very attractive blade of bright 
brown color. The object shows great age 
by reason of the grinding which has taken 
away a portion of the butt and changed the 
outline of the lower border of the groove. 
The polish and unbroken condition of a 
specimen so much worn are remarkable. 

Length, 5f-ff inches j width, 5^ inches. 









;-:V^ 



FlC. T05. 



,>;»»i^* 



788 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 106. A very smooth and rare form of blade of dark brown. The 
butt is of the champignon type and has very little boundary below. 
The two sides are unlike giving the face the appearance of a shoe sole. 
The edge is also one sided. 

Length, 5-jV inches; width, S-j^ inches. 



I 



..^' 






^ 



Mr 






%. 






S, 



I 



fey-'- 




Fig. 106. 

Fig. 107. A highly polished blade of brown-black color. It is almost 
a perfect ellipse in outline excepting the interruption of the groove. 
The borders of the groove are slightly ridged. By this is meant that 
from the crest of the ridges the surfaces decrease both ways by a con- 
cave curve. 

Length, oj^ inches; width, 3 i inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 789 

Fig. 108. A polished blade of bright brown color. This specimen, 
thongh not extraordinary in form is one of tlie most attractive in the 
collection of M. Guesde. It could hardly be more regular if it had been 
formed in a lathe. The shield shaped, faces are rare, and the shoulder- 
ing of the faces worthy of notice. 

Length, 7 inches; width of neck, 2 inches; of blade, 4.^ inches. 



^im^^^^ 



A- 



^it^r-'if 



ti>J 



'I 



y 



2^ 



Fig. 107. 



Fig. 108. 



Fig. 109. A double-edged, grooved blade, of light brown color. The 
form is common enough elsewhere, but certainly it seems to be the first 
appearance in this area of an ax with both ends alike. 

Length, T-f,, inches ; width, S^V inches. 



'?H?^-\^ 



Fig. 109. 



790 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 110. A beautifully polished blade, of bright brown color. In 
shape it resembles a butcher's cleaver, well worn. It should be com- 
pared with figures 77 to 88. In the curve of the right side the bill-hook 
form recurs, and, in this respect, this specimen should have been de- 
scribed in the last chapter. 

Length, 7^o inches ; greatest width, 4^ inches. 




Fig. 110. 

Fig. 111. A massive blade of slaty gray color. This specimen also by 
its edge goes to the bill-hook type. (See figures 77 to 88.) The sinuate 
groove and broken sides should be noticed. It is customary to take 
the groove on axes largely into account, but in this example, as well as 
in figures 93, 94, 96, and 110, the salient feature is the twisting of the 
contour of the implement to one side, forming a decided hook in many 
examples. 

Length, 12 inches ; greatest width, 4-^ inches. 

^ Fig. 112. A grooved blade of gray color. This 
form is so common in the United States and so ab- 
solutely unknown in the West Indies that the prob- 
■lis.iia^.iiuwi^is*' abilities are against its genuineness. M. Guesde, 
Fig. 112. howcvcr, is our authority for placing it in Guade- 

loupe. Looking over a large number of ax-blades from the United 
States, one is struck with the prevalence of this particular type, with 
the left boundary of the neck ridged up on both sides, in areas widely 
separated. 
Length, 3^o inches ; width, 1-j^ inches. 

Fig. 113. A grooved ax of reddish brown color. It is of a very com- 
mon pattern, excepting the bulging of the right side, which gives it the 
appearance of having been cut out for a shouldered handle. (See Fig. 
118.) 
Length, 5i inches ; average width, 2^^ inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 791 






^^-s:-"- 
^^0'' 


' ^ r,-*!?.^- v:-vyv>'^ 




,,,^--r-v-:; 






-■■■■ --r:!^ 






'^^^■z. 

l^^:-'-;' 









.••"^^^iV■■!;.^^. 



'■ - '^■■^ ;•■-■"••*■' -J* 



■■\\'.; •-■-■■ .v"^-3^ 



Fig. 111. 

Fig. 114. A gracefully formed blade of very dark material. The re- 
markable characteristics are the double furrow and cup ornament of the 
butt, the elongated groove, and the tongue-shaped faces. The work- 
manshii) is very fine. 

Length, 4-^ inches ; width of blade, 2^^ inches. 

Fig. 115. A beautiful blade of greenish brown color. The remarka- 
ble features are four little mamma; at the apex, the bell-shaped butt, 
the slender groove, and the small faces. 

Length, M inches ; width, 2-Aj inches. 



792 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 









Fig. 113. 






Fig. IIG. A chopper-shaped blade of brick-red color. The butt aud 
the face are boat-shaped, the former much smaller. The groove or neck 
is much thinner and cut away at both extremities. The sides are not 
symmetrical. (See Evan's figure, from Brazil, a war ax of the Gaveoe 
Indians, in the British Museum, described in Ancient Stone Implements, 
figure 95. Comi)are also figure 96.) 

Length, 3i inches j width, 3.^ inches. 



■'•%.<• 



^ 






0i- 



Fig. 116. 



# 



% 



'-■"■^^M 



Fig. 117. 



Fig. 117. A chopper-shaped blade of bright brown patina. There is 
in this specimen an interesting combination of characters. The butt has 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 793 

a delicate double beak. The haft-space or neck widens rapidly, but is 
slightly shouldered all around its base. A similar butt and edge, with 
parallel sides, is to be seen in a specimen from St. Vincent, belonging 
to E. B. Grifiith {Timehri, in, pi. vii, Fig. 3; and a very much ruder 
specimen in Id. I, 264, Fig. 1). 
Length, 5 inches; width, 4 inches. 



.-^-a'S'- .«': 



Fig. 118. 

Fig. 118. A grooved blade of dark brown color and fine polish. The 
butt wedge-shaped and rounded. The hafting space is a complex affair, 
consisting of four parts, two narrow-faced grooves, a groove on the lower 
side a little wider, and a long, wide notch on the upper. The section of 
the groove is rectangular. The same idea of a shoulder on one side of 
the blade may be studied ia a specimen from Menuithorpe, Yorkshire, 
England. This latter one, however, is very rude, and far behind the 
Guesde's example. (Evans' "Ancient Stone Imiilements," Fig. 82.) 
This blade lashed to a shouldered handle would be a very effective tool 
or weapon. From Marie- Golante. 

Length, 6 inches ; width, 2-i% inches. 




Fig. 119. 



794 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 119. A well-finished blade, of mottled-drab color. The central 
column is a flattened cylinder. The right jjortion is spread out like a 
smoothing tool. The Clallam Indians of Washington Territory, who 
excel in all kinds of basketry, use a little wooden implement exactly 
like this to smooth and regulate the woof in their grass and bark mats. 
The left end is canoe-shaped, and the edge extends to the extremities 
of the body. 

Length, 5^g inches ; width of blade, 3^ inches. 

Fig. 120. A grooved implement of light brown color. It is introduced 
here to follow Fig, 119 on account of similarity in groove. The ax 
function is lost in that of the smoother or rubber. There is a great deal 
of nice work on this example; indeed, as a work of art it is nearly 
faultless. The furrows of the sides continued across the bottom of the 
shaft or neck below give a pleasing impression. 

Length, 6^ inches ; width of lower blade, 4^ inches. 



h 






Fig. 120. 

Fig. 121. A specimen of unknown function, light brown in color. This 
form wanders still further away from Fig. 119 than the last one de- 
scribed. The lower portion was formerly fluked, but the points are gone. 

Length, 4 inches ; greatest width, 2^^ inches. 






B 



riG. 121. 



^ 




GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST IMDIES. 795 

Fig- 122. A highly polished blade of seal browu color, resembling a 
chopper knife. It would be dilficult to reconstruct the lost part, but it 
reminds one of the African and Brazilian battle-axes with crescent 
l)lades. (Compare Timehri, in, pi. 11.) 

Length, 2-ff^ inches; width, 2^*0 inches. 






Fig. 123. 









^rs»»«ew«j,. 



.,<^"'' 









m^, 



mh 












"f^r 



llo 1J4 



Pig. 125. 



TOG 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 123. A double-beaked, blade of reddish brown surface and black 
interior. This and the following specimens should be compared with 
beaked specimens without grooves. There is a slight resemblance 
between this example and im Thurn's Plate C, Fig. 1, at least in the 
long groo\"e and the general outline of the blade. 

Length, 8 inches; width, 4^0 inches. 

Fig. 124. A double-beaked blade of bright drab color. The ridge 
beneath the groove gives to this example a very pleasing outline. In- 
deed, without excess of ornament, the whole contour is harmonized 
with great skill. 

Length, 9 inches ; width, 5,^ inches. 

Fig. 125. A double-beaked massive blade of brown color. The curves 
beneath the beak and the fluting on the top are more elaborate than 
in the last one described. 

Length, 11^^ inches; width, 5-f^ inches. 



I 



.'^N 




#*^ 



Fig. 126. 

Fig. 120. A massive two-beaked blade of dark brown color, and so 
highly polished that it seems to have been recently made. The treat- 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 797 

ment of the Uutt is a little different from that in the previous exam- 
ples by reason of the width of the specimen. The upper ridge is narrow 
and the crests near the center. 

Length, 8^0 inches ; width, 6 inches. 

Fig. 127. A two-beaked blade of dark brown color. The lower part 
is asymmetrical and fractured. The ornamentation left at the top indi- 
cates that originally it was a very beautiful object. The egg ornament 
occurs in other specimens. 

Length, 7^ inches ; width, 3^ inches. 



m 



H^i. 



A#;..-...<,--,-.-. 






^iM^ 



m 



Fig. 127. 






Fki. V29. 



798 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Fig. 128. A two-beaked blade of blackish-drab color, ftiid perfectly 
smooth. The lines of this specimen are everywhere bold and graceful. 
The slender beaks, high crests, and other characteristics are very taste- 
fully combined. 

Length, o^o inches ; width of edge, 2-]% inches. 

Fig. 129. A massive two-beaked blade of mottled, marblie-colored 
stone. The distinguishing feature is the ridged, seal-like depression 
between the beaks. 

Length, lli^^ inches; width, H^q inches. 

Aai. HAMMERS, GRmDERS, AND POLISHERS. 

In most archaeological collections a series of implements are brought 
together under the titles given above. The idea or concept is that 
pounding, grinding, rolling or mulling-food, paint, incense, wedges, or 
human heads, are processes that have no broad dividing lines. Indeed, 
among a peoi)le so highly civilized as the ancient Antillians a great 
variety of such operations would be performed. Mr. im Thurn thinks 
that since these people were mainly cassava eaters they had little need 
of mills. True, but grinding is not confined to food even. The Haida 
and Thlinkit Indians make beautiful mortars and pestles to grind a 
native tobacco into snuff, and to pulverize dried fish. The Pueblos 
use grinders for corn and wild seeds, for paint, and to grind up de- 
graissant for their pottery. The innumerable uses of hammers will 
occur to every one. The order followed in the description is almost 
arbitrary, the prevailing motive being to proceed from less to greater 
completeness. 





uy^ff ^-^'n-;* '7'' 



*^- 






Fic. 130. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 799 

Fig. 130. At the risk of missing, a guess may be ventured that this 
specimen of dark brown stone is a hammer for wooden wedges. A 
great variety of wedge hammers of stone for splitting logs is used by 
the American Northwest Coast Indians. The finger pits on the faces 
should be noticed. 

Height, 4:-^ inches. 







Fig. 131. A slightly modified water- worn pebble of dark brown color, 
just as likely as anything else to have been used in rubbing down pot- 
tery. 

Length, 3J inches. 



^t-' 
^"i 



^S^: 



S^%-?> 






•• 'J *'i^*B?J'-'?S5''»- - 






Fig. 132. 



Fig. 133. 



Fig. 134. 



Fig. 132. An ellipsoidal form of blackish color. The noticeable fea- 
tures are the flat faces and beveled contour. In the Pueblo country 
such pebbles are used to rub down the pots before baking. From 
Gosier. 

Length, 2fo inches. 

Fig. 133. A grinding stone of deep brown color, formed in the shape 
of a double conoid. The form is rare in the Antilles. 

Height, 3-^ff inches. 

Fig. 134. A blackish stone, elliptical in outline and lenticular in sec- 
tion; highly polished. 

Diameter, 4^o- inches. 



800 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 135. 



Fig. 135. A shoe-shaped specimen of reddish brown patina resembling 
slightly the whetstones of the mounds. 
Length, 6 inches. 







Fig. 136. A hammer-head of dark brown color, which would have 
done good service also as a mace or club head. The upper portion is 
convex, the groove uniform and the lower portion parallel sided. 

Length, 2-i% inches. 










Kiii. 137. 






GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 801 

Fig. 137. A small bammer of light brown color. There are several 
implements of this class iu M. Guesde's collection, which the owner 
considers casse-tetes. This may be, but they are just as probably ham- 
mers or rubbers. 

Height, 2-^^ inches. 






*^^*r 



V 



'^m 



"^ 



Fig. 138. 















Fio. 


139. 







Fig. 138. A grooved hammer resembling an old-fashioned printer's pad 
or an inverted mushroom. The function of the class is still in the dark. 
See Stevens " Flint Chips," p. 223. 

Height, 3-1% inches. 

Fig. 139. A grooved hammer of dark brown patina evidently m^de 






m.- 



''%^ 



Fig. 140. 

S. Mis. 33 51 



Fig. 141. 



802 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

from a pebble with little modification. The groove is sinuous and shal- 
low. In outline this specimen resembles an ax, but in M. Guesde's notes 
it is called a casse-tete. 
Length, 2-^ inches. 

Fig. 140. A grooved hammer resembling the last, but larger. The 
groove also is wider and has abrupt turns in direction. 
Length, 2^ inches. 

Fig. 14L A doubtful form of light 
^■^: :| brown color. The truncated cone rest- 

ing on the bisecting plane of a hemis- 
■^ phere is absolutely unique. 
?/-•' ' Height, 3i inches. 

.-y Fig. 142. A finely polished speci- 
men of chocolate brown color. The 
Fig. 142. ornamentation is of a high order. It 

was ])robably a rubbing stone or muller. 
Height, 3 inches. 






1 



\r ^_ 






Fig. 143. A grooved hammer or pestle of brown color and very irreg- 
ular in its details, the climax of asymmetry in fact. We are coming 
nearer to the typical hammers and triturators of the Korthwest coast. 
Many as rude as this are found in the Ohio Valley. 

Height, 4-j^(j inches. 

Fig. 144. A grooved hammer or ])estle of dark brown color. Mr. H. 
]L Hill, of Cincinnati, has a very large collection of slanting hammers 
or mullers taken from the mounds in that vicinity. 

Length, 4J inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 803 



'% 

B" 



^< 




Fig. \u. 



Fig. 145. A slantiug grooved hammer or pestle similar to the last 
two. The function, however, is still iu doubt. 
Length, 4^ inches. 



%^^^"'^ 



Fig. 145. 

Fig. 146. A grooved hammer of light brown color. The implement 
was made and polished with great care, and the form is rare. Espec- 
ially noteworthy are the truncated top, the uniform groove, and cylin- 
drical sides. A similar implement from Antigua is figured iu Timehri 
(III, p. 115, pi. 10. fig. 14). 

Height, 5 inches. 

Fig. 147. A grooved hammer or pestle of green and brown color. 
This long, pestle-like form is unique, in the Guesde collection. 

Length, 4^ inches. 



804 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



/"' 



.y 



Fig. 14G. 



Fir.. 147. 



Fig. 148. A bell-shaped hammer of blackish color. The very large 
curved base is not unknown to hammers or pestles outside of the West 
Indies. Several of nearly the same shape may be seen from the Haida 
Indians in the National Museum. The offset on the rim below at the 
base of the neck is unique. (See Timehri^ iii, pi. 10, fig. 19.) 

Height, 5^ inches. 









^# 



■i;t^^ 






Fig. 148. 



Fig. 149. Grooved hammer of brown color, and very highly polished. 
It is perfectly refreshing to stand once more on solid ground. Whatever 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 805 

doubtmay rest on the preceding examples, there is none here. The Na- 
tional Museum at Washington contains a large number of polished seri^en- 
tine hammers of precisely this shape. The great red cedar abounds 
from Sitka along the Pacific Coast to California. The various tribes of 
this coast, Thlinkits, Haida, Chimsiau, Bilhoula, formerly felled these 
trees with stone implements, and by means of a long line of hard- wood 
wedges split the logs into planks to be used in their houses and furni- 
ture. These wedges were skillfully driven by means of these serpen- 
tine hammers. The ancient Antillians felled large trees and both built 
houses and excavated dug-out boats. There is little doubt, therefore, 
that we have here the ancient carpenter's hand-maul. 
Length, 3^ inches. 



-1 »> \ 

1^ 






%t- 



FlG. 149. 



,;-<-;n;-< -. Fig. 150. A grooved club-head, widely exca- 

vated around three-fourths of its circumference. 
,•; Stones wrapped with sinew or leather and 
lashed to a wooden handle were a common 
weapon with the ancient Dakotas. 
Length 2-^^ inches. 
Figs. 151-154. Four grooved discoidal stones 

p ; of unknown function. Comparing things un- 

^iG.150. known with things known we maj' declare 

these to have been club-heads or sinkers or playing stones or even ear- 
studs. 

Fig. 155. A flat, grooved club-head shaped like a two-edged battle-ax. 
The groove is very sharp, or triangular in section, and is deeply cut in. 
Length, 4-1% inches. 

Fig. 156. A spindle-shaped implement, perhaps a rolling-pin, of brown 
color. In Yucatan the natives now use a roller of this shape, but of 



806 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



different materiaL Some of the old metates have hollow beds, also m- 
dicating rollers, or mullers, thickened in the middle. 
Length, 12,% inches ; width, 1,^, inches. 



FlG6. 151, 152. 



PS>fe" 




Y 




Figs. 153, 154. 









•J'"' 



Fig. 155. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 807 

Fig. 157. A carved rubbing stone, of brown color. The slanting col- 
umn and much-curved base, as well as the lateral flutiugs, extending 
everywhere except along the bottom, are noteworthy features. The 

^^ ■ * - 












m 



My' 

pi-- 






Fig. 157. 



ft 



1 
1 



Fio. 15C. 



Eskimo of Norton Sound and northward excel in fashioning ivory scrai)er- 
haudles to fit the artisan's hand. At Sitka the Thlinkit Indians also 
cut out the upper portion of the stone hand-maul to fit the hand. 
Length, 4-1^ inches. 



808 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 158. A boot-shaped rubbing stone, of dark brown color. The 
specimen resembles one in the Latimer collection of the National Mu- 
seum ; but this example is much heavier and more finely polished. 

Length, 15 J inches. 









m 






'-•^ . 






mm'. 




•V 









^m^xiS^^i^^ 



\ 



Fig. 158. 



Fig. 159. A carved and ornamented rubbing stone, of light brown 
color. Mr. im Thurn figures {Timekri, iii, pi. 10, 11, 12) several forms. 
The specimen now under consideration is much more highly ornamented. 

Height, 3j% inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 809 


















Fig. 159. 



Fig. 160. This object is 
entirely uuique, and indeed 
outlandish to the Antilles. 
It is admirable in workman- 
ship and has been preserved 
without a scratch. The ma- 
terial is mottled green and 
brown. It would not be dif- 
ficult to guess, granting this 
to be genuine, that the pro- 
cess of stone carving went 
■, on after 1493, the year in 
which Columbus discovered 
Guadeloupe, and that some 
./ ingenious lapidary had un- 
dertaken to imitate a hook 
in the tackle. There is noth- 
ing improbable in this, for 
the Haida slate carvers, to- 
day, imitate steamers and other inventions of the whites in making 
their curious pipes. 
Height, 5-1^0- inches. 

Fig. IGl. A rough mortar in the form of a Galifornia soapstone olla. 
Very little art has sufficed to bring this specimen to its present form. 
This is the only regular stone mortar as yet reported from the Antilles. 
Height, 2-1% inches ; diameter, 5 inches. 



Fig. 16U 



■>J4'- 



810 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



■>^i:-.^.^yT:'^---^- ■ ^ ■- ■■■■> 










-y 



*^fti^'^'Vj''- ■i'-»^' '■■ ■ ■■'■'*■-•-' *.-.•- ■"•■.- ,-.,-.v''U' i'."--';-''Jj'ti,'>'' 
''•*»,vs.t,i-.,v._?_J.^^.;jT;.t ';'."»-'" 
Fig. 161. 

Fig. 162. A bowl-shaped mortar of rich brown color. This form also 
seems out of i^lace in the West Indies. The almost i>erpendicular sides 
and regularly beveled edge carry the mind to the Queen Charlotte 
archipelago, where beautiful, small dish-like mortars were used for trit- 
urating the native tobacco. 

Height, 2^^ inches ; diameter, 6^o inches. 










Fio. 162. 



Fig. 1C3. A cylindrical stone dish, of dark brown patina, and very 
carefully made. Stone dishes quite as delicate come from Sitka, in 
which tjie ancient suufl-taker Iriturated his tobacco. 

Width, 4-,% inches ; depth, 2.j inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 811 

Fig. 164. A cylindrical mortar and pestle of brown color. The mor- 
tar is cylindrical in form and a cup-shaped depression occuj)ies the 
(renter. The pestle is of the dumb-bell pattern, very symmetrical in 



4-'- " v.. 



I? 






form. This apparatus would serve much better as a snuff muller than 
for hard jjounding'. 

Height of mortar, 4 inches; length of pestle, 4iV inches. 

Fig. 165. A stone hammer, of 
seal-brown patina. This style of r^v -'%■!,- ' .,-^^^-;fe 

implement is generally called a ^; , . : - ■ , ''?■-, 

j)estle. But no one has ever seen ^ .;/ 

a savage wasting his time polish- \iVo-j:;^>' ■■'"■'■ " " vjsj^^ 

ing a hard stone, and putting a 
shoulder around the bottom for 

the purpose of knocking it off the - . .. - ^^ 

first time he used it. On the other - »!' 

hand, any one who will visit Van- ,' ~- 

couver Island may see such stones 

in use, to-day, for driving wedges ^ 

into cedar logs to split them. It v 

is reasonable, therefore, to call 
this specimen a hammer. ~ , ^,^ 

Length, 1^^ inches. ',- .,~^ -- ^ ^J^l 

Fig. 166. A large grinding ini '"^ ^ v . .. 

plement, of blackish surface, re- 
sembling a cook's rolling-pin. The central j)ortion is convex on the 
upper side, and flat beneath. The club-shaped ends were evidently to 
be grasped in the hands. This is the rarest of forms. 



812 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fk;. 1G5. 



From St. Auue. 
LeDgtli, 14 inches. 



* V.^s<^iijs.v:'i>.''> 



Fig*. 161. A shallow, irregular mortar, of very dark browu color. 
Among North American relics this would be called a paint mortar. 
Fortunately the practices of our Pueblo Indians show us to what an 
enormous extent paint was used by the American aborigines. In Zufii, 
for instance, the paint mortar never ceases. They are called into daily 
use by the potters, the warriors, aud by the whole tribe, in the elaborate 
preparations for dances and ceremonies. 

Height, 2^ inches ; diameter, 6-^- inches. 







FIG. 167. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 813 

Fig. 168. A paint mortar, of brown color. It is provided with a han- 
dle partly broken. It is not an unusual thing among modern Indians 
to use paint mortars with handles. 

Width, 3^ inches. 






ri'-- 



iMS 



'/K-p' 



>-^ 



^ 



-^^*, 
.-% 
^ 






'■^^r 
.-^i 






¥ui. 16K. 



Fig. 169. A pretty dish of rich brown color. It is oval outline, and 
perfectly polished inside and out. The two ends are not quite sym- 
metrical. 

Diameter, 5^ inches. 



W^f: 






W 



. -y^ 



d^"^'' 



Fig. 169. 



Fig. 170. A double concave disk of dark brown color, very smooth 
and beautifully rounded. Archaeologists sometimes call such beautiful 
objects paint-mortars and sometimes chungke stones. The Navajos, 



814 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

says Dr. Washington Matthews, at the present day play with the in- 
tensest excitement a game called "turkey claw." Two players contend 
in the following manner: Each one is provided with a pole, twice a 
man's span in length, consisting of two parts lashed together by a long 
leather thong, either end of which hangs loose for about a yard. At 
distances of nearly a foot on these loose ends are sewed crosswise simi- 
lar leather thongs so that there seems to be two tassels of five strands 
each. At a given signal a ring, made by wrapping rawhide strings 
around a hoop, until it becomes very thick and heavy, is rolled along 
the ground. The players aim to throw their spears so that the ring in 
falling will gather up and become entangled with several of the leather 
strands. The number and position of strands lying on the ring enables 
the players to decide the game. There is no reason why such a disk 
should not be thus used. The statement made by writers that the pole 
should pierce the ring is not strictly true. 
Diameter, 5^^ inches. 



Fir. 170. 

Fig. 171. A very highly polished implement of dark brown color, 
and presenting one of those enigmatic forms that are ever springing 
upon us in the West Indian area. The general outline is that of a 
ladle. Upon the reverse the face is flat, but the broad portion of the 
obverse is slightly concave and bordered hj a molding which is car- 
ried nearly to the narrow portion. The latter is Ungulate in form and 
has ten concentric ridges terminating in the border which is fluted ex- 
ternally. There is no duplicate of this form. 

Length, 12 J inches. 

Fig. 172. An unique specimen of light-brown color and quite rough. 
It is hollow like a mortar, but the most remarkable feature about it is 
the series of flutings on the surface. M. Guesde is of the opinion that 
it was rather a cover for something than a grinding stone. Jn defer- 
ence to this opinion it is drawn with the broad part downward. 

Height, 6i inches. 

Fig. 173. A smooth mortar of very dark color. The figure of a fly- 
ing creature is well executed and beautifully polished. The cavity is 
also made with great care. It would not be wild speculation to imag- 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 815 






riG. 171. 



Fig. 172. 

ine this the cosmetic mortar of some proud cacique \oug before the 
days of Guauecagaro. (From Porto Eico.) 
Length, 8-^% inches; width 9 inches. 

VIII. PERFORATED STONES. 

The perforation of stone by the American aborigines has been faith- 
fully studied by Dr. Charles Eau and others. When the boring is for a 
short distance two conical excavations are made from opposite sides, mak- 
ing a cavity shaped like an hour-glass. The process of boring a similar 
hole is commonly called countersinking. The West Indians as well as 
other aborigines of our continent also understood how to produce long- 
excavations through very hard material, but never with the uniformity 
of a steel drill. One of the best tests of genuine relics of this class is 
the method of perforation. 



816 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 





Fig. 173. 



Figs. 174-178. Ordinary pebbles with a double countersink perfora- 
tion near the border, generally so located that the long axis will be ver- 
tical. These are beautifully polished, and there is little doubt that they 
were worn as pendants. 




FiG. 175. 



I-: 



Long diameter of 174, lyij inches. 
Long diameter of 175, 1-jV inches. 
Long diameter of 176, 3^ inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 817 



Fin. ISO. 




Fig. 178. Fig. 181. 



:^ 






Loug diameter of 177, %^ inches. 
Long diameter of 17.S, l-^^j inches. 
Long- diameter of 179, \-^^ inches. 
Long diameter of 180, l-^^ inches. 

181. A perforated cylinder, of drab color, beautifully polished. This 
is a larger bore than is usual in West Indian specimens. The ancient 
lapidaries of this area excelled in the fineness of their perforations. 

Length, l-^^ inches. 

182. A stone ring, ovoid in outline, pierced by 
a double countersink in the middle. Stones of 
the same treatment are found in Porto Eico too 
heavy for a man to lift, which are undoubtedly 
unfinished collars. Length, 3 inches. 

Fig. 183. A stone ring of great asymmetry. , 
This perforation was probably made by pecking, 
its faces being rubbed down afterwards. 

Dimensions, S-j^ x l-fo inches. 

Fig. 184. A stone ring of still greater finish. 
Were it not for the material one might suppose 

M. Guesde had collected the specimen on the Santa Barbara Islands, 
in California. These rings have caused considerable guessing among 
archfeologists, who call them whorls, digging- stick weights, casse- 
tetes, etc. 

Diameter, 4^ inches. 

S. Mis. 33 52 



818 



PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 183. 










Fig. 185, 1 and 2. A beautifully finished stone pulley. The points to 
be noticed are the nearly circular outline, the countersink perforation, 
the curved slope of the sides, and the groove in the circumference. 
This last feature is unknown to the author of these notes in any other 
stone implement. The edge view is enlarged to exhibit the groove. 

Diameter, Inf inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 819 






11 



Fk;. lt<u 



^r^ymm^^MitiM^^^m^-: 






Fig. 185.— 2. 

Fig. 186. A spool-shaped object, bighly polished. The excavation 
does not pierce the stone. As the natives of this area distended their 
ears to a great extent, we may be allowed to call this an ear-plug. 

Height, 1^ inches. 

IX. ORNAMENTAL FORMS. 

In this group have been brought 
together those specimens in which 
ornament is of more importance than 
use. They are not all made of stone, 
and a few of them are not in M. 
Guesde's collection. The last named 
have come into the National Museum 
since the description of the Latimer 
collection in 1876. (Smithsonian Re- 
port, 1876, p. 372-393.) It is not to 
be supposed that the makers designed 
any such division of their artefacts. 

Figo 187, 1 and 2. A beautifully jjolished object, and symmetrically 
formed in face and profile, the outlines of the edge view making a very 
pleasant combination. 

Length, S^g inches. 




I K 18G 



820 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 






M 






ji^^r-v,-:^... ■- 






5S'.- 



^•'-'•'\~'- ' '-'■-. ■ ' ■'■ '■'■■ 


i>A->::. .' . ; ■' ". . 


5t£^-'~ -• - ■ 




%,■--;■"." ■• - 


f^'-\:::' ■ - • ■ • 




^C-'-f^'.'."-:'.;' ■ -, ' 


wt»y:;^--- : ■ 


.•■Ji^.rV; '.•■:-., - 


■* •V*'*'*'"^ " -'- >^* ■"'."■ 


-%;^.^>>". - y^. : 






(■^T- '--'^T ':J .*■: - ' •"'•'>,.., . " . ^ 


- ^^i^^A-^^^^ !. rS^'^^' ■: :^ S :•■ -:.' ■■' • 




li^v^^'C-'-T^V-*/ *' ■'■''^ . *,■" ■■ *" .-"-C'.^*--^ ■' , ' ..- '• 








i*^2i> •-.'--•/''"'"-""''. ' ■■.-■■ ■'•■■• 


w&m^'-rrr.^ 


^^Wmm'::- , 




"^^^I'MS: 


'"^^v^?C". , ■■•-. 


•""•^?»^i^ij^;^-'" 


J^If^.lHT-l. 





^^^!^^^3^ 








-^^Q!-:''- - '■ - 




a^:->V 


-. .;;Vi''.'* 


m - 


Stf 


P^:^'' 


■;!;x|^ ■, 


^;r •■'■-■,■ 


•jr^ 


#? ■ 


•'-■•^ 


fVc . 


'3. 






K: 


'■'^M. 


11' 






-v-;-v;.: 


'B-- \---: ■ 


■'^'^-'fei. 


^i; ' ' '■': 


."•*•'■' iJ-'* '-v*i'-;. 


?5;-^ ■:■-:'■ 


X"v^^ 




•■ '• •'■''■.V?•■■ 


w 


•.;■.•'■\''v;v 


^rtt.::-,-.; 


:-,|^F 


- ^i;^-^/i^ 


.■^t^*' 


3&S^-Ke-io 


vi< 




V 


fe^:\:Vc;. ■ 








Fi.;. l.^iT-J. 



Fig. LS8, 1 and 2. A similar object to tbatlast described l)nt not uearly 
so well formed. 
Leogth, 3 1^5 inches. 



■v« . 









I® 






Fig. 188-1. 



Fig. 188-2. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 821 

Fig. 189. A pick-shaped object, one projectiou brokeu. The surface 
is beautifully polished. 
Length, 7 inches. < 



#^% 


















L '0: 






XV.-;S..V-. 



^^?!^. 




I'lG. IfU. 



822 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Fig. 190. A curved object of light brown color. If the lapidary de 
sigued to produce the outline of a banaua he succeeded admirably. 
Length, C inches ; width, l.J inches. 



^J^-': 



jM 















m 






\v; 



'm- 



;:i 









P&P 







^n^j^ 



mi 



m. 

M:"- 



-is? 



Fig. 190. 



Fig. 191. A hook-shaped stone, very similar in finish to the last. 
.From Canoe. 

Length, 8 inches. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 823 



Fig. 191. 

Fig. 192. A V shaped object of light brown color. It is possibly an 
amulet worn suspended from the neck. This should be compared with 
an ornament called by the Caribs, Caracoli, or Coulloucoli, and made 
of a metal reseinbling gold, obtained from the Alloiiagues, of South 
America. 

Width of limb, 4^ inches. 




/ 



^t- 



Fig. 192. 



Fig. 193. The object sketched in this figure resembles some of the 
plainest specimens of mammiform stones from Porto Eico, in the Lat- 
imer collection. (Smithonian Eeport, 1876.) No head or legs are indi- 
cated in the projections from the base. The lower face, not seen in the 
drawing, is concave and there is a hole in the apex. On either face of 
the mamma are distinct ridges. Mr. im Thurn figures one of these ob- 
jects and calls attention to examples from San Domingo in Blackmore 
Museum. His own specimen is described as having animal heads at 
either end. This does not correspond with the one in the Latimer series, 
in each of which there is a head at one end and feet at the other. Their 
use as stools is very questionable, because that would bring the unsightly 
portion upward and bury the ornamental portion out of sight. The 
owner of the small island of Canouan, says Mr. Low, has a mammiform 
resembling Fig. 42, Latimer collection, with carved lines like those on 
Fig. 43. (See also Timehri, i, 268, 269.) 

Length, 11^ inches ; height, 7 inches. 



824 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Flo. 19:!. 



•^ 



Fig. 11)4. This object is absolutely unique, for we have iu it a min- 
iature fire-place or altar, both faces of which are identical. Four rude 
steplets conduct to a landing place partly covered by a niche. At the 
top an excavation is seen which may have served for a statuette. The 
object was found at Abymes, but the evidence of aboriginal origin 
should be strong just in comparison to the outlandishness of a specimen. 
Height, 6 inches. 

Fig. 195. An ornamen- 
tal piece, of bluish green 
color. It is rare in form, 
but not absolutely unique. 
In the American Museum 
at New York is a similar 
specimen. The chamfer- 
ing and fluting are grace- 
fully blended. The left- 
hand extremity is perfor- 
ated for suspension. From 
j Puuto Duo. 

Length of long limb, 8 
inches ; of short limb, 5^o 



'\.'-!?^^' 



Fig. 194. 



inches. 



Fig. 196. A highly or- 
namented specimen, one portion of which is plain, resembling the edge 
of a cleaver; the remainder is covered with ornament. Let us .imagine 
this to be a stone ax, the most beautiful in the world. The following 
characteristics claim our attention : The haftiug notches are extended, 
that on the upper part by a narrow gutter almost parallel with the edge ; 
that on the lower part sweejjing outward in a curve which combines 



GITESDE COLLEOTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES 825 



c- 



Fir;. Iflo. 



tlie lower portiou and both faces in a continuous pattern. This is as- 
suredly M. Guesde's jewel in the ax class. 
Length, 5^ inches. 



1 



Fio. 190. 

Fig. 197. An ornamental stone of a marble gray color. The right 
part is couoidal and has near its middle a raised baud. This may have 
fitted a socket. The left part resembles a liberty cap, bounded at its 
base by the curve of beauty. On the two sides of the enlarged middle 
are compound scrolls in relief, resembling the implements sold to 
draughtsmen for making curves. 

Length, 11^ inches. 

Fig. 198. A stone collar of very dark brown patina. This belongs to 
that class of enigmatical objects which formed such an attractive feature 
in the Latimer collection from Porto Eico. (Smithsonian Eeport, 1876, 
372-393.) It is of the left- shouldered variety; that is, imagining the 
object suspended from the neck like a regalia, there is a projection on 



826 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 









pi'SWRSiT,, 



*«>v»/ 



Flo. 197 



me'- 1 



m 

m 




FKi. 199, 



V.:V. 



Fii;. lO.'i. 



V' 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 827 

the left iside faiutly resembliug a lashiug.of the two ends of a hoop. 
This being on the left, the ornamental panel is on the right. The ele- 
ments of this panel are not unique. Notice first the beading looj)ed on 
the right side at the top of the panel, and widening downward to in- 
close the key ornaments and to pass quite around the boss below. The 
border on the edge outside and in front of this bead has a human face 
between two opposing scrolls. The bas-relief ornament inside the bead 
consists of a double ring in relief, with two ornaments as nearly alike 
as the varying space would admit. 

Length, ll-f^ inches ; thickness of side, l-i% inches. (Compare table 
in Smithsonian Report, 1876, p. 390.) 

Fig. 199. A collar from San Dom- 

^^"f'h iugo, probably obtained in Porto 

^^,.- -^ Rico. It does not belong to M. 

-£ ,' ' Guesde's collection, but the figure 

/"-., will explain some features omitted in 

the last. This is also left-shouldered. 

The shoulder projection, the looped 

^•« ' ' -s bead, with its herring-bone ridges, 

I ' inclosing triangular excavations, the 

L - ' , . ' boss, and the slight ornament on the 

shouldered side are all well expressed. 
" Although both these are left- shoul- 

dered, there are many right-shoul- 
dered ones, plainly showing that they 
were to be used in pairs. 
" -^ Fig. 200. A stone stool or chair of 

the variety mentioned and illustrated 
in the Smithsonian Report, 1876, p. 
1 376. The material of those there de- 
scribed, however, is either sandstone 
l or wood, and the device is some ani- 
' mal form. In M. Guesde's specimen 
/.: the material is a dark brown volcanic 
;;:^ : stone, and the device is the human 
,; form. Moreover, the position is in- 
J verted. The man is lying on his 
::::J back, witli his feet drawn up to form 
? the legs of the stool. His arms, with- 
;/ out any attempt at accuracy of delin- 
eation are doubled on his neck. The 
eyes and mouth are like the same 
) features in all aboriginal statuary, 
^ ' and beautiful shells were doubtless 

^.^^ inserted in them. The ears have 

*"ici-2oo. large openings in which were in- 



828 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



serted plugs of wood, stone, shell, or feathers. The legs of the 
chair, just beneath the man's shoulders, are mere i)rojpctions from the 
stone. The markings in the head and forehead are quite tastefully de- 
signed. The back does not slope upward as much as in the Latimer 
specimens. In Dr. Liborio Lerda's "Eldorado " is figured a mummified 
human body seated on a stone stool in a cist. The figure in this paper 
and notes of im Thurn (Timehri, i, 271) should be consulted. The im- 
possibility of using such objects as mealing stones was pointed out by 
the author of these notes ten years ago^ and im Thurn adds the very 
ipertinent argument that the ancient West Indians did not grind maize, 
subsisting mainly on cassava. Dr. Joseph Jones quotes Sheldon as 
saying, "When a Carib died his body was placed in the grave in an 
attitude resembling that in which they crouched around the fire or the 
table when alive, with the elbows on the knees and the palms of the 
hands against the cheeks." 

Length, 16 inches ; width, 6^ inches ; height of head, 6J inches ; of 
feet, 2 to 3 inches. 

Figs. 201-202. A low wooden stool from Turk's Island, collected by the 
late W. M. Gabb. This form is similar to those described in a previous 
publication, and referred to by the historians of Columbus. The orna- 
mentation of the countenance of the human head are best shown in Fig, 
202 a. The labyrinthine design of the seat ornament, the serolls, loz- 
enges, and chevrons in the head ornaments are most praiseworthy. 
Length, 46 inches. (202 «, b, c, d.) 




Fig. 202 d. 



Fig. 203. A human figure carved from a single log of Avood. The 
portions broken away render it impossible to tell how large the image 
was originally and what position the figure occupied. Especially notice- 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 829 




O--' / \^-— ' ' 



^^ ~ .' 





830 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



able are the ear-plugs and the bands drawn tightly around the muscle 
of the arms. This feature is explained in the next figure. Length, 43 
inches. 




Fig. 203. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES 831 



Figs. 204, 205. This carving represents two individuals seated on a 
canopied chair. The whole thing is interesting to the highest degree. 
The chair has a high back ornamented with scrolls and concentric rings. 
Both individuals have embroidered skull caps, the nearest approach to 
which are the basket work, close-fitting embroidered hats of the Indians 
of the Great Interior Basin of the United States. The ears much dis- 
tended are to be looked for. The most noteworthy feature, however, is 
the bands of embroidered cotton just above the calves. In his second 
voyage, cruising among the Caribbee Islands, Columbus came on the 
10th of November, 1493, to Santa Cruz Island. Here he had a fight 
with some natives in a dug-out and wounded some of them. " The hair 
of these savages was long and coarse, their eyes were encircled with 




832 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



paint SO as to give them a hideous expression ; and bands of cotton were 
bound firmly above and below the muscular part of the arms and legs 
so as to cause them to swell to a disproportioned size." (Irving's Colum- 
bus, I, 333.) Height, 31 inches. 




¥\G. 205. 

Figs. 206, 207. Spoon and cup carved from the guava fruit. The 
spoon and mug are both of European form, but it would be exceedingly 
interesting to obtain some of the ancient forms. It is more than prob- 
able that the gourd and jicara fruit and cocoa played an important part 
in this portion of the economy of the ancient Caribs. 

Fig. 208. In this figure is represented an inscribed slab found in a 
portion of Guadeloupe, properly so called. It weighs several tons and 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 833 





Tig. 20G. 



^•^•^■^."*A"-{='5<a» 



Fig. 207. 

it is impossible to remove it. lu the vicinity are to be seen many other 
rocks bearing- inscriptions, but this is the most elaborate of the group. 
The general appearance of the figures is not dissimilar to those on the 
cover of the journal published in Demerara, called TimehH, 208, a. 
S. Mis. 33 53 



834 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 



'1 SK 



■m. 



\. -m 












./.' :^ ^ 






Fig. 20rt. 



S^: 



Mm' 





^'^/) r^ "' ^'^ /vi ^ 



/-^ 



Fic. 208 a. 





i'lG. 2u9. 



GUESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 835 

Figs. 209-213. Specimens of pottery in M. Guesde's collection. They 
do not differ at all from those found throughout the West Indies. The 
material is poorly worked but well baked and most of the designs on 
the handles are boldly conceived. (See also Timehri, m, pi. 14-17.) 



1*%, 



K, _^lr:js..!*i 



Fig. 21 (T. 




^i '..:'' '«:» 




Fig. 210 b. 







■SKyvJ^-.-- 



Fk;. 2rJ. 



Fig. 214. This is the l)est preserved fragment of pottery as yet figured 
from this area. The cylindrical mouth and the ornamental body point 
to a vessel of some pretensions. It is impossible to conjecture what was 
the continuation of the lower portion. 



836 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 






.^■ff^. 



m 






Fig. 213. 




Fig. 214. 

Figures 215, 215 a. In the introduction to this i)aper M. Guesde 
speaks of shell celts ; they are also mentioned over and over again in 
Stevens' "Flint Chips," and those familiar with the arts of. Polynesia 
will recall the beautiful adze blades scarcely distinguishable from chal- 
ced(my, keeping clearly in mind the fact that the people of each area 
utilize always the best materials and processes consistent with their 



GtlESDE COLLECTION OF ANTIQUITIES IN WEST INDIES. 837 

grade of civilizatiou. The whole subject of art iu shell is exhaustively 
treated hy W. H. Holmes iu Second Annual Eeport of the Bureau of 
Ethnology, pp. 203-205. (See also Timehri, in, pi. 13.) 





FUi. 215. 



Fia. 21. "i a. 



PAPERS RELATING 1^0 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ANCIENT xMOUNDS IN CLINTON COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 

By M. L. l^EACH, of Traverse City, Mich. 

Clinton County, occupying a central position in the Lower Peninsula 
of Michigan, is one of the most fertile portions of the State. The 
northern part of it is watered by the Maple Eiver and its tributaries. 
The Maple is a small, sluggish stream. Rising in the central part of 
Shiawassee County, it takes a northwesterly course through the town- 
ships of Owosso and Middlebury, in Shiawassee, and Ovid, in Clinton; 
turns sharply to the northeast, then to the west, and finally to the 
north in the township of Duplain ; crosses the boundary into Gratiot 
County, runs a westerly course for 13 miles, and re-enters Clinton near 
the northwest corner of the township of Essex. 

It is only of the townships of Middlebury, Ovid, Duplain, Greenbush, 
and Essex that we have to speak in these notes. All the five town- 
ships lie wholly within the Maple River Valley. The surface of the 
country is gently undulating. There are no high hills or deep valleys. 

The land slopes down to the margins of the streams, generally with- 
out any well-marked terraces. There are some extensive swamps and 
marshes. The soil of the higher lands is a rich, sandy loam, easily cul- 
tivated, adapted to general farming, and remarkably well suited to the 
production of the cereals. When first settled by the white men, large 
portions were covered with heavy forests of oak, maple, elm, beech, 
basswood, and ash, with patches of pine interspersed; other parts were 
what is there called plains, being comparatively level, with an open for 
est consisting almost wholly of oak. 

The Maple River Valley was the seat of a populous settlement of the 
Mound Builders. Their remains consist principally of burial mounds. 
These stretch in an irregular line, in a northwesterly course, from the 
township of Middlebury, through the most fertile part of the valley, to 
the northwestern part of Essex. The accompanying map is suflBciently 
accurate for practical purposes. I have taken great pains to ascertain 
the position of most of the mounds relative to the lines of the Govern- 
ment survey. When the location is given without qualification, it may 
be relied on as correct. 

The mound on the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter sec- 
tion 36, in Ovid, marked 17, has entirely disappeared before the 

839 



840 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 




Map showing mounds in northwest part of Clinton County, Michigan. 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN CLINTON COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 841 

marcb of the white man's improvement. Mr. Hugh Swarthout, of 
Ovid, from whom I have the account, says it was 30 feet across at the 
base and as high as a man's head. Forty -three or forty-four years ago, 
he, with others, dug down in the center of it, and found bones at or near 
the natural surface of the ground. A tibia taken out was at least 
inches longer than that of a man 6 feet high. The bones were all 
large. Though Mr. Swarthout is reliable, it is not safe to trust reports 
of big bones and other wonders, as I have learned by experience. 

About the location of the mound there is no doubt. 

Of the group of mounds in Middlebury I cannot give the exact 
location. I visited them once when called to the neighborhood on 
business, but took no notes. There were six or seven of them, all of 
which had been leveled by several years' use of the plow and harrow, 
but the site of each was still plainly discernible at a long distance. 

From this group, passing down the Maple 2 or 3 miles, we come to an- 
other interesting group, marked 15 on the map, on the farm of Malcolm 
Fitch, about 1 mile east of the village of Ovid. In July, 1878, I 
visited this group, in company with my friend the late W. S. Trask, 
of Charlotte, Mich. With the assistance of Mr. Fitch's son, I took 
some rough measurements while Mr. Trask was sketching. There 
were six of the mounds, situated on level, sandy land, in a beautiful 
grove. The largest was 34 feet in diameter at the base, circular, and 
well rounded up. It was 4 feet high, but theheight may have been some- 
what increased by the earth thrown out of an excavation in the center 
by some explorer, A portion of a tree which had grown on the mound 
was still lying upon it. It was 2 feet or more iu diameter. Mr. Fitch 
said it must have fallen down before he came to the place, twenty-seven 
years previously. Southeast of this first mound, at a distance of 18 
feet from its base, we came to the base of another. It was somewhat 
irregular in shape, being 50 feet long from east to west, 30 feet broad, 
and from 2J to 3 feet high. Mr. Trask suggested that the two mounds 
were part of a natui-al ridge, and that the earth from the space between 
them had been removed and added to the northwestern extremity of 
the ridge to complete the first mound, leaving the remaining portion of 
the ridge with the appearance of an artificial structure — an opinion with 
which I do not coincide. Measuring 90 feet from the eastern base of 
the second mound, in a southeast direction, we came to the base of 
the third. This mound was irregularly oval in outline, being 30 feet 
long from north to south, 25 wide, and 2 feet 3 inches high. Growing 
on top was a white- oak tree 2 feet 3 inches in diameter, 3 feet from the 
ground. Trees of various sizes, but smaller than this, Avere growing 
upon the mounds already described. Southeast from this third mound 
we came to a fourth. From an omission in my notes, I am unable to 
give the distance. It may have been anywhere from 20 to 100 feet. 
On account of the same omission, I am unable to draw a plan of the 
group. The mound was small, and flat. Twenty feet southwest of 



842 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

it was another small, flat mound, and 180 feet northeast of No. 2 was 
another of the same character. My recollection is that none of this 
group except No. 1 had ever been disturbed. It is a matter of regret 
that I did not have an opportunity to make internal explorations of 
the more important ones. 

In the western part of what is now the village of Ovid there formerly 
existed a group of small burial mounds, marked on the map. They 
were long since destroyed by the cultivation of the land. I have an 
account of them from Mr. Dennis Birmingham, of Ovid Township, who 
Is not unfamiliar with the works of the Mound Builders, and would not 
be likely to be deceived. 

Continuing on down the Maple, in a northwesterly direction, some- 
thing like a mile and a half, we come to the site of two small mounds, 
marked 2. The location is 30 or 40 rods west of the center of section 11. 
They are situated on a tract of rich, loamy soil, with a mixture of fine 
gravel, heavily timbered with several varieties of forest trees. The 
tract slopes gently down from higher land at the north till it blends 
with the Maple Eiver bottom at the south. At the west it terminates 
in a bank or bluff about 12 feet high, 50 or 60 paces distant from the 
larger mound. At the foot of the bank is an ancient channel of the 
river, with low, wet bottom land beyond. It is not improbable that the 
river flowed through this channel at the time the country was occupied 
by the Mound Builders, though it is now found some distance farther 
southwest. The larger mound, measured by the eye, at the time of my 
visit was not more than 16 feet in diameter and 2 feet high. There 
was a shallow trench all around its base, from which, no doubt, a por- 
tion of the earth for its construction had been taken. Excavations had 
already been made in both mounds. In the vicinity of the mounds were 
a large number of " dug-holes.'' They were generally circular, some of 
them having a raised margin made by the earth thrown out, while around 
others the ground was level up to the very brim, as if the excavated 
earth had been carried away to aid in the construction of the mounds. 
Perhaps those with raised margins may have been made by the modern 
Indians for burying their corn. Possibly the Mound Builders also 
buried their corn in the same manner. It is not always easy to distin- 
guish between the dug-holes of the Indians and those of the more ancient 
people. 

Continuing down the valley of the Maple, in a direction almost due 
northwest, for a little more than 2 miles, we come to the site of the 
mound marked 3, on the northeast quarter of the. northeast quarter 
section 4. This mound has disappeared in the process of cultivation. 
Mr. Gleasou, the owner of the farm, describes it as 16 feet broad and 2 
feet high. I remember that many years ago, when hunting there, while 
Mr. Gleason's farm was still a forest, the deer I was tracking walked 
over this mound, and I stood for some time on its summit, peering into 
the surrounding forest for signs of the game. My attention had not at 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN CLINTON COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 843 

that time been called to the works of the Mound Builders, and I did 
not recognize the real character of the curious little hill 1 stood upon. 
My recollection of it is that Mr. Gleason's estimate of its diameter is 
correct, but that it was fully 3 feet high. Mr. Gleason and others dug 
into it and took out a skull. They saw a large quantity of bones. 

Going again to the northwest, at the distance of something more than 
half a mile, we come to an interesting group of mounds, marked 4, on 
the east part of the east half of the southwest quarter section 33, in 
Duplain. Leaving out of the account several small, slight elevations 
about the character of which there was doubt, this group consisted of 
four well-defined mounds. The largest one was oblong in shape, being 
25 feet long, 20 feet wide, and 2^ or 3 feet high. Lying south of this, 
their bases almost touching, was another oblong mound, 2^ feet higb, 
22 feet long from east to west, and 14 wide. Southwest from the prin- 
cipal mound, distant 20 feet, was the third one, 3 feet high, 25 feet long 
from north to south, and 15 feet wide. All around these three the earth 
appeared to have been scooped out for the purpose of building them. 
The fourth mound of the group stood apart from the others, about 16 
rods distant, in a southwesterly direction. It had been opened, and it 
was said that bones had been taken out. It was circular, 20 feet broad 
at the base and 3 feet high. 

In 1877 and 1878 I made thorough examinations of the three mounds 
situated near together. The largest one was nearly all dug away, and 
a broad trench, reaching down below the natural surface of the ground, 
was carried through each of the others in its long diameter. In all 
three, with the exception of a surface layer a foot thick, the soil, a 
gravelly loam, was extremely hard and apparently impervious to water. 
It was the opinion of Mr. Trask, as well as of myself, that it had been 
rammed hard around and above the bodies. Forming an impenetrable 
protection to the bones, it has, in a great degree, preserved them from 
decay. In two or three cases the periosteum was found still adhering 
to its bone. 

In the large mound were found six skeletons, besides some scattering 
fragments. . Each of two lay alone ; the other four were in pairs. In the 
case of one of those buried singly, as nearly as could be determined, 
the body had been laid on the back, the head to the east, the legs flexed 
under the thighs so that the heels were near the pelvis, and the head 
raised in such a position that, as the bones settled together in the proc- 
ess of decay, it rested on the left shoulder-blade. It has occurred to 
me since that it may have been buried in a partly sitting posture. The 
other skeleton that lay alone had been carefully disposed for burial. 
It had been placed in a shallow, short grave (before the mound was 
built), with the face to the north, the head to the east, the legs and 
thighs flexed as much as possible, with the head a little elevated. One 
pair had evidently been as carefully placed, with the thighs and legs 
flexed in the same manner, with the heads to the east, one looking north 



844 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and the other south. The bones were in such close proximity that the 
backs of the heads and bodies must have touched. The order and regu- 
larity of this burial i^roduced the conviction that the two bodies were 
buried at the same time. The position of the other pair could not be 
satisfactorily made out, but one skull lay above the other. All these 
graves were at or just below the natural surface of the ground. 

In the mound lying south of the one just spoken of three skeletons 
were found. The first lay in the western half of the mound, a little be- 
low the natural surface of the ground. It had been i^laced on the back, 
with the head to the east and slightly elevated, the thighs and legs 
somewhat flexed, and the right arm flexed so as to bring the palm of 
the hand upon the upper part of the right side of the chest. Above 
the left shoulder lay a heavy stone ornament, charm, or token, of a blue 
color when first exhumed, but turning black on exposure to the 9^ir. It 
was 4^ inches long, 2^ wide, and seven-sixteenths thick, slightly bent, 
and shaped a little like a hoe or an adz. There is a hole through the 
narrower end, by which it may have been suspended by a string from 
the neck. It appears to have been made from a stone that required but 
little fashioning to bring it to the required shape, as it showed but little 
polishing, and in spots the rough, natural surface could still be seen. 

This was the only manufactured article found in any of the mounds 
examined by me in this part of the State. The second skeleton we 
came upon was in the upper portion of the eastern half of the mound, 
the skull, which was the most elevated part, being not more than 8 or 
10 inches below the surface. It lay upon the back, the head to the east, 
the shoulders elevated and the head tipped forward upon the chest, the 
pelvis a little elevated, and the thighs and legs completely flexed. There 
was a cut through the skull. Mr. Trask was of the opinion that it had 
been made before burial, and was the cause of death. I think it was 
accidentally made by the spade in excavating. The third skeleton was 
found at a lower level than the second, but not directly under it, a little 
nearer the north side of the mound. Like many of those found in the 
same group of mounds, it lay with the head to the east, on the right 
side, the head a little elevated, with the knees drawn up to the chest 
and the heels to the pelvis. A peculiarity in this burial is that the 
hands were placed in contact with the face. 

Not the least interesting and instructive of the mounds of this group 
was the one situated a short distance southwest of the principal one. 
A little north of the center, a foot and a half below the surface, I came 
upon what, for want of a better name, I call an ancient fire-place. It 
was simplj' a level surface, made upon the mound when only partly 
built. I uncovered it with the greatest care, working for hours upon 
my knees, scraping away the superincumbent earth with a common 
table knife, so as not to displace anything that might be of interest. 
When done, I had before me a bed of ashes, mixed with charcoal and 
burnt sand, on which lay the bones of a partially burned human skele- 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN CLINTON COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 845 

ton. At the bottom of the mound, just below the natural surface of 
the ground, were the remains of two skeletons, one under the north 
half of the mound, the other under the south. Both appeared to have 
been carefully disposed for burial, according to what seems to have been 
an approved mode — on the right side, the head to the east and slightly 
elevated, with the thighs and legs flexed so as to bring the heels near 
the pelvis. The following facts in the history of this mound are pal- 
pable : Two bodies were laid in shallow graves and a mound partly 
built above them ; on a level spot on the partially built mound a fire 
was kindled and a human body burned ; then the bed of ashes and the 
remains of the burned body were covered up with earth by the com- 
pletion of the mound. 

Continuing on down the valley, but bearing more towards the west, 
we come to what was probably the largest mound in this jjart of the 
country, situated on the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter 
section 32, on the farm of Edward Paine. It is marked 5 on the 
map. When my attention was first called to it, not only had excava- 
tions been made in it and the bones of several skeletons found, but 
more than half the earth of which it had been composed had been carted 
away for use elsewhere and the remainder was in process of removal. 
In order to improve what little opportunity for investigation remained, 
I volunteered to wield the spade during the completion of the work. 
Before this mound had been disturbed it was nearly circular in form, 
being 40 feet broad from east to west and a little less from north to 
south. According to the best information I can get, and I think it 
reliable, it was 4^ or 5 feet high. At one time three skulls and a quan- 
tity of bones were taken out. Mr. Paine says the skulls were found 
close together in the north part of the mound, and, though no special 
care was taken to observe the position, he thinks the three skeletons 
lay in a horizontal position, with the heads to the north. During the 
removal of the last portion of the mound, at which I assisted, nothing of 
interest was found except a fire-place. This was situated some distance 
below the surface, in the southwest part. The remains consisted of char- 
coal and burnt earth mixed with a considerable proportion of a sooty sub- 
stance having the appearance of lamp-black. A careful examination of 
the charcoal, which was in small pieces and very boft, convinced us 
that the fuel had been largely pine wood. The fire had been kept 
burning for some time in a hollow or pit in what was then the unfin- 
ished mound. It had afterwards been covered up by additions made 
to the mound. No burnt bones or remains of artificial objects were 
found. Mr. Paine informs me that at a little distance southwest of 
this large mound were formerly several small ones, all of which have 
long since disappeared under the operations of the farm. 

About 100 rods distant from the mound, on Mr. Paiue's farm, in a di- 
rection a little west of north, on the same section, there was formerly 



846 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

a mound of considerable size. It is marked 6 on the map. It had been 
worked down with the plow, when I saw it, till only a slight elevation 
remained visible. It was said to have been 25 feet broad at the base 
and 4 feet high. I made extensive excavations on its cite, but found 
nothing. Mr. K W. Brass, who was brought up from childhood in the 
vicinity, informs me that there was once a small one near it. 

Let us now return to group No. 4, on section 33. Going from that point 
a little more than half a mile in a northeasterly direction, we arrive at the 
location marked 7, on the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of 
the same section, on the farm of Charles Dailey. Here were formerly a 
great number of small mounds, scattered over a considerable area. That 
they were burial mounds, and not natural undulations of the surface, 
was proved by digging into them. All of them have disappeared. 

Something more than a mile farther to the northeast, on the farm of 
H. B. Smith, on the southeast quarter of section 27, we come to 
the site of another mound, marked 8, all traces of which have disap- 
peared. My wife, who was among the early settlers, remembered it well, 
and confirmed the accounts of it received from others. Mr. Smith rep- 
resented it as 30 feet or more in diameter and 4 feet high. A small ex- 
cavation was once made in it and a skull taken out. When I visited the 
place two thrifty peach trees were growing where the mound formerly 
stood. 

I forgot to mention, in connection with group No. 4, that there are sev- 
eral dug-holes a short distance from the mounds. They are all i)erfectly 
circular and perfectly bowl-shaped. I carefully cleaned out one of them, 
examining every spadeful of earth thrown out, but found no relics. When 
cleaned out to its original size, as nearly as I could judge, it was 7 feet in 
diameter and 3 feet deep. There is no raised margin about any of them. 

The only mounds in the township of Green bush of which I have 
any knowledge are situated on section 11. One, marked 9, which I 
visited in July, 1878, was about 20 rods north and the same distance 
east of the center of the northwest quarter of the section, on the farm 
of P. Jefferys. It was in a grove of heavy oak timber, in a tract of 
country considerably broken by low hills. Its form was circular. I 
did not measure it, but judged that it was 35 feet in diameter and 4 feet 
high. Mr. Jefferys informed me that, before it had been disturbed, 
there was a perfectly level area 12 or 15 feet in diameter on the top. 
It was, in fact, according to his description, a regular truncated cone. 
Somebody had made a large excavation down into the center. It was 
reported that nothing was found. Another mound, said to be broader 
and flatter than the one above described, was reported to be situated 40 
or 50 rods southwest of it. I spent considerable time in searching for it, 
but the forest being filled with an undergrowth of shrubs and small 
trees, almost impenetrable, I was not successful. Of its existence, 
however, there is no doubt. 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN CLINTON COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 847 

In regard to the mounds in Essex, I cannot do better than to copy 
verbatim ray notes taken during a visit to that township in July, 1878. 

The tract of country occupying the central portion of Essex seems 
to have been a favorite place of residence of both the Mound Builders 
and the red Indians, as it is now of the whites. In point of fertility, 
ease of cultivation, and large returns for agricultural labor, it is seldom 
excelled. When first known to the oldest of the present residents it 
was covered with i>atches of thrifty hazel bushes, alternating with 
patches of a rank and nutritious grass. Oak trees of considerable size 
were scattered over its surface. 

About 118 rods west of the northeast corner of section 16, and per- 
haps 25 rods south of the section line, the remains of a mound (10) 
are still to be seen. The field in which it is situated has been under 
cultivation for, perhaps, thirty years, and the repeated use of the plow 
has reduced the height of the mound as least one-half. The same agency 
may have also increased its api)arent area and somewhat changed the 
form of its surface. At the present time the length of the base is 50 feet ; 
width of the base, 35 feet ; height from the natural surface of the ground, 
2 feet ; height from the bottom of the broad and shallow trenches around 
it, from which the earth was apparently taken for its construction, 3 
feet. The long axis lies nearly east and west, but inclines a little (per- 
haps 5 or 6 degrees) to the southeast and northwest. The east end is 
bold and well defined ; the west not well defined, the mound sloping 
gradually from the junction of its eastern and middle thirds to the nat- 
ural surface of the ground at its west end. The earth for its construc- 
tion appears to have been scooped up around its base, but principally 
in three places — around the east end and along both sides of the west- 
ern part. At about the junction of the eastern and middle thirds, cor- 
responding to the highest iiart of the mound, the earth appears to have 
been left in place on each side, forming a passage between the excava- 
tions to the foot of the mound, and, perhaps by artificial additions made 
to it, a graded way to the top. The soil is a sandy loam, with a small 
admixture of gravel. I worked with a spade for three days in succes- 
sion, and made extensive excavations in it, but without finding relics or 
any evidence of the use it had been put tq. A short distance easterly 
from this mound is a smaller one, situated directly in the line of the 
axis of the larger, which has nearly disappeared under the plow. 

On the south part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter 
section 16 is another mound (11,) but a little less in size than the of 
preceding. Its form is circular. According to measurements that I 
made, its diameter at the base, at the present time, is 40 feet, and the 
height above the natural surface of the ground 22 inches. There is a 
broad and shallow excavation all around it, from which the earth for 
its construction was taken. Its height has been diminished by the plow 
at least one-half. Mr. James Soule was familiar with it before the land 



848 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

was improved. He says there was an oak tree growing upon it, which, 
when cut, many years ago, measured 32 inches in diameter at the stump. 
At a short distance east-northeast of this mound is plainly to be seen 
the remains of a smaller one. 

On the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 23 
are two mounds (12) of no great size. They are near together, one 
west of the other, on a ridge running east and west. They are plainly 
seen, but are fast disappearing under the plow. 

There are two small mounds (13), near together, about 85 rods north 
and 33 west of the center of section 23, on the farm of Jonathan Hicks. 
Like those just mentioned, they are still plainly visible, but are being 
rapidly graded down in the process of cultivation. 

There was formerly a remarkable group of very small mounds (14) on 
the section line between . sections 15 and 16 commencing about 40 
rods north of the southeast corner of sixteen and extending about 
40 rods farther north. Mr. Soule says there were as many as forty of 
them. They were raised but a little above the surface of the ground, 
and are represented as having been full of human bones. A gentleman 
whose name I have forgotten, but whom I regarded as reliable, told me 
that he had frequently passed over them before they had been dis- 
turbed, that the bones in many instances were sticking up out of the 
soil, and that he had pried out with a stick skulls that were so protrud- 
ing. These mounds, with perhaps a single exception, have all been 
graded down and destroyed in the construction of the highway and the 
cultivation of the adjoining iields. 

The opinion of the people living in the neighborhood, founded on 
Indian tradition, is that the Essex mounds, large and small, were the 
graves of the dead killed in a battle between the Chippewas and Potat- 
watomieswhich occurred not many generations ago. Mr. Soule called 
the attention of a very aged Indian woman to the mounds and asked 
her their orgin. She confirmed the tradition of the battle, and affirmed 
that she had the account from her grandfather, who was an actor in 
the affair. There are many reasons for doubting the truth of the tradi- 
tion as far as the larger mounds are concerned, but the group of forty 
small ones may possibly have been the graves of the victims of the bat- 
tle alluded to. More than this cannot be conceded. The larger mounds 
were undoubtedly the work of the race of Mound Builders, and were in 
existence long before the traditional battle was fought. 

Two or three miles southwest of group 13 I saw several interesting 
dug-holes, but find nothing in my notes in regard to them, and cannot 
now give anything like a full description from memory. The exact 
location I have forgotten. 



ANCIENT FORTS IN OGEMAW COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 



849 



ANCIENT rOETS IN OGEMAW COUNTY, MICHIGAN. 

By M. L. Leach, of Traverse City, Mich. 

June 18 and 19, ]878, I examined two old forts on Rifle River, in the 
township of Churchill, Ogemaw County, supposed to be the work of the 
Mound Builders. The following is a transcript of my notes made at the 
time: 

No. 1, the smaller of the two, is situated on the northeast quarter 













'-^'^i pl*t ^^*^Ji' 









^1} 



"-fe J^^' 









Fort No. 1, Ogemaw County, Michigan. 

of section 4, township 22 north, of range 3 east, on the east bank of the 
river, on a blulf elevated 25 feet above the water. Its form is irregu- 
larly oval, the long diameter, from north to south, measured from center 
to center of the parapet, being lol feet, and the short, from east to 
west, 141. The southern i)ortion is a trifle wider than the northern. 
The work consists simply of a wall of earth, with a ditch on the outside. 
The ditch at the present time is from 2 to 3 feet deep and from G to 
10 wide ; the wall from 2 to 3 feet high and from 6 to 10 wide at 
the base. There are eight openings in the wall, distributed at irregu- 
S. Mis. 33 54 



850 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



lar intervals, but looking towards the eight principal points of com- 
pass. The one at the northwestern curve, just on the brow of the blufif, 
is the widest, and may have been the principal entrance. From it the 
hill-side seems to have been graded down, forming a gradual and easy 
descent to the river. Springs of excellent water come out of the face 
of the blufl" near the bottom all along the front of the fort. There has 
been a heavy growth of pine in and around the fort. A pine stump 
standing on the wall measures 3 feet in diameter, and the lumbermen 
have cut several of equal size within the area. The lumbermen have 
made a road, with a causeway of logs, along the springy hill-side, be- 
tween the fort and the margin of the river, so that it is impossible to 
tell now exactly the form of the face of the bluff, but have not destroyed 
any portion of the earth- works. The river is about 50 feet wide, with 
low, wooded land on the opposite side. 
Ko. 2, the larger fort, is about half a mile distant from the smaller, 






ij^''^ 




i;>""" 



lift 
/ill 









\ 









«"& 






" ' ""l ' ~ ' 310/-«. 



i^^ 



Mi 









%^ 




s^3S=-' 



Fort No. 2, Ogemaw County, Michigan. 



in a southeasterly direction. In form it is quite regularly egg-shaped, 
the larger end being towards the west. Its long diameter, from east to 
west, is 310 feet; its short, from north to south, 270. It is a heavier 
work than No 1, the ditch being broader and deeper and the wall of cor- 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 851 

respoudingly greater dimensions. In some places the height from the 
bottom of the ditch to the top of the wall is fully 8 feet. Unlike No. 1, 
this has only four gateways or entrances. These look northeast, north- 
west, southeast, and southwest, and being located with great regular 
ity with reference to the peculiar shaj)e of the fort, the two at the east- 
ern or smaller end are much nearer together than the other two. The 
one looking southwest is much wider than the others, and was probably 
the main entrance. The ground within the inclosed area is quite un- 
even, rising in the southern i)art considerably higher than the parapet. 
As far as I know, but my search was not very extended, there is no 
water in the immediate vicinity. Pine trees equal in size to those men- 
tioned in connection with the other fort have been cut on the walls of 
this, the stumps of which are still to be seen. 

N^o mounds, graves or other remains, have been found in connection 
with these forts. Doubtless, when the country comes to be cultivated, 
flint arrow-heads and stone hatchets will make their appearance. 

The measurements given above may not be minutely accurate, as I 
worked alone and without instruments, except such as I could improvise 
for the occasion in addition to a pocket compass. The general features 
of the works, however, as given, are substantially correct. 

Eesidents of the vicinity asserted that there were mounds near the 
river, several miles below. 



A SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 

By Charles M. Smith, of Netv Madison, Ohio. 

The great numbers of flint implements, such as arrow, lance, and 
spear heads, drills, knives, scrapers, &c., which are found scattered 
through all parts of the country, frequently lead to inquiry as to the 
sources whence so great an amount of material may have been pro- 
cured. 

Under the general name of "flint," in this connection, are included 
various forms of siliceous stone, such as chalcedony, jasper, hornstone, 
chert, basanite, and even some forms of quartz that have no resemblance 
to flint. 

The sources of supply are widespread ; but before touching upon this 
part of the subject it will, perhaps, be well to give a short resume of 
the different theories in regard to the manner in which is accumulated 
the material forming the beds, though geologists have not yet suc- 
ceeded in settling this vexed question. 

Quartz or silica, in its various forms, is one of the most abundant of 
the minerals forming the earth's crust. Hard (easily scratching glass), 
infusible, not affected by acids, it survives, unchanged, agencies that 



852 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

will destroy nearly all other rocks. But there is one way in which it 
can easily be reduced : the alkaline minerals, such as sodium, potassium, 
and a few others, form compounds which are highly soluble ; when 
water, especially if thermal, thus charged, comes in contact with quartz, 
the rock is easily decomposed and held in solution until, by cooling or 
evaporation, the water will not retain so much foreign matter, and the 
silica is deposited. In this manner is the quartz supplied which forms 
our agates, geodes, crystals, the concretions around hot springs, &c. 

Should the dissolved silica be carried onward, however, to a consid- 
erable body of water, it tends to produce flint or its allied forms in large 
masses; and there are different ways in which this can be brought 
about. lu sea-water there exist microscopic animals whose shells are 
formed from silica in the same manner that the shells and skeletons of 
mollusks and corals are formed from carbonate of lime ; and upon the 
death of these animals their remains find a resting place upon the bot- 
tom of the ocean, and hold a limited place in the rocks formed by the 
limestone-makers — limited because, although numerous, these animal- 
culse are so small that thousands or even millions of them will not equal 
in bulk a single clam-shell. 

Generally the flint thus formed is scattered through the limestone in 
such a way as to be scarcely, if at all, noticeable ; in the Niagara di- 
vision of the Upper Silurian age it seems first to collect itself in nodules 
or masses by that mysterious proceeding called "concretionary ac- 
tion," a something which has never been explained. Even when the 
flint lies in a regular stratum, as it sometimes does, the layer is not con- 
tinuous, but is broken up into these concretions. Similar masses are 
found in the succeeding geological formations, especially in the Chalk- 
measures ; in fact, some geologists claim that the only true flint is that 
found in the Cretaceous rocks of Europe, and that flint proper is not 
found in America at all. Be that as it may, the term is now too firmly 
attached to our siliceous rocks of this nature ever to be changed. Flint 
formed thus, however, is found only distributed in other rocks and does 
not occur in masses to itself. „ 

The imncipal flint-beds are found in the Carboniferous age, and the 
manner in which they are found associated with the other rocks of the 
series shows another of the methods of flint-making. 

In the lagoons of the present day exist immense numbers of minute 
plants called Diatoms, which have the power of abstracting silica from 
the water and using it in their plant structure. On the decay of the 
plant the silica is not restored to the water, but is precipitated ; and if 
this work is allowed to continue undisturbed, in time a thick deposit 
is the result. As a general thing, the slower the process the more com- 
pact the stone will be ; and if no tides or freshets interfere, beds of pure 
siliceous rock inches or even feet in thickness may be formed. Geolog- 
ical conditions at the beginning of the Carboniferous age seem to have 
been favorable for the existence of these Diatoms in vast numbers, for 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 853 

iu no other formation is the flint so abundant. Land-locked basins 
seem to have existed along the border of the ocean in that period, wherein 
our little plants flourished, while farther out the limestone was being- 
formed by such animals as find their most suitable surroundings in 
open salt water ; so that one has only to lay before him a section of a 
coal-shaft, suppose this shaft to have been made through rock of which 
some limestone layer was formed near the shore in quiet water, substi- 
tute "flint "for "limestone," and the explanation of flint-beds is at 
hand — such, at least, as are due to this vegetable agency. It is not to be 
inferred, however, that all flint should for this reason present the same 
appearance ; there are to be taken into consideration the chances of oc- 
casional slight changes of level ; tides and storms bringing iu a supply of 
Salter water, with, it may be, many lime-producers ; the swelling of a 
tributary stream, where-by various organic and inorganic impurities are 
carried in to a greater extent, coming sometimes from one kind of soil, 
sometimes from another — all these i)oints, and others, are to be remem- 
bered in accounting for the different grades and colors found even in 
a limited space. 

These are the most common explanations. Recent investigations go 
to show that chemical changes at the bottom of the ocean have much 
todo with flint formation ; and the process of substitution, whereby 
silica replaces other material iu decaying substances, as is seen in the 
petrifaction of woody fiber, adds its mite to the limited knowledge of 
the subject; but the question is far from being definitely settled. 

Throughout Eastern Ohio there are numerous deposits of flint of vari- 
ous descriptions ; and in several counties places are to be found in which 
the "ancient arrow-maker" practiced his calling with the material so 
abundantly supplied. 

Pre-eminent among them, on account both of its great extent and the 
vast amount of aboriginal labor evident throughout nearly its whole ex- 
tent, is the deposit lying in the southeastern part of Licking and west- 
ern part of Muskingum Counties, Ohio. This has been known for many 
years as " Flint Ridge," and, numerous as are similar deposits in other 
places, it is by all odds entitled to be called the " Flint Ridge " not only 
of Ohio but of the whole country. 

Its most western point is on the road leading from Newark to Zanes- 
ville, about 8 miles from the former place and half a mile from the east- 
ern line of Franklin Township. From here it extends eastward across 
Hopewell Township and about 2 miles into Muskingum County, making 
its entire length very nearly 8 miles, counting by section lines, and 
fully 10 miles following the turns of the road. At about 2 miles from 
its western end, north of the village of Brownsville, it reaches its great, 
est breadth, -2^ miles. Owing to the extensive erosion that has taken 
place since its final emergence from the ocean (the summits of the hills 
being more than 300 feet above the streams), its outline is exceedingly 



854 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



irregular. The surface is undulating, but on the ridge proper is level 
enough to admit of a good road along its whole extent, while long spurs 
on either hand extend to north and south. Judging from the extent 




Flint Ridge, Licking and Muskingum Counties, Ohio. 

and direction of these spurs and the outlying ridges, the whole deposit 
was of an irregular crescent shape, with the convex side to the south 
and southeast. The road from Newark to Zanesville, called the " ridge" 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 



855 



road, winds along close to the northern edge for about G miles, when it 
passes across the curve of the crescent, leaving it to the north. 



4% 



%W 



t .# 









?!*W^ 



=5-><*- 



_ -OCT. _ 



^\^ 



Si 






J5? 






OC7^. 






%.Pi'^%^]% 






%fm^' 



t 
■^ 

i 
1^.- 






I 



-^ 



^^'^j&p; 



*o4 






,^1\^ 



;'K^ 






m^ 



m 






r^'^ilM 



^-^ 
# 



lAv^ 



,f 



(l-t'afi^V(Jiy 



''"^Hh^y ^'Wetf/ 



Flint Iliige, Licking and Muskingum Counties, Ohio. 

The dip of the strata in this region, as in nearly all the eastern part 
of Ohio, being to the southeast, the flint at the western end of the 
ridge is very near the surface, while at the eastern end it is about 80 
feet below the highest points, the country holding about the same ele- 
vation above the sea-level. 



856 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The flint, from its great resistance to weathering agencies, forms the 
cap rock of the whole ridge, the superincumbent material being for 
the most part either clay or soil resulting from the disintegration of the 
shales and sandstones which formerly existed at this horizon. The 
natural place of the Kittauning coal of the Pennsylvania series is 15 to 
20 feet above the level of the flint, but it runs out before reaching this 
far west — at least there is no trace of it here. Thin beds of bituminous 
coal lie at difi'erent levels in the hills ; 104 feet below the flint is a work- 
able seam of cannel coal. A section of the formations in the eastern 
part of Licking County shows the same .alternation of sandstone, shale, 
clay, coal, limestone, and iron ore that is found in all coal regions, so 
that a detailed statement of its geological structure is unnecessary in 
this connection. 

Did the topography of the country depend upon surface drainage 
alone, the flint would act as a protection to the rocks below, and the 
whole ridge present a more symmetrical outline than it does ; but, owing 
to the numerous crevices existing in it, and to the porous nature of the 
greater part of the underlying strata, water easily passes downward 
until it reaches the stratified beds of clay, along which it makes its way 
to the open air. The springs thus created have worn their way back, by 
the destruction of the adjacent rock and the consequent displacement 
of that farther away, until the whole region is a succession of steep 
hills separated by narrow ravines. 

It is difficult to determine the thickness of the flint at any point with- 
out cutting through it, as the outcroi) is so weathered and broken as to 
ofi'er no safe basis for estimate. A few wells have been dug through it, 
and the thickness is given at different points at from 4 to 7 feet. It 
probably varies, owing to slight irregularities of the bottom on which 
it was deposited, and the more favorable conditions in some places than 
in others for the multiplication of the flint-making agents. It is thick- 
est at the eastern end, according to persons living there. 

In the fourth range of sections in Hopewell Township, counting from 
the western line, between the farms of Samuel McCracken and Lennox 
Fisher, is a break of three-fourths of a mile in which no flint is found, 
erosive agencies having removed all the rock for 20 to 40 feet below the 
level of the flint stratum. Beyond this it reappears, and continues un- 
broken to its eastern limit in Muskingum County. 

In the geological scale this flint is continuous with the ferriferous lime- 
stone of Southeastern Ohio, and is highly fossiliferous in some places. 
In the museum of the State University is a very fine nautilus imbedded 
in a piece of buhr-stone from this place. Other smaller fossils occur 
abundantly both in this and the more solid flint, particularly Fusulina 
cylindrical a small foraminifer found in great numbers in Europe at a 
corresponding horizon. Very frequently, however, the fossil, being 
calcareous in its nature, has disappeared, and only the matrix remains. 

Underneath the flint lies the " Putnam Hill limestone" of the Ohio sur- 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 857 

vey, so named from a high hill opposite Zanesville where it is well 
shown. The upper part of this limestone is shelly, sometimes closely 
approaching a thin sandstone in its appearance, and of a yellow cast; 
farther down it becomes more solid and takes on a blue color. 

The flint varies in its nature in different parts of the ridge. It is im- 
possible to gain an accurate knowledge of its appearance in many places 
without excavation; but, so far as can be judged from the outcrop and 
the reports of the well-diggers, the following will be found not far out 
of the way : 

At the extreme western end the stone is of a gray or whitish color, 
cellular or jiorous in its structure, and of the sort commonly known as 
"buhr-stone." 

By the oxidation of the included iron, it shows various shades of yellow 
or brown along the lines of fracture. 

Half a mile east of this appears a translucent, bluish variety, frag- 
ments of which are seen scattered in the fields or along the outcrop. 
Still, the buhr-stone seems to predominate. 

Two miles east, in the neighborhood of the cross-roads, the flint 
changes considerably. There is to be found every color and shade ever 
seen in such stone. White, red, black, brown, yellow, green, and blue, 
in various shades, occur plentifully in the pieces around the fields and 
where the flint shows in the hillsides. This coloring is all due to the 
oxidation of the iron and organic impurities contained in the flint, as 
may be shown by digging to the bottom of one of the bowlders which 
shows different colors on its top ; on reaching a part that is unweathered 
it is generally found to be of the same bluish tiuge as the greater j)art 
of the bed-rock. 

Near the intersection of the ridge road with the one leading from 
Brownsville to Clay Lick Station (on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad), 
which, for distinction, is called the cross-road, the well-diggers report 
that the flint is light blue and translucent. A few hundred yards north 
it is nearly white, while at the same distance south a layer of a very 
dark shade is reported at the same level by parties who sunk a shaft 
here many years ago "to see what was down there." To determine 
what was meant by "dark flint" it was decided to clear out the trash 
that had blown into the shaft and examine the flint in its place ; and 
this is the result : 

Commencing at the edge of the shaft, the flint was found at 3 feet 
under the original surface, but as this was near the outcrop it is not to 
be taken as the full thickness of the overlying dirt, for there is a rise of 
several feet from this point to the top of the hill. Under this soil was 
a layer of flint of a grayish color, which must be very limited in extent, 
as no pieces of it are found in the "work-shops." 

Next was the " dark flint," whish is further mentioned on a following 
page. This flint contained a large amount of iron sulphide, which has 
oxidized along the seams, the iron giving a rusty-looking coat to the 



858 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

stone, which is not solid, as in some other places, but is in thin layers, 
between which a thin parting of clay is occasionally found. 

The total thickness of the flint here was 29 inches. IS'ext is a layer 
of bluish clay ; on the top of this the sulphur set free by the decompo- 
sition of the sulphide had collected in a thin veneer. 

The clay continues pure only for 2 or 3 inches ; then sand appears mixed 
in with it ; a little lower some lime also enters ; next it is in thin plates ; 
and finally, at 16 inches, it runs into the solid limestone. The clay is 
quite soft, but as the sand and lime become mixed with it the whole 
grows harder and more compact. 

This same blaek flint is found east of here, beginning near the next 
section line and extending eastward for half a mile, and also at the ex- 
treme southeastern spur of the ridge. 

A grayish, banded flint, presenting very narrow stripes of white or 
light gray, alternating with darlier shades of the same color, is found a 
few hundred yards southeast of the cross-roads in rather limited quan- 
tity. On the farm of Joseph Duncan the same flint occurs in great abun- 
dance, the whole outcrop being of this nature on a i)oint north of his 
house. 

At the eastern end, along the Muskingum line, the flint has much the 
same appearance as at the western end — a buhr-stone that has been 
quarried to a considerable extent by the whites for making mill-stones. 
At the eastern termination of this stratum a white flint is found, having 
occasionally places in which iron has given it a re'ddish tinge. 

It would seem, so far as can be judged from the limited opportunities 
for examination, that at the edges of the deposit, on every side, it is more 
in the nature of the buhr-stone, while through the central part, proba- 
bly owing to clearer or less disturbed waters, the formation of a denser, 
purer siliceous rock was possible. Scattered around the pits, to be 
spoken of later, south of the blacksmith shop, at the cross-roads, near 
where the "shaft" mentioned above was sunk, can be found all the colors 
and shades mentioned, while farther away, in all directions, it seems to 
be of one general character. JNiuch of it answers to the description of 
chalcedony, nearly all at the central points being translucent or even 
transparent. The so-called " black flint" is not the opaque variety, basa- 
nite, found in other parts of the Coal measures, but a clear, vitreous kind, 
containing a large amount of iron and carbonaceous matter, to which its 
color is due. This is proven by finding pieces almost perfectly transpar- 
ent from the absence of impurities, and ranging from that to a deep 
black that is translucent only in the thinnest flakes. Some of it has the 
coloring matter so distributed as to resemble moss agate very closely; 
a variety occurs which has a beautifully mottled or clouded appearance, 
due ])robably to the entanglement of some gas in the silica at the time 
it was deposited, the cloudy part being sometimes in spots, again in 
narrow stripes, and occasionally in bands, which make it resemble small 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 859 

concretions. Agates cannot exceed in brilliancy or delicacy the beau- 
tiful markings found in many of the fragments. 

In nearly all the crevices in the flint, so far as digging by searchers 
goes to show, are found quartz crystals. These are of more recent ori- 
gin, being formed by the evaporation of waters of iuflltration carrying 
silica in solution. They varj' in size from those which are microscopic 
to those as large as a hen's egg. Some are limj)id as pure water; 
others are charged with carbonaceous matter, and sometimes in such 
quantity as to make them almost black. They are all short, the ter- 
minating pyramidal point frequently being all there is to them Gener- 
ally they are found adhering to the face of the rock, though some- 
times they may be found iu the soil filling the crevices. In the latter 
case it is probable that the flint holding them has weathered down and 
they have fallen off, as crystals formed free or unattached to a base 
generally terminate in a pyramid at each end, a shape not found here. 

Bary te and calcite are found occasionally, filling cavities in the flint. 

A few dollars' worth of gold was washed out of the sand in the bank of a 
lirtle stream on the south side of the ridge a few years ago, and stories 
of various Indians and Californians who know the location in these hills 
of nearly all the metals of the globe can be heard from every man who 
lives within miles. No doubt minute quantities of various minerals can 
be found such as occur in all geological formations ; but coal and clay 
will be about the only sources of wealth that can ever be made availa- 
ble beyond the agricultural productions of the country. The land is 
admirably suited to the growth of grass, and this, with the abundance 
of pure water in every ravine, must make stock-raising the most profita- 
ble occupation in which the people can engage. 

Now, as to the evidences of [)rehistoric industry. 

The blacksmith shop of John Loughman, at the cross-roads, 3 miles 
north of Brownsville, is a central point from which distance and direc- 
tion can be estimated, and has the advantage of being well known to 
every one for miles, so that a person can easily take it for a starting 
place. 

It is not until within half a mile of here, coming from the direction of 
Newark, that pits opened for the purpose of obtaining flint begin to ap- 
pear. The western end of the ridge was for some reason left untouched ; 
probably it can be explained when we come to speak of the evidences of 
settlements ; at any rate, the rock could have been easily quarried, and 
seems as well adapted to purposes of manufacture as at other places. 

The pits first appear on the north side of the ridge road, and extend in 
a northwest direction, along a spur of about one-fourth of a mile in length, 
nearly to its termination. A ravine heads, near the road, east of this 
spur, and the next pits are found on the eastern side of this ravine, on 
the farm of Alexander Miller, whose land extends to the cross-roads. 

The flint lies nearer the surface here than on the south side of the 
road, which at this place is about 500 yards south of the northern limit 



860 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of the flint ; and this space, occupied by the farms of Loughman, Miller, 
and Feegan, has pits over nearly its whole extent. Southwest of the 
blacksmith shop, on the farms of Loughman and Vermillion, the pits 
extend nearly half a mile, mostly in uncleared ground, as the succession 
of holes and ridges where they have been dug makes it impossible to 
cultivate what little soil may be found among the rocks. The holes 
grow larger and deeper as the spur extends south, until at the end some 
occur which measure 60 feet across. Just how deep they may be can- 
not be told except by cleaning them out, as they are partly, or in some 
cases wholly, filled with dirt and decayed vegetation. They nearly al- 
ways contain more or less water, the present summer being the first 
one in many years that they have been dry. Jumping or throwing a 
heavy stone in them causes the whole surface to tremble, showing that 
the muck filling them is still soft and spongy below, and the length of 
time this trembling continues indicates a considerable depth. South oi 
Miller's house, and eastof these just mentioned, are a few, but they are 
small, and the amount of debris around them shows their depth to be 
inconsiderable as compared with the larger ones. 

Ten or twelve acres have been dug over on the western side of the 
cross-road ; that is, if the actual area excavated be measured it will 
amount to that much, though the pits themselves are scattered over 
several farms. The spurs are narrow, and in many places there is a 
considerable interval between the points in which the work has been 
carried on; those lying on the southern spur, however, are close together, 
and very great labor has j^lainly been expended on them. 

On the east side of the cross-road the holes increase in size and num- 
ber. 

North of the blacksmith shop are about 6 acres every rod of which 
has been dug over. Many of the pits here hold water the entire year. 
They are mostly shallow, as the soil is thinner here than at other points 
in the excavated district ; some are filled with muck, while others con- 
tain very little trash. This field has been cleared and cultivation at- 
tempted in such parts as can be plowed, but without much success, as 
the amount of loose flint heats the ground to such an extent in summer 
that everything dries up. 

East of these, in a piece of timber, are 2 acres of larger and deeper 
pits. Then, scattered at irregular intervals, are a few, single or in 
small groups, extending for about half a mile east of the shop, when 
there is a break in the work and no more are found on the north side 
of the road for nearly a mile. 

South of the road, on the east side of the cross-road, continuous with 
those described as north of the shop, and extending for about 500 yards 
in a direction east of south, are the most extensive excavations, both 
as to size and number, to be found in an equal area anywhere in the 
State. The part dug over sometimes narrows to 5 or 6 rods, sometimes 
widens out to 300 yards. Some of the pits are small, from 15 to 20 fe«t 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 861 

across ; others have a diameter of not less than 80 feet. As with them 
all, the depth is difficult to determine. A pole 18 feet in length has been 
thrust out of sight perpendicularly in one without encountering any- 
thing more solid than the muck and trash which shows at the surface; 
but this is scarcely a fair test of the depth, for should there be a crevice 
in the limestone beneath, as there well may be, for the stone has fre- 
quent joints, the slow drainage would gradually enlarge it, and the 
trash could thus sink to a greater depth. Besides, the ground is undu- 
lating from here to the cross-roads, and a rise of 10 or 12 feet would 
scarcely be noticed by any one in walking that distance along a winding 
path. 

There can be no doubt that a greater thickness of soil liCvS over this 
particular place than over others. That the holes on this spur (which 
lies mostly on the land of J. G. Loughman) were much deeper originally 
than at any other point excavated is plain from the higher banks of 
dirt and broken rock piled around them. The spur is directly east of 
the one running south from Miller's, and the fragments lying scattered 
around on the two points show that the stone is of the same general 
character in both ; in fact, the ravine between them, up which extends 
the cross-road, has been eroded from the middle of a local deposit that 
is of richer color, more compact texture, and better adapted to the 
needs of those using flint implements than is any other part of the 
whole ridge. It is at these places that the most beautifully colored 
pieces are found, and there is no doubt that if some of these deejiest 
pits were cleaned out a more comprehensive idea could be gained of 
the original method of excavating, and a better assortment be secured 
than at any or all other places on the ridge, both as to color and 
variety. 

Going still south and east from here, and crossing a deep depression 
drained both to the east and the west, we come to an isolated area, 
from which spurs extend to the north, east, and west. The first spur 
reached, that trending north, is on the farm of W, Iden. In a cleared 
field, about 1 mile from the cross-roads, are five or six large pits ; a 
short distance east of these between 1 and 2 acres of small, shallow 
ones are found. In spite of their number, it does not appear that much 
flint has been taken from them. ISTo others are found until the Bowman 
farm is reached, nearly a mile southeast from Ideu's. Here is a spur 
extending east, on which are 2 acres of pits of a size to compare with 
those north of the blacksmith shop, that is, from 15 to 30 feet across. 
There are two spurs reaching from here — one toward the southwest, on 
which no pits exist ; the other southeast, extending about a mile, and 
terminating on the farm of J. Kreager. Here is about an acre that has 
been dug over, and from the fragments scattered around it would seem 
that both black and white flint exist on this point, Before reaching 
Kreager's a spur goes off in a southern direction on Drumm's farm, 
but it was never worked, 



862 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

No more flint exists in this direction. Directly north of the spur on 
Bowman's farm, and separated from it by a deep, narrow ravine, is a spur 
on the farm of E. H. Duncan, containing pits of the same character and 
about the same extent. Immediately east of these, in timber belonging 
to Joseph Duncan, are five or six large, deep excavations. Continuing 
north, we come to the dei)ression spoken of as separating this area from 
the main ridge. Lying parti}' in this is the farm of Capt. John Lough- 
man. North of his house about an acre has been pretty thoroughly dug 
over East of this in a bleared field, is about half an acre the flint from 
which is a dark variety, approaching more nearly to that at the "shaft" 
than at any other place on the ridge. This field is nearly a mile from 
the blacksmith shop and close to the town house, located at the point 
where the ridge road is crossed by the one leading from Black Hand Sta- 
tion to Brownsville. East of the town house is the farm of Samuel 
MeOracken, on the northern and eastern parts of which are two small 
groups of pits, both comprising about an acre, on a spur extending 
northward. 

Just beyond here commences the before-mentioned break in the stra- 
tum of about three-fourths of a mile, the flint next appearing on the 
farm of Lennox' Fisher, about a mile west of the Muskingum County line. 
Some 300 yards east of his house are three large pits, which the owner 
calls " i)onds," as they generally furnish water for his stock through 
the summer. 

The bottom of these "ponds" is 5 or G feet below the surrounding 
surface ; the original depth was at least twice or three times as great, 
if they preserve'the same slope the exposed sides show. 

The dip of the stratum is more apparent here than at the western 
end, as knolls 25 to 30 feet high are in the immediate neighborhood of 
the pits. 

About one-fourth of a mile south of this, on the adjoining farm of 
William Fisher, a piece of woodland contains 2 acres of pits, some of 
which are 50 to 60 feet across, but seem to be of less depth than holes 
of a corresponding size near the cross-roads. 

This is the last sight of aboriginal work on Flint Eidge within the lim- 
its of Licking count3^ 

The pits being so scattered, and nearly all in dense timber, it is diffi- 
cult to form an accurate estimate of their extent. Certainly they can- 
not occupy a smaller area than 60 acres, counting only the space act- 
ually excavated. 

Half a mile east of the line of Licking and Muskingum Counties, on 
the farm of Mathias Drumm, are a few pits, one about 60 feet in diameter, 
the others much smaller ; there are not more than a dozen of them. 

No others occur until the farm of Jacob Burrieris reached, about 3 
miles from Fisher's place. A few small pits exist in the woods southeast 
of his house. These are on the southern point of the eastern end of Flint 
Ridge. 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 863 

About three-fourths of a mile east of Burrier's house, on the Brookover 
farm, are 2 acres of pits, on the most eastern jjoint of the ridge. About 
the same extent of ground is dug over on the Varner farm, half a mile 
north of Burrier's house. Beyond Varner's the spur extends half a mile 
north, and here is the termination of the ridge in this direction. 

To sum up, then, we find these pits reaching from half a mile west 
to a mile and a half east and from a fourth of a mile north to a little 
more than 2 miles south of the blacksmith shop at the cross-roads. 
These vary from 12 to 80 feet in diameter, and some of them, at least, 
cannot be less than 20 feet in depth. 

Then, a small number, some 2 acres, 3 miles east of the shop and 
near the Muskingum County line. 

Finally, a number scattered along in Muskingum County, from half 
a mile to nearly 2 miles from the line, those farther east being, as a 
general thing, smaller than the ones in the vicinity of the cross-roads. 

They are found on the most northern, southern, and eastern spurs of 
the ridge, but not within 2 miles of the most western spur. 

These distances are only approximate, the winding roads and per- 
plexing sign-boards making it impossible for even those long resident 
in the locality to form any very correct idea of the distance between 
two places. It is easy to count up section lines, but wheu one attempts 
to follow the roads it will be found that a " mile " is an exceedingly in- 
definite unit of measure. 

The flint around the edges of the whole deposit is not so diversified 
in color or quality as that in the more centi al parts, nor does it seem 
to have been so well adapted to tne manufacture of the finer grades of 
implements. 

The amount of work done in excavating is such as would require 
hundreds of men for many years, even with our superior advantages in 
the way of better tools, there being from 4 to 8 feet, and in a few places 
even more, of soil and loose rock to remove, and the flint being so hard 
that the best drill, according to the well-diggers, cannot penetrate it 
more than 6 inches without being repointed and retempered. When we 
take these facts into consideration, and remember that the aboriginal 
workers had nothing but stone tools, the magnitude of their labor be- 
comes apparent. 

The time that has elapsed since this work was done must remain un- 
known. Efforts have been made to estimate the length of time neces- 
sary for trash to accumulate to any particular thickness ; but when we 
know that sometimes an inch and sometimes a foot of leaves may pile 
up in a single storm, this forms a very unsatisfactory basis of calculation, 
especially when it is not possible to know the amount of compression 
that takes place in any given time. " Eesults " thus obtained are no bet- 
ter than the merest guesses. 

On the dirt thrown out from some of the pits are oak trees over 3 feet 
in diameter, that it is plain have sprung up since the pits were aban- 



864 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

doned ; stumps and trunks decaying on every hand point to trees still 
older. Timber will not increase in size nearly so fast on this stony 
ground as it will under more favorable conditions, so that centuries, pos- 
siblj^, have ijassed away since any work of this sort has been done here. 

How these ancients knew where to find the best flint for their pur- 
poses, unless indeed these sites were chosen at random, cannot be told. 
It also remains a question as to how the flint was quarried after its Jo- 
cation was determined. No doubt a thorough examination of some of 
these pits will throw much light upon the methods in use among them 
for obtaining the raw material. 

In Coshocton County, near Warsaw, are some similar pits which have 
been opened by residents of the locality. In them were found two lay- 
ers of flint, the upper a dark variety, the lower a clear, translucent 
kind, which answers to the description of chalcedony. This lower flint 
seems to have been the kind sought. Traces of fire were plainly visi- 
ble in the pits, from which the inference is natural that fires were built 
upon the rock, and that, while heated, water was thrown on it. The 
stone could thus be broken into pieces. In the bottom of the pits were 
found bowlders of granite, syenite, and other glacial rock, which plainly 
showed that they had been used as hammers. No doubt a similar plan 
was followed at the ridge, and such a supposition is supported by the 
fact that these hammers, weighing sometimes 40 j^ounds, are found in 
the ^elds around the pits. Although the glacier did not cover any part 
of the ridge, the western line of Franklin Township coincides very closely 
with its limit; besides which the Licking River, which is not more than 
3 miles distant in some parts, carries down glacial material in the ice 
every winter, so there would have been nothing difiicult in finding abun- 
dant material for tools; in fact, the pebbles of which the smaller ham- 
mers could have been made are found several miles south and east of 
the glacier limits, even on high ground, having been carried there by 
floods or floating ice at the end of that period. 

The hammers are found in greatest abundance wherever other signs 
exist of an ancient "work-shop," or place where the flint was dressed. 

Of these work-shops there are two sorts, which are generally distinct, 
though sometimes the two sorts of work were carried on in one place. 

One may be designated as the ''blocking-out" shops, the other as the 
"finishing" shops. 

At the first kind, which are always near the pits, it seems the flint 
blocks were brought to a size and shape convenient for dressing into 
such implements as were desired. In them are always found the larg- 
est hammers, though smaller ones are sometimes picked up as well. 
Scattered thickly over the ground are angular fragments of flint, such 
as would result from knocking ofl' corners and projections from the 
large pieces taken out of the pits, and also from breaking them up into 
smaller pieces, it being unlikely that a block of such brittle material 
could be broken up without much waste resulting. 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 865 



> 



The pieces thus fitted for working were then mostly carried to the fin- 
ishing shops, though, as above stated, the whole work seems to have 
been sometimes completed in one place. 

These finishing shops are characterized by the smaller fragments, 
thin flakes, and broken or unfinished implements, very seldom found 
in the blocking-out shops. The hammers found in them are generally 
of small size, seldom exceeding 8 ounces in weight, and are of harder 
or smoother stone than those found in the other class of shops. 

The blocking-out in some cases was done at the pits whence the raw 
material was obtained; but generally a convenient spot was chosen to 
which all the larger pieces from pits close around were carried, rough 
worked, and then taken to one of the finishing shops, which are less 
numerous than the others. 

Although these shops are to be found at many places on the ridge, 
only the more important, those where the greatest amount of work was 
done, will be mentioned here, as a study of the places named will give a 
visitor as good an understanding of the method of work as would an 
inspection of scores of similar jilaces. The relation of the work-shops 
to each other and to the pits will be readily perceived from an inspec- 
tion of the map. 

The blocking-out shops show material scattered over from 5 to 10 
acres in extent; the others, though covering less ground, show a greater 
amount of work on an equal area. 

Of the first sort, then, the principal are located as follows: 

On the farm of John G. Loughman, lying along the south side of the 
ridge road and just south of the western limit of excavation. 

Northeast of the blacksmith shop at the cross-roads. The work seems 
to have been done here as soon as the flint was quarried out, and the 
fragments are scattered among the pits. Along the side of the road and 
within a few feet of the shop is a large pile, many wagon-loads, of an- 
gular fragments. 

Northwest of the pits on Bowman's farm, and again between this 
shop and Iden's farm, at which place the two kinds of work seem to 
have been carried on at the same time, or perhaps, better to say, where 
a portion of the material, after being blocked out, was finished up, while 
the greater part was carried elsewhere for the finishing touches. 

On McCracken's farm, within the limits of the pits mentioned as be- 
ing north and east of his house. 

On the farm of Lennox Fisher, between the pits on his place and 
those on William Fisher's laud, is another work- shop combining the 
two kinds of work. 

At Drumm's, east of Fisher's. Here the flint was blocked out at the 
pits. 

Finally, the last blocking outplace of importance is on Burner's farm. 
The stone from the pits north, and those on the Brookover farm east, 
was carried to what now forms part of several fields, and worked up 
S. Mis. 33 55 



866 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

A great amount of work is indicated hereby the large territory covered 
by the chips and the number of hammers of all sizes, from 2 or 3 ounces 
to 15 pounds, scattered on every hand. 

In regard to the finishing shops, there is scarcely a farm, or even a 
field, in all this region where evidences cannot be found of the fact that 
weapoDS were finished up, or at least dressed to some extent. Partially 
finished or broken specimens, spalls, and flakes may be gathered almost 
anywhere ; unfortunately, such are, now, about all that can be picked 
up. Collectors from various places have been here so often and in such 
numbers, and have paid boys such fancy prices for " flints," that the 
ground is kept pretty well searched over. Indeed, when the ground is 
plowed in thespring, boys hunting "flints" are almost as numerous as 
the blackbirds following the plow. 

The locations of the more important ones will be given : 

On the Burrier farm is a knoll of about 10 acres, south of his house, 
on which the flakes are scattered thickly. The finishing up of nearly 
all the flint quarried in Muskingum County (except that from the few 
pits on Drumm's place) seems to have been done here. 

Some 30 rods east of the pits on the Drumm farm is a strip of high 
ground containing some flakes and spalls — not many, but still in as great 
quantity as the limited number of excavations would lead one to ex- 
pect. • 

In addition to the shop named on Fisher's place as combining the 
two kinds of work, is one of small extent, on a knoll north of the three 
pits, and another west of this, in what is now an orchard, where con- 
siderable work has been done. 

Just east of the town house is a small area where the flint from the 
pits in that vicinity seems to have been finished. Southwest of this a 
limited space on Capt. John Loughman's farm has flakes quite thickly 
spread. 

On Iden's farm is a field of 10 acres where abundant chips and flakes 
show that on this spot the finishing touches were given to all the flint 
from his, Duncan's, and Bowman's farms. 

At John G. Loughman's house is about 1 acre thickly covered with 
pieces of all the colors to be found in this region, while on the same 
farm ,some 40 rods west, on the point containing the large, deep pits, is 
the most interesting spot of all. Hundreds of implements, in all stages 
of finish, have been found here, and each fresh plowing seems to expose 
them in undiminished numbers. As deep as a plow can go these speci- 
mens are found, and in such numbers that the jingling noise made by 
them sounds as though one were plowing through a lot of castings. At 
the side of the field nearest the edge of the hill the spalls are said to have 
been piled up in a mound before cultivation scattered them, as though the 
" ancient arrow-maker " had either thrown the fragments on every side of 
him, and thus gradually elevated himself, or else had heaped all the flakes 
and unfinished or broken specimens into a single pile. Over an acre 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 867 

of this point has been plowed this year, and the remains of " primitive 
industry " cover all this area. How much more may be hidden under 
the soil formed by vegetable growth since the shop was abandoned is 
uncertain, but It seems reasonable to suppose that all the part in which 
no pits are found, some 4 acres, may have been left by the aborigines 
as a place in Avhich the work might be completed. On the part that 
has been plowed there is about half an acre in which the flint amounts 
to four-fifths of the whole ; that is, if all the soil could be put in one pile 
and the flint chips in another, this would be the proportion of each. 

Nearly all this is in small flakes and spalls, chipped off in finishing. 
Very few angular blocks or fragments are found, and such as do occur 
are those which were carried from elsewhere, but on which, for some 
reason, the finishing i)rocess had not begun. This is the only work- 
shop on the ridge where may be found the flint " coves " from which 
were flaked off long, thin splinters to be used as knives, perforators, 
lancets, and the like.* 

On J. Kreager's farm is a shop just north of the pits and on the side 
of the hill. Both angular fragments and thin flakes may be found here, 
showing that the rough blocks were fully dressed out before being car- 
ried away. 

Smaller shops may be found on J. S. Loughman's land, just at the 
western edge of the break in the stratum, and on Cook's land, a short 
distance southwest of Capt. John Loughman's. 

The work of making these implements, then, seems to have been 
thus: 

The aborigines (meaning thereby Indians, Mound Builders, or what- 
ever other name may be assigned to the people who did this work) knew 
that by digging into the un weathered bed-rock a quality of flint could be 
obtained better suited to their purposes than that which could be pro- 
cured along the outcrop. The dirt was cleared away, by being carried 
out in baskets or skins, until the flint was exposed. Cleaning out a 
space sufficient for working purposes, a fire was built on top of the rock, 
and when it was heated water was thrown on it. This would cause the 
rock to crumble, and on clearing out the fragments a fresh surface of 
flint would be exposed around the hole thus made in it, from which 
pieces could be broken off with the large bowlders found in the vicinity. 
A question presents itself here, ' ' If this method was used, why did 
they not follow the flint stratum, once they had found it, throwing the 
dirt behind them, instead of opening so many fresh holes?" The only 
answer to be given is that they did not, except in a few instances, and 
that is all we know about it. 

The pieces thus obtained, if not already small enough, could be again 

* On digging in this shop, after the above vraa written, it was discovered that the 
layer of chips was not so thick as it was supposed to be ; at any point in the field soil 
free from flint could be found at not more than 16 inches below the surface. Still, an 
immense amount of work has been done here. 



888 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

broken into smaller ones of a convenient size for handling, and taken 
to one of the blocking-out shops. Here they were broken into pieces 
of such size as would be best adapted for the form of weapon desired, 
the faulty pieces rejected, and perhaps the largest blocks chipped into 
a rough outline of its final form. Next, it was taken to the fiuishiug 
shops, where the smaller hammers were brought into play to chip off 
as much as was possible by such means, after which the weapon, if in- 
tended to be completed here, was flaked off, by means of pressure ex- 
erted with a piece of bone or horn, until it reached an outline as regular 
and a finish as smooth as its maker desired or was able to give. 

The well-diggers say that the flint can be got out in solid pieces meas- 
uring 12 to 18 inches each way ; that it has a smooth, oily look not found 
in those pieces exposed on the surface ; and that it is much tougher 
and harder to break. This "toughness" is probably due to the moist- 
ure in the stoue, as the statement has been made that flint when first 
got out of the ground can be flaked off with but little difiBculty, while 
after even a short exposure it becomes brittle and is liable to break in 
any direction. Whether, when thus dry and brittle, it could be re- 
stored to its former state by immersion or burial is a question for ex- 
periment. 

One of the old-timers who has been living here for nearly fifty years 
says fhat when he first came to the country the old-fashioned flint-lock 
muskets were in general use, and that the hunters were in the habit of 
collecting pieces of flint and soaking them in oil for some weeks before 
using them. This caused them to last much longer ; a flint that would, 
by shattering, become useless in one day, could by this means be made 
to last for weeks. Is it not posgible that the aboriginal workers had 
some such i^rocess by which they could render their work easier and 
more certain ? 

Careful investigation of these finishing shops gives rise to another 
belief, namely, that very few weapons, as compared with the great amount 
of flint used, were ever fully completed here. The great number of 
roughly finished specimens found here, when there seems to have been 
no reason for having discontinued work on them, and the great quan- 
tities of similarly shaped pieces from this locality occurring at places 
quite- distant, show that the majority of the pieces worked here were 
brought nearly to the required shape and that it was left with the final 
owner to give each one such degree of fine finish and symmetry as 
suited him. There are many places remote from any flint deposit 
where flakes and spalls are found in abundance, showing that flint im- 
plements of some description had been dressed on the spot. 

The immense amount of work done at Flint Kidge, and the widely 
separated points at which material from here has been found, may be 
explained in two ways : 

First, that some particular tribe or race owned this region, and car- 
ried on for generations, or perhaps centuries, a regular traflSc in such 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 869 

unfinished weapons. It is stated in many works upon our modern In- 
dians that each tribe has a particular form of arrow-head or other 
weapon, so that one found at a distance from a settlement shows to au 
experienced observer just what tribe has been represented in the vicin- 
ity. As it is highly improbable that any one tribe could have utilized 
the great quanity of flint that has been taken even from this one locality, 
there can be little doubt that a regular trade was carried on with 
neighboring tribes, or even with those at a distance ; and in this view 
it is likely that the separate blocks were brought to the smallest com- 
pass compatible with their ultimate use, in order that as little useless 
material as possible would have to be carried away. And the same 
holds good with the so-called "leaf-shaped arrow-heads," even those 
dressed as smoothly as we sometimes find them ; in support of which 
the following is offered : 

An examination of flint weapons shows that there are two general 
forms of the upper part or point — the straight sides, as in Fig. 1, or the 
curved sides as in Fig. 2. The angle of divergence of the sides may vary 




Fir.. ]. 




Fig. 4. 



considerably, but this does not aftect the subject. 

Now, in the many specimens which fiave been found in various facto- 
ries, particularly the one under consideration, it may be noticed that 
nearly all which have been dressed as smooth and thin as they can be 
have two general forms of the base — the square, as in Fig. 3, or the 
curved or circular, as in Fig. 4. 

Very few, comparatively, are found in which the barbs or tangs are 
finished out. Take almost any arrow-head, restore its outline by filling 
the chipped out places with wax (the experimenter will probably be 
surprised to see what a small quantity will be required), and the weapon 
will be restored to one of the forms made possible by a combination of 
the straight or curved sides with the straight or curved base. 

A few such restorations are here given : 




Fig. 5. Fig. 6. Fig. 7. Fig. 

Similarly for those with curved sides. 



Fig. 10. 



870 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

These facts, which may be noticed at other places as well as at Flint 
Eidge, give much support to the theory of a general traffic in weapons 
by one tribe with other tribes, and goes far toward explaiuiug the oc- 
currence of the great numbers of unfinished weapons, flakes, and spalls 
of any particular flint scores or hundreds of miles from the place where 
it could have been quarried. 

Before giving the second way in which the facts may be accounted 
for, a little digression is necessary. 

As is well known to all who have perused the various works on arch- 
aeology, Licking County is not surpassed by any equal area in the coun- 
try in the size, number, and complicated arrangement of prehistoric 
earthworks. More stone mounds, too, are found in its limits than in any 
other one county, in Ohio at least. 

From the immense works at Newark a system of mounds and other 
structures stretches towards the Muskingum Valley on the east and the 
Scioto on the west, so that by means of semaphoric communications the 
whole region could be appraised in a short time of any unusual event. 

Xotwithstandiug this, the whole of Flint Eidge, despite its evidence of 
long occupancy, shows few remains of this nature. 

The line dividing Franklin and Hopewell Townships crosses a stone 
fort. The hill-top is level and gradually widens out as it extends east- 
ward from the fort, which incloses about 10 acres and is built upon the 
point of the hill in such a way as to reach the brow on the northern, 
western, and southern sides, and is admirably situated for defensive op- 
erations, and also for commanding the valleys leading from the ridge 
westward. "S^^ithin it are two mounds, one of earth, the other of stone, 
not more than 20 yards apart. Both have been opened, but without re- 
sults. The stone mound and the fort are constructed of flint blocks 
gathered uj) from the outcrop just below the top of the hill. 

In the field containing the blocking-out shop, southwest of the black- 
smith shop, is a circle of about 35 yards diameter ; a few rods west of 
the blacksmith shop is, or rather was, another of about 50 yards 5 and 
on Bowman's farm, west of the pits, was another, whose size could not 
be learned. Both the latter have been plowed down level with the sur- 
rounding surface. They all seem to be village sites or permanent en- 
campments, being on the highest ground in the vicinity. 

On Captain Loughman's farm, in the finishing shop east of the house, 
a mound formerly stood ^Vhich has been plowed down. From no point 
on the ridge can a more extended view be obtained than from the site 
of this mound. Hills in the three adjoining counties of Perry, Muskin- 
gum, and Coshocton are plainly visible, and the country nearer at hand 
is spread out like a map before the observer. 

These are all the places, so far as known, that indicate any perma- 
nent settlements. Diligent search failed to reveal any traces of pottery 
or other domestic implements, nor does it appear that any relics have 



SKETCH OF FLINT RIDGE, LICKING COUNTY, OHIO. 871 

ever been discovered except such as may have been lost or abandoned 
by wandering, hunting, or exploring parties. 

While on this part of the subject it may be stated that the "trail" 
from Grave Creek, West Virginia, to the lakes led past the captain's 
and close to the cross-roads. Old settlers speak of seeing the Indians 
follow it many years ago. 

A so-called "furnace," which many of the inhabitants believe to have 
been used by the Indians to melt gold out of the flint (every man who 
comes to the country will be assured that this is " a solemn fact"), lo- 
cated half a mile south of the captain's, proves to be an old camp site. 
Being close to three large springs, it would naturally be selected by 
hunters and movers, and was much used, a large amount of burned 
sandstone beiug scattered around, of which fire-places were constructed. 

A "mound" on the Muskingum line proved to be a spot where an 
excavation had been begun but soon abandoned ; a crescent-shaped 
hole has the dirt from it thrown on the surface between the horns. 
Most probably made at an early day by whites seeking material for 
millstones. 

To return to the argument : This scarcity of the evidences of perma- 
nent settlement on a scale commensurate with the amount of work done 
offers another solution of the unfinished state of so many implements, 
which is this : 

It is well known that the celebrated "red pipe-stone quarries" were 
held as sacred and neutral ground by all the tribes which were accus- 
tomed to gather there for the purj)ose of procuring this rare and, to 
them, valuable stone. No matter what feuds may have existed between 
tribes, or what deadly enmities may have been held by individCTals, 
when workers met in these quarries it was always in a state of peace, 
even if their differences would not allow friendly intercourse. 

Some such feeling as this may have influenced the natives of this sec- 
tion of the country. With that disposition characteristic of the super- 
stitious, nations as well as individuals, to attribute everything by which 
they are benefited to the direct and friendly interposition of a beneficent 
Superior Being, it is easy to believe that these people may have held this 
Flint Kidge as a sacred gift from their Great Spirit. All the different 
tribes may have resorted to this place to obtain material from which to 
fabricate weapons, and also, it may be, to secure the more brilliant stone 
for making totems or insignia, or for some tribal or religious ceremonies. 

The stupendous works at Newark, and the connected system of 
mounds, &c., could have been built only by a nation that possessed the 
territory for a great length of time and were in large numbers. They 
would claim dominion over all the country round for many leagues, ex- 
cept perhaps this sacred ground, if so it was held, and would jealously 
guard their territory against the hunting parties from other regions ; 
and although they would not, from religious motives, molest outside 
parties engaged in procuring flint, yet when these same parties went 



872 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

beyond their allotted boundaries, they would, like more modern people, 
find that a decided limit can be given to conscientious scruples by per- 
sonal interests ; hence it would behoove them to secure their flint as 
quickly as possible and get back to their own hunting grounds, unless, 
indeed, they had the means to supply themselves with provisions from 
the owners of the surrounding country, for supporting themselves, in 
case a longer sojourn was desirable. So that they would chip their 
flint to a portable size and shape, and carry it thus with them to such 
points as they chose, and there take all the time necessary for dressing 
and finishing it up. 

The caches of so-called "disks," "scrapers," "leaf-shaped implements," 
" turtle-backs," or " hatchets," as they are variously named in so many 
localities where they are found, which may be regarded as nothing more 
or less than such unfinished pieces, render this theory plausible ; and 
it certainly loses no strength if we accept the statement quoted some 
pages back that "fresh" flint is much more readily worked than "dry." 
Burying it in the ground would allow it to remain in working order much 
longer than if it were exposed to the atmosphere. 

The finely dressed arrows or knives sometimes found, and the few 
" circles " in the vicinity, do not militate against the theory ; in fact, 
they rather strengthen it ; for such of the natives as lived within a short 
distance could well spare the time necessary to complete their work 
while they were about it, and the defensive position indicated by the 
fort and " circles " is only such a precaution as would naturally be taken 
by a settled i^eople who were compelled to allow strangers or even enemies 
to remain so near them unmolested. Three hours' time, or even less, 
would have allowed a treacherous, hostile party to reach the Newark 
works from the liidge, and it was only a matter of ordinary prudence 
to keep a look-out for such a contingency. The position of the fort, too, 
supports this view, being located, as it is, so far west of the nearest point 
to their settlements where any work was done, although a limit had 
been set past which none were allowed to go. 

If it be objected to all this that it makes the Indian and the Mound 
Builder the same person, let it be remembered that no one has yet 
proven that the Indian was not a Mound Builder, or that the Mound 
Builder did not do this work on Flint Eidge. 

Whether there is anything in these two " explanations" which possi- 
bly " do not explain," or whether a combination of both may better suit 
the case, or whether, finally, the facts must be explained by a new 
hypothesis, archseologists may determine. The writer, not professing to 
be posted in the science, simply submits such thoughts as will suggest 
themselves to any one who may go over the ground carefully ; and ii 
these observations will throw any light upon this interesting subject, 
or aflbrd any information, let it be taken for what it is worth. 

Strict accuracy is not claimed for the accompanying map. A person, 
without instruments or assistance, attempting to get area and distance 



EARTHWORKS AND MOUNDS IN MIAMI COUNTY, OHIO. 873 

on strange ground, much of which is covered with heavy timber and 
dense undergrowth, may be pardoned a few errors. 

The roads and farms are taken from a county map ; the pits, work- 
shops, &c., are put as near as possible in their true positions, but are 
somewhat exaggerated in area, that they may be more easily located ; 
and any one with this map will experience but little diflSculty in finding 
anything of archseological interest on the Ridge. 

Any one wishing to make a personal investigation will do well to 
begin his work by calling on Capt. John Loughman, living near the 
cross-roads. He has hunted over these hills for more than fifty years, 
and every field is familiar to him. He takes pleasure in giving informa- 
tion to the seeker of knowledge. 



EARTHWORKS AND MOUNDS IN MIAMI COUNTY, OHIO. 

By E. T. WiLTHEiss, of Piqua, Ohio. 

The accompanying map represents Washington and part of Spring 
Creek Township, Miami County, Ohio, in which are located all the 
ancient works that were in existence when the Europeans made their 
first appearance in that locality. The works are marked with figures 
to identifv them in order. 

No. 1 is a large ellipse whose axes are respectively 1,500 and 900 feet, 
and incloses, according to Col. John Johnston, who was the former 
owner of the place, 17 acres. The wall is made of bowlders, all water 
washed, and, no doubt, they were gathered from the bed of the East 
Miami River. The work is located 3 miles north of Piqua, Ohio, 
and is 30 feet above the level of the valley of the river. The founda- 
tion of the wall is 10 feet wide at the base. The wall which was, at 
the appearance of the settlers in 1797, about 4 feet high, has fallen 
down, and tbe bowlders lie scattered all over the field. The present 
owner is destroying it as fast as possible, as he has the field under cul- 
tivation. 

The figure of the ellipse deviates in some cases from a strict regularity 
to accommodate itself to the surface of the country as it then was. 
There was a large spring on the northeast in the fort which was walled 
with bowlders. About 30 feet southwest from the spring stands a bowl- 
der on end 3 feet in height. On the south end of the fort is a mound 240 
feet in circumference and 5 feet high. This mound was surrounded by a 
small ditch, which was paved with small bowlders. It took one man a 
week to remove this pavement. In May, 1880, the writer made an ex- 
ploration of the center of tbe mound and found it to contain a sacrificial 
altar. After digging through a foot of soil, a stratum of yellow sand 
was encountered, 10 inches thick; then 6 inches of ashes mixed with 
burnt bones. This stratum of ashes was pressed in such a solid mass 



874 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 




Remains near Piqua. Miauii Couuty, Ohio, 



EARTHWORKS AND MOUNDS IN MIAMI COUNTY, OHJC 876 

that it required a pike to break through it. After the removal ol the 
ashes, 19 iuches of clay burnt red were met with. The excavation was 
about 6 feet square. There is a large stump of a tree standing a little 
to the north of the center of the mound. On the west side of the fort 
are three gateways 8 feet wide, which are covered on the outside by a 
stone wall 10 to 12 feet long, and 6 feet thick. There are also three small 
ravines running down to the valley below in front of these gateways, 
which no doubt were excavated by human hands. On the west wall 
are standing at present some very large trees. 

No. 2 is a small circular fort situated 200 yards southeast of No. 1. 
The height of the wall is at present about 18 iuches, but formerly, no 
doubt, it was much higher. This inclosure has a ditch on the inside, 
and gateways facing fort No. 1, and is about 150 feet in circumference. 

No. 3 is a similar structure, and is located about 200 yards east of 
No. 2. This embankment has t vo gateways, one on the east and the 
other on the west, 8 feet wide. The wall is about 4 feet high and 
slopes towards the gateways. This also has a ditch on the inside. 
This work has never been disturbed. It is about 200 feet in circum- 
ference and is fenced and covered with sod. 

No. 4 is located 1 mile south of No. 1 and situated on the second bot- 
tom. It is 300 feet in circumference, with an entrance on the south- 
east side, 10 feet wide. Its embankment is at present about 2 feet high 
and 8 feet wide, which the plow lowers every season, and its wall will 
soon be erased from the surface. This also has a ditch inside. 

No. 5 is a mound situated 300 yards to the northeast of No. 4. This 
mound was 240 feet in circumference, and was formerly about 9 feet 
high, but at present is almost obliterated. An exploration was made 
by running a ditch from south to north to the center of the mound, 
and it was found to contain an altar composed of burnt clay. This 
was covered with ashes, charcoal, and burnt bones, 3 inches thick. On 
this was a layer of clay, then alternate layers of clay and charcoal 
5 feet thick, each charcoal stratum being about 1 inch in thickness, 
the whole covered with clay and gravel mixed, 2 feet thick. West of 
the altar were found human remains, viz, a skeleton lying with the 
head towards the southeast imbedded in clay; the skull bore the ap- 
pearance of having been crushed with a blunt instrument. Fragments 
of the skull were within the cavity near the surface. Broken pottery 
similar to that found in Kentucky occurred. 

Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are altogether obliterated and were located 
within the present limits of the city of Piqua, Miami County, Ohio, all 
within an eighth of a mile of the river. These works were described by 
Maj. S. H. Long. 

No. 11 is situated 1 mile southwest of the center of Piqua, on the 
upland. It is an ellipse 60 feet wide and 100 feet long, with ditch on 
inside and one gateway on the north. This work has been almost ob- 



876 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

literated by the plow. There is a spring at the foot of the hill in front 
of the gateway. 

Nos. 12 and 13 are stone mounds about 2 feet in height and 100 feet 
in circumference. From No. 12 were taken a great many human remains, 
and from No. 13 a skeleton, a stone ax, and a slate-stone plate per- 
forated with one hole. 

No. 14 was another mound, which is now entirely obliterated. 

No. 15 is a circular earthwork, with a ditch on the inside. The em- 
bankment, which is about 3 feet in height and 5 feet wide, is situated on 
a high bluff off the Miami River, and can be distinctly traced. 

No. 16 was another circular earthwork, and there are at present no 
traces of it, for the Dayton and Michigan Railroad runs over the spot 
where it was. It was about 300 feet in circumference, with a ditch on 
the inside. There is a spring on the west of the work, about half way 
down the bluff, which never fails. 

No. 17 is another stone mound 150 feet in circumference and is now 
2 feet high, but formerly was much higher. The former owner has 
removed a great deal of the material of this mound for the j)urpose of 
burning lime. There are a great many human remains beneath this 
mound. 

No. 18 is a large mound, covering nearly an acre of ground, and 
at present is 21 feet high. There is a house built on this mound, the 
owner of which informed the writer that in digging the cellar he en- 
countered ashes, charcoal, and remains of burnt bones. This mound 
cannot be thoroughly examined, on account of the house, which stands 
in the center of the mound. The map is marked with crosses where 
human remains are found; also the village sites. 

There are remains of works in other townships. 

In Concord there is a mound 155 feet in circumference and 5 feet 
high, truncated. In Newton Township there is a one half circular 
work, 700 feet in circumference, 240 feet in length, and 6 feet high. 
There is a ditch on the inside and outside, sloping towards the 
ravines, where the embankment ends. The wall of earth faces the 
west. Also one circular work 300 feet in circumference. These two 
works are located on the west bank of the Stillwater River, on Sec- 
tion 19, Newton Township, Miami County, Ohio, and are covered with 
timber. They are situated on a bluff 60 feet above the river. There is 
a ravine running from the southwest and another from the northwest, 
and in the fork between these ravines the largest of the works is located. 



IISTDEX 



A. 

Page. 

Abbe, Clevelaud, report on meteorology 257 

Abert, J. T., collection presented by 62 

Academy of Sciences, National, meeting of 11, 66 

Accessions to National Museum 57-62 

Acclimatization Society of Budapest, correspondence with 51 

Ackerman, A. A., collections made by 15 

Acoma, explorations of 69, 70 

Acting Secretary of Institution, appointment of 6, 7 

Congressional resolution respecting xii, 6, 149 

Acts and resolutions of Congress 149 

Africa, transmission of exchanges to 104 

Africa, explorations in 28 

New Guinea 28, 57 

Alabama, geographical work in 79, 89 

Mound explorations in 68 

Alaska, explorations in 19, 39 

By Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix 19,38,57 

By Fisher, W.J 19,57 

By Gould, Rev. J. Loomis 19 

By Johnson, J. W 19,39,57 

By McKay, C. L 19,39,57 

By McLean, John J 19,39 

By Steamer Adams 19, 38 

By Steamer Piuta 19, 38 

Allen, J. A., assistant. National Museum 56 

Allstrom^ Mr. , exjilorations by 25 

American Association for the Advancement of Sciences, co-operation with. . . 42 

American Dental Association, meeting of 66 

Fish Cultural Association, meetings of 11,66 

Ornithologists' Union 51 

Surgical Association, meetings of 66 

Taxidermists, Society of, meetings of 66 

Amsink, Consul G., co-operation of 107, 112 

Anatomy, Comparative, department of. National Museum 56, 59 

Anchor Steamship Company, co-operation of 34, 1 06 

Ancient forts in Ogemaw County, Michigan 849 

Ancient mounds in Clinton County, Michigan 839 

Animal products section, National Museum 55 

Anthropological Society of Washington, transactions of the 28 

Anthropology, bibliography of 694 

Papers relating to 719 

Keport on . , .... ..^, ........ , 677 

877 



878 INDEX. 

Page. 

Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala 719 

DepartmeDt of, National Museum , 55, 57 

The Guesde collection of, in Point-^-Pltre, Guadeloupe, West Indies 731 

Appendix to the Secretary's report 99 

Appendix, General 155 

Appropriations. (See Congressional appropHations.) 

Archaiologic researches among Pueblo Indians 69 

Archaeology 57, 719 

Arctic coast, exploration of 17 

Arizona, ethnological explorations in , 69 

Geographical work of the United States Geological Survey in 80, 90 

Arizona and New Mexico, explorations in 20 

By Nelson, E. W 20 

By Stevenson, James •. 20 

By Bureau of Ethnology 20 

By Shnfeldt, Dr. R. W 20 

Arkansas, mound explorations in 08 

Armory building. Congressional appropriation for xvii, 151 

Used by Fish Commission 10 

Arranging collections in Smithsonian building 9 

Art and Industry department, National Museum 55, 65 

Artesian wells, paper on 82 

Asia, explorations in 27 

By Blackiston, Thomas 27 

By Dall, Rev. C. H. A 27 

By Jouy, P. L 27 

By Rajah of Tagore 27 

Asia, Transmission of exchanges to 105 

Assistant Director of the National Museum 55 

Assistants of the National Museum 55, 56 

Astronomical announcements, telegraphic 48 

Astronomy, bibliography of 205 

Report on 159 

Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad, co-operation of 41 

Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, co-operation of 41 

Atlas Steamship Company, co-operation of M, 41, 106 

Atwater, W. O., acting curator, National Museum 55 

Australasia, transmission of exchanges to 105 

Austria, exchange with Government of 35, 100 

Autotypes, collection of 65 

Aym6, Louis H., collections received from 25, 57 

B. 

Bailey, H. B., &Co., co-operation of 34,100 

Baird, Spencer F., appointed member of committee on re-publication of Pro- 
fessor Henry's scientific writings 2 

Introduction to record of scientific progress 158 

Letter to Congress transmitting Smithsonian report for 1884 Ill 

Member of committee on Walker prize 48 

Member of Committee on Ventilation of the House of Representatives 37 

Report to Board of Regents 1 

Report on Bureau of Ethnology 67 

Report on National Museum 52 

Report on United States Geological Survey 77 

Report on United States Fish Commission ,.. ,.. 95 



INDEX. 879 

Page. 

Baker, Dr. Frank, lecture by 67 

Baldwin, L. H., assistant, National Museum 56 

Ball, Prof, v., of Dublin, commendation of exchanges by 36 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, co-operation of 34 

Barker, Dr. George F. , report on physics 433 

Bartow County, Georgia, mound explorations in 68 

Barns, Dr. Carl , paper by 92 

Batchen, John J. F. , collection received from 61 

Batrachians, department of, National Museum 55, 58 

Beau, B. A., assistant. National Museum 56 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H. , curator. National Museum 56, 57 

Exploration by 24 

B6bian, L. de, co-operation of 34, 106 

Becker, George F., geological work of 85, 86, 90 

Beckford, F. D., explorations by 69 = 

Belding, L., collections made by 20 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, honorary curator, National Museum 55, 57 

Collections made by 20 

Collection of eggs presented by 50 

Bequest proposed to the Institution xiii 

Bergen, Norway, Museum, collections from 27 

Bermuda, scientific papers on 31, 32 

Berry, F. V., services of 99 

Beyer, Dr. H. G. , honorary curator of the National Museum 55 

Detail of 38 

Services of 52 

Bibliography of, 

Au thropology 694 

Astronomy 205 

Chemistry 533 

Meteorology 396 

Mineralogy 558 

North American Invertebrate Paiaiontology 563 

Physics 487 

Vulcanology and Seismology 228 

Zoology 649 

Biddle, E. R., co-operation of 34, 106 

Biological and Anthropological Societies' lectures 11, 66 

Biological Society of Washington, meetings of 66 

Birds, Department of. National Museum 55, 58 

Destruction of 51 

Migration of , 40 

Birds' eggs. Department of. National Museum 55, 58 

Bixby, Thomas, & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

Blackiston, Thomas, collections received from 27 

Bland, Thomas, co-operation of 34, 106 

Board of Regents 6 

(See, also, Regents.) 

Boehmer, George H., report on Smithsonian exchanges 99 

Services in Europe 33 

BoUes, Lieut. T. Dix, collections by 19,38,57 

Bolton, Prof. H. Carrington, investigation of sonorous sand 47 

Report on chemistry 491 

Borland, B. R. , co-operation of 34, 106 



880 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bors, Consul Christian, co-operation of 107, 112 

Boston exhibition, donations obtained from 50 

Botany of North America, by Prof. Asa Gray 31 

Botassi, Consul D. W., co-operation of 107. 112 

Braun, Adolph, &. Co., autotypes obtained from 65 

Bransford, Dr. J. F., and Lieut. Charles E. Vreeland, on antiquities at Pan- 

taleon, Guatemala 719 

British Columbia, explorations in Vj 

Ethnological explorations in 72 

Queen Charlotte's Islands, report on explorations and collections in 137 

British prov inces, exchange with 35 

Brown, Vernon H., & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

Brush Electric Light Company, experiments by 9, 11 

Buildings 7 

Additional museum building asked for 10 

Armory building 10 

Brick work-shop 10 

For alcoholic collections needed 10 

National Museum building 9 

Smithsonian building 7 

Temporary shed in the grounds 9 

Bnllding stone, collection of 61 

Bulletin of the United States Fish Commission 96 

Geological Survey 94 

Philosophical Society of Washington 30 

National Museum 30, 31 

Bureau of Ethnology, co-operation of '. 14 

Explorations by 20 

Report on 67 

Field work 67 

Collections from stone villages 69 

General field studies 70 

Mound exploration 76 

OflBce work 73 

Burial places, exploration of 70,71,72 

Butler County, Ohio, mound explorations in 68 

C. 

Calendar of the Dakota Nation 75 

California, explorations in 20 

Linguistic explorations in 71 

California trout eggs, distribution of 96 

Call, R. Ellsworth, services of 59 

Cameron, R. W., & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

Canon de Chelly, Arizona, exploration of 69 

Map of 77 

Carlisle, Hon. John G., letter to iii 

Carp, distribution of 96 

Carranza, Consul Carlos, co-operation of 106, 1 12 

Caribbean Sea, collections made in 24 

Model of bottom of 25 

Cartersville, Ga., mound explorations near 70 

Cave dwellings, explorations of ." 69 

Cazaux, H., co-operation of 34, 106 



INDEX. 881 

Page. 

Chaco Cafion, New Mexico, exploration of 69 

Chaco group of pueblos, explorations of 70 

Chahta language, grammar and dictionary of 76 

Chamberlin, Prof. T. C, lecture by 67 

Services of 82,83,84 

Chatard, Mr., services of ' 91 

Check list of Smithsonian publications 30 

Chemical department of the Institution 52 

Chemical laboratory in Smithsonian building 8 

Chemical literature, indexing of 42, 147 

Chemistry, bibliography of 533 

Investigations by the United States Geological Survey 91 

Report on 491 

Chili, collection from 26 

Chiriqui, collections from 26 

Cincinnati Industrial Exposition 9, 63, 64 

Circular issued by Dr. C. Hart Merriam 51 

Clark, A. Howard, assistant 55 

Clarke, Dr. F. W., honorary curator. National Museum 56, 62 

Lecture by » 66 

Services of 52, 91 

Cliif dwellings, explorations of 69 

Clinton County, Michigan, ancient mounds in 839 

Clocks for control of watchmen, in the Smithsonian and Museum buildings.. 8 

Coal fields, geological work in the 87 

Coast and Geodetic Survey, rooms occupied by 9 

Station, Kodiak 19 

Collections and explorations in the Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Colum- 
bia, report on 137 

From stone villages 69 

Made by the Greely relief expedition 15 

Of eggs presented to Institution 50 

Of Museum, increase in 52 

Of the United States Geological Survey 95 

(See explorations) 13 

Collier "Loch Garry," exploration by 14 

Collins, Capt. J. W., honorary curator. National Museum 55 

Models of ships by 65 

Colorado district, geological work in the 84, 85 

Commander Islands, explorations of 19, 27, 39 

Compagnie G6n6rale Transatlantique, co-operation of 34, 106 

Comparative anatomy, department of, National Museum 56, 59 

Congressional acts: 

Acting Secretary 6, 149 

Election of Eegents 153 

Executive Departments at New Orleans Exposition 150 

Property to be transported for the National Museum 149 

Smithsonian mail matter 150 

Congressional appropriations : 

Armory building xvii, 151 

Bureau of Ethnology xviii, 152 

Expenses on Henry statue xvii, 2, 152 

Fire-proofing east portion of Smithsonian building xvii, 8 

Furniture and fixtures xvu, 152 

S. Mis. 33 56 



882 INDEX. 

P»ge 
Congressional appropriations — Continued. 

International exchanges xvii, 33, 152 

National Museum xvii, 53, 151 

Naval Observatory, freight on exchanges 151 

New Orleans Exhibition 44, 63, 64 

Paving sidewalk xvii, 151 

Polaris report xvm 

Repayment of duty on Sevres vase 152 

State exhibitions 63 

War Department, freight on exchanges 151 

Congressional election of Regents 153 

Resolution to print Smithsonian Report for 1884 II 

To provide for an acting secreiary of the Institution * xii, 6 

Consuls, foreign, co-operation of 34 

Contents of report for 1884 iv 

Contributions to Knowledge 28, 20 

Control-clocks in Smithsonian and Museum buildings 8 

Cook, Prof. George H., co-operation of 81 

Assistance of 79 

Co-operation of Government Departments 14 

Of other bodies 37,42 

Of scientists 81 

Of transportation companies 34, 106 

Copp^e, Dr. Henry, regent X, xi 

Motion by xii, Xlli 

Correspondence of the Institution 13 

Costa Rica, explorations in 26 

By Zeledon, J. C 26 

By Iglesias, R 26 

By McNeil, J. A 26 

By Lamson & Bros .^. 26 

Cotheal, Consul Alexander I., co-operation of 107 

Cotton exhibition, international, at New Orleans 44, 63, 64 

Cox, Hon. S. S., address by 11 

Cox, W. v., financial clerk, of New Orleans Exposition .56 

Crawford, Dr. William N., collections made by 27 

Cuba, fishes from 25 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line, co-operation of 34, 106 

CuraQoa, collections made in 25 

Curators of the National Museum 55, 56 

Curtin, Jeremiah, linguistic studies of 73 

Curtis, J. S. , services of 86, 89 

Cushing, Frank K., explorations by 70 

Papers prepared by 75 

D. 

Dakota, geological work in 87 

Dakota Nation, calendar of the 75 

Dall, W. H., curator, National Museum 56,59 

Services of 89, 90 

Dall, Rev. C. H. A., collections received from 27 

Dallas, Vice-President George M., portrait of 7 

Dallett, Boulton & Bliss, co-operation of 34, 106 

Dana, Edward S., report on mineralogy 543 

Dennison, Thomas, co-operation of 34,106 



INDEX. 883 

Page. 

Dental Association, American, meetings of 66 

Departments of the National Museum 55-65 

Dewey, Fred. P., curator. National Museum 56,62 

Work by, at the New Orleans exhibition 62 

Dictionaries in preparation 76, 77 

Diebitsch, Miss J. C, services of 99 

Diller, Mr. services of 86, 87 

District of Columbia, geology of the 88 

Domestic exchanges : 

Comparison with former years 110 

Receipts for 34,102 

Received for Smithsonian library Ill 

Transmissions 34, 102, 110 

Dominica, collections from 25 

Donations, special, to the Institution 48 

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, linguistic studies of 72, 76 

Drugs, samples of 40 

Dug68, Prof. Alfred, collections made by 25 

Dutton, Capt. C. E., lecture by 67 

Services of 86 

Duty on Sevres vase 152 

E. 

Early County, Georgia, mound explorations in 68, 69 

Earll, R. Edward, curator, National Museum 55 

Executive officer. New Orleans Exposition 56 

Earthworks and mounds in Miami County, Ohio 873 

Economic Geology, department of, National Museum 56, 62 

Edinburgh ter-centenary 46 

Edmunds, Hon. George F., regent X, xi 

Letter to ill 

Motion by xiv 

Resolution by 6 

Eggs, collections of, presented to Institution 50 

Eggs of fish, distribution of 96 

Election by Congress of regents 153 

Electric light in Museum building 11, 66 

On Smithsonian building 9 

Electrical exhibition at Philadelphia 43 

Electrical service in Smithsonian buildiug 8 

Emmons, S. F., geological work of 85 

Endlich, Dr. F. M., services of 52 

England, exchange of official documents 100 

Ensigns appointed to duty in National Museum 38 

Entomological Society of Washington, meetings of 66 

Enys, JohnD., letter of 3,4 

Eskimoan pictographs 72 

Espriella, Justo R. de la, consul, co-operation of 107, 112 

Estimates for 1885 xvi 

Estr^zulas, Consul Enrique, co-operation of 107 

Ethnological researches among North American Indians 67 

Ethnology, Department of. National Museum 55, 57, 65 

Department of, at New Orleans exhibition 65 

North American, Congressional appropriation for xvui, 152 



884 INDEX. 

Page. 

Etowah mound explorations 68, 70 

Europe, collections received from 27 

Transmission of exchanges to 106 

Evans, G. W., assistance of 41 

Exchange ofiSce, removal of 99 

Exchanges, international 33 

Centers of distribution 109, 112 

Consuls, co-operation of 34, 106, 107, 112 

Domestic exchange division 100 

Foreign exchange division 99 

Government exchange division 100 

List of official publications 113 

Receipts 34, 101 

For foreign transmission 34, 101 

For domestic transmission 34, 102 

For Government exchanges 34, 103 

For Smithsonian library Ill 

Recipients of Government exchanges 34, 113 

Report on 99 

Shipping agents 107, 112 

Transmissions 35, 104 

Foreign exchanges 104 ' 

Domestic exchanges 110 

Government exchanges 112 

Transportation companies granting free freight 34, 106 

Exchange work, increase of 34, 103 

Executive committee of Board of Regents, members of 6 

Report of xv 

Executive Departments at New Orleans Exposition 150 

Exhibition, electrical, at Philadelphia 43 

Exhibitions, preparations for 9, 57-65 

State and international 43, 68 

Expenditures for the year 1884 x vi 

Explorations 13 

Africa 28 

Alaska 19 

Arctic coast 17 

Arizona 20 

Asia 27 

British Columbia 19 

California 20 

Central America _ 25 

Costa Rica 26 

Eastern portion of the United States 24 

Europe 27 

Greenland 14 

Greely relief expedition 14 

Labrador 16 

Madagascar 28 

Mexico 25 

New Mexico 20 

Nicaragua 26 

North Pacific 18 

Oregon - 20 



INDEX. 885 

Page. 

Explorations — Continued. 

Sandwich Islands 28 

South America 26 

Washington Territory 1 19 

West Indies 24 

Explorations and collections in the Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Colum- 
bia, report on 137 

Exploration of mounds by Bureau of Ethnology 67 

Exposition work 57-65 

F. 

Farallone Islands, collections made in 20 

Fibers, samples of, from Jamaica 25 

Field work of Bureau of Ethnology 67 

Fillmore, President, portrait of 7 

Finances of the Institutiou XV, 7 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building. Congressional appropriation for., .xvii, 8, 152 

Fish-cars 96 

Fish Commission, United States, report on 95 

Annual bulletin 96 

California trout 96 

Cars for transporting fish and eggs 96 

Co-operation of , 14, 60 

Distribution of eggs 96 

Explorations by 24 

German carp 96 

Inquiries of the 97 

Investigations by the 97 

Salt-water fisheries 96 

Shad hatching 95 

Whitefish 96 

Wood's Holl station 96,97 

Fish Cultural Association, American, meetings of 11, 66 

Fish Hawk excursion 11 

Fischer, W. J., collections made by 19,57 

Fisheries section, National Museum 55 

At New Orleans exhibition 65 

Fishes, department of, National Museum 56, 58 

Flag made of American silk presented to Museum 51 

Flint, Dr. J. M., detail of 38 

Services of 52 

Flint Ridge Quarry, Ohio, exploration of 68 

Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio, a sketch of 851 

Florida, explorations in 24 

Fontaine, Prof. W. M., investigations by 91 

Food section, National Museum 55 

Foreign exchange division, work performed in 99 

Foreign exchanges : 

Centers of distribution 109 

Receipts for 34,101,102 

Shipping agents 34, 107 

Transportation companies 34, 106 

Transmissions 34,101, 104 

Foreign exhibition in Boston, donations obtained from 50 



886 INDEX. 

Page. 

Foreign ministers and consuls, co-operation of 34 

Foreign transmissions 34, 101, 104 

Foreman, Dr. Edward, assistant, National Museum 55 

Forest trees, work on 30 

Forts, ancient, in Ogemaw County, Michigan 849 

Fossils, invertebrate, department of. National Museum 56, 60, 61 

Franklin Institute, publications presented to 43 

Free freight on exchanges' 34, 106 

Free postage on Smithsonian mail matter 150 

Fresh-water fish fauna of the Mississippi Valley 24 

Funch, Edye & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

G. 

Galapagos Islands, collection from 26 

Gannett, Henry, work done by 79 

Garlick, Mr., explorations by 69 

Garrett, Ensign, detail of 38 

Gass, Henry, death of 46 

Gatschet, Albert S., linguistic studies of 71, 77 

Gaumer, Mr. , collections received from 25 

General appendix to report for 1884 155 

Geographical work of the United States Geological Survey 78 

Division of the Great Basin 80 

Division of the North Atlantic 78 

Appalachian district 79 

New England district 78 

New Jersey district 79 

Division of the Pacific 80 

Division of the South Mississippi 79 

Arizona and Nevada 80 

Missouri and Kansas 79 

Texas 80 

Yellowstone National Park 80 

Geography, report on 237 

Geological map of the United States 87 

Geological Survey office of Canada, co-operation of 35 

Geological Survey, United States, report on 77 

Annual reports 93 

Bulletins 94 

Chemistry 91 

Collections 95 

Co-operation of 14 

Mineral resources of the United States 92 

Monographs 93 

Statistics 92 

Statistical papers 95 

Transfer of, from National Museum building 9, 10 

Geology : 81 

North Atlantic division 81 

New England district 81 

Division of the North Mississippi 82 

Glacial district.. 82 

Lake Superior district 83 



INDEX. 887 

Page. 
Geology — Continued. 

Rocky Mountain division 84 

Coal-fields of the Great Sioux Reservation 87 

Colorado district 85 

District of the Pacific 85 

Montana district 84 

Volcanic rocks 86 

Yellowstone Park district 84 

South Atlantic division 82 

Appalachian district 82 

Geology of the District of Columbia 88 

Paleontology 89 

Cenozoic invertebrates 90 

Mesozoic paleontology 90 

Paleo-botany 90 

Paleozoic invertebrates 89 

Vertebrates - 89 

Geology, departments of, National Museum 56, 61, 62 

Of the District of Columbia 88 

Georgia, geographical work in 79 

Mound explorations in 68-70 

German carp ...^ 96 

Giddy, Davies, Smithson's letter to 6 

Gilbert, Davies, notes relating to Smithson 4 

Gilbert, Prof. G. K., exploration by 24 

Lecture by 66 

Services of 82 

Gill, Prof. Theodore, report on zoology 583 

Godding, Dr. W. W., lecture by 67 

Gooch, Dr., services of 92 

Goode, Mr. G. Brown, appointed to attend the New Orleans exhibition 44,64 

Assistant Director of the National Museum 55 

Goodwin, A. P., collections made by 28, 57 

Gould, Rev. J. Loomis, collections made by 19 

Government document exchange 35 

Governments in exchange — 113 

List of ofiflcial documents 113 

Receipts for 34,113 

Shipping agents 112 

Government exchange division, work performed in 100 

Government transmissions 34, 103, 112 

Governments in exchange with the United States 113 

Grammar and dictionary of Chahta language 76 

Gray, Prof. Asa, appointed member of committee on republication of Pro- 
fessor Henry's scientific writings 2 

Botany of North America 31 

Duplicates received from 50 

Member of committee on Walker prize 48 

Portrait of 7 

Regent x, xi 

Great Basin, division of the geographical work of U. S. Geographical Survey 

in the 80 

Great Britain, exchange witb Government of 35 

Great South Bay, explorations of 24 



888 INDEX. 

Page. 

Greely relief expeditioa 14 

Green, Commander F. M., report on geography 237 

Greenland, explorations in 14 

Guadeloupe, West Indies, the Guesde collection of antiquities in Pointe-^- 

Pltre 731 

Giianes, Consul Miguel Suares, co-operation of 107 

Guatemala, collections from 2.5,26 

Pantaleon, antiquities at 719 

Guesde collection of antiquities in Pointe-k-Pltre, Guadeloupe, West Indies. 731 

Gulf of Mexico, explorations of 24 

Guyot, Dr. Arnold Henry, death of 44 

H. 

Hague, Arnold, geological work of 84 

Haidah Indian implements, collection of 19 

Monograph illustrating 20 

Haidah totem posts 72 

Hall, Prof. James, cooperation of 81 

Walker-prize awarded to 48 

Hallock, Dr. , services of - 92 

Hamburg- American Packet Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

Harlow, C. A., collections made by 15 

Harvard College observatory, astronomical announcements 48 

Hatching of shad 95 

Hawaiian Government exhibit at Boston secured for National Museum 28 

Hayden, Ensign, detail of 38 

Hayden, Prof. F. V., geological work of 84 

Hazen, General, co-operation of 9 

Healy, Captain, explorations by 18 

Heape, Charles, collections received from 57 

Heating and lighting of Museum, Congressional appropriation for xvii, 151 

Hemphill, Henry, exploration by 24,40 

Collections received from 60 

Henderson & Bro. , co-operation of 34, 106 

Henry, Professor, portrait of 43 

Scientific writings of 2 

Henry statue 2 

Expenses connected with. Congressional appropriation for xvii, xviii, 152 

Henshaw, H. W., linguistic studies of , 71,75 

Herring «& Co. , safe presented by 49, 50 

Hilgard, Professor, donation of weights and measures 49 

Hill, Hon. Nathaniel P., regent x,xi 

Hitchcock, Romyn, acting curator of the National Museum 55 

Holden, Prof. Edward S., report on astronomy 159 

Hoar, Hon. George F., regent X 

Hoffman, Dr. W. J., services of 75 

Explorations by - 72 

Holmes, W. H. , archaeologic explorations 72 

Honorary curator National Museum 55 

Studies of 76 

Honduras, explorations in 25 

Honorary curators of the National Museum 55, 56 

House of Representati ves, ventilation of 37 

Hudson's Bay Company, co-operation of 42 

Hunter, Captain, collections received from 19 



INDEX. 889 

I. 

Page. 

Idaho, geological work in 84 

Iglesius, R. , collections made by 26 

Illinois, geological work in 83 

Indexing of chemical literature 147 

Of the literature of the chemical elements 42 

Indian Territory, geological work in 83 

Linguistic exploration in 71 

Indian vocabularies collected 71, 72 

Indians, North American, ethnological researches among 67 

Mortuary customs of the 77 

Inman Steamship Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

Insects, department of, National Museum 56, 60 

Interior Department, co-operation of 40, 41 

International cotton exhibition at New Orleans 44, 63, 64 

International exchanges 33 

Congressional appropriation for 33, xvii, 152 

Government document exchange .- 35 

Liberality of transportation companies 34 

Public utility of Smithsonian exchanges 35 

Receipts 34 

Transmissions 35 

International and State exhibitions 43, 63 

Invertebrate fossils, department of. National Museum 56, 60, 61 

Paleontology, North American, report on 563 

Iowa, geological work in 83 

Iroquoian dictionary 77 

Irving, Prof. R. D., investigations by 83 

J. 

Jamaica, collections from 25 

Jeffries, J. Gwyn, collection from 27 

Joad Herbarium, duplicates from 50 

Johnson, J. W. , collections made by 19, 39, 57 

Jones, Dr. William H. , collections by 26, 57, 60 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., services of 58 

Explorations by 24 

Journal of proceedings of Board of Regents XI 

Jouy, P. L., explorations by 27 

K. 

Kamtchatka, explorations in 18, 27 

Kanawha Valley, mound explorations in 68 

Kane, Mr., aid rendered by 35 

Kansas-English dictionary 76 

Kansas, geographical work of the United States Geological Survey in 79 

Keifer, George W., collections received from 57 

Kew (England) Botanical Gardens, collections from 27 

Key West, explorations in 24 

Kidder, Dr. J. H. , analyses by 37 

Chemist of the United States Fish Commission 8 

Work done by 8 

Kiefer, Mr., collections made by 26 

Klamath dictionary 77 



890 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Enox County, Ohio, moand explorations in 68 

Kodiak, Coast Survey station 19 

Eunhardt & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

L. 

Labrador, explorations in 16, 39, 42 

Languages of North American Indians, work on 75 

Leach, M. L., ancient forts in Ogemaw County, Michigan 849 

Ancient mounds in Clinton County, Michigan 839 

Lecture by James G. Swan 19 

Lectures in Museum building 11,66 

Toner lectures 11 

Under the auspices of the Biographical and Anthropological Societies 11 

Letter transmitting Smithsonian report for 1884 to Congress ni 

Letters relating to Smithson 3, 4, 5 

Liberality of transportation companies ., 34 

Library of the Institution 37 

Packages received for .• Ill 

Licking County, Ohio, Flint Eidge, sketch of 851 

Life of Smithson 2 

Life-Saving Service, co-operation of 40 

Light-House Board, co-operation of 39 

Linguistic work of the Bureau of Ethnology 73 

Linguistics, North American, bibliography of 75 

List of publications of the United States 113 

Lithology, department of. National Museum 56, 61 

Long Island, explorations in 24 

Louisiana, geological work in 83 

Linguistic explorations in 72 

LouisviUe Southern Exposition 63 

Preparations for 9 

Lowell, Hon. J. Russell, represented Institution at Endinburgh ter- cente- 
nary 47 

Lucas, F. A., assistant. National Museum 56,59 

Lyman, Hon. Theodore, address by 11 

M. 

Macie, James L., letter of 6 

Mackall, Consul Charles, co-operation of 106, 112 

Maclean, Kev. Dr. John, regent x, xi 

Member of executive committee of Board of Regents xviii , 6 

Motion by Xli 

Resolution offered by 2 

MacLean, Rev. J. P., mound explorations by 68 

Madagascar, explorations in 28 

By Shufeldt, Lieut. M. A 28 

Mallery, Col. Garrick, linguistic work of. 73, 74 

Mallory, C. W. & Co., co-operation of 74,106 

Mammals, department of. National Museum '. 55, 57 

Marcou, John Belknap, honorary assistant, National Museum 56 

Review of the progress of North American invertebrate paleontology 563 

Marine invertebrates, department of, National Museum 56, 60 

Marsh, Prof. O. C, services of 89 

Marshall, Henry, work-room facilities for 10 



INDEX. 891 

Page. 

Maryland, geographical work in 79 

Mason, Prof. Otis T., curator, National Museum 55, 57 

The Guescle collection of antiquities in Pointe-Jl-Pltre, Guadeloupe, West 

Indies 731 

Lecture by 66 

Linguistic work of 76 

Keport on anthropology 677 

Massachusetts, Commonwealth of, appropriation for topographical work 78 

Materia medica section of the National Museum 52, 55 

Matthews, Mr., co-operation of 35 

Maxey, Hon. Samuel B., regent x, xi 

McClain, C. S. , collections made by 15 

McGee, W. J., paper prepared by 88 

McKay, Charles L., collections received from 57 

Explorations by 19, 39, 57 

McLean, John J;, collections made by 19 

McLeod, Mr., birds received from 25 

McNeil, J. A., collections received from 26 

Measures. (<S'ee Weights and Measures) 49 

Medals deposited in National Museum 39 

Meehan, Thomas, hickory-nuts furnished by 51 

Meetings of Board of Regents xi, xiv 

Meetings of scientific bodies 11,66 

American Fish Cultural Association 11, 66 

National Academy of Sciences 11, 66 

Members of exec itive committee of Board of Regents 6 

Mercer estate 47 

Merchants and Miners' Transportation Company, co-operation of 41 

Merchants Line of steamers, co-operation of 34, 106 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart, circular issued by 51 

Collections made by 17 

Merrill, George P., acting curator, National Museum 56,61 

Merrill, Dr. J. C, collection presented by 50 

Metallurgy, department of. National Museum 56, 62 

Meteorology, bibliography of 396 

Report on 257 

Mexico, archaeologic explorations in 72 

Collections from 25 

Mexico and Central America, explorations in 25 

Salvador 26 

Yucatan 25 

Guatemala 25 

Honduras 25 

By Allstrom, Mr 25 

By Aym6, Mr 25 

By Dug6s, Alfred o 25 

By Gaumer, Mr 25 

By McLeod, Mr 25 

By Rock, Prof. Miles 25 

By Romero, Mr 25 

Miami County, Ohio, earthworks and mounds in 873 

Michigan, Clinton County, ancient mounds in 839 

Geological work in 83 

Ogemaw County, ancient forts in 849 



892 INDEX. 

Page. 

Middleton, John D., explorations by 67-69 

Migration of birds 40 

Mills, Dr. Charles K., lecture by 12 

Mindeleff, Victor, explorations by 70 

Models prepared by 77 

Miner, Ensign, detail of 38 

Mineral resources of the United States 92 

Mineral springs of the United States 84 

Mineralogy, bibliography of 558 

Department of, National Museum 56, 62 

Keport on 543 

Minnesota, geological work in 83, 89 

Ministers, foreign, co-operation of 34 

Mint, director of, co-operation of 39 

Miscellaneous Collections 28, 30 

Bulletins of the Philosophical Society of Washiujitoii 30 

Check-list of Smithsonian publications 30 

Circular, directions for collecting, &c., specimens of natural history 30 

Reports on progress of science 30 

Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington 30 

Microscopic work of the United States Geological Survey 86, 87 

Mississippi, geological work in 83 

Mississippi Valley, exploration of 24 

Missouri, geographical work of the United States Geological Survey in 79 

Geological work in 83 

Model of bottom of Caribbean Sea 25 

Models of Moki villages 77 

Moki villages, models of 77 

Mollusks, department of. National Museum 56, 59 

Monarch Line, co-operation of 34, 106 

Monograph by James G. Swan 19 

Monographs of the United States Geological Survey 93 

Montana district, geological work of the . . 84 

Morrill, Hon. Justin S., regent x, xi 

Morris, Mr., samples of fibers from 25 

Morse, Prof. Edward S. , lecture by , 66 

Mortuary customs of North American Indians 77 

Mound explorations of Bureau of Ethnology 67 

Mounds, ancient, in Clinton County, Michigan 839 

And earthworks, in Miami County, Ohio 873 

Munoz y Espriella, co-operatiou of 34, 106 

Murdoch, Prof. John, lecture by 67 

Services of 39, 57 

Murray, Ferris & Co., co-operation of 34, 100 

Museum building, need of additional 10 

N. 

Nation, Professor, collections made by 27 

National Academy of Sciences, meeting of 11, 66 

National Museum, accounts of XVili 

Administration, division of 56 

Assistant curators of the 55, 56 

Building 9,11 

Bulletins of the 30,31 



INDEX. 893 

Page. 
National Museum — Continued. 

Congressional appropriation for ". XVii, 53, 151 

Curators of the 55, 56 

Departments of 55 

American prehistoric pottery 55 

Animal products 55 

Antiquities 55, 57 

Arts and industries 55, 65 

Birds 55, 58 

Birds' eggs 55,58 

Comparative anatomy 56, 59 

Ethnology 55,57,65 

Fishes 56, 58 

Foods 55 

Invertebrate fossils 56, 60, 61 

Paleozoic 56, 60 

Mesozoic and Cenozoic 56, 61 

Insects 56, 60 

Lithology and physical geology 56, 61 

Mammals 55, 57 

Marine invertebrates 56, 60 

Materia medica 55 

Metallurgy and economic geology 56, 62 

Mineralogy 56, 62 

Mollusks 56, 59 

Naval architecture 55 

Plants 56,61 

Eeptiles and batrachians 55, 58 

Textile industries 55 

Exposition work 63 

Electric light in 11 

Lectures in 11 

Materia medica section of 52 

Meetings of scientific bodies in lecture hall 11,66 

American Dental Association 66 

American Fish-Cultural Association 66 

American Surgical Association 66 

Biological Society of Washington 66 

Ethnological Society of Washington 66 

National Academy of Sciences 66 

Saturday lectures 66 

Society of American Taxidermists 66 

Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States 66 

Origin of 53 

Personnel of 54 

Proceedings of the 30, 32 

Naturalists of the Eastern United States, Society of, meetings of 66 

Naval architecture section. National Museum 55 

Naval Observatory, appropriation for freight on exchanges 151 

Co-operation of 39 

Electric communication with 8 

Navarro, Consul Juan N . , co-operation of 107, 112 

Navy Department, co-operation of 38 



894 INDEX. 

Page. 

Necrology - 44 

Gass, Henry 46 

Guyot, Dr. Arnold Henry 44 

Young, Clarence Bishop 46 

Nelson, E. W., account of explorations by 20,57 

Collections received from 57 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of 34,106 

Nevada, geographical work of the United States Geological Survey in 80 

Newberry, Prof. J. S., co-operation of 81 

Member of committee on Walker prize 48 

Newcomb, Prof Simon, lectures by 67 

New Brunswick, exchanges with 36 

New England district, geological work of the U. S. Geological Survey in 78 

Geological work in the 81 

Newfoundland, exchanges with 35 

New Guinea, collections from 1 28, 57 

New Jersey district, geographical work of the U. S. Geological Survey in . . . 78 

New Mexico, ethnological explorations in 69, 70 

Geological work in 86 

New Orleans, International Cotton Exhibition at 44, 63, 64 

Executive Departments at 150 

Preparations for 9, 37, 58-65 

New York, geological work in 89 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

Nicaragua, explorations in 26 

By Nutting, C. C 26 

By Van Fleet, Dr. Walter 26 

Nichols, Dr. , donations of birds from 25 

Nordenskiold, Baron, collections received from 57 

Norris, P. W. , explorations by 67-69 

Death of 68 

North America, botany of, work on 31 

North American ethnology. Congressional appropriation for xviii 

North American Indians, ethnological researches among 67 

Mortuary customs of 77 

North American invertebrate paleontology, bibliography of 563 

North American linguistics, bibliography of 75 

North Atlantic, division of, geographical work of the U. S. Geological Survey 

in 78 

Geological work in the 81 

North Carolina, geographical work in 79 

North German Lloyd, co-operation of 34, 106 

North Mississippi, division of the, geological work in the 82 

North Pacific, explorations in the 18 

Nova Scotia, exchanges with 35 

Nushagak, signal station at 19 

Nutting, C. C, collections made by 26 

O. 

Obanio, Consul Melchor, co-operation of 107 

OeMchs & Co., co-operation of , 34, 106 



INDEX. 895 

Page. 
OflSce of United States Geological Survey, transfer of, from National Museom 

building 9, 10 

Office work of tlie Bureau of Ethnology 73 

Offices in Smithsonian building 8 

Official publications of the United States, list of 113 

Ogemaw County, Michigan, ancient forts iu 849 

Ohio, Butler County, mound explorations iu 68 

Licking County, Flint Eidge, sketch of 851 

Miami County, earthworks and mounds in 873 

Old Colony Eailroad Company, liberality of 96 

Old Providence, collections made in 25 

Oregon, geological work in 86 

Linguistic explorations in 72 

Oregon and California, explorations in 20 

By Belding, L 20 

By Bendire, Capt. Charles 20 

By Orcutt, C. E 20 

By Stearns, E. E. C 20 

By Townsend, Charles H 20 

Ornithologists' Union, American 51 

Osage-English dictionary .^ 76 

P. ' 

Pacific, division of the, geographical work of the U S. Geological Survey 

in 80 

Pacific, district of, geological work in the 85 

Pacific Mail Steanaship Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

Packard, E. L., assistance of 37 

Painted records 72 

Paleo-botany investigations by the United States Geological Survey 90 

Paleontological work of the United States Geological Survey 89 

Cenozoic invertebrates 90 

Mesozoic paleontology 90 

Paleo-botany 90 

Paleozoic invertebrates 89 

Vertebrates 89 

Paleontology, North American invertebrate, report on 563 

Paleozoic invertebrates, investigations by the U. S. Geological Survey on... 89 

Palmer, Dr. Edward, collections made by 60 

Explorations by 24, 67-69 

Preparing of collections by 10 

Palmer, Joseph, work-room facilities for 10 

Panama Eailroad Company, co-operation of 34, 106 

Pantaloon, Guatemala, antiquities at 719 

Parker, Peter, assistant, National Museum 56 

Parker, Dr. Peter, regent X 

Eesignation of, as regent xi, 6 

Patton, Vickers & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

Paving sidewalk, Congressional appropriation for xvii, 151 

Peale, Dr. A. C, work on mineral springs of the United States 84 

Pendulum experiments in the Smithsonian building 9 

Pennsylvania, geological work in 89 

Pennsylvania Eailroad Company, co-operation of 34 



896 INDEX. 

Page. 

Peru, collections from 26, 27 

Phelps, William W., regent X, xi 

Philadelphia, electrical exhibition at 43 

Philosophical Society of Washington, bulletins of 30 

Physical geology, department of. National Museum 56, 61 

Physics, bibliography of 487 

Keport on 433 

Pickering, Prof. Edward C, on telegraphic astronomical announcements 48 

Pictographs, collection of 72 

Study of 74 

Pilling, James C, bibliography of North American linguistics 75 

Pim, Forwood & Co., co-operation of 34,41, 106 

Plants, department of, National Museum 56, 61 

Received from Prof. Asa Gray 50 

Poey, Professor, collections made by 25 

Pointe-^-Pltre, Guadeloupe, West Indies, the Guesde collection of antiquities 

in 731 

Polaris expedition, expenditures xvxu 

Polynesia, transmission of exchanges to 105 

Pombo, Consul Lino de, co-operation of 107, 112 

Porter, Rev. Dr. Noah, regent X, xi 

Re-appointed by Congress as regent * xi, 6, 153 

Portraits of regents 7 

Postage free on Smithsonian mail matter 150 

Post-office in Smithsonian building 8 

Pottery, American prehistoric, department of, National Museum 55 

Powell, Major J. W., in charge of Bureau of Ethnology 67 

Co-operation of 40, 41 

Lectures by 66, 67 

Linguistic work of 73 

Summary on work of United States Geological Survey 77 

Pre-historic fishing in Europe and North America, by Dr. Charles Ran 29 

Prentiss, Dr. D. Webster, lecture by 67 

Preservation of collections, Congressional appropriation for xvii, 151 

Price list of Smithsonian publications 30 

Prince Edward Island, exchanges with 35 

Prindle, C. G. , exploration by 41 

Printing of Smithsonian report for 1884 ordered ii 

Proceedings of Board of Regents, journal of Xi 

Of the National Museum 30, 31 

Progress of sciences, reports on 30, 31, 157 

Publications of the Institution 28 

Annual reports 2.S, 32 

Bulletins of the National Museum 31 

Contributions to Knowledge 28,29 

Forest trees _ 31 

Miscellaneous Collections 28, 30 

Proceedings of the National Museum 31 

Publications of the United States Geological Survey 92 

Annual reports 93 

Bulletins 94 

Monographs 93 

Statistical papers * 95 

Publications, oiBcial, of the United States, list of 113 



INDEX. 897 

Page. 

Publications presented to Franklin Institute 43 

Pueblo Indians, ethnologic researches among 69 

Pumpelly, Prof. Raphael, services of 81 

Q. 

Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Columbia, report on explorations and col- 
lections in 137 

R. 

Raffo, Consul M., co-operation of 107, 112 

Railroad lines, co-operation of 41 

Rajah of Tagore, collections received from 27 

Rathbun, Richard, curator, National Museum .'SG, GO 

Ran, Dr. Charles, curator, National Museum .'55, 57 

Pre-historic fishing in Europe aud North AnuMica 29 

Ray, Lieutenant, colk-ctious made by .57 

Receipts for the year 1884 xv 

Receipts of exchanges 34, 101 

For foreign trausmission 34, 101 

For domestic transmission 34, 102 

For Government exchanges 34, 103 

Recipients of Go vernmen t exchanges 113 

Record division of exchange office 99 

Record of scientific progress for 1884 157 

Anthropology 677 

Astronomy 1.59 

Chemistry 491 

Geography 237 

Meteorology 257 

Mineralogy 543 

North American invertebrate paleontology 563 

Physics 433 

Vulcanology and seismology 215 

Zoology 583 

Records of migration of birds 40 

Red Star Line, co-operation of 34, 106 

Regents of the Institution x 

Appointed x, xii 

Changes of xi,xii 

Congressional election of 153 

Expiration of terms as x, xi 

Journal of proceedings xi 

Meetings of xi, xv 

Portraits of 7 

Report of 1 

Resolutions by xii, xiii, xiv 

Relations of the Smithsonian Institution to other bodies 37 

American Association 42 

Congress 37 

Electrical exhibition at Philadelphia 43 

Interior Department 40 

Light-House Board 39 

Navy Department : 38 

Naval Observatory 39 

S. Mis. 33 57 



898 INDEX. 

Page. 
Relations of the Smithsonian to other hodies — Continned. 

Railroad and steamboat lines and other corporations , 41 

State and international exhibitions 43 

Treasury Department 39 

War Department 39 

Renshawe, John H., topographical work of 80 

Re-payment on account of Henry statue 2 

Of duty on the Sevres vase 152 

Report of Board of Regents i 

Of committee of the American Association for the Advancement of Science 

on indexing chemical literature 147 

Of executive committee xiii, xv 

Of Professor Baird to Board of Regents 1 

On National Museum 52 

On the Bureau of Ethnology 67 

On United States Fish Commission 95 

Report on anthropology 677 

On astronomy 159 

One xplorations and collections in the Queen Charlotte's Islands, British 

Columbia 137 

On chemistry 491 

On geography 237 

On international exchanges 99 

On meteorology 257 

On mineralogy 543 

On North American invertebrate paleontology 563 

On physics 433 

On progress of science for 1884 30, 31 

On seismology 215 

On Smithsonian exchanges for 1884 99 

On State exhibitions 63, 64. 65 

On ventilation of the House of Representatives 37, 38 

On vulcanology 215 

On zoology 583 

Reptiles, department of. National Museum 55, 58 

Re-print of earlier publications 30,31 

Researches, ethnological, among North American Indians 67 

Resignation of Dr. Peter Parker xi, 6 

Resolutions by Board of Regents Xli, xiii, xiv 

Accepting report of executive committee xiii 

Accepting resignation of Dr. Peter Parker xij 

Adopting the iiscal year for the Institution xiv 

Electing Dr. James C. Welling member of executive committee xii 

Respecting proposed bequest to the Institution xiv 

Resolution by Congress, on acting secretary of the Institution 6 

To print Smithsonian report for 1884 ii 

{See, also, Congressional acts.) 

Results obtained by United States Fish Commission '. 96 

Revenue Marine, co-operation of 40 

Rhees, William J., appointed acting secretary xii,6, 7 

Smithson and his bequest , 2 

Ridgway, Robert, curator, National Museum 55, 58 

Riley, Dr. C. V., honorary curator, National Museum 56,60 

Robinson, Mr. , co-operation of...., 41 



INDEX. 899 

Page. 

Bock, Prof. Miles, collections made by 25 

Rockwell, Colonel, co-operation of 39 

Rockwood, Dr. Charles G., jr., report on vulcanology and seismology 215 

Rocky Mountain division, geological work in the 84 

Rogan, John P., explorations by 67, 68 

Romero, Mr. , donation by 25 

Routine work of the Institution 12 

Royal Museum, Berlin, Germany, collections from 27 

Copenhagen, Denmark, collections from 27 

Dresden, Germany, collections from 27 

Royal College of Surgeons, London, collections received from 27 

Royce, C. C, studies of 76 

Russell, I. C, collections made by 61 

Russell, Mr., services of 82 

S. 

Safe presented by Herring & Co 49, 50 

Saftbrd, Professor, co-operation of 81 

Salmon eggs, distribution of 96 

Samples of drugs 40 

Samson & Brothers, collections obtained through 26 

Sand, sonorous 47 

Sandwich Islands, explorations of 28 

Sargent, Prof C. S. , work on forest trees 30 

Saturday lectures in Museum 66, 67 

Scherer, Consul Edouard, co-operation of 112 

Schley, Commander W. S., in charge of Greely relief expedition 14 

Schmidt, Consul Thomas, co-operation of 107, 112 

Schumacher & Co., co-operation of 34, 106 

Scudder, N. P., duties of 99,100 

Scientific progress, record of 157 

Scientific writings of Professor Henry 2 

Seismology, bibliograj)hy of 228 

Report on 215 

Severance, Consul M., co-operation of 107 

Sevres vase presented to Museum, re-payment of duty on i52 

Shad-hatching 95 

Shaler, Prof. N. S. , services of 81 

Sherman, General William T., regent X 

Member of executive committee of Board of Regents xviii, 6 

Shipping agents of exchange 107 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., collections made by 20 

Shufeldt, Lieut. M. A., explorations by 28 

Sign language, study of 73 

Signal Service, co-operation of 14, 39 

Station, Nushagak 19 

SiUiman, Prof Benjamin, donation by 49 

Silliman, Prof. Benjamin, sr., statue of 48, 49 

Singleton, Hon. Otho R., regent X, xi 

Sioux Reservation, geological survey of the 87 

Smith, Charles, explorations by 68 

Smith, Charles M., sketch of Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio 851 

Smith, Consul Isaac T., co-operation of 107 

Smith, Mrs. Ermiunlti A., linguistic work of 77 



900 INDEX. 

Page. 

Smith, Mr., services of 39 

Smith, William R., plants deposited in Museum 61 

Smithsou, James 2 

Letter to Davies Gilbert : 5 

Letters relating to 3, 4, 5 

Life of 2 

Smithsou fund, condition of XV 

Smithsonian building 8 

Chemical laboratory 9 

Congressional appropriations 8 

Electrical connections - 8,9 

Fire-proofing ^ 8 

Fitting up of rooms 8 

Post-office 8 

Eooms occupied by the Coast and Geodetic Survey 9 

Time service 8 

Wind vane 9 

Smithsonian contributions to knowledge 28, 29 

Pre-historic fishing, by Dr. Charles Eau 29 

Smithsonian exchanges, report on 99 

Smithsonian Institution, report on 1 

Smithsonian library, packages received for Ill 

Smithsonian mail matter free of postage 150 

Society of American Taxidermists, meeting of 66 

Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States, meetings of 66 

Sonorous sand 47 

Soundings made by steamer Albatross . 25 

South America, explorations in 26 

Chili 26 

By Crawford, Dr. William N 27 

Galapagos Islands 26 

By Jones, Dr. William H 26,57 

By Kiefer, Mr 26 

By Nation, Professor 27 

Peru 26, 27 

By Steamer Shenandoah 27 

Straits of Magellan 27 

Terra del Fuego 27 

South Atlantic division, geological work in the 82 

South Kensington Museum, London, collections received from 27 

South Mississippi, division of the, geographical work of the United States 

Geological Survey in the 79 

Southern Exposition at Louisville 63 

Special donations to the Institution 43 

Spies, Consul Francis, co-operation of 107 

Spinney, Joseph S., co-operation of 34,106 

Standard set of weights and measures presented to Institution 49 

State and international exhibitions 43, 63 

Statistical papers of the United States Geological Survey 95 

Work of the United States Geological Survey 92 

Steamboat lines, co-operation of 41 

Steamer Adams, explorations by 19, 38 

Albatross, collections made by 60 

Explorations by 24 

Soundings made by »-- ^, 25 



INDEX. 901 

Page. 

Steamer Alert, explorations by 14 

Bear, explorations by 14 

Corwin, explorations by 18 

Ounalaska, exploration by 18 

Pinta, explorations by 19,38 

Shenandoah, exploration by 27 

Thetis, exploration by 14 

Steamship line for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nausau, New Providence, co- 
operation of 34, 106 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C, adjunct curator, National Museum 56,59 

Collections made by 20 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonard, assistant, National Museum 55 

Explorations by *. 18,27,39 

Stevenson, James, explorations by 20, 69 

Stewart, Cousul John, co-operation of 107 

Stone villages, collection from 69 

Stoney, Lieut. George M., explorations by 18 

Straits of Magellan, collections from 2~ 

Study of pictographa : 74 

Sign language 73 

Surgical Association, American, meetings of 66 

Survey of States 78, 79 

Swan, James G , collections by 19, 57 

Lecture by 19 

Monograph prepared by 20 

Report on explorations and collections in the Queen Charlotte's Islands, 

British Columbia 137 

T. 

Tagore, Rajah of, collections received from 27 

Takaki, Consul Samro, co-operation of 107 

Taxidermists, American, Society of, meetings of 66 

Taylor, Dr. F. W., services of 52 

Telegraphic astronomical announcements 48 

Telegraph instrument lent to the Philadelphia electrical exhibition 43, 48 

Deposited with the Institution by Mr. S. Vail 48 

Telephone connection with the fish pond 39 

Tennessee, geographical work in 79 

Terra del Fuego, collections from 27 

Texas, geographical work of the United States Geological Survey in 80 

Geological work in 90 

Linguistic explorations in 71 

Textile industry section, National Museum 55 

Thing, L. H., assisted in mound explorations 68,69 

Thomas, Prof. Cyrus, in charge of exploration work 67 

Thompson, Prof. A. H., topographical work of 79 

Thompson, Gilbert, work done by 79, 80 

Toner lectures 11 

Toorn, W. H. van deu, consul, co-operatiou of 112 

Topographical work of the United States Geological Survey 78 

Totem posts 72 

Townsend, Charles H. , collections made by 20 

Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington 30 



902 INDEX. 

Transfer of collections 40 

Congressional appropriation for xvn, 151 

Of oflBces of United States Geological Survey from Museum building 9, 10 

Of system of telegraphic astronomical announcements 48 

Transmissions of exchanges 104, 105, 110, 112 

Domestic exchanges 110 

Foreign exchanges 104 

Government exchanges 112 

Transportation companies granting free freight 34, 106 

Transportation of fish 96 

Treasury Department, co-operation of 39 

Trill, C. F., drawings made by 29 

Trout eggs, distribution of 96 

True, Frederick W., curator, National Museum : 55, 56, 57 

Tumor, Lucien M., collections received from 57, 60 

Explorations by 16, 39, 42 

U. 

Ulke, Henry, crayon of Professor Henry, by 43 

Portraits of regents drawn by 7 

Underground telephone connection 39 

United States, distribution of exchanges within 110 

Eastern portions of, explorations in 24 

Geological map of the 87 

Mineral resources of the 92 

Mineral springs of the 84 

Upham, E. P. , assistant, National Museum 55 

Uriarte, Consul Hipolite de, co-operation of 112 

Utah, ethnologic explorations in 73 

Geological work in 84 

V. 

Vail, Stephen , deposit of telegraphic instrument 48 

Van Fleet, Dr. Walter, collections made by 26 

Ventilation of the House of Representatives 37 

Vermont, geological work in 89, 90 

Vertebrates, investigations by the United States Geological Survey 89 

Victoria, explorations in 72 

Virginia, geological work in 79 

Visitors to Institution 51 

To National Museum and Smithsonian Institution 66 

Vocabularies collected 71, 72, 76 

Volcanic rocks 86 

Vreeland, Lieut. Charles E. and Dr. J. F. Bransford, on antiquities at Panta- 

leon, Guatemala 719 

Vulcanology, bibliography of 228 

And seismology, report on 215 

W. 

Waite, Hon. Morrison R., action respecting appointment of acting Secretary. xn 

Appointed William J. Rhees acting Secretary / 

Chancellor of the Institution x. 7 

Regent X 



INDEX. 903 

Walcott, C. D., honorary curator, National Museum 56, 60 

Services of 89 

Walker prize 47 

Walnut Cafion, Arizona, explorations of 69 

War Department, appropriation for freight on exchanges 151 

Co-operation of 39 

Ward, Lester F., honorary curator. National Museum 56, 61 

Services of 90,91 

Washington Territory, explorations in 19 

Ethnological explorations in 72 

Weights and. measures, standard set of, presented to the Institutiou 49 

Welling, Dr. James C, Congressional appointment of, as regent x, xi, xii, 153 

Member of executive committee of Board of Regents xii, xvui, 6 

West Indies, explorations in 24 

Caribbean Sea 24 

Cuba 25 

Curafoa 25 

Dominica . . . : 25 

Jamaica 25 

By Dr. Nichols 25 

By Mr. Morris 25 

Old Providence . 25 

By Professor Poey 25 

Steamer Albatross 24 

West Virginia, mound explorations in 68 

White, Dr. C. A., services of 86,90 

White Cross Line, co-operation of 34, 106 

Whitefish, distribution of 96 

Wiley, Prof. Harvey W., lectures by 67 

Willcox, Joseph, collection deposited by 62 

Williams, Albert, jr., paper by 92 

Williams, Mr., services of 89 

Willis, Bailey, services of 87 

Wilson, Hon. William L., appointed member of committee 2 

Regent x, xi 

Wilson & Asmus, co-operation of 34, 106 

Wiltheiss, E. T., earthvporks and mounds in Miami County, Ohio 873 

Wind vane on tower of Smithsonian building 9 

Wisconsin, geological work in 83, 89 

Wood's HoU, Fish Commission station 96 

Woolfe, D., collections made by 18 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, co-operation of 34, 106 

Writings, scientific, of Professor Henry 2 

X. 

Xantus, John, presented request of Budapest Acclimatization Society 51 

Y. 

Yaxrow, Dr. H. C, honorary curator. National Museum 55, 57 

Ethnologic explorations 73 

Studies of 77 

Yeates, W. S., assistant, National Museum 56 

Yellowstone Park Reservation 85 



904 INDEX. 

Page. 
Yellowstone National Park, geographical work of the United States Geo- 
logical Survey in 80 

Young, Clarence Bishop, death of 46 

Yucatan, collections from 25 

Z. 

Zeledon, J. C. , collections made by 26 

Zoology, bibliography of 649 

Report on , - 583 

Zufii, explorations in , 69 

o 



i 



c 




V' 



\-. ' 



z 

A 




I — 







r 



'^H-m 




O" 



c 



c 




<l 



.1 



m.; 



im* 



^» 




"C 

s 









■iiM^^i' '^ ' 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6436 



