ic 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR THE 



TEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1887. 



PART I. 



WASHIN"GTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1889. 



FiFTiKTii Congress, First Session. 

Concurrent resolution adopted hy the House of Representatives July 28, 1888, and by the 

Senate October 1, IbSrf. 

Besolved by the House of Bepresentaiives (the Senate concurring), That there be printed 
of the Eeportof the Smithsouiau Institution and of the National Museum for the years 
ending June 30, 188G and 1887, in two octavo vohimes for each year, 1G,000 extra copies 
of each, of which 3,000 copies shall be for the use of the Senate, 0,000 copies for the 
use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 



LETTER 



FKOM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution to the end oj 

June, 1887. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C, July 1, 1887. 
To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the United 
States, 1 have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, to sub- 
mit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 
30, 1S87. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. John J. Ingalls, 

President of the Senate, pro tern. 
Hon. John G. Carlisle, 

SpeaJcer of the House of Representatives. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO THE 
END OF JUNE, 1887. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceediugs of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 
1887. 

2. Eeportof the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, iucluding a statement of the Smithson fund, and re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 188G-'87. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the j'ear 1886-'87, with the statistics 
of collections, exchanges, etc. 

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous memoirs 
of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, 
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



The report of the National Museum for the year 1886-'87 will be pub- 
lished in a separate volume. 



CONTENTS 



Page. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report ii 

Letter from the Secretary, suhmittiug the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress HI 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

List of illustrations viii 

Members ex officio of the Establishment ix 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution x 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents xi 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1886-37 xvii 

Conditiou of the fund July 1, 1887 xvii 

Receipts for the year xvii 

Expenditures for the year x vii 

Repayments xviii 

Appropriation for Building repairs xix 

National Museum appropriations by Congress xix 

Appropriations for Etliuology xix 

Appropriations for Exchanges xix 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

The Board c f Regents 1 

Hon. John J. Ingalls, ex officio a Regent from February 26, 1887 1 

Death of Rev. Dr. J. Maclean, a Regent 1 

Resolutions of regret by the Board of Regents 2 

Dr. James B. Angell elected a Regent 2 

Finances 2 

Receipts 2 

Expenditures 3 

Condition of the fund July 1, 1887 3 

Assistant Secretaries 3 

Prof. S. P. Langley, elected Assistant Secretary 3 

Mr. G. Bro wq Goode, elected Assistant Secretary 3 

Professor Langley appointed Acting Secretary 3 

Portrait of Smithson purchased from Mr. James Gunn , 3 

Buildings 4 

Smithsonian building, fire-proofing western range 4 

Importance of a replacement of the annex building 4 

Pressing n-ecessity for additional museum building 4 

V 



Yj CONTENTS. 

Page. 
The Smithsonian Institution— Contiaued. 

Exploriitious ^ 

Explonitiou for American Irtson 5 

Other lields of exploration 7 

Aid for collecting antiquities from tlie Isthmus of Panama 7 

Publications ■ ^ 

Classes of publications 8 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 8 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 8 

List of institutions in United States receiving publications 8 

Volume xxviii of Miscellaneous Collections 8 

List of Astronomical Observatories 8 

Volume XXIX of Miscellaneous Collections - 9 

Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry 9 

Volume XXX of Miscellaneous Collections 9 

Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology 9 

Bulletins of the U. S. National Museum 9 

Bulletin No. :10 9 

Bulletin No. 31 10 

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum 10 

Circular respecting exchanges of birds or birds' eggs 10 

Circular on the lending of typical specimens 10 

Volume IX of National Museum Proceedings 10 

Smithsonian Annual Reports 10 

Report for 1884, Part ii (National Museum Report) 10 

Report for 188.5, Part i (Smithsonian Report) 11 

Report of Secretary, S. F. Baird, for 1885-'86 11 

Publications of the Bnreau of Ethnology 11 

Fourth annual report (for 1882-'83) 11 

International exchanges 12 

Foreign and domestic exchanges for the fiscal year 12 

Transportation facilities 13 

Government exchanges 13 

Assistance by the Government 14 

Insufficiency of the Government exchanges 15 

Library of the Institution 16 

Additions for the fiscal year 16 

United States National Museum 17 

Great increase of the Museum accessions 17 

Insufficiency of space for the exhibits 17 

Number of accessions during the past year 18 

Increase in the number of visitors to the Museum 18 

Museum publications during the past year 18 

Increase in the number of books added to the Museum Library 18 

Facilities offered to students of natural history 18 

The Saturday lectures in the Museum building 19 

Bureau op Ethnology 20 

Field work 20 

Office work 22 

Appendix to the Secretary's Report 29 

Report on Smithsonian exchanges for the year ending June 30, 1887 29 

Personnel and duties 29 

Statistics of scientific periodicals 31 



CONTENTS. VII 

Appendix to the Secretary's Report— Contimied. 

Packages received diiriug the fiscal year 33 

Transpoitatiou companies , 34 

Shipments made to foreign couotries 34 

Shipments received from abroa(J 38 

Goverumeut exchanges 38 

Correspondence with foreign Governments relative to exchanges 39 

Public docnments of the United States not supplied to the Institution. 50 

Insufficiency of foreign returns to this country 52 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I.— Record of Scientific Progress 55 

Introduction 55 

Advance of Science in the last half century, by T. H. Huxley 57 

Astronomy for 1866, by William C. Winlock 99 

Astronomical Bibliography for 1886 163 

North-American Geology for 1886, by Nelson H. Darton 189 

Bibliography of North-American Paleontology for 1886, by John Belknap 

Marcou 231 

Vulcanology and Seismology for 1886, by C. G. Rockwood 289 

Bibliography of Vulcanology, etc., for 1886 305 

Geography and Exploration in 1886, by William Libbey 313 

Physics in 1886, by George F. Barker 327 

Bibliography of Physics for 1886, by George F. Barker 384 

Chemistry in 1886, by H. Carriugton Bolton 387 

Bibliography of Chemistry for 1^86, by H. Carrington Bolton 429 

Mineralogy in 1886, by Edward S. Dana 449 

List of mineral species and papers on same for 1886 461 

Bibliography of Mineralogy for 1886 473 

Zoology in 1886, by Theodore Gill 477 

Anthropology in 1886, bj' Otis T. Mason 523 

Bibliography of Anthropology for 1886 544 

II. — Miscellaneous Papers 569 

An Indian Mummy, by James Lisle 569 

Mound in Jefferson County, Tennessee, by J. C. McCormick .571 

Ancient mounds and earthworks in Floyd and Cerro Gordo Countids, 

Iowa, by Clement L, Webster 575 

Indian graves in ¥\ojd and Chickasaw Counties, Icwa, by Clement L. 

Webster 590 

Ancient mounds in Johnson County, Iowa, by Clement L. Webster 593 

Ancient mounds in Iowa and Wisconsin, by Clement L. Webster 598 

Mounds of the Western prairies, by Clement L. Webster 603 

The Twaua, Chemakum, and Klallam Indians of Washington Territory, 

by Myron Eells 605 

Anchor stones, by B. F. Snyder 683 

Antiquities in Mexico, V)y S. B. Evans . 689 

Biographical Memoir of Arnold Guyot, by James D. Dana 693 



Index to the volume 723 



VIII CONTENTS. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 
Ancieut mounds, etc., in Iowa, and ju Wisconsin: 

Fig. 1. Section of nionnd near Flood Creek 576 

2. Map showing location of mounds 577 

3. Diagram of mound No. 14 580 

4. Diagram of mound No. 21 582 

5. Map showing location of ancient fortification 588 

G. Mound, supplementary to those of Fig. 2 •. 589 

7. Vertical section of Indian grave 591 

8. Map showing position of mounds .595 

9. Method of Hint chipping illustrated 601 

Anchor stones : 

Plate L Figures 1 and 2 684 

n. Figures 3, 4, and 5 686 

III. Figures 6 and 7 688 

Antiquities in Mexico : 

Fig. 1. Fragment of sculptured porphyry from Mexico 690 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE " ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January, 1887.) 



GROVER CLEVELAND, President of the United States. 
JOHN SHERMAN, President of the United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States. 
THOMAS F. BAYARD, Secretary of State. 
DANIEL MANNING, Secretary of the Treasury. 
WILLIAM C. ENDICOTT, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM C. WHITNEY, Secretary of the Navy. 
WILLIAM F. VILAS, Postniaster-GeneraL 
LUCIUS Q. C. LAMAR, Secretary of the Interior. 
AUGUSTUS H. GARLAND, Attorney-General. 
MARTIN V. MONTGOMERY, Commissioner of Patents. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(Full list given on the following page.) 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution, and of the U. S. National Museum, 

Samuel P. Langley, 

G. BUOWN GOODE, 

Jssistarit Secretaries. 

William J. Rhees, Chief Clerl: 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846 (Revised Statutes, 
title Lxxiii, section 5580), " The business of the Institution shall be 
conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named 
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the 
Vice-President, the Chief- Justice of the United States [and the Gov- 
ernor of the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and 
three members of the House of Representatives, together with six 
other persons, other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be 
resident in the city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhab- 
itants of some State, but no two of the same State." 



BEGENTS FOB THE YEAR 1887. 
The Vice-President of the United States : 

John Sherman (elected President of Senate Dec. 7, 1885). 
John J. Ingalls (elected Preuident of the Senate Feb. 26, 1887). 



The Chief-Justice of the United States: 
MOIIRISON R. Waite. 

Term expires. 
United States Senators : 

Samuel B. Maxey (appointed May 19, 1881) Mar. 3,1887 

Justin S. Morrill (appointed February 21, 1883) Mar. 3, 1891 

Shelby M. Cullom (appointed March 23, 1885) Mar. 3, 1889 

Randall L. Gibson vice Senator Maxey (appointed Dec. 19, 1837). Mar. 3, 1889 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

Otho R. Singleton (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1887 

William L. Wilson (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1687 

William W. Phelps (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1887 

Citizens of Washington : 

James C. Welling (appointed May 13, 1884) May 13, 1890 

Montgomery C. Meigs (appointed December 26, 1885) Dec. 26,1891 

Citizens of a State: 

Asa Gray, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 26, 1891 

Henry Coppke, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 26, 1891 

Noah Porter, of Connecticut (iirst appointed in 1878) Mar. 3,1890 

James B. Angell, of Michigan (appointed January 19, 1887) Jan. 19,1893 



Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Begents. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Begents. 
James C. W^elling. Henry Coppee. Montgomery C. Meigs. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, January 12, 1887. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Eegents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the second 
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met this day at 10:30 
o'clock A. M.» 

Present : The Chancellor, Chief- Justice Morkison R. Waite ; Hon. 
John Sherman, Hon. Justin S. Morrill, Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, 
Hon. Otho R. Singleton, Hon. William W. Phelps, Dr. Asa Gray, 
Dr. Henry Coppee, Dr. James C. Welling, General Montgomery 
C. Meigs, and the Secretary, Prof. Spencer F. Baird. 

Excuses for non-attendance were read from Dr. Noah Porter and 
Hon. William L. Wilson. 

The Chancellor announced that since the last meeting of the Board 
one of its most valued and eminent members had deceased. Rev. Dr. 
John Maclean, of Princeton, N. J.; whereupon Dr. Welling, chair- 
man of the Executive Committee, offered the following : 

the late dr. MACLEAN. 

I trust that without too much presumption I may venture to offer a 
brief minute in humble tribute to the memory of our honored and la- 
mented colleague, the late Dr. Maclean, not because I chance to hold the 
place he lately filled with so much dignity and usefulness on your Ex- 
ecutive Committee, but becanse it is perhaps my good fortune to have 
known that venerable man for a longer period than has fallen to the lot 
of any other member of this Board. And yet I do not come with any 
words of formal eulogium. This is not the hour and this is not the 
place in which to essay anything like an elaborate delineation of the 
character which was expressed in the life and services of our late dis- 
tinguished friend, a character no less remarkable for its beauty than 
for its strength. 

The memoir of his long and useful career has already been written else- 
where in the record of a well-spent life, dedicated to the glory of God and 
the welfare of man. It is written in the annals of the great College, 
whose story he has told so well that for all the sons of Princeton it must 
remain " a possession forever," and which he was called to serve in every 

XI 



XII JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

post of duty and honor, from the humblest to the highest, rising by 
easy gradations, because by a natural ascent, from the chair of Tutor 
to that of Professor, from the chair of Professor to that of Vice-Presi- 
dent, and from the chair of Vice-President to the honors of the Presi- 
dency ill a critical period, when he was able to lay broad and deep the 
solid foundatious on which others iiave builded. It is written in the 
annals of the Church to which he gave his sincere adhesion, whose pul- 
pit he adorned no less by the sanctity of his life than by the steadftist- 
ness of his faith, and for the defense of whose doctrine and order he was 
called again and again to stand in its courts of highest judicature. It 
is written in the annals of the Smithsonian Institution, for whose pros- 
perity he was willing to spend and be- spent till the last day of his 
mortal career. And above all it is written in the pious recollections of 
a countless host of scholarly men, scattered in all parts of the land, who 
from year to year went forth from Nassau Hall carrying with them the 
name and memory of John Maclean embalmed in tlieir hearts by a 
thousand acts of kindness and of love which transmuted the temporary 
ties of academic relation into " hooks of steel," binding to him a suc- 
cessive swarm of youth during two generations of men. 

Of the ripeness and range of Dr. Maclean's scholarship there is no 
room to speak within the limits of this brief chronicle. He preferred 
to read the Bible of the old dispensation in the original Hebrew, not 
only that he might get as near as possible to " the lively oracles of 
God," but because Hebrew was to him a familiar tongue. In the Greek 
language and literature he was a master and for long years an expert 
professor. The Latin tongue he wrote with a facility and grace which 
caused his pen to be put in frequent requisition whenever, for the pur- 
poses of academic disquisition, a draught was to be made on the stately 
speech of ancient Rome. As a preacher, he was sound and logical. 
As a teacher, he was solid and thorough, looking rather to the substance 
than the form of his instruction. As an executive officer, he had that 
"wisdom of business" which Lord Bacon praises, because he never 
sought an end which he did not believe to be right, and therefore he 
was able to pursue all the ends he aimed at with the directness in- 
spired by a clear intelligence and a pure heart. In all things he was 
the very soul of Christian honor. 

Great and good as teacher, preacher, and ruler, the man in Dr. Mac- 
lean was something greater, better, and broader than any of the forms 
or manifestations under which he was officially called to reveal himself 
in the performance of his public functions. The man should always be 
greater than the functionary. As the altar which sanctifies the gift is 
greater than any gift that can be laid upon it, so Dr. Maclean was 
greater in the sweetness and light of his gentle and candid nature than 
was apparent to those who never knew the " hidden man of the heart;" 
for high and holy as were his gifts in the sigdt of men, those gifts re- 
ceived their best consecration from the altar of the sanctified manhood 
on which he reverently laid them. 



JOURNAL OF PEOCEEDINGS. XIII 

Under the inspiration of these sentiments, I respectfully submit the 
following resolutions : 

Whereas, since the date of the last meeting of the Board of Ke- 
gents of the Smithsonian Institution, its members have been called to 
mourn the loss of their venerable and distinguished colleague, the late 
Eev. John Maclean, D. D., LL. D., sometime President of Princeton 
College, who held the office of Regent for the term of eighteen years, 
during seventeen of which he served on its Executive Committee with 
no less credit to himself than usefulness to the Institution : Therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That with a high appreciation of the varied, abundant, and 
intelligent labors which the late Dr. Maclean brought to the cause of cul- 
ture, of truth, and of righteousness throughout the whole of his long, 
useful, and honorable career; with a grateful sense of the manifold, 
services he rendered to the Smithsonian Institution, for whose welfare 
he worked without weariness and watched without flagging, even after 
he had begun to feel the burden of age; with profound sorrow for his 
death, mingled with reverence for his beautiful memory, and with 
thanksgivings for the serene and peaceful close of a finished life, as full 
of years as it was full of honors, we herebj^ testify and record our ad- 
miration of the exalted Christian character with which he dignified and 
adorned every station that he was called to hold in the eyes of men ; 
our respect for the solidity of the learning which supported him in the 
high discharge of every professional duty, whether in the pulpit, the 
academic chair, or the post of executive administration ; and lastly, 
in special recognition of the grateful savor which his genial presence 
never failed to shed on the deliberations of this council-chamber, our 
cheerful and loyal homage to the dignity of bearing and amenity of 
manners which made him as courteous in debate as he was wise in coun- 
sel, as gracious in all the relations of private life as he was inflexible in 
the maintenance of Christian honor and conscientious in the perform- 
ance of public duty. 

Resolved,, That this preamble and resolution be spread on the min- 
utes of the Board in respectful tribute to the services and memory of 
our venerated colleague, and that a copy of these resolutions be trans- 
mitted to the family of our deceased friend in token of the share we 
fain would take with them in this bereavement. 

The resolutions were unanimously adopted by a rising vote. 

The Chancellor announced the election, by joint resolution of Con- 
gress, of Dr. James B. Angell, President of the University of Michi- 
gan, to fill the vacancy in the Board occasioned by the death of Dr. 
Maclean. 

The annual report of the Executive Committee for the fiscal year 
ending June 30, 1886, was presented by its chairman, Dr. Welling, who 
stated that it gave him pleasure to inform the Board that his colleagues, 
Dr. Coppee and General Meigs, and himself, after making a thorough 
and minute examination of the accounts, looking at every voucher and 
verifying the books and certificates, had not found a single error of 
omission or commission, and he was therefore able to say that there was 
the most gratifying evidence of the efficiency of the financial manage- 



XIV JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

ment of the Institution, a fact especially noteworthy when the great 
magnitude and the variety of its transactions are considered. 

He also called attention to a slight change in the form of the report, 
as now presented, from the reports lately presented to the Board. It 
was, however, a recurrence to the old practice, which had been changed 
a few years ago at the suggestion of a former member of the committee. 
It is the custom of the Institution every year to make advances for cer- 
tain operations, which are subsequently refunded, and these advances, 
with the amounts received from sales of publications, re-payments for 
freight, etc., have been deducted from the gross expenditures. The 
statements in the report of the Executive Committee, as recently com- 
j)iled, gave only the liet or actual outlay from the income of the 
Smithson fund. But now it is thought better to spread the actual ag- 
gregate of these transactions on the record, so as to exhibit the full 
magnitude and distinctive nature of the operations. A statement is 
therefore made in the present report of the Executive Committee under 
the head of "Receipts for conducting special researches and collections," 
and '"Eepaymeuts," to which we woukl direct attention. 

He also stated that the committee had deemed it advisable to make 
a statement of all the moneys received and handled by the Institution 
on account of trusts committed to it by Congress, and on the last page 
of the report it would be seen that an exhibit was presented giving an 
abstract of everything under this head. 

On motion of Mr. Sherman tiie report was received and adopted. 

The Secretary presented his aniuial report for the year ending June 
30, 1886, which in accordance with a resolution of the Board had been 
printed in advance of the meeting. 

General Meigs asked if there Avas any point in the report that Pro- 
fessor Baird wished to emphasize or to ask action on, particularly in 
regard to additional buildings for the Museum. 

Professor Baird replied that there was not; that in regard to the new 
building for the Museum the Board had already taken action and rec- 
ommended it to Congress several years ago. 

On motion of Mr. Cullom the report was accepted and approved. 

On motion of Dr. Welling the following resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year end- 
ing June 30, 1888, be expended by the Secretary with full discretion as 
to the items, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented a communication to the Board requesting 
permission to appoint Prof. S. P. Langley as Assistant Secretary in 
charge of Exchanges, Publications, and Library, and Mr. G. Brown 
Goode as Assistant Secretary in charge of the National Museum. 

On motion of Mr. Morrill it was— 

Resolved, That the appointment by the Secretary of Prof. S. P. Lang- 
ley and Prof. G. Brown Goode as Assistant Secretaries of the Smith- 
sonian Institution be approved. 



JOURXAL OF PROCEEDINGS. XV 

A commuuication from M. M. Campbell, referred by the Secretary of 
the Interior, recommencliug- the establishment at the Smithsonian In- 
stitution of a department of language and the introduction of a uni- 
versal alphabet, was read. 

Mr. Singleton stated that the Library Committee of Congress, of 
which he was chairman, had a similar proposition now under considera- 
tion ; and on motion the communication was laid on the table. 

Dr. Gray, from the special committee on the publication of the scien- 
tific writings of Professor Henry, reported that the work would form 
two volumes of about 500 pages each, the first of which was completed 
and a copy was upon the table. The second would be ready in a few 
weeks. A certain number would be given to the family- of Professor 
Henry, and the remainder would be subject to the discretion of the 
Secretary. 

On motion, tlie Board then adjourned sine die. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submits the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the Na- 
tional Museum and other purposes, and the receipts and expenditures 
for the Institution and the Museum, for the year ending June 30, 1887. 

Condition of the fund July 1, 1887. 

The amount of tha bequest of James Smithson deposited in the 
Treasury of the United States, according to the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1816, was $515,169. To this was added, by authority of 
Congress, act of February 8, 1867, the residuary legacy of Smithson 
and savings from annual income and other sources, $134,831. To this 
$1,000 was added by a bequest of James Hamilton, $500 by a bequest 
of Simeon Habel, and $51,500 as the proceeds of the sale of Virginia 
bonds owned by the Institution, making in all, as the permanent Smith- 
son fund in the United States Treasury, $703,000. 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution, 
July 1, 1886, to June 30, 1887. 

RECEIPTS. 

Cash on hand July 1, 1886* $24,784.17 

Interest on the fuud, January 1, 1837 21,090.00 

Cash from sales of publications $561.44 

Cash from repayments of freight, etc 799.18 

1,360.62 

Total receipts $47,234.79 

EXPENDITURES. 

Building : 

Repairs, care, and improvements $1,403.34 

Furniture and fixtures 2,312.97 

$.3,716.31 

* This includes the semi-annual interest, $21,090, received July 1, 1?86. 
H. Mis. 600 II XVII 



XVIII EEPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Expenditures (carried over) $3,716.31 

General expenses: 

Meetings $590.00 

Postage and telegraph 523,02 

Stationery 633.25 

General printing 300.36 

Incidentals - 658.91 

Books, periodicals, and binding 1, 126. 28 

Salaries — - 22,732. 17 

26,563.99 

Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian Contributions 2,618.98 

Miscellaneous Collections 3,497.62 

Reports 1,969.48 

Explorations and researches 2, 690. 08 

Apparatus 72. 08 

10,848.24 

Exchanges : 

Literary and scientific exchanges 4,683.11 

4, 683. 11 

Total expenditure $45,811.65 

Balance unexpended June 30, 1887 1,423.14 

The balances oii liaud July 1, 1886, as given in the last report, on 
account of funds intrusted to the Institution for conducting special 
researches, viz, from M. J. Jesup for collections of fish casts and build- 
ing stones, $87.21, and from .' . Hotchkiss for research on coke, $37.28, 
have been expended during the year, and these accounts have been 
closed. 

The items of expenditure given above should be credited with the 
cash received from miscellaneous sources, sales, etc., as follows: 

Building $20.40 

Furniture 12.10 

Posta ge 2. 80 

General printing 1.50 

Incidentals 38.95 

Books, periodicals, and binding 14. 00 

Smithsonian Contributions 125. 99 

Miscellaneous Collections 416. 77 

Reports 18. 68 

Explorations and researches 12. 95 

Exchanges 696.48 



1, 360. 62 

The net expenditure of the Institution for the year was, therefore, 
$44,451.03, or $1,360.62 less than the total expenditure, $45,811.65, above 
given. 

All the moneys received by the Institution from interest, sales, re- 
funding of moneys temporarily advanced or otherwise, are deposited 
with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the Secretary 



il 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



XIX 



of the Smithsouian Institution, and all payments are made by his checks 
on the Treasurer. 

Exhibit of the condition of the appropriations by Congress for the Smith- 
sonian Institution and National Museum, July 1, 1887. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Appropriations. 


Balances 
July 1, 1886. 


Appropria- 
tion tor 

1886-87. 


Expended 
to June 30, 

1887. 


Balances 
July 1, 

1887. 


International exchanges, 1887 




$10,000.00 


$10, 000. 00 

869. 13 
33,446.92 

131. 80 


None 


Ethnological researches : 

1886 




$869. 13 




18s7 . ...*. 


40, 000. 00 
15, 000. 00 


|6, 553. 08 
14 86-' 20 


Smithsonian lustitntion, building 
repairs ... ............. . 











Ethnological researches.— An appropriation of $40,000 was made by 
Congress for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1887, for the prosecution 
of ethnological researches under the direction of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution. The actual conduct of these investigations 
has been placed by the Secretary in the hands of Maj. J. W. Powell, 
director of the Geological Survey. The abstracts of expenditures and 
balance sheets for this appropriation have been exhibited to us ; the 
vouchers for the expenditures are, however, transmitted, after approval 
by the Secretary, to the accounting officers of the Treasury Dei)artment 
for settlement. 

The balance available to meet outstanding liabilities on the 1st of 
July, 1887, as reported by the official disbursing agent, is 10,553.08. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
Statement of accounts. 



Appropriations. 


Balances 
July 1, 1886. 


Appropria- 
tion for 

1886-'87. 


Expended 
to June 30, 

1887. 


Balances 
July 1, 

1887. 


Preservation of collections: 
1885 


$2. 00 

53.88 

1,841.61 






$2.00 
1.48 


1885-'86 




$52. 40 

1, 839. 65 

100, 508. 83 


1886 




1.96 


1887 


$106, 500. 00 


5,991.17 

8.25 


Armory : 

1885 


8.25 
214.54 

.16 
4, 012. 84 


1886 




. ...... 

168. 40 


46.14 


Furniture and fixtures: 

1885 




.16 


1886 




3, 967. 79 

37, 190. 20 

101. 38 

10. 60a 27 


45.05 


1887 


40, 000. 00 


2, 809. 80 
None 


New building — sidewalk, 1885 


i6i.38 


Heating and lighting, etc., 1887 


11, 000. 00 


391. 73 









XX REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

RECAPITULATION. 

The total amount of the funds administered by the Institution during 
the year ending 30th of June, 1887, appears, from the foregoing state- 
ments and the account-boolis, to have been as follows : 

Smithsonian Institution. 

From balance of last year $24,784.17 

From interest on the Smithson fund 21,090.00 

From M. K. Jesnp for collections $87.21 

From J. Hotchliiss for research - 37.28 

From repayments for freight, explorations, etc $799. 18 

From sales of Smithsonian publications 561.44 



124. 49 
1,360.62 



$47,359.23 

Appropriations committed by Congress to the care of the Institution for 
the year 1887, and balances of appropriations unexpended in previous 
years : 
Reconstructing and furnishing eastern portion of Smith- 
sonian building $70,600.00 

International exchanges • 10, 000.00 

Ethnological researches 40,869. 13 

Smithsonian Institution, building repairs 15,000.00 

Preservation of collections 108, 397. 49 

Preservation of Armory 222. 79 

Furniture and fixtures 44, 013. 00 

Museum building sidewalk 101. 38 

Heating, lighting, electric and telephone service 11, 000. 00 

300, 203. 79 



$347, 563. 07 

The committee has examined the vouchers for payments made from 
the Smithsonian income during the year ending 30th June, 1887, all of 
which bear the approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a cer- 
tificate that the materials and services charged were applied to the pur- 
poses of the Institution. 

The committee has also examined the accounts of the National Mu- 
seum, and find that the balances above given correspond with the cer- 
tificates of the disbursing officers of the Interior and Treasury Depart- 
ments. 

The quarterly accounts current, the vouchers, and journals have been 
examined and found correct. 

statement of regular income from the Smithsonian fund, to be available for use in the year 

ending '60th June, 1888. 

Balance on hand June'30, 1887 $1,423. 14 

Interest due and receivable, July 1, 1887 21,090. 00 

Interest due and receivable, January 1, 1888 21,090.00 

Total available for year ending June 30, 1883 $43,603.14 

Kespectfully submitted. 

James C. Welling, 

Henry Coppee, 

M. C. Meigs, 

Executive Committee, 
Washington, July 21, 1887. 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1887. 



To the Board of l^egents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to present herewith the report of the 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
18SG-'87. 

There is also given, in accordance with established usage, a summary 
of the work performed by the brandies of the public service placed by 
Congress under its charge, namely, the National Museum and the Bu- 
reau of Ethnology. 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

By the organic law of August 10, 1S46, the Vice-President of the 
United States is made a member of the Board of Regents ; and in the 
absence of a Vice-President, it has been held that the President of the 
United States Senate occupies the same position. At the date of the 
last annual report, Hon. John Sherman, by virtue of his office as the 
acting Vice-President pro tempore, was a Regent of the Institution. In 
consequence of his resignation of that office, the Hon. John James In- 
galls was elected by the United States Senate its President, February 
26, 1887 ; and is accordingly a Regent. 

The only other change iu the Board since the last annual report is the 
vacancy occasioned by the death of the Rev. Dr. John Maclean (for- 
merly president of Princeton College), who was so long identified with 
the history of the Institution and so closely associated with its late Sec- 
retary, Professor Henry. Dr. Maclean died August 10, 1886, and as a 
just mark of respect to his memory the building was closed on the day 
of his funeral, August 13, 1886. 

The action of the Board in regard to Dr. Maclean was the adoption of 
the following resolutions after an eloquent and feeling tribute had been 
paid to his memory by Dr. James C. Welling, chairman of the Execu- 
tive Committee, whose remarks in full will be found in the journal of 
proceedings of the Board of Regents : 

" Whereas since the date of the last annual meeting of the Board of 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, its members have been called 
H. Mis. 600 1 1 



2 KEPOET OF THE SECKETAEY. 

upon to raoiiru the loss of their venerable and distinfi^nished colleague, 
the late Rev. John Maclean. D. D., LL. D., sometime president of Prince- 
ton College, who held the office of Eegent for the term of eighteen years, 
during seventeen of which he served on its Executive Committee with 
no less credit to himself than of usefulness to the Institution: There- 
fore, be it 

'■^Resolved, That with a high appreciation of the varied, abundant, and 
intelligent labors which the late Dr. Maclean brought to the cause of 
culture, of truth, and of righteousness throughout the whole of his long, 
useful, and honorable career ; with a grateful sense of the manifold serv- 
ices he rendered to the Smithsonian Institution, for whose welfare he 
worked without weariness, and watched without flagging even after he 
had begun to feel the burden of age; with profound sorrow for his death, 
mingled with reverence for his beautiful memory, and with thanksgiv- 
ing for the serene and peaceful close of a finished life, as full of years 
as it was full of honor, we hereby testify and record our admiration of 
the exalted Christian character with which he dignified and adorned 
every station that he was called to hold in the eyes of men ; our respect 
for the solidity of the learning which supported him in the high dis- 
charge of every professional duty, whether in the pulpit, the academic 
chair, or at the post of executive administration ; and lastly, in special 
recognition of the grateful savor which his genial presence never failed to 
shed on the deliberations of this council chamber, our cheerful and loyal 
homage to the dignity of bearing and amenity of manners which made 
him as courteous m debate as he was wise in council, as gracious iu all 
the relations of private life as he was inflexible in the maintenance of 
Christian honor anrt conscientious in the performance of public duty. 

^^ Resolved, Thatthis preamble and resolution bespread on the minutes 
of the Board in respectful tribute to the services and memory of our 
venerated colleague, and that a copy of these resolutions be transmitted 
to the family of our deceased friend in token of the share we fain would 
take with them in this Dereavement." 

Congress by joint resolution, approved by President Cleveland Jan- 
uary 19, 1887, filled the vacancy on the Board of Regents occasioned 
by the death of Dr. Maclean by the election of Dr. James B. Angell, 
president of the University of Michigan. 

FINANCES. 

The Smithson fund in the Treasury of the United States remains the 
same as stated in the last report, $703,000. 

The receipts and expenditures for the year ending 30th of June, 1887, 
are as follows : 

RECEIPTS. 

Cash on hand July 1, 1886 (including July in- 
terest on the fund) $24 784. 17 

Interest on the fund January 1, 1887 21, 090. 00 

Cash from repayments, sales, etc 1, 360. 62 

Total receipts $47, 234. 79 



KEPOET OF THE SECEETARY. 



EXPENDITURES. 



Building, furniture, and fixtures $3, 716. 31 

General expenses, salaries, etc , 26, 563. 99 

Publications and explorations 10, 848. 24 

Literary and scientific exchanges 4, 683. 11 

Total expenditure $45, 811. 65 

Balance cash on hand 1, 423. 14 

The vouchers and account-books have been examined quarterly by 
the Executive Committee, who report them all correct, and that the 
Smithsou fund aad balance stated above are in the Treasury of the 
United States. A more detailed account of the expenditures of the 
Institution is given in the report of the Executive Committee. 

ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. 

Having consulted with Prof. Samuel P. Langley, director of the 
Allegheny Observatory, Pennsylvania, with a view of securing his 
services as Assistant Secretary of the Institution, without asking from 
him the abandonment of his great scientific researches or a withdrawal 
from his observatory, I ascertained that he was willing to devote a con- 
siderable portion of his time to the object mentioned. 

Accordingly, at the last annual meeting of the Eegents, after repre- 
senting to them the onerous nature of the duties of the Secretary, from 
their increasing range and importance, I requested permission to ap- 
point two assistant secretaries, which appointment would be in a cer- 
tain sense a return to the organization of the Institution in 1850, when 
Mr. Charles C. Jewett was assistant in charge of the library, and my- 
self assistant in charge of the museum collections, and later of the ex- 
changes as well. I therefore asked leave to nominate Prof. Samuel 
P. Langley Assistant Secretary in charge of the exchanges, publications, 
and library, and Mr. G. Brown Goodo Assistant Secretary in charge of 
the National Museum. These nominations were unanimously confirmed 
by the Board; and the two gentlemen named were, on the 12th day 
of January, 1887, appointed Assistant Secretaries of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

Subsequently, in consequence of my enforced absence from the In- 
stitution by reason of sickness, Professor Langley was appointed by 
the Chancellor, February 10, 1887, Acting Secretary, under the provis- 
ions of the act of Congress of May 13, 1884, and this position he contin- 
ues to occupy at the date of the present report. 

PORTRAIT OF SMITHSON. 

A water-color portrait of James Smithson, in the possession of Mr. 
James Gunn, of 49 Bedford street, Strand, London, having been offered 
to the Institution for 30s., our agent, Mr. Wesley, of London, was aii- 



4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tboiized to conclude the purchase if found satisfactory. By letter dated 
May 19, 1»87, the purchase of the likeness, at £1 10s., was approved; 
and the colored drawing was forwarded to this Institution, where it 
will be deposited with the other relics of Smithson. The water-color 
is 7 inches by 6 inches in size, representing Smithson in his academic 
cap and gown (at the age of probably twenty-five years), and is in a 
fresh and excellent condition. 

BUILDINGS. 

Smithsonian Building.— The western corridor, or range, connecting the 
main building of the Institution with its extreme western wing, in 
which have been deposited of late years all the large alcoholic collec- 
tions of the National Museum and of the Fish Commission, not having 
its floors, ceilings, and roof originally built fire-proof, representation has 
several times been made to Congress that the United States national 
collections were thereby seriously endangered, and that a moderate ap- 
propriation for providing against such risk was eminently just and ad- 
visable. At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $15,000 
was granted for putting this range in good fire-proof condition. Pro- 
posals for the work were at once published, and the desired repairs 
have been commenced and will be vigorously pushed forward. 

National Museum Building. — The building erected by Government for 
the National Museum, at a remarkably small cost, coutinues to give sat- 
isfaction in every particular excepting in its extent. Tlie overflowing 
wealth of the collections cannot at present 5e properl}'^ displayed or 
protected; and the necessity of adtiitioual accommodations becomes 
every year more pressing. The Eegents having authorized some years 
ago an application to Congress for relief, the present opportunity should 
not be neglected for again respectfully and urgently pressing upon the 
attention of -Senators and Members of the House of Representatives 
the claims of the National Museum for an additional building, at least 
as large as the present one. 

Armory Square. — A communication dated June 1, 1887, was received 
from Col. John M. Wilson, in charge of the public buildings and grounds, 
informing me that it was proposed to rename Armory Square (extend- 
ing from Sixth to Seventh streets, and from B street north to B street 
south), after our late distinguished Secretary, tlie" Henry Park.'* 
The adjoining triangular reservation, extending eastward from Sixth 
street to Third street, is now known as the Seaton Park. 

To this communication an expression of cordial approval Was re- 
turned to Colonel Wilson, through the Acting Secretary, Professor 
Langley. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

This important branch of Smithsonian operations embraces a wide 
range of applications and of topics in addition to the necessarily large 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

number of business and routine letters constantly required in the trans- 
action of its daily work. From all portions of our country inquiries 
and proposals are continually received, varying from modest requests 
for information on subjects frequently common-place, sometimes ab- 
struse, to magisterial announcements of new philosophies and cosmolo- 
gies, destined to revolutionize science or to entirely supersede the laws 
of Newton. Agreeably to its established policy, all correspondents re- 
ceive a respectful attention and reply, and if the information sought is 
not immediately accessible, either reference is given to other establish- 
ments or sources, or specialists are addressed upon the subject, and the 
Institution itself becomes a solicitor of knowledge. 

The number, however, of those ambitious of having their visionary 
speculations published by the Institution has been so considerable that 
for several years past the following circular has been largely employed 
in response : 

" Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. 0. 

" This Institution being in frequent receipt of communications an- 
nouncing discoveries or theories supposed by the writers to be both 
new and important, it may be well to inform these correspondents that 
owing to the number of such papers the usual course is to refer them 
to one or more specialists in the particular subject discussed, and to 
communicate briefly by letter to the authors the result of such exami- 
nation. This may sometimes involve a delay of several weeks before 
the expected answer is returned. 

" In order to correct a very common misapprehension, it is proper to 
state that the Institution has not offered any standing prizes for the 
solution of difficult problems, or for the discovery of new scientific prin- 
ciples. The proper course for those who wish to obtain pecuniary ad- 
vantage from their supposed contributions to knowledge, is to make 
some practical application thereof, for which they may secure a patent 
from the United States Patent Office. It may also be remarked that a 
rule adopted by the Board of Regents forbids the Secretary or his as- 
sistants giving, for personal benefit, an official opinion as to the merits 
or demerits of inventions or other projects." 

explorations. 

A full account of the explorations and accessions resulting therefrom 
undertaken during the past year under the anspices of the Institution 
will be found in the report of Mr. Goode, upon the Museum, forming 
the second part or volume of the Regents' Report. Only a brief refer- 
ence, therefore, to one or two subjects appears necessary in this place. 

Exploration for American bison. — An unsuccessful attempt having 
been made the previous year to procure specimens of the buffalo (now 
being rapidly exterminated), at the request of Mr. W. T. Hornaday 
another attempt was approved and determined upon. 

Early in the spring of 188G the attention of the Secretary was called 
to the fact that the work of exterminating the American bison had 
made most alarming progress, and also that the representatives of this 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

species then in the National Museum were far from being what they 
should be. A careful inventory revealed the fact that the collection 
contained only two male specimens which were very old and in a sadly 
dilapidated condition, a sinj^le cow, an unmounted cow-skin, and one 
mounted male skeleton. The efforts which had been made by corre- 
spondence during the previous year had signally failed to produce any 
specimens. Realizing the imperative need of securing at once and at 
all hazarilH a complete and unexceptional series of fresh skins for 
mounting, before it should become too late, the Secretary directed 
the chief taxidermist, Mr. Hornaday, to take immediate steps toward 
the accomplishment of that end. 

At first all inquiries in regard to the presence of wild buffalo were met 
by the assurance that those animals had all been killed, and that none 
remained outside of the Yellowstone Park. Eventually, however, re- 
ports were received to the effect that a few individuals still remained 
in Montana, and a few more in the panhandle of Texas. Inasmuch as 
the task of finding specimens threatened to be the most serious part of 
the undertaking, and might i)0ssibly require two or three months' 
search, it was decided not to wait until the i)roper hunting season in the 
fall and winter months, but to send the party at once on its quest. 
Accordingly Mr. Hornaday started immediately for Montana, and by 
following up the most reliable information he obtained, had the exceed- 
ing good fortune to find a locality, about 7o miles northwest of Miles 
City, which contained about fifty or sixty head of buffalo. Owing to 
th«} fact that the people alorig the Yellowstone and Missouri Kivers 
were generally quite ignorant of the existence of those animals in that 
wild and uninhabited region, the bison had found safe shelter there 
ever since the great northern herd was swept out of existence in the 
years 1881, 1882, and 188.'j, and were breeding there in fancied security. 
But the settlement of that country by the ranchmen, which had just 
then taken place, doomed every one of those animals to destruction at 
the hands of tlie cowboys, and the sequel has proved that Mr. Uorna- 
day's efforts were put forth only just in time to snatch a few specimens 
from the total annihilation that has overtaken the millions. 

Mr. Jlornaday's party jmjsecuted its search until three buffaloes were 
actually taken, one a very young calf, which was caught alive and so 
taken to Washington, and two old bulls, which were killed atid pre- 
served. As was fairly expected, they had so far shed their winter 
I>elage that their skins were worthless, but their heads and entire 
skeletons were taken. Having thus actually located a band of bison 
the party returned to the Smithsonian without delay, to go out again 
in the fall to aceoinplisli the remaind(;r of its task. 

In the latter part of September, Mr. Hornaday again took the field, 
and in a little over two months succeeded in finding about twenty-eight 
head of buffalo. By dint of hard work and no small amount of personal 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

risk tweuty-two specimens were killed and preserved in the finest pos- 
sible condition, and at the same time the chief taxidermist was aflbrded 
a fine opportunity for making life studies of the species. The finest 
and largest of the eight bulls was actually studied and sketched as he 
stood on the prairie, wounded and at bay, only 30 yards distant. 

In addition to the splendid series of skins of all ages and sexes thus 
collected, which in view of the almost complete extinction of the species 
we may fairly consider of almost priceless value, the party collected 
sixteen complete skeletons, fifty-one dry skulls, two fcetal young in 
alcohol, and a very fine series of skins and skeletons of prong-horn 
antelope, coyote, and a few deer. A fine collection of skeletons of birds 
of all species found was also made for the department of comparative 
anatomy. 

This exploration has not only yielded a collection of great value to 
the National Museum, and such as could not have been obtained in any 
other way, but it has also secured to science a large number of valuable 
duplicates such as will be eagerly sought after a very few years hence, 
when the last specimen of Bos americanus has been slaughtered. In- 
deed, so rapidly is the destruction of our great game animals being 
prosecuted in every part of the United States, it is a sad certainty that 
in a very few years the elk, mountain sheep, goat, deer, moose, and 
other forms will have totally disappeared. In view of this prospect, 
more stringent measures of game protection and preservation are loudly 
called for. 

A full report of the above exploration and its results will be found 
in the Keport of the U. S. i^ational Museum, already referred to. 

Other fields of exploration. — A proposal was made (August 2, 1886) to 
Mr. C. H. Townsend that he undertake an exploration of the Swan Isl- 
ands, in the Caribbean Sea (belonging to the Pacific Guano Company), 
said to abound in land birds in great variety, and also in large iguana 
and other reptiles, in the belief that the exploration of these islands 
will attbrd an excellent opportunity for a naturalist to make a mono- 
graph of great interest. Messrs. Glidden & Curtis having made a cour- 
teous oft'er to accommodate a naturalist on board of one of their vessels 
about to sail for that region, due acknowledgment was made for the 
favor; and later, additional thanks were called for (November 15, 1886) 
by their placing one of their vessels at Mr. Townsend's disposal, for the 
reception of such collections as he might secure for the ^S'ational Mu- 
seum. 

An appropriation was made to assist Mr. J. A. McXiel in collecting 
antiquities from the Isthmus of Panama for the National Museum. 

The acquisition for the ethnological collections, of the Easter Island 
idol, and of other interesting articles, will be fully detailed in the Ee- 
port, Part II, devoted tc the condition of the National Museum. 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications of the Institution may be said to now comprise four 
series. First, the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge" in quarto 
form, presenting the results of original research (corresponding gen- 
erally with the transactions of learned societies), of which 25 vol- 
umes have been published. Second, the "Smithsonian Miscellaneous 
Collections," in octavo form, presenting papers, tabulations, classi- 
ficatious, and other compilations, generally of a more technical and 
practical character, of which 30 volumes have been published. Third, 
the "annual reports of the Board of Kegents of the Institution" to 
Congress, in octavo form, containing, in addition to the exposition of 
the operations and condition of the Institution, papers from corre- 
spondents illustrating the progress of scientific investigation, of which 
40 volumes have been published. Fourth, the more recent series of 
"Annual Reports, of the Bureau of Ethnology" in imperial octavo 
form, of which 4 volumes have been published. 

Smithsoman Contributions to Knoiolerlge. — The only memoir of this 
series actually issued during the past fiscal year, is " Researches upon 
the Venoms of Poisonous Serpents," by S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and 
Edward T. Reichert, M. D. This forms a quarto volume of 196 pages, 
illustrated by 4 cuts inserted in the text and 5 colored plates. This 
work was leaving the printer's hands at the close of the last fiscal year, 
though it was not actually published until the beginning of the ijresent 
fiscal year, and it was fully described in the last annual report. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — ^Numerous i)apers belonging 
to this series have been published during the past year, and 3 com- 
plete volumes have been collected from the published papers on 
hand. These have been selected without reference to their chronolog- 
ical order, but mainly with regard to the average size of the resulting 
volume, and also with some attention to congruity of compilation. The 
numbers prefixed to the following titles indicate merely their order in 
the official catalogue of publications. 

512. " List of Institutions in the United States receiving Publications 
of the Smithsonian Institution," comprising over 1,800 addresses, with 
a prefatory statement of the rules for the distribution of publications. 
Octavo, xii+72 pages. 

522. " Miscellaneous Collections. Vol.XXVlII." The fourth edition 
(revised and enlarged) of " Tables Meteorological and Physical." By 
Arnold Guyot, LL. D., edited by William Libbey, jr. Octavo, xxv+ 
747 pages. This is a reprint for the Miscellaneous Collections of the 
edition published in 1884, and was fully described in the Smithsonian 
report for 1884-'85. 

536. " List of Astronomical Observatories." By George H. Boehmer. 
This is a simple list of the observatories, American and foreign, alpha- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. y 

betically arranged, witliout the details of information given in similar 
preceding lists. (Reprinted from the Smithsonian report for 1885.) 
Octavo, 16 pp. 

54G. " Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXIX." This is " A Catalogue 
of Scientific and Technical Periodicals (1065 to 1882), together with 
Chronological Tables, and a Library Check-List." By Henry Carrington 
Bolton. This volume is a reprint for the Miscellaneous Collections of 
the work previously pul^istied in 1885 (No. 511), and fully described in 
the Smithsonian report for 1885-'86. Octavo, x4-773 pages. 

550. The "Scientific Writiugs of Joseph Henry," in two royal octavo 
volumes; bound to correspond with the " Henry Memorial Volume " 
(published by order of Congress). The first volume contains xii + 
523 pages, including index, and is illustrated by 46 cuts inserted in the 
text. The second volume contains viii+559 pages, including iudex, 
and is illustrated by 48 cuts inserted in the text. This work is fully 
described in the Smithsonian report for 1885-'86. 

558. "Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XXX." The "Scientific Writ- 
ings of Joseph Henry." This edition of the work just above referred 
to is reprinted on medium octavo paper, for the " Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions" series, from the same stereotype plates. It forms a single 
octavo volume of 1105 pages. 

645. " Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology." By George 
Ercol Sellers ; Charles Whittlesey ; J. P. MacLean ; Charles C. Jones, 
jr. ; James Shepard ; Mark Williams ; and the late Henry E. School- 
craft. (Reprinted from the Smithsonian report for 1885.) An octavo 
pamphlet of 44 pages ; illustrated by 19 cuts. ' 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — This series consists of monographs 
of biological subjects, check-lists, taxonomic systems, etc., designed to 
illustrate the mineral, botanical, zoological, and ethnological material 
of the Museum, and are originally printed under the authority of the 
honorable Secretary of the Interior. These papers, prepared under the 
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, are necessarily of great variety 
in size and range : Bulletin No. 17, for example, covering but 51 pages; 
and Bulletin No. 27 occupying 1279 pages. A supplementary edition 
of the bulletins from the stereotype plates is issued by the Institution, 
and from time to time the issues are arranged or combined in volumes 
of its Miscellaneous Collections. Thus Bulletins Nos. 1 to 10, inclusive, 
formed Volume XIII of the Miscellaneous Collections. Bulletins Nos. 
11 to 15, inelusive, formed Volume XXIII ; and Bulletin 16 formed Vol- 
ume XXIV. Bulletins 17 and following have not yet been gathered 
into the Miscellaneous Volumes, 

625. "Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 30. Bibliography 
of Publications relating to the Collection of Fossil Invertebrates in the 
U. S. National Museum, including complete lists of the writings of 
Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D. Walcott." By John 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Belknap Marcou. This forms the third volume of the "Bibliographies 
of American Naturalists." Octavo, 333 pages. 

653. "Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 31. Synopsis of 
the North American Syrphidfe." By Samuel W. Willistou. Octavo, 
335 pages; illustrated by 12 plates of outline cuts. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — This series, like the preceding, 
are primarily printed under the authority of the honorable Secretary of 
the Interior. The papers, however, are shorter and less elaborate, and 
are designed to give early accounts of recent acquisitions to the Museum, 
or of freshly acquired facts relating to biology, etc. And to this end 
such papers are promptlj^ published in single "signatures" as soon as 
matter sufficient to fill 16 pages has been prepared, the date of issue 
being given on each signature. The publication thus partakes of 
the character of an irregular periodical, the numbers of which, con- 
tinuously paged, form a regular annual volume. These volumes, like 
the bulletins, are from time to time included in the Miscellaneous Col- 
lections. The " Proceedings," Vol. I, for 1878, and Vol. II, for 1879, to- 
gether formed Vol. XIX of the Miscellaneous Collections, " Proceed- 
ings," Vol. Ill, for 1880, and Vol. IV, for 1881, together formed Vol. 
XXII of the Miscellaneous Collections. " Proceedings," Vol. V and 
following have not yet been collected into the " Miscellaneous" series. 

637. "Circular for the Guidance of Persons desiring to make Ex- 
changes of Birds or Birds' Eggs with the National Museum." A one-page 
octavo circular (No. 34). 

646. " Circular concerning the Lending of Typical Specimens." A one- 
page octavo circular (No. 35). These circulars are inserted as an ap- 
pendix to the volume of " Proceedings." 

650. "Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, Vol. IX, 1886." 
The volume contains descriptive and systematic papers by James E. 
Benedict, T. W. Blackiston, George H. Boehmer, Charles H. Bollman, 
Edward D. Cope, W. H. Dall, George E. Doering, Charles L. Edwards, 
Carl B. Eigenmanu, Barton W. Evermann, Fernando Ferrari-Perez, 
Morton W. Fordice, Charles H. Gilbert, Elizabeth G. Hughes, David 
S. Jordan, George N. Lawrence, John Belknap Marcou, William G. 
Mazyck, George P. Merrill, Richard Eathbun, Kobert Ridgway, John 
A. Ryder, Rosa Smith, Leonhard Stejneger, John B. Smith, Frederick 
W. True, and John Grant Wells. An octavo volume of v-f- 714 pages, 
illustrated by 25 plates (1 colored, the rest cuts). 

Smithsonian Annual Reports. — These reports being submitted to Con- 
gress as required by the organic law, are printed by order of that body. 
Much of the contents, however, are reprinted by the Institution at its 
own expense. 

648. Report of the U. S. National Museum (under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution) for the year 18S4." This volume forms Part II 
of the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, and was most un- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

fortunately delayed in its issue by the Government Printing Office; tlie 
first part, that relating to the Institution, having been published in the 
preceding year. The Museum Report forms an octavo volume of ix-f- 
458 pages, illustrated by 105 wood-cut plates. 

649. " Annual Keport of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the 
Institution to July, 1885. Part I." Owing to the change made by the 
Eegents in the period o^the Secretary's report, from the civil or calen- 
dar year to the fiscal year of the United States Government, this report 
of the condition of the Institution embraced only the first six months 
of the year 1885; or from January to June, inclusive. The volume 
contains the Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents, the re- 
port of the Executive Committee, the report of the Secretary of the 
Institution fjor six months, supplemented by the report on Exchanges, 
followed by the " General Appendix," in which is given a record of 
scientific progress for 1885, in astronomy, by William C. Winlock ; with 
a list of astronomical observatories, by George H. Boehmer ; in vulcan- 
ology and seismology, by Charles G. Rockwood ; volcanic eruptions and 
earthquakes in Iceland within historic times (from the Icelandic of Th. 
Thoroddsen) ; geography, by J. King Goodrich; physics, by George F. 
Barker; chemistry, by U. Carrington Bolton; mineralogy, by Edward 
S. Dana; bibliography of North American invertebrate pakneontology, 
by J. B. Marcou; zoology, by Theodore Gill; and anthropology, by 
Otis T. Mason ; concluding with miscellaneous anthropological papers by 
correspondents; observations on stone-chipping, by George E. Sellers; 
copper implements from Bayfield, Wis., by Charles Whittlesey ; ancient 
ruins in Ohio, by J. P. MacLean ; a primitive store-house of the Creek 
Indians, by Charles C. Jones,, jr.; shell-heaps and mounds in Florida, 
by James Shepard ; ancient earth-works in China, by Mark Williams ; 
plan for American ethnological investigation, by the late Henry R. 
Schoolcraft; index to the literature of Uranium, by H. Carrington 
Bolton ; and price-list of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution. 
The whole forms an octavo volume of xviii + 996 pages, illustrated by 
19 figures. 

651. " Report of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, for the year 1885-'86." Octavo pamphlet of 83 pages. 

The volume containing the above report, with its accompanying pa- 
pers, together with the second part containing the report of the Museum, 
has not yet appeared. The usual concurrent resolution of Congress 
directing the printing of 16,000 copies of the reports for 1885-'86, failed 
to pass the House at its last session although it had passed the Senate 
in time. This has unfortunately delayed the issue of these volumes. 

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology. — "Fourth Annual Report of 
the Bureau of EMmology, to the Smithsonian Institution, 1882-'83," 
by J. W. Powell, Director. The official report of the Director, occupy- 



12 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



ing 39 pages (pp. xxv— Ixiii), is accompanied by the following papers 
" Pictographs of the North American Indians, a preliminary paper," by 
Garricli Mallery ; " Pottery of the Ancient Pueblos," by William H. 
Holmes; ''Ancient Pottery of the Mississippi Valley," by William H. 
Holmes; " Origin and Development of Form and Ornament in Ceramic 
Art," by William H. Holmes; and "A Study of Pueblo Pottery, as illus- 
trative of Zuni culture-growth," by Frank Hamilton Gushing. An im- 
perial octavo volume of lxiii+533 pages, illustrated by 83 plates, of 
which 11 are colored, and 564 figures in the text. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

Next in importance to the promotion of original research, and the 
propagation of its results in the Smithsonian series of publications, 
ranks tbe system of international exchanges, early established by this 
Institution, and continuously prosecuted by it until its operations have 
expanded beyond the unaided capabilities of its resources. 

During the past fiscal year the receipts for foreign transmission 
amounted to 30,046 packages, weighing 83,902 pounds; the receipts for 
domestic distribution comprised 10,294 packages, weighing 34,86L 
pounds, and for Government exchanges the receipts were 21,600 pack- 
ages, weighing 22,500 pounds, makiug the total of 61,940 packages re- 
ceived, weighing 141,263 pounds. 

A comparison of the receipts for exchanges during the past fiscal year 
with those of the preceding year is given in the following table : 



Receipts for trausmission. 


Fiscal year 1885-'86. 


Fiscal year 1886-'87. 


Foreign exchanges 


Paclcages. 
26, 162 
11,702 
56, 229 


Pounds. 

112, 901 
39, 579 
42, 924 


Paclcages. 
30, 046 
10, 294 
21,600 


Pounds. 
83, 902 




34. 861 


Government exchanges 


22, 500 






Total 


94, 093 


195, 404 


61,940 


141,263 







It is shown by the above that the receipts on account of Government 
exchanges for the past year have fallen off about one-half from those of 
the preceding year. This is mainl}' due to the diminished number of 
United States public documents printed during the " short session " of 
Congress. 

During the past year two accessions have been made to the list of 
foreign Governments accepting the system of international exchange 
with the United States, namelv, the Empire of Austria and the Eepublic 
of Peru. 

Transportation facilities. — The liberal encouragement of the Smith- 
sonian exchange operations aftbrded by the leading steamship com- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

panies in granting the Institution free freight for its packages and boxes, 

which has existed for many years, still continues ; and it is my pleasant 

duty annually to renew the expressions of grateful acknowledgment for 

the generous policy which has so greatly favored and advanced the 

system of exchanges. The following is a list of the companies favoring 

the Institution with the concessions mentioned, and to whose offices I 

desire, on behalf of the Ee^euts, to return their hearty thanks. 

Allan Steamship Company (A. Schumacher & Co., agents), Baltimore. 

Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson & Brother, agents). New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., New York. 

Bixby, Thomas E., & Co., Boston, Mass. 

Borland, B. R., New York. 

Boulton, Bliss & Dallett, New York. 

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York. 

Compagnie Generale Transatlantique (L. de Bebian, agent). New York. 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon H. Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Dennison, Thomas, New York. 

Florio Rubattino Line, New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kuuhardt & Co., agents), New 
York. 

Inman Steamship Company, New York. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

MuEioz y Espriella, New York. 

Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazaux, agent), 
New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York; A. Schu- 
macher & Co., Baltimore). 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Panama Railroad Company, New York. 

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), Philadelphia and New 
York. 

White Cross Line of Antwerp (Fuuch, Edye & Co., agents). New York. 

Wilson & Asmus, New York. 
The thanks of the Institution are also due, and are hereby tendered, 

to the foreign ministers and consuls of the various Governments for 

their assistance in taking charge of the transmission of boxes to the 

countries which they respectively represent. 

Government Exchanges.— The Smithsonian Institution, as is well 
known, has been made by law the agent of the United States Govern- 
ment for conducting the international exchanges of public official docu- 
ments between it and foreign Governments. By joint resolution of 



14 EEPOKT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

Congress (approved March 2, 1867), it was orderea that " fifty copies 
of all documents hereafter priuted by order of either house of Congress, 
and fifty copies additional of all documents priuted in excess of the 
usual number, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by 
any Department or Bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal 
of the Joint Committee on the Library, who shall exchange the same, 
through the agency of the Smithsonian lustitutiou, for such works 
published in foreign countries, and especially by foreign Governments, 
as may be deemed by j^aid committee an equivalent; said works to be 
deposited in the Library of Congress." And by supplemental joint 
resolution to carry the same into better effect (approved July 25, 1868), 
the Congressional Printer, whenever he shall be so directed by the 
Joint Committee on the Library, is required to print fifty copies in ad- 
dition to the regular number of all documents hereafter printed by order 
of either house of Congress, or Dy order of any Department or Bureau 
of the Government, and whenever lie shall be so directed by the Joint 
Committee on the Library, one hundred copies additional of all docu- 
ments ordered to be printed in excess of the usual number; said fifty 
or one hundred copies to be delivered to the Librarian of Congress, to 
be exchanged under the direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, 
as provided by joint resolution approved March 2, 1867. 

Since the international iLovement, commencing with the Paris con- 
vention of 1875, for promoting the free reciprocal exchange of public 
documents, there has been a growing interest in the subject manifested 
abroad. International conferences, for agreeing upon details, were held 
at Brussels, Belgium, in 1880, in 1883, and finally in 1886— March 15. 
There are now thirty-nine Governments in exchange with the United 
States, or, counting the duplicate sets sent to the Dominion of Canada 
(deposited at Ottawa and Toronto), there may be said to be forty foreign 
recipients. These are: The Argentine Confederation, Austria, Bavaria, 
Belgium, Brazil, Buenos Ayres, Canada, two sets (one for the parlia- 
mentary library at Ottawa, the other for the legislative library at To- 
ronto), Chili, Colombia (United States of), Denmark, France, Germany, 
Great Britain, Greece, Hayti, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, 
Netherlands, jS"ew South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Portugal, 
Prussia, Queensland, Russia, Saxony, South Australia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, Tasmania, Turkey, Venezuela, Victoria, and Wiirtemberg. 

Assistance by tlie Government. — In view of the great public and national 
services rendered by the exchange system, in the distribution of Gov- 
ernment publications, and in the large accessions of valuable works 
annually made through its instrumentality to the Congressional Library, 
an appropriation has for some years past been granted by Congress in 
aid of this enterprise. And without this support the operations of tlie 
exchange service would be very seriously restricted. The usual appro- 
priation of $10,000 was granted to the Institution by the last Congress. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

The total expenses of conductiug- tbe international exchanges, for the 
last two years, are shown in the following table : 



Expenses of exchanges. 



Fiscal year 

1885-'86. 



Fiscal year 

i88(i-'87. 



By the Institution 
By appropriation . 

Total cost . . . 



S4,503.80 
10, 000. 00 



$4,683.11 
10, 000. 00 



14,503.80 



14, 683. 11 



Insufficiency of the Government Exchanges. — While the system of inter- 
national exchanges inaugurated by the Smithsonian Institution is in a 
highly satisfactory condition, the same can not, unfortunately, be said of 
the system of Government exchanges intrusted to it. Notwithstanding 
the urgent and repeated efforts made by this Institution, it still fails to 
receive for foreign distribution a large portion of the United States 
official publications required for this service by law. Some more effect- 
ual legislation appears still necessary to secure the operation of existing 
statutes. 

Still more unsatisfactory has been the condition of receipts from 
abroad in return for the valuable works actually sent from our G-overn- 
ment. From the indifference of the agents of foreign Governments in 
the matter of securing and systematically appropriating their public 
documents to the service voluntarily undertaken by these Governments, 
the representation of such documents received by us has been meager 
in the extreme. The entire receipts from Europe during the past year 
have been contained in 5 boxes (with some books and pamphlets by 
mail), as against 163 Government boxes forwarded by the Institution. 
While it is recalled that when the ofScer in charge of our exchanges 
was sent abroad in 1884, on a tour of inspection and inquiry, the re- 
turns from 14 European Governments amounted for that year to 44 
boxes and 160 packages of books, numbering in all about 7,000 vol- 
umes, the present inadequacy of foreign reciprocity become^ painfully 
apparent. I am constrained to here repeat the earnest recommenda- 
tion made by the diligent librarian of the Congressional Library, di- 
rected to this matter. In his report for 1885 Mr. Spofford well re- 
marks : 

" The experience of years has amply proved the impossibility of secur- 
ing any complete or adequate return from foreign Governments for the 
full and costly series of American Government publications so long fur- 
nished them, without direct and persistent effort, through an agency 
upon the ground furnished with adequate credentials, to attend per- 
sonally to the whole business. One of the chief benefits of the initial 
effort already made has been the discovery of the practical obstacles in 
the way of a thoroughly successful system of exchanges. These, it is 
believed, could be removed by following up the work with each Govern- 
ment, while if neglected or left to the very uncertain medium of cor- 



16 KEPORT OF TIJE SECRETARY. 

lespoiideuce tbe Uuited States will continue to reap very inadequate 
returns lor our pablications sent abroad. It is recommeuded that the 
Joint Committee on the Library consider the expediency of providing 
an appropriation to defray the necessary expenses of an agent of inter- 
national exchanges, to be sent abroad for a term of at least six mouths 
during the present year. 

^' It is also recommended that the act directing the printing of fifty 
copies of each publication ordered by any Department or Bureau, to be 
devoted to international exchanges, be so amended as to render its pro- 
visions more effective." 

The success of the experiment made by us in 1884 would appear to 
show that only the employment of an experienced agent of the Institu- 
tion, in the work of visiting foreign countries and personally securing 
from their authorities the due transmission to our Government of pub- 
lic documents as soon as published, is likely to be effective in obtain- 
ing the desired result. 

LIBRARY. 

The fact should constantly be borne in mind that the distribution of 
the publications of the Institution secures in return a large amount of 
valuable material for the Library of Congress. Whatever cost, there- 
fore, there may be to our Government for Smithsonian or Museum re- 
ports, etc., it is many times repaid by the exchanges received, in addition 
to which the returns for the many volumes of publications printed en- 
tirely at the expense of the Smithsonian fund find the same depository. 
By the joint resolutions of 1867 and 1808, above referred to, the " works 
published in foreign countries, and especially by foreign Governments," 
that may be obtained by our international exchanges, are directed " to 
be dei)osited in the Library of Congress." This great national institu- 
tion thus becomes the beneficiary of this branch of the service, and it is 
a matter of public interest that such returns should be placed on their 
broadest basis. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by the Smithsonian Institution from July 1, 1886, to June 30, 1887 : 

Volumes: 

Octavo or smaller 1, 664 

Quarto or larger 417 

2,081 

Parts of volumes: 

Octavo or smaller 5, 034 

Quarto or larger 5, 930 

10,964 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller 2, 785 

Quarto or larger 426 

3,211 

Maps 291 

Total 10, 547 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



17 



The following table shows the number of volumes, pamphlets, etc., 
received by the Institution during the past two years ; all of which 
were transferred to the Library of Congress, excepting a small number 
transferred to the library of the National Museum : 

Deposit of hooks, etc., in the Library of Congress hy the Smithsonian Institution, 1885-'87. 



Fiscal years. 


Volumes. 


Parts. 


Pamphlets. 


Maps. 


Total. 


l&85-'86 


1,938 
2,081 


11,021 

10, 964 


2,928 
3,211 


379 
291 


16, 266 
1(3 547 


1886-'87 






Total 


4,019 


21,985 


6,139 


670 


■^2 81*^ 







U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The National Museum, though supported by Government appropria- 
tions, has since 184G been under the direction of the Institution. Its rapid 
growth during the last few years has shown how impossible it would 
be for the Smithsonian Institution to adequately maintain it, even by 
the devotion of its entire resources to the task. Indeed, the spacious 
building so recently erected by the Government for its accommodation 
is already quite insufficient to display its accumulation of valuable ma- 
terial, and unless a due provision be early made for the erection of addi- 
tional buildings (as urgently asked for in my report for 1883, and iu 
subsequent reports) there will be a serious hiuderance to the proper 
administration of the establishment in the insufficiency of space which 
can be allowed to its several scientific departments. 

In the report of the Museum for 1884 (at page 20), the number of 
specimens is estimated at 1,471,000; this number is now increased by 
more than a million, and it is evidently a matter of great importance 
that some means of storing and exhibiting this vast quantity of incom- 
ing material should be provided without delay. The growth of this 
Museum has been exceedingly rapid. Until the beginning of this decade 
there was only 1 curator with a few " assistants." At the present time 
there are 31 regularly-organized departments and sections under the 
care of 26 curators and numerous assistant curators and aids. Only 9 
of the curators receive salaries from the Museum appropriations. Of the 
remainiug 17, 4 are detailed from the U. S. Fish Commission, 2 from 
U. S. Army, 1 from U. S. Navy, 5 from the U. S. Geological Survey, and 
1 from the Bureau of Ethnology. Prof O. C. Marsh has been appointed 
honorary curator of the department of vertebrate fossils, and Mr. S. 
R. Koehler, of Koxbury, Mass., has accepted a commission as acting 
curator of the section of graphic arts. 

There have been no important changes in the administrative staff, a 
classification of which is given in full in the report for 1885-1886. 
H. Mis. 600-— 3 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

It is estimated that there are now in the Museum 2,592,732 "lots" of 
specimens, an increase of 1,121,732 during the last two and a half years. 
The catalogues of the various departments show that in the aggregate 
36,595 entries of accession " lots" have been made during the year. In 
speaking of the accessions to the Museum, I desire to present the cordial 
thanks of the Smithsonian Institution to the various Departments and 
Bureaus of the Government through whose valuable cooperation a 
great deal of interesting material has been received. 

The increased popularity of the Museum is plainly evidenced by the 
fact that during the year it has beei.. visited by 216,562 persons, while 
98,592 visitors were registered in the Smithsonian building, giving a 
total of 315,114 visitors to both buildings during the year. This is an 
increase of 51,929 over the number recorded for the last fiscal j-ear. 

Mr. A. H. Clark has been appointed editor of the Proceedings and 
Bulletins in place of Dr. T. H. Bean, who for many years has carried 
on this work with great ability. This change was made at Dr. Bean's 
request, since the demands on his time as curator of fishes, left very 
little opportunity for him to attend to editorial work. During the year 
the Museum report for 1881 was issued, and the manuscripts for both 
the 1885 and 1886 reports are now in the hands of the printer. Vol. 
VIII of the "Proceedings of the National Museum" was issued iu Oc- 
tober, and the signatures of Vol. IX are all in print. In addition 6 
signatures of Vol. X were distributed before the close of the fiscal year. 
Bulletin 31, "Synopsis of the North America Syrphidse," by Dr. Samuel 
M. Williston, appeared in May. Bulletin 32, "Catalogue of theBatra- 
chia and Eeptiles of Central America and Mexico," by Prof. E. D. Cope, 
is now in type. The manuscript for Bulletin 33, "Catalogue of Minerals 
and Synonyms," by Mr. Thomas Egleston, as well as that for Bulletin 
34, "Catalogue of the Batrachia and Eeptiles of North America," by 
Prof. E. D. Cope, has gone to the Government Printing Oifice. A bib- 
liography of papers i^ubliehed by officers of the Museum and by co-op- 
erators in Museum work is included in the report of the assistant 
secretary. This embraces 345 titles by 84 authors, 33 of whom are 
officially connected with the Museum. 

In the library, the total number of publications received during the 
year, exclusive of regular periodicals, was 1,511. The most valuable 
contributions to the library were those made by the Secretary of the 
Institution. 

There were received 2,055 forms of labels, from the Government Print- 
ign Office, each form containing 24 copies, 12 of which are printed on 
card-board and 12 on paper. 

As in previous years, several students in various branches of natural 
history have enjoyed the privilege of access to the collections in which 
they were especially interested. Courtesies of this kind have been ex- 
tended notably by the departments of birds, insects, moUusks, marine 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

invertebrates, minerals, mammals, ethnology, and fishes. Instruction 
iu taxidermy and photography has been given to several applicants. 

The regular Saturday lectures, 12 in number, were given iu the lec- 
ture hall between March 12 and May 7. The national convention of 
Superintendents of Schools (March 15-17) and the Dental Association 
(July 27-29) held their meetings in the same hall. The Biological 
Society of Washington also used this room for their regular fort- 
nightly meetings during the winter. 

The Museum ineparators have been kept constantly employed during 
the year. The chief taxidermist was sent by this Institution to Montana 
for the purpose of obtaining skins and skeletons of American bison 
and the results of this expedition were successful. The details of the 
work accomplished in the various preparators' shops will be found iu 
the report of the assistant secretary, on the condition of the Museum. 

The work accomplished in the scientific departments is described at 
length in the reports of the curators, given iu the Museum Eeport, 
which forms Part II of the Smithsonian Eeport. As this work is briefly 
reviewed by the Assistant Secretary in the said Museum report it is 
unnecessary to enlarge upon it here. 

It seems proper that I should here pay a tribute of respect to a de- 
parted collaborator — Capt. Hubbard 0. Chester — who, as connected 
with the U. S. Fish Commission service, has contributed to the accessions 
of the Museum. Captain Chester was born at Groton, Conn., July 6, 
1835. Devoted to a sea-faring life from his earliest manhood, he joined 
the ship Leander in 1857, under the coDimand of his uncle, Capt. Brad- 
dock Chester, on a whaling voyage. In 1860 he sailed in tlie schooner 
Cornelia to the southern Indian Ocean in pursuit of elephant seals. In 
1864, as mate of the whaling vessel, Monticello, he made a voyage to 
Hudson Bay. In 1871, as mate of the ill fated PoZar/s, under command 
of Capt. Charles F. Hall, he joined in the Arctic expedition ; and it 
was to his skill and courage that the survivors of this expedition owed 
their preservation. In 1874, Captain Chester attached himself to the 
Fish Commission, iu which service he remained during his life. In 
1883 he superintended the packing of tbe collections sent by the U. S. 
Commission to the International Fisheries Exhibition at London, as- 
sisted in the installation of the exhibition at London, and also in re- 
packing the exhibit for return to this country. In 1885 he was made 
superintendent of the new station at Wood's Holl. 

After an illness primarily induced by his exposures he died at his 
home iu Noank, Conn., July 19, 3886. His varied services — faithfully 
rendered — inspired all who knew him wi h a high appreciation of his 
abilities and a strong regard for his manly worth. 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

BUEEAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The i)rosecution of etlinologic researches among the North American 
Indians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution and in compliance with acts of Congress, was continued during the 
year 1886-'87, under the charge of Maj. J. W. Powell, who has furnished 
the following account of operations. 

The work of the year may be conveniently reported upon under the 
two general heads of field work and office work. 

1. Field icorTc. 

The field work of the year is divided into (1) mound explorations and 
(2) general field studies, embracing those relating to social customs, in- 
stitutions, linguistics, and other divisions of anthropology. 

Mound exjyloratmis. — The work of exploring the mounds of the east- 
ern United States was, as in previous years, under the charge of Prof. 
Cyrus Thomas. 

Although Professor Thomas and his assistants have devoted a large 
portion of the year to the study of the collections made in the division 
of mound exploration and to the preparation of a report of its opera- 
tions for the past five years, yet some field work of importance has been 
done. 

Professor Thomas, in person, has examined the more important an- 
cient works of New York and Ohio. He has given special attention 
to the latter, with a view of determining where new and more accu- 
rate descriptions, surveys, and illustrations are necessary. It was 
found requisite to undertake a careful re-survey and description of a 
number of the well-known works in Ohio. This re-examination, which 
is still in progress, is deemed the more necessary in view of the light 
shed on the origin and use of these monuments by the explorations 
which have been carried on in West Virginia, western North Carolina, 
and eastern Tennessee. 

Mr. J. P. Eogan continued his work as assistant until the close of 
November, when he voluntarily resigned his position to enter upon other 
engagements. A portion of his time during the first mouth was occu- 
pied in arranging and i)reparing for shipment the collection purchased 
of Mrs. McGlashan, in Savannah, Ga. The rest of his time was em- 
ployed in exploring mounds along the upper Savannah Eiver in Georgia 
and South Carolina and along the lower Yazoo Eiver in Mississippi. 

Mr. J. W. Emmert continued to act as field assistant until the end of 
February, when the field work closed. His labors, with the exception 
of a short visit to central New York, were confined to east Tennessee, 
chiefly Blount, Monroe, and Loudon Counties, where numerous extensive 
and very interesting groups are found in the section formerly occupied 
by the Cheroki, Professor Thomas lias thought it necessary to devote 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

considerable attention to the ancient works of that region, as it is prob- 
able that there and in western North Carolina is to be found the key that 
will materially assist in solving the problem of the singular works of 
Ohio. The results of these explorations are of unusual interest, inde- 
pendent of their supposed bearing on the Ohio mounds. 

Mr. J. D. Middleton, who has been a constant assistant since the or- 
ganization of the division, after completing some investigations begun 
in southern Illinois, visited western Kentucky for the purpose of inves- 
tigating the works of that section, but was soon afterwards called to 
Washington to take part in the office work. During the month of 
June he visited and made a thorough survey of the extensive group of 
works near Charleston, West Va,, of which Colonel Norris had made a 
partial exploration, the latter having been prevented from completing it 
by the sickness which immediately preceded his death. During the 
same month Mr. Middleton commenced the survey of the Ohio works 
before alluded to, securing some valuable results in the short time be- 
fore the close of the year. 

Mr. Gerard Fowke was also engaged for a short time in field work in 
western Pennsj'lvania, Ohio, and Kentucky, but was called early in 
autumn to Washington to assist in office work. 

General Jield studies. — During October and December Mr. Albert S. 
Gatschet was engaged in gathering historic and linguistic data in 
Louisiana, Texas, and the portion of Mexico adjoining the Rio Grande, 
this region containing the remnants of a number of tribes of whose lan- 
guage and linguistic affinity practically nothing is known. After a 
long search Mr. Gatschet found a small settlement of Biloxi Indians 
at Indian Creek, 5 or 6 miles west of Lecompte, Rapides Parish, La., 
where they gain a livelihood as day laborers. Most of them speak 
English more than their native tongue. In fact about two-thirds of 
the thirty two survivors speak English only. The vocabulary obtained 
by him discloses the interesting fact that the Biloxi belong to the Siouan 
linguistic family. 

Mr. Gatschet heard of about twenty-five of the Tunica tribe still 
living in their old houies on the Marksville Prairie, Avoyelles Parish, 
La. An excellent vocabulary was obtained of their language at Le- 
compte, La., and a careful comparison of this with other Indian lan- 
guages shows that the Tunica is related to none, but represents a dis- 
tinct linguistic family. 

He was unable to collect any information in regard to the Karankawa 
tribe, concerning which little is known except that they lived upon the 
Texan coast near Lavacca Bay. 

Leaving Laredo County, Texas, he visited Camargo in Tamaulipas, 
Mexico, finding near San Miguel the remnants of the Comecrudo tribe, 
or, as they are called by the whites, Carrizos. Only the older men and 
women still remember their language. The full-blood Comecrudos seen 



22 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

by Mr. (latschet were tall and thiu, some of tlieni with fairer complexions 
than the Mexicans. Subsequently the Cotoname language, formerly 
spoken in the same district, was studied and found to be a distantly 
related dialect of Coraecrudo. Both of them belong to the Coahuilte- 
can family. From the Comecrudo Mr. Gatschet obtained the names of 
a number of extinct tribes who formerly lived in their vicinity, but of 
whom no representatives are left. These are the Casas Chiquitas, Te- 
jones (or "raccoons"), Pintos or Pakawas, Miakkan, Cartujanos. Mr. 
Gatschet next visited the Tlaskaltec Indians, who live in the city of Sal- 
tillo. Of these Indians about 200 still speak their own language, which 
is almost identical with the Aztec, although largely mixed with Spanish. 
Mr. Josiah Curtin was engaged from the middle of March to June 1 
in completing investigations begun the previous year into the history, 
myths, and language of the Iroquois Indians at Versailles, Cattaraugus 
County, N. Y. The material secured by him is of great interest and 
value. 

2. Office worlc. 

The Director, Maj. J. W. Powell, has continued the work of the lin- 
guistic classification of the Indian tribes in JSTorth America north of 
Mexico, and in connection with it is preparing a map upon a linguistic 
basis showing the original habitat of the tribes. The work is now so far 
advanced that it is expected to be ready for the printer before January 
next. It will form a i)art of the seventh annual report. 

As previously stated. Professor Thomas has devoted much of his time 
during the year to the study of the collections made, and in preparing 
for publication the account of field work performed by himself and his 
assistants. That account will form the first volume of his final report, 
and will consist wholly of descriptions, plans, and figures of the ancient 
works examined, narrative and speculation being entirely excluded. 
The report will be ready for publication so soon as the illustrations 
shall be prepared and some verifications and supplemental surveys now 
being made, shall be completed. 

The second volume, which will be devoted to the geographic distri- 
bution of the various types of mounds, archpeologic maps and charts, 
and a general discussion of the various forms and types of ancient works, 
is well under way. The preliminary list of the various monuments known, 
and of the localities where they are found, together M'ith references to 
the works and periodicals in which they are mentioned, which Mrs. V. 
L. Thomas, in addition to her other duties as secretary to Mr. Thomas, 
has been engaged upon for nearly three years, is now completed, and is 
being used in the preparation of maps. It will form a part of the sec- 
ond volume. 

Mr. Middleton's ofQce work has consisted entirely in the preparation 
of maps, charts, and diagrams. These are of two classes: (I) Those 
made entirely from original surveys, which constitute the larger portion, 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

and (2) the archseological maps of States and districts, showing the dis- 
tribution of given types, which are made from all the data obtainable, 
including additions and verifications made by the mound exploration 
division of the Bureau. 

Mr. Gerard Fowke, in addition to assisting in the preparation of the 
report on the field work which is to constitute the first volume, has made 
a study of the stone articles of the collection, and Mr. H. L. Reynolds 
jr. has made a study of the copper articles collected, both with a view 
of preparing papers for the third volume of the report. The paper by 
Mr. Reynolds is nearly completed. 

Mr. Pilling continued his bibliographic studies during the year, with 
the intention of completing for the press his bibliography of North 
American languages. After consultation with the Director and a num- 
ber of gentlemen well informed on the subject, it was concluded that 
the wants of students in this branch of ethnology would be better sub- 
served were the material to be issued in separate bibliographies, each 
devoted to one of the great linguistic stocks of North America. The 
first to be issued related to the Eskimo, forming a pamphlet of 116 pages. 
The experiment proved successful, and Mr. Pilling continued the prep- 
aration of the separates. Late in the fiscal year the copy of the bibliog- 
raphy of the Siouan family was sent to the Public Printer. It is Mr. 
Pilliug's intention to continue this work by preparing a bibliography 
of each of the linguistic groups as fast as opportunity will permit. 

Mr. Frank H. Gushing continued work, so far as his health permitted, 
upon his Zuni material until the middle of December. At that time 
he gave up ofiQce work and left for Arizona and New Mexico, intending 
to devote himself for a season to the examination of the ruins of that 
region with the view of obtaining material of collateral interest in con- 
nection with his Zuni studies as well as in hope of restoring his impaired 
health. 

Mr. Charles C. Eoyce, although no longer officially connected with 
the Bureau, has devoted much time during the past year to the com- 
pletion of his work upon the former title of Indian tribes to lauds within 
the United States and the methods of securing their relinquishment. 
This work, delayed by Mr. Eoyce's resignation from the Bureau force, 
is now nearly completed and will soon be ready for publication. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow has continued the preparation of the material for 
his final report upon the mortuary customs of the North American 
Indians. The collection of data from various sources has been practi- 
cally completed, and nothing now remains but the classification and 
elaboration of the great amount of material into its final form, which 
work is in an advanced state. 

Mr. William H. Holmes has continued the archseologic work begun 
in preceding years, utilizing such portions of his time as were not ab- 
sorbed in work pertaining to the Geological Survey. A paper upon 
the antiquities of Chiriqui and one upon textile art in its relation to 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

form and ornament, prepared for the sixth annual report, were com. 
pleted and proofs were read. During the year work was begun upon a 
review of the ceramic art of Mexico. A special paper, with 20 illus- 
trations, upon a remarkable family of spurious antiquities belong- 
ing to that country, was prepared and turned over to the Smithsonian 
Institution for publication. In addition, a preliminary study of the 
prehistoric textile fabrics of Peru was begun, and a short-paper, with 
numerous illustrations, was written. 

Mr. Holmes has general charge of the miscellaneous archseologic and 
ethnologic collections of the Bureau, and reports that Dr. Cyrus Thomas, 
Mr. James Stevenson, and other authorized agents of the Bureau have 
obtained collections of articles from the mounds of the Mississippi 
Valley and from the ruins of the Pueblo country. A number of inter- 
esting articles have also been acquired by donation. Capt. J. G. 
Bourke, of the U. S. Army, presented a series of vases and other 
ceremonial objects obtained from cliff dwellings and caves in the 
Pueblo country; Mr. J. B. Stearns, of Short Hills, made a few addi- 
tions to his already valuable donations of relics from the ancient graves 
of Chiriqui, Colombia; and Mr. J. N. Macomb presented a number of 
fragments of earthenware from Graham County, N. C. Some im[)ortant 
accessions have been made by purchase. A large collection of pot- 
tery, textile fabrics, and other articles from the graves of Peru was 
obtained from Mr. William E. Curtis ; a series of ancient and modern 
vessels of clay and numerous articles of other classes from Chihuahua, 
Mexico, were acquired through the agency of Dr. E. Palmer; a small 
set of handsome vases of the ancient white ware of New Mexico was 
acquired by purchase from Mr. C. M. Landon, of Lawrence, Kans., and 
several handsome vases from various parts of Mexico were obtained 
from Dr. Eugene Boban. 

As in former years, Mr. Holmes has superintended the preparation 
of drawings and engravings for the Bureau publications. The number 
of illustrations prepared during the year amounted to 650. 

During the fiscal year Mr. Victor Mindelefif has been engaged in the 
preparation of a report on the architecture of the Tusayan and Cibola 
groups of pueblos, which is nearly ready for publication. This report 
will contain a description of the topograj^hy and climate Of the region, 
in illustration of the influence of environment upon the development of 
the pueblo type of architecture. It will also contain a traditionary ac- 
count of the Tusayan pueblos and of their separate clans or phratries. 
A description in detail of the Tusayan group will treat of the relative 
position of the villages and such ruins as are connected traditionally or 
historically with them. A comparative study is also made between the 
Tusayan and Cibola groups and between them and certain well pre- 
served ruins in regard to constructive details, by which means the com- 
paratively advanced type of the modern pueblo architecture is clearly 
established. Maps of the groups discussed and of the topography of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

the country and ground plans of houses and apartments will illustrate 
the report and give effect to the descriptions and discussion. 

Mr. Cosmos Mindeleff devoted the early i)art of the fiscal year to the 
.preparation of a report upon the exhibits of the Bureau of Ethnology and 
the Geological Survey at the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, 1884; 
the Southern Exposition at Louisville, 1884 ; and the Industrial and 
Cotton Centennial Exposition at New Orleans, 1884-'85. The report 
includes a descrii^tive catalogue of the various exhibits. As these con- 
sisted largely of models, and as the locality or object represented by 
each model was described in detail, the report was lengthy. It was 
finished in October and transmitted to the commissioner representing 
the Interior Department. During the remainder of the year the por- 
tion of time which Mr. Mindeleff was able to devote to oflSce work was 
employed in assisting Mr. Victor Mindeleff in the preparation of a pre- 
liminary report on the architecture of Zuui and Tusayan (Moki). The 
portion assigned to him consists of an introductory chapter, which will 
include a review of the literature of the subject and a chapter devoted 
to traditionary history of Tusayan, from material collected by Mr. A. 
M. Stephen, of Ream's Canon, Ariz. 

The modeling room has remained in charge of Mr. Cosmos Mindeleff. 
The preparation of a duplicate series of the models made in the past 
few years and now deposited in the National Museum was continued, a 
large portion of the time being given to that work. During the year 
the following models were added to this series, which now consists ot 
eighteen models : (1) Relief map of the high plateaus of southern Utah; 
(2) model of Leadville and vicinity; (3) model of Shimopavi, Tusayan, 
Arizona; (4) model of Etowah mound, Georgia; (5) model of Mishon- 
ginivi; (6) model of Zuui; (7) model of Penasco Blanco; (8) models of 
Etruscan graves (series to illustrate Etruscan graves, from material 
furnished by Mr. Thomas Wilson). 

During 1886, and continuously to the end of the fiscal year, Mr. E. 
W. Nelson has devoted much time to preparing a report ui)on the Es- 
kimo of northern Alaska, for which his note-books and large collections 
obtained in that region furnish ample material. During 1886 the vo- 
cabularies, taken from twelve Eskimo dialects for use in Arctic Alaska, 
were arranged in the form of an English-Eskimo and Eskimo-Eng- 
lish dictionary. These dictionaries, with notes upon the alphabet and 
grammar, will form one part of his report. The other part, upon 
which he is at work at present, will consist of chapters upon various 
phases of Eskimo life and customs in Alaska, and will be illustrated by 
photographs taken by him on the spot, and by specimens collected dur- 
ing his extended journeys in that region. Mr. Nelson's notes upon 
Eskimo legends, festivals, and other customs will form an imjDortant 
contribution. 

Mr. Lucien M. Turner is also engaged in the preparation of a similar 
report upon the Eskimo, in the form of a descriptive catalogue of the 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

large amount of material collected by bim during a residence of several 
years at Saint Micbaels and in the Aleutian Islands. Wben tbese two 
reports sball be completed the amount of accurate information concern- 
ing the singular people to wbom they relate will be materially in^ 
creased. 

Mr. H. W. Henshaw has continued in charge of the work upon the 
synonymy of the Indian tribes of the United States, which was alluded 
to in some detail in the report of last year. This work has been sus- 
pended for a period, and Mr. Henshaw has assisted the Director in the 
preparation of a linguistic ma}) of the region north of Mexico, and in 
the classification of the Indian tribes, a work which properly precedes 
and forms the basis of the volume on synonymy. 

Col. Garrick Mallery was steadily occupied during the year in the 
work of the synonymy of the Indian tribes, his special field being the 
Iroquoian and Algouquian linguistic stocks, and his particular respon- 
sibility being the careful study of all the literature on the subject in the 
French language. He also, when time allowed, continued researches 
in and correspondence concerning sign language and pictographs. 

Mr. James Mooney also has been occupied during the entire year in 
conjunction with Colonel Mallery in that portion of the work of the In- 
dian synonymy relating to the Algonquian and Iroquoian families. 

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt has continued the work left unfinished by Mrs. 
Erminnie Smith. During the year he has been engaged in recording, 
translating, and tracing the derivation of Tuscarora-Euglish words for 
a dictionary. He has thus far recorded about 8,000 words. 

Mr. Albert S. Gatschet has devoted almost the entire year to the 
synonymy of Indian tribes and has practically completed the section 
assigned to him, viz, the tribes of the southeastern United States. 

Rev. J. Owen Dorsey continued his work on the Indian synonymy 
cards of the Siouan, Caddoan, Athabascan, Kusan, Yakouan, and Ta- 
kilman linguistic stocks. He resumed his preparation of the dictionary 
cards for Contributions to North American Ethnology, Vol. VI, Part 
II, and in connection therewith found it necessary to elaborate his ad- 
ditional (fegiha texts, consisting of more 'than two hundred and fifty 
epistles, besides ten or more myths gained since 1880. This work was 
interrupted in March, 1887, when he was obliged to undertake the ar- 
rangement of a new collection of Teton texts for publicatioi-. Mr. 
George Bushotter, a Dakota Indian who speaks the Teton dialect, was 
employed by the Director, from March 23, for the purpose of recording 
for future use of the Bureau some of the Teton myths and legends in 
the original. One hundred of these texts were thus written, and it de- 
volved on Mr. Dorsey to prepare the interlinear translations of the 
texts, critical and explanatory notes, and other necessary linguistic 
material as dictated by Mr. Bushotter. Besides writing the texts in 
the Teton dialect, Mr. Bushotter has been able to furnish numerous 
sketches as illustrations, all of which have been drawn and colored ac- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

cording to Indian ideas. His colfection is the most extensive that has 
been gained by any collector among the tribes of the Slouan family, 
and it is the first one contributed by an Indian. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman and Mr. Josiah Curtin, as heretofore, have con- 
tinued to assist in the work of the synonymy of the Indian tribes. 



[In consequence of severe illness, Professor Baird had not extended 
and completed his report, as he doubtless had contemplated ; and the 
Acting Secretary respectfully submits the same, without feeling called 
upon for further comment.] 

Washington, December 1, 1887. 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 

EEPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES FOE THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 30, 1887. 



By Geo. H. Boehmer. 



I. Smithsonian Exchanges. 

Personnel and duties. — lu prosecuting the plans recommended for 
the execution of the duties devolving on the exchange division, the 
services of some of the clerks became superfluous, and on the 1st of 
April, 1887, they wer^ assigned to duty in other departments of the 
Institution. 

Tbe assistants to the exchange clerk now are: 

1. Mr. F. V. Berry, who receives, receipts for, acknowledges by 
postal card, verifies, and journalizes all incoming exchanges; who ships 
all foreign and government exchanges, and writes out the shipping 
orders and announcements to the transportation companies and dis- 
tributing agents. 

2. Mr. H. A. Parker, who assists Mr. Berry, and in addition keeps a 
card catalogue of the titles of official publications received from the 
Public Printer as provided for by law. 

3. Mr. 0. W. Shoemaker, who records all exchange transactions by 
{a) entering in day-book; (b) posting on ledger cards; (c) making out 
invoices; {d) recording acknowledgments; (e) entering letters, 

4. Mr. A. F. Adams, who assists Mr. Shoemaker in the execution of 
the above duties. 

5. Mr. M. A. Tolson, who attends to the shipping of packages for do- 
mestic distribution, and in addition assists Mr. Berry in shipping 
foreign exchanges. 

My own regular duties are : 

(a) The supervising of the service in all its branches. 

(b) The receiving of all exchange letters, acting on the same accord- 
ing to instructions, and preparing replies or memoranda for replies, by 
the corresponding clerk. 

29 



30 KEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

(c) The translation of foreign letters and documents. 

(d) The verifying of requests from abroad, for Smithsonian publica- 
tions, including the issuing of orders for the same and the keeping of 
an account of every Smithsonian publication sent abroad. A quarterly 
abstract of this account is submitted to the Chief Clerk. 

(e) The preparation of a card catalogue, from the old records, show- 
ing the distribution of the volumes of Contributions to Knowledge and 
of the Miscellaneous Collections since the establishment of the Institu- 
tion. 

(/) The preparation of a scientists' directory. 

(g) The preparation, for ready reference, of bibliographical informa- 
tion relating to the titles of the publications of foreign establishments 
in correspondence with the Institution. 

{h) The execution of any work assigned by the Secretary, the Assist- 
ant secretaries, and the Chief Clerk. 

A very important duty, under this last head, intrusted to me by Pro- 
fessor Laugley, the acting and assistant secretary, was that of collecting 
and arranging all the information relating to the proposed plan for the 
increase of the Smithsonian library, and to report on the results of the 
inquiry. 

The report submitted on the subject represents two divisions : I. In- 
quiry. II. Kesult. 

The first division, that of inquiry, is again subdivided into two sec- 
tions, of which the first shows, in brief, abstracts of all transactions of 
consequence connected with the scheme, to the number of two hundred, 
including the report, and representing, as recorded in full in the jour- 
nal, 475 folio pages of manuscript. Part 2 represents a list of persons 
addressed on the subject, by circular letter or otherwise, and their re- 
spective replies, as indicated by the number corresponding to each 
document in the journal. Three hundred letters were written and 174 
replies received, as follows : 

Letters to curators of the National Museum 26 

Replies 22 

JLetters to others 274 

Replies 152 

Section 2, orpart 3, of the rei)ort represents the results of the replies 
received, in the form of a geographical arrangement, based on the ex- 
isting list of foreign correspondents, of the titles obtained, together 
with the number of recommendations on each case. Of this the follow- 
ing condensed statement is presented : 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



31 



Country. 



AFRICA. 

Algeria 

Capo Colony 

Eyypt 

AMERICA. 

British 

United States 

Mexico 

Argentine Republic 

Brazil 

Chili 

Colomhia 

Costa Rica 

Ecuador 

Venezuela 

ASIA. 

China 

India .. 

Japan 

Java , 

AUSTRALASIA. 

New South Wales. . . 

Queensland 

South Australia 

Tasmania 



Titles, 



44 

866 

8 

11 
9 
4 
1 
2 
1 
1 



3 

23 
9 



Refer- 
ences. 



61 

,445 

10 

16 

11 

4 

1 

2 

1 

1 



4 
31 
13 

8 



Country. 



Victoria 

New Zealand 



EUROPE. 



Austria Hungary 

Belgium , 

Denmark 

France '. 

Germany , 

Great Britain and Ireland 

Greece 

Iceland 

Italy 

Netherlands 

Norway 

Portugal 

Roumauia 

Russia 

Servia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Books 



Titles. 



Books in west room of 
Patent Office library 
(Document No. 198) ap- 
proximate 



Total 



124 

66 

14 

439 

669 

439 

4 

1 

154 

37 

19 

12 

2 

52 

1 

35 

26 

51 

1 

33 



400 



Refer- 
ences. 



6 

12 



168 

105 

20 

695 

993 

809 

9 

2 

217 

49 

31 

20 

2 

74 

1 

38 

44 

66 

1 

34 



3,594 



700 
5, 730 



A subject arrangement of all tlie titles obtained, in form of a card 
catalogue, is in course of preparation, and of tliis 1 beg to give a sum- 
mary, showing the number of recommendations received on any of the 
branches of science designated in the original plan : 



Subject. 



Agriculture 

Animal products and fisheries.. 

Ai'chieology 

Archaeology and art 

Architecture 

Architecture and engineering . . . 

Art 

Assyriology 

Astronomy 

Botany 

Brewing and distillations 

Birds 

Bridge engineering 

Chemistry 

Chemistry and physics 

Civil engineering 

Classical philology 

Comparative anatomy 



Refer- 
ences. 



72 

51 

6 
90 
10 

7 

46 

26 

30 

380 

2 
49 
12 
105 
14 
54 

1 
35 




Costumes 

Education 

Education of deaf and dumb 

Electricity 

Electrical engineering 

Electrotyping 

Engineering 

Engineering and industries . 

Ethics 

Ethnology 

Fencing 

Gas 

General science 

Geography 

Graphic arts 

Historical science 

History 

Industries 



Refer- 
ences. 



3 

192 

2 

CO 

35 

6 

59 

528 

3 

160 

7 

2 

9 

340 

16 

82 

27 

12 



32 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



Subject. 



Insects - 

Instruments of precision 

International law 

Invertebrate palneontology 

Librarian's art and bibliography 
Literature, ancient and classical 

Lithology 

Logic 

Machine construction 

ManiHials 

Marine invertebrates 

Mathematics 

Mathematics and algebra 

Mechanical engineering 

Mechanics and machineiy 

Medicine and surgery 

Metallurgy 

Marine engineering 

Metaphysics and psychology . . . 

Microscopy 

Military engineering 

Military sciences 

Mineralogy 

Mineralogy, chemistry, and 

physics 

Mining. 

Mining and metallurgy 

Music 

Naval architecture 

Naval arts 

Naval engineering 

Naval machinery 



Refer- 
ences. 



86 

2 

6 

119 

150 

7-2 

68 

7 

1() 

58 

50 

16 

27 

18 



24 
10 
13 
19 
17 
36 
50 

39 

101 

3 

8 

28 

113 

12 

11 



Subject. 



Numismatics 

Ordnance 

Paper and printing 

Patents 

Ped agogv 

Philology 

Photography 

Physics 

Political economy 

Political science 

Prime motors 

Psychology 

Railroad -. 

Reptiles 

Sanitary engineering . 

Social science 

Sport 

Statistics 

Telegraphy 

Textile and dyeing 

Theology 

Trade 

Wind engines 

Johns Hopkins University ex- 
change list 

Patent Oftice Library, west 
I'oom, list of books 

Less duplication of titles 

Total , 



Refer- 
ences. 



13 
15 

4 
11 
33 
IG 
13 
14 

3 
41 

7 
28 

7 
10 

8 
24 

5 
80 

1 

3 

170 

17 

4 

805 
700 



5, 756 
26 

5,730 



As sliown by the geographical arrangement, 3,594 distinct titles, rep- 
resenting 5,730 references, were reported by the collaborators, and it was 
part of my instructions to ascertain how many of these were already 
correspondents of the Institution. 

Subtracting from the number of titles the 400 approximated from the 
unclassified list of books in the west room of the Patent Office Library, 
and the 866 published in the United States, 2,328 foreign serials remain, 
and of these 792, or 34 per cent,, occur in our list of foreign correspond- 
ents, which number, howev'er, will be increased to some extent by the 
correction of titles, given in many cases but very indistinctly, and by 
the assignment to the proper society on the list of correspondents of 
magazines and journals properly to be designated under the name of 
the society; and it is believed that upon that correction nearly one-half 
of all the foreign titles given may be considered as correspondents of 
the Institution. 

I beg here to state that owing to the press of routine duties all the 
work connected with, the library inquiry has been performed by me in 
my leisure hours. 

Worlc performed. — During the past year 61,940 packages, represent- 
ing a weight of 141,263 pounds, were received. Of these 10,294 were 



KEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



33 



for domestic distribution, and these were sent out through the United 
States Post-Office. The remainder was for foreign and Government 
distribution, requiring G92 packing-boxes with a bulk of 4,122 cubic feet. 

The total number of entries were, for domestic exchanges 20,590, and 
for the loreign branch 51,917 entries. 

The ledger shows 9,561 running accounts, of which 7,396 are with cor- 
respondents abroad and 2,l<i5 with domestic establishments and individ- 
uals. 

For foreign transmission 15,298 invoices required to be written, of 
which 12,430 were returned properl}- receipted, and which had to be 
credited on tlie respective accounts. Of domestic invoices 4,924 were 
returned by consignees and entered. 

Letters received during the year 1,131, and 1,217 were written. 

In the following table 1 beg to give a detailed statement of the 
amount of work performed during each month of the year: 

Work performed during the fiscal year 1886-'87. 



Packages received : 

Number 

Weight 

Entries made : 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Ledger cards : 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Domestic packages sent. 

Invoices written 

Cases shipped abroad. .. 
Receipts recorded : 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Letters recorded 

Letters written 



Jnly. 



3,571 

19, 892 

3, 1G8 
1,974 



9-7 

1,126 

103 

1,020 

.596 

97 

131 



August. 



6,183 
14,258 

8,812 
1,800 



900 

1, 398 

65 

1,018 

158 
105 

38 



Sep- 
temljer. 



3, 761 
10, 222 

4,108 
1,840 



920 

1, 124 

42 



448 
82 
25 



October. 



3, 425 
9, 012 

2, 582 
2, 838 



1,418 

1,048 

30 

1, 226 

501 

53 

14 



Novem- 
ber. 



11,026 
15, 504 

1,828 
2, 148 



1,074 

467 
58 

1,230 

500 

96 

103 



Decem- 
ber. 



4,339 

11,887 

5,064 
1,314 



657 

1,880 
49 

4,474 

882 

102 

30 



Packages received: 

Number 

Weight 

Entries made: 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Ledger cards : 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Domestic packages sent. 

Invoices written 

Cases shipped abroad . . 
Receipts recorded : 

Foreign 

Domestic 

Letters recorded 

Letters written 



Jan- 
uary. 



3, 505 
8,646 

4, 642 
1,722 



861 
959 

38 

874 
381 
101 

88 



Feb- 
ruary. 



2, 754 
7,393 

3,430 
1,210 



605 

551 

29 

189 
84 
81 

159 



March. 



12, 2.38 
15,711 

2,706 
1,598 



799 

897 

71 

296 

196 

96 

195 



April. 



2,531 
9,512 

2,684 
2,326 



May. 



3,183 
11, 322 

3,712 
618 



1, 163 

837 
21 

852 
620 
108 
141 



309 

1,464 

91 

673 
255 
13^ 
156 



.Tune. 



5,124 
17,204 

9,181 
1,202 



601 

3, 537 

95 

573 
303 

78 
137 



Total 
for year. 



61,940 
141,263 

51, 917 
20, 590 

7,396 

2,165 

10, 294 

15, 288 
692 

12, 430 
4,924 
1,131 
1,217 



H. Mis. 600- 



34 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



Transportation companies.— The only cbange which has taken place in 
the relations of the lustitntiou to the transportation companies extend- 
ing the privilege of free freight on all Smithsonian exchanges was caused 
by the dissolution of the Monarch Line, plying between London and 
New York. Satisfactory arrangements, however, have been made with 
Messrs. Barber & Co., of New York, to fbrwurd the cases to London 
at a mere nominal charge, while the incoming cases from England con- 
tinue to be trausi)orted free of cost, by the Cnnard and Inman Lines. 

A full list and account of the transportation lines to which the Insti- 
tution is indebted for the privilege of free freight was given in the 
Smithsonian Report lor 1S8G. 

Centers of distribution. — No changes have taken place among the dis- 
tributing agents abroad, all of whom deserve the warmest thanks for 
the promj)t and efiicient manner in which they have discharged their 
mostly voluntary duties. 

For a complete list of agents for the distribution of Smithsonian ex 
changes, I beg to refer to the report for 1886. 

Shipments made to foreign countries. — With the increase in the busi- 
ness a more rapid method of intercourse had to be devised, and now 
the shipments have become very frequent, with but very short inter- 
vals. 

The following table exhibits the dates of transmissions during the 
present year to each of the foreign countries corresponding with the 
Institution : 

Shipments to foreign countries. 



Country. 



Date. 



Algeria 

Aigentiue Republic 
Austria-Hungary . .. 



Belgium 



Bolivia 

Brazil 

British America 



British Colonies 

Cape Colouv 

Chili ^... 

China 

Colombia, United States of 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

DeiHiiark 

Ecuador ^ 

Egypt ;; 

France 



December 16, 1886. 

July 29, November 8, 1886; January 24, June 27, 1887. 

July 2;!, August 25, September 14, October 15, DeceiiititT 
11, December 27, I8»(i; Jiiiiuary 29, February 10, Feb- 
ruary 25, March 11, April 19, May 3, May 12, May 19, 
June 1, June 18, June 30, 1887. 

July 28, September 28, December 14, 1886; January 18, 
February 16, May 23, June 20, June 29, 1887. 

September 7, 1886. 

July 30, Novembers, 1886; January 24, June 27, 1887. 

August 5, August 17, October 25, November 11, December 
3, December 17, 1886 ; March 22, 1887. 

August 5, November 6, 1886. 

December 16, 1886. 

July 30, 18»6; January 24, June 27, 1887, 

February 21, 1887. 

July 31, 1886. 

August 1, 1886, 

March 19, 1887. 

July 28, September 27, 1886 ; February 18, June 25, 1887, 

July 31, 1886; January 24, 1887. 

December 16, 1886. 

July 26, August 25, September 11, September 14, Octo- 
ber 21, November 24, December 3, December 14, 1886; 
.January 18, January 28, February 10, February 25, 
March 25, March 31, May 2, May 9, May 12, May 19, J uoe 
14, June 18, June 30, 1887, 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
Shipments to foreign countries — Continued. 



35 



Country. 



Date. 



Germany 



Great Britain and Ireland. 



Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Holland 

Iceland 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Peru 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Russia 

Sandwich Islands. 
South Australia .. 
Spain 

Sweden , 

Switzerland 

Surinam 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

West Indies 



July 23, August 11, August 25, September 14, October 15, 
December 11, December 16, December 27, 1886; Janu- 
ary 7, January 20, February 10, February 25, March 
11^ March 16, April 19, May' 3, May 13, May 19, June 
1, June 14, June 18, June 30, 1887. 

July 21, August 11, September 5, October 18, December 
9, December 18, December 29, 1886 ; January 27, Febru- 
ary 11, March 12, April 5, April 21, May 3, May 13, May 
19", May 20, June 2. June 14, June 18, June 28, 1887. 

February 18, June 24, 1887. 

April 1, 1887. 

March 19, 1887. 

July 30, November 1, 1886 ; January 31, May 23, June 21, 
1887. 

September 27, 1886 ; February 17, 1887. 

July 13, August 3, November 11, 1886 ; February 21, 1887. 

July 26. September 22, November 23, 1886 ; January 8, 
January 17, March 17, April 29, May 21, June 18, 1887. 

August 3, November 11, 1886; February 21, March 14, 
1887. 

July 27, August 5, October 29, November 28, 1886 ; Jan- 
uary 21, June 25, 1887. 

August 2, November 6, 1886 ; May 27, 1887. 

August 2, November 6, 1886; May 28, 1887. 

July 2, July 29, August 25, 1886 ; March 15, June 11, June 
21, 1887. 

July 31; 1886; January 24, 1887. 

August 5, September 29, 1886; February 19, June 21, 
1887. 

August 2, November 6, 1886 ; May 27, 1887. 

July 27, September 30, December 1, 1886; January 18, 
February 2, April 28, May 12, Mav 24, June 20, 1887. 

July 31, 1886. 

August 2, November 6, 1886. 

August 3, September 28, 1886 ; February 19, Mav 25, June 
24, 1887. 

July 6, July 27, September 25, 1886; March 26, April 25, 
May 25, June 24, 1887. 

July 29, October 30, 1886; February 1, April 29, June 20, 
1887. 

September 21, 1886 ; January 24, 1887. 

November 6, 1886. 

July 28, 1886 ; June 14, 1887. 

July 31, 1886. 

Julv 31, 1886. 

August 2, November 6, 1886 ; May 27, 1887. 

March 19, 1887. 



In addition to the above transmissions of Smithsonian miscellane- 
ous exchanges, the following sendings of Government exchanges were 
made: 

Boxes. 

Two transmissions of 39 boxes 78 

One transmission 20 

One transmission 27 

One transmission ,., 38 



163 



36 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



It has been suggested that the intervals between the receipt, by the 
Smithsonian Institution, of packages and their delivery to the consignee 
might perhaps be lessened by some improved method of transmission. 
If there is ground for complaint of tardiness in the delivery, such charge 
can certainly not be made against the exchange ofiQce, in which but 
very small delays occur between the receipt of exchange packages and 
their transmission. 

In order to illustrate this assertion I now beg to submit the follow- 
ing tables of transmissions to France, Germany, Great Britain, and 
Italy. In each case twenty invoices have been selected at random, ex- 
tending over a period of almost three years, and their history has been 
traced from the ledger accounts as follows : 

FRANCE. 



Sender. 


No. of 

society. 


By exchange office. 


Acknowledged. 


Received. 


Sent. 


By agent. 


By consignee. 


Boston Society of Natural History. 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Bureau of Ethnology 

TJ. S. Geiiliigieal Survey 


2353 
2461 
2473 
2511 
2516 
2527 
2561 
2587 
2596 
2599 
2609 
2617 
2633 
2731 
2735 
2783 
2783 
2761 
2845 
2855 


Dec. 5,1884 
Feb. 19, 1885 
Apr. 14, 1885 
May 11, 1885 
July 3, 188i 
Sept. 15, 188.-. 
Oct. 14, 1885 
Apr. 2,1880 
May 28, 1886 
July 10, 1886 
Aug. 24, 1886 
Aug. 31, 1886 
Sept. 20, 1886 
Oct. 25,1886 
Jan. 13, 1887 
Feb. 7,1887 
Mar. 22, 1887 
Apr. 29, 1887 
Apr. 19, 1887 
June 17, 1887 


Jan. 17, 1885 




Mar. 1 1885 


Apr. 1,1885 
Apr. 17, 1885 
May 15, 1885 
Julv 10, 1885 
Sept. 17, 1885 
Nov. 7,1885 
Ai)r. 29, 18S6 
June 18, 1886 
July 26,1886 
Aug. 25, 1886 


May 29, 'l8'8'5 
May 28,1885 
June 23, 1885 
Aug. 20, 1885 
Oct. 21,1885 
Dec. 14,1885 
May 28, 1886 
Aug. 28, 1886 
Aug. 30, 1886 
Rfinr 9.R 18S(i 


May 22,1885 
May 30,1885 
June 30, 1885 




Aug. 24, 1885 


Geological Survey of I'tiiu.sylvania. 
Boston Society of Natural HLstory 

California Academy '. 

New York Academy of Science . . . 
TJ. S. Geological Survey 


Oct. 28,1885 
Mar. 20.1886 
June 4, 1886 
Aug. 21,1886 
Sept. 11,1886 
Oct. 20 1886 


Acta Mathematica 

Nautical Almanac 


Sept. 11,1886 Oct. 9J8eo 
Oct. 21, 1886 Nov. 24, 1886 
Nov. 24, 1886 1 Jan. 20, 1887 
Jan. 28, 1887 '. Mar. 4, 1887 
Feb. 10,1887 { Mar. 11,1887 
Mar. 22, 1887 1 Apr. 26, 1887 

May 2, 1887 '■ June S It^R? 


Oct. 1, 1886 
Dec. 8, 1886 
Jan 26 1887 


American I'liilosophical Society .. 

TJ. S. Geological Survey 

New fork Acailemy of Science . . . 


Mar. 10, 1887 
Miir. 16, 1887 
May 1, 1887 
Juno 11 1887 


American Academy, Beaton 

Smithsonian Report 1885, Part I . . . 


May 9, 1887 
June 18, 1887 


June 9, 1887 
Aug. 3,1887 


June 17, 1887 
Aug. 11,1887 



GERMANY. 



Bureau of Ethnology 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman . .' 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Department of the Interior 

Boston Society of Natural History 

U. S. Geological Survey ' . 

American Philo.^ophic'al Society. .. 

California Academy ' 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Sniiths.inian liijiort 1884,1 

Affa Matlifiiiiitica 

Nautical .A.liiianac 

Smithsonian Kfjtort 1884,11 

r'omptroller of the Currency...!!! 

Department of tlie Interior 

TJ. S. Geological Survey 

Smithsonian Institution, M. C. 28- 

30 

Smithsonian Institutiou 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman 

Bureau of Ethnology 



3071 
3091 
3147 
3165 
3213 
3223 
3237 
3295 
3299 
3307 
3309 
3311 
3313 
3345 
3383 
3637 

3737 
3775 
4589 
4651 



Dec. 

Feb. 

June 

July 

Oct. 

Feb. 

Mar. 

Apr. 

July 

Aug. 

Aug. 

Sept. 

Dec. 

Feb. 

Mar. 

May 



23, 1884 

24, 1885 
26, 1885 

13. 1885 
14, 1885 

9, 1886 

25. 1886 

2. 1886 
10, 18S6 
24, 1886 
31,18R6 

21. 1886 
23, 188U 

4, 1887 

14. 1887 

9. 1887 



May 19, 1887 
June 14, 1887 
May 13, 1887 
June 8, 1887 



Jan. 13, 
Mar. 18, 
June 30, 
July 17, 
.Nov. 6, 
Feb. 24, 
Mar. 29, 
May 3, 
Juiv 23, 
Aug. 25, 
Sept. 14, 
Oct. 15, 
Dec. 27, 
Feb. 25, 
Apr. 19, 
May 12, 



1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1887 
1887 
1887 



May 19,1887 
June 30, 1887 
June 1, 1887 
June 14, 1887 



Mar. 3, 
Apr. 22, 
Aug. 25, 
...do . 
Dec. 10, 
Apr. 6, 
May 12, 
J une 7. 
Aug. 24, 
Nov. 7, 
..do .. 
Nov. 20, 
Feb. IS, 
Apr. 2, 
May 21, 
June 15, 



1885 1 

1885 

1885 

1885 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 

1886 
1887 
1887 
1887 
1887 



June 18, 1887 
Aug. ,3,1887 
Jirly 5, 1887 
July 21, 1887 



June 30, 1885 
June 25, 1885 
Oct. 22, 1885 
Oct. 21,11-85 
Feb. 5,1886 
May 18, ]8»-6 
July 9, 18.^6 
July 12, li-8ti 
Oct. 14,1886 
Nov. 15, 18.' 6 
Nov. 10, IS^'e 
Jan. 29, 1887 
Mar. 24, 1887 
Apr. 20, 1887 
July 7, 1887 

bo. 

Do. 

Sept. y, 1887 
July 15, 1887 
July 25,1887 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES, 

GREAT BRITAIN. 



37 



Sender. 



Bnrcjiii of Ethnolopcy 

Kew Yoik State Library 

Aiiinrioan Academy, Boston 

U. S. Geolof^ifal Survey 

Sniithsouian Report, 1883 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Do 

Smithsonian Report, 1884, 1 . . 

U. S. Geological Survey 

National Aoadeiny of Sciences . . 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Acta Alatheruatica 

American Philosophical Society . 

Smithsonian Report, 1884, II 

U. S. Geological Survey 

Do . 

Trenton (N.J.) Natural History 

Society , 

New York Academy 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Smithsonian Report, 1885, 1 



No. of 
society. 



5421 
.5485 
5195 
5197 
5505 
5529 
5531 
5.D37 
5541 
5567 
5609 
5615 
5()63 
56G9 
5673 
5683 

5689 
5695 
5697 
5701 



By exchange ofiBce. 



Acknowledged. 



Received. 



Apr. 14, 1885 
June 2, l!^85 
July 23, 1885 
Aug. 4, 1885 
Oct. 12,1885 
Oct. 19, 1885 
Nov. 30, 1885 
May 5, 1886 
May lU. 18c6 
May 21,1886 
June 1, 1886 
Aug. 31, 1886 
Sept. 3, 18S;6 
Dec. 23,18811 
Jan. 6, 1887 
Feb. 7, 1887 

Feb. 25, 1887 
Mar. 22, 1887 
June 8, 18K7 
June 17, 1887 



Sent. 



Apr. 17, 
June 22, 
Aug. 1, 
Sept. 2, 
Oct. 12, 
Oct. 27, 
Jan. 8, 
May 7, 
May 9, 
May 25, 
June 16, 
Sept. 3, 
Oct. IS, 
Dec. 28, 
Jan. 27, 
Feb. 11, 



1885 
1885 
]8t<5 
1885 

iHHo 
1S85 
1886 
18^6 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1887 
1887 



By agent. 



Mar. 12,1887 
Apr. 5, 1887 
June 14, 1887 
June 18, 1887 



May — , 
July 25, 
Sept. 12, 
Oct. 5, 
Nov. 24, 
Dec. 8 
Mar. 23, 
July 15, 
....ilo .. 
July 14, 
July 23, 
Oct. 19, 
Dec. 21, 
Mar. 26 
...d.. .. 
Apr. 23, 



1885 

1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
188.) 
1886 
1886 



1886 

issn 

1886 
1886 

1887 

1887 



. -do 

May 17, 1887 
July 16, 1887 
July 21, 1887 



By consignee. 



May 
July 
Sept. 
Dec. 
Nov. 
Dec. 
Mar. 
July 
July 
July 
July 
Nov. 
Dec. 
Apr. 
Mar. 
Apr. 



20, 1885 
31, 1885 
22, 1885 

30. 1885 
27, 1885 
14, 1885 
10, 1886 

5, 1886 
12, 1886 

16. 1886 

29. 1886 
3, 1886 
2, 1886 

12, 1887 
26,1887 

18. 1887 



May 24,1887 
May 20,1887 
July 20,1887 
July 26, 1887 



ITALY. 



Bureau of Ethnoloev 

Do 

Geological Survey of Minnesota. . 

Peabody Institute 

Smithsonian In8titution 

National Academy of Sciences. .. 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Smithsonian Repoit, 1883. 

Smithsonian Report, 188t 

California Academy, etc 

Academy of Natural Sciences, 

Philadelphia 

Acta Mathematica 

Academy of Natural Sciences, 

Philadelphia 

John Hampden 

Smithsonian Report, 1884, II 

Academy of Natural Sciences, 

Philadelphia 

American Academy, Boston 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Smithsonian Report, 1885, i 

Do 



6671 
6695 
6325 
6351 
6315 
6327 
6357 
6329 
6335 
6363 

6445 
6447 

6365 
6503 
6469 

6725 
6539 
6503 
6649 
6691 



Dec. 23, 
Apr. 14, 
Apr. 29, 
June 10, 
July 3, 
Nov. 2.3, 
Jan. 8, 
Feb. 15, 
Mivy 5, 
Apr. 2, 



1884 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 



July 16, 1886 
Aug. 31, 1886 

Nov. 19, 1886 
Jan. 3, 1887 
Jan. 17,1887 

Mar. 12, 1887 
Apr. 19, 1887 
Apr. 29, 1887 
June 17, 1887 
...do 



J. in. 26, 
Apr. 18, 
May 6, 
June 20, 
July 11, 
Dec. 8, 
Jan. 9, 
Feb. 15, 
May 5, 
May 24, 



1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1885 
1886 
1886 
1886 
1886 



July 26, 1886 
Sept. 24, 1886 

Nov. 23, 1886 
Jan. 10, 1887 
Jan. 17,1887 

Mar. 17, 1887 
Apr. 29, 1887 
May 21, 1887 
June 18, 1887 
....do 



June 25, 1885 



July 3,1885 



Mar. 31, 1886 
June 25, 1886 



Dec. 16,1886 

Feb. 10,1887 
Mar. 7,1887 
....do 



June 30, 1887 
July 31, 1887 
Sept. 27, 1887 
do 



Nov. 

Sept. 

Oct. 

Apr. 

Apr. 

Apr. 

Oct. 

July 

Dec. 

Dec. 



30. 1885 
20, 188"> 
27, 1885 

7, 1886 

8, 1886 

14. 1886 
31, 18(-6 
31, li-86 
10, 1886 
20, 1886 



Mar. 25,1887 
Mar. 1, 1887 

Mar. 18,1887 
Apr. 26,1887 
Mar. 27,1887 

Sept. 24,1887 

Do. 
Aug. 25, 1887 
Oct. 3, 1887 

Do. 



From the preceding tables the intervals between the receipt at and 
the shii)ment by the exchange ofBce are shown to be as follows : 





Country, 


Longest. 


Shortest. 


Mean. 


France 


Da>js. 
42 
35 
45 
33 


Days. 






Days. 


Germany 


13^ 


Great Britain, etc 


12i 


Italy 


9i 







It will also be noticed that in many instances the packages were 
shipped on the very day of their delivery to the exchange office. 



38 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
Shipments received from abroad. 



Country. 



Date. 



Argeutine Republic 

Australia 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Ceutral America . . . 

Denmark 

France 



Germany (including Aus- 
tria-Hungary). 



Great Britain and Ireland. i 



Holland ... 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Norway 

Russia 

Sweden 

Switzerland 



September 30, 1S8G. 

December 5, 1886; January 3, March 4, 1887. 

October 14, December 17, December 27. 1886. 

Fcl)ruary 25, 1887. 

September 4, September G, 188G. 

September 7, December 14, 188G ; February 15, 1887. 

September 1, September 6, November 12, November 23, 
December 1, 1-86; January 24, February 8, February 
10, April 21, 1887. 

July 28, August 19, September 16, September 18, Septem- 
ber 30, October 30, November 20, December 4, 1886 ; 
January 6, January 8, February 10, February 25, 
March 15, March 31, April 8, May 5, May 26, June 6, 
1887. 

July 2, July 12, July 17, July 21, July 26, July 29, Au- 
gust 16, August 19, August 26, September 4, Septem- 
ber 10, September 20, September 23, October 1, Octo- 
ber 8, October 1.5, October 22, October 30, November 15, 
November 17, November 20, November 27, December 4, 
December 17, December 28, 1886 ; January -^, January 
18, January 21, January 24, January 31, Februarv 25, 
March 1.5, March 26, April 2, April 22, May 14, May 23, 
May 26, June 1, June 7, June 24, 1887. 

August 7, November 29, 1886 ; April 11, 1887. 

October 20, November 13, 1886 ; Februarv 25, 1887. 

December 18, 1886. 

December 28, 1886. 

October 30, December 18, December 23, 1380 • March 8, 
May 26, 1887. 

November 13, 1886 ; May 14, 1887. 

October 30, 1886 ; May 14, 1887. 

(Included in sendings from Germany.) 



II. — Government Exchanges. 

The Smithsonian Institution, charged by the Government of the 
United States with the duties required for the execution of an exchange 
of oflBcial public documents with foreign Governments, as provided for 
by the laws of March 2, 1867, and July 25, 1868, has, during the past 
year, received from the Public Printer three hundred and seventy-one 
sets (of fifty copies each) of official publications. These were distrib- 
uted in the usual manner to the contracting Governments of thirty- 
eight countries. 

The Governments of Peru and Austria were added to the list, thus 
increasing the number of recipients to forty. 



EXCHANGE WITH AUSTRIA. 



The first step toward establishing exchange relations with the Gov- 
ernment of Austria was taken in 1876, by the transmission of the first 
two boxes of official publications, which were deposited in the Imperial 
Library at Vienna. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 39 

In 1884 the subject was again taken up on occasion of my mission to 
Europe, as described in the Sinithsouian Eeports for 1884 and 1885, but 
no definite arrangement could be decided on. 

On the 14th of December the following letter was received by the 
Smithsonian Institution : 

The chargS d'affaires of Austria Hungary to the Secretary of the Smithso 

niaii Institution. 

Washington, D. C, December 14, 1886. 
Sib: Having been instructed to transmit to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution a case which reached this legation yesterday, and which con- 
tains thirty-four volumes (and one register) of stenographic reports 
referring to the ninth session of both houses ot the Imperial Parliament, 
I have the honor to inform you that said case shall be forwarded with 
out delay to your address. 

Please to acknowledge the receipt of said publications, and accept, 
sir, the renewed assurance of my high consideration. 
Yours, very respectfully, 

Lippe-Weissenfels. 

The first advance toward the accomplishment of the proposition for 
an exchange made by the United States having thus been made by the 
Imperial Government in Vienna, it was decided to make an immediate 
return in official publications of the United States Government, result- 
ing in the following correspondence : 

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the consul-general of Aus- 
tria-Hungary in New York. 

Washington, D. C, January 8, 1887 
Sir: The Smithsonian Institution, on bebalfof the United States 
Government, is about presenting to the Imperial Government at Vienna 
a set of the United States official documents published since January 
1, 1868, comprising twenty-five packing-boxes, with an approximate 
bulk of 160 cubic feet, and an aggregate weight of about 6,000 pounds. 
In this transaction we desire the Imperial Government to be at the 
least possible expense, and we therefore propose to deliver the cases, 
freight prepaid, at an Austrian sea-port easy of access to Vienna, such 
as Trieste or Fiume, provided we could arrange for the shipment of the 
lot by some sailing vessel bound direct for one of those ports. 

We are not cognizant of any regular sailing communication between 
the United States and Austria, and therefore beg to request your kind 
co-operation in the matter, by informing us of the existence of a regular 
line plying between New York and one of the above-named Austrian 
ports, or of the possibility of arranging with some Austrian vessel for 
the shipment, at reasonable rates, of the lot of books mentioned, which 
could be delivered in New York within forty-eight hours of any informa- 
tion received. 

Very respectfully, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



40 KEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

In reply to this letter the following communication was received : 

The Imiierial and Royal Austro-Hungarian consulate-general^ New York, to 
the Secretary of the Smithsoniafi Institution. 

New York, January 17, 1887. 
Sir : In receipt of your esteemed favor of the 8th instant, I beg to say 
that I shall be most happy to co-operate with you in the matter of the 
shipment of a set of United States official documents to the Imperial 
Government at Vienna, 

There is, unfortunately, no regular sailing communication between 
the United States and Austria, nor is there at this moment any sailing- 
vessel or steamer in port bound direct to Trieste or Fiume. 

It may be that an opportunity will before long offer itself to ship the 
books by an Austrian sailing vessel to a home port, and in that case I 
shall not fail to communicate with you at once. 

I have also given instructions to be promptlj^ advised of the loading 
of any sading vessel or steamer for Austrian ports, so as to make ar- 
rangements for this shipment. 

I shall have the pleasure of reporting progress as soon as possible ; 
and remain, 

Very respectfully, etc., 

Hugo Fritsch, 

Consul. 

The Imperial and Royal Austro-Hungarian consulate-general, New York, 
to the Secretary of the Smithsoniaii Institution. 

New York, May 2, 1887. 
Sir : Referring to my last of January 17, a. c, I am to-day enabled to 
comply with your favor of January 8. 

There is no Austrian vessel as yet for Trieste, but the Italian bark 
Peppino Mignano is now loading for that port and will sail in about two 
weeks. 

The agents are Messrs. Punch, Edye & Co., 27 South William street, 
New York, whose card I inclose ; they name $5 and 5 per cent, per 40 
cubic feet as lowest rate. 

Very respectfully, etc., 

Hugo Fritsch, 

Consul. 

[Indosnre.] 

Card of Funch, Edye & Co., ship brokers, 27 South William street. 
New York, stating "the Italian bark Peppino Mignano will sail for 
Trieste in about two weeks, from foot of Eichard street, Erie Basin, 
Brooklyn. Freight $5 and 5 per cent, per 40 cubic feet." 

The Smithsonian Institution to Dr. von Tavera, envoy, etc., of His Majesty 
the Emperor of Austria. 

Washington, D. C, May 9, 1887. 
Sir: I have the honor inclosed to submit a copy of a communication 
addressed by the Smithsonian Institution on the i2th of October, 1885, 
to Count Lippe Weissenfels, the Imperial Austrian charg6 d'affaires (this 
communication will be found on page 109 of the Smithsonian Annual 
Report for 1886, Part I), explanatory of the steps taken for the final 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 41 

settlement of the question of an exchange of the official publications 
between the Government of His Majesty and that of the United States, 
proposed by the Smithsonian Institution, as the authorized agent of the 
Government in 1884. 

Since then, on the 14th December, 1886, the first advance was made 
by the Austrian Government by the transmission, through His Majesty's 
legation, of a case containing the " stenographic reports referring to the 
ninth session of both houses of the Imperial Parliament," and being 
desirous of making an immediate return, we placed ourselves in com- 
munication with the Austrian consul general in New York, relative to 
the best mode of forwarding our exchanges to the Austrian port most 
convenient to Vienna. 

In compliance with our request, Consul-General Fritsch of New York 
now informs us that the Italian bark Peppino iMignano is about to sail 
for Trieste. Therefore, unless your excellency is prepared to provide 
for a channel of transmission, we propose to utilize the opportunity 
thus offered, and to send by this bark, freight prepaid, to Trieste the 
twenty-seven boxes of official documents (with a bulk of about 160 cubic 
feet and a total weight of about 7,000 pounds) required, additional to the 
two boxes already deposited in the Imperial Public Library in Vienna, 
to complete the series comprised in the exchange proposition, and now 
beg you to kindly arr:inge or have the Imperial Government arrange 
for their delivery to some responsible party in Trieste. 

The annual addition to this collection will be about three boxes, and 
we desire instructions to deliver the same hereafter to the consul-general 
in New York for transmission to Vienna. 

As provided for in the stipulations of exchanges proposed through 
Mr. Boehmer in 1884, we trust that the minister of foreign affairs in 
Vienna may be pleased to arrange for the collecting from the various 
departments and bureaus of the Government and from the scientific es- 
tablishments and institutions under their care, of one copy each of all the 
publications made by them or under their direction, and to have the 
same forwarded to the agent of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Felix 
Fliigel, 39 Sidonien Strasse, Leipzig, who has received instructions 
relative to their transmission to the United States. 

With the assurance of my high consideration, etc. 

Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary. 

[Telegram.] 

Smithsonian Institution to Funch, Edye & Co., New York. 

Washington, D. C, May 10, 1887. 
Will shipment for Trieste be in time for barque Feppino Mignano, 
and shall cases be addressed to your care or to vessel? Wire answer. 

Smithsonian Institution. 

[Telegram.] 

Fundi. Edye & Co., New YorJc, to Smithsonian Institution. 

New York, May 10, 1887. 
Vessel for Trieste will receive up to Saturday, this week. Must have 
clearance Saturday morning. 

Funch, Edye & Co. 



42 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

The Imperial and Royal Austro-Hungarian legation to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Washington, D. C, May 11, 1887. 
Sir : I liave had the honor to receive your letter dated May 9, by 
which you inform me of the transmission to the Imperial and Koyal 
Government of twenty-seven boxes of official documents by way of the 
Austro-Hungarian consulate at New York. The said consular office 
will be accordingly instructed to take the proper steps for having the 
said cases shipped on the Italian bark Peppino Mignano. 

I shall at the same time communicate to the Imperial and Royal Gov- 
ernment your remarks with regard to the mutual exchange of official 
documents, and trust that this exchange will proceed in a regular and 
satisfactory way according to the mutually established stipulations. 
Receive, sir, the assurance of my high consideration. 

Tavera, 
A ustro - Hungarian M inis ter. 

The Smithsonian Institution to Hon. Hugo Fritsch, Imperial Austrian 
consul-general, New York. 

Washington, D. C, May 11, 1887. 

Sir : Upon the receipt of your esteemed favor of the 2d instant, we 
placed ourselves in communication with the Imperial Austriau legation 
in this city, relative to some minor details regarding the fiual disposi- 
tion of the cases of international exchanges for the Austrian Govern- 
ment, and now have the pleasure to inform you that we have sent to the 
careof Messrs. Funch,Edye &Co., 27 South William street, as suggested 
by you, twenty-seven cases of the official documents of the United 
States Government for transmission, freight prepaid, to Trieste, per 
Italian bark Peppino Mignano. 

The minister announces to-day that he has written to you relative to 
these cases, and we beg you to make the necessary arrangement for their 
delivery to some responsible party in Trieste. 

Thanking you for the interest you have taken in the subject, I am, etc., 

Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary. 

The Smithsonian Institution to Messrs. Punch, Edye & Co., Neic York. 

Washington, D. C., May 11, 1887. 
Gentlemen: Confirming the receipt of your telegram of yesterday, 
I now have the pleasure of announcing the shipment per Pennsylvania 
Railroad, to your care, of twenty-seven cases of exchanges for the Gov- 
ernment of Austria. These we request you to forward to Trieste, sub- 
ject to a possible arrangement for their delivery there by the Austrian 
consul in New York, per Italian bark Peppino Mignano, having the 
freight on the same prepaid to Trieste at the rate specified by you, $5 
and 5 per cent, per 40 cubic feet, and collecting the amount from us. 

We also request you to announce to us the arrival and shipment of 
the cases, and to have two copies of the bill of lading mailed to us at 
your earliest convenience. 

Very respectfully, etc., 

Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 43 

The Smithsonian Institution to Dr. von Tavern, Imperial and Royal Aus- 
trian envoy extraordinary. 

Washington, D. C, May 2G, 1887. 

Sir : Referriug to previous correspoudeuce ou the subject, I have 
the honor to submit a copy of the bill of lading-, per Italian bark Pep- 
pino Migjiano, for the twenty seven cases of official publications ad- 
dressed by the Smithsonian Institution, on behalf of the Government 
of the United States, to the Imperial Government at Vienna. 

The cases are numbered 1168-1194, and the freight ou the same has 
been prepaid by us to Trieste, as per agreement. 
I have the honor, etc., 

S. F. Langley, 
Acting Secretary. 

The Imperial and Royal Austrian envoy extraordinary to the acting 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Washington, D. C., May 28, 1887. 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of 
your letter dated 26th instant, by which you transmitted to me the bill 
of lading for the twenty-seven cases of official publications addressed 
by the Smithsonian Institution to the Imperial and Royal Govern- 
ment. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

Tavera, 

Minister. 

EXCHANGES WITH PERU. 

On the 16th of May, 1867, the Smithsonian Institution, as the agent 
of the United States Government for the exchange of official public 
documents with foreign nations as provided for by act of March 2, 1867, 
invited, among others, the Government of Peru to participate in the 
proposed exchange. The proposition was favorably received, and the 
acceptance, ou the part of the Peruvian Government, expressed in a let- 
ter emanating from the foreign office in Lima, Peru, on the 30th De- 
cember, 1867, and transmitted to the Smithsonian Institution through 
the United States Department of State. (See Smithsonian Annual Re- 
port for 1881, p. 760, 761 ; also History of Smithsonian Exchanges, 
Washington, 1882, pp. 58-59.) 

By some inexplicable oversight this subject was comj^letely lost sight 
of until in the beginning of the present fiscal year, when it was again 
brought to notice by Mr. Elmore, then the representative of the Peru- 
vian Government at Washington, and chief clerk of the Peruvian for- 
eign office in 1867, at the time of the acceptance of the proposition on 
the part of his Government. 

In consequence relations were at once established, of which the fol- 
lowing correspondence is a portion, and which terminated in the trans- 



44 REPOET ON EXCHANGES. 

mission, by the Smithsonian Institution, of a set of twenty cases, ad- 
dressed to the Government of Pern at Lima : 

Prof. Spencer F. Baird to the Secretary of State. 

Washington, D. C, July 2, 1886. 

Sir : During tlie administration of my predecessor in office, the la- 
mented Professor Henry, a letter dated Febrnary 8, 1868, was received 
from the then Secretary of State, Hon. William H. Seward, transmit- 
ting a note from the foreign office at Lima with reference to a proposi- 
tion from this Institution for an exchange of official documents with the 
Eepublic of Peru. Printed copies of this correspondence I inclose. 

In some inexplicable way the subject has been entirely lost sight of and 
has only just been brought to the light; and I beg to state that the In- 
stitution is now anxious to resume negotiations with the Peruvian Gov- 
ernment relative to the proposed exchange. 

The Smithsonian Institution as the agent for international exchanges 
. on the part of the United States Government is pre])ared to furnish the 
Government of Peru with a collection of several thousand volumes of 
documents published by the United States since 1868. These can be 
delivered to the Peruvian consul at New York free of charge. The re- 
turns of publications on the part of Peru, which should be full and in 
as complete series as possible, should be delivered free of charge to the 
United States consul atCallao. The returns will be placed in the Library 
of Congress in accordance with existing law. The Peruvian Govei;n- 
ment, if desirous of renewing its acceptance of the proposition of the 
Institution, should, of course, furnish us with the name of the depart- 
ment designated to receive the books transmitted on behalf of the 
United States. 

We should also be pleased to have the Peruvian department to which 
the business of the exchange is assigned take charge of and distribute 
the miscellaneous scientific exchanges presented by societies and indi- 
viduals, through the Smithsonian Institution, to correspondents in that 
country, the Institution guaranteeing a like service for any parcels of 
similar character for the United States and Europe. 
Very respectfully, etc., 

Spencer F. Baird. 

Secretary. 

The Secretary of State to Frof. Spencer F. Baird. 

Washington, A ugust 2, 1886. 
Sir : I transmit, with a reference to a recent letter of your Institu- 
tion on the same subject, a copy of a communication from" Mr. Elmore, 
the late minister of Peru to the United States, now in Washington, 
and beg to suggest that the cases of books which your Institution has 
for consignment to the Peruvian Government may be forwarded as de- 
sired, if agreeable to your methods. 
I am, etc., 

T. F. Bayard. 

[Inclosure.] 

Mr. Elmore to the Secretary of State. 

Washington, July 31, 1886. 
My Dear Sik: I take the liberty to call your atteutiou to a matter of great inter- 
est and of much iniportauce for Pern, and which, if the snggestiou I am about to 
make is carried out, will be a source of real joy among all Peruvians who desire to 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 45 

study and know better tlie United States and who wish to develop their own coun- 
try by the arts of peace. I refer to the execution of the agreement in 1867 between 
Peru aud the United States to exchange their respective Government publications. 

This system of international exchanges, authorized by an act of Congress, March 
2, lw67, proposed to foreign nations, through the State Department, in a circular by 
the Smithsonian Institution, May 16, 1867, was " accepted in all of its terms" by a 
decree of the President of Peru on 27th December, 18157. (See pages 58 and 59 of "A 
History of the Smithsonian Exchanges," by George H. Boehmer, from the Smith- 
sonian Report for 1881.) 

Through causes too long to state in this letter the exchange with Peru was imper- 
fectly carried out, or not at all. Of course Peru, under any circumstances, would be 
benefited by the exchange more than the United States; but it is precisely on this 
account that I now beg to be allo^ved to address you on the subject, because my ob- 
ject is to request you to do Peru a great service, now needed more than at any time 
before. 

It is known that one of the first acts of the Chilians when they occupied Lima in 
1881 was to sack and destroy or carry away completely the .whole of the old and 
valuable library of Lima. The Peruvian Government in 1883 began to take steps to 
form a new library, which has been created, having at present about 30,000 volumes, 
mostly the gift of foreign governments and institutions and of literary men and 
other private individuals. 

During Secretary Frelinghnysen's time I made some efforts to obtain a few works 
of interest from this country, which in 1884 I presented to the new national library 
of Lima. But most of the United States publications destined for Peru since 1868 
are kept in deposit, packed up in boxes, in the Smithsonian Institution, awaiting the 
order of your Government to be sent to the Peruvian Government, who will in return 
send to the Smithsonian Institution, for the Library of Congress, a full set of the offi- 
cial aud other publications of Peru. 

As now, after many years of disorder, Peru has a regularly elected constitutional 
government, the opportunity to send the Smithsonian exchanges to Peru is most 
admirable, aud the benefit you will confer on Peru will be very great and will be 
fully appreciated. 

On the 9th of August, probablj', a gentleman of New York, intimately connected 
with the conmierce of Peru, and whose firm (that of Messrs. W. R. Grace & Co., Han- 
over Square, New York) holds important contracts with the Peruvian Government, 
leaves for Lima. During a very long time no opportunity so good as this will pre- 
sent itself to have the valuable Smithsonian collection sent to Peru. The books are 
ready, packed up in about eighteen cases (measuring about 50 cubic feet), and con- 
taining over 1,000 volumes. 

The United States Government would have no expense in this matter. As usnal, 
the Smithsonian Institution would forward the cases to. New York, and Messrs. W. 
R. Grace & Co. would attend to the shipping for accouut of the Peruvian Govern- 
ment. 

I earnestly beg you, Mr. Secretary, to let the books be sent at once to the Govern- 
ment of Peru, as, going as they would, under the personal care of Mr. W. R. Grace, 
they would arrive with the greatest safety. The Smithsonian Institution only awaits 
your directions to forward the cases to New York. 
Believe me, etc., 

J. F. Elmore. 

Prof. Spencer F. Baird to tJie Secretary of State. 

Washington, D. C, August 9, 1886. 
Sir: Referriug to your communication of Au;;ust 2, in reply to a 
letter from this Institution on the same subject, I beg to say that your 
suggestion with reference "to the publications of the United States for 
the Government of Peru has been favorably considered, aud twenty 
boxes containing the same are forwarded to the care of Messrs. Grace 
& Co., in New York, for shipment to Peru. 

I have the honor to be, etc., S. F. Baird, 

Secretary. 

The Secretary of State to Prof S. F. Baird. 

Washington, November 3, 1886, 
Sir : I have to say, in further reply to your letter of the 2d July last, 
that the Peruvian Government is anxious to continue the arrangements 



46 REPORT ON EXCHANGES, 

for the exchange of public documents with the Goverument of the 
United States. I inclose a copy of a note from Mr. Eivas, the minister 
of foreign affairs at Lima, on the subject. 

I am, etc., T. F. Bayard. 

[Inclosure.] 
Minister of foreign relations, Lima, to Hon. T. F. Bayard, Secrelary of Slate. 

Lima, September 13, 1886. 

Mr. Minister: I Lave had the honor of receiving the very polite dispatch of your 
excellency relative to the exchange of puhlications between Peru and the United 
States. 

In reply, I have the pleasure of manifesting to your excellency that ray Govern- 
ment has a lively desire to maintain the arrangement celebrated in 1867 with the 
Smithsonian Institution, having to that end authorized the director of the national 
library to make remittances of Peruvian works with such exactness as is possible. 

My Government appreciates and esteems at its value this literary exchange between 
two sister peoples of similar political institutions, in which is illustrated a spirit re- 
dounding in benefits to society. 

The library of Lima, which was destroyed by the invading army, has been re- 
established through tlie generous co-o})eration of friendly Governments and foreign 
scientific societies, among which the Smithsonian has distinguished its efforts superior 
to all. 

My Government desires, in making this expression of its gratitude, that through 
the worthy medium of your excellency it be placed in the knowledge of the Secretary 
of that Institution, manifesting at the same time that it will not omit efforts to per- 
petually comply with the arrangement to which I have referred. 

Reiterating with this motive to your excellency assurances of my most high and 
distinguished consideration. 

M. M. RjVAS. 

DEFECTS OF THE EXCHANGE SYSTEM. 

In carrying on the operations of an international exchange of oflScial 
publications, the Smithsonian Institution, as the agent of the United 
States Government, experiences two difficulties, which it has for many 
years endeavored to overcome, without, however, fully accomplishing 
the desired end. 

These obstacles are — 

(1) The failure to procure the fifty copies of each and every public 
document for exchange purposes; and 

(2) The inability to secure, by means of correspondence alone, the 
entire fruits of the wise provision of Congress in the way of adequate 
returns from foreign Governments for the books sent by us. 

The first point has been the subject of repeated appeal to Congress, 
and I now beg to present the correspondence illustrating our last efibrt 
in that direction : 

The Smithsonian Institution to the Hon. A. E. Spofford, Librarian of 

Congress. 

Washington, D. C, February 21, 1887. 

Sir : On the 7th of March, 1884, and on October 7, 1885, the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution had the honor to address the Hon. 
John Sherman, chairman of the Joint Library Committee of Congress, 
as follows : 

"After overcoming many obstacles, the Smithsonian system of ex- 
changes has now been placed upon a most satisftictory basis, the only 
difficulty of any magnitude yet remaining being inability on the part 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 47 

of the Smithsonian Institution, as the Government intermediary, to 
secure the entire fruit of the wise provision of Congress in the way of 
fifty copies of each and every public document for exchange purposes, 
and to this extent the system is yet imperfect. Id the absence of strict 
compliance with the stipulation that all works published by the United 
States — its Congress, Executive Departments, Bureaus, etc. — shall be 
furnished for the purpose, the Institution can hardly exact from foreign 
Governments that have entered into an international exchange alliance 
copies of everything they, respectively, issue. 

" I would therefore ask you respectfully to consider the several enact- 
ments upon the subject of international exchange, and that such supple- 
mentary legislation be provided as will enable us to surmount the diffi- 
culty referred to." 

In the absence of any action on the subject as requested, Professor 
Baird, on the 18th of January, 1886, addressed himself to the Hon. 
William J. Sewell, chairman of the Joint Library Committee of Con- 
gress, as follows: 

" It again becomes the duty of the Smithsonian Institution, as the 
agentfortheGovernment exchanges under appointment of Congressional 
act of March 2, 1867, to suggest a review by the Library Committee of 
the several enactments upon the subject of international exchanges, to 
the end that such additional legislation be provided as will render the 
Institution able to enforce strict compliance (on the part of the Public 
Printer and the various Departments and Bureaus of the Government) 
witli the order of Congress that all worlcs published by the United States 
of America,, u-hether by its Congress,, its Executive Departments, or its Bu- 
reaus, a7id whether printed at the Public Printing Office or elsewhere, be 
furnished the Smithsonian Institution in fifty copies of each of the three 
distinct series, as specif ed in the acts of March 2, 1867, and July 25, 1868, 
and without which the Government of the United States, through the 
Library of Congress, will fail to reap the full benefit of that complete 
exchange which was intended and desired when the American Congress 
first exhibited its enlightened liberality in the wise provision for an ex- 
change of United States official publications for those of foreign na- 
tions." 

The letter was accompanied by a memorandum specifying the various 
enactments on international exchange, and illustrating the defects of 
existing laws on the subject. 

No attention, however, was given by the Joint Library Committee to 
the request for a consideration of the requirements as pointed out by 
the Institution, and the present session of Congress drawing to a close 
without any action having been had in relation to it, I beg to invite 
your cooperation — as the party most interested in the results of the 
service — by requesting you to bring the matter before the proper com- 
mittee, for whose information and guidance, in connection with any new 
legislation which it may deem proper to suggest for the consideration 
of Congress, I inclose herewith a brief sketch of existing laws on the 
subject. 

In order to obtain for the international exchange the advantages de- 
sired by Congress, the laws governing it should be amended so as to 
make it obligatory on the part of the Public Printer, the Executive De- 
partments and Bureaus of the Government to furnish the fifty copies 
of each and every i)ublication made by them, of whatever class or de- 
scription, called for by the original acts of March 2, 1867, and Julv 25, 
1868. 

I am, sir, etc S. P. Langley, 

Assistant Secretary. 



48 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

[Inclosnre.] 

Oil the 2d clay of March, 1867, Congress passed the following reso- 
lution (Stat, at Large, vol. 14, p. 573): 

^^ Resolved by the ISenate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in Congress assembled, Tiiat fifty copies of all documents here- 
after printed by order of either House of Congress, and fifty copies ad- 
ditional of all documents printed in excess of the usual number, together 
with fifty copies of each publication issued by any Department or 
Bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Com- 
mittee on the Library, who shall exchange the same, throujih the agency 
of the Smithsonian Institution, for such works published in foreign 
countries, and especially by foreign Governments, as may be deemed 
by said committee an equivalent ; said works to be deposited in the 
Library of Congress." 

This resolution provides, as i^lainly and distinctly expressed, for three 
times fifty copies of certain official publications, or, rather, for fifty 
copies each of three different and distinct issues into which the publi- 
cations of the United States Government may be classed: 

I. The Congressional issue, consisting of series of journals, reports of 
committees, miscelhineous documents, and executive documents. 

II. The annual reports of the Exeeutive Departments and Bureaus of 
the Government. 

III. The memoirs, monographs, and special reports published by the 
Executive Departments and Bureaus of the Government. 

Of the first issue (the Congressional), the usual number printed is, as 
prescribed in section 3792 Revised Statutes, "fifteen hundred and fifty 
copies of any document ordered by Congress," etc., increased to nineteen 
hundred, which includes the installments for distribution by the Con- 
gressional Library and for exchange in foreign countries. 

Section 3799 provides that " of the documents printed by order of 
either House of Congress there shall be printed and bound fifty addi- 
tional copies for the purpose of exchange in foreign countries." 

The second series is formed by the "extra copies" ordered to be 
printed by Congress in addition to the usual number, and represent the 
annual report of the Executive Dei)artnients and Bureaus of the Gov- 
ernment, Reports on Foreign Affairs, Commerce and Navigation, Com- 
mercial Relations, etc., and as such form each an independent series of 
Government publications. 

Relative to this issue, section 3796 Revised Statutes provides : " The 
Congressional Printer shall, when so directed by the eToint Committee 
on the Library, print in addition to the usual number either fifty or one 
hundred copies, as he may be directed, of all documents printed by 
either House of Congress or by any Department or Bureau of the Gov- 
ernment." 

Resolution No. 72, second session Fortieth Congress (approved July 25, 
1868), a resolution to carry into effect the resolution approved March 2, 
1867, providing for the exchange of certain public documents, specifies : 
"That the Congressional Printer, whenever he shall be so directed by 
the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and he hereby is, directed to 
print fifty cojiies in addition to the regular number of all documents 
hereafter printed by order of either House of Congress, or by order of 
any Department or Bureau of the Government, and whenever he shall 
^be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library, one hundred 
copies additional of all documents ordered to be printed in excess of the 
usual number; said fifty or one hundred copies to be delivered to the 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 49 

Librarian of Congress, to be exchanged under the direction of the Joint 
Committee on the Library, as provided for by joint resolution approved 
March 2, 1867." 

The third series, the memoirs, monographs, or special reports pub- 
lished by the Executive Departments and Bureaus of the Government, 
is ])rovided for by section 2 of the above joint resolution No. 72, sec- 
ond session Fortieth Congress, approved July 25, 1868 — a resolution to 
carry into effect the resolution approved March 2, 1807, providing for 
tbe exchange of certain public documents, as follows : " And be it further 
resolved, That fifty copies of each publication, printed under the direc- 
tion of any Department or Bureau of the Government, whether at the 
Congressional Printing UfBce or elsewhere, shall be placed at the dis- 
posal of the Joint Committee on the Library to carry out the provision 
of said resolution." 

Subsequent to this resolutio)i becoming a law the Hon, E. D. Morgan, 
chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library, addressed the fol- 
lowing letter to the Public Printer, J. D. Defrees, esq. : 

" Washington, D. C, October 24, 1868. 

"I have the honor to call your attention to the provisions of the reso- 
lution of Congress inclosed, approved July 25, 1868, and to request that 
the fifty copies of all documents now being printed and hereafter to be 
printed at the Congressional Printing Office, whether by order of either 
House of Congress or any of the Departments or Bureaus of the Gov- 
ernment, be furnished by you, as fast as each edition is printed and 
bound, to the Librarian of Congress, for the purpose specified in the 
resolution. 

" I would also request that of the Patent Office report and Agricult- 
ural report now being printed one hundred copies additional (or one 
hundred and fifty copies in all) be delivered to the Librarian for the pur- 
pose indicated." 

On September 22, 1869, the Librarian of Congress addressed the 
Public Printer, on the subject of books required by law for the inter- 
national exchange of official documents as follows: 

" Your attention is respectfully called to the provisions of the reso- 
lution of Congress approved July 25, 186S, requiring the Congressional 
Printer to furnish to the Librarian of Congress fifty copies of all docu- 
ments printed under whatever authority for the purpose of exchanging 
the same for the publications of foreign Governments, which are to be 
deposited in this Library. 

" The official direction from the chairman of the Joint Committee on 
the liibrary, to printand deliver these documents required by the resolu- 
tion, was communicated toy our predecessor, Mr. J. D. Defrees, on the 24th 
of October, 1868. (See letter of Hon. E. D. Morgan, chairman, of that 
date.) The only reply received was a verbal one from Mr. Defrees, to 
the undersigned, that the documents should be regularly forwarded, 
and that the one hundred and fifty copies (fifty regular and one hundred 
extra) of the Agricultural and Patent Office reports for 1867, then on 
the press, would also be supplied. Not having received any documents 
whatever under this act of Congress, and the purpose of the same being 
to enrich the Library with as large a number and variety of the docu- 
ments of foreign Governments as can be procured in exchange for our 
own, you are requested to have placed at my disposal fifty copies of 
each book, pamphlet, circular, army order, or other publication, by 
whatever authority printed, and oue hundred copies additional of all 
H. Mis. 600 4 



50 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

documents printed in excess of the usual number, to enable me to carry 
out the resolution of Congress referred to." 

And again in reply to an inquiry on the part of the Public Printer, 
the following communication was addressed to that ofticial on Septem- 
ber 30, 1809 : 

" In reference to the documents not of Congress, but of the Depart- 
ments and Bureaus of the Government, of which fifty copies are required 
by resolution of Congress to be furnished to the Library for interna- 
tional exchange, I have to say that all such documents as are printed 
at the public expense (with the single exception of printed instructions 
or confidential ofticial communications) are important and will ])roperly 
be furnished. The foreign Governments with which the exchanges are 
made furnish us with great fullness the specially printed documents Ihey 
print in each department of their [)ublic service, and it is desired to 
make a return in kind." 

Owing to the failure of the Public Printer to comi)ly with those por- 
tions of the law relating to the second and third series of the United 
States official publications, the annual reports of the Executive De- 
partments and Bureaus of the Government, and the memoirs, mono- 
graphs, and special reports by the Executive Departments and Bureaus 
of the Government, although occasionally some few of the works of 
these classes have been received, a circular letter was addressed by 
the Smithsonian Institution on the 15th of February, 1884, to all the 
Departments and Bureaus of the Government, soliciting co-operation, 
in compliance with the existing laws, to enable the Institution, as 
agent of the Government, to carry out the provisions of the Congres- 
sional resolutions. 

Among the replies received, that of the Hon. Secretary of State 
says : 

I have ventured to suggest to the Joint Committee on the Library 
the desirability of a permanent provision for the printing of these re- 
quired copies. 

Appended to the letter of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti. 
tution of March 7, 1884, is a list of the more important documents not 
furnished to the Smithsonian Institution although they are embraced 
in the series intended by Congress for exchange purposes. 

Among the documents not furnished by the Public Printer may 
again be mentioned the following (assuming series I, the Congressional 
issue, to be complete as delivered, although even therein are many de- 
ficiencies) : 

Series II. The annual reports of the Executive Departments and Bu- 
reaus of the Government, together with the papers accompanying such 
reports. (Section 3796, Kev. Stat., and liesol. 72, second sess. Fortieth 
Congr.) 

Series III. The memoirs^ monographs, or special reports published by 
the Executive Departments or Bureaus of the Government, whether 
printed at the Government Printing Office, or elsewhere. (Section 2, 
Resolution No, 72, second session Fortieth Congr.) 



EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 51 

This last series comprises, among many others, the following valuable 
publications : 
Patent Office : 

Official Gazette — thirty-two volumes published. 

Specifications and Drawings — two hundred volumes published 

since 1872. 
Growth of Industrial Art — two volumes, folio. Of this only fifty 
copies were printed. 
TJ. 8. Geological Survey : 

Bulletins — thirty numbers issued. 

Monographs — eleven volumes issued, of which only Vol. ii and At- 
las were received, 
A letter was addressed to the Director of the Survey, February 18, 
1884, claiming fifty copies of all the publications of that office for ex- 
change purposes under the law. In reply the Director states, Febru- 
ary 26, 1884 : 

Under the law of March 2, 1867, fifty copies of everything published 
by us should be sent to the Library of Congress, and thence to the 
Smithsonian Institution by the Public Printer, and such copies are re- 
served for' that purpose, and do not come into oar possession. 

Under the statutes relating to the publication of the monographs of 
the Geological Survey it would be impossible to spare any copies from 
the three thousand received by this office from the fact that it is neces- 
ary for the Survey to render an account of its publications, either as 
sold, exchanged, or on hand. 

Ethnological Bureau : 

Contributions to North American Ethnology. Only vols. 1, 3, and 
4 received. 

Pilling : Proof-sheets of North American Languages. Of this only 
one hundred copies were printed. 
Tenth Census of the United States : 

Monographs. Not one has been received. 
Fish Commission: 

Bulletins, vols. 1-5. 
State Department: 

Consular Reports. Only the first twenty-two have been received. 
Coast and Geodetic Survey: 

Publications. 
American and Foreign Claims Commissions: 

France, Hayti, Spain, Alabama, etc., neither of which has been re- 
ceived. 

And, in fact, all the publications of the Departments and Bureaus of 
the Government, as independent series, although they may have been 
furnished as Congressional (miscellaneous) documents, which, however, 
constitute a distinct series (I) in themselves. 



52 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

The second point, the inability to secure the entire fruits of the pro- 
visions of Congress, in the way of adequate returns, was fully discussed 
by Professor Baird on page 20 of the Annual Report of the Smithson- 
ian Institution for 1885, by Mr. Spofford, the Librarian of Congress, on 
pages 25 and 26 of the Smithsonian Report for the fiscal year 1885-'86, 
and by myself, in the appendix to each of these reports. 

The remedy suggested in the case was based on the experience of my 
mission to Europe, and the predictions ventured that, without the es- 
tablishment of a permanent agency on the ground to attend personally 
to the whole business, only temporary results would be obtained, are 
fully borne out by the experience of the past year. 

While the returns secured by my personal efforts comprise 44 cases 
and 160 packages of books, numbering about 7,000 volumes, collected 
from fourteen European Governments, the returns of the present year 
received from European Governments through the medium of the ex- 
change service represent only 3 boxes and about 250 volumes of books. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1886 '87. 



53 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
exi)res8ly for the i)urpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the "Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 

54 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS. 



INTRODUCTION 

While it has been a promiueut object of the Board of Regents of the. 
Sinithsouian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich 
the annual report required of them bj' law, with scientific memoirs illus- 
trating the more remarkable and important developments in physical 
and biological discovery, as M'ell as showing the general character of 
the operations of the Institution, this purpose had not been carried out 
on any very systematic plan. Believing however that an annual report 
or summary of the recent advances made in the leading departments 
of scientific inquiry would supply a want very generally felt, and would 
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of ISSO, by competent 
collaborators, a series of abstracts showing concisely the i)rominent 
featnres of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, physics, 
chemistry, mineralogy, botony, zoology, and anthropology. 

The same general programme has been followed in the subsequent 
reports, until the last, that for 1886, when the incompleteness of the 
record obtained, the discouragement from the increasing delay encoun- 
tered in the printing of the annual summaries, and other considera- 
tions, induced the temporary suspension of the project. The postponed 
contributions are herewith presented, with the' regret that the expected 
articles on meteorology and on botany are unavoidably omitted by 
reason of the pressing occupations of Professors Abbe and Farlow, 
their accustomed expositors, having prevented the undertaking. 

With every effort to secure prompt attention to the more important 
details of a general survey of the annual progress of scientific discov- 
ery, experience has shown that various unexpected delays render it 
impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department within 
the time prescribed ; and the plan attempted of bringing up the defi- 
ciencies in subsequent reports has not proved entirely satisfactory. 

An appropriate introduction to the annual record is found in Professor 
Huxley's excellent sketch of the Advance of Science in the Last Half 
Century, which is herewith reprinted hj permission of the publisher 
and of the author. This paper is one of a series setting forth the legis- 
lative, political, and civil condition of England during the reign of Queen 
Victoria, the progress of the nation in industrial arts, education, sci- 

&5 



56 RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS. 

ence, literature, arts, etc., as a memorial of the jubilee year of the 
Queen, which was celebrated June 20, 1887, This semi-centeunial cor- 
responds — not, indeed, with the period of the life of the Smithsonian 
Institution, but with the interval from the time of securing the Smith- 
son fund to the United States. The formal organization of the Insti- 
tution was not effected till nearly ten years later. 

Notwithstanding the acknowledged educational value of these gen- 
eral summaries of the annual advances of scientific investigation, and the 
popular interest that has been manifested in this feature of the Smith- 
sonian Keports, various difficulties in the i^ractical execution of the 
scheme have arisen to render the continuance of the experiment of 
doubtful expediency. In view of the numerous important fields of 
scientific inquiry which have been necessarily omitted from the pro- 
gramme, for lack of space for their presentation, (such as mathematics, 
physiology, microscopy, etc.,) as well as of the entire domain of the 
more popular topics embraced in the practical applications of science, 
(such as horticultural and agricultural economy, engineering, mechanics, 
and technology in general,) — the policj^ of attempting so inadequate a 
survey of intellectual and industrial advancement, with its ever-increas- 
ing range and complexity of development, may well be questioned. To 
all this must be added the consideration that the numerous demands 
upon the limited Smithsonian fund render it unable to bear the bunlen 
that a just award to the collaborators engaged would require from it. 

Accordingly after perhaps another year of the more systematic treat- 
ment of scientific progress as latterly undertaken, it is probable that it 
may be thought advisable to revert to the earlier plan of publishing- 
each year a number of papers possessing a popular interest — selected 
from foreign and domestic scientific journals or the Proceedings and 
Transactions of learned societies, together with such original articles as 
may appear to deserve general attention. 



ADVANCE OF SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY.* 



By T. H. Huxley, F. R. S. 



The most obvious and the most distinctive feature of the history of 
civilization during the last fifty years is the wonderful increase of in- 
dustrial production by the application of machinery, the improvement 
of old technical processes and the invention of new ones, accompanied 
by an even more remarkable development of old and new means of lo- 
comotion and inter-communication. By this rapid and vast multiplica- 
tion of the commodities and conveniences of existence, the general 
standard of comfort has been raised ; the ravages of pestilence and 
famine have been checked; and the natural obstacles, which time and 
space offer to mutual intercourse, have been reduced in a manner and 
to an extent unknown to former ages. The diminution or removal of 
local ignorance and prejudice, the creation of common interests among 
the most widely separated peoples, and the strengthening of the forces 
of the organization of the commonwealth against those of political or 
social anarchy, thus effected, have exerted an influence on the present 
and future fortunes of mankind the full significance of which may be 
divined, but can not as yet be estimated at its full value. 

This revolution — for it is nothing less — in the political and social as- 
pects of modern civilization has been i)receded, accompanied, and in 
great measure caused by a less obvious, but no less marvellous, increase 
of natural knowledge, and especially of that part of it which is known 
as physical science, in consequence of the application of scientific 
method to the investigation of the phenomena of the material world. 
Not that the growth of physical science is an exclusive prerogative of 
the Victorian age. Its present strength and volume merely indicate 
the highest level of a stream which took its rise, alongside of the primal 
founts of Philosophy, Literature, and Art, in ancient Greece ; and, after 
being dammed up for a thousand years, once more began to flow three 
centuries ago. 

G-REEK AND MEDIEVAL SCIENCE. 

It may be doubted if even-handed justice, as free from fulsome pane- 
gyric as from captious depreciation, has ever yet been dealt out to the 

"Extracted, by permission, from a collection of historic summaries entitled "The 
Reign of Queen Victoria: A survey of fifty years of progress. Edited by Thomas 
Humphry Ward." Two vols., 8 vo. London: 1887. Vol. ii, piJ. 322-387. 

57 



58 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTUKY. 

sages of antiquity who for eight centuries, from the time of Thales to 
that of Galen, toiled at the foundations of physical science. But, with- 
out entering into the discussion of that large question, it is certain that 
the labors of these early workers in the field of natural knowledge were 
brought to a standstill by the decay and disruption of the Roman Em- 
pire, the consequent disorganization of society, and the diversion of 
men's thoughts from sublunary matters to the problems of the super- 
natural world suggested by Christian dogma in the Middle Ages. And, 
notwithstanding sporadic attempts to recall men to the investigation of 
nature here and there, it was not until the fifteenth and sixteenth cen- 
turies that physical science made a new start, founding itself at first 
altogether upon that which had been done by the Greeks. Indeed, it 
must be admitted that the men of the Renaissance, though standing on 
the shoulders of the old philosophers, were a long time before they saw 
as much as their forerunners had done. 

The first serious attempts to carry further the unfinished work of 
Archimedes, Hipi)archus, and Ptolemy, of Aristotle and of Galen, 
naturally enough arose among the astronomers and the physicians. 
For the imperious necessity of seeking some remedy for the physical 
ills of life had insured the preservation of more or less of the wisdom 
of Hippocrates and his successors, and, by a happy conjunction of cir- 
cumstances, the Jewish and Arabian physicians and philosophers 
escaped many of the influences which at that time blighted natural 
knowledge in the Christian world. On the other hand, the supersti- 
tious hopes and fears which afforded countenance to astrology and to 
alchemy also sheltered astronomy and the germs of chemistry. 
Whether for this or for some better reason the founders of the schools 
of the Middle Ages included astronomy along with geometry, arith- 
metic, and music as one of the four branches of advanced education, 
and in this respect it is only just to them to observe that they were far 
in advance of those who sit in their seats. The schoolmen considered 
no one to be properly educated unless he were acquainted with — at any 
rate — one branch of physical science. We have not even yet reached 
that stage of enlightenment. 

In the early dec ades of the seventeenth century the men of the Re- 
naissance could show that they had already put out to good interest the 
treasure bequeathed to them by the Greeks. They had produced the 
astronomical system of Copernicus, with Kepler's great additions ; the 
astronomical discoveries and the physical investigations of Galileo ; the 
mechanics of Stevinus and the "De Magnete" of Gilbert; the anatomy 
of the great French and Italian schools and the physiology of Harvey. 
In Italy, which had succeeded Greece in the hegemony of the scientific 
world, the Accademia dei Lyncei, and sundry other such associations 
for the investigation of nature, the models of all subsequent academies 
and scientific societies, had been founded, while the literary skill and 
biting wit of Galileo had made the great scientific questions of the day 
not only intelligible, but attractive, to the general public. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 59 

FRANCIS BACON. 

In our own country Francis Bacon had essayed to sum up the past of 
physical science, and to indicate the path which it must follow if its 
great destinies were to be fulfilled. And though the attempt was just 
such a magnificent failure as might have been expected from a man of 
great endowments, who was so singularly devoid of scientific insight 
that he could not understand the value of the work already achieved by 
the true instaurators of physical science, yet the majestic eloquence 
and the fervid vaticinations of one who was conspicuous alike by the 
greatness of his rise and the depth of his fall, drew the attention of all 
the world to the "new birth of Time." 

liut it is not easy to discover satisfactory evidence that the ''Novum 
Organum" had any direct beneficial influence on the advancement of 
natural knowledge. No delusion is greater than the notion that method 
and industry can make up for lack of mother wit, either in science or 
in practical life, and it is strange that, with his knowledge of mankind, 
Bacon should have dreamed that his or any other " via inveniendi sci- 
entias" would "level men's wits" and leave little scope for that inborn 
capacity which is called genius. As a matter of fact, Bacon's "via" 
has prov^ed hopelessly impracticable, while the " Anticipation of Na- 
ture," by the invention of hypotheses based on incomplete inductions, 
which he specially condemns, has proved itself to be a most eflicient, 
indeed an indispensable, instrument of scientific progress. Finally, 
that transcendental alchemy, the superinducement of new forms on mat- 
ter, which Bacon declares to be the supreme aim of science, has been 
wholly ignored by those who have created the physical knowledge of 
the present day. 

Even the eloquent advocacy of the chancellor brought no unmixed 
good to physical science. It was natural enough that the man who, in 
his better moments, took "all knowledge for his patrimony," but, in his 
worse, sold that birthright for the mess of pottage of court favor and 
professional success, for pomp and show, should be led to attach an 
undue value to the practical advantages which he foresaw, as Roger 
Bacon and, indeed, Seneca had foreseen, long before his time, must 
follow in the train of the advancement of natural knowledge. The 
burden of Bacon's pleadings for science is the " gathering of fruit " — the 
importance of winning solid material advantages by the investigation 
of nature and the desirableness of limiting the application of scientific 
methods of inquiry to that field. 

THOMAS HOBBES. 

Bacon's younger contemporary, Hobbes, casting aside the prudent 
reserve of his predecessor in regard to those matters about which the 
Crown or the Church might have something to say, extended scientific 
methods of inquiry to the phenomena of mind and the problems of 



60 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

social organization; while, at tbe same time, he indicated the boundary 
between the province of real, and that of imaginary, knowledge. The 
"Principles of Philosophy" and the "Leviathan" embody a coherent 
system of purely scientific thought in language which is' a model of 
clear and vigorous English style. 

DESCARTES. 

At the same time, in France, a man of far greater scientific capacity 
than either Bacon or Hobbes, Rene Descartes, not only in his immortal 
"Discours de la M^thode" and elsewhere, went down to the foundations 
of scientific certainty, but, in his " Principes de Philosophic," indicated 
where the goal of physical science really lay. However, Descartes was 
an eminent mathematician, and it would seem that the bent of his mind 
led him to over-estimate the value of deductive reasoning from general 
principles, as much as Bacon had underestimated it. TJje progress of 
physical science has been effected neither by Baconians nor by Cartes- 
ians — as such, but by men like Galileo and Harvey, Boyle and Newton, 
who would have done their work just as well if neither Bacon nor Des- 
cartes had ever propounded his views respecting the manner in which 
scientific investigation should be pursued. 

PROGRESS WITHOUT "FRUITS." 

The progress of science, during the first century after Bacon's death, 
by no means verified his sanguine prediction of the fruits which it would 
yield. For, though the revived and renewed study of nature had spread 
and grown to an extent which surpassed reasonable expectation, the 
practical results — the "good to men's estate" — were at first b^^ no 
means apparent. Sixty years after Bacon's death, Newton had crowned 
the long labors of the astronomers and the physicists by co-ordinating 
the phenomena of molar motion throughout the visible universe into one 
vast system; but the "Principia" helped no man to either wealth or 
comfort. Descartes, Newton, and Leibnitz had opened up new worlds 
to the mathematician, but the acquisitions of their genius enriched only 
man's ideal estate. Descartes had laid the foundations of rational 
cosmogony and of physiological psychology; Boyle had produced models 
of experimentation in various branches of physics and chemistry; Pascal 
and Torricelli bad weighed the air; Malpighi and Grew, Kay and Wil- 
loughby had done work of no less importance in the biological sciences; 
but weaving and spinning were carried on with the old appliances; 
nobody could travel faster by sea or by land than at any previous time 
in the world's history, and King George could send a message from 
London to York no faster than King John might have done. Metals 
were worked from their ores by immemorial rule of thumb, and the 
center of the iron trade of these islands was still among the oak forests 
of Sussex. The utmost skill of our mechanicians did not get beyond 
the production of a coarse watch. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 61 

The middle of the eighteenth century is illustrated by a host of great 
names in science — English, French, German, and Italian, — especially in 
the fields of chemistry, geology, and biology; but this deepening and 
broadening of natural knowledge produced next to no immediate prac- 
tical benefits. Even if, at this time, Francis Bacon could have returned 
to the scene of his greatness and of his littleness, he must have re- 
garded the philosophic world which jiraised and disregarded his pre- 
cepts with great disfavor. If ghosts are consistent he would have 
said, "These people are all wasting their time, just as Gilbert and Kep- 
ler and Galileo and my worthy physician Harvey did in my day. 
Where are the fruits of the restoration of science which I promised ? 
This accumulation of bare knowledge is all very well, but cui bonof 
Not one of these people is doing what I told him speciall^^ to do, and 
seeking that secret of the cause of forms which will enable men to deal 
at will with matter, and super-induce new natures upon the old founda 
tions." 

LATER PRACTICAL EFFECT. 

But, a little later, that growth of knowledge beyond imaginable utili- 
tarian ends, which is the condition precedent of its practical utility, 
began to produce some effect upon practical life ; and the operation of 
that part of nature we call human upon the rest began to create, not 
•' new natures," in Bacon's sense, but a new ivTature, the existence of 
which is dependent upon men's efforts, which is subservient to their 
wants, and which would disappear if man's shaping and guiding hand 
were withdrawn. Every mechanical artifice, every chemicaUy pure 
substance employed in manufacture, every abnormally fertile, race of 
plants, or rapidly growing and fattening breed of animals, is a part of 
the new Nature created by science. Without it the most densely pop- 
ulated regions of modern Europe and America must retain their primi- 
tive, sparsely inhabited, agricultural or pastoral condition : it is the 
foundation of our wealth and the condition of our safety from submer- 
gence by another flood of barbarous hordes ; it is the bond which unites 
into a solid political whole, regions larger than any empire of antiquity ; 
it secures us from the recurrence of the pestilences and famines of 
former times; it is the source of endless comforts and conveniences, 
which are not mere luxuries, but conduce to physical and moral well- 
being. During the last fifty years, this new birth of time, this new 
Nature begotten by science upon fact, has pressed itself daily and 
hourly upon our attention, and has worked miracles which have modi- 
fied the whole fashion of our lives. 

What wonder, then, if these astonishing fruits of the tree of knowl- 
edge are too often regarded by both friends and enemies as the be-all 
and end-all of science"? What wonder if some eulogize, and others 
revile, the new philosophy for its utilitarian ends and its merely ma- 
terial triumphs ? 



62 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

In truth, the new philosophy deserves neither the praise of its eulo- 
gists, nor the blame of its slanderers. As I have pointed out, its disciples 
were guided by no search after practical fruits during the great period 
of its growth, and it reached adolescence without being stimulated by 
any rewards of that nature. The bare enumeration of the names of the 
men who were the great lights of science in the latter part of the eight- 
eenth and the first decade of the nineteenth century, of Herschel, of 
Laplace, of Young, of Fresuel, of Oersted, of Cavendish, of Lavoisier, 
of Davy, of Lamarck, of Cuvier, of Jussieu, of Decaudolle, of Werner, 
and of Hutton, suffices to indicate the strength of physical science in 
the age immediately preceding that of which I have to treat. But of 
which of these great men can it be said that his labors were directed 
to practical ends ? I do not call to mind even an invention of practical 
utility which we owe to any of them, except the safety-lamp of Davy. 
Werner certainly paid attention to mining, and 1 have not forgotten 
James Watt. But, though some of the most impoitantof the improve- 
ments by which Watt converted the steam-engine, invented long before 
his time, into the obedient slave of man, were suggested and guided by 
his acquaintance with scientific principles, his skill as a practical mech- 
anician and the efficiency of Bolton's workmen had quite as much to 
do with the realization of his projects. 

LOVE OF KNOWLEDGE. 

In fact, the history of physical science teaches (and we can not too 
carefully take the lesson to heart) that the practical advantages, attain- 
able through its agency, never have been, and never will be, sufficiently 
attractive to men inspired by the inborn genius of the interpreter of 
nature, to give them courage to undergo the toils and make the sacri- 
fices which that calling requires from its votaries. That which stirs 
their pulses is the love of knowledge and the joy of the discovery of the 
causes of things sung by the old poets ; the supreme delight of extend- 
ing the realm of law and order ever farther towards the unattainable 
goals of the infinitely great and the infinitely small, between which our 
little race of life is run. In the course of this work, the physical philos- 
opher, sometimes intentionally, much more often unintentionally, lights 
upon something which proves to be of practical value. Great is the 
rejoicing of those who are benefited thereby; and, for the moment, 
science is the Diana of all the craftsmen. But, even while the cries of 
jubilation resound, and this flotsam and jetsam of the tide of investi- 
gation is being turned into the wages of workmen and the wealth of 
capitalists, the crest of the wave of scientific investigation is far away 
on its course over the illimitable ocean of the unknown. 

SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY RECIPROCALLY DEPENDENT. 

Far be it from me to depreciate the value of the gifts of science to 
practical life, or to cast a doubt upon the propriety of the course of ac- 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 63 

tion of those wbo follow science in the hope of finding wealth alongside 
truth, or even wealth alone. Such a profession is as respectable as any 
other. And quite as little do I desire to ignore the fact that, if industry 
owes a heavy debt to science, it has largely repaid the loan by the im- 
portant aid which it has, in its turn, rendered to the advancement of 
science. In considering the causes which hindered the progress of 
physical knowledge in the schools of Athens and of Alexandria, it has 
often struck me* that where the Greeks did wonders was in just tbose 
branches of science, such as geometry, astronomy, and anatomy, which 
are susceptible of very considerable development without any, or any 
but the simplest, appliances. It is a curious speculation to think what 
would have become of modern physical science if glass and alcohol had 
not been easily obtainable; and if the gradual perfection of mechanical 
skill for industrial ends had not enabled investigators to obtain, at com- 
paratively little cost, microscopes, telescopes, and all the exquisitely 
delicate apparatus for determining weight and measure and for estimat- 
ing the lapse of time with exactness, which they now command. If 
science has rendered the colossal development of modern industry pos- 
sible, beyond a doubt industry has done no less for modern physics and 
chemistry, and for a great deal of modern biology. And as the captains 
of industry have at last begun to be aware tliat the condition of suc- 
cess in that warfare, under the forms of peace, which is known as in- 
dustrial competition lies in the discipline of the troops and the use of 
arms of precision, just as much as it does in the warfare which is called 
war, their demand for that discipline, which is technical education, is 
re-acting upon science in a manner which will assuredly stimulate its 
future growth to an incalculable extent. It has become obvious that 
the interests of science and of industry are identical ; that science can 
not make a step forward without sooner or later opening up new 
channels for industry, and on the other hand, that every advance of 
industry facilitates those experimental investigations upon which the 
growth of science depends. We may hope that at last the weary mis- 
understanding between the practical men who professed to despise 
science, and the high and dry philosophers who professed to despise 
practical results, is at an end. 

Nevertheless, that which is true of the infancy of physical science in 
the Greek world, that which is true of its adolescence in the seventeenth 
and eighteenth centuries, remains true of its riper age in these latter 
days of the nineteenth century. The great steps in its progress have 
been made, are made, and will be made, by men who seek knowledge 
simply because they crave it. They have their weaknesses, their follies, 
their vanities, and their rivalries, like the rest of the world; but what- 
ever by-ends may mar their dignity and impede their usefulness, this 

* There are excelleut remarks to the same effect in Zeller's Philosophic der Griecheu, 
Theil II, Abth. ii, p. 407, and in Euckeu's DieMethodeder Aristotelischen, Forschung, 
pp. 138 et seq. 



64 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

chief end redeems them.* Nothing great in science has ever been done 

by men, whatever their powers, in whom the divine afflatus of the 

truth-seeker was wanting. Men of moderate capacity have done great 

things because it animated them 5 and men of great natural gifts have 

failed, absolutely or relatively, because they lacked this one thing 

needful. 

TRUE OBJECT OF RESEARCH. 

To any one who knows the business of investigation practically, 
Bacon's notion of establishing a company of investigators to work for 
"fruits," as if the pursuit of knowledge were a kind of mining opera- 
tion and only required well directed picks and shovels, seems very 
strange. t In science, as in art, and, as I believe, in every other sphere 
of human activity, there may be wisdom in a multitude of counsellors, 
but it is only in one or two of them. And in scientific inquiry at any 
rate, it is to that one or two that we must look for light and guidance. 
Newton said that he made his discoveries by " intending" his mind on 
the subject; no doubt truly. But to equal his success one must have 
the mind which he '' intended." Forty lesser men might have intended 
their minds till they cracked, without any like result. It would be idle 
either to affirm or to deny that the last half century has produced men 
of science of the caliber of Newton. It is sufficient that it can show a 
few capacities of the first rank, competent not only to deal profitably 
with the inheritance bequeathed by their scientific forefathers, but to 
pass on to their successors physical truths of a higher order than any 
yet reached by the human race. And if they have succeeded as New- 
ton succeeded, it is because they have sought truth as he sought it, with 
no other object than the finding it. 



PROGRESS FROM 1837 TO 1887. 

I am conscious that in undertaking to give even the briefest sketch 
of the progress of jjhysical science, in all its branches, during the last 

* Fresnel, after a brilliant career of discovery in some of the most difficult regions 
of physico-mathematical science, died at thirty-nine years of age. The following pas- 
sage of a letter from him to Young (written in November, 1824), quoted by Whewell, 
so aptly illustrates the spirit which animates the scientific inquirer, that I may cite it : 

"For a long time that sensibility, or that vanity, which people call love of glory 
is much blunted in me. I labor much less to catch the sulfrages of the public than 
to obtain an inward approval which has always been the mental reward of my eflorts. 
Without doubt I have often wanted the spur of vanity to excite me to pursue my re- 
searches in moments of disgust and discouragement. But all the compliments which 
I have received from MM. Arago, De Laplace, or Biot, never gave me so much pleas- 
ure as the discovery of a theoretical truth or the confirmation of a calculation by ex- 
periment." 

t "Memorable exemple de I'impuissance des recherches collectives appllqu6es a la 
d6couverte des v^rit^s nouvelles," says one of the most distinguished of living French 
8avant8, of the corporate chemical work of the old Academic des Sciences. (See Ber- 
thelot, Science et Philosophic, p. 201.) 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 65 

half ceutury, I may be thought to have exhibited more courage than 
discretion, and perhaps more presumption than either. So far as phys- 
ical science is concerned, the days of Adulirable Crichtons have long 
been over, and the most indefatigable of hard workers may think he 
has done well if he has mastered one of its minor subdivisions. Never- 
theless, it is possible for any one who has familiarized himself with the 
operations of science in one department, to comprehend the significance, 
and even to form a general estimate of the value, of the achievements 
of specialists in other departments. 

Nor is there any lack either of guidance, or of aids to ignorance. JBy 
a happy chance, the first edition of Whewell's "History of the Induc- 
tive Sciences" was iiublished in 1837, and it afibrds a very useful view 
of the state of things at the commencement of the Victorian epoch. As 
to subsequent events, there are numerous excellent summaries of the 
progress of various branches of science, especially up to 1881, which 
was the jubilee year of the British Association.* And, with respect to 
the biological sciences, with some parts of which my studies have fa- 
miliarized me, my personal experience nearly coincides with the pre- 
ceding half century. I may hope therefore that my chance of escap- 
ing serious errors is as good as that of any one else who might have 
been persuaded to undertake the somewhat perilous enterxirise in which 
I find myself engaged. 

There is yet another prefatory remark which it seems desirable I 
should make. It is that I think it proper to confine myself to the work 
done, without saying anj-thing about the doers of it. Meddling with 
questions of merit and priority is a thorny business at the best of times, 
and, unless in case of necessity, altogether undesirable when one is 
dealing with contemj)6raries. No such necessity lies upon me ; and 
I shall therefore mention no names of living men, lest perchance I 
should incur the reproof which the Israelites, who struggled with one 
another in the field, addressed to Moses, "Who made thee a prince and 
a judge over us?" 

AEVI OF THYSICAL SCIENCE. 

Physical science is one and indivisible. Although for practical pur- 
poses it is convenient to mark it out into the primary regions of Phys- 
ics Chemistry, and Biology, and to subdivide these into subordinate 
provinces, yet the method of investigation and the ultimate object of 
the physical inquirer are everywhere the same. 

The object is the discovery of the rational order which pervades the 
universe; the method consists of observation and experiment (which 
is observation under artificial conditions) for the determination of the 

* I am particularly indebted to my fciend and colleagne Professor Riicker, F. R. S., 
for the many acute criticisms and suggestions on my remarks respecting the ultimate 
problems of physics, with which he has favored me, and by which I have greatly 
profited. 

H. Miss. 600 5 



QQ SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

facts of nature, of iuductive aud deductive reasouiug for the discovery 
of their mutual relations and connection. The various branches of 
physical science difler in the extent to which, at any given moment of 
thtir history, observation on the one hand, or ratiocination on the 
other, is their more obvious feature, but in no other way ; and nothing 
can be more incorrect than the assumption one sometimes meets witb, 
that physics has one method, chemistry another, aud biology a third. 

POSTULATES. 

All physical science starts from certain postulates. One of them is 
the objective existence of a material world. It is assumed that the 
phenomena Avhich are comprehended under this name have a " sub- 
stratum " of extended, impenetrable, mobile substance, which exhibits 
the quality known as inertia, and is termed matter.* Another postu- 
late is the universality of the law of causation : that nothing happens 
without a cause (that is, a necessary precedent condition), and that the 
state of the physical universe, at any given moment, is the consequence 
of its state at any preceding moment. Another is that any of the rules, 
or so-called "laws of nature," by which the relation of phenomena is 
truly defined, is true for all time. The validity of these postulates is a 
problem of metaphysics; they are neither self-evident nor are they, 
strictly speaking, demonstrable. The justification of their employ- 
ment, as axioms of physical i^hilosophy, lies in the circumstance that 
expectations logically based upon them are verified, or, at any rate, 
not contradicted, whenever they can be tested by experience. 

HYPOTHESES. 

Physical science therefore rests on verified or uncontradicted hypoth- 
eses; and such being the case, it is not surprising that a great con- 
dition of its progress has been the invention of verifiable hypotheses. 
It is a favorite popular delusion that the scientific inquirer is under a 
sort of moral obligation to abstain from going beyond that generaliza- 
tion of observed facts which is absurdly called " Baconian " induction. 
But any one who is practically acquainted with scientific work is aware 

" I am aw are that this proposition may be challenged. It may be said, for exam- 
ple, that, on the hypothesis of Boscovich, matter has no extension, being reduced to 
mathematical points serving as centers of "forces." But as the "forces'" of the 
various centers are conceived to limit one another's action in such a manner Ihat 
an area around each center has an individuality of its own, extension comes back in 
the form of that ai'ea. Again, a very eminent mathematician aud physicist, the late 
Clerk Maxwell, has declared that impenetrability is not essential to our notions of 
matter, and that two atoms may conceivably occupy the same space. I am loth to 
dispute any dictum of a philosopher as remarkable for the subtlety of his intellect as 
for his vast knowledge ; but the assertion that one and the same point or area of 
space can have different (conceivably opposite) attributes appears to me to violate 
the principle of contradiction, which is the foundation not only of physical science, 
but of logic m general. It means that A can be not-A. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 67 

that those who refuse to go beyond fact rarely get as far as fact ; and 
any one who has studied tlio history of science knows that almost every 
great step therein has been made by the " anticipation of nature," that 
is, b3' the invention of hypotheses, which though verifiable, often had 
very little foundation to start with; and not unfrequently, in spite of a 
long career of usefulness, turned out to be wholly erroneous in the 
long run. 

HYPOTHESES FRUITFUL EVEN WHEN ERRONEOUS. 

The geocentric system of astronomy, with its eccentrics and its epi- 
cycles, was an hypothesis utterly at variance with fact, which never- 
theless did great things for the advancement of astronomical knowledge. 
Kepler was the wildest of guessers. Newton's corpuscular theory of 
light was of much temporary use in optics, though nobody now believes 
in it; and the uudulatory theory, which has superseded the corpus- 
cular theory, and has proved one of the most fertile of instruments of 
research, is based on the hypothesis of the existence of an " aether," the 
properties of which are defined in propositions, some of which, to ordi- 
nary apprehension, seem physical antinomies. 

It sounds paradoxical to say that the attainment of scientific truth 
has been effected, to a great extent, by the help of scientific errors. 
But the subject-matter of physical science is furnished by observation, 
which can not extend beyond the limits of our faculties; while, even 
within those limits, we can not be certain that any observation is abso- 
lutely exact and exhaustive. Hence it follows that any given generali- 
zation from observation may be true, within the limits of our powers of 
observation at a given time, and yet turn out to be untrue, when those 
powers of observation are directly or indirectly enlarged. Or, to put 
the matter in another way, a doctrine which is untrue absolutely, may 
to a very great extent be susceptible of an interpretation in accordance 
with the truth. At a certain period in the history of astronomical science 
the assumption that the planets move in circles was true enough to 
serve t he purpose of correlating such observations as were then possible ; 
after Kepler, the assumption that they move in ellipses became true 
enough in regard to the state of observational astronomy at that time. 
We say still that the orbits of the planets are ellipses, because, for all 
ordinary purposes, that is a sufficiently near approximation to the truth ; 
but, as a matter of fact, the center of gravity of a planet describes 
neither an ellipse nor any other simple curve, but an immensely compli- 
cated undulating line. It may fairly be doubted whether any generali- 
zation, or hypothesis, based upon physical data is absolutely true, in 
the sense that a mathematical proposition is so ; but, if its errors can 
become apparent only outside the limits of practicable observation, it 
may be just as usefully adopted for one of the symbols of that algebra 
by which we interpret nature, as if it were absolutely true. 

The development of every branch of physical knowledge presents 



QS SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

three stages which, in their logical relation, are successive. The first is 
the determination of the sensible character and order of the phenomena. 
This is Natural History, in the original sense of the term, and here 
nothing bat observation and experiment avail us. The second is the 
determination of the constant relations of the phenomena thus defined, 
and their expression in rules or laws. The third is the explication of 
these particular laws by deduction from the most general laws of matter 
and motion. The last two stages constitute Natural Philosophy in its 
original sense. In this region, the invention of verifiable hypotheses 
is not only permissible, but is one of the conditions of progress. 

Historicall}', no branch of science has followed this order of growth; 
but, from the dawn of exact knowledge to the present day, observation, 
experiment, and speculation have gone hand in hand ; and, whenever 
science has halted or strayed from the right path, it has been, either 
because its votaries have been content with mere unverified or unveri- 
fiable speculation (and this is the commonest case, because observation 
and experiment are hard work, while speculation is amusing); or it has 
been because the accumulation of details of observ^ation has for a time 
excluded speculation. 

The progress of physical science, since the revival of learning, is 
largely due to the fact that men have gradually learned to lay aside 
the consideration of unveritiable hypotheses ; to guide observation and 
experiment by verifiable hypotheses; and to consider the latter, not as 
ideal truths, the real entities of an intelligible world behind phenomena, 
but as a symbolical language, by the aid of which nature can be in- 
terpreted in terms apprehensible by our intellects. And if ])hysical 
science, during the last fifty years, has attained dimensions beyond all 
former precedent, and can exhibit achievements of greater importance 
than any former such period can show, it is because able men, animated 
by the true scientific spirit, carefully" trained in the method of science, 
and having at their disi)Osal immensely improved appliances, have de- 
voted themselves to the enlargement of the boundaries of natural knowl- 
edge in greater number than during any previous half century of the 
world's history. 

THREE GREAT RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS. 

I have said that our epoch can produce achievements in physical 
science of greater moment than any other has to show, advisedly ; and 
I think that there are three great products of our time which justify the 
assertion. One of these is that doctrine concerning the constitution of 
matter, which, for want of a better name, I will call "molecular;" the 
second is the doctrine of conservation of energy ; the third is the doc- 
trine of evolution. Each of these was foreshadowed, more or less dis- 
tinctly, in former periods of the history of science ; and, so far is either 
from being the outcome of purely inductive reasoning, that it would be 
hard to over-rate the influence of metaphysical, and even of theological, 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 69 

considerations upon the development of all three. The peculiar merit 
of our epoch is that it has shown how these hypotheses connect a vast 
number of seemingly independent partial generalizations; that it has 
given them that precision of expression which is necessary for their 
exact verification ; and that it has practically proved their value as 
guides to the discovery of new truth. All three doctrines are intimately 
conuected, and each is applicable to the whole physical cosmos. But, 
as might have been expected from the nature of the case, the first two 
grew, mainly, out of the consideration of physico-chemical pheuomeua 
while the third, in great measure, owes its rehabilitation, if not its origin, 
to the study of biological phenomeua. 

1. STRUCTURE OF MATTER. 

In the early decades of this century, a number of important truths 
applicable, in part, to matter in general, and, in part, to particular 
forms of matter, had been ascertained by the physicists and chemists. 

The laws of motion of visible and tangible — or molar matter had been 
worked out to agreat degree of refinement and embodied in the branches 
of science known as Mechanics, Hydrostatics, and Pneumatics. These 
laws had been shown to hold good, so far as they could be checked by 
observation and experiment, throughout the universe, on the assump- 
tion that all such masses of matter possessed inertia and were suscep- 
tible of acquiring motion in two ways, firstly by impact, or impulse 
from without ; and secondly, by the operation of certain hypothetical 
causes of motion termed " forces,'? which were usually supposed to be 
resident in the particles of the masses themselves, and to operate at a 
distance, in such a way as to tend to draw any two such masses to- 
gether, or to separate them more widely. 

With respect to the ultimate constitution of these masses, the same 
two antagonistic opinions which had existed since the time of Democ- 
ritus and of Aristotle were still face to face. According to the one, 
matter was discontinuous and consisted of minute indivisible particles 
or atoms, separated by a universal vacuum; according to the other, it 
was continuous, and the finest distinguishable, or imaginable, particles 
were scattered through the attenuated general substance of the plenum. 
A rough analogy to the latter case would be afforded by granules of 
ice diffused through water; to the former, such granules diff'used through 
absolutely empty space. 

In the latter part of the eighteenth century the chemists had ar- 
rived at several very important generalizations respectiug those prop- 
erties of matter with which they were especially concerned. However 
plainly ponderable matter seemed to be originated and destroyed in 
their operations, they proved that as mass or body, it remained inde- 
structible, and ingenerable ; and that so far, it varied only in its per- 
ceptibility by our senses. The course of investigation further proved 
that a certain number of the chemically separable kinds of matter were 



70 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

unalterable by any known means (except in so far as they might be 
made to change their state from solid to fluid, or rice versa), unless 
they were brought into contact with other kinds of matter, and that 
the properties of these several kinds of matter were always the same, 
whatever their origin. All other bodies were found to consist of two 
or more of these, which thus took the place of the four "elements " of 
the ancient philosophers. Further, it was proved that in forming 
chemical compounds, bodies always unite in a definite proportion by 
weight, or in simple multiples of that proportion, and that, if any one 
body were taken as a standard, every other could have a number as- 
signed to it as its proportional combining weight. It was on this foun- 
dation of fact that Dalton based his re-establisbment of the old atomic 
hypothesis on a new empirical foundation. It is obvious that if ele- 
mentary matter consists of indestructible and indivisible particles, 
each of which constantly preserves the same weight relatively to all 
tbe others, compounds formed by the aggregation of two, three, four, or 
more such particles must exemiilify the rule of combination in definite 
proportions deduced from observation. 

In the meanwhile, the gradual reception of the undulatory theory of 
light necessitated the assumption of the existence of an " aether" filling 
all space. But whether this aether was to be regarded as a strictly ma- 
terial and continuous substance was an undecided j)oint, and hence the 
revived atomism escaped strangling in its birth. For it is clear that 
if the aether is admitted to be a continuous material substance, Demo- 
critic atomism is at an end, and Cartesian continuity takes its place. 

The real value of the new atomic hyiiothesis, however, did not lie in the 
two points which Democritus and his followers would have considered 
essential, namelj', the indivisibility of the "atoms" and the presence 
of an inter-atomic vacuum; but in the assumption that, to tlie extent to 
which our means of analysis take us, material bodies consist of definite 
minute masses, each of which, so far as physical and chemical processes 
of division go, may be regarded as a unit — having a practically perman- 
ent individuality. Just as a man is the unit of sociology, without refer- 
ence to the actual fact of his divisibility, so such a minute mass is the 
unit of physico-chemical science — that smallest material particle which 
under any given circumstances acts as a whole.* 

The doctrine of specific heat originated in the eighteenth century. 
It means that the same mass of a body, under the same circumstances, 
always requires the same quantity of heat to raise it to a given temper- 
ature, but that equal masses of different bodies require diflerent quan- 
tities. Ultimately, it was found that the quantities of heat required to 
raise equal masses of the more perfect gases through equal ranges of 
temperature were inversely proportional to their combining weights. 

*" Molecule" would be the more appropriate name for sucli a particle. Unfortu- 
nately cL enlists employ this term in a special sense as a name for an ae^gregation of 
their smallest particles, for which they retain the designation of "atoms." 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 71 

and beat. The phenomena of electrolytic decomposition showed that 
there was a like close relation between these units and electricity. The 
quantity of electricity generated by the combination of any two units 
is sufficient to separate any other two which are susceptible of such 
decomposition. The phenomena of isomorphism showed a relation 
between the units and crystalline forms; certain units are thus able to 
replace others in a crystalline body without altering its form, and others 
are not. 

Again, the laws of the effect of pressure and heat on gaseous bodies, the 
fact that they combine in definite proportions by volume, and that such 
proportion bears a simple relation to their combining weights, all har- 
monized with the Daltoniau hyi)othesis, and led to the bold speculation 
known as the law of Avogadro — that all gaseous bodies, under the same 
physical conditions, contain the same number of units. In the form in 
which it was first enunciated this hypothesis was incorrect — perhaps it 
is not exactly true in any form ; but it is hardly too much to say that 
chemistry and molecular physics would never have advanced to their 
present condition unless it had been assumed to be true. Another 
immense service rendered by Dalton, as a corrollary of the new atomic 
doctrine, was the creation of a system of symbolic notation, which not 
only made the nature of chemical compounds and processes easily in- 
telligible and easy of recollection, but, by its very form, suggested new 
lines of inquiry, The atomic notation was as serviceable to chemistrj' 
as the binomial nomenclature and the classificatory schematism of 
Linnaeus were to zoology and botany. 

Side by side with these advances arose another, which also has a close 
parallel in the history of biological science. If the unit of a compound 
is made up by the aggregation of elementary units, the notion that 
these must have some sort of definite arrangement inevitably suggests 
itself; and such phenomena as double decomposition pointed, not onl}' 
to the existence of a molecular architecture, but to the possibility of 
modifying a molecular fabric without destroying it, by taking out some 
of the component units and replacing them by others. The class of 
neutral salts, for example, includes a great number of bodies in many 
ways similar, in which the basic molecules, or the acid molecules, may 
be replaced by other basic and other acid molecules without altering 
the neutrality of the salt; just as a cube of bricks remains a cube so 
long as any brick that is taken out is replaced by another of the same 
shape and dimensions, whatever its weight or other properties may be. 
Facts of this kind gave rise to the conception of ^'types'' of molecular 
structure, just as the recognition of the unity in diversity of the struct- 
ure of the species of plants and animals gave rise to the notion of bio-, 
logical "types." The notation of chemistry enabled these ideas to be 
represented with precision ; and they acquired an immense importance 
when the improvement of methods of analysis, which took place about 



72 SCIENCE IX THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

Thus a definite relation was established between the hypothetical units 
the beginuiug of our period, enabled the composition of the so-called 
"organic" bodies to be determined with rapidity and precision.* A 
large proportion of these compounds contain not more than three or 
four elements, of which carbon is the chief; but their number is very 
great, and the diversity of their physical and chemical properties is as- 
tonishiug. The ascertainment of the proportion of each element in 
these compounds affords little or no help towards accounting for their 
diversities ; widely different bodies being often very similar, or even 
identical, in tliat respect. And, in the last case, that of isomeric com- 
pounds, the appeal to diversity of arrangement of the identical compo- 
nent units was the only obvious way out of the difficulty. Here again 
hypothesis proved to be of great value; not only was the search for 
evidence of diversity of molecular structure successful, but the study 
of the process of taking to pieces led to the discovery of the way to put 
together, and vast numbers of compounds, some of them previously 
known only as products of the living- economy, have thus been artifi- 
cially constructed. Chemical work at the present day is, to a large 
extent, synthetic or creative; that is to say, the chemist determines, 
theoretically, that certain non-existent compounds ought to be pro- 
ducible, and he proceeds to produce them. 

It is largely because the chemical theory and practice of our epoch 
have passed into this deductive an^I synthetic stage, that they are en- 
titled to the name of the " New Chemistry," which they commonly re- 
ceive. But this new chemistry has grown up by the help of hypotheses, 
such as these of Dalton, and of Avogadro, and that singular conception 
of " bonds " invented to colligate the facts of " valency " or " atomicity," 
the first of which took some time to make its way ; while the second 
fell into oblivion for many years after it was propounded for lack of em- 
pirical justification. As for the third, it may be doubted if any one 
regards it as more than a temporary contrivance. 

But some of these hypotheses have done yet further service. Com- 
bining them with the mechanical theory of heat and the doctrine of the 
conservation of energy', which are also products of our time, physicists 
have aiTived at an entirely new conception of the nature of gaseous 
bodies and of the relation of the physico-chemical units of matter to 
the different forms of energy. The conduct of gases under varying 
pressure and temperature, their diflusibility, their relation to radiant 
heat and to light, the evolution of heat when bodies combine, the ab- 
sorption of heat when they are dissociated, and a host of other molecu- 
lar phenomena, have been shown to be deducible from the dynamical 
and statical principles which apply to molar motion and rest; and the 
tendency of the physico-chemical science is clearly towards the reduc- 
tion of the problems of the world of the infinitely little, as it already 

* "At present more organic analyses are made in a single day than were accom- 
plished before Liebig'a time in a whole year." — Hofmaun, Faraday Lecture, p. 46. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 73 

has reduced those of the infinitely great world, to questions of me- 
chanics.* 

lu the meanwhile, the primitive atomic theory, which has served as 
the scaffolding for the edifice of modern physics and chemistry, has 
been quietly dismissed. 1 can not discover that any contemporary^ 
physicist or chemist believes in the real indivisibility of atoms, or in ' 
an inter-atomic matterless vacuum. "Atoms" appear to be used as 
mere names for physico-chemical units which have uot yet been sub- 
divided, and "molecules" for physico-chemical uuits which are aggre- 
gates of the former. And these individualized particles are supposed 
to move in an endless ocean of a vastly more subtle matter — the aether. 
If this tether is a continuous substance, therefore, we have got back 
from the hypothesis of Dalton to that of Descartes. But there is much 
reason to believe that science is going to make a still further journey, 
and in form, if not altogether iu substance, to return to the point of 
view of Aristotle. 

The greater number of the so-called "elementary" bodies, now known, 
had been discovered before the commencement of our epoch; and it had 
become apparent that they were by no means equally similar or dis- 
similar, but that some of them, at any rate, constituted groups, the sev- 
eral members of which were as much like one another as they were 
unlike the rest. Chlorine, iodine, bromine, and fluorine thus formed a 
very distinct group; sulphur and selenium another; boron and silicon 
another; potassium, sodium, and lithium another, and so on. In some 
cases the atomic weights of such allied bodies were nearly the same, or 
could be arranged in series, with like differences between the several 
terms. In fact, the elements afforded indications that they were sus- 
ceptible of a classification iu natural groups, such as those into which 
animals and plants fall. 

PERIODIC SERIES OF ELEMENTS. 

Recently this subject has been taken up afresh, with a result which 
may be stated roughly in the following terms : If the sixty-five or sixty- 
eight recognized "elements" are arranged in the order of their atomic 
weights — from hydrogen, the lightest, as unity, to uranium, the heavi- 
est, as 240 — the series does not exhibit one continuous progressive 
modification in the physical and chemical characters of its several 
terms, but breaks up into a number of sections, in each of which the 
several terms present analogies with the corresponding terms of the 
other scries. 

Thus the whole series does not run 

a, b, c, d, e,f,f/, h, i, k, etc., 
but 

a, b, c, fZ, A, B, c, D, a, /?, ;/, (y, etc. ; 

so that it IS said to express n periodic law of recurrent similarities. Of 

* la the preface to bis M6cauique, Chimique M. Berthelot declares his object to 
be 'Tamener la cbimie tout entifere - - - aux Amines principes m^caniques qui 
r^gissent ddja les diverses braucbes de la pbysiqae." 



74 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

the relation may be expressed in another way. In each section oi the 
series, the atomic weight is greater than in the preceding section, so 
that if w is the atomic weight of any element in the first segment, 
w + cc will represent the atomic weight of any element in the next, 
and ic -{■ x-\- y the atomic weight of any element in the next, and so on. 
Therefore the sections may be represented as parallel series, the cor- 
responding terms of which have analogons properties; each successive 
series starting with a body the atomic weight of which is greater than 
that of any in the preceding series, in the following fashion: 

dud 

e G y 

b B /3 

a A a 



to ic -{- X IV -\- iV -{■ y 

This is a conception with which biologists are very familiar, animal 
and i^lant groups constantly appearing as series of parallel modifica- 
tions of similar and yet different primary forms. In the living world, 
facts of this kind are now understood to mean evolution from a com- 
mon prototype. It is difficult to imagine that in the not-living world 
they are devoid of significance. Is it not possible, nay probable, that 
they may mean the evolution of our "elements" from a primary un- 
differentiated form of matter ? Fifty years ago such a suggestion 
would have been scouted as a revival of the dreams of the alchemists. 
At piesent it may be said to be the burning question of physico-chemi- 
cal science. 

In fact, the so-called " vortex-ring" hypothesis is a very serious and 
reinarkable attempt to deal with material units from a point of view 
which is consistent with the doctrine of evolution. It supposes the 
cTther to be a uniform substance, and that the " elementary " units are, 
broadly speaking, permanent whirlpools, or vortices, of this aether, the 
properties of which dei)end on their actual and potential modes of 
motion. It is curious and highly interesting to remark that this hy- 
pothesis reminds us not only of the speculations of Descartes, but of those 
of Aristotle. The resemblance of the "vortex-rings" to the "tour- 
bilious" of Descartes is little more than nominal ; but the correspond- 
ence between the modern and the ancient notion of a distinction be- 
tween primary and derivative matter is, to a certain extent, real. For 
this ?etherial "Urstoff'" of the modern, corresponds very closely with 
the nputzTj v'^TTj of Aristotle, the materia prima of his raedifeval follow- 
ers ; while matter, differentiated into our elements, is the equivalent 
of the first stage of progress towards the iffydrrj S/tj, or finished mat- 
ter, of the ancient philosophy. 

If the material units of the existing order of nature are specialized 
portions of a relatively homogeneous materia prima — which were orig- 
inated under conditions that have long ceased to exist and which remain 
unchanged and unchangeable under all conditions, whether natural or 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 75 

artificial, hitherto kuown to us— it follows that the speculation that 
they may be iudeflnitely altered, or that new units may be generated 
under conditions yet to be discovered, is perfectly legitimate. Theoret- 
ically, at any rate, the trausmutability of the elements is a verifiable 
scientific hypothesis; and such inquiries as those which have been set 
afoot, into the possible dissociative action of the great heat of the 
sun upon our elements, are not only legitimate, but are likely to yield 
results which, whether affirmative or negative, will be of great impor- 
tance. The idea that atoms are absolutely iugenerable and immutable 
" manufactured articles " stands on the same sort of foundation as the 
idea that biological species are '-manufactured articles " stood thirty 
years ago ; and the supposed constancy of the elementary atoms, dur- 
ing the enormous lapse of time measured by the existence of our uni- 
verse, is of no more weight against the possibility of change in them, 
in the infinity of antecedent time, than the constancy of species in 
Egypt, since the days of Eameses or Obeops, is evidence of their im- 
mutability during all past epochs of the earth's history. It seems safe 
to prophesy that the hypothesis of the evolution of the elements from 
a primitive matter will, in future, play no less a part in the history of 
science than the atomic hypothesis, which, to begin with, had no greater 
if so great an empirical foundation. 

It may perhaps occur to the reader that the boasted progress of phys- 
ical science does not come to much, if our present conceptions of the 
fundamental nature of matter are expressible in terms employed, more 
than two thousand years ago, by the old " master of those that know." 
Such a criticism, however, would involve forgetfulness of the fact that 
the connotation of these terms, in the mind of the modern, is almost 
infinitely difiFerent from that which they possessed in the mind of the 
ancient philosopher. In antiquity, they meant little more than vague 
speculation; at the present day they indicate definite physical concep- 
tions, susceptible of mathematical treatment, and giving rise to innu- 
merable deductions, the value of which can be experimentally tested. 
The old notions produced little more than floods of dialectics ; the new 
are powerful aids towards the increase of solid knowledge. 

2. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. 

Every-day observation shows that of the bodies which compose the 
material world, some are in motion and some are, or appear to be, at 
rest. Of the bodies in motion, some, like the sun and stars, exhibit a 
constant movement, regular in amount and direction, for which no ex- 
ternal cause appears. Others, as stones and smoke, seem also to move 
of themselves when external impediments are taken away; but these 
appear to tend to move in opposite directions, the bodies we call heavy, 
such as stones, downwards, and the bodies we call light, at least such 
as smoke and steam, upwards; and as we further notice that the earth 
below our feet is made up of heavy matter, while the air above our 



76 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

heads is extremely light matter, it is easy to regard this fact as evi- 
dence that the lower region is the place to Avhich heavy things tend — 
their proper place, in short — while the upper region is the proper place 
of light things; and to generalize the facts observed by saying that 
bodies which are free to move tend towards their proper places. All 
these seem to be natural motions, dependent on the inherent faculties 
or tendencies of bodies themselves ; but there are other motions which 
are artificial or violent, as when a stone is thrown from the hand or is 
knocked by another stone in motion. In such cases as these, for ex- 
ample, when a stone is cast from the liand the distance travelled by the 
stone appears to depend partly on its weight and partly upon the exer- 
tion of the thrower. So that the weight of the stone remaining the 
same, it looks as if the motive power communicated to it were measured 
by the distance to which the stone travels; — as if (in other words) the 
power needed to send it a hundred yards was twice as great as that 
needed to send it fifty yards. These, apparently obvious, conclusions 
from the every- day appearances of rest and motion fairly represent the 
state of opinion upon the subject which prevailed among the ancient 
Greeks and remained dominant until the age of Galileo. The publica- 
tion of the " Principia " of Newton in 1686-'87 marks the epoch at which 
the progress of mechanical physics had effected a complete revolution 
of thought on these subjects. By this time it had been made clear that 
the old generalizations were either incomplete or totally erroneous; that 
a body, once set in motion, will continue to move in a straight line for 
any conceivable time or distance, unless it is interfered with ; that any 
change of motion is proportional to the "force" which causes it and 
takes place in the direction in which that " force" is exerted, and that 
when a bodj' in motion acts as a cause of motion on another the latter 
gains as much as the former loses, and vice versa. It is to be noted, 
however, that while, in contradistinction to the ancient idea of the in- 
herent tendency to motion of bodies, the absence of any such spon- 
taneous power of motion was accepted as a physical axiom by the mod- 
erns, the old conception virtually maintained itself in a new shape. 
For, in spite of Newton's well-known warning against the "absurdity" 
of supposing that one body can act on another at a distance through a 
vacuum, the ultimate particles of matter were generally assumed to be 
the seats of perennial causes of motion termed " attractive and repulsive 
forces," in virtue of which any two such particles, without any external 
impression of motion or intermediate material agent, w^ere supposed to 
tend to approach or remove from one another; and this view of the 
duality of the causes of motion is very widely held at the present day. 
Another important result of in vestigatiou, attained in the seventeenth 
century, was the proof and quantitative estimation of physical inertia. 
In the old philosophy, a curious conjunction of ethical and physical 
prejudices had led to the notion that there was something ethically bad 
and physically obstructive about matter. Aristotle attributes all irregu- 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 77 

larities and apparent dysteleologies in nature to the disobedience, or 
sluggish yielding, of matter to the shaping and guiding influence of 
those reasons and causes which were hypostatized in his ideal " Forms." 
In modern science, the conception of the inertia, or resistance to change, 
of matter is complex. In part, it contains a corollary from the law of 
causation : A body can not change its state in respect of rest or motion 
without a sufficient cause. But, in part, it contains generalizations from 
experience. One of these is that there is no such cause resident in any 
body, and that therefore it will rest or continue in motion so long as no 
external cause of change acts upon it. The other is that the effect which 
the impact of a body in motion produces upon the body on which it im- 
pinges depends, other things being alike, on the relation of a certain 
quality of each which is called "mass." Given a cause of motion of a 
certain value, the amount oi' motio^i, measured by distance travelled in 
a certain time, which it will produce in a given quantity of matter, say 
a cubic inch, is not always the same, but dei)ends on what that matter 
is ; — a cubic inch of iron will go faster than a cubic inch of gold. Hence, 
it appears, that since equal amounts of motion have, ex hypothesis been 
produced, the amount of motion in a body does not depend on its speed 
alone, but on some property of the body. To this the name of " mass " 
has been given. And since it seems reasonable to suppose that a large 
quantity of matter, moving slowly, possesses as much motion as a small 
quantity moving faster, " mass" has been held to express '• quantity of 
matter." It is further demonstrable that, at any given tinie and place, 
the relative mass of any two bodies is expressed by the ratio of their 
weights. 

When all these great truths respecting molar motion, ur the move- 
ments of visible and tangible masses, had been shown to hold good not 
only of terrestrial bodies, but of all those which coiistitute the visible 
universe, and the movements of the macrocosm had thus been expressed 
by a general mechanical theory, there remained a vast number of phe- 
nomena, such as those of light, heat, electricity, magnetism, and those 
of the physical and chemical changes, which do not involve molar mo- 
tion. iSTewton's corpuscular theory of light was an attempt to deal with 
one great series of these phenomena on mechanical principles, and it 
maintained its ground until, at the beginning of the nineteenth century, 
the undulatory theory proved itself to bo a much better working hy- 
pothesis. Heat, up to that time, and indeed much later, was regarded 
as an imponderable substance, caloric ; as a thing which was absorbed 
by bodies when they were warmed, and was given out as they cooled 5 
and which, moreover, was cai)able of entering into a sort of chemical com- 
bination with them, and so becoming latent. Rumford and Davy had 
given a great blow to this view of heat by proving that the quantity of 
heat which two portions of the same body could be made to give out, by 
rubbing them together, was practically illimitable. This result brought 
philosophers face to face with the contradiction of supposing that a 



78 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

finite body could contain an infinite quantity of another body; but it 
was not until 1843, that clear and unquestionable experimental proof was 
given of the fact that there is a definite relation between mechanical 
work and heat ; that so much work always gives rise, under the same 
conditions, to so much heat, and so much heat to so much mechanical 
work. Thus originated the mechanical theor^^ of heat, which became 
the starting point of the modern doctrine of the conservation of energy. 
Molar motion bad appeared to be destroyed by friction. It was proved 
that no destruction took place, but that an exact equivalent of the 
energy of the lost molar motion appears as that of the molecular motion, 
or motion of the smallest particles of a body, which constitutes heat. 
The loss of the masses is the gain of their particles. 

Before 1843, however, the doctrine of the conservation of energy had 
been approached. Bacon's chief contribution to positive science is the 
happy guess (for the context shows that it was little more) that heat 
may be a mode of motion ; Descartes affirmed the quantity of motion in 
the world to be constant; Newton nearly gave expression to the com- 
plete theorem, while Eumford's and Davy's experiments suggested, 
though they did not prove, the equivalency of mechanical and thermal 
energy. Again, the discovery of voltaic electricity, and the marvellous 
development of knowledge in that field, effected by such men as Davy, 
Faraday, Oersted, Ampere, and Melloni, had brought to light a num- 
ber of facts which tended to show that the so-called " forces " at work 
in light, heat, electricity', and magnetism, in chemical and in mechani- 
cal operations, were intimately, and in various cases, quantitatively 
related. It was demonstrated that any one could be obtained at the 
expense of any other; and apparatus was devised which exhibited the 
evolution of all these kinds of action from one source of energy. Hence 
the idea of the " correlation of forces" which was the immediate fore- 
runner of the doctrine of the conservation of energy. 

It is a remarkable evidence of the greatness of the progress in this 
direction which has been effected in our time, that even the second edi- 
tion of the " History of the Inductive Sciences," Which was j^ublished in 
1846, contains no allusion either to the general view of the " Correlation 
of Forces" published in England in 1842, or to the publication in 1843 
of the first of the series of experiments by which the mechanical equiva- 
lent of heat was correctly ascertained.* Such a failure on the part of a 

* This is the more curious, as Ampere's hypothesis that vibrations of molecules, 
causing and caused by vibrations of the tether constitute heat, is discussed. See vol. 
ii, p. 587, 2d ed. In the Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, '2d ed., 1847, p. 239, 
Whewell remarks apropos of Bacon's definition of heat, "that it is an expansive, re- 
strained motion, modified in certain ways, and exerted in the smaller particles of 
the body; " that " although the exact nature of heat is still an obscure and contro- 
verted matter, the science of heat now consists of many important truths ; and that 
to none of these truths is there any approximation in Bacon's essay." In point of 
fact, Bacon's statement, however much open to criticism, does contain a distinct ap- 
proximation to the most important of all the truths respecting heat which had been 
discovered when Whewell wrote. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 79 

coutemporary, of great acquirements and remarkable intellectual pow- 
ers, to read the signs of the times, is a lesson aud a warning worthy of 
being deeply pondered by any one who attempts to iDrognosticate the 
course of scientific progress. 

I have pointed out that the growth of clear and definite views re- 
specting the constitution of matter has led to the conclusion tljat so far 
as natural agencies are concerned, it is ingenerable and indestructible. 
In so far as matter may be conceived ^to exist in a purely passi^ e state, 
it is. imaginably, older than motion. But as it must be assumed to be 
susceptible of motion, a particle of bare matter at rest must be endowed 
with the potentiality of motion. Such a particle however, by the sup- 
position can have no energy, for there is no cause why it should move. 
Suppose now that it receives an iminilse, it will begin to move with a 
velocity inversely proportional to its mass on the one hand, and directly 
j)roportional to the strength of the impulse on the other, and will pos- 
sess kinetic energy, in virtue of which it will not only continue to move 
forever if unimpeded, but if it impinges on another such particle it will 
impart more or less of its motion to the latter. Let it be conceived that 
the particle acquires a tendency to move, and that nevertheless it does 
not move. It is then in a condition totally different from that in which 
it was at first. A cause competent to produce motion is operating upon 
it, but, for some reason or other, is unable to give rise to motion. If the 
obstacle is removed, the energy which was there but could not manifest 
itself, at once gives rise to motion. While the restraint lasts, the en- 
ergy of the particle is merely potential ; and the case supposed illus- 
trates what is meant by potential energy. In this contrast of the po- 
tential with the actual, modern physics is turning to account the most 
familiar of Aristotelian distinctions — that between duva/iK; and hipys'.a. 

That kinetic energy appears to be imparted by impact is a fact ot 
daily and hourly experience: we see bodies set in motion by bodies, 
already in motion, which seem to come into contact with them. It is 
a truth which could have been learned by nothing but experience, and 
which can not be explained, but must be taken as an ultimate fact 
about which, explicable or inexplicable, there can be no doubt. Strictly 
speaking, we have no direct apprehension of any other cause of mo- 
tion. But experience furnishes innumerable examples of the produc- 
tion of kinetic energy in a body previously at rest, when no impact 
is discernible as the cause of that energy. In all such cases, the 
presence of a second body is a necessary condition 5 and the amount of 
kinetic energy, which its presence enables the first to gain, is strictlj^ de- 
pendent on the relative positions of the two. Hence the phrase energy of 
•position, which isfrequently used as equivalent to i)otential energy. If a 
stone is picked up and held, say, 6 feet above the ground, it has potential 
energy, because, if let go, it will immediately begin to move towards the 
earth ; and this energy may be said to be energy of position, because it 
depends upon the relative position of the earth and the stone. The 



80 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

stone is solicited to move, but can not so long as the muscular strength 
of the hokler prevents the solicitation from taking effect. The stone, 
therefore, has potential energy-, which becomes kinetic if it is let go, 
and the amount of that kinetic energy which will be developed before 
it strikes the earth depends upon its position, — on the fact that it Is, saj-, 
C feet off the earth, neither more nor less. Moreover, it can be proved 
that the raiser of the stone had to exert as much energy in order to 
place it in its position as it will develop in falling. Hence the en- 
ergy which was exerted, and apparently exhausted, in raising the stone 
is potentially in the stone in its raised position, and will manifest it- 
self when the stone is set free. Thus the energy, withdrawn from the 
general stock to raise the stone, is returned when it falls, and there is 
no change m the total amount. Energy, as a whole, is conserved. 

Taking this as a very broad and general statement of the essential 
facts of the case, the raisitig of the stone is intelligible enough, as a 
case of the communication of motion from one body to another. But 
the potential energy of the raised stone is not so easily intelligible. 
To all appearance, there is nothing either pushing or pulling it toward 
the earth, or the earth toward it ; and yet it is quite certain that the 
stone tends to move toward the earth, and the earth toward the stone, 
in the way defined by the law of gravitation. 

In the currently accepted language of science, the cause of motion, 
in all such cases as this, when bodies tend to move toward or away from 
one or another, without any discernible impact of other bodies, is termed 
a " force," which is called " attractive " in the one case, and " repul- 
sive" in the other. And such attractive or repulsive forces are often 
spoken of as if they were real things, capable of exerting a pull, or a 
push, upon the particles of matter concerned. Thus tbo potential 
energy of the stone is commonly- said to be due to the "force " of gravity 
which is continually oi^erating upon it. 

Another illustration may make the case plainer. The bob of a pend- 
ulum swings first to one side and then to the other of the center of the 
arc which it describes. Suppose it to have just reached the summit of 
its right-hand half-swing. It is said that the "attractive forces" of the 
bob for the earth, and of the earth for the bob, set the former in motion ; 
and as these " forces" are continually in operation, they confer an ac- 
celerated velocity on the bob; until, when it reaches the center of its 
swing, it is, so to speak, fully charged with kinetic energy. If, at this 
moment, the whole material universe, except the bob, were abolished, 
it would move forever in the direction of a tangent to the middle of the 
arc described. As a matter of fact, it is compelled to travel through 
its left-hand half-swing, and thus virtually to go up hill. Consequently 
the " attractive forces " of the bob and the earth are now acting agaiust 
it, and constitute a resistance which the charge of kinetic energy has to 
overcome. But as this charge represents the operation of the attractive 
forces, during the passage of the bob through the right-hand half-swing 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 81 

down to the ceutor of tbe arc, so it must needs be used up by the pas- 
sage of tbe bob upward from tbe center of tbe arc to tbe summit of tbe 
left-baud balf swing. Hence, at this point, the bob comes to a momen- 
tary rest. The last fraction of kinetic energy is just neutralized by the 
action of the attractive forces, and tbe bob has only potential energy 
equal to that with which it started. Bo that tbe sum of the phenomena 
may be stated thus : At tbe summit of either half-arc of its swing, the 
bob has a certain amount of potential energy : and as it descends it 
gradually exchanges this for kinetic energy, until at the center it pos- 
sesses an equivalent amount of kinetic energy ; from this point on- 
wards, it gradually loses kinetic energy as it ascends, until, at the 
summit of the other half-arc, it has required an exactly similar amount 
of potential energy. Thus, on tbe whole transaction, nothing is either 
lost or gained ; the quantity of energy is always the same, but it passes 
from one form into the other. 

To all apjiearance, the phenomena exhibited by the pendulum are 
not to be accounted for by impact ; in fact, it is usually assumed that cor- 
responding phenomena would take place if tbe earth and the i>endulum 
were situated in an absolute vacuum, and at any conceivable distance 
from one another. If this be so, it follows that there must be two 
totally ditiereut kinds of causes of motion ; the one impact — a vera cama, 
of which, to all appearance, we have constant experience ; the other, 
attractive or repulsive "force" — a metaphysical entity- which is phys- 
ically inconceivable. Xewton expressly repudiated the notion of the 
existence of attractive forces, in the sense in which that term is ordi- 
narily understood ; and he refused to put forward any hypothesis as to 
tbe physical cause of the so-called " attraction of gravitation," As a 
general rule, his successors have been content to accept the doctrine of 
attractive and repulsive forces, without troubling themselves about the 
philosophical difficulties which it involv^es. But this has not always 
been the case ; and the attempt of Le Sage, in the last century, to show 
that tbe phenomena of attraction and repulsion are susceptible of ex- 
planation by bis hypothesis of bombardment by ultra-mundane par- 
ticles, whether tenable or not, has the great merit of being an attempt 
to get rid of the dual conception of the causes of motion which has 
hitherto prevailed. On this hypothesis, tbe hammering of tbe ultra- 
mundane corpuscles on the bob confers its kinetic energy on the one 
hand, and takes it away on tbe other ; and tbe state of potential energy 
means tbe condition of the bob dnring the instant at which tbe energy 
conferred by tbe hammering during tbe one half-arc has just been ex- 
hausted by the hammering during the other half-arc. It seems safe 
to look forward to the time when the conception of attractive and re- 
pulsive forces, having served its purpose as a useful piece of scientific 
scaftblding, will be replaced by tbe deduction of the phenomena known 
cis attraction and repulsion, froni the general laws of motion, 
e. Mis. 600 



82 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTUliY. 

The doctrine of tlie conservation of energy, which I have endeavored 
to illustrate, is thus defined l)> the hite Clerk Maxwell: 

"The total energy of any body or system of bodies is a quantity 
which can neither be increased nor diminished by any mutual action of, 
such bodies, though it may be transformed into any one of the forms of 
which energy is susceptible." It follows that energy, like matter, is in- 
destructible and ingenerable in nature. The phenomenal world, so far 
as it is material, expresses the evolution and involution of energy, its 
passage from the kinetic to the potential condition and back again. 
Wherever motion of matter takes place, that motion is effected at the 
expense of part of the total store of energy. 

Hence, as the phenomena exhibited by living beings, in so far as they 
are material, are all molar or molecular motions, these are included un- 
der the general law. A living body is a machine by which energy is 
transformed in the same sense as a steam-engine is so, and all its move- 
ments, molar and molecular, are to be accounted for by the energy which 
is supplied to it. The phenomena of consciousness which arise, along 
with certain transformations of energy, can not be interpolated in the 
series of these transformations, inasmuch as they are not motions to 
which the doctrine of the conservation of energy api)lies. And fur the 
same reason, they do not necessitate the using up of energy ; a sensa- 
tion has no mass and can not be conceived to be suscei)tible of njove- 
ment. That a particular molecular motion does give rise to a state of 
consciousness is experimentally certain ; but the how and why of the 
process are just as inexplicable as in the case of the communication of 
kinetic energy by impact. 

When dealing with the doctrine of the ultimate constitution of mat- 
ter, we found a certain resemblance between the oldest speculations atid 
the newest doctrines of physical philosophers. But there is no such 
resemblance between the ancient and modern views of motion and its 
causes, except in so far as the conception of attractive and re])ulsive 
forces may be regarded as the modified descendant of the Aristotelian 
conception of forms. In fact, it is hardly too much to say that the es- 
sential and fundamental difference between ancient and modern phys- 
ical science lies in the ascertainment of the true laws of statics and 
dynamics in the course of the last three centuries ; and in the invention 
of mathematical methods of dealing with all the conse(pien(!es of these 
laws. The ultimate aim of modern physical science is the deduction of 
the phenomena exhibited by material bodies from physico-ujathematical 
first principles. Whether the human intellect Is strong enough to at- 
tain the goal set before it may be a question, but thither will it surely 
strive. 

3. EVOLUTION. 

The third great scientific event of our time, the rehabilitation of the 
docti'ine of evolution, is part of the same tendency ot increasing kuowl- 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 83 

edge to unify itself, which has led to the doctrine of the conservatiou of 
energy. And this tendency, again, is mainly a product of the increas- 
ing strength conferred by physical investigation on the belief in the 
universal validity of that orderly relation of facts, which we express by 
the so called "Laws of Nature." 

The growth of a plant from its seed, of an animal from its egg, the 
apparent origin of innumerable living things from mud, or from the 
putrefying remains of former organisms, had furnished the earlier sci- 
entific thinkers with abundant analogies suggestive of the conception of 
a corresponding method of cosmic evolution from a formless "chaos" 
to an ordered world which might either continue forever or undergo 
dissolution into its elements before starting on a new course of evolu- 
tion. It is therefore no wonder that, from the days of the Ionian school 
onwards, the view that the universe was the result of such a process 
should have maintained itself as a leading dogma of philosophy. The 
emanistic theories which played so great a part in Neoplatonic philos- 
ophy and Gnostic theology are forms of evolution. In the seventeenth 
century, Descartes propounded a scheme of evolution, as an hypothesis 
of what might have been the mode of origin of the world, while pro- 
fessing to accept the ecclesiastical scheme of creation, as an account of 
that which actually was its manner of com.ing into existence. In the 
eighteenth century Kant put forth a remarkable speculation as to the 
origin of the solar system, closely similar to that subsequently adopted 
by Laplace and destined to become famous under the title of the "neb- 
ular hypothesis." 

The careful observations and the acute reasonings of the Italian 
geologists of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the specula- 
tions of Leibnitz in the " Protogtea" and of Bufitbn in his " Th6orie de 
la Terre," the sober and profound reasonings of Hutton, in the latter 
part of the eighteenth century,— all these tended to show that the 
fabric of the earth itself implied the continuance of processes of natural 
causation for a period of time as great, in relation to human history, as 
the distances of the heavenly bodies from us are, in relation to terres- 
trial standards of measurement. The abyss of time began to loom as 
large as the abyss of space. And this revelation to sight and touch, 
of a link here and a link there of a practically infinite chain of natural 
causes and effects, prepared the way, as perhaps nothing else has done, 
for the modern form of the ancient theory of evolution. 

In the beginning of the eighteenth century, De Maillet made the first 
serious attempt to apply the doctrine to the living world. In the latter 
part of it, Erasmus Darwin, Goethe, Treviranus, and Lamarck, took up 
the work more vigorously and with better qualifications. The question 
of special creation, or evolution, lay at the bottom of the fierce dis- 
putes which broke out in the French Academy between Cuvier and St.- 
Hilaire; and, for a timn, the supporters of biological evolution were 
.silenced, if not answered, by the alliciuce of the greatest naturalist of 



84 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTUKY. 

the age with their ecclesiastical opponents. Catastrophism, a short- 
sighted teleology, and a still more short-sighted orthodoxy, joined 
forces to crush evolution. 

Lyell and Poulett Scrope, in this country, resumed the work of the 
Italians and of Hutton ; and the former, aided by a marvellous power 
of clear exposition, placed upon an irrelragable basis the truth that 
natural causes are competent to account for all events, which can be 
proved to have occurred, in the course of the secular changes which 
have talien place during the deposition of the stratified rocks. The 
publication of " The Principles of Geology," in 1830, constituted an 
epoch in geological science. But it also constituted an epoch in the 
modern history of the doctrines of evolution, by raising in the mind of 
every intelligent reader this question: If natural causation is compe- 
tent to account for the not-living part of our globe, why should it not 
account tor the living part? 

By keeping this question before- the public for some thirty years, 
Lyell, though the keenest and most formidable of the opponents of the 
transmutation theory, as it w^as formulated by Lamarck, was of the 
greatest possible service in facilitating the reception of the sounder 
doctrines of a later day. And in like fashion, another vehement op- 
ponent of the transmutation of species, the elder Agassiz, was doomed 
to help the cause he hated. Agassiz not only maintained the fact of 
the progressive advance in organization of the inhabitants of the earth 
at each successive geological epoch, but he insisted upon the analogy 
of the steps of this progression with those by which the embryo ad- 
vances to the adult condition, among the highest forms of each groni). 
In fact, in endeavoriug to support these views he went a good way be- 
yond the limits of any cautious interi)retation of the facts then known. 

Although little acquainted with biological science, Whewell seems 
to have taken particular pains with that part of his work which deals 
with the history of geological and biological speculation ; and several 
chapters of his seventeenth and eighteenth books, which comprise the 
history of physiology, of comparative anatomi" and of the pahptiological 
sciences, vividly reproduce the controversies of the enrly days of the 
Victorian epoch. But here, as in the case of the doctrine of the con- 
servation of energy, the historian of the inductive sciences has no ])ro- 
phetic insight; not even a suspicion of that which the near future was 
to bring forth. And those who still repeat the once favorite objection 
that Darwin's " Origin of Species" is nothing but a new version of the 
" Philosophic zoologique" will find that, so late as 1844, Whewell had 
not the slightest suspicion of Darwin's nmin theorem, even as a logical 
possibilit5\ In fact, the publication of that theorem by Darwin and 
Wallace, in 1859, took all the biological world by surprise. Neither 
those who were inclined towards the "progressive transmutation " or 
"development" doctrine, as it was then called, nor those who were 
opposed to it, had the slightest suspicion that the tendency to variation 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 85 

in liviug beings, wliicli all admitted as a matter of fact, tbe selective 
influence of conditions, which iio one could deny to be a matter of fact 
when his attention was drawn to the evidence, and the occurrence 
of great geological changes which also was matter of fact, could be 
used as the only uccessary postulates of a theory of the evolution of 
plants and animals which, even if not, at once, competent to explain all 
the known facts of biological science, could not be shown to be incoii- 
sistent^with any. So far as biology is concerned, the publication of tiie 
" Origin of Species," for the tirst time, put the doctrine of evolution, in 
its application to living things, upon a sound scientific foundation. It 
became an instrument of investigation, and in no hands did it prove 
more brilliantly profitable tham in those of Darwin himself. His pub- 
lications on the effects of domestication in plants and animals,. on the 
influence of cross fertilization, on flowers as organs for effecting such 
fertilization, on insectivorous plants, on the motions of plants, pointed 
out the routes of exploration which have since been followed by hosts 
of inquirers, to the great profit of science. 

Darwin found the biological world a more than sufficient field for 
even his great powers, and left the cosmical part of the doctrine to 
others. Not much has been added to the nebular hyijothesis since the 
time of Laplace, except that the attempt to show (against that hypoth- 
esis) that all nebulai are star clusters, has been met by the spectro- 
scopic proof of the gaseous condition of some of , them. Moreover, phy- 
sicists of tlie present generation appear now to accept the secular cool- 
ing of the earth, which is one of the corollaries of that hypothesis. ' In 
fact, attempts have been made, by the help of deductions from the data 
of physics, to lay down an approximate limit to the number of millions 
of years which have elapsed since the earth was habitable by living 
beings. If the conclusions thus reached should stand the test of further 
investigf'tion, they will undoubtedly be very valuable. But, whether 
true or false, they can have no influence upon the doctrine of evolu- 
tion in its application to living organisms. The occurrence of succes- 
sive forms of life upon our globe is an historical fact which can not be 
disputed, and the relation of these successive forms, as stages of evobi- 
tion of the same type, is established in various cases. The biologist 
has no means of determining the time over which the process of evolu- 
tion has extended, but accepts the computation of the physical geologist 
and the physicist, whatever that may be. 

Evolution as a philosophical doctrine applicable to all phenomena, 
whether physical or mental, whether manifested by material atoms or 
by men in society, has been dealt with systematically in the "Synthetic 
Philosophy" of Mr. Herbert Spencer. Comment on that great under- 
taking would not be in place here. I mention it because, so far as I 
know, it is the first attempt to deal on scientific principles with modern 
scientific facts and speculations. For the " Philosophic positive" of M. 
Comte, with which Mr. Spencer's system of i)hilosophy is sometimes 



86 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

compared, tbongli it professes a similar object, is nnfortiiiiately per- 
meated by a thorougbly unscientific spirit, and its antlior bad no ade- 
quate acqnaintiince witb tbe pbysical sciences even of bis own time. 

The doctrine of evolution, so far as tbe present pbysical cosmos is 
concerned, postulates tbe fixity of tbe rules of operation of tbe causes 
of motion in tbe material universe. If all kinds of matter are modifica- 
tions of one kind, and if all modes of motion are derived from tbe same 
energy, tbe orderly evolution of pbysical nature out of one substratum 
and one energy implies tbat tbe rules of action of tbat energy sbould 
be fixed and definite. In tbe i)ast bistorj^ of tbe universe back to tbat 
l^oiut, tbere can be no room for cbauce or disorder. Bnt it is possible 
to raise tbe question wbetber tbis universe of simplest matter and defi- 
nitely operating energy, wbich forms our bypotbetical starting point, 
may not itself be a product of evolution froju a universe of sucb matter, 
in wbicb tbe manifestations of energy were not definite, — in wbicb, for 
example, our laws of motion beld good for some units and not for 
others, or for tbe same units at one time and not at another, — and wbic;b 
would tberefore be a real epicurean cbance-world? 

For myself, I must confess tbat I find tbe air of tbis region of specu- 
lation too rarefied for my constitution, and I am disposed to take refuge 
in "ignoramus et ignorabimus." 

OTHEJl SCIENTIFIC ACHIEVEMENTS. 

The execution of my furtber task, tbe iudication of tbe most im- 
portant achievements in tbe several braucbes of physical science during 
tbe last fifty years, is embarrassed by tbe abundance of tbe objects of 
choice ; and by tbe difficulty wbicb every one, but a specialist in eacb 
department, must find in drawing a due distinction between tbe dis- 
coveries wbicb strike tbe imagination by tbeir novelty, or by their 
l)ractical influence, and those unobtrusive but pregnant observations 
and experiments in wbicb tbe germs of tbe great tbings of the future 
really lie. Moreover, my limits restrict me to -little more than a bare 
chronicle of the events wbicb I have to notice. 

In physics and cbemistry, the old boundaries of wbicb sciences are 
ra})idly becoming effaced, one can hardly go wrong in ascribing a pri- 
mary value to tbe investigations into the relation between tbe solid, 
liquid, and gaseous states of matter on tbe one hand, and degrees of 
])ressure and of beat on tbe other. Almost all, even tbe most i^efrac- 
tory, solids have been vaporized by tbe intense beat of tbe electric arc; 
and tbe most refractory gases bave been forced to assume tbe liquid, 
and even the solid, forms by the combination of bigb pressure witb 
intense cold. It bas further been shown that tbere is no discontinuity 
between these states — that a gas passes into the liquid state tlirougb a 
condition which is neither one nor the other, and that a liquid body 
becomes solid, or a solid liquid, by the intermediation of a condition in 
which it is neither truly solid nor truly liquid. 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 87 

KINETIC THEORY OF GASES. 

Tlieoretical and experimental investigatioDS have concurred in the 
establishment of the view that a gas is a body, the particles of which 
are in incessant rectilinear motion at high velocities, colliding with one 
another and bounding back when they strike the walls of the containing 
vessel ; and, on this theory, the already ascertained relations of gaseous 
bodies to heat and pressure have been shown to be deducible from 
mechanical principles. Immense improvements have been effected in 
the means of exhausting a given space of its gaseous contents ; and 
experimentation on the i)henomena which attend the electric discharge 
and the action of radiant heat, within the extremely rarefied media 
thus produced, has yielded a great number of remarkable results, some 
of which have been made familiar to the public by the Gieseler tubes 
and the radiometer. Already these investigations have afforded an 
unexpected insight into the constitution of matter and its relations 
with thermal and electric energy, and they open up a vast field for 
future inquirj' into some of the deepest problems of physics. Other 
important steps, in the same direction, have been effected by investiga- 
tions into the absorption of radiant heat proceeding from different 
sources by solid, fluid, and gaseous bodies. And it is a curious ex- 
ample of the inter-connection of the various branches of physical 
science, that some of the results thus obtained have proved of great 
importance in meteorology. 

SPECTROSCOPY. 

The existence of numerous dark lines, constant in their number and 
position in the various regions of the solar spectrum, was made out by 
Frauuhofer in the early imrt of the present century, but more than 
forty years elapsed before their causes were ascertained and their im- 
portance recognized. Spectroscopy, which then took its rise, is proba- 
bly that employment of physical knowledge, already won, as a means 
of further acquisition, which most impresses the imagination. For it 
has suddenly and immensely enlarged our power of overcoming the 
obstacles which almost infinite minuteness on the one hand, and almost 
infinite distance on the other, have hitherto opposed to the recognition 
of the i^resence and the condition of matter. One eighteen-millionth 
of a grain of sodium in the flame of a spirit-lamp may be detected by 
this instrument; and, at the same time, it gives trustworthy indica- 
tions of the material constitution not only of the sun, but of the far- 
thest of those fixed stars and nebulte which afford sufficient light to 
aflect the eye, or the photographic plate, of the inquirer.* 

ELECTRICAL ADVANCES. 

The mathematical and experimental elucidation of the phenomena of 
electricity, and the study of the relations of this form of energy with 



88 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

cliemical and thermal action, had made extensive progress before 1S37. 
But the determination of the influence of magnetism on light, the dis- 
covery of diamagnetism, of the influence of crystalline structure on 
magnetism, antl the completion of the mathematical theory of electri. 
city, all belong to the present epoch. To it also appertain the practical 
execution and the working out of the results of the great international 
system of observations on terrestrial magnetism, suggested by Hum- 
boldt in 183Cj and the invention of instruments of infinite delicacy and 
precision for the quantitative determination of electrical phenomena. 
The voltaic battery has received vast imi)rovements; while the inven- 
tion of magneto-electric engines and of improved means of producing 
ordinary electricity has provided sources of electrical energy vastly 
suj)erior to any before extant in power, and far more convenient for 
use. 

It is perhaps this brancli of physical science which may claim the 
palm for its practical fruits, no less than for the aid which it has fur- 
nished to the investigation of other parts of the- field of physical sci- 
ence. The idea of the practicability of establishing a communication 
between distant points, by means of electricity, could hardly fail to 
have simmered in the minds of ingenious men, since well-nigh a cen- 
tury ago, experimental i^roof was given that electric disturbances could 
be propagated through a wire 12,000 feet long. Various methods of 
carrying the suggestion into practice had been effected with some de- 
gree of success; but the system of electric telegraphy, which, at the 
l)resent time, brings all jDarfcs of the civilized world within a few juin- 
utes of one another, originated only about the commencement of the 
epoch under consideration. In its influence on the course of liuman 
affairs, this invention takes its place beside that of gunpowder, which 
tended to abolish the physical inequalities of fighting men, — of ])rint- 
ing, which tended to destroy the effect of inequalities in wealth among 
learning men, — of steam transport, which has done the like for travel- 
ling men. All these gifts of science are aids in the process of levelling 
up; of removing the ignorant and baneful prejudices of nation against 
nation, province against province, and class against class ; of assuring 
that social order which is the foundation of progress, which has re- 
deemed Europe from barbarism, and against which one is glad to think 
that those who, in our time, are employing themselves in fanning the 
embers of ancient wrong, in setting class against class, and in trying 
to tear asunder the existing bonds of unity, are undertaking a futile 
struggle. The telephone is only second in practical importance to the 
electric telegraph. Invented, as it were, only the other day, it has 
already taken its place as an appliance of daily life. Sixty years ago 
the extraction of metals from their solutions, by the electric current, 
was simply a highly interesting scientific fact. At the present day 
the galvano-plastic art is a great industry ; and, in combination with 
photography, promises to be of endless service in the arts. Electric 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 89 

ligbtiiig is another great gift of science to civilization, the practical 
effects of which have not yet been fully developed, largely on account 
of its cost. But those whose memories go back to the tinder-box pe- 
riod, and recollect the cost of the first lucifer matches, will not despair 
of the results of the application of science and ingenuity to the cheap 
production of anything for which there is a large demand. 

The influence of the progress of electrical knowledge and invention 
upon that of investigation in other fields of science is highly remark- 
able. The combination of electrical with mechanical contrivances has 
produced instruments by which not only may extremely small intervals 
of time be exactly measured, but the varying rapulity of movements, 
which take place in such intervals and appear to the ordinary sense in- 
stantaneous, is recorded. The duration of the winking of an eye is a 
proverbial expression for an instantaneous action ; but, by the help of 
the revolving cylinder and the electrical-marking apparatus, it is possi- 
ble to obtain a graphic record of such an action, in which, if it endures 
a fraction of a second, that fraction shall be subdivided into a hundred 
or a thousand equal parts, and the state of the action at each hundredth 
or thousandth of a second exhibited. In fact, these instruments may be 
said to be time-microscopes. Such appliances have not only effected a 
revolution in physiology by the power of analyzing the phenomena of 
muscular and nervous activity which they have conferred, but they have 
furnished new methods of measuring the rate of movement of projectiles 
to the artillerist. Again, the microphone, which renders the minutest 
movements audible, and which enables a listener to hear the footfall of 
a fly, has equipped the sense of hearing with the means of entering 
almost as deeply into the penetralia of nature as does the sense of sight. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

That light exerts a remarkable influence in bringing about certain 
chemical combinations and decompositions was well known fifty years 
ago, and various more or less successful attempts to produce permanent 
pictures by the help of that knowledge had already been made. It was 
not till 1839, however, that practical success was obtained; but the 
" daguerreotypes " were both cumbrous and costly, and photography 
would never have attained its present important development had not 
the progress of invention substituted paper and glass for the silvered 
plates then in use. It is not my aff"air to dwell upon the practical appli- 
cation of the photography of the present day, but it is germane to my 
purpose to remark that it has furnished a most valuable accessory to 
the methods of recording motions and lapse of time already in exist- 
ence. In the hands of the astronomer and the meteorologist it has 
yielded means of registering terrestrial, solar, planetary, and stellar 
phenomena, independent of the sources of error attendant on ordinary 
observation ; in the hands of the physicist not only does it record spec- 
troscopic phenomena w:ith unsurpassable ease and precision, but it has 



90 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

revealed the existence of rays having: powerful chemical eiierg^y, or be- 
yond the visible limits of either end of the spectrum ; while, to the 
naturalist, it furnishes the means by which the forms of many highly 
complicated objects may be represented, without that possibility of error 
which is inherent in the work of the draughtsman. In fact, in many 
cases, the stern impartiality of photography is an objection to its em 
ployment, — it makes no distinction between the important and the un- 
important; and hetice photographs of dissections, for example, are rarely 
so useful as the work of a draughtsman who is at once accurate and in- 
telligent. 

ASTRONOMY. 

The determination of the existence of a new planet, Neptune, far be- 
yond the previously known bounds of the solar system, by mathematical 
deduction from the facts of perturbation ; and the immediate confirniii- 
tion of that determination, in the year 1840, by observers who turned 
their telescopes into the part of the heavens indicated as its place, con- 
stitute a remarkable testimony of nature to the validity of the principles 
of the astronomy of our time. In addition, so many new asteroids have 
been added to those which were already known to circulate in the place 
which theoretically should be occupied by a planet, between Mars ami 
Jupiter, that their number now amounts to between two and three hun- 
dred. I have already alluded to the extension of our knowledge of the 
nature of the heavenly bodies by the employment of spectroscopy. It 
has not only thrown wonderful light upon the physical and chemical 
constitution of the sun, fixed stars, and nebulte and comets, but it holds 
out a prospect of obtaining definite evidence as to the nature of our 
so-called elementary bodies. 

ASTRONOMIC GEOLOGY. 

The application of the generalizations of thermotics to the problem of 
the duration of the earth, and of deductions from tidal phenomena to 
the determination of the length of the day and of the time of revolution 
of the moon, in past epochs of the history of the universe; and the 
demonstration of the competency of the great secular changes, known 
under the general name of the precession of the equinoxes, to cause 
corresponding modifications in the climate of the two hemispheres of 
our globe, have brought astronomy into intimate relation with geol- 
ogy. Geology, in fact, proves that in the course of the past history 
of the earth, the climatic conditions of the same regions have been 
widely different, and seeks the explanation of this important truth from 
the sister sciences. The facts that, in the middle of the Tertiary epoch, 
evergreen trees abounded within the arctic circle ; and that, in the long 
subsequent Quaternary epoch, an arctic climate, with its accompaniment 
of gigantic glaciers, obtained in the northern hemisphere, as far south 
as Switzerland and central France, are as well established as any truths 



SCIENCE IN THE LA8T HALF CENTURY. 91 

of science. Bnf, whether the explanation of these extreme variations 
in the mean temperature of a great part of the northern hemisphere is 
to be sought in the concomitant changes in the distribution of land and 
water surfaces of which geology affords evidence, or in astronomical 
conditions, such as those to which I have referred, is a question which 
must await its answer from the science of tlie future. 

BIOLOGY. 

Turning now to the great steps in that vast progress which the bio- 
logical sciences have made since 1837, we are met, on the threshold of 
our epoch, with perhaps the greatest of all, — namely, the promulgation 
by Schwann, in 1839, of the generalization known as the " cell theory," 
the application and extension of which by a host of subsequent investi- 
gators has revolutionized morphology, development, and i)hysiology. 
Thanks to the immense series of labors thus inaugurated, the following 
fundamental truths have been established : 

All living bodies contain substances of closely similar physical and 
chemical composition, which constitute the physical basis of life, known 
as protoplasm. So far as our present knowledge goes, this takes its 
origin only from preexisting protoplasm. 

All complex living bodies consist, at one period of their existence, of 
an aggregate of minute portions of such substance, of similar structure, 
called cells, each cell having its own life independent of the others, 
though influenced by them. 

All the morphological characters of animals and plants are the results 
of the mode of multiplication, growth, and structural metamorphosis of 
these cells, considered as mori^hological units. 

All the physiological activities of animals and plants — assimilation, 
secretion, excretion, motion, generation — are the expression of the ac- 
tivities of the cells considered as physiological units. Each individual, 
among the higher animals and plants, is a synthesis of millions of sub- 
ordinate individualities. Its individuality, therefore, is that of a " civ- 
itas" in the ancient sense, or that of the Leviathan of Hobbes. 

There is no absolute line of demarkation between animals and plants. 
The intimate structure, and the modes of change, in the cells of the two 
are fundamentally the same. Moreover, the higher forms are evolved 
from lower, in the course of their development, by analogous processes 
of differentiation, coalescence, and reduction in both the vegetable and 
the anijual worlds. 

At the present time the cell theory, in consequence of recent inves- 
tigations into the structure and metamorphosis of the " nucleus," is 
undergoing a new development of great significance, which, among 
other things, foreshadows the possibility of the establishuient of a phy- 
sical theory of heredity, on a safer foundation than those which Buffou 
and Darwin have devised. 



92 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

The j)opular belief in abiogenesis, or the so-called ''spontaneous'' 
generation of the lower forms of life, which Mas accepted by all the 
philosophers of antiquity, lield its ground down to the middle of the 
seventeenth century. Kotwithstanding the frequent citation of the 
phrase, wrongfully attributed to Harvey, " Oinne vivum ex ovo," that 
great physiologist believed in spontaneous generation as firmly as Aris- 
totle did. And it was only in the latter i)art of the seventeenth century 
that Redi, by simple and well-devised experiments, demonstrated that 
in a great number of cases of supposed spontaneous generation, the 
animals which made their appearance owed their origin to the ordinary 
process of reproduction, and thus shook the ancient doctrine to its foun- 
dations. In the middle of the eighteenth century it was Tevived in a 
new form, by Needham and Buffbn ; but the experiments of Spalianzaui 
enforced the conclusions of Redi, and compelled the advocates of the 
occurrence of s[)ontaneous generation to seek evidence for their hyi)oth- 
esis oidy among the parasites and the lowest and minutest organisms. 
It is jnst fifty years since Schwann and others proved that even with 
respect to them, the sujiposed evidence of abiogenesis was untrust- 
worthy. 

During the present epoch the question whether living matter can be 
pn)duced in any other way than by the physiological activity of other liv- 
ing nuitter has been discussed afresh with great vigor; and the problem has 
been investigated by experimental methods of a precision and refinement 
unknown to previous investigators. The result is that the evidence in 
favor of abiogenesis has utterly broken down in every case which has 
been properly tested. So far as the lowest and minutest organisms are 
concerned, it has been proved that they never make their appearance 
if those precautions by which their germs are certainly excluded are 
taken. And, in regard to parasites, every case which seemed to make 
for their generation from the substance of the animal or plant which 
they infest has been proved to have a totally diiferent significance. 
Whether not-living matter may pass, or ever has under any conditions 
passed into living matter, without the agency of pre-existing living 
matter, necessarily remains an open question ; all that can be said is 
that it does not undergo this metamorphosis under any known condi- 
tions. Those who take a monistic view of the physical world may fairly 
hold abiogenesis as a pious opinion, supported by analogy and defended 
by our ignorance. But, as matters stand, it is equally justifiable to re- 
gard the physical world as a sort of dual monarchy. The kingdoms of 
living matter and of not-living matter are under one system of laws, 
and there is a perfect freedom of exchange and transit from one to the 
other. But no claim to biological nationality is valid except birth. 

In the department of anatomy and development a host of accurate 
and patient inquirers, aided by novel methods of preparation, which 
enable the anatomist to exhaust the details of visible structure and to 
reproduce them with geometrical precision, have investigated every 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 93 

importaut group of living animals and plants, no less than the fossil 
relics of former fauuiB and tioriB. An enormous addition has thus been 
made to our knowledge, especially of the lower forms of life, and it may 
be said that morphology, however incKhaustible in detaU, is complete in 
its broad features. Classification, which is merely a convenient sum- 
mary expression of morphological fiiots, has undergone a corresponding 
improvement. The breaks which formerly separated our groups from 
one another, as animals from plants, vertebrates from invertebrates, 
cryptogams from phanerogams, have either been filled up or shown 
to have no theoretical significance. The question of the position of 
man, as an animal, has given rise to much disputation, with the result 
of proving that there is no anatomical or develoi)mental character by 
which he is more widely distinguished from the group of animals most 
nearly allied to him, tlian they are from one another. In fact, in this 
particular, the classification of Linnieus has been proved to be more in 
accordance with the facts than those of most of his successors. 

ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The study of man, as a genus and species of the animal world, con- 
ducted with reference to no other considerations than those which 
would be admitted by the investigator of any other form of animal 
life, has given rise to a special branch of biology known as Anthropol- 
ogy, which has grown with great rapidity. Numerous societies devoted 
to this portion of science have sprung up, and the energy of its devo- 
tees has i)roduced a copious literature. The physical characters of the 
various races of men have been studied with a minuteness and accu- 
racy heretofore unknown ; and demonstrative evidence of the existence 
of human contemporaries of the extinct animals of the latest geological 
epoch has been obtained; physical science has thus been brought into 
the closest relation with history and with archaeology ; and the striking 
investigations which, during our time, have put beyond doubt the vast 
antiquity of Babylonian and Egyptian civilization, are in perfect har- 
mony with the conclusions of anthropology as to the antiquity of the 
human species. 

Classification is a logical process which consists in putting together 
those things which are like and keeping asunder those which are un- 
like; and a mor[)hological classification, of course, takes notes only of 
morphological likeness and unlikeness. So long, therefore, as our mor- 
phological knowledge was almost wholly confined to anatomy, the 
characters of groups were solely anatomical; but as the phenomena of 
embryology were explored, the likeness and unlikeness of individual 
development had to be taken into account ; and at present, the study of 
ancestral evolution introduces a uew element of likeness and unlike- 
ness which is not only eminently deserving of recognition, but must 
ultimately predominate over all others. A classification which shall 
represent the process of ancestral evolution is, in tact, the end which 



94 SCIENCE IN IHE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

the labors of the philosophical taxouoniist must keep iu view. But it 
is au eud which can uot be attained until the progress of palaeontology 
has given us far more insight than we yet possess into the historical 
facts of the case. Much of the speculative " phylogeny," which abounds 
among my present contemporaries, reminds me very forcibly of the 
speculative morphology, unchecked by a knowledge of development, 
which was rife iu my youth. As hypothesis, suggesting inquiry iu this 
or that direction, it is often extremely useful ; but when the product 
of such speculation is placed on a level with those generalizations of 
mor[)hological truths which are reinesented by the definitions of natural 
groups, it tends to confuse fancy with fact and to create mere disorder. 
We are in danger of drifting into a new " I^atur-Philosophie " worse 
than the old, because there is less excuse for it. Boyle did great serv- 
ice to science by his "Sceptical Chemist," and I am incliued to think 
that at the present day a " Sceptical Biologist" might exert an equally 
beneficent influence. 

PHYSIOLOGY. 

Whoso wishes to gain a clear conception of the progress of physiology 
since 1837, will do well to compare Miillei's " Physiology," which ap- 
])eared in 1S35, and Drapiez's edition of liichard's " Nouveaux Elemeuts 
de Botauique," published in 1837, with any of the present hand-books 
of animal and vegetable physiology. Miiller's work was a masterpiece, 
unsurpassed since the time of Haller, and Kichard's book enjoyed a 
great reputation at the time ; but their successors transport one into a 
new world. That which characterizes the new physiology, is that it is 
permeated by, and indeed based upon conceptions which, though uot 
wholly absent, are but dawning on the minds of the older writers. 

Modern physiology sets forth as its chief ends : Firstly, the ascertain- 
ment of the facts and conditions of cell-life in general. Secondly, in 
composite organisms, the analysis of the functions of organs into those 
of the cells of which they are composed. Thirdl}^ the explication of 
the processes by which this local cell-life is directly or indirectly con- 
trolled and brought into relation with the life of the rest of the cells 
which compose the organism. Fourthly, the investigation of the phe- 
nomena of life iu general, ou the assum])tion that the physical and chem- 
ical processes which take place in the living body are of the same order 
as those which take place out of it ; and that whatever energy is exerted 
in producing such phenomena is derived from the commou stock of en- 
ergy in the universe. In the fifth place modern physiology investigates 
the relation between physical and psychical phenomena, on the assum])- 
tion that molecular changes indefinite portions of nervous matter stand 
in the relation of necessary antecedents to definite mental states and 
operations. The work which has been done in each of the directions 
here indicated is vast, and the accumulation of solid knowledge, which 
has been effected, is correspoudiugly great. For the first time in the 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 95 

history of science, physiologists are now in the position to say that they 
have arrived at clear and distinct, though by no means complete, con- 
ceptions of the manner in which the great functions of assimilation, 
respiration, secretion, distribution of nutrimeut, removal of waste prod- 
ucts, motion, sensation, and reproduction are performed ; while the op- 
eration of the nervous system, as a regulative apparatus, which in- 
Muences the origination and the transmission of manifestations of ac- 
tivity, either within itself or in other organs, has been largely elucidated. 
I have i)ointed out, in an earlier part of this chapter, that the history 
of all branches of science ])roves that they must attain a considerable 
stage of development before they yield practical "fruits;" and this is 
eminently true of physiology. It is only withiu the present epoch that 
physiology and chemistry have reached the point at which they could 
offer a scientific foundation to agriculture, and it is only within the 
present epoch that zoology and j)hysiology have yielded any very great 
aid to pathology and hygiene. But within that time they have already 
rendered highly important services by the exploration of the phe- 
nomena of parasitism. IS^ot only have the history of the animal para- 
sites, such as the tapeworms and the trichina, which infest men and 
animals, with deadly results, been cleared up by means of experimental 
investigations, and efficient modes of prevention deduced from the data 
so obtained, but the terrible agency of the parasitic fungi and of tbe 
infinitesimally minute microbes, which work far greater havoc among 
plants and'auimals, has been brought to light. The "particulate" or 
"germ" theory of disease, as it is called, long since suggested, has ob- 
tained a firm foundation, in so far as it has been proved to be true in 
respect of sundry epidemic disorders. Moreover, it has theoretically 
justified prophylactic measures, such as vaccination, which formerly 
rested on a merely empirical basis; and it has been extended to other 
diseases with excellent results. Further, just as the discovery of the 
cause of scabies proved the absurdity of many of the old prescriptions 
for the i)reveution and treatment of that disease, so the discovery of 
the cause of splenic fever, and other such maladies, has given a new 
direction to pro[)hylactic and curative measures against the worst 
scourges of humanity. Unless the fanaticism of philozoic sentiment 
overpowers the voice of philanthropy, and the love of dogs and cats 
supersedes that of one's neighbor, the progress of experiniental physi- 
ology and pathology will indubitably, in course of time, place medi- 
cine and hygiene ui)on a rational basis. Two centuries ago England 
was devastated by the plague; cleanliness and common sense were 
enough to free us from its ravages. One century since smallpox was 
almost as great a scourge ; science, though working emi)irically, and 
almost in the dark, has reduced that evil to relative insignificance. At 
the present time, science working in the light of clear knowledge, has 
attacked splenic fever and has beaten it. It is attacking hydrophobia 
>vith no mean pro?hise of succes^j sooner or later it will deal in the 



96 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

same way with diphtheria, typhoid and scarlet fever. To one who has 
seen half a street swept clear of its children, or has lost his own by 
these horrible pestilences, passing one's otispriug through the fire to 
Moloch seems humanity compared with the proposal to deprive them of 
half their chances of health and life because" of the discomfort to dogs 
and cats, rabbits and frogs, which may be involved in the search for 
means of guarding them. 

EXPLOEATION. 

An immense extension has been effected in our knowledge of the dis- 
tribution of plants and animals; and the elucidation of the causes which 
have brought about that distribution has been greatly advanced. The 
establishment of meteorological observations by all civilized nations, 
has furnished a solid foundation to climatology ; while a growiiig sense 
of the importance of the influence of the " struggle for existence " affords 
a wholesome check to the tendency to overrate the influence of climate 
on distribution. Expeditions, such as thatof the Challenger^ equipi)ed, 
not for geographical exploration and discovery, but for the purpose of 
throwing light on problems of physical and biological science, have 
been sent out by our own and other Governments, and have obtained 
stores of information of the greatest value. For the first time, we are 
in possession of something like precise knowledge of the physical feat- 
ures of the deep seas, and of the living population of the floor of the 
ocean. The careful and exhaustive study of the phenomena presented 
by the accumulations of snow and ice, in i)olar and mountainous regions, 
which has taken place in our time, has not only revealed to the geologist 
an agent of denudation and trans])ort, which has slowly and quietly 
] trod need effects, formerly confidently referred to diluvial catastrophes, 
but it has suggested new methods of accounting for various puzzling 
facts of distribution. 

PALEONTOLOGY. 

Palaeontology, which treats of the extinct forms of life and their suc- 
cession and distribution upon our globe, a branch of science which 
could hardly be said to exist a century ago, has undergone a wonderful 
development in our epoch. In some groups of animals and plants the 
extinct representatives, already known, are more numerous and impor- 
tant than the living. There can be no doubt that the existing Fauna 
and Flora is but the last term of a long series of equallj^ numerous con- 
temporary species, which have succeeded one another, by the slow and 
gradual substitution of species for species, in the vast interval of time 
which has elapsed between the deposition of the earliest fossiliferous 
strata and the present day. There is no reasonable ground for believ- 
ing that the oldest remains yet obtained carry us even near the begin- 
nings of life. The impressive warnings of Lyell against hasty specula- 
tioJiS; based upon negative evidence, have been fully justified; time 



SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 97 

after time, highly organized types have been discovered in formations 
of an age in which the existence of such forms of life had been confi- 
dently declared to be impossible. The western territories of the United 
States alone hav^e yielded a world of extinct animal forms, undreamed 
of fifty years ago. And wherever sufiBciently numerous series of the re- 
mains of any given group, which has endured for a long space of time, 
are carefully examined, their morjihological relations are never in dis- 
cordance with the requirements of the doctrine of evolution, and often 
afford convincing evidence of it. At the same time, it bas been shown 
that certain forms persist with very little change, from the oldest to the 
newest fossiliferous formations ; and thus show that progressive devel- 
opment is a contingent, and not a necessary result, of tbe nature of liv- 
ing matter. 

GEOLOGY. 

Geology is, as it were, the biology of our planet as a whole. In so 
far as it comprises the surface configuration and the inner structure of 
the earth, it answers to morphology; in so far as it studies changes of 
condition and their causes, it corresponds with physiology; in solar as 
it deals with the causes which have effected the progress of the earth 
from its earliest to its present state, it forms part of the general doc- 
trine of evolution. An interesting contrast between the geology of the 
present day and that of half a century ago is presented by the complete 
emancipation of the modern geologist from the controlling and pervert- 
ing influence of theology, all-powerful at the earlier date. As the geol- 
ogist of my young days wrote, he had one eye upon fact and the other 
on Genesis ; at present he wisely keeps* both eyes on fact and ig- 
nores the pentateuchal mythology altogether. The publication of the 
"Principles of Geology" brought upon its illustrious author a period 
of social ostracism ; the instruction given to our children is based upon 
those principles. Whewell had the courage to attack Lyell's funda- 
mental assumption (which surely is a dictate of common sense) that we 
ought to exhaust known causes, before seeking for the explanation of 
geological phenomena in causes of which we have no experience. But 
geology has advanced to its present state by working from Lyell's* 
axiom ; and to this day the record of the stratified rocks affords no proof 
that the intensity or the rapidity of the causes of change has ever varied 
between wider limits than those between wbich the operations of nature 
have taken place in the youngest geological epochs. 

An incalculable benefit has accrued to geological science from the 
accurate and detailed surveys which have now been executed by skilled 
geologists employed by the Governments of all parts of the civilized 

* Perhaps I ought rather to say Bnffon's axiom. For that great naturalist and 
writer embodied the principles of sound geology iu a pithy phrase of the Th^orie de 
la Terre : "Pour jnger de ce qui est arriv^, et meme de ce qui arrivera, nous n'avops 
qu'a examiner ce qui arrive." 

H, Mis. GOO 7 



98 SCIENCE IN THE LAST HALF CENTURY. 

world. lu geology tbe study of large maps is as important as it is said 
to be iu politics ; and sections, on a true scale, are even more important, 
in so far as they are essential to the apprehension of the extraordinary 
insignificance of geological perturbations in relation to the whole mass 
of our planet. It should never be forgotten that what we call "catas- 
trophes" are, in relation to the earth, changes, the equivalents of which 
would be well represented by the development of a few pimples, or the 
scratch of a pin, on a man's head. Vast regions of the earth's surface 
remain geologically unknown; but the area already fairly explored is 
many times greater than it was in 1837, and in many parts of Europe 
and the United States the structure of the superficial crust of the earth 
has been investigated with great minuteness. 

The parallel between Biology and Geology which I have drawn is 
further illustrated by the modern growth of that branch of the science 
known as Petrology, which answers to Histology, and has made the 
microscope as essential an instrument to the geological as to the bio- 
logical investigator. 

Tbe evidence of the importance of causes now in operation has been 
wonderfully enlarged by the study of glacial phenomena, by that of 
earthquakes and volcanoes, and by that of the efficacy of heat and cold, 
wind, rain, and rivers as agents of denudation and transport. On the 
other hand, the exploration of coral reefs and of the deposits now tak- 
ing place at thebottom of the great oceans has proved that in animal 
and plant life, we have agents of reconstruction of a potency hitherto 
unsuspected. 

There is no study better fitted than that of geology to impress upon 
men of general culture that. conviction of the unbroken sequence of the 
order of natural i)henomena throughout the duration of the universe, 
which is the great, and perhaps the most important, effect of the in- 
crease of natural knowledge. 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



ASTRONOMY, FOR 1886. 



By William C. Winlock, 
Assistant Astronomer, United States Naval Observatory, 



In preparing the review of Astronomy for 1886, the method and ar- 
rangement adopted by Professor Holdeu from 1879 to 1884 have been 
adhered to without esseutiiil modification. The record is intended pri- 
marily to serve as a series of notes for those who have not access to a 
large astronomical library, but it is hoped that the bibliography will be 
found useful to the professional astronomer as a reference list of tech- 
nical papers. 

Much assistance has been derived from the reviews and abstracts in 
the Bulletin Astronomique, the Observatory, Nature, the Athenaeum, 
and other periodicals, and the writer is indebted to the directors of 
many observatories for the communication of information not otherwise 
available. 

A subject-index to the review has been effected by inserting the nec- 
essary page-references in the bibliography. 

DISTRIBUTION OF STARS. 

Distribution of the stars in Scli'dnfeld's Durchmustermig. — The comple- 
tion of the Durchmusterung to — 23° of declination by Argelander's 
successor. Dr. Schonfeld, has given Professor Seeliger the opportunity 
of extending his counts of stars to a considerable portion of the south- 
ern hemisphere. Professor Seeliger's paper " Uber die Vertheilung 
der Sterne. auf der siidlichen Halbkugel nach Schonfeld's 'Durchmus- 
terung,'" has been published in the Proceedings of the Bavarian Acad- 
emy of Sciences, and resumes may be found in the Bulletin astrono- 
mique (3 : 593-6), the Observatory (9 : 399), and Nature (31 : 627). An 
abstract of Professor Seeliger's previous work was given in the "Ac- 
count of the Progress in Astronomy" for 1884, and his present discus- 
sion has been carried out on a plan similar to that there described. 

9^ 



100 



EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



The stars are divided into eight classes, one more than ])reviously 
nsed, as Schonfekl has included stars of the tenth magnitude, whereas 
Argelander stopped at 9.5. 

Schoufeld's zones begin at — 2°, but the " counts " maj' be carried up 
to the equator by utilizing Argelander's work ; the slight difference in 
limiting magnitude will not affect materially the result. The stars 
embraced in each degree of declination have been divided into groui)s 
of twenty minutes in right ascension, though only the sums for each 
forty minutes have been published. 

The number of stars in each of the eight classes is as follows: 



Classes. 


Magnitudes. 


A. 
Number of 

stars 
-2° to -23°. 


11 

Number of 

stars 
O'^to -23°. 


I 


1-6.5 

6. 6- 7. 
7.1- 7.5 
7. 6- 8. 
8. 1- 8. 5 
8. 6- 9. 
9. 1- 9. 5 
9. 6-10. 


1, 265 
1, 276 

1,828 

3, 516 

7,601 

18, 633 

55, 565 

43, 8% 


1, 369 


II 


1,347 


Ill 


1 . 952 


IV 


3, 800 


V 


8, 313 


VI . 


20, 509 


VII 


61,540 


viii 


43, H96 






Total 


133, 580 


142, 726 







The numbers in column A comprise Schonfeld's stars only ; column 
B includes Argelander's stars, from 0=^ to — 12<^, for the first seven 
classes: to complete Class VIII about 3, GOO should be added. The 
number of stars thus counted in the "Southern Durchmusterung" proper 
is, therefore, 133,580, and adding to this 79 objects which are classed as 
nebuhe or variables, there results the grand total, 133,659. 

In order to investigate the influence of the Milky AYay on the distri- 
bution of these stars. Professor Seeliger proceeds, as in his ^former 
paper, to form the " gradient," which expresses for each class the 
rapidity of increase in the number of stars as we approach the Milky 
Way. Comparing the values of the gradient with these found for 
Argelander's Durchmusterung, it is seen that, as far as Schonfeld's 
work can be considered typical of the southern hemisphere as a whole 
(it must be remembered, however, that it only embraces one-third 
thereof) the influence of the Milky Way on stellar distribution, at least 
for stars down to the eighth magnitude, api)ears to be less marked for 
the southern than for the northern hemisphere. But it may well be 
that, especially in the higher classesof stars, local and accidental irreg- 
ularities are the cause of this apparent difference. With regard to the 
question as to which hemisphere is the richer in stars, it ap{)ears that 
there is no decided difference shown by the two surveys under consider- 
ation. When Argelander's numbers are corrected so as to be com[)ara- 
ble with Shoufeld's, taking stars down to the ninth magnitude, iuclu- 



ASTRONOMY. 101 

sive, tbo totals are, for the former, 34,324, aiul for the latter, 34,119, 
a difference which may reasonably be attributed to accidental circum- 
stances. 

The whole discussion of the distribution of the stars will no doubt 
be much facilitated by the application of photography. 

A writer in L'Astronomie has concluded that the total number of 
stars in '' our nebula" — on the assumj)tion that the combined light of 
the stars is equal to one-tenth that of the full moon — must be sixty-six 
thousand million. 

NEBULA AND STAR CLUSTERS. 

New nehulcc. — Two lists, embracing 476 new nebuhie discovered with 
the 20-inch equatorial of the Leander McCormick Observatory, have 
been published in the Astronomical Journal (7 : 9, 57) by Professor 
Stone. The observers were Professor Stone himself, Mr. Leavenworth, 
and Mr. Muller. lu the earlier observations Herschel's abbreviations 
were used to designate brightness and size. Afterwards numerical 
magnitudes were employed to indicate brightness, assuming that the 
faintest uebiUa visible in the 2G-inch refractor with power 167, is 16.3, 
that being the theoretical limit for stars. The magnitudes given refer 
to the nucleus, or, in case there is no nucleus, to the brightest part. 
Still later the custom was instituted of estimating the diameters of the 
nebul* in fractions of the diameter of the field, and from these deducing 
their dimensions in minutes of arc. 

Dr. Swift has published (Astron. i^achr., 115: 153, 257; 116 : 33) cata- 
logues 3, 4, and 5 of nebulfe discovered at the Warner Observatory. He 
states in the report of the observatory that 540 nebulae have been dis- 
covered up to January 1, 1887. Mr. Muller has found that fifteen of 
" Catalogue iTo. 5 " have already been announced by other observers. 
(Sid. Mess., 6: 83.) 

The Pleiades. — M. Rayet, in order to test the penetrating power of 
the 14-inch Bordeaux equatorial, has made a revision of Wolf's chart 
of the Pleiades, and has determined accurately the positions of 143 
stars, most of them of the fourteenth or fifteenth magnitude, not given 
by Wolf. 

The Henry brothers have also compared their photographs of the 
Pleiades with Wolf's chart, and have been able to detect 1,421 stars 
where Wolf shows but 625, the telescopes used beingof nearly the same 
aperture. In order to avoid errors which might arise from impurities 
in the photographic plate, three exposures, of an hour each, were made, 
and the plate was shifted between exposures, so that three images of 
each star are obtained, forming an equilateral triangle. Stars as faint 
• as the sixteenth magnitude are dei>icted. All the stars of Wolf's chart 
are found upon the photograph except ten, and these the Messrs. Henry 
have been unable to find in the sky. A number of faint companions 
have been detected close to several of the brightest stars of the group, 



102 RKCORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

aud ill several cases where M. Wolf has observed a faint companion to 
a bright star, the photogTai)h has shown that the magnitude of the 
former was underestimated. One of the advantages of i)hotograi)hy 
seems to be that it brings oat faint objects which are lost to tlie eye, on 
account of their proximity to bright stars. Besides the nebula discov- 
ered about Maia, a nebulous streak has been seen near Electra, and 
details of the Merope nebula have been made out, which had not been 
recognized before, except by Common. 

Dr. Weiss has expressed a strong suspicion that all of the region to the 
north and west of Alcj'one is a vast nebula, only the brightest portions 
of which are shown by our best telescopes. He recalls a statement by 
Schmidt in 1863, that a small planet seemed to lose a part of its ligiit 
in traversing the region between Alcyone and Electra. 

Dr. Kammermann has been able to see the new Maia nebuhi with 
the 10 inch refractor of the Geneva Observatory by masking the bright 
star, and by using a special eye-i)iece provided with diaphragms, and 
a plate of uranium glass, to increase the intensity of the chemical rays. 

A paperby Dr. Elkin upon "A comparison of the places of the Pleiades 
asdetermined by the Konigsbergand Yale College heliometers" was read 
at the Buffalo meetingof the American Association. Provisional results 
show unquestioned changeof position with reference to //Tauri since 1840. 
Most of the brighter stars of the grouj), as shown by Newcomb in liis 
" Standard Stars," go with -q Tauri, but among the snndler stars there 
are departures from this community of proper motion. Professor Pick- 
ering has pointed out that the agreement of the spectra of certain of 
these stars strongly confirms the probability of their physical connec 
tion. 

ASTRONOMICAL CONSTANTS. 

Lcewy's method of determining the elements of refraction. — M. Lcewy 
has elaborated his method of determining the elements of refraction by 
means of a reflecting prism placed in front of the object-glass of an 
equatorial, and has submitted the problem to a careful mathematical 
analysis in several papers communicated to the French Academy. The 
full titles of these important papers are given in our " biobligraphy." Dr. 
Gill speaks very highly of the i)lan, and has suggested some modifica- 
tions of the details which he thinks would increase the ease and accu 
racy of observations. 

Oppolzer''s astronomical refraction. — The late Dr. von Oppolzer ])ub- 
lished in the Transactions of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, of 
Vienna, a paper containing a theoretical discussion of the problem of 
astronomical refraction followed by numerical tables intended to facil- 
itate the practical application of the results at which he arrived. When 
the approximations are carried far enough, the method seems capable ' 
of giving results of great accuracy, even for large zenith distances. 
A correction for gravity in the nsc of refraction tables. — Prof. Cleve- 



ASTRONOMY. 103 

land Abbe has directed attention to a neglected correction in the use 
of refraction tables, which appears as a function of the latitude. 
Thirty inches of mercury in the barometer at the equator indicate a 
less density of the atmosphere than 30 inches at the ]ioles, consequently 
the barometer readings should be corrected for differences of lati- 
tude. This is accomplished by simply adding to the formula one more 
factor for gravity. Professor Abbe shows that the difference of latitude 
between Pulkowa and Washington makes a difference of 0". 1 in the 
refraction at 45° zenith distance, and increases with the zenith distance. 
We have here a ])artial explanation, at least, of systematic differences 
in declination shown by different catalogue-. . 

Correction for differential ref roof ion in declination. — Professor McNeill, 
of Princeton, has devised (Astron. Nachr., 114::385) a method of correct- 
ing micrometer observations for refraction, ai)plicable to the diagonal- 
square micrometer, the ring micrometer, and others of the same class. 
The correction to the observed difference of declination is not deter- 
mined by a special separate computation, but the true difference is 
directly determined, the corrections being ai)plicd to tlie logarithms in 
the course of the computation. Tables are given which will be found 
very useful to observers. 

In a "Zusatz" to this communication, Dr. Krueger gives a resume of 
differential refraction formuhe for ring and filar micrometers. 

M. Railau suggests (Bull, astron., 3 : 373) that Professor McIsTeill's prin- 
cipal table may be replaced by a simple graphical table which will give 
at a glance the correction sought. 

The diurnal nutation of the earths axis. — M. Folie, about three years 
ago, submitted to the Paris Academy a theory of the diurnal nutation 
of the earth's axis, based upon the assumption that the earth has a 
fluid nucleus; and he has recently given (Compt. Rend., Dec. 13, 1886) 
some practical illustrations of his formulfe. These formuJiie contain 
two constants to be determined by observation : the constant of diurnal 
nutation itself, and the longitude, referred to an initial meridian. Very 
accordant results are obtained from the rather meager observational 
material available, the value of the diurnal constant being about 0".2. 
The new correction applied to a series of observations of Polaris made 
at Pulkowa, smooths out the discordant observations in a most surpris- 
ing manner. Further investigation of this subject seems highly desir- 
able. 

An abstract of the paper read by Prof. J. C. Adams at the Phila- 
delphia meeting of the American Association, September 11, 1884, " On 
the general values of the obliquity of the ecliptic, and of the precession 
and inclination of the equator to the invariable ])lane, taking into ac- 
count terms of the second order," has appeared in the Observatory for 
April, 1880, vol. 9, p. 150-154. 



101 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



STAR CATALOGUES, ETC. 



SchonfeWs Southern Durchmusterung (1855.0). — This catalogue con- 
taius tlie approximate positions of 133,659 stars between 2° and 23° of 
south declination — that is, all stars between those limits down to the 
tenth magnitude. It carries Argelander's " sweeps " as far south as the 
latitude of Bonn will permit, and is on essentially the same plan as the 
ISTorthern Durchmusterung. In the details of the work, however, several 
improvements have been made: Instead of Argelander's little 3-inch 
glass, magnifying nine times, Dr. Schonfeld used a telescope by Schroder 
of 6^ inches aperture with a magnifying power of tweutj'-six, and with 
the field slightly illuminated. The width of the zones was H°, instead 
of 2°, the width of the older zones. This involved more hours of obser- 
vation, but the accuracy of the work and the certainty of catching faint 
stars were increased, since the observer was not obliged to take in every- 
thing up to the limit of visibility. A further advantage which the 
Southeru Durchmusterung possesses IS thatDr. Schonfeld has himself 
made all of the observations and revisions, so that the work is more 
homogeneous than the Northern Durchmusterung. The observations 
were begun, after some preliminaiy experiments, on the Gth of June, 
1876; by the 28th of March, 1881, the zones had all been observed for 
the second time. There are, including sixteen zones subsequently re- 
observed, 363,922 observation s, all reduced to 1855.0. The revision, 
also by Dr. Schonfeld and with the same instrument, embraced 5,700 
positions, and was finished between April, 1881, and March, 1884. 

From the summary of the stars in each square degree it appears that 
the Southern Durchmusterung is richer in st.ars than the Northern, in 
the ratio of 1.21 to 1. The fainter stars (under the ninth magnitude) 
are much more thoroughly observed than before, the limit being the 
tenth magnitude instead of 9.5, that adopted by Argelander. The i)rob- 
able error of a single estimation of magnitude for stars of the 9.5 mag- 
nitude is only 0.11 magnitude, and for the seventh magnitude, 0.26 
magnitude. The charts accompanying the catalogue contain an hour 
each in right ascension. 

The Argentine General Catalogue. — The observations from which this 
catalogue was formed were made with the meridian circle of the Cor- 
doba Observatory during the years 1872-'80. During these years the 
zone observations were the chief object of attention, and the catalogue 
contains the places of 32,448 stars whose positions were more elabo- 
rately determined during the progress of that great work, and consti- 
tutes an addition to our knowledge of southern stellar positions of ])er- 
haps not less importance than the Cordoba Zone Catalogue. The Gen- 
eral Catalogue gives the positions for the epoch 1875.0 of most of the 
southern stars brighter than magnitude 8i, the deficiencies in this re- 
spect being chiefly found north of the parallel of 23°, at which the zone 
begins. These omissions will be of comparatively small importance, 



ASTRONOMY. 105 

iuasmiicb as the Diirchmusterung of Professor Scboiilield comprises all 
the southern stars within this region, while accurate determinations of 
the brighter ones will have been made in the re-observation of Lalaude's 
stars now nearly complefed at the Paris Observ^atory. 

Pulkowa catalogue of 3,542 stars for 1855.0. — Volume viii of the Pul- 
kowa Observations is to contain two catalogues of stars deduced from 
observations made with the meridian circle from 184() to 1809. The first 
of tliese — the one that has just been published — contaiiivS, with the ex- 
ception of the Pulkowa fundamental stars (observed with the trausit 
instrument aud vertical circal), all Bradley's stars between the north 
pole and 15° south declination, and also a comparatively small number 
of other stars down to the sixth magnitude, inclusive, given in the 
Uranometria Nova of Argelander, in the same part of the sky. A few 
fainter stars have also been taken into the catalogue. The whole work 
has been in the hands of Dr. Backlund. (Bull, astron., November, 188(3.) 

Kamh catalogue of '■'• Nachrichten'''' stars for 1855.0. — " Dr. N. M. Kam 
of Schiedam has published in Verhandelingen derKoniuklijke Akademie 
van Wetenschappen, Deel. 24 (Amsterdam), a star catalogue compiled 
from the places of stars deterjniued by meridian observations, which 
have been extracted from volumes 1 to GO of the Astrouomische Nach- 
richten, and reduced to the epoch 1855.0. The positions of the stars 
contained in this catalogue were determined in connection with obser- 
vations of i^lanets and comets, and it was in compliance with Arge- 
lander's express desire that the work of collecting them and reducing 
the positions to a common epoch was commenced by Hoek, then di- 
rector of the Utrecht Observatory. Dr. Kam, who was Hoek's assist- 
ant, continued the work after the death of the latter, and has at length 
been able to publish his results. The principal catalogue contains the 
completely determined places of 4,350 stars, and is followed by two 
subsidiary catalogues, the first giving the places of 236 stars, aud the 
second those of 335 stars ; all of the latter, however, are incomplete, 
i. e., the place is given in one element only. The catalogues are followed 
by a comparison of the places, of the stars contained in them with 
their places as given in the Bonn Durchmusterung, or, for stars south 
of — 2° declination, with other authorities. Notes on proper motions, 
corrigenda, etc., are appended, which are of considerable interest aud 
value." (Nature, June 3, 188G.) 

Romberg's catalogue of-' Nachrichten'''' stars (1855.0). — Herr Romberg, 
of the Pulkowa Observatory, has compiled a catalogue of about 8,000 
stars extracted from the Astrouomische Nachrichten, volumes G7 to 112, 
and his work now appears as Publication xviii of the Astrouomische 
Gesellschaft. This is a continuation of a similar compilation (Pub. viii, 
Astron. Gesellsch.), by Scbjellerup, from the first sixty-six volumes of 
the Nachrichten, and is prepared on much the same plan. The stars 
have appeared in the Nachrichten as comparison stars for planets, com- 
ets, etc., aud have been collected by Komberg and reduced to 1855.0. 



106 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Right ascensions are given to seconds of time, declinations to the nearest 
tenth of a minute of arc. The catalogue proper is followed by several 
usefnl pages of notes. 

Edinburyh catalogue. — Prof. Piazzi Smyth has given in volume xv of 
the Edinburgh Astronomical Observations the results of observations 
made from 1833 to 1872 upon some 3.890 B. A. C. stars, reduced to the 
epochs 1830, 1870, 1880, and 1890. The catalogue begins with 4i' 0'" of 
right ascension, the first four hours having ajjpeared nine years ago as 
volume XIV. The notes contain information in regard to the proper 
motion, color, or dnplicity of the stars. 

Second Armagh catalogue o/' 3,300 stars for 1875.0. — After the comple- 
tion of the observations of Bradley's stars, the results of which were em- 
bodied in the catalogue commonly known as the " Armagh Catalogue," 
Dr. Robinson formed the j)laM of re-observing a nnmber of stars from 
Lalande's " Histoire celeste," occurring in Baily's catalogue. Observa- 
tions were commenced in 1859 with the 3f-inch mural circle and transit, 
but were stopped after 1800 in order to change the mural into a 7-inch 
transit circle. Work was resumed in 1803, and continued with more or 
less regularity till 1883. The right ascensions of this catalogue depend 
on the standard stars of the " Nautical Almanac; " the north polar dis- 
tances upon observations of the nadir. Dr. Dreyer, who succeeded Dr. 
Robinson in 1882, found from 400 observations of 80 stars between 30^ 
aud 100° N. P. D,, that the probable error of a single observation In 
right ascension was ±0^.081, (the single errors having been multiplied 
by cos 6); and in north polar distance i0".85. For systematic errors 
Armagh has been compared with Glasgow, and, indirectly through the 
latter, a comparison is obtained with Auwers' fundamental system. 
From this comparison it appears that the north polar distances are in 
fair agreement with Auwers' catalogue, while the right ascensions 
show considerable dis(;ordances. 

Reliability of the star-places of Auwers^ Fundamental Catalogue. — Mr. 
Chandler, having pointed out the possibility of error in the places of 
certain stars (Observatory 8: 387), as ^iveu in the Berlin " Jahrbuch," 
Herr Auwers has been induced to publish (Astron. Nachr., Ill: 1-20) 
some valuable and interesting remarks on the reliability of the places 
of his Fundamental Catalogue (Pub. d. astron. Gesellsch., 14), from which 
those given in the Berlin " Janrbuch" are derived. Herr Auwers ex- 
])lains the provisional character of the data on which some of his star- 
places depend, and repeats in a more definite manner what he has already 
said on the subject in Publication xiv. In fact the proper motions 
adoi)ted for some of the stars are merely provisional, as has been pointed 
out in the introduction to the catalogue. The proper motions employed 
have been, as a rule, obtained from a comparison of Bradley's places 
with those of Greenwich, 1861, and in those cases in which Bradley has 
only one observation, or observed the star in one element only, the 
X^roper motion is given to one decimal place less than usual. The reader 



ASTRONOMY. 



107 



is thus put on his guard, and knows that he should use the places of 
certain stars with circumspection. Herr Auwers thinks that it would 
be premature to attempt any correction of the catalogue-places before 
the completion of the general revision, which has been undertaken by 
the observers of the zones and by the Pulkowa astronomers. He, how- 
ever, takes this opportunity of ijublishing the results of investigations 
he has made as to the mean errors of the different catalogues emploj'ed 
in the formation of the Fundamental Catalogue, viz, Pulkowa, 1845 and 
18G5; Green.wich, 1861 and 1872; Cambridge (U.S.), 1872; Leipzig, 
1868 ; and Leiden, 1868, for the principal-stars ; and in addition to these, 
Pulkowa, 1871, for the supplementary stars. 

The following are, in the mean (for declination — 10° to + 90°), the 
mean errors, referred to the unit of weight, for the principal stars : 



R. A, (£ cos 5). 
Decl. (£) 



P. 1845. 


P. 1865. 


G. 1861. 


G. 1872. 


C. 1872. 


Lp. 1868. 


0^040 
0".51 


0«.033 
0".G1 


0^038 

0".55 


0^032 
0".52 


0^031 

0".86 




0".46 



And for the supplementary stars 



L. 1868. 



0".58 



R. A. (e cos (5) 
•Decl. (e) 



P. 1845. 



0^043 



P. 1871. 



0^057 
0".72 



G. 1861. 



G. 1872. 



Os.053 
0".64 



0^034 
0".52 



C. 1872. 



0^035 
0".89 



Lp. 1868. 



0".72 



L. 1868. 



Wo have then, finally, for mean error of the right ascensions 0^.033 
(for supplementary stars 0^042), and for the declinations 0".59 (for sup- 
plementary stars 0".67). The somewhat considerable difference in the 
results for principal and for supplementary stars arises from the cir- 
cumstance that Herr Auwers gave relatively too much weight to Pul- 
kowa 1871, at least for the right ascensions. For the catalogue-places, 
the mean errors are 0^009 and 0".14 in E. A. and Deck, respectively, for 
the principal stars, and 0^026 and 0".19 for the supplementary stars; 
where the mean error in E. A. refers to the total number of stars be- 
tween — 10<^ and -f 50'^. At the present time, in Herr Auwers' opinion, 
the probable error of the star-places is not greater than 0^02 in E. A. 
(for moderate declinations), and 0'M5 in Decl. (Observatory, 9 : 202, 
May, 1886.) 

In response to a suggestion by Dr. Gill, a number of astronomers 
have expressed their willingness to co-operate in the systematic observa- 
tion of stars which have been used in comet comparisons, faint stars 
whose occultatious have been observed, zones of stars used for scale or 
screw values, or stars that have been used for geodetic i^urposes. Among 
the observatories ready for this work are, the Cape of Good Hope, 
Keuchatel, Bruxelles, Cointe, Taschkeut, and Cordoba. 



108 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



Professor Holden, while at tlie Washburn Observatory, compiled a 
list of all published corrections to his star catalogues, inserting the 
errata in the bodies of the books themselves. The original sources from 
which the errata were copied are given in the fourth volume of the 
Publications of the observatory. The value of this list will be appre- 
ciated by all astronomers who have occasion to make use of star cata- 
logues. 

The catalogue of stars of the British Association has been advertised 
recently at 170 mark, or about $43. • 

STELLAR PARALLAX. 

Prof. A. Hall has given in Appendix ii to the Washington Observa- 
tions for 1883 the results of recent observations made with the 26 inch 
equatorial to determine the parallaxes of a Lyrre, 61 Cygni, 40 (f/) 
Eridani, and 6 ,3 Cygni. The results are as follows: 



Date. 




February 23, 1883, to March 4, 1884.. 

July 31, 1883, to April 15,1886 

May 24, 1880, to July 2, 1881 

October 24, 1880, to January 26, 1886. 



40 (o2) Eridani 

6 B Cygni 

a Lyrm 

61 Cygni 



Parallax. 



No. of 
observa- 
tions. 



+ 0. 223 i 0.0202 
— 0. 021 -j- 0077 
-f 0. 134-1-0.0055 
+ 0. 270 i 0.0101 



30 

54 

128 

101 



Dr. W. Schur has published in the Astronomische iSrnchrichteii (vol. 
114, p. 161), a discussion of the parallax of the double star //:^ Auriga3 
from measures of position, angle, and distance made with 6-incli Strass- 
burg refractor, in 1883-'85. The final value for the parallax of the 
fainter (ninth magnitude) star is + O'Mll ± 0" 034. " Herr Schur 
thinks that he is justified in asserting that the parallax of this star is 
at least CM — a remarkable result, considering the fixity of the object." 

40 (o^) Eridani. — Mr. J. E. Gore, using Professor Hall's parallax, 
0".223, has obtained by means of elements which he has computed, the 
following figures : 

Distance of 40 Eridani from the earth 924,955 

Mean distance between the components, B C 26. 86 

Sum of masses B C i 

Suu's mass =:1 \ - ^* ""■' 

Tlie unit of distance is the mean distance of the earth from the sun. 



DOUBLE STARS. 



Two recent papers on personal equation in double-star observatio'us 
will be found of especial interest to those engaged in this class of work. 
The first paper forms the subject of a thesis by M. Bigourdan, of the 
Paris Observatory, submitted for the degree of doctor of physical 



ASTRONOMY. 



109 



science. M. Bigourdau reviews the work of others in this field, gives 
a description of apparatus which he lias devised for investigating the 
problem by means of artificial stars, and deduces liis own personal 
equation from a large number of measures made with this apparatus. 
He finds that his i^ersonal equation is not affected by the position of 
the eyes with respect to the line joining the stars nor by the altitude; 
the brightness of the stars, on the other hand, does affect his measures. 
The second paper referred to is by Mr. H. C. Wilson, formerly of the 
Cincinnati Observatory, and is published iu the Sidereal Messenger 
(vol. 5, pp. 174, 211). Mr. Wilson gives an interesting sketch of the 
history of the subject, together with an investigation of his personal 
errors, obtained from observations made between 1882 and 188G, with 
the equatorial of the Cincinnati Observatory. He finds tliat his meas- 
ures, both of position angle and of distance, are slightly influenced 
by the inclination of the head. 

Spectroscopic metlwtl of determining the distance of a double star. — Mr. 
A. A. Eambaut, of the Dublin Observatory, in a paper communicated to 
the lioyal Irish Academy on May 24, 188G, discusses at some length the 
possibility of determining the distance of a double star by measures of 
the relative velocities of the com}»onents in the line of sight. Dr. 
Huggins having demonstrated that it was practicable to measure the 
rate of approach or recession of a star, it was seen that it would be 
at least theoretically {)ossible to determine the distance of a star by 
this method. Mr. liambaut's critical examination of the conditions of 
the problem shows however that the method can have but little prac- 
tical application. 

Orbits of double stars. — The following table gives the " period of revo- 
lution" in years, and "semi-axis major," in seconds of arc, obtained for 
a number of binary stars in recent determinations of elements : 



Star. 


Period. 


Semi-axis 
major. 


Computer. 


Published in — 


0:S234 


Years. 
63. 45 
18. 09 
53. 87 
139.0 
30. 91 

81.78 
78.80 
87.44 


0. 339 
0.53 
1.19 
5. 99 
0.517 

1.885 
1.85 

18.89 


Gore 

...do 

...do 

...do 

...do 

...do ..... 

Wilsou. .. 
Powell. .. 




C Sagittarii 

r Cygui 


Month. Not., 4li: 444. 
Astroii Nachr 115 '215 


40 ( 0-) Eridam 


Mouth. Not., 46:<;91. 


/i Dclphini 


Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 2 

8., V. 4, No. 5. 
Month. Not., 40: 103. 
Sid. Mess., 5:251. 
Mouth. Not., 40:289, 336. 


y Corouaj Australis 

y Corouic Australia 

a Centauri 







VARIABLE, NEW, OR TEMPORARY STARS— COLORED STARS. 

Observations of variable stars in 1885. — Professor Pickering prints in 
the twenty-first volume of the Proceedings of the American Academy 
his third annual report upon observations of variables, giving particu- 



110 EECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

lais of nearly two Imudred stars for 1885. The work has been done by 
co-operation. All who are willing to assist (a field-glass is sufficient 
iustriimental equipment), are requested to send accounts of their work 
to the Harvard Observatory as soon as possible after the close of each 
year. Professor Pickering undertakes to make photometric observa- 
tions of all comparison stars needed. 

Mr. Espiu, the special observer of tbe Liverpool Astronomical Society, 
has commenced the issue of a circular calling attention to various vari- 
able stars or stars suspected of variability. 

Several interesting cases of variability have been discovered by 
Messrs. Chandler and Sawyer, of Cambridge. The most interesting case 
is a new variable of the Algol type discovered by Mr. Chandler in the 
constellation Cygnus (R. A. 20^' 48"' ; Decl. + 34° 14'). The range is from 
7.1 magnitude to 7.8 magnitude, the whole variation taking place in 
about SIX hours. The only doubt is in regard to the interval during 
which the star remains at its normal magnitude. Mr. Chandler sus- 
pects that the whole duration between two successive periods of change 
will be found to be about one day, twelve hours. 

Gore's neiv variable near j' Orionis {Nova Orionis). — A mass of obser- 
vations by skillful observers has accumulated, and will repay a thor- 
ough study. 

It seems to be clearly established that this interesting star is a sim- 
ple variable, and not one of the class to which the title " temporary " 
can properly be ai)j)lied. M. Duner, who observed the star at inter- 
vals from December, 1885, to April, 1880, found (Astrou. Nachr., No. 
2755), on renewing his observations at the end of October and the 
beginning of November, 1880, that it had unmistakably increased 
in brightness in the interval, and was continuing to do so. Herr 
Fr. Schwab and Mr. Espin confirm this conclusion, the former having 
observed the star early in last July, and having found it then fainter 
than the twelfth magnitude. Its period would appear to be not far 
from one year ; Herr Schwab gives it as one or two weeks longer than 
one year, and as ranging in brightness from the sixth magnitude to 12i, 
whilst M. Duller assigns a period of 359.5 days. (Nature.) 

According to Dr. Vogel and others who have examined its spectrum, 
it belongs to Type III a, resembling the spectrum of a Orionis. 

The new star in the great nebula of Andromeda. — Professor Seeliger 
has published (Astron, Nachr., No. 2710) an interesting paper contain- 
ing an attempt to represent the observed variations of the light of the 
Novaiu Andromeda by a formula expressing the rate of cooling of a 
hot sphere. Supposing that such a body has its temperature suddenly 
increased to an enormous extent by some shock, its brightness will of 
course be increased also, xind assuming that the latter is proportional 
to the wth power of the temperature, and using Pogson's scale for trans- 
forming brightness into stellar magnitude, Professor Seeliger (making 



ASTKONOMY. Ill 

some further more or less probable assumptioDs) deduces au expres- 
siou for the maguitude of the cooling star at any time. lu order to 
compare tbis formula with Herr Miiller's photometric measures of the 
Nova, extending from 1885, September 2, to October 13, Professor Seel- 
iger assumes that «=1, and that the epoch for which the time ^=0, 
is 1885, August 27, 8^^ Berlin mean time. Using quite approximate 
values of the constants involved in his formula, it appears that there is 
a good general agreement (the mean discordance being O.ll of a stelhir 
magnitude) between the computed and observed values. The computed 
magnitude corresponding to the epoch for which t=0, is 7.73. The fair 
agreement shown by this comparison induces Professor Seeliger to 
thii]k that the form of the expression which he has deduced is such as 
would accurately represent the observations, provided that it were pos- 
sible to determine the necessary constants with sufficient precision. 
And as there is evidence to show that the nebula in Andromeda is, 
l)artly at least, <;omposed of a vast number of faint stars, it appears, in 
Professor Seeliger's opinion, not unreasonable to suppose that a collis- 
ion was the cause of the sudden development of heat and light which 
revealed itself to us as the appearance of a " new " star. 

With reference to the i)oint thus raised by Professor Seeliger, Berr 
Auwers points out (Astron.Nachr., No. 2715) that the great simihirity of 
the outburst in Andromedain 1885 to the phenomenon observed by him 
in 1860 in the cluster 80 Messier in Scorpio is a strong confirmation of 
Professor Seeliger's views. The probability that two variable stars of 
such exceptional character should be i)rojected, in one case on a close 
star-cluster, in the other case on an object which appears to be, in 
part at least, a close star-cluster, is so small that it is almost necessary 
to refer these outbursts to physical changes in the nebula? in which they 
respectively appeared. (Observatory, April, 1886.) 

Dr. Mills (Nature 33 : 440) in criticising Professor Seeliger's collision 
hy[)othesis suggests that the blazing out of the Nova may be merely a 
physico-chemical consequence of cooling; and it has been pointed out 
by Mr. Castell-Evaus (Nature, 33: 486) that practically the same expla- 
nation was suggested in 1878 by Prof. E, Meldola in a paper published 
in the Philosophical Magazine for July of that year. Professor Mel- 
dola says: " It is conceivable that in certain cases the composition of 
a star's atmosphere maybe such as to permit a consideiable amount of 
cooling before any combination takes place among its constituents ; un- 
der such circumstances a sudden catastrophe might mark the period of 
combination, and a star of feeble light would blaze forth suddenly, as 
occurred in 1866 to r Coronse Borealis. In other cases, again, it is 
possible that the composition of a star's atmosphere may be of such a 
nature as to lead to a state of periodically unstable chemical equilib- 
rium ; that is to say, during a certain period combination may b(- going 
ou with the accompanying evolutiou of heat, till at leugth dissociatiou 



112 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

again begins to take place. In this manner the phenomena of many 
variable stars may perhaps be accounted for." 

Dr. von Kovesligethy observing with a 7-inch Merz eqimtorial at the 
observatory of Baron Podmaniczky at Kis Kartal, in Hungary, an 
nounc^eil tlie re-ai)pearance of the Nova on September 26, 188G. From 
this date he found that it became more star-like, and up to the evening 
of October 2 both nucelus and new star were visible. From October 
2 to October 17 the old nucleus was invisible. By October 23 the nu- 
cleus had assumed its normal state, but the new star was not seen. 
A number of telescopes were immediately turned upon the nebula, but 
in the main failed to detect the changes suspected. {ISee Astron. Nachr., 
2750-2752.) It is probable that the object seen was one of the very 
faint points of light known to exist near the nucleus of the nebula. 

A very complete series of observations of JVova Andromedie is given 
by Dr. Copeland, of the Dun Echt Observatory, in the Monthly No- 
tices for December, 188G. 

Catalogue of colored stars. — ]\Ir. W. S. Franks has presented to the 
Itoyal Astronomical Society a catalogue (not printed, ai)parently) of 
1,730 colored stais situated between the pole and —20° of declination, 
and including all stars down to the 0.-5 magnitude. The introduction 
to this catalogue, giving a tabular analysis of the colors recorded, is 
published in the Monthly Notices for April, 1886. 

We should niention also a list of thirty-one prominent colored stars of 
the southern hemisphere i)ublished by Mr. A. S. Williams in the Astro- 
nomical Kegister for October. 

Mr. Chambers stated at the meeting of the Eoyal Astronomical So- 
ciety on March 12, 1886, that he was preparing a catalogue of red stars. 

STELLAR PHOTOMETRY. 

PJiotometric ohservations at Harvard College Observatory. — Professor 
Pickering, in his annual report, states that 59,800 separate photometric 
comparisons were made with the meridian photometer in 1886. The in- 
strument has been found to give entire satisfaction both in tlie accuracy 
and the rapidity of its work. Various tests have been applied to de- 
tect the presence of systematic errors, but so far with negative results. 
"A comparison of the seven hundred stars common to the observations 
of Wollf, Pritchard, and the Harvard Photometry, showed that our re- 
sults differed on the average from Wolff, after allowance for systematic 
differences, by 0.140 of a magnitude; from Pritchard by 0.145; while 
Wolff' and Pritchard differed from each other by 0.192. A comparison 
of the tifty tive stars proposed by Professor Pritchard as standards, anti 
measured by him on several nights, showed that the average deviation 
from the Harvard Photometry was only 0.104. - - - A comparison 
between the results obtained at Pulkowaand Cambridge shows that the 
average deviation of a measurement of the difference in brightness l»e- 



ASTRONOMY. 113 

tween two stars observed at both places does not exceed one-terth of 
a magnitude." 

The principal work of the meridian photometer, the revision of the 
Diuchmusteruug magnitudes, is now approaching completion, nine- 
tenths of the observations having already been made. During 1887 the 
observing list will be extended to include stars in the first 20° of south 
declination. 

Observations of the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, comparison stars 
for variables, etc., are made with the photometer attached to the 15- 
inch equatorial. 

A comparison of photometric methods. — Mr. S. C. Chandler, jr., pre- 
sented at the Buffalo meeting of the American Association an important 
paper on "A comparative estimate of methods and results in stellar 
photometry," in which he reaches the couclusion (also reached by Dr. 
G. Miiller, of Potsdam,— Wtljsclir. d. astron. Gesellsch., 20 : 261-267), 
that the photometers now in use give no advantage, in point of accu- 
racy, over direct eye estimates of differences in magnitude made accord- 
ing to Argelander's well known method. With regard to accidental 
errors, Mr. Chandler concludes that "eye-estimates" are nearly three 
times as accurate as photometric measures, and he also points out that 
several variables have been detected and their j^eriods and light-curves 
well determined by careful eye-estimates, whose whole range of bright- 
ness is no greater than the range of error in photometric; observations. 
Reference should be made to Mr. Chandler's paper in the Astronomische 
Nachrichten, vol. 115, p. 145, merely an abstract of his communication 
having been published in the Proceedings of the American Associa- 
tion. 

A proposed new catalorjue of magnitudes of southern stars. — Mr. E. F. 
Sawyer, of Cambridge, has been at work since 1882 upon a determina- 
tion of the relative magnitude of the stars included between the equa- 
tor and 30° of south declination, and not fainter than the seventh mag- 
nitude. The observations are made with an opera glass (magnifying 
two and a half times) put slightly out of focus. The number of stars 
comprised will approximate 3, .00, and the average number of observa- 
tions for each star will be about three and'one-half. Mr. Sawyer finds 
from 593 stars, each observed twice, that the average difference between 
two independent determinations of a magnitude of a star is 0.112 of a 
magnitude, which corresponds to a probable error of a siugle observa- 
tion of ±0.005. It is expected that the work will be completed and 
ready for publication within a year. 

STELLAR SPECTRA. 

Photographic study of stellar spectra at Harvard College Observatory. — 
Professor Pickering has announced in his annual report an extensive 
investigation in stellar spectra, by means of photography, undertaken 
PI. Mis. 600 8 



114 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

at the Harvard Observatory. Provision has been made by Mrs. Dra- 
per for meeting the expenses of this work, as a memorial to her hus- 
band, the late Dr. Henry Draper. 

Three researches are now in progress. 

The first includes a general survey of stellar spectra. Each spectrum 
is photographed with an exposure of not less than five minutes, and 
these photographs generally exhibit the spectra of all stars brighter 
than the sixth magnitude with sufficient distinctness for measurement. 
The greater portion of the sky north of —30° has been surveyed in this 
work, which will be repeated during the coming year. One hundred 
and fifty-one plates have been measured and 5,431 spectra examined 
and classified. Of these 4,148 have been identified and the name and 
position of the corresponding star entered opposite each. The com- 
pleted work will form a catalogue probably containing three or four 
thousand stars, each photograjihed on several plates. 

The second research relates to a determination of the spectra of the 
fainter stars. Each photograi)h taken in the course of this research 
receives an exposure of one hour, so that the spectra of all the stars 
not fainter than the eighth or ninth magnitude, and included in a region 
ten degrees square, are represented upon the plate. On fifty-eight 
plates 2,416 spectra have been measured, and of these 2,359 have been 
identified. 

In both of these investigations the 8-inch Bache telescope has been 
employed. 

The third research relates to a more careful study of the spectra of 
the brightest stars. For this work Mrs. Draper has lent the 11-inch 
photographic lens employed by her husband. She has also furnished 
an admirable mounting for the instrument and a small observatory to 
contain it. Two prisms have been constructed to i^lace in front of the 
object-glass, the large one having a clear aperture of 11 inches square 
and an angle of nearly 15°, the other being somewhat smaller. The 
preliminary results attained with this apparatus are highly promising. 

A recent photograph of the region in Cygnus where four stars were 
known, exhibiting the interesting i^eculiarity of bright-line spectra, 
brought out four more spectra of the same kind. One of these is the 
comparatively bright star P Cygni, in which bright lines, apparently 
due to hydrogen, are distinctly visible. This phenomenon recalls the 
circumstances of the outburst of light in the star T Coronie, especially 
when the former history of P Cygni Ts considered. According to Schou- 
feld, it first attracted attention as an apparently new star in 1600, and 
fluctuated greatly during the seventeenth century, finally becoming a 
star of the fifth magnitude, and so continuing to the present time. 
Another of the stars shown by the photograph to have bright lines is 
DM. + 37°, 3821, where the lines are unmistakably evident. 



ASTRONOMY. 115 

ASTRONOMICAL, PHOTOGRAPHY. 

The improvements in astronomical photography during the past two 
years, following the introduction of the modern dry plates, have at- 
tracted wide-spread attention, and the great merits of the new method 
scarcely call for any exaggeration in order to establish photography 
permanently as a means for astronomical research. We find Greenwich, 
Harvard, Paris, Cape of Good Hope, and Lick taking steps to make 
stellar photography a part of their routine work, and arrangements have 
been made by Admiral Mouchez for holding an international conference 
at Paris in April, 18S7, for the purpose of elaborating a plan of co-op- 
eration in photographing the whole sky. It is hoped that ten or twelve 
observatories will be ready to co-operate and that all will be supplied 
with instruments of the same power, so that the work will form a homo- 
geneous whole. It will require 11,000 plates of 4° each to cover the sky, 
and ten years will probably be necessary for the completion of the un- 
dertaking. 

Stellar photography at the Paris Observatory. — An article in Nature 
(May 13, 1886), which gives a wood-cut of the apparatus used by the 
Messrs. Henry, gives also the following table of the time of exposure re- 
quired (with the Monckhovon gelatino-bromide plates) to obtain stars 
of different degrees of brightness : 

Magnitude. 
1 



The limit of magnitude visible to naked eye 



■Mean magnitude of the asteroids 



j^ > The smallest stars visible in large telescopes l^ 23 

These figures represent a minimum. To secure good reproductions 
on paper the time of exposure would have to be increased threefold. A 
two hours' exposure gives stars much fainter than Herschel's dehilissima. 

The Henrys have successfully photographed the clusters in Hercules, 
Sobieski, Ophiuchus, and Perseus, and the major i)lanets. They have 
obtained the trail of an eleventh- magnitude asteroid— a fine line among 
the stellar points. The new method seems well adapted, also, to the 
search for a trans-Neptunian planet. 

The observatories at Algiers and Eio Janeiro are to be supplied with 
instruments similar to those at Paris, and an equatorial coude of 0.6 
meter (24 inches) apertue provided with a photographic objective is 
to be constructed for the Paris Observatory, to test the adaptability of 
this form of instrument for photographic work. 



Time of exposure. 




0« 


.005 




0, 


.013 




0. 


,03 




0. 


.08 




0, 


,2 


e 


0. 


,5 




1. 


3 




3 






8 




( 


20 




) 


50 




f 2"" 







5 







13 








116 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Stellar plwtography at Harvard College Observatory. — Professor Pick- 
ering's investigations, which were briefly referred to in last year's re- 
port, have been published in full in the Memoirs of the American 
Academy (vol. 11, pp. 179-226). His paper contains a sketch of the 
history of the subject, description of the apparatus, discussion of 
theoretical considerations, and some results obtained in the three depart- 
ments of "star-charting, x^hotographing star trails, and spectrum pho- 
tograph5\" His work on the photography of stellar spectra we have 
already alluded to in the present review. 

In the report of the Harvard Observatory for 1S86 it is stated that 
the investigation in stellar photography undertaken with the aid of 
the Bache fund is now nearly completed. The principal results ob- 
tained include photographs of the entire sky north of — 30°, on which 
all stars bright enough to leave trails without the rid of clock-work are 
depicted. One series of plates exhibits the effect of Totmospheric ab- 
sori)tion on nearly every night of observation for a year 5 and among the 
miscellaneous observations may be mentioned some experiments in the 
application of photography to transit instruments, which showed that 
the accidental errors did not reach one-half of those affecting eye- 
observations. Various photographs were taken of the nebula of Orion 
to show the relative brightness of different portions of this object. 
The nebulpe in Andromeda, in Lyra, and in the Pleiades were also 
photographed. An attempt was made to photograph a satellite of 
Jupiter while undergoing eclipse, and thus to determine the time of this 
phenomenon. 

Astronomical 2>hotography at the Lick Observatory. — In a very interest- 
ing article upon astronomical i)hotography, published in the Overland 
Monthly for November, 188G, Professor Holden thus summarizes the 
facilities of the California observatory for investigations in this field : 
" We expect to have a photographic objective as large as 36 inches in 
aperture, if the glass for this can be obtained. This will be mounted 
in the most perfect manner, and we shall employ the 12-iuch Clark 
telescope, now at the observatory, as a pointing telescope for the large 
objective. The 12-inch telescope will be mounted alongside the other. 
An electrically- con trolled driving clock will keep the two telescopes 
accurately directed during the exj)osure. Our objective will collect nine 
times the light of any other photographic telescope now made. - - - 
The focal length of the combination will be about 580 inches, and 1" on 
the plate will therefore be 0.002 inch. This is a quantity whose yi^ part 
can easily be measured. A single exposure will give us a map of the 
sky comprising four square degrees on a plate 24 by 24 inches. - - - 
The sun's image unmagniiied will be 6 inches in diameter 5 a large sun- 
spot will be the size of one's finger-nail. - - - The photographs of 
the moon in the focus of the Lick equatorial will be 6 inches in diam- 
eter, and will probably stand an enlargement of twelve times, so as to 
be 6 feet finally." 



ASTRONOMY. 117 

Stellar ])liotograpliy at Cordoba. — Dr. Gould, in a paper read at the 
Butialo meeting of the American Association, lias described rhe photo- 
graphs taken at Cordoba from 1872 to 1882. About seventy southern 
clusters and more than a hundred double stars were repeatedly photo- 
graphed. Some sixteen plates of the Pleiades and five of Praesepe 
were obtained ; the total number of photographs being somewhat less 
than thirteen hundred. Dr. Gould lays great stress on the necessity 
of promptly converting the photographs into a permanent numerical 
record : and considerable uneasiuess is aroused by the discovery that 
the collodion or gelatine films are readily detached from the plates. 
Some progress has already been made in the reductions, under Dr. 
Gould's immediate supervision at Cambridge. 

Fritchard's '•'■Researches in stellar photography.''^ — In a paper with the 
foregoing title, read at the meeting of the Royal Society, May 27, 1886, 
Professor Pritchard gives an account of a number of photographs of 
the Pleiades which he has submitted to a critical examination, with the 
following objects in view : 

(1) To ascertain, by means of definite and accurate measurement, the 
relation between the diameter of a star-disk impressed on a photo- 
graphic plate with a given exposure, and its photometric magnitude; 
a 8imi)le formula seems to connect the two. (2) To ascertain whether 
the photographic plate remains an absolutely accurate picture of the 
actual relative positions of the stars in the sky itself, and, moreover, 
whether these are measurable with that extreme degree of jirecision 
which is attainable with the best instrumental means. The satisfactory 
accordances of measures of different X)lates have afforded a sufficient 
answer to this inquiry. (3) The third subject of investigation was the 
relation between the areas of the impressed star-disks and the time of 
exposure of the plates. As far as at present appears, these areas vary 
as the square root of the time, though the investigation is not to be 
regarded as complete. Bond, in 1858, considered that the areas varied 
directly as the time. 

In the course of his work Professor Pritchard noticed what appeared 
to be a distortion of tlie photographic film on a small i^ortion of the 
plate, and he detected a somewhat similar distortion upon one of eight 
plates of 61 Cygni and neighboring stars. He has hopes that in the 
course of a year the parallax of certain stars will be re-determined by 
photography, even to a greater degree of accuracy than has hitherto 
been achieved by direct instrumental application. 

Professor Harkuess has suggested that great increase in the accuracy 
of transit observations of the sun would be gained by inserting a sensi- 
tivephotographicplatejustbehindthewiresystemof theinstrument, and 
making an instantaneous exposure at the time of the sun's transit. 
This would avoid the disturbance of adjustments of the instrument 
arising from the exposure to the sun for several minutes, which is nec- 
essary in the present mode of observing. Stars would be observed and 



118 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

the instrumental constants determined by using the eyepiece in the 
usual way. 

COMETS. 

Professor Bredichin in continuing his researches upon the mathe- 
matical theory of comets has re-determined the repulsive forces which 
produce the tails of different types. Making use of some forty comets in 
his discussion, he has found for tails of type i, a mean value, 1 — /.i = 14; 
but the comet of 1811, by far the most favorable for the determination 
of the repulsive force of this type, gave 17.5, and this represents quite 
well the tails of other comets. In this type the initial velocity g varies 
from 0.1 to 0.34, the mean being 0.23 (0.1 = 1.9 miles per second, about). 
In type ii the forces vary from 0.5 to 2.2, and the initial velocities from 
0.03 to 0.07, mean 0.05. For the axis of the tail l — ju=lJ. In type 
III the repulsive forces lie between 0.1 and 0.3, and the velocities be- 
tween 0.01 and 0.02. 

Dr. Holetschek's investigation upon the conditions of visibility of a 
comet have been followed up by Dr. W. Meyer, who finds that if the 
great comets of 1843, 1880, and 1882 had reached perihelion in May 
they would have escaped unobserved. The orbit of the comet seen 
during the total eclipse of May IG, 1882, must have been very much 
like that of the comet which appeared four months later (1882 II) ; it 
seems, indeed, that the observed i)Osition can be represented to half a 
degree by the elements of the September comet, merely changing the 
time of perihelion of the latter and fixing it for the 17th of May. The 
ephemeris computed by Dj-. Meyer with these elements shows very 
plainlj^ why the Sohag comet could not be found after the eclipse, or 
had not been detected before ; it was too faint when in a position favor- 
able for observation. The comet is probably one of a regular stream of 
comets with small perihelion distance, such as 1843 I, 1880 I, 1882 II. 
If the orbits of the comets of 1843 and 1880 were sufficiently alike in 
other respects, the faikire in repeated returns would be no objection to 
their identity, for if the returns have taken place in the month of May, 
the comet must have been invisible. A revolution in thirty-seven 
years is hardly* to be reconciled, however, with the observations of 
1843, and for the great comet of 1882 Frisby has found a period of 
seven hundred and ninetj^-four years. 

Mr. Monck, in the Observatory for August and September, brings 
out some interesting statistics in support of his view that there exists 
a sort of " companionship " among comets — that is, cases in which the 
elements show a striking similarity; but it is improbable that the 
bodies are identical. Several of the comets of short period exhibit a 
family likeness which can hardly be attributed to their capture by 
Jupiter unless they previously formed members of a system. The ques- 
tion derives further interest from its bearing upon meteoric showers, 
for, if a family of comets can be supposed to be accompanied by a 



ASTRONOMY. 119 

family of meteors, a shower from nearly the same point might continue 
for a considerable time, giving rise to stationary radiants to which Mr. 
BenniDg has called attention. 

It may not be out of j)lace here to point out the value of physical 
observations of cometary phenomena — accurate observations of jets, 
tails, brightness, etc. — which may furnish data for testing any theories 
of their origin and constitution that may be put forward. 

Enc'ke's comet. — The progress of investigations upon Encke's comet 
may be briefly stated thus : The comet which has now been observed at 
twenty-four apparitions since its first discovery in 1786 " was shown 
by Encke to be subject to a remarkable decrease in the length of its 
period, a decrease which could not be accounted for by the attract- 
ive force of the sun and planets. Encke surmised that this was pro- 
duced by the effects of a res<isting medium. His calculations, which 
extended up to 1848, were continued by von Asten, who in a great 
measure confirmed Encke's couclusions, but found the curious anomaly 
that between the apparitions of 1805 and 1871, the acceleration of the 
mean motion which had been exhibited until the former of these years 
ceased to appear. Since the death of von Asten the work has been con- 
tinued by Dr. Backlund, who has succeeded in showing that the appar- 
ent anomaly in question was due to an error in the formulae of pertur- 
bations employed, and vanished when this was corrected. He was led 
however to the remarkable and interesting result that the acceleration 
of the mean motion of the comet is subject to a progressive diminution, 
and amounted between 1871 and 1885 to scarcely one-half of what it 
was between 1819 and 18G5." It was reduced from 0".104 to 0".0G2. 
It seems very probable that about the year 1868 the acceleration under- 
went a change, due no doubt to some unknown modification in the 
physical condition of the comet. 

Dr. Backlund has recently resumed his labors, which were inter- 
rupted by illness, aud the first memoir, relating to the return in 1885, 
has just been printed; the second, treating of the comet's motion since 
1865, will soon be presented to the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences; 
while the third, which is in preparation, will comprise the x)eriod 1819- 
1868. For these researches the author has been awarded the Lalande 
prize of the Paris Academy. 

Comet Tempel-Swift. — Bossert has given in the Bulletin astronomique 
an elaborate discussion of the orbit of the comet discovered by Tempel 
in<1869, but not recognized as periodic till its rediscovery by Swift in 
1880. The period is about five aud one-half years, but the comet es- 
caped notice in 1875 and again in 1886. 

Comet 1873 VII.— !Vr. Schulhof has published (Bull, astron., 3 : 125 et 
seq.) a discussion of the orbit of this comet, and has gone into the ques- 
tion of its possible identity with 1818 I and 1457 I (the observations of 
which byToscanelli haverecently been discussed by Professor Oeloria). 



120 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

His coDclusion, expressed with some reserve, is that 1873 VII and 1818 I 
are distinct bodies, with a short jjeriod of revohitiou but having a com- 
mon origin. Comet 1457 I is probably identical with 1873 VII, bat it is 
also possible that the two comets 1873 VII and 1818 I are fragments of 
1457 I. 

Comet 1877 VI. — Dr. Larssen, of Upsala, has completed the definitive 
determination of parabolic elements of the comet discovered by Coggia 
at Marseilles on September 14, 1877, and observed to December 10 of 
that year. The observations have been newly reduced and combined 
in five normal places, with a very satisfactory result. (Astron. Nachr. 
116 : 23-26.) 

Comet 1881 V. — The close agreement of the elements with those of the 
orbit of a comet discovered by Blanpain on the 28th of November, 1819, 
has led to a conjecture that the two comets are identical, although Blan- 
pp,iu's was computed to have a period of less than five years and Den- 
ning's of nearly nine, it being supposed that planetary perturbation 
had lengthened the period between the appearance of 1819 and that of 
1881. It has been noticed both by Mr. Plummer and by Mr. Denning 
that the longitude of the ascending node of the 1881 comet corresponds 
almost exactly with that of the descending node of Biela's comet, which 
has not been seen as a comet (or rather double comet) since 1852, though 
it has been supposed to be connected with a very brilliant meteoric dis- 
play seen on the 27th of November, 1872. The other elements of Den- 
ning's comet exhibit a remarkable agreement with those of Biela's 
comet ; and the suggestion in question is that these comets are identi- 
cal, or rather that Denning's is identical witb the principal remaining 
portion of Biela's, which underwent violent perturbation through near 
approach to the earth in 1872, sufficient to lengthen its period and 
reverse the nodes (a necessary consequence of altering the inclina- 
tion through zero). Colonel Tupman, whose calculations well confirm 
this theory, remarks " that on the 27th of November, 1872, it is prob- 
able that the comet was very near the earth and mixed up with tlie 
meteoric shower." The comet passed its perihelion on the 13th of Sep- 
tember, 1881 ; the computed length of its period was 8.83 years, or about 
3,225 days ; and this was almost exactly the interval which had elapsed 
since the meteoric display of the 27th of November, 1872. If this theory 
be true, we can not expect another similarly brilliant display on that 
day until the year 1916, five periods of the comet's revolution in its or- 
bit being very nearly equal to forty-four of the earth's. (AtheniBum.) 

Comet 1881 VIII. — Olsson finds a period of 612 years ; that founc^ by 
Oppenheim was 2,740 years, though Oppenheim remarks that 900 years 
would satisfy the observations almost as well. 

Comet 1882 II. — The valuable series of observations of this comet 
made at the Cape of Good Hope, including the remarkable observation 
of the disappearance of the comet at the limb of the sun, has been pub- 
lished as vol. II, part 1, of the Annals of the Cape Observatory. Inter- 



^Coiuet d 1885. 
^Fabry's comet. 



ASTRONOMY. • 121 

esting observations of the tail, accompanied by numerous sketches, are 
found in vol. i of the Publications of the McCormick Observatory, the 
observers being Messrs. Leavenworth and Jones. 

Comets of 1886. — Nine comets passed perihelion in 1886 ; three of them 
visible to the naked eye. One was a well-known periodic comet return- 
ing at the appointed time, and two of the new-comers appear to be 
periodic, one of them identical possibly with De Vice's lost comet of 
1814. Olbers's comet of 1815 was not detected, but as an uncertainty of 
some three years exists in the period of revolution, it may be picked up 
during the coming year. The Tempel-Swift comet due at perihelion on 
May 9 seems to have escaped notice on account of its excessive faint- 
ness. Of these nine comets, three belong to Barnard, three to Brooks, 
two were found by Finlay, and one by Fabry; two were discovered in 
1885, one in 1887 ; leaving six discovered in 1886. Comet 1886 IX was 
picked up by three observers independently, on three successive morn- 
ings in October, showing what a careful watch is kept by comethunt- 
ers. Warner prizes to the amount of $800 wore paid for the captures. 
Comet 1886 I : | This comet, as noted in last year's report, was dis- 
covered on December 1, 1885, at Paris. From a 
faint little patch of nebulosity it grew steadily in 
size and brightness, and on March 29, 1886, Fabry described it as hav- 
ing a diffused nucleus about 15" in diameter, comparable with a star of 
the seventh magnitude ; a tail about 20' long and 4' broad, was thrust 
out in a position angle of 325°, while the nebulosity extended about V. 5 
beyond the head. It became rapidly more prominent, and on April 3 
was visible without difficulty to the naked eye. On April 23 the head 
was as bright as a third-magnitude star, and the tail 4° long. The 
greatest length of the tail was probably about 9°, but the comet was not 
a very conspicuous object on account of its slight elevation above the 
horizon before sunrise, a^d also on account of the moon light. It is said 
to have remained visible to the naked eye from the early part of April 
to beyond the middle of May. Observations were continued in the 
southern hemisphere until about the end of July. 

The determination of the orbit presented some difficulties, and the 
elements from early observations were not entirely accordant. Dr. S. 
Oppenheim's elements (Astron. Nachr., 2722), derived from observa- 
tions extending to March 28, placed perihelion passage on April 5, 188G ; 
the nearest point to the earth and greatest brilliancy (about four hun- 
dred and seventy-five times as bright as when discovered) were reached 
about May 1. 

The spectrum was studied by Trepied, Perrotin, Rayet, Vogel, and 
others. The three bands common to comets and hydrocarbons were 
found — the central baud, perhaps, somewhat intensified ; and besides 
these bands there was also a continuous spectrum. 

Dr. Miiller, of Potsdam, has published in the Nachrichten (No. 2733) 



122 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

a very interesting series of photometric observations of this comet and 
of the comet discovered by Barnard on December 3, 1885. The observa- 
tions extended over the months of March and April, 1886 j and both 
comets were increasing in brightness. Eeducing the measures to a dis- 
tance unity, the intrinsic brilliancy seems to have been tolerably con- 
stant; from which it m^j be concluded that the comets shone almost en- 
tirely with borrowed light. This conclusion is confirmed by Dr. Miiller's 
spectroscopic observations, according to which the continuous spectrum 
predominates. Trepied, on the other hand, found that in Fabry's comet 
the proportion of reflected sunlight was small, gaseous elements pre- 
dominating and the bands being much brighter than the continuous 
spectrum. Dr. Miiller remarks that his observations show no effect of 
phase, and he suggests that this may be due to a variation in the in- 
herent light of the comet as it approaches the sun and earth, or we may 
assume that the nucleus is made up of discrete particles by which the 
phase phenomena must to a great extent be modified. 
Comet 1886 II : I A brief account of this eomet was given last year, 

=Coiiiet e 1885. as it was discovered by Barnard on December 3, 

^Baruartrs comet. | ^^^^^ ^jj.|^ ^ G-inQh Cooke equatorial. A small tail 
about 15' long was detected by Tempel as early as December 31. In 
April and May the comet developed into quite a fine object with stellar 
nucleus and fan-shaped tail, 2° or 3^ in length. It was seen with the 
naked eye on May 7 and 12 by Mr. Barnard, at Nashx ille, and on May 
31 and June 3 by Mr. Tebbutt, at Windsor, New South Wales. The 
last observation published was made on July 19, at Cordoba. A care, 
ful series of " extinction observations " is given by Dr. Holetschek in 
the ISTach rich ten, No. 2739. The spectroscope showed the three ordi- 
nary cometarj" bands, with faint, continuous spectrum of the nucleus. 

The latest elements computed by Thraen from observations between 
December 5, 1885, and May 10, 1886, place perihelion passage on May 
3, and give a slightly hyperbolic orbit (eccentricity=1.0004). Whether 
the curve really differs from a parabola can not be decide 1 until all the 
observations, including those from southern observatories, can be taken 
into account. Morrison has obtained hyperbolic elements agreeing 
tolerably well with those of Thraen. Earlier elements showed a slight 
resemblance to comet 1785 ii, but it is not probable that the comets are 
identical. 
Comet 1886 III: 

=Comet h 1886. 

=Comet 1886 .... (Brooks 2) 



This was discovered by Mr. W. R. Brooks, 
at Phelps, New York, on April 30, 1886, or 
in civil reckoning on the morning of May 
1 ; his second comet within four days. Mr. Brooks described it as hav- 
ing a small but bright and star-like head, and a conspicuous tail. (Jn 
May 4 there was a tail 10' or 12' long; very bright near the origin. 
Engelhardt, on May 6, found the tail 40' long and nearly straight, while 
8' from the nucleus there was a faint secondary tail bending towards 
the south. Pechiile, observing from May 3 to May 12, detected two 



ASTEONOMY. 123 

nuclei or condensations in the head. Barnard says it was a most sin- 
guhir looking telescopic comet — "a perfect miniature of the naked-eye 
appearance of a great comet." It does not seem to have been observed 
beyond the last week of May, when its theoretical brightness was about 
half that at the time of discovery. 

According to Wendell's elements the comet passed perihelion on May 
5. Dr. Weiss called attention to the fact that at the ascending node 
the orbit approached quite near the orbit of the earth, so that when the 
earth passed the line of nodes, July 9, a meteoric shower visible in the 
southern hemisphere might result from particles following in the wake 
of the comet. We believe, however, that no unusual display was re- 
ported. 
Comet 1886 IV : I Discovered on the evening of May 22, 

= Comet c 1886. 1886, by W. E. Brooks, in the constellation 

= Comet 1886... .(Brooks 3). | yij.go, a large, nearly round, and feebly 
luminous spot with a slight condensation occasionally visible. It was 
decreasing in brightness when detected, and passed out of sight early in 
July. Mr. Sherman, of the Yale Observatory, found the three cometary 
bands in its spectrum. Dr. S. Oppenheim has calculated an elliptic 
orbit with a period of about nine years. Dr. Hind makes the period 
very much shorter, not much more, in fact, than six and a quarter years, 
according to which the comet would return in the autumn of 1892. The 
perihelion passage took place on June 6 or 7. A new discussion of the 
orbit has been undertaken by Drs. Oi)penheim and Bidschof, of Vienna. 
Comet 1886 V: 

= Comet a 1886. 

= Comet 1886.... (Brooks 1) 



Discovered by Brooks on the evening of 
April 27, the first comet found in 1886. 
Until May 3 or 4 it was a round nebulous 
object 1' or 2' in diameter. An uncertain nucleus could occasionally be 
made out. On May 5 and 9 several bright points were seen in the 
nucleus, giving it a "granular" appearance. On May 18 the nucleus 
was of the eighth magnitude, and May 21 and 25, sixth to seventh mag- 
nitude with nearly circular coma 2' 20" in diameter. Dr. Kruegei'^s ele- 
ments show that the comet's nearest approach to the sun, 0.27 (the 
radius of the earth's orbit being unity), occurred on June 7. 
Comet 1886 VI : Winnecke's periodic comet (five and two- 

= Comet d 1886. thirds years) for which an ephemeris had been 

= Winnecke^a comet. prepared by Dr. Lamp, was detected by Mr. 

Finlay, of the Cape of Good Hox)e Observatory, on August 19. During 
its two or three weeks of visibility it was a faint, misty object, V or 2' 
in diameter, without tail, but with some central condensation. Perihel- 
ion was passed on August 19, about twelve days earlier than predicted 
by Dr. A. Palisa. An attempt was made at Paris to photograph the 
comet, but without success. 

Comet 1886 VII : Discovered by Mr. W. H. Finlay, of the Cape 

= Comet e 1886. of Good Hope Observatory, on September 26, 

= Finlay'8 comet. 1386, and reported as " faint, circular, about 1' 



124 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

in diameter, with some central condensation, and no tail." The pos- 
sible identity with " De Vico's lost comet," 1844 I, (for which Briiu- 
now found a j^eriod of 5.5 years), immediately attracted attention, and 
elliptic elements have been calculated by Boss, Krueger, Oppenheim, 
and Holetschek. The computation of the orbit presents some difficul- 
ties, and it is impossible to settle the question of identity until all ob- 
servations -at this return have received a thorough discussion — if it can 
be settled then. The last set of elements obtained by Professor Boss 
(Astron. Journ., v. 3, p. 43) place perihelion passage on November 22, 
188G, and give an approximate period of 6.675 years. With this period 
the comet, if undisturbed, should return to the sun in Jul}', 1893, under 
conditions quite favorable for observation. It is still visible, nearly 
live months after discovery. 

Comet 188G YIII: A faint, telescopic comet was fouud by Barnard 
= Comet c lSd7.- at Nashville on January 23, 1887 (the morning of 

=: Barnard's comet. , January 24 in civil reckoniug), which proved to 
have passed perihelion on November 25, 1886, and it therefore takes 
a place preceding the comet discovered by Barnard on October 4. As 
it was receding from the earth and the sun, it mpidly grew fainter. 
Perihelion distance obtained by Weiss was 1.4 times the mean distance 
of the earth from the sun. 



Comet 1886 IX: 
= Comet/ 1886. 

=^ Comet 1886/ (Barnard, October 4). 
= Comet 1886.. ..(Barnard-Hart wig). 



This comet was discovered by E. 
E. Barnard, at Nashville, Tenn., on 
October 4, 1886 (or morjiing of Oc- 
tober 5). It was also discovered in- 
dependently by Dr. E. Hartwig at the Bamberg Observatory on Octo- 
ber 5, and by Dr. C. F. Pechiile, at Copenhagen, on October G. It 
was an easy object in the telescope, and developed a tail early in 
October. By October 29 the nucleus was as bright as a star of the 
eighth magnitude, and the comet was visible to the naked eye as an ill- 
defined spot. Two distinct tails were detected about this time, and 
Barnard fouud a third on November 23. The comet was now easily 
seen witb the naked eye, as conspicuous as a star of the fourth magni- 
tude, with a slender train traceable for 7° or 8°. The tail seems to 
hav^e reached a maximum length of about 10° during the first week of 
December, the theoretical brightness of the comet being then about 
twenty-five times that at discovery. 

Eicco, of Palermo, found the spectrum composed of the three hydro- 
carbon bands, of which the middle one (green) was longest and bright- 
est. The spectrum of the nucleus was continuous, but re-enforced at 
the bright bands. 

Elements computed by Lieutenant Allen from observations reaching 
to December 10 show that perihelion was passed on December 16, 1886. 
No deviation from a parabola is indicated. 



ASTRONOMY. 125 

METEORS AND THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 

• 

The Biela meteors of Xovohber 27 , 1SS5. — Professor Newton has col- 
lected all the published data in regard to this great shower, and has 
submitted it to a thorough discussion in an article of nearly twenty 
pages of the American Journal of Science for June, 1886. 

We quote merely his summary statement of couclusions : 

"1. The maximum of the shower was near 6^ IS"" Greenwich meantime. 

" 2. Three hours after the maximum the number of meteors had dimin- 
ished to one- tenth the maximum number, and it is not unreasonable to 
assume six hours as containing the principal part of the shower. 

" 3. The total hourly number of meteors visible at one place in a very 
clear sky to some one or other of a very large group of observers may 
at maximum be regarded as 75,000. 

• " 4. In the densest part of the meteor stream, where and when the 
earth encountered it, the space that corresponded to each meteoroid 
was equal to a cube whose edge was about 20 English miles. 

" 5. The dense part of the stream was not over 100,000 miles in thick- 
ness. 

"6. The zenithal attraction of the Biela meteors was about one-tenth 
of the observed zenith distance of the radiant. 

" 7. The radiant was an area several degrees across. 

" 8. It is reasonable to suppose that the meteoroids, while in the upper 
part of the atmosphere, before the paths become luminous, change di- 
rection by a glancing due to irregularity of form. After the resistance 
has developed heat enough to melt or burn off projecting angles of the 
stones, and the tracks become luminous, the forms of the bodies become 
rounded in front and the paths described are straight lines. 

" 9. The meteoroids encountered by the earth on the 27th of Novem- 
ber, in 1872 and in 1885, did not leave the immediate neighborhood of 
the Biela comet earlier than 1811-'45, and may be treated as having at 
that time orbits osculating that of the comet. The determination of the 
paths of these meteoroids through their five and seven last revolutions 
about the sun seems to be a problem capable of complete solution." 

Professor Newton's presidential address at the Buffalo meeting of the 
American Association, on " Meteorites, meteors, and shooting stars," 
has been published in Science (8 : 169-76), and in Nature (34 : 532-36). 

M. P. F. Deuza reports that a careful watch maintained on the night 
of November 27, 1886, at seven observatories on the Italian peninsula, 
showed no repetition of the great shower of 1885. This would indicate 
that the stream is of small extent but very dense, and would tend to 
strengthen the hypothesis that it originated in the recent disintegra- 
tion of Biela's comet. 

Herr Forster finds for the radiant points of the great meteor showers 
of 1872 and 18^5 : 

1872 E. A. 230.3 Decl. + 43^.3. 

1885 230.5 + 430.3. 



12G 



EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



A recent bulletin of tlie New England Meteorological Society gives 
a discussion, by Professor Newton, of a meteor seen on September 6, 
188G, height, time and place of appearance and disappearance, etc. It 
is desired that observers should report the position of bright meteors, 
noting their paths among the stars, and trails, if any, with as much 
accuracy and detail as jiosSible. 

Mr. Denning publishes in the Monthly Notices for November some 
interesting results he has obtained from the study of a catalogue of 
more than 82,000 meteors from 3,035 radiants. Mr. Denning himself 
contributes to his catalogue no less than 7,000 meteors. He also, in 
another place, calls attention to the marked agreement between the 
orbit of Halley's comet and a pronounced meteor shower with radiant 
close to 5j Aquarii. The maximum shower occurs about May 6. This 
radiant needs further observation. 

Relation of the zodiacal light to Jupiter. — Dr. Geelmuyden, speaking 
of Professor Searle's researches upon the zodiacal light, says : " If the 
zodiacal matter has the same position among meteoric matter in general 
as comets of short period among comets, it is to be expected that the 
fundamental plane of the zodiacal light will have some relation to Jupi- 
ter as the principal motor in deflecting the orbits, and therefore in col- 
lecting the matter. Now it is worth remarking that the most north- 
erly point of Jupiter's orbit has the heliocentric longitude 188°, or with 
C0° east elongation 178° geocentric longitude ; and for matter in the 
same plane, but nearer the sun, the approximation to coincidence with 
160° is still greater." 

THE SUN. 

Motion of the solar system in space. — Several attempts have lately been 
made to obtain the direction and rate of motion of the solar system in 
space. These results are discordant among themselves, and, as the in- 
vestigators have remarked, are not entitled to very great weight, on 
account of the meagerness of the data available, but it may not be with- 
out interest to give the values obtained. 

Herr Homann, from a discussion of the spectroscopic observations 
made at Greenwich, and from the observations of Huggin and Sea- 
broke, finds : 



Velocity of 
trauslation, 

ia miles 
per second. 



Apex of solar 
motion. 



K. A. Decl 



Greenwich 
Hiiggins .. 
Seabroke.. 



24. 4 i 2.7 
:50. 1 -t 14. 3 
15. 2 ± 9.8 



320°. 1 
309 .5 

278 .8 



+41°. 2 
+69 .7 
+13 .6 



ASTEONOMY. 127 

There is ouly a rougli sort of agreement, but all three uuite in 
placing the apex considerably in advance, in right ascension, of the 
apex as found from the proper motions of stars by Struve, Airy, Dun- 
kin, and others (the mean position generally assigned is, R. A. 200° 5 
Decl. +35°), while Struve found a velocity of translation of only 
about 4J miles per second. 

Herr Homann is inclined to think that the velocitj' of translation of 
the sun does not differ very much from the velocity of the earth in its 
orbit, that is, 18i miles per second. Dr. von Kovesligethy in 1883 found 
from spectroscopic observations that the rate of motion of the solar 
S3^stem was 8.0 geographical miles per second. The spectroscopic ob- 
servations were insufficient to determine the direction, and he assumed 
the apex in E. A. 216o.O, Decl. +35°.!. 

Dr. Ubaghs, of Liege, in making a preliminary examination of the 
aberration due to the motion of the solar system, pointed out by M. 
Folie, has obstained a result which would give a velocity of only about 
180 feet per second. 

The velocity of light and the solar parallax. — Professor Newcomb has 
published in vol. 2 of the "Astronomical papers prepared for the use 
of the American Ephemeris" the details of his researches on the velocity 
of light, made duriug the summer months of 1880, 1881, and 1882. The 
apparatus used, to which the name " photo-tachometer" has been given, 
is a modified form of Foucault's revolving mirror. The result obtained 
for the velocity of light in vacuo is 299,860 kilometers, or 186,327 miles 
per second, with a probable error of 30 kilometers. Michelson found 
in 1879 a velocity of 299,910 kilometers, and repeating his work at Cleve- 
land in 1882, he obtained 299,853. Accepting the value 299,860 as the 
true one, it becomes of interest to consider the value thereby deducible 
for the parallax and distance of the sun. The latest and probably the 
most accurate determination of the constant of aberration is that of 
Dr. Nyreu, 20".492. Combining this with the above velocity of light and 
Clarke's value of the earth's equatorial radius (6,378.2 kilometers), we 
obtain 8". 794 for the value of the solar parallax, almost exactly the same 
as that obtained from heliometer observations of Mars in 1877. The cor- 
responding distance of the sun is 92,960,000 miles. 

With regard to a possible difference between the velocities of rays of 
different colors, it is pointed out that the phenomena of variable stars 
seem to be conclusive against the hypothesis of any such difference. 
Were there a difference of one hour in the times of the blue and the red 
rays reachiug us from Algol, this star would show a well-marked color- 
ation in its phases of increase and decrease. No such effect, however, 
has been noticed. Recent researches by Professors Michelson and Mor- 
ley have led to a similar result. 

Transits of Venus 1874 and 1882. — The work of the United States 
Transit of Venus Commission is being rapidly carried to completion 



128 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

under the immediate supervision of Prof. William Harkness. The re- 
ductions of observations made at the various stations for time, latitude 
and longitude are finished, the determination of longitudes having re- 
quired a thorough examination of all the great chains of telegraphic 
longitude. A volume containing all of the observations for 1874 — all of 
the 1874 work except the discussion of the photographs — is now in press. 
Dr. Auwers reports, under date of January 11, 1886, that the reduc- 
tions of the German heliometer measures are well advanced and that 
the printing has been begun; and M. Bouquet de la Grye announces 
for the French commission that the photographic plates, 1,019 in num- 
ber, have bfen measured, and that the reductions are now half done, 
and will be finished about the end of 1887. 

Theory of sun-spots. — Professor Young, in an article on "Eecent ad- 
vances in solar astronomy," makes the following comments upon an 
important paper by M. Belopolsky, of the Moscow Observatory, pub- 
lished in the Astronomische ISTach rich ten. No. 2722 : 

"Some recent investigations upon the rotation of fluid masses, by 
Jukow.^ky, of Moscow, as applied to solar conditions by his colleague Bel- 
opolsky, seem to warrant a hope that the phenomena of surface-drift in 
longitude, and even the periodicity of the spots, may soon find a ra- 
tional explanation as necessary results of the slow contraction of a non- 
homogeneous and mainly gaseous globe. The subject is difficult and 
obscure ; but if it can be proved, as seems likely, that on mechanical 
principles, the time of rotation of the central portions of such a whirl- 
ing mass must be shorter than that of the exterior, then there will be 
of necessity an interchange of matter between the inside and outside 6f 
the sphere, a slow surfacedriit from equator toward the poles, a more 
rapid internal current along and near the axis from the poles toward 
the equator, a continual ' boiling up ' of internal matter on each side of 
the equator, and, finally, just such an eastward drift near the equator as 
is actually observed. Moreover, the form of the mass, and the intensity 
of the drift and consequent 'boiling-up' from underneath might and 
probably would be subject to great periodic variations. 

"This theory falls in well with the facts established by Spoerer 
respecting the motion of the sun-spot zones, and the general though 
slow poleward movement of sun-spots." 

Sun-spot observations at Kalocsa. — A summary (Astron. Nachr., 116 : 
31) of sun-spot observations at Kalocsa, 1880-1885, shows the predom- 
inance of spots in the southern hemisphere of the sun over those in the 
northern hemisphere, particularly well marked, since the beginning of 
1883. A similar result is shown in the Greenwich observations, and has 
also been pointed out by Dr. Spoerer; on the other hand, from 1880 to 
1883 the northern hemisphere had the greater number of spots. It has 
been noticed, furthermore, that since 1880 the spots show a tendency 
towards the equatorial zones. 



ASTRONOMY. 129 

Observation of sun-spot spectra. — Professor Young mentions a some- 
what curious observation of sun-spot spectra, which he has recently- 
made. He finds that under high dispersion the spectrum of the darkest 
part of the spot is not continuous, but is made up of countless fine, 
dark lines, for the most part touching or slightly overlapping, but leav- 
ing here and there unoccupied intervals which look like (and may be) 
bright lines. " It seems to indicate that the principal absorption which 
darkens the center of the sun-spot is not such as would be caused by 
minute solid or liquid particles — by smoke or cloud, which would give 
a continuous spectrum ; but it is a true gaseous absorption, producing 
a veritable dark-line spectrum, in which the lines are countless and con- 
tiguous." 

Solar activity in 1886. — According to Professor Tacchini's observa- 
tions (Comptes Rendus, 103 : 120 ; 104 : 216), it appears that there was a 
decided falling off in the number and size of sun-spots during the year 
1886. In March, however, there was a considerable temporary increase ; 
and on the 8th of May a magnificent grouj) of spots was visible in the 
sun's northern latitude. A well-marked minimum occurred in November, 
and rather peculiar "secondary minima" seem to have fallen in the 
months of February, May, and August. Prominences also showed a 
diminution in number and size compared with those seen in 1885, but 
the fluctuations were much fewer than in the case of the spots. A par- 
ticularly remarkable eruption was observed on March 9 and 10. 

Professor Tacchini places the last great minimum of spots in March, 
1879, and the last maximum in February, 1884 ; if then the decrease 
in the number of spots during the latter part of 1886 corresponds to a 
new minimum, we shall have an interval from the last maximum of 
only 2.8 years, whereas the mean interval is seven years. So short an 
interval between maximum and minimum is very exceptional, for the 
shortest known since 1750 is 4.3 years ; the longest is ten years. 

Total eclipse of the sun, August 28-29, 1886. — A party consisting of 
Lockyer, Tacchini, Schuster, Maunder, Perry, and others, was sent out 
by the British Government to the island of Grenada, in the West Indies, 
to observe the total eclipse of August 28-29, 1886. A full review of 
the results of the expedition can not be given until the detailed report 
is ready. Preliminary accounts show that only one division of the 
party, that with Mr. Lockyer at Green Island, failed entirely on ac- 
count of clouds, though the observations at some of the other stations 
were more or less interfered with. Photometric observations and pho- 
tographs of the corona and of its spectrum were obtained, and also 
good spectra of the prominences, showing the bright lines of highly 
incandescent vapors. In this respect the result resembles that obtained 
in the two previous eclipses, though it was thought possible that this 
year, being one when sun-spots were tending to a minimum, would be 
marked by the more continuous spectrum that bespeaks lower tempera- 
ture. 

H. Mis. 600 9 



130 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Prof. W. H. Pickering, of Boston, observing from Fort Green, ob- 
tained a nniuber of photographs and some interesting photometric 
observations. He also organized a series of observations of the shadow 
bands. 

Observations of the partial phase were made at the Azores, Mar- 
tinique, Port au Prince, and at several points along the eastern coast 
of the United States. No parties were sent out by the United States 
Government. 

Photography of the solar corona. — Dr. Huggius's method of photograph- 
ing the corona in full sunshine seems to have failed when submitted to 
a crucial test in the eclipse of last August. In a letter to Science, 
dated September 11, 1886, Dr. Hugging says: "The partial phases of 
this eclipse furnished conditions which would put the success of the 
method beyond doubt if the plates showed the corona cut off partially 
by the moon during its approach to and passage over the sun. As the 
telegrams received from Grenada, and a telegram I have received this 
day from Dr. Gill, at the Cape of Good Hope, state this partial cutting 
oft" of the corona by the moon is not shown upon the plates, I wish to 
be the first to make known this untoward result. I regret greatly that 
a method which seemed to promise so much new knowledge of the 
corona, which, under ordinary circumstances of observation, shows it- 
self only during, total eclipses, would seem to have failed. At the same 
time I am not able to offer any sufficient exijlanation of the early favor- 
able results." 

Mr. Common thinks it probable that this failure to get a picture of 
the moon projected on the corona was due entirely to the state of the 
sky ; and Professor Langley, in a recent letter to Nature (35 : 53), adds 
his testimony as to the great effect of atmospheric diffusion upon the 
visibility of the corona. Moreover, Dr. Huggins says that he has not 
himself been able to obtain any satisfactory results since 1883, and 
that the plates taken by Mr. Eay Woods in 1884, in Switzerland, are 
inconclusive. The failure may be due to the abnormally large amount 
of air- glare from finely divided matter of some sort which has been 
present in the higher regions of the atmosphere since the autumn of 
1883. . , 

It is interesting to note that Professor Wright, of New Haven, in ex- 
perimenting upon the visibility of the corona, succeeded in obtaining 
what he believed to be a coronal image upon a screen, when he, too, 
was brought to a standstill by these same " white skies " and " red 
sunsets." Professor Wright's method was to admit the sun's rays re- 
flected from a heliostat, into a darkened room, and to cut out all but 
the blue and violet rays by a suitable absorbing cell, and then to form 
an image of the sun and its surroundings upon a sensitive fluorescent 
screen, stopping out the sun's disk itself. 

Professor Young seems to have some slight hope of ultimate success 
of these efforts to reach the corona without an eclipse. 



ASTRONOMY. 131 

Langley^s observations of hitherto iinreeognized umve-lengths. — Profes- 
sor Langlej^ having traced the solar spectrum iu the infra-red as far as 
wave-length =0.0027 of a millimeter, where it suddenly ceased, has 
since, with more delicate instruments, examined the emission spectra 
of various terrestrial substances at temperatures from that of fusing 
platinum to that of melting ice, and more particularly of temperatures 
corresponding to the ordinary conditions of the soil. The result has 
been to show that the maximum of heat from cold and black bodies has 
in every case a wave-length greater than 0.0027 — greater, that is to say, 
than that of the lowest solar heat which reaches us. Professor Lang- 
ley thus sums up (Am. J. Sc, 132 : 84-106) his investigation : " Broadly 
speaking, we have learned through the present measures with certainty 
of wave-lengths greater than 0.005 millimeter, and have grounds for es- 
timating that we have recognized radiations whose wave-length ex- 
ceeds 0.03 millimeter, so that while we have directly measured to nearly 
eight times the wave-length known to Newton, we have probable indica- 
tion of wavelengths far greater, and the gulf between the shortest vi- 
bration of sound and the longest known vibration of the aether is now 
in some measure bridged over." 

The visual solar spectrum in 1884. — Professor Piazzi Smyth made a 
careful map of the solar spectrum in 1884 in order to determine whether 
any perceptible effect had been produced by the " white skies" so prev- 
alent in that year. His observations have lately been published in a 
series of sixty plates, in the Transactions of the Eoyal Society of Edin- 
burgh, vol. 32. He finds that the red and violet ends of the spectrum 
show a marked general dulling, such as should arise from the upper 
air being laden with minute opaque particle^} — whether from the Kra- 
katoa explosion or any other source. 

Thollonh map of the solar spectrtim. — M. Thollon, in the Bulletin as- 
tronomique for July, gives some interesting details in regard to the 
great map of the spectrum for which the Lalande prize of the Paris 
Academy was awarded him about a year ago. An earlier map from A 
to H was finished by Thollon in 1879, but he determined to go over 
the work again with improved instruments, and to make a chart 
representing, with all the accuracy attainable, the positions, breadths, 
and relative intensities of the lines, a chart which will enable us to 
determine in the future whether any changes have taken place. For 
even now, from the comparison of M. Thollon's chart with that of Angs- 
trom, there is a strong suspicion that some change has occurred in the 
intensity of several lines between B and C. 

M. Thollon has carried the map from A to b, and it is to be continued 
to the violet by M. Trepied. It is now more than 33 feet long (though 
it covers little more than one-third of the spectrum), and contains 
about 3,200 lines, nearly 900 of which are distinguished as of telluric 
origin. The instrument employed was a large spectroscope with bi- 



132 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

sulphide of carbon prism, kept at au even temperature by running 
water. The measures were made with a tiue glass pointer. 

Gornu's device for distinguisMng the telluric lines in the solar spec- 
trum. — At the meeting of tho Eoyal Astronomical Society, on June 11, 
1886, M. Cornu gave a descrii^tion of an iugenious method he has de- 
vised for distinguishing between those lines of the solar spectrum which 
are atmospheric and those which are due to solar absorption. The east 
and west equatorial limbs of the sun are alternately thrown on the slit 
of the spectroscope by means of an oscillating mirror. As one limb of 
the sun is approaching us and the other receding, there is a real differ- 
ence of wave-length in the same radiation as obtained from the two 
limbs, and consequently the solar lines appear to oscillate while the 
atmospheric lines remain perfectly stationary. "It is as if you shook 
the spectrum ; and if a line were a solar one it moved, if a terrestrial 
one it remained steady." 

The absorption spectrum of oxygen. — About three years ago M. Egoroff 
was able to show that the great groups A and B in the solar spectrum 
were due to the absorption of oxygen. More recently the a band was 
also found to be due to the same gas. M. Janssen, studying the ab- 
sorption of oxygen, has now discovered that, under certain conditions, 
the gas yields another spectrum, composed no longer of lines easily 
separated, but of shaded bands, which can only be resolved with great 
difiQcnlty. This system of bands appears for moderate pressures much 
later than the spectrum of lines, but it shows itself very quickl}" with in- 
crease of the density ; the two systems are so different that it is possible 
to obtain either the first without the second, or vice versa. M. Janssen 
was at first unable to explain how it was that these bands were not 
visible in the solar spectrum when they were easily obtained by passing 
light through thicknesses of oxygen far less than the sun's light has to 
traverse before reaching us. Bat further experiments showed that 
these bands did not develop in proportion to the thickness of the stratum 
of oxygen producing them, multiplied by its density, but in proportion 
to the thickness multiplied by the square of the density. The density 
of our atmosphere being small as compared with some of the pressures 
at which M. Janssen worked, the non-appearance of these bands amongst 
the telluric lines of the solar spectrum is readily explained. 

M. Janssen is continuing his experiments at Meudon, and is building 
tubes which can be loaded with 1,000 atmospheres of hydrogen, oxy- 
gen, or carbonic acid. In this last case the real density of the gas will 
be superior to the density of water. (Nature.) 

For a thorough and authoritative review of recent advances in our 
knowledge of the sun the reader should consult Professor Young's ar- 
ticle which appeared in the Popular Science Monthly for November, 
1886 (30:24-33), and also his "Ten Years' Progress in Astronomy," in 
vol. 5 of the Transactions of the New York Academy of Sciences. 



ASTRONOMY. 133 



THE PLANETS. 



Mercury : The mass of Mercury. — Dr. Backlund has published in the 
Bullet iu astrouomique for October a new mass of Mercury, obtained in- 
cidentally in his discussion of the motion of Encke's comet. The new 
result in question is 2668 yoo^ ^^^ sun's mass being unity, and this is the 
largest value of the mass of the planet yet obtained. Dr. Backlund 
states that, even supposing the acceleration of the comet's mean motion 
to have been constant during the entire period, 1871-'85, it is not pos- 
sible to represent satisfactorily the five apparitions of the comet during 
that period on the assumption of a mass of Mercury less than 



.1 



5000000« 

Venus: Semi diameter of Venus. — Mr. Thackeray, discussing the ob- 
servations of Venus made at Greenwich from 1866 to 1884, finds that 
the amount of personality in the measures is much greater than the cor- 
rection due to the instrument, and that, though a greater number of 
observers by compensating one another might give increased accu- 
racy to the value of the semi-diameter, it is just as likely that they 
should not. 

The Earth : Geodetic Congress. — We learn from Nature that the In- 
ternational Geodetic Conference met at Berlin in October, 1886, to settle 
the organization of the central geodetic bureau (which is to have its per- 
manent seat at Berlin), and to determine upon the best method of exe- 
cuting the resolutions passed at Eome and Washington in 1883 and 
1884, respecting the actual measureuientof a degree on the earth's sur- 
face. The adoption of Greenwich as a first meridian is to be strictly en- 
forced, but the introduction of iDternational normal time is postponed 
on account of insuperable practical difficulties. 

The proposed change in the beginning of the astronomical day. — It is to 
be regretted that no agreement has yet been reached by astronomers 
upon the proposition to change the beginning of the astronomical day 
from noon to midnight. 

The general sentiment is opposed to making any change until it is 
clear that it will be adopted by a majority of astronomers, and until the 
proper modifications have been introduced into our principal ephemeri- 
des. The new day has been provisionally adopted by Mr. Christie, at 
Greenwich, and the board of visitors have recommended that it be in- 
troduced into the Nautical Almanac for 1891. On the other hand, the 
superintendents of the German and American ephemerides oppose any 
change ; and there seems to be great danger that the agitation of the 
question by the Washington Meridian Confereuce in 1884 may introduce 
new confusion rather than remove the old. At present there is little 
prospect of the plan meeting with anything like a general acceptance 
before the beginning of the next century. 

Theory of the moon's motion. — Several valuable papers upon the lunar 
theory have been published by Hill and others. Reference should be 
made to the papers themselves, cited in our Bibliography. 



134 EECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Mr. Hill has received the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical 
Society for his laborious and masterly researches upon this difficult 
subject. 

An interesting historical note on the inequalities of the motion of the 
moon which depends on the figure of the earth, is given by Professor 
Hall in the Annals of Mathematics, vol. 2, No. 5. 

Mars: The '■' canals ^^ of Mars. — M. Perrotin and his colleagues at 
Nice succeeded in recovering many of Schiaparelli's enigmatical " canals" 
at the last opposition of Mars, although the planet was seen under very 
unfavorable conditions. Its apparent diameter at this opposition was 
only 14", against 25" at the opposition of 1877, when the canals were 
discovered. The canals were made out by several observers at Nice, 
and were recognized as having the same general outline and position 
attributed to them by Schiaparelli in 1882. They seem, therefore, to be 
essentially permanent, forming a sort of network of grayish lines pro- 
jected against the brighter equatorial regions of the planet. Compared 
with the thickness of the spider lines of the micrometer, the finest of 
these lines appear to have a width which corresponds to an arc of 2° 
or 3° on the surface of Mars. Some of them measure from 50^ to 60° 
in length, and several are double, composed of lines strictly ijarallel, 
separated, according to Schiaparelli's estimate, by intervals of from 6° 
to 12°. All of this speaks well for the purity of the atmosphere at 
Nice, the excellence of the 15-inch Henry refractor, and the keenness 
of the observers. 

During the study of the planet (from the end of March to the middle 
of June) some change seemed to be taking place near Kaiser Sea. On 
May 21 this region, from 10<^ to 55° north latitude, was hidden by a 
luminous veil somewhat softer in color than the continents, very much 
as if clouds in regular parallel bands were stretched across the planet 
from northeast to southwest. At moments these clouds became trans- 
parent, exposing the outline of the prolongation of Kaiser Sea. Other 
similar cloud phenomena were observed on subsequent days. M. Per- 
rotin suggests that these phenomena were really produced by clouds 
or mists circulating in the atmosphere of Mars, and concludes that they 
are, in such case, the act of an element belonging to the atmosphere, 
or to the surface of the planet, susceptible of motion and modification 
in a comparatively short time. 

Mr. Denning, who has been an attentive observer of Mars, has not 
been able to make out the canals in the detail assigned to them by 
Schiaparelli, although he has distinguished a large number of appear- 
ances highly suggestive of these configurations. Mr. Denning con- 
cludes a review of his recent observations of the jilanet (Nature, 34 : 
105) as follows : 

"Many of our leading treatises on astronomy attribute a dense atmos- 
phere to Mars, but nothing has been observed during my recent obser- 
vations to corroborate this theory. It seems to me far more plausible 



ASTRONOMY. 



135 



to assume that the atinospliere of this planet is extremely attenuated. 
The chief spots are invariably visible, and the phenomena occasionally 
observed are rather to be imputed to the vagaries of our own atmos- 
phere than to that of Mars. 

" Jupiter and Saturn are doubtless enveloped in dense vapors shroud- 
ing their real surfaces from terrestrial eyes. Their markings are atmos- 
pheric, though in some cases very durable, and constantly undergoing 
changes of aspect and displacements of position by longitudinal cur- 
rents. On Mars a totally different nature of things prevails.. Here 
the appearances described are absolute surface markings displaying 
none of the variations which are so conspicuously displayed on Jupiter. 
- - - It seems to me that the very pronounced character of the 
markings and their great permanency are quite opposed to the idea that 
the planet is surrounded by a dense cloud-laden atmosphere." 

Dr. Lohse has used, in observing Mars, a double-refracting prism, 
achromatized for tbe extraordinary ray ; this prism, placed before the 
ocular of the telescope, brings out more sharply the details of the 
planet's surface by reducing the polarized light reflected from its at- 
mosphere. 

Satellites of Mars. — Professor Hall was able to observe the outer 
satellite, Deimos, on four evenings in March, 1886, but the inner satel- 
lite was seen only once, and was then so faint that no measurements 
could be made. Both little bodies were near their predicted places. 

The minor planets.— Eleven minor planets were added to the list 
in 188G, the last one bearing the number 264; the brightest was of the 
eleventh magnitude. Seven of the newcomers belong to Dr. Palisa, 
making the total number discovered by him fifty-seven. Dr. Peters has 
now discovered forty-six and Dr. Luther twenty-three. 

The dates of discovery and the names, as far as assigned, are given 
in the following table : 

Minor planets discovered in 1886. 



No. 



254 
25;-) 
256 
257 
258 
259 
260 
261 
262 
263 
264 



Names. 



Date 
of discovery. 



Augusta March 31, 1886 

O I'pavia I do 

Walpurga 

Silesia 

Tyche 

Aletheia ____.. 

Huberta | October 3 

Prynino j October 31 .... 

Valda November 3 . . . 

Dresda j do 

i-'il>U8sa I December 22 '. . 



April 3. 
April 5. 
May 4.. 
Jime 28 



Magni- 
tude 
at dis- 
covery. 



13.5 

13.5 

12.5 

13 

11.3 

12 

13.5 

11.2 

12 

12 

11.5 



Discoverer. 



J. Palisa 

-...do 

....do 

....do 

R. Luther . . . 
C. H. F. Peters 

J. Palisa 

C. H. F. Peters 
J. Palisa 

....do 

C. H. F. Peters 



Observatory. 



Vienna. 

Do. 

Do. -' 

Do. 
Diisseldorf. 
Clinton. 
Vienna. 
Clinton. 
Vienna. 

Do. 
Clinton. 



136 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Number 253, discovered by Dr. Palisa on November 15, 1885, has been 
named Mathilde. 

The influence of phase on the brightness of the minor planets. — Dr. G. 
Miiller, of the Potsdam Observatory, is led to believe from observations 
of seven asteroids with a Zollner photometer, that there is a real con- 
nection between the phase of these bodies and their apparent bright- 
ness, and that Lambert's law of phase brightness does not apply to 
them. The planets are separated into two classes. In the first class, 
class,' which embraces Vesta, Iris, Massilia. and Amphitrite,the changes 
in brightness are only perceptible as the planet approaches opposition, 
thus resembling Mars in their behavior ; in the second, which contains 
Ceres, Pallas, and Irene, the changes in brightness seem to be coexten- 
sive with the changes of phase, giving a light curve, like that of the 
the moon or Mercury. 

The asteroid ring. — M. A. Svedstrup gives in the Nachrichten, Nos. 
2740-41, an interesting abstract of a recent investigation, for which he 
received the gold medal of the Eoyal Danish Academy — a statistical 
examination of the orbits of 198 of the small planets, considered as 
part of a cosmical ring around the sun. The orbit obtained for the 
" mean planet" shows an inclination of about 6° and a mean distance 
of 2.64. The mass of this fictitious planet corresponds to an apparent 
magnitude, at opposition, of 6.7.* 

Relation of the asteroid orbits to that of Jupiter. — Professor Newton 
points out the interesting fact that the plane of Jupiter's orbit coincides 
almost exactly with the mean plane of the orbits found for the first 251 
asteroids, understanding by the mean plane, the plane whose pole is the 
center of gravity of the poles of the asteroid planes ; the difference be- 
tween the poles is, indeed, only 30'. 

Jupiter : The " red spot." — The " great red spot," some 30,000 miles 
in length by 8,300 in width, has now been the principal object of inter- 
est on the planet for eight years. It was faint during the last season, 
but far more conspicuous than in 1885. Professor Young obtained, 
from eight observations made between March 17 and June 29, 1886, a 
rotation-time of the spot of 9^ 55°' 40».7±0«.2, showing that the 
remarkable retardation of the period still persists. This is brought 
out by the following figures : 

In 1879 Mr. Pratt made the period 9^ 55™ 34". 9 

1880-'81 Mr. Hough made the period. . . 37 . 2 

1882-'83 Mr. Hough made the period.. . 38 . 4 

1883-'84 Mr. Hough made the period ... 38 . 5 

1884-'85 Mr. Hough made the period.. . 40 . 1 

1886 Mr. Youug made the period... 40 .7 

Professor Young, on re-reducing Mr. Pratt's observations of 1879, ob- 
tains 9'^ 55"^ 34^05, and he finds from a series of observations made by 
Prof. C. W. Pritchett, in 1882, 9^' 55'" 38M5. A small round white spot 

*In the Bull, astron., 3 : 415, this is corrected to 6.0 magnitude. 



ASTRONOMY. 137 

observed at Princeton in March and April, 1885, gave a period of 9 
55™ 11^.14. "It is noteworthy that although this spot was in a higher 
latitude (about 50° south) than the red spot, it yet rotates more rapidly." 
Professor Young remarked the apparent overlapping of the southern 
belt and the red spot which took place towards the end of March and 
the beginning of April, and which was seen by many English observers 
(Observatory, May, 1886, vol. 9: p. 188); but whilst admitting that it 
was impossible to say which was uppermost, he was inclined, in oppo- 
sition to Mr. Denning's view, to believe the red spot to be the lower. 
Mr. Denning has pointed out that the apparent partial coalescence of 
the two markings was simplj- due to an arm of the southern belt over- 
taking the red spot, the former having a rotation period shorter by 
about 19* than the latter. 

Mr. Denning finds evidence of regular recurrence in many of the 
prominent markings on this planet. 

Saturn : The satellites of Saturn. — Professor Hall has finished a very 
important discussion of the six inner satellites of Saturn, and his work 
has been published as Appendix i to the Washington Observations for 
1883. The observations of Professor Newcomb in 1871, and Professor 
Hall's own observations from 1875 to 1884, are given in detail ; these are 
followed by the formation of equations of condition and their solution, 
and the "work concludes with useful tables of the satellites' motions. 

A remarkable result of the discussion is that the Washington obser- 
vations of the five inner satellites can be satisfied within the limits of 
their probable errors by circular orbits. It was hoped that the observa- 
tions would determine the positions of the lines of apsides with such 
accuracy that the motions of these lines would be known, and that thus 
we might obtain data for a new determination of the mass of the ring 
and of the figure of the jjlant. But the resulting circular orbits for the 
inner satellites make the position of a line of apsides indeterminate, and 
for the present the mass of the ring remains unknown. 

The mass of Saturn has been computed from the elements found for 
Titan, Rhea, Dione, and Tethys with the separate results for the re- 
ciprocal of the mass, — 

From Titan 3480. 07± 1. 138 

Rhea 3450. 43± 6. 202 

Dione . 3463. 68± 8. 379 

Tethys 3463. 41 i 10. 629 

or, the mean result from the four satellites, is 

Mass of Saturn = 3478 t-li 10 

the mass of the sun being unity. 

In a paper in the Astrouomische Nachrichten (No. 2743) entitled 
" Comparison of the five inner satellites of Saturn made at Toulouse in 



138 



RECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



187G and 1877," Professor Hall discusses tlie old method of observing 
these difficult objects by noting their conjunctions with the ends of the 
ring, or with some other marked feature of the Saturnian system, but 
concludes that the filar micrometer measures are at i^resent among the 
best we have. He is inclined to think that the heliometer, if it can be 
made large enough, must be one of the best instruments for dealing 
with measurements of such objects as Saturn and Jupiter. This sug- 
gestion is being carried out by Mr. Asaph Hall, jr., in a series of obser- 
vations of Titan Avith the Cinch heliometer of the Yale College Obser- 
vatory. 

The following table represents the results of Professor Hall's inves- 
tigations upon these satellites. The elements of Titan, however, and 
the values of the node and inclination of the ring aie adopted from 
Bessel. Mimas, Enceladus, Tethys, Dione, and Rhea are assumed to 
move in the plane of the ring, and Hyperion in the plane of Titan. 

Elements of the satdlites of Saturn, 1880. 



Satellite. 


M cau daily motion. 


Time of revolu- 
tion. 


Mean distance from 
Saturn. 






381.09078572 
•262. 73177276 
190. 09838434 

131. 53500629 
79. 09010973 

22. 57700000 
16. 919883 
4. 53794773 


d 

0. 94243 U 

1.. -5702 1.^75 
1. 88779785 

2. 7369140 
4. 5174991 

15.94,54245 
21. 276742 
79.3310152 


26.80 




34.40 


Tethys 


42. 734 




54.734 +0.0442 


Khea 


76.537 +0.0459 


Titan 


176.915 4 0.0193 




213.98 




515.5195 + 0.02645 







Satellite. 



Lonpritudeof 
Pen-Saturnium. 



Mimaa 

Enceladna 
Tethya .... 

Dione 

Kbea 



Titan 

Hyperion . 
lapetus . . . 



Circular .. 

... do 

...do 



do 
do 



268 37 56. 

83 37 55. 2 

353 14 56. 5 



Eccentric- 
. ity. 



Zero . 
..do .. 
-do .. 



-do 
.do 



0. 02841836 

0. 1 

0. 027795 



Inclination to 
ecliptic. 



28 10 10.7 
28 10 10.7 
28 10 16.7 

28 10 16. 7 
28 10 16.7 

27 33 56. 7 
27 33 56. 7 
18 33 39. 5 



Lonarftude of 
node. 



167 55 5. 
167 55 5. 
167 55 5. 



167 55 
167 55 



5.9 



168 10 34. f 
168 10 34. i 
142 26 41. '. 



The motion of Hyperion. — Tisserand in investigating the case of two 
satellites moving around their primary in orbits but little inclined to 
each other has shown that if the mean motions are very nearly com- 
mensurable, and if the motion of one was originally circular and uni- 
form, the perturbations caused by the other would have for their princi- 
pal effect to transform this motion into motion in a Kepleriau ellipse 
with a uniform rotation of the major axis. Applying this to the case of 
Hyperion perturbed by Titan, which has been investigated by Hall and 
Newcomb, and in which there is one of the nearest approaches to com- 
mensurability of mean motions to be found in the solar system, M. 



ASTKONOMY. 139 

Tisseraud finds that iiis results agree closely with the facts of observa- 
tiou, the computed rate of retrograde motiou of the perisaturuium of 
HyperioD being IS^.S per annum, whilst the observed quantity is 20°, 
and he also finds that his value of the mass of Titan (yoTso) <liffers little 
from that obtained by Newcomb. (Observatory, November, 1886, 
9:360.) 

Uranus. — Observations of the planet made by Dr. H. C. Wilson at 
the Cincinnati Observatory in 1883 (recently published in Astron. 
Nachr., 2730), seem to confirm Professor Young's observations (As- 
tron. Nachr., 2545), that the equator of the planet does not coincide 
with the plane of the satellites' orbits. 

Neptune: Satellite of Neptune. — Marth calls attention (Month. Not., 
46: 507) to what appears to be a remarkable change in the position of 
the plane of the orbit of Neptune's satellite. He noticed that the orbit 
from the Malta observations of 1863-'64 did not agree with that from 
the observations of 1852. The node and inclination obtained by New- 
comb in 1874 showed a movement in the same direction, and tlie motion 
of these elements is still further confirmed by the orbit recently pub- 
lished by Professor Hall from his own observations at Washington. 
The probable errors are so small that it seems hardly plausible or pos- 
sible to attribute the change to systematic errors of observations. Mr. 
Marth calls for careful observations to strengthen the evidence. 

REPORTS OF OBSERVATORIES. 

The following account of the recent activity of astronomical observa- 
tories is compiled from all available sources, the " Vierteljahrsschrift" 
furnishing, as usual, the data for most of the observatories, although the 
latest reports there published are for the year 1885. I am indebted to 
the directors of many observatories for the direct communication of 
Information in regard to the institutions under their control. 

An alphabetical list of astronomical observatories, compiled by Mr. 
Boehmer, will be found in the Smithsonian Report for 1885. 

M. Lancaster, of the Bruxelles Observatory, has published a useful 
directory of observatories and astronomers. 

Algiers Observatory (1880). — The French Government has granted the 
funds necessary for, the completion of the observatory, and two assist- 
ants have been sent to join M. Trepied. A time service has been organ- 
ized for the cities of Algiers and Tunis, and the observatory will co- 
operate in geodetic work with field parties. Stellar photography will 
receive special attention. The observatory possesses a spectroscope by 
Thollon giving a spectrum 10 meters in length. 

Allegheny Observatory (1886).— The work during 1886 has consisted of 
an extension of former researches on invisible radiations, and on the 
absorption and radiation of .heat by the earth's atmosphere, and also of 
researches upon the absolute temperature of the lunar surface. In con- 



140 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

nection with this latter investigation a new field of exploration has 
been opened in spectral regions, where the i)lanet's own radiations to- 
wards space, of very great wave-lengths — exceeding one one hundredth 
of a millimeter — are now for the first time found. 

Professor Langiey, in giving a portion of his time to the Smithsonian 
Institution, has not resigned the active directorship of the observatory, 
and all communications relative to the scientific or business affairs of that 
institution should be addressed to him at Allegheny as usual. Mr. F. 
W. Very continues at the observatory as senior assistant. Mr. Keeler 
is now at the Lick Observatory, and has been succeeded at Allegheny 
by Mr. James Page, jr. 

Amherst (1885). — This observatory, named in honor of the Hon. Abbot 
Lawrence, was built in 1847, and has been employed chiefly for purposes 
of instruction. Professor Todd was api)ointed director in July, 1881, 
and his report covers the years 1881-1885i inclusive. The instruments 
of the observatory are : A 7^ inch Clark equatorial, a 3-inch Gambey 
transit circle, and a 6f -inch Pistor & Martins transit instrument, with 
mean-time and sidereal clocks, chronograph, and subsidiary apparatus. 
The equatorial is provided with two small cameras for celestial photog- 
raphy. Observations are made of sun-spots, of the phenomena of Jupi- 
ter's satellites, occultations of stars by the moon, etc. The ])rovision- 
ally adopted position of the observatory is : Latitude, -|-4lJ° 22' 17".l ; 
longitude, 4^ 50"i 4^67 west of Greenwich. 

Ann Arbor (1886). — The observatory is known as the Detroit Observa- 
tory, having been founded through the liberality of citizens of Detroit. 
Valuable additions and improvements have been made by means of 
further contributions from the same source and from the city of Ann 
Arbor, and also b}'^ appropriations made by the board of regents of the 
University of Michigan, to which the observatory is attached. The 
building consists of a main part, with a movable dome, and two wings. 
The east wing contains the large meridian circle by Pistor & Martins 
and a sidereal clock by Tiede, of Berlin. The west wing contains the 
library of the observatory, a chronograph with Bond's new isodynamic 
escapement, and the smaller instruments. This wing connects with the 
residence of the director. In the dome is mounted a large refracting 
telescope, with an object-glass 13 inches in diameter, constructed by 
the late Henry Fitz, of New York. 

Much attention is given to instruction in astronomy, and through the 
liberality of the legislature a small observatory for the purpose of in- 
struction has been erected on the observatory grounds near the main 
building. It contains an equatorial telescope of 6 inches aperture and 
a transit instrument of 3 inches aperture, with zenith telescope attach- 
ment. A building near by contains computing rooms and rooms for 
observers, and a workshop where necessary repairs and attachments 
for the instruments can be made. A set of self-registering meteorologi- 



ASTRONOMY. 141 

cal instruments has recently been added. It; consists of Hough's baro- 
graph and thermograph and an anemograph. 

The observatory is under the direction of Prof. M. W. Harrington, 
who is assisted by Mr. J. M. Schaeberle and a meteorological observer. 
Professor Harrington has devoted considerable time during the past 
few years to photometric observations, especially of the asteroids. Mr. 
Schaeberle has made observations with the meridian circle. 

The observatory plant is valued at about $40,000, and the annual ex- 
penditures amount to about $3,000. It should be mentioned that the 
American Meteorological Journal is edited here by Professor Harring- 
ton. 

Armagh (18S6). —Under the direction of Dr. Dreyer the Armagh cat- 
alogue of 3,300 stars has been published. 

Bamberg (188G). — This observatory, founded by the will of the late 
Dr. Kernels, of Bamberg, who died in 1882, will be provided with a 7- 
inch heliometer, the largest instrumeutof its kind made. Dr. Hartwig 
proposes to take up the systematic investigation of stellar parallax, and 
the investigation of the physical libration of the moon. 

Berlin (1885). — With the meridian circle, Dr. Kiistuer has observed a 
series of comparison stars for planets and comets, stars which have been 
occulted by the moon, stars for heliometer investigations, etc. There 
have been made in all 2,096 observations of right ascension and 1,936 of 
declination; the reductions are up to date. A new observing list, con- 
taining the Pulkowa " Zusatzsterne " and Argelander's proper motion 
stars — about 1,000 objects in all — was started in 1886. The transit has 
been used for observations of circumpolars, and also for continuing the 
observations upon seven selected pairs of stars, which are to furnish 
data for determining the constant of aberration. With the 9-inch re- 
fractor Dr. Kuorre has observed a large number of comets and planets, 
and with the aid of his " declinograph " he has determined the positions 
of about a thousand stars, some as faint as the thirteenth magnitude. 
Dr. Battermanu observed occultations with the 4.6-inch refractor. The 
investigations upon the movements of piers have given interesting re- 
sults, and the clock which has been for four years in a hermetically 
sealed case, continues to perform most satisfactorily, 

Bonn (1885). — The meridian circle was devoted, mainly, to continu- 
ing the Gesellschaft zone observations. Volume viii, the Southern 
Darchmusterung, was published during 1886, and the printing of tlie 
twenty-four charts which are to accompany this work has been begun. 
The reduction of the zone work is not quite finished. The director, 
Dr. Schoufeld, has been assisted in observing by Drs. Scheiuer, Deich- 
miiller, and W. Luther. Dr. Scheiner was absent a considerable i^or- 
tion of the year, serving a term of military duty. 

Breslau (1885). — The observatory, under the charge of the veteran 
Dr. Galle, is engaged in meteorological and magnetic work. Assistant, 
Dr. Lachmann. 



142 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Buchtel College Observatory (1886). — Pi^ofessor Howe has devoted his 
time to instruction in liractical astronomy. The cost of the observa- 
tory was about $5,000. 

BucTcnell University Observatory. — Mr. William Buckuell has given 
the sum of $10,000 for an observatory at Lewisburgh, Pa. A 10-iuch 
equatorial has been ordered from Clark and a 3-inch transit from 
Ertel. The building is of brick, 25 feet by 150 feet, a dome 16J feet in 
diameter surmounting the central tower. 

The observatory, under the direction of Prof. W. G. Bartol, is to be 
used for instruction in practical astronomy, and will be ready in, June, 
1887. 

Cliabot Observatory (1886). — This new observatory, the gift of An- 
thony Chabot, esq., to the city of Oakland, Cal., is under the direction 
of Mr. F. M. Campbell. The instruments are, an 8-inch equatorial, 
with micrometer and spectroscope, a 4^ inch transit, chronograph, 
clocks, etc. The geographical position given (Sid. Mess., 5:286) is: 
Latitude, +37° 48' 5" ; longitude, 3^' O'" 54«.3 west of Washington. 

Cincinnati (1886). — The Cincinnati Observatory was founded in 1842 
by an astronomical society, and was afterward transferred to the Uni- 
versity of Cincinnati, of which it now forms one of the departments. A 
new building was erected in 1870 upon IMouiit Lookout, about 4 miles 
east and 2 miles north of the central portion of the city. The observa- 
tory grounds comprise 4 acres on the summit of the hill. The building 
is of brick ; it consists of a central portion supporting the dome, and two 
wings, the western being furnished with meridian shutters, and the east- 
ern containing the library. 

The observatory possesses the Mitchel refractor of II inches aper- 
ture, made by Merz & Mahler, and supplied with a filar micrometer and 
a double-ring micrometer. The magnifying powers range irom 90 to 
1,500. There is also a portable equatorial of 4 inches aperture by Clark, 
with magnifying powers ranging from 15 to 250. The transit instru- 
ment, by Buff & Berger, has an aperture of 3 inches and is furnished 
with a latitude level and an eye-piece micrometer for measuring differ- 
ences of declination. The total value of the instruments is estimated to 
be about $12,000. The library contains over fifteen hundred bound vol- 
umes besides a large number of pamphlets. 

The financial support is derived from a city tax, the yearly income 
from which is about $5,000. This provides for the salary of the direc- 
tor, one assistant, and a janitor, the jiayment of the ordinary expenses, 
• and the publication of results. The purpose of the observatory is both 
educational and scientific. Instruction in astronomy is given in con- 
nection with the university, and the observatory is also open to the 
public for the first hour of each evening. 

The principal work of the past year (1886) has been the prosecution 
of the zone observations with the 3 inch transit instrument. In these 
zones about 4,000 stars between the declinations —19° and —22° have 



ASTRONOMY. 143 

been observed, most of them three times or more. The work of pre- 
paring this catalogue for publication is already commenced, and in the 
progress of the work Professor Porter has detected a number of inter- 
esting cases of proper motion. The catalogue will probably be issued 
during the coming year. A few observations of nebulie, double stars, 
and comets were also made during the early part of the year, but were 
suspended owirg to the resignation of Mr. H. C. Wilson, assistant 
astronomer. 

The work proposed for 18>'^7 is the completion of the observations 
required for the zone catalogue, and after -that the continuation of 
a series of charts of southern nebulffi. 

Cointe (1886). — The new observatory attached to the University of 
Liege, Belgium, is under the direction of M. Folic, the director of the 
Brussels Observatory. The instruments are a 10-inch equatorial and 6- 
inch meridian circle (diameter of circle about 31.5 inches), both by 
Cooke, with numerous smaller astronomical and geodetic instruments, 
and a set of magnetical and meteorological instruments. M. Folic is 
assisted by IJr. L. de Ball and M. P. Ubaghs. 

Cohimhia College Observatory (188G). — The observatory is upon the 
top of the college library building, 100 feet above the level of Forty- 
ninth street, New York City. The 13 inch Eutherford equatorial, 3-iuch 
transit, and zenith telescope are mounted in a room about 24 b^' 30 feet. 
The instruments rest upon solid piers of masonry, which are supported 
by heavy iron girders, the floors and ceilings nowhere touching the 
girders. The instrumental equipment embraces also a 5 inch equatorial 
(not mounted at present), a Troughton & Simms transit, spectroscope 
and subsidiary apparatus, clock, chronometers, portable transit, per- 
sonal-equation machine, etc. The dome is by Waters & Son, of Troy, 
'New York, and consists of a paper covering wich wooden ribs. The 
shutters of the transit slits are also paper, and open by the action of 
springs. 

Some trouble is caused by vibrations from th(i railroad trains (over 
one hundred a day) constantly passing within 100 feet of the building, 
but at times the instruments are very steady. 

A careful redetermination of the geographical position of the observ- 
atory will be made, as the old longitude seems to be somewhat in error. 
It is also hoped to devote the Rutherford equatorial, which is supplied 
with a ])hotographic corrector, to astronomical photography. 

Professor liees, the director, has but one assistant, and the greater 
part of his time is required to carry on a very complete course of in- 
struction in practical astronomy, designed especially for training engi- 
neering students. 

Dearborn Observatory (1886). — The Dearborn Observatory is the prop- 
erty of the (;hicago Astronomical Society, but is upon ground leased to 
it by the now extinct University of Chicago, and may at any time be 
required to vacate. A new site has not yet been selected. Observa- 



144 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

tions of Jupiter and of double stars Lave been made with the equato- 
rial during 188G, and the necessary observations for furnishing time to 
the city of Chicago have been made with the meridian circle. A cata- 
logue of two hundred and nine new double stars has been sent to the 
Nachrichten. It is expected that observations of double stars, Jupiter, 
and the satellites of Uranus will be kept up during the coming year. 
The instruments of the observatory are valued at $30,000. There is 
no permanent endowment, and Professor Hough carries on his work 
without assistants. 

Deutz (1885). — Herr Emil Mengeriug established in 1884 a private 
observatory, the principal instrument being a 5-inch refractor by Eeiu- 
felder «& Hertel. Physical observations of the moon and Jupiter have 
been made, and attention is being directed to astronomical photography 
and spectroscopy. Approximate geographical position : Latitude, +50° 
56' 33" ; longitude, +0^ 25'" 45».0 west of Berlin. 

Dresden (1885). — At Baron von Engelhard t's observatory observa- 
tions were made of comets, nebulae, double stars, the phenomena of Ju- 
piter's satellites, occiiltations by the moon, etc. 

Dresden (1885) — Dr. Drechsler, of the " Mathematischer Salon," con- 
tinues a series of meteorological observations begun in 1828. 

DUsseldorf {1S85). — Since 1S47, 1,271 observations of 157 asteroids 
have been made. 

FranJcfort-o7i-theMain {ISSo). — Herr Epstein continues his star-gauges 
and his observations of sun-spots. 

GeTieva (1885). — Four hundred and ninety-eight chronometers were 
tested during 1885, some of them showing an uncommon degree of ex- 
cellence. Forty-two chronometers were entered on December 1, 1885, 
for a twelve- weeks' special trial of temperature compensation. M. Kam- 
mermann has employed the 10-inch equatorial in observations of com- 
ets, nebulae, and satellites. Meteorological observations are continued 
as in former years. 

Gotlia (1885). — Dr. Becker has given up the greater part of his time 
to the reduction of his zone observations. The equatorial which has 
received anew 4^-inch objective by Reinfelder & Hertel, and has been 
thoroughly rejjaired, was remounted in October. A series of observa- 
tions was made with the meridian instrument. 

Greenwich (1886). — The annual report of the astronomer royal, Mr. 
Christie, was submitted to the board of visitors of the Greenwich Ob- 
servatory on June 5, and gives an account of the progress and activ- 
ity of the observatory for the year ending May 20, 1886. The regular 
work of the transit circle and the altazimuth has been continued, and 
very satisfactory results have been obtained with the apparatus for de- 
termining absolute personal equations brought into use with the former 
instrument some months ago. Spectroscopic observations include a 
considerable number made of the new star which burst out in the great 
nebula of Andromeda. The spectroscopic observations of Sirius indi- 



ASTRONOMY. 145 

cate, as in the last three years, a displace lueut of the F line towards 
the blue ; this displacement would correspond to a motion of the earth 
towards Sirius at a rate of something more than 20 miles per second 
though, from the nature of the observations, the amount of such a mo- 
tion can not be considered as very accurately determined. For the year 
1885 a photograi>hic record of the sun's surfiice can be made out for 
three hundred and sixty days by filling up the gaps in the series of 
Greenwich photographs from photographs obtained in India and the 
Mauritius. Observations of comets and of casual phenomena have been 
made with the equatorials ; and the magnetic and meteorological ob- 
servations, the time-service, etc., have been kept up as in previous years. 
Tlie full import of the statement that the reductions of the observations 
are keepiug pace with their registration will be appreciated by all who 
are engaged iu routine astronomical work. 

In regard to the new equatorial Mr. Christie says : " The construc- 
tion of an object-glass of 28 inches aperture and 28 feet focal length, 
with suitable tube, to be mounted on the southeast equatorial, has been 
authorized by the Government, and the necessary funds have been pro- 
vided in the estimates. The work has been intrusted to Mr. Grubb, 
with whom I have arranged the details of the tube, which is to be of 
special construction, adapted to the conditions of the mounting, and 
available for spectroscopy and photography as well as for eye observa- 
tions. Mr. Grubb proposes to provide means for readily separating the 
lenses of the object glas's to such a distance as will give the proper cor- 
rection for photograi)hic rays." 

It is proposed to refit the 12^-inch refractor for astronomical pho- 
tography by placing a combination of a convex flint and a concave 
crown lens about 2 feet within the focus, iu order to correct the chro- 
matic aberration of the objective for the photographic rays without 
alteration of the focal length. 

Grignon (1885). — Observations of sun-spots and of the physical ap- 
pearance of planets, etc. * 

Hamburg (1885). — Only one hundred and nineteen nights in the year 
were favorable for observing. Besides the meridian observations and 
the observations of planets and comets, a large number of chronom- 
eters have been tested. Dr. Schrader has left the observatory to take 
part in a scientific exploring expedition, and his place is filled tempo- 
rarily by Dr. Wilhelm Luther. The time-balls at Cuxhaven and Bremer- 
haven have worked satisfactorily, the former having failed only four 
times and the latter five. The Hamburg ball has given more trouble, 
having failed, from various causes, twenty-one times during the year. 

Harvard College Observatory (1886). — The forty-first annual report of 
the director covers the year ending November 1, 1886. About half the 
Paine bequest, or $161,198, has become available for the support of the 
observatory; and the funds, which iu 1875 amounted to $161,067 and 
in 1885 to $226,988, have now riseu to $398,016. This increase must for 
H. Mis. 600 10 



146 RECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

the present be devoted to the piiblicatiou of observations already made, 
an<l to effecting repairs in the buildings and instruments. A new 
mounting for the 15-inch equatorial is required, and Professor Pickering 
expresses the hope that at no distant day means may be found for re- 
placing the present building by one better adaptetl to the requirements 
of modern astronomy. 

The most important extension of the work of the observatory which 
has recently been made is in the field of stellar photography. With the 
aid from the Bache fund almost the entire visible sky has been photo- 
graphed, and a large number of photographs of stellar spectra have 
been obtained. For continuing the researches upon a stellar spectra 
Mrs. Draper has lent the 11-inch photographic lens employed by her 
husband, the late Dr. Henry Draper, and has provided means for a new 
mounting at Cambridge, and for the proper reduction and publication 
of the results. This investigation has been referred to under "Astro- 
nomical photography.'' 

The 15-inch equatorial has been used for photometric observations, 
observations of new comets, and of the new stars in Andromeda and 
Orion, and for experiments in i)hotography. 

The work projected for the meridian circle is now completed, and 
the reductions are being pushed as rapidly as possible. Volume 
XV, part I, containing the annual results for the fundamental stars, 
1870-'79, and the individual results, 1883-86, has been published ; it 
includes also the results from the separate obsei-vations of stars belong- 
ing to various special classes, and the catalogue of 1,213 stars, sepa- 
rately issued in 1885. The second part of this volume will contain the 
catalogue of zone stars. Volume xvi (published) contains a tabular 
statement of the instrumental constants and a journal of the observa- 
tions. A volume corresponding to volume xvi, but relating to the zone 
stars instead of the fundamental stars, and another, containing the obser- 
vations for absolute right ascension and declination made from 1879 to 
1883, will complete the work of the meridftm circle still requiring publi- 
cation. The resignation of Prof. William A. Eogers, who has had charge 
of this instrument since it was mounted in 1870, is greatly to be re- 
gretted. Professor Rogers has accepted the position of professor of 
astronomy at Colby University, Waterville, Maine, but will, however, 
superintend the reduction of his meridian observations and their publi- 
cation. 

The meridian photometer. Professor Pickering states, has given en- 
tire satisfaction, both in accuracy and in rapidity of work. (See Pho- 
tometry.) A time-ball is dropped at the Boston post office, and the 
telegraphic announcement of important discoveries has been continued 
under the management of Mr. Ritchie. Tlie report concludes with a 
list, embracing twenty two titles, of contributions to astronomical litera- 
ture made by officers of the institution during the year. 



ASTRONOMY. 147 

The following financial statistics, some of which may be found in 
farther detail in the report of the treasurer of the university, will be of 
interest : 

Value of grounds, Harvartl Observatory $80, 000 

Valvie ofbuildings 25,000 

Value of instrumeuts 40,000 

Endowment 398,000 

Total 543,000 

Tlie available annual income, including gifts for immerliate use, is 
$22,000. The salary of the director is #3,400, the use of the house being 
estimated at $600 more. The sale of time signals brought in nearly 
$3,000 during the year. The principal items of expenditure are — 

Total expenditure for salaries, including that of director $12, 000 

Total expenditure for iustruiuents 800 

Total expenditure for publications 3,500 

Repairs and improvements on buildings and grounds 940 

Tlie personnel includes Professor Pickering, the director; assistant. 
Prof. W. A. Kogers (resigned September 1, 1S8G) ; assistant, Prof. A. 
Searle ; and Messrs. Wendell, Edmands, Eitchie, Gerrish^ Giflford, and 
Metcalf ; with six computers, ladies. 

The Boyden fund, which was left for the purpose of astronomical 
research '' at such an elevation as to be free, so far as practicable, from 
the impediments to accurate observations which occur in the observa- 
tories now existing, owing to atmospheric influences," has been trans- 
ferred to Harvard College and will be administered at the observatory. 
The fund at present exceeds $230,000. Professor Pickering proposes to 
establish an experimental observing station in Colorado, but desires to 
occupy ultimately some high mountain peak in the southern hemisphere 
where observations — largely photographic, probably- — can be carried on 
in co-o[)eration with Cambridge. Information in regard to eligible sites 
south of the equator is much desired. 

Heidelberg (1886). — Private observatory of Dr. Wolf. The principal 
instrument is a 6-inch equatorial ; objective by lieinfelder «& Hertel, 
mounting by Sendtner, of Munich. A photograph of the observatory 
is given in Sirius, vol. 19, Heft 12. 

HeUingfors (1885). — Dr. Donner has continued to observe the moon, 
moon-culminating stars, and planets, with the large transit instrument. 
This instrument is to be remodeled by Repsold into a meridian circle. 
A portable transit of 6.9°" (2.7 inches) aperture by Repsold has been 
mounted in the prime vertical. The equatorial has been used for ob- 
serving comets. 

Hereny (18S5). — The mirror of the 10|-inch reflector having been re- 
silvered by Professor Safarik, the instrument has been arranged for 
experiments in celestial photography. Herr von Gothard has succeeded 
In photographing several constellations, star-clusters, nebulae, and stel- 
lar spectra, but the work is still regarded as experimental. Spectre- 



148 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

scopic observations and drawings of the i)lanets liave been continued 
as heretofore. 

EiUshorougli, Ohio. — Private observatory of Uenry A. Pavey. Ap- 
proximate position: Latitude, +39'^ 12'; longitude, 5^' 3t'" west of 
Greenwich. The instruments are a 4-inch equatorial by Benjamin 
Pike's Sous, with mean-time clock aud chronometer, and other accesso- 
ries. Physical observations of the sun aud Jupiter have been made, 
and observations of the zodiacal light. Variable stars have been ob- 
served in accordance with the plan proposed by Professor Pickering. 

Kalocsa Observatory (188G).— Dr. G. Braun has published a report of 
the observatory founded by Cardinal Haynald, archbishop of Kalocsa. 
The iustruments are a refractor, by Merz, of 7 inches ; another of 4 
inches; a transit, by Cooke, of 2.3 inches; altazimuth, clocks, spectro- 
scopes, photometers, etc. The latitude from geodetic observations is 
-|-4G'3 3P 41".92 ; astronomical methods give it 0".07 greater. The lon- 
gitude is 1** 15™ 54^.343 east of Greenwich. A valuable series of sun- 
spot observations has been made and discussed. 

Karlsruhe (1886). — The observatory at Karlsruhe (Baden) is still in 
a small, temporary, wooden building, the instruments having been re- 
moved in 1881 from Mannheim to the present quarters in Karlsruhe, 
where the observatory forms a part of the " Techniche Hochschule." 
Unfortunately the financial condition of the Grand Duchy of Baden has 
thus far precluded the establishment of a thoroughly equipped observa- 
tory, which has been in contemplation. The temporary building has 
two small meridian rooms, and a dome. The instruments are: (1) a 
6 inch refractor by SteinheU, lately remounted by Pecker «& Co., of 
Wetzlar; (2) an old repeating circle by Eeichenbach some years ago 
changed into a meridian circle by Hildebrandt & Schramm, of Freiberg; 
the telescope. has an aperture of 84 millimeters (3.3 inches); the divided 
circle is 3 feet in diameter; (3) a large portable transit instrument by 
Bamberg, of Berlin ; (4) two fine clocks by Ilohwii, of Amsterdam — 
one with break-circuit attachment ; (5) chronographs, chronometers, 
etc. 

The personnel consists, at present, of the director, one regular assist- 
ant, and a temporary assistant. The director, Dr. W. Valentiner, has 
begun with the m Pridian circle a series of observation of all stars down 
to the eighth magnitude between 0° and 20° of south declination , each 
star will be observed six times. So far about nine thousand observa- 
tions have been made, and mosc of these have been reduced antl pub- 
lished in parts 1 and 2 of the " Verofientlichungen " of the observatory. 
The assistant. Dr. von Rebeur-Pasch'witz, uses the refractor for observa- 
tions of comets, occultations, etc.; his principal work is the micromet- 
rical measurement of star-clusters ; two groups will soon be finished. 
The filar micrometer has been carefully investigated. Herr von liebenr 
has also completed an exhaustive discussion <^f comet 1882 I (Wells). 
The second assistant, Herr L. Stutz, makes regular observations with 



ASTRONOMY. 1 49 

the transit instrument for tlie time-service of the observatory, and 
also observes moon-culminations and right ascensions of the fundamen- 
tal stars for tlie southern zones of the " Astronomische Gesellschaft." 

Kew (188G). — The magnetical and meteorological observations and 
observations for time are kept up. Sketches of sun-spots projected on 
the photo-heliograph screen are made in order to continue Schwabe's 
enumeration. 

Kiel (1885). — Observations with the meridian circle and equatorial 
are continued, the equatorial having been provided with a new regis- 
tering apparatus. The catalogue founded on the Helsingfors Gotha 
zones is still unfinished. 

Lawrence Observatory. — [See Amherst.) 

Kis-Kartel (18SG). — Private observatory of Baron Podmaniczky, near 
Budapest, Hungary. Tbe principal instrument is a T-iiuih refractor 
by Merz, with a mounting by Cooke. The work commences next year 
with double-star measures and physical observations of the sun, moon, 
and planets. 

La Plata Observatory (1880). — The Government of the province of 
Buenos Aires is fitting up in La Plata an observatory which is to have 
a 31.5 inch reflector, an equatorial coudS of 17 inches, an 8-inch transit, 
a large Thollon spectroscope with objective of 9.8 inches, apparatus for 
celestial photography, and numerous smaller instruments. A time- 
service will be instituted, and a large amount of geodetic \t^ork will be 
done, including the measurement of an arc of a meridian. The ob- 
servatory is to be under the direction of M. Beuf, late an officer in the 
French navy. 

Leipzig (1885). — Dr. Harzer has gone to Pulkowa, and has been suc- 
ceeded at Leipzig by Eterr Schuauder. The zone observations and 
necessary reductions are being advanced as rapidly as possible. The 
equatorial has been used on comets and star- clusters. 

Leyden Observatory (1885). — Prof. H. G. van de Sande Bakhuyzen's 
report is for the year ending September 15, 188.5. The new lO.^-inch 
equatorial, with objective by Clark, and mounting by Repsold, is ready 
for use. The 7-inch refractor was used for observations of comets. A 
series of measurements of artificial disks was made with Airy's double- 
image micrometer for the purpose, of determining the systematic errors 
of the measures of the diameters of Mars and Uranus obtained in for- 
mer years. The meridian circle was devoted to observations of fairly 
bright circumpolar stars. Some progress has been made with the re- 
ductions of the zone observations, 1874-'70. 

Liclc Observatory (1886). — The Lick Observatory will soon te counted 
as one of the active observatories of America. The formal opening 
and transfer to the University of California can not take place until the 
great telescope is mounted (probably in the summer of 1887), but Pro- 
fessor Holden already has one assistant at work — ^Ir. K(^eler, who has 
been Professor Langley's assistant at AUeglieny for a number of years. 



150 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

The crown and flint lenses for the 30-inch objective arrived safely at 
Mount Hiunilton on December 27, 18S6, and have been packed away 
in a fire-proof vaidt in readiness for the mounting. 

It is tlie intention to provide three lenses, the third a " photographic 
corrector" which can be slipped on in front of the other two. The 
Chirks found that the first piece of glass sent them for this lens showed 
signs of internal strain due to insufficient annealing, and the work of 
figuring was only undertaken at the risk of the makers, Feil & Co. 
The suspicion of strain proved well founded, for the disk burst into 
three i)ieces while upon the grinding tool. Another disk will be pro- 
cured and should be rcadj' by June 1, 1887. The cost of the objective 
was $52,000. The photographic lens will add several thousand dollars 
to tliis. The recent death of Feil pere may cause serious delay in ob- 
taining the glass for the third lens. 

The mounting is under way in the workshops of Messrs. Warner & 
Swasey, of Cleveland, Ohio, and will be delivered at Mount Hamilton 
in June, 1887, for $42,000. It will contain many novel devices, among 
them an application of a modified form of the bicycle ball-bearings to 
the light ascension and declination axes, which will insure great ease 
of movement. The driving clock will have an electrical control. 

The hemispherical dome of 70 feet interior diameter has been built 
by the Union Iron Works, of San Francisco, for $56,800. The question 
of an observing chair has been met by adopting Grubb's plan of mov- 
ing the floor vertically 16 feet. Some such arrangement becomes ab- 
solutely necessary when we consider that the "spectroscopic length" 
of the telescope is some 5 feet more than the visual length, and the 
photographic length some 8 feet less; the eye-piece may be 7 feet from 
the base of the dome when the telescope is pointed to the zenith, or it 
may be .35 feet in the horizontal position. The floor will be raised in 
four minutes with a perfectly ])arallel motion, by hydraulic rams. The 
cost of the floor will be $11,500. A star spectroscope is to be made by 
Brashear, of Pittsburgh, for $1,000, and the micrometer by Fauth, of 
Washington, for $750. 

The total cost of the observatory will be a little over $500,000, leav- 
ing nearly $200,000 available as a permanent endowment. The annual 
income of the observatory from all sources will be about $20,000. 

In the summer of 1886 Prof. G. C. Comstock made an investigation 
of the Repsold meridian circle and a preliminary <leterm!nation of the 
latitude. The resulting latitude of the north dome is + 37° 20' 25". 2 ; 
the longitude given by the U. S. Coast Survey is 8'' 6'" 34'' 35 west of 
Greenwich. A time-service is in operation over the whole Pacific sys- 
tem of railways from Ogden to El Paso. Volume 1 of the observatory 
publications is in press, and will be distributed in the early summer. 

Professor Holden's plan for ntilizing to the utmost the magnificent 
equipment under his charge must commend itself to every one. The 
plan is to relinquish the use of the 36-iuch equatorial for certain hours 



Astronomy. 151 

of each day to distingnislied astronomers, specialists, who may wish to 
turn its enormous power upon some one of the many unsolved prob- 
lems of astronomy. Such astronomers may be invited to visit the 
observatory for periods of several months, and will be given every 
possible facility. The legislature of California has provided money for 
a permanent support of the observatory, 

Lund (1885). — Dr. Dun^r is principally occupied with stellar spectra 
and variable stars. Herr Laurin has observed with the meridian in- 
strument a number of stars with large j»roper motion. 

McCormiclc Observatory. — Professor Stone's report for the year end- 
ing Jane 1, 1886, states that the 2Ginch equatorial has been employed 
chiefly in examining and sketching southern nebulce. The nebula in 
Orion andtheTrifid and Omega nebula? have received special attention; 
many others have been studied, and two hundred and thirty-three new 
nebulse have been discovered. "The features seen indicate that thQ 
performance of the instrument employed surpasses that of any of the 
great reflectors which have been used in the examination of nebulte," 
Double stars, comets, and occuKations by the moon have also been ob- 
served. Observations with the small equatorial for the revision of the 
23° zone are now practically completed. Electric lamps are used for 
illuminating the circles and field of the great equatorial, and have 
proved most useful. The 45-foot dome revolves as easily as when first 
erected. 

The cost of the observatory building and instruments was about 
$70,000, of which $64,000 was the gift of Leander J. McCormick. A 
working fund of $25,000 was given by William H. Yanderbilt, and an 
endowment of the directorship of $50,000 was subscribed by thealumni 
of the University of Virginia. 

Professor Stone is assisted by Mr. F. P. Leavenworth and Mr. F. Mai- 
ler. Part 2 of volume i, on the great comet of 1882, and part 3, on the 
nebula of Orion, have been issued during the year. 

McGill College Observatory (1886). — A most thorough discussion of a 
series of longitude observations by Professor McLeod, at McGill Col- 
lege, and Professor Kogers, at Harvard College Observatory, has been 
published: the resulting longitude of the pier of the transit instrument 
at McGill Observatory being 4'' 54™ 18«.543 ± 0».043 west of Greenwich. 
The center of the dome of the Harvard Observatory is assumed to be 
in longitude 4i> 44™ 30^.993 rt 0^.011 west of Greenwich. 

Melbourne (1886). — Mr. Ellery has published the first installment of 
observations of southern nebulae made with the great Melbourne re- 
flector from 1869 to 1885. A description of the great 4foot Cassegrain- 
ian reflectoris given ; and there are several lithographs of small nebulae. 
Some fine results have been obtained in i)hotography both of the moon 
and of stars and nebulte. 

Mexico. See Tacubaya. 

Milan. — The 18 in(;h Merz-Repsold refractor was mounted and ready 



152 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

for work in May, 1886. The S-iiicli glass lias been used for double stars, 
comets, etc. Messrs. Eajna, Porro, and Abetti have been engaged in 
geodetic work. 

Morrison Observatory (1880). — The work of the equatorial for 1886 
has consisted of a series of observations on comets Fabry, Barnard, 
and Finlay (reduced and published or ready for publication) ; physical 
observations of Jupiter and phenomena of Jupiter's satellites, with a 
few observations of occultatious by the moon. The meridian circle can 
be used, at present, only for time observations and for the determina- 
tion of such star-places as are needed in equatorial work. A daily and 
efficient time-service is maintained on railroads extending to St. Louis, 
Chicago, and Kansas City, and thence south and southwest. Meteor- 
ological observations are kept up with regularity. 

Professor Pritchett has prepared a small volume of the unpublished 
observations of former years. Tbis is now passing- through the press, 
and will be distributed as soon as practicable. The expense of publi- 
cation is borne by Mrs. Berenice Morrison-Fuller, the founder of the ob- 
servatory. 

The annual income of the observatory is $2,160. This covers all ex- 
penses, including salaries. The director has no assistance, except that 
rendered by his daughters, and such as is afforded by a boy in handling 
the instruments and caring for the rooms. 

Mu7iich (1885), — The revision of Lamont's catalogue is progressing 
favorably. A number of stars from the southern Durchmusterung have 
been added to the observing list, to till up gaps. Dr. Seeliger has fin- 
ished a count of the stars in this southern extension of the Durchmus- 
terung similar to the one already published for stars of the northern 
hemisphere. Dr. Bauschinger was obliged to devote two months of 
the year to " Militiirische Verpfiichtungen." 

Nice (1880). — The refractor of 30 inches was provisionally mounted in 
August, and it is stated that the trials wiih it have given most excel- 
lent results. 

O^Gyalla (1885). — The main work of the observatory has been the ex- 
perimental determination of the mechanical energy of the radiations 
of thirty-four stars of the first and second jnagnitude. The spectro- 
scopic " Durchmusterung " of a zone 0"^ to 15° is nearly completed. 
Sun-spots are observed regularly. 

Oxford University Observatory (1886). — Professor Pritchard's report 
was read to the board of visitors on June 16. The photometric meas- 
urement of the magnitudes of an equatorial zone of stars has been un- 
dertaken. Attention will be given to astronomical photography — a 
department of work for which the observatory is well equijiped — di- 
recting investigations to, first, the relation which exists between the 
jihotometric and the photographic magnitude of stars; second, the re- 
liable uniformity of the photographic film; third, the amount of astro- 
nomical accuracy attainable on the same. 



ASTRONOMY. 153 

Palermo (1885). — ]!^ew comets, shooting stars, solar spots, and pro- 
tuberances have been observed ; drawings liave been made of the 
planets, and atmospheric phenomena have been studied. 

Faris (1885). — The report of Admiral Mouchez, presented to the 
council on the 22d of January, 1886, gives especial prominence to the 
work in astronomical photography. A reproduction is given of a pho- 
tograph of the Pleiades taken by the Henry Brothers, and also an il- 
lustration of the instrument employed. We have already referred to 
nrauy of the interesting results obtained. Three instruments have 
been used for photography; the first (aperture 6.3 inches), the exper- 
imental instrument used in 1884, has been employed in photometric 
researches. The second is a smaller instrument, aperture 4.3 inches, 
for i)liotographing large comets and extended groups of stars. The 
third is the equatorial of 13 inches apertiare, with which the more im- 
portant work has been done. 

The routine work has not, however, suffered ; in the meridian service 
over sixteen thousand observations have been made by sixteen differ- 
ent observers; the instrument devised by M. Loewy, the equatorial 
coude, has been used for the observation of comets and minor planets, 
and the time service, meteorological department, etc., are all in a most 
satisfactory condition. The reductions for the great catalogue w^ere 
completed up to 8'^ right ascension. The catalogue has been printed up 
to number 3,800. 

Plonslc (1885). — Comets, double stars, etc., have been observed, and 
an interesting study of the atmospheric lines of the spectrum has been 
undertaken. Dr. Jedrzejewicz, the director, has made a new deter- 
mination of the geographical co-ordinates of the observatory with the 
following result: Latitude, +52° 37' 40"; longitude, 27'" 57«.07 east 
of Berlin. 

Potfidam (1885). — Dr. Vogel's most interesting report occupies more 
than ten pages of the Vierteljahjsschrift (vol. 21, pp. 132-142). The 
instruments have been improved in many minor details, and sevei-al 
pieces of subsidiary apparatus have been added. Drs. Miiller and 
Kempf have devoted considerable time to finishing the new determina- 
tion of wave-lengths of the Fraunhofer lines. Drs. Vogel and Wilsing 
have been at work upon the spectra of new stars, spectra of comets, and 
spectra of solar spots and protuberances. Dr. Miiller has made a num- 
ber of photometric observations of the major and minor planets, while 
Dr. Wilsing has observed variable stars. Dr. Lohse has made a series 
of drawings of Jupiter, and has obtained one hundred and forty-six 
photographs of the sun ; these latter, taken in connection with Dr. 
Spoerer's telescopic observations, will furnish ample material for the 
history of the spots. Dr. Lohse has also continued his series of photo- 
graphs of star-clusters with gratifying success. Dr. Wilsing hascarried 
on a very interesting series of experiments to determine the density of 
the earth. Tlie third part of volume four and the fifth volume of the 



154 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Annals have been pnblisbed. The library has increased to about thirty- 
seven hundred volumes. 

Prague (1885). — Professor Safarik has devoted his attention to varia- 
ble stars. 

Frincefon (188G). — The 23-inch equatorial has been used by Professor 
Young in micrometrical work upon close double stars, the satellites of 
Uranus and Neptune, the surface markings of Jupiter, and tlie details 
of Saturn. Comets are observed when they have become diflicult ob- 
jects for smaller instruments. Occasional spectroscopic observations 
are made of sun-spots, prominences, and comets. The institution has 
no endowment which would make it possible to undertake any extensive 
or continuous programme of work. The small observatory is used 
almost entirely for instruction in practical astronomy, this part of the 
work being under the immediate supervision of Professor McNeill. 

Fulkowa (188G), — The annual report of Dr. Struve is for the year 
ending May 25, 1886. The great routine work, the determination of 
star-positions, has been continued as in former years. The 30 inch re- 
fractor, in the hands of Dr. Hermann Struve, has been employed in 
observing the faint double stars of Burnham's catalogue, the satellites 
of Mars, Saturn, and Neptune, the Maia nebula and Nova Andromedte, 
which was easily visible on January 27. Dr. Hermann Struve speaks in 
the highest terms of the instrument, both as regards its optical power 
and its mounting, the movement of the dome, etc. Backlund has meas- 
ured with the 4-inch heliometer the positions of Jupiter's satellites, for 
a determination of the mass of the planet and the orbits of the satellites. 
Hasselberg has been experimenting upon photography of the solar spec- 
trum. The observatory has met with a severe loss in the recent death 
of Herr Wagner. 

Eadcliffe Observatory {1886). — Observations have been made of the 
sun, the moon throughout- the lunation, occultations by the moon, and 
the phenomena of Jupiter's satellites. Volume 41, containing results 
for 1883, has been published. 

Rio Janeiro (188G). — M. Cruls announces that the observatory is to 
be transferred to a new site, nearly on the same parallel as the present 
observatory, but two minutes of time farther west. M. Cruls has been 
commissioned by the Emperor of Brazil to have a photographic appa- 
ratus constructed similar to that at Paris, in order to co-operate in the 
proposed photographic survey of the heavens. 

Rousdon (188G). — A private observatory erected in 1884 and 1885 by 
Mr. Cuthbert E. Peek at Eousdon, near Lyme Regis, Devon, England. 
The principal instruments are, a G, 4-inch equatorial objective by Mcrz, 
mounting by Cooke, a 2 inch Troughton «& Simms transit, chronometers, 
etc. Beneath the equatorial room is a laboratory which is also fitted 
for photography. In 1886 the comets of the year and a list of long- 
perioil variables were observed, and transit observations were made for 
rating the chronometers. A volume containing observations of comets, 



ASTRONOMY. 1 55 

Nova Andromedne, etc., and meteorological observations from 1882 to 
1885 has been published. 

Smith College Observatory. — Professor Todd includes in bis report of 
the Amherst Observatory a brief account of an observatory, the con- 
struction of which he has supervised for the trustees of Smith College 
(for young women), at Northampton, Massachusetts. A one-story brick 
building is divided into an equatorial room, photographic dark-room, 
library, clock-room, and transit-room. The equatorial is of 11 inches 
aperture, the objective by the Clarks, and mounting by Warner & 
Swasey. Incandescent lamps are provided for the illumination of the 
circles and micrometers. The transit-room will contain a 4inch merid- 
ian circle. The approximate position of the new observatory is : Lati- 
tude, + 42° J 9' 1"; longitude, 4'^ 50>" 32«.9 west of Greenwich. 

South Evanston (1886). — Dr. Marsbali U. Ewell has erected a small 
private observatory at South Evanston, Cook County, Illinois, 10.8 
miles north of Chicago. The equatorial is a 6J-inch Clark refractor 
mounted on a pier made of Portland cement and fine gravel so as to 
form practically a single piece of rock from top to bottom. The dome 
is 12 feet in diameter, built with ash ribs covered with tin, and turns 
on six iron wheels. The observatory is also provided with a 2^ inch 
Troughton & Simms transit, sidereal and mean-time chronometers, 
and minor apparatus. 

Stockholm (1885). — Investigations upon the motions of the different 
members of the solar system have absorbed the attention of the director 
and his assistants. The mean motions of the apsides of the planets 
Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus are found to diifer sensibly from the 
values assigned by Leverrier. Herr Shdauow has continued Gylddn's 
researches upon the lunar theory, and Dr. Harzer has contributed a 
valuable memoir upon the motion of Hecuba. 

Strasshurg. — Dr. Schur, previous to his departure for Gottingen, where 
he takes Klinkerfues' place, published a report, dated May 6, 1880, sup- 
plementary to his annual report of July, 1885. The principal meridian 
work was upon southern stars in the extension of the Durchmusterung, 
and Auwers' eighty-three southern fundamental stars and refraction 
stars. The moon was observed with the altazimuth ; comets with the 
refractor. Dr. Kobold succeeds Herr Schur. Dr. Winnecke has been 
retired, at his own request, on account of ill health. 

Tacnhaya (1885) — The Observatorio Nacional, formerly at Chapulte- 
pec, is now at Tacubaya, about G miles from the city of Mexico. The 
final value of the longitude of the large meridian circle, from exchanges 
in 1885 with St. Louis, is i,^ 36™ 46^54 ± 0«.02 west of Greenwich. 
(Astron. Jour., 7:62.) 

Taschlent (1885). — The refractor was employed principally in observ- 
ing sun spots; comets and occultations were also observed. The merid- 
ian circle furnished the places of a number of comparison stars for 



156 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

comets and planets. Geograpbical positions were determined for six 
towns in central Asia. 

Temple Observatory (188G). — Observations of double stars have been 
continued, and spectroscopic observations to determine the motion of 
stars in the line of sight. 

United States Naval Ohservatory (1880). — "N"o material change has 
been made in the character of the work. Professor Hall has used the 
2G inch refractor in observations of Saturn, of double stars, and of 
satellites; and alsofordetermiuationsof stellar parallax. No deteriora- 
tion of the objective has been noticed since it was repolislfed ten years 
ago. 

The transit circle has been employed in observations of the sun, 
moon, planets, and such stars as are necessary to complete the data 
for a transit-circle catalogue, which will contain all of the miscellaneous 
stars observed since the instrument was mounted, twenty years ago. 
The reductions are somewhat behindhand on account or the inade- 
quate compnting force. The 9.6-inch equatorial has been used in the 
observation of comets, asteroids, and the occultation of stars by the 
moon ; and the Eepsold meridian circle at Annai)olis temporarily, under 
the direction of the Superintendent of the Washington Observatory, in 
the observation of a list of southern stars. The revision of Yarnall's 
catalogue and the reduction of recent observations with the prime 
vertical instrument are progressing favorably. Photographs of the sun 
have been taken with tlie photo-heliograph used during the transit of 
Venus. Ninety eight negatives showing spots were secured between 
January 11 and September 30, 1886. 

The extensive time-service of the observatory is in an efBcient state, 
and the chronometer tests inaugurated a few years ago have proved of 
great benefit to the naval service. Considerable attention has also 
been given to the examination of nautical instruments, thermometers, 
etc., for the Navy. 

The volume for 1882, and Appendices i, ii, and iii to the volume for 
1883 have been distributed. 

Commodore Belknap was relieved from duty as Superintendent on 
June 7, 1886, by Commander A. D. Brown, and Commander Brown on 
November 15 by Capt. Robert L. Phythiau. 

The expenses of the observatory are met by annual appropriations 
from Congress, the naval officers (including professors) receiving the 
pay of their respective ranks. The pay of fourteen officers attached to 
the observatory December 1, 1880, aggregated $31,400. 

The specific appropriation for the observatory for the year ending 
June 30, 1886, contains the following items: For pay of three assistant 
astronomers, $3,000; one clerk, $1,800; instrument maker, $1,500; four 
watchmen, $4,880 ; assistant for the 20inch equatorial, $720; gardener, 
$1,000 ; seven laborers, $4,620 ; for miscellaneous computations, $ 1 ,200 ; 
purchase of apparatus and material for repairs of instruments, $2,500; 



ASTEONOMY. 157 

library, $1,000 ; repairs to buildings, fuel, gas, furniture, stationery, and 
contingent expenses, $3,900 ; freight on observatory publications sent 
to foreign countries, $366. The entire annual cost of the maintenance 
of the observatory may, therefore, be put at about $58,500; — $50,700 
being for salaries and wages, and nearly $7,800 for other expenses. The 
item of salaries- will vary considerably, of course, with the number and 
rank of line officers on duty, and it should be borne in mind that sev- 
eral of the officers are engaged upon work carried on at the observatory 
as a naval institution. 

The sum of $100,000 is now available for the erection of a new obser- 
vatory, and the plans prepared six or eight years ago are being revised, 
with a i^rospect of beginning work upon the new buildings in the course 
of a few months. The total cost of the buildings is limited to $400,000. 

Warner Observatory. —Dr. Swift has confined himself to the discovery 
of new nebulai and the search for comets. The instruments are : A 
16-inch (/lark equatorial, provided with a filar micrometer and many 
convenient accessories ; a 4|-inch comet-seeker, and a sidereal clock by 
Howardo A spectroscope, to cost $1,000, has been ordered from Alvan 
Clark & Sons. A description of the observatory, with its instruments 
and work from 1883 to 1886, has been published as voluuie i of the ob- 
servatory luiblications. This volume contains a list of four hundred and 
nine nebula) discovered since July 9, 1883 (it is stated that five hundred 
and forty have been discovered in all), a list of the Warner astrouom 
ical prizes, and the full text of the Warner prize essays on comets and 
on the red " skj' -glows." 

Vanderhilt University Observatory, Nashville, Term. — This observa- 
tory is sui)plied with the following instruments : 

Six-iuch equatorial refractor, by T. Cooke & Sons, 8-foot focus, with 
hour circle divided to single minutes, and subdivided to 2» by opposite 
verniers ; and declination circle divided to 10' and read by two verniers 
to 10". There is also a third vernier reading to 15", used for setting 
in declination, and read by the observer at the eye-piece with a small 
telescope. The instrument is supplied with eight eye-pieces, ranging 
from 00 to 600, and filar micrometer (bright field, dark wires only). A 
revolving disk with colored glasses gives a change of color of field, — a 
red one being found most useful, as it seems to permit observations of 
fainter objects with sufficient distinctness of the wires. A ring microm- 
eter (not belonging to the observatory) is also used with the e(iu;itorial. 
A good driving clock gives a steady motion to tbe telescope. Two 
spectroscopes belong to this instrument — one, a direct-vision spectro- 
scope by Merz & Mahler, the other by Grubb. 

The equatorial room is surmounted by a hemispherical dome, revolv- 
ing readily by hand on twelve pairs of wheels. The shutter is of light 
corrugated iron, in two sections; the upjjcr section, two-thirds of the 
entire length, passes through the zenith to the back of the dome ; the 
other part is drawn to one side, running on two light wheels, upon 



158 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

a projecting platform. This iustruiueat has been used during- the past 
year in the observation of comets, nebuhe, and the planets, and other 
miscellaneous work. Positions of all the comets liave been obtained 
with either the ring or filar micrometer. Some experiments in celestial 
photography have been carried on, and good views of the moon obtained. 
The instrument cost about $1,900. 

A 4:-inch meridian circle, by Ertel, with circles 26 inches in diameter, 
divided to 3'. On the east pier is mounted a frame carrying four micro- 
scopes which read the circle to 0".5. The reticule consists of thirteen 
vertical and two horizontal wires. The field or threads are illuminated 
at will. This instrument is reversible, and cost about $1,400. 

The chronograph is one of Warner «S: Swazey's latest designs, and 
is used with either the equatorial or meridian circle. Cost, $375. The 
sidereal clock, by Dent, cost $500. The mean time clock, by Howard, 
cost $400. 

There is also a 3-inch altazimuth, by Cooke; and a 5-inch portable 
refractor, by Byrne. This latter instrument is not the property of the 
observatory. With it Professor Barnard has discovered a large num- 
ber of comets. 

The observatory building consists of a transit room, an equatorial 
room, and two computing rooms. The equatorial room is on the second 
floor, and is reached by a spiral staircase. 

Washburn Ohservatorij (1886). — This fine observatory possesses a 15^- 
inch Clark equatorial, with filar micrometer, a Repsold meridian circle, 
one sidereal and two mean-time clocks, a chronograph, chronometers, 
etc., besides the excellent 6-incli equatorial which formerly belonged 
to Mr. S. W. Buruham, and with which his first observations and 
measurements of double stars were made. This latter equatorial, 
together with a Fauth 3-iuch transit, is mounted in a separate build- 
ing of wood, called the students' observatory. The main building 
has, besides the rooms for the meridian circle and the large dome 
for the equatorial, a separate clock and computing room, a room lor 
the electrical switch-board, time relays, etc., and a well furnished 
room for a library and director's study. There are also sleeping 
rooms for two assistants, one of whom is the meteorological observer* 
whose records are printed in the annual volumes of the observatory. 
The officers of the observatory are a director, two assistant astromoners 
(one of whom is a lady), the meteorological observer, and a janitor. 
The library of the observatory is maintained by the generosity of the 
Hon. Cyrus Woodman, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, who has given, 
for this purpose, the sum of $5,000. One half the yearly interest from 
this sum is available for the purchase of new books, the other half 
going to increase the principal until it reaches a specified sum. The 
''publications" are printed at the expense of the State, and are issued 
when circumstances warrant. Four volumes have already been issued, 
and a fifth is nearly ready for publication. 



ASTRONOMY. 159 

The entire outfit of the observatoiy, in iustrumeuts and buildings, is 
due to tlie munificence of the late Uoveruor Cadwallader C. Washburn, 
and cost not far from $50,000. A detailed list of the cost of some of 
the instruments is given in the volumes of i)ublications of the observa- 
tory. All salaries and running expenses are paid hy the regents of 
the university from the general fund. These have heretofore amounted 
to about $5,000 annually. 

After the departure of Professor Holden, in December, 1885, the as- 
sistants of the observatory, Mr. Milton Updegrafi" and Miss Alice Lamb, 
completed the observations and reductions of the three hundred and 
three star list, and the reading of the proof-sheets for the i)ublication of 
volume IV (1885) of the observatory reports. During the early sum- 
mer of 1866 a careful study of the division errors of special diamelers 
of the meridian circle was undertaken ; also of its horizontal flexure. 
Observations of the latitude made with the meridian circle since its 
first mounting show a discordance between circle east and circle west 
of about 1". Tne cause of this is now an object of study, and is be- 
lieved to be mainly due to flexure. The large equatorial has been kept 
employed upon double stars, and in January, 1887, a series of measure- 
ments was made with its filar micrometer upon the position of Sappho 
(SO) at opposition. An index to those stars in the six Greenwich cata- 
logues not occurring in Flamsteed, has been prepared by Miss Lamb, 
and will be published in volume v. 

The usual routine work of the observatory, such as controlling the 
clocks in the city of Madison, the time bells in the university recita- 
tion rooms, and tlie daily furnishing of time-signals to the railroads 
entering Madison, has been faithfully attended to. Professor Holden's 
successor as director of the observatory is Prof. John E. Davies. 

Washington University Observatory, St. Louis (1886). — Instruction in 
theoretical and practical astronomy is the main object of the observ- 
atory. An extensive time-service is maintained, and the observatory 
co-operates wich Government field parties in geodetic work. Prof. H. 
S. Pritchett has one assistant. The income is derived from the general 
university endowment and from the time-service. 
• Woodside Observatory. — Mr. Charles L. Woodside has a small private 
observatory at East Boston, Massachusetts, its approximate t)osition 
being latitude -f 42° 22' 39" ; longitude 4'^ 44™ 9^ west of Greenwich. 
The, principal instrument is a silvered-glass reflector of Qh, inches aper- 
ture and 5 feet focal length ; the mirror is by Brashear, of Allegheny, 
and the mounting by Mr. Woodside himself. This is to be devoted for 
several years to a careful and systematic study of the colors of all stars 
brighter than the sixth magnitude visible at Boston. Mr. Woodside 
has devised a method of computing occultations which he has described 
in the Sidereal Messenger for Ju.y, 1886. 

Yale College Observatory (1886). — For the year ending June 1, 1886, 
Dr. Elkiu reports progress in his work of triangulatiou in the Pleiades 



160 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



with the 6-inch helioineter. He proposes to observe ten of the brightest 
stars in the northern hemisphere for paraUax. Mr. A. Hall, jr., has been 
engaged in observations of Titan with the heliometer, with a view to a 
new determination of the mass of Saturn. 

Zurich (1885). — Dr. Eudolf Wolf is occupied almost entirely with sun- 
spot statistics. He fixes the last "maximum" of spots at 188.3.9. 

ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Barometer coefficients for clods. — Dr. Hiltiker has determined the 
barometric coefficient — or tlie variation in rate for a change of 1 milli- 
meter in the atmospheric pressure — for. a Winnerl clock with gridiron 
pendulum comparing the Winnerl clock with the H'pp normal electric 
clock at Neuchatel on each night of observation. 

These comparisons, made between August, 1884, and September, 
1885, give an idea of the influence of the mode of compensation upon 
tlie value of the barometric coefficient. The following table shows the 
results obtained at Geneva and at several other observatories for their 
normal clocks: 



Place. 


Compensation. 


Barometric 
coefficient. 




Winner], Tidiron pciululuiii . . 


0^ 010 


Do 


Hipjj electric clock 


0.012 


Fnlkowu 


Mercury coiiipeusatiou 

do 


o.oi:} 




. 015 


Bfi-lin 


do 


. 01.5 


Ziirich 


...do 


.015 


WiLsbbuni Ob.servatory. 


. . do 


.0)2 







(lUill. astron., December, 1886. 

The new optical glass, — Nature for October 28, 1886, contains an in- 
teresting account of the experiments of Professor Abbe and Dr. 
Schott in their endeavors to i>roduce a glass of such cliemical compo- 
sition that it may be possible to make lenses free from the secondary 
chromatic aberration and other defects. For the microscope lenses 
already'made of the new glass Professor Abb6 claims great superiority 
in many important respects. ■ 

Electric illumination. — Prof. Ormond Stone, of the McCormick»01)- 
servatory, uses for illuminating the circles and micrometer wires of 
the great equatorial, Edison incandescent lamps of one-caudle power, 
run by what is known as the " Orne motor battery," or by the " Edco 
battery," the latter being used where a more continuous light is re- 
quired. The success of the experiment here has resulted in the us(i 
of electricity, at least for circle illumination, at West Point, Yale and 
other observatories. 

In the Greenwich spectroscopic observations, " a slip of metal coated 



ASTRONOMY. 161 

with Balmain's liimiDOus paint, inserted imttiediately beliiu<l tUe meas- 
uring pointer, has been frequently employed to give a phosphorescent 
illumination of the field." 

Gautier's mercury-basin for nadir and reflection observations, de- 
scribed in last year's report, has been tried at the Melbourne Observa- 
tory, and gives highly satisfactory results. 

We have already referred, in the report of the Liclc Observatory, to 
the completion of the SG-inch objective and its removal to Mount 
Hamilton. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Astronomical prizes. — At the meeting of the Paris Academy of Science 
on December 27, 1888, the Lalande prize was awarded to Dr. Back! and 
for his work on Encke's comet; the Valz prize to M. G. Bigourdan for 
investigation of personal equation in the measurement of double stars; 
the Damoiseau prize to M. Souillart for his theoretical researches on 
Jupiter's satellites, and an ^^ encouragement^^ of 1,000 francs to M. 
Obrecht for his study of the application of photometry to the eclipses 
of Jupiter's satellites. The Bordin prize was awarded to M. R. Kadaa 
for his work on the theory of astronoaiical refraction. 

The gold medal of the Eoyal Astronomical Society was awarded to 
Mr. G. W. Hill for his researches on the motion of the moon. 

Tlie Kumford medal of the Eoyal Society, the Rumford gold and silver 
medals of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Draper 
medal of the National Academy were awarded to Prof. S. P. Langley 
for his researches with the bolometer. 

The Watson medal of the National Academy, with an honorarium of 
$1(10, was awarded to Dr. B, A. Gould. 

Tlie Eoyal Society of Edinburgh awarded the Makdougall-Brisbane 
prize to Dr. Edward Sang for his communication on the need for decimal 
subdivisions in astronomy and navigation. 

The Warner prizes, $100 for each comet discovered (and announced 
under certain conditions), were conferred, in 1886, as follows: Mr. 
Brooks, $300; Mr. Finlay, $100; Mr. Barnard, $100. 

The American Astronomical Society of Broolcbjn. — Among the papers 
read in 188G were: "The Earth's Temperature," by H. M. Parkhurst; 
"Faye's Nebular Speculations," by G. P. Swviss; "Origin of Meteor- 
ites,'^ by G. W. Coakley and H. M. Parkhurst. The president of the 
society is Mr. S. V. White, the secretary, Mr. G. P. Serviss, Brooklyn, 
New York. 

Baltimore Amateur Astronomical Society. — A number of gentlemen 
of Baltimore have organized an amateur astronomical society, meet- 
ing each month for the presentation of papers and discussion of obser- 
vations. Dr. Hooper, 1425 Linden avenue, the secretary, has a 5-inch 
Clark equatorial; Mr. Gildersleeve a 6-inch equatorial with object- 
glass by Dr. C. S. Hastings ; Mr, Stahn a l-inch glass, a so by Dr. 
H. Mis. GOO 11 



162 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Hastings, and Mr. Numsen a 4-iucli Oooko equatorial, mentioned in the 
report last year under the " Denuiore Observatory." Physical obser- 
vations are made of the sun, moon, i^lanets, and comets. Mr. Stahn 
has kept a record of sun-spots, and has devised numerous ingenious 
accessories for his instruments. 

Astronomical Journals. — The re issue of the "Astronomical Jour, 
nal" by Dr. Gould is cordially welcomed, j^articularly by American 
astronomers, who are thereby furnished with a more prompt means 
of intercommunication than has been heretofore available. An inter- 
val of twenty- five years occurs after iSTo. 144; and No. 145, bearing the 
date of November 2, 1886, begins volume vii. The Journal is edited 
by Dr. Gould, as before, at Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

A new monthly astronomical review, Eevista do Observatorio, has 
appeared, under the editorship of Dr. Luis Cruls, of the Imperial Ob- 
servatory of Eio Janeiro. The journal will be found interesting and 
valuable by amateurs and those interested in the progress of astron- 
omy, as well as by professional astronomers. 

We are at the same time obliged to record the discontinuance of the 
Astronomical Eegister, with the completion of its twenty-fourth vol- 
ume, December, 1886, No. 288. 

The Influence of astigmatism on Astronomical Observations. — It ap- 
pears from Professor Seeliger's researches that this malformation in the 
eye, which is far from uncommon, exerts a greater influence on astro- 
nomical measurements than is generally supposed. Thus, he shows 
that a systematic error in a series of observed declinations amounting 
to 0".26 may very well be due to it ; and it appears that the discordances 
in observed position angles of double stars — depending on the inclina- 
tion of the line joining the components to the vertical — with which the 
measures of some observers are affected, may be referred to the same 
cause. (Nature, November 18, 1886.) 

Determination of time. — Dolleu has described in the Nachrichten 
(114: 289) an expeditious method of obtaining a clock correction where 
great refinement is not necessary. The observation is made in the ver- 
tical of the pole-star, and tables have been published by the Pulkowa 
Observatory giving for some sixty odd stars all the quantities which 
are independent of the latitude, required in the formulte. The work of 
reduction is made as brief as possible. 

An astronomical directory. — M. A. Lancaster, the librarian of the 
Brussels Observatory, has published a very useful list of observato- 
ries, their geographical co-ordinates, and the astronomers attached to 
them ; of astronomical societies and institutions, and of reviews and 
journals specially devoted to astronomy. The little book contains also 
a list of names and addresses of astronomers not attached to any ob- 
servatory, and of amateurs, as well as a list of makers of astronomical 
instruments. 

Miss Gierke's admirable " Popular History of Astronomy during the 



ASTRONOMY. 



163 



Nineteenth Century" Las been so widely reviewed that it seems unnec- 
essary to do more than merely to mention it by title here. The book 
is " untechnical," and the " terse and vigorous ^' style makes it most in- 
teresting from beginning to end. There are numerous references to 
the original sources of information. 

Professor Young's "Ten Years' Progress in Astronomy" has been re- 
printed in the Sidereal Messenger (vol. C) and Nature (vol. 35). 

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1886. 

The following bibliography is arranged by subjects, and contains jour, 
nal articles and reprints from transactions of societies, as well as more 
formal publications. No pretence is made to completeness, even to the 
extent of including all titles that Lave come under the com[)iler's no- 
tice, and, in some cases, where it has not been possible to examine the 
publications themselves, the imprints, etc., may be imperfect. The 
prices quoted are generally taken from Friedliinder's Naturne Novitates, 
in German " mark " ( L mark = 100 pfennige = 1 franc 25 centimes = 25 
cents, nearly). 

It is hoped that the abbreviated titles of journals will be intelligible 
without special explanation. (" Compt. Eend." is, of course, the 
Comptes rend us hebdomadaires des seances de I'Academie des sciences, 
Paris, and " Month. Not." the Monthly Notices of the Eoyal Astronom- 
ical Society.) Among the imprint and other abbreviations there occur: 



Bd. = Band, 
d. = die, der, del, etc. 
ed. = edition, 
hrsg. =lieraii8gegeben. 
11. = illustrated. 
k. k. =:kai8<}rlicli kouiglicli. 
Lfg. ;^ Lieferung. 
M. ==mark. 
n. d. = no date, 
n. p. = no place of publication. 



n. F. = neue Folge. 

n. 8. =: new series. 

p. = page. 

p* = page of this summary. 

pi. ^ plates. 

pt. =^ part. 

Rev. = Review. 

8. ^series. 

sh. ^= shilling. 

V. = volume. 



The alphabetical arrangement is made to serve as an index to the 
present record, by inserting after the subject-heading, the pages of this 
review (p* — ) on which the different subjects are noticed. 

In the references to journals the volume and page are simply sepa- 
rated by a colon; thus: 5 :S1 indicates volume 5, page 81. 

Almanacs. See Epiiemerides and Almanacs. 

Arago. 

Flammakion (C): Le centenaire d'Arago. L'Astron., 5:81, 131, 273. 

Asteroid 24. 

M(').\NicnMEYER (C): Geuiiherte Berechnung der absolnten Storuugen der 
Themis diirch Jupiter. 32 p. 8°. Kiel, 1886. 

Asteroid 107. 

Mathiessen- (B.): Bahn des Plaueteu (107) Camilla. 34 p. 8vo. Kiel, 1886. 



1G4 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886, 

Asteroid 153. 

KunNEKT(F.): Die Detinitiveu Elemente des Planeten (15:5) Hilda. ;55 p. 8vo, 
Wieu, 188G (M. 0.60) 

Asteroid 220. 

BiDSCHOF (F.) : Uutersucliuugen iibcr die Bahii des Plaueteu (220) Stepbanie. 
16 p. 8vo. Wien, 1886 (M. 0.35) 

Asteroid 236. 

BiDSCnOF (F.): BeBtimmuag der Balin des Plaueten (236) Houoria. 30 p. 8vo. 
Wien, 1886 (M. 0.50) 

Asteroid 237. 

VON OrroLZEK (T.): Balinbestimmuug des Planeten (237) Ccelestina. 17 p. 8vo. 
Wieu, 1886 (M. 0.30) 

Asteroids, p * 135. 

MuLLEii(G.): Beobacbtungen iiber den Einfliiss der Pbase auf die Liebtstiirko 

kleiner Planeten. Astron. Nacbr., 114 : 177-196. 
N[ewton] (H. A.): Relation of asteroid orbits to tbat of Jupiter. Am. J. Sc, 

3. s., 31, = 131:318. 
Parmentiek (Gen.) : Distribution des petitca plauetes dans I'espace. L'Astron., 

5: 143. 
SvEDSTRur (A.): Les petites plauiiteseutro Mars et Jupiter; uue recbercbestatis- 

tique. Astron. Nacbr., 115:4!)-76. 
Tyerman (T. F.) : Tbe asteroids and the theory of their formation. 30 p. 8vo. 

Loudon, 1886 (M. 2.20) 

Astronomy. 

Pickering (E. C): A plan for tbe extension of astronomical research. 11 ]}. 
8vo. Cambridge, 1886. 

Astronomy (Descriptive). 

Bowen (E. A.): Astronomy by observation. J)Op. il. 4to. New York, 1886. (M.S.) 
Forster (W. J.): Populiire Mittbeiluugeu zum astronomischeu Theiledes kouig- 
lichen prens^iscbeu Normalkalenders fiir 1887. 7 p. 8vo. Berlin, 1886. .(M. 1.) 
Klee (F.): Unser Sounensysteni. 3. ed. 12 + 80 p. 8vo. Mainz, 188(5.. (M. 1.75) 
LocKYER (J. N.): The sun and stars, il. Nature, 33: 399, 426, 469,499,540; 

Nature, 34 : 205, 227, 280. 
Neison (E.): Astronomy; a simple introduction to a noble science. London, 

1886. 
Noble (W.): Hours with a three-inch telescope. 6+ 122 p. 1 map, 12n;o. Lou- 
don, 1886 (M. 4.70) 

Proctor (R. A.) : Expanse (The) of heaven : a series of essays on the wouders 

of the firmament. New ed. 308 p. 8vo. Loudon, 1886 (M. 5.30) 

: Orbs (Tbe) around us. New ed. 8vo. Londou, 1886 '. . . . (M. 5.30) 

: Others worlds than ours. New ed. 8vo. London, 1886 (M. 5.30) 

: Our place among infinities. New ed. 320p. 8vo. London, 1886. (M. 5.30) 

: Star primer. 8vo. London, 1886 (M. 2.70) 

TuxEN (J. C.) : StjiTerneverdenen. 4. udgave ved C. F. Pechiile. Levering 5. 64 
p. 8vo. Kj6beuhavu, 1886 (M. 1.10) 

Astronomy (History of). 

Favaro (A.): Carteggio inedito di Ticone Brabc, Giovanni Keplero, e di alti"i 
celebri astronomi o matematici dei secoli xvi c xvii, con Giovanni Antouio 
Magini . . . [etc.]. 16+522 p. 8vo. Bolognc, 1886. 

liev. by Gunther (S.) : Vrtljsilir. d. astron. Gesellscli., 22 : 00-72. 1887. 
Lange (L.) : Der Bewegungsbegriff wiibreud der Reformation der Ilimmelskunde 
von Cbperuicus bis zu Newton. (1543-1687.) 69 p. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. 



ASTRONOMY. 165 

Astronomy (Progress of). 

Klicin (H. J.): Die Fortschritte dor Astronomie, 188G, 112 p. 12mo. Leipzig, 

1887. 
[Swift (L.)J: Astronomical phenomeua and i)rogress [iu 1885]. Appleton's 

Ann. Cyc, n. s., 10: 47-56. 
WiNLOCK (W. C): An account of the jirogress iu astronomy iu the year 1885. 

114 p. 8vo. Washington, 1886 (M. 3) 

Repr.from: Smitlisonian Keport for 1885. 
Young (C. A.) : Ten years' progress in astronomy. 1876-1886. 32 p. 12mo. New 
York, 1886. 

Repr.from: Trans. N. Y.Acad. Sc, 5. 

Astronomy (Spherical and Practical). 

Brinkley (B.) : Astronomy: • . . additional chapters by J. W. Stubbs and F. 

Briiuuow. 3. ed. enl. 350 p. 8vo. Loudon, 1886 (M. 6.30) 

IsuAEL-HoLTZWAKT (K.) : Elcmeutc der theoretischen Astronomie. il. 8vo. 

Wiesbaden, 1886 (M. 25) 

Mkrrifield (J.) : A treatise on nautical astronomy for the use of students, 364 

p. 8vo. London. 1886 (M. 7.80) 

Bonn Observatory. 

AsTRONOMiscnE Beobachtungen auf der Sternwarte . . . zu Bonn. Hrsg. von 
E. Schonfeld. 8. Bd. Bonner Sternverzeichniss. 4. Section. 56 + 459 p. 4to. 

Bonn, 1886 (M.20) 

BoxxER Sternkarten. 2. Serie. Atlas der Himmelszone zwischen 1° nnd 23° 
siidlicher Declination fiir deu Anfang des Jahres 1855 . . . bearbeitet vou E. 
Schonfeld. I. und II. Lieferungen. 4 p. 12 maps. fol. Bonn, 1886. 
Volistandig in 4 Lieferungeu, 24 Stornkartcu. Jedo Lioferuug, M. 12. 
Bordeaux Observatory. 

ANX.A.LES do I'observatoire de Bordeaux, XJublices par G. Rayet. Tome 1. 119 -f- 

2l«p. 4to. Paris and Bordeaux, 1885 (M.25.50) 

Calendar. 

FoRSTER (W. J.) and Leiimaxx (P.) : Die veniuderlichen Tafelu dcs astroiiomi- 
schenund chronologischeuTheilesdes k, preussischen Normalkalenders fiir 1887, 

119 p. 8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M. 

Fritche (H.) : Chronology and the constructiou of the calendc,r. Chinese com- 
putation of time. 92 p. 8vo. St. Petersburg, 1886. 
Cape of Good Hope Observatory. 

Ann vLS of the Royal Observatory . . . Vol. 2, pt. 1. Observations of the great 
comet, 1882, II, 25 p., 4 pi., 6 phot. 4to. n. p. [1886.] 
Chronograph. 

Hough (G. W.) : Descrijttion of a printing chronograph, il. Sid. Mess., 5: 161- 
1G7. 
Chronometers. 

[U.S. Naval] Observatory temperature room, and competitive trials of chro- 
nometers iu 1884 and 1886. 35 p, 9 pi. 4to. Washington, 1886. 
Ciicle-divisions. See, also, Meridian circle ; Pulkowa. 

Schreiber (O.) : Untersuchung vou Kreistheilungou mit zwei und vier Mikro- 
skopeu. Ztschr. f. Instrmkud.,6 : 1,47. 
Clocks. 

BuCKNEY (T.): Superiority of zinc aud steel pendulums. Mouth. Not., 46 : 462- 

469. 
HiLFiKER (.J.) Ueber deu Gang der Winnerl'scheu Peudeluhrder Stcruw.arte 
zn NeuchiUel. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 391. 

: Sur la marche de la pendulo astrouomique Wiunerl do I'observatoire de 

Neucliatel. 14 p. 12m(). Nenchatel, 1886. 
Bei}r. from Bull. soc. d. sc. uat d. Neuchatel 15: 21-32. 



166 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Clocks— Continued. 

KuSTNER (F.): Ucbor den Gang der auf der Berliner Stornwarte in luftdichtem 
Verscliluss aufgestellten Pendelubr. [Tiede, Nr. 400.] Astron. Naclir., 114: 
391. 

Comet Biela. p* 125. See, also, Meteors. 

Newton (H. A.): The story of Biela's comet. Am. J. Sc, 3. s., 31=131 : 81-94. 

Also Nature, 33 : 393, 418. 
Zenker (W.): Ueber den Biela'scben Cometen. Astron. Nacbr., 114 : 7.5. 

Comet Brorsen. 

Monk (W. IT. S.) : [Possible identity witb comets of 16G1, 1092, and 574.] Obsry., 
9 : 229, 259. 

Comet Encke. p* 119. 

Backlund(0.): Comet Encke. 1865-1885. 41 p. 4to. St.-P6tersbourg, 1886. 
M6m. Acad. imp. de Sc. de St. P6tor8b., 7. s., vol. 38, no. 8. 

: [Note on bis recent researches on Eucke's comet.] Astron. Nacbr., 114: 

225-230. 

: Comet Encke. I. Bearbeitung der Erscheinuug 1885 nnd die Vorbiudung 

desselben niit den vier Vorhergebenden Erscbeinuugen. M61. math, et astron- 
tir6s du Bull. Acad. imp. d. Sc. de St. P^tersb. 6 : 463-492. 

Comet Paye. 

SiiDAXOW (A.): Recberches snr I'orbite iutermddiaire de la com^te do Faye dans 
la proximito de Jupiter en 1841. 24 p. 4to. St.-Pdtersbourg, 1886. .. (M. 0.8'J) 
M6m. Acad. imp. de Sc. de St.-P6tersb., 7. s., vol. 33, no. 3. 

Comet Halley. 

Celoria (G.): Snip apparizione della cometa di Halley avveuuta nelP anno 1456. 
8vo. Milauo, 1865. 

Comet Pons-Brooks. 

KiRKWOOD (D.) : Comets 1812 I and 1846 IV. Sid. Mess., 5 : 13. 
SciiULHOF (L.) and BosSERT (J.-F.): La comMe Pons-Brooks dans I'apparition 
de 1883-84. Bull, astron., 3: 387-393. 
Comet Tempel-Swift. p* 119. 

BossERT(J.): Orbite de la comfete Tempel-Swift. [1809 III and 1880 IV.] Bull, 
astron., 2 : 550 ; 3 : 23, 65. 

Comet 1366. 

Lynx (W. T.): [Orbit of] the comet o. 1366. Obsry., 9 : 282-284. 

Comet 1873 VII. 

SciiULiiOF (L.): Recberches sur I'orbite de la comcte 1873 VII. [Coggia-Win- 
necke.] Bull, astron., 3: 125, 173, 265. 

Comet 1877 III. 

PoNisCH (R.): Definitive Bahnbestimmung des Cometen 1877 III. Astron. 
Nacbr., 115: 161-190. 

Comet 1877 VI. 

Larssen (R.): Definitive Babubestimmung . . . [etc.]. Astron. Nacbr., 116 : 
23-26. 

Comet 1881 VIII. 

Olsson (K. G.): Bestimmung der Babn . . . [etc.]. Astron. Nacbr., 114: 201- 
206. 

Comet 1882 II. 

[Jones (J.) and Leavenworth (F. P.)] : [Observations of the] tail of comet 
1882 n. 17 p., 6 pi. 4to. Univ. of Va., 1886. 
Pub. McCormick Obsry., vol. 1, pt. 2. 



ASTRONOMY. 167 

Obmet 1882 11— Coiitiunetl. 

Kreutz (H.) : Ueber das System der Cometcu 1843 1, 1880 I und 1882 II. Astron. 

Nachr., 114: 73. 
Observations at the Cape of Good Hope. 25 p., 4 pi. 6 pLot. 4to, u. p. [1886.] 
Ann. Roy. Obsry., C. of G. Hope, vol. 2, pt. 1. 

Comet 1883 II. 

Tennant (J. F.): Orbit of Comet II, 1883, discovered by Mr. Eoss. Month. 
Not., 47 : 24-26. 
Comets, p' 118. 

FiEVEZ (C): Recherches sur le spectre du carbone dans Tare ^lectriqiie en rap- 
port avec le spectre des cometes ec le spectre solaire. 4p.,4to; 3 pi., fol. Brii- 
xelles, 1885 (M. 6.) 

Galle's catalogue of comets from 1860 to 1884. Trans, from Astron. Nachr., 

2665-2660 by W. C. Winlock. 23 p. 8vo. [Northtield 1886] , .. ($0.50) 

Repr.from Sid. Mess., Nov., 1885; Jan. and Fob., 1880. 

Kleiber (J.) : Vertheiluug der Knoten der Planeten- und Cometen Bahnen. As- 
tron. Nachr., 115 : 135-140. 

Meyer (M. W.): Ueber die Bahn eines uusichtbaren Cometen. Astron. Nachr., 
114 : 70. 

Monck (W. H. S.): Companion comets. Obsry., 9: 279, 309. 

Proctor (R. A.): Whence came the comets? 19th Cent., 19: 689-696. 

Stone (O.): Conipntation of the position in orbit of a particle in the tail of a 
comet. Anualsof Math., 2: 60-63. 

Wilson (H. C): Our knowledge of comets. Sid. Mess., 5; 257-262. 
Comets and Meteors. 

CoRRiGAN (S. J.) : The principal comet-meteor streams. Sid. Mess., 5: 145-148. 

Denning (W. F.): Cometary meteor showers. Sid. Mess., 5: 106-111. 

: Meteor shower of Halley's comet. Month. Not., 46 : 396-398. 

MoNCK (W. H. S.) : Comets and meteors. Obsry., 9 : 331. 

Proctor (R. A.): Origin of comets and meteors. Knowl., 9: 123-125, 

Weiss (E.): Notiz iiber den Radiationspunkt von Meteoren aus der Bahn des 
Cometen [1886 III]. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 399. 

Constellations 

Lynn (W. T.) : Nomenclature of the constellations near the south pole. Obsry., 
9 : 255-257. 
Cordoba Observatory. 

Resultados del Observatorio Nacional Argentino en Cordoba. Vol. 14. Cat^logo 
general. 15 -f- 650 p. 4to. Cordoba, 1886. 
Corona (Solar), p* 130. 

HuGGiNS (W.) : [Photography of corona without an eclipse not confirmed by ob- 
servations on August 29, 1886.] Science, 8: 303. ^?.so Nature, 34: 469. Also 
Astron. Nachr., 115 : 191. 
Lynn(W. T.): Probable ancient view of the solar corona without an eclip.se. 
Obsry., 9: 128. 
Cosmogony. 

Meyer (M.W.); Kosmische Weltansichten ; astronomische Beobachtuugen und 

Ideen aus neuester Zeit. 8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M. 5) 

Wolf (C): Les hyphoth&ses cosmogoniques. Examen desth6ories scientifiqiies 
modernes sur I'orlgine des mondes, suivi de la traduction de la Th^orie du ciel 
de Kant. 8vo. Paris, 1886 (M.6) 

Day (Astronomical;, p' 133. See, also, Ti.me (Universal), 

d'Abbadie (A.) : The proposed change in the astronomical day. [Favors it.] 
Obsry., 9:227-229. 



168 EECOED OF SCIENCE FOU 1886. 

Day — Contiuued. 

Backhouse (T. W.) : Universal time. Obsry., 9 : 238, 335. 

Ball (R. S.) : [Opiuiou against the ijroposeil change.] Obsry., 9 : 100. 

Christie (W. H. M.) : Remarks on tbe proposed change of the astronoiuical day. 

3 p. 4°. [Greenwich, 1885.] 
Dreyer (J. L. E.): Proposed change [etc.]. Obsry., 9: 130. 
Hall (A.) : [Opiuiou of astronomers at the U. S. Naval Observatory against the 

projiosed change.] Obsry., 9: IGl, 
Noble (W.): [Opinion in favor of proposed change.] Obsry., 9 : 258. 

Weiss (E.) : Zur Frage der Weltzeit. 37 p. 8vo. Wien, 188G (M. 0.80) 

0|)posed to cliange in astronomical day. 

Day (Mean solar). 

Gaillot (A.) : Sur la mesure du temps. Bull, astron., 3 : 221-232. 
Day (Sidereal). 

Rapix (H.) : Le jour siddral et la rotation de la terre. L' Astron., 5 : 416-420. 
Declinograph. 

Knoiu!E(V.): Geuauigkeit der Zonen-Beobachtungen, welche niit Auwenduug 
des sogen. Decliuographeu am Berliner Aequatoreal ausgel'iibrt worden. 
Astron. Nachr., 114: 307-312. 
Double stars, p* 108. 

Birkenmajer (L.) : Ueber die durch die Fortpflanzung des Lichtes hervorgoru- 
feuen Uugleichheiteu in der Beweguug der physischeu Doppelsteruo. Analyse 

der Bahn | Ursaj Majoris. 76 p. 8vo. Wien, 1886 (M. 1.20) 

Repr.from: Sitzungsb. d. k. Akad. d. "Wissenscli., Matli-naturw. CI, Wien, Bd. 93. 

GorFj.(J- E.): Orbit of the binary star [3 Delphini. Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 2s., 

4 : .538-543. 

: Orbit of the biuary star 0^, 234. Ihid., 586. 

HoFE (E.) : Treuubarkeit der Doppelsterue in Fernrohren von verschiedeuer 

Grosse. Sirius, 19 : 252-256. 
Mache(I.): Auflosbarkeit der Doppelsterue in Ferurohreu von verschiedeuer 

Grosse. Sirius, 19 : 178-183. 
Schur(W.): 'Bahnbeweguug des Doppelsterus 70 Ophiuchi. Astrou. Nachr., 

114:105. 

Double stars (Measures of). 

UeBall (L.) : Doppelsternbeobachtungen. Astron. Nachr., 115:273-282. 
Engelmann (R.) : Doppelsternmessuugen. Astrou. Nachr., 115: 81-96. 
Perrotin (J.): Mesures micrometriques d'dtoiles doubles faites a I'Observatoire 

de Nice. 5. series. Astron. Nachr., 115: 193-215. 
Young (C. A.) aud McNeill (M.): Observations of the companion of Sirius. 
[1883-1«86.] Sid. Mess., 5:182. . 

Double stars. (Measures of. Personal equation in). 

Bigouruan (G.) : Sur I'^quation persounelle dans les mesures d'6toiles doubles. 

74 p. 4to. Paris, 1886. 
Wilson (H, C.) : Personal errors in double-star observations. Sid. Mess., 5 : 174- 
179. Also [Abstr. ] : Obsry., 9 : 297-301. 
Dresden. 

Observations astronomiques faites par B. d'Engelhardt dans son observatoiro h 
Dresde., 1 partie. , 220 p. 4 pi. 4to. Dresde., 1886 (M. 20) 

Earth, p* 133. 

Ball (R. S.) : Note on the astronomical theory of the great ice age. Nature, 34 : 

607; 35:, 53. 
Faye(H.): Sur la constitution do la croUte terrestre. Compt. Rend., 102:651, 

786. 



ASTRONOMY. 160 

Earth -Continued. 

LoHEXTZ (H. A.): Influence du movement de la terre sur les pliduonit'ocs hinii- 

neanx. Arch. u6erl. d. sc. exactes, etc. Harlem, 21:103-170. 
Zanotti-Bianco (0.): II problema meccanico della figura della terra exposto 
secondo i migliori autori. 2 v. 8to. Eoma, 1880-'85. 
l^ev. : Bull, astron., 3 : 397-399. 

Eclipse of the Sun, 1887, Aug. 19. 

Fkanz(J.): Anleitung zur Bcobaclitung der totalen Souneutinstonuss in Ost- 
uud Westprenesen am Freitag den 19. August, 18S7. 8 p. 4tn. Konigsberg, 
1886. (M.O.ab) 

Eclipses. 

Mauler (E.): Astrouomische Uutersuchuugcn iiber in licbriiisclieu Scbriften 

erwiihnte Fiusternisse. Tlieil ii. Die propbetischen Finsternisse. 20 p. 8vo. 

Wien, 188G. - (M.0.40) 

Eclipses of the Sun. p* 129. 

Proctor (R. A. ) : Total solar eclipses. Fortnigbt. Rev., n. s., 40 : 407-422. 
SciiRAM (R.): Beitrag zur Hansou'scbeu Tbeorio der Sonneulinsternisse. 16 p, 

8vo. Wien, 1886. (M. 0.40) 

Edinburgh Observatory. 

A.sTRONOMiCAL observations made at the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh ; being 

vol. XV, for 1878 to 1886, containing only the remainder of the star catalogue, 

divcussiou and ephemeris for 1830 to 1890, of which the first four hours appeared 

in vol. XIV. By C. Piazzi-Smyth. 6+ 1034 p. 4to. Edinburgh, 1886. 
Ephenierides. 

A.MEUICAN ephemeris and nautical almanac for the year 1889. 1. ed. 6 + 517 -j- 8 

p. 4to. Washington, 1886 ($1) 

AxNUAiRE de I'Observatoire de Bruxelles. Ann6e 53, 1886. 314 p. 16mo. Bru- 

xelles, 1886 (M. 150) 

Annuaire pour I'an 1887, publid par le Bureau des longitudes. 891 p. 16mo. 

Paris, ( 1886. ?] 
Anuario del Observatorio astrouomico uacional de Tacnbaya para el auo de 1887. 

325 p. 16mo. Mexico, 1886. 
AsTRONOMiscHER Kalender fiir 1887. Hrsg. von der k. k. Sternwarte in Wien. 

159p. 8vo. Wien, 1886 (M. 1.60) 

Beklineh astronomisclies Jahrbuch fiir 1888. 542 p. 8vo. Berlin, 1886. 
Charrier (A.): Effemeridi del solo, della luua e dei priucipali planetiui . . . 

per r anno 1887. 29 p. 8vo. Torino, 1836. 
Clark (L. ) and Sadler (H. ) : The star-guide: a list of the most remarkable 

celestial objects visible with small telescopes . . . [etc.]. 16 +48 p. 8vo. 

London, 1886 (M. 5.30) 

CoMPANiON(Annual)totheObservatory. Obsry., 10: 1-48. 1887. J?so,Reprint. 
Connaissance des tempa . . . pour I'au 1888. 968 p. 8vo, Paris, 1886. 
Flammarion (C.) : Annuaire astronomique pour 1887. L' Astron., 6: 1-21. 1887. 
LoEWY(M.): Eph6m6rides des dtoiles de culmination luuaire et de longitude 

pour 1886. 38 p. 4to. Paris, 1886 (M. 3) 

Nautical, (The) almanac and astronomical ephemeris for the year 1890. 8vo. 

London, 1886. 

Equatorials. See, also, Telescopes. 

HiLGER (A.) : New form of governor for the driving-clocks of equatorials. 11. 
Month. Not., 46: 155. 
Flexure. 

IIarkness (W.) : On the flexure of meridian instruments and the means avail- 
able for eliminating its efl'ects from star places. 28 p. 4to. Washington, 

1886 (M. 3) 

Wash Obans., 1882, App. hi. 



170 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Galileo. 

Murphy (Bev. J.): The case of Galileo. 19th Cent., 19: 722-739. 

Glass (Optical). 

CzAPSKi (S.): Mittheilungeu liber das glastechnische Laboratoiiurn in Jena und 

die Yon ihm hergesteilteu ueneu optischen Gliiser. Ztschr. f. Instrmkud., 6: 

293, 335. 
New (The) optical glass [of Ablx?]. Nature, 34 : 622. 
SciiJEKNiNG (W.): Absorption der ultravioletten Lichtstrahlcn durch verschie- 

dene optische Gliiser. 38 p. 8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M. 1..''jO) 

Globes (Astronomical). 

llEELE (H.): Apparat zur Orientirung an der Himmelskugel. Ztschr. f. In- 
strmknd., 6: 19-22. 

Greenwich Observatory. 

Astronomical and magnetical and meteorological observations . . . 1884. 924 

p. pi. 4to. Loudon, 1886. 
Report of the astronomer royal. [1886, May 20.] 19 p. 4to. n.p. [1886.] 

Harvard College Observatory. 

Annals of the astronomical observatory of Harvard College. Vol. 15, i)t. 1. Cata- 
logue of 1,213 stars observed with the meridian circle . . . 1870 to 1879 ... by 
W.A.Rogers. 7 + 145 p. 4to. Cambridge, 1886. 

: The same. Vol. 16. Observations of fundamental stars, made witli the 

meridian circle . . . 1870 to 1886 . . . by W. A Rogers. 141 + 337 p. 4'-^. Cam- 
bridge, 1886. 

Report (4l8t annual) of the director . . . E. C. Pickering. December 7,1886. 
12 p. 8vo. Cambridge, 1886. 

Herschel. 

Story (The) of the Herschels, a family of astronomers. New ed. 128 p. 12mo. 
London, 1886 (M. 1.20) 

Holden (Edward Singleton) [1846- ]. 

WiNLOCK (W. C): Sketch of Prof. Edward S. Holden. Pop. Sc. Month., 30: 
114-120. 
Portrait and bibliogr.aphy. 
Hong-Kong Obsei'vatory. 

Report of the astronomical instruments at Iho observatory and on the time serv- 
ice at Hong-Kong in 1885. 8p. fol. Hong-Kong, 1886 (M. 1.20) 

Hixygens (Christian). 

LiSTE alphab^tique de la correspoudance de Christian Huygeus qui sera publi<?e 
pa*" la Soci^t6 hollaudaise des sciences h Harlem. 15 j). 4to. Haag, 1886. 

(M. 1.80) 
Journals (Astronomical). 

Astronomical (The) Journal. Edited by B. A. Gould. [Semi-monthly.] Vol. 

7. Nov., 1886, to Mar., 1888. 6+198 p. 4to. Boston ($5) 

Vol. C wjis completed with Ko. 144, ou Feb. 9, 186L Vol. 7 bi-gins with No. 145, Nov. 2, 1886. 
Eacb volanip consists of twenty-four numbers. 

Astronomical (The) Register. [Monthly.] Vol. 24. 8+320 p. 8vo. London, 

1886 (M. 12.50.) 

Discontinued with this volume. 

L'Astronomie. Revue d'astronomie populaire . . . publi6epar C. Flammarion. 
[Monthly.] 5^ ann(5e, 1886. 492 p. 4to. Paris, 1886 (14 fr.) 

AsTRONOMiscHE Nachrichtcn begrlindet von H. C. Schumacher. Hrsg. vou A. 
Kriiger. Bd. 114 [Nr. 2713-2736]. 7+43.5. 4to. Ki.l, 1886 (M.15) 

: The same. Bd. 115 [Nr. 2737-2760]. 7+414 p. 4to. Kiel, 1886.. .(M. 15) 



ASTRONOMY. 171 

Journals— Continued. 

Bulletin astronomiqne. Publi6 sous les auspices de I'Observatoire de Paris, par 

F. Tisseraud land others]. [Monthly.] Tome 3, 1886. G32 p. 8vo. Paris, 

1886 (M. 16) 

Bulletin des sciences mathematiques et astrononiiques, rddig6 par Darbonx, 

Houel et Tannery, Annee 1886. S6rie 2. Tome 10. 8°. Paris, 1886.. (M. 18) 
CiEL et terre. Revue populaire d'astronomio, de m6t6orologie et do physique 

du globe. [Semi-monthly.] 2" 86rie, 1<= anu^e. {(j^ ann6e de la collection.) 

592 p. 8vo. Brnxelles, 1886. 
Memoire della Society degli spetroscopisti italiaui raccolte e publicate per cnra 

del P. Tacchini. [Monthly.] Vol. If), anno 1886. 6+208 p. 4to. Roma. 
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society . . . Nov., 188.3, to Nov., 

1886. Vol.46. 516 p. 8vo. London, 1886. 
Observatory (The) ; a monthly review of astronomy. Edited by E. W. Maun- 
der, A. M. W. Downing, and T. Lewis. Vol. 9. 8+404 p. 8vo. Loudon, 1886. 

(14 sh.) 
Revista do Observatorio. Publica^ao mensal do Imperial Observatorio do Kio 

de Janeiro, Red: L. Crnls land others']. Anno 1, 1886. 8+192 p. 4to. Rio 

de Janeiro, 1886. 
Sidereal (The) Messenger; a monthly review of astronomy. Conducted by 

W. W. Payne. Vol. 5. 320 p. 8vo, Northfield, 1886 ($2) 

SiRlUS. Zeitschrift fiir populiire Astronomic. Hrsg. von H. J. Klein. [Monthly.] 

19. Bd. Oder N. F. 14. Bd. 4+288 p. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886 (M. 10) 

Vierteljahrsscmrift der astrouomischen Gcsellschaft. Hrsg. von . . . E. 

Schonfeld und H. Seeliger. 21. Jahrgang. 5+302 p. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. (M. 8) 
WocHENSCHRiFT fur Astronomie, Meteorologie und Geographie. Hrsg, von H. 

J.Klein. Jahrgang 29. 8vo. Halle, 1886 (M. 10) 

Jupiter, p* 136. 

DE Ball (L.): Observations des surfaces de Jupiter et de V<Snus faites en 1884 

et en 1885 . . . k Lifege. Brnxelles, 1886. 
Denning (W. F.): Changes in the red spot on Jupiter, Month. Not., 46: 115- 

118. 

: Jupiter's red spot, and the region near. il. Obsry., 9 : 188, 

Hill (G. W.): Elements and perturbations of Jupiter and Saturn. Astron. 

Nachr., 113:273-302, 
Marth (A.) Ephemeris for physical observations of Jupiter, 1887. Mouth. 

Not., 47 : 40-48, 
: Note on the transit of the planet Mars and its satellites across the sun's 

disc, which will occnr for the planet Jupiter and its satellites on April 13, 1886, 

Month, Not., 46 : 161-164. 
Williams (A. S.) : Nature of the red spot on Jupiter and the relative heights of 

Jovian markings, Obsry., 9 : 231. 
Young (C. A.) Jupiter and his "red spot." Eug. Mechan., 14 : 339. 

: Rotation time of the red spot on Jupiter, il, Sid Mess,, 5 : 289-293, 

Jupiter (Satellites of). 

CoRNU (A.): Sur les m6thodes photom^triquea d'observation des satellites de 

Jupiter, Astron, Nachr., 114:239, 
DOM Lamey (F, M.): Dimensions comparatives des satellites de Jupiter, dd- 

duites d'observations faites en 1885, Compt, Rend., 102: 1365, 
Peters (C, H. F.) : Zur Geschichte photoraetrischer Beobachtungen der Jupi- 

terstrabanten-Verfinsterungeu. Astron. Nachr., 114:141. 
Kalocsa Observatory. 

Berichte von dem Erzbischoflich Haynald'schen Observatorium zu Kalocsa in 

Uugarn . . , von C. Braun. 8+178 p. 4to. Miinster, 1886. 

iJew. 62/ Peter (B.): Vrtljschr. (1. astron Gesollsch., 22: 34-4.5, 1887. See, also, Ibid., 22:200. 



172 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Kami Observatory. 

Maurer (J.): Der achtzolUgo Refraktor der Kanu'scbeu Privatsteruwarte ZU 
Zurich. Sirius, 19 : 40-44. 

Karlsruhe Observatory. 

Verofkentliciiungen der grossherzoglichen Steruwarte zii Karlsruhe. Hrsg. 
von W. Valeutiner. 2. Heft. Beobachtuugeu am Meridiaukreis. 12-|-213 p. 

4to. Karlsruhe, 1886... (M. ION 

Kepler, See, also, Astroxomy (History of). 

Anschutz (C.) : Uugedruckte wissenschaftliche Correspondenz zwischen Johauu 

Kepler nud H. vou Hoheuburg, 1599. 118 p. 8vo. Prag, 1886 (M. 2.70) 

Rev. Nature, 34:189. 
Kepler's Laws. .S'ee Mechanics (Celestial) ; Orbits. 
Konigsberg Observatory. 

AsTRONOMiscHE Beohachtuugeu . . . von E.Luther. 37. Abth. 2. Thiel. 1.52 
p. 4to. Konigsberg, 1886 '. (M. 10.70) 

La Plata Observatory. 

MouciiEZ (E.): Le uouvelobservatoireastrououiique de La Plata. Bull, astron., 
3 : 417-42L 

Latitude. 

DooLiTTLE (C. L.) : [Change in the] latitude of the Sayre Observatory. Astron. 

Jour., 7 : 14. 
Nyren (M.) : Polholienbestininiungen niit deoiErtel-Rep.sold'schen Verticalkreis. 
14p. 8vo. St. Petersburg, 1886 (M. 0.50) 

Least squares. 

Gauss (.C. F.) : Abhandlungen zur Methode der kleiusten Quadrate. 8vo. Berlin, 
1886 (M. 4) 

Lick Observatory. 

CoMSTOCK (G. C.) : The meridian circle of the Lick Observatory. Sid. Mess., 5: 

225-230. 
:". Provisional value of the latitude of the Lick Observatory.- Sid. Mess., 5 : 

302-304. 
Latitude = + 37° 20' 24".9. 
Evans (T.): A Californian's gift to science, il. Century, 32: 62-73. 

Light (Velocity of), p* 127. 

MiCHELSON (A. A.) and Morley (E. W.): iMiluenco of motion of the medium on 
the velocity of light. Am. J. Sc, 3. s., 31 = 131 : 377-386. 
Rev.hyCOWV (A.): Compt. Rend., 102: 1207-1209. 
Schuster (A.> . Velocity of light determiued by Foucault's revolviug mirror. 
Nature, 33 : 439. 

Louvain Observatory, 

Pauwels (C): Privatobservatorium des Herrn Terby in Louvaiu- Sirius, 19: 
267. 

Lunar theory, p* 133. 

Adams (J. C.) : Hill, on the lunar inequalities due to the ellipticity of the earth. 
Obsry., 9: 118-120. 

Franz (J.): Neue Berechuung von Hartwig's Beobachtuugeu der physischen 
Libration des Mondes. Astron. Nachr., 116: 1-12. 

Hall (A.) : [Historical note on] the figure of the earth and the motion of the 
moon. Annals of Math., 2: 111. 

HiLL(G. W.): Reply to Mr. Nelson's strictures on Delaunay's method of deter- 
mining the planetary perturbations of the moon. Mouth. Not., 47 : 1-8. 
Also, Reprint. 



ASTRONOMY. 173 

Lunar theory — Continued, 

Neisox (E.): Dclaunay's method for calculating terms of long period iu the 

motion of the moon. Mouth. Not., 46: 403-439. 
SiiDANOW (A.") : Recherches sur le mouvemeut de la lune autour do la terre d'aprcs 

la thdorie de M, Gyld6n. 39 p. 4to. Stockholm, 188.5. 
Stockwell (J. N.) : Inequalities iu the moon's motion produced by (ho ohlute- 

ness of the earth. Astron. Jonr., 7: 4, 17, 25. 
vox Oppolzer (T. ): Eutwurf einer Mondtheorie. 37 p. 4t(). Wien, 1S86..(M. 2) 
Repr. from: Denksclir. d. math.-natuiwissonsch. Kl. d. k. Akad. d. Wissensch. zu Wien, 01. 
Rev. by Bkuhxs (H.) : Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesollsuli., 22 : 45-50. 1887. 

McConnick Observatory. 

PuiJLiCATioxs of the Leauder McCormick Observatorj' of the University of Vir- 
ginia. Vol. l,pt. 2. Tail of comet 1882 II. 17p.,6pl. 4to. Univ. of Va., 1886. 

: The same. Vol. 1, pt. 3. Nebula of Orion, 1885. 43, p. 6 pi. 4to. Univ. of 

Va., 188G. 

Ki:roi:T of the director . . . June 1, 1886. 3 p. 4to. u. p. [1886.] 
McGill College Observatory. 

Rogers (W. A.) and McLeod (C. H.): Longitude of the McGill College Observa- 
tory. 67 p. 4to. Montreal, 1886. 
Rcpr.from : Trans. Koy. Soc. Canada, 1885. 
McKini Observatory. 

Appkl (D.) : Der Refractor des McKim Observatory, il. Ztschr. f. Instrmknd., 
6: 15-19. 
Mars, p.* 134. 

Dexxixg (W. F.) : Physical appearance of Mars in 188G. Nature, 34 : 104. 

Flammarion (C.) : La planeto Mars. il. L'Astron., 5: 201-206. 

Green (N. E.): Northern Jiemisphero of Mars. Month. Not., 46 : 445-447. 

LoHSE(0.): Ueber die Vortheile der Anwendung eines Kalkspathprismas zur 
Beobachtuug des Mars. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 121. 

Perrotin (J.): Observations des canaux de Mars. il. Bull, astron., 3: 324- 
329. 

SciiiAPARELLi (A. V.) : Osservazioni astronomiche e fisicho sull' asso di rotazione 
c sull.T, topografia del pianeta Martc. Memoria iii. Opposizione, 1881-'82. 
95 p. 4to. Roma, 1886 ,.(M. 8) 

Terby (F.) : La geographic de la planfete Mara. L' Astron., 5: 206. 

WisLiCENUS (W.): Beitrag zur Bestimmung der Rotationszeit des Planeteu 
Mars. 71 !>. 4to. Leipzig, 1886 (M.4) 

: Einige Bcmerkuugen iiber die Ausdehnung des Schneeflocks am Siidpole 

des Planeteu Mars. Astrou. Nachr., 114 : 57. 
Mars (Satellites of). 

Hall (A.): [Observations of Deimos, 1886.] Mouth. Not., 46: 454. 

Mechanics (Celestial). See, also, Perturbations; Satellites; Series; Three 
BODIES, (Problem of.) 
Brixckmaxn (O.): Bewegung eines materiellen Punctes auf einem Rotations- 
Paraboloid. 54 p. 8to. Jena, 1886. 
Melbourne Observatory. 

Observations of the southern nebulie made with the great Melbourne telescope, 
from 1869 to 1885. 25 p., 3 pi. 4to. Melbourne, 1885. 

Mercury. 

Backlund (O.): Sur la masse do la plauMe Mercure. Bull, astron., 3: 473. 
Meridian circle. 

Leitz.maxn (H.) : Eiufliisse der Wiirmevertheiluug auf die Theiluug des Meri- 
diankreises. 4to. Magdebourg, 1885. 



174 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Meridian circle — Coutinued. 

LoEWY(M.): Etudes diverges sur les m6tbodes d'observation et de reduutiou. 
4 to. [Paris, 1886? ] 

Meteor shoTwers. 

Denning (W. F.) : [Radiants of] recent sliowers. Sid. Moss., 5: 309. 

: Radiant point of tlie Audromedes of Nov. "27, ISSf). Audromedes and 

Leonids in 1965-'66. Astron. Reg., 24 : 95-98. 

: The stationary meteor showers. Sid. Mess., 5: 167-173. 

Denza(F.): Le stelle cadenti del periodo di Agosto 1885, osservate in Italia. 

45 p. 16uio. Torino, 1886. 
Forster (W.): Sternsclinuppenphanomeno vom 27. Nov. 1872 und voni 27. Nov. 

1885. Astron. Nachr., 114: 113-119. 
Newton (H. A.) : TLe Biela meteors of Nov. 27, 1885. Am. J. Sc., 3. s., 31 =131 : 

409-426, 1886. 
ScHiAPARELLi (G. V.): Lo stelle cadenti : con appendice sulla grande pioggia di 

stelle cadenti del 27 Nov. 1885. New ed. 8 -|- 134 p. 16mo. Milauo, 1886..(M. 1) 

Meteors, p* 125. See, also, Comets and Meteors. 

Uall (R. S.) : L'origine des 6toiles lilautes. L'Astron., 5 : 331-337. 

Newton (H. A.) Meteorites, meteors, and shooting stars. Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sc, 

25:1-18. Also, Reprint, ^iso; Science, 8: 169-176. J /so ; Nature, 34 : .532- 

536. 
Address as retiring president of the American Association, Buflalo, August 18, 1886. 
Zenger (C.-V. ): Lcs cssaims pdriodiques d'dtoilcs filantcs et les mouvements 

seismiques des anu6e8 1883, 1884 et 1885. Compt. Rend., 103: 1287-1289.' 
: Les principanx essaims d '6toile8 filantes et les aurores bordales. Comjit. 

Rend., 103: 738-741. 

Meteors (Orbits of, etc.). 

Backhouse (T. W.): Proposed maps for tracing meteor paths. Astron. Nachr., 

114: 19. 
BuszczYNSKi (B.): Ueber die Bahnen der am 11. Dezember 1852 und am 3. 

Dczember 1861 in Deutschland beobachteten helleu Meteore. 32 p. 8vo. Halle, 

1886. 
CoRiUGAN (S. J.) : Relation between meteoric orbits and radiants. Sid. Mess., 5: 

100-105. 
Denning (W. F.): Distribution of meteor streams. Month. Not., 47: 35-39. 
Jesse (O.): Bestimmung der H6he der Steruschuuppeu in bekauntcn Bahnen 

durch Beobachtuugen von einem Orte aus. Astron. Nachr., 114: 145. 
MoNCK (W. H. S.) : Trained meteors. Obsry., 9 : 131. 
Wendell (O.C): Orbits of meteors. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 285. 
Weyer (G. D. E.): Elcmentare Berechnnug der Steruschnuppenbahnen um die 

Sonne. Astron. Nachr., 115: 113-132. 

Moon, p* 133. See, also, Lunar theory. 

Abetti (A.): Tavole per vidurro il nascere ed il tramontare della luna dalle 
elfemeridi di Berlino agli orizzonti di latitudiui fra 36 o 48 gr. 12 1». [VeneziaJ. 
1886 , (M. 1) 

Ericsson (J.) : The lunar surface and its temperature, il. Nature, 34 : 248. 

de Fonvielle (W.): Histoiro de la lune. il. 8°. Paris, 1886 (M.2) 

Harley(T.): Lunar science, ancient and modirn. 8vo. Loudon, 1886.. (M. 3.70) 
Mellor (T. K.): Handy map of the moon, 13 by 15 inches. Loudon, 1886. 

(3s7i. 6d.) 
Proctor (R. A.): The moon: her motions, aspect, scenery, and physical con- 
ditions. 3. cd. 314 p. il. 8vo. London, 1886 (M.6.50) 



AtiTRONOMY. 175 

Moon — Coutiuucd. 

Sapouetti (A.): Metodo universale per iscopriro spediamentc gl' istantl de ua- 

scere e del tramontaro della luna in qualsiasi luogo d 'Italia. 13 p. 4to. Bo- 

logua, ld86. 
Weinek(L.): Zeichnungeu voa Mondkrateni uud Mondlandschafteu. Astron. 

Beob. zu Prag. App. ziim 45. Jahrg., p. 59-69, 

Moscow^ Observatory. 

Annales do rObscrvatoire de Moscou. Publiees par T. Bredichia. Sdrie 2, v. 
1, livraisou 1. 118 p., 2 pi. 4to. Moscou, 188(3 (M. G) 

Natal O.bservatory. 

Kei'OKT of the supcriutoudent . . . 1885. 30 p. 4to. n. p. [1886.] 

Nebulae, p* 101. See, also, Pleiades. 

VON Gothakd(E.): [Photograpbiug a faiut star iu the Riug nebula in Lyra.] 

Astron. Nachr., 115: 221, 303. 
Stone (O.) : List of nebulas observed at the Leauder McCorniick Observatory 

and supposed to be new. Astron. Jour., 7 : 9-14. 

: The same. Second list. Astron. Jour., 7 : 57-61, 

Stone (0.) and Leavenwoktii (F. P.): [Observations of the] Nebula of Orion, 

1H85. 43 p., 3 pi. 4to. Univ. of Va., 1886, 
Pub. McCormick Obsry., v. 1, pt. 3. 
Swift (.L.) : Catalogue No. 3 of nebuhc discovered at the Warner Observatory. 

Astron. Nachr., 115 : 153-158. 

: The same. No. 4. Astron. Nachr., 115 : 2.57-268. 

: The same. No. 5. Astron. Nachr., 116 : 33-38. 

Tempel(W.) Ueber Nebelflecken . . . 1876-79 . . . zuArcetri. 28 p. 4to. Prag, 

1886 (M. 3) 

Neptune (Satellite of), p* 139. 

Marth (A.): Ephemeris of the satellite of Neptune. Month. Not., 46 : 504-507, 

Neuchatel Observatory. 

Rapport du directeur . . . 1885. 32 + 27 p. 12mo. . Locle, 1886. 

Nutation, p* 103. 

FoLiE (F.) : Demonstration pratique de I'esistence do la nutation diurno. Compt. 
Rend., 103 : 1171-1173. 
Objectives. See, also, Spiierometer. 

Berger (C. L.) : Apparat zur genauen Bostimmung der Brennweite von Objectiv- 

gliisern. il. Ztschr. f. Instrmknd., 6 : 272-276. 
Harzer (P.) : Ueber ein dreitlachiges uach Herru Scheibner's Principion berech-. 

netes Objectiv. Astron. Nachr., 115: 241-252. 
Laurent (L.): Sur l'ex6cution des objectifs pour instruments de precision. 

Compt. Rend., 102:545-548. 
Schroder (H.) : Ueber die den bekannteu Doppelobjectiven anhafteuden Uebcl- 
stiinde und eine none davon freie Linsencombination fiir grosse Refractoren. 
Ztschr. f. Instrmknd., 6: 41-46. 
Observations (Combination of). See, also, Least squares. 

Newcomij (S. ) : A generalized theory of the combination of observations, so as to 
obtain the best result. Am. J. Math., 8 : 343-366. 
Jiev. by LtJROTH (J.) : Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesellsch., 21 : 272-276. 
Bev.OhaTy., 9: 370. 

Observatories, p* 139. 

Jaiiresberichte der Sternwarte fiir 1885. Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesellsch., 

21 : 69-150. 
Lancaster (A.): Liste gcn6rale des observatoircs et des astronomes, des socidtds 

et des revues astrouomiqnes. 114 p. 12mo. Bruxelles, 1886 (M, 1.50) 



176 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Occultations. 

WooDSiDE (C. L.): Short method for computing occultatious. il. Sid. Mess., 
5 : 203-210. 

Orbits. See, also, Three bodies (Problem of). 

Andoyer (H.) : Coutribution a Iti thc^orie des orbites iutormddiaires. 72 p. 4 to. 

Paris, 188G (3 fr. oUc.) 

Bryant (R.): Kepler's problem. Month. Not., 47 : 8-14. 

Gyld£n(H.): lutermediiira banor, som vid eu gifvcu tidpuukt ansluta sig till 

de verkliga med eu kontakt of tredja orduingeu. 20 p. 8vo. Stockholm, 

1886. 
ISRAEL-HOLTZWART (K.) : Elcmente der theoretischeu Astronomic, il. 8vo. 

Wiesbaden, 1886 (M. 25) 

Neumann (C.) : Ausdehniing der Kepler'schen Gesetze anf deu Fall, dass die 

Bewegung auf eiuer Kngelflliche stattfiudet. Ber. ii. d. Verbaudl. d. k. siichs. 

Gesellsch. d. Wissensch. Leipz. Math.-phys. CL, 1886. 
VON Oppolzer (T.) Traits de la d(?termination des orbites des comfetes et des 

plauetes . . . Edition franf aise, piiblide d'aprcs la deuxibme Edition allemaude 

par Ernest Pasquier. Premier volume. 26 + 491 +209 p. 4to. Paris, 1886. 

(30 fr.) 
Thurein (H.): Elcmeutare Darstelliing der Planetenbahnen durch Koustriik- 

tion und Reclinung. 34 p. 8yo. Berlin, 1886 (M. 1) 

Padua Observatory. 

Abetti (A.) I'Espcrimento per le determinazioni di latitndino . . . all' Osserva- 

toriodi PadoYanfirottobrel885. 6 p. 8vo. Roma, 1886 (M. 1) 

: Os&ervazioni astronomiche fatte all' Osservatorio di Padova coll' equatoriale 

Dcmbowski nel 1886. lip. 8vo. Veuezia, 1886 (M. O.GOj 

Parallax (Stellar), p" 108. 

Hall (A.): Observations for stellar parallax [of a Lyra^, 61 Cygni, 40 (o-) Eri- 
dani, and 6B Cygni]. 67 p. 4to. Washington, 1886. 
Wash. Obsn's., 1883, App. n. 
SciiUR (W.): Bcstinimnng der Parallaxe des Doppelsterns ^^ Aurigaj, Astron. 
Nachr., 114 : 161. 

Paris Observatory. 

Pkrigaud (E.-L.-A.) : Errcurs dc division du ccrcle de Gambey. Compt. Rend., 

103:591-594. 
Rapport annuel sur l'6tat de I'Observatoire de Paris pour l'ann6e 1885, pr6sent6 

an conseil . . . 22 Janvier 1886. 28 p., 1 pl. 4to. Paris, 1886. 

Pendulum. 

LoRENTZEN (G.): Thcoric des Gaussischen Pendels. Astron. Nachr., 114:241- 

284. 

Personal equation. 

Skeligeh (H.): Einfluss dioptrischcr Fchler des Auges auf das Resultat astro- 
uomischer Messuugen. Abhaudl. d. math.-phys. CI. d. k. bayer. Ak. d. Wis- 
sensch., 15 : 665-704. 

Perturbations. • 

Callandreau (O.) : Simplifications qui se pr6sentent dans le calcul nuni^rique 

des perturbations j)our certaines valours de I'argument. Comj)t. Rend., 102: 

598-601. 
Radau (R.) : Sur quelques formules de la th(5orie des perturbations. Bull, astron., 

3 : 433, 475. 
TisSERAND (F. ): Sur un cas roniarquable du probleme des perturyations. Bull. 

astron., 3: 425-433. Aho : Compt. Rend., 103: 446-451^ 



ASTRONOMY. 177 

Photography (Astronomical). p*115. See, also, Nebulae; Photography (Solar), 
Pleiadks ; etc.; Spectra (Stellar). 

Eder(J. M.): Die Monient-Photographie in ihrer Anwendung auf Kunst und 
Wissenschaft. 8+198 p. II. 8vo. Halle, 1886 (M.24) 

VON GOTHARD (E.): Apparato fiir Aufnahnie himmlischer Objecte. Ztschr. f. 
Instrmknd, 6 : 5-14. Also, Reprint. 

HoLDEN (E. S.) : Photography, the servant of astronomy. Overland Month., 2. s., 
8 : 459-470. 

Stein (S. T.): Die Photographie im Dieuste der Astronomie, Meteorologio und 
Physik. il. Svo. Halle, 1886 (M. 5) 

Stone (O.) : Photographers versus old-fashioned astronomers. Sid. Mess., 6: 1-4. 

Struve(0.): Die Photographie im Dienste der Astronomie. 20 p. 8vo. St. 

Petersburg, 1886 (M. 1) 

Jiepr. from: Mel. math, et aatron. tir6a du Bull, do I'Acad. d. bc. St. P6torsb. 6: 493-517. 

Tramblay (G.) : Photographie lunaire dans les instruments de moyenne puis- 
sance. L'Astron. . 5 : 382-384, 425. 
Photography (Solar). 

Huggins(VV.) : Photography of the solar corona. Science, 8 : 303. ^/«o; Nature, 
34 : 469. Also: Astrou. Nachr., 115 : 191. 
Photography (Stellar). 

Common (A. A.): Photography as an aid to astronomy. Eng. Mechan., 43:45.3- 
455. 

Flammarion (C.) : La photographie celeste £l I'Observatoiro de Paris, il. L'As- 
tron., 5 : 42-.57. 

: Comparaison des r^sultats de I'observation astronomique avec ceux de la 

photographie. L'Astron., 5 : 188 

Gill (D.) : Photogi-aphie astronomique. Bull, astron., 3 : 161-164. 

VON Gothard (E.) : Anwendung der Photographie zu Meridian- Beobachtungen. 
Astron. Nachr., 115:315. 

: Photographische Aufnahmeu. Astron. Nachr., 115: 221. 

Gould (B. A.): Photographic determinations of stellar positions. Proc. Am. Ass. 
Adv. Sc, 35 : 74-79. Also: Am. J. Sc, 3. s., 32= 132 : 369-375. 

Henry (Paul) and Henry (Prosper) : Astronomical photography, il. Nature, 
34: 35-37. 

: fitoiles doubles et amas d'^toiles mesurds par la photographie. il. 

L'Astron., 5 : 281-286. 

Janssen (J.) Note snr la constitution des taches solaires et sur la photographie 
envisag6e comme instrument de ddcouvertes en astronomie. Compt Rend. , 102 : 
80-82. 

LOHSE (0.): Ueber Stellar-Photographie. Astrou. Nachr., 115 : 1-14. 

MoucnEZ(E.): Photographies astronomiques de MM. Paul Henry et Prosper 
Henry. Compt. Rend., 102 : 148, 289. 

Pickering (E.C.): Draper memorial photographs . . . [etc.]. Nature, 34 : 439. 

: Investigation (An) in stellar photography, conducted at the Harvaixl Col- 
lege observatory. Mem. Am. Acad. Arts, etc., 11 : 179-226, 1886. 
AUo: Eepriut, with appendix. 

Pritchard (C): Remarkable instance of the detection of distortion in a pho- 
tographic film measured for the purpose of stellar parallax. Month. Not., 46: 
442-444. 

: Researches in stellar photography. Proc. Roy. Soc, Loud., 41 : 195-212. 

Alsu [Abstr. 1 : Nature, 3t : 305. 

Ranyard (A. C.) : Connection between photographic action, the brightness of 
the luminous object, and the time of exposure as applied to celestial photog- 
raphy, ittonth. Not., 46: 305-309. 

H. Mis. 600 12 



178 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Photography (Stellar) — Continued. 

Roberts (I.): Note on photographs of stars in Cygnus, taken in August, 1886. 
Month. Not., 47 : 22. 

: Photographic maps of the stars. Month. Not., 46 : 99-103, 

Wolf (C): Comparaison des rdsnltats de I'observatiou astronomique direct© 
avec ceux de I'inscription photographique. Compt. Rend., 102 : 476. 

Zenger (C. V.) : Etudes phosphorographiqnes pour la reproduction photograph- 
ique du ciel. Compt. Reud., 102 : 408-410. 

Photometry, p.* 112. 

Chandler (S. C. ), jr. Comparative (A) estimate of methods and results in stel- 
lar photometry. lAhstr.'] Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sc, 35: 81. 

: Light-ratio unit of stellar magnitudes. Astron. Nachr., 115 : 145-154. 

Pritchard (C.) : Supplementary measures of the magnitudes of a zone of stars 
near the ecxuator for reference as standards of magnitude in lieu of Polaris. 
Mouth. Not., 46 : 439-442. 

Sawyer (E. F.) : Some account of a new catalogue of the magnitudes of south- 
ern stars. Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sc, 35 : 80. Also : Sid. Mess., 5 : 299-302. 

Seeliger(H.) : Bemerkuugen zu Zollner's " Photometrischen Uutersuchungeu," 
Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesellsch., 21: 216-229. 

Planets. p*133. 

Christiansen (C.) : Bemerkungen liber die Temperatur der Plauetcn. Sirius, 
19: 256-258. 

Planets (Minor). See A.steroids. 

Pleiades. p*10l. 

Clerke (A. M.) : [History of] the Pleiades. Nature, 33 : 561-564. 

Common (A. A.) : Nebulaj in the Pleiades. Month. Not., 46: 341. 

Flammarion (C.) : Comparaison des rdsnltats de I'observation astronomique avec 

ceux de photographic. Compt. Rend., 102 : 911-914. 
Henry (P.) : The photographic nebuhe in the Pleiades. Month. Not., 46 : 281. 
Henry (Paul) and Henry (Prosper): Sur uue carte photographique du groupo 

des Pleiades. Compt. Rend., 102 : 848-851. 
Kammermann (A.): Ueber den Majanebel. Astron. Nachr., 114: 313. 
Pp:rrotin (J.) : Observation de la ucbuleuse de Maia. Compt. Rend., 102 : 544. 
Roberts (I.) : Note on two photographs of the nobnhe in the Pleiades, takeu in 

October, 1886. Mouth. Not., 47 : 24. 
Struve (O.): Ueber den Majanebel. il. Astron. Nachr., 114: 97. 
Weiss (E.) : Ueber die Nebel in den Plejaden. il. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 209. 
Wolf (C.) : Comparai,son des rdsultats de I'observation astronomique directe avco 

ceux de Pinscription photographique. Compt. Rend., 102: 476. 

Potsdam Observatory. 

PuBLiCATiONEN des astrophysikalischeu Obsorvatoriums zu Potsdam. Hrsg. vou 
H. C. Vogel. 5. Bd., 7 + 281 p. 4to. Leipzig, 1886. 

Prague Observatory. 

Astronomische Beobachtungeu an der k. k. Sternwarte zu Prag im Jahre 1884, 
von L. Weinek. App. zum 45. Jahrgang. 74 p., 4 pi. 4to. Prag, 1886. 
• Eev. by ScHfSNFELD] : Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesellsch., 21 : 46-50. 
Precession. 

Flammarion (C): Le mouvement s6culaire du pole et la transmission du sys- 

tfeme solaire. il. L' Astron., 5, 401-406. 
Rogers (AV. A.) and Winlock (A.): Reduction of tlie positions of close circura- 
polar stars from one epoch to another. Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sc, 11 : 227-> 
299, 1886. Also Reprint. 



ASTRONOMY. 179 

Precession — Continued. 

Weiss (E.): Ueber die Berechnuug der Priicessiou mit besondercr Rlicksicht auf 
die Rednctiou eines Sterncataloges auf eiue iiiulore Epoche. 28 p. 4to. Wieu, 
1836 (M. 1.50) 

-Kej))-. /roni ; Deukschr. d. k. Akad. d. "Wisseusch. Math-uaturwis, CI. "Wien, 53: 53-80. 
Prominences (Solar). See, also, Sun; Sux-spots. 

Tacchixi (P.): Rdsultats fournis par I'observatiou des protubdrauces solaires 

pendant i'aunde 1885. Compt. Rend., 102: 457. 
Thouvelot (E, L.): Cbaugements temporaires do rdfrangibilit6 des raies du 
spectre de la chromosphere et des protubdrauces solaires. Bull, astrou., 3 : 9-22. 

: Protuberances visible on the spectrum with a narrow slit. Mouth. Not., 

46 : 331-333. 
Itev. by Maundeu (E. W.) : Month. Not., 4G: 334. 

Wild(H.): Relations entre les variations du magn(?tisme terrestre et les ph6- 
uomenes observes sur le soleil. Compt. Rend., 102 : 508. 
Pulkowa Observatory. 

Jaiiresbekicut am 25 Mai, 1886 . . . [etc.] 52 p. 8vo. St. Petersburg, 1886. 
Untersuchung der Repsold'scheu Theilnug des Piilkowaer Verticalkreises. 37 

p. 4lo. St. Petersburg, 1886 (M. 1) 

M6m. Acad. imp. d. sc. de St.-P6tersb., 7. sor., vol. 34, TSo. 2. 

RadclifFe Observatory. 

Results ofastrouomical and meteorological observations made in the year 1883. 
Vol.41. 8vo. Oxford, 1886. 

Reflectors. See, also. Telescopes. 

Spitta (E. J.): Method of collimatiug Newtonian reflectors. Obsry., 9:349-351. 

Refraction. 

Ab»k (C): A correction for gravity in the use of refraction tables. Astron. 

Nachr., 116 : 15. 
Gaillot (A.): Determination de I'erreurde la coustante de la rdfractiou astro- 

nomique par les observations m6ridieunes. Compt. Rend., 102: 200,247. 
Gill(D.): Some suggested improvements in the practical working of M. 

Loewy's new method of astronomical refraction. Month. Not., 46:326-328. 

Also, trans.: Compt. Rend., 102: 732-735. 
LOEWY (M.): Nouvelle mdthode pour la determination des elements de lard- 
fraction. Compt. Rend., 102: 74-80. 

: Ddtermiuation des dldmeuts de la rdfractiou. Compt. Rend., 102: 290-297. 

: Ddtermiuatiou des dlements de la refraction. Exameu des conditions gdn- 

drales a remplir dans la solution pratique du probleme. Compt. Rend., 102 : 

380-385. 
■■: Ddtermiuation des dldments de la rdfractiou. Soliitiou pratique la plus 

favorable. Compt. Rend., 102: 533-539. 
: Nouvelles mdthodes pour la ddtermiuation directe de la valeur absolue de 

la rdfractiou ;\ divers degrds de hauteur. Compt. Rend., 102; 887-894. 
: Nouvelle mdthode gdndrale pour la ddtermiuation directe do la valour abso- 
lue de la rdfractiou a tons les degrds de hauteur. Compt. Rend., 102 : 1196- 

1202. 
: Nouvelle mdthode pour ddterminor les rdfractions a toutes les hauteurs a 

I'aide de la valeur connno d'une seule. Compt. Rond., 102 : 1273-1279. 
McNeill (M.) : Logarithmic method of correcting for differential refraction in 

declination. Astron. Nachr., 114: 385-390. 
VON Opim)lzer(T.): Uebordioastronomisolio Refraction. 52 p. tal). 4to. Wien, 

lH'-^6 (M. 2.60) 

Pickering (E.G.): Atmospheric refraction. Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and Sc, 

21: 268-302, 1886. 



180 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Rio Janeiro Observatory. 

Ckuls (L.): Snr le transfert de I'Observatoire imperial do Rio de Janeiro. 
Compt. Rend., 10:3 : 548. 

Rome Observatory. 

MiLLOSEViCH (E.) : Determinaziono dcllalatitudine del R. Osservatorio del Col- 
legio Romano. 68 p. 4to. Roma, 1886. 
In: Ann. de Meteor. Ital., pt. 3, 1885. 

Satellites. 

Darwin (G. H. ) : Tidal friction and the evohition of a satellite. Natnre, 33 : 367. 
Nolan (J.): Tidal friction and tbe evolution of a satellite. Nature, 34: 286; 
35: 75. 

Saturn, p* 137. 

Battermann (H.) : Heliometrischer AnscWuss des Saturn an /< uud ?/ Germino- 

rum [Jan. and Mar., 1886]. Astrou. Nachr., 115 : 2-25-J30. 
Hill (G. W.): Elements and perturbations of Jupiter and Saturn. Astron. 
Nachr., 113: 273-302. 

Saturn (Satellites of). 

Hall (A.): Comparison of the observations of the five inner satellites of Saturn, 

made at Toulouse in 1876 and 1877. Astron. Nachr., 115: 97-104. 
: [Orbits of J the sis inner satellites of Saturn. 74 p. 4to. Washington, 

1886. 

Wash. Obsns., 1883, App. I. 
Martii (A.): Ephemorides of the satellites of Saturn L1886-'87]. Month, Not. 

46: 469-486. 
Tisskrand (F. ) : Sur un cas remarquable du problfeme des perturbations. Compt. 

Rend., 103: 446-451. Also: Bull, astron., 3: 42.5-433. 

Sayre Observatory. 

DOOLITTLE (C. L.): [Change in the] latitude of the Sayre Observatory. Astron. 
Jonr., 7 : 14. 

Seasons. 

Proctor (R. A.): The seasons pictured in 48 sun-views of the earth, and 24 zodi- 
acal maps, and other drawings. 4to. Loudon, 1885. (M. 5.30) 

Series. See, aho, Mechanics (Celestial); Pertujibatioxs. 

Callandreau (O.) : D^veloppemeut des coordoun(5es elliptiques. Bull, astron., 
3: 528-532. 

Charlier (C.-V.-L.) : Mdthode pcrmettant d'augnicnterla convergence des series 
trigonom6triques. Bull, astron., 3 : 378-385. 

PoiNCARE (H.) : Moyen d'augmenter la convergence des series trigonom6trique8. 
Bull, astron., 3: 521-528. 
Sextant. 

DiiEYER (J. L. E.) : On the invention of the sextant. Astron. Nachr., 115 : 33. 

Gruey (L.-J.) : Sur les coustantes du grand miroir du sextant. Bull, astrou. 
3: 5-9. 
Sky-glows. 

Bishop (S.) : Origin of the red glows. Sid. Mess., 5 : 129-142. 

Maine (H. C.) : The " red light." il. . Sid. Mess., 5 : 237-251. 

Newcomb(S.): Red sunsets and volcanic eruptions. Nature, 34: 340. 

Ricc6 (A.): L'ile Ferdinandea, le soleil bleu et les cr^pusculos rouges de 1831. 
Compt. Rend., 102: 1060-1063. 

: Red sunsets and volcanic eruptions. Nature, 34 : 386. 

Solar system. 

FoRSTER (A.) : Eiue durch eigenthiimlicho Beziehuugeii zwischen Planetenent- 
fernungen nnd Plauotenmassen veranlasste neue Hypothese der Entwicklung 
des Sonnensystems. 2+16 p. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1886 (M.0.50) 



ASTRONOMY. 181 

Solar system — Continncd. 

Keiik(F. ): Eiitstehung der Korpor, welche sich uiii diti Souue bewegon. 79 p. 

8vo. Leipzig, 188() (M. 1.80) 

TUKXKK (H. 11.): Note ou Mr. Maith's "iutersects." il. Month. Not., 46 : 157. 
Vail (J. N.) : The earth's annular system. 400 p. T2mo. Cleveland, 1886. (M. 10) 

Solar system (Motion of), p* 126. See, also, Stars (Motion of). 

Flammaiuon (C.) : Le point fixe dans I'nnivers. L'Astron., 5 : 241-2.51. 

FOLIE (F.): Note sur le mouvement du systiiine solaire. Astron. Nachr., 114: 

:i55. 
HoMANN(H.): Bestiramnng der Bewegung des Sonnensystems dnrch Spectral- 

Messuugen. Astron. Nachr., 114: 25. 
VON KovESLiGETHY (R.) : Bestimmung der Bewegung des Sonnensystems dnrch 

Spectral-Messungen. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 327. 

Spectra (Stellar), p* 113. 

Pickering (E.G.): Draper memorial photographs of stellar spectra, exhibiting 
bright lines. Nature, 34 : 439, 570. 

Sherman (O. T.): Reply to certain questions raised before the Royal Astronom- 
ical Society . . . [etc.]. Month. Not., 47: 14-18. 

Spectroscope. 

Hasselbeug (B.): Anweudung von Schwefelkohlenstoff-Prismen zu spectro- 
scopischen Beobachtungen von hoher Pracision. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. ' 

Zengek (K. W.): Neues geradsichtiges Spectroscop ohne Spait und ohne Colli- 
matorlinse. Ztschr. f. Instrmknd., 6: 59. 

Spectrum analysis. 

Janssen(J.): Spectres d'absorption de I'oxygfeue. Corapt. Rend., 102 : 1352. 

Langley (S. p.) : Experimental determination of wave-lengths in the invisible 
prismatic spectrum. Mem. Natl. Acad. Sc, 2: 149-162, 1885. 4 pi. 

: Observations on invisible heat spectra and the recognition of unmeasured 

wave-lengths, made at the Allegheny Observatory. Phil. Mag., 5. s., 21: 394-409. 

: On hitherto unrecognized wave-lengths. Am. J. Sc, 3. s., 32 = 132: 83-106. 

4 pi. 

: Sur des longueurs d'onde jusqu'ici non reconnues. Compt. Rend., 102: 

162-164. 

Smyth (C. Piazzi) : Micrometrical measures of gaseous spectra under high dis- 
persion. Trans. Roy. Soc.Edinb., 32: 415-480. 30 pi. 1886. ^?so, Reprint. • 

Spectrum (Solar), p^ 126. 

CORNU (A.): fitude des baudes telluriques a, B, et A du spectre solaire. 105 p. 

8vo. Paris, 1886 • (M. 2.50) 

• IIasselberg (B.): Methode propre a determiner avec grande precision les lon- 
gueurs d'onde des raies ultra-violettes du spectre solaire. Mem. Soc. spettrosc. 
ital., 15 : 127-133. 
Muller (G.) and Kempp (P.): Bestimmung der Wellenlangen von 300 Linien im 

Sonnenspectrum. 4to. Leipzig, 1886 (M. 12) 

In. Pub. astrophys. Obs. zu Potsdam, Ed. 5. 

: Neuberechnung der 2,614 in Publication Nr. 3 des astrophysicali- 

schen Observatoriums zu Potsdam bestimmten Wellenliingen. 4to. Leipzig, 

1886 (M.l) 

Pickering (E. C.) : Comparison of maps of the ultra-violet spectrum. Am. J. Sc, 
132: 223-226. 

Spherometer. 

Mayer (A.M.): On the well-spherometer, an instrument that measures the 
radius of curvature of a lens of any linear aperture, il. Am, J. Sc, 3. s., 32 = 
132 : 61-69. 



182 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Star-catalogues, p* 104. 

Armagh ('2d) catalogue of 3,300 stars for tlie epocli 1875, from observations . . . 
1859 to 1883, uuder the direction of . . . T. R. Robinson, . . . iircparcd for pub- 
lication by J. L. E. Dreyer. 15+159 p. 8vo. Dublin, 188(i. 

AuwERS(A.): Bemerkung iiber die gegenwiirtigo Verlilsslichkeit des Funda- 
mental-Catalogs fiir die Zonen-Beobachtuugen der astrouomisclieu Gesellschaft 
nud die Genanigkeit seiner Grundlagen. Astron. Nacbr., 114 : 1-20. 

Downing (A. M. W.) Comparison of certain southern star-catalogues. Month. 
Not., 46: 365-379. 

Farquhar (H.) : Comparison of the Boss and Auwers declination-standards. 
Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sc, 35 : 82. 

Gould (B. A.): The Argentine general catalogue. Mean positions of [32,448] 
southern stars [for 1875.0] determined at the National Observatory. 15-f650 
p. 4to. C6rdoba, 1886. 
Kesultados d. Obs. nac. Argentine, vol. 14. 

HOLDEN (E. S.): Corrections to the star-catalogues in the library of the Washburn 

Observatory. Pub. Washb. Obsry., 4: 69-76. 
Kam{N. M.): Catalog von Sterneu deren Orter durcli selbststilndige Meridian- 

Beobachtungen bestimmt worden sind, aus Bd. 1 bis 66 der Astron. Nachr., 

reducirt anf 1855.0. 22+384 p. 4to. Amsterdam, 1886 (M. 16) 

Verhaudl. d. k. Akad. d. Wetonach., dcel 24. 
PuLKOWA. Positions moyennes de 3,542 6toiles diStermin^es a I'alde du cercle 

m6ridien . . . 1840-1869, et r^duites a I'^poquo 1855.0. 
JRepr.from Obans. d. Poulkova, tome 8. 
Romberg (H.) : Geniiherte Orter der Fixsterne vou welchen in den Astronomi- 

schen Nachrichteu Bd. 67 bis 112 solbststiiudigo Beobachtungen angefilhrt sind 

fiir die Epoche 1855. 52 p. 4to. Leipzig, 1886 (M. 4) 

Pub. d. astron. Gescfllsch., 18. 

Safford (T. H.): Comparison of Groombridge's and Struve's right ascensions of 

close circumpolar stars. Month. Not., 46: 37. 
SCHoNFELD (E.) : Bonner Sternverzeichniss. Vierte section, enthalteud die genii- 

herten mittleren Orter fiir den Anfang des Jahres 1855 von 133,659 Sternen 

zwischen 2 und 23 Grad siidlicher Declination nud 1,173 diesen Grenzen benach- 

barten . . . beobachtet and berechnet vou Eduard Schonfeld. 56 + 459 p. 

4to. Bonn, 1886 (M. 20) 

Astron. Beob. zu Bonn., Bd. 8. 
Weiss (E.) : Berichtigungen zu Oltzen's Catalog der Argelander'schen siidlichen 

Zouen, uebst Mittheilung vou einigcn siidlichen Sterneu mit ziemlich starker 

Eigenbewegung. Astron. Nachr., 115 : 313. 

Star-charts. 

Colbert (E.): The fixed stars; maps for out-door study. Chicago, 1886. 
Klein (H.J.) : Stern-Atlas enthalteud siinmitliche Sterne 1-6.5 Grosse zwischen 

dem Nordpol und 34 Grad siidlicher Declination. 40 p., 18 maps. fol. Leipzig, 

1886. 
10 Lfgn. Jede Lfg. M. 1.20. 
Peck (W.) : The southern hemisphere constellations, and how to find them. 13 

maps. 4to. London, 1885 (M. 3.80) 

Schonfeld (E.) : Bonner Sternkarten. 2. Serie. AtlasderHiramelszone zwis- 
chen 1° und 23° siidlicher Declination fiir den Anfang des Jahres 1885. i und 

II Lfgn. 4 p., 12 maps. fol. Bonn, [1886]. 
Vollstiindig in 4 Lfgn. 24 Sternkarten. Jedo Lfgn. M 12. 
Proctor (R.-A.): Nouvel atlas celeste . . . [etc.]. Trad, snr la 6. 6d. anglaise 

par P. Gerigny. 13 + 9Sp. 8vo. Paris, 1886 •- (M.5.20) 

Schurig (R.): TabultC celestes continentes omnes stellas creli borealifi nee non 

australis nudis oculis conspicuas. 2 p., 8 maps. fol. Leipzig, 1886 (M. 3) 



ASTRONOMY. 183 

Star-clusters. 

SciiULTZ (H.) : Mikrometrisclie Bestimnuing einiger teleskopischon Steruhaufen, 
43p., ;ipl. 8vo. Stockbolui, 18d0. 
Bihang till k. Svenska "Vet. Akad. Handlingar, Bd. 12, Afd. 1, Ko. 2. 
Stars (Circumpolar, Eednction of). 

Gruey (L.-J.): Sur les forninles de M. Loewy pour la rdduction des circompo- 

Jaires. Compt. Reud, 102 : 966-960. 
Rogers (W. A.) and Winlock (A.): [Reduction of the positions of close polar 
stars from one epoch to another.] Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sc. vol. 11, pt. 
4, no. 5, p. 2-27-299. 1886. J /.so, Reprint. 
Stars (Distribution of). p*99. 

Seeligkr (H.) : Die Vertheilung der Sterne auf der siidlichen Halbkugel nach 

Schtinfeld's Durchmusterung. 24 p. 8vo, Miinchen, 1886 (M. 1.20) 

In: Sitzungsb. d. k.-bayer. Akad. d. Wisaensch., Math.-phys. CL, Miinchen, 1886, Heft 2. 
Stars (Motion of) in line of sight. See, also, Solar system (Motion of). 

Christie (W. H.): Spectroscopic results for tlie motions of sftars in the line of 

sight, obtained at . . . Greenwich, in 1885. Mouth. Not., 46: 126-135. 
HoMANN (H.): Beitriige zur Untersuchnng der Sternbewcgung uud der Licbt- 
bewegnng durch Spectralmessungen. 28 p. 8vo. Berlin, 1885. 
Stars (Number of) 

Hermite (G. ) : Ddtermination du nombre des etoiles de notre univers. L'Astrou. 
5: 406. ' 

Stockholm Observatory. 

AsTRONOMiSKA Jakttagelscr och Undersokningar anstalda pa Stockholms Obser- 
vatorium. Bd. ill, No. 4. 4to. Stockholm, 1886. 
Strasburg Observatory. 

ScHUR (W.) Fernerer Bericht iiber die Thtitigkeit der Strassburger Sternwarte. 
Astron. Nachr., 114 : 401-404. 

Sun^ p*126. /See, aZso, Coroxa; Prominences; Spectrum. 

Angstrom (K.): Nouvelle m(^,thode de faire des mesures absolues de la chaleur 
rayonuante ainsi qu'un instrument pour enregistrer la radiation solaire. 17 
p., 1 pi. 4to. Upsala, 1886. 
Belopolsky (A.) : Einige Gedauken iiber die Bewegungen auf der Sonnenober- 
fliiche. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 153, .383. 

Exner (F.): Zur Photometrie der Sonne. 12. p. 8vo. Wien, 1886 (M. 0.30) 

Repr.from: Sitzungsb. d. Mathnaturwissen. CI. d. k. Akad. d. "Wissensch. Wien. 94 (2 
Abth.) 345-56. 

Kedzie (J. H.): Speculations : Solar heat, gravitation, and sun-spots. 12 + 304 

p. 12mo. Chicago, 1886. 
LocKYER (J. N.) : The data now requisite in solar inquiries. Science, 7 : 386. 
Maurer (J. ) : Langley's Bestimmungen iiber das Maass der Sonuenstrahlung mit 

Violle's Aktinometer. Ztschr. f. Instrmknd., 6: 237-243. 
Young (C. A.): Recent advances in solar astronomy. Pop. Sc. Mouth., 30: 

24-33. 
Zenger (K. W.): Die Meteorologie der Sonne und ihres Systemes. 22 -f 231 p. 

il. 8vo. Wien, 1886 (M. 5) 

Sun (Diameter of). 

AuwERS (A.): Neue Untersuchungen iiber den Durchme.sser der Sonne, I. Sitz- 
ungsb. d. k-preuss. Akad. d Wissensch. Berlin, 1886: 1055-1126. 4Zso, Reprint. 
Sun-spots. 

Belopolsky (A.): Uaiiia na co.ninfe n iixt jBHJKCFiie. Mockba, 1886. [Les taches 

soiaires et leur mouvement. 184 p., 7 pi. 8vo. Moscow, 1886.] 
Chambers (F.): Sun-spots and prices of Indian food grains. Nature, 34: 100- 

104. 



184 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Sun-spots — Continued. 

COKTIE (A.) : Bands observed in the Ki)octia of Huu-spots at Stonyburst Obscrva 

tory. Month. Not., 47 : 19-22. 
Delauney (J.): Explication des taches du Boleil. 13 p. 8vo. Paris, 1886. 
Also [Abstr.J: Compt. Eend., 103, 566-5C9. 
Dkeger (H.): Darstelluug der verschiedenen Theorien der Sonnenfleckeu. 2G p. 

8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M. O.GO) 

Flammarion (C. ) : Les taclies solaires, la temperature et le prix du bl6. L'Astrou,, 

5: 454-4()l. 
Gerigny (P.): Les taclies solaires en 1885. L'Astron., 5: 208-215. 
HowLETT(F.): Asserted foreshortening of the inner side of the iiennmbra of 

spots when near the sun's limb. Mouth. Not., 46; 447-451. 
Janssen (J.): Constitution des taches solaires . . . [etc.]. Comjit. Rend., 102: 

80-82. 
Sporer(A.): Ueber die jetzige Sounenflecken-Periode. Astrou. Nachr., 114: 21. 
Tacchini (P.) : Distribution en latitude des ph6nomfenes solaires pendant I'ann^e 

1885. Compt. Rend., 102 : 601. 
Wesen der Sonnenflecken. Sirius, 19 : 150-154. 

Wolf (R. ) : Vorliiufige Sonnenflecken-Statistik fiir 1885. Astron. Nachr., 114 : 21. 
: Beobachtungen der Sonnenflecken im Jahre 1884 . . . [etc.]. Vrtljschr. d. 

naturforsch. Gesellsch. in ZUrich, 30 : 1-54. 1885. 
Astron. Mittheil., 64. 
: Studie iiber die . . . Erfahrungsfactoren . . . [etc.]. Vrtljschr. d. natur- 
forsch. Gesellsch. in Zurich, 30: 230-256. 1885. 
Astrou. Mittheil., 65. 
: Mittheiluug eines Ergebnisscs meiner einheitlichen Variationsreihe . . . 

[etc.]. Vrtljschr. d. naturforsch. Gesellsch. in Ziirich, 30 : 321-326. 1885. 
Astron. Mittheil., 66. 
: Beobachtungen der Sonnenflecken im Jahre 1885 . . . [etc.]. Vrtljschr. d. 

naturforsch. Gesellsch. in Ziirich, 31: 113-160. 
Astron. Mittheil., 67. 

WoLFER (A.) : Heliographische Orter von Sonnenflecken im Jahre 1884. Astron. 

Nachr., 115: 17-32. 
Tables (Logarithmic). 

Gauss (F. G.): Fiiufstellige vollstjindige logarithmische und trigonometrische 

Tafeln. 25. ed. 162+34 p. 8vo. Halle, 1886 (M.2) 

Gravelius (G.) : Logarithmisch-trigonometrische Tafel fiir die Hnnderttheilung 

derQuadranteu . . .[etc.]. 8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M.6) 

HotJEL(J.): Tables de logarithmes ^ 5 d^cimales . . .[etc.]. New ed. enl. 48+ 

119p. 8vo. Paris, 1886 (M.2) 

Prytz (H.): Tables d'antilogarithmes. 27 p. 8vo. Copenhague, 1886 ..(M.2) 
SCHRON (L.) : Siebenstellige gemeine Logarithmen der Zahlen von 1 bis 108000, 

20. ed. 8vo. Braunschweig, 1886 (M.2.40) 

Vega: Logarithmisch-trigonometriches Handbuch. 69. ed. F. Tietjen. 28+575 

p. 8vo. Berlin, 1886 (M. 4. 20) 

Tacubaya Observatory. 

Anguiano (A.): Longitud del Observatorio astrondmico nacional mexicano por 

seuales telegr^ficas . . . entre St. Louis, Missouri, y Tacubaya ... 88 p. 8vo. 

Mexico, 1886. 
Taschkent Observatory. 

[Memoirs . . . ] 97 p., 14 pi. 4to. Moscow, 1885. 

Piintetlin Russian. Eev.hy Lindemann (E.) Vrtljschr. d. astron. Gesellsch.: 21: 260-266. 

Telescopes. See, also, Equatorials ; Objectives ; Reflectors. 
Denning (W.F.): Large rs. small telescopes. Obsry., 9: 274-277. 
Grubb (H.): Telescopic objectives and mirrors: their preparation and testing 
Nature, 34 : 85-92. 



ASTRONOMY. 185 

Telescopes — Contiimetl. 

Hall (A.) : The images of the stars. Sid. Moss., b : 97-100. 

Kanyaro (A. C.) : Note with respect to the invention cf tlie achromatic tele- 
scope. Mouth. Not., 46: 460. 

Servus(H.): Die Gescliichte des Fernrohrs bis auf dieneueste Zeit. 135 p. 8vo. 
Berlin, 1S36 {M. 2.60) 

Struve (H.) : Allgemeiue Bengungs-figur in Fernrohren. 15 i). 4to. St. Peters- 
burg, 1886 (M. 0.70) 

Mem. Acad. imp. d. sc. de St. P^tcrsb. 7a. v. 34, No. 5. 

Young (C. A.) : Large telescopes vs. small. Obsry., 9 : 328. 

: Small telescopes vs. large. Sid. Mess., 5: 1-5. 

Temple Observatory. 

Report ... 1886. 2 p. 8vo. [n.p.,n. d.] 

T^ree bodies (Problem of). See, also, Mechanics (Celestial); Orbits. 

Backluni) (O.): Dr. Harzer's Untersuchnngen iiber eineu speciellen Fall des 

Problems der drei Korper. 20 p. 8vo. St. Petersburg, 1886 (M. 0.80) 

liepr.from: Bull. Acad. imp. d. sc. de St. P^tersb. 31: 125-138. 

Harzer (P.) : Untersuchungeu iiber einen speciellen Fall des Problems der drei 

Korper. 156 p., 1 pi. 4to. St. Petersburg, 1886. 
M6m. Acad. imp. d. sc. de St.-P6tersb., 7. s., vol. 34, No. 12. 
Lindstedt (A.) : Snr les series trigonom6triques dans le probl&me des trois corps. 

Bull, astron., 3 : 217-221. 
Radau(R.): Quelques remarques sur I'elimination des nteuds dans le probleme 

des trois corps. Bull, astron., 3 : 113-125. 
Seydler (A.): Ausdehnung der Lagrangeschen Behandlung des Dreikorper- 

Problcnis auf das Vierkorpcr-Problem. 20 p. 4to. Prag, lr86 (^M. 0.60) 

Tides. 

Darwin (G. H.) : Dynamical theory of the tides of long period. Proc. Roy. Soc, 
41 : 337-342. 

Time. 

Bilfinger (G.) : Die Zeitmesser der antiken Volker. 78 p. 4to. Stuttgart, 

1886. 

Time (Determination of). 

Dollen (W.) : Ephemeriden auf das Jahr 1887 zur Bestimmung von Zeit und 
Azimut mittelst des tragbaren Durchgangsinstrnments im Verticale des Polar- 
sterns. 24 + 27 p. 4to. St. Petersburg, 1886. 

Time (Universal). See, also, D.\Y (Astronomical). 

Christie (W. H. M.) : Universal, or world, time. Nature, 33 : 521-523. Also : Pop. 
Sc. Month., 29:795-802. 
Lecture at the Eoyal Institution, March 19, 1886. 

[Fleming (S.)T f Prime meridian time. Nature, 33: 259-262. 

Toulouse Observatory. 

Annales de I'Observatoire de Toulouse. Tome ii, renfermant une partie des 
travaux executes de 1879 a 1884, sous la direction de B. Baillaud. 45 + 120 + 
7 + 214 p. 4to. Paris, 1886. 

Turin Observatory. 

DoRNA (A.): Nozioni iutorno air equatoriale. Nota terza. 23 p. 8vo. Torino, 

1886. 

: The same. Nota quarta. 21 p. 8vo. Torino, 1886. 

: Ricerche per riconoscere se la deviazione della mira raeridiaua dell' Osser- 

vatorio di Torino a cavoretto dal piano del meridiano e sensibilimente nulla 

come nel 1828. Nota seconda. 12 p. 8vo. Torino, 1886. 



186 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Tycho Brahe. Sec, also, Astronomy (Tlistory of). 

TlUANGUi.ouUM plauoruiii et sphii'iiconiiu praxis aiithiuetica, qua inasinins 
eornin, pra\srrtiiii in astroiiouiico nsiis coiiipeiidiose ex])licatiir. Nunc prinumi 
editlit F. J. Stnduicka. 40 p. 4to. Pragu' (laUl), 1886 (M. 21) 

United States Naval Observatory. 

Astronomical observations . . . 1883. App. i. The six inner satellites of 
Saturn, by A. Hall. 74 p. 4to. Washington, 1880. 

: The same. App. ii. Observations for stellar i>arallax, by A.Hall. G7 p. 

4to. Washington, 1886. 

: The same. App. iii. The observatory temperature room and competitive 

trials of chronometers in 1884 and 1880. 35 p., 9 pi. 4to. Washington, 1886. 

Report of the superintendent . . . [October 20, 1880]. 20 p. 8v0. Washing- 
ton, 1886. 

Uranus, p* 139. 

Wilson (H. C.) : [Observations June 18 to July 5, 1883.] Astron., Nachr., 114: 
313. 

Uranus (Satellites of). 

Marth (A.", Ephemeris of the satellites of Uranus. Month. Not., 47 : 75-78. 

Variable Stars, p* 109. 

Hall (M.) : Density of the sun compared with that of Algol. Obsry., 9 : 224. 
Pickering (E. C.) : Observations of variable stars in 1885. Proc. Am. Acad. Arts 
and Sc, 21 (n. s., 13) : 319-335, 1886. Also, Reprint. 

Venus, p* 133. 

Thackeray (W. G.) : Semidiameter of Venus. Month. Not., 46: 335-336. 

Warner Observatory. 

History and work of the Warner Observatory, 1883-1886, Vol. 1. 70 p. il. 
8vo. Rochester, 1887. 

Washburn Observatory. 

Publications of the Wiishburn Observatory of the University of Wisconsin. 
Vol.4. 4+221 -t-25p. Svo. Madison, 1886 (M.7.50) 

Washington University Observatory. 

Pritchett (H. S.) : The Washington University equatorial after the "Lick pat- 
tern." Sid. Mess., 5: 65-67. 

Yale College Observatory. 

Report for the year [ending June 1, 1886]. 15 p. Svo. [New Haven, 1886.] 
Zodiacal light, p* 126. 

NECROLOGY OF ASTRONOMERS : 1886. 

AuERBAcn (Carl Heinrich, August); b. February 24, 1813, at Berlin; d. at Gohlis, 
October 22, 1886, vet 73. 

Bassnett (Thomas); d. February 26, 1887, tet. 79. 

BoiLEAU (Gen. J. T.); b. May 20, 1805, at Calcutta; d. November 9, 1886, xt. 81. 

DoRNA (Alessandro), director of the Turin Observatory ; b. February 13, 1825, at 
Asti ; d. at Borgo San Pietro, near Turin, August 19, 1886, ;et. 01. 

Feldkirchner (Christoph), first assistant at the Munich Observatory ; b. Feb- 
ruary 26, 1823 ; d. March 1, 1886, cut. 63. 

HoiJEL (Jules), professor of mathematics at Bordeaux ; b. , 1823, at Thaon ; d. 

June 14, 1886, at Purlers, set. 63. 

Krapotkin (Alexander); b. ; d. at Tomsk, August 6, 1886, ret. 45. 

Maywald (Gustav Adolph Richard), computer on the Berliner Jahrbuch ; b. 
February 13, 1817, at Leutheu; d. July 19, 1886, let. 69. 



ASTRONOMY. 187 

VON Oppolzer (Theodor); h. October 2G, 1841, at Prague; d. December 2G, 1886, 

at Vienna, ii-t. 45. 
Pearson (Ecr. James); b. 182(), at Preston, England; d. April 8, 1886, at Fleetwood, 

;et. rO. 

Saxby {Eev. Stephen Henry); b. , 1831 ; d. Angnst 5, 1886, a3t. 55. 

Talmage (Charles George), director Leyton Observatory, b. November 12, 1840, 

at Greenwich ; d. Marcli 20, 1886, at Knots Green, Leyton, a^t. 45. 
Wagner (August), vice-director Pulkowa Observatory, b. September 10, 1828, at 

Nurft ; d. at Pulkowa, November 14, 1886, xt. 58. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY FOR 1886. 



By Nelson H. Darton. 



INTRODUCTORY. 

The preparation of this review was undertaken by the writer with 
serious misgivings as to his ability either to complete it in the time al- 
lotted, or to reduce the results of a year's activity in the various branches 
of geologic research to the space assigned ; aud the outcome is in sev- 
eral respects unsatisfactory. 

It was originally intended to include a bibliography of North Amer- 
ican geology for the year 188G ; but as the work progressed, this was 
found to be impossible without greatly exceeding the space assigned 
to the review. It was, however, believed that the bibliography would 
be of buch value to the geologists of this and other countries as to war- 
rant its separate publication. Accordingly, it was annotated, so mod- 
ified as to include a subject-index under the same alphabetic arrange- 
ment as the author's bibliography, and so extended as to become ex- 
haustive for North America; aud thus modified it will form Bulletin No. 
44 of the U. S. Geological Survey. 

It was originally intended, also, to include in this review a resume of 
the foreign contributions of the year to geologic philosophy; but this, 
too, finally proved impracticable, partly on account of the inaccessibil- 
ity of much of the literature, and partly on account of the limits of 
space and time. 

By reason of hurried preparation, the abstracts in this review are 
often less full than seems desirable, and by reason of the character of 
the material the abstracts are generally ijresented more or less discon- 
nectedly. It is believed, however, that all important publications dis- 
tributed during 188G, or bearing that date and received early in the 
present year, are noticed in the following pages. With the exception 
of a few words of introduction or connection, the writer has acted sim- 
ply as an abstractor, and has endeavored to avoid bias or ijartiality. 

QUATERNARY. 

1. No subject in American geology is now receiving more attention 
than that including the many interesting problems of the Quaternary. 
Each year brings forth a considerable mass of literature in which con- 

189 



190 RECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

tributious are made to this subject. lu au address before the Ameri- 
can Association in 1880, Chamberliu* summarized the results attained 
up to that time, especially those relating to drift i)henomena. The 
following is a very brief abstract of his conclusions : Three phases 
are recognized in the course of the uudulatory drift border: (1) a 
thickened edge or terminal moraine ; (2) a thin margin ; and (3) an 
attenuated border of scattered pebbles. The morainic border prevails 
from the Atlantic to the Ohio, while attenuated borders reach thence 
to the Eocky Mountains. Attenuated borders delimit an earlier ice- 
incursion, and the morainic border a later one. The interval be- 
tween the two principal glacial epochs is represented by changes 
of orographic attitude and drainage ; by different degrees of erosion, 
decomposition, and ferrugination ; and by vegetal accumulations and 
lacustrine oscillations. The chief iuterglacial epoch was marked by 
great erosion. The drifts are grouped into the earlier, embracing two 
or more subdivisions, and the later, embracing several subordinate 
phases; also a third series, embracing the Great Basin deposits of 
aqueous origin. Of bowldery clays at least three genetic classes are 
recognized: (1) the subglacial ; (2) the englacial or snperglacial ; (3) 
the subaqueous; and perhaps (4] tills ridged transversely by the thrust 
of the margin of the ice. Of moraines, terminal, lateral, medial, and 

interlobate are described; and of forms e^ ouud moraine the following 

are enumerated: (1) till tumuli; (2) mammillary and lenticular hills; (3) 
elongated parallel ridges; (4) drift billows; (5) crag and tail; (6) pre- 
crag and combings; and (7) veneered hills; the first three being grouped 
under the term " drumlins." Of the assorted drifts, two classes com- 
monly embraced are excluded: (I) the "orange sands," commonly 
regarded as Champlain de[X)sits, because there is great uncertainty in 
regard to their age, and good reason to believe that they are not Cham- 
I)laiu; (2) drifts reworked by uon glacial agencies. Omitting these, two 
classes there are recognized; (1) those that gathered immediately within 
and beneath the ice body itself, or against its margin, and (2) those 
borne to distances beyond its limit by glacial drainage. Of the first, 
there are the products (a) of snperglacial streams; (6) of moulins ; (c) of 
subglacial streams; {d) of streams in ice-canons; and (e) debouchure 
deposits at the glacial margin. The importance of the distinction be- 
tween kames and osars is urged. Of valley drift the intermediate 
phases are pass^ over, and attention is directed to two extreme 
phases: {a) the moraine-headed valley trains and (b) the loess, the 
former the deposit of vigorous glacial floods, the latter inferred to be 
the product of slack drainage. Attention is directed to the ice-blocked 
ancient lakes, especially of the greater basins, to the overflow phenom- 
ena, and to the difference between ancient and existing water levels. 
Finally, the current interpretations of glacial phenomena, and specula- 



Am. Assoc, Proc, vol. 35, pp. 195-211; Science, vol. 8, pp. 156-159. 



NOKTII AMEKICAN GEOLOGY. 191 

tions respecting the origin of the glacial epoch are discussed, and the 
hypothesis that the regional refrigeration of the glacial time was 
brought about by shifting of the terrestrial poles is favorably presented. 

2. In a paper on " Xorth America in the Ice Period"* Newberry dis- 
cusses the iceberg theory and glacial climate, and states very forcibly 
the objections to the former and to Whitney's theory of the latter. It 
is shown that the iceberg theory is inapplicable to the mountainous 
districts of the West, and can not be reconciled to such phenomena in 
the East as (1) the widely different altitudes of glaciation within short 
distances; (li) the entire independence of the principal glacial features 
of altitude in the vicinity of the terminal moraine ; (3) the driftless area 
of Wisconsin ; (4) the complete absence of marine shells in the inland 
drift deposits ; and (5) the characteristic effects of the erosion when 
compared with glaciers now in existence. 

3. Branner makes some very interesting observations on the relation 
of topography to the glacial flow in the Wyoming and Lackawanna 
valleys, Pennsylvania, a district of sharp relief and uumerous rock 
outcrops. Two systems of strife are found, one parallel to the general 
southward slope of the country, and produced by the flow of the great 
mass of ice in that direction, and another system determined entirely 
by the local topography, and apparently due to the effect of the latter 
upon the ice sheet when it was greatly reduced in thickness.t 

The same writer| discusses the greatest elevation of glaciation in 
northeastern Pennsylvania, finding that the glacier overrode peaks 
2,200 feet in height, which White and Lewis considered islands above 
the level of glaciation. These peaks are the Elk Mountains. Careful 
search has revealed unquestionable glacial stria3 on one of their sum- 
mits. 

4. Britton § finds driftless areas at a moderate height on the serpen- 
tine hills of Staten Island, a few^ miles north of the terminal moraine, 
which indicate a thickness of the ice of less than 200 feet. 

5. In a paper on the geology of Cincinnati, || James gives some in- 
teresting information on the local surface geology of that district, and, 
in view of the absence of glacial drift from the tops of some of the hills, 
doubts White's estimate that the glacial dam of tbe Ohio stood G45 feet 
above low water, as these hills are only 460 feet above at the highest 
point. 

6. Salisbury discusses the distribution of drift copper in the iTorthwest. 
As far as reported, it occurs over an area of nearly half a million square 
miles, extending as far as 600 miles south, and several hundred miles 
east and west, of Lake Superior. Fragments are especially plentiful at 

* Popular Science Monthly, vol. 30, Nov., 1886, pp. 1-11. 

t Am. Pbil. Soc. Proc, vol. 23, pp. 337-357. 

t Am. Jour. Sci., Hi, vol. 32, pp. 3G2-3G6. 

$ Nat. Sci. Assoc, of Staten Island, Proc, October, 1886. 

II CiQcinuati Soc. Nat. Hist., Jour., vol. 9, pp. 20-31 and 136-149. 



192 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Grand Traverse Bay, at the moutli of the Illiuois River, and along tlie 
lower part of the Wabash; but this may be due to fuller records from 
these places. In general, it is found that the size of the masses de- 
creases as their distance from the Lake Superior region increases, and 
it is thought that, with some possible local exceptions, the latter has 
been its source.* 

7. In a paper on the geology in the vicinity of the ISTorthern Pacific 
Eailroad, Newberry t gives an account of his observations on the drift. 
In the Yellowstone Valley he was unable to find the evidences of the 
eastern drift reported by C. A. White, and considers the drift of the 
upper Missouri local in character. 

8. Oomstock describes some features of the drift in the Rocky Mount- 
ains of Wyoming and Colorado. All the glacial action is iuferred to 
have been local, but intense. In the San Juan district, and to a less 
extent elsewhere, a "distinct peculiarity lies in the duplex character of 
the erosion ; that is to say, there are two zones of glaciation vertically, 
the upper largely representing the transportative action, the lower 
being eroded without removal of the debris to any extent. The imper- 
fect drainage had fastened the ice sheet so that it could move as a unit 
only in the superficial portion, while the lower part acted like a slowly 
working plow, which cut deeply but not so extensively as the overlying 
mass. In the more elevated tracts, therefore, the lower portion often 
lies in grooves like culs-de-sac, and many of these exist to-day, connected 
with the main drainage often by reversed or indirect drainage." | 

9. In his paper on the Post-tertiary elevation of the Sierra Nevada, 
Le Conte incidentally discusses the later history of the Mississippi 
Basin. He concludes that during the Champlain period it was filled 
with 400 feet or more of deposits ; that in the terrace period elevation 
took place, and the present wide channel was cut, — not by cliff erosion 
as in the Grand Cation, but by shifting of the stream from side to side, 
and that in the present epoch there has been subsidence and, as shown 
by Hilgard, a refilling with about fifty feet of alluvium. § 

10. In a paper on the Geology of Long Island, F. J. H. Merri 11 makes the 
interesting statement that the morainal hills owe their elevation in great 
part to a series of folds at right angles to the course of the glacier, and 
involving the pre-glacial deposits. The deep bays in the north shore 
of the island appear to have been plowed across these flexed beds, and 
are found to be heavily flanked by ridges and hills. From the thinness 
of the till deposits south of Long Island Sound (except opposite its 
western extremity) it is thought that the depression was pre-glacial, 
and the ice sheet lost the loads of detritus in its lower portion and 
attached to its base in passing over the broader part of the Sound, 
only carrying across the bowlders and d6bris upon its surface. The 

* Wiscousin Acad. .Sci., etc., Trans., vol. 6, pp. 42-50. 
tNow York Acad. Sci., Auuals, vol. 3, pp. 242-270. 
t American Naturalist, vol. 20, Nov., 1886, pp. 925-927. 
§ Am. Jour. Sci. Iil, vol. 32, pp. 167-181. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 193 

stratified beds composing the greater mass of the formations of the 
island are unconformably overlain by the drift, but although they yield 
some fossils, their age is considered uncertain. Some of the clays ex- 
posed along the north shore may be Cretaceous, and other clays and 
sands are thought to be Tertiary, while the greater mass of tbe strati- 
fied sands and gravels are thought to represent the Post- pliocene of 
Sankaty Head and Gardiner's Island.* 

11. The same author reports the preliminary results of a detailed study 
of the Quaternary and recent formation of the coast region of New Jer- 
sey, made under the direction of the State geologist. Professor Cook.t 
An account is given of the subsidence of the coast anel the variations in 
its rate. It is found also that the ocean shore is wearing away and the 
winds and waves cause its recession westward. Beach and strand 
formation is discussed, and descriptions are given of the several beaches 
and their recent changes. 

12. In the introduction to this report | Professor Cook discusses the 
terraces of the coastal plain. They occur from 40 to 60 feet above tide, 
and it has been determined that th€\y slope southward at the rate of 
three inches to the mile. It is thought that the higher terraces mark 
the position of the ocean level at the close of the glacial period, and 
that there has been an uplift between that time and the present subsi- 
dence. 

13. On the northeastern corner of Staten Island Britton finds the 
morainal beds capping the finely stratified sands and clays along aline 
of contact between 25 and 30 feet above tide, indicating at least that 
amount of elevation since the glacial period, but there are other de- 
posits of pre-glacial drift of much greater elevation on the island, and 
some other areas have been recently discovered. § 

14. In a paper on the geology of Washington and vicinity, McGee 
gives an account of the Quaternary formations of that district. The city 
lies on the terraces of an amphitheater extending back from the Poto- 
mac. Up to an elevation of about 100 feet there is found a well-defined 
Quaternary deposit to which the name Columbia formation is applied. 
Its upper portion consists of loam or brick clay, varying from nothing to 
20 or 30 feet in thickness; and its lower, of sand, gravel, and bowlder 
beds, from a trifle to 20 feet in thickness, all more or less stratified 
throughout. It is thought that it represents a subaqueous delta of the 
Potomac Eiver, deposited during the period of formation of the terraces. 
Its absence from above tide on the eastern side of the amphitheater is 
attributed to a dislocation bounding the coastal plain, of which other 
evidence is also found. || 

* New York Acad. Sci. Annals, vol. 3, pp. 341-364. 

tNew Jersey Geological Survey, Annual Repoi-t of the State geologist for 1885, pp. 
61-95. 

( lb., pp. 55-61. 

^ Nat. Hist. Soc. of Staten Island, Proc. April, 1886. 

il District of Columbia, Report of the Health Officer for 1885, pp. 19-^1, 23, 24, 25; 
Am Joui., Sci. Ill, vol. 31, pp. 473-474. 

H. Mis. 600 13 



194 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

15. Smith describes a bed of clay inclosed in the Delaware gravels 
near Philadelphia. It contains remains of trees of species now living, 
and appears to be similar in age to the other clay beds farther up the 
Delaware valley.* 

16. D wight describes some very curious structural features in Oham- 
plain deposits in the Hudson valley near Newburgh. At the locality de- 
scribed there are three huge clay-filled pot-holes in a sand bed. These 
holes are in line, close together and elliptical in outline, with their 
longer axes at right angles to the Hudson. They appear to be in a 
faulted block of the sand, and the fault line on one side is marked by a 
hard wall composed of sand cemented by carbonate of linie.t 

17. Ashburner and Hill | describe the buried valley of the Susque- 
hanna between Pittston and Kingston, in Luzerne County, Pa., and 
discuss the former channel of that river and its peculiarities; Ash- 
burner describes the Archbald potholes in the same vicinity, and from 
their position considers them either due to water flowing beneath the 
glacier or over its edge.§ 

18. Dawson describes the bowlder drift and sea margins at Little 
Metis, Lower St. Lawrence. The bowlder drift occurs in belts exposed 
at low tide, and extending out to some distance from the shore. The first 
or shore terrace seldom holds bowlders, but farther inland there is a ter- 
race 30 feet higher, consisting of sand resting on hard bowlder clay or 
till, the latter sometimes being filled with bowlders and at others with 
marine shells. Higher up huge bowlders are found perched upon the 
bare rocks, the latter being rough and showing no sign of polishing 
except near the second terrace. It is thought that these phenomena 
can not be ascribed to land ice, and are similiar to those of the Lower 
St. Lawrence generally, except in some lateral valleys on the northern 
shore, where local glaciers appear to have descended. || 

10. Lamplugh describes the glacial shell beds of British Columbia, 
adding detail to Dawson's previous descriptions. The beds at Esqui- 
mault, Vancouver's Island, lie in a gully in polished and striated dio- 
rite. The shells are abundant in the lower layers of the clays, and 
decreasing in number upward, are absent ten feet from the surface. It 
is thought that the beds were shoved up into this gully by the ice in 
its flow down the channel, as they dip steeply shoreward and are often 
disturbed. H 

20. Gilbert has discussed two instances of post-glacial deformation. 
First, in a paper on the inculcation of scientific method by example, 
he incidentally investigates the cause of the elevation of the center 
of the Bonneville Basin. It is supposed that this great Quaternary 

*Philadelpliia Acad. Sci. Proc. vol. 37, pp. 253-254. 

t Vassar Bro's lust. Trans., vol. 3, pp. 86-97. 

t Second Geological Survey of Pa., annual report for 1885, pp. 637-647. 

^Ib., 615-637. 

II Canadian Record of Science, vol. 2, pp. 36-38. 

U Geol. Soc, Quarterly Jour., vol. 42, pp. 276-286. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 195 

lake slightly depressed the earth's crust, atul that on its evaporation 
the normal conditions were resumed and the lake bed and terraces 
elevated.* The same writer called the attention of the American As- 
sociation to several small anticlinal ridges in the rocks of western 
New York, which are believed to have resulted from horizontal expan- 
sion of superficial strata consequent on post-glacial amelioration of 
climate.t 

21. Niagara Falls. — At the Buffalo meeting of the American Associa- 
tion there was a general discussiofi of the various questions connected 
with the chronology of Niagara Falls, which was taken part in by Gil- 
bert, Chamberlin, Hall, Pohlman, Claypole, Woodward, Wright, Davis, 
Comstock, and Holly. It was shown by Gilbert that the Niagara River 
probably began its work at the close of the glacial period, when the 
retreating ice opened the St. Lawrence Valley and separated the two 
lakes, Erie being held back by the Niagara escarpment. Consequently 
the age of the Niagara River is a measure of Post quaternary time. 
The rate of recession determined by comparison of a recent survey by 
Woodward with those of Hall in 1842 and the United States Engi- 
neers in 1875 would require seven thousand years for the excavation 
of the G miles of gorge. A number of considerations, however, qualify 
this estimate, and they are summarized as follows: 

" At stages of recession earlier than the present there was a thinner 
body of limestone to be undermined and removed ; there was a deeper 
exposed body of shale; the water plunged from a greater height; the 
water was concentrated in a narrower channel; it carried more floating 
ice ; and all these differences tended to make the rate of recession faster. 
The rate may also have been influenced by variations in the amount of 
detrital load (a tool of erosion), by variations in the solvent i)0wer of 
the water, and by variations of its volume due to changes of climate or 
catchment basin. The catchment basin was formerly extended by in- 
cluding part of the area of the ice sheet, but it may have been abridged 
by the partial diversion of Laurentian drainage to other courses. 

"The problem admits of expression in an equation : 

Li \ e Length of gorge 
"Age of gorge = ^ ?' — ■ 

Rate of recession of falls 

— effect of antecedent drainage 

— " " thinner limestone 

— " " thicker shale 

— " " higher fall 

— " " narrower cross section 

— " " more floating ice 

± " " variations of detrital load 

± " " chemical changes 

± " " changes of river volume." J 

*Aiu..Jonr. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 284-209, and pi. 

t Proceedings, vol. 35, p. 227. 

tAm. Assoc. Proc, vol. 35, pp. 222, 223, 



196 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

22. Poblman advances the opinion tliatin pre-glacial time a small lake 
occupied the valley between the Niagara and Corniferons escarpments, 
and drained northward along the line of the present Niagara gorge as 
far as the whirlpool, and thence down the now drift-filled valley to St. 
David's'. There appears to have been no great cataract, but three 
small falls over the ledges of hard beds, and the stream was joined at 
the whirlpool by a branch from the present lower channel. The chan- 
nel of the Niagara above the Falls was apparently iu part cut by the 
reversal of this drainage into Lake Erie by some agency of the ice age. 

These opinions lead to the conclusion that after the lakes were sepa- 
rated at the close of the glacial period the Niagara River had only to 
clean out the drift-filled channels of the main pre-glacial stre im to the 
whirlpool and thence of its branch to the present outlet. Tliis explana- 
tion of the history of the Niagara gorge would greatly- decrease the time 
estimate, but as the amount of work accomplished by the pre-glacial 
drainage is not known, no figures can be suggested.* 

23. Claypole discusses the drainage relations of the great lakes, and 
shows that Chicago would be at their foot rather than head if the ele- 
vation at Black Rock, near Buffalo, was 20-odd feet highei', so as to 
cause the drainage of the lakes to flow through the Chicago River into 
the Mississippi. It is thought that the channel was cut in its present 
position owing to a glacial ice dam in the Straits of Mackinaw during 
the retreat of the glacier, which prevented the westward tiow antl ne- 
cessitated the excavation of the present channel.t 

24. Lalxe Lalwntan. — Russell's long-delayed monograph | on Lake La- 
hontan has at last appeared, and the many matters of interest connected 
with this great fossil lake are discussed in detail. The various quivs- 
tious of sedimentation, shore phenomena, chemical deposition, etc., are 
treated at length in their bearing on the history of the lake, the Avhole 
forming a most important contribution to geologic science. It is only 
possible here to give a general r6sum6 of the principal conclusions. 
The lake filled a compound orographic basin, resulting from tlie tilting 
of faulted blocks, and received the drainage from many thousands of 
square miles of surrounding country, with its mechanical load and mat- 
ter iu solution. Its history is taken up at a tune of long aridity, which 
was followed by a period in which the water covered nearly its maxi- 
mum area and deposited lacustrine marls and clays exceeding 150 feet 
in thickness. It then evaporated away, with many minor oscillations, 
and deposited vast quantities of impure carbonate of lime in a stony 
form of tufa termed lithoid, while stream channels were carved in the 
lacustral beds and current-bedded gravels and sands were su])erimposed 
on the previously formed beds. Another rise of the lake followed, with 
the dei)osition of another lacustral series, and when about half-way to 

* Am. Assoc. Proc, vol. 3n, pp. 221, 222. 

\ Ibid., pp. 222; American Naturalist, Oct., 188G, vol. 20, pp. 857, ft seq. 

|. U. S. Geological Survey, Mouograph No. 11, p. 288, plates aud map. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 197 

its former level it appears to liave been highly charged with saline mat- 
ter, whicli was deposited as a crystalline tufa, of which thiuolite is the 
pseudomorph. This stage was probably closed by a rise of the lake and 
consequent dilution, and the dentritic tufa was deposited, overlapping 
the thinolitic and extending up against the lithoid. The rise continued 
and the lake finally attained its highest level, covering an area of over 
8,000 square miles, with a depth at greatest of 886 feet. It then carved 
the Lahontan terrace, after which it evaporated away, jirobably to com- 
plete dessication, forming terraces at different altitudes and depositing 
a thin coat of tufa. The present lakes are of recent origin. 

25. Volcanic dnst deposits in the West. — In an examination of some 
Pliocene sandstones, collected by Peale in Montana and Idaho, G. P. 
Merrill* discovered that they are principally composed of particles of 
volcanic glass and other finely fragmental products of vulcanism. It was 
soon after found that the sand adhering to fossil bones in the Niobrara, 
Loup Fork, and Sweetwater regions was of similar composition, and 
other sandstones of the same character were received from Arizona, 
Colorado, and from Norton and Phillips County, Kansas, showing the 
wide distribution of deposits of this kind in the West. 

26. Peale, in a letter to Science, describes Montana deposits similar 
to the Loup Fork beds. The volcanic dust in both instances appears 
to have been ejected high into the air from some vent and to have fallen 
directly into the lake, as the fineness of the particles bears no relation 
to the proximity of the ancient shore.f 

27. Todd announces the discovery of beds of volcanic dust in Ne- 
braska, where they are associated with what appear to be ice-lloe beds 
of drift. He considers them to have been deposited during the Quater- 
nary, and probably at one stage of King's Lake Cheyeune.| 

SOUTHERN TERTIARY. 

The controversy on the order of succession of the Tertiary beds of the 
Gulf States is still kept up by Meyer, who persists in his theory that the 
Grand Gulf group is the base of the series, in opposition to many ob- 
servers. 

28. Hilgard, in a letter to Science, severely criticises Meyer for neglect- 
ing the previous literature and persistently ignoring well-known facts 
disproving his theory. He declares, for instance, that the statement, 
liointedlj" made and verified innumerable times, that "the sandstone of 
the Grand Gulf group is found overlying the Vicksburg strata gener- 
ally along the southern line of the Vicksburg grou[)" is entirely disre- 
garded, although Meyer was often near the outcrops at which this could 
be plainly seen ; and again, that in referring to the re appearance of the 
Jackson shell bed at one point on the Chickasaw Eiver south of the 

* Am. Jour. Sci., in, 33, pp. 199-204. 
t Science, vol. 7, p. 1G3-1G5. 
\ Hid, p. 373. 



198 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

main belt, Meyer entirely overlooks tbe fact that it is there directly over- 
lain by the very characteristic Orhitoldes limestone of the Yicksburg 
yroup, under which it disappears southward.* 

29. A few mouths later Langdou describes a section along the Pearl 
River, observed at verj^ low water, from Jackson to Yazoo City, iu which 
a general southern dip is found, and the Jackson beds underlie the Orhi- 
toides limestone, although the exact contact was not observed. Sections 
are described at St. Stepheu's Bluff, Bladen's Springs, near Enterprise, 
west of Meridian and near Claiborne, confirming the general oi)inion as 
to the relations of the Vicksburg, Jackson, aud Claiborne beds.t 

30. In July Meyer makes another contribution to the question, giving 
an account of a special visit to the region. Owing to high water in the 
rivers he was obliged to rely upon exposures in railroad cuts but found 
the latter very satisfactory. An abstract of his results is as follows : 
Between Pelahatchee and Brandon the Grand Gulf strata are found 
for five miles at a higher level than the Marine Tertiary west of it, and 
which are either nearly horizontal or dip strongly westward. At Bran- 
don the marine strata dip over the grand gulf clays, and at the contact 
have only a thickness of two feet. He can not find a single instance in 
M'hich the Grand Gulf may be seen in actual superposition on the Ma- 
rine Tertiary, but on the contrary finds two localities where strata which 
can not be distinguished from Grand Gulf may be seen actually overlain 
by Marine Tertiary, and in one case uncon form ably. 

The Grand Gulf formation is considered to be, at least in greater part, 
non-marine. A thick and extended marine greensand formation is found 
in eastern Mississippi, which carries a Claibornian fauna approaching 
tlie Jacksonian, and is thought to be parallel to the strata immediately 
below the claibornian profile. | 

31. Heilpriu reports on Tertiary fossils from several localities in the 
Gulf States. Some specimens from San Augustine County, Tex., are 
thought to represent the "Claibornian" horizon, and are from deposits 
probablj" in the Jacksonian area. Some specimens from Paducah, 
Ky., indicate the Lower Eocene; and N. Floridanus and other species 
from near Gainesville, Florida, confirm his opinion of the broad ex- 
tent of the southern JSTummelitic formation and the relative antiquity of 
the Florida peninsula.§ The same author has issued the second part of 
his paper on the west coast of Florida || in advance of the first; but this 
incomplete publication can not fairly receive attention in this review. 

32. Kost^ gives a preliminary account of the geology of Florida, in 

* Science, vol. 7, p. 11. 
t Am. Jour. Sci., ni, vol. 31, pp. 202-209. 
t Ibid., vol. 32, pp. 20-25. 

^N Philadelphia Acad. Sci. Proc, vol. 37, pp. 57-5H. 

II Exploratious onthe West, Coast of Florida and iu the Okeechobie Wilderness [etc.], 
pp. 65-127, imp. 8vo, Philadelphia, 1886. 
If American Assoc. Proc, vol. 35, p. 231. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 199 

which it is stated that the peuiusula does not consist of a sand bank 
deposited upon a coral reef, but of Tertiary and more recent strata con- 
tinuous with these formations farther north and west. 

MESOZOIC OF THE EASTERN UNITED STATES. 

Trias. — Many of the important questions connected with this familiar 
formation still remain unanswered, but over most of its area several 
systematic surv^eyshave been in progress for some time, and interesting 
results may be expected from Davis's investigations in the Connecticut 
valley, Dartou's detailed study of the New Jersey and New York dis- 
trict, and Russell's researches on the liichmond coal field and in the 
Southern States. 

33. During the past year Davis has proposed a hypothesis to account 
for the general monoclinal structure of the Trias, especiallj^ of the 
east-dipping beds of the Connecticut Yalley. He finds in this district 
that the formation is traversed by numerous faults, mostly with the up- 
throw on the eastern side and parallel to the belts of crystalline rocks 
which form the Trias basin, and strike under aud across it at a small 
angle. The Triassic rocks were originally deposited on the smoothed- 
off' upturned edges of these crystalline rocks, and the hypotheses de- 
mand that, wheu the latter yielded to a deep-seated horizontal pressure, 
the bottom of the basin was deformed and the formation faulted. The 
mechanism of this process is explained as follows : 

Wheu the whole mass was crushed, so as to diminish its measure from 
east to west, it may be supposed that one of the easiest wa^'s of yield- 
ing to the crush was by a little slipping of slab on slab, whereby their 
incliuation should steepen and their horizoutal measure decrease. If 
the crushing were more severe near the surface than at great depths, 
a shearing force would be introduced, that might, if necessary, throw 
the slabs over past the vertical, aud thus produce reversed dips. As 
slab slips on slab, the formerly horizontal beveled surface of every one 
is canted over, so as to dip in oue direction at an angle equal to the 
change of the inclination of the slabs ', and the surface of every slab is 
separated from that of its neiglibors by faults with upthrow ou the 
side of the direction of dip. The Triassic cover is not strong enough 
to bridge across from ridge to ridge of the uueven surface thus pro- 
duced ; its weight is much greater thau its strength can bear, and it 
perforce follows the deformatiou of its foundation, and thereby acquires 
a faulted monoclinal attitude. The explanation of the Triassic mono- 
clinal may therefore be included in the following general statement. 
Wherever unconformable masses are deformed together, the structure 
given to the lesser relatively superficial mass must depend iu great 
part ou the changes iu the surface shape of the greater deeper ma,ss 
below.* 

The principal evidence in favor of this hypothesis is the occurrence 
of the observed faults and their parallidism with the belts of crystalline 
rocks w^hich strike across the Triassic areas at a small angl,\ These 

* Amencau Assoc. Proc, vol. 35, pp. 224-227 ; Am. Jour. Sci., ii, vol. 32, pp. 342-352. 



200 RECOED OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

faults r.re odIj determinable in the trap shee's of tbe formation, and it 
is found that the curvature of these and the overlap of their various 
outcrops is caused by the slight and varying d.fferences between the 
rango of the fault lines and the strike of the beds. 

The discovery of these faults indicate that the thickness of the forma- 
tiou in the Connecticut Valley is very much less than formerly supposed, 
for the repetition of beds produced by the upthrow of tbe dislocations 
is always on the side of the direction of dip, allowing a moderate thick- 
ness of strata to cover a broad surface area, and causing Irequeut out- 
crops of the edges of the four or five trap sheets. 

34. The old notion that all the Triassic traps were intrusive is dying 
out, largely owing to the work of Davis, who has found that in the Conn- 
ecticut Valley the greater part of the trap has been poured out in broad 
sheets as contemporaneous lava flows, and has pointed out the proba- 
bility that the great masses forming the mountains in New Jersey are 
of the same character ; a conclusion which is reached also by Iddings* 
from a study of the columnar structure and microscopic character of 
one of the sheets near Orange, New Jersey. 

The Holy ok 3 trap ranges of the Connecticut Valley have been con- 
sid red overflows by Hitchcock and Davis, and this opinion is confirmed 
by Emerson t from a very detailed study in Massachusetts, whore he 
finds the trap to consist of two sheets. Rice | gives an account of the 
relations found in the same ridge where it is crossed by tho Farmingtou 
River, in Connecticut, and the two sheets and the surface features of the 
lower flow are exposed. 

35. The question of the age of the Trias is as yet certainly known only 
in a general way. Newberry considers the formation the equivalent of 
Rhaetic beds of Germany from its flora, and states that while its fish 
remains are mostly peculiar, they are more closely related to the Jura 
and Cretaceous of the older world than to the Permian, and in the 
Connecticut Valley represent groups confined to the foreign Jura. He 
finds also that representatives of the Muschelkalk and Buuter are 
wanting in the United States, and he considers the Ammonites, etc., 
of Humboldt County, Nev., and the plants of Abiquiu, New Mex. 
ico, and Los Broces, Sonora, to be Upper Triassic. He points out 
that since no distinctly marked Jurassic fossils have been found east of 
the Mississippi, and since the well-marked Jurassic of the Black Hills, 
Utah, etc., overlies the Trias, tue use of the term Jura-Trias seems un- 
warranted; and he supposes that the Permian proper of Europe, as 
represented by the Zechstein and cui)riferous schists, has not been 
found in America, and that there is here a break between the Upper 
Carboniferous and the Trias.§ 

* Am. Jour. Sci., iii., vol. 31, pp. 321-331 and pi. 

t American Assoc. Proc, vol. 35, pp. 233-234. 

tAm. Jour., Sci., in. vol. 32, pp. 430-433. 

§ New York Acad. Sci. Trans., vol. 5, pp. 18-19; Am. Jour. Sci., in vol. 31, p. 154. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 201 

36. Younger Mesozoic. — The age of the Xew Jersey clays and marls has 
been briefly discussed by Cook,* Whitfield, t and Xewberry.^ The lat- 
ter considers the mnrls equivalent to the chalk of Europe and the 
marine Cretaceous of Colorado. Whitfield sees no reason to "dispute 
the notion generally held that the lower marl bed of the State is 
equivalent to 'No. 4,' or the Fort Pierre group of the Upper Missouri." 
Newberry states his o[)inion that the Earitan clays are at the horizon 
of the upper greensand of Europe and the Dakota of the West ; an 
opinion shared by Cook. Whitfield thinks the fauna is in some re- 
spects allied to that of the Jura, and is inclined to consider the group 
the Eastern representative of that formation. 

37. McGee, in a paper on the geology of Washington and vicinity, de- 
scribes the newer Mesozoic, whieh occupies a wide area in that district 
and is there called the Potomac formation. The ujiper part is made 
up of highly colored clays, with sand and gravel ; the lower part is 
sand and gravel, with intercalations of clay. Stratification is often ab- 
sent, and the materials are sometimes intermingled. The formation 
appears " to consist of inosculating deltas of the Potomac and other 
Atlantic-coast rivers and the littoral deposits into which they merge, 
laid down along a bay-indented coast upon a highly inclined and irreg- 
ular sea-bottom, produced by combined depression and seaward tilting 
of a deeply corraded surface in late Jurassic or early Cretaceous time."§ 
Newberry considers the Potomac formation Neocomian in age. 

PALEOZOIC OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 

3'>. President Dawson, in his address before the British Association, 
discussed the origin of the American Paleozoic sediments, and stated 
his preference for the theory that they were derived from Arctic 
lands and deposited similarly to the great sand banks of the Atlantic 
coast. Hull. II in a letter to Nature, opposes this idea on the ground of 
the character of the deposits and the inadequacy of the currents, 
especially if tliere was no coast to determine their course. He restates 
his opinion that the sediments were deposited off-shore from a very 
wide land surface in the region of the present Atlantic Ocean, " toward 
which the sediments thicken, and opposite to that in which the lime- 
stones are most developed."^ Dana** and Le Conteft disagree with 
Dawson and Hull in considering the Paleozoic land surface to have 

* Branchiopoda aud Lamellibrancliia of the Raritau Clays aud Greeusaud Marls 
of New Jersey, by Whitfield, pji. ix-Xlli. 

i Ibid., pp. xvi-xx. 

t New York Acad. Sci., Trans., vol. 5, pp. 18-19. 

§ District of Columbia, Report of Health Officer for 1885, pp. 19-21, aud Am. Jour. 
Sci., Ill, vol. 31, pp. 473-474. 

II Canadian Record Science, vol. 2, pp. 201-228, 265-285, aud elsewhere, 

1[ Vol. 34, p. 496. 

** Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 32, pp. 407-4C8. 

ttGeql. Magazine, vol. 3, pp. 97-101 and 189-190. 



202 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

included all or part of the Archean now exposed in New England and 
southward, and not to have extended any great distance eastward. 

39. Slialer describes the geology of the Cobscook Bay district, near 
Eastport, Maine, where he finds a series including Devonian, Silurian, 
and perhaps Archean members, intermingled at various horizons with 
lava flows, intruded sheets and dikes, and at some points with beds of 
fragmental volcanic rocks, as ash and breccia. The sedimentary rocks' 
are in greater part fine-grained sandstones and dark-colored shales, with 
occasional thin beds of limestone. The ash beds are found interbedded 
with fossiliferous strata at several horizons, and one bed, just below a 
shale tentatively referred to the Hamilton, is 500 feet in thickness. The 
volcanic activity appears to have been greatest to the northeastward, as 
the extravasated matter decreases in amount in the opposite direction. 
The igneous rocks are in greater part felsites and felsite porphyries, but 
other varieties are found. The entire stratified series, with a very few 
exceptions, has an easterly dip of from 20° to 60°, and the beds are 
much compressed and their fossils contorted. The principal faults 
range ISTilE. and SSW., with a subordinate series at right angles, and 
the dikes generally occur along the fault lines. Provisional names have 
been applied to the formations, but there is still some doubt about their 
relation to each other and to other beds along the coast. The basal 
rocks are crystalline and thought to be Laurentian. Upon them lie 
what is termed the Campobello group, consisting of about 4,000 feet at 
least of slaty beds without observed fossils, and ]nobably Cambrian or 
Siluro-Cambrian in age. Tiiey are unconformabl}' overlain by the Cobs- 
cook group, which also has a thickness of about 4,000 feet. Its upper 
part yields a Devonian fauna somewhat resembling that of the Hamil- 
ton, and the Lower Helderberg and other Silurian groui)S are thought 
to be recognized farther down ; but the species are mixed and not al- 
ways determinable. The uppermost group is the Perry series, which 
constitutes over 2,000 feet of coarse red sandstones, conglomerates, and 
reddish shales, apparently Upper Devonian or Subcarboniferous.* 

40. At a meeting of the New Brunswick Natural History Society,t 
Matthew states that on Frye's Island he has recognized the same suc- 
cession of Silurian strata as is found on the Mascariue shore of Passa- 
maquoddy Bay, and that the belt of red conglomerate extending from 
Black's Harbor toward Eastport is Devonian. 

41. In a report of studies of parts of northern and western New Bruns- 
wick, Bailey describes the distribution, stratigraphy, and structure of 
the several formations and discusses their horizons. The Carboniferous 
is represented in its upper part by gray sandstones, grading downward 
into bright-red conglomerates and shales of the Lower Carboniferous, 
which also contains great masses of volcanic material, and in some lo- 
calities beds of limestone and gypsum. The supposed Devonian is rep- 

*Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 32, pp. 35-60. 
t Bulletin No. 5, p. 38. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 203 

resented by a very liinitetl area yielding- plant remains. The Silurian 
consists in greater part of slate, with thick beds of limestone, approxi- 
mately Lower Helderberg in age. The members of the Cambrian-Sihi- 
riau series are mostly slates and sandstones greatly disturbed, and in 
some places graduating into beds of micaceous schists.* 

42. Messrs. Seely and Brainard describe the geology in the vicinity of 
Fort Cassin, Vermont, near the shore of Lake Champlain. The district 
is one of simple monoclinal structure, with gentle dips. The strata are 
Lower Silurian limestone, some beds of which yielded a fauna of many 
new species, which are described and tigured by Whitheld, who also dis- 
cusses the horizon of the beds.t 

43. Darton, in apaper on the Upper Silurian at Corn wall Station, Orange 
County, IS'ew York, describes an outlier of Lower Helderberg limestone 
lying upon beds of conglomerates and shales, forming an outlier far dis- 
tant from the main mass of the formation. The Water-Lime, Pentame- 
rous and Delthyris Shaly are recognized by abundant fauna. The beds 
are uptilted at a high angle, and the greatest exposed thickness is about 
100 feet, the outcrop having a length of about half a mile along a ISTISTE. 
and SS W. strike. | The same writer announces the approximate Magara 
age of the fossiliferous limestone associated with the Green Pond Mount- 
ain series at Upi>er Longwood, and in Newfoundland, New Jersey, which 
had been considered Trenton by Cook.§ 

44. S. G-. Williams gives an account of additional observations upon the 
westward extension of rocks of Lower Helderberg age in New York. 
He finds the group, including all above the Water-Lime, to be represented 
at least as far west as Cayuga Lake by limestones not less than 65 feet 
in thickness, and carrying an unmistakable fauna. The gypsiferous 
limestone of Cayuga County holds a mixed Teutaculite and Lower 
Pentamerous fauna. At the outlet of Skaneateles Lake and at the Oris- 
kany Falls, near Utica, the formation is represented by the Tentaculite 
limestones, which at the last-named place is overlain by mixed Lower 
Pentamerous and Delthyris Shaly. From the increasing indistinctness 
of the divisions, and the predominance of the lower portion of the 
Lower Helderberg to the westward and of the Saliua Group to the 
eastward, it is concluded that the two groups may have been deposited 
simultaneously, or at least so in part. |1 TLie same author, in a paper on 
the Tally limestone of New York, calls attention to its outcrop line and 
flexures, and gives an account of its fauna, which includes 120 species.^ 

45. Pohlman describes a well-hole near Buffalo, New York, in which 
1,305 feet of Onondaga strata were pierced, the well ending in soft 

* Canada Geol. Survey, Report for 1885. 

t American Mus. Nat. Hist. Bulletin, vol. 1, pp. 293-348, and pis. 
t Am. Jour. Sci., iii, vol. 31, pp. 209-216. 
§ Hunt's Mineral Physiology and Physiography, j). 591. 
II Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 1.39-145. 
H Am. Assoc. Proc, vol. 35, pp. 213, 214. 



204 R15C0RD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

shale at its lower part; a fact iiulicatiiii^' tliat the Niagara group must 
either thin rapidly from its outcrop or increase considerably in dip.* 

46. Wrightt gives an account of a salt mine at Piffard,in western New 
York, where a shaft has beeu sunk 1,105 feet to beds of salt which ag- 
gregate 80 feet in thickness within 200 feet. 

Wohlmanu finds that Sherwood has overlooked the occurrence of 
Oriskanyin Lycoming County, Pennsylvania, for he has been able to 
trace it for some miles in an inconspicuous ridge on both sides of the 
great anticlinal, and separating the Lower Helderberg and Marcellus, 
which are shown to come together on the Second Geological Survey 
map.| 

47. The Clinton grou}) of Ohio is the subject of a memoir by Foerst, 
and while it is only ])reliminary to a more extended and detailed 
report, it describes the fauna and many of the outcrops. The term 
Clinton is only used provisionally, as the formation is very closely re- 
lated to the Niagara, and has only been distinguished from the latter 
by being richly fossiliferous and separated by a few inches of clay or 
marl. Its fauna does not differ materially from that of the Niagara, and 
both are limestones of similar character. The so-called Clinton is only 
from 10 to 15 feet in thickness in western Ohio, but is somewhat greater 
farther eastward. It is unconformable by erosion to the Cincinnati 
group, and holds pebbles of the latter often in considerable amount.§ 

In an economic description of the coal and iron of the Southern Ap- 
palachian, Porter || gives some account of the Clinton group in that 
district and describes some of its stratigraphic and structural features. 

Boyd.^ in a somewhat similar paper on southwestern Virginia and 
adjacent parts of Tennessee, describes the geology and gives some de- 
tailed information in regard to the structure of that region. 

48. In the continuation of their review of Rogers' Geology of the 
Virginias, the Campbells add some interesting and valuable statements 
on the structural and stratigraphic relations in western Virginia. The 
Niagara is stated to consist of alternating beds of conglomerates, hard 
sandstones and shales, calcareous in greater part in its upper members, 
and holding occasional beds of impure limestone. The occurrence of 
the Saliua in Virginia is thought to be open to question, but if it exists 
it is represented by calcareous shales, with occasional limestone beds 
in Rogers', No. V. The inseparability of the Silurian and Devonian at 
the base of the Oriskany is urged, as the rocks and fauna of the 
Lower Helderburg graduate into those of the Oriskany, and a much 
better line of division is found above the latter, w^here the Corniferous 

* Buffalo Soc. Nat. Hist. Bull., vol. 5, pp. 97-98. 
t Science, vol. 8, p. 52. 

t Philadelphia Acad. Sci. Jour., vol. :37, pp. 296-297. 
§Denisou University, Bulletin, pp. (55-120, aud plates. 
II American Inst. Mining Eng. Trans., 1886. 
1[ Ibid. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 205 

is wanting and tlio change in rock and fauna abrupt. The Mar- 
cellus, Hamilton, and Genesee form a group about 750 feet in thick- 
ness, which in its u[)per part hoUls fossiliferous limestone beds. The 
Catskill is a transition scries in every respect. The subdivisions of 
the Subcarbouiferous are well characterized the lower division bear- 
ing small quantities of coal, and is supposed to have furnished the salt 
of theHolston valley deposits.* 

49. In describing the coal district in Sullivan County, Pennsylvania, 
Ashburnert makes some observations on its general stratigraphy, and 
conside s White justified in assigning the whole of Wyoming County 
east of the Susiiuehanua to the Catsk 11 formation, but finds the sup- 
posed equivalency of some of the conglomerates n the Xorth Mountain 
region open to question. 

50. Tlie same author describes the occurrence of a thin bed of fossil- 
iferous lim stone in the anthracite coal measures in Wyoming vallej^', 
Pennsylvania. The fossils are reported upon by Heilprin, and are all 
of a most pronouuLcd Carboniferous type.| 

51. Li'ui and Linton report on an examination of borings from gas 
wells in Washington County, Pennsylvania, in which they find evidence 
of the occurrence of the mountain or silicious limestone, witli character- 
istics similar to those in the outcrops described b}^ Stevenson in the 
gaps of Laurel Hill and Chestnut Kidge. Its thickness is about 80 feet. 
It lie ! about 1,100 feet below the Pittsburgh coal, is 170 feet below the 
Piedmont sandstone, and is overlain by 30 feet of blick shales. § 

52. Ashburner reports on the examination of the coal beds in the Po- 
coMO formation (iSTo. X), at Ti[)ton Kuu, Blair County, Pennsylvania. 
The horizon of the beds is considered unquestionable. The coal is bi- 
tuminous, and one bed is as much as 3 feet in thickness. || The same 
author^] rei)orts on the progress of the elaborate survey which is now 
being made of the anthracite coal region, and while little matter of gen- 
eral geologic interest is presented, the report contains much special in- 
form :tion upon details of struc'ure, stratigraphy, ;jnd progress of the 
survey in several fields. 

53. Lesley discusses the horizon of the Wellersville coal bed and fire- 
clays. The former belo ig to the barren series, with the exception of a 
very small patch of outlying Pittsburgh, and are thought to represent 
the Piatt and Price Coleman and Philson beds of Berlin.** 

54. In a paper on the geology of the Pittsburgh coal region, the same 
author describes the coal beds and associated members, and discusses 

* Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 81, pp. 193-202. 

t Second Geological Survey of Peunsylvauia, Anaual Report for 1885, pp. 486-490, 
tibid., pp. 437-458; Wyomiag Hist, aud Geol. Society, Proc, vol. 2, pp. 254-264. 
$ Ibid., pp. 222-226. 

•II Secoud Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Annual Report of Progress for 1885, 
pp. 250-258. 
H Tbid., pp. 269-490. 
** Ibid., pp. 227-229. 



206 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

their horizons, equiv^aleucy, aud former extent. He calls atteutiou to 
some iuterestiog facts uot generally appreciated in regard to the west- 
ward thinning of the Paleozoic series. In central Pennsylvania the 
thickness of the Paleozoic rocks from the top of the Potsdam to the toj) 
of the Pottsville conglomerate is 26,000 foet and in central Ohio only 
3,500 feet, and there is a similar thinniug northward. Between the edge 
of the Alleghany Monntains, in Huntington County and Pittsburgh, the 
lower members of the Carboniferous system thin to one half. In dis- 
cussing the flexures of the coal district, discrimination is made between 
the great low rolls and the gentle plications of some of the Western 
basins. The former are thought to be part of those of the general Ap- 
palachian system, but the latter appear to be due to local subsidence at 
the time of the deposition, and by the shrinkage due to the compacting 
of the loose mass of organic matter now pressed into coal.* 

55. D'Invillierst gives a preliminary account of the general re-exam- 
ination of the Pittsburgh coal region, describing in detail a portion of 
Alleghany County. He sjieaks highly of the work of his predecessors, 
who determined the more general features, but it is now proposed to 
prepare contour maps of the coal beds, and very detailed work is con- 
templated. 

5G. McCalley reports on the study of the Warrior coal field of Alabama, 
and describes many details of its coal beds, structure, drift cover, soils, 
topography, etc. The Warrior field is stated to be a broad, shallow, 
tray-shaped depression, sloping southwesterly under the newer forma- 
tions, and much flexed and dislocated on its southeastern part. It is 
principally composed of sandstone, conglomerates, shales, slates, aud 
coal seams, with occasional beds of limestone. The country is plateau 
where underlain by the conglomerates, and this holds coals which thin 
southward. It is thought that in the basin district near Tuscaloosa 
there are 300 feet of coal measures, with nearly fifty seams of coal, aggre- 
gating 100 feet in thickness, and varying from a few inches to 14 feet 
each. Thirty-five are known to be 18 inches or over in thickness aud 
fifteen over 2i feet. They are thickest in the center of the basin and 
thin northwestward. I 

57. Hill calls atrention to the very exceptional occurrence of coal in 
the Carboniferous of Colorado. The coal is anthracite, and in very thin 
beds, probably in the Middle Carboniferous. § 

58. Hicks, II in a paper on the Permian of Nebraska, provisionally ap- 
plies the term to a group of strata along the valley of Blue River in 
Gage County. They consist of less than 200 feet of magnesian lime- 

* American lust. Mining Eng., Trans., 1886. 

t Secoufl Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Annual Report for 1885, pp. 125-221. 

I Alabama Geol. Survey, Report on Warrior Coal Field, pp. 571-80. 1886. 
$ Colorado Sci. Soc, Proc, vol. 2, pp. 25-26. 

II American Naturalist, Oct., 1886, vol. 20, pp. 881-883; Am. Assoc, Proc, vol. 35, 
pp. 216-217. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 207 

stone, quite distinct from the underlying coal-measure shales, and pos- 
sibly unconformable to them. Of the one hundred and twenty three 
coal- measure species in Nebraska, not more than a dozen pass upward 
into this group. The overlying Dakota group lies on its irregular 
eroded surface. It is thought that the old maps representing this 
formation, extending from the Kansas line to the Platte, are erroneous, 
as on the surface the group only appears to cover Gage and parts of 
the adjoining counties. Newberry, in discussing this paper, questions 
the propriety of calling the beds Permian, as their fauna is not charac- 
teristic, and expresses the opinion that this formation does not occur in 
America. Walcott stated that he regards some Arizona beds as good 
representatives of the Permian. 

59. Cornwall Iron Mines, Pennsylvania. — So many opinions have been 
held in regard to the position and origin of the ore beds at these im- 
portant mines, and the similar ones northward, that the papers on the 
subject which have appeared during the past year have more than usual 
general interest. One is Willis's long-delayed report of studies made 
in 1881 for the Tenth Census,* and the other is a very detailed report 
by Lesley and d'Invilliers t of work in 1885. These writers agree in 
considering the deposits entirely independent of the Mesozoic and to 
have been derived from calcareous shales or limestone into which they 
are found to graduate. Lesley and d'Invilliers, from a careful study of 
the structural relations, consider the horizon of the ore to be approxi- 
mately Trenton and apply the term " Cornwall Slates " to the extension 
of the unaltered shales along the Trias border. Willis suggests the 
possibility of the o;e representing the Upper Primal and that the lime- 
stones are above ihe ore; their apparent subordination at some points 
being due to cross faults, of which other evidence was found. Les- 
ley thinks that the ore body is separated from the adjoining Trias by 
a fault, but Willis and d'Invilliers do not share this opinion, consider- 
ing the overlap to be that of a simple shore line. Lesley and d'Invil- 
liers describe many details of the trap associated with the ore, and con- 
sider its curved outcrop due to branching dikes and intrusions along 
a slightly crumpled mouoclinal. 

CAMBRIAN AND TACONIC. 

The Taconic controversy is now rapidly approaching its end, and if 
discoveries of fossils and determinations of structural relations continue 
as in the past year or two, it will soon be satisfactorily terminated. 

The manner in which much of the literature on the subject has been 
received indicates that in this, as well as other questions of its class, 
nothing will be convincing to most geologists but the results of careful 

* Report on Mining Industries, pp. 223-234. 

t Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Annual Report for 1885, pp. 461-470, 
and pis., and by d'Invilliers, Am. lust. Mining Eng., Trans., 1886. 



208 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

systematic field-work — sometliiDf? the Taconic district had never re- 
ceived up to within a few years past. 

60. In regard to the use of the terra Taconic, opinions will always 
differ, whatever the issue. No one now questions the fact that Em- 
mons was the first to definitelj'^ call attention to the occurrence of a i^ri- 
mordial series in America, and notwithstanding the great opposition, 
much of which was prejudiced, persisted in his views. It seems unfor- 
tunate that his typical Taconic proves to be in greater part Lower Silu- 
rian ; but he also applied the term to other areas by lithologic anal, 
ogy, and as these are now found to be Cambrian, some will always be 
in favor of giving the name Taconic to this series as an honor to the 
geologist who first recognized the primordial in America. In the lit- 
erature ot the past year Winchell* is in favor of this. Walcott uses 
the term for his Middle Cambrian, but Danat is opposed to this on the 
grounds that Emmons's typical Taconic is not primordial, and that his 
application of the term to others arose from the very faulty supposition 
of identity of age in rocks of lithologic similarity. 

61. Walcott announced before the American Association his discov- 
ery of a Middle Cambrian or Georgian fauna in limestone in the slate, 
near Middle Granville, Washington County, New York. These slates 
aggregate 10,000 feet in thickness. The red slates of the same district 
are found to be of Hudson Kiver age. | 

62. Dwight calls attention to the occurrence of Trenton fossils in 
metamorphic limestone of Emmons's original Taconic, at Canaan, New 
York,§ and Bishop finds similar exposures at approximately the same 
horizon farther north, near Chatham and Kent, in Cohimbia County. || 
Dana discusses Dwight's discovery in its bearings on the Taconic ques- 
tion, and shows that the limestone is unipiestionably part of Emmons's 
original Taconic, and that the same strata comes upon the other side of 
the synclinal as the Stockbridge limestone, and is traceable for many 
miles northward into Vermont. It is conformably overlain by slates un- 
qnestionably Hudson River in age, which at some i)()iuts have yielded 
characteristic graptolites to Hall. The question of overthrust in the 
Taconic district is discussed, and it is shown that this could be easily 
detected if it existed to a suflicient extent to invert the order of 
succession, as in the Scottish Highlands. Some slightly overturned 
flexures occur, and most of the faults are overthrust to the eastward ; 
but these are purely local results and do not afiect the general problem. 
The absence of fossils and increasingly crystalline condition of the 
rocks eastward is thought to be due to an increased amount of meta- 
morphism in that direction.^ 

* Science, vol. 7, p. 34. 

t Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 242-243. 

t Amer. Assoc, Proc, vol. 35, p. 220-221. 

§ Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 248-2.'}6. 

li Ibid., vol. 32, pp. 438-441. 

'^Ibid., vol. 31, 241-248; vol. 32, pp. 236-239. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 209 

63. In his second contribution to the study of the Cambrian faunas 
Walcott discusses the classification of this series in the light of present 
knowledge of its stratigraphy and fauna. The Cambrian is shown to 
be as distinctly a system as the Silurian, Devonian, and others, being 
represented by over 18,000 feet of strata, with ninety- two genera and 
three hundred and ninety-three species, of which very few pass upward 
into the Ordovician, or so called Lower Silurian. Its subdivisions into 
upper, middle, and lower is shown to be required, and although the mid- 
dle is transitionary in fauna, it presents well-marked characteristics. 
A detailed description is given of the sections of Georgia, Vermont, 
and at Eureka, and in the highland ranges, Nevada, where the faunal 
and stratigraphic distinctions between the Middle or Georgian and the 
Upper or Potsdam is distinctly exposed. It is also shown that the 
Upper Cambrian or Potsdam of the Mississippi Valley is fauually dis- 
tinct from the Middle Cambrian, which, however, is not recognized in 
this district. The Lower Cambrian is only found east of eastern Mas- 
sachusetts, and is represented by the faunally characteristic series of St. 
Johns and Braintree, as there appears to have been a barrier up- to the 
end of the Lower Cambrian, preventing its extension to the eastward. 
The following table is given as a classification of North American Cam- 
brian rocks: 

i Lower portiou of the Calciferous formatiou of 
Lower Calciferous< New York and Canada; Lower Magnesian 
( of Wisconsin, Missouri, etc. 
r Potsdam of New York, Canada, Wisconsin, 
Upper Cambrian <( Texas, Wyoming, Montana, and Nevada; 

Potsdam, Knox,! Tonto of Arizona ; Knox Sliales of Tennes- 
Tonto. I see, Georgia, and Alabama. The Alabama 



section may extend down into the Middle 



^ [ Cambrian. 

Georgia formation of Vermont, Canada, and 

I New York; limestone of L'Anse an Loup, 

Middle Cambrian i Greorgia, L'Anse an ! Labrador ; lower part of Cambrian section 

) Loup Prospect. ] of Eureka and Highland Range, Nevada ; 

I upper portion of Wasatch Cambrian sec- 

l^ tion, Utah. 

fParadoxides beds of Braintree, Mass.; St. John, 

rSt. John, Brain- N. B. ; St. John's area of Newfoundland; 

Lower Cambrian J tree, Newfound- j Lower portion of Wasatch section, Utah. 

1 land, Wasatch, ) The Ocoee conglomerate and slates of East 

L Tennessee (?). | Tennessee are somewhat doubtfully in- 

t eluded. 

The Grand Canon, Chuar, Llano, and Keweenaw series are considered 
pre-Cambrian on account of unconformity with the unmistakable Cam- 
brian and their inconspicuous faynas. They are termed the Keweenaw 
group, and the interval between them and the Upper Cambrian is 
thought to be a hiatus equal to the Middle and Lower Cambrian ; the 
Keweenaw not being directly overlain by the two latter as far as known.* 

64. In continuing his investigations in the vicinity of Poughkeepsie, 
New York, Dwight has discovered an outcrop of fossiliferous Potsdam 

* U. S. Geol. Survey Bulletin (No. 30), vol. 4, pp. 727-1095 ; and Am. Jour. Sci.,iii, 
vol. 32, pp. 138-157. 

H. Mis. 600 14 



210 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

limestone, brought up by a fault against the Hudson River slates. 
The thickness exposed is about 300 feet. He suggested that the fault 
may be related to the great dislocation of Logan, as it ranges NNE. 
and SSW., and has been traced for some distance.* 

65. The stratigraphy of the Cambrian of the Northwest is discussed 
by Wiijchell from recent observations in the valley of Minnesota. The 
following table represents his conclusions in regard to the relations of 
the several sandstones and limestones constituting the Cambrian of 
Minnesota and Wisconsin : 

St. Peter's sandstone. 
Shakopee limestone. 
New Richmond beds 
Main body of limestone. 

^ Jordan sandstone (Potsdam?). 
Q, ,^ • I St. Lawrence limestone. 
S*-^^«^^i Shales. 

I Dresbad sandstone (Potsdam ?). 
Shales. 

Hinckley sandrock (Potsdam I). 

Red shales and red sandrock, passing into the Cupriferous ? (Pots- 
dam ?).t 

66. Dawson, in his report on the Canadian Rocky Mountains, de- 
scribes the Cambrian of that district. The rocks consist in the main of 
11,000 feet or more of quartzites and quartzitic shales passing into ar- 
gillites, and including occasional beds of limestone, conglomerate, and 
lava flows. A few Middle Cambrian fossils were found iu its upper part, 
but with this exception the series is closely similar to the quartzites and 
argillires of the "Wasatch and the Chuar and Grand Canon group of 
Arizona. I 

AKCHEAN AND METAMORPHIC. 

The crystalline metamorphic rocks of the United States have been 
subjects of controversy almost from the first; and although much has 
been written about them, they have received systematic study at com- 
paratively few localities. In the Appalachian belt there have been 
those who considered the rocks of some areas to be Cambrian, Silurian, 
and Devonian in age, the evidence for which from its own character and 
the recent revelations of the possibilities of paramorphism and metamor- 
phism seems almost incontrovertible ; while on the other hand many ge- 
ologists hold, at least tentatively, that all metamorphic crystallines of 
considerable areal extent are Archean. In the studies of the past year 
some of the areas thought to be post-Archeau metamorphics are found 
to be shore lines of Cambrian formations, and consequently preCam- 
brian ; while Becker, in California, finds as a result of careful detailed 

* Am. Jour. Sci., iii, vol. 31, pp. 125-133. 

+ Fourteenth Annual Report of the Minn. Geol. Survey, pp. 325-337. 

t Canada Geological Survey, Report for 1885. B. 



NOETH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 211 

studies that some of the crystalline rocks of the coast ranges are altered 
sandstone of Cretaceous age.* Dale gives other instances of the meta- 
morphism of the Carboniferous of Khode Island to gneisses and mica 
scliists.t Emerson, in a paper before the American Association, dis- 
cusses in detail the relations of the Helderberg limestone and the crys- 
talline condition of overlying as well as of underlying rocks in the Con- 
necticut Valley;! ^^^ the studies of Van Hise on the enlargement of 
mineral grains suggests an easily understood explanation of the forma- 
tion of many of the crystalline rocks of post-Archean age. With all 
this evidence in view, it now seems probable that the whole controversy 
about our metamorphics will end in finding that, while the greater mass 
of them belong to the Archean and its subdivision, there are areas of 
considerable size which will prove much younger. 

There are now in progress three systematic surveys of the crystalline 
rocks. Pumpelly in the Appalachian belt, Irving in the Great Lake 
district of the Northwest, and Britton in the New Jersey Highlands. 
During the past year the two latter have published preliminary reports, 
Irving for 1883 and Britton for 1885. 

67. The principal features of Irviug's reports are accounts of a re-ex- 
amination of the typical Huronian, studies of a number of series which 
are correllated with tbe Huronian, and a discussion of equivalency. The 
typical Huronian is found to consist primarily of quartzite, with occa- 
sional beds of graywacke, limestone with chert, and numerous eruptive 
greenstones, the whole being very gently flexed and unconformable to 
the older gneisses. With this formation are correllated the Marquette 
and Menominee, and the Peuokee-Gogebic iron-bearing series, the 
schists and quartzites of the Upper Wisconsin Valley, the slate-belt of 
the St. Louis and Minnesota Rivers, the quartzites of Cippewa and Bar- 
ren Counties, Wisconsin, the schists of Black River Valley, the Baraboo 
quartzites, and those of southern Minnesota and so.itheastern Dakota, 
and the Animikie series. The folded schists north and east of Lake 
Superior are thought to be equivalent to at least the latter. § 

as. Bell, in a report on the Hudson's Strait and Bay, describes the 
crystalline rocks of that district, and states that the schistose members 
classed as Huronian are either interstratifled with the massive beds of 
the Laurentiau system, or conforu) able to them. The quartzites of the 
typical Huronian district do not extend far to the north and west, and 
the schistose series includes, besides a great variety of crystalline schists, 
more or less massive diorites, argillaceous and dioritic slate, conglom- 
erates, granites, syenites, schistose and jaspery iron ores, limestones 
or dolomites, and imperfect gneisses. As far as observed, they are much 
more abundant in the region between the Great Lakes and Hudson's 

*Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 348-357. 

t Canadian Inst., Proc, vol. 3, pp. 18-22. 

t Proceedings, Vol. 35, pp. 233. 

^ U. S. Geol. Survey, 5tli Aunnal Report, pp. 175-282. 



212 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Bay than iu the Labrador peninsula or north of Hudson's Strait. The 
same author, in a paper on the mineral resources of the Hudson's Bay 
Territory, states that on the eastern shore of the bay there occurs a 
series of sedimentary rocks apparently identical with the Animikieand 
Nipigon groups. On the western and northwestern shores there are 
altered rocks resembling the gold bearing series of Nova Scotia, some 
similar to the Huronian of Lake Huron, and others like the crystalline 
series near Cherbourg, Quebec. Between the Laureutian nucleus and 
the Rocky Mountains there is a great basin of Silurian, Devonian, Cre- 
taceous, and Tertiary rocks, which give place northward to limestones, 
probably of Mpigon age. On the shores of the Arctic Ocean similar 
limestones, associated with traps, are the prevailiug rocks between 
Mackenzie and Coppermine Rivers, and the copper-bearing rocks of the 
latter region appear to correspond with those of the Lake Superior dis- 
trict.* 

69. Willis, in a report on a trip to the Upper Mississippi and Vermil- 
lion Lake, Minnesota, describes some structural relations of the Vermil- 
lion Lake iron-bearing series, the supposed northern equivalent of those 
of Marquette. The beds are all vertical, and pressed into close folds with 
exceedingly intricate relations. The iron-bearing bed is of jasper, hold- 
ing non-magnetic specular ore, and is associated with semi-crystalline 
schistose rocks and a bed of quartzite containing grains of magnetite. 
The Vermillion and Two River ranges are thought to be anticlinal 
ridges, eroded down to the chloritic schists. Some of the structural 
features are very curious, and the relations under one swampy area were 
worked out by tracing the magnetite-bearing quartzite with the mag- 
netic needle.t 

70. Britton's report (already referred to) is a preliminary account of 
the continuation of Smock's studies of the Highland Archean for the 
New Jersey Geological Survey. Smock's discovery that the crystalline 
rocks could be divided into "massive" and " bedded " was taken up, 
and the areal and structural relations of each worked out for a portion of 
the district. The massive and underlying rocks consist in the main of 
quartz, syenites, grauulites, and hornblendic granulites, and graduate 
into the stratified rocks, which are gneisses, hornblendic schists, etc., 
but all are considered equivalent to the Laurentian in age. The struc- 
tural relations are not particularly complicated so fir as determined, 
and the eastern side of the Highlands appears to have been more over- 
turned than the western. | 

71. Farther northward, in the Highlands in New York, Ruttman gives 
an account of a detailed study of the Tillie Foster magnetite deposit. 

* Canada, Geol. Survey, Report for 1885, DD., and Am. Inst. Mining Engs., Trans., 
1886. 

+ Tenth Census, Report on Mining Industries, pp. 457-467. 

t Geological Survey of New Jersey, Annual Report of the State Geologist for 1885, 
pp. 36-55. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 213 

The ore is found in a bed unquestionably iuterstratified with the crys- 
talline rocks, and presents some evidence of having been originally in 
granular form and sorted by shore action, as suggested by Julien.* 

72. In the midst of the Adirondacks, at Lower Saranac Lake, Brit- 
ton notes the occurrence of a series of schistose gneisses with micaceous 
and hornbleudic schists holding abundant quartz veins, and dipping 45 
degrees north, and Julien calls attention in this connection to the simi- 
lar series, bordering the Adirondacks, especially on their eastern side.t 

73. In a description of the Wallbridge magnetite mine in Canada, 
Chapman discusses the Archean rocks of that district, and recognizes 
four divisions, rather than the three proposed by Vennor. Two of the 
series are thought to be volcanic, the others metamorphic, and it is 
thought that the syenites should be separated from the lower stratified 
gneisses. I 

74. The crystalline rocks extending southward from Westchester 
County, N. Y., have received some attention in the literature of the 
past year. At a meeting of the New York Academy of Science, New- 
berry states his opinion that they are of Archean age; and Martin, in 
calling attention to their great difference from the Highland rocks, and 
their more hydrous condition, suggests that it may be due to a long 
submergence at the bottom of the Trias basin. Britton states that at 
Washington the series contains less feldspar and generally more mica 
than in the Highlands. § 

75. Britton presents an additional note on the geology of Staten 
Island. From the discovery of partially altered amphibole in the ser- 
pentine, he is of opinion that the latter has been derived from horn- 
bleudic or tremolitic strata, which have been found to a limited extent 
on the island, and from magnesian limestone. He states that the strati- 
fication of the rocks is unquestionable, and gives a number of dips. It 
is thought that the serpentine does not form an anticlinal, as before 
described, but probably a geosynclinal. As the serpentine of Hoboken, 
Staten Island, and New York lie along the strike, it is suggested that 
they may occupy a belt in the gneisses, and that their outcrops and 
those of the limestones of New York Island may be due to pitch or to 
cross faults. || 

76. Frazer, in a sketch of the geology of York County, Pennsylvania, 
summarizes his views on the crystalline rocks of that district. None 
of the rocks are thought to be Laurentian or Norian, unless, perhaps, 
in a portion of the South Mountain. The lowest horizon appears to be 
equivalent to the horizon of the Huronian, which is supposed to cover 
most of the areas, and of which at least 14,000 feet is exposed in the 

* American Inst. Mining Engs., Trans., 1886. 

tNew York Acad. Sci., Trans., vol. 5, p. 72. 

}; Canada Royal Society, Trans., vol.3, sec. iv, pp. 23-26. 

§ New York Acad. Sci., Trans., vol. 5, pp. 19,20. , 

II Nat. Hist. Soc. of Staten Island, Trans., Oct., 1886. 



214 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Susquehanna anticlinal. These lower rocks are more perfectly crystal- 
line and contain a greater proportion of muscovite and feldspar than 
the upper series into which they graduate, and which are magnesian, less 
crystalline, and possibly of Paleozoic age. Tbe quartzites of Chikis, 
Chester Valley, etc., are thought to be Potsdam from their unconformity 
to the underlying schists.* 

PACIFIC COAST. 

77. Two systematic geologic surveys are now in progress in the State 
of California, one by Becker, at present in the southern part, and the 
other by Diller, on the volcanic geology. Some of Becker's results are 
given in a paper which is referred to at length under " Metamorphism 
and Paramorphism," and announces the Neocomian age of a portion of 
the crystalline schists of the Coast ranges. 

Diller makes a preliminary report of progress of work in the northern 
part of the State, which throws much light upon its geologic history. 
It is found that the Carboniferous limestones are quite widely distrib- 
uted and probably embrace all those of the metamorphic rocks. Gil- 
bert's suggestion that the Sierra Nevada has the basin-range structure 
is verified, and three westward-sloping blocks are recognized. The age 
of the auriferous slates is considered doubtful ; while one portion of 
them is certainly Mesozoic, another portion is apparently older than the 
Carboniferous limestone, and is, perhaps, altogether pre Carboniferous. 
The great displacements forming the Sierra Nevada appear to have be- 
gun about the close of the Tertiary, and may still be in progress. The 
distribution and relations of the Chico group indicate that during the 
Chico epoch much of what is now the Coast Range region in northern 
California was an island separated from the continental mass to which 
the Sierra belonged by a strait which has since been filled by Lassen 
Peak lavas to form a portion of the present Cascade Range.t 

78. Le Conte discusses the time of the elevation of the Sierra Nevada 
from the evidence afforded by the river beds in middle California. In 
that district the lava flows at the end of the Tertiary were only of suf- 
ficient thickness to fill up the river channels and cause them to shift 
their courses to the divides. Previous to this the base-level of erosion 
had been almost attained, and since the lava flows there has been a 

. great uplift, which has canned the rivers to cut the deep, narrow gorges 
in which they now run. This idea of post-Tertiary uplift in the Sierra 
Nevada is interesting in connection with Button's study in the plateau 
country, where the elevation took place approximately at the same time, 
and was similarly attended by faulting and great lava flows. According 
to studies of Gilbert and Eussell on the faults of the Great Basin, uplift 
in that region appears to have begun in the beginning of the Quater- 

* Am. Phil. Soc, Trans., vol 23, pp. 391-410, and map. 
tU. S. Geol. Survey, Bulletin No. 33 (vol. 5, pp. 369-387). 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 



215 



uary, and was probably coutemporaneous with that of the Sierra Nevada. 
It is thouglit that the great lava flow of the Ii^orthwest commenced at 
the beginning of the Pliocene, as it lies upon the eroded edges of the 
Miocene, and must have continued almost to the present time, the 
greatest flows being as late as the end of the Pliocene.* 

79. Willis reports on his studies for the Northern Transcontinental 
Survey of the coal measures on the western slope of the Cascade Mount- 
ains, in Washington Territory. While the report is in greater part of 
economic interest only, some general statements are made which form 
an important contribution to the knowledge of the geology of this dis- 
trict. The coal measures are in sandstones and carbonaceous shales of 
Laramie age which aggregate 13,000 feet in thickness. The workable 
beds are seventeen in number, mostly in the lower 3,000 feet of the 
measures. The quality varies from poor lignite to coking coal in pro- 
portion to the mechanical disturbance of the beds. It is locally authra- 
citic in the vicinity of intrusive dikes. The formation is found to be 
a brackish water deposit, and by the uplift forming the Cascade Eauge 
they were flexed over axes having a general north and south trend. Ero- 
sion, volcanic overflow, and drift have obscured the limits of the forma- 
tion, and it is now only recognized in detached areas. The following 
table summarizes the conclusions in regard to the equivalency of the 
several formations flanking the Cascade Mountains : t 



West side. 


East aide. 


1. Widespread glacial drift. 


1. Limited glacial drift ; lake beds of 




the Yakima and Columbia Rivers. 


2. Tertiary volcanic rocks. 


2. Tertiary volcanic rocks. 


3. Lignites and bituminous coal 


3. Coal measures of limited extent, 


measures, characterized by angio- 


1,000 feet, more or loss, in thick- 


spermous leaf impressions 


ness, and coarse .sandstone, and 


throughout the entire thicliness 


thin conglomerate beds, 7,000 to 


of 13,000 feet or more. 


8,000 feet. 


4. Cretaceous strata and conglomerate 


4. Conglomerates, 300 to 400 feet. 


of the Skookumchuck. 




5. Serpentine or chlorite schists associated with limestones and resting on 


granite ; common to both sides of the range. 



Eussell, in a very interesting and finely illustrated paper on the ex- 
isting glaciers of the United States, describes with some detail his own 
studies of those near Mono Lake, California. Nine glaciers are found 
in the southern rim of that basin, and a number of others occur on the 
opposite side of Sierra Nevada, all being between latitude 36° 30' and 
38° north, at an altitude of approximately 11,500 feet. They occur in 
amphitheaters on the northern side of elevated peaks, and are quite 
small, the largest, on Mount Lyell, being nearly a mile in length, and 
a little more than a mile in width. The ice is ribboned in structures, 
has dirt bands, crevasses, moraines, and other features found in larger 
glaciers. Their former wide extent is indicated by great moraines and 

* Am. Jour. Sci., iii, vol. 32, pp. 167-181. 

t Tenth Census Report on Mining Industries, pp. 759-781. 



216 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



glaciation. An accouut is given of glaciers on Mounts Shasta, Tacoma, 
etc., quoted from various observers.* 

ROCKY MOUNTAINS, ETC. 

81. G. M. Dawson, in a j)aper on a portion of the Canadian Rocky 
Mountains, gives a description of the relation of the various ranges 
and the geologic relations and structure along some of the routes across 
them. It is found that the lowest rocks consist of over 11,000 feet of 
quartzites, slates, and shales, with occasional beds of limestone and 
lava flows, and present scanty fossil evidence that they are of Middle 
Cambrian age in the upper jjart, but otherwise similar to the quartzites 
and schists of the Wasatch Mountains of Utah, and the Chuar and 
Grand Caiion groups of Arizona. Overlying these unconformably is a 
limestone series of Devonian and Carboniferous age, which occasionally 
holds quartzites, and may prove in the westernmost parts of the range 
to pass down into Silurian or Cambrio-Silurian. Triassic or Permo- 
Triassic red sandstones with traps appear in some places near the 
forty-ninth parallel, and are overlain by 7,000 feet of shales and sand- 
stones, with coal-beds, which bear a characteristic early Cretaceous or 
Cretaceo-Jurassic flora, which have been named the Kootanie series. 
Overlying them, generally with slight unconformity, lie remnants of 
Middle and Upper Cretaceous, with coal-beds and trap-sheets. The 
following table is given of the beds above the Kootanie series : 



Rocky Mountains. 


Feet. 


root-hills and plains. 


Feet. 


Laramie . . < 

t St. Mary River beds (base) 


Not known.. 
do 


Porcupine Hill beds 

Willow Creek beds 

St. Mary River beds 

Fox Hiil and Pierre 

Belly River Series 

"Lower Dark Shales" 


2,500 

450 

2 8u0 


( Fox Hills and Pierre 


830 




do 


910 




1,400 
2,200 
2,750 

7,000 


800 


Cretaceous -, Volcanic roclis (greatest thickness) . 
1 Dakota and upper part of Kootanie 
1 Series to coal-bearing horizon, 
l Lower part of Kootanie Series 






13, 350 


8,290 



The great mountain-building uplift was in the early Tertiary, and the 
beds were then thrown into SSE. and KNE. folds, often close and 
overturned in what is now the mountain district; an eastern belt about 
50 miles in width forming the foot-hills, being less contorted, and pre- 
serving the younger beds.t 

82. In the same report an account is given of the Bow Eiver Valley 
beds of Kootanie anthracite, J and they are also described by Merritt 

* U. S. Geol. Survey, Fifth Annual Report, pp. 303-355, and pis. 
t Canada Geol. Survey. Annual Report for 1835, B, and abstract in Can. Record 
Sci., vol. 3, pp. 285-301. 
I Ibid, pp. 126-127. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY, 



217 



in the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society.* The coal-beds 
lie in an overturned synclinal in the Subcarboniferons, on the Devo- 
nian limestone. The coal contains about 81 per cent of fixed carbon, 
and there are several workable beds. 

83. Sir J. William Dawson, in a memoir on the Mesozoic floras of the 
Rocky Mountain district of Canada, discusses the occurrence of plant 
remains in general, and describes the three new horizons recognized. 
First, the Kootanie series, supposed to be the representative of the 
Keocomian, or at least not newer than the Shasta group of the United 
States, and the lower sandstone shales of the Queen Charlotte Islands, 
which is regarded as similar to the cycad beds of Maryland. Second, 
the Mill Creek beds, corresponding closely with the Dakota group, and 
separated from the Kootanie by a considerable thickness of strata. 
Above this is a third sub-flora, that of the Belly Eiver series at the 
base of the Fort Pierre group. This series, though separated from the 
Laramie proper by the marine beds of the Pierre and Fox Hill groups, 
an interval of 1,700 feet, introduces the Laramie or Darien flora. The 
Laramie flora is found to be divisible into two sub-floras, an older, 
allied to that of the Belly River series, and a newer, identical with that 
of tlie Souris River, which appears to agree with the Fort Union group 
of the United States. The following table is given, showing the equiva- 
lency of these series : t 

Successive Floras and Sub-Floras of the Cretaceous of Canada, in descending order. 



Periods. 



Floras and sub-floras. 



References. 



Transition Eocene to Cre- 
taceous. 



Upper Cretaceous (Danian 
and Senonian). 



Middle Cretaceous (Turo- 
niau and Cenomanian). 



Lower Cretaceous (Neo- 
eomian, etc.). 



Upper Laramie or Porcupine Hill . 



(■ Middle Laramie or Willow Creek 
beds. 
Lower Laramie or St. Mary 
River. 



^ Fox Hill Series 

Fort Pierre Series 
Belly River 



Coal measures of Nanaimo, Brit- 
l ish Columbia, probably here. 
fDnnnegan Series of Pease 
I River. 

Mill Creek beds of Rocky 
Mountains. 



f Suakwa River beds and Queen 
Charlotte Island Coal Series. 

i luteimediate beds of Rocky 
Mountains. 
Kootanie Series of Rocky 
Mountains. 



Platanus beds of Souris River and Cal- 
gary. Report Geological Survey of 
Canada for 1879 and Memoir of 1885. 



Lemnaand Pistia beds of bad lands of 
49th Parallel, Red Deer River, etc., 
with lignites. Report 49th Parallel 
and Memoir of 1885. 

Marine. 

Mariue. 

Sequoia and Brasenia beds of South 
Saskatchewan, Belly River, etc., 
with lignites. Memoir of 1885. 

Many dicotyledons, 



Many dicotyledons, 



Memoir of 1883. 
palms, etc. 

Memoir of 1883. 
cycads, etc. 

Dicotyledonous leaves, similar to Da- 
kota group of the United States. 
Memoir of "1885. 

C.vcads, palms, a few dicotyledons. 
Report Geological Survey ; Memoir 
of 1885. 



Cycads, pines, and ferns. 
1885. 



Memoir of 



»2. Jour. Geoloj?. Soc, Vol. 42, pp. 560-564. 

t Canada Royal Society Trans., vol. 3, Part IV, pp. 1-22, and Canadian Record of 
Science, vol. 2, pj). 1-9. 



218 



RECORD OF SOIENCE FOR 1886. 



84. Newberry, ia a paper on the Cretaceous flora of North America,* 
gives the following table which summarizes his views of the relation of 
the diflerent local florae : 



Canada. 


Pacific coast. 


Interior. 


Atlantic coast. 


Greenland. 


Europe. 


St. Mary's 


Garb o n a d o, 
Wa.sbiugton 
Territory. 

Vancouver's 
Island. 

Chico, Califor- 
nia. 

Shasta, C a 1 i- 
fornia. 

Shasta, Cali- 
fornia. 


Upper L a r a- 
mie. 

Lower L a r a- 
mie. 

Colorado (ma- 
rine). 

Dakota 


Eocene 


Eocene (ma- 
rine). 


Eocene. 


Peace River 

Mill Creek 

Queen Charlotte. 


New Je r s e y 
marls (ma- 
rine). 

Raritau 

Potomac 


Patoot 

Atane 

Kome 


richt. 
Chalk. 

Upper Greensand. 

Neocomian. 

Wealden. 


Kootanie 















85. In the long-delayed Census report on Mining Industries there 
are several papers on the coal beds of the Northwest, the results of the 
studies of Eldridge, Davis, and Willis for the Northern Transconti- 
nental Survey under the direction of Pumpelly. Willis' report is re- 
ferred to under another heading. Eldridge t describes in great detail 
the Montana coal-beds and their associated strata, and Davis reports 
on the more general geologic relations of the district. The area studied 
is included in a triangle 120 to 140 miles on a side in south-central 
Montana, including the Bridger, Big, and Little Belt, Highwood, and 
Main ranges. The rock series extends conformably from the Lower 
Cambrian to the Upper Cretaceous, and is from 30,000 to 35,000 feet in 
maximum thickness. The Cambrian schists are from 10,000 to 15,000 
feet thick, but in some parts of the area are very much less and possi- 
bly absent. These schists are capped by a persistent layer of quartzite. 
and a limestone with Potsdam fauna. Overlying this, and separated 
by a small interval of shales, there are 3,000 odd feet of Lower Carbon- 
iferous limestones, generally overlain by a hard quartzite. Then there 
are 15,000 feet or more of sandstones and shales of the Mesozoic in 
which the occurrence of the Trias red beds is doubtful. Jurassic fossils 
occur at 600 feet, many Cretaceous fossils at 3,200 feet, and the Creta- 
ceous coal at 4,400 feet above the Carboniferous limestone, and con- 
formable sandstones, with occasional imperfect plant-remains, extending 
over 10,000 feet higher. All the post-Carboniferous about the mountains 
appears to be Mesozoic, excepting Quaternary lake deposits in the 
upper valleys, and some patches of possibly early Tertiary. Volcanic 
rocks are found to have been extruded in greater part at the end of the 
Cretaceous and Tertiary. The workable coal near Bozeman is only 
3,700 feet above the Jura fossils, and is far below the Laramie.| 

S6. In a paper read before the American Institute of Mining Engineers 

* New York Acad. Sci., Traus., vol. 5, pp. 133-137. 

t Tenth Censu.s, report ou Miaiug Industries, pp. 739-757. 

t Ibid., pp. 697-712. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 219 

Comstock describes the geology and vein structure of southwestern 
Colorado, and discusses at some length the vein stones and ore deposits. 
The following is an abstract of the statements in regard to the surface 
geology: The crystalline rocks consist of a quartzite group, and an 
overlying granite, which are considered post-Archean, and possibly 
Lower Paleozoic. The Silurian and Devonian are represented at some 
points by fossiliferous rocks, and may occur over a wide area, of which 
the age is now in doubt. The Carboniferous is divided into two series, 
the earlier represented by 1,200 feet or more of argillaceous, arenaceous, 
and calcareous beds, the latter by over 1,200 feet of red sandstone, 
with occasional local trachytic inclusions. The Triassic and Jurassic 
do not cover any considerable area, and may be absent. The Cretace- 
ous appears in force, and the series 1-5 of the Hayden survey are rec- 
ognized. Coal-beds are found in the upper part of the upper Dakota. 
The Tertiary is represented by Eocene lake beds, and great lava flows, 
which appear to be chiefly middle Tertiary. Five series of volcanic 
eruptions are recognized in the following order: Propylite, andesite, 
trachyte, crater flows of rhyolite, and finally a few patches of basalt, 
probably the remnants of Pliocene flows.* 

87. In the Red Mountain districts great geyser deposits are found, 
and it is supposed that at one time this area experienced geyser action 
similar to that now active in the Yellowstone Parkt 

88. Stephens gives a general account of observations made on a trip 
through the San Juan Mountains. The underlying rocks of the district 
are a crystalline series, generally overlain by Silurian sandstones, 
quartzites, etc., and these in turn are often overlain by the Carbonifer- 
ous. Structural features and outcrops are generally obscured by great 
masses of volcanic rocks. North of Ouray the country is traversed by 
numerous faults, ofteja of great magnitude. Two periods of volcanism 
are recognized, both subsequent to the last uplift. The first is termed 
the porphyry period, and its viscid lavas are found overflowing the 
whole district, and intruded between many of the beds, causing great 
alteration. The second is termed the trachytic period, in which an ex- 
ceedingly viscid lava appears to have been outpoured upon the moun- 
tain tops, but was not sufficiently liquid to flow into the valleys. | 

89. In his report as geologist of Wyoming for 1885, Aughey discusses 
the geologic position of the hematite deposits of Seminole Mountain. He 
considers the ore-bearing series to be of approximately Huronian age. 
It consists of quartzites, and gneissic, hornblendic, and chloritic rocks, 
with limestones, jasper, and epidotic slates, which form the core of the 
mountain, and are overlain by Potsdam, Carboniferous and Cretaceous 
in succession. § 



* Trans., 1886. 

t American Naturalist, vol. 20, pp. 963-965. 

t New York Acad. Sci., Trans., vol. 5, pp. 121-130. 

$Wyom. Geolog. Rep., pp. 120. Svo. Laramie, 1886. 



220 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

90. Texas. — The State of Texas has recently published a report by 
vShuinard on the geology along routes traveled by the expedition be- 
tween Indianola, Texas, and the valley of the Mimbres, New Mexico, in 
1855, '56, and of Grayson County, Texas.* Although issued at this late 
date, and opinions on some of the broader questions have radically 
changed, the report contains a great mass of valuable information. 
Hill, in reviewing it, states that most of the stratigraphic deductions are 
erroneous, and as shown by Marcou, the sections in the Cretaceous are 
reversed. The supposed Upper Cretaceous in Grayson County is 
now known to be Tertiary and the Lower Cretaceous, TJpper.t 

91. Hill, in a general description of the geologic features of Travis 
County, Texas, makes the interesting statement that the Cretaceous is 
in two divisions, differing considerably in fauna and lithology and un- 
conformable to each other, and it is pointed out that the lower division 
lies altogether below the Dakota horizon. | Their areal distribution and 
structural relations are described, and much local information given. 

92. Mexico. — Cope, in a report on the coal deposits near Zacuatipan, 
Hidalgo, Mexico, describes the geologic features of that district. The 
country is underlain by a silicious limestone said to be Cretaceous and 
penetrated by numerous trap dikes and sheets. In the depressions in 
this formation and its volcanic rocks lie regularly stratified horizontal 
beds of Upper Miocene age, probably equivalent to the Loup Fork 
series of the United States, and consisting of glass, volcanic ash beds, 
and the carbonaceous shales, with lignite coal, often of good quality. § 

93. Nebraska. — In a description of the Lincoln salt basin, Hicks states 
his opinion that these salt deposits in the Dakota group (especially those 
of the lower part of the group) || are remnants of old Cretaceous salt 
marshes, resulting from the evaporation of the sea water during the 
deposition of the sands. 

CARTOGRAPHY. 

94. During the past year there have appeared two geologic maps of 
the United States, one by McGee,^ the other by Hitchcock.** That of 
the former is left uncolored west of the 112tli meridian, together with 
most of New Mexico, half of Arizona, and with the exception of a por- 
tion of Nevada and the Puget Sound district. That of the latter is col- 
ored in accordance with the scheme recommended by the International 
Geologic Congress, and all but the northern part of Idaho and south- 

* A Partial Report on the Geology of Western Texas, by George G. Sliumard 1855- 
1860. pp. 145. 8vo. Austin, 1886. 
t Am. Jour. Sci., ill, vol. 33, pp. — . 
t Austin Statesman, Dec. 15, 1886. 
$ Am. Phil. Soc, Trans., vol. 23, pp. 146-151. 
II American Assoc, Proc, vol. 35, p. 219. 

H U. S. Geol, Survey, Fifth Annual Report, pocket, 17" by 28". 
** Am. Inst. Mining Engs., Trans., 1886, 17' by 28". 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY 221 

western California are colored. McGree's map is dated 1.884, and is not 
only compiled from published information, but from manuscript maps in 
some areas. It differs from previous maps in numerous respects. Besides 
more accurate delineation of boundaries, the crystalline rocks of New 
York Island and of Westchester County are represented as Silurian; the 
New England crystallines and those of all the Piedmont and Appalach- 
ian belt are colored as Archean, including the semi-crystalline schists of 
central South Carolina, central and western North Carolina, south- 
eastern Pennsylvania, and parts of New England. The oldest rocks of 
Texas are referred to the Cambrian, and the Archean area in Missouri 
are shown surrounded by Cambrian. The southern half of Long Island 
is represented as Tertiary, and much of the Atlantic coast, especially 
that of North Carolina, is thus shown. The gypsiferous series of Kan- 
sas, Indian Territory, and New Mexico is incorporated with the Creta- 
ceous; the Eocene of Texas is given a great width along the Rio Grande ; 
the cross-timber district of Texas is shown as Quaternary, and a large 
portion of Dakota and Minnesota is similarly shown. 

95. Hitchcock copies McCee's boundaries in districts of which the 
geology is less open to question. In the Black Hills and eastward the 
Archean is subdivided into Laurentian and Huronian. Cambrian is 
represented in southwestern Maine, in central South Carolina, and in 
west central and in western North Carolina. The underlying rocks 
are shown as far as possible in Minnesota and Dakota instead of the 
overlying drift, information for Minnesota having been furnished by 
TTpham. The gypsiferous series of Indian Territory, Texas, and New 
Mexico is shown as Trias, and the Jura and Trias are separated as far 
as possible in other parts of the West; much information from Pum- 
pelly, Blake, Willis, Dutton, and Diller is utilized for the far West, 
but large areas are colored hypothetically. The gold slates of California 
are represented as Jurassic and Cretaceous metamorphic, but not with 
approbation. For the Canadian areas in the East and far West much 
new information has been incorporated. 

During the past year there has appeared the report of the Interna- 
tional Congress of Geologists, in which an account is given of the re- 
sults attained towards uniformity in geologic nomenclature and cartog- 
raphy. 

PETROGRAPHY. 

Besides the papers referred to in the following paragraphs, there are 
several others containing petrographic information of a most interest- 
ing character, notably those of Becker on the Cretaceous crystallines 
of California, and Williams on a district west of Baltimore, both of 
which are noticed under '^Metamorphism and Paramorphism.'^ 

96. G. H. Williams describes in detail the petrographic characteris- 
tics of the peridotites of the Cortlandt series near Peekskill, New York. 
Two varieties are found, one containing hornblende and the other py- 



222 RECORD OF HCIENCE FOR 1886. 

roxene. The bornblendic peridotite is dotted with small rounded grains 
of olivine or serpentine, as in the Schillerspath or bastit of the Hartz 
Mountains, and for which the name poicilitic (mottled) is proposed. 
The hornblende is of the variety called basaltic, and contains charac- 
teristic specular intrusions. It is not crystalline, but fills spaces of the 
rock, and often forms masses of some size, the other minerals appear- 
ing to have crystallized from it, probably under much pressure. The 
olivine has interesting inclusions, and at its contact with the feldspar 
it is always separated by a zone of square grains of pyroxene and tufts 
of radiated actinolite. The pyroxene generally appears to be hyper- 
sthene. Feldspar is never an important constituent. This rock grades 
into augite-peridotite by transition, the hornblende giving place to 
augite. The rocks are mostly massive, but are sometimes somewhat 
schistose, and appear under the microscope to have been subjected to 
much pressure. All the basic members of the Cortlandt series are too 
acid to pass as representative olivine rocks, as the amount of this con- 
stituent is small.* 

97. The petrography of the peridotite in the Carboniferous of eastern 
Kentucky is described by Diller, who finds it to consist in the main of 
about 40 per cent, of olivine, 30 of secondary serpentine, 8 of py- 
rope, and 14 of dolomite. The relation of the peridotites to the asso- 
ciated sedentary beds is discussed, and as the latter are indurated, and 
its fragments occur in the peridotite, it is thought that the latter is 
undoubtedly intrusive.t 

98. Lindgren describes the petrographic features and the relations 
of the eruptive rocks of south central Montana, as a supplement to 
Davis' paper (see 85). It is found that the oldest eruptive is a gran- 
ite with red orthoclase, occurring in dikes in gneiss at the head of 
Belt Creek, in the Little Belt Mountains. The next period of erup- 
tion appears to have been in the Cambrian or the Silurian, and rocks 
consist of a diabase, sometimes quartzose, with the quartz granopyric 
in structure. This was succeeded in the Jurassic by acid magmas 
issuing as flows and dikes of diorite, granites and quartz porphyrites, 
and latter presenting two varieties, the augitic and the hornblendic. 
In the Laramie and Tertiary, volcanism was very active and varied. 
The sequence of eruptions is not worked out, but the andesite flows 
ai^pear to have commenced late in the Cretaceous or Laramie. The 
hornblende dacites are found massive in the Little Belt Mountains, as 
dikes in Laramie in front of the main range, and with andesites in the 
Laramie conglomerates in the High wood Mountains. No augite-da- 
cites, and only a few augite-andesites were found. Liparites are found 
in front of the main range as dikes in Laramie strata. The most recent 
eruptions appear to have been in the post-Tertiary, probably Pliocene, 
and consist of trachytes and basalt. The former are nearly all devel- 

* Am. Jour. Sci., iii, vol. 31, pp. 26-41. 
Ubid., vol. 32, pp. 121-125. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 223 

oped as augite- trachytes, some of which are very rich in augite. The 
basalts are in part plagioclastic ; another i^art consist of analcite (no- 
seau) basalts, originally composed of nosean augite and olivine, with 
the former changed to analcite — generally occurring in dikes, often 
crowded in great numbers, and apparently older than trachytes.* 

99. Kewberry quotes the results of examination by Iddings of some 
of the igneous rocks from the Lower Silurian and Cretaceous of the 
Belt Mountains, and consisting of typical augite-andesites, true tra- 
chytes and rhyolites.t 

100. Becker, in a paper on the Washoe Rocks, discusses Hague and 
Iddings' criticism on the petrography in his monograph on the Comstock 
lode. An account is given of a re-examination in the field, the result 
of which substantially corroborates his previous conclusions that there 
were two separate eruptions of porphyritic, pyroxenic, and plagioclase 
rocks, presenting sufficient differences to be separated into diabase and 
andesite. Additional reasons were also found for maintaining the exist- 
ence of diabase, and for dividing the pyroxene andesite into two distinct 
outflows separated by a long interval of time, contrary to Hague and 
Iddings' opinion that the rocks constitute substantially a single Tertiary 
eruption. The structural features and petrography of the rocis in 
question are discussed in detail, and while somewhat slight corrections 
axe made to his previous statements, he finds Hague and Iddings' 
hypothesis of progressive crystallization inapplicable in explanation of 
the differentiation of the several members of the Comstock district.| 

101. In a paper on columnar structure in the Mesozoic igneous rocks 
of New Jersey, Iddings describes -the petrography of the diabase near 
Orange, New Jersey. It is found that it differs in some respects from 
most of the similar igneous rocks in that part of the country. " Gener- 
ally the microstructure of these rocks is holocrystalline, formed of lath- 
shaped, basic feldspar, irregular crystals and grains of augite, grains of 
iron oxide, and considerable green serpentine or chlorite, which is dis- 
seminated through the mass, and is evidently the alteration product of a 
fourth primary constituent." The rock from the quarry described " is 
not holocrystalline, but contains a variable amount of glass base, which 
is more or less globulitic, with augite microlites having opaque grains 
attached, besides larger aggregations of magnetite grains. There is a 
comparatively small amount of serpentine in patches, the larger of 
which still contain fragments of olivine at their centers, the former 
mineral from which the serpentine has been derived. In some places 
the glass base has been colored green, though still isotropic, while in 
others it has deen devitrifled through decomposing agents. The rock 
with the least glass and coarsest grain of crystallization is from the 
large columns" near the base of the trap sheet, while that near the same 



* Tenth Census : Report on Mining Industries, pp. 719-737. 
t New York Acad. Sei., Trans., vol. 5, pp. 247-270. 
t California Acad. Sci., Bulletin No. 6. 



224 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

level but from "small columns shows nearly the same size of crystals 
with more glass base." Higher up iu the sheet the rock in medium- 
sized columns " has somewhat smaller feldspar crystals and more glass 
base, in places brown and giobulitic, with feru-like groups of magnet'te 
crystals. Midway up the cliff the rock shows still more giobulitic and 
microlitic glass, and that from 10 feet below the present upper surface 
has smaller crystals and rather more glass base. The variations from 
bottom to top of the lava are slight but distinctly noticeable, and indi- 
cate that the cooling which caused the consolidation of the mass was 
more rapid at the top than at the bottom, which corresponds with the 
subsequent conditions deemed necessary to produce the different sys- 
tems of columnar cracking."* 

102. McCormick discusses the nature of concretions in crystalline 
rocks and describes in detail those in the granite in Craftsbury, Ver- 
mont. From a study of the literature of the subject two classes of in- 
clusions are recognized ; the first are ovoid in structure, seldom sharply 
defined, and often include nodules. They are believed to be contem- 
poraneous with the solidificatiou of the enclosing rock mass. The 
second class are generally angular and very dissimilar from the matrix. 
In the granite of Craftsbury the inclusions consist of spheroidal nodules 
of biotite from one- half to two inches iu diameter and often four inches 
in length, in some cases much flattened and crumpled. Microscopic ex- 
amination shows the mica to be in concentric layers with scattered grains 
of quartz, most abundant iu the center. They are very difficultly sepa- 
rated from the remaining rock, and it is thought that they are masses of 
biotite and segregated from the original chloritic mass, and that their 
wrinkling indicates an igneous condition of the granite at the time of 
their separation. t 

103. Dana I proposes a nomenclature for metamorphism and porphy- 
ritic structure in rocks. For the former, Grystallinic is suggested for 
secondary enlargement ; Paramorphic for the results of paramorphism, 
and Metachemie for the term " metasomatic." In descriptions of por- 
phyritic structure it is proposed that such terms as Orthophyric, Leu- 
citophyric, Augitophyric, Quartzophyric, etc., be used as adjectives to 
indicate at once the structure and the mineral causing it. 

PARAMORPHISM, METAMORPHISM, ETC. 

The writer is compelled to confine his attention to the American con- 
tributions to this subject on account of lack of time and inaccessibility 
of the literature. The manj^ questions connected with the formation of 
crystalline rocks are now being discussed by an increasing number of 
observers, who, with the aid of misroscopic j^etrography, and with wide 
opportunities for systematic field survey, obtain results vastly more 



*Ain. Jour. Sci., iii, vol. 3, pp. 321-331 and plate. 
tPhiladelpliiaAcad. Sci., Proc. (vol. 37), pp. 19-24. 
I Am. Jour. Sci., ii, vol. 32, pp. 69-72. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 225 

valuable than those reprfseuted by the hypothetical speculations com- 
posing the greater part of the past literature on this subject. 

104. Becker's memoir on the Cretaceous metamorphic rocks of Cali- 
fornia will prove especially interesting among those which have ap- 
peared during the past year, for his results have been obtained by ex- 
ceptionally detailed work with every possible auxiliary in a country 
which is stated to be particularly easy of study. It has been found 
that sandstones and arkoses of Neocomian age liave been altered to 
crystalline rocks only differing from those of the Archean by holding 
plagioclase instead of orthoclase, andby irregularity of their alteration. 
They include metamorphic diabases and diorites and vast quantities of 
serpentine. These changes have been traced from slight alteration, 
through all stages of the obliteration of evidence of plastic character, 
to the final crystalline products. The great masses of serpentine are 
found to be derived from the sandstones boch directly and through in- 
termediate granular metamorphics : " Highly inclined sandstones strike 
into serpentine areas in sucli a manner as to wholly preclude the sup- 
position that the serpentine is an older mass, and instances are ob- 
served where one side of an anticlinal is serpentinizcd while the other 
is unaltered and carries excellent fossils. These relations are par- 
ticularly clear at Knoxville and Mount Diablo." In discussing the 
causes of these changes it is thought that they were effected in great 
part at the time of upheaval by solutions from the underlying granites. 
It is supposed that these were at first warm and basic and supplied the 
material for the change to augitic and amphibolic holocrystallines. 
Serpentinization appears to have followed at a lower temperature, and 
finally the greater part of the silica was deposited.* 

105. The Trappean and Serpentinous rocks oc urring in a considera- 
ble area west of Baltimore have been studied in great detail by G. H. 
Williams, who finds them to consist of what are termed " hypersthene 
gabbros," gabbiodiorites, peridotites and their alteration and paramor- 
phic products. Tae first is a finegrained, purplish-black aggie ateof hy- 
persthene, diallage, and plagioclase. The second is a dark green rock of 
fibrous hornblende, and the third form a series characterized principally 
by a large amount of olivine, and are refeired to the family (;f peridot 
ites. The first two graduate into each other in the field, and microscopic 
examination reveals the gradual transition of the second from the first 
by change of pyroxene to fibrous-hornbende, and some other interest- 
ing spec al features. The peridotites break through the oth r in dikes. 
They are rarely rich in feldspar, and sometimes this is absent. By 
gradual loss of olivine they grade into another massive rock composed 
almost wholly of diallage and hypersthene. Thetolivine always appears 
to alter to serpentine, and the pyroxene (no matter wliat its form) to 
hornblende, which suffeis further alteration t > talc, with sei)aration of 
calcite. In the main the hornblende serpentines, as those of Bare Hills, 

*Am. Jour. Sci.,.in, vol. 31, pp. 348-357. 
H. Mis. GOO 15 



226 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

et^., have be. u formed froiueriiptives coiuposed of olivine aud bronzite, 
similar to rooks now found unaltered iu their vicinity.* 

lOG. The origiu of the ferruginous schists and iron ores of the Liike 
Superior district has long been a subject of controversy. In a receut 
})^aper on this subject, Irving discusses the several theories which have 
beea held and gives a summary of the results of a detaiied study of 
the ores and schists into which they grade. The general conclusions 
arrived at are as follows : In its original condition, the ore-bearing beds 
consisted of a series of thinly bedded more or less highly ferriferous 
carbonates, interstratified with and grading into carbonaceous shales 
closely simulating the beds of carbonates in the coal measures. By a 
process of silicification part of the siderite in these beds was broken up 
and replaced by silica and the iron segregated into seams, layers, aud 
impregnations in a more highly oxidized condition, but it is thought that 
in some places the silicifying waters have given rise to actinolitic 
mague'tite-schists and intermediate products. At some points the sid- 
eritic constituent in the original beds appears to have been oxidized in 
place, but the larger hematitic deposits are unquestionably secondary. t 

107. Van Hise, in a paper on the origin of the mica schists and black 
mica slates of the Penokee-Gogebic iron-bearing series, gives an ac- 
count of their lithologic characteristics, and discusses the mode of 
their formation from clastic materials. Followed along the strike, the 
quartzites, slates, and graywackes are found to change through biotic 
aud chloritic graywackes to mica schists, forming the main mass of the 
formation, by alteration of the feldspar and biotite to muscovite with 
separation of silica ; " the result being a production from a completely 
fragmental rock by a metasomatic change, of one presenting every 
appearance of a complete original crystallization, and which would or- 
dinarily be classed as a genuine crystalline schist." In the western 
part of the district the feldspathic constituent was apparently in 
greater proportion, and the rocks there are now entirely mica schists 
and slates, t 

108. In a note to the American Journal of Science, § Irving corrects 
his ])revious statement that Sorby was the first to call attention to 
secondary enlargement of quartz grains in rocks, and states that Tor- 
nebolin made this observation several years before. 

109. In a paper before the British Association, entitled " Some Exam- 
ples of Pressure Fluxion ia Pennsylvania," Lewis describes his studies 
upon some localities where evidences of this phenomena is found. The 
principal one is the belt of Laurentian rocks crossing the Schuylkill 
20 miles above Phihidelphia, which are considered to be purely of erup- 
tiveorigin,cousistingof syenites, acid gabbros, trap grauulites, and other 



^ U. S. Geol. Survey, Bulletin (No. 2 ?), vol. 4, pp. 615-688, aud 4 plates. 
t Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 32, pp. 25.')-272. 
t Am. Jour. Sci., in, vol. 31, pp. 453-459. 
§ Vol. 31, pp. 225-226. 



NORTH AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 227 

igueous rocks ofteu liigllly metamoii)hoseiL* The rocks are massive 
in the center of this belt, but the outer portions have '' been enormously 
compressed, folded, and faulted, with the result of producing a tough, 
banded, porphyritic fluxion gneiss, identical with the milonite of Lap- 
worth or the sheared gneiss of Peach and Hurne. So perfect is the 
fluxion structure that the rock resembles a rhyolite. As in the banded 
granulite of Lehmann, elongated feldspar eyes lie in flowing streams of 
biotite grains and broken quartz, the streams ofteu parting and again 
meeting arouud the porphyritic eyes. Occasional crystalline eyes of 
hornblende remain, but most of it has been converted into biotite. 

A point of especial interest is that the feldspar of the eyes is quite 
colorless and free from inclusions, like the sanidine of recent lavas; 
while, on the other hand, the feldspars of the inner and massive jiortions 
of the zone, out of which this outer portion has been reformed by 
pressure fluxion, are full of inclusions and have the dusty appearance 
so common in ancieut feldspars. The fresh-looking feldspar eyes have 
therefore very possibly been subsequently formed as the result of a 
recrystallization of the old material under the influence of pressure 
fluxion. In similar manner the biotite has been made out of the old 
hornblende, garnets have been developed, and quartz has been granu- 
lated and optically distorted by pressure. Associated Cambrian strata 
with Scolithus stems shows evidence of the great pressure, and its 
stems and pebbles are pulled out and flattened. Other localities are 
found showing various phases of lamination by pressure, and it is ex- 
pected that further study will reveal more.* 

• 110. Another paper bearing on the same subject is one by Lawsou, 
entitled " Some Instances of Gneissic Foliation and Schistose Cleavage 
in Dikes and their bearing upon the Problem of the Origin of the Ar- 
chean Rocks," Its author describes a number of granitic and dioritic dikes 
in the Lake of the Woods region in which schistose structure is devel- 
oped parallel to their walls, and it is thought these instances prove con- 
clusively that gneissic foliation is not a proof of bedding. Upon this 
premise it is suggested that the gneissic rocks of the Laurentians and 
elsewhere may not be sediments metamorphosed in place, but intrusives 
in which the foliation was induced by pressure, and that their pucker- 
ings and crumplings raa^^ be due to the increase of bulk during the 
crystallization process. To account for the lamination and alternation 
of beds in the younger gneisses it is supposed that they were under less 
pressure and .more liquid, so that their materials could separate into 
zones determined by specific gravity and melting points. t 

111. In a paper on supermetamorphism Comstock calls attention to 
instances in the San Juan district where Silurian and Devonian beds 
grade into a granitic rock which is underlain by quartzite. J 



'Report (Trans., pp. 1029-1030). 

t Canadian Inst. Proc, vol. 22, pp. 115-128. 

tAm. Naturalist, vol. 20, pp. . 



228 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

112. Dale, in a paper on the metaiuori)hisiii*iii the Kliode Island coal 
basin, describes an area north of that previously stndied, in which the 
beds are greatly disturbed and the alteration intense. The slates and 
clays are found changed to mica schists, holding garnet, staurolite, 
etc., and separated from equally ciystalline beds, at least in part of 
Paleozoic age, by plumbaginous argillite, with veins of mica and coal 
ferns.* 

113. KaoUnizaiion. — Lesley, in a paper on the kaolin of southeastern 
Pennsylvania, discusses kaolinizution, and suggests that this process 
and the resulting rock decay may be greatly increased by the presence 
of limestone. It is thought that this would account for some of the 
features observed in the district studied and in various belts of spe- 
cially decayed rocks ; for instance, on the eastern side of Iloosac Mount- 
ain and in parts of the Southern States, t The relation of decay to 
joint planes is also considered, and Ashburner,| in an examination of a 
kaolin deposit in Delaware County, hnds evidence confirming Lesley's 
views. 

114. On the origin of coal. — Lesquereux, in a very interesting and sug- 
gestive paper on this subject, urges the peat-bog theory with a great 
mass of evidence from his own observations in the European peat bogs 
and the coal measures of the United States. § 

TOPOGRAPHIC FEATURES OF LAKE SHORES. 

115. In a paper on this subject Gilbert discusses the several agents con- 
cerned in the formation of the shores of water bodies in which tidal 
action was insignificant in its results. The studies leading to the memoir 
were in large part upon the topographic features of the lacustral de- 
posits of the great fossil lakes of the Great Basin, and supplemental 
observations have been made on the shores of some existing lakes. 
Omitting considerations of tidal action, the agents concerned in the 
production of shore features are waves and currents created by the 
wind. The wind which drives waves toward a shore i^roduces also a 
system of currents — superficial currents toward the shore and along the 
shore, and an inferior current, the undertow, away from the shore. 
The waves erode, and the waves and shore current in combination 
transport the eroded material, shore drift, in the direction of the shore 
current. Under certain clearly indicated conditions the shore drift is 
deposited, its accumulation taking the form of spits, bars, hooks, etc. 
In the region of erosion the laud is planed away just below the water 
surface, and this planed surface in the fossil condition becomes a ter- 
race. The shoreward limit of erosive action is marked by a cliff. In 



* Canadian Inst. Proc, vol. 22, pp. 18-21. 

t Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Annual Report lor 1885, pp r)71-691. 

tibid., pp. 593-614. 

§ Ibid., pp. 95-124. 



KORTII AMERICAN GEOLOGY. 229 

tbe region where there is neitlier erosion nor deposition, but transpor- 
tation only, tlie shore drift takes the form of a heacl!, and if the land 
is gently inclined a lagoon is separated behind the beach, which is 
then (tailed a barrier. Points of land are usually eroded by waves, 
while bays are filled or partitioned olf by bars; the waves of a lake 
thus tend to straighten its shores. Other shore features treated are 
the delta, whose anatomy as well as morphology is described, and the 
shore wall, a feature resulting in cold climates from the expansive force 
of ice. 

The topographic elements constituting sliores have sometimes been 
confused with similar elements of different origin, and the criteria for 
discrimination are therefore discussed. A sea-cliff is compared with 
cliffs resulting from the unequal hardness of strata, from lateral wear 
by streams, from faulting, etc. Shore terraces are compared with ter- 
races arising from alternations of hard and soft strata, stream terraces, 
fault terraces, etc. Barriers and other shore structures constituting 
ridges are compared with moraines and osars.* 



U. S. Geol. Survey, Fifth Auuual Keport, pp. G7-123. 



l^fORTE AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY FOE 1886. 



Bv Joiix Belknap Marcou. 



Trauslatioii of a portion of tlie resolutions concerning nomenclature 
and colors voted by tbe International Geologic Congress at tlie meet- 
ings of tlie 27tli, 2Stli, 29tli, 30tb of September and 1st of October, 1881. 
(Extracted from the '' Compte rendu de la 2mc Session, Bologne, 1881, 
Congres Geologique International, p. 198.'') 

RULES TO BE FOLLOWED IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH THE NOMENCLAT- 
URE OF SPECIES. 

1. The nomenclature adopted is that in which each being is desig- 
nated by a generic and a specific name. 

2. Each of these names is composed of a single Latin or Latinized 
word, written according to the rules of Latin orthography. 

3. A species may present a certain number of modifications, con- 
nected together in time or space, and designated respectively under 
the name of Mutations or of Varieties ; modifications having a doubt- 
ful origin are simply called Forms. Modifications will be indicated, 
when necessary, by a third term preceded, according to each case, by 
the words variety, mutation, or form, or by the coiresponding abbrevi- 
ations. 

4. The specific name should always ba defined by indicating tlie 
name of the author who established it ; this author's name is placed in 
parenthesis when the primitive generic name is not kept, and in this 
case it is useful to add the name of the author who changed the generic 
reference. The same process is applicable to varieties wlien elevated 
to species. 

5. The name attributed to each genus or to each species is that under 
which they have been designated the longest on condition that the 
characters of the genus and of the species shall have been published 
and clearly defined. Priority will not go back beyond Linniieus, twelfth 
edition, 1766. 

6. In future, for specific names, priority will have been irrevocably 
acquired only when the species shall have been not only described, but 
also figured. 

The President: 

J. Capellini. 

231 



232 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

' Aldrich, T. IJ. Preliminary Eeport upon the Tertiary Fossilsof Ala- 
bama and Mississippi. Geol. Surv. Alabama, Bulletin N^o. 1, pp. ]S 
GO, pis. i-vi, 18SG.) 

Part I, Notes and desci'iptious of species describes Expleriloma nov. gem., and 
the following new species : Murex mattheivsensis, M. simpJex, Trophon gracilis, 
T. Cauda toides, FseudoUra unicarinafa, lianella (Argohncclumii) Tuomeyi, 
Fusus Meyeri, F. tombigieensis, F.rngatus, Fasciolaria pergracilis, Leuoozonia 
biphcaia, Bidbifusns plenus, B. Tuomeyi, Nepiunea constricta, Pyropais perula, 
Pisania (?) duhia, Buccinum MoJiri, Cominella hatcheiigbeensis, C. striata, 
Massa calli, TurbineUa bacuhis, Fuliita Showalteri, Mitra hatcheiigbeensis, 
Ancillaria expansa, Expleritoma prima, Plearotoma perexilis, P. exilluides, P. 
tombighcensis, P. Tuomeyi, P. (Ancistrosyrinx) columbaria, Aphorais gracilis, 
Cyprwa Smitliii, Xatica rccurva, CapuJns complectus, Cerithium tombighcense, 
Mclunopsis auita, Trochus alabamcusis, Haminca grandis, Teredo circula, 
Pholas alatoidta, Mariesia eJongala, Solen lisbonensis, Panopwa porreetoides, 
Necero. prima, N. alternafa, Pholadomyaelaibornensis, Cylheria hatcheiigbeensis, 
Cardium Tuomeyi, C, haichetigbctrense, Xucula mauroensis, Pecten (Pleuro- 
neclia) aJahamensis, Anomia ephippoides Gabb., var. lisbonensis (new var. ), 
Ostrea johnsoni. 

This fanna seems to be confined to the Lower Claibornian, above the Buhrstone. 

Part II. — Geological Distribution and Localities of Species. 

The following divisions are made : White Limestone gronj), Ferrnginous Sand- 
bed (Claiborne Sand), Middle' and Lower Claibornian, Hatchetigbee group, 
Wood's Bluff group. Bell's Landing group, Nanafalia group, Matthews's 
Laudiug group, Black Bluff group, and Midwaj^ group. 

Aldrich, T. H. Notes on the Distribution of Tertiary Fossils in Ala- 
bama and Mississippi. (Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. viii, 
l)p. 256, 257, January, 18SG, Cincinnati.) 

Meutious the occurrence of Orbitoides supera Conrad, 0. Mantelli Conrad, and 
a few Nummulites in beds immediately underlying the strata in which the 
Zeuglodon bones occur at Jackson, on Dry or Town Creek. 
Mentions the finding of a iS^rt»fi?HS sp.? at Vicksburg, Mississippi, in the Oligo- 
cene, and also a new species of crab from Alabama. 

Aldrich, T. H. and Myer, Otto. Geological Survey of Alabama. 
Parts I and II. Tuscaloosa. Geol. Surv. 188G. 8vo. Science, Vol. 
VIII. No. 19G, pp. 421-122, November, 18SG. New York, lleview 
of and abstract from. 
Aldrich, T. H. {See Myer, Otto.) 

Allen, J. A. On an extinct type of Dog from Ely Cave, Lee County, 
Virginia. Published by permission of N. S. Shaler and J. E. Proctor, 
directors of the Kentuck}' Geological Survey. With three plates. 
(Mem. Museum Comp. Zool. at Harvard College, vol. x, pp. 1-13, pis. 
i-iii. December, 18S5. Cambridge.) 

Describes the new genus Pachycyon and the new species P. robustus. 
Prof. N. S. Shaler, pp. 9-13, furnishes a note "On the Age of the Ely Cave." 
In this he states that the caves in the Cambro-Silurian series, of which this 
is one, are often found under conditions such as to make it certain of their 
having come down from times so remote that we may fairly hope to find 
within them fossils of t e Pliocene line. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 233 

Allen, J. A. An extinct Do<]f. (Mein. Mas. Ooinp. Zool. Cambridge, 
Auier. Nat., vol. xx, p. 274, March, 1S8G. Philadclpliia.) 

Abstract of. 

Ami, IIenry M. Additional Notes on the Geology and Paleontology 
of Ottawa and Vicinity. Read March 4, 18.S5. (Extracted by per- 
mission from Trans. No. G, (vol. ii, No. 2) Ottawa Field Nat. Club., 
pp. 1-9, 1880. Ottawa.) 

Ami, Henry M. On the occurrence of Scolithns in Eocks of the Chazy 
Formation about Ottawa, Ontario. (Canad. Kec. Sci., vol. ii, No. 
5, pp. 301-300, 1887. Montreal.) 

Meutioiis two iustances of the occurrence of ScoUthus in Chazy beds, from 
which it follows that the occurrence of ScoUfhiis remains does not neces- 
sarily indicate the exisieuce of Potsdam rocks, but that the beds may pos- 
sibly be newer aTid higher up in the series. 

The extras were distributed in December. 

Ami, Henry M. {Sec Bailey, L. W.; Ellis, E. W.) 
AsHBURNER, CHARLES A., and Angelo IIeilprin. Report on the 
Wyoming Valley Carboniferous Limestone Beds, By Charles A. 
Ashburuer, geologist in charge of the Anthracite Survey, and corre- 
sponding member of the Wyoming Historical and Geological Society ; 
accompanied by a Description of the Fossils contained in the Beds, 
by Angelo Heilprin, professor of iuA^ertebrate paleontology, Academy 
of Natural Sciences, Philadel[)hia. (Proc. and Collections Wyom- 
ing Hist, and Geol. Soc, vol. ii, pt. 2, pp. 251-277, 1880. Wilkes 
Barre, Pennsylvania.) 

Descriptions of the species, with numerous illustrations in the text (pp. 2G5- 
277). No new" species are described. The author considers the fossils un- 
doubted evidence of the Carboniferous age of the formation, although some 
people may have thought that they belonged to the Permian. 

Bailey, L. W. Ileportof Explorations and Surveys in Portions of the 
Counties of Caileton, Victoria, York, and Northumberland, New 
Brunswick, 1885. (Ann. Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Canada, 
new ser., vol. i, pp. 18-309, 1880. Montreal.) 

Has a note by Mr. Whiteaves on the graptolites, from which it appears that the 
beds in question belong to the Silurian system, as recently restricted in the 
publications of the survey. These beds are near Campbell's mill (pp.l.S^, 
and 16/7). 
Gives a list of fossils from Perth, determined by Mr. H. M. Ami, from an horizon 
not higher than the Lower Helderberg nor lower than the Niagara. 

Barcena, Mariano. The Fossil Man of Penon. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, 
pp. 033-035, July, 1880. Philadelphia). 

Defends the importance of the discovery and describes the beds in which the 
bones were found, and states that all his observations induce him to believe 
in the contemporaneity of the man of Penon and of the mammotb in the 
valley of Mexico. 

Barris, W. H. a Defense of our Local Geology. (Proc. Davenport, 
Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. v, pp. 15-22, 1880. Davenport.) 

A criticism of a pamphlet on the " Geology of Scott County, Iowa, and Rock 
Island County, Illinois," by A. S. Tifl'any. Originally read as an address 



234 RECORD OF SCIEKCE FOR 1886. 

Barris, W. H.— Continued. 

befoie the Academy, it is published iu such foriu rather than as a more 
ri.<j;idly strict scieutilic paper. 
States that iu Mr. Tiffauy's paper there are no less thau one hundred and eighty- 
five blunders iu the naming of fossils. 

Bakris, W. it. Bad Blunders. Those Committed in the Naming of the 
Fossils of Scott County iu a Beceut Pamphlet — Barris's Criticisms. 
(From Davenport Daily Gazette, March 2, 1886.) 

A criticism of a paper hy A. S. Tiffany. 
Baur, G. XJeber die Kauale im Humerus der Amuioten. (Morpholo- 
gisches Jahrbuch. Band xii, Heft ii, pp. 299-305, 1880. Leipzig.) 
I. Canalis entepicondyloideus. ii. Canalis ectepicoudyloideus. ni. Beide 
Kaniile zugleich. 
Baur, G. Ueber die Morphogenie der Wirbelsiiule der Amuioten. 
(Biologisches Centralblatt. Band vi, Nr. 12, pp. 353-363. 15th Au- 
gust, 1886. Erlangen. 

Baur, G. The Morpliogeny of the Vertebral Column iu the Amuiota. 
Ueber die Morphogenie der Wirbelsiiule der Amuioten. Biologisches 
Centralblatt, 15th August, 1880. Amer. Nat., vol. xx, p. 956. No- 
vember, 1886. Philadelphia. 

Brief revie\y of the article which indorses Cope's view that the iutercentrum iu 
Archegosaurus is a distinct body, intercalated between the true centra, 
which he regards as represented by the two pleuroceutra. 

Bishop, J. P. On certain Fossiliferous Limestones of Columbia County, 
New York, aud their relation to the Hudson Eiver Shales and the 
Taconic System. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser.,vol. xxxii, pp. 438-441. 
December, 1886. New Haven.) 

Describes a discovery of fossils in a metamorphic limestone on the western bor- 
der of the Taconic slates, in Columbia County. New York. This lime- 
stone is divided iuto two arms which appear to blend at KiuderhookLake. 
The fossiliferous localities are three in number, aud all are in the eastern 
belt. From the first, situated midway between Chatham aud Ghent, only 
crinoid stems have been taken. The second is situated at the crossing of 
the New York and Mahopac Railroad, 2 miles north of Chatham ; and the 
third a mi'e still farther north, on the farm of Mr. Joel Augell ; and these 
two have furnished the fossils mentioned. Several well-marked valves of 
Lejitcena sericea and Strojihomena alternata. The external markiugs of the 
gasteropods are so effaced by metamorphism and weathering that it is very 
difficult to distinguish species. There are several species of a slender Alur- 
chisonla, probably M. gracilis, a single doubtful Machtrea aud specimens of 
OjMleta iu abundance, one incomplete Orlhoceras, aud a well-preserved new 
species of the genus Ftilodictya. 

Considers these fossils of Trenton age, and that there can be no reasonable 
doubt that this limestone containing Trenton fossils immediately underlies 
the graptolitic shales of the Hudson River group. 

Branco. (Eeview.) O. C. Marsh. Dinocerata. A monograph of an 
extinct order of gigantic mammals. (U. S. Geol. Surv., vol. x, Wash- 
ington, 1884. Gross 4to. xviii u. 237 Seiteu, Mit 200 Holzschnitten 
u. 56 Tafelti. Neu. Jahrb. fiir Min., Geol. u. Pal., 1886. Band i, pp. 
339-341. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 235 

Brauer, Friedrich. Aiisichteu liber die paliiozoisclieu Insecten und 
dereu Deutuug, vou. Prof. Dr. Friedrich Brauer. Mit zwei pboto- 
ziukogr. Tafelu (No. vii und viii). ( Aiinalea des K. K. Naturliisto- 
risclien Ilofmuseums. liedigirt vou Dr. Frauz Hitter vou Hauer 
(Mit siebeu Tafelu uud drei Pigureu im Texte). Baud 1, No. 2, pp. 
87-12G, 18S0. Wieu.) 

Criticises much of Scudder's work. 

Britton, N. L. Fossil leaves in Staten Island aud Long clay beds. 
(Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., iii., 30. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. 
XXXI, p. 403, Max, 1888. New Daven.) 

Notice of Cretaceous leaves. (See last year's record.) 

Britton, N. L. Account of a cruise aloug the shores of Staten Island 
and New Jersey. (Proc. Nat. Sci. Assoc, Staten Island, September, 
188G. New Brighton.) 

Mentions a good exposure of tlie Lower Cretaceous marl-bed at Atlantic 
Highlands, New Jersey, and the presence of several species of fossils there; 
several hundred specimens were collected. 

Brogger, W. 0. Om aldereu af Olenelluszonen i Nordamerika. 

(Geol. Foreniugeus i Stockholm Forhaudl., No. 101. Bd. viii, II. 3, 

pp. 182-213.) 1880, Stockholm. 

An attempt to prove that the Olenellus beds are older than the Taradoxides 
beds, and to establish a parallelism between part of the forms in the older 
divisions of the American aud Scandinavian primordial faunas. The au- 
thor thinks he has demonstrated that the Olenellus zone in America as 
well as in Europe represents the oldest trilobite-bearing fauna so far 
known. Outside of America the genus Olenellus is represented l)y the one 
species only of O. WahlenherfjU , Torell, — 0. EJenilfi, Liurs. (Which is 
quite probably a Paradoxides.) 

Brongniart, Charles. The Fossil Insects of the Primary Group of 
Rocks, a rapid survey of the Entomological Fauna of the Palaeozoic 
Systems. (]\Ianchester Oeol. Soc. Transactions, vol. xviii, parts 10-19 
(1884-'86), p. 200. 1885-'SG, Manchester. 

Not seen. See record for 1885, p. 71G, same paper. 

Brongniart, Chirles, Fossil Insects of the " Primary '' (Paleozoic) 
rocks, 20 pp., 8vo., with five plates. (Bull. Soc. Sci. Nat. Eouen, 1885. 
Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 150. February, 1880. New 
Haven.) 

Notice of. 

Call, R. Ellsworth. On the Genus Campeloma, Eafinesque, ^vith a 
Revision of the Species, Recent and Fossil. (Bull. Washburn Col- 
lege Laboratory Nat. Hist., vol. i, No. 5, pp. 159-105, pis. iii-vi. May, 
1880. Topeka, Kansas.) 

There are four forms of fossil Campeloma mentioned in thisrevision of the genus. 

Call, R. Ellsworth. {See McGee, W J) 

Canu, E. L'articule problematique des depots tertiaries de Florisseut, 

Planocephalus aselloides, Scudder. (Soc. Geol. du Nord, Annales, 

Tome xrii, 18S5-'80, livr. 1-3, p. 118. Lille.) 
Not seen. 



236 RECORD OF SCIE'NCE FOR 1886. 

Carpenter, P. Herbert. Revision of the Piilaeocrinoidea, Part iii. 
Discussion of the Classification and Relations of the Brachiate Criuoids 
and Conclusion of the Generic Descriptions, by Charles Wachsmuth 
and Frank Springer. First section extracted from the " Proceedings 
of the Academy of Natural Sciences," July 28, 1885. Philadelphia, 
1885. Pp. 138, pis. iv-ix. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 5th ser., vol. 
XVII, pp. 277-289. March, 1886. London.) 
Review of. 

CARPENTER, P. HERBERT. Notc on the Structure of Crotalocrinus. 
(Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 5th ser., vol. xviii, pp. 397-406, fig. p. 
402. November, 1886. London. 

A review of Messrs. Wachsmutli and Springer's views on the strncture of the 
genus. The author concludes that in any case they will no longer be able to 
refer to this family as Palaeocrinoids, which " jtrobably have hydrospires 
within the calyx," and to use this supposed fact as an illustration of their 
theory that Blastoids, Cysticis, andCrinoids are so closely linked together, 
that they are not entitled to rank as classes of Echinodernis equivalent to 
the Urchins and Starfishes. 

Carpenter, P. Herbert. Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea. 

Part III. Discussion of the classification and relations of brachiate criuoids and 
conclusions of the generic descriptions, by Charles Wachsmuth and Frank 
Springer. Second section extracted from the "Proceedings of the Academy 
of Natural Sciences," March 30, 1886. Philadelphia, 1886, p. 195. (Ann. and 
Mag. Nat. Hist., 5th ser., vol. xviii, pp. 406-412. November, 1886. Lou- 
don.) Review of. 

Carpenter, P. Herbert. {See Etheridge, Robert, juu.) 
Chaoiers, R. Preliminary Report on the Surface Geology of New 
Brunswick. (Ann. Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Canada, new ser., 
vol. I, pp. lgg-5Sf;g., 1886. Montreal.) 

Gives a list of Post-Tertiary fossils, collected in 1884, from the Leda clay of the 
south side of the Bale dos Chaleurs, and describes their mode of occurre-jce- 

Clarke, J. M. On the higher Devonian Faunas of Ontario County, 
New York. SO pp., 8vo., with three plates. Bull. No. 16, U. S. Geol. 
Survey, Washington, 1885. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 
404. kay, 1886. New Haven.) 

Abstract of. 

Clarke, J. M. {See Kayser.) 

Claypole, E. W. Report on some fossils from the lower Coal Mca.s- 
ures near Wilkesbarre, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania. (Proc. and 
Coll. Wyoming Hist, and Geol. Soc, vol. ii, pt. 2, pp. 239-253, figs. 
1-4 on p. 244, 1886. Wilkesbarre, Pennsylyania.) 

Describes the new species Modiomorpha {1) parinda. Many of the species are 
comparable, if not identifiable, with Western forms. 

CoNGDON, E. A. Remarks upon a deposit of infusorial earth on the 
south shore of Clove Lake, Staten Island. (Proc. Nat. Sci. Assoc, 
Staten Island. May 8, 1886. New Brighton.) 

Gives a list of the species found, all of which, with three exceptions, are also 
found living. 



NORTH AMERICAN rAL.EONTOLOGY. 237 

Cope, Edward Drinker. Second Coiitiuiuitioii of Researches among 
the Batrachia of the Coal Measures of Ohio. Kead before the Ameri- 
can Philosophical Society, June 19, 1885. (Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 
Vol. XXII, pp. 405-408, October, 1885. Philadelphia.) 

Describes the new genus and species Cercariomoiyhus parvisquamia, geu.et sp. 
uov., and the following new species : Anisodexis encliodus, Cera\erpeton divari- 
catum. He also describes what lie considers to be "Claspers of Bratra- 
chia." 

Cope, E. D. The Genealogy of the Vertebrata as learned from Pale- 
ontology'. An address delivered before the Yassar Brothers Institute, 
January 27, 1885. Trans. Yassar Bros. Inst., vol. Iii, pt. 1, 1884-'85, 
pp. GO-80. Poughkeepsie, 1885.) 

lu conclusion, the progressive may be compared with the retrogressive evolu- 
tion of the Vertebrata, as follows: In the earlier periods and with the 
lower iorms, retrogressive evolution predominated. In the higher classes, 
progressive evolution has predominated. When we consider the nature of 
the first class of vertebrates (the Tunicata) in this respect, and compare it 
with that of the last class (the Mammalia), the contrast is very great. 

Cope, E. D., and Wortman, J. L. The mammalian fauna of the Post- 
l)liocene deposits. Fourteenth Annual Report of the Geology and 
Natural History Survey of Indiana; John Collett, director. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. XX, p. 48, January, 188G. .Philadelphia.) 
Brief abstract of. 

Cope, E. D. The Sternum of the Dinosauria. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, 
pp. 15;^-155, figs. 1, 2, February, 1880. Philadelphia.) 

Some evidence as to the nature of the sternum in the Dinosauria, and the pres- 
ence or absence of clavicles in this order. 

Cope, E. D. Corrections of Notes on Dinocerata. (Amer. Nat,, vol. 
XX, p. 155, February, 188G. Philadelphia.) 

In the Naturalist for .lune, 1885, the author gave a synopsis of the genera of 
this suborder, which was partly based ou information derived from Pro- 
fessor Marsh's work. Among them was included the supposed genus 
Tctheopsis, whose .character consisted in the absence of inferior canine 
and incisor teeth. The author now learns on good authority that the 
symphyseal region in the specimen in question is entirely constructed of 
plaster of Paris. The genus Tetheopsis must then be regarded as an arti- 
fact. 

The basal part of a s^uU which the author described under the head of Uinta- 
therium lacustrc, Mar.bli (U. S. Geol. Survey Terr., iii, p. 5'J2), turns out to 
belong to a Palwosijops. 

Cope, E. D. Prof. E. D. Cope, ou a New Type of Perissodactyle Un- 
gulate from the Wasatch Eocene of Wyoming Territory, United 
States of America. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade in, vol. [ii, pp. 
49-52, pi. II, February, 1880. London.) 

A description of the genus Phenacodus with a figure of Phenacodus primaris 
Cope, reproduced through the kindness of Professor Cope. 

Cope, E. D. Edestus and Pelecopterus, etc. (Geol. Mag., new ser.. 
Decade iii, vol. ii, p. 141, March, 1880. London.) 

Notes that Piijchodus being a shark, is not likely to have a pectoral arch and 
fin like that of Pelecopterus. " Moreover these pectoral spines have been 



238 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Cope, E. D. — Contiuued. 

frequently found associated with the jaws and teetb of the ' snout fishes' 
of the Kansas Chalk, which have been described under the generic head of 
Erisichilie Cope. Several species are known (see Bulletin U. S. Geol. Sur- 
vey Terrs., iii, l'S87), and one of them is probably the Xipliias Dlxoni of 
Agassiz, from the chalk of Sussex, England. These genera can not be re- 
ferred to any of the existing orders of fishes, on account of the peculiar 
structure of the pectoral arch. The author therefore places them in an 
especial one, the Actinopleri (see Proceedings Amer. Assoc. Adv. Science, 
1877-'78, p. 299). 

Cope, E. D. Upper Miocene (Loup Fork Beds) in eastern Mexico. 
(Amer. IS'at., 1885, p. 494; Amer. Jonr. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 310, 
April, 188G. New Haven.) 
Abstract of. 

Cope, E. D. Tlie Vertebrate Fauna of the Ticholeptus Beds. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. XX. pp. 3G7-3G9, April, 1880. Philadelphia.) 

Gives lists of the species found in the Ticholeptus bed on the Cottonwood 
Creek, Oregon, and iu Montana; the only species common to both lists is 
the Blasiomeryx borcalis. The Ticholeptus horizon is interesting as that in 
which the genus Mastodon makes its first appearance iu America. It is 
now shown to be the last which contains the genus Anchitherium. It is 
intermediate iu all respects between the Middle and Upper Miocene forma- 
tions of the West, as represented by the John Day and Loup Fork beds. 

Cope, E. D. The Plagianlacidiie of the Puerco Epoch. (Amer. Nat., 
Vol. XX, p. 451, May, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Reviews briefly the three sftecies already described from this group, and de- 
scribes the new species Xeoplagiaulax molcstus, from an entire inferior fourth 
premolar. 

Cope, E. D. Notes on Phenacodus. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade 
III, vol. Ill, pp. 238-239, May, 18SG. Loudon.) 

States that in the article in the Geological Magazine for February, pp. 49-52, 
pi. II, the editor omitted to state the author's more mature views published 
in the American Naturalist for 1885 and for 1884. 

It thus appears that Lemurine forms were the ancestors of all Placental Mam- 
malia, as was already anticipated by Haeckel iu his far-seeing " Schop- 
fuugsgeschichte," 

Cope, E, D. Note on Erisichthe. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade iii, 
vol. Ill, p. 239, May, 1886. London.) 

Defends the use of the name Erisclitlie, against Mr. Davies's note in the March 
number of the Geological Magazine, where he wishes him to use the name 
I'rotosphi/rauia Leidy. 

Cope, E. D. Vertebrata of the Swift Current Creek region of the Cy- 
press Bills. (Ann. Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Canada, 1885. 
New series, vol. i, pp. 79c-85c. Published May, 1886. Montreal.) 

The region mentioned is in the district of Assiniboina, Northwest Territory, 
about longitude 109, latitude 49° 40'. The author considers the beds in 
question to belong to the White River or Oligocene epoch. 

Describes the new species Menodus angustigenis, and mentions generically an- 
other species of Aleuodtis and two species of Tistudinata, Trionyx, and Sly- 
lemys, sp. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 239 

Cope, E. D. The loug-spincd TUeromorpha of the Periniau Epoch. 
(Ainer. Xat., vol. xx, pj). 541, 545, June, 183G. Phihidelphia.) 

Discusses some of the eharat'tcr3 oi Dimetrodon incislrus, I). cJainger, Xaosaui-us 
crucifjer, N. microdiis, and X. claviger ; all from the Permian formation of 
Texas, aoil says that tigures of iY. clavujcr will be published in the Trans- 
actions of the American Philosophical Society. 

Cope, E. D. The Phjlogeny of the Camelida. (Amer. Xat., vol. xx, 
pp. Gll-624, figs.l-U. July, 1S8G. Philadelphia.) 

The total number of genera is nine, of species twenty-six. The development 
of the camels in North America presents a remarkable parallel to that of 
the horses. The ancestors of both lines appear together in the Wasatch or 
lowest Eocene, and the successive forms develop side bj^ side in all the suc- 
ceeding formations. Camels and horses are standard types in all our Ter- 
tiary formations ; and they must bo learned by Awy one who wishes to dis- 
tinguish readily the horizons one from the other. The horse forms are 
more numerous in all the beds in individuals as well as in species. 

Cope, E. D. — Schlosser ou the Phylogeuy of the Ungulate Mammalia. 
Beitriige zur Keuutuiss der Stammesgeschiclite der Hufthiere uud 
Versuch eiuer Systematik der Paar-und Unpaarlmfer, von Max 
Schlosser. MorphOlogisches Jahrbuch, Leipzig-, 18SG. (Amer. Nat., 
vol. XX, pp. 719-721. August, 1S8G. Philadelphia.) 
Review of. 

Cope, E. D. Schlosser on Credouta and Pheuacodus. Ueber das Yer- 
hiiltniss der Cope'sclien Credonta zu den iibrigen Fleischfresseru. 
IMorphologisches Jahrbuch, 188G, p. 287, von Dr. Max Schlosser. 
(Amer. ISTat., vol. xx, pp. 9G5-967. November, IS8G. Philadelphia.) 

Review and criticism of. 

Cope, E. D. An interesting connecting Genus of Chordata. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. XX, pp. 1027-1031, fig. 1. December, 188G. Philadelphia.) 

Describes the new genus and species Mtjcterops ordwams from the Carboniferous 
of Pittston, Peuusyivauia. 

Cope, E. D. A giant Armadillo from the Miocene of Kansas. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. XX, pp. 1041-1046, December. 188G. Philadelphia.) 

Describes the new genus and species Caryodennn stioviavum from the Loup 
Fork bed of Karv^as. 

Cope, E. D. Letters referring to the completion of the final report of 
the United States Geological Survey of the Territories, pp. 1-7. 
January, 1887. Washington. 

Publishes various letters showing the importance of tinishing his work on the 
fossil Vertebrata of the "West. 

Cope, E. D. On the Intercentrum of the Terrestrial Vertebrata. Head 
before the American Phdosophical Society, January, 188G. (Trans. 
Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., vol. xvi, 2d ser., pp. 243-253, figs. 1-6, pi. 
i, 188G. Philadelphia.) 

That the intercentrum exists is shown by the very frequent occurrence in the 
Polycosauriau reptiles of the Permiau epoch of a wedge-shaped boue be- 



240 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Cope, E. D. — Continued. 

tweeu the vertrebral centra on their inferior side. Apparently homologous 
elemeust occur iu the dorsal and cervical regions ofSphenodoii, and in the 
cervical regions of various other lizards. Similar pieces are found in the 
dorsal and caudal regions of various mammalia, for instance, Erlnaceus. 
But in general they are wanting from the MaTumalia, and are better de- 
veloped in the ToJycosauria than in any other order of reptiles. 

Considers it probable that we have in the Emholomeri that order of Batrachia 
from which the Reptilia were derived, through intermediate forms not vet 
discovered. And that the Sphetiosaiiridw can not be referred to this order 
as proposed by him, but constitute a family of lihachitomi. 

Thinks that the development of the dorsal part of the vertebral column in Ciicotiis 
is in an opposite direction to that stated by Fritsch to characterize the 
Splienosauridce. This is the main point to bo proven. If further he has 
shown that the larger dorsal bodies of Cricotus are homologous with the 
centra of the Pohjcosauria and LacerHUa, the proposition remains proven 
that the inferior vertebral bodies of the lihachitomi and the entire vertebral 
bodies of existing Bairaclna are intercentra and not centra. 

Cope, E. D. The Origin of the Fittest : Essays on Evolution. 
(Pp. i-xix and 1-467, pis. i-xviii, figs. 1-Sl, 1887. Il^ew York.) 

Although dated 1837 this book appeared iu the latter part of 1885. It coutains 
the reflections which have suggested themselves to the author while en- 
gaged in special zoological and paleontological studies. The latter essays 
have resulted chiefly from the author's researches in the field of vertebrate 
paleontology, which have thrown the greatest possible light on the fact and 
method of evolution. The work is divided as follows: 

Part I. General Evolution, i. Evolution and its Consequences, ii. The Origin 
of Genera, in. The Theory of Evolution, iv. The Hypothesis of Evolu- 
tion, Physical and Metaphysical, v. The Method of Creation of Organic 
Forms, vi. Review of the Modern Doctiiue of Evolution. 

Part II. Structural Evidence of Evolution, vii. Tlie Homoh>gies and Origin of 
the Types of Molar Teeth of the Mammalia Educabilia. viii. The Relation 
of Man to the Tertiary Mammalia, ix. The Developmental Siguiticance 
of Human Physiognomy, x. The Evidence for Evolution in the History of 
the Extinct Mammalia, xi. The Evolution of the Vertebrata, Progressive 
and Retrogressive. 
Part III. Mechanical Evolution, xii. The Relation of Animal Motion to 
Animal Evolution, xiii. On the Trituberculate Tooth in the Mammalia. 
XIA^ The Origin of the Specialized Teeth of the Carnivora. xv. The 
Origin of the Foot Structures of the Ungulates, xvi. The Effect of lui- 
pacts and Strains on the Feet of Mammalia. 
Part IV. Metaphysical Evolution, xvii. The Evolutionary Significance of 
Human Character, xviii. Consciousness in Evolution, xix. Areha^the- 
tism. XX. Catagenesis, xxi. The Origin of Will. 

Cope, E. D. S3 stematic catalogue of species of vertebrata found iu 
the beds of the Permian epoch iu jS^ortli America, with notes and de- 
scriptions. Eead before tlie American PhiU)sophical Society, May 7, 
1886. (Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, vol. xvi, pp. 285-297, pis. 11-111. Phil- 
adelphia, 188C.) 

Describes the new species Ectocynodon inciaiorus. 

Cope, E. D. On the Structure of tlie Bra:u and auditory Apparatus 
of a theromorphous Eeptihi of the Permian Epoch. Kead before the 



NORTH AMERICAN PALXONTOLOGY. 241 

Cope, E. D. — Coutiuued. 
American Philosophical Society, October IG, 1885. (Proc. Amer 
Phil. Soc. for 1885, pp. 234-237, 1 pi. Philadelphia, 188G.) 

These observations are derived from a part of the skull of one of the DiadecHdce 
{Felycosauria in the transverse molar teeth), of a single individual of un- 
determined species. A few characters are derived from skulls of two allied 
species, Diadccdes phaseoJinus and Empedias mohir'ts Cope, which, like the 
first-named siiecimeu, were derived from the Permian formation of Texas. 
The prominent features of this brain are the following- : The widest partis 
at the origin of the trigeminus nerve. Both the cerebellum and optic tha- 
lamus are flat and simple. The hemispheres are narrower than the seg- 
ments posterior to them and of greater vertical diameter. The epiphysis 
is cnormons and sends a process posteriorly between the tables of the parie- 
tal bone. The olfactory lobes were apparently large and had a greater 
transverse diameter than the hemispheres. The reduced diameter of the 
hemispheres is a character of fishes and batrachia rather than of reptiles, 
but the thalami are also smaller than is the case in batrachia. The small, 
flat cerebellum is rather batrachian than reptilian. 

The result of this examination into the structure of the auditory organs in the 
Diadectidw may be stated as follows: The semicircular canals have the 
structure in common to all Giiathostomatotis Cliordata. The internal wall 
of the vestibule remains uuossified as in many fishes and a few batrachians. 
There is no rudiment of the cochlea, but the vestibule is produced outwards 
and upwards to the fenestra ovalis in a way unknown in any other fam- 
ily of vertebrates. 

I may add that in the specimen examined the semicircular canals were filled 
with a white calcareous i)Owder, probably derived from the comminution 
of otolites. 

Cope, E. D. {See Dames; Noetling; Seelj", H. G.) 

Cragin, F. W. Notes on the geology of southern Kansas. (Bnll. 

Washburn College Laboratory Nat. Hist., a'oI. i. No. 3, pp. 85-91. 

Ai)ri!, 1885. Topeka, Kan£.) 

Mcntious the occurrence of quaternary and tertiary vertebrate fossils and cre- 
taceous invertebrate ones. 

Cunningham, K. M. New find of fossil diatoms. (Science, vol. vii. 
No. 153, p. 35, January, 1886. New York.) 

Calls attenrion to an Important new locality in a clay strata in a railroad cut- 
ting near Philadelphia. 

Dale, T. Nelson. New England Upper Silurian. (Proc. Canadian 
Inst., od ser., vol. iv, pp. 09-70, November, 1886. Toronto.) 

Mc7itioiis the occnrreuce of some fossils which have usually been regarded as of 
Lower Helderberg age, at Littleton, N. H. 

Dames, W. (Review.) J. B. Marcon: A list of theMesozoic and Cen- 
ozoic types in the collections of the U. S. National Museum. (Proc. 
U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. viii, 1885, tig. 290ff. Neu. Jahrb. iMiu., Geol., 
und Pal., 1886, Baud i, p. 4»2. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract (?). 

Dames, W. (Review.) U.S. Williams: On a Crinoid with movable 
spines. (Proc. of the Amer. Philos. Soc, 1883, pp. 81-SS, 1 Tatel.) G. 
J. Hinde : Descriptiou of a new species of Crinoid with articulatory 
H. Mis. 600 16 



242 EECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Dames, W.— Coutinued. 
spiues. (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1885, pp. 157-173, t. G. Neu. Jahrb. 
Min., Geol., uucl Pal., 188G, Baud i, pp. 481-485. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) J. B. Marcou: A lleview of the Progress of 
North American Palaeontology for the year 1884. Smithsonian Re- 
port for 1884, 20 S., Washiugtou, 1885. (Neu. Jahrb. Miu., Geol., uud 
Pal., 1880, Band ii, p. 100. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) E. D. Cope: The Ankle and Skin of the Dino- 
saur, Diclouius armatus. American Naturalist, 1885, p. 1208, pi. 37, 
figs. 1-3. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 1885, Band ii, pp. 287, 
288. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 
Dames, W. (Review.) E. D. Cope: The position of Pterichthys in 
the system. American Naturalist, 1885, pp. 289-291. (Neu. Jahrb. 
Min., Geol., uud Pal., 1880, Band ii, pp. 293, 294. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 
Dames, W. (Review.) A. S. Packard: The Syncarida, a group of 
Carboniferous Crustacea. American Naturalist, 1885, pp. 700-703. 
Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 1880, Band ii, p. 295. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) A. S. Packard : On the Authracarida, a family 
of Carboniferous macrurous decapod Crustacea, allied to the 
Eryonid?e. American Naturalist, 1885, pp. 880, 881. (Neu. Jahrb. 
Min., Geol., und Pal., 18SG, Baud ii, pp. 295, 290. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) ? A.S.Packard: On theGampsonychidai, an 
uudescribed family of fossil Schizopod Crustacea. American Natural- 
ist, 1885, pp. 790-793. (Neu. Jahrb. Miu., Geol., und Pal., 1880, 
Band ii, p. 290. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) A. S. Packard: Types of Carbouiferous 
Xyphosura new to North America. Americau Naturalist, 1885, p. 
291. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 1880, Band ii, pp. 290, 297. 
Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Dames, W. (Review.) E.D.Cope: Eocene Paddle-fish and Gouorhyn- 
chidae. American Naturalist, 1885, pp. 1090, 1091. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., 
Geol., uud Pal., 1S8G, Band ii, pp. 385, 380. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 
Dames, W. (Review.) T. Rupert Jones : On some fossil Ostracoda 
from Colorado. Geol. Mag., 1830, pp. 145-148, t. 4. (Xeu. Jahrb. 
Miu., Geol., uud Pal., 1880, Band ii, p. 337. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 243 

Dana, James D. Lower Siluriau Fossils in a liuiestone of Emmons's 
original Tacouic. Abstract. (Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiv, pt. 1, 
pp. 21G, 217, 1S8G. Salem.) 

Mentions the discovery of Lower Silurian fossils iit several points in the "Sparry 
Limestone" of Emmons, in the town of Canaan, Columbia County, New 
York. 

Dana, James D. On Lower Silurian Fossils from a limestone of tbe 
original Taconic of Emmons. (Amer. Jonr. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxt, 
pp. 241-248, April, 188G. ^ew Haven.) 

The same Taconic limestone belt that contains Trenton and Chazy fossils in 
Rutland, Vermont, and towns farther north, as shown by the Vermont Geo- 
logical Survey, is now proved to have Lower Silurian fossils west of the 
Taconic range at Canaan, in eastern New York. 

Dana, James D. On Lower Silurian fossils from a limestone of tbe 
original Taconic of Professor Emmons. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 6S, 
188G. London and Xew York.) 

Notice of. See Auicr. Jour. Sci., April, 1886. 

Dana, James D. The Taconic stratigraphy and fossils. Note. (Amer. 
Jonr. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 23G-239, September, 188G. New 
Haveu.) 

Fossils arc not to be looked for in a coar.se mica schist or gneiss, or in coarsely 
crystalliue limestone. With even the metamorphic change producing a 
hydromica schist, the disappearance of fossils is to be exj)ected, though not 
always a fact; and that producing a coarse mica schist necessarily exter- 
minates fossils. In conclusion, the author believes we may safely regard 
the Canaan fossils as proof that the limestones and schists of the Taconic 
system (sic) are not older than the Potsdam sandstone. 

Dana, James D. {See Hinde, George J.) 

Darton, Nelson n. The Taconic Controversy in a Nut-shell. 
(Science, vol. vii, No. 155, pp. 78, 79, January, 18SG. New York.) 

States that in his paper entitled " On the occurrence of fossils in the Hudson 
River slates in Orange County, New York, and elsewhere," he employed 
the words " Fossils in the Hudson River slates," etc., rather than " Tren- 
ton fossils in the Taconian argillite." 

Darton, Nelson n. Preliminary notice of fossils in the Hudson Eiver 
slates of the southern part of Orange County, New York, and else- 
where. (Nature, vol. xxxiii, p. 285, 188G. Loudon and New York.) 
Notice of paper. See American Journal of Science for December, 1885. 

Darton, Nelson H. On the Area of Upper Silurian rocks near Corn- 
wall Station, eastern-central Orange County, New York. (Amer. 
Jour. Sci., 3d ser.. Vol. xxxi, pp. 209-21G, March, 188G. New Haven.) 

Describes an area of Lower Helderberg limestone and gives lists of fossils found 
and notes concerning them. 

Darton, Nelson H. Uu the area of Upper Silurian rocks near Corn- 
wall Station, eastern-central Orange County, New York. (Nature, 
vol. XXXIV, p. 46, 188G. London and New York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, March. 



244 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Davies, W. Note Oil Prof. E. D. Cope's article upon Edestus and Pe- 
lecopterus, etc. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade in, vol. in, pp. 141, 
142, March, 188G. London.) 

"Professor Cope is, I think, mistaken iu assigning Xiphias Dixoni to Agassiz. 
The name iirst appears iu a paper by Dr. Leidy " " On Saurocephalus and 
its Allies," in the Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., vol. xi, p. 91, where the name 
was given to the prolonged ethmoid bono referred by Sir Philip Egerton 
to Saiirocephalus lanciformis, as then understood. 
In that paper Dr. Leidy proves that the teeth assigned by Agassiz to Ihe Sauro- 
ce^^halus of Harlan, had no relation to that genus, aud he refers the jaws 
and teeth from the English chalk to a new genus under the name of Pro- 
tosplvjnena, Leidy. The "rostral" bones described by Sir Philip Egerton, 
he contended, did not belong to Prolospltyrmia, but to a species oi Xiphias, 
to which he gave the trivial name of A'. Dixoni. Subsequently Professor 
Cope described his genus Erislchtlie, which certainly embodies both of 
Leidy'3 species. I may mention here that the prolonged ethmoids are 
found in our Chalk, Upper Greensaud, and Gault; and here also are fouud 
(and in no other deposit) the peculiar fin-rays referred to rtychodus by 
Agassiz. From this association the inference is natural that the ethmoids 
and fins belong to the same species of fi.sh, viz, the rroloi<j)hyrana of Leidy, 
ErUichthe Cope. (See Paper by W. Davies, F. G. S., on Saurocrphalus lan- 
ciformis of the British Crustaceous Deposits, with description of a now spe- 
cies. (Geol. Mag., 1878, Decade ii, vol. v, \k 2.j4, pi. viii.) 

Davies, W. M. Brief notices of the papers read before the Geological 
Section of the American Association: Tnlly Limestone, by S. G. 
Williams; Mollusca of the New Jersey jMarls, by K. P. Whitfield; 
New York Devonian Geology, by H. S. Williams; Cambrian in New 
York, by C. D. Walcott; Cretaceous Elora, Devonian and Carbonif- 
erous, Fishes, by J. S. jSTewberry (Amer. Jour. Sci., ."nl ser., vol. xxxii, 
pp. 310-32], October, 1S8G. New Haven.) 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. Cretaceous Floras of the Northwest. Canad. 
Eec. Sci., vol. ii, No. 1, pp. 1-9, 18SG. Montreal. 

A summary of the article in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada. 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. Cretaceous of Northwestern Canada. (Caiiad. 
Eec. Sci.; Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol.xxxi, p. 155, February, 18SG. 
New Haven.) 

Notice of. 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. The Fossil Flora of the western Northwest Terri- 
tory of Canada. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 157, 158, February, 188G. 
New Haven.) 

Brief resumd of papers noticed last year. 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. On the Fossil Flora of the Laramie Series of West- 
ern Canada. (Amer. Nat., vol, xx, pp. G35-G37, July, 188G. Phila- 
delphia.) 

Abstract of a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada, May, 1S8(), by Sir 
J. W. Dawson, LL.D., F. R. S. 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. On the Fossil Flora of the Laramie Series of 
Western Canada. Abstract of a paper read to Royal Society of 
Canada, May, 18S3. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 242, 
243, September, 18S5. New Haven.) 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 245 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. Ou Canadian Examples of Supposed Fossil Algre. 
(Geol. Mag-., nev* ser., Decade iii, vol. iii, pp. 503, 504, November, 
188G. Loudon.) 

Notice or abst'r.act of a paper read before the British Association for the Ad- 
Tancemeut of Science, Birmiughauj, September, 183G. Section C (Geology). 

Dawson, J. W., Sir. {See Grant, 0. E. ; Weiss, Ernst.) 

DoLLO. {See Lydekker, E.) 

DwiGHT, William B. Kecent Explorations in the Wappiuger Yalley 
Limestone of Dutchess County, New York. No. 5, Discovery of fos- 
siliferous Potsdam strata at Pouglikeepsie, New York (illustrated by 
a map, plate vi). (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, i)p. 125-133, 
February, 18SG. New Haven.) 

Gives a list of the fossils fonud, and meutious a new species of rttjclwpay'ia 
(Coiioccphalilcs), resembling the loicciisis, but possessing an occipital spine. 

DwiGHT, William B. Discovery of fossiliferous Potsdam strata at 
Pougbkeepsie, New York. (Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiv, pt. 1, pp. 
204-209, ISSb'. Salem.) 

Describes a ledge rich in Potsdam fossils about one mile southwest of Vassar 
College; describes the stratigrai^hic relations, and gives a preliminary 
list of the si)ecics found. 

DwiGHT, W. B. {See Ford, S. W. ; Hiude, George J.) 
Ellis, 11. W. Report on the geological formations of eastern Albert 
and Westmoreland Counties, New Brunswick, and of portions of 
Cumberland and Colchester Counties, Nova Scotia, embracing the 
Spring Hill Coal Basin and the Carboniferous System north of the 
Cobequid Mountains. 1884. (Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Canada, 
Ann. Rep., new ser., vol. i, pp. le-71e, 188G. Montreal.) 

Mentions fossil plants, which, while presenting some of the features of Mill- 
stone grit plants, are from their stratigraphical position without doubt 
older, and probablj' indicate a portion of the Lower Carboniferous forma- 
tion ; these occur near Delaney Settlement. Gives a short list of Clinton 
fossils determined by Mi\ H. M. Ami, fro.u Wentworth station, and cites 
the list determined by the late Mr. Billings from the same j)lace. 

Etheeidge, Robert, Jr., and P. Herbert Carpenter. Catalogue 
of the Blastoidea in the geological department of the British Mu.seum 
(Natural History), with an account of the morphology and systematic 
position of the group, and a revision of the genera and species. Il- 
lustrated by twenty lithographic plates, etc. pp. i-xvi and 1-322, 
figs. 1-8, pis. i-xx, 1886. London. 

Contains: Morphology. — The zoological history of the Blastoidea; the stem 
and calyx ; the ambulacra ; the summit- jilates ; the hydrospires and si)ira- 
cles; the zoological characters of the Blastoidea. 

Distribution. — The geological and geographical distribution of the Blastoidea; 
table showing the distribution of the genera of the Blastoidea in space and 
time ; a stratigraphical list of all known Blastoids arranged geogi'aphically. 

Classification. — Description of the species. — Bibliography. 
Classiflcation. 

Class Blastoidea. 



246 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Etheridge, Egbert, Jr., and P. Herbert Carperter — Coutiaued. 

Order Regulares, E. and C, 188G. 

(1) F a.mi\y roifremilidie, D'Ofbigny, ISo'i (Eaieiid. E. & C, 1886). 

(2) Family Troostoblasiidw, E. & C, 1886. 
(.3) Family Nudeohlastidcv, E. & C, 1886. 

I. Subfamily Elaacrinida', E. & C, 1886, 

II. Subfamily Schizohlastoida', E. & C, 1886. 

(4) Family Granatohlastidcc, E. & C, 1883. 

(5) Family Codasteridw, E. & C, 1836. 

I. 8\ibfsiuiily PhainoschismidWf'E. &, C, 1886. 

II. Subfamily Cryptoschismid(e, E. & C, 1886. 
Order Irregiilares, E. ifc C, 1886. 

(6) Family Astrocrinitidw, T. & T. Austin, 1843 (Emend. E. & C, 1886). 

I. Basals nu.syrametrical. 

II. Basals symmetrical ; odd ambalacrum linear. 

The following is au attempt .at an abstract of the work on American forms : 
Regulares, E. & C, 1886. 

rentremilidw, D'Orbigny, 1832 (Eraeud. E. & C, 1886). 

Fentrcmiics, Say, 1820 (Eraeud. E. & C, 1886), type. 

Encrina Godoni, Do France. This genus as restricted is essentially Carbonif- 
erous and strictly American, with one possible exception, P, oralis, 
Goldfuss. 

r. Godoni, var. major, var. nov. 

Peniremitidw, D'Orbigny, 1849 (Emend. E. & C, 1882). Type Peniremiles 
Prt?/e<</, de Verneuil. This genus is limited to the Devonian Period, and 
in America to the Hamilton Group, which contains at least two, and per- 
haps six, species. 

MesoMasius,* gen. nov. Type Pcntremiiis crcnuJalus, Roemcr. This is essen- 
tially a Carboniferous genus, and occurs on both sides of the Atlantic. 
The autbors'think it probable that Granatocriniis (jJaher, M. & W., should 
be referred to this group, and also some other American species, hitherto 
described under Granatocriniis. 

Troostoblastidae, E. & C, 1886. 

Troostocrinus, F. B. Shumard, 1865 (Emend. E. & C, 1886). 

Typo Peiitremiies Peinicardtii, Troost. The type species is characteristic of the 
Niagara Period of America. No Devonian species are known, but if, as 
the authors suspect, P. Grosvenori, Shumard, be referable to this genus, it 
reappeared in the upper strata of the American Carboniferous limestone. 

Metahlastus, gen. nov. Type Pcnirtmitcs lineains, Shumard. The authors refer 
doubtfully to this genus, Peniremiles suhcyUndricnSf'RaW, and Codasier 2>cnia- 
lobus, Hall, from the Niagara group ; most of the forms are fiom the 
American Carboniferous system. The type series occurs in the Upper 
Burlington limestone, two are found in the Keokuk and two more in the 
Warsaw limestone, though none are known in the Kaskaskia limestone, so 
rich in Pentrcmiies. 

Tricadocrinus, Meek & Worthen, 1868. Type Peniremiles TVoodmani, Meek & 
Worthen. This is an essentially Carboniferous type, and, so far as we at 
present know, it is limited to the Keokuk and St. Louis groups of the 
American Carboniferous system ; four species are known, though it is 
probable that two of them are identical. Triccelocrinus Meelcianus, sp. 
nov., Warsaw limestone, Spurgen Hill, Indiana. 

micJcohlasiidw, E. & C, 1886. 

I. Subfamily Elceocrinidce, E. & C, 1886. 

* Mtffof, intermediate. 



NOETH AMERICAN PALJiONTOLOGY. 247 

Etheridge, Egbert, Jr., and P. Herbert Carpenter— Coutinued. 

mwacriHus, F. Roemer, 1351 (Etueud. Hall, 1862). Typo Fentremitea VerneuiU, 
Troost. This is purely a Devoniau genus, and appears to be generally dis- 
tributed tlirongbout that formation in the Uuited States and Canada, but 
is unknown in rocks of a similar age in Europe. There appear to be no 
species common to the Lower and Upper Devonian. EUvacrinus VenieiiiU, 
\aY. pomum, var. nbv., Columbus, Ohio; Coruiferous limestone, Clarke 
Couuty, Indiana; Upper Helderberg group, Lower Devonian. 

ElcBacrinus sp. ? 

II. Subfamily Schizohlaslidce, E. & C, 1886. 

ScliizoUastus, E. «fe C, 1882. Typo Feiitremites Saiji, Shumard. S. mdonouJes 
and S. Saiji are limited to the Burlington group. These would be the earli- 
est species of the genus, unless the Pentrcmitcs Samjisoiii of Hambach form 
the underlying Chouteau limestone, or Shumard's P. ^lissouriensis should 
prove to be a Scliizohlasltis. The authors know of no species of it above the 
Burlington limestone, with the possible exception of Granatocr'unis granu- 
losus, M. & W., which occurs in the Keokuk limestone of Indiana and Illi- 
nois. Ouly four species are recognized as belonging certainly to this group, 
though eight others, it is thought, may belong to it. 

Cryptoblastus, gen. nov. Type Pentremites melo, Owen & Shumard. The genus 
is exclusively confined to the Subcarboniferous of America, three species 
belonging to the Burlington limestone and one to the St. Louis; but four 
species are recognized. 

GranatohJasiicla', E. & C, 1886. Granatocrinus (Troost, 1849; Hall, 1862) 
(Emend. E. & C, 1882). Type Feniremites ]\^oncoodi, Owen & Shumard. 
Of the sixteen species which have been described in America G. Norwodi, 
the type of the genus, is the only one which they can with any certainty 
refer to this genus ; it occurs in the Burlington limestone. The genus, as 
now defined, is strictly limited to rocks of Carboniferous age. 

Heieroblastiis,* geu. nov. Type il. Cumberlaudi, six nox. Wentremites coniutus, 
M. & W., St. Louis limestone, is the only American species referred to this 
genus. 

Codastcrhlcv, E. & C, 1886. 

I. Subfamily Fhcenoschismidce, E. & C, 1886. 

Codasicr, McCoy, 1849. Type Cadaster Irilohatus, McCoy. 

The authors are prepared to admit five or perhaps nine species of Cadaster 
though not more, on account of the indefinite manner in which certain so- 
called Codasters have been described and figured. In Britain there is only 
one C. trUohatus, the type. Tlie American species differ from the British 
type in possessing a more elongate form, greater convexity of summit, a 
narrow base, aud more complex ambulacra. Four of these are well defined, 
viz : C. alttrnatits, C. graciUs, C. Hindel, aud C. jnjramidatus. Doubtful 
species are : C. Ameriounus, C. pulchellus, C. Whitei, and Feniremites sub- 
triincatus. If C. pulchellus, Miller & Dyer, from the Niagara group be 
rightly so named, this genus has the most extended geological range of all 
the Blastoidea. Commencing in the Upper Silurian of America, it is well 
represented both in the Upper Helderberg and in the Hamilton group, of 
the Devoniau, especially the latter; while the doubtful C. Whitei, Hall, oc- 

. curs in the transition bed between the Upper Burlington and the Keokuk 
of the Subcarboniferous. The type species (C. <rJ/o&a;«s) is fairly abun- 
dant in the Carboniferous limestone of Lancashire and Yorkshire, and may- 
be considered, they suppose, as the last survivor of the genus. 

* " Erepo^, unusual. 



248 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Etheridge, Robert, Jr., aud P. Herbert Oa.rpenter— Continued. 

Phauioschismci, E. & C, 13S-3. Type PunlatreniaUtcs acuta, G. B. Sby. There 
appear to bo three species iu the Carboniferous rocks of America. ? Pentre- 
mites {Cadaster) Kentuckiensis, Shuiiiard, and two species from New Mexico 
■which Mr. Wachsuinth will describe. 
II. Subfamily Crypto^cMsmidce, E. & C, 1888. 

Orophocriuus, von Secbach, 1H64. Type Peniremtes stelliformis, Owen and 
Shiimard. Three American species are referred to this genus, all contiued 
to rocks of the Carboniferous period — Codonites campanitlaiiis, Hambach, C. 
gracilis, M. & W., and the type species. The genus occurs in rocks of the 
same age iu England, Ireland and Belgium. 

Order Irregulares, E. & C, 188G. 

This order has been established to contain three very remarkable genera: 
Eleutherocriiuis omiinmurd &. Yandell, two species of which occur in the 
Devonian rocks of America, and the British genera Astrocrinites and Pente- 
phyllum. 

Astrocrinitidw, T. & T. Austin, 1813 (Emend. E. & C). This family is divided 
into two groups. Tlie first contains Eleutherocrinas and Astrocrinites, T. &, 
T. Austin ; the second FcnfephyUam, Haughton. 

Etheridge, Robert, jr., and P. Herbert Carpenter. Catalof^ue 
of the Bla.stoidea iu the Geological Department of tlie British Mu- 
seum (ISTatural History), witli an Account of the jMorphology and 
Systematic Position of the Group, and a Revision of the Genera and 
Species; pp. i-xiv and 1-322. Illustrated by twenty lithograi)hic 
plates and twelve wood-cuts. (Loudou, 188G. Printed by order of 
the Trustees.) Price 25s. Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade iii, vol. in, 
pp. 419-425, figs, 1-3. September, 188G. Loudou.) 

Review of, contains many remarks on American species. 

Etheridge, Robert, jr., aud P. Herbert Carpenter. Catalogue 
of the Blastoidea in the Geological Department of the British Mu- 
seum, 322 pp., 4to, with 20 plates. London, 1886. ( Amer. Jour. Sci., 
3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 409-410. November, 1886. New Haven.) 

Review of. 

Etheridge, Robert, jr., and P. Herbert Carpenter. Catalogue 
of the Blastoidea iu the Geological Department of the British Mu- 
seum (Natural History), with an Account of the Morphology and 
Systematic Position of the Group, and a Revision of the Genera 
and Species; pp. i-xvi and 1-322 ; 20 plates. London: Printed by 
order of the Trustees, 1886. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist, 5th ser., 
vol. XVIII, pp. 412-417. November, 1886. London.) 

Review and abstract of. 

"The description of the various species of Blastoids is very limited both in 
space and time. A few species appear to be common to the Upper and 
Lower Devonian of A-narica, buteach oFthe great divisio:is of the Sub-car- 
boniferous in the Mississippi Valley seems to have its own particular types. 
No Blastoid occurs on both sides of the Atlantic ; one species is common to 
the Devonian of Spain and Germany, and another to the Carboniferous 
limestone of Britain and Belgium. But, with these exceptions, the range 
of individual specific types is very limited indeed." 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 249 

Eyerman, John. Footpriuts on the Triassic Sandstone (Jura-Trias) 
of i^ew Jersey. (Am. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 72. January, 
1886. New Haven.) 

Related to A)iomcepii.s major of Hitchcock, in size and characters. From near 
Milford, Hunterdon County, New Jersey. 

Faber, Charles L. Remarks on some fossils of the Cincinnati group. 
(Jour. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix, pp. 14-20, PI. i. April, 1886. 
Cincinnati.) 

Describes the new genus Lepidocoleus as distinct from PJnmiiUies, Barraude, 
with L. Jamesi (Hall & Whitfield), Faber as the type. Describes also the 
new species: Ci/cIoc>jsioides nilidiis, Ci/rtoceras tenuiseptitm, and gives a de- 
scription of the genus Merocrinus, Walcott, and Merocrlnus curtus (Ulrich), 
Faber. 

FiLHOL, H. Observations sur le memoire de M. Cope intitule relations 
des horizons renfermant des debris d'animaux vertebras fossiles en 
Europe et en Amerique. (Ann. Sci. Geol., vol. xvii, pp. 1-16. Ad- 
denda. PI. vi., 1885. Paris.) 

Considers that Anaptomorphus and Necrolcmur, which Mr. Cope had thought 
might be identical, although evidently belonging to the same group of 
Lemuroids, are too different to bo joined zoologically under the same name. 
Mr. Cope says "that the II>jrach'nis is the American Lophiodon, for there are 
only slight differences between them; both exist in France, the second in 
the lower Parisian, the first in the Phosphorites."' The present author 
thinks it probable that the Ri/rachius, animals descending from the Lophi- 
odon, lived both on the old and new continent and were represented in 
France by four species, //. 2»'isctis, II. Donvillei, II. ZeiUeri, and H. interme- 
dins. 
Future discoveries will enable us to understand the changes effected in the 
Hyrachius, which must have modified themselves progressively to give birth 
to the Ta[)irs. • 

Ford, S. W. Notice of a new genus of Lower Silurian Brachiopoda. 
(Amer. Jour, Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 466, 467, Figs. 1, 2. June, 
1886. New Haven.) 

Describes the new genus BiUingsla, of which Obolella desiderata, Billings, is the 
type. 

Ford, S, W. Notice of a new genus of Lower Silurian Brachiopoda. 
(Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 208, 1886. London and New York.) 

Notice (if. See Amer. Jour. Sci., June. Billingsia. 

Ford, S. W. Note on the recently proposed genus Billingsia. (Amer. 
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, p. 325, October, 1886. New Haven.) 
Substitutes thename Elkania, based upon Mr. Billings's Christian name Elkanah, 
to Billingsia, preoccupied by de Koninck. 

Ford, S. W., and W. B. Dwight. Preliminary Report of S. W. Ford 
and W. B. Dwight upon fossils obtained in 1885 from Metamorphic 
liraestoues of the Taconic Series of Emmons, at Canaan, New York. 

A. Explanatory statements with reference to the iialeontological investigations 

at Canaan, New York, by W. B. Dwight. 

B. Joint Report on the Fossils. (Amer. .Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 248- 

255, pi. vii, April, 1886. New Haven.) 
Proposes the new species Cleiocrinus BiUingsi. Considers the fossils as of Trenton 
age. 



250 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Ford, S. W., and W. B. Dwight. Preliminary Eeport of S. W. Ford 
and W.B.Dwiglit upon the fossils obtained in 1885 from MetamoBi^hic 
limestones of tbeTaconic series of Prof. Emmons at Canaan, ISfewYorkc 

(With plate vii.) 

A. Explanatory statement with reference to the paleontological investigations 
at Canaan, by W. B. Dwight. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 6-^, 1886. London and 
New York.) 
Notice of. See Amer. Jour. Sci., April. 

Ford, S. W. jSTote on the Age of the Swedish Paradoxides Beds. 
(Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol xxxii, pp. 473-47G, December, 1886. 
New Haven.) 

The facts (1) that the position of TaradoxUlcs Kjcrulfi in the Swedish Primordial 
is directly below the zone carrying the British F. Ilicksi ; (2) that it is 
clearly allied to P. (ilandicus, a Brachypleural species and an undoubted 
Paradoxides ; and (3) that it is a Menevian species in America ; all appear 
to me to iudicate that it is a Menevian species in Europe also, and that, the 
strata there affording It, may be regarded as constituting a legitimate i)or-. 
tion of the Swedish Paradoxides measures. 

Ford, S. W. {See Hiude, George J.) 

FoERSTE, A. F. The Clinton Group of Ohio. (Bull. Sci. Laboratories 

Denison University, vol. i, pp. 63-120, pis. xiii, xiv, December, 1885. 

Granville, Ohio.) 

Paleontology (pp. 76-120) describes the fossils of the gi-oup and discusses their 
stratigraphic relations. The following new species are described: Lep- 
t(vna prolan gala, Orihis fausta, 0. daytonensls, 0. triple.sia {genQxic relations 
unknown), Grammysia casicelU, Xucula minima, Troclionema nana, liaplns- 
toma affinis, Ci/cJora alia, Bucania exigiia; Bellerophon fiscello-striatus, Ilhvnus 
amhigidifi, Dahnaiiitcs wcrfhncri. and Ortlioccras iitceptiim. 

Gardner, J. S. Sketch of the early history and subsequent progress 
of Paleobotany. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, pp. 598-599, 1886. London and 
New York.) 

From the Fifth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, by Lester F. 
Ward, condensed by J. S. Gardner. 

Gardner, J. S. Mesozoic Angiosperms. (Plate i.s;, Geol. Mag., new 
ser., Decade in, vol. iii, pp. 312-345, August, 1880. London.) 

Review and abstract of Pfof. Lester F. Ward's article on " Paleobotany " in 
the Fifth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey. 

Geyler, Hermann T. Leo Lesquereux Contributions to the fossil 
flora of the Western Territories. Part in. The Cretaceous and Ter- 
tiary floras. In F. V. Hayden's Report of the United States Geolog- 
ical Survey of the Territories, vol. viii. (283 Seiten und 59 Tafeln, 
4to. Neu. Jahrb. Min. Geol. und Pal , 1886, Band i, pp. 153-159. 
Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Grant, C. E., and W. Dawson. Notes on Pleistocene -Fossils from 
Anticosti. (Canad. Bee. Sci., vol. ii. No. 1, pp. 44-48, 1886. Mon- 
treal.) 

Gives lists of the fossils, all of which occur also as living species in the colder 
waters of the Gulf and Eiver St. Lawrence. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 251 

Gratacap, L. p. Fish remaius aud tracks in the Triassic rocks at 
Weehawkeu, N. J. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 243-24G, pis. xii, xiii, 
figs. pp. 2U aud 2A6, March, 188G. Philadelphia.) 

Describes tlieir occnrreuce. 

Gratacap, L. P. Fossil fish in New Jersey Trias. Pop. Sci. Monthly, 
vol. XXTX, p. 574, August, 188G. New York.) 

Notice of a notice in the American Naturalist of fossil fisb (Palwoniscus laliis ?) 
and other remains near Weehawken. 

Hall, James. Paleontology of New York. Vol. V, part ii, Lamelli- 
branchiata. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 311, 312, April, 
1886. New Haven.) 
Notice of the contents of. 

Hall, JA3IES. Bryozoa of the Upper Helderberg Group. Plates and 
explanations. Published in advance of the Eeportof the State Ge- 
ologist for 188G, and of vol. vl (Pal. N. Y., 1886, pis. i-xii, pp. 1-29, 
1886. Albany. 

This iuterestiug and valuable -^vork contains many ncAV species which are rep- 
resented in the plates by beautiful figures. They are as follows: Plate xxv : 
CaUopora genicuJata, Trcmaiella glomerata, Acantliochma aJternata, Tropi- 
dopora nana, I^'cmafaxis fibrosa. Plate xsvii : Sticlopora rectilattra, S. rer- 
mictila, S. crescens. Plate xliv : FenesteUa (li8])an(lus, F. sinuosa. Plate xlv 
FenesieUa tenella, F. crehcsceus. 

The new genera aud subgenera which appear among the above are : Trematella, 
Acanthoclema, Coscliiotrypa, LidienaUa {rUeotrypa, noA'. s. g.), L. {Odonto- 
trypa, nov. s. g.). 

Hall, James. {See Williams, Henry S.) 

Hamilton Association. Eeport: of Geological Section of the Hamil- 
ton Association. Bead at annual meeting, May, 1885. (Jour, and 
Proc. Hamilton Assoc, ]884-'85, vol. i, pt. 2, pp. 83-89, 1885. Hamil- 
ton, Ontario.) 

Gives a list of fossils presented to the Association. 

Harvey, F. L. On Anthracomartus trilobitus, Scudder. (Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., vol. , pp. 231, 232, September, 1886. 

Philadelphia.) 

Some account of this iuteresting species which occurs at the base of the coal 
measures in "Washington County iu northwestern Arkansas. 

Heilprin, Angelo. Contributions to the Tertiary Geology aud Pale- 
ontology of the United States. Published by tlie author, 1886,-pp. 
117. (Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. XXIX, p. 107, September, 1886, New York.) 
Notice of. 

Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology 

of the United States. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. , pp. 57, 58, 

March, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

• Contains a list of Eocene fossils from the northern border of San Augustine 

County, Texas ; the horizon represented is the Claiboruian. 
Mentionsreceivingspecimensof 0)-&i<oiV7cs and of AlnHni?tZi7<?s./?oriV?fln MS, Heilprin, 
from a locality G miles northwest of Gainesville, Florida; this represents 



252 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Heilprin, Angelo— Continued. 

the most northern locality in the- State where the members of the group of 
Foraminifera have been found. Ho also received from approximately the 
same locality Arredonda, Alachua County, specimens containing iV^itmniunits 
floridamis, Orhitoidis, and Opcrculina rotella {0. complanatal). 
Gome marine Eocene fossils from the neighborhoodofPaducab, Kentucky, have 
also been received, and a list of the genera is given ; the horizon is con- 
sidered to be that of the older Tertiaries of Maryland and Virginia. 

Heilprin, Angelo. Explorations on tbe West Coast of Florida and 
in the Okeechobee Wilderness, with Special Reference to the Geology 
and Zoology of the Floridan Peninsula. A Narrative of Researches 
undertaken under the Auspices of the Wagner Free Institute of 
Science of Philadeli)hia. (Trans. Wagner Free Institute Sci., vol. 

, pp. 05-127, 188G. rhiladelphia.) 

The author concludes that there is not a particle of evidence sustaining the 
coral theory of growth of the pcninsuhi. The fornuxtious represented in 
the State are the Oligoceue, Mioceuc, Pliocene, and Post-Pliocene, which 
follow each other in regular succession, beginning with the oldest, from 
the north to the south, thus clearly indicating the direction of growth of 
the peninsula. No indisputable Eocene rocks have thus far been identified 
in the State, but not improbably some such exist in the more northerly 
sections, and possibly include even a part of what has generally been re- 
ferred to the Oligocene. Fresh- water streams, and consequently, dryland, 
existed iu the more southern parts of the peninsula during the Pliocene 
period, as is proved by the interassociation of marine and fluviatile mol- 
lusks in the deposits of the Caloosahatchic. The modern fauna of the coast 
is indisputably a derivative, through successive evolutionary changes of 
the pre-existing faunas of the Pliocene and Miocene periods of the same 
region, and the immediate ancestors of many of the living forms, but 
slightly differing in specific characters, can be determined among the Plio- 
cene fossils of the Caloosahatchic. The doctrine of ev^olution thus receives 
positive and most striking confirmation from the past invertebrate fauua 
of the Floridan region. 
Man's great antiquity on the peninsula is established beyond a doubt, and not 
improbably the fossilized remains found on Sarasota Bay, now wholly 
converted into limonite, represent the most ancient belongings of man that 
have ever been discovered. 
Fossils of the Pliocene (" Floridiau") formation of the Caloosahatchic. Among 
these the following new species are described: Fusiis Caloosaensis, Fascio- 
laria scalur'ma, Meloiujena suhcoronatn, Fuhjur rtipum, TurbincUa regina, 
Vasinnliorridinn, MezzaUiiahiilhosa, Voluia Floridana, MitraUneohiJa, Colum- 
hella ritstkoidts, Comus Triionl, Stromhns Lvidiji, Cyprmi {Siphociipr(m) in-oh- 
lematica, TurriteUa pcratiennuata, T. opicaUs, T. cingtdata, T. modiosnJcata, 
T. siiiannulata, Ccrithlum ornatissinunn, Panopcca cymhiila, P. Floridana, P. 
navicula, Semele perlamcllosa, Venus rugatma, Cardium Floridanum, JTcmi- 
cardium columha, Chama crassa, Lucina disciformis, Area scalarina, A. crassi- 
costa, A. aquUa, A. {Areoptera) aviculcrformis, Spondyltis r-otundafits, Astrea 
meridionalls. 
Airthor gives list of species found in the deposits of the Caloosahatchie. 
Fossils of the Silex-bearing Marl (Miocene) of Ballast Point, Ilillsboro Bay: 
Wagnerla pugnax, Marex larvcvcosia, M. crispangula, M.lritonopsis, M. tro- 
phoniformls, M. spinulosa, Latirus Floridamis, TurbineJla poljigonala, Vnsum 
suhcapitellum, Vohita musioina, V. {Lijria) zebra, Mitra {conomUra) aiigulata, 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 253 

Heilpein, Angelo— Continued. 

Conus 2)laniee2)s, Cypra'a tinnnlus, Ka'lca ampliora, N. sireptosioma , TitrrittUa 
pagodaformis, T. Tumpiv, Turbo crenorngaius, T. heliciformis, DeJpltinula (?) 
solariella, rseudolrochits tiirhinatm, Cerithiiim pnccursor, Pijrazisinus cani- 
jjanulatiis, Partula Americana, Cytlierca niiciformis, Lucina HiUshoroensis, 
Crassatdla dcfurmis, Cardila {Cardifamcra) scrricosta, Area {sic) arcula, Leda 
flexuosa. 

Author gives list of species occnrring in tlie Miocene deposits of Ballast Point, 
Hillsboro Bay. 

Fossils from localities north of Ballast Point: Cerithiiim HiJhhoroensis, C. cor- 
nutum, 

Heilprin, Angelo. On Miocene Fossils from soutliern New Jersey. 
(Proc. Acud. Nat. Sci. Pbilad., vol. — , p. 351, December, 188G. 
Philadelphia.) 

Gives a list of forms found near Bridgeton and Jericho, Cumberland County, 
New Jersey, from the Lower Atlantic Miocene Marylandian series. 

Heilprin, Angelo. (/SVeAshburner, Charles A. ; Kayser; Steiumann. 
Hicks, L. E, The Permian in Nebraslia. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 
881-883, October, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Refers provisionally to this period a group of strata found along the valley of 
the Blue River in Gage County. Mentions a gigantic Finna and a fine 
cephalojiod intermediate between Kautilus and Ammonites, and says that 
besides the presence of types undoubtedly new and approximating Mesozoic 
forms, the great diminution of typical Carboniferous species is noteworthy. 
Of one hundred and twenty-lhree species enumerated by Meek from the 
coal measures along the Missouri River in Nebraska, not more than a dozen 
run up into the Permian. There are some indications of unconformity be- 
tween the coal measures and the Permian, but further investigation is re- 
quired on this point. 

HiLGARD, E. W. Dr. otto Meyer and the southwestern Tertiary. 
(Science, vol. vii, No. 152, p. 11, January, 1886. New York.) 

A criticism of Dr. Meyer's reply to his critics, published in the American 
Journal of Scieuco for December, 1885. 

HiLGARD, E. W. Making deposits of the remains of birds, squirrels, 
and other small animals. Williams's Mineral Resources of the United 
States for the years 1883 and 18S4, p. 940. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., 
vol. XXXI, pp. 398, 399, May, 1886. New Haven.) 
Abstract of. 

Hill, Franklin C. On the mounting of fossils. (Amer. Nat., a^oI. 
XX, pp. 353-359, figs. 1-8, April, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Describes methods of cleaning, mending, and mounting fossils for exhibition. 

HiNDE, George Jennings. A Monograph of the British Stromato- 
poroids, b3^ H. Alleyne Nicholson. Part i. General Introduction, pp. 
Ill, and 130, with 11 plates. Paleontographical Society, volume for 

1885. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade iii, vol. in, pp. 123-128, March, 

1886. London.) 

Review and absti'act of. Beatricca, Billings is included among the Stromato- 
poroids. 



254 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

HiNDE, George Jennings. Hystricriuus, Hiude versus Arthroacan- 
tlia, Williams; a Question of Nomcuclature. (Ann. & Mag. Nat. 
Hist., pp. 271-289, March, ISSG.) 

Defends the use of bisterm Hijsiricrinus autl considers Arthroacantha , Williams, 
as a synouym of it. 

HiNDE, George Jennings. Eeport on the Invertebrata of the Lar- 
amie and Cretaceous Rocks of the Northwest Territory. Contribu- 
tions to Canadian Paleontology, by J. F. Whiteaves. Vol. i, pt. 1, 
8vo., pp. 89, and G plates; Montreal, Dawson Bros., 1885, (Geol. 
Mag., new ser., Decade iii, vol. ii[, p. 129, March, 188G. London.) 

Review and abstract of. 

HiNDE, George Jennings. Bulletins of the United States Geological 
Survey, ISTos. 1-19; Government Printing Oflice, Washington, 1881- 
^S5. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade iii, vol. iii, pp. 172, 173, April, 
188C. London.) 

Mentions tbe following on paleontologic matters : " On Mesozoic Fossils," by 
Dr. C. A. White, who also contributes papers "On tbe Mesczoic and 
Ceuozoic Paheontology cf California," and "On Marino Eocene, Freshwa- 
ter Miocene, and other Fossil Mollnsca of Western North America; "On 
the fossil Faunas of the Upper Devonian along tbe Meridian of 76, 30," by 
Prof. II. S. Williams; " On the Cambrian Faunas of North America," by 
C. D. Walcott; "On tho Quaternary and Recent Mollusca of the Great 
Basin," by R. E. Call ; and " On tho higher Devonian Faunas of Ontario 
County, New York," by J. M. Clarke. 

Hinde, George Jennings. Emmons's Original Taconic Series. 

I. On Lower Silurian Fossils from a Limestone of the Original Taconic of Em- 

mons, by J. D. Dana. 

II. rrelimiuary Report of S. W. Ford and W. 13. Dwigbtnpon Fossils obtained 
in 1885 from Metamorpbic Limestones of tho Taconic Series of Emmons, 
at Canaan, New York. Amer. Jour. Sci., vol. xxxi,. pp. 241-253, pi. vii, 
April, 1886. (Geol. Mag., new ser.. Decade iii, vol. in, pp. 277, June, 
1886. London.) 

Notices and brief abstracts of these memoirs. 

HoLLicK (Arthur). Eemarks on some fossil leaves from Kieischer- 
ville and Kew Jersey. (Proc. Nat. Sci. Assoc, Staten Island, Febru- 
ary 13, 188G. New Brighton.) 

The examination of these fossils confirms the fact that the Kreischerville beds 
are but the extension of those at Woodbridge and Amboy and were con- 
tinuous with them until cut through in comparatively recent times by the 
channel of the Kills. (Cretaceous age.) 

Hyatt, Alpiieus. Larval Theory of the Origin of Tissue. (Araer. 
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 332-317, May, 1S8G. New Haven.) 

Abstract of a pa])cr with the same title published in Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 
vol. XXIII, 1884, pp. 45-163, and has in addition tho suggestion that Volvox 
and Eudor'ina are true intermediate forms entitled to be called Mesozoa, or 
Blast rea. (See last year's record.) 

Hyatt, Alpiieus. Larval Theory of the Origin of Tissue. (Ann. & 
Mag. Nat. Hist., 5th ser., vol. xviii, pp. 193-209, September, 1886. 
London.) 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 255 

Hyatt, Alpheus — Contiuued. 

From tbo American Journal of Science for May, 1886, pp. 332-347. This article 
is an abstract of a paper with tbo same title publisbed in Proc. Boston Soc. 
Nat. Hist., vol. xxiii, 1884, pp. 45-163, but has in addition the suggestion 
tbat Volcox and Eudorina are true intermediate forms entitled to be called 
Mesozoa or Blastrea. 

Hyatt, Alpheus. Larval Tlieoiy of tlie Otigiii of Tissue. (Xature, 
vol. XXXIV, p. 158, 1S8G. Loudon aud j^ew York.) 
Notice of. 
See American Journal of Science, May. 

Jackson, Egbert T. A new museum pest. (Science, vol. vii, No. 
173, pp. 481-483, May, 1886. New York.) 

A description of a museum pest wbicb injured and destoyed many of the labels 
nsed in a collection to illustrate a course in paleontology at the museum of 
comparative zoology in Cambridge. 

James, Joseph F. Cephalopoda of the Cincinnati group. (Jour. 
Cin. Soc. Xat. Hist., vol. viir, pp. 235-253, pi. iv, January, 188G. 
Cincinnati.) 

The present paper is offered as a contribution toward the complete collection of 
descriptions of the fossils of tlie Cincinnati group. At the close of it will 
be found a brief bibliography of the works referred to. Describes the new 
s[»ecies CoJpoceras arcuatum and Cyrtoceras Faboi. 

James, Joseph F. Description of a new species of Gomplioceras from 
the Trenton of Wisconsin. (Jour. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. viii, p. 
255, pi. IV, fig. 2, January, 18SG. Cincinnati.) 

Describes Gomphoceras Fowersi. 

James, Joseph F. Note on a recent synouym in the Palseontology of 
the Cincinnati group. (Jour. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist,, vol, ix, pp, 39, 
July, 1830. Cincinnati.) 

Considers that Labechia viontij'cra , Ulrich, "Contributions to American Palseon- 
tology," May, 1886, is a synonym of Slromatopora stibcyUndrica. U. P. 
James in Jour. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist., April, 1884. 

Jones, T. Rupert. On Some Fossil Ostracoda from Colorado. (Geol. 
Mag , new ser,. Decade iii, vol, iii, pp, 145-148, pi, iv, April, 1888. 
London.) 

Describes some Osti-acoda from the Jurassic Atlantosarus beds near Canon 

City, Colorado, sent to him by Dr. C. A. White. 
He describes the following new species: Metacypris Bradyi, M. Whitei, Cytke- 

ridds Marsha, Cytltcridca atlantjsaurica. 

Jones, T. Rupert. Fossil Ostracoda from Colorado. (Geol. Mag., 
April; Amer. Jour. Sci,, 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p, 404, May, 1880. New 
Haven.) 

Notice of contents of. 

Jones, T. Rupert. On Paljeozoic Phyllopoda. (Geol. Mag., new ser. 
Decade iii, vol. iii, pp. 450-462, October, 1880. London.) 

A perfect specimen of Ceraiiocaris acuminata, Hall, has been lately described 
and figured by Dr. Julius Pohlmau in the Bulletin of the Buflalo Society 
of Natural Science, vol. v. No. I, 1886, pp. 28-29, pi. in, fig. 2, p. 457. 



256 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Jones, T. Euppert — Continued. 

Dr. A. S. Packard, jr., lias described and figured some peculiar appearances on 
an internal cast ofa Carboniferous Phyllopodous carapace from Illinois, as 
traces of four pairs of lamellate limbs (thoracic feet) probably "bomo- 
iogucs of the exopodites of Nebalia." He has defined the genus and species 
as Cryptozoa ])rohle.matica. (Arrer. Nat. Extra, February, 188G, p. 15G ; 
• and Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. xxiii,No. 123, pp. 380-383) p. 462. 

In a Geological Report, Assembly Document No. 161, 1885 (or 1886), Mr. J. M. 
Clarke has defined the localities and geological succession in Ontario 
County, New York, where the Phyllopods which he previously described (see 
Second Report, 1834, pp. 80-86, and "Third Report," p. 3), have occurred 
with or without Gouiatites (p. 462). 

Jones, S. Rupert. {See Dames.) 

Kayser. (Review.) Henry S. Williams : Ou the Fcssil Faunas of tbe 
Upper Devonian, along the meridian 70° 80', from Tompkins County, 
New York, to Bradford County, Pennsylvania. Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur- 
vey, No. 3, 1884. (Neu. Jalirb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 188G, Band i, pp. 
322, 323. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) A. Heilprin : On a Carboniferous Ammonite from 
Texas. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., 1884. (Neu. Jabrb. Min., Geol., 
und Pal., 188G, Band i, p. 480. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) J. M. Clarke: On the Higher Devonian Faunas 
of Ontario County. Mit 3 palieont. Tafeln. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, 
No. IG, 1885. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., u. Pal., 188G, Band i, pp. 480, 
481. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) C. D. Walcott : Paheontological Notes. Amer. 
Jonr. Sci., vol. xxix, 1885, p. 114. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 
188G, Band i, p. 484. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) CD. Walcott: Note on Some Paleozoic Pteropods. 
Amer. Jour. Sci., vol. xxx, 1885, p. 17. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., u. 
Pal., 188G, Band ii, p. 129. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) G. F. Matthew: Notice of a new genus of Ptero- 
pods from the Saint John group. Amer. Jour. Sci., vol. xxx, 1885, p. 
293. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., und Pal., 188G, Band ii, p. 1?9. 
Stuttgart.) ■ 

Abstract. 

Kayser. (Review.) E. Ringueberg : New Fossils from the Niagara 
Period of western New York. Mit 2 Tafeln. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 
Philadelphia, 1884, p. 144. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol., u. Pal., 188G, 

nd II, p. 132. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 257 

KcENEN, VON. (Review.) Charles A. White: Ou mariue, eocene, 
fresh-water mioceiie, and other fossil Molliisca of Western North 
America. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 18, Washington, 1885. (Neu. 
Jahrb. Miu., Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Baud i, pp. 353, 354. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

KoKEN, E. (Review.) Leidy: Fossil bones from Louisiana. Proceed- 
ings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1881, p. 22. 
Vertebrate fossils from Florida. Ibid., p. 118. Rhinoceros and Hip- 
potherium from Florida. Ibid., 1885, p. 32. Remarks ou Mylodon. 
Ibid., p. 49. (Neu. Jahrb. Miu., Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Baud i, pp. 330, 
331. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 
KoKEN, E. (Review.) F. Romer: Dber Kreideversteinerungen aus 
Texas. Jahresb, d. schles. Ges. f. vaterl. Cultur, 1884, p. 227. (Neu. 
Jahrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., 1S86, Baud ii, p. 388. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

KuNZ, George F. Agatised aud Jasperized wood of Arizoua. (Pop. 

Sci., Monthly, vol. xxviii, pp. 3G2-367, January, 138G. New York.) 

Description of the siliciiied forest of Arizoua, known as "Chalcedony Park." 

Lamplugh, G. W. On glacial shell-beds in British (Jolumbia. (Quart. 
Jour. Geol. Soc, vol. xlii, pt. 3, pp. 276-286, August, 1886. Lou- 
don.) 

Part 1. Vancouver Island. Cites list of fossils given by G. M. Dawson in de- 
scribing the glacial deposits of southeastern Vancouver, and gives a list 
of shells from glacial beds at Esquiniault, Vancouver Island, the deter- 
mination being by Mr. Clement Reid and Mr. Edgar Smith. 
Part II. The Frazer Valley. Gives a list of shells from a railway-cutting on 
west bank of Harrison River, British Columbia, determined by Mr. Clement 
Reid. 
Langdon, D. W. Observations ou the Tertiary of Mississippi and Ala- 
bama, with descriptions of new species. (Amer. Jour. Sci,, 3d ser., 
vol. XXXI, pp. 202-209, March, 1886. New Haveu.) 

Give a number of sections with lists of the fossils occurring in the various beds 
aud describes two new species — Verticordia eocevsis from Claiborne and 
Jackson, and Bulla (Haminea) Aldrichi {rom the fjame locality. The two 
species will be figured in the forthcoming report of the Geol. Survey of 
Alabama. 

Langdon, D. W. Observations ou the Tertiary of Mississippi and Ala- 
bama, with, descriptions of new species. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 46, 
1886. London and New York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, March. 

JjEIDy, Joseph. Mastodon and Llama from Florida. (Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. , pp. 11, 12, March, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Proposes the names Mastodon (Trilophodon] floridaiius, and three species of 
Llama which he names Auchenia major, A. minor, and A miuimus. Among 
the fossils from the same locality is aa astragalus of MegaiherUm. 
H, Mis, 000- — 17 



258 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188tJ. 

Leidy, Joseph. Mastodon, Llama., etc., from Florida. (Proc. Philad. 
Acad. Nat. Sci., 1886, p. 11; Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 
403, May, 188G. New Haven.) 

Abstract of. 

Leidy, Joseph. An extinct Boar from Florida. (Proe. Acad. Nat. 
Sci. Philad., vol. , pp. 37, 38, 'figs. 1, 2, March, 1886. Philadel- 
phia.) 

Decribes provisionally the new genii.s Euxyodon and the sjiecies Eusyodon max- 
. hnus. 

Leidy, Joseph. Caries in the Mastodon. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

Philad., vol. , p. 38, March, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Directs attention to a specimen, apparently exhibiting the result of caries, a 
conditiofi never before observed by him in extinct animals, which he had 
attributed to a species under the name of Mastodon Floridamis. 

Leidy, Joseph. {See Koken, E.) 

Lennox, . The F'ossil Sharks of the Devonian. (Proc. Canadian 

Inst, 3d series., vol. iii, pp. 120, 121, February, 1886. Toronto.) 
Some descriptive notes on a specimen of Machwracanthiis sulcatua from the 
corniferous limestone at St. Mary's, Ontario. 

Lesquereux, Leo. [See Geyler.) 

Lydekker, Kichard. Catalogue of the Fossil Mammalia in the 

British Museum (Natural History), Cromwell Road, S. W. Part iii. 

Containing the Order Ungulata, suborders Perissodactyla, Toxo- 

dontia, Condylarthra, and Arablypoda. pp. i-xvi and 1-186, figs. 

1-30, 1886. London. 

Contains many American species. 

Lydekker, JR. Catalogue of the Fossil Mammalia in the British 
Museum (Natural History), Cromwell Road, S. W. Part in. Con- 
taining the Order Ungulata, suborders Perissodactyla, Toxodontia, 
Condylarthra and Amblypoda. 8vo, pp. xvi and 186. London, 1886, 
printed by order of the Trustees. (Geol. Mag., new ser.. Decade iii, 
vol. Ill, pp. 425-427, September, 1886. London.) 

Review of; mentions also some North American species. 

Lydekker, R. Dr. Max Schlosser on the Ungulata. (Geol. Mag., 
new ser., Decade iii, vol. in, pp. 326-328; July 1886. London.) 
Review of; contains also much on American species. 

I, "Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Stammesgeschichte der Hufthiere, etc.," Mor- 
phol. Jahrbuch, vol. xn, pp. 1-136, pis. i-vi. (1886.) 

Lydekker, R. M. DoUo on the Evolution of the Teeth of Herbiv- 
orous Dinosauria. (Geol. Mag., new ser., Decade in, vol. in, pp. 
274-276, diagrams A-C, June, 1886. London.) 

Finally the American Cionodon stimulates the dentition of Ungulate Mammals 

in having numerous cheek-teeth in use at one and the same time. 
(Original not seen.) 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 259 

McCharles, a. Tbe Extinct Ciittle-Fisli iu the Canadian Northwest. 
A paper read before the Canadian Institute, Toronto, March 14, 1885. 

This is published by the author ; the paper is oaly meutioued by title in the 
Proceedings of the Institute. Gives lists of the. Lower Silurian fossils oc- 
curring at Stonewall, Stony Mountain, Lower Fort Garry, and Selkirk 
East, in the Winnipeg district. 

McCharles, A. "The Extiucu Cuttle-Fish in the Canadian Korth- 
west." (Proo. Canad. Inst., 3d ser., vol. iii, p. 270, June, 1886. To- 
ronto.) 

Tliis paper has been separately published by the author. 

McGee, W. J., and R. Ellsworth Call. On the Loess and associ- 
ated deposits of Des Moines. Read before the Iowa Academy of 
Sciences, May 31, 1882. pp. 1-24, pi. on p. 19. December, 1882. 
New Haven, Conn. 

This is a separate edition from the one iu the Aiuer. Jour. Sci. Lists and 
tables of the fossils occurring are given, and eight species are illustrated 
on page 19. 

Marcou, John Belknap. Department of the Interior, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum, serial number 40, Bulletin of the United States Na- 
tional M-iseum, No. 30. Published under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Bibliographies of American naturalists. 

in. Bibliography of publications relating to the collection of fossil inverte- 
brates in the U. S. National Museum, including complete lists of the writ- 
ings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles D. Walcott, pp. 
1-333. 188v). Washington. 

Contents. Introductory note. Part i. The published writings of Fielding 
Bradford Meek. Part ii. The published writings of Charles Abiathar 
White. Part in. The published writings of Charles D. Walcott. iv. 
Publications based upon the paleontological collections of the United 
States Government, by Jacob W^hitman Bailey, Timothy Abbot Conrad, 
.lames Dwight Dana, Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg, James Hall, Angelo 
Heilprin, Alpheus Hyatt, Jules Maroon, John Strong Newberry, David 
Dale Owen, James Schiel, Benjamin F. Shumard, Robert Parr Whitfield. 
Supplement, J. W. Bailey, T. N. Nicollet, Hiram A. Prout, Benjamin F. 
Shumard. Index of genera and species; general index. 

Marcou, John Belknap. Biographies of American naturalists, 
m. Publications relating to fossil invertebrates. (Bull 30, U. S. 
Nat. Mus., 334 pp. 8vo. Washington, 1885. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d 
ser., vol. XXXII, p. 246, September, 1886. New Haven.) 

Notice of contents of. 

Marcou, John Belknap. Annotated catalogue of the published 
writings of Charles Abiathar White, 1860-1885. (Extracted from 
Bull. 30, U. S. National Museum, pp. 113-181. 1885. Washington.) 

Four hundred copies of this extract from Bull. 30 were published by Dr. C. A. 
White. 

Marcou, John Belknap. Annotated catalogues of the published 
writings of Dr. Charles Abiathar White. (Nature, vol. xxxrv, p. 
246. 1886. London and New York.) 

Notice of. See Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 30, pp. 113-181. 



260 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Maboou, John Belknap. Supplemeut to the list of Mesozoie and 
Cenozoiciuvertebrate types in the collections of the National Mu- 
seum. (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. ix, pp. 250-254, 1886. Wash- 
ington.) 

Marcou, John Belknap. Eeview of the Progress of North American 
Inverterbrate Paleontology for 1885. (Auier. Nat., vol. xx, pp. SOS- 
SI 4, Juue 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Marcou, John Belknap. Review of the Progress of North Ameri- 
can Invertebrate Paleontology for 1885. American Naturalist, 
Extra, June 1886, p. 505. (Geol. Mag., Decade in, vol. in, p. 368. 
-August, 1886, Loudon.) 
Notice of contents. 

Marcou, John Belknap. Record of Nortli American Inv^ertebrate 
Paleontology for the year 1885, (From the Smithsonian Report for 
188S, pp. 1-47, 1886. Washington.) 

Marcou, John Belknap. North American Invertebrate Paleontol- 
ogy. P. 47 ( Pop. Sci. Mouthly, vol. xxix, p. 885, October, 1886. 
New York.) 

Notice of Mr. Marcoii's record of paleontology in the Smithsonian Report for 

1885. 

Marcou, John Belknap. (See Dames.) 

MarGtERIE, Emm. de. Esquisse de la Paleobotanique, par M. Lester 

F. Ward. (Polybiblium, tome xlvii, livraison de novembre, 1886. 

Paris.) 

Review of Professor Ward's article in the fjth Ann. Report of the U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey, 1883-'84. 

Marsh, Othniel Charles. Monographic des Dinocerata, mammif- 
eres gigantesques, Appartenant ti un arbre disparu. (Ann. Sci. 
Geol., vol. xvn, pp. i-xi, 1885. Paris.) 

A translation of the greater part of the introduction to Professor Marsh's 
monograph in the publication of the U. S. Geol. Survey', and reproduces a 
tabular statement of Marsh's classification of the Dinocerata. 

Marsh, O. C. {See Branco.) 

Matthew, George F. Illustrations of the Fauna of the St. John 
Group, continued. No. in. — Description of new genera and species, 
including a description of a new species of Solenopleura, b^' J. F. 
Whiteaves. (Proc. and Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada for the year 1885, 
vol. in, section i\', pp. 29-84, pis. v-vii, 1886. Montreal.) 

The following are the new species described: Archeoci/athus ^ pavonoiden, Pro- 
tospongia ? minor, Eoconjne geminum, Dendrograpius 'i primordialis, Proto- 
graptus alntiis, Lingtilella ? injlata, L. Daicsoiii, L. liiigiiloides, Acroireta 
Baileyi, A J Gulielini, Kutorgina latoureiisis, K.l pterincoides, Orfhiti qiia- 
coensis, Hyolithes (Camerotheca) gracilis, Diplotlieca hijattiana, D. hyaltiana 
var. A. caudata, Stenotheca hicksiana, S, concentrica, S. I'adiata, S. nasuta, S. 
triangularis, Lepiditta alata, L. carta, Lppidella anomala, Hipponicharion eos, 
Beijrichona pujiiliq, B, (iA^ec?,, Primitia nGidioa, Agnostw^ regtilm, A. partitus^ 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 261 

Matthew Geqr&b F. — Goutinued. 

A. rir, A. rir var. A. concinnns, A. acadicus var. A. decliris, A. iessella, A. 
umbo, A. ubiusilobus, A. acutilobus, MicrodiHcus punctatus var. precursor, 
Agraulos ? arlicephalus, Faradoxides arenacus. 
lu the above the following uew genera and subgenera are described: In the 
Protozoa, Eovoryne ; in the Hydrozoa, Protograptas ; in the Pteropoda, 
Cameroiheca (subgenus), and Diplotheca ; in the Gasteropoda, ParmopJto- 
reZZa (subgenus), Lepiditta and Lepidella ; iu the Ostracoda, Bipponichariou 
and Beyrichona. 

Matthew, George F. Abstract of a paper on the Cambrian Fanna.s 
of Cape Breton and Newfoundland. (Canadian Kec. !Sci,, vol. ii, 
No. 4, pp. 255-258, 1886. Montreal.) 

Abstract of a paper in the Trans. Roy. Soc. of Canada. 

Matthew, George F. Synopsis of the Fauna in division 1, of the 
St. John Group, with Preliminary Notes on the Higher Faunas of the 
same Group. (Bull. Nat. Hist Soc. New Brunswick, No. v, pp. 25- 
31, 1S8(), St. Joliu, New Brunswick.) 

Matthew, George F. The Structural Features of "Discina Acadica" 
(Hartt), of the St. John Group. (Can. Rec. Sci., vol. ii, No. 1, pp. 
9-11, figure on p. 11, 1880. . Montreal.) 

Gives some descriptive notes and a figure of a young specimen of Stenotheca 
acadica. 

Matthew, George F. Discovery of a Pteraspidian fish in the Silu- 
rian rocks of New Brunswick. (Canad. Rec. Sci., vol. ii, No. 4, pp. 
251, 252, fig. p. 252, 1886. Montreal.) 

Describes the fossil fish found on the southern slope of the Nerepis Hills, in 
King's County, New Brunswick, from beds equivalent to the Lower Helder- 
berg horison of New York or the Ludlow of England, an d proposes for it the 
name Fteraspis ? Acadica. 

Matthew, George F. Pteropod of the St. John Group. (From a let- 
ter by Mr. G. F. Matthew, dated St. John, New Brunswick, December 
8.) (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 72, January, 1886. JSIew 
Haven.) 

States that there is no relation between Diplotheca and Phragmofheca of Bar- 
rande. The lateral partition and diaphragms of Diplotheca are features 
which distinguish it from other Hyolithoid shells. 

Matthew, George F. Note on the occurrence of Oleuellus ? Kjerulfi 
in America. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxt, pp. 472, 473, June, 
1886. New Haven.) 

Notes the occurrence of the fossil named in New Brunswick in the basin of the 
Keunebecasis River, where it is associated with a number of species found 
in the St. John basin in the bands c and d of Division i. The species are 
similar and in some cases identical with those of the Menevian Groups of 
Wales. 

In Newfoundland 0. (?) Kjerulji occurs in association with Agraulox nfrenuus, 
HyohtheH Micmac, etc. 

Mr. Matthews considers it doubtful whether it belongs to OloieUn*, and says that 
among Paradoxidw it is more closely allied to /'. Jcaduus Xhnu ;ii v other. 



262 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 18«(i. 

Matthew, George F. Additional uote on the Pteraspidian fish found 
in New Bruusw clc. (Canad. Rec. Sci., vol. v, No. o, pp. 323-32G, 
1887. Montreal.) 

Some additional descriptive notes. The extras were distributed in 188G. 

Matthew, George F. {See Kayser.) 

Meyer, Otto, and T. H. Aldrich. The Tertiary Fauna of Newton 
and Wautnbbee, Miss. (Jour. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix, pp. 40-50, 
pi. II, July, 1886. Cincinnati.) 
These fossils are all of Eocene age. 

Gives a list of the species found, and describes the following new species : Sigare- 
fus, subg., Sigatica, nov, subg., DentalUim incisissimum, Cadnlus abniptiis, 
Fissurella altior, Scalarla (Opalia) albitesta, S. Newfonensis, FJglisia retiscnlpta, 
Natica Newton ensis, Sigaretus (Sigalica) Boettgeri, S. ineoiistans, CeriUiiopsis 
quadristriatus, Cassidaria planotecta, Columbella mississipjriensis, Murex can- 
cdlaroidtn, Marginella coiistrictoidvs, Cylichtia coliifata, Plicatnla planata, 
reeten pulchricosta, Venericardia complcxicosta, Neaera {Cardiomya) mnltior- 
nnta XyJophaga ^ mississipjnensis, ScalpeJliimsiibquadratiim, Bclcinnoais Ameri- 
cana. 

Meyer, Otto. Contributions to the Eocene Paleontolog^y of Alabama 
and Mississippi. (Geol. Surv\ Alabama, Bull. No. 1, pt. 2, pp. G3-85, 
pis. i-iii, 1886.) 

Describes Bovicornu, n. gen., and the following new species: JJentaliuni bituba- 
tum, D. anniilatam, Cadulus quadriturritns, C. turgidiis, C. oorpulentus, C. 
Juvenis, Jdeorbis subangulatiis, A. laevis, Solarium hargeri, Scalaria graciUor, 
EgUsiapulclira, E. regiilaris, E. ina'quistriata, Caecum soUiarium, Cnicibulum 
aniiqnum, Amaura tornatelloides, Bissoina minsissippient^is, AcJin modenta, Tur- 
boyiilla negUcta, T. mississijipiensis, Odostomia bideudata, Chemnitzia acuta, 
Bitliumkoeneni, Ceritliiop.sis aldrichi, C. jacksonensis, Triforis similis, T. major, 
T. meridionalis, T. sp., T. diatinctus, T. bilineatus, Xassaviississippiensis, Can' 
eillaria turitissima, Murex angulatun, M. simplex, Aldrich, var. nov. aspinosus, 
Murex simplex, Turricula cincta, Pleurotoma terebriformis, P. jacksonensis, P. 
infans, Mangelia meridionalis, .Bulla bilruncata, Cijlichna oriformis, C. jack- 
sonensis, C. subradiwi, Actman. injiatior, Sti/liola simplex, S.hasfata, Bovicornu 
eocense, Area inornata, Trigonocoelia ledoides, Leda mater, L. triangulata, As- 
tarte protracta, A. triangulafa, Micromeris senex, Lucina {Cyclas) subrigaul- 
tiana, L. elioctavensis, L. Smithi, L. disculpla, Mactra inequilaieralis, Hindsi- 
ella faba, Ergcina Whitjieldi, Kelliella ? Boettgeri, ModioUiria Alabamensis, 
Corbula Pearlensis, Venus retiscnlpta, Echinocganuis Huxlegunus. 

Meyer, Otto. The genealogy and the age of the species in the South- 
ern Old Tertiary. Part m, reply to criticisms. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, 
J). 285, 1886. London and New York.) 

Abstract of See American Journal of Science, December, l8Sd. 

Meyer, Otto. Observations on the Tertiary and Grand Gulf strata 
of Mississippi. ( Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxir, p|). 20-25, July, 
1886. New Haven.) 

Mentions the occurrence of several fossils and concludes : (1) That he does not 
know any jilaco where Grand Gulf strata can be seen in actual superposition 
over the Marine Tertiarj'. (2) There are two places where strata which 
can not bo distinguished from unquestioned Grand Gulf can be seen actu- 
allyoverlain by Marine Tertiary. In one of these cases, moreover, there is 
actual evidence that these strata were dry land or nearly dry land before 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 263 

Meyer, Otto— Coutiuued. 

the Marine Tertiary was deposited upon them. (3) The Grand Gulf for- 
mation, at least for its main part, is not a marine formation ; it contains 
fresh water shells. (4) A thick and extended marine greensand formation 
with a numerous fauna is found iu eastern Mississippi. It is parallel to 
the strata immediately below the Claiborne profile. Its fauna is C'laiborn- 
ian, but approaches the Jacksonian. 

Meyer, Otto. Observations on the Tertiary and Grand Gulf strata 

of Mississippi. ( Amer. Kat., vol. xx, p. 969, November, 1886. Phila- 
delphia.) 

Abstract of. 

Meyer, Otto. Observations on the Tertiary and Grand Gulf strata of 
Mississippi. (Nature, vol.xxxiv, p.330, 1886. Loudon and New York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, July. 

Meyer, Otto. Notes on the variation of certain Tertiary Fossils in 
overlying beds. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 637, 638, July, 1886. Phila- 
delphia.) 

Describes variations in Ciitherca sohrhia Conrad, and Fious mississipjriensis Con- 
rad, from the prolile near Vicksbnrg. 

Mixer, Fred K., and Herbert Upham Williams. Fish remains 
from the Coruiferous near Buffalo. (Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. 
V, p. 84, 1886. Buffalo.) 

Reports the discovery of a number of imperfectly preserved lish remains in 
strata of the Corniferous period, near Buffalo. 

Moore, David R. Fossil Corals of Franklin County, Indiana. (Bull. 
Brookville Soc. Nat. Hist., No. 2, pp. 50, 51, 1886, Richmond, Ind.) 
Gives lists of fossil-corals occuring in Upper and Lower Silurian, and in the 
Devonian drift of Franklin County, Indiana. 

Moore, David R. Two hours among the Fossils of Franklin County, 
Indiana. (Bull. Brookville Soc. Nat. Hist., No. 1, pp. 44-45, 1885. 
Richmond, Indiana.) 

Gives a list of Lower Silurian fossils found during a two hours' walk. 

Morris, Charles. Methods of Defense in Organisms. (Proc. Acad. 
Nat. Sci., vol. -, pp. 25-29, March, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Throughout the whole history of the organic realm one principle holds good. 
There has been a continued evolntion of more rapid and varied powers of 
motion. To this every advance in organization has tended, while the hin- 
derances to speed and flexibility have been successively discarded by the 
higher forms of life. In correspondence with this has been the develop- 
ment of mentality, since mentality, as outwardly displayed by the ani- 
mals below man, is indicated by a greater intricacy of motions, in combi- 
nation with ambush and concealment. For the attainment of the highest 
Ijossible speed and strength little mentality was requisite, and brain de- 
velopment is manifested rather by intricacy than speed of motion — or rather 
by that well-ordered correlation of rest and diversified motion suited to 
the best good of the organism. Yet we must regard mentality as rather 
the effect than the cause of motor evolution. Probably the power of di- 
versified motion appeared first while the exercise of any new power of this 
kind acted as an agent iu the development of the brain. In other words, 
the evolution of the brain is a consequence of that of the body — not the 
reverse. P. "29. 



264 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Newberry, J. 8. Tlic Flora of tlic Amboy Clays. (Bull. Torrey 
Botanical Club, vol. xiii, No. 3, pp. 33-37, March, 188C. New 
York.) 

Abstract of a paper on the flora of the Amboy clays, at least one-third of the 
species seen to be identical with leaves found in the npper cretaceous clays 
of Greenland and Aachen (Aix la Chapelle), -which not only indicates a 
chronological parallelism, but shows a remarkable and unexpected simi- 
larity in the vegetation of those widely-separated countries in the middle 
and last half of the Cretaceous age. Gives a brief synopsis of the flora of 
the Amboy clays. 
Newberry, J. S. Titauichthys ami Diuichthys from the Devonian of 
Ohio. Trans. N. Y. Acad. ISci., vol. V, No. 2. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d 
ser., vol. XXXI, p. 405, May, 1880. New Haven.) 

Abstract of. 

Newberry, J. S. Description of a species of Bauhinia from the Cre- 
taceous Clays of New Jersey. (Bull. Torrey Botanical Club, vol. xiii, 
No. 5, pp. 77, 78, pi. Ivi, May, 1886. New York.) 

Describes the new species Bauhinia cretacea. 

Newberry, J. S. The Cretaceous Flora of North America. Illustrated 
by drawings and lantern views. Abstract. (Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 
vol. V, 1885-'86, pp. 133-137, 1880. New York.) 

Gives a brief history of what is known of the Cretaceous flora of North America, 
and calls attention to an important contribution to it, about to be published, 
from the Raritan and Amboy clays of New Jersey. 

Newberry, J. S. The Cretaceous Flora of North America. An ab- 
stract of a paper by Professor Newberry on the Cretaceous Flora 
of North America in the Transactions N. Y'. Acad. Sci., No. 5, 
1886. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. XXXII, p. 77, July, 1886. New 
Haven.) 
Newberry, J. S. {Sec Davis, W. M. ; Weiss, Ernst.)- 
Nicholson, H. A. On some new or imperfectly known species of 
Stromatoporoids. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 5th ser., vol. xvii, pp. 
225-270, 1880. London.) 
No American species. 

Nicholson, H. Alleyne. On some new or imperfectly known spe- 
cies of Stromatoporoids. Part ii, pis. i, ii. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 
5th ser., vol. xviir, pp. 8-22, July, 1880. London.) 

Describes Stromaloporella granulaia, Nich., 1873; Labcchia Ohioensis, Nich., 1885; 
L. Ca^iadeusis, Nich. and Murie, 1878. 

Nicholson, H. Alleyne. A Monograph of the British Stromatopo- 
roids. Part I, General Introduction, pp. i-iii and 1-30, figs. 1-17, pis. 
i-xi. (The Paheontographical Society, instituted 1847, vol. for 1885. 
London, 1886.) 

I. Historical introduction. 
II. The general structure of the skeleton. (1) General form and mode of 
growth. (2) Chemical composition and mode of preservation. (3) The 
minute structure of the skeleton : a. The skeletal tissue ; b. The radial 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 265 

Nicholson, H. Allbtne — Coutinued. 

pillars and concentric lamin;e ; c. Variations in tbe structure of these ; 
d. Tlie intcrlaniinar spaces; e. The zotiidal tubes; /. The astrorhizse; 
g. The astrorhizal tabuhe ; h. The axial tubes; i. The epitheca ; j. The 
surface; k. The reproductive organs. 

III. Systematic position and affinities of the stromatoporoids. 

IV. Siietch classification. 

V. Families and genera of the stroniatopoi'oids : (1) Actinostromidas. (2) La- 
bechiidic. (3) Stromatoporida-. (4) IdiostromidiB. 

VI. The nature of " Caunopora." 
The following is a notice of the American genera and species : 

Actiiioslromida', Nich. 

Actinofttroma gen. nov., Stromatopora, Auctt. 

Clathrodictyon, Nich. and Mur. Tyi)e C. vesiculosum, N. and M. Clinton and Ni- 
agara formation. In America there is also C. ceUulosum N. and M. from the 
Corniferous limestone. 

StuIodiGtyo)!, Nich. and Mur. Type S. cohimvare, Nich. From the Devonian of 
North America. 

Lahechida', Nich. 

Labechia, Edwards and Haime, ISrA. Type L. conferta, Lonsd. Two species at 
least of Lower Silurian age occur in North America, L. Canadensis, Nich. 
and Mur., Trenton limestooe, and L. Ohioensis, n. s., Cincinnati group. 

Dictyostroma, Nich. Type D. undulatum. Niagara limestone. 

Beatricea, Billings. Types B. itndulaia and B. nodnloso. The balance of evi- 
dence seems to the author to be in favor of regarding Beatricea as an ab- 
normal type of the Stromatoporoids. 

Siromatoporidw, Nich. 

Stromatopora, Goldf. (emend.). Type S. conccntrica. Refers to this genus his 
own genus, rachystroma, from the Niagara limestone. 

Stromatoporella, nov. gen. Type S. cjranuJata, Nicli. From the Hamilton and 
Corniferous formations of western Canada. Refers to this genus probably 
Stromatopora nnUiporoides, Nich., from the Devonian, and the allied or iden- 
tical Cwnostroma incrnstans, Hall and Whitf., from the Devonian. 

Syringostroma, Nich. Type S. densum. 'Nich. From the Devonian rocks of Ohio. 

Idiostromid<r, Nich. 

Idiostroma, Winchell, founded for the reception of I. ccespitosum and /. gor- 
diaceiim, from the Devonian rocks of North America. 

Considering that the embedded tubes constitute the essential feature upon 
which Caunopora, Phill., and Biapora., Berg., were founded, the author 
thinks that the facts render it absolutely certain that these names can not 
be retained as names of genera. 

Concludes that "the fossils ordinarily called ' Caunopora' and ' Biapora' are 
the results of the combined growth of some slromatoporoid with some 
coral, the former usually being a s'pecies of Stromatopora or Stromatoporella, 
and the latter generally belonging either to Syringopora or to Aitlopora 
We must also conclude, however, that there are other fossils in general 
aspect exceedingly similar to the ordinary ' Caunopora,' in which the em- 
bedded tubes really do belong to the organism in -which they are found, as 
we have seen to be the case in Idiostroma oculoium. In practice, therefore, 
each individual specimen must, with our present knowledge, be judged on 
its own merits, apart from all preconceived theories. Moreover, as the 
' Caunoporce ' and ' Biapora ' show many points of interest which are quite 
independent of any hypothesis as to their actual nature, I shall, where 
needful, describe and figure any noticeable features in connectioii with tbe 
' (?a««o/)ora-state ' of certain Stromatoporoids, irrespective of all theoret- 
ical views as to the precise nature of this ' state.'" 



266 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Nicholson, H. Alleyne, aud R. Etheridge, jun. {See Steinmann.) 
Nicholson, H. Alleyne, and A. H. Ford. {See Steinmann.) 
NOETLING. E. T>. Cope: On the structure of the skull in the Elasmo- 
brancli genus Didyniodus. Proceedings of the American Philosopli- 
ical Society, 1884; Paleontolog. Bulletin No. 38. (Neu. Jabrb. Min., 
Geol. and Pal., 1886. Band, i, pp. 114, 115. Stuttgart.) 
Ahstriict. 

NoETLiNG. H. S.Williams: Notice of a new Limuloid Crustacean 
from the Devonian. American Journal of Science and Arts, 1885. 
(Neu. Jabrb. Min., Geol., and Pal., 1886. Band, i, p. 344, Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

NoETLiNG. H.S.Williams: New Crinoids from the Rocks of the Che- 
mung Period (Upper Devonian) of New York State. Proc. Acad. 
Nat. Sci., Pbilad., 1882. (Neu. Jabrb. Min.,Geol., and Pal., 1886. Band. 
I, p. 'SGih Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Owen, RiuHARd. On a New Perissodactyle Ungulata from Wyoming. 
(Geol. Mag., new ser.. Decade iti, vol. in, p. 140, March, 1886. 
London.) 

In the Geological Magazine for February, 1886, it is stated, p. 50, that no Peris- 
sodactyle luanuual was known to possess tubercular teeth. Professor Cope 
does uot supply the characters to which his terra "tubercular" is applica- 
ble. Sir Richard then says that he figuretl tubercular molars of riiolophus 
from the Eocene in his Paleontology (2d ed., 1861), and that an earlier ex- 
ample is found in the genus Ilfiraculherium, described and figui'ed in " Brit- 
ish Fossil Mannuals and Birds," 8vo., 1846, p. 422, cut 166 ; also from " Lon- 
don Clay."' Ho states that his estimates of the claims of Elephants and 
Mastodons to rank as an " Order" rests upon the niultilamellate structure, 
size, and succession of their " grinders," subordinate to which dental char- 
acter may be cited a vertebral oue, necessitating their special instrument, 
the proboscis. 

Osborne, Henry F. A new Mammal from the American Triassic. 
(Science, vol. viii, No. 201, p. 540, and fig., December, 1886. New 
York.) 

Describes Mlcroconodon lenuirostris in the collection of the Philadelphia Acad- 
emy of Natural Sciences, as on comparison he tiuds it to belong to quite a 
different genus from Dromafheriiim. sylve-stre Emmons, to which it had been 
referred. 

Osborne, Henry F. Observations upon the Upper Triassic Mam- 
mals, Dromatberium and Microconodon. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. 
, pp. 359-363, figs. 1-3, December, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Describes the new genus and species Microconodon lenuirostris. This genus is 
founded upon the specimen in the collection of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia, which was described by Emmons as Dromathe- 
rium. He also re-describes Dromatherium si/lvestre Emmons. There are 
some portions of jaws described by Emmons from the Upper Triassic (Chat- 
ham coal-fields) of North Carolina. 



North American pal^,ontology. ' 267 

Packard, A. S. Geological Extinction and some of its Apparent 
Causes. (Araer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 29-40, January, 1886. Philadel- 
phia.) 

" That there is a limit to the age of species as well as to individuals almost goes 
without saying. As there is iu each imliviJual a youth, mauliood, and old 
age, so species and orders rise, culminate, and decline." (This view was 
first propounded by Prof. Alpheus Hyatt.— Ed.) The causes, however com- 
plex, are, in the case of plants and animals, apparently physical; they are 
general and pervasive in their effects, and have been iu operation since life 
began ; there have been critical periods in paleontological as well as geo- 
logical history, and periods of rapid and wide-spread extinction as well as 
continual, progressive dyiug out of isolated species. 

Packard, A. S. Causes of the Extinction of Species. (Pop. Sci. 
Monthly, vol. xxix, p. 429, July, 1886. ]^ew York.) 
Abstract of. 

Packard, A. S. Discovery of the Thoracic Feet in a Carboniferous 
Phyllocaridan. (Read before the American Philosophical Society, 
February o, 1886.) Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, Philad., vol. xxiii, pp. 
380-383, pi. p. 380. 

Describes Cnjptozoe problematicus Packard. 

Packard, A. S. Discovery of Lamellate Thoracic Feet iu the Phyllo- 
carlda. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 155, 156, February, 1886. Phila- 
delphia. 

Describes the thoraclclimbs and regards the parts preserved as the homolognes 
of the exopodites of Nebalia. The author named the specimen in MSS. 
Cryptozoe prohl^maticvs, as he was in doubt as to its affinities. A descrip- 
tion of the new genus and species will appear hereafter, with figures. 

Packard, A. S. {See Dames.) 

Panton, J. Hayes. Fragmentary Leaves from the Geological Records 
of the Great Northwest. A paper read before the Society on the 
evening of 24th January, 1884. (Manitoba Hist, and Sci. Soc, \^ in- 
nipeg. Transactions, No. 4, season 1883-'84, pp. 1-9, 1884. Winni- 
peg.) 

Mentions vertebrae, thigh bones, and a hip joint of ''cretaceous dinosaurs" ?. 
Mentions also the occurrence of various invertebrate Laramie and Cre- 
taceous fossils. 

Panton, J. Hayes. Gleanings from Outcrops of Silurian Strata in the 
Red River Valley. A paper read before the Society on the. evening 
of 27th November, 1884. (Manitoba Hist, and Sci. Soc, Winnipeg. 
Transactions, No. 15, season 1884-'85, pp. 1-13, 1884. Winnipeg.) 

Gives lists of Silurian fossils occurring iu the vicinity of Winnipeg. 

Panton, J. Hayes. Notes on the Geology of some Islands in Lake 
Winnipeg. A paper read before the Society on the evening of Thurs- 
day, 28tli January, 1886. (Manitoba Hist, and Nat. Sci. Soc, Win- 
nipeg. Transactions, No. 20, season 1880, pp. 1-10, 1886. Winnipeg.) 

Mentions the occurrence of a number of genera of Silurian fossils. 



2^8 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Panton, J. Hayes. Gleaniugs from the Geology of the Red River 
Valley. (Manitoba Hist, and 8ci. Soc, Winnipeg. Transactions, No. 
3, pp.* 1-10, 188.3. WiTinipeg.) 

Fossils nf the Silurian age arii talked al>out on pp. :> and 4. 

PoHLMAN, Julius. Fossils from the Waterlime Group near Buffalo, 
New York. (Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. v, p)). 23-32, pi. ill, 1880. 
Buffalo.) 

Describes rieryijotus BiiffaloeDnin Pohlm. ; /'. hf/oftx.s Hnxley & Salter ; Cera- 
tiocaris acnminatus Hall ; and states that hereafter Ensarcus scorpionis 
shonld be known as Enrypterus soorpioms Grotte & Pitt. 

Powell, J. W, Fifth Annual Report of the United States Geologi(3al 
Survey, 1883-'84. 4to, pp. 1-4G9, plates 1-58, and 143 figures. Wash- 
ington, Government Printing Office, 1885. (Geol. Mag., new ser., 
Decade iii, vol. iii, pp. 4G1-405, October, 1886. London.) 

Notice of contents: "The Gigantic M.inunalsof the Order Dinocerata," by O. C. 
Marsh, and Sketch of Paleobotany, by Lester F. Ward. 

Pratt, W. H. Proceedings of the Davenport Academy of Sciences, 
vol. IV, 1822-1884. Davenport, (?) Iowa, pp. 3.58, with six plates. 
Price, paper, $4. (Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. xxix, pp. 706, 707, Sep- 
tember, 1886. New York.) 

Notice of contents of. The paleontologic memoirs in it were noticed in last year's 
review. 

Proceedings of the Davenport Academy of Natural Sdiences. Vol. iv, 
1882-'84. Davenport, Iowa, 1886, pp.348. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., 
vol. XXXII, p. 82, July, 1886. New Haven.) 

Notice of contents. It contains a paper on a new genus and species of Blastoid, 
by C. Wachsmuth ; and on a nevr species of Blastoids, by W. IT. Barris, 
with two excellent plates. 

These papers were noticed in last year's review. 

Putnam, F. W. Discovery of Mastodon Skull at Shrewsbury. (Proc. 
Bostou Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxiii, p. 242, June, 1886. Boston.) 

Mr. F. W. Putnam referred to the discovery of the mastodon skull at Shrews- 
bury a year ago, and described the continuation of the exploration of the 
peat deposit this autumn by the Worcester Society of Natural History, 
when a human skull was found. As stated to him by Dr. Raymenton, who 
took out the human skull, both skulls lay on the blue clay bottom of an 
ancient pond and were covered with from 6 to 8 feet of peat formation. 

Rauff, H. On the Genus Hindia, Dune. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 
5th ser., vol. xviii, pp. 169, 179, figs. 1-4, September, 1886. Lomlon.) 
The author concludes that Hindia fibrosa is no doubtful form, not belonging at 
all to the sponges, as Professor Steiumaun thought lie was obliged to as- 
sume, but a well-characterized, true tetracladiue siliceous sponge. 

Reid, Clement. {See Lamplugh, G. W.) 

RiNGUEBERG, EuGENE, N. S. New Genera and Species of Fossils 

from the Niagara Shales. (Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. v, pp. 

1-22, pis. I, II, 1886. Buffalo.) 

Squamaster, n. geu., S. echinatus, Frolasla sl.eUifer, Eiujaster concinntis, Leeaiio- 
eriiiui solidan, L. nilidm, L. incinns, L. exaa»atus, L. piiteolus, Plaljiorinus 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 269 

RiN&UEBEEG, Eugene, N. S. — Coutiuued. 

corpariculus, Callocystites tripectinatus, Platyceras laciniosuvi, P. procUvc, P. 
■menibranaceitm, Penlamerella compressa, Spiri/era asperata, Crania dentata, 
C. gracilis, C. pannosa, Avicula undosa, Conularia multijxtncta, C. bifurca, C. 
transversa, Ciramopora orhictdata, lihinopora curvata, Stomatopora recta, S. 
parva, Chaetetis expanstis, Tuherculopora, n. gen., T. inflata. 
The species described are from Lockport, New York, from the lower part of the 
shale, with a few excejjtions. 

RiNGUEBERG, E. {See Kayser.) 

RoMiNGER, C. Ou the Minute Structure of Stromatopora and its Al- 
lies. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. , pp. 39-56, March, 1886. Phil- 
adelphia.) 

A criticism or review of the paper of Prof. Alleyne Nicholson and Dr. F. Murie 
on the structure of Stromatopora, published in 1879 in the Journal of th» 
Linnsean Society of London. 

RoMiNGER, C. Stromatopora. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, 
p. 78, July, 1886. New Haven.) 

Dr. Romiugev criticises the paper of Nicholson and Murie on the structnra of 
Stromatopora, in the Proc. Nat. Sci. Philad. of 188''-, pp. 39-56. 

ROMINGER, C. On the Minute Structure of Stromatopora and its Al- 
lies. . (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Philad., 1886, pp. 29-56. Geol. Mag., 
new ser.. Decade iii, vol. in, p. 368, August, 1886. London.) 

A criticism of Dr. Rominger's criticism of the joint essay of Professor Nichol- 
son and Dr. Murie on the structure of Stromatopora, which appeared iu 
the Journal of the Liun;ean Society of London, in 1879. 

RoMERj F. {See Kokeu, E.) 

ScHLOSSER, Max. Beitrage zur Kenntuiss der Stammesgeschichte der 

Hufthiere and Versuch eiuer System atik der Paar-und Unpaarhufer. 

(Morphologisches Jahrb., Band xii, heft i, pp. 1-136, pis. i-vi, 1886. 

Leijizig.) 

ScHLOSSER, Max. Ueber das Verhiiltuiss der Cope'scheu Creodontas 

zu den librigen Fleischfresseru. (Morphologisches Jahrb., Band xii, 

heft II, pp. 287-294, 1886. Leipzig.) 
SCHLOSSER, Max. {See Cope, E. D. ; Lydekker, R.) 
Schmidt, Oscar. The International Scientific Series. The Mammalia 

in their relation to Primeval Times. Pp. i-xii and 1-308, figs. 1-51, 

1886. New ^ork. 

I. General Introduction. — (1) The Position of Maumials in the Animal King- 
dom. (2) Phenomena of Convergence. (3) The Distinctive Characteristics 
of Mammals. (4) The Extension of Palaeontological Science since Cuvier. 
(5) The Strata of the Tertiary Formation. 
II. Special Comparison of the Living Mammals and their Ancestors. — (1) The 
Monotrema, Cloacal of Forked Animals. (2) The Marsupials. (3) The 
Edentata, or animals poor in Teeth. (4) The Ungulata, or Hoofed Animals. 
(5) The Elephants. (6) The Sirenia, or Sea Cows. (7) The Cetacea, or 
Whales. (8) The Carnivora, or Flesh Eaters. (9) The Seals. (10) The 
Insectivora, or Insect Eaters. The Rodents. The Bats. (11) The Progi' 
mite, or Semi- Apes. Simite, or Apes, The Man of the Future. 



270 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1«86. 

Schmidt, Oscar. Oscar Schmidt on the OrigiD of the Domestic T>og. 
The Mammalia in their relation to primeval times. New York, 18SG. 
(Amer. Nat, vol. xx, pp. 370-372, April, ISSG. Philadelphia.) 
Abstract of. 
Schmidt's Mammalia in their Relation to Primeval Times. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. XX, p. 450, May, 1886. Philadelphia,) 
Brief review of. 

ScHRENK, Joseph. A. G. Nathorst on the Nomenclature of the Leaves 
of Fossil Dicotyledons. (Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, vol. xiii, No. 3, 
p. 38, March, 188C. New York.) 

Abstract and trauslatiou of an article by A. G. Xathorst, in vol.xxv, numbers 
1 and 2, of the Jiotanisches Centralblatt, on tlie difficnlties which present 
themselves to the paleontologist in classifying and naming fossil dicoty- 
ledons on the characters of their leaves only, and proposes to designate 
those species of which the leaves only are known by the name of the genus 
with which they agree best, with the addition of the termination j>/(i'N«m. 

In order to meet anotber difficulty, the author proposes to adopt a ternary 
nomenclature. Suppose a leaf were found in Japan which resembles Acer 
trilohatum so much that it would not be advisable to make A new species of 
it, although the similarity is not perfect ; this leaf ought to be called Acer 
frUohatum JajjoiiicioiK 

Scott, [W. B.] Oervus Americanus, iJarlau, from shell-marl beneath 
a hog in Warren County, New Jersey. The Fourth Annual Report 
(June, 1885) of the E. M. Museum. of Geology and Archieology, of 
Princeton. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 72, January, 1886. 
New Haven.) 
Abstract of. 

Scott, W. B. On Some New Forms of the Dinocerata. (Amer. Jour. 
Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 303-307, tigs. 1-1, April, 1880. New 
Haven.) 

Proposes and describes the new genus Elachoceriifi from the Bridger beds of 
Henry's Fork, Wyoming, with E. jiarvum as the type species. Describes 
Uintatheriiim alticeps, n.sp. 

Scott, W. B. On Some New Forms of the Dinocerata. (Nature, vol. 
XXXIV, p. 68, 188C. London and New York.) 
Notice of. See American Journal of Science, April. 

Scott, W. B. The Quaternary Moose of New Jersey. (Pop. Sci. 
Monthly, vol. xxviii, pp. 715, 716, March, 1886. New York.) 

Abstract of Prof. W. B. Scott's article before the Academy of Natural Science, 
Philadelphia. 

ScuDDER, S. H. The Earliest (Devonian) Winged Insects of America. 

8 pp., with one plate. Cambridge, Mass. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., 

vol. XXXI, pp. 71, 72, January, 1886. New Haven.) 
Abstract of. 
ScuDDER, Samuel H. Note on the supposed Myriopodan Genus Tri- 

chiulus. (Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, No. xiii, p. 438, 

1886. Boston.) 

States that on re-examination of the specimens there is no doubt at all that 



NORTH AMERICAN PAL^iLONTOLOGY. Zil 

ScuDDER, Samuel H. — Coutiuued. 

they are lerns of the genus I'ecopteris or one of its allies, preserved obscurely 
at the time of their partial unfolding; and that the name Trichiulus must 
disappear. 

ScuDDER, Samuel H. The oldest kuowu insect larva, Mormolucoides 
articulatus, from the Counecticut Kiver rocks. (Mem. Boston Soc. 
:N^at. Hist., vol. iii, No. xiii, pp. 431-438, pi. xlv, fig. 1 on p. 431, 1886. 
Boston.) 

Gives an elaborate and detailed description of the fossil named, and then dis- 
cusses its relations and concludes that Monitohtcoides is probably the larva 
of a Sialidan neuroi)teron. 

It has special interest from the tact that it is the oldest known insect larva. 

ScuDDER, Samuel H. A review of Mesozoic Cockroaches. (Mem. 
Boston Soc. jSTat. Hist., vol iii, No. xiii, pp. 439-485, pis. xlvi-xlviii, 
1886. Boston.) 

The author described the following new genera : Cttnoblattiua, Kaniiohlattiiia, 

D'iplurohlattina, Diechohlattbia and Aporohluftina. 
All of the new species described in this article are European. 

ScuDDER Samuel fl. The Cockroach of the Past. Eeprinted from 
"The Structure and Life-History of the Cockroach (Periplaneta Ori- 
entalis"), by L. C. Miall and Alfred Denny, pp. 205-219, figs. 119-125, 
1886. London. 

Gives a table showing the geological distribution of fossil cockroaches. 

ScuDDER, Samuel II. New Carboniferous Arachnidan from Arkan- 
sas. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 310, 311, April, 1886. 
New Haven.) 

Describes Anthracomariiis trilobitus. 

ScuDDER, Samuel H. Systematische Uebcrsicht der Fossileu Myrio- 
poden, Arachnoideen and Insecten. Cambridge, Mass. (Souderab- 
zug aus Zittel. Handbuch der Pahi^outologie. I. Abtheilung. Pahu- 
ozoologie, Bd. ii gp. 721-831, 1885. Munchen and Leipzig.) 

ScuDDER, Samuel II. Systematic review of our present knowledge of 
fossil insects, including Myriapods and Arachnids. (Bull. U. S. Geol. 
Survey, No. 31, pp. 1-128, 1886. Washington.) 

While much fuller in the modern orders and faujilies, these pages represent the 
English text furnished to Dr. Zittel for his Handbuch der Palaeontologie, 
where the section forms the closing pages of the second part of the first 
volume (pp. 721-S:51), and is accompauied by more than two hundred illus- 
trations. 

The present bulletin is issued with the concurrence of Dr. Zittel and the pub- 
lisher of the Handbuch for the convenience of English readers. A French 
version, under the auspices of M. Barrois, is also in course of simultaneous 
publication. The present is its original form and is the authoritative 
English edition. 

Contents: Letter of Transmissal ; Myriopoda; Bibliography; Characteristics 
and Phylogeny ; Table showing Geological Distribution. (1) Order Pro- 
tosynguathe, Scudder. (•>) Order Chilopoda, Latreille. (3) Order Archi- 
polypoda, Scudder. (4) Order Diplopoda, Gervais, Arachnida — Bibliog- 



272 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

ScuDPER, Samuel H. — Coutinued. 

raphy, Characteristics, and Geological history — Table showing Geological 
Distribution. (1) Order Acari; Leach. (2) Order Chelonethi, Thorell. (3) 
Order Anthraconiarti, Karsh. (4) Order Pedipalpi, Latreille. (5) Order 
Scorpiones, Thorell. (6) Order Opiliones, Sundevall. (7) Order Aranaje, 
Sundevall. Insecta; Bibliography; Characteristics and Development. 
A. Paliieodictyoptera, Goldeuberg. Bibliography. (1) Section Orthopter- 
oidea, Scudder. (2) Section Neuropteroidea, Scudder. (3) Section Heniip- 
teroidea, Scudder. (4) Section Coleopteroidea, Scudder. B. Heteromata- 
bola, Packard. (1) Order Orthoptera, Olivier. Bibliography. (2) Order 
Neuroptera, Linne. Bibliography. (3) Order Hemiptera, Linue. Bibli- 
ography. (4) Order Coleoptera, Linne. Bibliography. C. Metabola, 
Packard. (5) Order Dlptera, Linne. Bibliography. (6) Order Lepidop- 
tera, Linne. Bibliography. (7) Order Hymenoptera, Linne. Bibliog- 
raphy, History, and Distribution of Fossil Insects. Tables showing the 
geological distribution of insects. Table of comparative distribution of ex- 
tinct and existing orders. Comparative histories of Myriopoda, Arachnida, 
and Hexapoda. Table indicating the chronological range of preserved an- 
cestral and extinct stocks. Index. 

Scudder, Samuel H. Systematiscbe Uebersicht der fossilen Myriapo- 
den, Arachnoideu und lusekteu, pp. 721-831 of Zittel's Haiidbuch der 
Palseontologie, I. Abtheilung, PaUvozoologie, Bd. ii, 1885. (Amer. 
Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol, xxxi, pp. 403-101, May, 1886. New Haveu.) 

Notice of. 

Scudder, Samuel H. Scudder's Fossil lusects. (Amer. Nat., vol. 
XX, pp. 369, 370, April, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Brief review of Scudder's Contribution to Zittel. 

Seely, Henry G. Department of the Interior. Keport of the U. 
S. Geological Survey of the Territories : F. V. Haydeii, U. S. Geolo- 
gist, in charge, vol. in. The vertebrata of the Tertiary Formations 
of the West; Book 1, by Edward D. Cope. Washington, Govern, 
ment Printing Office, 1883. (Geol. Mag., new ser.. Decade in, vol. 
Ill, pp. 410-119. September; Id., 465-477; October; LI 512-521, 
November, 1886. London.) 

An illustrated review and abstract of the work. 

Seely, Henry M. The Genus Strephochetus ; Distribution and Spe- 
cies. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 31-34. July, 1886. 
New Haven.) 

Specimens occur at points 60 miles apart, and wherever the middle Chazy 
occurs, either on the western or eastern side of Lake Champlain, there one 
may look for S. ocellatus The author adds three new species, S. Brainerdi, 
S. atratus, and S. Riclimondensis, Miller sp. 

In issuing the extras the author also distributed two hektograph plates of illus- 
trations of the genus. 

Seely, Henry M. The genus Strephochetus ; distribution and spe- 
cies. (Nature, vol. XXXIV, 1886. London and New York.) 

Notice of. {See American Journal of Science, July.) 

Shaler, N. S. Preliminary Report on the Geology of the Cobscook 
Bay District, Maiue. Published by permission of the Director oC 



NORTH AMERICAN TAL^EONTOLOGY. 273 

ShalerJ N. S. — Continued, 
the U. S. Geol. Survey. (Amer. Jour. Sci.. vol. xxxii, pp. 35-60, 
figs. 1-13, July, 188G. Xew Haven ) 

Fossiliferous Horizons of the Cobscook Series. The author gives several lists 
of species, and considers that he has horizons corresponding to the Lower 
Helderberg, Clinton, and Niagara groups of New York, and the dark Dev- 
onian Ohio shale of the Kentucky Geological Survey. 

Shaler, N. S. Preliminary Report on the geology of the Cobscook Bay 
district, Maine. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 330, 188G. London and Kew 
York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, .July. 

Smith, Aubrey H. The Eailway Cutting at Gray's Ferry Road. (Proc. 
Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. — , pi). 253, 254, September, 188G. Philadel- 
phia.) 

Describes a bed of blue clay on the Schuylkill River, containing numerous gen- 
era and species of diatoms and several species of recent woods, and exhib- 
ited a specimen of wood, probably of a white cedar, Ciqyressus Ihyoides. 
This tree until verj'^ recently was common along the Schuylkill and Dela- 
ware, and isolated specimens may still exist there. The wood now showu 
is in no degree mineralized, and but slightly decomposed. This blue clay 
occurs at a depth of 25 feet through yellow clays and river gravels. 

Smith, Edgar. (*SVeLamplugh, G. W.) 

Spencer, J. W. Niagara Fossils. (Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., vol. 
IV, No. 4, 1878-'8G, pp. 555-G24, pis. i-ix, 188G. St. Louis.) 

A reprint of the article published in the Bull. Mus. Univ., State of Missouri, pji. 
1-Gl, St. Louis, 1884. 

Springer, Frank. {See Carpenter, P. Herbert.) 

Steinmann. Charles A. White : On the Mesozoic and Cenozoin Pa- 
leontology of California. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 15, 1885, 33 S. 
(Neu. Jahrb. Miu., Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Bd. ii, pp. 110-112, Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Steinmann. Charles A. White : On New Cretaceous Fossils from Cali- 
fornia. Bull. TJ. S. Geol. Survey, No. 22, vol. ill, 25 S., 5 tafeln. 
Washington, 1885. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol. u.Pal., Bd. ii, pp. 112- 
113, 1886. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

Steinmann. H. A. Nicholson and A. H. Ford : On the Genus Fistu- 
lipora, McCoy, with descriptions of several species. Ann. & Mag. 
Nat. Hist., ser. 5, vol. xvi, ])p, 496-517, t. xv-xviii, and 6 Holz- 
schnitte, 1885. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., Bd. ii, pp. 133, 134, 
1886. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

Steinmann. H. A. Nicholson and R. Etheridge, jun. : On the Synon- 
omy. Structure, and Geological Distribution of Solenopora compacta 
Billings Si). Geol. Mag. Dec. iii., vol. ii.. No. 12, p]). i-xiii and 
H. Mis. 600 18 



274 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Stienman — Coutiuued, 

529-535, December, 18S5. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., Bd. ii, 

pp. 134, 135, 1880. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 
Steinmann. AiigeloHeilpriii : Notes ousome new Foraminifera from 

tbe Nniumulitic Formation of Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliilad. 

pp. 321, 322, 1884. (Neu. Jahrb. Miu.. Geol. u. Pal., Bd. ii, p. 142, 

188G. Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

Stirrup, M. On some fossils from the Palaeozoic Rocks of America, 
l>rincipally from the State of Indiana. (Manchester Geological So- 
ciety, Traus., vol. xviii, parts 10-19 (1884-'86), p. 331, 1885-'8G. 
Manchester.) 

Not seen. 

Tausoh, Leopold. Ueber eiuige Conchylien aus dem Tanganyika-See 
und dereu fossile Verwandte, mit 2 tafeln, pp. 1-15. ^Aus dem xc. 
Bande der Sitzb. der k. Akad. der Wissensch. 1 ; Abth. Juli. Heft, 
.lahrg., 1884.) 

Reproduces tbe figures of Pyrgnlifera hnmerosa Meek, giveu by Dr. White in 
his Review of the Non-Marine Fossil Mollusca of North America, and identi- 
fies with it specimens from Csingerthal bei Ajka im Bakony (Ungam), 
obere Kreide. 

Thorell, T. On Proscorpius osbornei, Whitfield. (Amer. Nat., vol. 
XX, pp. 269-274, March, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

The author can not find that Proscorjji ms difi"ers essentially from the hitherto 
known scorpions in other respect.*^ than i n the somewhat shorter cephalothorax, 
and perhaps in the form of the mandilAes. Its systematical position ap- 
pears to him to he in the close vicinity of Pula'ophonus, and especially of 
the Scotch scorpion referred to that genus by Mr. Peach. An additional 
reason to those given above for removing Proscorpius from the Carbonifer- 
ous Eoscorpioidiv, and for referring this genus to the Apoxijpodes, fam. Palw- 
ophonoida', may be found in its being, geologically speakiug, almost con- 
temporary with the PaUvophom, belonging, like these, to the Upper Silu- 
rain formation. As the Pala'ophom, and all other more recent scorpions, 
are undoubted land animals and air-breathers, and as no traces of branchise 
have been shown to exist in Proscorpius, there is, he believes, no serious 
reason for considering that this scorpion is an aquatic animal, or that "we 
have here a link between the true aquatic forms, the Eurypterus and Ptery- 
f/otus, and the true air-breathing scorpions of subsequent periods," as Mr. 
Whitfield supposes. 

Thorell. {See Whitfield, R. P.) 

Tiffany, A. S. Geology of Scott County, Iowa, and Rock Island 
County, Illinois, and the adjacent territory. Showing the geograph- 
ical and vertical range of the fossils of the Niagara, Corniferous, 
and Hamilton groups of rocks, and the Chemung group at Burling- 
ton, Iowa. With supplement, pp. 1-35, 1885. Davenport, Iowa. 

Gives lists of (I) Niagara fossils of Le Claire and Port Byron ; (2) Fossils of 
the Corniferous Group collected in Scott County, Iowa, and Rock Island 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 276 

Tiffany, A. S. — Continued. 

Couuty, Illinois ; (3) Fossils of the Hamilton Group collected iu Scott 
Couuty, Iowa, and Rock Island County, Illinois; (4) Fossils collected at 
Burlington, Iowa, from the yellow sandstone, believed to be the equiva- 
lent of the base of the New York Chemung; (5) Fossils collected iu the 
Oolite band at Burlington, Iowa. 

Tiffany, A. S. [See Barris, AV. H.) 

Ulkich, E. O. Descriptions of Xew Silurian and Devonian Fossils. 
(Contributions to American Palaeontology, vol. ii, pp. 3-35, jjls. i-iii, 
2 figs., on pj). 32, 33, May, 188G. Cincinnati.) 

Author describes the following new genera and species : Middle Devonian spe- 
cies : Fenestella bifurca, F. pateJllftra, F. pulclieUa, F. b'ujeneris, Semicoa- 
cinium obliqatiim, S. iiifraporona, Unitrijpa retrorsa, I'olypora transversa, Fistu- 
Uporanormalis, Fridopora minima, Buscopora n. gen., B. dentata, Lichenotrypa 
n. gen., L. cavernosa, Discotrijpa dcvonica, Schicobolus u. gen., Rhynchonella 
greeniana, Gypidia unijuiformis, riaincerasqainquesinuutiim, F. strratum, F. (?) 
arctiosioma, F. (Orthonychia) Jhtctuosum, Bucanophyllum n. gen., B. gracilc, 
Strombodes separatiis, Labechia moniifera, Madlei'liia n. gen., M. greenei. 

Uleich, E. O. Contributions to American Pakeeoutology, vol. i, No. 1. 
Published by E. O. Ulricli, Cincinnati, 1886. 8vo. pp. 35, pis. i-iii. 
(Geol. Mag., new ser.. Decade iii, vol. iii, pp. 374, 375, August, 1866. 
London.) 

Notice and abstract of. 

Ulrich, E. O. E. O. Ulrich's Contributions to American Palaeontol- 
ogy, vol. I, Cincinnati, 1880. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, 
pp. 78, 79, July, 1886. New Haven.) 
Notice of. 

Ulrich, E. O. Keport on the Lower Silurian Bryozoa, with Prelimi- 
nary Descriptions of some of the New Species. (Fourteenth Ann. 
Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Minnesota, pp. 57-103, 1886. St. Paul, 
Minn.) 

Trenton group, new species: Berenicua Minnesotetisis, Itopalonaria pertenuis, 
Helopora divaricata, Phyllopora ? corticosa, Ptilodictya subrecia, Anthropora 
simplex, Stictopora mitiabilis, S. mutabilis var. major, S.mutabilis var. minor, 
S. fidelia, S. paupera, StictoporcUa ? cribrosa, S. anyularis, S. frondifera, 
Pachydictya foliaia, F'. occidenialis, F. fimbriaia, F. conciliairix, Crepipora 
impolita, MonticnJipora yrandis, Homotrypa Minnesotensis, H. (xilis, H. subra- 
mosa, H. insignis, Homotrypella n. gen., II. iustabilis, Frasopora simulatrix, 
F. conoidea, P. configua, Diplotvypa iufida, Jspidopora parasitica, Amplexo- 
pora WincheUi, Batostoma irrasa, CaUopora undidata, C. incontroversa, Trema- 
toporaprimigenia, T. ornata, Bythopora Herriclci, Monotrypella multitabulata. 

Ulrich, E. O. Remarks upon the names Cheirocrinus and Calceo- 
crinus, with descriptions of three new generic terms and one new 
species. (Fourteenth Ann. Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Minn., pp. 
104-113, tigs. 1, 2, and 3, on p. 106, 1886. St. Paul, Minnesota.) 

The classification jjroposed is briefly defined as follows : Crvmacrinidit, n. fam. ; 
CremacriiiHs, u. (Tcii.; Creniafvinus piuivtatus, n. sp., type Trenton shales; 
Ddtacrinus, n. gen., typji Cfuiroorinus darns, Hall ; Halysiocrinus, n. gen., 
type Cheirocrinus dactylnx, Hall; Calccocrinas '! Hall. 



276" RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, aucl Frank Springer. Revision of the 
Pulrtjocrinoidea. Part ill. Discussiou of the Classification and Re- 
lations of the Brachiate Crinoids, and Conclusion of the Generic De- 
scriptions. Second section. (Proc. Acad. ISfat. Sci. Philad., vol. 
, pp. 65, 302, March and September, 1880. Philadelphia.) 

Same, author's eclitiou, pp. 65-334, contains, in addition to the article in the pro- 
ceedings, an indexof all generic and specific names used in connection with 
the Pala'ocriuidea. The total number of genera recognized in this worli is 
15() ; species, 1,276. Of the genera, 61 were found exclusively in America, 
48 exclusively in Europe, 46 on both continents, and 1 exclusively in Aus- 
tralia. 

Part III, Section ii, contains the Articulata and the Inaduuata. 

The Articulata include the group formerly defined by the authors nnder the 
family name of Ichthyocrinidas, with the addition of Crotalocrinus and 
Enallocrinns, which possess in a remarkable degree some of the most char- 
acteristic features of the group. 

The Articulata are divided into two families, the Ichthyocriuid* andtheCro- 
talocriiiida^, which are defined and the genera enumerated. 

The Inaduuata are divided into two branches, Larviformia and Fistnlata W. 
aud Sp. The Larviformia comprise the families Haplocrinidte, Synbatho- 
criuidiai, Cupressocrinidie and Gasterocomida-, which are defined. 

Under the HaplocrinidiO are placed only two genera, ffaj;Zocrui»t8, Si einiuger, 
and AUagecrinnn, Ethei". and Carp. 

Under the Synbathocrinidse, W. and Sp., are ])laced the genera Synbathocrinus, 
Phimoa'inus, Stijlocrinus, S lor tiny ocrinus, risocrinus, Triaerinus, and Lageni- 
ocrinus. They are uncertain whether to place Ehopalocrinus, W. and Sp. 
(Rev. 1, p. 57), among the Synbathocrinida', Cupressocrinidje, Gastero- 
criuidis, or bo made a distinct group. 

The Cupressocrinoidte, Roemer, consist of only one genus, Cupressocriuus, Gold- 
fuss. 

The Gasterocomidie embrace the following genera : Gasterocoma, Kanocriniis, 
aud MyrtUlocrtnus. 

The branch Fistnlata contains the Cyathocrinida^ as previously defined by the' 
authors, but which they now divide into Hybocriuidic, Heterocrinida', Ano- 
malocrinuhe, CyathocrinidiU, and Poteriocrinida\ To these they add the 
Belemuocrinidip, Astylocrinidre, and Encrinidie. 

Their present Cyathocrinidte they subdivide into: Deudrocrinites, embracing 
the genera jl/6'>'0uri«»s, Carahocrinus, Dendrocr'niuH, Homocrhuis, AmpherUtoc- 
rmufi, and Parisocriniis ; Botryocrinites, embracing the irenern Alclestocri- 
nus,* n. gen. (aud the new species A. deUcaiim aud A. rohnstiis are described 
under it), Vasocriims, Botri/ocrinim, Sicyocrinus, Strejjtocrinus, and ? Jiarycri- 
nus. Cyathocrinites, embracing the genera without azygous plate, with 
branch-arms without pinnies; Cyaihocrtnus, Arachnocnnus, Gi^fiocrinus, 
Sjjhwrocrhius, Acliradocrinun, Codiacrinus, and (?) Lecythiocrinus. 

They subdivide the Poteriocnnida' as follows: Poteriocrinites embracing the 
genera Fotcriocrinns, Scaphiocrhntfi, ScytaJocrinns, Decadocriniis, IVoodocrinus, 
Zeacrinus (aud describe the new species Z. nodosus), Hydreionocrinus, Cwlio- 
crinus, Eiipachycrinus, Cromyocrinus, and TribracMocrinus. Graphiocrinites 
embracing the genera Graphiocriviifi, Buraacrinus, Phial ocrinus, and Cerio- 
crinus. Erisocrinites embracing the genera Ertsocrinus and Stemmatocrinns, 
and describe the new species S. Trantseholdi. They also define under this 
branch the Catillocrinida? and CalceocriuidiB. Under the Hybocrinidse, Zit- 



*'«re/lt(Trof, incomplete ; Kpivov ,lily. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 277 

Wachsmuth, Charles, aud Prank Springer — Coutmued. 

tel (Emend. W. «fc Sp.), are iilacecl the geneni Bit^rocrinus, Hoplocrinus, Hy- 
bocrinus, and Hi/borystites. 

Under the Heterocriuidie, Zittel (Emend. W. & Sp.), are pLiced the genera 
Heterocrinus Hall (not Fraas), the new genus StenocriniiH" with Hereto- 
crinus heterodaotyltts as its type, the new genus Ohiocriiius with HeterocriHui 
cons^ricfMS as its type, and locrinus Hall. Under the Auomalocriuidaj, W. 
& Sp., is placed the genus Anomalocrinus. Under the BelemnocriuidiB, S. 
& Miller, aie j)laced the genera Belemnocrinus and ? Holocrinus,\ n. gea. 

Under the Encrinidae, Pictet, are placed the genera Encrinus and Dadocrinus. 
Under the Astylocrinid.e, Roemer, are placed the genera Agassizocrinits 
and (?) Edriocrinus. Under the Catillocrinid*, W. & Sp., are placed the 
genera Catillocrinus and Mycocrinus. Under the Calceocrinidte, Meek & 
W., is i>laced the genus Calceocrinits Hall (revised, W. & Sp.). Id the ap- 
pendix they define the family Stephanocrinid;e, N. & Spr., and place under 
it the genus Stephanocrinus Conrad. 

They give soino notes ou the underbasals and top stem-joint of Neocrinoidea 
and Paleocrinoidea. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, aud Frank Springer. Kevisiou of the Pa- 
liBocriuoidea. Part iii. First Section. Philadelphia ; William P. 
Kildare, Printer. Pi). 138, with 8 plates. (Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. 
XXVIII, pp. 710, Mar(;h, 1886. New York.) 
Notice of. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, and Frank Springer. Kevisiou of the Pa- 
laeocriuoidea. Part iii. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, p. 311, 
April, 188G. New Haveu.) 

Notice of. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, aud Frank Springer. Revision of the 
Palieocrinoidea. Second section. Part iii. From the Proc. Acad. 
Nat. Sci., March, 188G. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, p. 
410, November, 188G. New Haven.) 
Notice of. 

Wachsmuth, Charles, aud Frank Springer. Revision of the Pa- 
liBOcriuoidea. Part iii. Philadelpuia j Wm, P. Kildare, Pr., 1886, 
8vo. (Science, vol. viii. No. 196, p. 4:a, November, 1886. New 
York.) 

Review of and abstract from. 

Wachsmuth, Charles. {See Carpenter, P. Herbert.) 
Wads WORTH, M. E. Ou a sui)posed Fossil from the Copper-Bearing 
Rocks of Lake Superior. (Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist, vol. xxiii, 
pp. 208-211, May 7, 1884. Boston.) 

The form which is probably from Copper Harbor, the author concludes to be 
inorganic; he also publishes an opinion from Prof. A. Hyatt to tlie same 
effect. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. Classification of the Cambrian 
System of North America. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxil, 
pp. 138-157, figs. 1-9, August, 1886. New Haven.) 



' arevac, narrow ; k^'ivov, a lily- 
t d'Aoc, solid ; npivov, a lily. 



278 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



Walcott, Charles Doolittle — Continued. 

A paper read before the National Academy of Scieuce at Washington, D. C, 

April 23, 1886. 
Many of the data in this paper are taken from the introduction of Bulletin 30, 

U. S. Geol. Survey, by the same author. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. Walcott on the Cambrian of North 
America. Amer. Jour. Sci., August, 1886. (Amer. Nat., vol. XX, 
pp. 800-802, September, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Abstract of. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. Classification of the Cambrian 
SystcMn of North America. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 402, 1886. Lon- 
don and New York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, August. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. Classification of the Cambrian 
System of North America. (Amer. Jour. Sci.. 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 
138-157, figs. 1-9, August, 1886. New Haven.) 

Much of the data given in this paper is embraced in the introduction to the 
" Second Contribution to the Studies of the Cambrian Fauna'^ of North 
America'' (Bulletin 30, U. S. Geological Survey), although, owiug to the 
delay in the publication of the latter, it appeared four months earlier. 
The most noticeable addition is the hypothetical map showing the land 
area during the deposition of the Middle Cambrian Strata, the description 
of its extent, and the disappearance of large portions of it just prior to the 
deposition of the formations carrying the Potsdam faunas. This broad 
generalization was developed by the study of the geographic and vertical 
distribution of the Cambrian faunas. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. Second contribution to the Cam- 
brian Faunas of North America. (Bull. 30, U. S. Geol. Survey, pp. 
225, pis. i-xxxiii, 1886. Washington.) 

In this second contribution, Mr. Walcott has given a review of the strati- 
graphy of the Cambrian system in the United States, and a description of 
the faunas of the Middle or Georgia horizon of the Cambrian. 

In the introduction the principal geologic sections of the Cambrian system are 
described and illustrated, and a general description of the Middle Cambrian 
horizon and its relations to the Lower and Upper Cambrian are given, and 
also the geographic distribution of the fauna on the North American con- 
tinent. 

In a resume of the table of the Cambrian faunas of North America the follow- 
ing table occurs (bottom of page 61) : 

Stratigraphic resume. 



Upper Cambrian . 
Middle Cambrian 
Lower Cambrian . 

Re-appearances . . 
Total fauna 



Genera. 


Species. 


52 
43 
32 


213 

107 

76 


127 
35 


396 
3 


92 


393 



NORTH AMERICAN PALEONTOLOGY. 



279 



Walcott, Charles Doolittle — Continued. 

And also the table ou page 62, as follows : 

Zoologic resume. 



Algfe 

Spongiae 

llj'driizoa 

Crinoidea 

ATiiielida 

Brachiopoda 

Lauiellibianchiata 

Gasteropoda 

Ptoropoda 

Crustacea 

PcBcilopoda 



Genera. Species 



3 


9 


6 


13 


4 


5 


1 


3 


2 


5 


15 


67 


1 


1 


14 


29 


5 


20 


10 


15 


31 


226 



On page 63 a table of the classification of the North American Cambrian rocks 
shows that the Cambrian includes the Potsdam sandstone and the Lower 
Calciferous of the New York Survey as its npper member, and the Paradox- 
ides beds of Braintree, Massachusetts, St. John, New Brunswick, and St. 
John's, Newfoundland, as the basal member, and the Georgia formation as 
the middle division. 

The geologic sections given in the introduction show the Cambrian system "to 
have a total thickness of over l':^,000 feet, and that its middle division has 
a known fauna of 43 genera, represented by 107 species ; also that the Lower 
Cambrian or Paradoxides fauna has 32 genera and 76 species ; that the Upper 
Cambrian or Potsdam fauna includes 52 genera and 2128pecies ; that of the 
393 species now known from the Cambrian rocks but very few pass np into 
the Calciferous horizon of the Lower SIUt-^ ^Ordoviciau), and that the 
faunas of the two systems are so dis*^!r ., lU their general faciei, and also in 
detail, that they are quite as readily separated as the Silurian and Devo- 
nian, or the Devonian and the Carboniferous." 

Ninety species, eighteen of which are new, are described and illustrated, and 
three new genera are proposed — Leptoviitns * (Spongite), Orijctocephalus,'! 
and Protypus (Trilobita). The almost nnknown genera EihrnophnUnm, 
Meek (Spongi;e), and Olenoides, Meek (Trilobita), are described ; and the 
genus Microdisciis, Emmons (Trilobita) is redefined and based on another 
species, as its type species is considered to be an embryonic form of Trtnu- 
cleus concentric us. 

Paragraphs 119 and 120, page 57, state that : " Reviewing the Middle Cambrian 
fauna as a whole, we find that it combines the characters of both the Lower 
Cambrian and the Upper Cambrian faunas, and yet is distinct from either 
of them. There does not appear to be an eqnivalent fauna in the Cambrian 
system of Europe, either in Bohemia, the Scandinavian area, or in Wales. 
The nearest approach to it is on the island of Sardinia." (See close of re- 
marks on the genus Ethmophylliim, p. 80.) 

"The conditions that developed the Middle Cambrian fauna appear to have 
been largely peculiar to the American continent. During the deposition 
of the St. John seriesof the Lower Cambrian or Paradoxides strata, we learn 
from the European and eastern American section that the fauna was essen- 
• tially of the same type over the entire basin (Atlantic), and from the evi- 
dence known to date that the fauna did not extend west of a line passing 
northeast through eastern Massachusetts to New Brunswick and Newfound- 
land." 

The illustrations are wood-cuts, and are very good of their kind. 



* Leptos (fine), mitos (thread). 
t"0/3y%ro? (furrowed), and MEcpuX'ij (head). 



280 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle — Coutiuued. 

The following uew species are described : Ai'chceocyathus BiUingsi, geuus Lep- 
tomitus, u. geu., L. Zitteli, Climacograpim ?? Emmonsi, Eocystites^? longidac- 
tylua, Orthisi HighlaHdensis, Orihlsina ? transversa, O. ? sp. undet., Scenellai. 
varians, Hyolithes BiUingsi, Hyolithes sp. undet., Leperditial Argenta, Mi- 
crodiscus Parkeri. Discussion of the relations of the genus Olenellas to other 
genera. Relations of the genera P(7ra(!oxi(Zes, ilfeso>mris, and Olenellus. Ole- 
noides typicalis, 0. levis, Ptyclioparia housensis, P. Piochensis, Ptychoparia sp. ? 
Crepicephalits Liliana, C. Augusta, genus Oryctocephalus, n. gen., 0. 2)rimits, 
geniiB Proty2>us, n. gen., Bathyuriscus HowelU. 

Walcott, Charles Doolittle. — (/See Davis, W. M.; Kayser; White, 

Charles A.) 
Walther, J. The Formation of Structureless Chalk by Seaweeds. 
(Science, vol. vii, No. 177, pp. 575, 57G, June, 1886. New York.) 

A description of the formation of chalk from Lithothamnia^ \u shallow waters 
in the Mediterranean, which gives a solution of various formations in geol- 
ogy, especially of the more recent chalk beds. Whether it will apply to 
the extensive structureless chalk beds of western Kansas at all is doubtful. 

Ward, Lester F. On the determination of fossil Dicotyledonous 
leaves. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, pp. 158, 1886. London and New York.) 

Notice of. See American Journal of Science, May. 

Ward, Lester F. Note on a few imi)erfect leaf impressions from 
northern California. (Bull. IT. S. Geol. Survey, No. 33, p. 16, 1886. 
Washington.) 

The forms come from near Pence's Ranch, and Professor Ward remarks: " If it 
were certain that the specimen is either Cinnamomum or Paliurus, I should 
say tliat it could scarcely have come from a higher horizon than the Mio- 
cene and more likely from a lower. But the specimen may j)ossibly repre- 
sent a Pojjm/k-s unlike any modern form. At any rate I would not have 
been surprised at just snch a collection from the Eocene or Laramie group." 

Ward, Lester F. Sketch of PaliBobotany. Fifth Ann. Rep. U. S. 

Geol. Survey. (Science, vol. vii, No. 163, March, 1886. New York.) 
Notice of. 
Ward, Lester F. Palteobotany. Fifth Ann. Report of the U. S. 

Geological Survey, 1883 to 1884. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. 

XXXI, pp. 402, 403, May, 1886. New Haven.) 

Brief abstract of contents of. 

Ward, Lester F. On the Determination of Fossil Dicotyledonous 
Leaves. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 370-375, May, 1886. 
New Haven.) 

A discussion of the new bystem of nomenclature in palteobotany recommended 
by Dr. A. G. Nathorst in the " Botanisches.Centralblatt, Band xxvi, 1886. 

Ward, Lester F. {See Margerie, Emm. de.) 

Weiss (Ernst). J. W. Dawson: The fossil plants of the Erian (De- 
vonian) and Upper Silurian formations of Canada. Part ii. Montreal, 
1882. Geological Survey of Canada, S. 95-142, mit4 tafeln. Hierzu 
sich gesellend einige Kleinere Abhandlungeu desselben Verfassers: 
Notes on New Erian (Devonian) plants, 1881. Dies. Jahrb. 1882. i, 129. 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 281 

Weiss (Ernest) — Continued. 

Note ou a fera associated with Platepnemera antiqiia, Scudder. Canadian Nat- 
uralist, voL X, No. 2. 

Notes on Prototaxites and Pachytheca in the Denbighshire grits of Corweu, N. 
Wales. Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, May, 1882, S. 103. 

Remarks on Mr. Carruther's Tiews of Prototftxites. Monthly Microscopical 
Journal, August, 1873. 

On Rhizocarps in the pakeozoic period. 

Comparative view of the successive palaeozoic floras of Canada. Proceedings 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, vol. xxxi, 
August, 18^-2. 

(Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Baud i, pp. 131-133, Stuttgart.) 

Abstracts. 

Weiss (Ernst). J. S. Newberry : Description of some peculiar screw- 
like fossils from CUeiniuij;- rocks. Annals of the New York Academy 
of Sciences, vol. iii, No. 7, p. 217, 1885. Taf. xviii, Figs. 1-3. (Neu. 
Jabrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., 188G, Band i, p. 367, Stuttgart.) 

Abstract. 

Wethered, E. On the Structure and Formation of certain English 
and American Coals. (Cotteswold Naturalists' Field Club. Pro- 

ceediDgs for 1884-85, p. 281. Gloucester.) 
Not seen. 

White, Charles A. Charles Doolittle Walcott : Palaeontology of the 
Eureka District. Monographs of the United States Geological Sur- 
vey, vol. viii, 4to., 298 pages, plates i-xxiv. Washington, 1884. 
(Neu. Jahrb. Min., Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Band i, pp. 115-117. Stutt- 
gart.) 

Abstract. 

White, Charles A. Robert P. Whittield : Brachiopoda and Lamelli- 
branchiata of the Earitan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. 
Monographs of the U. S. Geological Survey, vol. ix, 4to., pp. i-xx 
and 1-264, plates i-xxxv, Washington, 1885. (Neu. Jahrb. Min., 
Geol. u. Pal., 1886, Band i, pp. 124-125. Stuttgart.) 
Abstract. 

White, Charles A. Bulletins of the U. S. Geological Survey, Nos. 
27, 28, and 29. Washington, Government Printing Office, pp. 80, 59, 
with plates and map, and pp. 24, with plates. (Pop. Sci. Monthly, vol. 
XXX, pp. 274-275, December, 1886. New York.) 

No. 29 is a memoir on the fresh-water invertebrates of the North American 
Jurassic, by Charles A. White, M. D. (p. 275). 

White, Charles A. On the Fresh- Water Invertebrates of the North 
American Jurassic. (Bull. XJ. S. Geol. Survey, No. 29, pp. 1-24, pis. 
i-iv, 1886. Washington.) 

The apparent identity of one or two of those species from the Black Hills with 
some which were found at the Canon City locality, and of one or two species 
from the latter locality*with some of those at Como, Wyoming, suggests an 
identity of horizon at the three localities; but even if the identity referred 
to is real the horizon of each locality may be more or less different, for it is 
believed that some of the species then existing may have passed from 



282 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

White, Charles A. — Coutiuued. 

one horizon to another, even as certain fresh- water species are now known 
to have passed from the Laramie up into the Wasatch group. The char- 
acter of the strata in which these fresh-water Jurassic fossils were found, 
both at the Colorado and Wyoming localities, in addition to the character 
of the fossils themselves, is such as to indicate for them a lacustrine and 
not an estuary or fluviatile origin. If the strata at both localities really 
contain an identical fauna, it may be regarded as i)robable that they were 
deposited in the same lake. The distance between the Colorado and the 
Wyoming localities indicates that the supposed lake was nearly 200 miles 
across ; and if the Black Hills fossils also belonged to the same contempora- 
neous fauna, the assumed lake was much larger. 
Indeed in view of the evidence we have (derived from both the vertebrate and 
invertebrate fossils) of the existing continental conditions and in view of 
the limited extent of recognized marine Jurassic deposits in North America 
and the doubtful age of some of the deposits which have teen referred to 
that period, one can not say with confidence that any considerable part of 
the present North American continent was beneath the sea during any por- 
tion of the Jurassic period. In conclusion the author thinks it may be 
safely assumed that the great inland portion of our continent was not so 
permanently the seat of oceanic waters during Mesozoic time as has been 
supposed. 
A synopsis and figures of all the known fresh-water fossils which have been 
discovered in the Jurassic rocks of North America is given, and the follow 
ing new species are described : Unio Fclehii, U. toxonofus, U. macroplsthus, 
U. iridoides, U. lapilloides, Limncea ativuneula, L. consortls, L. ? accelerata, 
Vorlicifex Slearusu. 

White, Charles A. On the Relation of the Laramie Molluscan 
Fauna to that of the succeeding Fresh- Water Eocene and other groups. 
(Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 34, pp. 1-35, pis, i-v, 1886. Wash- 
ington.) 

Concludes that the strata in the western portion of our national domain form 
one uninterrupted scries froiu the lowest of the marine Cretaceous forma- 
tions to the top of the Bridger group, the uppermost of the fresh- water 
Eocene series, inclusive, both on account of the stratigr.iphical relations 
and the character and distribution of the fossil contents of the respective 
groups of strata. 

The author gives a table showing the range of the species collected at the 
Wales locality on the western side of the San Pete Valley, with the addi- 
tion of the Helix awl Pupa obtained by Professor Cope from his Puerco 
group in New Mexico. 

The new species described are the following: Unio rectoides, Acella microneina, 
Physa hnllata, Acroloxits actinophonifi, Helix nacimientensis, H. adipis, Gonio- 
hasis filifera, Vivipnrns nanus, and Cypris sanpetensis. 

White, Charles A. {See Koenen von ; Steininann). 
Whiteaves, J. F. {See Bailey, L. W. ; G. J. Hinde). 

Whitfield, Egbert Pare. Fossil Scorpion from American Rocks, 
and other fossils. Bulletin No. 6 (vol. i), American Museum of Nat- 
ural History. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 228, 229, 
March, 1886. New Haven.) 
Abstract of 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 283 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. Professor Thorell and the Americau Si- 
lurian Scorpion. (Science, vol. vii, No. 161, pp. 216, 217, March, 
1SS6. New York.) 

Au answer to Professor Thorell's criticism in the American Naturalist, March, 
1886, p. 269. 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of 
the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. (Mono- 
graphs of the U. S. Geological Survey, vol. ix, pp. i-xx and 1-2G4, 
l)ls. i-xxxv. Washington, 1885.) Same. (Geological Survey of 
New Jersey ; George H. Cook, State geologist, 1886. Trenton, N. J.) 

The report, besides coutaiuinj^ all the species hitherto described and published, 
contains the following uew ones: 

Section ii. Lamellibrauchiate Shells from the Plastic Clay: Amhonicardia 
Cookii, Coriicula ? emacei-ata, Gnalhodon ? tenuidens. Section iii. La- 
mellibranchiata from the Lower Marl Beds: Pectcn planicostatus, Amusium 
Coiiradi, Campion ectes parvus, Mi/filus oblivius, Modiola Uurlingtonensis, 
Fteria naricula, GerviUiopsis viinima, Inoceramus jiro-obUqiius, Cibota obesa, 
Axinea alia, Kucula inonmouihensis, Nuculana Gabbana, TrUjoma Mortovi, T. 
cerulia, Gotihlia Coniadi, Lucina Smockaiia, Diceras dactt/loidts, Cardium 
(Protocardium) pereloiKjatum, Pachycardium Burlinglonense, Fiilvia tenuis, 
Fra()um teiiniiitriaium, Leiopistha inflata, Sphwxolia nmbonata, Cyprimeria 
Heilprini, Dosiiiia Gabbi, D. ? erecta, Linearia contracta, Corimya tenuis, 
Veleda Tellinoides, V. transversa, Pholadomya Roemeri, Pholas ? lata. Sec- 
tion iv. Lamellibranchiata from the Middle Beds: Gryphwa Bryant var. 
precedens, Modiola (Lifhodomus^) inflata, Idonearca medians, I. compressi- 
rostra. Section v. Lamellibranchiata from the lower layers of the Upper 
Marl Beds of New Jersey: Otstrea glandiformis, Modiola Johnsoni, Cardita 
intermedia, Crassatella Conradi, C. rhombea, Criocardium nucleolus, Petricola 
Nova--E()yptica, Valeda nasuta, Caryatis ? vela, Panopca elliptica, Peri- 
plomya truncafa. Section vi. Lamellibranchiata from the Eocene Marls of 
New Jersey: Ostrea glauconoides, O. {Alectrionia^) linguafeJis, Pecten Rigbyi, 
Nucula Circe, Nucularia secunda, Axinea Conradi, Astarte castanclla, A.plani- 
marginata, Cardita Brittoni, Cransatella obliquata, Caryatis oralis, Velida 
equilatera, Corbula {Neccra) nasutoides, Nccera a'quivalvis, Parapliolas Eneis- 
kerni, Teredo emacerata. Section vii. IJniouidte from the clays at Fish 
House, Camden County : Unio prwanodontoides, U. rectoides. 

The uew genera which appear in the above lists are the following : Aniboni- 
cardia, Meleagrinella, and GerviUiopsis. 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of 
the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. Vol. i, 270 
pages, 4to., with thirty-five lithographic plates of fossils and a colored 
geological map of part of the State. (Geological Survey of New 
Jersey, Trenton, 1886.) (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 
324-325, October, 1886. New Haven.) 

Review of. This book was first published as Monograph of the U. S. Geological 
Survey, vol. ix, Washington, 1H85. 

Whitfied, Robert Parr. Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of 
the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. Washing- 
ton, Government, 1885, 4to. (Science, vol. viii, No. 196, p. 422, 
November, 1886. New York.) 
Review of, and abstract from. 



284 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. IsTotice of Geological luvestigatious 
iiloug the Eastern Siiore of Lake Champlain, conducted by Prof. 
II. M. Seely and President Ezra Brainerd, of Middlebury College, 
M'itli descriptions of the new Fossils discovered, by R. P. Whitfield. 
(Bull. Aoier. Miis. Nat. Hist., vol. i, pp. 293-345, pis. xxiv-xxxiv, 
December, 1886. New York.) 

Describes a group of fossils from the lake shore a few miles from Vergennes, 
Vermont, in a bed referred to the Birdseye limestone, which has yielded so 
far five Brachiopods, sixteen Gasteropods, twelve Cephalopods and one 
variety ; two Trilobites and two bivalve Crustaceans ; thirty-seven species 
and one variety, all in a recognizable condition, and are here illustrated ; 
all but five of these are new to science. The following are their names: 
Streptorhynchus^ primordiale, Triplegia lateralis, Tryblidinm ovale, T. oratum, 
T. conicum, Clisospira lirata, Euomplialus circumliratus, Raphisloma com- 
jiressum, Holopea Cassina, Lophospira Cassina, EccuUomplialus vuhitatiis, 
Calaurops lituiformis, Murchisonial prava, Stihulites olesus, BeJhrophon 
Cassiucnsis, Orthoctras Brainerdl, 0. cornn-orijx, Goniphoceras minimum, 
G. Cassineiise, Filoctras explanator, Cijrtocercis Boycii, C. acinaceUum, C. con- 
fertissimum-, Nautilus Eelloggi, Xauiilusl Champlainensis, Lituites Seelyi, L. 
Eatoni, L. inter nostriatus, Sao ? Lamotttnsis, Bathyiims ? Seelyi, Lichas Cham- 
plainensis, Blheiria compressa, E. ventricosa. 

The new genera described in the iireceding list are as follows: Under Gas- 
teropoda Lophospira, and Calaurops* 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. Notice of Geological Investigations 
along tlie Eastern Shore of Lake Chamijlaiu, made hj Prof. H. M. Seely 
and President Ezra Brainerd. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 1041-1043, 
December, 1880. Philadelphia.) 

Abstract of a paper announcing the discovery of quite an extensive new fauna 
in limestones, apparently of the ago of the Birdseye limestone of the New 
York series, near the moiith of the Otter Creek, Lake Champlain, which is 
of much interest owing to the fact that only about fifteen species of fossils 
have hitherto been known from the formation. The new forms described 
in the paper from this one bed are fifteen in number, comprising one Brach- 
iopod, six Gasteropods, and nine Cephalopods. One of the Gasteropods 
has given reasons for the establishment of a new geuus Lophospira, with 
Murchisonia iicincia Hall, and M. hellcteres Salter as the types. Subse- 
quent collections made at the same locality give a total of forty recognized 
species in a condition suitable for description and illustration, of which 
the new ones are shortly to appear in a bulletin of the American Museum 
of Natural History. 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. Notice of a new fossil body, probably a 
sponge related to Dictyophytou. (Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 
I, pp. 346-348, December, 1886. New York.) 

Describes a new genus and two new species from the slates at Kenwood near 
Albany, New York. The author names the new geuus EhombodictyonA 
Under this he describes Rhomhodlciyon reniforme, and B. discum. 

Whitfield, Robert Parr. {See Davis, W. M. ; White, Charles A.) 

* KaTialipo^p, a shepherd's crook or staff. 

t "In reference to the rhombic character of the species formed by the ditferent sets 
of rods forming the network of their substance." 



NOKTll AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 285 

Williams, Henry S. Devouian Lamellibraucbiata aud Species-mak- 
ing-. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxii, pp. 192-198, September, 
1886. New Naven.) 

A criticism of ''Palfeontology, vol. V, part i, Lamellibranchiata II, text and 
plates. Contaiuiug descriptious aud figures of the Dimyaria of the Upper 
Helderberg, Haiuiltou, Portage, aud Chemung groups, by James Hall, State 
Geologist, Albany, New York, 1885. 

Williams, Henry^ S. Devonian Lamellibranchiata and Species-mak- 
ing. (Nature, vol. xxxiv, p. 539, 1886. London and New York.) 
Notice of. See American Journal of Science, September. 

Williams, Henry^ S. On the Classification of tlie Upper Devonian. 
Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiv, part i, pp. 222-234, 1886. Salem.) 

Concludes: (1) That the Devonian black shales carry a fauna (B) which re- 
a2)pears with slight moditication wherever the black shales appear, from 
the Genesee shales up through the Portage deposits to the Cleveland shale, 
and possibly higher. These deposits run out aud disappear at the eastern 
extreme of the area. (2) The Portage rocks and their fauna (C) are com- 
paratively local, belonging to the central part of the area, the fauna failing 
in the more western sections, aud both fauna aud lithologic characteristics 
are unrecognizable east of the Cayuga section. (3) It is evident from the 
study of the sections that the interval occupied in the Genesee section by 
the typical Portage fauna is represented in the Cayuga section by an en- 
tirely diftereut set of species (the several stages of A), while still farther 
east in the Chenango and Uuadilla section the same interval is filled by a 
preliminary stage of the Catskill (F. 1), (4) The Ithaca group of the State 
reports contains faunas (A., 3, 4) which he has defined as stages in the suc- 
cessive modifications of the Hamilton fauna. This set of faunas ditfers from 
the Chemung fauua in the absence of several of its common and abundant 
species, and by presenting unmistakable evidences of earlier stages in modifi- 
cation of species which are near enough alike to be classified under the same 
specific name. (5) The series of modified stages of the Hamilton fauna (A., 
1-7) is confined to the sections east of theCanandaigua meridian. The lowest 
stage (A. 1) occurs at the extreme east, where the Tuliy limestone and the 
black Genesee shale are scarcely to be recoguized. The third and fourth stages 
do not appear at the extreme east, but only in the Cayuga aud Tiaughuioga 
sections, their place farther east being occupied by the first stage of the 
Catskill. The following stages appear in the more eastern and fail iu the 
Cayuga section, while the final stage (A. 6 and A. 7) extends farther west, 
aud appears after the Chemung species have appeared in the deposits of the 
region. (G) The Catskill deposits of Chenango and Otsego Counties are in- 
trinsically not distinguishable from the ui^per stage of the Catskill, but 
appear at a lower jjosition stratigraphically in the interval occupied by 
the " Ithaca group" of the Cayuga section and by the middle part of the 
Portage group of the Genesee section ; but palsentologically they are im- 
mediately ])rece<ied by stages of the Hamilton fauna, aud are followed by 
later stages of the same general fauua. (7) The Chemung fauna appears, 
in what I consider its earliest biological stage, in the central sections (D. 
and D. 1), but the predominant aud most characteristic species of the Che- 
mung appear stratigraphically earliest in the more western sections (D. 4 of 
Girard and Chatauqua). This stage of the fauna appears iu the upper jjart 
of the Chemung group of the more eastern sections, and when we reach the 
more eastern part of the area (the Chenango and Uuadilla sections) this 



286 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Williams, Henry S. — Continued. 

stage of the fauna is all tliat appears, and is there represented by a few 
specimens in the very upper strata just before the final incursion of the 
Catskill deposits. 

Williams, Henry S. Description of Prestwicbia eriensis. Geol. 
Mag., September, 1885. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, p. 157, February, 
1886. Philadelphia.) 
Notice of. 

Williams, Henry S. {See Dames; Davis, W. M. ; Kayser; Noet- 
ling.) 

Williams, Herbert Upham. Notes on the Fossil Fishes of the Gene- 
see and Portage Black Shales. (Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. v, 
pp. 81-84, pi. on p. 81. 1880. Buffalo.) 

Gives a short account of the fossil remains of fishes found in the Genesee and 
Portage black shales or their equivalents, with .i few original observa- 
tions, and describes two new species, Palwoniscus reticulatmi and P. antiquus 

Williams, Herbert Upham. {See Mixer, Fred. K.) 

Williams, S. G. Westwar I Extension of Rocks in the Lower Hel- 

derberg period in New York. Abstract. (Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. 

xxxiv, part 1, pp. 235, 236. 1886. Salem.) 

Mentions the occurrence of Lower Helderberg beds and fossils on Cayuga Lake, 
at the outlet of Skanea teles Laka and at Oriskany Falls. 

Williams, S. G The Westward Extension of Rocks of Lower Hel- 
derberg Age in New York. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., vol. xxxi, pp. 
139-145, February, 1886. New Haven.) 

Mentions the occurrence of many fossils. The author thinks it would not be 
difficult to conceive why the Lower Helderberg should thin to the west- 
ward where the Salina appears iu greatest volume, nor why it should there 
be represented by impure limestones, resembling the lowest portion of the 
eastern series, while more nearly synchronous with its higher portions. It 
would also be natural to expect, in this case, that the fauna of the western 
strata would consist of forms migrating from the east, and on this account, 
partaking largely of the life characters of the lower eastern deposits, since 
such migrations are likely to take place very slowly. 

Williams, S. G. The Westward Extension of Rocks of Lower Hel- 
derberg Age in New York. Amer. Jour. Sci., February. (Amer. 
Nat., vol. xx, p. 372, April, 1886. Philadelphia.) 
Brief abstract of. 

Williams, S. G. {See Davis, W. M.) 

WiNCHELL, N. H. Notice of Lingula and Paradoxides from the red 
quartzites of Minnesota. Abstract. (Proc. A. A. A. S., vol. xxxiv, 
part 1, pp. 214, 1886. Salem.) 

Merely calls attention to the discovery of the fossils mentioned. 
WiNCHELL, N. H. The Taconic Controversy iu a nutshell. (Science, 
vol. VII, No. 153, p. 34, January, 1886. New York. 
A plea in favor of the use of the term "Taconic," 



NORTH AMERICAN PALAEONTOLOGY. 287 

WiNCHELLjX. H. Speciiueus registered iu the general mnseum in 1885. 

(Fourteeutli Ann. Eep. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Minnesota, for the 

year 1885, pp. 125-136, 1886. St. Paul.) 
WiNCHELL, IST. H. New Species of Fossils. (Fourteenth Ann. Rep. 

Geol. and Nat. Hist, Surv\ Minnesota, for the year 18S5, pp. 313-318, 

pis. I, II, 188G. St. Paul.) 

Describes: Cryjitozoon Minnesotenne, Bhynchonella Aiusliei, Orlhis remnicha, aud 
0. Saiidhe)-{ii . 

Woodward, Anthony. The bibliography of the Foraminifera, recent 
aud fossil, including Eozoon and Receptaculites, 1565 — Jan., 1886. 
(Fourteenth Ann. Re}). Geol. aud Nat. Hist. Survey IMinnesota, for 
the .^ ear 1885, pp. 167-311, 1886. St. Paul.) 

WooLMAN, Lewis. Oriskany Sandstone in Lycoming County, Penn- 
sylvania. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. , pp. 296, 297, Sep- 
tember, 1886. Philadelphia.) 

Notes the findiug of a bed coutaiuinij Oriskany fossils, several of which are 
meutioned, which was previously supposed to be absent iu that county. 

WoBTMAN, Jacob L. {See Cope, E. D.) 

Zittel's Handbuch der Palaeontologie. Bd. i, Abth. ii, Lief. 4, fossil 
Crustacea. (Amer. Nat., vol. xx, pp. 362, 363, April, 1888. Phila- 
delphia.) 

Brief review of. 



YULOANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY FOR 1886. 



By C. G. RocKwooD, Jr., Ph. D., 
Professor of Matliematics in the College of New Jersey, Princeton, N. J. 



In the preparation of this summary the author has made use of the 
following sources ot inforraatiou : 

1. The current issues for the year of the following periodicals, viz : 
Science; Nature; American Journal of Science; ComptesEeudus; La 

Nature ; Le Tour du Monde ; Gaea ; Petermann's Geograph. Mitthei- 
hmgen ; Mittheil. der K. K. Geogr. Gesellschaft, Wien ; Neues Jahrbuch 
fiir Miueralogie, etc. ; Mineral, u. Petrogr. Mittheil. (v. Tschermak); Jahr- 
buch der K. K. Geolog. Reichsanstalt, Wien. 

Transactions of Seismological Society of Japan ; Proceedings of Royal 
Society, London, 1885 ; Report of Brit. Assoc, for Adv. Science, 1885. 

2. Of the books, and separate reprints in the Bibliography, about 
one-half have come under the personal examination of the writer. 

The subject matter will, as heretofore, be arranged under the follow- 
ing heads : 

VULCANOLOGY. — Volcanic phenomena of 1886, volcanic phenomena 
of previous years, causes of volcanic action. 

Seismology. — Earthquakes of 1886, earthquake lists of 1885, cata- 
logues of earthquakes of previous years, study of earthquakes. 

Seismometry. — Instrumental records, instruments. 

VULCANOLOGY. 

In describing the eruption of Etna, May 18 and 19, 1886, O. Silvestri 
notes that after the great eruption of August, 1874, by which the 
mountain was fractured from north-northeast to south-southwest, he 
predicted that another eruption would occur on the southern side of the 
mountain, where the fracture had not closed. This i^rediction was ful- 
filled in May, 1879. Again, in May, 1883, there was a third eruption 
from the same opening; and it is still again from the same crevasse 
that the lava has issued in 18S6. (Compt. Rend., cii, 1222.) The erup- 
tion of 1886 was somewhat severe, and at one time threatened the de- 
struction of the village of Nicolosi. H. Silvestri calculates that the 

289 
H. Mis. 600 19 



290 KECOED OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

output of lava from all tbe several openings amounted to from 40 to 60" 
cubic meters per second, and tbe rapidity of flow of the stream was from 
40 to 60 meters per minute near the source. The stream extended 
in all 6.5 kilometers, stopping within 327 meters cf Nicolosi, and the 
whole voluiue of lava emitted was estimated at 66,000,000 cubic meters. 
(Compt. Rend., cii, 1589.) 

On the morning of June 10, 1880, a remarkable volcanic eruption be- 
gan in the lake district of the North Island of New Zealand. By di- 
rection of the Government, acting with the utmost promptness, Dr. 
James Hector, director of the Geological Survey of New Zealand, at 
once began a scientific examination of the phenomena, starting with 
assistants for the scene of the outbreak on the afternoon of the same 
day on which the eruption commenced. His preliminary report, on 
wliich the writer has mainly relied for the following brief account, is 
given in Nature, xxiv, ^^89. The focus of the disturbance was ascer- 
tained to be in a line 7 to 10 miles long, extending in a northeast-south- 
west direction from the north end of the Tarawera Range to Okaro 
Lake. The outbreak began at 2.10 a. m. by an eruption from the top 
of Wahanga, the north peak, followed in a few minutes by a more vio- 
lent one from Ruawahia, tbe middle peak, and a little later by a third 
one from the south end of the range. By the last explosion the mount- 
ain was split in two, and Percy Smith found the fissure to be 5 chains 
wide and the eastern part to have been blown away and scattered in 
debris over the country. (Nature xxxiv, 554.) The earthquake shocks 
at this time were not very severe. But about 4 a. m. a violent outburst 
of a different nature occurred, attended by loud reports and widely 
felt earth shocks. This was the outburst of an immense volume of 
steam, carrying pumice dust and rocks, which proceeded from the site 
of Rotomahaua Lake, southwest of Tarawera, and formed a thick cloud 
in the higher atmosphere, where the vapor condensed to such an extent 
that the suspended solid matter fell in the form of mud, overwhelming 
the settlement of Wairoa to a depth of 12 inches. The site of this 
eruption is a great fissure which seems to commence as a narrow rift at 
the northern end from the great rent which has been formed in the 
south end of Tarawera Mountain. This rent appears as if a portion 
of the mountain, measuring 2,000 by 500 feet and 300 feet deep, had 
been blown out, leaving a ragged chasm, from which steam was issuing 
when observed. The great fissure cuts across Lake Rotomahaua, where 
were formerly the famous Pink Terrace and White Terrace, but wliere 
there are now seven powerful geysers, at intervals throwing up water 
and mud to a height of 600 to 800 feet, the largest geyser rising from 
the position formerly occupied by the Pink Terrace. The rain of mud 
which overwhelmed the country is attributed to the condensation of 
the heavy vapor and dnst cloud under the influence of a cold vsouth- 
west wind. When visited steam was still rising from the site of Lake 
Rotomahaua, forming a cloudy pillar 12,000 feet high. Dr. Hector 



I VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 291 

thinks that the eruption "was a i^urely hydrothermal phenomenon, 
but on a gigantic scale." An illustrated i^opular account of this erup- 
tion by C. F. Gordon Cuuiming may be found in "The Leisure Hour," 
October, 1886. 

The changes that have occurred in the Hawaiian volcano of Kilauea 
during 1886 are of interest. On the evening of March 6, 1886, the lakes 
of liquid lava in this great pit crater were unusually active, but after 
midnight of that night the lava suddenly sank away, leaving the site 
of Halemaumau a great hole 500 feet deep. No overflow of lava oc- 
curred above the sea-level, although several rents were made outside of 
the crater. There may have been a submarine discharge (Am. Jour. 
Sci., XXI, 397). Soon after this occurrence the crater was visited by J. S. 
Emerson, of the Hawaiian Government Survey, who remained there 
from March 24 to April 14. During his stay no molten lava was any- 
where visible in the entire crater, although there were evidences of heat 
beneath the surface. He describes Halemaumau as a pit 600 feet in 
diameter and 275 feet deep. He made surveys of the crater and inferred 
that the lava which had disappeared had "found its way into the great 
fissures of 1868, and from the spongy nature of the district had readily 
found all the space needed to contain its entire volume without coming 
to the surface or entering the sea." (Am. Jour. Sci. xxxiii, 87.) About 
three months later L. L. Van Slyke remained at Kilauea from Juh' 19 
to 24. At that time the deep pit observed in April was replaced by a 
conical hill of loose rocks, some 150 feet high. Molten lava was also 
again visible in places, one being at the bottom of " a deep hole or well, of 
rather irregular outline, four-sided, perhaps 30 or 40 feet wide and from 
60 to 75 feet long, and not less than 100 feet deep." (Am. Jour. Sci., 
XXXIII, 95.) Again, at the beginning of October, it was visited by F. S. 
Dodge, who describes the pit of Halemaumau as now occupied by an 
irregular pit or lake, surrounded by a range of hills or ridge nearly cir- 
cular in form and about 1,000 feet across. There appeared to be fire in 
the central pit, although he could not get near enough to actually see 
into it. (Am. Jour. Sci., xxxiii, 98.) 

A volcanic eruption was reported to have occurred in the island of 
I^ina Fodu, one of the Friendly Islands, beginning August 31, 1886, and 
continuing ten days, covering the greater part of the island with stones 
and ashes to a depth of 6 to 9 meters, killing the vegetation and de- 
stroying all the villages but two, with, however, but little loss of life. 
(Humboldt, 1887, p. 116.) It is noticed that the date of this eruption is 
the same as that of the Charleston earthquake (Xature, xxv, 127), but 
Professor Dana does not regard this as any reason for supposing a con- 
nection between the two. He notices the similarity in general direction 
of these islands with that of the volcanic line of central New Zealand 
(N. 30O E.), and thinks that this line, 1,500 miles long, "may be viewed 
as having been, at the beginning and since, the course of a series of 
fractures and a line of common genetic action," which would tend to 



2i}2 EECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Gounect the eruption of Nina Foou with that in New Zealand in June, 
1886, rather than with the Charleston earthquake. (Am. Jour. Sci., 

XXXIII, 311.) 

The new volcanic island which appeared in October, 1885, near the 
Island of Tonga, is pictured from photograph in Vol. XL, Proc. Rojal 
Soc, Loudon. The island when visited in November, 1885, was about 
2 miles long and 200 feet high. 

In connection with the report of Dr. Johnston Lavis to the British As- 
sociation (1886) on the volcanic i)henomena of Vesuvius, the fourth sheet 
of the geological map of Monte Somma and Vesuvius was exhibited at 
the meeting. It distinguishes in detail the lava flows of difl'erent dates. 
The report states that unusual opportunities of studying the subterra- 
nean structure of the volcanic region about Naples are just now afforded 
by the construction of the sewer from Naples to the Giflf of Gaeta, by 
certain borings near the temple of Jupiter Serapis, and by the construc- 
tion of the Cumana Eailway from Najiles to Baia and Fusaro. (Nature, 

XXXIV, 481.) 

At the meeting of the London Geological Society February 19, 1886, 
Dr. Johnston Lavis received an award from the Barlow-Jameson Fund 
" in recognition of his past labors and in furtherance of future work in 
the vicinity of Naples." (Nature, xxxiii, 503.) 

The volcanic phenomena of central Madagascar are described by K. 
Baron in Nature (xxxiii, 415). The volcanoes described, all now ex- 
tinct and none so much as 1,000 feet high, lie in two districts, one fifty 
or sixty miles w^est and the other seventy or eighty miles southwest of 
Antananarivo, the capital. It is stated that scarcely a year passes with- 
out one or more slight earthquake shocks in central Madagascar. Ex- 
tinct volcanoes and thermal springs are said to exist in other parts of 
the island, but little is known of them. 

In a paper before the British Association (1886) on the geysers of 
New Zealand, E. W. Bucke gives observations on an extinct geyser, into 
the tube of which he was^et down. He found that this tube, at 13 feet 
from the surface, opened into a chamber 15 feet long, 8 feet broad, and 
9 feet high, from one end of which chamber another tube led downward 
to an unknown depth. His observations also indicate a connection be- 
tween the activity of the geysers and the direction of the wind. (Na- 
ture, xxxiv, 512.) 

In the second part of the ninth volume Transactions of the Seismolo- 
gical Society of Japan, Professor John Milne has published an account 
of the volcanoes of that country. The account is mainly descriptive 
and historical, the material being drawn from a number of Japanese 
works, a considerable portion of them being in manuscript. The infor- 
mation thus gathered from previous writers is supplemented by ex- 
tended personal observations by, the author himself in frequent journeys 
made for the puri)ose during his residence for a dozen years or more in 
Japan. Among these personal experiences may be mentioned his visit 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 293 

to Oshima (p. 78), wliere he had an opportunity of looking down into 
the open crater of an active volcano, which was at the time belching 
forth masses of molten lava to a height far above the point where he 
stood. A map is given on which are marked one hundred and twenty- 
nine mountains of volcanic origin, twenty-three being in the Kurile Isl- 
ands. Of this number, fifty-one are active, sixteen being in the Kuriles 
and eleven in Yezo. Of the whole, thirty-nine are symmetrically formed 
cones, showing a more or less close approximation to the theoretical 
outline deduced by Milue in the Geological Magazine and by Becker in 
the American Journal of Science, III, xxx, 283-293. From several con- 
siderations the author infers that the volcanoes of the Kuriles are of 
more recent formation than those of Japan. 

Asama Yama is an active volcano about 75 miles northwest of Tokio, 
Japan, rising to 8,800 feet above sea-level. The depth of its crater be- 
ing estimated by visitors all the way from 2,000 feet down to 500 feet. 
Professor Milne, with a party of assistants, attempted to measure this 
depth by a sounding line passed through a ring on a rope which was 
stretched across the crater. His measures, which were, however, not 
entirely successful, indicate the depth to be about 750 feet. (Nature, 
XXXV, 152.) 

The volcano of Barren Island and the island of Narcondam in the 
Bay of Bengal were visited and surveyed by Capt. J. li. Elobday and F. 
R. Mallet, whose observations are published in the Memoirs of the Geo- 
logical Survey of India. Barren Island is circular in shape, with a 
diameter of 2 miles. The main crater is elliptical, measuring IJ by 1 
mile, with walls varying in "height from 1,158 feet on the southeast to 
nothing on the northwest. The inner cone, about half a mile in diameter 
at the base, rises 1,015 feet, terminating in a small elliptical crater 300 
by 190 feet in measurement, from which steam and smoke issued. The 
outer slopes of the main crater, if prolonged, would meet above the 
apex of the inner cone, from which it is inferred that this outer cone 
was once complete, and that its upper pait has been removed by an ex- 
plosion similar to that of Krakatoa. (Nature, xxxiii, 489.) 

On the authority of Junghuhn it has been believed that within his- 
toric times the volcanoes of Java have thrown out only solid matter and 
not lava. But observations on recent eruptions there, made by Kerr 
Fennema, an engineer of Buitenzorg, show that in April, 1885, a stream 
of lava appeared on the southeastern side of Smeru which forced the 
residents of plantations below to flee, and caused some loss of life 
by avalanches of stones started by the stream. At the same time 
Lemongan also threw out a lava stream, but of a basaltic character, 
while that from Smeru was andesitic. (Nature, xxxiv, 224.) 

Comj)ariug with the eruption from Krakatoa that at the island Ferdi- 
nandea in 1831, A. Ricco remarks that at the latter i^lace large quanti- 
ties of vapor were projected into the air to a height comparable with that 
attributed io the emanations from Krakatoa, but, owing to the fact that 



294 EECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

the eruption took place throiigk the waters of the sea, the amount of 
solid matters which reached the upper atmosphere was inconsiderable. 
And as this eruption was followed by observations of the blue sun and 
red after glows at Palermo, he infers that the dust from Krakatoa could 
not have been a prominent factor in the production of the red sun-glows 
which attracted so much attention in 1883. (Comi)t. Eend., cii, iOGO.) 

" Naturen" also called attention to the relation between red sun-glows 
noted in Scandinavia in 1G3G and 1783 and eruptions of Skapta Jokul 
in Iceland. (Nature, xxxiii, 137.) 

In the president's address at the meeting in November, 1885, the 
Krakatao Committee of the Koyal Society was reported to have their 
work in a good state of forwardness, the detailed work having been di- 
vided between five subcommittees. 

The president's address in November, 1886, states that by working in 
connection with a similar committee from the Royal Meteorological So- 
ciety the work is now nearly completed. Consideration of the sea dis- 
turbances, begun and carried on by Sir F. Evans, but interrui)ted by 
his death, has been completed by his successor in the office of hydrog- 
rapher, Captain Wharton. The report on air disturbance by General 
Strachey and on geology by Professor Judd, as also that on sunsets and 
atmospheric phenomena, by Hon. Eollo Eussell and Professor Archi- 
bald, are nearly ready in manuscript, and the completed publication maj' 
no doubt be expected at an early day. (Nature, xxxv, 114.) 

The French translation of Yerbeek's work on Krakatoa was completed 
in 1886, forming an octavo volume of 567 pages, printed at Batavia, ac- 
companied by forty- three maps and plates, and an album of twenty-five 
I)lates, published by the National Institute of Geography in Bruxelles. 
It is characterized by Daubree- as " Un document classique dans les 
archives des volcans." (Compt. Rend., cii, 1139.) 

Edmond Cotteau has described Krakatoa and the Straits of Sunda 
as seen in the expedition of Breon and Corthals, in 1884, the article be- 
ing illustrated with numerous views taken from the album accompany- 
ing Verbeck's volume. (Le Tour du JVIonde, li, 113.) 

In September, 1885, J. M. Alexander, with J. S.Emerson, visited the 
crater of Mokuaweoweo, on Mauna Loa. He notes the curious fact that 
this volcano has had frequent eruptions from craters situated on the rim 
of the great central pit, so that lava streams have poured down inside 
the crater as well as outside. Having determined the position of 
over fifty small craters, he finds them apparently situated on a series of 
parallel fissures running in a direction S. 40° to 60° E., although a few 
are in lines running N. 50° E. He states that the " major axis of the 
great craters is generally at right angles" to the main trend of the group. 
This is certainly true of Kilauea and Mokuaweoweo, of which he says 
also that in both the highest walls are on the western side and the action 
is working toward the southwest, the most active craters being in each 
case in the southwest end of the caldera. (Nature, xxxiv,.232.) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 295 

Professor Dana (Am. Jour. Sci., xxxii, 247) calls attention to the way 
In which the great erosion of the volcanic peaks in the island of Tahiti 
has displayed the iuuer structure of this mountain and so has made 
known what is probably the inner structure of many extinct volcanoes.* 
The central mass of the mountain is made up not of bedded lavas, but 
of crystalline rock eroded into deep valleys separated by "knife edged" 
ridges and showiug no horizontal lines but rather indications of vertical 
striation. He interprets this as being the solidified mass of lava which 
when liquid filled the interior of the volcano, and from which, since it so- 
lidified, the crater walls and overlying stratified beds have been washed 
away. 

The first volume of Joseph Prestwich's Geology has been published 
during the year (Oxford, 1886). Chapter xii is devoted to volcanoes 
-and in it he reiterates the views in regard to the agency of water in 
«rui)tions which he upheld in his paj^er before the Royal Society as no- 
ticed in our summary for 1885. Chapter xiii treats of earthquakes. 
In regard to the origin of earthquakes, while admitting other more local 
causes, he says " I am disposed to share the view expressed by Dana, 
that the tension and pressure by which the great oscillations and plica- 
tions of the earth's crust have been produced havenotyet wholly ceased 
and that this is generally the most probable cause of earthquakes." A 
map on Mercator's projections shows the geographical distribution of 
volcanoes and earthquakes. 

SEISMOLOGY. 

Much the most interesting occurrence of the year to Americans, and, 
indeed, the only earthquake which has attracted any general attention, 
was the destructive Charleston earthquake of August 31, 1886. In 
extent of area affected and in the magnitude of the destruction which 
ensued it surpassed anythiug that has occurred on the Atlantic coast 
since its occupation by Europeans. 

The New Madrid earthquake of 1811, in the Mississippi Valley, was 
probably more violent, but, owing to the sparsely populated country, 
the material damage was much less. The first premonitions of the ca- 
lamity were given by slight shocks felt at Charleston and Summervalle 
on August 27 and 28, but the destructive shock occurred on the evening 
of August 31, within a few seconds of 9.51 i>. m. By this shock nearly 
the entire cit^^ of Charleston was ruined, almost every house being 
more or less injured and very many rendered entirely uninhabitable, so 
that for many days thereafter a large part of the population lived in 
tents and other temporary shelters in the i)ublic parks. The shock was 
felt throughout the eastern United States, as far as Boston on the 
northeast, Toronto on the north, Wisconsin and Iowa to the northwest, 
Missouri, Arkansas, and Louisiana on the west. It was slightly per- 
ceptible in Cuba and the Bermuda Islands, to the south and east. Iso- 
seismal curves have been drawn by T. C. Mendenhall (U. S. Weather 



296 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Eeview, August, 1886) and by Everett Haydeu (Science), from which, 
as well as from the coseismals, the origin or epicentrum appears to have 
been in the neighborhood of Charleston, probably somewhat north of 
that cit}'. The greatest destruction was caused in the city of Charles- 
ton, although the direction of the shock appears to have been more 
. nearly vertical at Summerville, about 25 miles northwest. At both of 
these places, but more particularly at Ten Mile Hill, between them, 
many " sand craters " were formed. These were openings in the ground, 
from which came out water and sand. They varied in size from little 
sand hillocks of an inch or two in diameter to large craters the sand 
from which covered a sijrface of some acres. The water at first spouted 
forth, but to no great height, and in most cases soon ceased to flow, al- 
though in at least one case it contiuued for more than three days. Fis- 
sures of considerable extent also occurred in other places. The main 
shock was followed by others that same night, none, however, of suffi- 
cient violence to have done harm except to buildings already weakened 
by the first. So in the following weeks shocks repeatedly occurred, at 
first daily and later at gradually increasing intervals; and they are 
still occasionally felt at the present writiug, March 30, 1887. 

Naturally this most unusual phenomenon at once attracted great at- 
tention, and Major Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, im- 
mediately^ determined to take advantage of it for scientific study, for 
which it presented unusual opportunities. Competent persons were 
sent to make personal examination of the ground, and, by circular and 
otherwise, manuscript aud printed reports were collected for future 
discussion. The results of this work are not yet published, but are ex- 
pected to yield conclusions of the utmost interest and value. Of prelim- 
inary publications the following may be mentioned: A rejiort by T. C. 
Mendenhall, accompanied by an isoseismal map, in the United States 
Monthly Weather Eeview ; several communications to Science by 
Everett Hayden, of the Geological Survey, one accompanied by a map 
of isoseismals and coseismals prepared originally for the Washington 
Philosophical Society ; an illustrated descriptive article in Science by 
W. J. McGee, of the Geological Survey ; many newspaper accounts 
in the issues of the daily and weekly press during the month of Sep^ 
tember. 

Dom Pedro, Emperor of Brazil, evinced his interest in scientific mat- 
ters by himself sending to the French Academy an account of a moder- 
ate earthquake observed by him at his summer home in Petropolis, near 
Eio Janeiro, on May 9, 1886. It caused no important damage, but af- 
fected an area larger than that of the recent Andalusian earthquake, 
and is noteworty as occurring in a region where earthquakes are rare. 
(Compt. Eend., cii, 1351.) 

The recording of the numerous minor shocks that are continually 
occurring still goes on both in Europe and in America, as is shown by 
the lists for 1885, which are now to be noted. 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 29? 

The ISTorwegiau savant, Dr. Raiiscb, makes, iu the Norwegian presSj, 
an appeal for more careful observation and report of earthquakes oc- 
curring in that region, with a view to preserving a record of their dura- 
tion, extent, etc. (IsTature, xxxiii, 424 ) 

In his twenty-first annual report (Min. u. petrog. Mitt., vin, 28) Dr. 
0. W. C. Fuchs has collected the statistics of vulcanology and seis- 
mology for 1885. The volcanic activity of the year is regarded as un- 
important and is dismissed with brief references to the eruption of Ve- 
. suvius in May ; of Cotopaxi in July, by which one hundred and two 
houses were destroyed; and of Smeru (Java) in April, by which a few 
lives were lost. His account of the earthquakes of the year includes two 
hundred and thirty items, which are distributed in time as follows: Win- 
ter, rO (December, 20; January, 40; February, 30); spring, 61 (March,. 
27; April, 23; May, 11); summer, 40 (June, 18; July, 10; August,12); au- 
tumn, 39 (September, 15; October, 14; November, 10). On twenty-six 
days earthquakes were reported at two or more jdaces. Of these earth- 
quakes the following receive more special mention : The series of shocks 
in southern Spain, which were a sequel to the great earthquakes of 
December, 1884, and continued to be felt at intervals far into 1885 ; an 
earthquake in Switzerland April 13, which affected an area of 20,000 
square kilometers, and had au estimated intensity at the epicentrum of 
VIII, Kossi-Forel scale ; in Steiermark May 1 and September 22, with 
limits well defined ; in Cashmere May 24, by which 3,081 lives were lost 
and 70,000 houses injured ; and in Algeria December 3 to 13, where vil- 
lages were destroyed and numerous persons perished in the ruins. The 
list contains only seven American earthquakes, the deficiency being no 
doubt due to the same cause as noted in reference to the previous re- 
port. The one reported under date of January i^robably should be 
January 2, Maryland, and January 3, New Hampshire. In an appendix 
he adds seventy-three items for 1883, nearly every one relating to Ital- 
ian stations, and one liundred and twenty-one for 1884, of which many 
are Italian and forty-six are American, derived from Rockwood's lists 
tor that year. In regard to these latter it must be noted that the geo- 
graphical names and details have suffered seriously in the transfer to 
a foreign language, so that it is in some cases difficult to recognize for 
what they are intended. 

Professor Eockwood's fifteenth Annual Notes on American Earth- 
quakes (Am. Jour. Sci., xxxii, 7) gives a summary for the year 1885. It 
is almost wholly occupied with North America, containing only five 
references to places south of the Isthmus of Panama. It gives 71 
items classified in time, as follows: Winter, 24 (December, 8; Jan- 
uary, 9; February, 7); spring, 22 (March, 8; April, 11; May, 3); sum- 
mer, 14 (June, 3; July, 6; August, 5) ; autumn, 11 (September, 2 ; Octo- 
ber, 7; November, 2). In geographical distribution they were: Cana- 
dian provinces, 8; New England, 5; Atlantic States, 9; Mississippi 
Valley, 3; Pacific coast of United States, 34; Alaska, 2; Mexico, 1: 



298 EECOKD OF SCIENCE FOK •I886. 

Central America, 2; West Indies, 2; Ecuador, Ij Peru and Chili, 3; 
Argentine Kepublic, 1. As so many shocks occurred in California a 
small earthquake map of that State for the year is given, which shows 
that the Bay of San Francisco is in a particularly shaky region, that 
city having been within the area of five distinct earthquakes during the 
year. The author has again assigned an intensity to each earthquake, 
using the liossi-Forel scale in combination with the one j^reviously 
proposed by him (Am. Jour. Sci., xxix, 426), and which, having been 
adoi)ted by the U. S. Geological Survey, is coming to be known as the 
American scale. Those earthquakes estimated as haviug an intensity 
of VI Eossi-Forel or over were — 

(VI.)— March 30, Argentine Republic; March 30, April 11, July 23, 

California. 
(VII.) — Februarys, Mexico; July 31, California. 
(IX.) — October 11, Nicaragua; December 18, Guatemala. 

Forty-three dates are added for 1883 and 1884, all but one being in 
the latter year, and mainly taken from Detaille's lists in L'Astronomie. 

M. C. Detaille contributes to L'Astronomie (p. 216) a list of earth- 
quakes felt in 1885, being the third article of similar character from him. 
It gives 246 items in all, of which 35 are American. The largest 
number (4;)) occurred in January; the smallest (11) in October. For 
the other months the numbers are as follows : February, 18; March, 15 ; 
Ai)ril, 19 ; May, 14; June, 29 ; July, 23 ; August, 13; September, 16 ; 
iNOvember, .6; December, 23. Of the American items only six are con- 
tained in Eockwood's lists, seventeen being from Venezuela and five 
from Valparaiso. After commenting on a few special earthquakes of 
1885, he adds a list of thirteen earthquakes which occurred in Austra- 
lia, Tasmania, and New Zealand from December 1, 1883, to December 1, 
1884; notices some recent literature and gives the Rossi-Forel scale 
adopted by the Swiss Commission and now in quite general use. 

The Croatian Eartliquake Commission, by M. Rispatic, published in 
1885 (Verh. K. K. Geol. Reichsanst.) a report on the shocks of 1883. It 
enumerates forty-five shocks occurring on thirty-seven days. The great- 
est number of shocks occurred in Agram, where there were in all six- 
teen earthquake days. The origin of nearly all is referred to the mount- 
ains northeast of Agram (Gaea. xxii : 58). 

Dr. C. W. C. Fuchs has collected the records of earthquakes from his 
various annual reports, arranged them according to countries and pub- 
lished the whole under the title " Statistik der Erdbeben, 1865-85 " in 
the ninety-second volume of the Sitzungsberichte of the Vienna Acad 
emy ; so that the statistics for any particular locality for the whole 
twenty years are now easily available to the student. It forms another 
chapter in the general earthquake cataloguein which Mallet and Perrey 
have preceded him. In order that the lists for different countries may 
be comparable one with another, Dr. Fuchs has included in his pres- 
ent lists only those shocks which were sensible without instruments; 



VULCfAXOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 299 

that is, those which correspond to the numbers iii to x of tlio Rossi 
Forel scale. The lists occapy about 400 octavo ])ages and are ])re- 
ceded by a brief separate notice of the more imi>ortant .shocks. 

Prof. J. P. O'Reilly, of Dublin, has followed his catalogue of British 
earthquakes (1884) by a similar catalogue of " Earthquakes recorded as 
having occurred in Europe and adjacent countries." The British cata- 
logue was referred to in the summary for 1884. The present list is 
based mainly on those of Mallet, Perrey, and Fuchs, and aims to give 
for each of the localities, arranged in alphabetical order, the number of 
recorded earthquake shakes, with their dates and condensed indications 
of the area affected. It forms a quarto volume of 220 pages. Owing to 
the difSculty of making any numerical estimate of intensity, especially 
with reference to shocks in past years, of which no suiScient details are 
now available, that element has been omitted in i)reparing this list, and 
it represents only the 9tM?n&er of recorded earthquakes, the unit adopted 
being the "shock." The earthquake map of Europe, for which this list 
is intended to be the basis, has not yet appeared, but will be prepared 
in due time. 

" Observations on the Volcanic Eruptions and Earthquakes in Ice- 
land," byG. H. Boehmer, has been printed by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion from advance sheets of the Report for 1885. The first nineteen 
pages of this pamphlet are translated and condensed from a history by 
Th. Thoroddsen and describe the location of the active volcanoes. It 
is stated that "volcanic eruptions appear to be confined to two locali- 
ties, one in the south of the island, running- from southwest to north- 
east, and the other in the north, running from south to north." The 
volcanoes which have been active within historic times are classified 
geographically. into eight g:roups, and under these headings they are 
described at some length. There follows a chronological and descrip- 
tive list of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, beginning with Katla, 
about 900 A. I)., and coming down to 1879. About twenty localities 
are named where eruptions have occurred. Of the large volcanoes 
Hecla has the first place with twenty-one eruptions. After it come Katla 
with twelve or thirteen, the Eldeyjar, near Reykjaues, with ten, and the 
Trolladyngja with six. The earthquakes are in evident connection 
with the volcanic activity. The remainder of the pamphlet, about 28 
pages, is occupied with a valuable bibliograi)hy of the volcanoes, earth- 
quakes, and geysers of Iceland, founded on a similar list b}^ Thoroddsen 
but much extended by Mr. Boehmer. It names fifty-eight manuscripts, 
besides the numerous books and articles in jonruals. 

In studying the slight earthquakes of Januarys and 17, 1886, in 
southern New Hampshire, W. M. Davis prepared ( Appalachia, iv, 190), 
from the data in Rockwood's lists an outline map showing the areas in 
Isew England affected by earthqnakesfrom 1872 to 1884, from which it 
appears that southern New Hampshire is the most frequently disturbed 
region. Professor Davis's detailed study of these shocks also confirms 



300 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

what the present writer lias long felt, that the newspaper notices on 
which so much of our records are based give a very insuflScient idea of 
the True extent of the area affected, and gives added importance to the 
work undertaken by the Geological Survey looking to the collection of 
better records. 

In the ninth volume of the Transactions of the Seismological Society 
of Japan, Dr. C. G. Knott has a paper on Earthquake Frequency. After 
a discussion of the probable length of any periodicity which might be due 
to the gravitational action of the sun or moon, with the result that the 
periods most likely to be discoverable are semi-anmial and annual, he 
gives a method of combining the monthly numbers so as to eliminate 
any shorter periods ; which method he then applies to several earth- 
quake lists and finds clear indications both of a winter maximum and 
of a semi-annual periodicity. In regard to the latter, however, the 
author finds reason to doubt whether it is due to the gravitational cause 
which led to the search for it. He finds a possible or probable cause for 
the winter earthquake maximum (which his annual curves show to exist 
in both northern and southern regions), in the accumulations of snow 
over continental areas and in the annual change of barometric gradients. 

Ch. V. Zenger, in searching for a possible relation between the cos- 
mic streams of shooting stars and seismic phenomena, finds the follow- 
ing results (Compt. Eend., cm, 1288): (1) The days of the passage of 
the streams and of the solar perturbations coincide with the days 
of seismic movement during the years 1883, 1884, and 1885, and with 
volcanic eruptions. (2) When there is a considerable difference between 
the days of passage of the meteoric stream and the period of the solar 
perturbations, two groups of seismic movements are observed. (3) 
These movements are often accompanied by tempests, electric storms, 
and aurora borealis. 

In a paper by Prof. J. S. ITewberry, reprinted from the School of Mines 
Quarterly, he advocates the theory of a fluid or viscous interior and a 
comparatively thin and flexible earth-crust, and that earthquakes are 
the vibrations attending the folding and breaking of rocks which have 
been in a state of strain through its gradual contraction. He regards 
it as quite possible that the provoking cause in any particular case may 
lie in some comparatively trifling increase of atmospheric pressure or 
in the transfer of the products of erosion from the land to the bottom 
of the adjacent sea-basin. 

M. Stanislas Meunier renews his theory of earthquakes (stated in 
1883), by which he attributes the seismic activity to the effect of 
water contained in the rocks and suddenly brought under the influence 
of the internal heat of the earth, the means of its transfer to the super- 
heated region being the sudden fall of masses of rock already saturated. 
He finds confirmatory evidence in the numerous shocks characterizing 
the recent earthquakes in Chios and in Spain. (Compt. Eend., cii, 934.) 

M. Ch. Lallemand presented to the French Academy a suggestion of 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 301 

the origin of earthquakes in relation with the theory of the tetrahe- 
dral form of the earth i^roposed by Mr. Lowthian Green (Vestiges of 
the Molten Globe, 1875). According to this theory the four vertices of 
the terrestrial tetrahedral form are, respectively, in the Austral conti- 
nent, the Himalayas in Asia, the Alps in Europe, and the Rocky Moun- 
tains in America, the several faces being occupied by the Indian, the 
Atlantic, the Pacific, and the Arctic Oceans, and the consequent areas 
of greatest deformation or lines of fracture should be the theaters of 
volcanic and seismic action, which indeed seems to be in accord with 
the physical facts (Compt. Rend., cii, 715). This tetrahedral theory of 
the earth's form was also dicussed before the Academj^ by M. H. Faye 
at its next meeting (Compt. Rend., cii, 786). He showed that reasons 
for rejecting this theory were abundant, drawn from the uusymmetrical 
j)Ositiou assigned to the tetrahedral vertices and from the evident spher- 
ical form of the moon and planets. The details of his discussion be- 
long rather to physical geography than seismology. 

The promised monograph by Dr. Johnston Lavis on the earthquakes 
of Ischia has appeared during 1886, but as the writer has not yet seen 
it, nor any review of it, further notice of it must be reserved. 

An important memoir by T. Taramelli and G. Mercalli on tlie Anda- 
lusian earthquakes of 1884 (Atti R. Accad. d. Liucei, 1886) has also come 
to the knowledge of the writer too late to receive more than mention. 

In the fifth edition of the Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry, 
the article on earthquakes, originally prepared by Robert Mallet, is to 
be revised by Prof. Thomas Gray, now of Glasgow and formerly in 
Japan. (N"atare, xxxiii, 135.) 

An account of " Earthquakes and earth movements," intended for 
the non-scientific reader, has been published in the International Scien- 
tific Series. It was prepared by Professor Milae, of Japan, who has had 
such a prominent part with Ewiug, Gray, and others in the recent ad- 
vances in seismology. It forms a book of 360 pages, divided into 
twenty chapters. It gives an excellent popular account of the subject, 
especially the part devoted to seismometry, in which are described a 
variety of instruments, from the simple columns of Mallet and the mer- 
cury cup of Cacciatore, to the modern seismographs of Ewing, Gray, 
and Milne. The character of the earthquake motion is discussed both 
theoretically and experimentally, with reference to Mallet's and Abbott's 
investigations, as well as to the experimental work done by the author 
and others in Japan. The effects on buildings are described and rules 
for building are inferred. In regard to the determination of the cen- 
trum and epicentrum several methods are given, dependent on the 
direction of the motion, on the direction of the cracks in buildings, and 
on time observations. For the latter case he treats mathematically (1) 
the method of straight lines, (2) the method of circles, (3) the method 
of hyperbolas, and (4) the method of co-ordinates ; as also the methods 
of Haughton and of Seebach. The distribution of earthquakes in space 



302 EECOED OF SCIEXCE FOR 1886. 

and time is illustrated, the former by a map based upon that of Mallet, 
and the latter by reference to the results of Mallet, Perrey, Schmidt, 
Fuchs, and others. In discussing the causes of earthquakes the usual 
theories of steam, vulcanism, chemical action, cosuiic inHueuGe, are 
stated, the only conclusion being that the cause is endogenous to our 
earth, and that solar and lunar influences Jiud barometric fluctuations 
have small effect. The last 40 pages are devoted to earth tremors, 
which escape notice by reason of their small amplitude ; earth jnilsa- 
tions, Tvhich are overlooked on account of the slowness of their period; 
and earth oscillations, by which are meant such slow changes of level 
as are illustrated by the well-known temple of Jupiter Serapis. In re- 
gard to the earth tremors reference is made to the observations of d'Ab- 
badie at Hendaye, of G. and H. Darwin at Cambridge, of Bertelli aud 
Eossi in Italy, and of the author in Japan. The book is written in a 
IDoiJular style and, while dated 1886, appears to have been completed at 
least two years earlier, as it does not refer to the most recent work in 
this department, even that of Milne himself. 

At the second annual conference of delegates of the " corresponding 
societies" enrolled in connection with the British Associatiou, Professor 
Lebour stated that the Korth of England Mining and Mechanical En- 
gineers had a committee actively engaged on the connection of earth 
tremors and mine explosions, and that they were desirous of organizmg 
concerted observations on earth tremors by the corresponding societies. 
(Nature, xxxv, 80.) 

In the re-modelling of the Imperial University of Tokio, with which 
the Imperial College of Engineering is now united, a chair of Seismol- 
ogy has been founded, and filled by the apj)ointment of Mr. Seikei 
Sekiya, who has already become known by his previous work in that 
science. Japan is thus the first country to recognize the importance 
of this department of science by assigning to it a separate i^rofessor in 
its university. (Xature, xxxiv, 130.) 

The French Academy appointed MM. Daubree, Fouque, Hubert, 
Gaudry, and des Cloizeaux as the Commission of Award for the Yail- 
lant prize, the subject for which was " to study the influence which 
the geology of a couutry, the action of water, or'other physical causes 
might have upon earthquakes." (Compt. Eend., cii, 541.) The prize 
was awarded to the members of the Frencli Commission on the An- 
dalusian Earthquake of December, 1884 (MM. Michel Levy, Bertraud, 
Barrous, Off"ret, Kilian and Bergeron), whose rej^orts were referred to 
in the summary for 1885. They also awarded in the same connection 
an "encouragement" of 1,000 francs to M. de Montessus, who had 
passed four years (1881-1885) in San Salvador, and while there had 
made a careful study of seismism in its relations to other physical and 
cosmic phenomena. (Compt. Rend., cm, 1355, 1358.) 

In 1885 the East Indian Section of the Dutch Royal Institution of 
Engineers published some prize questions, one of which related to the 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 303 

theoretical methods and calculations employed in making deductions 
from earthquake observations. For this Prof. John Milne received the 
first prize of loO guilders and a diploma. He also received honorablo 
mention for an essay on the application of theoretical seismology to the 
art of housebuilding. (Nature xxxiv, 154.) 

The Japanese Transactions of the Seismological Society of Japan 
have reached Yol. iii, which contains i^apers on "Earth Tremors," 
by Milne; on the " Earthquake of October 15, 1884," by Sekiya ; and on 
"Air Waves and Sea Waves," by Wada. The English Transactions of 
this active society have completed Vol. ix, the contents of which are 
referred to in their appropriate places in this summary. • 

SEISMOMETRY. 

Early in the year Professor Milne read before the Seismological So- 
ciety a paper on a seismic survey made in Tokio in 18S4-'85. It is a 
fuller account of experiments briefly described in his "Fifth Eeport" 
to the British association, 1885. A number of similar seismographs 
were installed at different points on the grounds of the Imperial Col- 
lege of Engineering, one being at the bottooi of a jiit 10 feet deep, and 
another in a house supported on cast-iron balls. The instruments were 
connected and simultaneously put in operation by electricity. During 
the year of observation fifty earthquakes occurred, whose automatic 
records were studied. A map of the grounds is given and copies of 
some of the record diagrams. In general the results differed very 
sensibly at the various stations, the motion being usually greatest on 
the low grounds. The greatest amplitude marked at any station was 
2.5 millimeters, while the same earthquake at another station gave 
only 0.05 millimeter. The greatest " maximum velocity" recorded is 19 
millimeters per second. The greatest acceleration was 300 millimeters, 
or about 1 foot per second. In the house resting on shot the least mo- 
tion was found when the shot used were small, about a quarter of an 
inch in diameter. 

Experiments have been made with delicate instruments by MM. 
Fouque and Levy on the velocity of propagation of vibrations in the 
soil, the vibrations being produced by dynamite and by the blow of a 
pile-driver. Some of their conclusions are of interest. (1) The vibra- 
tions caused by charges of dynamite or powder (up to 12 kilograms of 
dynamite) are, at the same distance, more feeble than those produced 
by a hammer of 100 tons falling from a height of 5 meters. (2) When 
the point of disturbance and the basin of mercury are both at the sur- 
face the vibrations are multiplied, showing several maxima and minima, 
and at a distance of 1,200 meters lasted 10 seconds. On the contrary, 
when the origin of the disturbance is below the surface, as in a mine, a 
single blow gives rise to a single shock of short duration, even when 
observed at a great distance ; and the result is the same whether the mer- 
cury basin be in the mine or on the surface. (Compt. Rend., cii, 1290.) 



304 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

In a letter to Nature, under date February 28, 1886, Professor Sekiya 
gives a specimen of the earthquake records wiiicli are now issued from 
the University of Tokio. Regular observations are there made by the 
Meteorological Bureau by means of the horizontal pendulum and verti- 
cal motion seismographs of Milne, Gray, and Ewiug, which produce 
■continuous diagrams on a revolving glass plate or drum. The Meteoro- 
logical Bureau has also carried out a set of observations for the deter- 
mination of the area shaken in each earthquake, by means of reports 
gathered from over six hundred local offices throughout the Empire. 
The results are confirmatory of those reached by Milne in previous 
similar study. The total number of earthquakes in Japan in 1885 was 
four hundred and eighty-two, equivalent to 1.3 shakings per day. Of 
these two hundred and thirty-five were local, not affecting an area of 
more than 100 square miles. The maximum area of any one earthquake 
was 34,700 square miles. The intention to continue similar observa- 
tions is announced. (Nature, xxxiii, G03.) 

The Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company is now prepared to 
manufacture seismographic instruments after the designs of Prof. J. A. 
Ewing, of Dundee, formerly of Japan. The instruments are described 
by Ewing, with ilLustratious, in Nature, xxxiv, 343, and consist essen- 
tially of a pair of bracket seismographs for horizontal motions and a 
vertical motion instrument, all recording on a glass plate revolving 
by clock-work. The cost of this apparatus complete is £57 5s. The 
bracket seismographs with recording apparatus alone cost £40. The 
duplex pendulum seismograph, recording on a fixed plate and com- 
plete in itself, costs £14. These instruments are essentially similar to 
those described by Ewiug in his memoir on Earthquake Measurement. 

James White, of Glasgow, also advertises the Milne and Gray seismo- 
graph, improved from that figured in Milne's " Earthquakes/'page 39, 
and made under Mr. Gray's personal supervision, for £55. It records 
both horizontal and vertical motions on a revolving drum, by means of 
two conical pendulum seismographs for the horizontal components and 
a compensated spring seismograph for vertical motions. 

The U. S. Geological Survey has been experimenting on cheap forms 
of seismoscopes, which could be provided in considerable numbers and 
distributed to competent observers in the interest of its seismological 
work. Final results are not yet public, but good progress has been 
made toward an instrument which should meet the necessary conditions 
of reliability and cheapness. 

Professor E wing's instruments are in use at, or have been ordered by, 
the University, Tokio ; the Meteorological Observatory, Tokio ; the Geo- 
graphical Bureau, Manila 5 the Ben Nevis Observatory ; and the Lick 
Observatory, California. M. Cruls is also desirous of setting up seis- 
mographic instruments in the new building about to be erected for the 
Bio Observatory, Brazil. (Nature, xxxiv, 604.) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 305 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF VULCANOLOGY, ETC., 1886. 

BOOKS AND SEPARATE REPRINTS. 

ViRLET d'Aoust. — Exameu des causes diverses qui ddteroiiuent les tremblements de 
terre. Laguy, 1886, br. iu 8vo. (Extrait du Bulletiu de la Soc. g^olog. de Frauce.) 

ViRLET d'Aoust. — Note sur les tremblemeuts de terre partiels et superficiels de la 
surface du globe. Paris, 1886, br. iu 8vo. (Extrait du Compte rendu des scauces 
de la Commission centrale de la Soci6t6 de Geographic.) 

ViRLET d'Aoust. — Sur un tremblement de terre partiel, ou de la surface, dans le d6- 
partement du Nord. Paris, 1886, br. in 8vo. (Extrait du Compt. reud.des stances 
de la Com. centr. de la Soc. de Geographic.) 

G. H. BOEHMER. — Observations ou Volcanic Eruptions and Earthquakes iu Iceland 
within Historic Times. (Translated and condensed from Th. Thoroddseu.) Wash- 
ington, 1886, 8vo., pp. 47. (From Smithsonian Rep., 1885. Notice, Nature (1886), 
XXXIV, 370.) 

E. COTTEAU. — Voyage aux Volcans de Java. (Annuaire CI. Alp. fraug. (1885), vol. 

XII.) 

James D. Dana. — A Dissected Volcanic Mountain ; Some of its Revelations. 4 figs. 

(Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), in ; xxxii, 247-255.) 
W. M. Davis. — Earthquakes iu New England. 2 maps. (Appalachia (1886), iv, 

190-194. Abstract Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 93.) 
C. W. C. FuCHS. — Die vulcanischen Ereiguisse des Jahres 1885. 21. Jahresbericht. 

(Mineral, u. petrog. Mittheil. v. Tschermak ( 1886) , viii, 28-61. ) 

C. W. C. FuCHS.— Statistik der Erdbebeu vou 1865-1885. Wieu, 1886, pp. 411. (Sitz- 
ungsber. der k. Akad, der Wlsseusch. Wleu. (1885), xcii, 215-625. Review, Science 
(1886), VIII, 243. Notice, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 105.) 

A. Hellaxd. — Lakis Kratere og Lavastromme. Christiauia (1886), 4to., pp. 40, map. 

J. R. Hobday and F. R. Mallet. — The Volcanoes of Barren Island and Narcondam 
in the Bay of Bengal. 3 maps. Calcutta, 1885. (Mem. Geol. Survey of India 
(1885), vol. XXXI, pt. 4. Review, Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), in; xxxi,394. Abstracts, 
Nature (1886), xxxiii, 489. Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 
82.) 

H. J. Johnston-Lavis. — Monograph of the Earthquakes of Ischia, with some calcu- 
lations by S. Haughtou. London and Naples, 1886. 4to., 6 plates, 20 photos. 

D. J. Macgowan. — Earthquakes in China. (The China Review, 1886, pp. 147-150. 
Nature (1886), xxxiv, 17-19. Living Age, vol. 169, p. 820. Extract, Science (1886), 
VII, 349. Abstract, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 78.) 

D. J. Macgo\van. — Volcanic Phenomena iu Kokonor and Manchuria and Earth- 
quakes in Chihli and Formosa. , 1886. (The Chiiia Review, 1886, pp. 290-294.) 

T. C. Mendenhall. — Report ou the Charleston Earthquake. Washington, 1886. 8*^, 
7 pp., map. (Reprint from U. S. Monthly Weather Rev., August, 1886. Nature 
(1886), XXXV, 31-33. Notices, Humboldt (1887), 6. Jahrg., pp. 116, 117. The Nation. 
(1886), XXXV, 31.) 

G. Mercalli. — La Fossa di Vulcano e lo Stromboli. 1886, 8vo., 8 pp. (Atti della Soc, 
Ital. di Scienze natur., vol. xxix.) 

John Milne. — Earthquakes and other Earth Movements. London and New York 
1886, pp. XIV-|-3G3, map, illustr. (International Scientific Series.) (Reviewed, Na- 
ture (Cunningham) (1886), XXXIV, 141,142. Pop. Sci. Monthly (1886), xxix, 305- 
316. Sat. Rev. (1886), LXii, 845.) 

John Milne. — Fifth Report of the Committee appointed for the purpose of investi- 
gating the Earthquake Phenomena of Japan. (From Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci. 
(1885), pp. 362-379. Abstract, Nature, (1885), xxxii, 526-528. Pop. Sci. Monthly 
(1886), XXVlii, 566,567.) 
H. Mis. 600-— 20 



306 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

John Milne. — Ou a Seismic Survey made in Tokio in 1884 and 1885. Yokohama, 

188G. 8vo., pp. 36, 4 plates. (Abstract, Nature (1886), xxxiii, 465.) 
John Milne. — On the Causes of Earthquakes. Yokohama, 1886. 16mo., pp.22. 

John Milne. — The Volcanoes of Japan. 8vo., 11 plates, map. (Trans. Seis. Soc. of 
Japan (1886), ix ; pt. ii, 1-183. Reviewed (C. G. R.), Science (1886), viii, 244. (J. 
D. D.)Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), III ; xxxii, 233-235. Nature (1886), xxxv, 19-21. 
(Supan) Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, pp. 123, 124.) 

J. S. Newberry. — Earthquakes. New York, 1883. 8vo., pp. 19. (School of Mines 
Quarterly (1886), viii, No. 1. Reviewed (E. H.), Science (1887), ix, 18. Answer 
(J. S. N.), Science, ix, 91, 92. Extracts, Am. Architect (1887), xxi, 150-152.) 

J. P. O'Reilly. — Alphabetical Catalogue of the Earthquakes recorded as having oc- 
curred in Europe and adjacent countries, arranged to serve as a basis for an Earth- 
quake Map of Europe. Dublin, 1886. 4to, pp.220. (Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. (1886), 
(Science), XXVIII, 489-708. Review (C. G. R.), Science (1886), viii, 243. Nature 
(1886), xxxiv, 465,466.) 

J. P. O'Reilly. — On the Gaseous Products of the Krakatoa Eruption and those of 
great eruptions in general. Dublin, 1886. (Scieutif. Proc. Roy. Dublin Soc. (1886), 
vol. V, pt. 1, pp. 17-30.) 

Ph. Plantamouk. — Des movements p6riodiques du sol accuses par des niveaux k 
bulle d'air. Genfeve, 1885, 8vo. (Archives des Sci. phys. et nat.) 

Joseph Prestwich. — Geology, Chemical and Physical. Vol. i. Oxford, 1886, pp. 
XVII -f- 477, maps and plates. (Review, Nature (1886), xxxiii, 385,386.) 

Albert Riggenbach. — Beobachtungen iiber die Diiujuieruug insbesoudero iiber das 
Purpurlicht iind seine Beziehungeu zum Bisbop'schen Sonuenriug. Basel, 1886. 
(Review, Nature (1886), xxxiii, 483.) 

C. G. RoCKWOOD, Jr. — An account of the progress in vulcauology and seismology in 
the year 1885. Washington, 1886, 8vo., pp. 23. (From Smithsonian Rep., 1885.) 

C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr. — Notes on American Earthquakes, No. 15. 1 map. 8vo., pp. 13. 
(Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), iii; xxxii, 7-19. Notice, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 322.) 

William Roper. — Catalogue of British Earthquakes. Lancaster, 18r^5. 

O. Sii VESTRi. — Sulle eruzioni centrale ed eccentrica dell' Etna scoppiate il di 18 e 19 
maggio 1H86. Rapporto al R. Governo. Catania, 1886, br. in 8vo. (Note by Dau- 
br^e! Compt. rend. (1886), cii, 1221-1223.) 

O. SiLVESTRi. — Sulla esplozione eccentrica dell' Etna avveuuta il 22 marzo 1883, etc. 
Saggio di nuovi studi. Catania, 1884, br. in 8vo. 

A. Stoop. — De Vnlkaan Merapi op Java im Juli 1884. (Natunrk. Tijdschr. v. Nederl. 
Indie (1885), xiv, 177-186.) 

T. Taramellik G. Mercalli. — I Terremoti andalusi comiuciati il 25 dicembre, 1884. 
Rome, 1886. (Reale Accad. d. Lincei. Memorie, vol. viii, 4to., pp. 110, 4 plates. 
Abstract Am. Jour. Sci. (1887), iii ; xxxiii, 313-315.) 

R. D. M.Verbkek. — Krakatau: Seconde Partie. Impr. de I'Etat. Batavia, 1886, 8vo. 
Note by Daubrde. Compt. rend. (1886), Cll, 1139-1141.) 

R. D. M. Verbeek. — Krakatan. Album et Cartes, publi6s par I'lustitut National do 
Gdographio de Bruxelles. Brusselis, 1886. 

Lorenzo G. Yates. — Recent Volcanic Outburst in the Lake District of New Zealand. 
1886. 

K. W. Zenger. — Dieseismischen ErscheinungeuundderVuIkauismusiu ihrer Abhiing- 
igkeitvon den St6rungs<^rschcinungeu auf der Sonne. (Pp.51 ff. in Die Meteo- 
rologie der Sonne und ihres Systems. Wien, 1886, pp. xxii, 231, 4 plates.) 

Ch. V. Zenger. — Les parallelismes des grands perturbations atmos^jbdriques et sdis- 
miques ave.c le mouvement de rotation du Soleil, etc. Paris, 1885, br. in 8°. 

Les cataclysmes volcaniques de 1883 ; Ischia, Krakatau, Alaska. Paris, 25 pp. (Ex- 
trait des Bulletins hebdomadaires, No, 288 et 289 (1885), de I'Associatiou scientifique 
de France. ) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 307 

Les premieres nouvelles, concernaut I'ernptiou dii Krakataa, 1883, dauslcs journeaux 
rinsulaires. Paris, 1884. 

Map of the country arouiul Tarawera Volcano. Eruption of the 10th June, 1S8G. 
Wellington, Snrveyor-GeDcral's Office, 1886. 

Observaciones Meteorologicas. Santiago, 1884. (Contains lists of Chilian earth- 
quakes.) 

Transactions Seismological Society of Japan. Vol. ix, pt. i. Tokio, 188G, 8vo, pp. 
50, plates. (Review (C. G. R.), Science (1886), viii, 243, 244.) 

Transactions Seismological Society of Japan. Vol. ix, pt. ii. Yokohama, 1886, 8vo, 
pp. 183. 

PERIODICALS. 

S. M. DoM Pedro d'Alcantara. — Treniblement de terre survenu an Br^sil le 9 mai 
1886. (Compt. rend. (18«6), en, 1351, 1352.) 

J. M. Alexander. — The Craters of Mokuaweoweo on Mauna Loa. (Hawaiian Com- 
mercial Advertiser, October, 1885. Nature (1886), xxxiv, 232-234. Abstract, 
Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 92.) 

ViRLET d'Aoust. — Th^orie des tremblementsde terre. (Revue Geogr. (1886), XX, 51.) 

L. Aqcilina. — The Recent Earthquake in Greece. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 497.) 

E. Douglas Archibald. — The Krakatao Dust-Glows of 1883-84. (Nature (1886), 
xxxiii, 604.) 

S. W. Baker. — New Volcano in the Friendly Islands. (Trans, and Proc. New Zea- 
land Institute (1885), vol. xviii, — .) 

R. Baron. — Notes on the Volcanic Phenomena of Central Madagascar. One map. 
(Nature (1886j, xxxiii, 415-417. Abstract, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. 
Litt. Bericht, pp. 89, 90. ) 

H. Behrens. — Review of Barrois et Offret: Sui la constitution g6ologigue de la 
Sierra Nevada, etc. (No. 30, Bibliography, 188". ' (Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. 
(1886), Bd. I, 262.) 

H. Behrens. — Review of Levy et Bergeron : Sur la constitution geologigue de la 
Serrania^de Ronda. (No. 86, Bibliography, 1885.) (Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. 
(1886), Bd. I, 263.) 

H. Behrens. — Review of Verbeek: Krakatau, Tweede gedeelte. (No. 20, Bibliog- 
raphy, 1885.) (Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. (1886), Bd. i, 276-289.) 

Sereno Bishop. — The origin of the Red Glows. (Am. Meteorol. Jour. (1886), iii, 
127-136,193-196.) 

fiiwiLE Blanchard. — Remaraues an sujet du recent cataclysme survenu a la Nouvelle- 
Zelande. (Compt. rend. (1886), cm, 407,408.) 

Marcel Blanchard.— Lc tremblement de terre de Nicaragua du 11 octobre 1885. 
(La Nature (1886), i, 51,-52.) 

T.G.BoNNEY.— Volcanic Dust from New Zealand. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 56, 57.) 

T. G. BoNNEY.— Volcanic Eruption in Niua-Fu. Friendly Islands. (Nature (1886), 
XXXV, 127, 128.) Review (J. D. D.), Am. Jour. Sci. (1887), xxxiii, 311,312.) 

F. DE Botella y dk Horxes. — Les tremblemeuts de terre de Malaga et Granade en 
1884. (Rev. Uuiver.selle des Mines, de la M6tallurgie, etc. (1886), i, 286.) 

E. W. BuCKE.— Geysers of the Rotorua District, North Island of New Zealand. Brit. 
Assoc, 1886. (Notice, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 512.) 

F. CORDENONS. — Sul meccanismo delle eruzioni vulcaniche e geiseriaue. (L' Ateneo 
Veueto, Rivista Mensile di Scienze, etc. Ser. ix (1885), ii, 460.) 

E. CoTTEAU. — Krakatau et le ddtroit de la Sonde. Map and illustrations. (Le Toiir 

du Monde (1886), li, 113-128.) 
E. CoTTEAU. — Erupcion del Krakatoa. (Bol. Soc. Geogr. Madrid (1886), xx, 363- 

393.) 
L. Cruls. —0 Terremoto do dia 9 do luaio 1886. (Revista do Observatorio, Rio Janeiro 

(1886), I, 81-84.) 



308 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

L. Cruls.— Tremblement cle terre au Br^sil. (Compt. reud. (1886), cii, 1383, 1384.) 
C. F. GoRDOX CuMMixG. — The Ernptiou of Mount Tarawera iu 1886. Illiistr. (The 

Leisure Hour (1886), pp. 6.">l-664.) 
Allan Cunningham. — Earthquakes aud other Earth ruovements. Review of Milne's 

book. (Nature, XXXIV, 141-142.) 
J. D. Dana. — Eruption of Kilauea, Hawaii, iu March, 1886. (Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), 

in ; XXXI, 397-398. ) 
J. D. Dana.— Volcano of Barren Island, in the Bay of Bengal. (Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), 

in; XXXI, 394-397.) 
A. Daubree.— Los Terremotos. (Bol. Soc. Geogr. Madrid (1886), xx, 65-102.) 
G. Davidson. — Die Erste Ersteigung des Yulkaus Makushin, Insel Unalaska. (Mitt. 

D. in O. Alpenvereins (1885), Nr. 20.) 
Davison. — On the occurrence of undisturbed spots in Earthquake-shaken areas. 

(Geolog. Mag. (1886), iii, 157. Abstract, Feterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. 

Bericlit, p. 105.) 
C. Detaille. — Statistique des tremblements de terre. L'Astronomie (1886), 5<' aun., 

216-218. Notice, Science (1886), vii, 570.) 
F. DiEFFENBACH. — Die Erdbeben in Japan. (Aus alien Weltteileu (1886), xvii, 286.) 
C. E. DuTTON. — Hawaiian Volcanoes. (No. 54, Bibliogr., 1885.) Reviewed (Aus- 

land (1886), p. 339. (By Supau.) Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, 

pp. 39, 40.) 
W. T. TniSELTON Dyer. — Collection of Hairs after Earthquakes in China. (Nature 

(1886), XXXIV, 56,57.) 
H. EcK. — Bemerkungen iiber das rheinisch-schwabische Erdbeben vom 24 Jiinn. 1880. 

(Zeitschr. d. deutsch. geolog. Ges. (1886), xxxviii, 150-161.) 
A. Ernst. — Das Erdbeben vom 26. Miirz 1812 an der Nordkiiste Siid-Amerikas. Mit 

Taf. (Tijdschr. v. h. Aardrijksk. gen. Amsterdam (1886), ii. 8er.,iii, deel, Nr. 1, pp. 

17.5-182.) 
J. A. EwiNG. — Earthquake Recorders for use in Observatories. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 

343,344.) 
J. A. EwiNG. — On the measurement of the movements of the ground, with reference 

to proposed Eaithquake observatous on Ben Nevis. (Cf. No. 59. Bibliogr., 1885.) 

(Rep. Brit. A.ssoc. Adv. Sci. (1H85), pp. 920-922. Nature (1885), xxxiii, 68, 69.) 
J. A. EwiNG. — Seismology iu Japan. (Rev. of Traus. Seis. Soc. Jap., vol. viii, No. 

22, Bibliogr., 1885.) (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 195, 196.) 
J. A. EwiNG. — Seismmetry iu Japan. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 75,76, 172, 173.) 
H. Faye. — Sur la constitution do la croute terrestre ; conclusion. (Compt. reud. 

(1886), cii, 786-789.) 
R. Fknnema. — Ueber receute Lavastrome auf Java. (Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, etc. 

(1S86), I, 87-89. Trausl. Compte rendu Soc. G6ogr. Paris (188b), pp. 290-292. 

Abstracts, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 82. Nature (1886), 

XXXIV, 224.) 
F. A. Forel. — Tremblement de terre du 5 .septembre. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 469.) 
F. FOUQUE. — Prix Vaillant. Rapport sur los m^moires des membres de la mission 

fran^aise d'Andalousie. Rapport sur le mdmoire presents par M. de Montessus. 

(Compt. reud. (1886), cm, 1355-1359.) 
F. FouQUE ET Michel LiivY. — Mesures de la vitesse de propagation des vibrations 

dans le sol. (Compt. rend. (1886), cii, 237-239.) 
F. FouQUE ET Michel Levy. — Experiences sur la vitesse de propagation des A'ibra- 

tions dans le sol. (Compt. rend. (1886), cii, 1290, 1291.) 
A. Geikie. — The recent volcanic eruption in New Zealand. 1 map. (Nature (1886), 

XXXIV, 320-322. Library Mag. (1886), vol. ii, No. 29.) 
Thomas Gray.— Seismometry. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 126,198.) 
Everett Hayden. — Earthquake Sounds. (Science (1886), vm, 369.) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 309 

Everett Hayden. — New Zealand and tboroceut eruption. 2 maps. (Science (1886), 
viii, 68-70.) 

EvEKETT Haydkn. — Study of the Earthquake. (Science (1386), vm, 225,226.) 

EVEitETT Haydkx. — The Charleston Earthquake; some further observations. (Sci- 
ence (1886), VIII, 246-248.) 

James Hector. — TheEeceut Volcanic Eruptions in New Zealand. Map. (Nature 
(1886), XXXIV, 389-393.) 

F. De Hert. — Apparition d'une ile nouvelle dans I'ocdan Paciticpie. (Bull. Soc. Roy. 
G6ogr. d'Anvers (188G), x, 331-340.) 

R. H. Hertslet. — Earthquake at Sea (October 20, 1886.) (Nature (1886), xxxv, 157.) 

J. P. Iddixgs. — The Columnar Structure in the igneous rock on Orange Mountain, 
New Jersey. (Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), xxxi, 321-331.) 

H. J. Johxstox-Lavis. — Notes on Vesuvius from February 4toAugust7, 188(). (Nature 
(1886), xxxiv, 557-558.) 

H. J. JoHXSTox-L.vvis. — Report of the committee for the investigation of the vol- 
canic phenomena of Vesuvius. (Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci. (1885), pp. 395,396.) 

H. J. Johxstox-Lavis. — Report on tlie volcanic phenomena of Vesuvius and its 
neighborhood. Brit. Assoc, 1886. (Abstract, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 481.) 

H. J. Johxstox-Lavis. — Sounding a Crater, Fusionpoints, Pyrometers, and Sies- 
mometers. (Nature (1836), xxxv, 197.) 

H. J. Johxston-Lavis. — The relationship of the activity of Vesuvius to certain meteo- 
rological and astronomical pheuomeua. (Proc. Roy. Soc, London (1886), XL, 
248, 249.) 

H. J. Johxston-Lavis. — Vesnvian Eruption of February 4, 1886. (Nature (1886), 
XXXIII, 367.) 

J. JoLY. — Volcanic Ash from New Zealand. (Nature (1S8G), xxxiv, 595.) 

Joxes. — Report on tlie Kashmir Earthquake of May 30, 1S85. 2 maps. (Records 

Geol. Survey of India (1885), xviii, 221. Noticed, Peteruj. Gt;ogr., Mitt. (1886), Bd. 
32. Litt. Bericht, p. 83.) 

J .W. JuDD. — Note to accompany a series of photographs prepared by Mr. Josiah 
Martin, F. G. S., to illustrate the scene of the recent volcanic eruption in New Zea- 
land. Brit. .Assoc, 1836. (Noticed, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 513.) 

Ernest Kalkowsky. — Notice of Mercalli Sulla uatura del terremoto Ischiano, 1883. 
(No. 94, Bibliog., 188*5.) (Neu. Jahrb. f. Miueralogie, etc (1886), i, 258, 259.) 

Ernest Kalkowsky. — Review of Taramelli and Mercalli, RelazionesuUa osservazione 
fatto durauto uu viaggio, ,etc. (No. 137, Bibliog., 1885.) (Neu. Jahrb. f. Mineral- 
ogie, etc. (1886), i, 2G0.) 

J, Kiessling. — Die Bewegung des Krakatau-Rauches im September 1883. (Gaea 
(1886), XXII, 607-610.) 

S. Kneeland. — Remarks on Earthquakes. (Proc Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. (18S6), 
XXIII, 6.) 

C. G. Knott.— Earthquake Frequency. 4 plates. (Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan, ix, 
1-22. Notices, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 434. Science (1886), vm, 243.) 

Ch. L.\llemand. — Sur I'origine probable des trembl«imeuts do terre. (Compt. rend. 
(1886), cil, 715-117. Abstract, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, 
p. 105.) 

G. A. Lebour. — On some recent earthquakes on the Durham coast, and their prob- 
able cause. (Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci. (1885), pp. 1013-1015.) 

G. A. Lebour. — Recent earthquakes on the coast of Durham. (Geolog. Mag. (1886), 
II, 496.) 

G. LiNCK. — Review of Fuchs: Die vulcanischen Ereignisse des Jahres 1883. (Neu. 
Jahrb. f. Miueralogie, etc. (1886) i, 42.) 

Ferdinand Lowl.— Spalten und Vulcane. (Jahrb. der k. k. geolog. Reichsanst. 
(1886), XXXVI, 315-326. Abstract, Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. -Litt. Be- 
richt, p. 105.) 



310 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

MiKLOUCHO Maclay. — Oil traces of volcanic action on tbe northeast of New Guinea. 

(Proc. Linnean Soc. of New South AVales (1885), ix, No. 4. ) 
E. J. Matz. — Das Ertlbeben vorn 1. Mai, 1885. Mit Karte. ( Deutsciie Rundschau f. 

Geogr. (1885), A'li, 4o3-4fi5.) 
J. W. McCrixdle. — Thorofldsen ou the Lava desert in tbe interior of Iceland. (Cf. 

No. 131), Bibliog., 1885.) (Scottish Geogr. Mag. (1885), i, 026-634.) 
W. J. McGee. — Some features of the recent earthquake. 1 illustrations. (Science 

(1886), vni, 271-275.) 
M. C. Meigs.— The Charleston Earthquake. (Science (1886), viir, 390. 391.) 
R. Meldola. — On some geological aspects of the East Anglian Earthquake. (Proc. 

Geologists' Assoc. (England) (1885), ix, 20.) 
Charles Meldrum. — A tabular statement of the dates at which, and the localities 

Avhere, pumice or volcanic dust was seen in the Indian Ocean in 1883-'84. (Rep. 

Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci. (1885), pp. 773-779.) 
J. M. Metzger. — Earthquake in Sierra Leone. Sept.. 1886. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 

141.) 
Stanislas Meunier. — Sur la Th^orie des treml>lciueiits do terre. (Conipt. rend. ( 1886), 

Cii, 934-937. Abstract, Peterm. geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 105.) 
MiDDLKAiiss. — Report on the Bengal Earthquake of July 14, 1885. (Records Geol. 

Survey of India (1885), xviii, 200. Notice, Peterm. geogr. Mitt. (Ib86), Bd. 32. Litt. 

Bericht, p. 83.) 
JOHX MiLNE.— An Earthquake Invention. (Nature (1886), xxxiii, 43^,439 ;" xxxiv, 

193.) 
John Milne. — Earth Tremors. (Japanese Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (18^'(;), vol. 

III.) 
John Milne. — On Construction in Earthquake Countries. (Engineering (1885), XL, 

611,612. Am. Architect (1886), xix, 55,56.) 
John Milne. — Sounding a Crater. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 152,153.) 
De Montessus. — Les Volcaus do FAmerique Centrale. (Rev. Scieutif. (1885), in, 

ser. IX, 804-807. Transl., Pop. Sci. Monthly (1886), xxviii, 819-823.) 
Joseph Moore. — Earthquake Sounds. (Science (1886), viii, 348.) 
S. Newcomb. — Red Sunsets and Volcani^c Eruptions. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 340.) 
A. F. Nogues. — Tremblements de terre en Espague. (La Nature (1886), i, 286.) 

A. F. NoGufes. — Nouveaux tremblements de terre en AndalouSie. Map. (La Nature 

1886), II, 143,144.) 
J. P. O'Reilly. — The Earthquake ot October 16, 1886, in the Vosges, etc. (Nature 

(1886), XXXIV, 618.) 
J. P. O'Reilly. — The late American Earthquake and its limits. (Nature (1886), 

XXXIV, 570,571.) 
J. P. O'Reilly.— The Recent Earthquakes. (Nature (1886), xxxv, 197-200.) 

B. Ornstein.— Erdbeben in Griechenland. (Peterm. Geogr. Mitt. (1886), xxxii, 312.) 
B. Ornstein. — Ueber die gegenwiirtigeErdbeben-Periode imostlichen Mittelmeerge- 

biete. (Ausland (1885), p. 521.) 
F. L. Oswald.— Earthquake of August 31, 1886. (Lippincott's Mag. (1886), xxxvix, 

539. ) 
Richard Owen. — The recent Earthquake in Greece and other places ou August 28, 

1886. Am. Meteorol. Jour. (1886), in, 220-222.) 
E. Parfitt.— Earthquakes in Devonshire. (Trans- Devonshire (Eng.) Assoc, for Adv. 

Sci., Lit. and Art (1885 ?), xvi, 641-661.) 
Jean Platania.— La r^ceute Eruption dc I'Etna. Map and ill. (La Nature (1886), 

11,97-99.) 
J. W. Powell.— The Causes of Earthquakes. (The Forum (1886), ii, 370-391.) 
Joseph Prestwioh.— On the Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions. (Proc. Roy. 

Soc, Loudon (1886), XLi, 117-173.) 
R. A. Proctor. — Earthquakes. (Humboldt Library.) 



VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY. 311 

L. RiCClARDl. — L'Etna e 1' eruzione del mese di marzo 1883. (Atti dell' Accad. Gioe- 

nia di Sci. Nat. in Catania (1885), ser. iii, xviii, 195.) 
L, RicciARDi. — Recherches chirniques sur les produits de I'^ruption de I'Etua anx mois 

de mai et de juiu 1886. (Compt. rend. (1886), cii, 1484-1487.) 
A. Ricco. — L'ele Ferdiuandea,le soleil bleu et les cr^puscules rouges de 1831. (Compt. 

rend (1886), CII, 1060-1063.) 
A. Ricc6. — Phdnomenes atmosph^riques observes h Palerme pendant I'^ruption de 

PEtua. (Compt. rend. (1886), cm, 419-421.) 
A. Ricc6. — Red Sunsets aud Volcanic Eruptions. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 386.) 
RiSPATic. — Die Erdbeben Kroatiens im Jabre 1883. (Verbandl. der k. k. geolog. 

Reichsanst. Wien (1886), i, 266-273. Review, Gaea (1886), xxii, 58.) 

C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr. — Recent Earthquake Literature. (Science (1886), viii, 242- 
244.) 

M. S. DE Rossi. — Communicazione sul terremoto di Casamicciola. (Boll. d. Soc. 

Geolog. Italiana (1883), ii, 92.) 
M. S. DE Rossi. — Communicazione sulla questione dei segni precursor! del terremoto 

di Casamicciola. (Boll. d. Soc. Geolog. Italiana (1883), ii, 217.) 
Justus Roth. — Ueber einen vulcaniscben Ausbrucb in Nord-Neu-Seeland und iiber 

Erdbeben in Malta. (Sitzber. der "phys. -math. Classe der Berlin. Akad. (1886), pp. 

941-944.) 
W. RowELL. — Account of a New Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean. Illustrated. 

(Proc.Roy. Soc, London (1885), XL, 81,82.) 
Schmidt. — Review of G. F. Becker: Geometrical Form of Volcanic Cones. 

(No. 1, Bibliog., 1885.) (Peterm. geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, pp. 

53, 54.) 
Seikei Sekiya. — New System of Earthquake Observations in Japan. (Nature (1886), 

xxxiii, 603,604. Abstract, Peterm. geogr. Mitt. (1886), Bd. 32. Litt. Bericht, p. 

77.) 
Seikei Sekiya.— The Earthquake of October 1.5, 1884. (Japanese Trans. Seis. Soc. 

of Japan (1886), vol. iii.) 
E. Shida. — Automatic Current Recorder. (Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (1886), ix, 

22-31. Notices Nature (1886), xxxiv, 434, Science (1886), viii, 244.) 
R. Shida. — On Earth Currents (Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (1886), ix, 32-50.) 
Shortt. — Earthquake Phenomena in Tasmania. (Proc. Roy. Soc. Tasmania 

for 1885. ) 
H. SiLVESTRi.— Sur F^ruption de I'Etna de mai et juin 1886. (Compt. rend (1886), 

CII, 1589-1592.) 
O. SiLVESTRi. — Sulla esplosione Etnae del 22 marzo 1883, in relazione al fenomeni 

vulcanici presentati dall' Etna durante il quadriennio compreso dallgenn. 1880 al 

dec, 1883. (Atti dell' Accad. Gioenia di Sci. Nat. in Catania (1885), ser. iii, xviii, 

237.) 

D. A. Stevexson. — An Earthquake Invention. (Nature (1886), xxxiii, 534.) 

A. Stoop. — Verslag van eeu bezoek van den Vulkaan Merapi im November 1884 en 
van een onderzoek im Juli 1885. Map. (Natuurk. Tijdschr. v. Nederl. Indie D. 
XLV, 89-93, 518-524.) 

E. Svedmark.— Om de vulkaniska utbrotten vid Alaska, 1883. (Yraer (1885), v, 129- 
134. ) 

W. ToPLEY. — Notes on the recent earthquake in the United States, including a tele- 
graphic dispatch from Maj. Powell, Director of the U. S. Geological Survey. Brit. 
Assoc, 1886. (Review, Nature (1886), xxxiv, 470, 471.) 

E. D. M. Verbeek. — Verslag over een onderzoek van den vulkaan Merapi im Dec. 
1884. Map. (Natuurk. Tijdschr. V. Nederl. Indie (1885), XIV, 89-94.) 

Li:oN ViDAL. — Sur le tremblement de terre du 27 aoftt 1886 (nouveau style) en Grfece. 
(Compt. rend. (1886), cm, 563-565.) 



312 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188fi. 

Y. Wada.— Air Waves and Sea Waves. (Japanese Trans. Seis. Soc. of Japan (1886). 
vol. III.) 

Johannes Walther.— Vulcaui.sche Strandniaikcn. ( Jahrb. der k. k. geolog. Reichs- 
anst. (IBdG), xxxvi, 295-302.) 

J. Wight. — Askja, the great volcanic crater of Iceland. Map. (Scottish Geogr. Mag. 
(IdH.-)), I, 613-026.) 

W. Mattxeu Williams. — Krakatoa Waves. (Gent's Mag., vol. 261, pp. 94-96.) 

H. B. Woodward.— Earthqnakes and Subsidences in Norfolk. (Trans.' Norfolk and 
Norwich (Eug.) Naturalists' Soc. (1885), vol. iii.) 

H. B. Woodward.— The Essex Earthquake, April 22, 1884. (Trans. Norfolk and Nor- 
wich Naturalists' Soc. (1885), iv, 31-35.) 

Ch. Y. Zenger. — Les essaims p^riodiqnes d'tStoiles filautes et les mouvenieuts 
86ismiques des annees 1853, 1884 et 1885. (Coiupt. rend. (1886), cm, 1287-1269.) 

H. ZOLLER.— Der Ansbruch des Atua. (Gaea (1886), xxii, 516,517.) 

PRINTED WITHOUT AUTHOR'S NAME. 

Another feature of the recent Earthquake. 1 illustration. (Science (1886), viii,438- 

440.) 
Die Vnlcane Islands. (Deutsch. Rundschau f. Geogr. (1885), vii, 560-562.) 
Earthquake Observations. (Science (1686), vn, 301.) 
Earthquakes and other Seismic Movements. Review of Milne's book. (Pop. Sci. 

Monthly (1886), xxix, 305-316.) 
Eruption of Etna, May 19 and 20, 1886. (Nature (1856), xxiv, 82, 83, 108-130.) 
Krakatau. (Globus (1885), XLViH, No. 17.) 
L'^rnption volcanique de la Nouvelle-Zdlande de 10 juiu 1S86. 2 illustrations, 2 maps. 

(La Nature (1886), ii, 209-211.) 
Les tremblements de terre en Algerie an mois de decembre 1885. (Rev. Scientif. 

(188']), III, ser. xi, 113-115.) 
Les volcans de Madagascar. (La Gazette Geogr. (1886), ii, No. 17.) 
Le tremblement de terre des EUts-Unis de 31. Aofit 1886. Map and illustrations. 

(La Nature (1886), ii, 259, 260 ; 402, 403.) 
Mr. Yerbeek ou Krakatoa. (Review of pt. ii.) (Nature (1886), xxxiii, 560, 561.) 
Mr. Verbeek on the Krakatoa Dust-glows. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 33.) 
Nouvelles du pays du Krakatau. (Le Mouvement G^ogr. (1885), ii, 57.) 
OsTerremotos e suas causas. (Revista do Observatorio, Rio Janeiro (1886), i, 87-90.) 
Recent Earthquakes and their Study. (New Princeton Review (18o6), ii, 414-417.) 
The Charleston Earthquake. Map. (Science (1886), viii, 470-472.) 
The Earthquake of August 31, 1886. Map. (Science (1886), viii, 211, 224,225.) 
The Now Yolcano in the Pacific. (Science (1886), vii, 09, 70.) 
The recent Earthquakes (August 31, 1886, etc.). (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 460.) 
The recent Atnericau Earthquake. (Nature (1886) xxxiv, 470, 471.) 
The recent Earthquakes and Volcanic Eruptions (New Zealand). (Nature (1886), 

XXXIV, 599-601.) 
The recent Eruption in New Zealand. (Science (1886), viii, 135-136.) 
The Volcanic Eruption in New Zealand. (Nature (1886), xxxiv, 301-303.) 
The Volcanic Phenomena of New Zealand. (Symons' Meteorol. Journal. 1836. Am. 
■ Meteorol. Jour. (1886), in, 232-238.) 
Tremblements de terre. (Sicily, Greece, United States.) (La Nature (1880), ii, 234.) 
Volcanic Eruption in New Zealand. (Am. Jour. Sci. (1886), in ; xxxil, 162, 163.) 
Vulcanische Thiitigkeit auf Java. (Globus (1885), XLViii, 31.) 



GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION IN 1886. 



By William Libbey, Jr., 
Professor of Physical Geograjihy, College of New Jersey. 



There appear to be few great regions left for the valiant explorers 
of modern times except those lying at the poles. A great deal still re- 
mains to be done in the way of working up the details that are needed 
to fill in the outlines of our globe's structure, which are now pretty well 
known. This is very clearly seen when we contrast the two species of 
activity at work in the study of Europe and Africa ; the former might 
almost be saitl to be known so well as to preclude all further investiga- 
tion, and this is true with regard to its general features, but we find 
more written about its details in every way, than of any other conti- 
nent. In the case of Africa this sort of minute study has only begun, 
but the long lines traversed by so many intrepid men are rapidly 
producing a net- work which will give us a true idea of this enormous 
portion of our globe, concerning which it has been well said that it is a 
dark, mysterious, and sealed continent. 

Europe has been properly retired from • the list of the continents 
which are subjects for exploration, but the exploration of its resources 
and enterprises are in the first full flush of development; in other 
words, the history of man's modifying effect on nature has but fairly 
begun to be written. 

Asia and Africa have received most attention during the past year, 
though there is no lack of expeditions of note in all the quarters of the 
globe.* 

Asia. — The greatest explorations which have been carried on In this 
continent during the past year have been those of General Prjevalski, 
who returned to Moscow in January, 1886, after his fourth journey into 
the interior. This is but one of a series of trips undertaken by him, 
commencing in 1S71, and he was at that time the first explorer to pene- 
trate these unknown regions, all other attempts having been repelled 

* I have been aided very materially in the preparation of these notes by the excel- 
lent sketches of the progress of geography which have been published by Maunoir, 
Duveyrier & Kaltbrunner; not only in the verification of facts already known, but 
also for many records, which their greater facilities have enabled theui to give. 

313 



314 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

by the fierce native tribes. A simple outline, giving the regions visited 
in these several journeys, may not be amiss in this place. 

The first voyage extended from 1871-73, during which time be visited 
and made known for the first time the sources of the Bbie Eiver, the 
Yang-tse-kiang. In his second trip he travelled through the Thian 
Shan region as far as the Tarim, and then he was forced to return 
through eastern Turkestan. This took place in 1876-'77. In 1878-'79, 
he explored the region about Lake Zaisan and reached Tsaidam in 
Thibet; then going forward, he was stopped within IGO miles of Sadji. 
He then turned his attention to the headwaters of the Hoaug-ho. In 
his fourth journey, begun in 1883, he again crossed these central desert 
regions to the source of the Hoang ho, spending the month of February, 
1884, in the mountains of Thibet. In May he again passed through 
Tsaidam, where he left his stores in charge of the Cossacks. The 
river in this region has only a breadth of about 150 feet, which however 
soon increases rapidly. The Chinese have a great veneration for the 
Hoang-ho, which is justified by its importance to the region through 
which it flows. Wild animals, yaks, etc., are the only living things 
found neai its source, but in its lower course, when the plains are reached, 
it becomes thickly settled. From these headwaters he turned farther 
southward to the source of the Yang-tse-kiang. Here he again en- 
countered many difficulties, chief among which were the natives; they 
were generally poorly armed and easily repulsed, but he was exposed 
to their sudden attacks for several months. 

Crossing from southern to western Tsaidam he found desert land 
once more, and he was glad to reach a small town called Gas, even 
though he was forced to take the most impracticable routes. Here 
he remained three months, and then passed on to western Thibet, where 
he discovered three new mountain ranges. On his return to Gas ho 
passed through these mountains once more, going to Loto on his way. 
In this place he was received kindly by the inhabitants, who seem to be 
of Turkish origin. He received the same treatment from the natives of 
western China and eastern Turkestan. 

This part of the country is described in the most favorable terms. It 
seems to have a warm and agreeable climate, to be very fertile, and winter 
is scarcely known. All the surrounding nations are represented here — 
Chinese, Mongolians, Arabians, and Hindoos. Going farther, another 
desert region was crossed, which was dotted here and there with oases ; 
that of Tchertchen was found to contaiti the remains of an ancient and 
forgotten village ; the Oasis of Potam is described as very fertile, and 
he is the first ex])lorer who has followed and described the course of 
the Eiver Potam. This river arises in a marsh in the midst of the desert, 
and has a length of about 120 miles; after following it he passed 
across the River Tarim and then went to the oasis of Akson. From 
this spot he crossed the Thian Shan mountains to Sekoul, where his 
journey ended. 



GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 315 

Potanine and Skassi spent the greater part of the year in making 
ethnographic and topographic studies near Sinin and around Lake 
Koko nor, on the border lands between China proper and Tliibet. 

In southern Arabia we have had most interesting results from the 
voyage of Glaser. He crossed from Hodeida, on the Eed Sea, to Sana, 
a voyage not so noted for its length as for the difficulties encountered. 
He has only been preceded by three Europeans (Niebuhr,17G3; Armand, 
1843 ; and Halevy, 1870). This is one of the most famous portions of 
southern Arabia in ancient times. 

Professor Euting, of Strasburg, has also published this year an ac- 
count of the journey (made in 1883-84) from Damascus to !N^efond and 
from there to Mecca by a hitherto untraversed route. 

A good map of central Syria has been i)ublished by Dr. Diener, which 
embodies the results of his studies around Damascus, Baalbec, south- 
ern Lebanon, and Palmyra. 

Tlie great cartographer H. Kiepert has been travelling through Asia 
Minor with the object of comijleting his map of that portion of the con- 
tinent by the aid of original investigations and the unpublished docu- 
ments to be found at Constantinople. As yet, however, nothing has 
been published. 

Dr. Elisseiew has started on a journey across Asior Minor to Armenia 
and Kourdistan by way of Alexandretta and Aleppo. 

The party, composed of Potanine, Skassi, and Beresovski, which has 
explored a considerable part of southern Mongolia and northwestern 
China, continued their work in the spring, and started on their return 
across the desert of Gobi by a route lying between Sogok-Xor and the 
eastern ramifications of the Altai Mountains. 

There has been another expedition in Thibet which deserves men- 
tion. The English explorer Carey has passed through western Thibet. 
From Leh, in Cashmir, he went to Khotan, then, following the course 
of the Tarim, he reached Lob Nor towards the end of April, and pro- 
posed to return by the north of China. 

Another expedition, which was known as the Macaulay mission, has 
been ordered back because of the opposition of the Chinese Govern- 
ment. It was to have gone to Lhassa, crossing Sikkim and Japela 
Pass. 

Upper Assam has been visited by Colquhoun, but no reports have 
been received from him concerning the region lying between Birmah 
and Assam. The border line of British India has been very carefully 
and energetically mapped by the English topographers, who were sent 
there for the purpose. 

In the French possessions of Indo-China, the' investigations of Eev- 
eillere and Fresigny have demonstrated that the rapids, heretofore con- 
sidered insurmountable difficulties, can be passed by small steamers, as 
they went as high as Khong, on the Mekong river. The boundary com- 
mission have been at work in the North, near Laokai, where they have 



316 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

nearly finished tlieir work on the border between Yun-nan and Tong-. 
king. Tliey have been uinch interrupted by the piratical attacks of the 
natives. 

Capns, Bonvalot, and Pepin have continued their travels in thetrans- 
Casi)iau district and Turkestan. They always hoped to be able to cross 
the Afghan boundary, but have been unable to do so. After reaching 
the sacred city of Meshed, this season they decided to go at any risk, 
and started for Balkh. They were cai)tured, safely returned to the bor- 
der, and left on the other side in a very emphatic but respectful man- 
ner. They have explored the regions about Merv and Samarkand and 
have followed the course of the Amu-Daria. 

The Russian Government sent out a party under Dr. Radde to ex- 
amine into the resources of the new trans Caspian territory. They 
were detained at Askabad by a tardy spring. They i^rotited by the de- 
lay to explore the mountains on the Russo-Persian frontier. At Merv 
he was joined by Koutchiue. From this point thej* went along the Mur- 
ghab to the frontier of Afghanistan, and then followed the boundary to 
Saraklis and then to Askabad, studying the five parallel mountain 
chains on the border of the new Russian provinces. 

Mr. and Mme. Dieulafoy are still continuing their researches in 
Persia, Ghaldea, and Susiania, and although their work is mainly 
archaeological, it contains much of interest to the geographer. At this 
time the interest centers in the description of their return trip from 
Susa to Bassorah. 

Persia has also been crossed by Captain Gore of the Afghanistan 
boundary commission. He was accompanied bj^ a party of native to- 
pogra[)hers, and starting from the Oxus he traveled through Herat, 
Burjum, and then across the desert of Luth'to Kerman; here the latest 
news was received from him, and his objective point was Bunder Abbas 
at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. 

The Russian Government sent an expedition this year into eastern 
Pamir to study the botany of the region. It was the expedition of 
Grum-Grzymailo, and failed to reach the higher portions of the Pamir 
on account of bad weather. 

The English government of India represented by Lord Dufferin sent 
Ney to Kashgar and Yarkand in 1885. The explorations of iSTey in 
Central Asia have already made him famous. In this instance he 
profited by the occasion to cross that portion of the Pamir which has 
been considered inaccessible heretofore, and reached the headwaters 
of the Amu Daria. He then explored the regions of Roshan and Shigh- 
nan, which had only been visited by the pundits previously. After this 
he passed through Badakshan,and then reaching the English boundary 
commission In Afghanistan, went to Ladak, where he has resided for 
some time. 

The Hindoo Koosh range was also crossed by Colonel Lockhart. Near 
the southern sources of the Amu Daria he passed through Badakshan, 



GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 317 

after which he regained liis starting point at Grilgit after having made 
topographical studies of some importance. 

Africa. — The continent of Africa is becoming better known every 
year, bnt at the cost of many lives ; in fact it is hard to tell whether 
the polar regions oppose more difficnlties to overcome in exploration 
than these equatorial regions or not. Both parts of the globe have 
great natural obstacles to be overcome, but those found near the equa- 
tor are intensilied by the stubbornness, jealousy, and tricky dispositions 
of the natives. Thus each j^ear a nev/ list of victims to their barbarity 
has to be prepared, but this does not seem to prevent men risking their 
lives in the exploration of the dark continent. 

Kobecchi of Cairo has started across the Libyan desert from the Nile 
to Tripoli. The latest news from him was to the effect that he had 
reached the Oasis of Siwah safely. 

Italy seems to be studying the eastern portion of Africa very care- 
fully just at present; at least there are a large number of Italian voy- 
agers in Shoa and Abyssinia this year. It is said that the object of 
their trip, commercial or political enterprises, forces them to remain 
quiet concerning all they observe, and therefore they have not published 
much. The names of some of these explorers are Autouelli, Martini, 
Plana, Ragazzi, Salembeni, Traversi, etc. Other travellers who have 
had secret missions have been able to impart valuable information to 
geographers without committing any indiscretions, as, for example, 
Captain Longbois, who has given a very attractive description of his 
voyage to Shoa where he visited King Menelik, and it is hoped that 
our Italian friends will soon follow his example. 

Another very fatal portion of Africa is the extreme eastern part near 
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. The list of those who have lost their 
lives in this region is quite long already, and this year we must add the 
massacre of the Italian expedition under Porro at Harar, also of that 
under Barral at Shoa, the death of Paul Sollellet, the French explorer, 
at Aden, as the result of the hardships of his trip to Kaffa and Shoa, 
and then the complete destruction of the crew of a French man-of-war 
in the Gulf of Tajurrah. In spite of all this the Italian voyager Franzoi 
will make an attempt to reach Kaffa and the great lakes by the way of 
Zanzibar, and is fitting out an expedition to make his proposed trip. 

When the insurrection in Egypt under the Mahdi broke out Dr. 
Schnitzler (Emiu Bey) was governor of the equatorial provinces, in 
the service of the Khedive, and was stationed at Lado. He was not 
only noted for his activity as an officer, bnt also as an explorer. This 
man, and those who supported him, were thus penned up, and for a long 
time no news came from them, for communication in the direction of 
Egypt was thus cut off. At the same time the state of affairs to the 
south and east was hardly less favorable. Between the Soudan and 
the Indian Ocean we find the kingdom of Onganda, ruled over at pres- 
ent by Mwanga, a Very unworthy suecessor to Mtesa, who always aided 



318 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

the white men who passed through his reahn. This latter tyrant how- 
ever has either intercepted all the messages or killed the messengers 
sent to Emiu Bey. He ordered the massacre of the caravan of the 
unfortunate English Bishop Harrington, to the eastof Victoria Nyanza, 
near Kavirando, and seems determined that no one shall approach his 
state or pass through it. Dr. Fischer was prevented from going around 
Victoria Nyanza to aid the party of Emin Bey and they were not al- 
lowed to escape from the Soudan. The Khedive and the English au- 
thorities have ignored these indications of blind hatred, or they would 
not have turned this governor over to himself and left him to become 
the victim of their political mistakes. Fortunately Eiuin Bey did not 
lose his head in this serious state of things, but immediately joined 
forces with Dr. Junker, who has been exploring this region since 1879, 
and Captain Casati, who has been travelling aloug the Uelle, — the two 
other Europeans who were in the country. Their position at Lado was 
at first untenable and they retreated to the south with a handful of 
devoted men ; since then reports have been received stating that Emin 
Bey made an aggressive move and had regained Lado. Dr. Junker then 
forced his way to the coast with messages from Emin Bey, in spite of the 
obstacles placed in his way by Mwanga, although at first he seemed to 
have been made a captive in Ounyoro. This distingushed explorer 
must have made many valuable observations during his long stay which 
will be very useful in completing our maps of this district. Expeditions 
are being fitted out for the relief of Emin Bey and Casati. The whole 
district about Lakes Bangweolo and Moero has been most thoroughly 
exhausted by the expeditions of Boehme, Eeichard, and Giraud. 

A new and easy route to the head of Lake Nyassa has been found 
by Pfeil, who has been traveling along the Ulanga, which is a large 
tributary of the Luhji. Kevoil left Zanzibar for Lake Tanganyika last 
year and only succeeded in reaching Tabora, about two-thirds of the 
distance to the lake. 

The only important expedition between the coast and Lake Nyassa 
was that of Serpa Pinto and Cardoso, who were able to found the 
station of Blautyre, on the Shire, after several attempts. 

Dr. Fischer, in spite of all his efforts to I'each Dr. Junker, only suc- 
ceeded in reaching Victoria Nyanza, and was unable to traverse 
Uganda or go around the lake, and there is no doubt but that the trials 
of this trip helped to bring about the premature death of this intrepid 
traveler at the age of thirty-eight. He died suddenly on his return to 
Berlin, November 11, 1886. There are some other prisoners in this 
Nyanza region who do not dare to move from Uganda without per- 
mission from the king, viz, the two missionaries, Mackey and Lomdel. 
The expedition under Livinhac is also detained at the south of the 
lake, waiting more favorable conditions to advance to the north. 

Avery rapid trip across the continent from Stanley Falls to Zanzi- 
bar was made by Gleerup. He was materially aided by Tipu-tip, a 



GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 319 

powerful chief, and passed through !Njangsve, then Ujiji, on Lake 
Tangauj'ika, then Bagamoyo, and reached Zanzibar in five months, 
making too quick a journey to add much to our geographical knowl- 
edge of the regions crossed. 

Dr. Lenz, the famous explorer, who was sent to the aid of Dr. Junker, 
was detained at Stanley Falls by circumstances beyond his control 
until April, 1886, when he left for Nyaugwe and Tanganyika. In 
the mean time Dr. Junker virtually became a captive, and the lot of 
Dr. Lenz has become a source of inquietude because he is doubtless 
completely in the power of Arabs hostile to Europeans. Dr. Lenz 
was accompanied by Dr. Baumaun and Bohndorff, the faithful com- 
panion of Dr. Junker. He seems to have given up the possibility of 
reaching the valley of the TJelle through that of the Mobangi (the 
connection only existing on some fancifully constructed maps). At 
first he intended traveling up the Aruwimi, but later news from the 
captives, which led him to believe that they were on the eastern side 
of Albert I^yanza, determined him to give the preference to the Mbura 
route. 

The best and clearest resume of the work of all investigators of the 
affluents of the Congo has been given in Petermann's Mitteilungen, 1886, 
IX and XI, by v. Frangois. It embodies the work of Grenfell, Kund, 
Tappenbeck, Wissmann, Wolf, and himself, among others. The year has 
been rather poor in results as far as the basin of the main river Congo 
has been concerned. Many travelers have passed up the river as far as 
Stanley Falls, among them Lenz, Bove, v, Schwerin, etc., but nothing 
new has been pointed out. In January, 1886, Kund and Tappenbeck 
found that the Ikata enters the Kassai just before this latter river enters 
the Congo. There is still considerable doubt concerning the lower 
course of the Kwango, one of the main southern branches of the Congo, 
and it is to be regretted that the travels of Massari and Buttner do not 
throw any new light on the subject, because their itineraries agree and 
disagree in the most peculiar manner. 

Lieutenants Kund and Tappenbeck have traveled over portions of the 
Kwango, Kassai, and Sankuru. They found two new tributaries of the 
Kwango, viz, the Wambu and the Sale, which latter empties into the 
Kuilu before it joins the Kwango. None of their guides would follow 
them beyond the Kassai, and on reaching the Sankuru with boats and 
travelling along it they turned eastward through prairies and dense 
forests. On their return they discovered a new and important river, 
the Ikatta, which reaches the Congo under the name of Mfiui. This 
latter river Stanley believes is the outlet of Lake Leopold II. 

Lieutenant Wissmann has descended the Kassai, and the result has 
been the complete revolutionizing of our previous ideas of its course. 
He has gone still further eastward to Lake Lanji, the great basin from 
which the Congo flows aiul into which the great rivers, the Lualoba, 
the Luapula, and the Liitira, empty. 



320 * RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

In this connection it might be well to mention the fact that Grenfell 
and V. Fran9oi8 have been travelling up the various tributaries, one 
after another, as far as their little vessel could go, and have been re- 
naming them all. 

The Kingdom of Muata Yamvo, so well described by Pogge, has been' 
recently visited by de Carvalho on a political mission from Portugal, in 
which he is said to have been successful. 

After a while we may get some definite idea of the limits of the re- 
gions of this continent, concerning which almost all the various nations 
of Europe have been contending. The International Boundar\' Com- 
mission have been having a difficult time locating the artificial limits 
of these so-calletl states, which are sometimes marked by problematical 
rivers. The members of the French Commission, Rouvier and Ballay, 
and those of the Congo Free State, ascended the Congo, trying to find 
the mouth of the Licona, which was to be the boundary' according to 
the terms of the Berlin treaty. They reached the Bunga without find- 
ing the Licona, and here the delegates of the two states signed a de- 
claration which states " that the Licona of the maps and of the treaty 
is nothing more than the Bunga." 

French Congo has been explored by J. De Brazza, wlio passed down 
the Sekoli from a point near its source, for some distance, and then 
traveled to the north and eastward. They intended going down the 
river to its juncture with the Congo on their return, but the natives 
would not supply them with canoes. They made boats for themselves, 
and afcer a month's hard work reached the junction of the Sekoli and 
Ambili. Later along they reached the Congo, and then made their way 
back to the coast from Bunga station by way of the Alima and Ogowe. 

In South Africa the only expedition now in the field is that of Dr. 
Holub. There have been many explorations in previous years which 
we are just commencing to hear from ; for example, that of Capello and 
Iveus, which extended from coast to coast; that of Montague Kerr from 
Cape Colony to the Zambesi and Lake Nyassa ; that of Schulze to Lake 
Ngami, and more recently that of Farini across the Kalahari Desert to 
Lake Ngaini. A rather energetic and carefully-planned expedition to the 
Lower Kiger and the Sokoto was made by Thomson last jear. They 
steamed up these rivers as far as they could go, with their caravan al- 
ready mounted, on board the vessel which carried them, and, when they 
could go no further, lauded and were oft' before the natives knew what 
was going on or could recover from the suri)rise. Their object was to 
conclude treaties with the sultans of Hansa. Their promptness prob- 
ably saved their lives, but all tlieir papers and baggage were lost. The 
lower portion of the Niger is held by the English nation, who control all 
the commerce of this region from their station at the junction of the 
Niger and the Benue. A German station has been founded at Bakundi 
by Flegel, the explorer of the Torraba. The upper part of the river has 
been carefully explored by Davoust, for, although previously studied by 



GECGEAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 321 

Caille aud Park, it was but partially known. For a long time Lake 
Liba has bad a location and a name on the maps, but they have served 
as a sort of ignis fatuus, for it defies all attempts to reach it, if it exists, 
aud this seems more problematical than ever in spite of the efforts of 
Eogozinski aud Parsavant, who announced their inteution of visiting it. 

The northwest coast of Africa, never very hospitable, has been keep- 
ing- up its reputation during the past year. The attempt of the Ger- 
man Commercial Geographical Society at Berlin to establish a station 
at Cape ISTuu came very near ending fatally to all concerned. The 
party were left on the shore, and after wandering in the most wretched 
condition from one tribe to the next, t\i&y were at last escorted to the 
coast at Mogador. There have been several expeditions across Mo- 
rocco, and some from Al-eria, and many errors and defects have been 
corrected in our maps. Many of the routes between the leading towns 
of this district have been shown to be practicable, but our map is far 
froui com])lete. The work of Maurel, de la Martiniere, Duveyrier, 
Foucault, and Quedenfeldt has beeu important for this reason, that 
their travels have made us better acquainted with a region of the globe 
which, though it is quite near Europe, has been virtually sealed to the 
white man by the fanaticism and ferocity of the natives/ Thus the 
slopes of the Atlas Kange, which are not so very distant from the coast, 
are almost an unknown region. 

We have received what is probably an exaggerated account of Adrar 
from the Spanish expedition under Cervera which started from Kio di 
Onro. They reached their destination nearly in a dying condition after 
many hardships aud after being robbed of nearly everything, and conse- 
quently their picture of the region hardly agrees with that of Vincent 
and Panet, who describe it as a most delightful place, comparing it 
with tlie most favored portions of Switzerland. 

Timbiictu is again exciting attention, and expeditions have started 
from north and south to reach this city. Among these might be men- 
tioned the party under Gallieui aud Viard along the upper course of 
the Xiger. They were only forced to return by lack of water at Djeune. 
The party under Dr. Krause promises interesting results, because they 
travelled through regions as yet unexplored. We have to chronicle 
here the assassination of Palat, who left Algeria for this point and was 
treacherously murdered on the road. 

The Cameroon region has been more carefully studied and explored 
since it has come under the German protectorate. Dr. Schwarz, Pauli, 
Langhaus, Zoller, Yaldau, and Knutson have been the main explorers 
of the slopes of the mountains, while the many streams which enter the 
Atlantic from this range have been examined by the Government 
authorities. Schwarz, Valdau, and Knutson passed beyond the mount- 
ains, and describe the region visited as a fertile and pleasant one, and 
not a desert as was supposed. The mountains are described as pecul- 
iarly beautiful, with peaks reaching 12,000 and 13,000 feet. 
H. Mis. 600 21 



322 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

More was expected from the trip of de Ocii, Osorio, and Tradierin their 
trip to the Corisco coast, to the south of this region. They visited 
probably the most glorious portion of this western coast between the 
Campo and Mouni E-ivers, but their descriptions are disappointing. 

North America. — The only portions of North America which seem 
to be left for great geographical discoveries are Alaska and the central 
and western portions of British America. The work of the Coast Sur- 
vey and the Geological Survey is rapidly giving us the detail of most 
of our vast western territory. Alaska alone seems comparatively neg- 
lected, except along the coast-line, on account of its peculiar position. 
The expedition sent out under Lieutenant Schwatka by the New York 
Times to the Mount Saint Elias Alps, visited that part of Alaska which 
is nearest the United States but which is least known, having been seen 
but once by the Coast Survey, in 1871, and then under disadvantages. 
The party succeeded in crossing the large glaciers which come from the 
great arc of mountains (of which Mount Saint Elias is the center) and 
which pass between the range and the coast. They ascended the lower 
slopes of one of the adjacent mountains, but did not reach the main 
slopes of the mountain. 

On this same southern sliore of the body of Alaska, Lieutenant Allen 
completed his explorations of the Copper Kiver and theTananah, the 
largest.branch of the Yukon. Lieutenant Stoney has explored the west- 
ern coast of Alaska between the Kowak Eiver and Point Barrow, after 
wintering at Fort Cosmos, on Kowak Eiver, which he discovered in 1883. 

In central British America, Hudson's Bay has attracted most atten- 
tion, on account of the proposed scheme of making Hudson's Straits 
the outlet for all the great grain districts to the south and west of the 
bay. Lieutenant Gordon has found that the straits are always open 
from July to October, which fact seems to encourage the promoters of the 
l^lan to compete in this way with our transcontinental railways. The 
whole affair appears to be very visionary, but may be carried out after all. 

Our knowledge of Central America has been somewhat increased by 
the archaiological voyages of Pinart to Chiriqui and of Charnay to Yu- 
catan. We have also the details of the Nicaragua route between the 
two oceans. 

South America. — This is a continent which still merits explorations, 
and those of the present year have been quite successful in disclosing 
many new features, though some of the expeditions have of course suf- 
fered. Beginning at the north, we find the expedition of Dr. Siewers 
in Venezuela is completed this year by a trip to the Sierra Nevadas of 
Santa Marta. He has now spent some three years in Venezuela, and 
all have been i)rofitable. 

TheexplorationsofTenkateintheGuianas have been resumed thisyear. 
He reached the State of Bolivar, on the Orinoco, then went to Cumana, 
the peninsula of Araya, and after this to La Guayra and Caracas. Here 
he suffered from fever to such an extent that he had to stop work. 



GEOGEAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 323 

A new scientific expedition lias been in Venezuela this year, under 
the leadership of Chaff'anjon,^ already well known by his exi)lorations. 
The object of the expedition was to reaeh the headwaters of the Orinoco. 
After a stay in Bolivar, he set out with his companions, Morisot and 
four men engaged as rowers, but his men deserted him during the night, 
carrying off the canoe and some provisions. They secured a new crew 
of two men, at a high price, an<l worked themselves, in order to continue 
the trip. The floods had driven all gauje from the river banks, and 
they were thus deprived of meat in the way of food which hunting 
would have given them. For several days they were forced to live upon 
roots. They reached Caicara, the point where the Apure joins the Ori- 
noco, and stopped there, overcome by hunger and fatigue. The swollen 
current of the river, greatly increased by the heavy rains, prevented 
their proceeding farther. 

The South American continent has been crossed from east to west 
by two Europeans during the present year. Olivier (French consul to 
Callao) was the first to accomplish this feat. Starting from Callao he 
crossed the Andes and descended the main streams to the Atlantic 
coast, whereas Payer ascended the Amazon (MaraQou-Ucayali), and then 
crossed the Peruvian Andes. He has prepared a map of many of the 
smaller tributaries which he explored. Both voyages have been the 
means of adding considerably to our knowledge of the geographical and 
hydrographic features of the central portion of South America. 

A commission has been appointed by Brazil, Paraguay, and the Ar- 
gentine Republic to explore that portion of the Argentine Eepublic 
which projects m between Paraguay and the Brazilian province of Rio 
Grande do Sul, with the object of determining the respective frontiers. 
Two preliminary voyages have been made here by i^edeiiein and Godio. 
Very little is known of this province, which has been called the Mis- 
sion Territory because of the missions founded there by the Jesuits 
with the idea of civilizing the Indians. 

Thouar is still actively engaged upon his explorations in the Argen- 
tine Republic and Bolivia. He had scarcely returned from his voyage 
on the Pilcomayo when he started out from Buenos Ayres to meet the 
Bolivian ambassadors at Tarija in order to consult as to the best way 
of opening the navigation of the Pilcomayo. It was his intention at 
first to go by the way of the Gran (vhaco region once more, with some 
natives, but after careful consitleration he decided to take the less dan- 
gerous route through Tucuman, Salta, and Jujuy. He was retarded by 
the rains and when he reached Tarija he did not find the ambassadors, 
as he expected, and he found that Bolivia was not in a condition to 
prove there was a practicable fluviatile route to the heart of theircoun- 
try, by tracing the course of the Pilcomayo to the Paraguay. The 
hardships endured on this trij) were remarkable. They were deserted by 
their men, and they often lost their way in the mountain labyrinths. 
Their burdens were heavy, and it is scarcely any wonder that thefatigue 



324 KECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR ' 1886. 

of the trip uuder such conditions brought on fever which forced them 
to stop and rest. 

The Argentine Republic has undertaken to explore the region between 
the Pilcomayo and the Vermejo, and has sent out an expedition under 
do Erettes, accomi)anied by Boisviers and Eobin with an escort of 
twenty men. Viscount de Brettes has been in this region before, and 
therefore we may expect thorough work from his party. 

Chili is at present engaged in the official exploration of the territory 
ceded by Peru after the war. The desert of Atacama is also being 
studied, and an expedition has been sent to Tierra del Fuego to examine 
the gold-bearing strata said to have been recently discovered there. 

A real voyage of discovery has been made in Patagonia this year by 
Colonel Fontana, the governor of the Chupat Territory-. His brilliant 
expedition to the eastern slopes of the Andes is to be followed by a 
minute exploration of the regions which he could only cross at a very 
rapid rate. All that is known of the beautiful valleys which lie at the 
foot of the Andes, beyond the desolate and arid Pampas, rests upon the 
desct iptions of native hunters, because, with the single exception of the 
hasty visit of an English marine by the name of Musters, in 18G9, no 
one has ever visited this region. The reality seems not only to answer 
the description, but to surpass all our conceptions of its possibilities. 
These valleys are said to be picturesque, fertile, and well watered, and 
form a complete contrast with the monotonous Pampas which must be 
crossed to reach them. 

One expedition to Tierra del Fuego has been already noted. The 
Argentine Republic, which owns the other half of this region, has also 
sent out a mining expedition to exploit the recently' discovered gold. 

The distinguished geographer Lista is also travelling in Tierra del 
Fuego, and much that is valuable concerning this wild land can be ex- 
pected from his rei)ort. 

AnstraJia and Oceania. — Lindsay, who explored tlie Arnheim penin- 
sula in 1883, has crossed the Australian continent. He travelled from 
southern Australia toward Lake Eyre in order to study the course of 
theFinke River. He finds that in the rainy season it empties into the 
Treuer or Macumba River, which is the main northern tributary of Lake 
Eyre, but in the dry season it loses itself in the sand. From this point 
he went eastward, to the Herbert River, which led him to the north, 
and he studied this river carefully, passing from it to the Arthur 
River, which carried him to the Gulf of Carpentaria, thus making his 
trip from the south to the north, across the continent, complete. New 
Guinea seems to have treated all explorers badly this year, the expedi- 
tion of Forbes not even excepted. This party, fitted out with the great- 
est care for scientific work, intended to cross the Owen-Stanley mount- 
ains and explore the regions beyond. They were delayed in reaching 
the base of operations, and when they got there the season was so far 
advanced that the trip was given up for the time being, and the party 



GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION. 325 

remained at Sogere, waiting for a favorable opportnuity. Their means 
became exhausted, but not wishing to leave the island without at least 
seeing that part of it he came to explore, Forbes, accompanied by a Mr. 
Chambers, undertook a trip to the top of the Owen Mountains, but 
they were deserted by their guides, and were forced to regain the coast 
with all speed. They have returned to Australia in the hope of finding 
aid to enable them to undertake the trip once more. 

Dallmann and v. Schlenitz have ascended the Empress Augusta 
Eiver some 190 miles from its mouth. 

The German expedition under Dr. Schrader has limited its explora- 
tions to the neighborhood of Port Finch, the capital of their colouy of 
Kaiser Wilhelm's Land. 

Polar Eegions. — Lieutenants Ryder and Block have charge of the 
Danish expedition to Greenland. They expect to visit the coast from 
Upernavik to Melville Bay and are accompanied by the geologist Us- 
sing. Captain Hovgaardhas started out to reach 77° noith latitude on 
the east coast at the same time, and the " Fylla" expedition has been 
examining the coast from the extreme southern point to Ui^ernavik the 
last inhabited point to the northward. 

Iceland has been crossed twice this year. Dr. Labonne has traversed 
the island from south to north in the central portion. On his way he 
ascended Mount Hecla, to which he assigns an elevation of 5,227 feet 
above the sea. Thoroddsen has been continuing the geological studies 
already begun in the northwestern portion of the island, and has reached 
Cape Korth. 

There is a plan on foot for an expedition to ISTova Zembla, the main 
object of which will be the measurement of the attractive force of the 
earth, but geographical explorations will also form part of their work. 
This eftbrt is being made by Colonel Chamhorst. 

The Liakof of Islands and the five islands of the JSTcw Siberia group 
have been visited bj' Bunge and v. Toll, who crossed the ice which 
unites these islands with the continent on sleds. 

But one of the many expeditions planned to reach the Xorth Pole has 
actually started. Colonel Gilder left Winnipeg for Hudson Bay with 
the idea of reaching the eastern coast of BafiSu's Land from this i)lace 
and then take a whaler if possible to Cape Sabine and winter there, 
after which he intended to start directly north for the pole. Colonel 
Gilder has returned to Winnipeg, having been unable to cross Hudson 
Bay on account of the lateness of the season. This expedition was sent 
out by the New York Herald. 

A very interesting expedition is being organized for the exploration 
of the regions, somewhat neglected up to the present time, which lie 
around the South Pole. The impulse in this direction was given by the 
Australian Societies, and appears to have found an echo in England 
where active steps are being taken to secure the funds necessary 'for 
such an exploration. 



PHYSICS IN 1886. 



By George F. Barker, M. D. 
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GENERAL. 



The address of Professor Eowland upon " The Physical Laboratory 
in Modern Education," delivered at the tenth anniversary of the Johns 
Hopkins University, is an important contribution to the discussion now 
in progress as to the value of scientific methods in education. His 
ideal man has " full respect for the opinions of those around him, and 
yet with such discrimination that he sees a chance of error in all, and 
most of all in himself. He has a longing for the truth, and is willing 
to test himself, to test others, and to test nature, until he finds it. He 
has the courage of his opinions when thus carefully formed, and is then, 
but not till then, willing to stand before the world and proclaim what he 
considers the truth. Like Galileo and Copernicus, he inaugurates a 
new era in science, or, like Luther, in the religious belief of mankind. 
He neither shrinks within himself at the thought of having an opinion 
of his own, nor yet believes it to be the only one worth considering in 
tlie world ; he is neither crushed with intellectual humility, nor 3-et 
exalted with intellectual pride; he sees that the problems of nature and 
society can be solved, and yet he knows that this can only come about 
by the combined intellect of the world acting through ages of time, 
and that he, though his intellect were that of Newton, can, at best, do 
very little towards it. Knowing this, he seeks all the aids in his power 
to ascertain the truth; and if he, through either ambition or love of 
truth, wishes to impress his opinions on the world, he first takes care 
to have them correct. Above all, he is willing to abstain from having 
opinions on subjects of which he knows nothing." To form such a mind, 
says Professor Eowland, is the province of modern education. " So far 
as I can see," he states, " the unscientific mind differs from the scien- 
tific in this, that it is willing to accept and make statements of which it* 
has no clear conception to begin with, and of whose truth it is not as- 
sured. It is an irresponsible state of mind, without clearness of con- 
ception, where the connection between the thought and the object is of 
the vaguest description. It is the state of mind where opinions are 

327 



328 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

given and accepted without ever being subjected to rigid tests, and it 
may have some connection with that state of mind where everything 
has a i)ersonal aspect and we are guided by feelings rather than by 
reason." In attempting to correct these faults, it is necessary that we 
bring the mind m direct contact with some standard of absolute truth, 
and let it be convinced of its errors again and again. " Let the student 
be brought face to face with nature; let him exercise his reason with 
respect to the simplest i)hysical phenomenon, and then in the laboratory 
put his opinions to the test; the result is invariably humility, for he 
finds that nature has laws which must be discovered by labor and toil, 
and not by wild flights of the imagination and scintillations of so-called 
genius." " To train the powers of observation and classification, let 
students study natural history not only from books, but from i^repared 
specimens or directly from nature; to give care in experiment and con- 
vince them that nature forgives no error, let them enter the chemical 
laboratory ; to train them in exact and logical powers of reasoning, let 
them study mathematics ; but to combine all this training in one and 
exhibit to their minds the most perfect and systematic method of dis- 
covering the exact laws of nature, let them study physics and astron- 
omy, where observation, common sense, and mathematics go hand in 
hand." Much of our modern education fails because it trains only the 
memory, using the reason and judgment merely to refer matters to some 
authority who is considered final. Worse than all, students are not 
trained constantly in applying their knowledge. "To produce men of 
action, they must be trained in action. If the languages be studied, 
they must be made to translate from one language to the other uutil 
they have perfect facility in the process. If mathematics be studied, 
they must work problems, more problems, and problems again, until 
they have the use of what they know. If they study the sciences, they 
must enter the laboratory and stand face to face with nature ; they must 
learn to test. their knowledge constantly, and thus see for themselves 
the sad results of vague speculation ; they must learn by direct experi- 
ment that there is such a thing in the world as truth, and that their own 
mind is most liable to error ; they must try experiment after experi- 
ment, and work problem after problem, until they become men of action 
and not of theory." " This, then, is the use of the laboratory in general 
education — to train the mind in right modes of thought by constantly 
bringing it in contact with absolute truth, and to give it a pleasant and 
profitable exercise which will call all its powers of reason and of imagi- 
nation into play." " The special physicist trained there, must be taught 
to cultivate his science for its own sake. He must go forth into the 
world with enthusiasm for it, and try to draw others into an apprecia- 
tion of it, doing his part to convince the world that the study of nature 
is one of the most noble of pursuits, that there are other things worthy 
of the attention of mankind beside the pursuit of wealth." (Science 
June, 1886, Yii, 573.) 



PHYSICS. 329 

Joukowsky has made au elaborate mathematical investigation of the 
laws of motion of a solid body having- hollows tilled up with .a homo- 
geneous liquid. Various shapes of cavities were considered, as well as 
the case where there was vortex motion of the liquid, with interior fric- 
tion. Some of the phenomena resulting from the interior motion of the 
liquid itself, in the case of the solid body, when caused to rotate, were 
verified experimentally and thus proved to accord with theory. These 
experiments showed that in a body whose rotation velocity decreases 
from the surface to the center (as, for example, a glass sphere filled with 
water while being put into motioii) the molecules How from the poles to 
the equator; while, on the other hand, when the rotation is suddenly 
stopi)ed the speed decreases from the center to the circumference and 
the flow is from the equator to the poles. The general conclusion of the 
inquiry is that if we have a hollow body filled with a liquid, and if this 
system be put in motion, its motion will -tend toward a limit determined 
by one of the princii)al axes of inertia of the body, taking the direction 
of the principal moment of the communicated motion, and the whole 
system will rotate about this axis as a single body, the speed of rotation 
being constant and equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the force 
applied by the moment of inertia of the system with regard to this axis. 
The author thinks that this result may exjilain the fact that the planets, 
notwithstanding the variety of their primary velocities, all rotate around 
their axes of inertia. (Nature, February, 1886, xxxiii, 349.) 

Von Helmholtz has given to the Physical Society of Berlin a sketch 
of the " doctrine of the maximum economy of action," in connection with 
his oviii investigations in this direction. This doctrine was first pro- 
pounded by Maupertius in 1744 in a treatise laid before the French 
Academy. This treatise, however, contained no general statement of 
the proposition, nor did it define the limits of its applicability, but only 
adduced an example. But this example in the present state of our knowl- 
edge is seen not to have been pertinent and not to have any relation to 
the principle of the actio minima. Two years later. Maupertius pro. 
pounded his principle before the Berlin Academy, proclaimed it to be 
a universal law of nature and the first scientific proof of the 'existence 
of God. But on this occasion, too, he did not prove the i)roposition nor 
determine the limits of its applicability, but supported it by two ex- 
amples, one only of which was correct. This principle, propounded with 
such grand solemnity, but so weakly supported, was violently attacked 
by K()nig, of Leipzig, and defended just as keenly by Euler. This mathe- 
matician likewise failed to furnish the proof, which was not i)0ssible 
until after the investigations of Lagrange. The form in which the 
principle of the actio minima now exists was given to it by Hamilton, 
and the Hamiltonian principle for ponderable bodies is in complete 
harmony with the propositions of Lagrange. The elder Neumann, 
Clausius, Maxwell, and Von Helmholtz himself had already extended 
the Hamiltonian principle to electrodynamics. For this purpose, and 



330 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

in order to be able to subordinate it to all reversible processes, the 
si)eakerliad uudertakeu sometrausforinations of it, and had introduced 
into it the conception of the " kinetic potential." In the form it has 
thus attained, the Hamiltonian law — the old principle of the actio 
minima — has iu point of fact universal validity. It has just as wide an 
applicatiou as has the law of the conservation of energy and reveals a 
whole series of mutual relations between the different physical proc- 
esses. (Nature, July, 1886, xxxiv, 308.) 

Becker has propounded a theorem of maximum dissipativity, as fol- 
lows : In all moving systems there^s a constant tendency to motions 
of shorter period. And moreover if there is a sufficient ditference be- 
tween the periods compared, this tendency is always a maximum, so 
that all natural phenomena occur in such a way as to convert the 
greatest possible quantity of the energy of sensible motion into heat, or 
the greatest possible quantity of heat into light, etc., in a given time, 
provided that the interval of time considered exceeds a certain frac- 
tion of the period of the most rapidly moving particles of the system. 
From this it follows immediately that the higher forms of energy can be 
produced from the lower, or motions of longer period from those of 
shorter period, oul^' on condition that the sum of the transformations of 
the system is equivalent to a degradation ; a result nearly identical 
with one of the chief deductions from the second law of thermodynamics. 
(Am. J. Sci., February, 188G, III, xxxi, 115.) 

Tait has undertaken a mathematical investigation upon the ])artition 
of energy between two systems of colliding spheres, because since 1800, 
when Clerk Maxwell published his first grand investigation on the sub- 
ject, it seems to have been taken for granted than in a mixture of great 
numbers of colliding spherical particles of two kinds, the ultimate state 
would be one in which the average energy of translation is the same 
for a sphere of either kind. (Nature, January, 1886, xxxiii, 270.) 

Exuer has employed a new method for calculating the size of mole- 
cules. The Kinetic theory of gases gives the diameter of a molecule 
as a fraction of the mean length of free path and of the ratio of the 
space actuallj" occupied by the material liarticles to their api)arent 
volume. Clausius has obtained this latter value iu terms of the dielec- 
tric constant; and since this is equal to the square of the refractive 
index, in terms also of this index. Hence, knowing the mean length of 
free path of the molecules of any gas (determined from diffusion or in- 
terior friction) and its index of refraction, the actual diameter of the 
molecules may be calculated. Exner's figures are as follows, expressed 
in centimeters. They should all be multiplied by 10^ : Air 10, CO2 13, 
CO 13, H3 10, CH4 12, C2 H4 21, NH3 16, H2 O 19, N 17, NO 16, O, 16, 
H2 S 22, HCe 18, SO2 17, Ccz 19, and C2 N2 19. To. this table the 
author has added the relative atomic volumes and relative specific 
weights of certain substances. By the latter is to be understood the 
weight in grams of one cubic centimeter filled with the molecules on 



PHYSICS. 331 

the supposition tliat there are no vacant spaces between them. (Anz. 
Ak. Wien, ISSd-'Sl ; J. IMiys., May, 1880, 11, v, 240.) 

Mach and Wenzel have studied the raechanism of explosions with a 
view to explain their action in rupturing the solid bodies on whicli they 
are j)laced, even when the explosive is unconfined. The experiments 
were made with silver fulminate. The authors show, in the first place, 
that a visiting- card is perforated <piite as readily by the explosion of a 
small quantity of the fulminate placed upon it when the experiment is 
performed in vacuo as Avhen it is made in the air, thus proving that the 
presence of air is not necessary to- the result. In the next place they 
established the fact that the velocity of propagation of the explosive 
wave is ver}^ great by placing a few grains of the fulminate in the mid- 
dle of a train of powder upon a sheet of paper. After ignition the 
direction in which the combustion was propagated through the powder 
could be clearly recognized, but the position of each mass of fulminate 
was marked by a circle with divergent stria?, equally distinct and well 
marked in all directions. Hence the combustion of the fulminate had 
not occupied an appreciable time. To measure this velocity of the com- 
bustion in the case of the fulminate, the authors laid two paraHel trains 
of fulminate upon a strip of paper and fired them at opposite ends 
simultaneously by the spark of a Leydeu jar. Above these trains was 
a plate of smoked glass, upon which after the explosion an oblique in- 
terference band could be seen, making with the trains themselves an 
angle a. If c be the velocity of sound (supposed with these wreat ampli- 

tudes to be not less than 400 meters),* then sin a = from which v. 

V 

the velocity desired, can be calculated. This the authors found to be 
between 1,700 and 2,000 meters per second. In further proof of the 
extremely brief duration of the explosion, a ballistic pendulum was at- 
tached at its top to a horizontal rod, upon the end of each arm of which 
was a card. On firing a small discharge of fulminate upon one of these 
the card itself was perforated, but no impulse whatever was given to 
the i)endulum, the velocity of propagation of the explosive wave being 
too great to communicate any motion to the mass in the time the com- 
bustion occupied. If however the cards be replaced by brass cups the 
metal is not ijerforated, but the pendulum receives a strong impulse. 
If it be assumed that in this ease the amount of motion corresponding 
to the lower half of the wave has been communicated to the pendulum, 
this amount can be calculated from the impulse given to the pendulum, 
and so an approximate value of the velocity of this wave obtained 5 but 
the value thus calculated is too great. Hence it seems probable that 
the wave is reflected by the metal without diminution of strength. In 
this case the amount of motion communicated to the pendulum is twice 
that of the half wave, and the calculated velocity on this supposition is 
reduced to one half or to 1,750 meters per second. ( Wied. Ann., 1885, 
XXVI, 028 ; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 477.) 



332 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Wolf has presented a paper to the Freucli Academy on the autlientic- 
ity and exact value of the Peruvian unit of length preserved in the 
Paris Observatory. Since the French legal meter is defined as a 
determined fraction of this standard unit taken at the temperature 
of 13° Eeaumur, the importance of ascertainiug its exact value and its 
state of preservation is obvious. Moreover, as the same standard was 
used for the measurement of an arc of the meridian in Peru, it forms 
the connecting link between the older and the more recent geodetic 
operations. For these reasons, this meter has become an object of the 
highest interest, not only for France but also for the whole scientific 
world. The author replies in detail to the doubts and objections raised 
by Peters and others in Germany against its authenticity and state of 
preservation ; and at his request a committee was appointed by the 
academy consisting of Faye, Monchez, Janssen, F. Perrier and Wolf, to 
consider the whole question. (Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 503). 

A paper on the normal meter has been presented to the Berlin Phys- 
ical Society by Pernet. After a brief historical introduction, the paper 
discusses the events which in 1878 led to a new international agreement, 
in consequence of which a new normal meter of platinum-iridium of x 
form was prepared and compared, with the meter of the archives. The 
paper describes minutely the arrangements of the Bureau in which the 
comparisons were undertaken, the .contrivances for securing the sev- 
eral comparing rooms against outward disturbances, the means adopted 
for insuring constant temperatures, and the methods employed in .the 
comparisons as also in the deJ;ermination8 of the expansion-coefficients 
of the rods used. His own especial labors had for their object the com- 
parison of a series of normal meter rods of different metals with the 
meter of the archives and the determination whether repeated heatings 
and coolings between 50° and 0° C, whether concussions, and whether 
time caused any perceptible changes in the lengths of the rods. As the 
result of these investigations it was found (1) that the compared national 
standards, together with their divisions, were exact up to one-thou- 
sandth of a millimeter; (2) that, with the exception of steel (which on 
account of its changes m hardness, readily yielded modifications of 
volume and length in the rods made of this material), all the metals out 
of which the standards were made — namely, platinum-iridium, i)latinum 
and brass — furnished material suitable for normal meter rods 5 and (3) 
that repeated heatings and concussions induced no changes passing be- 
yond the limits witiiin which observation fails. (Nature, May, 1886, 
XXXIV, 22.) 

The ninth report of the Comite International des Poids et Mesures has 
been issued. During the year 1885, new instruments have been obtained 
at a cost of about $2,500, for the accurate comparison of standards of the 
metric system. These include a comparator for length measurements 
made by Brunner; mercurial thermometers, by Tounelot; an air ther- 
mometer, by Golaz ; a spheroraeter, by Brunner, and other measuring 



PHYSICS. 333 

instruments by Oertliing, Bomliu, Alvergniat, Simmon, and the Societe 
Geuevoise. During tlie year the director has verified the lengths and 
expansion coefficientsof several standard meters, and Las determined the 
weights and si^ecifio gravities of several standard kilograms for different 
governments and scientific authorities. The results of the comparison 
of the new kilogram prototype with the old kilogram des Archives are 
given and also a report on the verification at Paris of certain British 
standards. (iSTature, May, 18SG, xxxiv, 79.) 

Mayer has described a modified form of spherometer, which he calls 
the well-spherometer, which 'is especially adapted to measure the 
radii of curvature of lenses of very small linear aperture. The novel 
feature of the apparatus is the well, a cylindrical aperture into which 
the screw of the spherometer passes. Placing a piece of flat glass 
against the lower opening of tlie well {which is for this purpose screwed 
into a flat plate resting on three feet), a reading of the instrument is 
made. Replacing the flat glass by the lens to be measured, which ob- 
viously must not be smaller than the aperture of the well, a second 
reading is taken. Then, knowing the radius of the well, an easy calcu- 
lation gives the radius of curvature of the. lens. Several very ingeni- 
ous modifications of the apparatus are also described in the paper. 
(Am. J. Sci., July, 1886, III, xxxii, 01.) 

In a memoir to the French Academy, Germain has given the results 
of very accurate determinations of both the astronomical and the geo- 
detic co-ordinates at Nice, St. Raphael, Toulon, and Marseilles, made 
for the purpose of studying the deviation from the vertical produced 
by the action of topographic relief of the surface. It follows from these 
four determinations that on the south coast .of France the continent 
attracts the vertical, that is to say, it repels the astronomical zenith rel- 
ative to the geodetic zenith. The eflect is the same as if the attraction 
was exerted by a point situated to the northward of Nice, in the mass 
of the Alps.— (C. R., May, 188G, cii, 1100.) 

Deprez has suggested the employment of electricity for recording the 
oscillations of a pendulum. To the pendulum is attached a screen fur- 
nished with a slit. The light from a petroleum lamp, passing through 
this slit at each oscillation, falls on a linear thermopile and generates an 
electric current. This may be used to move the needle of a galvanom- 
eter, which acts as a relay and brings in an auxiliary current to oper- 
ate a suitable recording instrument. (0. R., June, 188G, cii, 1523.) 

A paper on the dynamics of bicycling was read before the Dublin 
University Experimental Science Association by Gerald Stouey. In 
conjunction with his father, G. Johnstone Stoney, he had made exper- 
iments to determine the energy necessary to propel a bicycle. They 
found that when the velocity was 9 miles an hour, it required about 
5,500 foot pounds per minute, and that it often rose higher than 10,000 
foot-pounds per minute, the highest the apparatus was capable of re- 
cording. Their results on the i)ower which a man can exert were higher 



334 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

than those of other experimenters. This shows that the bicycle or tri- 
cycle is probably the most economical way of using human muscles. 
The experiments were made by attaching an indicator diagram appa- 
ratus to the lever of the safety bicycle known as tlie " Extraonlinary," 
and also by observing the reduction in speed due to fricion when the 
bicycle was running free. The experiments also showed that the resist- 
ance varied almost as the velocity, and that the pressure on the pedal 
was not constant, but was a maximum at the center of the stroke. 
(Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 455.) 

Curie has contrived a transmission dynamometer having an optical 
measuring device. An arbor, supported horizontal!}" upon two bearings, 
carries a pulley at each end, one of Avhich receives the power and the 
other transmits it to the machine. The power transmitted is deter- 
mined from the torison of the arbor. This arbor is a metallic tube whose 
ends are closed by two plates of quartz cut parallel to the optic axis, 
and each giving a difference of half a wave length between the ordi- 
nary and extraordinary rays. A beam of polarized monochromatic light 
traverses the arbor along its axis, the plane of polarization being ro- 
tated through a definite and invariable angle by the quartz plates. If, 
however, any torsion of the tube is produced, the plane of polarization is 
rotated through twice the torsion angle. By a ])reliminary experiment, 
the couple of torsion necessary to produce a rotation of 1° is determined. 
Calling this c, and the angle of rotation of the arbor a, the power 
transmitted per second will be represented by 2, tj, c, a, w, in which 
n designates the number of revolutions per second. (C. R., July, 1886, 
cm, 45.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. Of solids. 

Nipher has published a paper on the isodynamic surfaces of the com- 
pound pendulum. As is well known, certain particles in the system 
constituting such a j^endulum tend to increase its acceleration, while 
others tend to diminish it. These two groups of particles are sepa- 
rated by a surface, such that no particle lying in it has any tendency at 
a given iiistant to change the acceleration of the system. It is in this 
surface that the axis of oscillation always lies. On either side of this 
neutral surface there must exist surfaces of equal tendency — isodynamic 
surfaces — those on the one side having a plus sign and those on the 
other a minus sign. Investigation shows these isodynamic lines for a 
disk i)enclnlum to be concentric circles, their common center being on 
a horizontal line tlirough the axis of suspension and at a distance from 
it, depending on the length of the pendulum {i. e., the distance between 
the axes of suspension and oscillation, respectively), and on the angle 
of displacement, being half the length of the pendulum when it is 
horizontal and infinite when it is vertical. These circles are the right 



PHYSICS. 335 

sections of co-axial cylinders representing tlie isodynamic surfaces of 
any compound pendulum. (Am. J. Sci., January, 1880, III, xxxi, 22.) 
In determining density by means of the balance, it is desirable to 
know to how many decimal places the division should be carried when 
the error of weighing is the nth part of a grau). Leruiantoii" has in- 
vestigated this question. Differentiating the ordinary expression for 

P dp dO 

the density D = — , we have dD = -— — D ^. Hence (1) an error of a 

certain fraction of a gram in the determination of the weight of a body 
produces in the density obtained an error equal to the same fraction of 
unity divided by the number of cubic centimeters occupied by the body ; 
and (2) the influence of an equal error in the detennination of the 
weight of water displaced is D times greater than that above given 
and of contrary sign. (J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, 1885, xvii, 56 ; J. 
Phys., February 1886, II, v. 91.) 

Parize has suggested the following method of determining the density 
of porous friable bodies, such as earth, peat, and the like. A jar of 
250 cubic centimeters capacity is exactly filled with a smooth, regular 
seed, such as linseed, for example, and is then weighed. The peat or 
other porous material is placed in the jar and shaken down to its normal 
condition, and the jar is again weighed. Knowing the weight of water 
required to fill the jar, all the data necessary to calculate the density 
are obtained. (J. Phys., May, 1886, II, v, 222.) 

Kirchhoff has calculated the change of form which an iron sphere 
would undergo under the influence of a constant magnetic force. 
Calling n the number of turns of wire in the magnetizing spiral and i 
the current in amperes which traverses it, he flndsfor the elongation of 
the radius of the sphere parallel to the axis of the spiral the value 
n^ i^ . 2 . 32 . 10^^ . P. The contraction in a direction perpendicular to 
this axis is between one-fifth and one sixth of this. (Wied. Ann., 1885, 
XXIV, 52; XXV, 601; J. Phys., 1886; April, II, V, 175, 179.) 

Koch has published an account of experiments on the elasticity of 
ice, made by him in Labrador in ]882-'83, and in Fribourg in 1884. 
The co-efficient was determined from the flexure of bars of ice when 
supported at the ends and weighted in the middle. The principal diffi- 
culties encountered arose, first, from the direct evaporation which took 
place, and which changed the dimensions of the bars ; second, from the 
plasticity of the ice, which produced a permanent and progressive set ; 
and third, from the existence of a consideraDle residual elasticity. Al- 
lowing for these perturbing causes, the author obtained for the mean 
value of the elasticity co-efficient, for ice cut parallel to the free surface 
of solidification, the value 041.5, expressed in kilograms per square 
millimeter; a value considerably higher than that obtained by Reusch 
by the acoustic method, which was only 236.3. Koch, however, obtained 
a still higher value by the acoustic method, namely, 884 kilograms 



336 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

per square millimeter. (Wied. Ann., 1885, xxv, 438; J. Pbys., Novem- 
ber, 1886, II, V, 484.) 

Scbneebels Uas experimentally verified the conclusions of Herz con- 
ceruiug the impact of elastic bodies. The duration of the contact of 
two spheres 70™'" in diameter was determined by the impulse given to 
a galvanometer ueedle by a current which passed between the spheres 
while they were in contact. Provided the total resistance of the cir- 
cuit is large and the coefficient of self-induction small, the time may be 
considered proportional to the deviation of the needle. With velocities 
varying from 156"^"' to 1,032"'™ the deviations observed varied from 59.0 
to 39.5, the product of the deviation and the fifth root of the velocity be- 
ing sensibly constant. With spheres of different diameters and the same 
velocity the ratio of the diameter to the deviation was fonnd to be con- 
stant. In order to determine the absolnte duration of the contact, the 
author compared the impulse produced by the impact with that given 
by a pendulum sliding on a steel band during 0.00082 second, and thus 
obtained 0.000185 second. He has verified also the formula of Herz, 
which gives the radius of the surface of flattening in terms of the radius 
of the sphere. The spheres were covered with i)araffin and the .radius 
of the circle iiroduced by the impact was measured micrometrically. 
For a velocity of 259™™ the radius observed was 0.6G™™; that calcu- 
lated being 0.65. For a velocity of 518""" the radii were 0.83 and 0.85, 
respectively. For 1,042™'", 1.10 and 1.12"'™, and for 1,535""" velocity, 
1.31 and 1.27"'"'. In the case of the higher velocities, these results are 
interesting, since the pressure obtained surpasses that ordinarily as- 
sumed as the limit of the elasticity of the steel. (Arch. Sci. Phys. Nat., 
Geneve, 1885, xiv, 435; J. Phys., June, 1886, II, v, 201.) 

Tomlinson has communicated to the London Physical Society the 
results of a long series of experiments on the torsional elasticity and 
the internal friction of metals, in the course of which he had noticed 
several sources of error incident to torsional experiments. In the earlier 
experiments a horizontal brass bar was suspended by a wire and oscil- 
lated, the time of vibration being observed by means of a lamp, scale, 
and mirror. Its moment of inertia was varied by sliding two brass 
cylinders, susi)ended from the bar by tine wires, backward or forward 
along it. Under certain conditions it was observed that the bar exe- 
cuted a few vibrations of gradually decreasing amplitude, came to rest 
and then commenced to swing again, the amplitude increasing to a 
maximum, then decreasing, and so on. This effect was finally traced 
to an approach to synchronism between the time of oscillation of the 
bar and that of the small cylinders about tlieir axes of suspension, the 
absorption of energy being due to these being set in vibration. On 
clamping the cylinders rigidly to the bar the phenomenon disappeared." 
Subsequently something of the same kind appeared which turned out 
on investigation to be due to an approach to synchronism between 
the torsional and the pendulous vibration periods. Of course this could 



PHYSICS. 337 

not occur if it were practically possible to have the axis of the wire 
pass accurately througii the center of mass of the vibrator. Another 
error arises from the fact that in a wire recently suspended the tor- 
sional vibration period is always slightly greater than when the 
wire has been long used and frequently oscillated (Phil. Mag., Novem- 
ber, 1886, V, XXII, 414; Nature, July, 1886, xxxiv, 283.) 

Barns and Stroubal have contiuued in the laboratory of the U. S. 
Geological Survey their researches upon the effect of temper upon the 
structure of glass and steel, and have published: "A note on the 
structure of tempered steel," "Strain effect of sudden cooling exhibited 
by glass and steel" (two papers), "Note on the hydroelectric effect of 
temper in case of steel," and on "The viscosity of steel audits rela- 
tions to temper." (Am. J. Sci., May, June, 1836, III, xxr, 380, 439; 
September, October, December, 188G, III, xxxii, 181, 276, 444.) 

Lehmann has observed certain remarkable spontaneous changes of 
form in solid crystalline bodies, produced evidently by their interior 
forces. These changes were observed with the microscope and in the 
followiug substances : Quiiiohydrodicarbouic ether, protocatechic acid, 
and ammonium chloride. The fi'st of these substances, for example, 
dissolved by the aid of heat, in aniline thickened with a little resin, 
crystallized in leaflets which are parallelograms of 44°. But on grad- 
ually lowering the temperature, these crystals change into others hav- 
ing a pale green color and angles of OQo. This change may commence 
at different points in the same crystal even, and so twist them, the 
movement at the ends of the crystal having force enough to dis- 
place the entire mass. The other bodies mentioned show the same 
property. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 173; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 479.) 

Fonque and Levy have experimented to determine the velocity with 
wljich vibrations are propagated through the ground. In their pre- 
liminary experiments the vibration was produced by the fall of a steam- 
hammer of 100 tons, at the Creusot works. The transmitted vibrations 
were observed by means of a mercury surface; their arrival, as well as 
the instant of fall, electrically transmitted, being registered by hand on 
a revolving cylinder. At 1,200 meters distance the jar produced by the 
blow ceases to be perceptible directly to the senses but is distinctly 
seen in the mercury. In the permian sandstone of Creusot, a velocity 
of 1,200 meters per second was recorded, in a direction parallel to the 
strata and 1,050 meters at right angles to their direction. The dura- 
tion of the disturbance was nearly a second. At Meudon, where the 
terrace is formed of a thick layer of Fontainebleau sand, the propaga- 
tion of the vibration is much less rapid, 320 to 360 meters only per 
second. But the duration of the disturbance was much longer, being 
about 5 seconds at 500 meters and 3^ seconds at 250 meters. Subse- 
quently tlie authors employed an apparatus constructed by Breguet, in 
which a sensitive gelatino bromide plate was made to turn about a beam 
of light reflected from the mercury bath. A shutter opens automati- 
H. Mis. GOO 22 



338 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

cally by an electric current upon the arrival of the vibration and be- 
gins the exposure, closing again before the plate has made a complete 
revolution. The registration attained is accurate to one twentieth of 
a second. With this apparatus experiments were made in the permian 
sandstone of Creusot, the granite of Montvicq near Commentry, and the 
carboniferous sandstone of Commentry ; in the latter case in the mines, 
beneath the surface of the ground. The results show: (1) The veloci- 
ties of propagation are greater than by the old method ; (2) the dis- 
turbances caused by chargesofjmwder or dynamite (up to 12 kilograms 
of the latter) are, at equal distances, less than those produced by the 
steam-hammer, falling through 5 meters; but even this at 500 meters 
produced hardly more effect than stamping with the heel did at 10 me- 
ters ; (3) at the surface the shocks are multiple, enduring ten seconds 
at the distance of 1,200 meters; but beneath the surface there is but a 
single shock and that of short duration, whether the mercury is in the 
mine or at the surface. (C. R., Feb., June, 1886, cil, 237, 1290.) 

2. Of liquids. 

Joly has suggested a simple method of finding the specific gravity of 
small, heavy bodies. The substance, which may have a weight of only 
a few milligrams, is melted into some parafifln of known specific gravity 
in a small dish. The paraffin and substance are then floated in a spe- 
cific gravity solution, and from the data thus obtained the specific gravity 
of the substance can be calculated. It is especially useful for porous 
bodies. (Nature, March, 1880, xxxili, 455.) 

Handl has proposed to deteruiine the density of a liquid b^- measur- 
ing, by means of a water manometer, the hydrostatic pressure which it 
exerts at a given distance from its free surface. ( Anz. Ak. Wien., 1885, 
148; J. Phys., May, 1886, II, V, 241.) 

Amat has devised a density pipette for taking the specific gravity of 
liquids. It consists of a straight glass tube, graduated, to the upper 
end of which is attached laterally a V-tube, also graduated on both 
limbs. The standard liquid is placed in this V-tube and by means of a 
rubber spherical cap on the upper end of the pipette the given liquid 
maybe drawn into the main tube. Noting the height of this column, 
and comparing it with the difference of level in the standard column, 
the specific gravity of the given liquid may be read off in terms of the 
standard. A small correctionmay be made for capillarity. Theresults 
are accurate. (Bull. Soc. Chim., May, 1886, II, xlv, 482.) 

If a rectangular glass vessel filled with water is penetrated at bot- 
tom by a tube connected by means of a tap with a lateral reservoir, 
containing water colored with aniline, and the whole is at the uniform 
temperature of the room, there is produced, when the tap is opened, a 
red jet in the middle of the colorless liquid. By modifying the orifice, 
and by placing within the liquid articles of various forms against which 
the liquid jet may impinge very varied plienomena are produced, which 



PHYSICS. 339 

were first observed by Oberbeck, and studied more recently' by Kots- 
chau. If the vertical jet for example strikes the center of a disk iu 
the form of a regular polygon, the reflected jet divides into as many 
liquid sheets as there are sides to the polygon. These sheets are at 
first inflected as they leave the disk, but then recurve themselves, form- 
ing volutes of great elegance directed toward the interior of the poly- 
gon. The memoir is illustrated with numerous plates (Wied. Ann., 
1885, XXVI, 530; J. Phys., November, 1886, It, v. 479.) 

Thomson and Newall have studied the formatiou of vortex rings by 
drops falling into liquids. When a drop of ink falls into water from 
not too great a height it descends through the water as a ring, in which 
there is considerable rotation about the circular axis passing through 
the centers of its cross-sections. The dro]is were observed bj' instan- 
taneous illumination ; and it was seen that the drop enters the liquid as 
a sphere, becomes flattened as it descends, and finally breaks into a ring 
more than half an inch below the surface. To avoid complication 
drops were let fall into liquids of the same kind. These liquids were 
found to arrange themselves into four classes, distinguishable by the 
character of the ring formed, and also by the ratio of the coefficient 
of viscosity to the density. In Class i, etiier, chloroform, and carbon 
disul[)hide gave rings only very uncertainly, the drop breaking up and 
spreading irregularly through the liquid. The ratio is not in this class 
greater than 0.7. To Class ii belong water, alcohol, turpentine, paraf- 
fine, etc. These have the ratio between 1 and 3, and give the best rings. 
For Class ill the ratio is between 3 and probably 8 or 10. This class 
includes moderately viscous liquids, such as butyl alcohol, amyl alcohol, 
fairly strong sulpliuric acid, and diluted glycerine. Class iv includes 
all the most viscous liquids like strong solutions of sugar, potash, sul- 
phuric acid, glycerine. The ratio has a value of 15 to 30, and no ring 
is formed at all unless special precautions are taken to get large drops. 
Capillarity plays no essential part in these phenomena. (Nature, Feb- 
ruary, 18S6, xxxiTi, 350.) 

Vautier has applied a graphic method to the direct measurement of 
the velocity of efflux of liquids. In the flat, horizontal bottom of a 
cylindrical vessel full of water is an orifice in a thin plate, for which 
an ajutage can be substituted. Inside the vessel and iu the line of its 
axis is jilaced a tube containing an emulsion of an insoluble liquid of 
the same density as water. This liquid is a mixture in suitable propor- 
tions of nitrobenzine and oil of turpentine. The very fiue bubbles of 
this emulsion pass along the axis of the jet, of which they take the exact 
velocity. The image of the jet, and therefore that of the bubbles, is 
formed on a photographic plate, which by means of a suitable mechan- 
ism is made to move at right angles to the trajectory of the jet. Th« 
plate is exposed when the liquid begins to flow, so that it receives the 
image of the jet during its passage. The plate, when develoi^ed, shows 
one or more lines, according as one or more bubbles have passed during 



340 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

the time of exposure. These Hues are obliq-ie, their direction being 
made up of two rectangular motious, that of the plate and that of the 
bubble. The v^elocity of motion of the plate is fixed by the vibrations 
of a tuning-fork, and the exact direction of its motion by a dotted 
line. Knowing the angle which one of the slantiug lines in the photo- 
graph makes, the velocity of the bubble, and so that of the jet, may be 
readily deduced. (C. R., Januarj^, 1S8G, cir, 1G5; Phil. Mag., March, 
1886, V, XXI, 285.) 

Subsequently Vautier employed a rotating mirror for the same pur- 
pose. The jet as before flows vertically downward and its image is 
thrown on the screen by means of a lens ; between the lens aud the 
screen is placed a plane mirror movable about a vertical axis. As the 
bubbles fall vertically, the moving mirror causes a horizontal displace- 
ment in its image ; so that upon the screen an inclined line is seen, the 
resultant of the two rectangular component velocities. The tangent of 
the inclination angle is the ratio of these velocities. His results con- 
firm Torricelli's law to within one eightieth part — (C. 11., August, 1888, 
cm, 372.) 

Amagat has adopted the principle of the differential manometer for 
measuring very high pressures, the necessary conditions being that the 
pistons be completely mobile aud at the same time perfectly tight. The 
large piston rests on a cushion of castor-oil which transmits the press- 
ure to the mercury. The small piston which receives all the pressure 
at the top becomes quite tight if after being soaked in oil and put in 
its place it is wetted on its base with a sufiQciently viscous liquid, such 
as molasses, which answers i)erfectly. Under these conditions, the pis- 
tons even being somewhat free, there is no real leak but only an ex- 
tremely slow oozing which does not affect the measurements even up to 
pressures above 3,000 atmospheres. The water was compressed in a 
steel cylinder 1.2 meter long, hooped for its entire length except a part 
of the breech. Its diameter was 3 centimeters and its sides were 8 cen- 
timeters thick. The reading of the volumes of the compressed liquid 
was effected by means of i)latinum wires fused into the stem of the 
piezometer, by means of which the current from a battery reaches the 
mercury in the steel cylinder. The precise moments at which the mer- 
cury rising in the stem reaches the platinum wires successively, as the 
liquid suffers compression, are thus noted on the galvanometer. The 
following are the coefficients of compressibility for water at 17.0° and 
for ether at 17.4° : For water between 1 and 262 atmospheres, 0.00()0i29 ; 
between 1,331 and 1,781 atmospheres, 0.0000302 ; and between 2,5'JO and 
2,981 atmospheres, 0.0000238 ; at 3,000 atmospheres therefore the volume 
of water is diminished by one-tenth aud its compressibility coefficient 
by one-half. For ether between 1 and 151 atmospheres, 0.00015G; 870 
and 1,213 atmospheres, 0.000003; aud between 1,023 aud 2,002 atmos- 
pheres, 0.000045. (0. 11., August, 1886. cin, 429 ; Phil. Mag., October, 
1886, V, XXII, 384.) 



PHYSICS. 341 

Koeuig has calculated the coefficicut of interior friction for several 
liquids at a mean temperature of about 18°, from comparative ex- 
periments made by Maxwell's method of oscillating disks, and by the 
method of i3o\v through capillary tubes. Ether gave by the former 
method 0.00274 C. G. S. units ; by the latter, 0.0025G ; carbon disulphide, 
0.00451 and 0.00388; light benzine, 0.00627 and 0.00627 and 0.00523; 
heavy benzine, 0.00862 and 0.00688 ; distilled water, 0.01587 and 0.01096 ; 
and turpentine, 0.02836 and 0.01865. Hence the former method gives 
somewhat higher results than the latter, and moreover the differences 
increase with the coefficients. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 618; J. Phys., No- 
vember 1886, II, V, 486.) 

Ayrton and Perry have communicated to the Physical Society' of Lon- 
don a paper upon the expansion produced by amalgamation. They 
Und for example that the amalgamation of brass is accompanied by a 
great expansive force. If one edge of a straight thick brass bar be 
amalgamated it will be found that in a short time the bar is curved, the 
amalgamated edge being always convex and the opposite edge concave. 
The authors suggest that a similar action may be the primary cause of 
the phenomena presented by the Japanese " magic mirrors." Japanese 
mirrors are made of bronze and have a pattern cast upon the back; and 
although to the eye no trace of ifcan be discovered upon the polished re- 
flecting surface, yet wheu light is reflected from certain of these mir- 
rors on to a screen the pattern is distinctly visible in the luminous 
patch formed. This is due to the polished side opposite the thinner 
parts of the casting being more convex than the others, a conclusion 
verified by the fact that the pattern is reversed when formed by a con- 
vergent beam of light. Such a condition of things would evidently re- 
sult from a uniform expansive stress taking place over the reflecting 
surface, the thinner — and consequently the weaker — parts becoming 
more convex or less concave than the others. Hitherto this inequality- of 
curvature has been attributed to a mechanical distortion to which the 
mirrors are intentionally submitted during manufacture to produce the 
general convexity of the polished surface; but the authors now think 
it possible that the use of a mercury amalgam in the process of polish- 
ing may have an effect in the production of this inequality of curvature. 
(Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 575; Phil. Mag., October, 1886, V. xxii, 
327.) 

Warburg and Ihmore have experimented to determine the cause of 
the layer of water which forms on glass and other bodies. They find : 
(1) That above the dew-point no weighable deposit of water could be 
detected on bodies with smooth surfaces, insoluble in water, such as pla- 
tinum, glass with a coating of silica, glass free from alkali. Had the 
thickness of such a layer exceeded one or two millionths of a milli- 
meter, the balance was sensitive enough to have detected it. (2) That 
the film of water which forms on alkaliue glass above the dew-point 
arises from a small quantity of free or loosely combined alkali on the 



342 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

surface of the glass. It must absorb water until the vapor-pressure 
above the solution of alkali is equal to that at the place of the experi- 
ment. (3) That this deposit on alkaline glass, which can be weighed, 
is the cause of the electrical surface conductivity which such glass shows 
in moist air when tried by the electroscope. Any glass which showed 
no wcighable deposit of water with the balance in question was found 
to be a good insulator when tested by the electroscope. (4) That rock- 
salt showed a deposit of moisture some millionths of a millimeter in 
thickness, at temperatures for which the vapor-pressure was greater 
over a saturated solution of sodium chloride th;m the pressure in the 
place of experiment. There was, however, in the rock-salt ustnl a small 
quantity of magnesium chloride, which would attract moisture, also, 
until the vapor-pressure over its solution was equal to the vapor press- 
ure in the place of experiment. (Wied. Ann., 1886, jSTo. 4; Phil. Mag., 
May, 188(3, V, xxi, 452.) 

Bunsen has analyzed the glass fibers used in his apparatus for the 
condensation of carbon dioxide gas upon the surface of glass, and 
which he had already proved to contain moisture. The analysis showed 
the concentrated carbonic-acid solution forn)ing these capillary layers 
to have attacked the glass very decidedly ; 49.5-13 grams of glass fiber 
yielding to cold water sufQcient sodiuiu carbonate to give 0.8G45 grain 
sodium chloride when evaporated with hydrochloric acid. It further 
appeared that during the course of the experiment one hundred and nine 
days, 5.83 per cent, of the glass had been decomposed. However, oidy 
two thirds of the observed absorption can thus be accounted for, but 
it is evident, notwithstanding the residuum, that glass is not a suitable 
material with which to try experiments on capillary absorption. (Wied. 
Ann., 1880, xxix, 161; Phil. Mag., December, 1886, V, xxii, 530.) 

The subject of capillarity and surface tensions has received consid- 
erable attention. Sir William Thomson has discussed the phenomena of 
capillarity ex[)erimentally in a lecture delivered at the Royal Institu- 
tion (iSTature, xxxiv, 270, 290, 366). Magie has determined the capil- 
lary constants of several liquids by means of a method suggested by 
von llelmholtz, which consists in deducing the radius of curvature of 
the capillary surface, in a tube of small diameter, from observing the 
image of a small linear object produced by this surface. For mercury, 
he obtained the mean value 45.82 ; distilled water, 7.226 ; carbon disul- 
phide, 3.240; olive oil, 3.235 ; turpentine, 2.726 ; chloroform, 2.(i38; pe- 
troleum, 2.441 ; alcohol, 2.214 {Wied. Ann., xxv, 421). Reinold and 
Riicker have made a careful comparison of the surface tension of black 
films {i. e., those thin enough to show the black of the first order of 
Newton's colors) with that of colored films whose thickness was from 
ten to one hundred times greater. They conclude that when the black 
part of a soap-film forms in the normal way, sprea<ling slowly over the 
surface, no evidence of any change in surface tension dependent on the 
thickness of the film is furnished by a direct comparison of -the tensions 



PHYSICS. 343 

of tbiu iind thick films over a range of thickness exteiuliug from 1,350 
to 12 millionths of a millimeter (Nature, Juue, 188G, xxxiv, 160). Magie 
has also determiued the capillary constant from a formula of Poissou 
which gives its value as equal to the square root of twice the surface 
tension divided by the specific gravity. The formula contains, besides 
this constant, the height of the sumtuit of the droj) abos'e the plate, 
the radius of the greatest section of the drop and the contact angle be- 
tween the drop and the plate. Since the formula holds for an air-bub- 
ble formed in a liquid under a level plate, the author has made the 
necessary measurements upon such a bnbble, and has ol)tained for the 
capillary constant of water 15.067 at 20°, absolute alcohol at about 14°, 
5,701 ; olive oil at 18°, 7.410 ; and petroleum (sp. gr. at 16°, 0.808), 0.755 
at 15° (Am. J. Sci., March, 1880, III, xxxi, 18 !)• Buhem has shown 
that in order to treat properly the subject of capillarity and to bring 
the investigations of Thomson on the connection between changes of 
temperature and changes of the capillary surface into accord with the 
older ones, the ordinary mechanical treatment must be abandoned and 
general thermo-dynaraical methods adopted. He shows, first, that for 
a system of bodies touching each other the potential is not to be sought 
at a fixed temperature, but the thermo-dyuamical potential, which con- 
tains the changes of energy for varying temperature. Assuming that 
the densilies and the actions of the molecular forces of bodies vary only 
in infinitely thin 'surface layers, this supposition is sufficient to prove 
that the thermo-dyuamic potential consists of two parts, one of which 
is a linear function of the content of the various bodies, the other a lin- 
ear function of the surface in contact. From the formulas obtained the 
laws of Gauss and Laplace for the shape of the surfaces are explic- 
itly deduced. (Beiblatter d. Phys., x, 330 ; Phil. Mag., August, 1886, V, 
XXII, 230.) 

3. Of gases. 

In an extended experimental memoir on the law of gaseous flow, Hiru 
has given the results of investigations made to determine whether a gas 
under a constant pressure flows into a reservoir where the pressure also 
constant is less than its own, with a velocity indefinitely increasing as 
the pressure in the reservoir decreases; or whether there exists a limit- 
ing velocity which is attained when this second pressure is zero. ReiJ- 
resenting graphically the results of the experiments, it appears that 
the maximum value to which the volume-equations point has no exist- 
ence, and that so far as the velocity of flow is concerned the limiting 
value indicated by Weisbach's equation equally has no foundation in 
fact. Hence it would seem that the true law of gaseous flow produced 
by pressure-ditt'erence is yet to be discovered. Moreover, the author 
calls attention to the discrepancy between his results and those pre- 
dicted from the Kinetic theory of gases. According to this theory, dry 
air cannot, under a constant pressure, flow into a perfect vacuum witk 



344 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

a velocity greater than that of the gaseous inoleeules themselves at that 
temperature, about 485 meters per second. But in the experiments 
now made, even with a notable counter-pressure, velocities of 0,000 me- 
ters a second were observed. (Ann. Chim. Phys., March, 188G, VI, vii, 
289.) 

Schneebeli has determined the absolute value of the friction -coef- 
ficient for air by measuring the volumes which passed through a capil- 
lary tube of known length and diameter, between the two extremities 
of which a constant difference of pressure was maintained. The values 
obtained range from 0.0001090 ,to 0.0001734, the mean being 0.0001707, 
closely according with that of Obermayer, which was 0.0001700, when 
the difference of pressure was variable and 0.0001701: (corrected) when 
this pressure was maintained constant. (x\.rch. de Geneve, 1885, xiv, 
339: J. Phys., June, 1880, II, v, 290.) 

Toadinson has studied the viscosity of air by means of the torsional 
vibrations of a pair of cylinders or a pair of spheres, suspended verti- 
cally from and at equal distances from the center of a horizontal, cylin- 
drical bar, the whole oscillating in a sufficiently uucontined space. The 
bar was supported by a rather fine wire of copper or of silver. The co- 
efficient of viscosity was determined from observations of the logarith- 
mic decrement of amplitude of vibration, produced by the resistance of 
the air to the oscillating spheres or cylinders, the distance of the cylin- 
ders or spheres from the wire being such that the main part of the loss 
of energy resulting from the friction of the air was due to the pushing 
of this air. Five sets of experiments were made with this apparatus, 
giving for the extreme values of the coefficient at 0°, 0.00017201 and 
0.00017401, the mean being 0.00017 .'90, with a probable error of only 0.14 
per cent. (Nature, February, 1880, xxxiii, 403.) 

A subsequent experiment was made by Tomlinson at the suggestion 
of Stokes, in which a hollow paper cylinder about 2 feet in length and 
inches in diameter was suspended through its axis to a light, hollow, 
horizontal bar about seven inches long, to the middle of which the wire 
was soldered. The mean value obtained for the coefficient was 
0.00017740 at 12.050; that previously obtained having been 0.00017711 
at 11.79°. In the latter case the loss of energy is due to the dragging 
of the air. (Nature, December, 1880, xxxv, 105.) 

Holman has studied the efiect of temperature upon the viscosity of 
air and of carbon dioxide, using for this purj)Ose cai)illary tubes about 
30 centimeters in length. The results of the measurements seem to 
show conclusively, as the author thinks, that the variation of the viscos- 
ity with the temperature of the gas, at least in the case of dry car- 
bonic acid and of dry air freed from carbonic acid, which maybe taken 
as typical gases, is not proportionate either to the square root or to any 
numerical power of the absolute temperature reckoned from — 274°. 
They point therefore to the inference that all hypotheses yet advanced 
to account for the variation of the viscosity of gases and hence also for 



PHYSICS. 345 

the viscosity itself are incomplete for this phenomenon. (Proc. Am. 
Acad., May, 1885; Phil. Mag., March, 1886, V, xxi, 199.) 

Kmewiteh has communicated to the Russian Physico-Chemical Soci- 
ety a paper on the relation between the elasticity and density of the 
air in a rarefied condition. His experiments on the velocity of sound 
show that at a temperature of 17.5 this velocity decreased from 3o0 
meters at a pressure of 701 millimeters to 171 meters at a pressure of 
2.6 millimeters. At a pressure of 280 millimeters the velocity is about 
the same as at the mean air pressure, but it diminishes rapidly below 
280 millimeters. He concludes that below this pressure gases do not 
obey the law of Boyle-Marriotte. (Science, February, 188G, vii, 101.) 

Certain irregularities in the experiments made by Bohr on the loosely 
combined oxygen in oxyhsemoglobiu led him to investigate the accuracy 
with whi(;h, under low pressures, this gas follows Boyle's law. The re- 
sults of this investigation seem to him to prove indisputably that oxy- 
gen varies considerably from the law under these conditions. In the 
course of the experiments the unexpected phenomenon was met with 
that the curve which expresses the relation between volume and tension 
exhibits a strongly marked discontinuity at a certain tension, which 
seems to suggest that there is here an alteration in the molecular com- 
position of oxygen. He finds that at a temperature between 11° and 
140 oxygen deviates from Boyle's law within the limits in question. 
The rtlation between volume and pressure, when the latter is greater 
than 0.70 millimeter, being expressed approximately by the formula 
{p-\-OAOQ)v=l-; while for pressures below this value the formula becomes 
(j»+0.070)r=A-. Moreover, if the pressure sinks below 0.70 millimeter 
oxygen undergoes a change of state. By raising the pressure above 
0.70 millimeter it may be res:ored to its original condition. (Wied. Ann., 
1886, Is^o. 3; Phil. Mag., April, 1886, V, xxi, 368.) 

A paper on the proi)erties of matter in the gaseous and liquid states 
under various conditions of temperature and pressure, by the late 
Thomas Andrews, has been presented to the Royal Societ^by its presi- 
dent. Professor Stokes. The following are its conclusions: (1) The law 
of gaseous mixtures, as enunciated by Dalton, is largely deviated from 
in the case of mixtures of nitrogen and carbonic acid at high pressures, 
and is probably only strictly true when api»lied to mixtures of gases in 
the so called perfect state; (2) the critical point of temperature is low- 
ered by admixture with a permanent gas ; (3) when carbonic acid gas 
and nitrogen diffuse into each other at high ^iressures the volume of 
the mixture is increased ; (4) in a mixture of liquid carbonic acid and 
nitrogen at temperatures not greatly below the critical point, the liquid 
surface loses its curvature and is effaced by the application of pressure 
alone, while at lower temperatures the nitrogen is absorbed in the ordi- 
nary way and the curvature of the liquid surface is preserved so long 
as any portion of the gas is visible. (Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 550.) 
Winkelmann proposes to show the velocity of difiusiou in different 



346 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

gases by filling air and hydrogen into two equally long barometer 
tubes so that the mercury is at the same height in each. If, now, ether 
in excess be added to each tube, the mercury siuks more rapidly in the 
tube coutaiuiug hydrogen, and after a few minutes the tubes show a 
marked difference of pressure, proving the vapor to difl'iise far more 
rapidly in hydrogen than in air. Ultimately, after some hours, thedif- 
fereuce of i^ressure in the two tubes diminishes and becomes zero. 
(Wied. Ann., 1886, Ko. 3; Phil. Mag., May, 1886, V, xxi, 451.) 

Lomrael has described an aerostatic balance, useful for demonstrat- 
ing the specific gravity of gases in lecture experiments. Under one 
scale-pan of a balance is hung, by means of a wire, a closed glass bal- 
loon which is inclosed in a glass vessel having in its cover a small hole 
for the wire. This vessel has a side tube near the bottom, provided 
with a stop cock. The instrument is balanced, while the vessel is filled 
with air. If, now, another gas is allowed to stream iu and displiice the 
air, the balloon rises or sinks acconting as the gas is heavier or lighter 
than air. By adding weights in one scale-pan or the other equilibrium 
is restored, and it is then easy to find how much, more or less, a voluuie 
of gas equal to that of the balloon weighs than the same volume of air at 
the same temperature and pressure. (Wied. Ann., 1886, No. 1; Nature 
February, 1886, xxxiii, 397.) 

Grunmach has reported to the Berlin Physical Society on his baromet- 
ric investigations, and has described at length the arrangemeut of the 
normal barometer, the vacuum of which was measured in an electrical 
way. A combination of the barometer vacuum with a Geissler tube 
permitted the exhaustion to be examined even beyond the limits of the 
pressures measurable by the cathetometer. The occurrence of the phos- 
phorescent light in the spectrum tube is a standard for the highest de- 
gree of rarefaction, in which the vacuum is filled with mercury vapor 
having a tension of only 0.01 to 0.02™™. A still better vacuum would 
be obtained when the mercury was satisfactorily absorbed, a condition 
which he had in vain tried to accomplish with selenium. A large num- 
ber of normal barometers were compared with this, by a method already 
described at length, using the developed reduction formulas. As a 
result it appeared that the impurity of the free mercury-cup increased 
the height of the meniscus and so the recorded height of the barometer. 
In the subsequent discussion Goldstein proposed for the electrical 
measurement of the vacuum, instead of a Geissler spectrum tube, the 
employment of a wide tujbe which lets the phosphorescence become more 
evident. But for the determination of the highest degrees of exhaustion 
he maintained that the thermometer was better adapted than the phos- 
phorescent tube. If a thermometer be placed iu a vacuum tube whose 
positive pole was a point, and whose negative electrode was a steel 
plate nearly filling the tube opposite the cathode, then the thermometer, 
when the exhaustion reached the point that light appeared on the ca- 
thode, would rise 80° to 90° above ^e temperature of the room. At 



PHYSICS. 347 

the positive pole the rise was only 3°. This rise of temperature in the 
light from the cathode, he thought, might be utilized to determine the 
degree of exhaustion. (Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 480.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Bakmetieff has investigated the sounds which are produced by rods 
of magnetic metal under the influence of intermittent magnetization. 
He finds that the intensity of the sound diminishes by longitudinal 
compression in the case of iron and of nickel rods. As to tension, it 
diminishes indefinitely the intensity of the sound in nickel, but in iron 
it causes it to diminish to a minimum only, and then as the ten.sion in- 
creases the sound becomes louder again. But, on the other hand, Joule 
has shown that iron submitted to a certain tension no longer elongates 
by magnetization ; and further that if the tension be still more increased 
it actually shortens during magnetization. Barrett has shown, too, a 
diminution of the length of a nickel rod by magnetization. Hence the 
author concludes that it is the change of the length which is the cause 
of the sound produced by intermittent magnetization. (J. Soc. Phys. 
Chim. Russe, 1885, xvii,"65; J. Phys., February, 188G, II, v, 91.) 

Scmmola has observed that if a metallic plate or a sonorous cord he 
traversed by very frequent discharges from an electric machine, they 
give a sound which though very feeble is yet entirely distinct from the 
noise of the spark. To hear this sound it is necessary to fix the metal 
plate at the end of a sonorous collector of ebonite, which is brought 
near the ear. The sounds become more acute in proportion as the dis- 
charges succeed each other more frequently. Sound is also obtained 
from a metal plate which is placed near to a conductor which is itself 
traversed b}^ electric disch;\rges. The plate in this case should be con- 
nected to earth, so that it may be said that the sounds which are thus 
produced by induction are like the phenomena of the return shock. (C. 
E., May, 1880, cii, 1059.) 

Violle and Vautier have studied the propagation of sound in a cyl- 
indrical tube 0.70 meter in diameter designed to convey' the water of 
Eochefort to Grenoble. The portion of the conduit utilized consisted 
of two straight parallel tubes, each 6.375 kilometers in length, which 
could be used separately or joined at one end by a semicircular tube of 
the same diameter. The receiving apj)aratus used was in part that of 
Eegnault, with thinner membranes, and in part the manometric tam- 
bours of Marey. The sonorous wave was produced by means of mu- 
sical instruments or pistol-shots. When a pistol is fired at one end a 
series of reverberations is heard, and in 18.6 seconds the sound reaches 
the bend, returning in 37.3 seconds to the end of the second tubes, 
having traversed 12.75 kilometers. It is distinctly perceptible by the 
ear as a single, dull sound. Accompanying it is a strong puffofair, 
which at somewhat greater distances is the only thing perceived. This, 



348 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

however, is observable even at 50 kilometers distance. Altbough its 
energy is superior to that of the greater number of musical sounds per- 
ceivable by the ear, yet absolutely nothing is heard. Substituting a 
recording tambour for the ear, with a chronometric fork for comparison, 
the air-pressure curves for multiple lengths of the tube were obtained, 
and from these exact measurements were made. The time required for 
tlie wave front to pass once, twice, thrice through twice the length of 
the tube was measured on the Regnault chronograph with the lever- 
tambour and with an extremely sensitive membrane having an electric 
contact. The first passage through the tube required 37.259 seconds 
by the tambour and 37.251 by the membrane ; the second required 
37.337 and 37.334, respectively, and the third 37.383 and 37.384 seconds. 
Hence it would seem that the velocity of propagation diminishes with 
the intensity. (C. R., January, 188G, cii, 103.) 

Neyreneuf has continued his researches upon the velocity of sound 
in gases and has extended his experiments to vapors. The apparatus 
used was a modified form of that described in the last report, con- 
sisting of a reed and draw tube. The mean of twenty-fonr accordant 
determinations in the case of steam gave a wave-length of 40,63'=" with 
a mean error of 0.18, the value obtained for air in the same apparatus 
and at the same temperature, 100^, being 28.5*'"'. In the exi)eriments 
with alcohol and ether, three reeds were used, the wave-length ratios 
in air and alcohol being forthe three 1.239, 1.219, and 1.217, respectively, 
while the wave-length in air is to that in ether as 1.71 and 1.706 to 1, 
respectively. Assuming as the ratio of the specific heat of air at con- 
stant pressure to that at constant volume the value 1.41, the author 
calculates this ratio for steam and for the vapors of alcohol and of 
ether and obtains the values 1.321 for the vapor of water, 1.14 for that 
of alcohol, and 1.093 for ether vapor. Ann. Chim.Phys., December, 1886, 
VI, IX, 535-553.) 

Tomlinson has pointed out the fact that Wertheim's statement that 
the velocity of sound in iron and steel is increased by a rise of temper- 
ature not exceeding 100°, is erroneous. While it is true that the lon- 
gitudinal elasticity of iron, as determined by the static method, will be 
found greater at 100° than at 0°, provided we begin with the lower 
temperature first and the wire has not, after the original annealing, been 
previously raised to 100°; yet this apparent temporary increase of elas- 
ticity is a really permanent one; and if the wire be repeatedly heated 
to 100° and afterwards cooled, subsequent tests will always show a less 
elasticity at the higher temperature than the lower, if sufficient rest 
after cooling be allowed. When however we come to such molecular 
displacements as are involved in the passage of sound through a wire, 
even the apparent increase of elasticity above mentioned vanishes. 
He had been able to prove that when an iron or a steel wire is thrown 
into longitudinal vibrations, so as to produce a musdcal note, the pitch 
of this note becomes lower as the temperature is raised, even when the 



PHYSICS. 349 

wire is heated for the first time after it has left the maker's hands. (Na- 
ture, April, 18S6, xxxii, 582.) 

Mach has indorsed von Helmholtz's theory of sonorous sensations, 
and has attempted to render it more complete by supposing that each 
fiber of Corti vibrates, not only to its predetermined fundamental note, 
but also, though more feebly, to the harmonics and even the subhar- 
monics of this note. From this arises an auxiliary sensation of timbre 
and a characteristic perception of musical intervals. (Auz. Ak. Wein, 
1885, 275; J. Phys., May, 188G, II, v, 243.) 

Eobin has discussed the theory of the gamut and has given a table 
in which are compared the number of vibrations of the notes of the 
scale, the logarithms of these, and the lengths of strings giving these 
notes, for the tempered gamut, the gamut played by musicians, and 
that in use by physicists. An inspection of the table shows : (1) That 
the tempered gamut, imposed pract'cally upon all instruments with 
fixed keys, differs much less from the gamut of themusicians than from 
that of the physicists; and (2) that the differences between the two lat- 
ter, notable for mi, la, si, and for almost all the altered notes, are espec- 
ially great for re, so/, and la sharp, reaching nearly a semi-tone. (J. 
Phys., September, 188G, II, v, 419.) 

Boutet has made an experimental study of the best means of produc- 
ing pure and constant sounds in tubes, and especially of the influence 
of the material, of the form, of the diameter, and of the thickness of 
sonorous orifices. The results are given in the form ot tables. (Ann. 
Chiui. Phys., November, 188G, VI, ix, 400.) 

Von Lang has suggested the use of the Hipp chronoscope for the 
purpose of determining the pitch of a tuning-fork. To do this the reg- 
ulating spring of the chronoscope is adjusted to produce a note very 
near in i)itch that of the fork. By suitably bowing it, the fork is kept 
in vibration for several minutes, and the beats produced by the two 
sounds during this interval are counted. The chronoscope itself records 
the number of vibrations of its spring ; so that by adding to this the 
number of the beats during the same time, the number of vibrations of 
the fork may be determined to within about one-twenty-fifth of one 
vibration. (Anz. Ak. Wein, 1885, 221 ; J. Phys., May, 1880, II, v, 340 ) 

Doumer has proposed to use manometric flames for the purj)ose of 
measuring pitch. In principle the method is simple. Two manometric 
flames are employed, placed near each other, one vibrating under the 
influence of a sound whose pitch is exactly known, the other under that 
of the sound to be measured. On measuring in the revolving mirror 
how many vibrations of the latter correspond to a definite number of 
the former, a simi)le proportion gives the pitch. In practice, however, 
it is not easy to obtain in this way exact results. The author has there- 
fore made use of a moving sensitive plate and has photographed simul- 
taneously the images of the two flames. These flames were of gas 
treated with benzine and burnt in oxvgen. A lens of short focus pro- 



350 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

tluced their images on the plate, which was moved by a special mech- 
auism. (C. K., August, 1880, ciir, 340.) 

Fossati has suggested the use of the microphone, iu order to deter- 
mine the i)osition of the nodes and loops in a sounding air column. The 
microphone is connected in the circuit of a telephone and one oi two 
cells of battery, and is lowered into the vibrating tube. At the nodes 
it is thrown into vibration and the telephone sounds strongly. If the 
telephone is omitted and the battery increased to live or six Bunseu 
cells, then on using a glass tube and lowering the microphone into it iu 
the dark, bright sparks are observed at the nodes where it is thrown 
into vibration, while at the loops it remains dark. Tliis form is striking 
as a lecture experiment. (II Nuovo Cimento xvii, 261 ; J. Phys., De- 
cember, 1886, II, V, 560.) 

Thompson has expressed the opinion that the fact that the frequency 
of vibration of an electrically-maintained fork is continually changing, 
is in consequence of giving the impulses to the prongs at a disadvan- 
tageous moment, namely, when they are at the extremities of their 
swings. It is desirable, therefore, that the impulse should be given at 
the middle of the swing, and to effect this he has suggested that each 
fork should make and break the circuit of the magnet influencing the 
other one, and he has shown how the electrical connections can be 
made to effect this in a simple manner. (Nature, July, 1886, xxxiv, 283; 
Phil. Mag., August, 1886, V, xxii, 216.) 

C A. Bell has presented a paper to the Eoyal Society upon the sym- 
pathetic vibration of jets, giving the results of extended experiments 
upon both gaseous and liquid jets, their vibrations being studied by 
placing some portion in circuit with a battery and telephone, thus ren- 
dering these vibrations audible. (Science, June, 1886, vii, 491.) 

Wead has experimented to determine the actual time of contact 
between the hammer and the string in. a piano. The method was sim- 
ple. An electric circuit was com[)leted through a cell, a resistance box, 
a galvanometer, a fine wire round the stem of the hammer, a slip of 
thin gold foil glued to the face of the hammer, the piano string, and 
the frame. The contact between the hammer and string produces a 
momentary closing of the circuit and a throw of the galvanometer needle, 
from the amount of which the time of closing may be calculated. The 
observations upon C, which made thirty-four double vibrations per sec- 
ond, were very satisfactory and showed that the contact time for a very 
soft stroke is about 20 per cent, greater than for an ordinary or hard blow. 
The conclusion reached is that for an ordinary blow the time of contact 
is one-sixth of the vibration period of the string instead of three-four- 
teenths as was estimated by von Helmholtz. (Am. J. Sci., iJs^ovember, 
1886, III, xxxii, 366.) 

Violle has described to the French Academy an apparatus for show- 
ing the two modes in which a vibratory motion is reflected according as 
the end of the tube is open to the atmosphere or is closed by a solid 



PHYSICS. 351 

partition. In the latter case the velocity changes sign and the conden- 
sation does not ; in the former the opposite is the fact. (C. R., Decem- 
ber, 1886, c III, 1255.) 

HEAT. 

1. Production of heat. — Thermometry. 

The values of the solar constant which have been given bj' Pouillet, 
Hagen, Crova, Violle, and Langley have been examined by Maurer. 
In his opinion the considerably higher values of Violle and Langley 
arise from the assigning by these experimenters of too high a value for 
the amount of solar radiation on the earth's surface. Actimometric meas- 
urements have recently been- made with a new apparatus of Weber's, 
under remarkably good atmospheric conditions. Six of these were 
made on the terrace of the Polytechnicum at Zurich, two on the top of 
the St.Gothard Pass (2,100 meters), aud one on the Pizzo Centrale (3,000 
meters). According to these, the maximum heat from the sun at mid- 
day which a surface of one square centimeter receives in a minute un- 
der perpendicular radiation is, in Zurich, from 1.10 to 1.32 thermal unit; 
on the St. Gothard 1.38 to 1.4L unit; and on the Pizzo Oentrale, 1.52 
unit. (Beibl. Phys., X, 82 ; Phil. Mag., Sept., 1886, V, xxii, 312.) 

Keller has sought to measure the increase of temperature produced 
by a water-fall. In his experiments at Terni he obtained measurements 
varying between 0.08° and 0.73°, while the calcuhited value was 0.37°. 
Hence, while these results seem to prove the transformation of kinetic 
energy into heat under these conditions, it is evident that they are 
powerfully affected by the sources of error which he discussed. (Beibl. 
Phys., X, 333 ; Phil. Mag., Sept., 1886, V, xxii, 312.) 

The use of gas for heating and motor purposes has rendered the de- 
termination of its heating power of great interest. Witz has made 
careful experiments in this direction, using a nickel-plated steel explo- 
sion cylinder 2.36 inches in internal diameter and 3.54 inches high, the 
metal being 0.079 inch thick. The top and bottom covers were screwed 
on air-tight. Through the top cover a wire passed, and in the bottom 
•was a valve for filling or emj)tying the cylinder. In use it was placed 
in a vessel 4 inches in diameter and 8 inches high, which acted as a 
calorimeter, and held about 1.76 pints of water. The mixture of air 
and gas was placed in the cylinder over mercury and fired by an elec- 
tric current. As the result of a large number of experiments it appears 
that the gas used in the experiments gives in burning about 5,200 calo- 
rics (kilogram-degrees Centigrade) per cubic meter, equivalent to 5S4 
pound-degrees Fahrenheit per cubic foot. This accords fairly with the 
values obtained by Dugald Clerk, which are 489,268 and 504,888 foot- 
pounds per cubic foot as the mechanical value of London and Manchester 
gas, corresponding to 5,372 and 5,640 calorics. The heating power of gas 
may be increased 77 percent, by carburation. (Ann. Chim. Phys., 1885, 
VI, VI, 256 ; Science, May, 1886, vii, 467.) 



352 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Boltzmanu lias established theoretically the possibility of basing the 
kiuetic theory of gases upon the assumption of attractive forces only, 
but under the express condition that these forces cease to act at infi- 
nitely small distances. ( Wied. Ann., xxiv, 37 ; J. Phys., Nov., 1886, II, 
V, 504.) 

Potier has discussed the law of freezing mixtures with reference to 
the principle of maximum work, and shows that a direct combination 
with absorption of heat is })0ssible only when the temperature is supe- 
rior to that of dissociation ; while at a temperature inferior to that at 
which dissociation commences, only combinations which evolve heat can 
be formed. The inequality of Ciausius establishes thus a connection 
between the principle of maximum work ef Berthelot and the fact that 
a high temperature is more often required to begin the dissociation ; 
and this without giving by itself alone the explanation either of tlie 
principle of maximum work or of the effect of a high temperature. (J. 
Phys., Feb., 188G, II, v, 53.) 

Pictet, in his memoirs upon freezing-machines, has called attention 
to the remarkable properties, for i)urposes of refrigeration, of a mixture 
of liquefied carbon dioxide and sulpliurous oxide gases, obtained by 
compressing the product obtained by the action of sulphuric acid on 
charcoal. The mixed liquid has this peculiarity', that its vapor press- 
ure increases less rapidly with the temperature than that of sulphurous 
oxide alone; so that it reaches this pressure between 25° and 30°, and 
becomes less beyond it. The vai)or pressure of the mixed liquid is not 
only much less than that of carbon dioxide, but actually less at temper- 
atures above 25° than that of sulphurous oxide. The author thinks that 
the two liquids form a conipound at high temperature which breaks up 
at low ones. Since this liquid not only kills microbes, but extinguishes 
fires, it is also useful for many other purposes. (Arch. Sci, Gen., xix^ 
570; J. Phys., June, 1880, 11, V, 289.) 

Lightfoot has presented a paper on ice making machinery and appli- 
ances to the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. He had designed 
machinery for producing cold by the expansion of air after compression, 
in which a weight of 1,000 pounds of air per hour can be reduced from 
60° above to 80° below the Fahrenheit zero, the cooling water being at 
60° F., with the expenditure of about 18 indicated horse-powers. A 
novel application of freezing-machines was made in Stockholm in ex- 
cavating a tunnel through gravel which was mixed with clay and water. 
The innermost end of the tunnel was made into a freezing chamber, 
and the gravel, etc., frozen ; then it was easilj^ removed. In this way it 
was driven successfully for a distance of 80 feet. (Nature, May, 1886, 
xxxiv, 45.) 

Horace Darwin has described an improved form of temperature reg- 
ulator, constructed for use in the room at the Standard's oiUce, where the 
comparisons are made. Its action depends on the variation of pressure 
of a saturated vapor caused by a change of temperature. The liquid 



PHYSICS. 353 

used as a mixture of methyl and ethyl chlorides boiling at about 2.5° 
under normal atmospheaic pressure. The greatest daily change of tem- 
perature observed in the room during a fourteen-day test was .04°, and 
the least .01°. The details of construction and of management are given 
in the paper referred to. (Nature, April, 1887, xxxiiii, 596. See also 
Pernet, Nature, May, 1886, xxxiii, 48.) 

On thermometric questions Whipple has described the method in use 
at the Kew Observatory for the comx^arison and verification of ther- 
mometers at the freezing point of mercury. (Phil. Mag. January, 1886, 
V, XXI, 27.) Pickering has published notes on the calibration and stand- 
ardizing of mercurial thermometers, and has described a modification of 
his own, in delicate thermometers for calorimetrical work. (Phil. Mag., 
March, April, 1886, V, xxi, 180, 330.) 

2. Expansion and change of state. 

Weber has proposed the use of the pendulum method for determin- 
ing the CO- efficient of expansion of solids. The time of oscillation of a 
solid body in vacuo depends on the form of the body, on its mass, and 
on the distance of its particles from the axis of rotation. At two differ- 
ent temperatures these distances are different, and hence the times of 
oscillation differ. In other words, there is for every body a definite 
relation between its temperature %, its expansion coefficient a, its di- 
mensions d, and its time of oscillation t, which is expressed by the for- 

mula a= —jn m' The time of oscillation is to be obtained by noting 

exactly the interval between two passages of the pendulum through the 
vertical, six hours apart, using for this purpose a Hipj) chronoscope 
whose hands are put in motion by the j)endulum of an accurate clock 
and stopped by the pendulum under experiment. The temperature is 
determined by means of a thermo-electrical coui^le. In this way the 
author hopes for a precision of one hundred-thousandth part in the co- 
efficient, in place of one six-thousandth with the present methods. (0. 
E,, September, 1886, cm, 553.) In a subsequent note Guillaume criti- 
cises this method, and shows that with the best possible installation a 
precision of not over one three-hundredth part is to be expected by its 
use ; and, moreover, the apparatus is complicated. (C. R., October, 
1886, cm, 689.) 

A simple apparatus for showing that a wire is cooled when it is 
stretched has been described by Dorn. A steel vertical wire, about 0.7 "'" 
in diameter, is clamped at the upper end, while at the lower is fixed a 
scale-pan in which weights can be placed. Eound two adjacent portions 
of this wire pieces of fine German-silver wire and of steel wire are wound, 
the ends of which are so connected with a galvanometer that they form 
a thermoelement. When weights are placed in the pan the galvanom- 
eter shows a cooling effect, and when, after a time, they are removed, a 
warming effect. With a Wiedemann's galvanometer, almost dead-beat, 
H. Mis. 600 23 



354 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

anauged for i^rojection with lamp, lens, and scale, a deflection of sev- 
eral centimeters was obtained. The contact points of the dissimilar 
metals must, of course, be protected from air currents. This may be 
done with felt. ( Wied. Ann., 1885, xxvi, 334 ; Phil. Mag., January. 1886, 
V, XXI, 80.) 

Grimaldi has studied the expansion of ethyl oxide at pressures vary- 
ino- from 1 to 25 meters of mercury and at temperatures from 0° tolOS^. 
He finds that the equation of Aveuarius, representing the expansion 
of liquids at the critical pressure, is true approximately for the expan- 
sion of ether at various pressures up to this point, provided that at each 
pressure the different co-efficients are employed. The formula then gives 
values differing by only about 1 per cent, from the experimental results. 
(J. Phys., January, 1886, II, v. 29.) 

In consequence of Whipple's communication to the Physical Society 
of London on testing thermometers down to the melting point of mer- 
cury, the question was raised as to the uniformity with which this metal 
contracted between 0° and — 39°. Ayrton and Perry have tested this 
matter experimentally, comparing the readings of a mercurial thermome- 
ter loaned them by Whipple with those of a constant-volume air ther- 
mometer, both immersed in a bath of frozen mercury which was allowed 
gradually to become warm. When the results were plotted, they formed 
a straight line so nearly that the conclusion may be drawn tbat mer- 
cury expands as regularly below (P as above 0°, and that there is no 
critical point for this substance above its freezing point, as there is for 
water. Hence temperatures down to — 39° may be correctly measured 
by a mercury thermometer the stem of which is graduated for equal 
volumes. (Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 575 ; Phil. Mag., October, 1886, 
V, XXII, 325.) 

Eoth has proposed to determine fusing points by placing the sub- 
stance in a tube of glass and immersing it in sulphuric acid, which is 
then gradually heated. The apparent temperature of fusion is noted on 
a thermometer placed in the acid, and a small empirical correction gives 
the true temperature of fusion. (Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., July, 1886, 
XIX, 1970.) 

Raoult has investigated the effect of mixing salts in solution upon the 
temperature at which these solutions congeal. Calling the quotient ob- 
tained by dividing the actual lowering of the freezing point by t-he weight 
of the anhydrous substance dissolved in 100 grams of water the co-ef- 
ficient of depression, he enunciates the following law : If several sub- 
stances, without chemical action on each other, are simultaneously dis- 
solved in 100 grams of water, each substance lowers the freezing point 
in the ratio of its weight and of the co-efiQcient of depression which it 
possesses at the temperature of freezing of the mixture. Again, call- 
ing the depression which would be produced by a molecule of any sub- 
stance in 100 grams of water the molecular depression, the author gives 
the following rule for obtaining its value : Trace the curve of the co- 



PHYSICS. 355 

efficient of depression of the ])ody sui^posed anhydrous from 1*^ to 40j 
prolong the sensibly rectilinear part of this curve until it meets the 
axis of ordinates ; multiply the ordinate of the point of intersection by 
the molecular weight of the substance dissolved, supposed anhydrous ; 
the product obtained will represent exactly the molecular depression 
sought. (J. Phys., February, 1886, II, v, 64.) 

Von Helmholtz has communicated to the Physical Society of Berlin 
the method by which he determined the minimum diminution of vapor 
pressure necessary to produce condensation of vapor, the heat being 
constant. A glass cylinder was one third filled with the liquid to be 
tested. Its upper portion, containing the mixture of air and vapor, was 
connected on one side with a manometer, and on the other with a tap 
through which the exhaustion could be effected. The formation of cloud 
was detected by directing a beam of light through the axis of the cylinder, 
and by looking along a line making a small angle with this axis, the eye 
being screened from the direct light. At ordinary temperatures a de- 
pression of 10'"™ of water was required to produce the cloud, while at 
Oo a depression of 12™"" was required. The statements of Coulier and 
Aitken were confirmed, that the formation of cloud in saturated air was 
induced solely by particles of dust. Saturated air, completely free of 
dust, might suffer a depretsion of halfan atmosphere without formation 
of any cloud without it. (Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 552.) 

Ramsay and Young have used an improved apparatus to determine 
the vapor pressure of mercury. It consisted of a U tube inclosed in a 
jacket containing the substance whose boiling point gave the tempera- 
ture and connected with a manometer. The U tube was first filled 
with mercury and boiled to expel air. Then on heating it and dimin- 
ishing the i)ressure by means of a i)ump, vapor was evolved from the 
mercury, which depressed the level on one side and raised it on the 
other. From the difference of level in this tube and in a manometer 
gauge connected with it, the vaj)or pressure was calculated. At 222.15° 
the vapor pressure of mercury was found to be 34.4'""' ; at270.35o it was 
J24.35'"'"; at 280.60°, 157.15"""; 358,47°, 767.43™"^, and at 448°, 2904.5""^. 
(J. Chem. Soc, January, 1886, XLix, 37.) 

Vincent and Chappiiis have determined in Cailletet's apparatus the 
critical temperature and pressure for two series of gaseous substances, 
the members of each of which series differed in composition by CH^ and 
showed a gradation of similar chemical properties. The first series con- 
tained hydrogen chloride, methyl chloride, and ethyl chloride; the second 
ammonia, methylamine,dimethylamine, and trimethylamine. For hydro- 
gen chloride the critical temperature was 57.5° and pressure 96 atmos- 
pheres ; for methyl chloride 141.5° and 73 atmospheres ; for ethyl chlo- 
ride 54° and 182.5 atmospheres. For ammonia the values were for criti- 
cal temperature 131° and pressure 113 atmospheres ; for methylamine 
155° and 72 atmospheres ; for dimethylamine 163° and 50 atmospheres, 
and for trimethylamine 160.5° and 41 atmospheres, Hydrogen chloride 



356 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

and ammouia seem to follow Dewar's law, that the ratio between the 
absolute critical temperature and the pressure is constant. The other 
substances deviate from it, giving ratios which increase with molecular 
complexity. (J. Phys, February, 1886, II, v, 58.) 

Subsequently these authors extended their observations to include 
l^ropyl chloride, the three ethylamines, and the two lower normal pro- 
pylamines, all liquid at the ordinary temperature. Their results con- 
firmed those above mentioned, that the absolute critical temperature 
increased with molecular complexity somewhat more rapidly than the 
critical pressure. Moreover the critical temperatures and pressures of 
isomeric substances are far from being equal. (C. R., August, 1886, 
cm, 379.) 

In a lecture at the Royal Institution, Frederick Siemens discussed 
the phenomena of dissociation with especial reference to questions con- 
nected with practical heat operation. (Nature, May, 1886, xxxiv, 64.) 

Wroblewski has determined the density of liquified atmospheric air 
as well as that of its component gases, by measuring the volume of gas 
given by a known volume of the liquid. At the critical temperature— 
118°, the density of liquid oxygen is 0.6 ; while at— 200°, at a pressure 
of only 2 centimeters, the density is 1.24. Hence its atomic volume is 
less than 14. The density of liquid nitrogen at— 146.6o,the pressure of 
its saturated vapor being 32i atmospheres, was found to be 0.4552 ; while 
at— 793°, under a pressure of one atmosphere, the density was 0.83 ; 
and at— 202O, with a pressure of 0.105 atmospheres it was 0.866. The 
atomic volume is then about 15.5. Its expansion coefficient is 0.0311 
at— 153.70, 0.007536 at — 193^, and 0.004619 at— 202°. Atmospheric air 
on compression behaves like a mixture whose components followed 
different laws of liquefaction; and when liquified its composition changes 
with change of temperature or i^ressure. The value of the density found 
by experiment at — 146.6° and under a pressure of '45 atmospheres was 
0.59. Calculation gives 0.60 as the value obtained from liquid oxygen 
and nitrogen. (0. R., May, 1886, cii, 1010.) 

Nilson and Peterssen have described a new method for determining 
the vapor density of volatile substances and at the same time the tem- 
perature of the experiment. Four determinations with this apparatus, 
of the density of the vapor of glucinum chloride at temperatures vary- 
ing from 1080° to 1502°, gave 2.77 as the mean value. (Ann. Chim. 
Phys., December, 1886, VI, ix, 554.) 

Nodon has utilized the hygroscopic properties of gelatine in the con- 
struction of a recording hygrometer. A layer of this substance is fast- 
ened to the outside of a helix of Bristol board, the inside being pro- 
tected by a non-hygroscopic varnish. An increase in the atmospheric 
moisture expands the gelatine and unrolls the helix, as a change of tem- 
perature does the helix of Breguet's thermometer. The result appears 
within ordinary limits to be independent of temperature. The hygrom- 
eter consists of four suQh b^Uces group^(i \u pairs upon the same 



PHYSICS. 357 

frame. One of the ends of each helix is fixed ; the other acts on a pul- 
ley so arranged that their mechanical actions are added. The two 
pallies carry a silk thread attached to a light slide, moving between 
vertical guides, and carrying a style which presses against a cylinder 
carrying the paper and moved by clock-work. The hygrometric curve 
is thus inscribed on the paper. (J. Phys., October, 1886, II, v, 461; C. 
K., June, 1886, cii, 1371.) 

Luvini has published a series of experiments made by him on the 
spheroidal state with distilled water, soap- water, alcohol, and ether. 
He has made the interesting observation that in rarefied air the tem- 
perature of the spheroidal mass diminishes. On lowering the pressure 
from 420""" to 50""°, the liquid, always in tlie spheroidal condition and 
near an incandescent wall, falls in temperature from about 83<^ to near 
40°; that is, to a temperature at which the maximum elastic force of 
the vapor is equal to the external pressure. In a closed vessel the tem- 
perature of the spheroidal liquid rises above the normal temperature of 
ebullition. It is common in blowing glass to inject a little water into 
the cavity formed in the hot glass. The liquid becomes spheroidal and 
its vapor blows out the glass. (II Nuovo Cimento, 1885, xvii, 15 ; J. 
Phys., December, 1886, II, v, 569.) 

3. Conduction and radiation. — Specific heat. 

Graetz has given the results of his determinations of the conductibil- 
Ity of liquids for heat, made by his new method, which consists in caus- 
ing the liquid to flow at a given temperature through a narrow metallic 
tube whose exterior is maintained at a somewhat lower temperature, 
and in determining the mean temperature and the volume of the liquid 
which has passed dliring a given time, when the stationary condition 
has been established. Assuming that the flow of liquids in narrow 
tubes may be calculated from Poiseuille's law, the determination of the 
coefficient of interval conductivity depends on the solution of an equa- 
tion of partial dift'erences of the second order, which contains no other 
constants to be determined by experiment than the mean velocity of 
flow and the radius of the tube. The values obtained were for glycerine 
0.0382, alcohol 0.0327, ether 0.0227, petroleum 0.0213, turpentine 0.0195, 
and carbon disulphide 0.0160. The quotient of this coefficient by the 
product of the density and the specific heat is nearly constant. This 
coefficient increases slightly with the temperature. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 
337 ; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, V, 506.) 

The law according to which an incandescent body emits energy has 
been studied by Moller. A sheet of platinum carried to incandescence 
by a current, is inclined at an adjustable angle before a Wild photom- 
eter, a similar plate of i^latinum unaltered in position being used for 
comparison. Wild's photometer consists of a double prism which brings 
the beams from the two sources into a common direction, the base of 
which is covered with ground glass. The emergent and juxtaposed 



358 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

beams traverse a nicol, then a rboinbohedrou of spar cut of such a 
thickness that the ordinary ray from one of the sources of light and the 
extraordinary ray from the other issue juxtaposed. The two beams are 
received by a telescope, having previously been equalized in intensity 
by rotating the nicol. From this rotation the original intensities are 
calculated. The results of measurements thus made confirmed very 
closely the law of the cosines, and also showed that the amount of emit- 
ted energy polarized perpendicular to the plane of incidence increases 
rapidly with the obliquity. (Wied. Ann., xxiv, 26G; J. Phys., No- 
vember, 1886, II, V, 574.) 

Mercadier has divided radiophones into two classes: (1) those in which 
the transformation of radiant energy into mechanical energy in the 
form of sound is produced directly, and (2) those in which this trans- 
formation of energy is effected indirectly through one or more interme- 
diate stages. The original photophone of Bell, in which the intermittent 
beam fell on selenium, and thus affected an electric circuit in which a 
telephone was placed, was of the latter class. The author has observed 
that if a beam of intermittent radiations be allowed to fall upon the di- 
aphragm of a microphone, the corresponding note is distinctly heard in 
a telephone in circuit with it; and further, such a beam is capable of 
producing the same effect when thrown on the diaphragm of a magneto 
transmitting telephone. (J. Phys., May, 1886; II, v, 215.) 

Langley has continued his researches on radiant energy and has now 
published his observations on invisible heat spectra and the recognition 
of hitherto unmeasured wave lengths. As radiating surfaces Leslie 
cubes were employed, covered with lampblack and filled with boiling 
water giving 100°, or aniline giving 178°. In some cases the cubes were 
filled with ice, and even with freezing mixtures, at a temperature of 
—20°. The apparatus consisted of a rock salt train, made up of two 
rock salt lenses 75""" diameter and 350'""' focus, and a rock salt prism 
64™™ on a side. The conclusions reached from an examination of the 
curves are (1), that the heat now measured is almost altogether of a char- 
acter not observed in that of the sun, the wave lengths not being trans 
missibleby glass; (2) that notwithstanding the compression of the in- 
fra-red by the prism, these heat curves extend almost indefinitely in that 
direction, the Leslie cube, for instance, at 178°, showing very measurable 
heat at adeviation of 33°, corresponding to a retractive index of 1.4511; 

(3) that an increase of temperature increases every ordinate, but not 
equally, those in the more refrangible portions growing most rapidly; 

(4) that hence there is a progressive movement of the maximum ordinate 
toward the more refrangible end as the temperature rises ; and (5) that 
these prismatic curves are not symmetrical, the greater portion of the 
area in erery case lying toward the greater wave length. In one of the 
plates accompanying the paper the curves of two heat spectra are given, 
one from a surface at the temperature of boiling water, the other at that 
of melting ice. As first approximations, the author believes that " the 



PHYSICS. 359 

minimum wave length assignable to the minimum ordinate of the heat 
curve in the spectrum of a source whose temperature varies from 100^ 
to 0° Centigrade, is a little less than 5,a and a little over G/j." In other 
words, that " some of the heat radiated by the soil has probably a wave 
length of over 150,000 of Augstrom's scale, or about twenty times the 
wave length of the lowest visible line in the solar spectrum as known 
to Fraunhofer." This research, therefore, has rendered probable the 
existence of measurable wave lengths of something greater than one 
two-thousandths of an inch and has proved that the heat radiated from 
the soil is of an almost totally different quality from that which is re- 
ceived from the sun. (Am. J. Sci., Jan., 1886, III, xxxi, 1 ; Phil. Mag., 
May, 1886, V, xxi, 394; Ann. Chim. Phys., December, 1886, VI, ix, 433.) 

In a subsequent paper on hitherto unrecognized wave lengths Lang- 
ley gives an extended description of the method employed by him for 
measuring these wave lengths, together with an account of the appa- 
ratus used in the research. " Broadly speaking," he says, " we have 
learned through the present measures with certainty of wave lengths 
greater than 0.005°^'", and have grounds for estimating that we have 
recognized radiations whose wave length exceeds 0.03^""^, so that while 
we have directly measured to nearly eight times the wave length 
known to Newton, we have probable indications of wave lengths far 
greater, and the gulf between the shortest vibration of sound and the 
longest known vibration of the tether, is now in some measure bridged 
over." (Am. J. Sci., August, 1886, III, xxxii, 83.) 

Wiedemann and Leudecking have studied the heat changes which 
accompany the hydration and solution of colloids. When water is 
progressively added to colloids such as gelatine, gum arable, gum trag- 
acaiith, dextrine, starch, etc., two stages of the action are observed. In 
the first these colloids become hydrated with an evolution of heat. In 
the second the hydrates formed dissolve in the excess of water with 
absorption of heat. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 145; J. Phys., Nov., 1886, II, 
V, 495.) 

Pickering has pointed out some of the sources of error incident to 
calori metrical work. He finds that the presence of anything but air 
between the calorimeter and the jacket is most injurious; the space 
should be entirely open and no cover of any sort should be used. Be- 
fore reading the thermometers the top of the stem should be tapped 
for some time, otherwise the mercury lags behind the true temperature. 
Moreover a thermometer when rising is invariably too low, and when 
falling is invariably too high. The error thence arising is avoided by 
conducting the entire experiment either with a rising or with a falling- 
thermometer. In his experiments the thermometers used had a range 
of 15° and a total length of 600™"'. The readings were made at tem- 
peratures between — 1° and 26°, by the following method: The ther- 
mometer was first heated to the highest temperature required in the 
experiment, and, by the application of a flame to the mercury column 



360 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

just beiow the enlarged space at the end of the tube, that part of the 
mercury above the flame was broken off and driven into the space, where 
it remained as the thermometer cooled. In this way the same part of 
the scale could be used for different readings. The relative value of a 
scale division was affected inappreciably while the absolute value 
could be obtained by a single comparison with a standard. Further 
improvements in calorimetry the author thinks lie in improved methods. 
(Nature, Feb., 1886, xxxiii, 405; Phil. Mag., April, 1880, V, xxi, 324.) 
The ice melted in the calorimeter of Bunsen is estimated in one of two 
ways : Either by reading, on a graduated scale attached to the capillary 
tube in which the extremity of the mercury column moves, the amount 
of displacement; or by weighing the mercury drawn into the apparatus 
during the melting. For this purpose a tube twice recurved and drawn 
out like that of a weight thermometer, to a fine i)oint, dips into a vessel 
of mercury, and is weighed before and after the experiment. Blumcke 
has proposed to combine the two methods and to use the divided scale 
to determine the changes in the calorimeter before and after the experi- 
ment, while the weighing method is reserved for the experiment itself. 
Taps placed at the terminations of the bent tube and the capillary tube 
permit communication to be established at the proper time between 
either of these tubes and the calorimeter. (Weid. Ann., xxvi, 159; J. 
Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 494.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Production and Velocity. 

Auer has invented a lamp in which a cylinder of porous magnesia is 
hung in a Bunsen llame. The burner of the lamp is surrounded by an 
ordinary cylindrical chimney, and in the flame is hung a hollow cylinder 
of thin organtine impregnated with the magnesia solution. The heat 
of the flame destroys the organic matter and leaves the white magne- 
sium oxide in the form of an elastic porous cylinder, which becomes 
highly incandescent. The lamp is said to give a light of twenty candles 
with a consumption per hour of 56 liters of gas. (Science, March, 1886, 
VII, 282.) 

Ghase has called attention to the fact that Herschel's high estimate 
of the elasticity, or as he called it the "bursting power," of the tether, 
is not that of the simple aitherial elasticity itself, as has been assumed 
by Wood and others, but is that which is represented by the ratio of 
the elasticity to the density ; /. e., is that which would be exerted if the 
air and the fether were reduced to the same density. If we substitute 
in Herschel's proportion, the true density-ratio, we obtain 1,636,750 as 
the ratio of the elasticity of air to that of the tether. This represents 
an aitherial elasticity or "bursting power" of about -gg^g ounce on each 
sideofacubic inch instead of "upwards of seventeen billions ofpounds". 



PHYSICS. 361 

The weight of the cubic iiicli of {ether would be only 2,467,5oo,ooo,L,ooo,ooo,ooo 
ouuce. (Phil. Mag., September, 1S8G, V, xxii, 255.) 

J. W. Gibbs has giveu a resume of the results obtained by Newcomb 
(see Nature, May, June, 1886, xxxiv, 29, 170) aud by Michelson in their 
experiments on the velocity of light. As the final result of his Wash- 
ington experiments Newcomb gives 299,800 i 30 kilometers per second 
as the velocity of light m vacuo. Michelson's Cleveland experiments 
give 299,853 rt GO; a result substantially identical. Combining the first 
of these values with Nyren's value of the aberration constant (20.492"), 
the value 149.60 is obtained as the sun's distance in millions of kilome- 
ters. Although both the above experimentors paid especial attention to 
the question whether there was any dilierence between the velocity of 
r. d and of blue light, not the least indication of any difference was ob- 
served. A difterence of one-thousandth in these velocities would have 
given a well-marked color to the return image of the slit in Newcomb's 
experiments. But no such ettect could be detected. Michelson covered 
one half the slit with a red glass; the two halves of the return image 
were exactly in line. Gibbs also gives the values which haVe been most 
recently obtained of the ratio between the electro- magnetic and electro- 
static units, which, according to Maxwell's electro-magnetic theory of 
light, represents the velocity of this agent. These values, as corrected 
for the true value of the ohm, are as follows: Ayrton and Perry, 1878, 
296.1; Hockin, 1879, 296.9; Shida, 1880, 295.6; Exner, 1882, 291.7 (!); 
J. J. Thomson, 1883, 296.3; Klemencic, 1884, 301.88 (?). They should 
be compared with the velocity of light in air, expressed in millions of 
meters per second— 299.778 according to Newcomb. Setting aside Ex- 
uer's and Klemencic's values, the other four are closely accordant, their 
mean being nearly identical with that of J. J. Thomson, which appears 
to be by far the most worthy of confidence, aud differing by only one 
per cent, from the velocity of light. Michelson's experiments on the ve- 
locity of light in carbon disulphide afford, the reviewer thinks, an inter- 
esting illustration of the difference between the velocity of waves and 
the velocity of groups of waves — a subject to which Rayleigh has called 
attention in an appendix to the second volume of his " Theory of Sound." 
The quotient of the velocity in vacuo divided by the wave velocity in 
carbon disulphide, calculated from Verdet, is for the line D 1.624 and 
for E 1.637 ; while the group velocity, when used as a divisor, gives 
1.722 and 1.767, respectively. Michelson's experimental result was 
1.76 ± .02, agreeing well with the latter. (Am. J. Sci., January, 1886, 
III, XXXI, 62.) Subsequently Shuster has argued in support of Eay- 
leigh's conclusion that the velocity measured by the revolving-mirror 
method of Foucault is really neither the wave velocity V nor the group 

Y2 

velocity U, but is — . But he shows that if only one revolving mirror 

be used, the experiment can not be performed in the way mentioned. 
Hence the Foucault method really measures neither V nor TJ, nor yet 



362 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

yz y2 

— jbut oxT^ ; the calculated value of which is 1.758, practically iden- 
tical with 1.76, the value obtained by Michelsou. If a second rotating 
mirror be used, Eayleigh's value — remains true. He concludes, then, 

tliat while the aberration method measures V, and the eclii)se of Jupi- 
ter's satellites and Fizeau's method measure U, Foucault's revolving- 

y2 y2 

mirror method measures either ^ or ^r~ji' (Mature, March, 1886, 

U J V — u 

XXXIII, 439.) In reply to this note Gibbs calls attention to the fact 
that it follows from Rayleigh's formulas that while the individual wave 
rotates, in the revolving- mirror experiment, the wave-normal of the 
group remains unchanged; or, in other words, that if we fix our atten- 
tion on a point moving with the group, and therefore with the velocity 
U, the successive wave planes, as they pass through that point, have 
all the same orientation. "To get a picture of the phenomenon," he 
says, " we may imagine that we are able to see a few inches of the top 
of a moving carriage-wheel. The individual spokes rotate, while the 
groups maintain a vertical direction." This consideration, he thinks, 
greatly simplifies the theory of Foucault's experiment, and makes it 
evident that the results of all such experiments depend upon the value 
of U and not upon that of V. (Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 582.) 

Gouy has repeated, by means of Foucault's method, experiments to 
determine the relative velocity of red and blue rays in carbon disul- 
phide. Several concordant series of obervations show the deviation to 
be greater for blue than for red light, the difference being about 5", or 
one twentieth of the deviation for the red ray. This result he thinks is 
in accord with theory. (C. E., July, 1886, cm, 244.) 

Michelson and Morley have repeated Fizeau's experiment on the in- 
fluence of the motion of the medium upon the velocity of light. He 
had announced the remarkable result that the increment of velocity 
which the light experienced was not equal to the velocity of the medium, 
but was a fraction of this velocity, which depended on the index of 
refraction of the medium. The formula of Fresnel is equivalent to the 
statement that the aether within a moving body remains stationary, 
with the exception of the portions which are condensed around the par- 
ticles. If this condensed atmosphere be insisted on, every particle, to- 
gether with its atmosphere, may be regarded as a single body, and then 
the statement is simply that the aether is entirely unaffected by the 
motion of the matter which it permeates. The authors used essentially 
the same form of apparatus as Fizeau. Light from a given source falls 
on a half-silvered surface where it divides, one-half being reflected 
through one of two tubes 28"'™ in diameter and 6 meters long and back 
through the second, the other half passing through the second tube 
directly and being reflected back through the first. The tubes being 
filled with distilled water, the light from an electric lamp was directed 



PHYSICS. 363 

toward the central glass of tbe refractometer, and the latter adjusted 
by screws till the light passed centrally down both tubes and then the 
right-angled prism at the farther end adjusted till the light returned 
and was reflected into the telescope, where generally two images were 
observed. These were made to coincide and the fringes at once ap- 
peared. At a given signal the current of water was turned on, moving 
in opposite directions in the two tubes. The width of the central fringe 
was measured micrometrically and the displacement in one direction- 
The current of water was then reversed and the displacement again 
measured. This displacement was nearly the width of an entire fringe. 
The velocity of the water being determined, the value sought is easily 
calculated. The authors announce as the result of their work that the 
conclusion obtained by Fizeau is essentially correct, and that the lu- 
niiniferous aether is entirely unaffected by the motion of the matter which 
it permeates. (Am. J. Sci., May, 1886, III, xxxi, 377.) At the next 
meeting of the French Academy Cornu thus spoke of the foregoing 
research : "Leur travail congu dans I'esprit le plus 61eve, execute avec 
ces puissants moyens d'action que les savants des iStats-Unis aiment a 
deployer dans les grandes questions scientifiques, fait le plus grand hon- 
neur a leurs auteurs." Fizeau himself also added his commendations 
(C. R., May, 1886, cii, 1207). 

The British Association committee on standards of white light have 
made a preliminary report. An examination of existing standards, they 
say, convinces them that the standard candle as defined by act of Par- 
liament is not in any sense of the word a standard. The French " bee 
Carcel" is also liable to variations; and with regard to the molten plat!" 
num standard of Violin, it seems that the difficulty of applying it is so 
great as to render its general adoption almost im{)Ossible. As to pro- 
posed standards, the .majority are satisfied that for all the present com- 
mercial requirements the pentane standard of Vernon Harcourt, which 
has no wick and consumes a material of definite chemical composition, 
is, when properly defined, an accurate and convenient standard, and 
gives a much more accurate illumination than the standard candle. As 
to future researches, the electrical direction seems j)romising, and a 
standard of white light might be established defined somewhat as fol- 
lows: A unit of light is obtained from a straight carbon filament, in 
the direction at right angles to the middle of the filament, when the 
resistance of the filament is one-halfof its resistance at 0° C, and when 
it consumes 10^ 0. G. S. units of electrical energj^ per second. (Nature, 
January, 1886, xxxiii, 236.) 

Koenig has described "Weber's photometer to the Berlin Physical 
Soci'ety. It consists in the main of a small benzine lamp which is 
placed in a tube in front of a mirror and which illuminates a milk-glass 
plate adjustable in the tube. From this plate the light is carried to a to- 
tally reflecting prism and thence into the eye-piece, where it lights up one- 
half of the field of vision. The other half receives light from another milk- 



364 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

glass plate placed behind the prism aud toward the eye-piece, this plate 
being illiuuiuated by the light to be measured. When the lights are 
of the same color, the measurements with this instrument are very exact, 
but if not, this precision could not be obtained. By placing a red, a 
green, aud then a blue glass before the eye-piece and taking the mean, 
a closely approximate result may be obtained with this photometer. 
(Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 480.) 

Subsequently Koenig described to the society a photometer sent to 
him from Dublin, which apparently far surpassed the Bunsen form of 
instrument. It consisted of two quadratic prisms of cast paraffin, con- 
nected to each other along one side. Between these two prisms was 
placed a piece of silver or of tin foil. When light fell on one of the 
prisms, this prism appeared clear white on account of the diffused re- 
flections. This light was able to reach the other prism only through 
the metallic foil, and it therefore appeared dark. But when a second 
source of light was placed on the other side, the second prism appeared 
also bright. By displacement along a graduated scale the photometer 
could be brought into the position where both prisms appeared equally 
bright. A reading of the distances enabled the ratio of the intensities 
to be readily calculated. (Nature, May, 1886, xxxiv, 48.) 

The Bakerian lecture before the Royal Society was on color i)hotome- 
try, and gave the results of Captain Abney's and Major-General Fest- 
ing's researches in the direction of ascertaining whether it was practi- 
cable to compare with each other the intensity of lights of different 
colors. They found that by placing a rod in front of a patch of mono- 
chromatic light thrown on a screen, and by casting another shadow by the 
side of the first by means of a candle, the intensities of the two lights 
which illuminated the two shadows could be compared by what they 
term an oscillation method. As to the value of mixed light comjiared 
with its components, they give the following law : The sum of the in- 
tensities of two or more colors is equal to the intensity of the same rays 
when mixed. (Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 525.) 

The committee appointed by the Trinity House to report on the merits 
of electricity, gas, and mineral oil as light-house illumiuants have issued 
a valuable report giving an account of the investigations carried out 
under their directions and the conclusions they have arrived at, which 
are as follows : That the electric light as exhibited in the experimental 
tower at South Foreland has proved to be the most powerful light under 
all conditions of weather and to have the greatest penetrative power 
in fog ; that for all practical purposes the gas and oil were equal ; and 
that for the ordinary necessities of light-house illumination mineral oil 
is the most suitable and economical illuminant. They believe, however, 
that for salient headlands, important laud-falls, and places where a very 
powerful light is required, electricity offers the greatest advantages. 
(Nature, January, 1886, xxxiii, 271; November, 1886, xxxv, 41, 60.) 



PHYSICS. 365 

2. Reflection and refraction. 

A new method of reading small angular deflections, like those of gal- 
vanometers, for example, has been devised by D'Arsonval. It may be 
briefly described as the inverse of Poggendorff''s (subjective) method. 
Usually the objective of the observing telescope forms at the conjugate 
focus a diminished image of the object — the scale as reflected in the 
mirror. D'Arsonval places the scale — a small one reduced by photog- 
raphy, giving tenths and twentieths of a millimeter — at this conjugate 
focus and obtains a magnified image of it reflected in the mirror and 
situated above the objective. This enlarged image, which is enormously 
displaced for small angular movements of the mirror, is again observed 
by an eye-piece bearing the usual cross wires. (ligature, April, 1886, 
XXXIII, 610.) 

Mouchez has described a magnified form of mercury bath or artificial 
horizon which was constructed by Gautier for the Paris Observatory. 
A cylindrical cast-iron vessel, containing mercury, carries an axis at its 
center, on which is cut a screw-thread. A second and slightly smaller 
cast-iron vessel, having a similar screw-thread tajjped through the bot- 
tom, is placed within the first, movable up and down on the screw- 
thread along the axis. This inner vessel is perforated with a small 
hole through which the mercury enters from the outer vessel to form 
the reflecting layer when the inner vessel is screwed down. This re- 
flecting surface is found to be independent of the vibrations of the earth, 
but only under the condition that the screw be neither very tight nor 
very loose ; since in the former case the two vessels are too firmly 
united and the vibrations are communicated from one to the other ; 
and in the latter the inner vessel simply floats on the mercury, appar- 
ently assuming a condition of unstable equilibrium, the variations then 
producing in the mercury slow wave motions, thus preventing observa.- 
tion. The use of this new apparatus has thus far given excellent re- 
sults at the Observatory. (0. R., January, 1886, cii, 147.) 

The results which have been obtained by Abbe, as the outcome of 
several years of experimenting to produce new and better kinds of op- 
tical glass, have now been published. These experiments began in Jan- 
uary, 1881, and were prosecuted in connection with Schott, who took 
the chemical part of the work. Abbe himself taking the optical. The 
progress made justified the building a special laboratory in Jena in 
1882, containing furnaces in which 10 kilograms of glass could be melted 
at once. Two problems occupied attention during 1883. The first was 
the production of pairs of kinds of flint and crown glass, such that the 
dispersion in the various regions of the spectrum should be for each 
pair as nearly as possible proportional. The second was the produc- 
tion of a greater multiplicity in the gradations of optical glass in re- 
spect to the two chief optical constants, refractive index and mean 
dispersion, lu the fall of 1883 the two problems were regarded as sat- 



366 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

isfactorily solved, the first with the result that achromatic lenses of a 
much more perfect kiud than has ever been attainable have been pro- 
duced, and as the outcome of the second a whole series of new glasses 
of graduated properties have been introduced into practical optics. 
Associating themselves now with the eminent microscopists Zeiss 
Brothers, new microscopic objectives have been made of the new glass 
to which Abbe gives the name apochromatic objectives. These lenses 
dry give better definition than the ordinary achromatic water immer- 
sion lens, higher eye pieces may be used with them, and their visual 
and photographic foci are identical. The new glass is now produced 
in Jena on the large scale. (Nature, October, 1886, xxxiv, 622.) 

Vogel has determined the variation of refraction with temperature 
both in glass and iceland-spar. The measurements were made by the 
method of minimum deviation, and the temperatures were comprised 
between 12° and 260°, the three hj'drogeu lines and the sodium line 
being used as points of reference. For 12° the first coefificient for the 
line D was for white glass 123x10", and for heavy glass 190x10", the 
second being 106 x 10^^ and 147 x 10". For calc spar the coefficient was 
for D, 81x10" for the ordinary, and 1020x10" for the extraordinary 
ray. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 87; J. Phys., January, 1886, IT, v, 45.) 

Bertrandhas described a new refractometer, constructed especially for 
the optical study of rocks. (J. Phys., May, 1880, 11, v, 223.) 

Gladstone, in a i^aper read at the Aberdeen meeting of the British 
Association, emphasizes the value of the refraction goniometer in chem- 
ical work, and suggests its use far more generally than has hitherto been 
the case. (Nature, February, 1886, xxxiii, 352.) 

Chappuis and Kivi^re have studied the retractive index of air with a 
view to determine its variation with pressure. They find for their ex- 
periments at 21° and uj) to a pressure of nineteen atmospheres the fol- 
lowing formula: n- 1=0.0003554^ (1-1-0.00058 2>), in which n is the in- 
dex for the line D, and p the pressure in meters of mercury. Hence the 
index of air for the line D at 0° and 0.76 meter pressure is 1.0002927, 
identical with Mascart's value. (C. R., June, 1886, cii, 1461.) 

Eayleigh has measured directly the amount of light reflected from 
glass, as follows : Light from a cloud was passed through ground glass 
in the window of a darkened room, and made to fall at the polarizing 
angle on a plate of glass. The transmitted and reflected rays were con- 
ducted along different paths by a series of reflectors,-but finally emerged 
side by side and of equal intensity. One of these reflectors was the 
glass to be tested, the light falling on it at an incidence almost perpen- 
dicular. This glass was now removed, and a single mirror was shifted 
so as to make the angles and points of incidence of the reflected ray on 
the several mirrors the same as before. The reflected ray was now 
brighter than the transmitted. To reestablish equality a disk with 
holes in a ring round the center was rotated in the path. The ratio of 
the sum of the breadths of the boles to the whole circumference of the 



PHYSICS. 367 

ring gave the percentage of the light reflected. A piece of optically- 
worked black glass reflected .058 of the total incident light. Repolish- 
iug in one case increased the light reflected from .04095 to .0445. (Na- 
ture, November, 1886, xxxv, 64.) 

Howard Grubb has given a lecture at the Royal Institution npon tel- 
escope objectives and mirrors, their preparation and testing, with par- 
ticular reference to his own methods and results. (Nature, May, 1886, 
XXXIV, 85.) 

Stroh has described, in a paper to the Royal Society, a lantern combi- 
nation by which stereoscopic effects may be obtained on a screen, as in 
ordinary projection. (Nature, May, 1886, xxxiv, 68.) 

3. Dispersion and color. 

The new spectrometer constructed by Hilger for the physical labora- 
tory of University College, Dundee, has proved very satisfactory in its 
performance, reading directly to one second of arc and giving reliable 
results. Its construction is very simple. The collimator stands on a 
heavy pillar by itself; and the circle, which is divided to five minutes 
of arc on a ring 15 inches in diameter with six radial spokes, is carried 
on another pillar. The telescope, counterpoised, turns on the same axis 
but does not touch the circle at any point, and the reading is thus 
managed : From the telescope-bearing a double girder with a semicir- 
cular plate tied across its diameter with tubes of brass, stretches hori- 
zontally above the semi-circumference of the divided circle. To the ends 
of this girder are fixed two long- focus microscopes whose axes produced 
intersect the divided circle at the extremities of a diameter. They are 
read by means of a pointer and a spider-line micrometer whose head is 
divided into three hundred parts, each of which represents one second 
of arc. The microscopes are carried at such a height that they easily 
pass the collimator, and they can be read in any position. The light 
from the collimator passes entirely under the girder. (Nature, May, 
1886, XXXI V, 92.) 

Cornu has described a method by which he has succeeded in obtain- 
ing hydrogen spectrum tubes free from other substances. In the first 
place it is necessary that the mercury pump should be as far as possible 
from the apparatus which is to be traversed by the electric discharge, 
and that the communication between them should be established by 
many meters of helical tubes of glass, connecting with tubes of larger 
diameter containing first, fragments of sulphur to arrest the mercury 
vapor, and then copper turnings to take up the vapor of sulphur. All 
the parts of the apparatus should be sealed to each other by fusion. 
The hydrogen is produced by the electrolysis of dilute phosphoric acid, 
in a V-shaped voltameter, one of whose limbs communicates with the 
apparatus. The tubes are first exhausted, a few bubbles of gas are 
admitted and the rarefaction is continued. The spectrum shows spec- 
tra of carbon compounds. The battery current to the voltameter is 



368 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

then reversed and ozone is passed into the apparatus to wash it out. 
After more or less repetitions of this process, the hydrogen spectrum is 
obtained pure. The original paper must be consulted for the details. 
(J. Phys., March, 1886, II, v, 100.) 

In a subsequent paper Cornu gives a description of the method em- 
ployed by him for photographing the ultra-violet portion of the diffV* 
tion spectrum obtained from these hydrogen tubes, and also desi.nues 
the mode of measurement which he employed to obtain the wave lengths 
of the lines from the photographic plate. Ten of the lines thus meas. 
ured have wave lengths almost identical with those measured by Hug- 
gins in the spectra of white stars. (J. Phys., August, 1886, II, v, 341.) 

In studying the photographic spectrum of hydrogen, Ooruu has ob- 
served that those groups of metallic lines which reappear periodically 
with a particular regularity belong to the category of those which re- 
verse themselves. Moreover, they get nearer together, and diminish in 
intensity toward the more refrangible end of the spectrum. The spec- 
tra of aluminum and thallium are excellent examples. 2^ow, in these 
metallic spectra certain series of lines spontaneously reversed, present 
sensibly the same law of distribution and intensity as that of the hydro- 
gen lines. (J. Phys., March, 1886, II, v, 93 ; Nature, June, 1886, xxxiv, 
105.) 

Wiedemann has cautioned experimenters engaged in studying spark 
spectra against using for this purpose the spark of an induction coil, 
because of its composite character. The spectra produced by such a 
spark are multiple, their character changing with each of the partial dis- 
charges ; so that one of these discharges may produce a line spectrum 
and another a band spectrum. Moreover, it is not the sum of these im- 
pressions that is observed, since the diminution of visual sensitiveness 
with time is felt in a way which is quite different for these sparks of dif- 
fering intensity. Hence he prefers to use the Holtz spark for spectra. 
(Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1886, VI, vii, 143.) 

Bell, under Rowland's direction, has determined the wave lengths of 
thirty of the lines in the ultra-violet spectrum of cadmium. Seven of 
the lines measured were in the visible spectrum, and their wave lengths 
were determined by direct micrometric measurement. The others were 
fixed from measurements of their photograjjhs. The author believes 
them correct to one fifty-thousandth part. (Am. J. Sci., 1886, III, xxxi, 
426.) 

Mac6 de Lepinay has sought to determine the absolute wave length 
of the line D2 by an ingenious and novel method, which consists in de- 
termining optically, by means of Talbot's bands, the dimensions of a 
quartz cube as a function of this wave length, and thence its volume 
in terms of this wave length, on the one hand. And on the other, in 
determining by the balance, from the loss of weight in water, its abso- 
lute volume in milliliters. The values obtained for the D2 line are, in 
vacuo, 5,8917x10^ (milliliters) i; and inair5.8900x 10' (milliliters) i. As 



PHYSICS. 369 

soou as the exact relatioQ is known of the liter to the cubic decimeter, 
these values can of course be converted into centimeters. (J. Phys., 
September, 18SG, II, V, 411.) 

Pickering' has made an extended comparison of the photographed 
normal diflraction spectrum, published in 1873, by the late Henry Dra- 
per, and of Cornn's steel plate of the same region, with the photographs 
of the solar spectrum recently issued by Eowland. The results of the 
measurements show that the maps differ systematically, the wave 
lengths according to Draper's maps being too great for the lines of short 
wave length. Applying the proper corrections to the two maps of 
Draper and Cornu, the results agree closely with Eowland's. TLie 
mean difference for the seventy-six lines compared was 0.012, corre- 
sponding to about one eight-hundredth part of an inch upon the Draper 
map. It may therefore be assumed that the probable error of a wave 
length derived from the map of Draper will not exceed one one-hun- 
dredth of a unit, if the correction given be first applied. The wave 
lengths given on Cornu's map when thus corrected give an average 
deviation of 0.025. (Am. J. Sci., September, 1886, III, xxxii, 223.) 

Cornu has devised a simple but very ingenious method for distinguish- 
ing those lines in the sun's spectrum which are solar in their origin from 
those which are terrestrial. Fizeau had shown that there is a displace- 
ment of solar lines toward the red or the violet, according as the light 
came from the receding or the advancing edge of the sun. No such 
displacement occurs obviousl^^ if the lines are produced by absorption 
in the earth's atmosphere. This displacement is very minute, being 
only about yio of the distance between the D lines as a maximum. But 
this Cornu has found quite sufficient. Using a Rowland grating, an 
image of the sun is formed on the slit of the spectroscope by a lens, to 
which a slight oscillatory motion can be given by the hand. To dis- 
tinguish between a line of solar and one of terrestrial origin the line is 
brought near the vertical wire of the eye-piece, or better still, near one 
of those inevitable grains of dust which are always seen on the horizontal 
wire. The lever connected with the lens is then oscillated so as to bring 
alternately the two ends of the solar equator tangentiallj^ upon the slit. 
If the line is of terrestrial origin it remains absolutely fixed ; if it is solar 
it oscillates with the lever. (Nature, July, 1886, xxxiv, 210; Phil. 
Mag., November, 1886, V, xxii, 458.) 

Cornu at once applied this new method to the study of the solar spec- 
trum groups «, B and A, and in an extended memoir has given a de- 
tailed account of the modifications employed in the research. Fifteen 
doublets were observed in the A group, thirteen in B, and eleven in a. 
The paper is accompanied by an excellent plate giving all the lines of 
the groups drawn to scale, and indicating those which are of solar and 
those which are of terrestrial origin. These latter lines the author di- 
vides into two classes, one of which is probably due to moisture. (Ann, 
Chim. Phys., January, 1886, VI, vii, 5.) 
H. Mis. 600 24 



370 . RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Crookes has examined the phosi)borescent spectrum of erbia and finds 
that it consists of four green lines of wave lengths 5564, 5450, 5318, and 
5197, respectively. Pure erbia is of a beautiful rose-pink color and when 
illuminated by sunlight or by the electric light it gives a spectrum of 
black lines as sharp and distinct as the Fraunhofer lines. (Xatuie, 
March, 1886, xxxiii, 474.) 

Janssen in a paper to the French Academy, has given an account of 
his experiments at the Meudon observatory, upon the absorption spec- 
trum of oxygen. The first point noticed was the absorptive action ob- 
served by Egoroff, producing the groups a, A and B of the solar spec- 
trum. Besides this, however, another sj^stem of bands, much more dif- 
ficultly resolvable, appeared as the pressure increased. The interesting 
fact about this system is the law according to which the absorption 
phenomena develop when the density and the thickness of the medium 
traversed are simultaneously varied. The increase of effect is much 
more rapid than the product of these factors ; so that to represent the 
facts, thickness of the layer must be multiplied, not by the density it- 
self, but by the square of the density. Tims these bands have been ob- 
tained in a tube 0.42 meter long, containing oxygen under a pressure of 
70 atmospheres ; while calculating from the results obtained with a tube 
60 meters long, a pressure of 860 atmospheres would be required by the 
law of the product of length and density solely; in other words, under 
the condition that the beam shall traverse the same weight of matter. 
(0. E., June 1886, en, 1352.) 

Verneuil has given a method for preparing calcium sulphide, showing 
a violet phosphorescence on insolation. Twenty' grams of dense lime, 
such for example as is obtained by the calcination of certain very hard 
sea-shells, are finely pulverized and intimately mixed with six grams 
of sulphur and two grams of starch. The mixture is then treated with 
8 c. c. of a solution containing 0.5 gram bismuth subnitrate, 100 c. c. 
absolute alcohol, and a few drops hydrochloric acid, the liquid being 
added drop by drop. When the alcohol has mostly evaporated, the mixt- 
ure is heated in a covered crucible to a cherry-red heat for twenty min- 
utes. After cooling, the mass is pulverized and again calcined for fif- 
teen minutes. (C. R., October, 1886, cm, 600.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

In a paper read to the Royal Society Gemmell has described and 
given the results of a series of experiments on particular specimens of 
iron and steel, consisting of wires of soft Scotch iron, common wire, 
charcoal iron, and soft steel, and bars of cast-iron and of malleable iron. 
The object was to find the difference between these with respect to the 
intensities of their total and residual magnetization due to different de- 
grees of magnetizing force. Tlie results represent the eflFect of a cur- 



PHYSICS. 371 

rent gradually increased from zero to the maximum gradually diminished 
to zero again, and the same process repeated with a negative current. 
It was found that the charcoal iron had the highest magnetizability, and 
the soft steel the lowest; that of the soft Scotch iron approaching the 
former. As to retentiveness, on the other hand, the charcoal iron shows 
the least and the soft steel the greatest. Annealing the latter brings 
it very near the common wire in respect to magnetizability and reten- 
tiveness both. The cast iron specimens differ considerably also; the 
malleable bar shows a much higher magnetizability than the cast-iron 
ores, but its residual magnetization was so low that it could not be 
measured. (Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 473.) 

In a series of experiments made to test the Ampere- Weber theory of 
magnetism, Lodge subjected various substances to the action of a mag- 
netic field, first strong to magnetize it and then weak and reversible to 
test the magnetization produced. His observations have led him to the 
conclusion that most likely every substance possesses some trace of 
permanent magnetizability or retentivity. But in all these experiments 
there is a flaw ; and that is that there is no guaranty that no trace of iron 
is present in the body operated on. (Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 484.) 

Bidwell has studied the changes produced by magnetization in the 
length of iron wires under tension by means of a special apparatus so 
arranged that the effects of magnetization on rods and wires can be ob- 
served while they are under traction. Four specimens of iron were 
used — a wire of commercial iron 1.2""" in diameter, a strip of annealed 
charcoal iron, a piece of hard unannealed wire, and a wire of very pure 
soft iron. The results show (1) that under the influence of a gradually 
increasing magnetizing force the wire is at first elongated, then it re- 
turns to its original length, and finally it contracts ; (2) that the max- 
imum elongation diminishes as the load increases, but according to a 
different law for each quality of iron ; (3) that the retraction due to a 
given magnetizing force is greater with heavy than with light loads ; 

(4) that both maximum, elongation, and neutrality occur with smaller 
magnetizing currents when the load is heavy than when it is light ; and 

(5) that the phenomena are greater for thin than for thick wires. 
(Nature, April, 1886, xxxiii, 597.) 

The question of the influence of temperature upon magnetization has 
been examined by Berson. He concludes from the experiments of him- 
self and others that iron, steel, nickel, and cobalt behave when mag- 
netized in the same general way in regard to temperature. At first 
these metals take a magnetic moment, increasing with the temperature, 
pass through a maximum limit, and then decrease to zero. The only 
differences are (I) in the precise temperature corresponding to the max- 
imum (about 220° for nickel), and (2) in the temperature at which the 
magnetic power disappears, 340° for nickel, cherry-red for iron and steel, 
the point of fusion of copper for cobalt. (J. Phys., October, 1886, II, 
V, 4?7.^ 



372 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Wiedemaun Las given a resume of his researches made several years 
ago on the relation between the mechanical and magnetic properties of 
bodies, especially the torsional effects of magnetism, and has added cer- 
tain new experiments in confirmation of his theory. (Wied, Ann,, March, 
188G; Phil. Mag., July, 1886, V, xxii, 50.) Bid well has replied to 
Wiedemann, giving some experiments of his own which support Max- 
well's theory. If a longitudinally magnetized wire be fixed at the 
south end, and if a battery current be passed through it from south to 
north, the free north end of the wire, as seen from the fixed end, will be 
observed to twist in the direction of motion of the hands of a clock. 
Maxwell explains this by the fact that the wire is magnetized both cir- 
cularly and longitudinally, and that the resulting magnetization is in 
the direction of a right handed screw round the wire. Since Jule has 
shown that an iron bar is increased in length and contracted trans, 
versely when magnetized, a spirally magnetized wire would necessarily 
twist. Bidwell has confirmed Barrett's observation that nickel contracts 
in length when magnetized. Hence on Maxwell's theory it should twist 
oppositely to an iron wire when spirally magnetized. This he finds to 
be the fact. Moreover, Bidwell's experiments on iron show that on 
increasing the magnetization of iron it ceases to elongate and then 
actually contracts. And further that if the iron wire is stretched, the 
contraction takes place with smaller magnetizing forces. Now, on mag 
uetiziug such an iron wire spirally, its free end can be made to twist in 
either direction by varying the current through the surrounding helix, 
and when the wire is loaded the reversal of the torsion occurs with 
smaller currents. (Phil. Mag., Se|)tember, 1886, V, xxii, 251.) 

Sack has experimented to determine the specific induction constants 
of magnets in magnetic fields of difit'erent strengths in order to fix the 
limits of the effect noticed by Lamout that the change of magnetism is 
greater when the force acts in opposition to the previous magnetiza- 
tion than when it strengthens it.. He finds that the coefficients of 
weakening and strengthening are appreciably the same for fields iu 
which the strength does not exceed 1.2. With stronger magnetic fields 
the magnitude of the constant of weakening which is produced by 
the magnetic field on closing is greater than the constant of strengthen- 
ing. (Wied. Ann., 1886, No. 9; Phil. Mag., October, 1886, V, xxii, 386.) 

Deprez has given the results of his experiments on the magnetic in- 
tensity of the field in dynamo-electric machines, and has observed that 
this intensity decreases much less rapidly than the distance between the 
l)ole pieces increases ; the intensity of the field in one of his experiments 
diminishing to only one-half its value, while the distance separating the 
pole pieces was increased from 7.5 to 75 millimeters, or tenfold. (C. K., 
October, 1886, cm, 712.) 

Leduc has studied the variation iu the resistance of bismuth when 
placed in a magnetic field, and finds that this resistance increases by 
more than 15 per cent, in a magnetic field whose intensity is 10,000 



PHYSICS. 373 

C. G. S. units. He proposes to use this variation in the resistance for 
Ihepurposeofmeasuring- the intensity of a magnetic field. This increase 
of resistance is in part due to the deviation of the equipotential lines, 
and hence the resistance should be divided by the cosine of this devia- 
tion. But since this coefiQcient does not exceed 1.005, the explanation 
of the greater part of the phenomenoii is to be sought in the change of 
structure of the metal, which produces a deformation in the electric field 
of the metallic plate experimented on. (C. E., February, 1886, cii, 358.) 

It has long been a question whether the intensity of terrestrial mag- 
netism varies with the altitude; Humboldt, Kupffer, Forbes, Bravais, 
and Martin maintaining that it diminishes as the altitude increases, and 
Quetelet and Hartz holding the opposite view. Maurer has discussid 
a series of observations made simultaneously on the summit of the 
Sentis, 2,465 meters, and at the Polytechnicum in Zurich by himself 
and Bayer, lasting seventy-nine days, and has failed to find any sensible 
difference. Hence either the magnetic force is constant with altitude 
or the variation is very small. (Arch. Sci. Phys., Gen., xxii, 339; J. 
Pbys., June, 1886, II, v, 290.) 

Balfour, Stewart, and Schuster have discussed the phenomena of 
terrestrial magnetism, the former in a paper entitled " On the Cause of 
the Solar-diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism," and the latter 
in a paper "On the Diurnal Period of Terrestrial Magnetism." Both 
these investigators conclude that the cause of these variations lies in 
the upper atmospheric regions; and we can not imagine,, says Stewart, 
such a cause to exist in any other form than that of a system of electric 
currents. (Phil. Mag., April, May, 1886, V, xxi, 349, 435; Nature, 
April, 1886, xxxiii, 614, 620.) 

Krueger has proposed to determine directly the vertical intensity of 
a magnetic field by measuring the deflection which a disk suspended 
horizontally by means of a vertical wire in a solution of coi)per sulphate 
experiences when traversed in a radial direction by a current. The 
vertical intensity of the earth's magnetism at Gottingen thus deter- 
mined was 2.2903 times the horizontal intensity ; a value correct to the 
sToo part. (Wied. Ann., xxviii, 613; Phil. Mag., September, 1886, 
V, XXII, 311). 

Nichols, following Remsen, has experimented to determine the chem- 
ical behavior of iron in the magnetic field. A definite quantity of pow^- 
dered iron was introduced into a known weight of acid contained in a 
beaker placed between the poles of an electro magnet, and the rise of 
temperature noted in alternate experiments with the current off and on. 
Nitric, hydrochloric, and sulphuric acids were used, and also aqua regia. 
In all these both the speed of the reaction and the heat })roduced was 
greater in the magnetic field except in the case of sulphuric acid, where 
the heat was decreased. The prompt destruction of the so-called pas- 
sivity of iron in the magnetic field was distinctly observed. (Am. J. 
Sci., April, 1886, III, xxxi, 272). 



374 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

2. Electric Generators. 

Dorn has proved that when tourmaline is electrified by heating it, the 
amount of positive electricity produced is precisely similar to the 
amount of negative electricity. The proof comes from the fact that if 
the tourmaline, after being heated, is brought inside a conducting but in- 
sulated hollow body, an electrometer connected with this body should 
show no signs of electricity as the crystal cools. Ko deflection was ever 
obtained which exceeded the uncertainty of the instrument employed. 
(Wied. Ann., November, 10, 1885; Phil. Mag., January, 1886, V,xxi, 78). 

Hilliaret has described and discussed the action of an influence ma- 
chine of the Wimshurst type constructed by Breguet. If the charge of 
the machine is maintained from an external source the charge is theo- 
retically limited ; but if the machine is self-exciting, the charge dimin- 
ishes in geometical progression as the operations increase in arithmetical 
progression, and the excitation falls rapidly to zero. This is readily 
seen by j)utting the combs of the machine in contact. For practical 
use the author thinks this type of machine preferable to any other ' 
form. (J. Phys., May, 1886, II, v, 208.) 

Budde has calculated the quantity of electricity carried by a chem- 
ical atom. Faraday showed that the quantity of electricity carried to 
the electrode by an atom of any electrolyte is directly proportional to 
its combining power or valence ; and therefore that the quotient of this 
quantity divided by the valence is constant for all atoms. The authors 
therefore considers that this quotient, since it is the smallest quantity 
of electricity which can be set free from any chemical decomposition, 
represents an elementary electrical particle. To calculate it we must 
know: (1) the electro-chemical equivalent of an electrolyte, and (2) 
the absolute number of molecules contained in a unit mass of this sub- 
stance. In the case of hydrogen, which is univalent, the electromag- 
netic value of the current which evolves 1 milligram of hydrogen per 
second is 957, and its electrostatic value 957 v, or 957 x (3 x 10"). One- 
half this sets free 14x10^^ molecules or twice this number of atoms; 
these values being given in milligram-millimeter-second units. Divid- 
ing, we get for the value carried by any univalent atom 0.00000051 elec- 
trostatic unit. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 562; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 
523.) 

Lodge's paper on the seat of the electromotive forces in the voltaic 
cell has called forth several replies. In one of these, Ayrton and 
Perry object to the assumption which he tacitly makes that there is 
a prima facie absurdity in acknowledging a considerable difference of 
potentials between two metals such as zinc and copper in contact 
with each other. Taking Lodge's definition of electromotive force, as 
already given by Maxwell, '' the seat of the E. M. F. in any circuit is 
the place at which the circuit receives or gives up energy as distinct from 
heat due to resistance, and the amount of the E. M. F. is measured as 



PHYSICS. 375 

the amount of energy which enters the circuit per unit of electricity 
passing that point," and it is not possible to answer Lodge's question 
in any other way than that in which he has himself answered it. The 
real question at issue between them is quite another one. It is, is there 
an actual contact difference of potential between zinc and copper? a 
question which Ayrtou and Perry answer in the affirmative. (Phil. 
Mag., January, 1886, V, xxi, 51.) In his reply Lodge confines his re- 
marks to the thermo-electric views put forth in Ayrtou and Perry's paper. 
He thus restates their assumptions, every one of which seems to him 
gratuitous and unsupported by experiment: (a) The characteristic 
function of a simple thermo-electric circuit is an expression for the Volta- 
effect between the metals of that circuit ; (b) the Volta-effect of two 
metals varies with the temperature; (c) the total E. M. F. of a thermo- 
electric circuit is equal to the difference between the Volta-effects of its 
two metals at the temperatures of the hot and cold junction, respect- 
ively ; {(l) the specific heat of electricity falls greatly as it flows from 
copper to zinc and rises a nearly equal amount as it flows from zinc to 
acid ; (e) the rate of variation of Volta effect with temperature is a 
measure of the Peltier-effect at a junction ; (/) heat is generated or de- 
stroyed at certain places in a circuit because electricity changes its ca- 
pacity for heat there ; (g) reversible energy actions may go on in a cir- 
cuit when a current passes without producing heat or any other form of 
energy on the spot, and without either propelling or retarding the cur- 
rent. To accord with -his own view, the above statements should be for- 
mulated as follows : (a) The characteristic function of a simple thermo- 
electric circuit represents itself and no other physical phenomenon that 
has yet been specially observed ; (h) the Volta-effect of two metals cer- 
tainly varies with temperature if the heat tends to oxidize one metal 
more than another, or in any other way to interpose a barrier between 
metal and active medium, but the fact has no thermo-electric interest 
whatever; (c) the total E. M. F. of a thermo-electric circuit is the sum 
of the forces in the different parts of that circuit, viz, at the junction 
and in the metals, and has nothing on earth to do with Volta's, or 
Crookes's, or Hall's, or anybody's else '-effect," except Peltier's and 
Thomson's ; (fZ, e) the Peltier-effect at a junction is a measure and con- 
sequence of the B. M. F. located there ; (/, g) heat (or more generally 
energy) is generated or destroyed at places where the current does work 
or has work done upon it ; i. e., wherever it is opposed or assisted by an 
E. M. F., and nowhere else. (Phil. Mag., March, 18S6, V, xxi, 2G3.) 
Ostwald, in a letter to Lodge, describes a method based on a statement 
by von Helmholtz, by which differences of potential, whether between 
two liquids or between a liquid and a metal, may be directly measured. 
(Phil. Mag., July, 1886, V, xxii, 70.) 

Brown has communicated to the Royal Society an account of some 
important experiments on contact action. He maintains that the differ- 
ence of potential near two metals in contact is due to the chemical 



376 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

action of a film of coudeused vapor or gas ou their surfaces. Such a 
pair of plates is thus similar to a voltaic cell with its electrotype divided 
by a diai)hragm of air of other gas ; aud it is the diflference of potential 
of the films that is measured in " contact" experiments, the metals 
themselves being at one potential. His experiments were made with an 
electrometer having quadrants of the metals under consideration. A 
reversal of the electro- motive force takes place with pairs of copper-iron 
when hydrogen sulphide or ammonia is added to the air surrounding 
them; with silver-iron when hydrogen sulphide is added; and with 
copper-nickel when either ammonia or hydrogen chloride is added. 
Neutral or inert gases have little or no effect. By placing the (appar- 
ently) dry plates of copper and zinc in close proximity, so that their 
films were in contact, a permanent current was produced, which ceased 
when the metals touched or were separated to a certain distance. This 
"film-cell" could be polarized by sending a current through it from 
another battery. When the zinc i)late of a Volta condenser was joined 
to the zinc quadrant of the electrometer and the copper of the con- 
denser to the copperof the electrometer, on altering the capacity" of 
the condenser an alteration of the difference of potential near the quad- 
rants was produced. (Nature, December, 1886, xxv, 142.) 

Knott has examined the resistance and thermo-electric properties of 
hydrogenized palladium. He finds that the electro-motive force in a 
circuit of pure and of hydrogenized palladium, the temperature of the 
junctions being 0<=> and 100©, is 20 x 10* C. G. S. units, or 0.002 volt. If 
a palladium wire be hydrogenized for half its length by immersing that 
half in an electrolytic cell, and the ends of the apparently uniform wire 
be connected to a galvanometer, then on allowing aflame to play gently 
on the central portion of the wire a strong current is obtained, which 
increases to a maximum and then decreases to zero. (Nature, Septem- 
ber, 1886, XXXIV, 462.) 

Bid well has exhibited to the Physical Society of London a cell with a 
solid electrotype thus constructed : Upon a plate of copper a layer of 
quite dry precipitated copper sulphide is spread. Ou this is placed a 
clean plate of silver, covered with a slight film of silver sulphide by 
pouring on it a solution of sulphur in carbon disulphide and evaporat- 
ing the free sulphur by heat. Ou connecting the cell with a galva- 
nometer a considerable deflection is obtained ; far greater than, and in 
the opposite direction to, the deflection obtained with a silver plate not 
thus treated. The resistance of the cell was very great — 6,500 ohms — 
but was greatly reduced by compression. The electro motive force was 
0.07 volt. (Nature, July, 18S6, xxxiv, 211 ; Phil. Mag., Y, xx, 328; J. 
Phys., July, 1886, II, v, 339.) 

Toscani has demonstrated experimentally: First, that if in a battery 
cell both surfaces of the zinc are active, the contribution made by each 
of them to the general useful effect is in the inverse ratio of the square 
of their distance from the center of the inactive electrode ; and, second, 



PHYSICS. , 377 

that whatever be the uuuiber of surfaces of zinc in metallic commiiui- 
cation in any given element, and whatever be their distances from the 
inactive electrodes each of these surfaces contributes to the general 
useful action very approiniately in the inverse ratio of the square of 
its distance from this electrode. (II Nuovo Cimento, xyiii, 138; J. 
Phys., December, 1886, II, v, 573.) 

Hopkinson has presented a paper to the Royal Society on dynamo- 
machines, the purpose of the investigation being to give an approxi- 
mately complete construction of the characteristic curve of a dynamo 
of a given form from the ordinary laws of electro-magnetism and the 
known properties of iron. Taking the curve already determined for 
wrought-irou and constructing a characteristic in this way, he has ob- 
tained a theoretical curve which agrees over a long range with the 
actual results of observations on a dynamo-machine more closely than 
any empirical formula yet published. (Nature, May, 1886, xxxiv, 20). 

Gore has examined experimentally the effect of temperature upon the 
Peltier effect, and finds that with couples formed of bismuth-antimony, 
iron, German silver, and bisamth-silver, the total Peltier effect is greater 
in each case at the higher temperature than at the lower cue, but with 
the antimony-silver couple the effects at the two temperatures were 
about equal. (Phil. Mag., April, 1886, V, xvi, 359.) 

3. Electrical units and measurements. 

Lorenz has experimented to ascertain whether the resistances of 
liquid columns of the same length vary exactly in the inverse ratio of 
their sections when these sections are quite small. By measuring di- 
rectly the resistances of uon capillary mercury columns and coiuparing 
them with those of capillary columns contained in tubes calibrated with 
the greatest care, he finds a difference in the latter of from 14 to 21 per 
cent, less than the calculated values. This difference, if real, is too 
small, however, to affect the absolute resistance except in the thou- 
sandth's place. The author's experiments fix the absolute value of the 
ohm at 105 93 centimeters ; differing only by one-thousandth part from 
the conference unit. (Wied. Ann., xxv, 1 ; J. Phys., November, 1886, 
II, V, 539.) 

Rayleigh has suggested certain criticisms on the details of the meth- 
ods employed by Hinstedt in the determination of the ohm. He him- 
self has found mercury contacts to be unreliable, and has substituted 
platinum contacts for them. Moreover, the question should be consid- 
ered whether the axial magnetization of the needle does not alter under 
the action of a force having a sensible axial component. And, aj^ain, 
the methods of winding and measuring the primary and secondary coils 
introduce sources of error in his opinion. (Phil. Mag., January, 1886, 
V, XXI, 10.) 

In a paper on the Clark cell as a standard of E. M. F., Rayleigh has 
discussed the relative advantages of various modes of preparation. The 



378 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

greatest errors arise from the liquid failing to be saturated with zinc 
sulphate, in which case the E. M. F. is too high. The opposite error of 
supersaturatiou is also sometimes met with. If these errors are avoided, 
as may easily be done; if the mercury be pure, (profusely distilled m 
vacuo); and if the paste be neutralized either originally with zinc car- 
bonate or by allowing a few weeks to elapse (during which the solution is 
supposed to neutralize itself), the electromotive force appears to be trust- 
worthy to one-thousandth part. This conclusion is based on the exam- 
ination of a large number of cells prepared by the author and by other 
physicists. (:Nrature, February, 1886, xxxiii, 357.) 
Lippmann has devised an absolute spherical electrometer, which con- 
sists essentially of an insulated metallic sphere raised to the potential the 
value of which we desire to know. This sphere is so constructed as to 
divide into two hemispheres, which are movable with respect to each 
other, and which, when the system is electrified, repel with a perfectly 
definite force. It can easily be shown that this force is one-eighth of the 
square of the potential of the sphere. To measure this force, one of the 
hemispheres is fixed, the other is suspended by a tri-filar system — three 
vertical wires of equal lengths. When repulsion is produced the movable 
hemisphere can be displaced only i)arallel to itself: the three wires then 
make a small angle with their original vertical position, which augle is 
measured by the mirror method. The product of the weight of the 
movable hemisphere by the tangent of the angle of rotation is the 
force. In the improved form of this instrument the two hemispheres 
are contained within a concentric spherical envelope, which is connected 
with the earth. By this means not only is the sensitiveness increased, 
but the system is protected from air currents as well as from extrane- 
ous electrical influences. (C. E., March, 1886, cii, 6G6 ; Phil. Mag, July, 
1886, V, XXII, 79; J. Phys., July, 1886, II, v, 323.) 

Bichat and Bloudlot have described two forms of absolute electrom- 
eter, the one adapted to give continuous indications the other for high 
potentials. In the former instrument, the attraction between two con- 
centric cylinders is measured. One of these is fixed, the other is at- 
tached to the beam of a balance; the other end of the beam carries a 
disk moving in a cylinder to damp the oscillations. In the other elec- 
trometer the movable cylinder is suijported at the middle of its length 
upon a knife-edge attached to the beam ; it is balanced by adjustable 
counterpoises. The upper portion of this cylinder is surrounded by a 
second and hollow cylinder, which when electrified attracts the inner 
cylinder upward. The lower end of the cylinder carries a scale-pan and 
a damping cylinder of paper moving in a glass cylinder of slightly larger 
diameter (C. R., March, cii, 753 ; July, 1886, cm, 245 ; J. Phys., II, V, 
325, July ; 457, October.) 

Kolacek has suggessed a method of using the gold-leaf electroscope 
so as to get a dednite relation between the augle of divergence of the 
leaves and the difference of i)oteutial between the leaves and the enve- 



PHYSICS. 379 

lope. The leaves were 8'='" long, and were projected, magnified fifteen 
times, upon a screen divided into centimeters. The reading of the dis- 
tance was made about twenty seconds after the first impulse ; and the 
deflection is proportional to the square of the potential difference. The 
condenser employed consisted of two copper plates 7""' in diameter, the 
one screwed on the electroscope only being varnished. The values ob- 
tained for Daniell cells, for bichromate cells, and for copper-zinc i)oteu- 
tial difference are satisfactory. (Wied. Ann., No. 7; Phil. Mag., August, 
1886, V, XXII, 228.) 

Fitzgerald has devised a new galvanometer. Its peculiarities are (1) 
the arrangement by which the coils can be measured in their place ; 
(2) the arrangement by which the circle is read with a microscope by 
reflection mirrors attached to the magnet when the instrument is used 
either as a sine or tangent galvanometer; and (3) an arrangement by 
which a spot of light reads the tangents of deflection. The first ad- 
vantage is secured by leaving the two pairs of short and long coils 
wound in grooves, closed in outside b^' a glass jjlate, through which they 
can be seen, and the external and internal diameter of each layer of 
wire measured ; the transverse diameter, by looking through small holes 
left in the ring that covers the coils outside. The reading is effected by 
viewing a scale engraved on the inside of a horizontal ring surround- 
ing the needle by reflection in two right-angled prisms att iched to the 
needle, which reflect opposite sides of the scale. The corresponding 
lines in the two maps, which differ hy exactly 180°, is the line at right 
angles to the line of intersection of the reflecting planes of the prism. 
The exact position of that line can be read by means of a micrometer 
in the eye-piece of the microscope. The horizontal graduated ring is 
attached through the vertical axis on which the coils, etc., turn, to the 
base of the instrument, and so the same circle does for reading when 
the instrument is used as a sine galvanometer. By means of a small 
mirror attached to tlie needle at 45° to the line of suspension a spot of 
light can be reflected through the glass side of the instrument to a scale, 
and then a uniform scale represents the tangents of the deflections. 
(Nature, March, 1886, xxxiii, 455.) Carey Foster has noted the fact 
that Bertin, in 1869, showed that the sensitiveness of the tangent galva- 
nometer for strong currents may be increased and the usable range of 
deflection doubled by placing the circle in a vertical plane inclined at 
an angle of 45° to the magnetic meridian. (Nature, October, 1886, 
xxxiv, 546.) Gray has described a modified form of sine galvanometer, 
in which the coil consists of a single layer of wir^ wound on a tube of 
comparatively small diameter, say, ten centimeters or less, and of great 
length, movable about a vertical axis, and carrying within it and at its 
center the needle attached to a delicately suspended mirror. (Phil. 
Mag., October, 1886, Y, xxii, 368.) Thompson has described a modi- 
tied form of Maxwell's galvanometer. A light frame of copper, upon 
which is a coil of wire, is suspended between the poles of a horseshoe 



380 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

raaguet, aud a piece of soft iron is placed within the coil, but free from 
it, wiiicli concentrates the magnetic force between the poles. The coil 
is suspended by two silver wires, by which it is iu connection with two 
binding screws on the base of the instrument. This galvanometer is 
extremely simi)le in adjustment and is very dead beat; it has also the 
advantage of being affected to an inappreciable extent by neighboring 
magnets and currents with a current in its own coils; when no current 
is traversing it, it is of course quite unaffected. (Nature, April, 1886, 
XXXIII, 574.) 

Lalande lias devised forms of voltmeters and ammeters which might 
be called electrical areometers. They consist of a bundle of soft iron 
wires placed inside a metal areometer, which is immersed in a glass 
cylinder full of water, and round which is coiled the wire through which 
passes the current to be measured. In the apparatus as constructed a 
displacement of 10 centimeters corresponds to a strength of from 10 to 
25 amperes at pleasure, or to a difference of potential of 100 volts. (C. 
R., CI, ; Phil. Mag., February, 188 ), Y, xxi, 1G3.) 

Blytb has described a new form of current-weigher for the absolute 
determination of the strength of an electric current. In one of his in- 
struments a current of 1 ampere produces an attraction equal to a 
weight of .04818 gram. (Nature, September, 1880, xxxiv, 508.) 

Pellat has applied the same principle to the construction of an electro- 
dynamometer, by means of which the absolute value of a current may 
be determined within one two thousandth of its value. (C. K., Decem- 
ber, 1886, cm, 1189.) 

Bidwell has described an im[)roved form of Wheatstone's rheostat, 
which is of great use where it is important to adjust a resistance to a 
nicety or to cause a continuous variation. (Nature, May, 1886, xxxiv, 
70; Phil. Mag., July, 1886, V, xxif, 29.) 

Roiti has constructed an electro-calorimeter, formed of two Breguet 
spirals placed the one above the other; one having the silver on the out- 
side, the other on the inside. Their opposite ends are fixed and receive 
the current. Their free ends are connected together and with a metallic 
index, which they tend to turn in the same direction. A comparison 
with the electric thermometer of Riess showed for the electro-calorime- 
ter an equal sensitiveness. This instrument was employed in the elec- 
trical exhibition at Turin in measuring the Gaulard and Gibbs second- 
ary generator, and with satisfactory results. (II Nuovo Cimento, xviii, 
1 ; J. Phys., December, 1886, II, v, 576.) 

Ayrton and Perry have communicated a valuable paper to the Lon- 
don Physical Society on the construction of voltmeters, particularly on 
the best method of winding. (Phil. Mag., February, 1886, V, xxi, 100.) 

Wassmuth has suggested that when a galvanometer needle is made 
astatic by an auxiliary magnet placed at a distance from it, there should 
be placed in the vicinity of the magnet aud perpendicuhir to its direc- 
tion a plate of iron. The sensibility of the galvanometer is notably 



PHYSICS. 381 

changed b3^ displacing this plate ; and this without putting the needle 
in a position of unstable equilibrium. Moreover, the influence of ter- 
restrial magnetism on a galvanometer may be materially diminished by 
surrounding it with a ring of iron. (Anz. Ak.Wien, 1885, 148; J. Phys., 
May, 1886, II, v, 242.) 

Carhart has observed that the equation expressing the electrical en 
ergy absorbed by a motor per second as the product of the counter-elec- 
tromotive force and thecurrent Ei^ — EEj— -R W, is an equation of the 
second degree, and therefore represents a conic section. On applying 
the proper criterion he finds that the locus of this equation is a hyper- 
bola. Plotting the curve, he draws important inferences from it, and 
shows that Jacobi's law of maximum rate of working applies only under 
the condition of a constant electromotive force. (Am. J. Sci., February, 
1886, III, XXXI, 95.) 

Mendenhall has repeated and confirmed his experiments on the 
diminution of the resistance of soft-carbon disks with pressure. With 
a rod of hard carbon 12*"" long and 1.5'='" in diameter, with plated con- 
tacts inside of the ends, he observed a decreased deflection whenever 
the rod was compressed in a vise. The soft-carbon disk was made to 
form a partition between the two halves of a (J tube, and, mercury 
being poured in so as to entirely cover the surfaces of the carbon, the 
ends of the tubes were closed. On then blowing in through a rubber 
tube connected laterally to each leg pressure'could be produced on the 
carbon disk and the effect on the current j)assing through the disk 
noted. All the experiments without exception showed great diminu- 
tion in the resistance of the disk by increase of pressure; this resist- 
ance in one case falling to one-half when the pressure was increased by 
S*"" of mercury. {Am. J. ScL, September, 1887, III, xxxii, 218.) Tom- 
liuson has published a note on these experiments, stating that he pre- 
fers to believe that the change does not take place in the specific resist- 
ance of the carbon itself, but is due to better surface contact ; erro- 
neously assuming that the Edison soft-carbon disks are formed by com- 
pressing a mixture of lamp-black with gum-water. (Phil. Mag., No- 
vember, 1886, V, XXII, 442.) 

* 4. Electric spark and electric light. 

According to the hypothesis of Edlund, a perfect vacuum is a good 
conductor of electricity, and the resistance of a gaseous column more or 
less rarefied is composed of two terms, one of which represents the re- 
sistance proper of the gas which diminishes with the pressure, tbe 
other a resistance of which the surface of the electrodes is the seat, and 
which varies according to an entirely different law, increasing as the 
density of the gas diminishes and becoming so great at the lowest 
pressures that can be produced artificially as to have given the impres- 
sion that a vacuum is an insulator. Hom^n, under Edlund's direction, 
has made a series of measurements on the resistance of air columns 



382 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

uuder varyiug lengths and pressures. He finds (1) that the resistance 
proper of the air is sensibly independent of the section of the tube, 
varies proportional to the pressure nearly, and ceases to be measurable 
for very low pressures; (2) that the resistance at the electrodes in- 
creases more and more rapidly as the pressure diminishes, becomes 
strong enough at the lowest pressures to prevent the electricity from 
entering the gas. According to Goldstein the seat of this resistance is 
the surface of the negative electrode ; according to Hittorf it is in the 
luminous aureole which surrounds it, while Wiedemann places it in 
the dark space which appears at low pressures. ( Weid. Ann., xxvr, 85 ; 
J. Phys., November, 1886, II, V, 543.) 

In his memoirs upon comets, Faye has stated his belief that incan- 
descent bodies are endowed with an actual repulsive force, and he gives 
an experiment which he thinks proves this assumption. Wesendonck 
has repeated and varied Faye's experiment, heating the platinum strip 
to incandescence, either hj a current or by a flame, and modifying the 
form of the apparatus, the nature of the gas within it, and the press- 
ure ; and he concludes that all the phenomenaobtained can be explained 
either by the expansion of the gas in the vicinity of the incandescent 
platinum or by the lateral passage of a part of the discharge through 
the platinum strip ; and this without resort to repulsion. (Weid. Ann., 
XXVI, 81 ; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 544.) 

Eight has photographed the electric spark in air and in water, under 
various conditions. The sparks in water were 7 or 8''" long, rose-red, 
with weak discharges, white and very brilliant with strong ones. They 
have no aureole. They are often ramified as in air and present over their 
whole length small sparks, starting to the right and left like a sort of 
down. Beautiful photographs have also been obtained of the aureoles 
around the positive and negative electrodes, when the spark has not 
tension enough to jump. Sometimes two images of the aureole are seen, 
differing in brilliance, projected the one upon theothei, the photographic 
impression at the point of crossing being paler than the rest of the 
most distinct image. This the author explains by supposing absorption 
at a lower temperature by the layers nearest the plate of the light pro- 
duced by those back of them. (II Nuovo Cimento, xviii, 49; .1. Phys., 
December, 1886, II, V, 575.) 

Kayser has photographed successfully lightning discharges. He has 
called attention to one particular discharge formed of four flashes of 
different sizes, parallel through all their sinuosities, decreasing grad- 
ually in length and brilliance from the first to the fourth. He regards 
it as an oscillating discharge between a cloud and the earth. He esti- 
mated the total discharge to have occupied less than a half second. 
(Weid. Anns., xxv, 131; J. Phys., November, 1886, II, v, 525.) 

Emmott and Ackroyd have exhibited to the London Physical Society 
an electric-light fire-damp indicator. It consists of two incandescent 
lamps, one with colorless, the other with red, glass, the circuit being so 



PHYSICS. 383 

arranged that in an ordinary atmosphere the colorless lamp alone shines, 
but in fire damp this goes out and the red one lights up. This is effected 
in a simple manner by the motion of a mercury contact opening the 
lower part of a curved tube, one end of which is open and the other con- 
nected with a porous pot of uuglazed porcelain, the motion of the mer- 
cury being due to the increased pressure in the pot caused by diffusion. 
(Nature, July 1886, xxxiv, 210; Phil. Mag., August 1886, V, xxii, 145.) 

Von Lang has measured directly the counter electro-motive force of 
the voltaic arc as follows : Two separate sets of light apparatus are ar- 
ranged symmetrically in the circuit of a Benson battery so that the 
middle of the battery and the middle of the conductor uniting the two 
lamps are at the same potential. By the aid of a Wheatstoue bridge 
the resistance of the two portions of the circuit are determined ; first 
when both lamps are in action, again when the carbons have been re- 
placed by resistances which restore the current to its primitive value. 
The half-difference of the two values thus obtained gives the resistance, 
which is compensated by the counter electro- motive force of one of the 
voltaic arcs. This is readily calculated by multiplying the difference 
obtained by the current strength. The value thus found is 38.6 volts. 
(Anz. Ak. Wien, 1885, 89 ; J. Phys., May, 1886, II, v, 239, November, 
542.) 

Cross and Shepard have also studied the counter electro- motive force 
of the arc, under various conditions. They conclude: (1) That there 
is a definite inverse electromotive force for the whistling arc, whose value 
is approximately 15 volts; (2) that the inverse electromotive force for 
both the silent and whistling arcs diminishes slowly as the current in- 
creases; (3) that the inverse electro-motive force, at least for the whist- 
ling arc, is less for the inverted than for the upright arc ; (4) that the 
great change in equivalent resistance which occurs when volatile salts 
are introduced into the arc is chiefly due to a large fall in the inverse 
electro-motive force, although there is at the same time a marked dim- 
inution in the conductive resistance; (5) that the diminished total re- 
sistance of the arc in rarefied air is due solely to a diminution in the 
conductive resistance ; and (6) that there is some evidence to show 
that with considerable reduction of pressure there is a slight increase 
in the inverse electro-motive force. (Proc. Am. Acad., 1886, xxii, 227.) 

Carhart has examined the question of electrical surface transmission 
and concludes there is no sufiicient scientific basis for making lightning 
conductors of large surface, and that large sectional area is essential to 
ample conductivity. (Am. J. Sci., April, 1886, III, xxxi, 256.) 

Douglass has suggested the use of fluted carbons 50""" in diameter 
for light-house electric lighting. When in use no crater is formed in 
either of the carbon points and their form is all that can be desired for 
utilizing fully the maximum light of the radiant arc. He estimates that 
the actual gain in light by their use is not less than 10 per cent. (Na- 
ture, July, 1886, xxxiv, 209.) 



384 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



NECROLOGY OF PHYSICISTS, 1886. 

Draper, John Christopher, professor of chemistry in the medical 
department of the University of the City of JSTew York. Known 
as a writer on optical subjects and the author of a text-booK on 
medical physics. Died in New York, December 20, 1885, in his 
fifty-first year. 

Jamin, J., perpetual secretary of the Academy of Sciences, author of a 
'i Cours de Physique," and well known for his investigations in phys- 
ics, especially in optics and electricity. Died in Paris, of heart 
disease, February 12, 1886, aged seventy-three years. 

GUEROUT, AuGUSTE, Secretary of the board of editors of La Lumiere 
l^lectrique. Known as a writer on electrical subjects. Died in 
Paris, from consumption, in March, 1886, at the age of forty years. 

Melsens, L. H. F., member of the Royal Academy of Sciences, Bel- 
gium. Known for his scientific memoirs, especially on lightning 
protection Died in Brussels, April 18, 1886. 

Mann, R, J., president of the Meteorological Society. Known as a 
writer on meteorological subjects, particularl}^ on the protection 
of buildings from lightning. Died in London, in August, 1886, 
aged sixty-nine years. 

DuBOSCQ, J., constructor of physical apparatus, especially optical. As- 
sisted Leon Foucault in all his constructions, particularly his elec- 
tric lamp. Died in Paris, in October, 1886. 

Guthrie, Frederick, F. R. S., lecturer on physics in the Royal School 
of Mines. Well known for his physical researches, especially those 
on the cryohydrates and eutexia. He was the author of several 
text-books. Died in London, of cancer of the throat, October 21, 
1886, at the age of fifty-three. 

Pierie, Victor, professor of physics in the University of Vienna. 
Died in his laboratory, of apoplexy, on the 30th of October, 1886. 

Beaulieu, John Theophilus, F. R. S., a general in the engineer 
corps of the Indian army for many years. He inaugurated the sys- 
tem of magnetic observations in India. Died in London, in No- 
vember, at the age of eighty-one years. 

bibliography OF physics, 1886. 

a First Course of Physical Laboratory Practice. A. M. Wortliingtou, M. A., late as- 
sistant master of Cliftou College. Loudon, 1886. (Riviugtons.) 

Handbuchder physikalischen Maassbestimmuugen. B. Weiustein. Bandi. 8vo. pp. 
XX, 5-24. Berlin, 1886. (Springer.) 

Units and Physical Constants. J. D. Everett. 16mo. pp. xvi, 200. Second edition. 
Loudon and New York, 1886. vMacmillan.) 

Lehrbucb der teebnischen Mechanik. Theil i. Statik des Stemen-Systems. L. 
Henueberg and O. Smerker. 8vo. pp. x, 374. Darmstadt, 18"i6. (Bergstraesser.) 

A Treatise on Statics, with Applications to Physics. G. M. Minchin, M.A. Third 
edition. Vol. ii, 8vo. pp. vi, 51:^. Oxford, 1886. (Clarendon Press.) 



PHYSICS. 385 

A Manual of Mecliauics; an Elementary Text-Book, designed for Students of Apjilied 
Mechanics. T. M. Goodeve, M. A. London, 1S86. (Longmans.) 

Lessons in Elementary Dynamics. Arranged by H. G. Madau, M. A., assistant master 
in Eton College. l:imo. pp.180. Edinburgh, 1886. (W. & R. Chambers.) 

Theorie der Kraftniaschiueu. F. Grashof. Lief. I. Bvo. pp. 160. Leipzig, 1S86. 
(Voss.) 

Statics and Dynamics for Engineering Students. J. P. Church. 8vo. pp. iv, 396. 
New York, 1886. (Scribner.) 

Lectures on Heat, Sound, and Light. Richard Wormell, D. Sc, M. A. London, 1886. 
(Thomas Murby. ) 

Acoustics, Light, and Heat. William Lees, M. A. New and enlarged edition. Lon- 
don and Glasgow, 1886. (Wm. Collins, Sons & Co.) 

Le m^canisme des osselets de I'oreille et de la membrane du tympan. H. von Helm- 
holtz. (Translated by J. A. A. Rattel.) 4to. pp.55. Paris, 1886. (Delahaye.) 

The Phenomena and Laws of Heat. A. Cazin. (Translated by Elihu Rich.) New 
edition. r2mo. pp. xii, 273. New York, 1885. (Scribner.) 

Thermoche.nische Untersuchuagen. Julius Thomse. Band iv, Orgauische Verbiu- 
diingeu. 8vo. pp. xvi, 429. Leipzig, 1886. (Barth.) 

Die Bewegung der Wiirme in den Cylinderwanduagen der Dampfmaschiue. Dr. 
Kirsch. 8vo. pp. xii, 100. Leipzig, 1886. (Felix.) 

Physico-chemical Constants. Melting and boiling point tables. T. Caruelley. Vol. 
I. folio, pp. xxiv, 352. London, 1885. (Harrison.) 

Spectrum Analysis. Sir Henry E. Roscoe, F. R. S. (Fourth edition, revised and con- 
siderably enlarged by the author and by Arthur Schuster, Ph. D., F. R. S.) 8vo. 
lip. xvi, 452. London, 1836. (Macmillan.) 

Field'sChromatography ; a Treatise on Colors and Pigments for the use of Artists. 
(Modernized by J. Scott Taylor, B. A.) London, 1885. (Windsor & Newton.) 

The Artist's Manual of Pigments. H. C. Standage. London, 1886. (Crosby, Lock- 
wood & Co.) 

An Elementary Treatise on Geometrical Optics. W. Steadman Aldis, M. A. London, 
1886. (Deighton, Bell & Co.) 

Ilandbuch der physiologischen Optik. H. von Helmholtz. 2te Aufl., Lief. i. 8vo. 
pp. 80. Leipzig, 1886. (Voss.) 

Das pnlarisirte Licht als Erkeuunngs-Mittel fiir die Erregungs-Znstande derNerven 
der Kopfhaut. J. Pohl-Pincus. 8vo. pp. 53. Berlin, 1886. (Grosser.) 

Electro-deposition of Gold, Silver, Copper, Nickel, etc. A. Watt. London, 1886. 
(Crosby, Lockwood & Co.) 

Electricity Treated Experimentally. Linuteus Gumming, M. A. Loudon, 1886. 
(Rivingtons.) 

Frictional Electricity. Thomas P. Treglohan. London, 18"^6. (Longmans, Green & 
Co.) 

Electric Transmission of Energy. Gisbert Kapp, C. E. Loudon, 1886. (Whittaker 
& Co.) 

Arc and Glow Lamps ; a practical hand-book on electric lighting. Julius Maier, 
Ph. D. London, 1886. (Whittaker & Co. and G. Bell & Sons.) 

Electric Lighting for Railway Trains. W. Stroudley. (Edited by James Forrest.) 
12mo. pp. 6. London, 1885. (Proc. Inst. Civ. Eng.) 

Die dynamo-electrische Maschiue. O. Froelich. 8vo. pp. x, 230. Berlin, 1886. 
(Springer.) 

Memoria acerca de la primera exposicidn internacional de electricidad celebrada en 
Europa. R. Roig y Torres. 8vo. pp. xii, 64. Barcelona, 1885. (La casa pro- 
vincial do caridad.) 

Sur les progres de la science 61ectriquc et les nouvelles machines d'iudiiction. J. 
Boulenger. 8vo. pp. ii, 178. Paris, 1885. (Gauthier-Villars.) 

The Present Condition of Electric Lighting. N. H. Schilling. 8vo. i)p.55. Boston, 
1886. (Cupples, Upham »& Co.) 

H. Mia. 600 25 



386 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Tascheubuch fiir Monture electrisclier Beleucbtuugsanlageu. S. F. von Gaisberg. 

16mo. pp. viii, 79. Mlinchen und Leipzig, 1886. (Oldeubourg.) 
Formulaire pratique de I'electricieu, 1886. E. Hospitaller. 16iuo. pp. xii, 312. 

Paris, 1886. (Masson.) 
Handbucb der Electrotecbnili. E. Kittler. Band i. 2 Hiilfte. 8vo. pp. viii, 371. 

Stuttgart, 1886. (Eulce.) 
Illustrirte Gescbicbte der ElectricitJit von deu iiltesteu Zeiteu bis auf unsere Tage. 

E. Netoliczlca. 12mo. pp. viii, 288. Wien, 1886. (Picbler.) 
L'l^tincelle Electrique. No. 2. Bvo. pp.16. Paris, 1886. (Cornelonp.) 
Tbe Relation between Electric Resistance and Density wben Varying with the Temper 

of Steel. C. Barns and V. Stroubal. 8vo. pp. 32. Washington, 1886. (Gov- 
ernment.) 
The Age of Electricity from Amber-soul to Telephone. P. Benjamin. 12mo. pp. 

viii, 381. New York, 1886. (Scribner.) 



CHEMISTRY IN 1886. 



By H. Carringtox Bolton, Ph. D., 

Professor of Chemistrij in Trinilti College, Hartford. 



GENERAL AND PHYSICAL. 

N'ature and Origin of the Elements. — Mr. William (3rookes, F. R. S., 
president of the chemical section of the British Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, gave an address at the Birmingham meeting in 
September, in which he nndertook with great skill and learning to adapt 
the doctrine of evolution to the chemical elements. After glancing at 
the difiiculty of defining an element he noticed the revolt of many phys- 
icists and chemists against the ordinary acceptation of the term. He 
next considered the improbability of their eternal self-existence or their 
origination by chance. He suggested as a remaining alternative their 
origin by a process of evolution, like that of the heavenly bodies accord- 
ing to Laplace. In this connection he remarks: "This building up or 
evolution is above all things not fortuitous ; the variation and devel- 
opment which we recognize in the universe run along certain fixed lines, 
which have been preconceived and foreordained. To the careless and 
hasty eye design and evolution seem antagonistic; the more careful in- 
quirer sees that evolution, steadily proceeding along an ascending scale 
of excellence, is the strongest argument in favor of a preconceived 
plan." Mr. Orookes then shows that in the general array of the ele- 
ments, as known, a striking approximation is seen to that of the organic 
world, though he admits this ajiparent analogy must not be strained. 

He then reviews indirect evidences of the decomposition of the so- 
called elements, taking into consideration the light thrown upon this 
subject by Front's law and by the researches of Mr. Lockyer in solar 
spectroscopy. He also reviews the evidence drawn from the distribu- 
tion and collocation of the elements in the crust of our earth. He gives 
due consideration to Dr. Carnelly's weighty argument in favor of the 
compound nature of the so-called elements from their analogy to the 
compound radicals.* 

* See Smithsonian Eeport for 1885, Chemistry. 

387 



388 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

A study of a special method of illiistratiug the periodic law, proposed 
by Prof. Emerson Eeyuolds, leads Mr. Orookes to a theory of the genesis 
of the elements. 

He supposes in the very beginnings of time, before geological ages, 
the existence of a primordial matter, which he names protyle{-po and 6Xrj). 
He iuiagiues a " primal stage, before even the sun himself had consol- 
idated from the origiual protyle, when all was iu an ultra-gaseous state, 
at a temperature inconceivably hotter than anything now existing iu 
the visible universe; so high, indeed, that tbe chemical atoms could not 
have been formed, being still far above their dissociation points. In the 
course of time some process akin to cooling, probably internal, reduces 
the tempei-ature of the cosmic protyle to a point at which the first step 
in granulation takes place — matter, as we know it, comes into existence, 
and atoms are formed. As soon as an atom is formed out of protyle it 
is a store of energy potential and kinetic. To obtain this energy the 
neighboring protyle must be refrigerated by it, and thereby the subse- 
quent formation of other atoms will be accelerated. But with atomic 
matter the various forms of energy which require matter to render them 
evident begin to act; and amongst others that form of energy which 
has for one of its factors what we now call atomic weight. The easiest 
formed element, the one most nearly allied to the protyle in simplicity, 
is first born. Hydrogen (or perhaps helium), of all the known elements 
the one of simplest structure and lowest atomic weight, is the first to 
come into being. For some time hydrogen would be the only form of 
matter (as we now know it) in existence, and between hydrogen and the 
next formed element there would be a considerable gap iu time, during 
the latter part of which the element next in order of simplicity would 
be slowly approaching its birth point. Pending this period we may sup- 
pose that the evolutionary process, which soon was to determine the 
birth of a new element, would also determine its atomic weight, its af- 
finities, and its chemical position." 

Space at our command forbids our following the author further in his 
sketch of the genesis of the elements. The api)lication of radiant-mat- 
ter spectra to the theory is a weighty contribution to the ingenious 
argument so interestingly portrayed, and one which the author alone is 
qualified to advance. (IS'ature, xxxiv, 423.) 

Valency and the Electrical Charge on the Atom, by A. P. Laurie. — The 
author points out the bearing of the facts of electrolysis on the true 
nature of valency. Helmholtz has shown that it follows from Faraday's 
experiments on electrolysis, that while a monovalent atom carries to the 
electrode one charge of electricity, a divalent atom carries two charges 
of electricity; in other words, electrolysis proves that differences of 
valency mean dififerences in the electrical charge on the atom. The au- 
thor remarks that many elements vary in valency ; copper, for instance, 
forms two very unlike series of compounds* one in which it is mouova- 



CHEMISTRY. 389 

lent, aud oue iu which it is divalent ; since, however, we may pass from 
cuprous to cupric compounds we are able to alter the electrical charge 
on the atom, increasing it by some simple multiple. He remarks fur- 
ther that in the case of the two copper chlorides their heat of forma- 
tion per chlorine atom is not very different. It is well known that the 
heat of formation of a salt approximates to the heat of formation as 
calculated from the electro-motive force developed when that salt is 
formed in a voltaic cell ; hence from the heat of formation of the cuprous 
or cupric chloride, an approximate calculation can be made of the 
difference of electric i)oteutlal between the copper atom and the chlo- 
rine atom iu the two salts. But since the heat of formation per chlo- 
rine atom is nearly the same, the difference of potential is nearly the 
same in both salts; whence it follows that in doubling the electric 
charge on the copper atom the potential is not also doubled. This sig- 
nifies, then, that the capacity of the atom for electricity is increased at 
the same time. Laurie then suggests that the idea of atomic weight 
may perhaps be replaced by the idea of charges of electricity; that the 
atoms of the elements are of the same weight and probably of the same 
"stuff," and that only two things condition the properties of the atom, 
namely, its electrical charge and its electrical potential. If this be ac- 
cepted Mendelejeff's table becomes a statement of the periodic relation- 
ship between these. (Nature, xxxv, 131.) 

Water of Crystallization^ by W. W. J. Nicol. — When a hydrated salt 
is dissolved does it retain its water of crystallization or does this latter 
cease to be distinguishable from the solvent water*? Both views have 
been held by chemists, but the author shows that the science of thermo- 
chemistry clearly demonstrates that water of crystallization can not be 
attached to the salt in solution. The argument will be found iu the 
original note. (Chem. IsTews, liv, 53.) 

A Laic of Solubility, by William Ackroyd. — The author announces as 
a new law of solubility the following: "A body will dissolve in a sol- 
vent to which it is allied more readily than iu one to which it is highly 
dissimilar." Thus organic bodies, generally speaking, require organic 
solvents, inorganic bodies inorganic solvents. Exceptions to the law 
are admitted by the author. (Chem. Xews, liv, 58.) 

Chemical Affinity and Solution. — In a paper before the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh, presented iu 1878, W. Durham stated his opinion, based 
on the results of many experiments, that chemical combination, solu- 
tion, and suspension of solids, such as clay, in water, differ in degree 
only, and are manifestations of the same force; that there seems to be 
a regular gradation of chemical attraction from that exhibited in the 
suspension of clay in water up to that exhibited iu the attraction of 
sulphuric acid for water, which we call chemical afiinity. 

More recently Mr. E. Durham endeavored to show that the theory of 



SUO RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR .1886. 

valency as usually held is iucorrect in assuming cliemical affinity to act 
in units or bonds, and insufficient to account for the various phenomena 
of varying atomicity, or valency, molecular compounds, crystallization, 
solution, alloys, etc., and that all these varied phenomena are simply 
due to the chemical affinity of the elementary atoms; the difficulties 
disappear if the idea of indivisible units of chemical affinity is aban- 
doned. This view is illustrated by reference to the compounds HCl, 
^NHs, and NH4CI. In HCl we have two monovalent elements combined 
and their chemical affinities completely neutralized or satisfied. In 
KH3 we have N considered as a trivalent element satisfied with three 
monovalent elements. Now these two completed or satisfied compounds 
combine with one another to form the third compound ]SrH4Cl. This is 
usually explained by regarding the N as acting with pentavalent force, 
and the compound is represented thus: 

H 

I 
H — N — H 

/ \ 
H CI 

Durham thinks this explanation most unreasonable and incredible, 
because it supi)Oses that IST, which has usually such a weak affinity for 
('1, can nevertheless decompose the HCl into its constituent atoms, and 
fix the atom of CI to itself. While on the other hand the CI letives the 
U, for which usually its affinity is so great, and unites itself to the N, 
for which usually its affinity is so small. Durham explains this action 
simply thus: The affinity of the CI acts on all the four atoms of H, and 
the affinity of the N does the same; and thus the whole molecule is 
held together, and may be represented thus: 



N<H 




Mr. Durham finds that chemists are apparently coming more and more 
to agree with his views, and quotes Pattison Muir's " Principles of Chem- 
istry" to substantiate this. By reference to Thomsen's researches in 
thermo-chemistry, he obtains data which he regards as demonstrating 
the truth of his views on the subject of solution. He regards solution 
as due to the affinities of the constituent elements of the body dissolved 
for the constituent elements of the solvent ; thus NaCl dissolves in water 
on account of the affinity of the Na for the O and of the CI for the H. 
These affinities are not strong enough to cause double decomposition, 



O 

1 


O 

1 




1 

Ba- 
1 


1 

-Cl,- 

1 


-H2O 


1 
O 


1 
O 





CHEMISTRY. 391 

and therefore an indefinite compound is formed, which we call a solu- 
tion. On examining the heat of formation of chlorides and of oxides 
(as obtained by Thomsen) he finds that that oxide (or chloride) which 
has the greatest heat of formation is the least soluble. Thus the heat 
of formation of the chlorides of Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba increases in the order 
of the metals as given ; and the solubility of the chlorides of these 
metals decreases in the order given; again the heat of formation of the 
oxides increases in the order Ba, Sr, Ga, Mg, whereas the solubility of 
these oxides decreases in the same order. 

Mr. Durham contends that if his views be admitted, crystallization 
can be satisfactorily explained, and regular structure follows : 

In such a compound as BaCl2 . 6H2O, the atoms of the molecule must 
be arranged somewhat in this way : 



H.O 



His theory affords also a simple explanation of the freezing of water : 
In water attraction exists between the H2 of one molecule and the O of 
another, and vice versa; now, if the heat of the liquid be diminished suf- 
ficiently'^, that attraction will cause cohesion of the molecules, and will 
produce solid water or ice, the regular structure of which is caused by 
the symmetrical arrangement of the atoms. Hence the various condi- 
tions of matter, solid, liquid, and gaseous, may be due to the chemical 
affinity of the constituent atoms, modified in various ways by the kinetic 
energy of the system. 

These views are opposed to that which depicts chemical affinity as a 
sort of arbitrary force acting in units or bonds; on the contrary, affinity 
acts between all atoms of matter, whether of the same or difi'ereut kinds, 
in varying degrees of intensity and quantity, producing combinations 
of more or less stability, graduating from the so-called mechanical mixt- 
ure of clay and water up to the irresolvable molecules of the perma- 
nent gas, condensing by ks action the gas into the liquid, and the liquid 
into the solid. In short, there are no hard and fast lines in nature, but 
every phenomenon graduates by almost imperceptible degrees into an- 
other, (ligature, xxxiii, 615.) 

A General Method for the Determination of Molecular Weights, by F. 
M. Baoult- — The author has previously shown that tbe molecular 
weights of orgauic bodies soluble in water can be determined by the 
amount of reduction in the temperature of its freezing point. Further 
investigations now enable him to ireneralize this method and to main-. 



392 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

taiu that the molecnhir weights of all bodies, iiiorgauic or orgauic, can 
be determined in like manner, provided the bodies are soluble in some 
liquid capable of assuming a solid state at a temperature ascertainable 
with accuracy. The meustruums employed are acetic acid, benzene, 
and water. The methods of procedure and of calculation will be found 

in the original paper. (Ann. Chim. Phys. [6], viii, 317.) 

» 

On the Constitution of Acids, by W. A. Dixon.— The author proposes a 
theory explaining the fact that some acids form with the alkali metals 
alkaline hydrogen salts, whilst the similar salts of other acids are acid. 
He suggests that, as is the case with organic compounds, the hydrogen 
in inorganic acids exists in combination in two states, first, with oxygen 
as hydroxyl, and, second, with two oxygen atoms as oxyhydroxyl. He 
thinks that where both these exist in one acid the hydrogen of the oxy- 
hydroxyl is invariably replaced first, and therefore the principal acid 
function is in connection with oxyhydroxyl. Examples are taken from 

OOH 

the acids of phosphorus ; orthophosphoric acid is probably P — OH, 

OH 

because the acid itself has strong acid properties; but these are imme- 
diately neutralized by the replacement of the hydrogen of the oxyhy- 
droxyl group by sodium, while the replacement of the hydrogen of one 
hydroxyl group gives a salt having an alkaline reaction. In like man- 

OOH 

ner phosphorous acid may have the composition P — OH , and is dibasic; 

OOH H 

/ /OOH 

hypophosphorous acid is P — H ; and pyrophosphoric acid, P <' 

\ , \oon 

H p/«^H 

^ \0H. 
/OOH /OOH , ^ 

Sulphuric acid may be S <( and sulphurous S ^ , the first 

\OOH ^OH 

forming acid and the second alkaline hydrogen salts with the alka- 

/OOH , . 
line metals. Hyposulphurous acid may be S (^ , and is mono- 

/OOH ^ /OOH 

basic, Nitric acid may be N < ; metaphosphoric, P < , and 

\^ O ^ O 

/OOH 
chloric, CI { . (Phil. Mag. [5], xxi, 127.) 

\o 

The Reactions heticeen Metals and Acids, by Henry E. Armstrong. — 
In the course of a paper before the Chemical Society of London on the 
" action of metals on acids," in which experiments were described at- 



CHEMISTRY. 393 

temptiug to obtain evidence of definite compounds of metals in alloys 
by dissolving the alloys in a liquid capable of acting on both metals and 
determining tbe electromotive force between the alloy and a less pos- 
itive metal, tbe author made the following remarks : " With reference to 
the action of metals on acids generally it is probably impossible for the 
chemist to pronounce definitely in favor either of the modern view that 
the metal directly displaces the hydrogen of the acid, or of the older 
view that the metal displaces the hydrogen from water, the resulting 
oxide and the acid then interacting to form a salt; the decision of this 
question must apparently depend upon the determination of the nature 
of the phenomena during electrolysis of an acid solution. If the acid 
alone be the electrolyte, then doubtless the modern view is the correct 
one; but if both water and acid are electrolyzed, and in proportions 
which vary according to the conditions, then both the old and new views 
of the nature of the action between a metal and the solution of an acid 
are correct, and the two kinds of change may go on side by side." 
(Chem. News, liii, 212.) 

Chemical Behainor of Iron in the Magnetic Field, by Edward L Nich- 
ols. — When finely-divided iron is placed in a magnetic field of consid- 
erable intensity and exposed to the action of an acid, the chemical 
reaction differs in several respects from that which occurs under ordi 
nary circumstances. The cause of one such difference may be found in 
the fact that the solution of iron in the magnetic field is in a sense 
equivalent to its withdrawal by mechanical means to an infinite distance. 
Mechanical removal requires the expenditure of work, and the same 
thing is doubtless true of what might be called its chemical removal. 
In other words the number of units of heat produced by the chemical 
reaction should ditfer, within and without the field, by an amount equiv- 
alent to the work necessary to withdraw the iron to a position of zero 
potential. 

Experiments with aqua-regia and iron show that the speed of reaction 
is greater in the magnetic field than without and that the heat of chem- 
ical union is much greater. Under the influence of the magnet, aqua- 
regia and iron produce nitrous fumes, whereas when the influence of 
the magnet is removed only hydrogen is generated. 

When experimenting with iron and nitric acid, interesting effects of 
magnetism on the passivity of the iron were observed; five grams of 
powdered iron lay in a beaker close above the ])oles of the electro-mag- 
net which was in circuit. Some cold nitric acid was poured upon t)'e 
iron, but the latter remained passive. Wishing to note the character of 
the reaction the author warmed the beaker slightly, then pla(;ed it upon 
the poles of the magnet and put a thermometer into the solution to get 
its temperature. The bulb of the thermometer touched the iron in 
stirring the acid, when the hitherto passive mixture burst almost ex- 
plosively into effervescence, and red nitrous fumes were liberated. 
Removal of the solution from the field of the magnet restored the pas- 



394 



EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



sivity of the irou, aud the action iu a few seconds ceased entirely. 
AVhen the beaker was brought back into the neighborhood of the mag. 
net a touch of a glass rod excited again the violent chemical action. 
Further researches are in progress. (Am. J. Sci. xxxi, 272.) 

Density of Liquid Oxygen and of Liquid Nitrogen, by S. Wroblewski. — 
The author finds that liquid oxygen has a density of 0.6 at — IISOC. 
and of 1.24 at —200° under a pressure of 0.02"\ The following tablp 
gives the constants for liquid nitrogen: 



Teuiperatnre. 


Pressure in 
atmospheres. 


Density re- 
ferred to water 
at 40 C. 


Coefficient of 
dilatation. 


—146. 6 
—153. 7 
—193. 
—202. 


38.45 
30. 65 
1.00 
0.105 


0. 4552 




0. 5842 

0.63 

0.866 


0. 0311 
0. 007536 
0. 004619 



Hence the atomic volume of oxj^geu is less than 14, and that of nitro- 
gen is near 15.5. 

The density of liquid air at —146.00 (3. and 45 atmospheres is equal 
to 0.6. (Comptes Eendus, cii, 1010.) 



INORGrANIC. 

Bedeterminations of atomic tveights. 



Element. 


Atomic 
weight. 


Authority. 


Reference. 


Uranium 


239. 02 
58. 74 
58. 56 

194. 57 


Zimmermaun . .. 


Liebig's Annalen, ccxxxii, 299. 
Liebiiii'sAnnaleu, ccxxxii, 324. 

bo. 


Cobalt 


....do 


Nickel 


....do 


Platinum 




Z. anal. Ch., xxv (11). 
Comptes Rendus, cii, 1291. 
Ann. Chem., ccxxxiii. 


Germanium 

Antimony 


72. 32 
120. 69 
184. 04 


Lecoq de Boisbaudrau . 
Popner . 


Tungsten (0 = 15.96). 


Waddell 


Am. Chem. J., viii, 280. 







Austriuni, a new Element. — Dr. E.Linnemann, professor of chemistry 
at Prague, died iu April, 1886. Among his i)apers was found a letter 
addressed to the Vienna Academy of Sciences, announcing the discov- 
ery of a new element, which he called austrium, Aus. Dr. Linnemaun 
obtained the new metal from orthite of Arendal; its spectrum shows 
two violet lines; the wave lengths were found to be, for Aus. a-, A = 416.5, 
and for Aus. /?, A=403.0. Prof. F. Lippich, of Prague, who presented 
Dr. Linnemann's paper to the Vienna Academy, called attention to 
the fact that three not yet identified lines (A = 415.56, A=416.08, and 
A=416.47) are shown in Angstrom's atlas of the normal spectrum of 
the sun in the neighborhood of the Aus. a line; the last of them might 



CHEMISTRY. 395 

be supposed to be coincideut with the Aus. a line (A=:ilG.5). (Nature, 
xxxiv,51), 1886.) 

Germanium^ a neic Element, by Clemens Winkler. — In the summer of 
1885 a rich silver ore of uncommon ai^pearance was found in the Him- 
melfuerst mine near Freiberg. It was recognized as a new mineral 
species by Prof, A. Weisbach, and named by him " argyrodite." Th. 
Richter subjected the mineral to a jireliminary examination with the 
blow-pipe, and found it to consist essentially of silver and sulphur. In 
addition to these, he also detected the presence of a small quantity of 
mercury, which is remarkable and interesting from the fact that this 
metal had never before been found in the Freiberg ores. 

In the analyses made, Winkler found that the mercury did not amount 
to more than 0.21 per cent. According to the purity of the material the 
silver varied from 73 to 75 per cent., and the sulphur from 17 to 18 per 
cent. Small quantities of iron and traces of arsenic were also found. 
Though the analysis was often and carefully repeated there was always 
a loss of 6 to 7 per cent, without it being jwssible by the ordinary 
methods of qualitative analysis to discover the missing body. 

After several weeks of tedious search Winkler found that argyrodite 
contains a new element, very similar to antimony, but still very distinct 
from the same, which he named Germanium. The detection of this ele- 
ment was very diflBcult, because the argyrodite was accompanied by 
minerals containing arsenic and antimony, which, on account of their 
similar behavior, and a total lack of a sharp method for separation, 
caused much difficulty. 

Argyrodite, when heated with exclusion of air, preferably in a current 
of hydrogen, gives a black, crystalline, quite volatile, readily fusible 
sublimate, which melts to reddish-brown drops. In addition to mercury- 
sulphite it consists essentially of germanium sulphide. Germanium sul- 
phide is a sulpho-acid ; it is readily soluble in ammonium sulphide, and 
when reprecipitated by hydrochloric acid, in a perfectly pure plate, it 
forms a snow-white precipitate, which is instantly soluble in ammonium 
hydrate. In the presence of antimony or arsenic the precipitate is 
always tinged more or less yellow. 

On heating in a current of air or in nitric acid, germanium sulphide 
is converted into a white oxide, which is not volatile at a red heat. It 
is soluble in potassium hydrate, and the alkaline solution, when acidified 
with sulphuretted hydrogen, gives the characteristic white precipitate. 
Too great dilution prevents or retards the precipitation. 

The oxide, like the sulphide, is reduced by hydrogen, the latter with 
greater difficulty on account of its volatility. The element has a gray 
color, and perfect metallic luster. It melts at a point somewhat below 
silver, say about 900°, and crystallizes in octahedra, which are very 
brittle. Its specific gravity is 5,469 at 20o.4. It is insoluble in hydro- 
chloric acid, readily dissolved by aqua-regia, is converted into a whit« 



396 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

oxide by nitric acid and into a soluble sulphate by concentrated sul- 
phuric acid. Its atomic weight is 72.32, and it proves to be Mendele- 
jeflPs ekasUicitim. It forms two oxides, GeO and Ge02, two correspond- 
iug- sulphides, and two chlorides, both of which are thin colorless fuming 
liquids. (J. Prakt. Chem., 1886, ^assm.) 

Atomic Weight of Antimony. — Alfred Popper, of the University of 
Graz, has made very careful determinations of the atomic weight of 
antimony, and obtains a menii of 120.G9, which is an entire unit more 
than J. P. Cooke's result, 119.00. He can find no source of error either 
in Cooke's determinations or in his own, and suggests that the possible 
presence of germanium may solve the question. (Ann. Chem.,ccxxxiii.) 

On some Probable Neic Elements^ by Alexander Pringle. — The autlior 
states that he obtained the material on which he worked from his own 
landed property, situated upon the river Tweed, county of Selkirk, 
Scotland. He examined some gravel and other material forming the 
debris of an ancient glacier, which he "imagines" to be the ancient 
soil of the very ancient mountains in that geologic formation. He de- 
scribes more or less fully no less than six probable new elements; 
polymnestum is a metal of rather dark color, with an equivalent of 
about 74, and forming four oxides of various colors; erebodium is as 
black as charcoal and has an equivalent of 95.4; gadenium has an equiv- 
alent of 43.G and forms two oxides ; hesperisium is a non-metallic ele- 
ment having an equivalent of 45.2, and a red color and a metallic luster 
like a sunset sky. Two other nameless elements are briefly claimed by 
he author. (Chem. ISTews, liv, J G7.) 
t 

Dysprosium, a new Element, by Lecoq de Boisbaudran. — In October, 
1878, Delafontaine announced a new earth, which he called ijhilipinum, 
but early in 1880 he recognized that it was identical with holmium, 
previously studied by Soret and by Cleve. Later in the same year, 
however, Delafontaine abandoned this view, because he determined that 
pliilippium bad no absorption spectra. Lecoq de Boisbaudran has suc- 
ceeded by several hundred fractional treatments in separating holmium 
into two bodies, for the first of which he proposes to preserve the name 
holmium, and the second he names dysi)rosium {5u(T-fu'tfftTo; = hsivdto 
get at). The new holmium has for characteristic absorption bands C40.4 
and 536.3, and the bands of dysprosium are 753 and 451.5. The author 
has encountered extraordinary difficulties in the separation of hobnium, 
erbium, terbium, and dysprosium, and the scarcity of material greatly 
retards the laborious investigation. (Comptes Eendus, on, 1003 and 
1005.) 

New Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskife detected Spectroscopically, 
by William Crookes. — Finding that Lecoq de Boisbaudran is pursuing 
the spectroscopic study of the rare earths iu the same track as himself, 



CHEMISTRY. 



397 



and publishing notes of phenomena already known to Mr. Crookes, the 
latter gives in this paper a preliminary notice and summary of his 
studies, although in an unfinished state. Mr. Crookes holds with other 
chemists the opinion that didymium is not a simple body, but has been 
unable to split it up into the green praseodymium and rose-red neo- 
dymium announced in 1SS5 by Dr. Auer von Welsbach. Mr. Crookes 
thinks didymium will prove to be more complex than this indicates. 

The author, referring to his note-book under date March 3, 1880, finds 
the statement that the "big blue line (/\ 451.5) is still unclaimed," and 
this blue line jn-oves to be characteristic of dysprosium discovered by 
Lecoq de Boisbaudran. 

As a result of the spectroscopic examination of the fractionated 
earths fromsamarskite and from gadolinite the author concludes that the 
earth hitherto called yttria is a highly complex body, capable of being 
dissociated into several simpler substances, each of which gives a phos- 
phorescent spectrum of great simplicity, consisting, for the most part, 
of only one line. The author admits that a hitherto unrecognized band 
in the spectrum, by absorption or phosphorescence, is not of itself defi- 
nite proof of a new element, but if supported by chemical facts, such 
as he details, there is sufficient jn^ima facie evidence that a new element 
is present. Until, however, the new earths are separated in sufficient 
purity to enable their atomic weights to be approximately determined, 
and their chemical and physical properties observed, Mr. Crookes thinks 
it prudent to regard them as elements on probation. He gives in tab- 
ular form a list of these probationary elements, designating them by 
the initial letters of the minerals (or bodies) didymium, samarskite, 
and gadolinite, from which they are respectively derived, and by the 
addition to the initials of Greek letters. The table also gives the mean 
wave lengths of absorption lines in the phosphorescent spectra, and 
other data. 

Table of rrohationary Elements. 





Scale of 


Mean wave 




Provis- 




Position of lines in the spectrum. 


spectro- 


length of 


\^ 


ional 


Probability. 




scope. 


line or band. 




name. 




Absorption bands in violet and 


} 8.270° 


443 


5096 


Do: 


New. 


blue 


<, 8.828 


475 


4432 


S/i 


Do. 


Brigbt Hues in — 












Violet 


8. 515 


456 


4809 


sr 


Ytterbium. 


Deep blue 


8.931 


482 


4304 


Grt 


New. 


Greenish blue (mean of a 


9.650 


545 


3367 


G/i 


Gadolinium. 


close pair). 












Green 


9.812 

9. 890 
10. 050 


564 
574 
597 


3144 

3035 
2806 


Gr 
G5 

Gf 


New. 


Citron 


Do. 


Yellow 


Do. 


Orano'e . 


10.129 
10. 1S5 
10. 338 


609 
619 
647 


2693 
2611 

2389 


85 
G? 
Gil 


Do. 


Red 


Do. 


Deep red 


Do. 







398 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Concerning the " radiant-matter test " for these phosphorescing bodies 
Mr. Crookes says it proves itself every day more and more valuable as 
one of the most far-searching and trustworthy tools ever placed in the 
hands of the experimental chemist. It is an exquisitely delicate test, 
callable of being applied to bodies which have been approximately sep- 
arated, but not yet completely isolated, by chemical means; its delicacy 
is unsurpassed even in the region of si)ectrum analysis; its economy 
is great inasmuch as the test involves no destruction of the speciuien; 
its convenience is such that any given test is always available for 
future reference, and the quantity of material is limited solely by the 
power of the human eye to see the body under examiuation. Beyond 
all these in importance is its trustworthiness, and during the five years 
this test has been in daily use in his laboratory Mr. Crookes has found it 
well-nigh infallible. Anomalies and apparent contradictions have arisen, 
but a little more experiment has shown that the anomalies were but 
finger-posts pointing to fresh paths of discovery, and the contradictions 
were due to erroneous interpretation of the facts. (Chem. News, liv, 
13.) 

On the Atomic Weight of the Oxide of Gadolinium^ by A. E. Norden- 
skj^ld. — The author signifies by " oxide of gadolinium " the mixture 
of oxides of yttrium, erbium, and ytterbium first discovered in the 
gadolinite of Ytterby. He shows that this mixture of three isomorphous 
oxides, even when derived from totally different minerals found in local- 
ities far apart from one another, possesses a constant atomic weight, viz, 
about 262. The atomic weights of the three constituents vary greatly — 

Oxide of yttrium 227.2 

Oxide of erbium '.. 380. 

Oxide of ytterbium 392. 

taking = 1G and calculating as E2O3, 

The fact here demonstrated is one altogether new in chemistry and 
confirms in a remarkable way the views announced by William Crookes 
in his address to the B. A. A. S. on the genesis of the elements. It 
would appear that the work of these savants on the rare earths, so called, 
will result in revolutionizing views of chemists concerning the elements, 
so called. (Comptes Rendus, cm, 795.) 

Isolation of Fluorine by Electrolysis of Anhydrous Hydrofluoric Acid, 
by H. Moissan. — The preparation of fluorine in its elementary state is 
a problem which has long defied the efforts of chemists ; the classical 
experiments of Davy, Gore, G. J. Knox, Ptaundler, Baudrimout, and 
others did not yield results satisfactory to all, and the alleged discovery 
of Prat was soon after experimentally refuted by Cillis. At the meeting 
of the French Academy of Sciences, held June 28, Monsieur H. Moissan 
described the results obtained by electrolyziug anhydrous hydrofluoric 
acid, and cautiously stated that fluorine was in all probability isolated; 
this memoir was followed by another on July 19, and soon after by a 



CHEMISTRY. 399 

tliird, which finally removed all doubts as to the nature of the gas 
separated in the experiments. 

Moissan prepared anhydrous hydrofluoric acid after the method of 
Fremy, taking great precautious to eliminate water. This acid was 
placed in a phitinum (J-tube, cooled to —50° 0. and submitted to the 
action of an electric current from fifty Bunsen cells. Under these con- 
ditions hydrogen was set free at the negative pole, and at the positive 
pole a gas was obtained in a continuous current and having the follow- 
ing properties: In the presence of mercury it is completely absorbed, 
with formation of mercury fluoride of a light yellow color ; the gas 
decomposes water, liberating ozone: phosphorus is ignited by it ; sul- 
phur is heated, melting rapidly; carbon seems to be without action; 
melted potassium chloride is attacked with an escape of chlorine ; crys- 
talline silicou, purified by treatment with nitric and hydrofluoric acids, 
takes fire iu contact with this gas and burns brilliantly, forming silicon 
flu(»ride. The electrode of platiniridium forming the positive pole is 
strongly corroded, while that of the negative pole is untouched. 

Moissan pointed out that the simplest explanation of these reactions 
is that they are due to elementary fluorine, but he deferred decision 
until he could show that the phenomena were not due to hydrogen per- 
fluoride or to a mixture of ozone and hydrofluoric acid. 

In the second memoir Moissan details the precautions observed in pre- 
paring the anhydrous hydrofluoric acid and gives additional data con- 
cerning the behavior of the gas. The anhydrous acid is made by heating 
to redness in a platinum vessel very carefully dried double fluoride of 
potassium and hydrogen (HF KF), the liquid being condensed in a re- 
ceiver cooled with a mixture of ice and salt. The anhydrous acid boils 
at 11P.5, is very hygroscopic, and fumes abundantly in moist air. For 
electrolysis the acid was cooled with chloride of methyl to —23^', and a 
current of twenty Bunsen cells sufficed. Absolutely anhydrous hydro- 
fluoric acid will not conduct electricity, therefore a small quantity of 
fused double fluoride of potassium ,and hydrogen is added. 

The gas liberated at the positiv^pole not only attacks silicon in the 
cold, but adamantine boron as well. 

Sulphur takes fire iu the gas, as do arsenic and antimony. The 
metals are attacked with less energy ; organic bodies, however, are vio- 
lently attacked; alcohol, ether, benzene, petroleum, etc., take fire on 
contact. 

When the experiment has lasted several hours and the gases are no 
longer separated by liquid hydrofluoric acid in the bend of the tube, 
the gases H and F recombine in the cold with violent detonation. 

In the third memoir the author shows that the same gas can be ob- 
tained by the electrolysis of carefully dried and fused double fluoride 
of hydrogen and potassium. The temperature maintained is 110°. 
He also describes experiments showing conclusively that the gas in 
question is free fluorine; under certain conditions the gas was absorbed 



400 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

by a weighed amount of iron, and a weight of iron fluoride was obtained 
sensibly corresponding to the weight of tlie hydrogen liberated. 

The isolation of fluorine by M. Moissan was regarded by the French 
Academy of Sciences as of such prime importance that the subject was 
referred to a committee for examination. This committee reported 
through its chairman, M. Debray (on the 8th of November), that they 
found Moissan's experiments and statements satisfactory in all respects, 
and that the isolation of the element was undoubtedly an accomplished 
fact. (Comptes Eendus, cii, 1543, cm, 202, 256, and 850.) 

A Neiv Gaseous Body, Phosphorus Oxyfluoride, by H. Moissan. — The 
new compound PF3O2 has an experimental density, which oscillates 
between 3.68 and 3.75. It is instantly absorbed by anhydrous alcohol, 
by solutions of chromic acid, or by the alkalies. The existence of this 
compound renders impossible the experiment indicated by Davy, who 
proposed to isolate fluorine by burning phosphorus fluoride in an at- 
mosphere of oxygen inclosed in a vessel of fluorspar. Fluorine has the 
curious property offending always to form ternary or quaternary addi- 
tion products. (Comptes Kendus, cii, May 31, 1886.) 

The CoTnhiistion of Carbonic Oxide and Hydrogen, by Harold B. Dixon. — 
The author in 1880 published the fact that a mixture of carefully dried 
carbonic oxide and oxygen would not explode when electric sparks were 
passed through it, but that by the addition of a minute trace of water 
or volatile body containing hydrogen the mixture became inflammable. 
To account for this fact the author has more recently put forward the 
hypothesis that the steam acts as the part of a carrier of oxygen, and 
that it undergoes reduction and successive reformation. Discussion 
has arisen* as to the mode in which steam exerts its influence, and the 
author herein gives his reasons for maintaining his hypothesis. 

Experiments were made with small quantities of various gases added 
to the non-inflammable mixture of dry carbon monoxide and oxygen, and 
the electric spark passed. In all cases where a gas containing hydrogen 
was introduced the mixture exploded ; otherwise, not. Steam, therefore, 
and bodies which form steam under the conditions of the experiment, 
are alone able to determine the explosion, and it is evident that steam 
does not act as a mere third body, but in virtue of its own peculiar 
chemical properties. 

Moritz Traube rejected Mr. Dixon's explanation of the phenomena 
under consideration, claiming that carbon monoxide does not decom- 
pose steam at high temperatures, but the author shows that it has been 
amply proved by different experiments, notably by Naumann and Pistor 
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., 1885, 2894) that the re-action mentioned does 
take place. Mr. Dixon also gives experimental data for refuting Traube's 
view that hydrogen peroxide acts as the carrier of oxygen. 

*See Report ou Chemistry iu Smilhsoniau Report for 1885, p. 651. 



CHEMISTRY. 401 

In a note following Mr. Dixon's paper, Professor Armstrong suggests 
that in a mixture of carbon monoxide and oxygen, the former is oxidized 
and the latter hydrogenized simultaneously by the steam present, a 
view which Mr. Dixon remarks is not opposed to any of the observed 
facts. The explanation offered by Professor Armstrong involves the 
simultaneous occurrence of two re-actions, which Mr. Dixon regards as 
takiug place successively. (J. Chem. Soc. [London], 1886, 94.) 

On the Combustion of Cyanogen, by Harold B. Dixon. — The author has 
examined the conditions under which a mixture of cyanogen and oxygen 
gases explodes, and comes to the couclusion that the explosion depends 
solely upon the nature of the spark itself. The spark from a Holtz 
machine failed entirely to explode dry mixtures of these gases. The 
induction spark failed to explode the mixture in the eudiometer, where 
the wires were 0.25 to 1""" apart; but the explosion was violent in the 
tubes when the wires were 1 to 3'""> apart, and this was the case where the 
gases were moist. He then compared the explosion rate of this mixture 
with that of carbon monoxide and oxygen, using for the purpose a tube 
10 feet long and recording the time on a pendulum chronograph. The 
velocities obtained were as follows in meters per second : Cyanogen and 
oxygen, dried with phosphoric anhydride, 813; dried with KHO, 
808; saturated with moisture at 15° C, 752. Carbon monoxide and 
oxygen dried with phosphoric anhydride, 36; dried with H2ISO4, 119; 
saturated with moisture at 10° C, 175 ; at 35° C, 244 ; and at 60°, 317. 
It is notable that in the latter case the rate of explosion increases 
rapidly by the addition of moisture, while with the cyanogen moisture 
produces an opposite effect. When a platinum wire is heated to dull 
redness in the mixture of cyanogen and oxygen, the coil cooled without 
result when the circuit was opened; but when raised to full redness it 
glowed brightly for half a minute after the current was broken, and 
orange fumes appeared in the tube. On opening the tube it was found 
that about three fourths of the cyanogen had been converted into car- 
bon dioxide, and one-fourth into carbon monoxide. (J. Chem. Soc, 
XLix, 384.) 

Preparation of Hydrogen Dioxide, by James Kennedy. — The author 
points out the difificulty of removing the barium chloride by means of 
silver sulphate when preparing hydrogen dioxide by Regnault's method, 
and the uncertainties of Fowues's method, and proposes the following, 
for which he claims simplicity and economy. 

Place any convenient quantity of tribasic phosphoric acid in a shal- 
low porcelain vessel immersed in a freezing mixture (ice and salt), and 
when the temperature has fallen to 40° F. or below, saturate with per- 
oxide of barium previously made into moderately thick paste with dis- 
tilled water; when completely saturated filter through pure filter paper. 

Certain precautions are to be observed in this process in order to in- 
H, Mis. 600 26 



402 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

sure success. The use of a shallow vessel to allow a large contact surface 
with the freezing mixture; the Ba02 must be added very slowly to pre- 
vent too great a rise in temperature, and stirred constantly. The Ba02 
should be added until the mixture shows a slight alkaline reaction to 
insure the complete precipitation of BaHP04, asthis compound is solu- 
ble in acids. The solution is freed from dissolved barium by addition 
of diluted sulphuric acid, and the insoluble precipitate removed by fil- 
tration. 

In order to prevent the decomposition of the H2O2, the temperature 
should not be allowed to rise above 40° or 45° F. The reaction in this 
process is explained in the following equation: Ba02-|-H3P04=BaHP04 
+ H2O2. 

The solution obtained is sufficiently concentrated for most purposes to 
which it is applied, and is much stronger than much of that found in 
commerce. (Pharm. News, vi, 148.) 

Hydrogen Peroxide and its Estimation, by Maurice de Thierry.— Since 
its discovery by Th6nard in 1818, hydrogen peroxide has remained a 
mere chemical curiosity, but it has recently acquired industrial impor- 
tance. It is now used not only for restoring blackened oil paintings, but 
a large quantity is consumed in bleaching ostrich feathers, silk, and hair. 
When pure, peroxide of hydrogen has a density of 1.454, but the com- 
mercial product is much weaker ; its activity being dependent on its con- 
centration the author has devised a method for determining the value 
of samples. The method is based on the decomposition by manganese 
dioxide and is conveniently carried out by means of the simple appara- 
tus figured in the original memoir. (Comptes Eendus, cii, 611.) 

Hydrates of Sulphuric zicid. — At the January meeting of the Russian 
Chemical Society Professor MendelejeflF communicated some results of 
his investigations into the thermic effects of dilution of sulphuric acid 
with water. The maximum evolution of heat, and the maximum contrac- 
tion of 100 parts of the solution both correspond to the solution contain- 
ing from 65 to 75 per cent, of H2SO4, which is very near the hydrate 
H6S06=S(OHj6. Together with some other observations this leads the 
author to the conclusion that there exist at least five more or less con- 
stant hydrates of sulphuric acid, viz, H2SO4, H4SO5, HgSOe, and two 
more containing a large amount of water, as H2SO4-i-100 H2O. (Nature, 
XXXIII, 591.) 

Decomposition of Ammonia by Electrolysis, by the Rev. A. Irving. — 
The author electrolyzes a concentrated solution of sodium chloride, 
with which is mixed about one-tenth its volume of the strongest solu- 
tion of ammonia. The solution is placed in an ordinary three-tubed 
voltameter of Hofmann's form, into which carbon pencils are introduced 
(with the aid of corks), to obviate the action of nascent chlorine on plati- 
num were this metal used for the electrodes, With four to six Buusen 



CHEMISTRY. 403 

or Grove cells a considerable volume of nftrogeu and hydrogen is lib- 
erated in the separate tubes in a few minutes. The re-action may be 
thus represented : 

— Pole 6NaCl + Pole 



6Na 


6C1 


+ 6H2O + NaOH 


+ 2H3N = 6HC1 


+ 3H2 


+ N2 



The HCl is of course fixed by the free ammonia. The experiment is 
suitable for the lecture table. (Chem. News, liv, 16.) 

Electrolytic Aluminium. — L. Senet has devised a new i)rocess for ob- 
taining aluminium, as well as copper, silver, etc., by electrolysis. He 
exposes a saturated solution of sulphate of alumina, separated from a 
solution of chloride of sodium by a porous vessel, to a current of 6 or 
7 volts and 4 amperes. The double chloride of aluminium and sodium 
is decomposed, and the aluminium is deposited upon the negative elec- 
trode. (Cosmos, August 10, 1885.) 

Researches on. Titanium and its Compounds, by Otto Freiherr von der 
Pfordten — First Part. — The results of this lengthy investigation are 
thus summarized by the author : • 

(1) Pure sulphuretted hydrogen can be prepared by drying the gas 
over phosphorus pentoxide and passing it through chromous chloride, 
which removes the oxygen. 

(2) The hydrogen evolved in the usual way by zinc and acid contains 
no oxygen. 

(3) With titanium and some other elements having a great affinity 
for oxygen the sulphides can best be obtained by the action of sul- 
phuretted hydrogen on the chloride. The action of sulphuretted hy- 
drogen on the oxide does not give pure products. 

(1) At a low temperature sulphuretted hydrogen reduces tetrachlo. 
ride of titanium to the dichloride, and at a higher temperature another 
compound forms, probably a sulpho-chloride. 

(5) On the other hand, at a red heat, a pure crystalline disulphide is 
obtained, derived from the product first formed. 

(6) Disulphide of titanium is oxidized by carbonic acid gas free from 
oxygen. (The only known case of a metallic sulphide decomposing 
carbon dioxide.) 

(7) Disulphide of titanium in nitrogen is changed to sesquisulphide. 
Hydrogen effects the same at a high heat in glass. 

(8) The same is reduced by hydrogen in a highly-heated platinum 
tube to monosulphide. 



404 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

(9) The ijroperties of the three sulphides are fully described aud 
compared. (Am. Chem., ccxxxiv, 257.) 

Occurrence of Titanium in Eruptive Rods and Clays. — The work done 
iu the divisiou of chemistry aud physics of the U. S. Geological Survey 
during the year 18S4-'85 forms Bulletin No. 27 of the series issued by 
the Survey. The chemical papers include one on topaz from Stoueham, 
MainCj by F. W. Clarke, the chief chemist, a method of separating 
titanium and aluminium, by F. A. Gooch, a method of filtration, by the 
same author, and a number of miscellaneous analyses of minerals, 
rocks, soils, ores, and water. Analyses of several eruptive rocks and 
of clays show a considerable percentage of titanium : 



Rock. 



Per cent. 
TiOj. 



Hornblende-antlesite, from Hague Volcano, Bogosloff Island, Alaska 

Eruptive rock from New Mexico 

Another specimen from New Mexico 

Basalt, from New Mexico 

Clay, Henry County, Illinois 

Another sample from Illinois 

Clay from Dodgeville, Wisconsin ... 



1.24 

0. 92 
2.67 
2.76 
0.79 
0. (v4 
0.45 



A New Oxide of Zirconium and its TJtilitij in the Determination of this 

Element, Bailey. — By the action of hydrogen peroxide on zirconium 

sulphate the author obtained a white bulky precipitate, which proved to 
have the formula ZvzO^. This is a perfectly stable and definite body, 
less readily soluble in dilute sulphuric acid than ZrOa, and of positive 
utility in analytical determinations. Hydrogen peroxide does not pre- 
cipitate iron, aluminium, titanium, niobium, tantalum, tin, nor silicon 
and the zirconium can be separated from all or any of these. With a 
moderately concentrated solution of hydrogen peroxide the precipita- 
tion is complete. (J. Chem. Soc, xlix, 149.) 

Researches on Uranium, by Clemens Zimmermaun ; Third Paper, pub- 
lished after the author's death by George Alibegoff and Gerhard 
Kriiss.^ — A careful examination of the reactions of the oxide of uran- 
ium, UsOa, has led the author to the conclusion that the oxide U2O5 of 
Peligot is a mixture, and that a body having this composition does not 
exist. Peligot's results were based on the behavior of U-jOg when ig- 
nited in the air. Zimmermaun finds that UgOs ignited in the air loses 
varying quantities of oxygen, but if ignited in an indifferent gas, like N 
or CO2, thenranic oxide is gradually and completely con verted into UO2. 
UsOg is only absolutely stable when ignited in a current of oxygen. 
The color of the TJ^Os varies with the method of preparation, and there- 
fore can not be used to control its purity. 



CHEMISTRY. 405 

Determinations of the atomic weight of the element, conducted in 
several ways, lead to the value 239.02. (Ann. Chem., ccxxxii, 273.) 

Neic Compounds of Vanadium^ by J. T. Brierley. — By mixing a blue 
solution of hypovanadium sulphate with a colorless one of an alkaline 
metavanadate the author has obtained the following series of new com- 
pounds : 

A soluble sodium salt, 2Y,0^, V2O5. 2Na20 + I3H2O. 

A soluble potassium salt,2V204, V2O5, 2K.2O + GH2O. 

An insoluble potassium salt, 2V2O4, 4V.2O5, 5K2O +H2O. 

A soluble ammonium salt, 2V2O.,, 2V2O5, (NH4)20 -f I4H2 O. 

An insoluble ammonium salt, SViO^, 4V2O5, 3(NH4)2 +G H2O. 

The first named crystallizes well in hexagonal plates of considerable 
size, and black color. The last named is a precipitate insoluble in hot 
water. (Ann. Chem., ccxxxii, 359.) 

N on- existence of Silver Siihchloride, by Spencer B. Newbury. — The 
author has obtained the product called silver subchloride (AgzCl?) by 
tlie three methods of Cavillier, Wetzlar, and Wohler, and after careful 
examination and analysis, huds that there is no evidence whatever of 
the existence of such a compound, and believes the substances supposed 
to be silver subchloride are nothing but simple mixtures of silver and 
silver chloride. He also rejects the existence of the silver subcitrate 
obtained by Wohler and von Bibra, claiming that the loss of weight on 
heating silver citrate in hydrogen, the formation of carbon dioxide, and 
residue of metallic silver iudicate the decomposition of citric acid and 
separation of silver rather than the formation of silver subcitrate. 
(Am. Chem. J., viii, 19G.) 

On BerthoUefs Fulminating Silver, by F. Easchig. — Although this, 
substance was discovered by Berthollet nearly one hundred years ago, 
it has not been since closely studied, and its constitution has been un- 
certain. Berthollet obtained it by the action of ammonia on silver ox- 
ide. Raschig prepares it as follows : A solution of silver nitrate is pre- 
cipitated with sodium hydroxide, and the silver oxide is washed by 
decantation in the beaker and then transferred to a small flask. For 
each gram of silver nitrate used 2 c. c. of an ammouia solution, contain- 
ing 25 per cent, of NH3, is added to the oxide, which dissolves easily 
with very slight residue. The solution of fulminating silver thus ob- 
tained is divided into several portions, and each dish is covered with 
a watch glass and allowed to stand sixteen to twenty hours. The 
ammonia evaporates, leaving the fulminating silver as a black crystal- 
line mass. After washing it was analyzed by digesting with very di- 
lute sulphuric acid, which usually leaves a residue of metallic silver. 
The dissolved silver was precipitated with hydrochloric acid, and the 
ammonia determined in the filtrate as platinic chloride. The results 



406 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

of sixteen analyses gave ratios appioxiinating three atoms of silver to 
one of nitrogen, which gives the formula NAga. 

The substance was also prepared by warming the ammonia solution 
of the silver oxide on a water bath, and by precipitating it with alcohol, 
and these samples gave the same results on analysis. Berthollet's ful- 
minating silver explodes with a very slight concussion when dry, and 
even when moist must be handled with precaution. The explosive 
character of each sample analyzed was determined. It dissolves in 
potassium cyanide solution almost immediately, probably giving the re- 
action : 

NAg3 + 3KCy + 3H2O = NH, -f 3KH0 + 3AgCy 

(Liebig's Annalen, ccxxxiii, 93.) 

Conqjonnds of the Nitrates of the Alkalies ivith Nitrate of Silver, by A. 
Ditte. — The author describes the preparation and characteristics of 
the following double salts: AgN03,KN0;,; AgN03,RbN03; Nn4N03, 
AgN03; and shows that with sodium and lithium analogous double 
salts are difficult to obtain in definite compounds. No less thau twelve 
reasons are presented for dividing the alkaline group of metals into two 
sections, one embracing K, Rb, Cs, NH4 ; and the other, Li and Na. 
(Ann. Chim. Phys. [6], viir, 418.) 

Decomposition of Potassium Chlorate, by Frank L. Teed. — In a })revi- 
ous paper the author arrived at the conclusion that the decomposition 
of potassium chlorate by heat was represented by the equation : 

IOKCIO3 = 6KCIO4 + 4KC1 + 3O2 

but later experiments lead him to believe that the following is more 
nearly correct : 

22KCIO3 = I4KCIO4 4- 8KC1 + 5O2 

A majority of the author's results fall within the limits calculated 
from these two equations. When the chlorate is heated with manganese 
dioxide it decomposes apparently without formation of y)erchlorHte. 

In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper at the 
Chemical Society of London, Dr. Percy Frankland said experiments 
made in the South Kensington laboratory had lead to the equation: 

8KCIO3 = 5KCIO4 + 3KC1 + 2O2 

(Chem. News, liii, 56 ) 

For a further discussion of this subject see article by E. J. Maumen^ 
in Chem. News, liii, 145. 

The Solvay Process of Manufacturing " Soda.^^ — In our reports for 1883 
and 1884 we chronicled the decline of the Leblanc process and the 1 ise 
of the so-called " ammonia process " of manufacturing sodaj we now 



CHEMISTRY. 407 

note the establishment of a manufactory of carbonate of soda by the 
latter process in the United States. 

Solvay & Co. have established extensive works for conducting the 
process with which their name is connected in Belgium, France, Ger- 
man3% Eussia, and Austria; and a company of gentlemen, which has 
secured the right to work under all the Solvay patents, has erected 
works at Geddes, near Syracuse, New York State. These works pro- 
,duced in 1885 14,651,500 kilos, of 98 per cent, carbonate of soda, and 
the production for 1886, with increased facilities, is estimated to reach 
30,000,000 kilos. 

The purity of the product is shown by the following analysis of the 
brand known as " Pure Soda : " 

Analysis of " Pure Soda." 

Per cent. 

Iron and aluminum oxides 025 

Silica 025 

Carbonate of lime . 404 

Carbonate of magnesia 175 

Chloride of sodium .904 

Carbonate of soda 93. 730 

100. 263 

This product, being very pure, is especially adapted for glass making, 
soap making, paper making, scouring textile fabrics, and all the innu- 
merable uses to which this adjunct of civilization is continually put. 

The product of all the works making soda under the Solvay patents 
is over 220,000 tons per annum, and new establishments are rising in 
several localities. 

Composition of a Crystalline Scale formed in the Ammonia- Soda Process^ 
by George W. Leighton. — The crystalline scale, formed on the inner 
surface of an iron tank, in which vapors consisting of ammonia, carbon 
dioxide, and small quantities of hydrogen sulphide are passed through 
brine holding in solution the chlorides of sodium, magnesium, and cal- 
cium, with a small amount of calcium sulphate, has been examined. It 
has the appearance of a boiler scale, from one to two inches thick, with 
a vitreous luster and greenish-gray color, although sometimes black on 
the surface. The scale is usually covered with crystal planes, which 
prove to be the terminations of prisms (probably monoclinic). Analysis 
gave results corresponding closely to the formula: MgG J^-, I^a2C03, 
NaCl ; and impurities consisting chiefly of CaCOa. This is not a mixt- 
ure, but an interesting triple salt analogous to some mineral species. 
(Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxii, 158.) 

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

On the Formation of So called closed Chains, by Prof. Victor Meyer. — 
Carbon atoms possess the marked peculiarity of combining to form 
molecules in so-called chains, a property giving rise to the multiplicity 



408 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

of organic bodies. In stearone no less tlian thirty-fiv'e carbon atoms 
unite to form a chain, which may be indicated thus : 

A limit to the extent of opeu-cbain structure can not be predicted, 
but the case is very different when closed chains are considered. 
While closed chains of three, four, five, and six links or atoms are 
numerous, the problem of forming rings having a greater number of 
links has been scarcely attacked by chemists. If bodies like anthracene 
and acridine, having double rings of the benzene type, be excepted, only 
two substances are known having seven links in the molecular ring. 
These are : 

H2 H2 H2 C — C — C — C 

C-C-C^ I y 

I I { CO and — JiT— N 

c c^ 

H2 H2 H2 Carbazostyril. 

Suberone. 

The author has begun the study of the construction of rings having 
a number of links greater than six, and some of the results are as fol- 
lows: 

Sodium sulphide acts on iodide of methylene in accordance with the 
equation : 

CH2I0+ Na2S=2NaI+CH2S 

But A. W. Hofmanu has shown that the molecular weight of OH2S is 
three times as great as thus indicated, and Meyer formulates this as 
follows : CalleSs or 

C 

/ \ 

s s 

I I 

H2C CH2 

\ / 

s 

By a study of the body formed in the re-action 

C2H4Br2+Na2S=2:N"aBr+C2H4S 
the author arrives at the conclusion it should be formulated thus: 



IT2 H2 

S — C — - 
1 


-S 
1 


H2C 

1 


CH2 

1 


H2C s 


-CH2 



CHEMISTRY. 409 

which is an exampleof a closed chain of niue links. Further researches 
led the author to the discovery of a body having the following consti- 
tution: 

H2 H2 Ho H, H2 H2 

— (J — (J — S — (J — C — c 

I I 

s C C C s 

H2 H. H2 

which is the first example of a closed cliain of twelve links. These 
bodies are quite unstable, as indeed might be anticipated from their 
complex structure. (Naturwiss. Ruudschau, i, 2, 1886.) 

Products of the Manufacture of Gas from Petroleum, by Henry E. Arm- 
strong and A. K. Miller.— This paper gives results of an investigation 
which the authors have conducted during several years, on the decom- 
position and genesis of hydrocarbons at high temperatures; their main 
object has been to throw light on the nature of the changes resulting 
from the decomposition of petroleum hydrocarbons at high temperatures. 
The authors have thus far recognized among the products of the manu- 
facture of oil-gas the following hydrocarbons : 

(fl) Paraffines, only in traces. 

(h) Pseudolefines, or saturated hydrocarbons of the series CnH2n, such 
as occur in Russian petroleum; present in relatively small amount. 

(e) defines, viz, ethylene, propylene, normal amylene, hexylene, and 
heptylene; higher homologues being absent. 

{d) Pseudacetylenes, viz, crotouylene (dimethylenethane) and iso 
allylethylene. 

(e) Benzenoid hydrocarbons, viz, benzene, toluene, the three isomeric 
dimethylbenzenes, the two trimethylbenzenes (pseudocumene and mesi- 
tylene), and naphthalene. (J. Chem. Soc. [London], 3886, p. 74.) 

Some Organic Substances of High Eefractive Poicer, by H. G. Madan. — 
The author finds that nai)hthyl-phenyl-ketone has a refractive index of 
1.6G6, which is fiven higher than that of carbon disulphide (1.63). Its 
dispersive power is almost exactly that of carbon disulphide. 

Metaciunaraene has a refractive index of 1.593; monobromonaphtha- 
lene has a refractive index of 1.662, and the author thinks it may prove 
a valuable substitute for carbon disulphide for filling prisms, as it is 
much less volatile and inflammable. Mr. Madan mentions as a great 
desideratum a substance having all the excellent qualities of Canada 
balsam — colorless, neutral, permanent in the air, becoming fluid when 
moderately heated, but hard and tough when cold, and with a refractive 
index of at least 1.66. Such a substance would be invaluable for mount- 
ing microscopic objects. (Phil. Mag. [5], xxi, 245.) 

A Convenient Method of Preparing Organic Compounds of Fluorine, by 
O. Wallach. — The author finds that organic bodies containing fluorine 



410 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

can be readily obtained by the action of aqueous hydrofluoric acid on 
diazoamido compounds. He describes fluorbenzeue (CeHsFl) boiling 
at 84° to S5'=>, pLvrafluortolueue boiling at 110° to 117°, fluornitroben- 
zene, fluoraniliu, and other bodies. It appears that the replacement of 
hydrogen by fluorine changes very little the boiling points of the bodies, 
but greatly increases their specific gravities. (Ann. Chera., ccxxxv, 255.) 

On Platoso- Oxalic Acid, by H. G. Soderbaum. — Doebereiuer formerly 
obtained, by the action of oxalic acid upon the sodium salt of platinum 
dioxide, a salt of a copper-red color, which he regarded as platinous 
oxalate. Souchay and Lensseu assign it the formula PtNa2C408+4H20. 
This salt has much analogy with the platinum sulphites, since the solu- 
tion gives neither the reactions of platinum nor those of oxalic acid. 
We may therefore regard this compound as the sodium salt of platoso- 
oxalic acid, which has been isolated. 

The salts of platoso oxalic acid are very remarkable, because they 
occur in isomeric or rather polymeric forms. 

For the preparation of the sodium salt sodium chloro-platinate is 
heated with an equal weight of sodium hydrate. The residue is treated 
with water, which dissolves out sodium chloride, leaving a yellow pow- 
der, NajO, 3PtO2,0H2O. More of it is obtained by the addition of hydro- 
chloric acid to the solution of sodium chloride, avoiding excess. It is 
washed with cold water and washed with one and a half parts of crys- 
talline oxalic acid. Carbonic acid escapes, and there is obtained a solu- 
tion of an intense blue color, from which cold slender brown needles of 
a metallic luster are deposited. This salt is collected upon a filter and 
repeatedly washed with boiling water. There filters first a yellow solu- 
tion, then a greenish or blue one, and lastly a solution of a reddish- 
brown. From the last liquid the mass of the sodium salt is deposited 
on cooling, crystallized in capillary needles of a coppery luster. The 
first solution after some time deposits lemon-yellow prisms of an isomeric 
salt. The intermediate solutions deposit mixtures of the two salts. 
Both salts yield with silver nitrate a yellowish-white precipitate of 
microscopic crystals of the silver salt of platoso-oxalic acjd. On decom- 
posing this silver salt with the calculated proportion of hydrochloric 
acid we obtain an indigo-blue solution, containing platoso-oxalic acid. 
We may obtain the salts of the acid either by the double decomposition 
of the sodium salts or by neutralizing the free acid with bases or car- 
bonates. With the brown sodium salt there are obtained salts of a 
brown, greenish, or blue color; but with the yellow salt we obtain iso 
meric yellow or orange salts. The free acid generally gives salts of the 
former class, i e., of a dark color, but by repeated crystallizations yellow 
salts may be obtained. Several metals belonging to the zinc group form 
dark-colored salts most readily ; others, for instance silver, yield yellow 
salts, and others again form with equal ease either dark or yellow salts. 
The tri- and tetra-atomic metals give both dark and yellow salts, but of 



CHEMISTRY. 411 

a different compositiou. The dark salts are iu general less soluble ; 
their density is lower and tliey often contain a smaller number of mole- 
cules of crystalline water. The difference between the two classes of 
salts does not depend on the water of crystallization, because both dark 
and yellow anhydrous salts have been obtained, and because there exist 
both yellow and dark salts containing the same number of molecules of 
crystalline water. 

The salts of platoso-oxalic acid are in general sparingly soluble in cold 
dilute acids ; they .ire insoluble in alcohol. In hot water some of them 
dissolve readily 5 others are sparingly soluble. Most of them contain 
crystalline water, which they lose in part or entirely at 100°. They 
bear the temperature of 110^ to 115° (though the ammonium salt is 
decomposed at 100°) ; but a little above this temperature they begin to 
decompose. If suddenly heated they are decomposed with detonation. 

Platoso-oxalic acid, PtC408H2+2H20, the preparation of which has 
been described above, gives, when its solution has been evaporated in 
a vacuum, a red crystalline mass of a metallic luster. It dissolves 
readil}' in water with an indigo-blue color, but this color changes to 
yellow on heating or diluting with water. Yet the blue color returns on 
cooling or on concentration. 

There are two potassium salts, a brown one forming copper-colored 
needles of sjiecific gravity 3.01, and a yellow one in hexagonal prisms 
of specific gravity 3.03. Both contain the same number of molecules 
of crystalline water. With the ammonium salts the case is similar. 
The dark sodium salt forms slender needles containing 4 molecules of 
crystalline water, whilst the yellow salt forms prisms with 5 molecules 
of crystalline water. There are three isomeric calcium salts : the brown 
one, with 6JH2O; the /iyellow salt, with 4H2O, losing one molecule water 
at 100°; and the ;/-yellow salt, with 8H2O, losing at lOOoSHjO. There 
are also three strontium salts: a, dark, contains 3^H20 and loses ^H20 
at 100°; /?, also dark, contains 6JH2O, and loses 3H2Oatl00°5 and 
y, yellow, contains only 3 molecules of crystalline water and undergoes 
no change at 100°. 

These researches were made in the laboratory of Prof. P. T. Cl^ve. 
(Bull. Soc. Chim., 1886, 188.) 

lodo aldehyde is obtained by P. Chautard by acting on an aqueous 
solution of aldehyde with a mixture of iodic acid and iodine. 

5(C2H40) + 41 + IO3H = 5(C2H3lO) + 3H2O 

lodo aldehyde forms an oily, volatile, non-inflammable, colorless, 
limpid liquid, blackening rapidly on exposure to light. It decomposes 
at 80° C, but in solution may be heated to high temperatures without 
change. It acts as a strong caustic, attacking' eyes and respiratory 
organs. Its density is 2.14 at 20°. It is soluble in all proportions in 
alcohol, ether, benzene, chloroform, etc. It combines readily with ani- 
line and other ammonia derivatives. (Comptes Rendus, cii, 118.) 



412 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Synthesis of Conine, by A, Ladenburg. — Conine, the volatile alkaloid 
which forms the poisonous principle of hemlock (conium maculatum), 
was discovered in 1827 by Giesecke, but was first obtained in a pure 
state in 1831 by Geiger. It has been often studied by chemists, nota- 
bly by Ortigosa, Blyth, Wertheim, and Kekule and von Planta; the 
two latter gave it the formula CsHiglS", but it is now known to be CgHnN. 
It forms a colorless, oily liquid of pungent odor, specific gravity = 0.89 ; 
boiling point 166° to 168°. It is easily soluble in alcohol and ether, 
sparingly in water, and forms crystalline deliquescent salts. It is an 
active poison. This natural alkaloid has been formed synthetically by 
Ladenburgin the manner to be described. Hugo Schiff", in 1871, thought 
he had effected this synthesis by the action of alcoholic ammonia on 
normal butyric aldehyde and subjecting the i)roduct to dry distillation, 
but the base thus obtained proved to be paraconine, an isomeric form. 

Ladenburg's researches on the pyridine bases had already yielded 
him interesting results. The synthesis of piperidine was noted in our 
report for the year 1884. On the 25th of February he read a paper be- 
fore the German Chemical Society entitled ".Experiments on the Syn- 
thesis of Conine," in which he announced the preparation of a base 
very closely resembling this alkaloid, and in October be presented de- 
tails of this remarkably interesting synthesis, and proofs of the iden- 
tity of the artificial and natural .substances. The process is as follows : 
Paraldehyde and rt-picoline are heated for ten hours iu closed tubes 
to a temperature of 250"^ to 260°. The allylpyridine thus obtained was 
separated from the unchanged picoline, purified and fractioned until it 
distilled at 187°.5 to 192^.5. The exact nature of this body was care- 
fully established by many tests. The a allylpyridine was then sub- 
mitted in alcoholic solution to the reducing action of sodium, whereby 
ar-propylpiperidine was obtained. The hydrochloride of this base, 
when purified, melted at 203° to 205°, and crystallized in silky- white 
needles. 

The base separated from this salt boiled at 16G<=* to 167° and i)roved 
to have the greatest resemblance to conine. After a very careful study 
of its toxic and optical properties the author satisfied himself of the 
absolute identity of this dextro — «'-propylpiperidine and conine, 
C3H7. CjHio. HN. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 439 and 2578.) 

Ifew Synthesis of mi Inactive Borneol, by J. Bouchardat and J. La- 
font. — Berthelot accomplished the synthesis of the camphor of Borneo 
by treating camphor with potassium alcoholate, and Baubigny by the 
direct addition of hydrogen. The authors effect the transformation of 
terebene, or inactive camphene, CmHie, through the medium of an organic 
acid into an ether of borneol, which by saponification yields a borneol 
having no influence on polarized light. With the exception of its in- 
active optical properties, the new body is identical with borneol. 
(Oomptes Eendus, cii, 171.) 



CHEMISTRY. 413 

Synthesis of Ammonium Cyanide by Electricity, by A. Figuier. — By 
passing a current of silent electricity through a mixture of one volume 
of methane and two volumes of nitrogen, cyanide of ammonium is formed 
and noticeable by its odor. 

The product was collected and its identity established. (Comptes Ren- 
dus, cii, 694.) 

Synthesis of MelUtic Acid and of other Benzocarhonic Acids by Elec- 
trolyzing Water with Carbon Electrodes, by A.Bartoli and G. Papasogli. — 
By the electrolysis of distilled water with electrodes of pure carbon and 
a battery having an electromotive force equal to 1,200 Daniells, the 
authors obtained a black insoluble deposit (mellogen) and a very acid 
liquid which was found to contain mellitic, j)yromellitic, hydromellitic, 
aud hydropyromellitic acids. During the electrolysis carbon monoxide 
and dioxide with very little oxygen were evolved. Mellogen purified 
by precipitation from the aqueous solution by hydrochloric acid forms 
an amorphous, neutral, black, and friable body, insoluble in alcohols 
and soluble in water, to which it imparts an intensely black color. Mel- 
logen dried at 140° has the composition C11H2O4, and has some analogy 
with Brodie's graphitic acid C11H4O5, but the two bodies are not iden- 
tical. Oxidizing agents convert it into benzo-carbonic acids. (Annales 
Chim. Phys. [6J, vii, 349 and 364.) 

Products of the Electrolysis of a Solution of Ammonia with Coke Elec- 
trodes, by A. Millot. — A solution of ammonia containing 50 per cent, was 
electrolyzed with electrodes of coke purified by chlorine, and the chief 
products are an azulmic matter (which the author is still studying), urea, 
ammelide, biuret, and guanidine. The urea and guanidine probably 
arise from action of nascent carbon dioxide on ammonia with elimina- 
tion of water. Biuret is probably formed by the action of carbon diox- 
ide on guanidine, and ammelide from the action of this gas upon biuret 
with the co-operation of urea. Oyanuric acid was sought but not found. 
These results differ from those of Bartoli a-nd Papasogli, who added salt 
to the ammoniacal solution to render it a better conductor, and the nas- 
cent chlorine resulting destroyed the above-mentioned products. 
(Comptes Rendus, cm, 153.) 

Identify of Cadaverine with Pentamethylendiamine, by A. Ladeuburg. — 
Brieger in the course of his remarkable researches on ptomaines isolated 
from a cadaver a base having the formula C5H14N2, and which he named 
cadaverine. This base was also discovered in decomposing fish. 
Brieger, noting the resemblance in properties between cadaverine and 
pentamethylendiamine, sent a small specimen of the former to Laden- 
burg for investigation. The latter chemist found the reactions of the 
two bodies similar in all respects except in their behavior with mercuric 



414 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

chloride; but he succeeded in transforming cadaverlne into piperidine 
by a known process and thus fully established the identity of the two 
bodies. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 2585.) 

On the Constitution of Levulose and Dextrose^ by Heinrich Kiliani. — 
According to the author, levulose is a ketone alcohol, and has the con- 
stitution 

CH2OH 

I 
CO 

I 
CHOH 

I 
CHOH 

I 
CHOH 

I 
CH2OH 

This result was arrived at by studying the behavior of levulose with 
hydrocyanic acid. 

The question whether dextrose is an aldehyde or an anhydride is not 
entirely settled, but the probable constitution is 

/CH2 

/\ 

O (CH0H)4 

\i 

^CHOH 
(Ber. d. chein. Ges., xix, 767 and 1128.) 

Ghlorophyll and the Reduction of Carbonic Acid by Plants, by C. Timi- 
riazeff. — On subjecting an alcoholic solution of chlorophyll to nascent 
hydrogen (by means of zinc and acetic acid) the chlorophyll is reduced, 
and forms in dilute solutions a straw-yellow substance and in concen- 
trated solutions a substance of brown-red color. This substance has a 
well defined spectrum, in which the band in the red portion character- 
istic of chlorophyll is wanting. The most important i)roperty of this 
reduced chlorophyll is its rapid oxidation on exposure to air, with re- 
])roduction of green chlorophyll. The author terms this new substance 
protochlorophylline, or, more briefly, protophylline. 

Solutions of protophylline can be preserved only in glass tubes her- 
metically sealed. If a solution of protophylline be sealed up in a tube 
together with carbonic acid and preserved in total darkness it retains 
indefinitely its color and characteristic spectrum, but on exposure to 
sunlight the solution turns green. The author remarks that in the 
absence of quantitative details he can not claim that this proves the 
reduction of carbonic acid by protochlorophylline in the presence of 



CHEMISTRY, 415 

sunlight, but he can not find any other explanation of the facts. He 
thinks that there is evidence of the existence of orotophylline in living 
plants. He also finds that by pushing the reducing action of nascent 
hydrogen further another and colorless substance is obtained, which is 
now under examination. (Comptes Rendus, cii, 687.) 

Acetophenone, a new Hypnotic. — Acetophenone, also called acetylben- 
zene, CeHs . CO . CH3, has been found to possess valuable hypnotic 
properties. It is as yet only a laboratory product, but there should be 
no great difficulties in manufacturing it on a commercial scale. It is 
commonly obtained by distilling a mixture of calcium benzoate and cal- 
cium acetate, though many other methods are named in hand-books. It 
forms at ordinary temperatures a clear, colorless liquid, having a per- 
sistent characteristic odor; at a lower temperature it forms large flaky 
crystals, melting at 20^.5 C. Dr. Dujardin-Beaumetz, who has discov- 
ered its hypnotic properties, recommends it for simple insomnia, and 
says its use is not followed by disagreeable after-symptoms, such as 
nausea, headache, etc. He proposes for this substance the trade-name 
"hypnone." (Bull. G^nerale de Therapeutique, 1886.) 

On Thionaphthenes, by Victor Meyer. — The author states that the first 
thiophene of the naphthalene series, which he names thionaphthene, has 
been obtained in his laboratory by A. Biedermaun. It has the consti- 
tution 

H 
. C 

/ \ 
HC C CH 

II II I 

HC C CH 

\ / \ ^ 
S - c 

I 

OH 

The author has obtained thionaphthene itself by the action of phos- 
phide of sulphur on cumarone, the analogies of which are shown by 
the following schemes : 

H H 

C C 

^ \ ^ \ 
HC C CH HC C CH 

I II II I II II 

HC C CH HC C CH 

\ / \ / \ / \ / 

CO c s 

H H 

Cumarone. Thionaphthene. 

(Ber. d. cbem, Ges., xix, 1432 and 1615.) 



416 KECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

On PentJiiophene and its Derivatives, by Karl Krekeler. — The existence 
of a body analogous to thiophene, but having live carbon atoms and 
one of sulphur in a closed chain, has been foreseen by Victor Meyer and 
others. The author obtained a methyl derivative by acting on « methyl- 
glutaric acid with sulphide of phosphorus, this acid being derived from 
ItBvuliuic acid, a substance on which the author has lately experimented 
much. The body has the formula 

/ \ 
HC C — CH3 

II II 

HC CH 

\ / 
S 

/3-methylpenthiopheue. 

This substance forms a colorless oily liquid, boiling at 134° C; its vSpe- 
cific gravity = 0.9938 at 19° C. It gives the Laubenheimer color-test 
and other colored reactions. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 32GG.) 

Thiocumarine and its Derivatives^ by Fred. Tietnann. — By the action 
of phosphorus pentasulphide on cumarine the author obtained a sulpho- 
compound having the constitution 

CH:CU — CS 

/ ■ X 

C6H4 / 

\ 

o 

Thiocumarine. 

This crystallizes in golden needles, easily soluble in alcohol, ether, and 
benzene, insoluble in water, and melting at 101°. By reacting on this 
body with hydroxylamine he obtained cumaroxime in long white nee- 
dles, melting at 131°. In appropriate ways the following compounds 
were obtained : Cumaroximethyl ether, dihydrocumaroxime, and a 
phenyl-hydrazine derivative of cumarine. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 
1661.) 

Benzoic Sulphimde, or so-called " Saccharine.'''' — Dr. Ira Remsen, assisted 
by 0. Fahlberg, in the year 1879, when engaged in researches originating 
with the former, discovered a substance which lie named benzoic sulphi- 
uide. This body, which may also be called anhydrosulphaminebenz »ic 
acid, was obtained by the oxidation of orthotoluenesulphamide, and in 
the original paper (by R. and F.) is thus described : " Benzoic sulphi- 
nide is difficultly soluble in cold water. It is much more soluble in hot 
water, and can be obtained in crystalline form from its aoueous solu- 



CHEMISTKY. 417 

tion. It crystallizes in short, thick prismatic forms, which are not well 
developed. Alcohol and ether dissolve it very easily. It fuses at 220° 
(uucorr.j, but undergoes at the same time partial decomposition. It 
possesses a very marked sweet taste, being much siceeter than cane sugar. 
The taste is perfectly pure. Tlie minutest quantity of the substance, if 
placed upon the tip of the tongue, causes a sensation of pleasant sweet- 
ness throughout the entire cavity of the mouth. As stated above, the 
substance is soluble only to a slight extent in cold water, but if a few 
drops of the cold aqueous solution be placed in an ordinary goblet full 
of water, the latter then tastes like the sweetest sirup. Its presence 
can hence easily be detected in the dilutest sohitions by the taste. 
Orthonitrobenzoic acid has this same property', but the sweetness is by 
no means so intense as in the case of benzoic sul[)hinide." (Am. Chem. 
J., T, 430.) 

On the 2d of February, 1880, Dr. Ivan Lewinstein read a paper before 
the Society of Chemical Industry on '' Saccharine," in which he gives 
sole credit of the discovery of this sweet substance to Dr. Rem sen's 
assistant. The process of preparing it is the same, though he prefers 
for it the name benzoyl-sulphonic-imide, or the trade-name " saccharine." 
The constitution of this body is thus shown : 

/CO\ 

Dr. Lewinstein gives the following account of the properties and pros- 
pective uses of this substance: 

Saccharine presents the appearance of a white powder, and crystal- 
lizes from its aqueous solution in thick short prisms, which are with 
difficulty soluble in cold water, but more easily in warm. Alcohol, 
ether, glucose, glycerole, etc., are good solvents of saccliarine. It melts 
at 200O C, with partial decomposition; its taste in diluted solutions is 
intensely sweet, so mu3h so that one part will give a very sweet taste 
to 10,000 parts of water. Saccharine forms salts, all of which possess 
a powerful saccharine taste; it is endowed with moderately strong an- 
tiseptic properties, and is not decomposed in the human system, but 
eliminated from the body without undergoing any change. It is about 
two hundred and thirty times sweeter than the best cane or beetroot 
sugar. According to Dr. Stutzser, of Bonn, who has carefully inves- 
tigated the phvsiological properties of this substauce, saccharine, taken 
into the stomach in the quantities in which it has to be added to food 
xis a sweetening material, has no injurious effect whatever on the human 
system. Stutzser has given to dogs about 5 grams a day, without ob- 
serving any ill effects in them, and when we consider that 5 grams are 
equal in sweetening power to rather more than 2^ pounds of sugar, a 
quantity far larger than any one would like to consume in a day, his 
view seems amply corroborated by this fact alone; but, in addition to 
this, patients suffering from diabetes have now been treated for several 
months in one of the principal hospitals in Berlin, as I am informed, 
without their feeling the least inconvenience by its use. Physicians 
must be glad to find in saccharine a substance, by means of which di- 
H. Mis, eOQ 27 



418 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

abetic persons may enjoy food which has hitherto not been admissible 
in their case. Saccharine does not belong to the class of carbohydrates, 
and does not possess nutritious properties. The use of saccharine will 
therefore, as indicated by its properties, be not merely as a probable 
substitute for sugar, but it may even be applied to medicinal i)urpose 
where sugar is not ])ermissib]e. The inventor was fully aware that iu 
order to supply a perfect substitute for cane or beet-root sugar, ssoine- 
thing else, viz, a similar substance, was needed for confectionery and 
similar purposes, besides sweetening properties, and he has also ci- 
deavored to solve this problem. Dr. Fahlberg combines glucose with 
starch sugar, a substance very similar to cane or beet root sugar, but 
inferior to these in sweetening properties, with saccharine, and thus 
obtains a compound which he calls ''dextro-saccharine," which, as far 
as the taste is concerned, is scarcely distinguishable from the best sugar. 
The quantity of saccharine used is in the i)roportion of one i>art to lioui 
1,000 to 2,000 parts of glucose. Now, since the price of saccharine is at 
present al30ut 50s a pound, we shall find that even at this price such a 
mixture would be very considerably cheaj)er than real sugar, but we 
must bear in mind the fact that there is great likelihood of the process 
of manufacture of saccharine being considerably cheapened. 

It will then be evident not only that saccharine is a most interesting 
comi)Ound, but that it may also be destined to beccme an article of i)ri- 
mary commercial importance. The future must decide as to the rev- 
olutions it may bring about in the coal-tar industry, in the cultivation 
of the soil now devoted to growing canes or beets, and in the sugar in- 
dustry generally and other industries connected with it; but as great 
and important commercial interests are in question, it is highly advisa- 
ble to look well into this matter, and not allow our foreign com])etitois 
in this and other markets to secure for themselves exclusively the ben- 
efit which this discoveiy may confer. There are in commerce small balls 
made from starch, to which has been added .05 per cent, of saccharine, 
of which one is sufficient to impart a very sweet taste, very similar to 
that of the best sugar, to a large cup of black coffee. 

Investigations on the Sulphinides, by Dr. Ira Remsen. — The benzoic 
sulphinide described iu the preceding note has been further studied by 
the author. By the substitution of the ethoxyl group lor hydrogen 
l)araethoxybenzoic sulphinide was obtained, crystallizing iu fine white 
needles, melting at 257° to 258'°. This derivative has not the sweet 
taste characteristic of the benzoic sulphinide. Another derivative, para- 
brombenzoic sulphinide, crystallizing in long needles and subliming in 
feathery tlakes at about 200°, has a remarkable taste. When first placetl 
upon the tongue its taste is extremely sweet, fully as much so as that 
of benzoic sulphinide, a single small crystal being able to sweeten half 
a liter of water. After the sweet taste has passed an equally bitter taste 
takes its place, reminding one in its extreme bitterness of strychnine. 
This peculiarity can not be due to the presence of two substances of 
different degrees of solubility, since the purest specimens have this 
property. (Am. Chem. -J., viii, 223.) 

Faranitrohenzoic Sulphinide^ etc., by W. A. Noyes. — This body crys- 
tallizes in small leaflets and in fine needles, fusing at 209°. It is diffi- 



CHEMISTRY. 419 

cultly soluble in cold water and (together with its salts) has an intensely 
bitter taste. Its structure is as follows : 

CfiHs — SO2/ 2 

\ NO2 4 

Paraamidobenzoic sulphinide, oh the other hand, has an intensely sweet 
taste. Its solution, even when very dilute, shows a dark-blue fluor- 
escence. The author describes its salts with potassium, barium, and 
silv^er. (Am. Chem. J., vili, 167.) 

On Wrightine, by H. Warnecke. — This alkaloid, first isolated by Sten- 
house in 1864, from the seeds of Wrightia antidysenterica, an apocyna- 
ceous tree from India. It is the first known solid base occurriug in 
nature which is free from oxygen. If a trace of this base, dissolved in 
chloroform, is evaporated to dryness in a porcelain capsule, the residue 
covered with 2 to 3 c. c. of water and strong sulphuric acid is added in a 
slender stream, a golden-yellow color spreads from tlie bottom of the 
capsule through the whole liquid, and turns to a green on standing for 
twelve liours. If 1 milligram of the alkaloid is rubbed up in a watch- 
ghifss with five drops of strong sulphuric acid and let stand exposed to 
the air for two hours, the liquid which was at first colorless, turns yellow- 
ish green and finally a pale violet. If the above mixture is at once ex- 
posed in the neck of a flask to the steam of boiling water the mass turns 
dark green, and passes into deep blue on contact with a little water. 
(Ber. d. chem. Ges,, xix.) 

Chemical Aspects of Future Food Supply. — The chemical section of 
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at the meet- 
ing in Buffalo, August, 1886, was numerously attended. The president 
of the section. Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, addressed the members on "The 
Economical Aspects of Agricultural Chemistry." His concluding sen- 
tences on the Future Food Supply are as follows: "Since, with a proper 
economy, the natural supplies of potash and phosphoric acid, as we 
have seen, may be made to do duty over and over again, and last in- 
definitely, the economist who looks to the welfare of the future need 
have no fear of the failure of these resources of the growing plant. In- 
deed, it may be said that the available quantities of them may be in- 
creased by a wise practice of agriculture, based on the teachings 
of agricultural chemistry. But with the increase of population comes 
an increased demand for food, and therefore the stores of available 
nitrogen must be enlarged to supply the demands of the increased 
agricultural product. It is certain, that with the new analytical 
methods, and the new questions raised by the investigations of which 
I have spoken, many scrici of experimeurs will be uLulertaken, the 



420 RECORD OF SCIENCE FUR 1886. 

outcome of which will definitely settle the question of the entrance 
of free nitrogen into vegetable tissues. If this question be answered 
affirmatively, agricultural science will not i)lace bounds to the possible 
production of foods. If the nitrifying process does go on within the 
cells of plants, and if living organisms do fix free nitrogen in the soil in 
a form in which at least a portion of it may be nitrified, we may ex- 
pect to see the quantities of combined nitrogen increase pari passu 
with the needs of plant life. Thus, intensive culture may leave the 
gardens and spread over the fields, and the quantities of food suitable 
for the sustenance of the human race be enormously increased. In con- 
temjdatingthejigricultural economies of the future, however, itmust not 
be forgotten that a certain degree of warmth is as necessary to plant 
development as potash, phosphoric acid, and nitrogen. If it be true, 
therefore, that the earth is gradually cooling, there may come a time 
when a cosmic athermancy may cause the famine which scientific agri- 
culture will have prevented. Fortunately however for the human race 
the cereals, the best single article of food, are peculiarly suitable to a 
cold climate. Barley is cultivated in Iceland, and oatmeal feeds the 
best brain and muscle of the world in the high latitudes of Europe. It 
is probably true that all life, vegetable and animal, had its origin in the 
boreal circumpolar regions. Life has already been pushed half-way to 
the equator, and slowly but surely the armies of ice advance their lines. 
The march of the human race equatorwards is a forced march, even if it 
be no more than a millimeter in a millennium. Some time in the remote 
future the last man will reach the equator. There, with the mocking 
disk of the sun in the zenith, denying him warmth, flat-headed and 
pinched as to every feature, he will gulp his last mite of albuminoids in 
his oatmeal, and close his struggle against an indurate hospitality." 
(Economical Aspects of Agricultural Chemistry, an Address by H. W. 
Wiley. Cambridge, 1886.) 

Recent Progress in the Goal-Tar Industry. — Under the above title Sir 
Henry E. Roscoe delivered a most valuable and interesting discourse 
at the Royal Institution on April 16, 1886. He refers the numerous 
products, whether dye-stuff's, perfumes, antipyretic medicines, or sweet 
principles to two great classps of hydrocarbons, the paraflinoid and the 
benzenoid hydrocarbons. The first is the foundation of the fats, and 
the second of the essences or aromatic bodies. Petroleum is the source 
of the first class and coal tar of the second, The following tables give 
an interesting view of the marvellous products of coal and their relf^tiv© 
amounts. 

I. Products of distillation of 1 ton of Lancashire coal: 
10,000 cubic feet gas. 
20 to 25 gallous ammouiacal liquor (5° Tw.). 

12 gallons of coal-tar (= \'^^,% pounds, specific gravity, 1,16), 

13 hundred weight of coke, 



CHEMISTRY. 



421 



1.10 pouuds beuzeue (= 1.10 jxMmds aniliue) 
0.90 pouud toluene (=0.77 pound toluidiue) 



II. Products of 12 gallons of gas-tar : 

S := 0.<52 pound magenta. 

1.5 pounds phenol proper (^ 1.2 pounds Auriu). 

2.14 Y>ouud8 solvent napbtba (tbree xylenes). 

2.40 pounds heav\' napbtba. 

6.30 i)ouuds napbthalene (^5.25 pounds a-napbtbylanilne, 7.11 venuilllue 

scarlet KRR, or 9.50 pounds napbthol yellow). 
17.0 pounds creosote. 
14.0 pounds heavy oil. 

0.46 pound anthracene ( = 2.25 alizarine 20 per cent.). 
69.6 pounds jiitch. 

III. Dyeing power of colors from 1 ton of Lancashire coal : 



Pounds. 


Dye-stuflf. 


Dye yards of 

tlannel 27 
inches wide. 


0. 623 
[or, 1.23 

9. 50 
[or, 7, 11 

1.2. 

2.25 


Magenta 

Metbylviolet .... 
Napbthol yellow. 

Verniiliiue 

Aurin 


500 

1,000 ] 

3,800 

2,560 ] 

120 

*255 


Alizarin 





Printers' cloth. 



The distinguished lecturer illustrated the tiuctorial power of the coal- 
tar products by exhibiting a party-colored flag showing the exact 
amount of color obtainable from 1 pouud of Lancashire coal; this flag 
was made uj) as follows : 

Inches. 

Magenta flannel 8x27 

Violet flannel 24x27 

Yellow flannel 61 x 27 

Orange flannel 1. 9 x 27 

Turkey-red flannel : 4 x 27 

The colors chosen are only a few among the numerous list of deriva- 
tives. This list comprises at present the following : 

16 distinct yellows. 

12 oranges. 

30 reds. /Derived irom benzene, to 

15 blues. I luene phenols, x.>lene, 

7 greens. / naphthalene, anthra- 

9 violets. V cene. 

Several browjis. 
Several blacks. 

The coal-tar antipyretic medicines next engaged the lecturer's atten- 
tion. Professor Dewar discovered in 1881 that quinoline belongs to the 



422 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

iiromiitie series, ami first observed that (pertain i).vridiije saits act as feb 
lil'uges; so he uiay be called the father of antipyretic medicines. Of 
tiiese, kairine was discovered by Prof. O. Fischer in 1881, and its feb- 
rifuge ])roperties were first noticed by Professor Filehne, of Erlangeu. 
It is actually ethyl-tetraoxy-quinoline, and has the constitution 

/OH.UH2 



H CI 

Autii)yrine, the second of these febrifuges, was discovered by Dr. L. 
Kuorr, of Erlangen, and its physiological proi)erties were studied by 
Professor Filehne. It has the following constitution : 

N — N — CHt 
C6H4 C — C H3 

I I 

CO — CH2 

orCiiHii^aO. For the preparation of these bodies and their physio- 
logical effects, as well as for brief notices of cinnarine and vanilline, we 
refer (o the original address. (Nature, xxxiv, pp. Ill and 133.) 

Statisfics of the Coal- Tar Color Industry. — In a paper on the scientilic 
developmeiit of the coal-tar color industry, bj^ Prof. R. Meldola, before 
the Society of Arts, he gives some statistics showing the magnitude of 
the industry under discussion. In Germany a factory of about the third 
magnitude consumes at present 500 to 600 tons of aniline i»er annum. 
The P)a(lische Company employ twenty-five hundred laborers and otfi 
cials, and the Hoechst Color Works (formerly Meister, Lucius & iJriin- 
ing) emi)loy lixteeu hundred men and fifty-four chemists. In these 
large establishments they manufacture not only aniline, but alizarine, 
acids, alkalies, and all the necessary chemicals. 

The probable consumption of alizarine by British dye-works in 18S0 
amounted to 0,900 tons (of 10 per cent, paste), of which perhaps Go 
per cent, was manufactured in Germany. The author points out that 
although historically the industry is indebted to English discoveries, 
commercially the control is leaving England for Germany. (Nature, 
xxxiv, 321.) 

NOTES. 

Gadolinium is the name definitely given b,y Marignac to the metal Yz-r, 
which he discovered in 1880. The provisional name was abandoned at 
the suggestion of Lecoq de Boisbaudran. This is not to be confoumled 
with the same word as used by Nordenskj«(ld. 

Ammonio permanganate of silver, as well as the analogous compounds 
of coi)per, cadmium, nickel, zinc, and magnesium are new compounds 



CHEMISTRY. 4 '2 3 

obtnined b}' J. Klobb. Tbey are all explosive wiien ueated or struck 
by a hammer. (Comptes Keudus, cm, 384.) 

The deeom position of chloriue water in suulightis shown by A. Popper 
to yield, besides the usually admitted oxygen and hypochloric acid, 
chloric acid itself, and he shows that this was not formed by the treat- 
ment to which the liquid was subjected for analytical purposes. (Ann. 
Chem., ccxxxi.) 

Phosi)horus tetroxide,P204, has been obtained by Thorpe and Tutton. 
It forms when phosphorus is burned in a limited supply of dry air. It 
occurs as trauspaient, highly lustrous, very deliquescent crystals, which 
do not fuse at 100°, and do volatilize at 180°. On solution in water 
they form phos[)horoso-phosphoric acid, ])reviously discovered by Salzer. 
For reactions of this oxide and other details see original paper. (J. 
Chem. Soc, Trans. 188G, 833.) 

The thickness of the air layer adhering to glass has been carefully 
measured by Otto Schumann and found to be somewhat less than 
0.000007'''". O. E. Meyer estimates the diameter of molecules at 
0.000000005""; the air layer is therefore more than one thousand times 
as large as the diameter of molecules. (Wiedemann's Auualen, xxvii, 
91, '8G.) 

Attention is called by Arthur G. Bloxam to the solubility of sulphur 
in alcohol, a fact not generally noted in text books. By slowly cooling 
a solution of sulphur in hot alcohol he obtained brilliantly transparent 
crystals up to half an inch in length, and so white as easily to be mis- 
taken for niter. Chemists using rubber corks in distilling alcohol should 
bear in mind this solubility of sulphur as a possible source of impurity. 
(Chem. iSTews, liii, 181.) 

Tyrotoxicon is the name given to a highly poisonous ptomaine dis- 
covered by Dr. Victor C. Vaughan in cheese. Its occurrence in poison- 
ous ice-cream has also been demonstrated by Dr. Vaughan, wiio i»re- 
sented a paper on the subject to the Michigan State Board of Health, 
July 13, 1886. 

Lecoq de Boisbaudran remarks the tluorescence of manganese sul- 
phate when mixed with a large amount of calcium suli)uate and subjected 
to electrical action in a vacuum. Sulphate of manganese alone does not 
fluoresce under these conditions. (Comptes Rendus, cm, 40:5.) 

Ciesium and rubidium nitrites, according to Th. Rosenblatt, form 
with cobalt nitrite crystalline double salts, which are the least soluble 
compounds of these alkaline metals yet discovered. Caesio cobaltic- 
nitrite requires 20,100 parts of water at 17° C, and the rubidium salt 
19,800 parts for solution. Thallium forms similar compound. (Ber. d. 
chem. Ges , xix, 2531.) 

The oxides of gold have been critically studied by Gerhard Kriiss, who 
finds there are three only : Au^Oi, Au.Oi, and Au.,0, . All attempts to 
obtain lower or higher oxides were futile. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 
2541.) 



424 RPXORl) OF SCIENCE FOR 1X8(>. 

lodiiio is iei)oite(l by J. A. Wanklyii to exist in ii free state iu the 
mineral water of the Woodliall Spa, near Lincoln. Sufficient is present 
to impart a brown color to the water and to give the usual reaction with 
carbon disulphide. The spa has long been known as useful in skin 
diseases (Chem. News, Liv, 300.) 

The complete synthesis of pyrrol has been accomplished by Ciamician 
and Silber; the steps in the transformation from succinimide to pyrrol 
are as follows: Succinimide, bichlormaleiuimide, perchloride of tetra- 
chlorpyrrol, tetrachlorpyrrol, tetrajodpyrrol, i)yrrol. (Ber. d. chem. 
Ges., XIX, 3027.) 

Combiuationsof acetamide with metallic chlorides have been described 
by G. Andr^, notably with cupric chloride, cadmium chloride, the chlo- 
rides of nickel and cobalt, and mercuric chloride. These bodies are 
crystalline, and decompose at a moderately low^ temperature. (Comptes 
lleudus, oil, 115.) 

Prof. A. Michaelis, of Aachen, continues his extended researches on 
compounds of the elements of the nitrogen group with radicals of the 
aromatic series. In Liebig's Aunalen, Vol. ccxxxiii, in union with A. 
Keese, he describes several compounds of antimony with phenyl and 
its derivatives, and in union with Paetow he describes compounds of 
arsenic with benzyl. 

Calcined magnesia, showing peculiar behavior with reagents, is sup- 
posed by George Stillingtieet Johnson to contain rare earths. (Chem. 
News, LIV, 88.) 

The mosandra of Dr. J. Lawrence Smith has been examined by Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran, samples being furnished by Dr. Marion, of Louisville, 
and lound to consist chietiy of tcrbia and Ya. (Chem. News, liii, 108.) 

Sozolic acid, or orthoxyphenylsulphurous acid, discovered by M. Ser- 
rant, is a more powerful antisei)tic than salicylic or phenic acids. The 
corresi)onding para compound has no antiseptic [)roperties. The author 
claims for sozolic acid great benetits to medicine and surgery. (Comptes 
Kendus, Cii, 1079.) 

A summary of all that is know'u concerning samarium and its com- 
pounds has been published by P. T. Cleve, of Upsala. The subject is 
treated under the heads history, separation, mode of occurrence, atomic 
weight, spectrum, oxides, and the numerous salts. (Chem. News, liii, 
30 et seq.) 

Cerium, yttrium, and glucinum, according to Dr. J. H. Strohecker, 
occur iu extraordinary quantities in the clays of Hainstadt. One of 
the clays analyzed contained as high as 13.1: per cent, cerium hydrox- 
ide. Tlie author's analytical methods and his statements have met 
severe criticisms on the part of several chemists, but he insists on 
their accuracy. (J. f. prakt. Chemie, 188G.) 

Glycyphyllin is a crystalline substance, which Dr. Edward H. Ren- 
iiie extracted from the leaves of ^Slnila.l^ glycyphylla, a plant common 
in New South Wales. Crystallized from water it has the formula 



CHEMISTRY. 425 

C2iH24094-4^H20. Ou boiliug with dilute .sulphuric acid it decoui- 
poses iuto phloretiu aud isodulcite, and is therefore closely allied to 
phlorizin. (J. Chem. Soc, Trans. 1886, 857.) 

According to Dr. F. W. Dafert, starch obtained from Panicum candi 
dum yields with iodine a reddish brown color instead of the usual blue 
coloration. (Biedermann's Centralblatt, 188G.) 

The formation of ferrates can be conveniently exhibited in a lecture 
by a method described by C L. Bloxam. Place a fragment of potas- 
sium hydroxide in a solution of ferric chloride, add a few drops of bro- 
mine, and heat gently. The resulting dark brown mass dissolves in 
water, yielding a fine red solution, which may be kept many hours 
without decomposition. By boiling ferric chloride with bleaching pow- 
der a similar red solution of calcium ferrate can be obtained. (Chem. 
News, Liv, 43.) 

A new alloy of aluminium and tin (lOOAl : lOSn), having a specific 
gravity of 2.85, is recommended by M. Bourbowze for all instruments 
requiring lightness. It can be soldered as easily as brass, and resists 
reagents almost as well as aluminium itself. (Comptes Eendus, cii, 
June 7, 1886.) 

The third annual convention of the Association of Official Agricul- 
tural Chemists was held August 26 and 27, in Washington, J). C, under 
the presidency of Dr. Harvey W. Wiley. The members adopted official 
methods for determining phosphoric acid and moisture and for potash, 
but agreed not to select any single method for the determination of 
nitrogen as official. Details of the methods adopted and other papers 
of value will be found in the proceedings, published as Bulletin 12 of 
the Division of Chemistry, Department of Agriculture. 

The Berichteof the German Chemical Society in Berlin grows apace; 
the volumes for 1885 contain 3,516 pages of contributions aud 1,033 
pages of abstracts, making a total of 4,519 pages. The society has 
ordered for 1886 an edition of 3,600 copies. 

The Tokyo Chemical Society (of Japan), organized in 1878 by the 
graduates of the Tokyo University, has eighty-six members. The offi- 
cers for 1886 are as follows: President, J. Sakurai; vice-presidents, T. 
Isouo, M. Kuhara, N. Matsui, J. Takayama, G. Nakasawa; secretary, 
T. Uyeda; treasurers, T. Isido and T. Takamatsu. The members are 
exclusive. y Japanese (no foreigners). They meet twice a month and 
publish a journal in Japanese entitled Tokyo Kagakkai Kaishi, edited 
by J. Sakurai. The eighth annual meeting was held April 10, 1886, at 
the botanical garden of the Imperial University, Tokyo, and several 
interesting addresses and papers were read. 

The Chemical Society of London now numbers fourteen hundred and 
fifty-nine fellows, thirty-one of these being honorary foreign members. 
During the year 1885-'86 one hundred and four papers were read to the 
society, a larger number than for several years past. The income for 
the year named amounted to £3,743. A subject catalogue of the library 



426 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

was recently puWisbed. The president for the current year is Dr. Hugo 
Miiller, F. II. S., and the first vice-president is William Crookes, F. R. S 
The twelve principal chemical societies of the world have nearly nine 
thousand members, distributed as shown in the following table (from 
H. C. Bolton's Address to IST. Y. Academy of Sciences, March 15, 188G) : 

DentscUe cliemische GeseiLschaft zii Berlin L',9.')0 

SocLety of Chemical ludiistry (Eugland) 2, 40J 

Chemical Society of Loadoa 1,.'')00 

Soci6te chimiquo de Paris •''>GU 

Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland 430 

American Chemical Society . ^iAt 

Society of Public Analysts (Eui^land) 1«0 

Chemical Society of St. Petersburjj; IGO 

Associazione chimico-farmaceatica florcnt iiia *2W 

Chemical Society of Tokio, Japan 81 

Chemical Society of Washington, D. C AS 

Association of Official Agricultural Chcuiists (IJui ted States of America) 17 



Total H,781 

The centenary of the death of Sclieele was commemorated on May 21, 
1886, at the little town of Koping, Sweden, wiiere he passed the last 
ten years of his life. 

The prodigious activity in all departments of science obtaining in 
Germany is well illustrated by statistics of the meeting of "deutscher 
Naturforscher und Aerzte" held at Berlin in September, 1880. At this 
meeting no less than 5,651 persons took part, including 2,221 members, 
1,931 associates, 1,496 women. Nearly every quarter of the globe was 
represented. North America by 42 persons, Japan by 10, India by 2, 
Egypt by 4, Australia by 4, and the Cape of Good Hope by 2. In the 30 
sections into which the association is divided 522 lectures and 155 
experimental demonstrations were held in 131 sessions. And those in 
attendance were invited to join 48 excursions. 

The first meeting of this association was held in 1831, in Leipzig, and 
was attended by 13 persons ; surely small beginnings are not to be 
despised. 

NECROLOGY OF CHEMISTS, 1886. 

Robert Alexander, a young English chemist of much promise, was 
killed instantly during the disastrous earthquake in Charleston, South 
Carolina, August 31, 1880. He was born March 18, 1803, near Birken- 
head, England. His chemical education was chiefly in the analytical 
laboratory of Mr. G. W. Wigner, Loudon. In January, 1880, he came 
to America, and in March went to Charleston, where he was engaged 
in developing a sanitary system when he met his death. 

James Apjohn died June 2, 1880, at the advanced age of ninety one. 
He held the chair of chemistry in the Royal College of Surgeons, Dub- 

* Estimated. Many chemists are members of several societies ; against this dupli- 
cation may be set those chemists not connected with societies. 



CHEMISTRY. 427 

liu, from 1823 to 1850, aud in the Uiiiver.sity from the latter date until 
1874. lie i)ul)lislied many original memoirs on general pbysics and 
chemistry, and long held a foremost place as a theoretic and practical 
chemist,- 

H. A. Bayne, professor of chemistry at the Koyal Military College, 
Kingston. Ontario, died in September. He was a native of Nova Scotia. 
After graduating at Dalhonsie College, Halifax, he studied chemistry 
with Bunsen and with Dumas. He had occupied the chair of chemistry 
at Kingston only since 1879. 

Appolinaire Bouchard at, born in 1806, died April 7, 188G, He 
held since 1852 the chair of physics and organic chemistry in the Col- 
lege of Pharmacy of Paris. His investigations were chietly in the tield of 
pharmaceutical chemistry. He edited the "Annuaire de therapeu, 
tiquo" from 1841 to 1885, the " Rei)ertoire de pharmacie " from 1847 to 
1S72, and other important works. He was a member of many learned 
societies. 

Carl Bulk died in July, in the forty-first year of his age. He was 
a teacher in the Gewerbeschule in Barmen, and chemist to the Barmen 
Color Manufactory (Farben-Industrie), which makes a specialty of ani- 
line dyes. Dr. Bulk was an original member of the German Chemical 
Society. 

Alexander Michailowitsch von Butlerow died August 17, 
1886. He was born September G, 1828, in the province of Kasan, was 
at first a pharmaceutist, and then studied in the universities of Kasan 
and of Moscow. In 1854 he became professor of chemistry at Kasan- 
aud in 1869 at the University of St Petersburg, which chair he held at 
his death. His original researches were chietly in organic chemistry, 
and gained for him a world-wide reputation. 

Henuy SuCtDEN Evans, born at Islington, England, in 1830, died in 
Montreal in 1886. He was president of the Pharmaceutical Society and 
chief analyst to the Dominion of Canada. His publications were chielly 
in pharmaceutical chemistry. 

Gottlieb C. Faas, a student of chemistry residing in Birmingham, 
Alabama, was killed b}' a locomotive Octobers, in Pennsylvania. 

Francesco Filippuzzi, of Padua, died July 22, 1886. He was born 
in 1824, and after receiving his education in Austria was appointed pro- 
fessor of chemistry at the University of Padua, where he organized prac- 
tical courses modeled on those of German universities. Though not 
eminent as an investigator he will long be remembered as a teacher by 
numerous grateful pu[)ils. A fuller notice will be found in Ber. d. chem. 
Ges.,xix, 2941. 

Charles Froebel died June 19, 1886. He was professor of ana- 
lytical chemistry in the oSTew York College of Pharmacy from 1872 to 
1882. 

Frederick Guthrie, born October 15, 1833, died October 21, 1886. 
From 186L to 1867 he held the chair of chemistry and physics in the 



428 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Ro.val College, Mauritius, and siuce 1800 the chair of physics in the 
Royal School of Mines, London, His origi-nal contributions to both 
sciences were numerous and important. He founded in 1873 the Phys- 
ical Society of London, Guthrie was also the author of several works 
on heat, electricity, and molecular i)hysics. 

F:6lix Leblanc died in Paris in May (?), 1886. He was for many 
years a co-laborer with Dumas, and at his death was connected with the 
ficole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, in Paris. His studies on car- 
bon monoxide are noteworthy. He was vice-president of the Society 
for Encouragement of National Industries, and member of many learned 
societies. 

E. LiNNEMANN, professor of chemistry at the University of Prague, 
died April 27, 1886. He was born in 1841. For an account of his scien- 
tific labors see Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 1149. 

Frederic Melsens died in Brussels April 20, 1886, aged seventy- 
two years. He was an active investigator in both inorganic and organic 
chemistry throughout his life. 

MosER VON MoosBRUCH, of Vienna, an agricultural chemist, died 
early in the year 1886. 

William Ripley Nichols died July 14, aged thirty-nine. He held 
the chair of general chemistrj' in the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology, of which he was a graduate. He was the author of several text- 
books, and had a high reputation as an expert chemist in matters per- 
taining to hygiene. 

Max Reimann died October 22, 1886. His investigations and writ- 
ings for twenty years were chiefly in the line of industrial chemistry. 
For a biographical sketch see Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix (1880). 

G. F. Heinrich Schroder, bora in Munich, September 28, 1810, died 
May 12, 1885. A full biographj^ will be found in Berichte der deutschen 
chemischen Gesellschaft, xviii, R., 843. 

Charles Upham Shepard, the well-known American mineralogist, 
died May 1, 1886, in his eighty-second year. His chemical work was 
chiefly in connection with minerals. A full notice will be found in the 
American Journal of Science, Vol. xxxi, 482 (June, 1886). 

Edward Solly died April 2, 1886, in the sixty-seventh year of his 
age. He was a member of the Royal Society. 

Julius Adolph Stockhardt, the well-known agricultural chemist, 
died at Tharandt, Saxony, June 1, in his seventy-seventh year. He 
was the originator of the agricultural experiment stations now so com- 
mon in Europe and elsewhere. His text-book, "Principles of Chem- 
istry," did much to popularize the science. He was editor of many jour- 
nals devoted to scientific agriculture. For a fuller sketch of his life see 
Popular Science Monthly for June, 1881. 

Magnus Troilius died April 19, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
He was a graduate of the Royal School of Mines of Stockholm, and 
held for several years the position of chemist to the Midvale Steel 



CHEMISTEY. 429 

Works. His " l!fotes on the Chemistry of Iron " was published during- 
the 3'ear. 

Martin Websky, born July 17, 1824, died November 26, 1886. 
Since 1874 he has been professor of mineralogy at the University of 
Berlin, being the successor of Gustav Eose. His chemical work has 
been chiefly in connection with mining and mineralogy. 

Clemens Zimmermann, instructor in chemistry at the University of 
Munich, died March 27, 1885. He was born March 4, 1856, in Munich, 
and was consequently only twenty-nine years of age. Dr. Zimmermaun 
was one of the most active and promising young chemists of Germany. 
His researches on the atomic weight of uranium and in analytical chem- 
istry are classical. A full biography (with portrait) will be found in 
Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, xviii, B., 826. 

Otto Ziurek died May 11, 1886. He was born in Upper Silesia 
June 19, 1821. His literary and practical works were chiefly in the field 
of pharmaceutical chemistry. (Ber. d. chem. Ges., xix, 1316.) 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CHEMISTRY, 1886. 

Adriance, John S. Laboratory Calculations aud Specific Gravity Tables. New 

York, 1886. 12mo. 
Agrestini, a. Dosamento del biossido di zircouio in preseuza di acido titauico. 

Nota preliminare. Urbino, 1886. 8vo. 
Alessandri, p. E. Metodo sisteraatico per 1' analisi cbimica qualitativa delle sos- 

tauze iuorganiche ed organiche e per le ricercbe tossicologiche. Milano, 1885. 

8vo. 
Anderson, J. H. The Public School Chemistry : being at once a syllabus for the mas- 
ter and an abstract for the boy. Second edition, revised, corrected, aud enlarged. 

London, 1886. 8vo. 
Antrick, O. Ueber einige Verbiudungen vou Diacetonamin mit Aldehyden. Erlan- 

gen, 1886. 8vo. 
Arendt, R. Leitfaden fiir don Unterricht iu der Chemie. 2. durchgesebeue nnd 

berichtigte Auflage. Hamburg, 1886. 
Arth, G. fitude de quelques derives du menthol. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 
Athanasesco, N. Recherches sur quelques sulfates basiques cristallis6s. Paris, 

1886. 4to. 
Attfield, J. Chemistry, General, Medical, and Pharmaceutical, including the 

Chemistry of the British Pharmacopoeia. 11th edition. London, 1885. 8vo. 
AvELiNG, E. B. Chemistry of the non-metals. (Hughes's Matriculation Manuals.) 

London, 18^6. 8vo. 
Baessler, Arthur. Das Hydrochinon und seine Derivate. luaug.Diss. Berlin, 

1886. 
Baum, J. Oxydationsderivate des Couiins. Freiburg i. B., 1886. 8vo. 
Bayley, T. Pocket-Book for Chemists, Chemical Manufacturers, etc. 4th edition. 

Loudon, 1886. 
Beck, P. Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Umbelliferons. Erlangen, 1886. 8vo. 
Behrend, R. Versuche zur Synthese vou Korperu der Harusiiurereihe. Leipzig, 

1885. 8vo. 
Beilstein, F. Handbuchder organischen Chemie. 2. viillig nmgearbeitete Auflage, 

(In drei Biinden.) Lief. 9, 10, 11, 12, 1:5. Hamburg, 188.5-'«6. 8vo. 
Bej:.I.BN0T, G, IJeberdie Paranitnibcuzoylessigsiinre, Miiucheu, 1885. 8vo, 



430 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Benedikt, R. Analyse tier Fette unci Wachsarteu. BeiliD, 1886. 8vo. 

The Chemistry of Coal-Tar Colors. With special reference to their application 

to dyeing, etc. Translated and edited with additions by E. Knecht. London, 
1886. Small post 8vo. 

Berglund, E. Liirobok 1 qualitativ oorgauisk analys. Lund, 1885. 

Bergmann, H. Cbemisch-techuisches Receptbuch fiir die gesammte Metailindus- 

trie. Wieu, 1886. 8vo. 
Bericht iiber die vierte Versamralnng der freieu Vereiuiguug bayrischer Vertretcr 

der angewandten Cheniie zu Nlirnberg am 7. u. 8. August 1885. Heransgegebcu 

von A. llilger und R. Kayser. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 
Bernays, a. J. Notes on Analytical Chemistry. 2d edition. London, 1886. 8vo. 
Bernstein, M. Ueber die Phenyl- und Kresylester der Bernsteinsanre und anderer 

Dicarbonsiiuren, ihre Derivate und Umsetzungen. Freiburg i. B., 1886. 8vo. 
Bernthsen, a. Zur Frage nach der Constitution der Safranine und verwandter 

Farbstofiff-. Heidelberg, 1886. 
Bersch, J. Die Essig-Fabrikation. Eine Darstelluug der Essig-Fabrikatiou nach 

den jilteren und ueuereu Verfahrungsweisen, der Schnell-Essig-Fabrikation, etc. 

3. erwei(erte und verbesserte Aufiage. Wien, 1886. 
Perthelot, M. Les origiues de I'alchimie. Paris, 1885. 8vo. 

Bekthelot et E. Jungfleisch. Traits ^l^mentaire de chimie organique. 2"^ Edi- 
tion. Paris, 1886. 2 vols. 8vo. 
Bertoni, G. Coutributo alio studio dell" eterificazione per doppia decomposizione. 

Formazioue dell' etere uitroso dell' alcool allilico. Roma, 1885. 8vo. 
Bertoni, G. Ricercho nuovesull' eterificazione per doppia decomposizione. Roma, 

1886. 8vo. 
Bctankaude ocli forslag till stadga angiiende eftersiikande och bearbetande af 

stenkolsfyndigheter, afgifna d. 1:3 Juni 1885 af dertill i nader forordnade komite- 

rade. Stockholm, 1885. 8vo. 
BiEDERMANN, A. Ueber den Th'iopbenaldehyd und seine Derivate. Ueber Thienyl- 

niercaptau. Versuche zur Sj'uthese in der Thiophenreihe. GiJttingen, 1886. 8vo. 
BiRNBAl'M, K. Kurzes Lehrbnch der landwirthschaftlichen Geweibe. Chemische 

Technologie laudwirthschaftlicher Producte. Band i. Die Fabrikation der 

Starke, ues Dextrins, des Stiirkezucker, der Zuckercouleur, das Brotbacken und 

die Riibeuzuckerindustrie. Braunschweig, 1886. 8vo. 

Leitfaden der chemischen Analyse. 5. verbesserte Audage. Leipzig, 1886. 

8vo. 

Bizio, G. L' applicazione del nitratod' argeuto all' esame chimico degli olii. Vene- 
zia, 1885. 

Black, James G. Chemistry for the Gold Fields, including Lectures on the Non-me- 
tallic Elements, Metallurgy, and the Testing and Assaying of Metals, Metallic 
Ores, and other minerals by the Test-tube, the Blow-pipe, and the Crucible. 
Dunedin [New Zealand], 1886. 

Blas, C. Traito 61emeutaire de chimie analytique. Tome i. Analyse qualitative 
par la voie seche ou analyse an chalumeau. 2^ 6dition, augmentee. Louvain, 
1886. 8vo. 

Blomstrand, C. W. Kort Liirebok i o-organisk kemi. '3. uppl. Lund, 1886. 8vo. 

Minnesteckning ofver C. W. Scheele pa 100. arsdagen af bans dod. Stockholm, 

1886. 8vo. 

Bloxa.m, C. L. Laboratory Teaching, or Progressive Exercises in Practical Chem- 
istry. 5th edition. London, 1885. 8vo. 

Bolton, H. Carrington. Recent Progress in Chemistry. An address prepared at 
the request of the New York Academy of Sciences and read March 15, 1886. Now 
York. 8vo. 

BoNNA, A. Recherches sur la phenylparatoluidiue. Geneve, 1886. 8vo. 

Bork, H. Die Chemie. Leitfaden fiir den chemischen Kursus in der Sekuuda des 
Gymnasiums, Methodisch boarbeitet. Paderborn, 1886. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. 431 

BOUKGOIN, E. Alcalis orgauiquea artificiels. Partie l*". Serie grasse. Paris, ld8G. 

8vo. 
BoussiNGAULT. Agrouomie, cliimie agricole, efc physiologie. S*" edition, revne et 

con8id6rablement aiigmeut6e. Paris, 1836. 2 vols. 8vo. 
Brant, William T., and William H. Wahl. Tbe Techuo-chemical Receipt Book. 

Philadelphia and Loudon, 1386. 
Braun, F. Untersuchungeu iiber die Loslichkeit fester Korper und die den Vorgaug 

der Losuug begleiteuden Yoluiu- nnd Euergieauderungen. Miiuchen, 1886. 8vo. 
Breslauer, M. Die chemische Beschaffenheit der Lnft in Brandenburg a. H. Ein 

Beitrag zur Keuutniss der quautitativen Zusammeusetzuug der atmosphiirischen 

Luft. Berlin, 1886. bvo. 
Bresson, — . Lea aciers. Paris, 1886. 

Brieger, L. Untersuchungeu iiber Ptomaine. Drei Theile. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 
Brunner, H., et E. Chuard. Sur la pr6seuce de I'acide glyoxylique dans les v6g6- 

taux. Lausanne, 1886. 8vo. 
Buckeridge, H. L. Chemical Student's Mauual for the Lei:ture-Room and Lab- 

oiatory, embracing non-metals, tiie analysis of simjile salts, historical and much 

other useful memoranda. London, 1886. 
Bulletin du laboratoire provincial de chimie agricole a Roulers. Bruges, 1886. 8vo. 
BuNSEN, R. Flammenreactiouen. 2. Aufl. Heidelberg, 1886. 8vo. 
BuRSTERT, H. Ueber in Kern gechlorte Derivate des Meta-Xylols. Freiburg i. B., 

1886. 8vo. 
Bj'T.iepoBb, A. M. OcHOBiii.in IloiiflTifi Xiniin. C.-neiepOvprb, 1886. 
Bulletin of the Chemical Society of Washington. No. 1. (January, 1884, January, 

1886.) Washington [D. C], 1886. 
Calman, Albert. Ueber einige Derivate des Benzoylessigiithers. luaug.- Diss. (Er- 

langen). Mainz, 1885. 
Capaun-Karlowa, C. F. Chemisch-technische Specialitiiten und Geheimnisse mit 

Angabe ihrer Zusammeusetzuug uach den bewiihrtesteu Chemikern. Alphabe- 

tisch zusammengestellt. 2. vollstiiudig umgearbeitete vermehrte und verbesserte 

Auflage. Wien, 1886. 8vo. 
Carruthers, T. G. The cause of electricity, with remarks on chemical equivalents. 

Benares, 1886. 
Casali. A. n passato, il preseute e 1' avvenire della chimica: discorso inaugurale 

alia solenne apertura degli studi nella libera universita di Ferrara. Ferrai'a, 

1886. 8vo. 

Ragguagli sui lavori eseguiti nel laboratorio chiuiico agrario di Bologua. 

Bologna, 1885. 16mo. 

Catalogue (A) of the Library of the Chemical Society, arranged according to subjects, 
with indexes coutaiuing authors' names and subjects. London, 1886. 8vo. 

Cavazzi, a. Azione dell' idrogene fosforato gassoso snl triclonuo di oro sciolto uell' 
etere, nell' alcool o ncU' acqua. Bologna, 1885. 8vo. 

Azioui del gas idrogene fosforato sopra 1' acido solforico. Bologna, 1886. 4to. 

Azione del solfuro di carbonic sopra alcuni metalli. Bologua, 1886. 4to. 

Metodo per preparare 11 ijrotocloruro di rame; sopra uu miscuglio esplosivo. 

Bologna, 1886. 4to. 

Cazeneuve, p. La coloration des vins par les couleurs de la houille. Methodcs 
analytiques et marche syst^matiquo pour reconnaitre la nature de la coloration. 
Paris, 1886. 12mo. 

Centenaire de Chevreul, 31 aoiit 1886. Priucipaux travaux de Chevreul. Paris, 
1886. 8vo. 

:!1 aoftt 1886. Disconrs prononces an Museum d'histoire naturelle. Paris, 1886, 

4to. 

Centner, B. Die Praxis der Bleicherei und Appretur, Baumwolle, Leinen, Jute im 
Rohzustaude, sowie als Garu und Gewebe. Leipzig, 1886, 8vo. 



432 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Cesaro, G. M^moire sur la reproduction de qiielques phosphates de fer natnrels par 

I'actiou de I'oxyg^ae de I'air hut une solution ferreuse acide. Liege, 188(5. 8vo. 
Chemistry. A Manual for Beginners. " Forti et fideli nihil dif3Scile." London, 1H85. 

Roy 24mo. 
Chevy, E. De I'acide fluorhydrique et de son emploi en th^rapeutique. Paris, 188'). 

8vo. 
Chuistensen, Odin T. Bidrag til inangauets og flnorets cherai. Kj0benhavii, 1886. 

8vo. 
CiAMiciAN, C, e P. SiLBER. Studi 8ui composti della serie del pirrolo. f'arte 9 : SuU' 

azione dell' acido uitrico snl pirilmetilchetone. Roma, 1885. 
Classen, Alexander. Friedrich Mohr's Lohrbuch der chemisch-analy tischen Ti ti ir- 

methode. Sechste umgearbeitete uud vermehrte Auflage. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 

Analyse ^lectrolytique quantitative. D'apr^s la 2" Mitiou alleraande par C. 

Bias. Louvain, 1886. 8vo. 

CLAi<:ssoN, P. Ofver radikalen cyanur, uormala cyannrforeningar och substituerada 

cyaniders konstitution. Ora rhodaninsyra, melamiu och nielaminforeningar. 5 

Abh. Stockholm, 1885. 8vo. 
CoiT, J. M. Chemical Arithmetic. Boston, 1886. 
COLLISCHONN, Friedrich. Ueber die Halogenadditionsproducte der Propylchinol- 

iiihalogeniire und ein daraus gewounenes Monobronichinolin. Inaiig- DIsji. 

Freiburg i. B., 1886. 
CoLORiANO, A. Recherches sur quelques ars^niates cristall!s<5s. Paris, 1886. 4to. 
Coiifdrences faitos a la Soci6t6 chimique de Paris en 188;^, 1884, 188.5, 1886 par Wurtz, 

Pasteur, Friedel, Scheurer-Kestner, Grimaux, Duclanx, Moissan, Raoult, Schu- 

tzenberger. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
Cooke, J. Parsons. Descriptive List of Experiments on the Fundamental Principles 

of Chemistry. Cambridge, 1886. 

Elements of Chemical Physics. 4th edit. London, 1886. Roy. 8vo. 

COOLEY, Le Roy C. A Gnide to FJleraeutary Chemistry for Beginners. New York, 

1886. 
Cleef, G. Doyer van. Leerboek der scheikunde. Haarlem, 1886. Roy. 8vo. 
Clerc, a. Chimica popolare illustrata. Milano, 1886. 8vo. 
Cleve, p. T. C. W. Scheele. Minnesblad pa 100 arddagen af bans dod. Koping, 

1886. [ With Scheele's portrait. ] 

Liirebok i kemiens grunder. 3e. heft. Liirebok i o-orgauisk och orgauisk komi 

for begynnare. Stockholm, 1886. 8vo. 

Cloez, Ch. Recherches sur les d^rivds chlords de I'ac^tone. Th^se presente h la 

Facult6 des sciences de Paris. Paris, 1886. 
Cochenhausen, E. von. Die Reinigung des Wassers, mit Beriicksichtigung seiner 

Verweudung in der Textilindustrie, nebst Beitriigen zur technischen Wasserana- 

lyse. Inang.- Diss. Chemnitz, 1880. 4to. 
Cornelius, H. Ueber die Synthese des Dioxyphenylessigsiiure und des Orcins. 

Miiiicheu, 1886. 8vo. 
CouuAXT, E. Ueber Versuche zur Darstellung der Dithioschwefelsiiiire und Beitriige 

zurKeuutnissderPheuylazoacetessigiithers. (Inang.- Diss.) Breslau, 1886. 8vo. 
Crookes, W. On Radiant-Matter Spectroscopv. Part II. Samarium. London, 

1886. 8vo. 

Select Methods in Chemical Analysis (chiefly Inorganic). Second edition, re- 
written and greatly enlarged. London, 1886. 8vo. 

Cross, C. F., and E. J. Bevan. Cellulose, being a Short Account of the Chemical 
Properties of Typical Members of the Cellulose Group with reference to their nat- 
ural history. E<lited by W. R. Hod^kinson. London, 1886. 

Curry, G. Ueber die Zersetzung des Natrium-Aluminats durch Wasser. (Inang. - 
Diss.) Breslau, 1886. 8vo. 

ClJRTlNS, Th, Dia^ovevbindungen der Fettreihe, Miincben, 1886. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. 433 

CuRTMAN, C. O. Dr. F. Beilsteiu's Lessons in Qualitative Chemical Aualysis. Sec- 
ond edition. St. Louis, Missouri, 1886. 
Daccomo, G. Sul triclorometauitro- e sul tricloionietamido fenolo. Torino, 1885. 
JdjuPtpyT/g, A. K. Nodeiaeig t<^u6iiuw kqc tvotuv kuI i-^iXcy^ig avruv. 'Ev 'A&r/v.jic- 1887. 
Dammer, O. Chemisches Haudworterbuch zum Gcbrauche fiir Cberaiker, Tecbniker, 

Aertze, Pbanuacenteu, Landwirte, Lebrer nnd fiirFreunde derNaturwisseuscbaft. 

2. verbesserteAuflage. (Inl2Liefernngen.) I. Lieferuug. Svo. Stuttgart, 188(3. 
Davy, E. W. On the Nitroprussides of the more important Bases of Opium. Dublin, 

1886. 4to. 
Denigks, G. Formules g^n^rales pour servir au calcul rapide des analyses 61emen- 

taires. Bordeaux, 1885. 8vo. 
DeutscbcCbemiker-Zeitung. Centralblatt fiir die cbemische Praxis uud otfentlicbe 

Gcsnndbeitspflege. Unter Mitwirkung bewiihrter Facbgelehrteu herausgegebeu 

und redigirt von Breslaner. Berlin, 1886. 4to. [Weekly. J 
Dessaignks, v. Travaux de cliimie organique. Prec^d^s d'uue notice biograpbique 

d'A.-R. Dessaignes. Vend6me, 1886. Svo. 
DiRCKS, V. Veileduing i kvalitativ analyse til brug ved landbrugsskoler. 2den 

omarbeidede udgave. Cbristiania, 1886. 8vo. 
DiTTE, A. Kurzes Lebrbuch der anorganischen Cberaie gegriiudet auf die Tbermo- 

cliemie. Deutscb von H. Bottger. Berlin, 1886. Svo. 
DiTTMAR, W. Analytical Clieniistry, New edition. London, 1886. 12mo. 
DOBREFF, N. Recberches sur les acides dibenzyldicarbonique et dipbtalique. 

Geneve, 1886. Svo. 
DoiJER VAX Cleef, G. Leerboek der scbeikunde. Haarlem, 1886. Svo. 
Dragendorff. Mannel de toxicologic. Deuxieme Edition frauyaise, publico avec le 

concours de I'anteur par L. Gautier. Paris, 1886. 
Dudley, Willia.m L. Iridium. (From Mineral Resources of the United States.) 

Washington, 1885. Svo. 
DUFOUR, J. Recberches sur I'amidon soluble. Lausanne, 1886. Svo. 
DtJHRiNG, E., and M. Neue Grundgesctze zur rationellen Physik und Cbeniie. II. 

Folge, enthaltend fiinf neue Gesetze, uebst Beleuciituug dernacb der ersten Folgo 

ersehicueuen Contrefa^ons uud Nachentdeckungen. Leipzig, 1886. Svo. 
Dupr6, Auguste, and H. Wilson Hake. A Short Manual of Chemistry. 2 parts 

London, 1886. 
Durand-Claye, C.-L. Chimie appliqn^e a I'art de I'ingenieur. Paris, 1885. Svo. 
Dt'RKOPF, E. Zur Kenntniss des Aldehyd-collidins. Kiel, 1686. Svo. 
Dyckekiioff, O. Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Orthocymols. (Orthomcthylnormal- 

propylbenzol.) Freiburg i. B., 1886. Svo. 
EuESTADT, P. AbbauderLauriusiiurebiszurC.iprinsiinre. Freiburg i. B., 18S6. Svo. 
EiiRHARDT, O. Ueber die Bestimmung der speciliscben Wiirme nnd der Schmeiz- 

wilrrne bei boheu Temperaturen. Giessen, 1885. Svo. 
Ellis, G. E. R. An Introduction to Practical Organic Analysis. Adapted to the re 

quirements of the first M. B. examination. London, 1885. Svo. 
Papers in Inorganic Chemistry. Part i. Non-metals. Part ii. Non-metals and 

Metals. London, 1886. 
Encyclopedic chimitjue, publie sous la direction de Fremy. Paris, 1886. Svo. 

Tome II : Metalloides. Complement. Partie 2. Diamants, par E. Bontan. 
Tome III: M^taux. Cabier 8. Molybdene, vanadium et titane, par Parnientier. 
Tomev: Applications de chimie inorgauique. Sect. 2. Industries chimiques. 

Partie ii. Metallurgie. Aciers, par Bresson. 
Tome vn : Chimie organique. Fasc. 4. fithers, par Leidi6. 
Tome VIII. Chimie organique. Fasc. 6. Section 1. Alcalis organiques artifi- 

ciels, jiar E. Bourgoin. Partie 1. S6rie grasse. 
Tome X : Applications de chimie organique. Analyse ebiniiqiie des vegetaux, 
par G. Dragendorff. Traduit par F. Sclilagdenlia-uffeii. 

H. Mis. COO 28 



43 t KECOKD OF HCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Enebuske, C. Oiu platinas metylsulfiubaser. Akademisk afhaudling. Luud, 1886 
4 to. 

Englkr, C. Das Enlol vou Baku. Geschichte, Gewiunuug, Verarbeituug. Stutt- 
gart, 1686. 

Erck, E. Beitriige ziir Kenntniss des Brasilins. Einwirkuug von Cyansilber auf 
Monocbloressigsiiurechlorid. Gottiugeu, 1886. 8vo. 

Erlenmeyek, E. Lebibuch der orgauiscbeu Cbeiiiie. Theil ii. Die aroiuatiscbeu 
Verbiuduugen, von R. Meyer uud H. Goldscbniidt. Leipzig, 18»6. 8vo. 

Errera, L. Pourquoi les elements de la matieie vivante ont-ils desi)oids atouiicinea 
pen (Sieves? Messina, 1886, 8vo. 

Sur I'existence du glycogfene dans la levure de bierc. (Paris?), 1885. 

Fabre, J.-H. Chimie ^l^ineutaire. 9« Mit. Paris, 18H6. 18mo. 

Feer, a. Ueber einige Derivate des Carbostyrils uud des l-oxypyridins. Ueber 

Metbylbydrochinoliu. Miiucheu, 1886. Bvo. 
Fennel, Charles T. P. Principles of General Cbemistry, pursuant to a course by 

Adolphus Fennel. Cincinnati, 1886. 
Fernandez Y Chavarri, Pedro. Ueber Arsen-Vanadinsiiure. Inaug.-Diss. Halle 

a.S., 18S6. 
Fileti, M. Ricerche sull' ortoisopropilfenol. Torino, 1886. 8vo. 
Frankel, N. Przyczynek do Zuajomosci tiodwufenilaminu opracowal. Krakdw, 

1886. 
Franklaxd, E., and F. R. Japp. Inorganic Chemistry. Philadelphia, 1885. Bvo. 
Fremy, E. Chimie v^g^tale. La Ramie. Paris, 1886. 
Fresenius, H. Chemische Uutersuchung der Schiitzenhofquelle zu Wiesbaden. 

Wiesbaden, I856. 8vo. 
Fresexius, R. Chemische Analyse der Marienquelle zu Oelheiiu. Wiesbadeu, 18S6. 

Neue chemische Uutersuchung des Kochbrunnens zu Wiesbaden und Verglei- 

chuugder Resultate mit den 1849 erhaltenen. Wiesbaden, 1886. 

Tratado de auillisis quiiuica cuautitativa. Valencia, 1886. 

Friedel. Ch. Cours de chimie orgauique. Partie 1. Serie grasse. Paris, 1886. 
Gabba, L. Sull' indirizzo dell' iusegnamento nelle scuole di chimica applicata all' 

iudustria: relazione alia Societil d' incoraggiamento d' arti e mestieri in Milano. 

Milauo, 1886. 8vo. 
Gange, C. Lehrbuch der augewandten Optik in der Chemie. Spectralaualyse, 

Mikroskopie, Polarisation. Praktische Anleitung zu wissenschaftlicheu und 

techuischen Untersuchungen mit Hiilfe optischer lustrumente, ncbst theoretischer 

Erkliiruug der beobachteten Erscheinungen. Mit Tabellen der Emissions- und 

Absorptions-Spectra in Wellenliingeu, zahlreichen Abbildungen im Text uud 24 

Spectraltafeln. Braunschweig, 1886. 8vo. 
Gallinek, A. Ueber die Sulfurirung der Phenylhydraziue. (Inaug.-Diss.) Breslau, 

1886. 8vo. 
Garreau, L. Des attractions mol^culaires que les gaz chimiquements inertes ex- 

ercent entre eux et de leurs etfets comme agents de dissociations. Lille, 1886. 

8vo. 
Gautier, a. Sur les alcaloides d^riv^s de la destruction bact6rienue, ou physiolo- 

gique des tissus auimaux. Ptomaines et leucomaiues. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
Gay, J. Sur I'absorption du bioxyde d'azote par les sels de protoxyde de fer. Paris, 

1885. 4to. 
Gayon et Dupetit. Recherches sur la r6duction des nitrates par les inlinimeut 

petits. Nancy, 1886. 8vo. 
GfiRARDiN, A. Chimie organique. 3' ann6e. Ouvrage r^digd conform^meut an 

programme officiel du 3 aoilt 1881 et aux instructions minist^rielles dul8octo- 

bre 1881. Paris, 1886. 18mo. 
Gerlach, G. Th. Ueber Alkobol uud Gemische aus Alkohol und Wasser. Wies- 
badeu, 1885. Bvo. 



CHEMISTRY. 435 

GiLKiNET, A. Traits de chiiuie pharmaceutique. Liege, 1885. 8vo. 

Gladysz. Sur une nouvelle iii6thode de r^g^n^ration du soufre des marcs de soude, 

Marseille, 1885. Svo. 
GoDEFROY, L. Recherclies relatives a I'actioii du chlore sur un melange de dicliromate 

de potassium et d'alcool. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
GoPPELSROEDER, Friedrich. UcbcT die Darstellung der Farbstoft'e sowie iiber deren 

gleichzeitig Bildung und Fixatiou auf deu Fasern mit Hilfe der Elektrolyse, 

Reichenberg, 1SS5. 
GosSELS, W. Die Nitrate des Thier- und Pflanzenkorpers. Berlin, 1886. 
GossART, J. Le contr61e chimique de la fabrication du snore. Lille, 1886. 8vo. 
Gramer, G. Ueber die Oxydationsprodukte des Cliinolaethylbromids. Freiburg i. 

B., 1886. Svo. 
Grandeau, H. De ractiou de sulfate de potasse a temperature ^lev^e sur les phos- 
phates m^talliques. Paris, 1886. 4to. 
Grandval, a., et H. Lajoux. Nouveau proc6d6 pour la recherche et le dosage rapide 

de faibles quantit^s d'acide nitrique dans I'air, I'eau, 1q sol, etc. Reims, 1886. 

8vo. 
Grimaux, E. Chimieorganique 616mentaire. 4« (Edition refondue. Paris, 1885. Svo. 
Grollo, a. Nozioni di chimica secondo le teorie moderne. 2" ediz. Messina, 1885. 

Svo. 
Groshans, J. A. Sur qnelques analogies nouvelles entre les temperatures d'6bulli- 

tiou et de fusion. Leide, 1885. Roy. Svo. 
GuARESCHi, I. Nuove ricerche sulla naftalina: nota. Torino, 1885. Svo. 

Sulla y dicloronaftaliua e 1' acido ortomonocloroftalico. Torino, 1886. 8vo. 

Gucci, P. Prodotti della reazione fra la Hi-fenileudiamina ed il solfuro di carbonio. 

Pisa, 1886. 8vo. 

Separazione del nichelio dal cobalto. Pisa, 1886. Svo. 

GuERiN, G Origine et transformations des matif;res azot^es chez les ^tres vivants. 

Paris, 1886. Svo. 
GuiLLAUME.E. Fabrication de I'amidon, description des diverses opdrations. Paris, 

1886. Svo. 
GUSENBURGER, H. Die Untersuchungen der Schmierole und Fette mit specieller 

Beriicksichtiguug der Miueralole. Luxemburg, 1886. 
Haarmann, Rudolph. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der IsozuckersJiure. Inaug.- Diss. 

Berlin, 1886. 
Haller, M. Ueber einige Derivate des Metaamidoanthrachinons. Freiburg i. B., 

1886. Svo. 
Hagemann,G a Studier over nogle Molekulvolumen. Kj^beuhavn, 1886. Svo. 

Studien iiber das Molekularvolunien einiger Korper. Aus dem diiuischen iiber- 

setzt von P. Kundsen. Berlin, 1880. 

Haller, Stephan. Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Pseudocumidins. Inaug.- Diss. 

(Freiberg). Berlin, 1886. 
Hammarsten, O. Kortfatted liirebok i farmacentisk kemi med luiusyn till Svenska 

farmakopens preparat jemte handleduing i titreringsanalysen. Afd. 1. Upsala, 

1886. Svo. 
Hand, A. Beitriige zur Kenntniss einiger Beuzolderivate. Jena, 1886. Svo. 
Handbuch derchemischen Technologic. Herausgegeben von P. A. Bolley ; fortgesetzt 

von K. Birnbaum. Band vi. Braunschweig, 1886. Svo. 
Handworterbuch (Neues) der Chemie. Bearbeitet und redigirt von H. von Fehling und 

C. Hell. Braunschweig, 188b-'86. Lieferungen 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55. 
Hartley, W. N. The Absorption Spectra of the Alcaloids. London, 1886. 4to. 
Hartmann, F. Beitriige /.nr Kenntniss des Paramycylphenylketons. Freiburg i. B., 

1886. Svo. 
Das Verzinueu, Verziukon. Veniickehi, Verstahlen und das Ueberzieheu von 

Metallen nnt anderen Metaileu iiberhaupt. 2. verbesserte und sehr vermehrte 

Auflage. Wien, 1886, 



436 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1S86. 

Harz, Kurt. Uebei* die Fropylaldebyd und deudrei isomereu Tolnidiueii entstehen- 
den Chinoliuabkommliuge. Inang.-Diss. (Wiirzburg). Miincben, 1885, 

Haushofer, K. Beitriige zur mikroskopiscbeu Analyse. I. Ueber die Auwendung 
der conceutrirteu ScbwefelsiUire in der mikroskopischen Analyse. Miincben, 
1886. 8vo. 

Ueber einige mikroscopiscb-cbemiscbe Reactioneu. Miincben, 188G. 8vo. 

Heaton, C. W. Experimental Cbeniistry, founded on tbe work of J. Stockbardt. New 

edition, revised. London, 1886. 8vo. 

Hedin, S. G. Om pyridinens platinabaser. Akad. afbandl. Lund, 1886. 4to. 

Hegel, SiGMUND. Syutbese von Indolderivaten. Inaug.- Diss. (Erlaugen). Wiirz- 
burg, 1885. 

Heinzerlixg, C. Abriss der cbemiscbeu Tecbnologie mit besonderer RUcksicbt auf 
Statistik und Preisverbiiltnisse. Kassel, 1886, 8vo. 

Die Gefabren und Krankbeiten in der cbemiscben Industrie und die Mittel zu 

ibrer Verbiitung und Beseitigung. Heft 6 and 7. Halle, 1886. 8vo. 

Heixzerling, C. Pbospborfabrication, Ziindbolzer undExplosivstolfe. Halle, 1886. 

8vo. 
Hklen'e, M. La poudre a canon et les uouveaus corps explosifs. 2« Edition. Paris, 

1886. 18mo. 
Hen'xin'ger, a. Sur quelques d^riv^s de I'erytbrite et les formines des alcools poly- 

atoniiqiies. Paris, 1886. 
Hexiuci, .J. Kleiner Grundriss der Elementar-Cbemie. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Hesekiel, a. Die Pyridinbasen in der cbenjiscben Literatur. Hamburg, 1886. 
Heurich, F. Tabelleu zur qualitativeu cbemiscbeu Analyse. Wiesbaden, 1886. 

8vo. 
Heusel, J. Eine neue Tbeorie der Lebens-Cbemie in typiscben Figuren veran- 

scbaulicbt. Fiir Aerzte, Apotbeker uud Cbemiker. Cbristiania, 1886. 8vo. 
Hjelt, E. Die intramoleculare Wasserabspaltuug bei organiscbeu Verbiuduugeu. 

Monograpbiscb dargestellt. Helsingfors und Berlin, 1886. 4to. 
Hjortdahl, T. Begyndelsesgrundeue af deu kvalitative Analyse. Kortfattet vei- 

ledniug for de studerende ved Universitets Laboratorium. 2deu gjeunemsudo 

Udgave. Cbristiania, 1886. 8vo. 
HoBEix, F. Ueber Benzanbydroisodianudotoluol und zwei gebromte Derivate. 

luaug.-Diss. Gottingen, 1885. 
HoFF, H. J. VAX 't. Bijdrage tot de kennis der iuaktieve appelzuren van verscbil- 

lende afkonist. Rotterdam, 1886. 8vo. 
HoFFA, A. Die Natur des Milzbrand-Giftes. Wiesbaden, 1886. 
HoPMAXX, A. W. Ueber die Eiuwirkung des Ammoniaks uud der Amine auf deu 

Sulfocyanursiiuremetbylaetber uud das Cyauurcblorid. Normale alkylirte Me- 

lamine. Ueber die den Alkylcyanamiden eutstammenden alkylirten Isomela 

mine und iiber die Constitution des Melamins uud der Cyanursiiure. 2 Abhand- 

lungeu. Berlin, 1885. 8vo. 
. Zur Gescbicbte der Cj'auursiiureiitber. Nacbtrilglicbes iiber das cblorirte 

Metbylisocyanurat uud die Constitution der Cyanursiiuren. Zwei Abbandluugen. 

Berlin, 1886. 
Hommage a Monsieur Cbevreul a Foccasiou de son centenaire. Paris, 1886. 4to. 
HuETLix, E. Beitriige zur Keuutniss des Papaverius. Freiburg i. B., 1886. 
Hugounexq, L. Les .alcaloides d'origine animale. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
Hummel, J. J. Tbe Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. London, 1885. 12mo. 
HusBAXD, H. A. Aids to tbe Analysis of Food and Drugs. London, 1885. 12mo. 
Industries. Journal of Engineering, Electricity, and Cbemistry for tbe manufactur- 
ing trades. Maucbester. 4to. 
ISHERT, A. Znr Keuutniss des Acetessigiitbers und einiger seiner Abkommlinge. 

.Jena, 1886. 8vo. 
Israel, A. Ueber den Propiopropionsiiiireatbyliltlier. .leua, 1886. 



CHEMISTRY. 437 

Iwui, Fkikdrich. Ueber Oxydafioii <1es Maimits niit riberniaugansaureiii Kalium 
ill alkali.scher nnd saurer Losung nud ubcrtrockeiie Destination vou essigsaureiii 
Silber. Inaiig.-Diss. Wiirzburg, 1884. 

Jacobsex, O. Die Gli'coside. Breslan, 1886. 8vo. 

Jacoby, Otto. Beitrag zur KenntDiss der kohlenstoffreicliereu aliphatischen Ver- 
biuduDgeu. Inaug.-Diss. Berlin, 1886. 

Jagnaux, R. Traitd de chiniie g^n^rale, analytique et appliqu(?e. 4 vols. Paris, 
1886. 8vo. 

Jago, W. The Chemistry of Wheat, Flour, and Bread, and Technology of Bread- 
Making. Loudon, 1886. 

Joannis, a. Note sur les oxydes de cuivre. Bordeaux, 1885. 8vo. 

JocHUM, Paul. Ueber die Einwirkung des unterschwefligsauren Natrons anf Me- 
tallsalze. Berlin, 1885. 

Johnston, G. Stillingfleet. Elementary Nitrogen. London, 1885. 

JOLY, A. Cours ^lementaire de chiuiie et de manipulations cbimiques. Paris, 1886. 
l2n\o. 

JOHISSEN, A. Les ph^nom^nes cbimiques de la germination. Li^ge, 1886. 8vo. 

JuNGFLEiscH, E. Manipulations de chimie. Guide pour les travanx pratiques de 
chiniie de rficole sup^iieure de pharmacie de Paris. Partie2. Paris 1885. 8vo. 

Kahn, M. Ueber die Eiuwirkung von Normalbutylaldehyd auf Anilin bei Gegen- 
wart rauchender Salzsiiure. Erlangeu, 1886. 8vo. 

Kaiser, A. Ueber Mononitroderivate der Para- nnd Metaacetamidbenzoesiiure sowie 
dereu Reductionsproducte (Anhydrosiiuren). Gottingen, 1886. Bvo. 

Kees, Alfred. Eiu Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Helicius. Inaug.-Diss. Berlin, 1886. 

Keyser, C. J. Metallerna ochderasForeningar. Haefte 1. Stockholm, 1886. Bvo. 

Klement, C, et A. Rexard. Reactions micro-chimiques a cristaux et leurs appli- 
cations en analyse qualitative. Bruxelles, 1886. Bvo. 

Kleyer, a. Die Chemie in ihrer Gesamtheit und die chemische Technologic der 
Neuzeit. Bearbeitet uach eigeuem System unter Mitwirkung der bewahrtesten 
Kriifte. Mit zahlreichen Ulustratiouen. Stuttgart, 1886. Bvo. 

Knorr, L. Ueber dieBildung von Kolilenstoff-Stickstotf-Riugen durch Eiuwirkung 
von Amin-uud Hydraziubasen auf Acetessigester und seine Derivate. Erlangen, 

1885. Bvo. 

KOEHLER, O. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Paraxylenderivate. Inaug.-Diss. Gottin- 
gen, 1885. 

KoLLREPP, A. Ueber eiuige Derivate der beiden gechlorteu Para-Nitrophenole. 
Halle, 1886. 

KONINCK, L. L. DE, et E. Prost. Exercices d'analyse chimique qualitative. Liege, 

1886. Bvo. 

Kopp, H. Au8 der Molecular-Welt. Eine Gratulationsschrift an Robert Bunsen. 3, 

Auflage. Heidelberg, 1886. Bvo. 
. Die Alchemic in iilterer und neuerer Zeit. Ein Beitrag zur Culturgeschichte. 

2 vols. Heidelberg, 1886. Bvo. 
M^molre sur les volumes mol^culaires des liquides. Remarques sur un m6- 

moire de Bartoli publi6 dans les Annales de chiniie et do physique, 6" s6rie, 

mars 1886. Avec un avant-propos expliquant pourquoi ce nKsmoire n'est pas 

publi6 dans les menies annales, et eontenant quelques remarques concernant " Les 

origiues de Falchimie" de Berthelot et les "Beitriige zur Geschichte der Chemie" 

de H. Kopp. Heidelberg, 1886. Bvo. 
KoTTf/lZa, AvSp. Xfju/xaroTioyia i/tol irepi (pvaeu^-, ovo/iaaiaQ /cat rf/g xV/^^i^VC cvcTaaeuc rmv 

XpufiuTuv napa te Tolg apx'^toiQ koI toIq veuTepoiQ. 'Ev 'hdrjvaig, 1886. 
Koppeschaar, W. F. Leerboek der Chemie en van eenige barer Toepassingen. 

Deel II. Anorganische Chemie. Metalen. 4. druck. Leiden, 1886. 
Kramer, T. Ueber Nitro- und Amido-Derivate des Chinolins. Freiburg i. B., 1886. 

Bvo. 



438 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188(5. 

Kratzek, it. Cliemisclio Uutcrricbts-Bricfe. Fiir das Sclbst-Stiulinin Eiwacbsener. 

Mit besoiiderer Beilkksicbtigiing <ler ueuesteii Fortscbritte der Cheiiiie und uu- 

ter Mitwirkung bervorragender Facbinjinner mid Gelebrteii lierausgegeben. i. 

Cursus: Die anorganiscbe Cbemie. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
II. Ciirsus: Die organiscbe Cbemie, oder die Cbemie der Koblenstoifverbin- 

dungen. Mit besonderer Berlicksicbtignug der cbemiscbeu Teebnologie. Uuter 

Mitwirkung der Herreu Lauderer, Herrburger, W. A. Herrmann, Alwin Engel- 

bardt, F. Eicbbaum, etc., bearbeitet. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
■ Wasserglas und lufusorienerde, deren Natur uud Bedeutnng fiir Industrie, 

Tecbuik und die Gewerbe. Wien, 1886. 
Krkx'SSER, H. Das Eisen, sein Vorkommen und seine Gewiuuung. Weimar, 1886. 
Krobatin, a. von. Lebrbucb der Cbemie fiir die k. k. Cadeteu-Scbuleu. Im Auf- 

trao'e der k. k. Reicbs-Kriegs-Ministeriwms yerfasst. Wien, 18815. Svo. 
Kroiin, C. W. Ueber einige Derivate des Monocblorpseudocumols. Miincbeu, 1885. 

8vo. 
Krukenberg, C. F. Compeudio di analisi cbimico-medlco. Trad. c. note di D. 

Gibertini. Parma, 1885. 8vo. 
Kruss, G. Untersucbung Uber das Atomgewicbt des Goldes. Miincbeu, 1886. Bvo. 
KuNZ, Hermann. Beitriige zur Kenntuiss der cbemiscbeu Bestandtbeile der Atropa 

belladonna uud des Extractum belladonna?. luaug.- Diss. Freiburg, 1886. 
Knrzo-efasste Auleitung zur qualitativeu cbemiscbeu Analyse. Giessen, 1886. 
Labat, A. Du degr<5 de certitude de I'analyse des eaux. Paris, 1885. Svo. 
Ladureau, a. Recbercbes sur le ferment ammoniacal. Lille, 1885. Svo. 
Landolt, H. Ueber die Zeitdauer der Reaction zwiscben Jodsiiure und Scbwefliger- 

siiure. Berlin (Mittb. Akad.), 1886. Svo. 
Lange 0. Ueber Mstbylderivate des Pyridius. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntuiss der Pyri- 

diubaseu. Kiel, 1886. Svo. 
Langguth, F. O. Beitriige zur Kenntuiss der Parabibromcymolsulfonsiiurc. Frei- 
burg 1. B.. 1686. Svo. 
Langlebert, J. Quimica. Trad, de la ultima edicion francesa por L. Elizage. 

Paris, 1886. 12mo. 
Larbaletrier, a. Les eugrais cbimiques et les matiferes fertilisantes d'origine 

minorale; emploi pratique des eugrais cbimiques. Paris, 1885. 18mo. 
Larsen, E. Ueber Paraxylylpbenylketon und seine Ueberfiibrnng in Betametbylau- 

thracen. Freiburg i. B., 1886. Svo. 
Larsson, a. Nagot om den kemiska industrien 1 Sverige. Helsingborg, 1886. Svo. 
Laszi.6 E. D. Cbemiscbe und mecbauiscbe Analyse ungarliiudiscber Tbone mil; 

Riicksicbt auf ibre induatrielle Verweudbarkeit. Ungariscb uud Deutscb. Buda- 
pest, 1886. Svo. 
Lawes, Sir J. P., and J. H. Gilbert. On tbe Valuation of Unexhausted Manures. 

London, 18S6. 
Leclerc, A. Recbercbes sur la deperdition de I'ammoniaque dans les sols funics au 

sulfate d'auimoniaque. Nancy, 1885. Svo. 
Ledebur, a. Die Metalle, ibre Gewiuuung and ibre Verarbeitung allgemein fasslich 

dargestellt. Mit 64 iu den Text eingedruckteu Holzscbuitten. i. Lieferung, 

Stuttgart, 1886. 8vo. 
Lederer, L. Syntbese von Pyrrolderivaten. Erlangen, 1886. Svo. 
Leeds, Albert R. A Chemical, Biological, and Experimental Inquiry into tbe pro- 
posed future Water Supply of the City of Albany. New York, 1886. Svo. 
Leemans, C. Papyri gra?cimusei antiq,uarii publici Lugduui-Batavi. Regis augustis- 

simi jussu edidit, interpretationem latinam, adnotationem. Indices et tabulas ad- 

didit. Lugduui-Batavorum, 1885. 4to. 

Tomus n contains: ' Papyrus X, Excerpta chemica," the earliest text on chemistry. 
Leidi:^, — . Les Others. Paris, 1886. 
LiEBRECHT, A. Ueber Nicotiu. Kiel, 1886. Svo. 



CHEMISTRY 439 

LiEBKKiCH, O. Uebcrden todteuRaiini l>ci cbemischen Reactioneii. Berlin (Mittb. 

Akad.),1886. 8vo. 
LiEPMANN, H. K. Die Mecbanik der Leucipp-Democritiscben Atoiuo nnter beson- 

derer Beriicksicbtigung der Frage uacb dem Ursprnug der Bewegung derselben. 

Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Lifes-BoDART. Coni^rence et manipulations cbiiniques. Paris, 1885. 12mo. 
LiNNEMANN, E. Ueber ein nenes Leuchtgas-Sauerstoflfgebliise und das Zirkonlicbt. 

Wien, 1886. 8vo. 
List, Reinhold. Zur Condensation Yon Tbioharnstoff und Acetessigiitber. Insfiig.- 

Diss. Leipzig, 1866. 
LiVEiNG, G. D. Cbeniical Equilibrium tbe Result of the Dissipation of Energy. 

Cambridge & London, 1886. 8vo. 
LoEW, P. Ueber Formaldebyd und desseu Condensation. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
LOMAS, J. Manual of tbe Alcali Trade, iuclnding tbe Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, 

Sulphate of Soda, and Bleaching Powder. Second edition, with additions. Lon- 
don, 1886. 
Loo, H. VAN. Ueber das Betadicbiuolylin. Miinchen, 1885. 8vo. 
LoTMAN, G. Handboek voor bet onderzoek van grondstoffen en producten der suiker- 

iudustrie. 2. verm. druk. Amsterdam, 1886. 8vo. 
L5w, W, Ueber Terephtalaldehyd. Erlangen, 1886. 8vo. 
L5WIG, C. Arsenikvergiftung und Mumitikaticn. Gericbtlicb-chemische Abhand- 

lung. Breslau, 1886. 
LuTOSLAWSKi, W. Das Gesetz der Bescbleunigung der Esterbilduug. Beitrag zur 

cbemischen Dynamik. Halle, 1885. 8vo. 
LUTZ, Erich. Ueber den Abbau der Myristinsaure bis zur Laurinsiiure. Inaug,- 

Diss. Berlin, 1886. 
Mahreniioltz, a. Die praktiscb-cbemischen Uebungen an Landwirtscbaftsschulen. 

Zum Gebrauch bei den analytiscben Arbeiteu im Laboratoriuni zusammengesttjllt. 

Liegnitz, 1886. 8vo. 
Maindron, Erxest. L'ojuvre de Jean-Baptiste Dumas, avec une introduction par 

Schiitzenberger, accompagnd d'un portrait do Dumas. Paris,, 1886. 8vo. 
Malosse, Th. Calorim^trie et thermom^trie. Paris, 1886. 
Manuel de chimie inorganique ;\ I'usage des 61&ves du pensiounat des fr^res des 6coles 

chr^tiennes de Reims. Reims, 1886. 8vo. 
Marchand, V. Le. Chimie de l'unit6. Etude comparative des math^matiques cos- 

miqnes par la science de l'arithm6tique naturelle. Caen, 1886. 8vo. 
Mascarenas, Eugenic, y Jaime Santoma. Estudio analitico de vinos catalanes. 

Barcelona, 1885. 
Maschke, Leopold. Ein Beitrag zur Keuntniss des /^-Naphtylamins. Ueber einen 

neueu Koblenwasserstoff. Inaug.-Diss. Berlin, 1886. 
Masing, M. E. Elemeute der pharmaceutischen Chemie. Ein Leitfaden fiir den 

Uuterricht. Dorpat und St. Petersburg, 1885. 8vo. 
MaumenIc, E. Lemons sur la theorie g^n6rale de Paction chimique, profess^es h 

I'ficole de m^decine. Amiens et Paris, 1886. 12rao. 
Mauthner und Suida. Zur Gewinnuug von Indol aus Derivaten des Orthotoluidius. 

Wien, 1886. 8vo. 
Maybury, a. C. The Student's Chemistry. Part i. Non-metallic Elements. Lon- 
don, 18!:5. 12mo. 
Mayer, A. Lehrbuch der Agriculturcbemie in 40 Vorlesungen. Nebst Auhang: 

Lehrbucb der Giihruugscbemie. 3. verbesserte Auflage. Heidelberg, 1886. 8vo. 
Mays, K. Notiz liber eiue bequeme Bereitungsweise der neutralen Lackmuspa- 

pieres. Heidelberg, 1885. 8vo. 
Mazzara, G. Ricerche sulla trasformazione del timol in carvacrol : nota. Torino, 

1886. 8vo. 
Mazzara, G., e G. Discalzo. Bromoderivati del timol, del timochinone e dell' ossi- 

tiniol : nota. Torino, 18--6. 8vo. 



440 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Mazzara, G. e G. Possetto. Sopra il diamilo.ssimetiltrifeuilractauo. Turiuo, 1885. 
Meads, S. P. Cliemical Primer; au elementary work for use iu high schools, acad- 
emies, aud medical colleges. 4th edition. Oakland, California, 1885. 12mo. 
Medicus, Ludw. Kurze Auleitiing zur Gewichtsaualyse. Uebungsbelspiele znm 
Gebi'aucLe beim Uuterricht iii cbemischeu Laboratorieii. 3. Auflage. Tiibingeu, 
1886. 8vo. 
Meissner, Franz. Ueber die beim Beuctzeu pnlverformiger Korper anftreteude 

Wiirmetouuug. luang.-Diss. (Strassburg). Leipzig, 1886. 
Mensciiutkin, N. Aualy isclie Chemie fiir (ten Gebranch im Laboratorium and fiir 
Selbststudinm. Deutsche Ausgabe nnter Mitwirkuug des Verfassers iibersetzt 

Ton O. Bach. 2. vei'besserte Autlage. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Merck, W. Ueber Cocaiu. Kiel, 1886. 8vo. 
Messwarb, W. Ueber Acetauhydroisodiamidotolnol (Aethenylisotoluylendiamin). 

Gottiugeu, 1886. 
Meusel, E. Die Quellkraft der Rhodanate iiud die Quellnug als Ursache ferment- 

artiger Reaktiouen. Gera, 1886. 8vo. 
Meyer, E. von. Untersuchuugeu iiber Isatosiiure und Abkommlinge derselben. 

Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Meyer, L. Ueber die ueuere Eutwickelung der cbemischeu Atonilelire. TUbiugeu, 

1886. 8vo. 
Meyer, P. Ueber Amido- nnd Oxyphenaiithrenchinoue. Bonn, 1886. 8vo. 
Meyer, R. Ueber die iutramolekuleren Umlageniugeu in den Cymol-imd Cuminreih(\ 

Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Milani, Antonio. Sulla preparazione farmaceutica del nitrato d' amile. Roma, 

1885. 
Milani, G. La chimica in faniiglia con cinqnauta disegni origiuali di E. Mazzanli. 

Fireiize, 1886. 16nio. 
Miller, W. von, iiud H. Kiliaci. Kurzes Lehrbuch der aualytischen Chemie. 

Miiucbeu, 1886. 8vo. 
Mills, E. J. Destructive Distillation, or the Paraffin, Coal Tar, Resin, Oil and 

kindred Iiidusti'ies. 3d edit. Lon<lon, 1886. 8vo. 
MoNKKBERG, K. Eiiiwiikung von Chlorameisensiiureatherauf Nitrotoluiden. Inaug.- 

Diss. Gottiugeu, 1885. 8vo. 
MonscH, H. Zwei neue Zuckerreactiouen. Wieu, 1886. 8vo. 
MORLEY, H. FORSTER. Outlines of Organic Chemistry. London, 1886. 8vo. 
MCiiiLBERG, F. Der Kreislunf der Stoffe auf der Erde. Basel, 1886. 8vo. 
MuiR and Wilson. The Elements of Thermal Chemistry. London, 1885, 8vo. 
MUNROE, Charles E. Index to the Literature of Explosives. Part i. Baltimore, 

1886. 8vo. 
MusPiiATT. Theoretische, praktische und aualytische Chemie, in Anwendung auf 

Kiiuste und Gewerbe. Eucyclojiiidisches Haudbuch der technischen Chemie, her- 

ansgegebeu von F. Stohmaun und B. Kerl. 4. Auflage. Band i. Braunschweig, 

1886. 8vo. 
Muthmann, Wilii. Ueber uiedere Osyde des Molydiins. luaug.-Diss. Miinchen, 

1886. 
NicOLAYSEN, Carl. Zur Keuntniss des Phenylacridius. Freiburg i. B, 1885. 
NiETZKi, R. Orgauische Farbstoffe. Breslau, 1886. 8vo. 
On the influence of fluctuatious of atmospheric pressure ou the evolution of fire-damp. 

Report of experiments concerning this question carried on in the Archduke 

Albert's coal mines near Karwin. in Austrian Silesia. Teschen, 1886. 4to. 
Oppenheimer, Hugo. Beitiiige zur Kenntniss des Terephtaldehydes. Inaug.-Diss. 

Miinchen, 1886. 
Orme, Temple. Rudiments of Chemistry. Loudon, 1886. 8vo. 
Paal, C. Das Acetopheuoaceton und seine Deri vate. Erlaugen, 1886. 8vo. 
Pactow. Ulrich. Ueber Beuzylarseuverbiudnngen. Rostock, 1885. ' 



CHEMISTRY. 441 

Palmkri, P. .SiHla iiilriiioazioiu' del |)iomlt(). ( NapoliJ, 18SG. 

Palmeri, 1'., c E. Casouia. Viui iulultortiti. Analisi e determiuazioni quautitative, 
e dello materie coloranti eatrauec e specialmente dell' oricello. 2 ineiuorie. 
[Portici], 188G. 

Paumentier. Molybdeue, vanadium, et titaue. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 

Pakneli,, E. a. The Life and Labors of John Mercer, the self-taught Chemical Phi- 
losopher, including numerous Recipes used at the Oakeushaw Calico Print Worlis. 
London, 1886. 8vo, with portrait. 

Parone, S. Corso di uozioni fisico-chimiche e di materie prime. 2 vols. Torino, 
1886. 8vo. 

Pathe, K. Ucber die Eiuwirknng von Brom auf die Pseudocumol (5) sulfonsiiure 
in verdiinnter wiisseriger Losung und einige Derivate des Pseudocumols. Frei- 
burg i. B., 1886. 8vo. 

Paterno, E., e R. Nasini. Sulla determinazione del peso moleculare delle sostanze 
orgauichc per mezzo del punto di congelamento delle lore soluzioni. Roma, 1886. 
4to. 

Pauckscii, H. Beitrilge zur Kenntniss des Ortho- und Paraamidoathylbenzols 
(Ortho- und Paraphaenaethylamins). Freiburg i. B., 1886. 8vo. 

Pawlewski, Bronislaw. Sposoby oconiania wartosci nafty. Warszawa, 1885. 

Peale, Albert C. Lists and Analyses of the Mineral Springs of the United States. 
[A preliminary study.] Bulletin No. 32 of the U. S. Geological Survey, Depart- 
ment of the Interior. Washington, 1886. 235 pp. 8vo. 

Pendleto.v, J. H. Ueber Isoinerie in der Thiophenreihe. Gottingen, 1886. 8vo. 

P^TERMANN, A. Recherchcs de chimie et de physiologic appliqu6es a I'agriculture. 
Analyses des matieres fertilisantes et alimentaires. 2"'<^ Edition, revue et aug- 
ment6e. Bruxelles, 1886. 

Peters, Hermann. Aus pharmaceutischer Vorzeit in Bild und Wort. Berlin, 1886. 

Peyraud, H. Etudes exp^rimeutalessur la composition del'airde Vichy. Bordeaux, 
1886. 8vo. 

Pfeiffer, E. Die Analyse der Milch. Anleitung zur qualitativen und quautita- 
tiven Untcrsuchung dieses Secretes filr Chemiker, Pharmazeuten und Aertzte. 
Wiesbaden, 1886. 8vo. 

Pfordten, O. von der. Untersuchungeu iiber das Titan. Strassburg, 1886. 8vo. 

Pfungst, a. Ueber die Einwirknng der Nitroethane auf die chlorhydriue mehr- 
werthiger Alkohole. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 

Phillips, S. E. Old or New Chemistry, which is tittest for survival ? And other 
essays in chemical philosophy. London, 1886. 

Phipson, T. L. Outlines of a New Atomic Theory. Fourth edition. London, 1886. 

PiCKEL, J. M. Propiouylauhydroisodiamidotoluol (Propenylisotoluyleuamidin.) 
luaug.-Diss. Gottingen, 1885. 8vo. 

PiCKEL, M. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Condensation der Phenylhydrazin. Erlangen, 
188G. 8vo. 

Pinner, A. Repetitorium der orgauischeu Chemie. 7. Aufl. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 

Pizzi, A. I pesi atomic! e Ic proprieta fisiche priucipali dei corpi indecomposti, od 
element! chimici che nello state preseute della scienza s! couoscouo. Reggiouell' 
Emilia, 1886. 3 vols. 4to. 

POSADSKY, S. Practische Modification der Pettenkofer-Nagorsky'schen Methode zur 
Bestimmung des Kohlensiiuregehalts dei Luft. Mit Tabellen : i. Der Bestimm- 
ung des Kohlensaure-Volumens der Luft nach Abnahme der alkalischen Reaction 
der Barytlosuug, und ii. Zur Reduction eines Gasvolumens auf 0° Temperatur 
und auf 760""" Lnftdruck. St. Petersburg, 1886. 8vo. 

Prieto, C. F., de Landero y R. Diuamica quimica. Guadalajara, 1886. 8vo. 

Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention of the Association of Official Agricult* 
ural Chemists, August 26 and 27, 1886. Department of Agriculture, Divis- 
ion of Chemistry, Bulletin No. 12. Methods of Analysis of Commercial Fertilizers. 
Washington, 1886. 8vo. 



442 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G 

pncnETT, I. Qualitative. Clie-niical Aualyses (Inorgauic and Organic). Part I. 

Elfiiieutary stage for schools aud science classes. Leeds, 188G. 12mo. 
Rammelsberg, C. F. Haudbuch der Mineralchemie. Ergiinznngsbeft zur 2. Auflage. 

Leipzig, la86. 8vo. . 

Die cbemische Natnr derMlneralien. Systeraatiscli zusammengestellt. Berlin, 

1886. 8vo. 

Leitfadeu fiir die quantitative chemische Analyse, besonders der Mineralien 

und Hiitteuiirodncte, durcb Beispiele erlautert. 4. umgearbeitete Auflage. Ber- 
lin, 1886. 8vo. 

Ramsauer, p. Petroleum. Oldenburg, 1886. 8vo. 

Raske, Kakl. Zur cbemiscben Kenntniss des Embryo. Berlin, 1886. 

Ratiike, A. Bibliotbek fiir Zucker-luteressenten. Band i und V. Magdeburg, 1886. 

8vo. 
Recoura, a. Recberches sur les cblornres de cbrome. Paris, 1886. 4to. 
Reese, A. Ueber aromatiscbe Autimonverbinduugen. Freiburg i. B., 1885. 8vo. 
Regodt, H. Notions de chimie applicables aux usages de la vie (programmes offi- 

ciels). 27e ^d. Paris, 1886. 12mo. 
Reh, a. Ueber die Einfiihruug von Brom in Beuzoesiiure und die Einwirkung von 

Natrium auf Mctabrombenzoesiinreiitbylester. Darmstadt, 1886. 8vo. 
Remsen, Ira. Au Introduction to the Study of Chemistry. New York, 1886. 8vo. 

Einleitung iu das Studium der Kohleustoffverbiudungeu, oder Orgauische 

Cbemie. Tiibingeu, 1886. 

Renk, F. Die Luft. (Aus dem Haudbuch der Hygiene.) Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Rexotte, F. Petite chimie agricolea la portee des cultivateurs. Entretien familier 

snr la vie des plantes ct spdcialement sur la culture rationnelle de la betterave et 

sur les champs d'expt^riences. Louvain, 1886. 8vo. 
Reuss, W. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der salpetersauren Quecksilberoxydulsalze. 

Braunschweig, 1886. Sao, 
Richards, Edgar. Principles and Methods of Soil Analysis. Bulletin No. 10, De- 
partment of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry. Washington, 1886. 8vo. 
Richards, Ellen H. Food Materials and their Adulterations. Household Manuals 

No. II. Boston, 1886. 
Richardson, A. On the Determination of the Vapor Pressure of Organic Alcohols 

and Acids and the Relations existing between the Vapor Pressures of Organic 

Alcohols and Acids. Bristol, 1886. 8vo. 
RlCHTER, V. v. Lehrbnch der auorganischen Chemie. Mit 89 Holzschnitten und i 

Spectraltafel. 5. ueu bearb. Auflage. Bonn, 1886. 8vo. 

Chemistry of the Carbon Compounds, or Organic Chemistry. Translated from 

the fourth German edition by E. F. Smith. Philadelphia, 1886. 

RisCHBiETH, P. Ueber die Raffinose oder den sogeuaunten Pluszucker aus Melasse 

und aus Baumwollensamen. Gottiugeu, 1886. 8vo. 
RivoT. Docimasie ; Traite d'analyse des substances mindrales. Tome v. Paris, 1886. 
ROMEN, C. Bleicherei, Fiirberei und Appretur der Baumwoll und Leinen- Waaren. 

Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 
Rosa, A., ed E. PerroncitO; Relazione sulF analisi chimica e biologica su alcnne 

acque proposte per provedere di acqua potabile la citta di Aosta. Aosta, 1886. 

16mo. 
RoscoE, Henry E. Lessons iu Elementary Chemistry, Inorgauic and Organic. New 

edition. London, 1886. 
RoscoE, H, und C. Schorlemmer. Kurzes Lehrbuch der Chemie nachden neuesten 

Ansichten der Wisseuschaft. 8. Anfl. Braunschweig, 1886. 8vo. 
Rosenberg, J. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Thiophengrnppe. Anhang iiber die An- 
hydride der aromatischeu Sulfousiinren. Gottingen, 1886. 8vo. 
Rosenthal, T. Ueber die Betasulfopropionsiiure. Inaug.-Diss. Halle, 1886. 8vo. 
RUDELIUS, C. Platinapropylsulfiuforeningar. Akad. afhandl. Lund, 1886. 4to, 



CHEMISTEY. 443 

KtJDORFF, E. Auleituug zur cbemisclieu Analyse fiir Aufiinger. 7. Aufl. Berlin, 

1886. 8vo. 
Rydberg, J. R. Om de kemiska gruucliimueuas periodiska system. Stockholm, 

1885. 8vo. 

Sacc, F. Tiabjijos del laboratorio nacional de quimica en Cochabamba. La Paz, 

1886. 12mo. 

Sadtler, S. p. Die Gewinnnng des Theers nud Ammoniakwassers. Uebersetzt und 

niit eiuem Aubange verseben von G. Bornemauu. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Salmonowitz, S. Beitriige znr Keuutuiss der Alkaloide des Acouituni lycoctonum. 

luaug.- Diss. Dorpat, 1885. 
Sanger, A. Ueber einige Aetber und eiue ueue Bildiingsweise der Unterpbospbor- 

siiure. Jena, 1886. vo. 
Saucerotte. Petite cbimie des 6cole8, simples notions sur les applications de cetfe 

science a I'lndustrie, a I'agriculture, et a I'^cononiie domestiqne. 6« Edition, 

revue et modiii^e. Paris, 1885. 18mo. 
Sbriziolo, M. Trattato teorico-pratico di tossicologia geuerale e speciale medico- 

clinico-legale. Napoli, 1885. 
Schafft, a. Uebersicbtstafeln zum Unterricht in der anorganiscben Cbemie und 

Mineralogie. Bielefeld, 1886. 8vo. 
SCHAFS, A. Notes des aides-cbimistes pour sucreries. St.-Trond, 1885. 8vo. 
Schkurer-Kestner. Nicolas Leblanc et sa sonde artificielle. (Conference de la 

Societe cbimique de Paris.) Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
SCHMiD, Jacob. Ueber das Fisetin, den Farbstoff des Fisetbolzes. Inaug.-Diss. 

Ziiricb, 1886. 
ScHMiEDER, Johannes. Ueber Bestandtheile des Polyporus. Inaug.-Diss. (Erlan- 

gen). Hannover, 1886. 
Schmidt, E. Beitriige znr Keuntniss der isomeren Mono- und Dinitroderivate der 

unsymmetriscben (<r)-m-xylolsulfons;lure. Freiburg i. B., 188 . 8\ o. 
Schmidt, M. Ueber die Einwirkung von Phenylcyanat auf Phenole und PbenalJitber 

bei Gegenwart von Alnminiumcblorid. Gottingen, 1886. 8vo. 
ScHMiTZ, P. Ueber Parajodpbeuylmercaptursiiure. Freiburg i. B., 1886. 8vo. 
SCHOMACKER, J. Beitrag zur forensiscb-cbemiscben Nacbweise der Resorcin und 

Brenzcatechiu im T bierkorper. (Inau '.-Diss.) Dorpat, 1886. 8vo. 
SCHOPFF, Martin. Ein Beitrag zur Kentniss der Amidoxime und Azoxinie. Inaug.- 
Diss. Berlin, 1886. 
SCHREIBER. Grundriss der Cheraio und Mineralogie. 4. vollstiiudig uii:gearbeitete 

Auflage. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 
Schultz, G. Die Cbemie des Steinkohlentbeers. 2. Aufl. Band i Die Robma- 

terialien. Braunscbweig, 1886. 8vo. 
SciiULZ, Otto. Ueber Benzenylazoxime und Benzenylazoximcarbonsliureu. Ein 

Beitrag zur Kenntniss der ringformig gescblosseuen Verbindungen. Inaug.-Diss. 

Berlin, 1886. 
SCHUNK, Hermann. Ueber einige Salze der a-Pbenylmichsiiure und iiber einige 

Nitro- U' d Amidoderivatederselben Siiure. Inaug.-Diss., Basel. Miincben, 1886. 
Sedna. L. Das Waobs und seine tecbniscbe Verwenduug. Wien, 1886. 8vo. 
Sefferth, E. Zur Kenntniss der Picolinsiiure und Nicolinsaure. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 
Sell, E. Ueber Kuustbutter. Ibre Herstellung, sauitiire Beurtbeilung uud die Mittel 

zu ibrer Unterscbeidung von Milcbbutter. Beitriige zur Keuntniss der Milcb- 

butter und der zu ibrem Ersatz in Anwendung gebracbten andereu Fette. (Aus 
den "Arbeiten deskaiserl. Gesundbeitsamtes, Band i.") Berlin, 1886. 4to. 
Seltner, E. Die Indigokiipen, deren Austellung, Gebraucb und pniktiscbe Beband- 

lung. Leipzig, 18H6. Bvo. 
Serrant, Emile. Sozolic Acid ; its cbemical, pbysiological, and tbcrapeutical prop- 
erties. Paris, 1886. 
Sestini, F., e A. Funaro. Elementi di cbimica ad uso degli istituti (ecnici secondo i 
uuovi progranimi goveruativi del 21 giuguo 1885. Livoruo, 1886. 16mo. 



414 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

iSktscuicxow, J. Uobcr dio Absorptioiiscocfficieiifceii dor Kohlciisiliire in den zu 
dieseni G;usc uulifferenton Salzloannf^en. St. Petorsbnrg, 1886. 

Skxton, a. Humboldt. Outlines of Quiintitative Analysis. For the Use of Students. 
London, 1886. 

Shenstoxe, W. a. a Practical Introduction to Chemistry, intended to give a practi- 
cal acquaintance with the elementary facts and principles of chemistry. Loudon, 
1886. 

SiEBERT, G. KurzerAbrissderGeschichtederC hemic. VVien nnd Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 

Skraup, Z. H. Farbeureaction zur Beurtheiluug der Constitution vou Carbonsiluren 
der Pyridin-, Chinoliu- und verwandteu Reihen. Wien, 1886. 8vo. 

Sni.jders, a. J. C. Scheikundige brieven. Leercursus ter beoefeniug der chemie 
door zelfouderricht. Volgeus de uieuwste uitkomsten der wetenschap, iiaar aan- 
leiding van Kriitzer's Chemische Unterrichts-Briefe. Zntphen, 1886. Roy. 8vo. 

SoLARi, L. Sur les uaphtaliues bichlor6e8 a, d. Geneve, 1886. 8vo. 

Spady, Joiiann. Ueber a- Isobutyl- /i- isopropylchinolin und desson Umwand- 
lungsproducte. (Inaug.-Diss., Basel.) Miiuchen, 1885. 

Spring, W.,etL. Roland. Recherches sur les proportions d'acide carboniquo ctm- 
tinues d.aus Fair. Liege, 1885. 8vo. 

Staats, F. Uebor AsaroQ. (Inaug.-Diss.) Breslau, 1885. 

Stahl, W. Ueber Raffination, Analyse und Eigenschaften des Kupfers. Clausthal, 
1886. 8vo. 

Stefan, J. Ueber die Beziehuug zvvischen den Theorieu der Capillaritiit und dor Ver- 
dampfnug. Wien, 1886. 8vo. 

Stevenson, Thomas. Spirit Gravities with Tables. Calculated from the tables ol 
Gilpin. Loudon, 1886. 8vo. 

Stolz, Friedrich. Ueber die Jodpropriolsiiure. Inaug.-Diss. (Erlangeu). Miiu- 
chen, 1886. 

StrieCtLer, M. Ueber die Melanurensiinre. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 

Stutzer, a. Der Chilisalpeter, seine Bodcutung und Anwendung als Diingemittel. 
Unter Beriicksichtiguug der Schrift von A. Damseaux bearbeitet und herausge- 
geben von P. Wagner. Berlin,. 1S86. Bvo. 

Sutton, Francis. A Systematic Handbook of Volumetric Analysis, or the quantita- 
tive estimation of chemical substances by measure applied to liquids, solids, and 
gases; adapted to the acquirements of pure chemical research, pathological 
chemistry, pharmacy, metallurgy, manufacturing chemistry, photography, etc., 
and for the valuation of substances used in commerce, agriculture, and the arts. 
Fifth editiou. Loudon, 1886. 8vo. 

Steinfeld, W. Ueber die Wivkung des Wismuths auf den thierischeu Orgauismus. 
Inaug.-Diss. Dorpat, 1885. 

Tableaux servant a I'analyse chimique. Deux parties. Traduites de I'allemand pai 
J. Krutwig. Bonn, 1885. Lex 8vo. 

Taylor, R. L. Analysis Tables for Chemical Students. Loudon, 1886. 

Tkplow, M. N. Die Schwinguugsknoten-Theorie der choraischen Verbiudungen. 
Uebersetzt von L. Jawein. St. Petersburg, 1886. 

Thalen, R. Sur le spectre du fer, obtenu a I'aide de Fare 61ectrique. Upsal, 1885. 
4to. 

Tiiomsen, J. Therraochemisclie Untersuchungen. Band iv. Organische Verbin- 
duugen. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. [Completing the work.] 

Thudichum, L. J. W. Grundziige der anatomischen und kliuischen Chemie. Aua- 
lecten fiir Forscher, Aerzte und Studirende. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 

Theis, F. C. Zur Kenntniss der Dioxyamidoanthrachiuonsulfonsiiure. Freiburg i. 
B., 1886. 8vo. 

Trinkwasser (Das) d»r Stadt Kiel auf Grundlage von Analyseu aller Brunnenwasser 
Kiels, ausgefuhrt i. J. 1883 im Auftragen der stiidtischeu Gesuudheits-Cominis- 
sion durch das agriculturchemische Laboratorium der landwirtschaftlichen Vcr- 
suchsstatiou zu Kiel. Kiel, 1886. 4to. 



CHEMISTKY. 445 

Tkoilius, Magnus. Notes on the Chemistry of Iron. New York, 1886. 8vo. 
Tkoost, L. Tratado elemental de quimica arreglado al programa official de la se- 

giinda ensenanza con las principales aplicaciones ii las artes, industria, raedieina 

€ higiene. Version castellana con autorizacion por A. Sanchez de Bustamcnte. 

6'' ed. Paris, 1685. 8vo. 
Tyler, Harry VV, Entertainments in Chemistry. Easy lessons and directions for 

safe experiments. Chicago, 1886. 
Tyson, J, A Guide to the Practical Examination of the Urine, for the use of physi- 
cians and students. Fifth edition. Philadelphia, 1886. 12mo. 
Uffici d' aualisi, reclamati dalla salute pubblica, dall' industria enologica e dal com- 

mercio. Conferenza dall' avo. F. Casella. Piacenza, 1885. 
Ukech, F. Itinerarium durch die theoretische Entwicklungsgeschichte der Lehro 

von der cheraischen Reactionsgeschwindigkeit. Berlin, 1885. 
Valeur, Fredrik. UeberChinoliudisulfonsiiuren und Derivate derselben. Inaug.- 

Diss. (Tiibingeu). Aachen, 1886. 
Van Aubel, E. Note sur la transparence du platiue. Bruxelles, 1886. 
Vannuccini, G. Letame e concimi chimici; considerazioni e raifronti, lettura ecc. 

Citta di Castello, 1885. 8vo. 
Vanuccini, E. Analisi chimica delle nuove jiolle acqua del risorgimento di Mou- 

tecatini in Val di Nievole. Prato, 1885. 8vo. 
Vermorel, V. Le sulfurede carbone, ses propri6ti5s, sa fabrication, sesfalsihcations, 

inoyens pratiques de v(5rifler sa purete. Tours, 1886. 8vo. 
Verneuil, a. Kecherches sur quelques combinaisons azot^es du 861<5nium. Paris, 

1886. 4to. 
Very Y Lopez, V. Breves nocionesde quimica orgftuica. Madrid, 1885. 8vo. 
Viertoljahresschrift iiber die Fortschritte auf dem Gebiete der Chemie, derNahrungs- 

uud Genussmittel, der Gcbrauchsgegenstaude, sovrio der hierher gehorenden In- 

dustriezweige. Uuter Mitwirkuug von Degener, Hochstetter, P. Lohiuann, 

Benno Martiny, Paack, Proskauer, Wiirzburg, L. Aubry, R. Sendtner, H. Will, 

vou Peters, VVeigmann, J. Mayrhofcr, E. vou Rauiuer, Rottger, herausgegebeu 

von A. Hilger, R. Kayser, J. Konig, E. Sell. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 
ViLLEJEAN, A. Recherches exp6nmentales sur les propri^t^s chimiques et physio- 

logiques du chlorure de m6thyl^ne. Paris, 1880. 
Vincent, L. Du role industriel de la magndsie. Marseille, 1886. 8vo. 
Vlasto, E. Les origiues de I'alchimie, par M. Berthelot. Extrait des Bulletins de 

la Soci<5t6 des ingenieurs civils. Paris, 1886. 8vo. 
Waeber, R. Leitfaden flir den Uuterricht in der Chemie. 5. Auflage. Leipzig, 1885. 

8vo. 
Wagner, A. Lehrbuch der organlschen Chemie. Miinchen, 1836. 
Wagner, L. von. Die Starkefabrikation in Verbindung mit der Dextrin-und Trau- 

beuzuckerfabrikation. 2. durch Nachtriige vermehrte Autlage. Braunschweig, 

18»6. 8vo. 
W^agner, Rudolph von. Handbuch der chemischen Technologic. Bearbeitet von 

Ferd. Fischer. Zwolfte Auflage. Leipzig, 1886. 
Wandtafel der periodischen Gesetzmiissigkeit der Eleiuento nach Mend lejeff. Li- 

thographie. Wien, u. d. Imp. fol. 
Wandtafeln der Atomgewichte der chemischen Elemente H = i. 2 Blatt. Litho- 
graphic. Wien, n. d. Fol. 
Wanklyn, J. Alfred. Milk-Analysis : a practical treatise on the examination of 

milk and its derivatives, cream, butter, and cheese. Second edition. Loudon, 

1886. 

The Gas Engineer's Chemical Manual. London, 1886. 

Wanklyn, J. A., and E. T. Chapman. Water-Analysis : a practical treatise on the 

examination of potable water. Sixtli cditiou. Loudon, 1884. 
Wanklyn and C(K)per. Bread Analysis. New edition. London, 1886, 



44G RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Watt, A. Electro-Depositiuu. Practical treatise on the electrolysis of gold, silver, 
copper, nickel, aud other metals aud alloys. With descriptions of voltaic bat- 
teries, magneto- and dynamo-electric machines, thermopiles, and the materials 
and processes nsed in every department of art, and several chapters on electro- 
metallurgy. London, 1SS6. 8vo. 

Watt's Manual of Chemistry. (Based on Fowue's Manual.) Vol. ii. Second edition. 
Chemistry of Carbon Compounds, or Oi'ganic Chemistry. By W. A. Tilden. 
London, 1886. 

Wellington, C. Ueber die Einwirkung des Formalaldehyds auf verschiedeue or- 
ganische Amine, sowie die Darstellung einiger saneren aromatischen Sulfate. 
Gottingen, 1886. 8vo. 

Weil, H. Synthese eines reducierten Pyrrols. Erlangen, 1886. 8vo. 

WiDMAN, O. Om kumenylakrylsyraus framstallniug och uitrering, ortoderivat, 
metaderivat, etc. Stockholm, 1886. 8vo. 

WiEBECKE, B. Geschichtliche Eutwickelung unserer Kenutniss der Ptomaine und 
verwandter Korper. Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 

WlLBR.\ND, F. Leitfaden fiir den methodischeu Uuterricht in der anorganischeu 
Chemie. 5. Anflage. Hildesheim, 1886. 

Wilder, Hans M. List of Tests (Reagents) arranged in alphabetical order accord- 
ing to the names of the originators. Designed especially for the convenient ref- 
erence of chemists, pharmacists, and scientists. New York and Loudon, 1385. 
12mo. 

Wiley, Harvey W. The Economical Aspects of Agricultural Chemistry. An ad- 
dress before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at the 
Buffalo meeting, August, 1886. Cambridge, 1886. 8vo. 

Will, E. Tavole per 1' analisi chimica qualitativa ; traduzione da G. Carnelutti 
suir ultima edizione tedesca. Milano, 1885. 8vo. 

Wills, G. S. V. A Manual of Practical Analysis. Eighth edition. London, 1885. 
8vo. 

Willson, a. R. Chemical Notes for Pharmaceutical Students. Second edition. 
Locdon, 1886. 8vo. 

Winkler, Clement. Manuel pratique del'analyse industrielle desgaz. Traduitde 
I'allemand par C. Bias. Paris, 1886. 
. W^)HLER, F. Grundriss der organischen Chemie bearbeitet von R. Fittig. 11. Autl. 
Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 

Wolff, Lawrence. Applied Medical Chemistry, containing a description of the 
apparatus and methods employed in the practice of medical chemistry, the chem- 
istry of poisons, physiological and iiathological analysis, urinary and fecal anal- 
ysis, sanitary chemistry, and the examination of medicinal agents, foods, etc. 
Philadelphia, 1886. 8vo. 

Wolff und Baumann. Tabellen zur Berechnuug der organischen Elementaranalyse. 
Berlin, 1886. 8vo. 

WoLLNER, Robert. Ueber Methyl-j;-Xylylketon. Inaug.-Diss. Freiburg i. B., 
1885. 

Wooten, H. Three Hundred Problems in Chemical Ph3'sics and Specific Gravities, 
with Key. Loudon, 1886. 8vo. 

WuNDERLiCH, Aemilius Edwin. Ueber Carbamiucyamide. Inaug.-Diss. Wiirzburg, 
1886. 

WUNDERLICH, A. Configuration organischer Molekiile. Leipzig, 1886. 8vo. 

WuRTZ, A. Dictionnaire dechimio pureet appliquee. Sii|)pldment. Fascicule 11 (et 
dernier). Paris, 1886. 8vo. 

La theorie atomique. Quatrifeme (Edition, precede d'une iiitrodnction sur la 

vie et les travaux de I'autenr par Ch. Friedcl. Paris, 18."*6. 

Wt5sT, F. Ueber eiuige neue Fettsiiiiren hoheren Kohlenstofigehaltes. Freiburg i. B., 
1886. 8vo. 



CHEMISTRY. 447 

ZaNGERLE, M. Gruudriss der auorgauiscLeu Cheiuie. ;?. AiiH;ige. Braunschwei"'- 
1886. 8vo. 

Grundriss der organischeu Chemie. :}. Autlage. Braunschweig, 1886. 8vo. 

Kemiau alkeet. Porvoosa. 1886. 

Lehrbuch der Chemie iiach den nenesteu Ansichten der Wissenschaft. 2 Biindo. 

3. Auflage. Braunschweig, 1885. 8vo. 

Zeitschrift fiir Nahrnugsrnittel-Untersnchung und Hygiene. Eiue Monatsschrift fiir 
chemische und niikroscopiscbe Untersuchung von Nahrungs- und Genussmittelu 
und Gebrauchsgegeustiinden. BeibLitt der Wocheuscbrift " Pbarmaceutische 
Post." Herausgegebeu und redigirt von Hans Heger in Wieu. Wien, 1886. 



MINERALOGY IX 1886. 



By Edwaud S. Daxa, FaJe College, Xew Haven, Conn. 



GrENERAL WORKS ON MINERALOaY. 

The list of miueralogical text-books Las received an imi)ortaiit addi- 
tion during the past year in the Lehrbuch der Mineralogie* of Bauer. 
It is a work of nearly six hundred pages, and covers about tbe same 
ground as the mineralogy of Tschermak, noted in the reports of 1884 
and 1885. It is especially strong in the chapters on physical mine- 
ralogy, and here gives much valuable matter that has not hitherto 
found its place into the text-books. The descriptions of species, 
though necessarily brief, give all that the ordinary student requires. 
A work of great magnitude and importance is the Index der Krys- 
tallformen, by Goldschmidt, the first volume of which was completed 
in 1886. This work, which, when completed, will make three large 
volumes of six hundred pages ea(;h, i)roposes to give complete lists 
of all the crystalline forms identified on the crystals of every species, 
with the literature, the symbols of different authors, and so on. The 
author has started out with the plan of putting this material in the 
form which he regards as most useful foe a discussion of the mathemat- 
ical relations of the forces involved in the making of the crystal. 
With this end in view he has developed a new system of symbols, and 
adoi)ts a new jilan in regard to the choice of the i)Osition of a crystal, 
taking that one which gives the simplest symbols and lends itself most 
readily to the representation of the forms on a plane of projection. This 
system of symbols is worked out with admiral thoroughness, both with 
respect to the methods of calculation adapted to it, and its relations 
to the other systems of symbols which have been employed from the 
time of Hatty down. The unity of the work, therefore, is a iirominent 
feature, and the details of the plan have evidently been developed with 
great care. The practical student of minerals, however, will be in- 
clined, at least at first, to regret the introduction of a new series of 
symbols, and he will question further whether the reasons given are 
sufficient to justify placing the crystals of the majority of the species 
in a new position, and in general not the one Avhich is most convenient 
for the study of the crystal itself or for its comparison with those of 
related species. ^ 

* For full titles of works mentioned see the Bibliography at the end of the chapter, 
H. Mis. 600 29 449 



450 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

A supplementary volume to tlie second edition (1875) of Rammels- 
berg's Haudbuch der Mineralcbemie bas recently been issued. It 
contains tbe new analyses of tbe past ten years witb extended calcula- 
tions and discussions of comi^osition after tbe manner of tbe earlier 
volumes. Tbese discussions are always suggestive and often tbrow 
important ligbt upon knotty points of cbemical relations; tbe sugges- 
tions in regard to tbe connection between species, new and old, are often 
to tbe point, but sometimes arbitrary and not sufficiently considered. 
Tbe concluding jiartof vol. ix of tbe Materialien zur Mineralogie Euss- 
lands, by Kokscbarow, including tbe final pages, bas been issued. It 
contains a new determination of tbe form of tbe variety of xantbopbyl- 
lite called waluewite; a discussion of tbe forms of topaz based upon 
tbe work of Des Cloizeaux and N. von Kokscbarow, jr., witb a large 
number of calculated angles ; also a description of tbe new species 
mursinskite alluded to on a subsequent page. 

Tbe large volume of cbemical and geological essays (second series), 
by T. Sterry Hunt, entitled Mineral Pbysiology and Pbysiograpby, con- 
tains witb otber interesting matter an extended cbapter giving tbe 
autbor's views on mineral classification as applied to tbe silicates. A 
tiiird volume of tlie Mineral Resources of tbe United States bas been 
issued, containing, like its predecessors, a large amount of valuable in- 
formation for tbose interested in tbe mining industries of tbe country. 
A Catalo^jue of Minerals, giving synonyms and also a brief statement 
of composition, bas been prepared by A. H. Cbester, and will be found 
useful by collectors. A work on tbe diamond {Le Diamant, etc.), by 
M. Bontan, forms a volume of Fr6my's Encyclopedic Cbimique. It 
gives an excellent summary of tbe subject, witb full descriptions of tbe 
diamond diggings of Soutb Africa and Brazil, illustrated by many plates. 

Tbe completion of tbe tentb volume of Grotb's Zeitschrift fur Krys- 
tallograpbic uud Mineralogie is marked by tbe publication of a gen- 
eral index for tbe ten volumes. Tbis bas been expanded so as to be a 
very complete repertorium of mineralogical and crystallograpbic litera- 
ture from 1870 to tbe beginning of 1885. Tbis forms tbe first two bun- 
dred pages of tbe volume, tbe index proper making up tbe remainder. 
A new periodical bas been commenced in Vienna, entitled Annalen des 
k. k. naturbistoriscben Hof-museums ; it is edited by tbe director of 
tbe Vienna Museum, Dr. Franz Hitter von Hauer, and in addition to 
tbe reports and notices connected witb tbe museum it contains articles 
on subjects in tbe various brancbes of tbe natural sciences. 

CRYSTALLOGRAGHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY. 

Among tbe contributions to crystallograpby, perbai)S tbe first place 
belongs to tbe monograpb on stepbanite, by Karl Vrba.* Tbis is a 
species wbicb bas been carefiUly studied before, and tbe early deter- 

* For references see the list of papers on mineral species on a following page. 



MINERALOGY. 451 

minations of the elements by Haidinger (1821) and Schroder (1855) have 
been accepted as deserving miicli confidence. Vrba has had the advan- 
tages of a larger supply of material and better instrument, and his 
measurements are exceptionally precise; it is interesting, however, as 
showing the constancy of the species to note that the axes which he 
finally accepts are almost identical with those of Schroder and differ 
very little from those of Haidinger. Vrba adds a large number of new 
forms, and discusses the crystals from different localities minutely as to 
occurring planes and angles. The memoir is accompanied by ten plates, 
giving a spherical projection for the species, and a large number (49) of 
excellent figures. 

Pyroxene and the allied species have been the subjects of several val- 
uable memoirs. One of these is by Flink on several of the Swedish min- 
erals of this group, including a number of varieties of diopside from 
Nordmark, also schefferite and rhodonite from LS^ngban and Pajsberg. 
These papers are all published together in Groth's Zeitschrift; some 
of them appeared in the Transactions of the Swedish Academy for 
1885 — the paper on rhodonite was noticed in the Report for 1885. The 
memoir as a whole is admirably complete, giving nob only a descrip- 
tion of crystalline form with exact measurements, but also a deter- 
mination of the oj^tical characters, and, not less important the chemical 
composition, since it has been shown that in this group the optical 
constants and composition vary together. La Valle has published an 
extended memoir on the Ala diopside, illustrated by numerous figures, 
and giving some valuable additions to our knowledge of the form of the 
pyroxene from that famous locality. The same author has earlier (18S4) 
given an account of the polysynthetic twins of diopside from Ala. 
Another paper by Gotz gives the results of a study of crystals of diop- 
side from several localities, showing a number of new forms. The paper 
closes with a convenient list of all observed planes with the antiior- 
ities. The author wisely decides against accepting the new position 
for the species suggested by Tscliermak, which, though it brings out 
the relation to the orthorhombic members of the group somewhat more 
clearly, results in giving the majority of the forms very complicated 
symbols. Solly has described axinite crystals from Botallack, and in 
his paper he has given a list of planes and also a long series of angles. 
The euclase from the Austrian Alps has been described by Kochlin. 
The inexhaustible subject of calcite has been discussed by several au- 
thors; an extended memoir is given by Cesaro of crystals from Belgian 
localities. 

Eichstiidt has given a new description of the gadoliuite of Hittero, 
with a new determination of the form, and a number of new planes. 
The suite of crystals in hand included the best material for the species 
ever obtained, and the axial elements seem, therefore, to be worthy of 
more confidence than those of Des Cloizeaux, though not differing very 
widely from them. The topaz of Durango, Mexico, has proved a fruit- 



452 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

fill field for the discovery of new forms. Notwithstanding the large 
number of planes already credited to the species, the labors of N. vou 
Kokscharow, jr., and Des Cloizeaux have resulted in adding many new 
ones to the list, some of them of complex symbols. The calculated 
angles for all these forms are given in the concluding part of vol. ix of 
the Miueralogie Easslands, already alluded to. Ailing has measured 
tlie unusually perfect colorless topaz crystals from Utah and found 
them to agree closely iu their elements with the Uralian crystals. Des 
Cloizoaux has extended his study of the vanadate bearing his name 
(descloizite) and proved conclusively on optical grounds that it is ortho- 
rhombic, not monoclinic in crystallization. Huntington has investi- 
gated the crystalline structure of native iron as shown by cleavage frag- 
ments and etched sections of meteorites, and has extended and devel- 
0})ed our knowledge of that important subject. 

Several iiapers have been published devoted to a crystallographic 
study of some American species. The phenacite from Florissant, Col- 
orado, is described by Des Cloizeaux with figures representing a new 
form, Penfield has described complex cr^ stals of brookite from Magnet 
Cove, Arkansas, and the writer of this report has continued the same 
subject, showing the unusual variety in form of the crystals from this 
locality ; the latter work was based upon the tine suite of crystals in 
the collection of Mr. C. S. Bement, of Philadelphia. The Bement col- 
lection has also given, iu the hands of the writer, material for an ex- 
tended memoir on the crystallization of native copper of Lake Superior. 
The specimens from this locality are remarkably complex in form, espe- 
cially in the twinning groups, and a series of some sixty figures in four 
plates were needed to illustrate the different forms. Another paper is 
devoted to the crystallization of gold from California and Oregon, and 
others to columbite, diaspore, etc. 

The minerals from Alexander County, North Carolina, brought to 
liglit by the explorations of W. E. Hidden, have been crystallograph- 
ically studied by vom Hath. The monazite has been figured and meas- 
ured, more particularly the nearly symmetrical cruciform twins, with 
the orthopinacoid as the twinning plane, also described by Hidden. The 
spodumenc (hiddenite) has been measured also, and has yielded a con- 
siderable number of new j^laues ; the same is true of the quartz which 
has proved to be remarkably rich in interesting points. The locality 
has furnished, among other things, a few crystals showing the rare basal 
plane as noted by Hidden and Des Cloizeaux. The beryl is, too, excep- 
tionally fine in crystallization, and having, as illustrated by vom Kath, 
a novelty and complexity of form surpassing the Uralian specimens. 
The same author has measured the North Carolina rutileaud xeuotime. 
The vanadinite of Arizoua and New Mexico has been shown by Penfield 
to be highly complex in form, and to exhibit the pyramidal hemihedrism 
of the group with unusual distinctness for this S])ecies. 

Iu the broader subject of physical mineralogy a large number of im- 



MINERALOGY. 453 

portant contributions bave been made, but for tbe niost part they are 
of such a nature as not to allow of being mentioned briefly — titles are 
given on a following page. Among the more popular articles may be 
mentioned several on the subject of the specific gravity. Brauns discusses 
the use of methyl iodide for petrographic and optical investigations. 
Its specific gravity is 3.33; it has a very high index of refraction (1.7424 
for Na at 14° 0.) and remains unchanged in the air. It can be used in 
much the same way as the Tboulet solution for the accurate determina- 
tion of the specific gravity, or the separation of different minerals me- 
chanically mixed. It has the disadvautage that it can not be diluted 
with water, but with benzol, and moreover its specific gravity changes 
rather rapidly with cliange of temperature. A method of obtaining the 
specific gravity of small fragments of a mineral applicable, as the 
Thoulet solution is not, to minerals of specific gravity over 4, or, on the 
other hand, to porous bodies, is described by Joly. It consists briefly in 
determining the specific gravity, as by the Thoulet solution, of a little 
ball of paraffin in which the mineral fragments have been imbedded 
by careful heating; the weight of the paraffin and its specific gravity 
are known by previous observations. Goldschmidt has discussed the 
degree of accuracy attainable in the different methods of obtaining spe- 
cific gravity and thrown some light upon the subject. In one of* his 
papers he shows that the temperature-correction may in all ordinary 
mineralogical work be neglected, since it is considerably less in amount 
than the usual errors of observation. He also urges a point, the impor- 
tance of whicli is too little understood, that the apparent wide variation 
in the specific gravity of a given mineral is in most cases due simply to 
the use of poor material, or to faulty determinations. 

Miigge has made some additions to a subject previously developed 
by him : TLe existence of secondary twinning and the change in position 
of crystalline faces due to it; also the production of a twinning structure 
by pressure, as in bismuth, antimony, and tliopside. This is a method 
of especial interest in the case of diopside, since natural crystals often 
show twinning lamella) parallel to the basal plane, and in consequence 
there is often the distinct parting in this direction which was long called 
the basal cleavage. Judd has followed out a related line of investiga- 
tion in his discussion of what he has called " schillerization," that is, 
the production of the peculiar, nearly' metallic reflection called ''schiller" 
by tbe secondary formation of inclusions in parallel position. He argues 
for the existence of planes of easy solubility ("solution-planes") along 
which chemical action takes place more readily, as in the formation of 
negative crystals. These planes of chemical weakness, he says, have 
with the cleavage planes and gliding-planes (Gleitfliichen) a definite 
relation to the symmetry of the crystal. These solution-planes are 
hence connected with the planes of secondary twinning. 

An interesting series of papers have been given by Kundt and Blasius, 
Mack and Schedtler, on the pyro-electricity of different minerals. The 



454 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

paper of Scbedtler on tourmaline is especially exliaiistive, describing- 
in detail the methods and results of the investigation. A series of 
plates sliow the remarkable distribution of the electrical condition over 
diflereut crystals as exhibited by the arrangement of the red lead and 
sulphur powdered over them, after the method first proposed by Kundt. 
The subject of the specific heat of minerals has been investigated by 
Oberg and by Joly with interesting results. The latter author has 
also attempted to determine the relative fusing points of different min- 
erals by means of an electrical current in connection with an apparatus 
which he calls a meldometer. He proposes some modifications in the 
accepted scale of fusibility (von Kobell's) based upon the results of his 
experiments. 

CHEMICAL MINERALOGY. 

A series of important papers devoted to an investigation of the chem- 
ical composition of some American species has been issued by F. W. 
Clarke. One of these embraces the group of minerals of Litchfield, 
Maine, and more especially the elseolite, cancrinite, and sodalite, with an 
alteration product of the latter called hydronephelite, described on a 
following page. The results of the analytical work on these minerals 
are accompanied by a discussion of their relation to each other, exem- 
l>lified by structural formulae. In a second paper the same author takes 
up the lithia micas, and gives the results of much careful chemical 
work upon them. Analyses are given of the lepidolite from several 
towns in Maine, viz, Eumford, Paris, Hebron, Auburn, and Norway. 
They lead to the generally accepted formula Al2LiKF2Si309, and show 
a variation in water and fluorine, probably to be explained by a replace- 
ment of the latter by hydroxyl. The iron -lithia micas of Cape Ann, 
Massachusetts, including thecryophyllite and lepidomelane (anuite),are 
also investigated and shown to bear an im])ortant relation to each other. 
Still another paper, by the same author, in this case associated with J. 
S. Diller, is devoted to a chemical and microscopical investigation of 
the turquoise of New Mexico. Analyses of three distinct types were 
made: the bright blue slightlj' translucent variety, the pale blue, with 
slight greenish cast, and the dark green opaque kind. These analy- 
ses are compared with others of the Persian and California mineral by 
Church and Moore, respectively, and shown to agree as well as could be 
expected, considering the nature of the material. The composition is 
made out, as expressed by the formula 2Al2'J3. P2O5. 5H2O, with variable 
amounts of a copper salt, 2CuO. P2O5. 4H2O. A detailed description of 
the microscopic appearance of the mineral and of the inclosing rock 
follows. 

Penfield and Harper discuss at length the composition of beryl and 
herderite. The former subject had been earlier studied by Penfield 
(see report for 18S5), with the result of showing that beryl often con- 
tains alkalies to an extent not before imagined, and also water of 
constitution. The true formula of the species was, however, left in 



MINERALOGY. ' 455 

doubt. These latter analyses go to show that pure beryl conforms 
to the commonly accepted formula of the species, except for the water, 
which is uniformly x>resent, corresponding in amount to about one- 
half molecule, and going off only upon very strong ignition. The 
analysis of herderite by the above authors leads to the formula 
CaBe(F,0E[)P04, in which the fluorine is partly replaced by hydroxyl, 
the mineral yielding water when strongly ignited. In another paper 
these authors discuss the composition of the rare octahedral fluoride 
from Greeulaud, called ralstonite. The results go to show that it is a 
hydrous fluoride of aluminium, magnesium, and sodium, with, however, 
the fluorine in part replaced by hydroxyl. It is free from lime, which 
has been found by other analysts, probably because their material was 
slightly impure from the presence of a little thorasenolite. The well- 
known jiseudomorphs of chlorite after garnet from the Lake Superior 
iron region and the sujierficially altered garnets from Salida, Colorado, 
have been investigated by Penfield and Spcrry. 

Doelter has followed out the synthetic line of investigation mentioned 
in the last report and has succeeded in the formation of pyrrhotite. The 
formula obtained on the basis of a new analysis of the Schneeberg 
pyrrhotite, as also of the artificial compound, is FcnSia. The author ex- 
presses himself as opposed to the common idea that the comi)osition is 
variable and regards FeiiSi2 as probably correct; this he separates into 
OFeS+FczSg or K FeS+FeSa. Wheeler has contributed some addi- 
tional facts in regard to the artificial lead silicate in hexagonal jDrisms 
from Missouri, describing the circumstances of its formation. The 
chemical comi)osition of a number of rare minerals, samarskite, gado- 
linite, cerite, and others has attracted attention because of the com- 
plex character of the metallic earths obtained from them. A number 
of new elements have been named, and the spectroscopic investigations 
of Orookes, Boisbaudran, and otlierson the yttrium group have shown 
a complexity which the chemical examination had left unexpected. 
The subject is especially important in connection with what Crookes 
discusses under the "Genesis of the Elements." In the same line is 
the interesting discovery of a new element, Germanium, in the silver 
mineral argyrodite, an element allied to antimony, in some of its prop- 
erties, and corresponding closely to elasilicium in the periodic series of 
Mendelejoff. The jiroperties of this element are summarized in the 
Journ. liir prakt. Chemie, xxxiv, 177. Several contributions have been 
made to the micro-chemical study of minerals, by Haushofer, Streng, 
and Behreus, to which attention is called, though they hardly allow of 
being briefly abstracted here. 

NEW MINERAL OCCUREENCES IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSE- 
WHERE. 

Among the recent announcements of new mineral occurrences may be 
mentioned the rare species percylite from Caracoles, Chili; molybdenite 



456 RECOED OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

iu hexagonal crystals, occasioually of great size (2 inches across) in 
Canada, iu lienfrew County, Ontario ; also large dodecahedral garnets up 
to nearly 10 pounds in weight at Salida, Colorado; fine crystallized 
celestite from Lampasas County, Texas; phenacite from Florissant, 
Colorado. Some of the cases aie alluded to in the preceding pages. An 
interesting and novel occurrence is that of garnet and topaz in litho- 
physes in the rhyolite of ISIathrop, Colorado. The lithophyses are more 
or less spherical cavities, partially tilled by thin curved walls, concentri- 
cally arranged, and ]>roducing rose like forms. These cavities contain 
minute crystals of sanidine, garnets of the spessartite variety, and 
beautiful prismatic crystals of topaz, usually of a pale bluish or wine- 
yellow color. This occurrence of topaz in the rhyolite of Kathrop is 
shown by Cross to be similar to the occurrence of the same mineral at 
Chalk Mountain, Colorado, and of the Thomas range in Utah. 

The well known locality in Sharpe's Township, Alexander County, 
North Carolina, developed by W. E. Hidden, has recently yielded some 
remarkable mineral specimens. Among these are some very fine emer- 
alds, unique iu beauty of color, size, and perfection of form. The largest 
weighed 9 ounces, and was 3 inches long and If in diameter. The 
emeraldiS occurred iu a pocket extending 20 feet vertically, 4 feet in ex- 
treme length, and a foot across. The associated minerals were green 
muscovite, rutile, dolomite, monazite, and quartz. Some large crystals 
of spodumeue (hiddenite) were also found; one of them was 2f inches in 
length, and weighed one-half an ounce; its color was in part of the fine 
emerald color which makes the mineral jirized as a gem. 

NEW MINERALS. 

Argyrodite. — A new ore of silver, exceptionally interesting, as con- 
taining a new element. Germanium. It was found in September, 1885, 
at the Himmelfiirst mine, near Freiberg, Saxony, and has been named 
and described by Weisbach. It occurs in small crystals mostly grouped 
in rounded wart-like or reniform aggregates; also in masses with a flat 
conchoidal fracture. They belong to the monoclinic system, showing a 
prism of 115^, with a clinodome and one prominent hemi-pyramid. The 
axial ratio is a:h: c (vert.) = 0.G78 : 1 : 0.614; also /? = 70° Twins 
and drillings, sometimes in knee-shaped forms, were observed. The 
hardness = 2.5; specific gravity = 6.10. Luster metallic, color steel- 
gray, with a tinge of red, but becoming slightly violet with superficial 
tarnish. The composition has been determined by Winkler, who, after 
at first finding a loss of 8i per cent, in the analysis, succeeded in proving 
The presence of a new element, to which he gave the name Germanium. 
The canalysis, when completed, gave: 

S Go Ag Fe Zu 

17,13 G.93 74.72 0.60 0.22 = 99.60 



MINERALOGY. 457 

The element germonium is allied to arsenic and antimony, and lias an 
atomic weight of 72.3 and a specific gravity of 4.7. The formula of the 
mineral is written 3Ag2S . GeSz . 

Arnimite. — Described by Weisbach as a new hydrous sulphate of cop- 
per. It was found on the porcelain jasper of Planitz, near Zwickau, 
where it has been formed in the course of the burning of a bed of coal. 
It forms a green coating, which, under the microscope, is resolved into 
short needles or scales. Several analyses were made by Winkler, but 
the material was more or less impure, with gypsum, anhydrite, etc. 
Moreover, the assumption was made that the loss of 17 per cent, was 
to be taken as water. It is evident, therefore, that the composition set- 
tled upon is more or less uncertain, namely, CU5S2OU + CH2O. This 
requires : 

SO3 CuO H,0 

24.07 59.69 16.'24 =99.81 

This mineral seems to be most nearly allied to herrengrundite, and 
Weisbach suggests that the latter may be considered a calcium variety 
of arnimite. The name arnimite is given in honor of the von Arnim 
family, who for centuries have owned the Planitz coal works. 

Arscnolamprite. — Named by Hintze as an independent form of metallic 
arsenic. The specimens under examination were from Chili. Tiiey cor- 
responded in characters with the arsenglanz from Marienberg, long since 
described by Breithaupt, and by him also called hypotyphite. Frenzel, in 
1874, examined the Saxon mineral, and arrived at the conclusion that it 
was probably a distinct species. The specific gravit}^ is 5.3 to 5.5, or 
decidedly lower than that of ordinary arsenic (5.7 to 5.8); the hardness 
is also less. The luster is brilliant metallic, the color lead-gray with a 
tinge of blue, the streak black. The structure is foliated with distinct 
cleavage in one direction. An analysis yielded 98 per cent, arsenic, 
with small quantities of iron and silica in addition. 

Brniachite. — A name given by Macadam to a mineral found at Loch 
Bruithaich, Scotland, incrusting barite. It is stated to be clear, beau- 
tifully crystalline, with a tendency to a bluish tinge of color and very 
friable. It was mentioned by A. Wallace in a brief description of the 
Bruithaich locality. An analysis gave: 

F CaO NaaO Fe^Os Si02 

10.01 87.04 1.70 0.59 0.54 = 99.88 

A further examination is needed. 

CaracoJite. — Described by Websky as an osychloride of copper with 
sodium sulphate from Caracoles, Chili. It occurs intimately associated 
with the rare mineral percylite in colorless crystals aggregated in crusts. 
The crystalline form is made out to be orthorhombic, witli pseudohexag- 
onal symmetry due to twinning. It appears in obtuse hexagonal pyra- 
mids, with prism associated. By an examination in jiolarized light the 



458 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR, 1886. 

crystals are shown to be compouud in nature. The axial ratio obtained 
is« : b : c=0.5843 : 1 : 0.4213; theimsmatic angle is llQo 24'. An anal- 
ysis of the best material available yielded uncertain results because of 
the admixture of percylite. A definite composition is obtained only 
alter a series of assumptions, which impair the reliability of the result. 
The caracolite and percylite are taken as present in about the ratio of 
G : 1, and the final formula given for tlie former is PbGlHO+Na2S04, 
whicli demands : 



Pb 


Na 


CI 


S 


H 





51.56 


11.46 


8.84 


7.i)7 


0.25 


19.92 



:100 

In view of the remarkable nature of the compound a further exam- 
ination of purer material is needed. 

Bognaoslmite. — Briefly mentioned by Krenner as a sulphobismuthite 
of copper, occurring at Doguacska, in Hungary. It is massive, with a 
.single perfect cleavage, and becomes gray or brown on exposure to the 
air. An analysis by Maderspach yielded S 15.75, Bi 71.79, Cu 12.2S. It 
is associated with gold, pyrite, chalcocite, and bismite. 

Emmonsite. — A ferric tellurite from the neighborhood of Tombstone, 
Arizona, named by W. F. Ilillebrand after S. F. Emmons, of the U. S. 
Geological Survey. It occurs in translucent crystalline scales of yel- 
lowish-green col r imbedded in a hard brownish gangue, consisting of 
lead carbonate, quartz, and a brown substance containing the hydrated 
oxides of iron and tellurium. The crystallization is regarded as prob- 
ably monoclinic; the specific gravity is about 5. The result of several 
analyses, after impurities had been deducted, gave: 

Te Se Fe B.iO 

58.75 0.53 14.29 nudetenuined. 

The conclusion reached is that the mineral is a ferric tellurite, but 
the formula is doubtful, and it needs further examination, based on purer 
material. A related, but according to Dr. Smith, a distinct species is 
his ferrotellurite. 

Harsiigite. — A new silicate of calcium, aluminium, and manganese, 
from Pajsberg, Sweden, named and described by G. Flink. It occurs 
with garnet ?mu1 rhodonite in small prismatic crystals, having a prismatic 
angle of 109° 11'. The axial ratio is, « : & : c=0.7141 : 1 : 1.01495; the 
habit is something like that of chrysolite. No cleavage was observed. 
The hardness is 5.5, the fracture small eonchoidal or splintery, the spe- 
cific gravity 3.049. It is colorless, with vitreous luster. The optic axial 
plane is parallel to the brachypinacoid, and the axial angle in air is 
90° 27' for yellow light. An analysis yielded: 

:20 NajO H2O 

99.89 



SiOa 


A1203 


C.10 


MnO 


FeO 


MgO 


K2O 


NajO 


H2O 


38.94 


10.61 


29.23 


12.81 


ir. 


3.27 


0.35 


0.71 


3.97 



SiOa 


Al,03 


CaO 


K2O 


Na20 


HjO 


38.90 


33.98 


0.05 


1.01 


13.21 


13.12 



MINERALOGY. 459 

The water goes off only on strong ignition, when the powdered min- 
eral from being white becomes brownisli black. 
The empirical' formula calculated is: 

lU"2Al,Si,aO40 

EydronepheUte. — A zeolitic mineral derived from the alteration of 
sodalite of Lit'jhfield, Maine; it is named and described by Clarke and 
Diller. It is found in seams, yielding specimens 2 centimeters in thick- 
ness. It is white, lusterless, with the fracture of sodalite. Optical ex- 
amination made it probable that it belonged either to the tetragonal or 
hexagonal system. The hardness is 4,5. An analysis yielded : 

100.27 

for which the formula nNa2Al3Si30i:.+3H20 is calculated. The formula 
requires silica 39.29, alumina 33. 4l, soda 13.54, water 13.76. It is allied 
in composition to thomsonite, but contains soda. 

Kainositc (or C^kosite). — Described by A. E. Nordenskiold as a new 
yttrium mineral and named from the Greek [xacMj:;, unusual) in allusion 
to its remarkable composition. The mineral is known thus far only 
from a single fragment of a six sided prism from Igeltjern on Hittero. 
It is said to belong to the orthorhombic or monoclinic system, and 
shows two unequal cleavages at an angle of 90°. or nearly 90°. The 
color is yellow-brown, the hardness 5.5, the specific gravity 3.413, the 
fracture subconchoidal. The mean of two analyses gave: 

20 

:100.10 

The formula given is 2CaO. (¥.03, Er203). 4Si02. CO^. 2H2 J, requir- 
ing SiOi 34.07. Yr^Oa 37.00 (at. wei-ht=200.3), CaO 10.18, CO^ 0.35. IT2O 
5.20. The natural supposition that the carbon dioxide is due to ad- 
mixed calcite is said to.be proved to be untrue bj' microscopic exami- 
nation. 

Kaliojyhilite. — A mineral allied to nephelite described by Mierisch 
as occurring in the masses ejected from Mt. Somma, together with au- 
gite and melilite. It forms thick prisms or fine thread-like colorless 
crystals, probably belonging to the hexagonal system. An optical ex- 
amination showed the mineral to be uniaxial with negative double re- 
fraction. The cleavage is basal, distinct; it is very brittle. The specific 
gravity is 2.602. An analysis yielded : 

Si02 Al20a(Fe.A) CaO Kfi KajO 

37.44 32.43 2.18 27.20 2.2(5=101.51 

This corresponds to the formula KoAl^SioOg, which is analogous to that 
of an anhydrous muscovite, and corresponds to nephelite, anorthite, 
andeucryptite, which contain sodium, calcium, and lithium, resj)ectively, 



SiOa T1WO3 , ErjOs Ce-jOs 


CaO 


MgO 


FlO 


Na:0 


CO2 


II2O 


34.03 37.67 tv. 


15.95 


0.03 


0.26 


0.40 


5.90 


5.20 



460 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

in the place of the potassium. Tlie name has reference to the high 
percentage of the last-named element. 

Lucasite. — Another member of the large group of hydrated micas called 
vermiculites. It is described by T. M. Chatard, and named after Dr. 
H. S. Lucas, who has been connected with the emery industry of this 
country. It was found with corundum at Corundum Hill, Macon County, 
ISorth Carolina. The physical characters are like the others of the 
group. Of the 10.76 per cent, of water contained, 3.78 went off at 1 W^ 
C, and COS at a red heat (blast lamp). An analysis (mean of two) of the 
substance, dried at 1 10°, gave : 



Si02 


AI2O3 


re203 


CijOs 


FeO 


MiiO 


CaO 


M,20 


K2O 


NaaO 


H20 


41.17 


13.43 


5.47 


0.56 


O.ll 


0.05 


0.14 


25.68 


5.96 


0.21 


7.22 = 100 



The ratio of silica to bases to water is 7 : G : 2. 

Mursinslcite. — Karaed after the locality by Kokscharow on the basis of 
a crystallographic study of two small crystals found thirty-two years 
ago at the beryl locality at Alabaschka, near Mursinsk, Ural. It lias 
not been possible since their discovery to obtain additional material. 
The crystals occurred imbedded in the beryl. Tbey belong to the tetrag- 
onal system and show one pyramid prominently', with two subordinate 
of the other series, and several zirconoids. The terminal and basal 
angles of the fundamental pyramid are respectively 127° 32' and 77° 
23^', corresponding with a vertical axis, c=0.5GG4l. The color is white 
to honey-yellow, transparent to semi-transparent. Hardness = 5 to 0, 
specific gravity uncertain, though a trial on the crystal weighing .01 
gram gave P. v. Nikoiajew 4.149. Nothing is known of the chemical 
composition. Kokscharow calls attention to the fact that the pyramidal 
angle corresponds nearly with the pyramid I^Px) of vesuvianite, but 
there appears to be no further relation between the species. 

Ftilolite. — A new zeolitic mineral described by Cross and Eakins. The 
name is from tztlXuv, down, in allusion to the delicate fibrous nature of the 
mineral. It is found in cavities of a vesicular augite andesite, found in 
fragments in the conglomerate beds of Green and Table Mountains, 
Jefferson County, Colorado. These cavities are in some cases filled with 
chalcedony and quartz, or sometimes only lined with chalcedony, and 
upon this is deposited the ptilolite in delicate white tufts or spongy 
masses, consisting of short hair-like needles loosely aggregated. They 
appear to have i)arallel extinction. An analysis by Eakins gave : 

SiOj AI2O3 CaO K2O NaiO H^O 

70.35 11.90 3.87 2.83 0.77 10.18 = 99.90 

This corresponds to the formula EA]2Siio024+oH20 or EO . AI2O3. 10 
Si02+51l20, requiring, when E=Ca : K : Na= 

Si02 AI2O3 CaO K2O Na20 H2O 

69.86 11.87 4.04 2.95 0.80 10.48 = 100 

The mineral is remarkable for its high percentage of silica. 



MINERALOGY. 461 

Pi/rrhoarsenite. — A new arseuiate of maug^anese described by Igelstrom, 
and related to numerous bydrated ar^eniates of manganese, several of 
Avliich (polyarsenite, xantboarsenite, cboudroarsenite) bave been named 
by tbe same author. It occurs at tbo Sjo mines in tbe Grytbyttan 
parisb, Sweden, forming small veins and masses witb tepbroite, calcite, 
bausmauuite, barite. It sbows one cleavage, but bas not yet been found 
in crystals. Optically it is singly refracting for tbe most part, witb oc- 
casional anisotropic portions. Tbe bardness is 4. Tbe color is a yel- 
lowisb red (bence tbe name from r.uf^no::, fire^ i. e., fire-red), resembling 
l)otassiuin dicbromate. It dissolves readily in bydrocbioric and nitric 
acids. An analysis yielded : 

AsiOstSbzOi) MnO CaO MgO Si02 AbOs, FeO 

58.06 17.96 18.68 3.58 iguitiou 0.b5 1.02, tr. =100.15 

Tbe formula given is 3(M:n, Ca, Mg)0. As2(Sb2)05. 

Schungite. — A name given (1884) by A. von Inostranzeff to a form of 
amorpbous carbon found in tbe crystalline scbists of Scbunga, in tbe 
Olenetzer government, Russia. It is tbe same substance tbat was 
named grapbitoid by Sauer, as noted in tbe report for 18S5. 

Stnvenite. — A new alum occurring witb otber related minerals at 
tbe abandoned mine of Alcaparroso, near Copiapo, Chili, described by 
Diirapsky. It occurs in slender acicular crystals 2 or 3 incbes in leugtb. 
An analysis yielded (mean of two): 

SO3 AI2O3 MgO NaaO K2O H2O 
36.1 11.6 1.0 2.7 tr. 47.6 

corresponding to (Xaa, Mg')S04+Al2S30i2+24H20. Tbe name is given 
after tbe mining engineer, Enrique Stiiven. 

BRIEF REFERENCES TO PAPERS UPON MINERAL SPECIES, 1886.* 

Agalmatolite. RossUire, Scotland, analysis, Macadam, Min. Mag., vii, 74. 

Scotland, composition discussed, Bell, Min. Mag., vii, 24. 
ALHiiRTiTE. Scotland, occurrence, Honeymaun, Min. Mag., vii, 77. 
Aluo'E. Kasbeii, Caucasus, crystallographic, optical, and chemical investigation, 
Schuster, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 373. 
Stanislaus mine, Calaveras County, California, crystals described, A. W. Jackson, 

Proc. Cal. Acad. Sc, No. 4, p. 368. 
Norway, optical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 131. 
Litchfield, Maine, analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. S'",., xxxi, 268. 
Andreasberg, var. s'^^/atW/e examined, Kreuuer, analysis by Loczka, Zs. Kr., xi, 25'J. 
Allactite. Laugbau, Sweden, occurrence, A. Sjogren, Geol. For. Fiirh., viii, 473. 
Allanite. Var. orthite, containing a supposed new element, austrium, E. Linnc- 
mann, C. R., June 21, vol. ci. 
Devil's Head Mountain, Douglas County, Colorado, analysis, L. G. Eakins, Proo. 
Col. Sc. Soc, II, 32. 
Alstonite. See Bp.omlite. 

Alu.m. Occurrence and composition of Chilian varieties, Darapsky, Verb. wiss. Ver. 
Santiago, 3, 105 e^ seg. 

* A few papers belonging to 1885, but omitted in the last report, are included here. 



462 R2C0RD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

AiWPHlBOLE. Mout Dore, crystals described, Oebbeke, Zs. Kr., xi, 368, 

Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, variety containing manganese and zinc, Kloos, 
Jb. Miu., I, 211. 
Anhydrite. Influence of pressure on formation, G. Spezia, Ace. Soc. Torino, xxi, 

June 20. 
Analcite. Transylvania, analyses, Medgyesy, Zs. Kr., xi, 2G3. 
Andalusite. Yav.chiastolite, microscopic and chemical investigation, Miiller, Inaug.- 

Diss., Berlin, 188G. 
Andesine. Sardinia, crystals described, vom Rath, Ver. nat. Cassel, Festschrift. 
Anglesite. Portugal, crystals described, R. H. Solly, Min. Mag., vii, 61. 
Monte Poni, indices of refraction measured, Ramsay, Zs. Kr., xii, 217. 
Annite. Cape Ann, Massachusetts, analysis (Riggs), and discussion of composition, 

F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 359. 
AxTiiOPHYLLiTR. Scotland, optical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 7. 
Aniiiracite. Discussion of classification and composition, C. A. Ashburner, Amer. 

Inst. Miu. Engineers. 
Antimony. Twinning structure developed by pressure, Miigge, Jb. Min., i, 183. 
Apatite. Nordmark, Sweden, crystals described, G. Fliuk, Bihang Vet. Akad. Handl., 
xir, 2, 42. 
Experiments on elasticity, Vater, Zs. Kr., xi, 581. 
Mode of occurrence m Canada, Bell, Proc. Can. Inst. [3], in, 294. 
Var. francolifp, St. Just, Cornwall, occurrence, R. H. Solly, Min. Mag., vii, 57. 

Analysis, Robinson, id., 59. 
Var. mantjanapatite from Vestana, composition discussed, Weibull, Geol. For. 
Forh., VIII, 492. 
Apiirosiderite. Lake Suiierior and Salida, Colorado, pseudomorph after garnet, S. 

L. Penlield and F. L. Sperry, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 307. 
Aragonite. Hungary, crystals described, A. Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xii. 107. 
Etching figures, Ebner, Ber, Ak. Wien, xci, 760, 1885. 
Altered to calcite, Bauer, Jb. Min., i, 62. 
Argyrodite. Freiberg, new mineral described, Weisbach, Jb. Berg- Iliitt., and Jb. 

Min., II, 67. 
Arksutite. Ivigtut, Greenland, composition, etc., Nordenskiuld, Geol. For. Forh., 

VIII, 172. 
Arnimite. Plauitz, now mineral described, Weisbach, Jb. Berg- Hiitt. 1886. 
Arsenic. Cliili, the form arsenolamprite, Hintze, Zs. Kr., xi, 606. 

ValTelliua, occurrence described, Bizarri and Campani, Zs. Kr., xii, 194. 
Arsexiosiderite. Romanciche, optical properties, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 3. 
Arsenolamprite. Chili, a modified form of metallic arsenic, Hintze, Zs. Kr., xi, 606, 
Arsenopyrite. Hungary, crj^stals described, A. Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xii, 1 2, 115, 116, 

Analysis, Loczka, Zs. Kr., xi, 268. 
AxiNiTE. Belstone, Devon, England, crystals described, Solly, Min. Mag., vi, 203. 
AzoRiTE. St. Miguel, possible identity with zircon, Hubbard, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, 

June 7. 
AzoRPYRRiriTE. Possible occurrence in lava of Laacher See, Germany, Hubbard, Box. 

nied. Ges. Bonn, June 7. 
AzuRiTE. Diana mine. Mono County, California, crystals described, A. W. Jackson, 

Proc. Cal. Acad. Sc, No. 4, p. 371. 
Barite. Hungary, crystals described, A. Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xii, 105, 111, 

Vernasca, crystals described, Sansoui, Mem. Accad. Bologna [4], vi; and Zs. Kr., 

XI, 355. 
Caprillone, crystals described and analysis, Busatti, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 191. 
Addiewell, Midlothian, crystals described, with catalogue of planes, Trechmann, 

Min. Mag., vii, 49. 
Transylvania, occurrence, Benko, Zs. Kr., xi, 263. 



MINERALOGY. 463 

Barytocalcite. Composition discussed and relation to alstouite (bronilite), with 

analysis, Becker, Zs. Kr. , xii, 222. 
Bastonite. Libi'amont, Belgium, analysis, Klemeut, Min. petr. Mittb., viii, 21. 
Beryl. Alexander County, North Carolina, crystals described, vom Rath, Ber. nied. 
Ges. Bonn, Feb. 8; July 7. Occurrence of tine emeralds, W.E. Hidden, Am. J. 
Sc, XXXII, 483. 
Determination of the constants of elasticity, Voigt, Festschrift, Gottingen. 
Experiments on elasticity, Vater, Zs. Kr., xi, 582. 
Glencullcu, Ireland, composition and general description Joly, Scientif. Proc. Roy. 

Dublin Soc, v, 49. 
Ifinger, Tyrol, occurrence, Schuster, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 455. Analysis, Pri- 
bram, id., VIII, 190. 
Stoneham, Maine, analysis and discussion of composition, S. L. Penfield and D. 
N. Harper, Am. J. Sc, xxxil, 110. Crystals described, W. E. Hidden, id., xxxil, 
209. 
Madagascar, analysis, Damour, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 153. 
Bei:zelhte. Langban, Svreden, crystals described and analysis, G. Flink, Bihang 

Vet. Akad. Handl., xii, 2, 27. 
Bismuth. Twinning structure developed by pressure, Miigge, Jb. Min., i, 183. 
BiOTiTE. Lake Superior, analysis, E. Claasseu, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 244. 

In nodular segregations in granit ■ of Craftsbury, Vermont, Calvin, Proc. Acad. 
Nat. Sc, Philad., 19. 
Bloedite. Leopoldshall, crystals described, Luedecke, Zs. ges. Nat., lix, 157. 
BoTRYOGEX. Fahlun, study of form and composition, Hockauf, Zs. Kr., xii, 240. 
BoTRYOLiTE. Arendal, optical properties, Lacroix, Bull. Soc Miu., viii, 433, 1885. 
BouKNONiTE. Nagyag, analysis, Six^ocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 218. 

Bka UNITE. Jakobsberg, Sweden, crystals referred to the tetartohedral-rhombohedral 
system, Schuster, Min. petr. Mitth., vii, 443. Occurrence and description, 
Igelstrom, Bull. Soc. Min., viil, 421, 1885. 
Windgiille, Switzerland, crystallographic note, Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xi, 603. 
Breitiiauptite. Artificial crystals analyzed. Brand, Zs. Kr., xii 234. 
Brewsterlixite. In topaz, Nordenskiold, Jb. Min., i, 242. 
Bromlite. Composition and relation to barytocalcite discussed, with analysis, 

Becker, Zs. Kr., xii, 222. 
Brookite. Magnet Cove, Arkansas, crystalline form described, S. L. Penfield, Am. 

J. Sc, xxxi, 387 ; E. S. Dana, id., xxxii, 314. 
BruiaciiITE. Loch Bruithaich, analysis. Macadam, Min. Mag., vii, 42. 
Calamixe. Altenberg, crystal described, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Miu., ix, 242. 
Calcite. Blaton, Belgium, crystals described, Sausoni, Bull. Acad. Roy. Bclg. [3]. 
IX, and Zs. Kr., xi, 352. 
Belgium, description of crystals, Cesaro, Ann. Soc. Belg., Mem., xiii, 14; Roy. 

Acad. Belg., M^moires couronn6es, xxxviii. 
Andreasberg, crystals described, Thiirliug, Jb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 327. 
Kotterbach, Hungary, crystals examined, A. Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xii, 109. 
Rbombohedral cleavage discussed,*Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 281. 
Var. Iceland S2)ar, reflection of light as affected by polish of surface. Spurge, 
Proc. Roy. Soc, London, xli, 463. Polarization of light reflected from surface 
of crystals, Conroy, Proc. Roy. Soc, London, XL, 173. 
Couzon, Rhone, phenomena of corrosion, Gonuard, C. R., Jan. 31. 
Experiments on elasticity, Vater, Zs. Kr., xi, 577. 
Etching figures, Ebner, Ber. Ak. Wien, xci, 760, 1885. 
Pseudomorphs after aragonite, described, Bauer, Jb. Min., 1886, i, 62. 
Caledonite. Sardinia, occurrence at the Malacalzetta mine, Lovisato, Att. Accad. 

Line [4], 11,257. Crystals described, vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn. Feb. 8. 
Cancrinite. Litchfield, Maine, analyses, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 263. 



464 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Caracolite. Caracoles, Peru, new mineral described, Websky, Ber. Ak. Berlin, 

1045. 
Carpiiosiderite. Optical properties, Lacroix, C. R., cm, 1037. 
Cassiterite. Group of crystals described, Cesaro, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 220. 
Celestite. Liiueburg, crystallograpbic description, study of vicinal planes, Hintzo, 

Zs. Kr.,xi,220. 
Study of crystalline elements, Biirwald, Zs. Kr., xii,228. 
Transylvania, crystals described, Benko, Zs. Kr., xi, 263. 
Cerite. Containing rare elements, Crookes, Chem. News, Liv, 21, 40, etc. 
Chamoisite. Windgiille, Switzerland, in an iron-oolite, Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xi, r)9[). 
Chlorite. Bottino, analyses, Busatti, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 194. 
Chloritoid. Optical examination, showing relation to ottrelite and other similar 

minerals, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 42. 
CiiONDRODiTE. Relation between humite, chondrodite, and clinohumite, Michel-L<5vy 

and Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 81 ; Mallard, id., 84. 
Chrysocolla. California, analysis, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 211. 
CiMOLiTE. Norway, Maine, analysis, Riggs, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 355. 
Cobaltite. Nordmark, Sweden, analysis, G. Fliiik, Bihaug Svensk. Vet. Akad. 

Handl., xil, 2, p. 5. 
CoLEMAN'iTE. Death Valley, California, crystals described, A. Wendell Jackson, 

Cal. Acad. Sc, No. 4, p. 358. 
CoLU.HBiTE. Staudish, Maine, crystallographic description, with accurate measnre- 

meuts, E. S. Dana, Zs. Kryst., xii, 266 ; abstract in Am. J. Sc. ,xxxii, 386. 
Craveggia, Val Vigezzo, examination of an accompanying mineral, Piccini, Att. 

Accad. Line. ['4], ii. 46. 
Turkey Creek, Jefl'erson County, Colorado, analysis, W. P. Headden, Proc. Col. Sc. 

Soc, 11,31. 
Copper. Lake Superior, crystallographic monograph, E. S. Dana, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 

413. 
Artificial crystals described, W. G. Brown,' Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 377. 

CORDIERITE. (See lOLITE.) 

Corundum. Crystallographic observations, Doelter, Jb., Min. i, 146. 

Star sapphire from Mercrediere, Baret, Bull. Soc. Min., viii, 438; Lacroix, 440, 1835. 
Artificial rubies described, Jannettaz, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 321. 

COSALITE. Var. hjelkitc, Nordmark, Sweden, crystals described, G. Flink, Bihang Vet. 
Akad. Handl., xii,2, p. 6. 

Cronstedtite. Kuttenberg, crystals described, Vrba, with analysis by Preis and 
Rosam, Ber. bohni. Ges., Jan. 15. 

Cryopuyllite. Cape Ann, Massachusetts, analyses (Riggs) and discussion of com- 
position, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 358. 

Damourite. Hebron, Maine, analysis, T. M. Chatard, Am. J. Sc, xxxix, 354. 

Datolite. Casarza, Liguria, crystals described, Luedecke, Zs. ges. Nat., LViii, 276. 
Scrra dei Zanchotti, occurrence and crystals described, Bombicci, Accad. Sc. 
Bologna, January 24 (read). 

Davreuxite. Ottr^, Belgium, optical characters, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 7. 

Descloizite. Shown to be orthorhombic iu crystallization, Des Cloizeaux, Zs. Kr., 
XII, 178; Bulk Soc Min., ix, 138, 190. 

D1A.MOND. Salobro, Brazil, occurrence described, Chatrian, Bull. Soc. Miu., ix, 302. 
Discussion as to origin, H. C. Lewis,* Science, viii, 345 ; J. S. Diller, id., 392. 

DiASPORE. Newlin, Pennsylvania, and Chester, Massachusetts, crystallographic de- 
scription, E. S. Dana, Am. J. Sc.,xxxii, 388. 

DoGNACSKAiTK. New mineral from DognacsUa, Krenner, Zs. Kr., xi, 265. 

Dreelite. Identical with barite, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., viil, 435', 1885. 

DUERENiTE. Cornwail, description of a related mineral, Kiuchaud Miers, Min. Mag., 
VII, 65. 



MINERALOGY, 465 

ELjEOLITE. Litchfield, Maiue, analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 262. 
Embolite. Discussion of coiupositioD, C. Welcb, Cbem. News, liy, 94, 162. 
Emerald. See Beryl. 
EiMMONSiTE. Tombstone, Arizona, a new ferric tellurite, W. F. Hillebrand, Proc Col. 

Sc.Soc.,ii, 20, 1885. 
Emplectite. Kezbanya, occurrence, Kreuncr, and analysis by Loczka, Zs. Kr., xi, 

26.5. 
Epidote. Nordmark, Sweden, crystals described, G. Fliuk, Biliang Vet. Akad. Handl., 

XII, 2, p. 46. 
EucLASE. Crystals from tlie Alps, described, Kocblin, Ann. Mus. Wieu, i, 237. 
EuDiALYTE. Discussion of chemical compositiou, Eammelsberg, Ber. Ak. Berlin, 1886, 

441 ; Zs. Geol. Ges., xxviii, 507. 
Fayalite. Analysis of an artilicial variety, E. Claassen, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 405. 
Feldspar. Association of the different tricliuic species in rocks, Breon, C. K.,ciii, 170. 
In microscopic crystals in the Jurrassic limestonesof the Alps, Lory, C. R., cm, 309. 
Microcliue and perthite structure investigated, Lehmanu, Schles. Ges. Nat., Cultur, 

LXiii, 92. 
A^ee Albite, Andesixe, Microcline, Ortiioclase. 
Fliiorite. Hungary, occurrence, etc., Szab6, Zs. Kr., xi, 267. 
Fluocerite. Osterby, Sweden, analyses and discussion of composition, Weibull, 

Geol. For. Forh., viii, 496. 
FoRSTKRiTE. Baccauo, crystallographic note, Striiver, Rend. Accad. Line, [4], il. 
Gadolinite. Spectroscopic examination of rare elements, Crookes, Proc. Roy. Soc, 
London, xli, 502. 
Devil's Head Mountain, Douglas County, Colorado, analysis, Eakins, Proc. Colo, 

Sc. Soc, II, 32. 
Ytterby, discussion of the earths contained, Nordenskiold, Geol. For. Forh., 
VIII, 442. 
Galena. Twinning structure developed by pressure, Miigge, Jb. Min., i, 191. 
Garnet. Tiriolo, Calabria, crystals with 5-^ (541), E. Scacchi, Att. Accad. Line [4], 
II, 182. 
Nathrop, Colorado, var. spessartite from lithophysos in rhyolite, occurrence, W, 

Cross, analysis by L. G. Eakins, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 432. 
Ourt, Belgium, analysis, Klement, Min. petr. Mitth., viii, 18, 
Csiklova, analysis, Loczka, Zs, Kr., xi, 261. 

Lake Superior and Salida, Colorado, pseudomorphous crystals examined chem- 
ically, S. L. Penfield and F. L. Sperry, Am. ,J. Sc, xxxii, 307. 
Canzocoli, occuTence described, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., xii, 35. 
Breslau, occurrence of large crystals, Roemer, Zs. Geol. Ges., xxviii, 723. 
Gersdorffite. Hungary, analyses of related minerals, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 213,214, 
Glauconite. Nature and method of formation, Giimbel, Ber. Ak. Miinchen, 417. 
Glaucophane. Occurrence at different localities, Oebbeke, Zs. Kr., xii, 282; Zs, 
Geol. Gea., xxviii, 634. 
Japan, occurrence in rocks, B. Koto, Journ. Coll. Science, University, Tokyo. 
Gold. California and Oregon, complex crystalline forms described, E. S, Dana, Am, 
J, Sc, xxxii, 132; also Zs. Kr., xii, 275. 
Vorospatak, analysis, Loczka, Zs, Kr., xi, 261, 

Sand with garnet (demantoid), Hamadan, Media, Gehmacher, Ann. Mus. Wien, 
I, 233. 
Goslarite. Butte City, Montana, occurrence, Pearce, and analysis, Hillebrand, 

Proc. Col. Sc. Soc, II, 12. 
Grijnerite. Coliobrieres, optical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc Min., ix, 40. 
Gypsum. Crystallographic monograph, Des Cloizeaux, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 175. 

Is. Giglio, crystals described, Busatti, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 198. 
Halite. Occurrence in the United States, G. F. Kuuz, Proc. Amer. Assoc, Adv. Sc, 
229, 

H. Mis, 600 30 



466 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Harmotome. Crystallograpliic and cliemical relations discussed, Langeraann, Jb. 

Min., II, 83. 
Hakstigite. Pajsberg, Sweden, a new mineral described, G. Flink, Bihang Vet. 

Akad. Haudl., xii, 2, 59. Indices of refraction measured, Ramsav, Zs. Kr., xii, 

220. 
Hematite. Elba, twin crystals, Busatti, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 193. 
Twinning structure of secondary origin, Miigge, Jb. Min., ii, 35. 
Sardinia, altered to magnetite, Striiver, Att. Accad. Line. [4], ii, 331. 
Herderite. Stonehani, Maine, refractive indices measured Des Cloizeaux, Bull. Soc. 

Min., IX, 141 ; crystal described, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc, xxxii,209; analysis 

and discussion of composition, S. L. Penfield and D. N. Harper, id, xxxii, 107. 
Herrexgrundite. Composition discussed, Weisbacb, Jb. Berg- HiLtt. 

HUMITE. See CnCNDHODITE. 

Hydroxephelite. Litchfield, Maine, analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 265. 
Hydkotephkoite. Langban, Sweden, optical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., 

IX, 6. 
Hypersthexe. Hungary, crystals examined, A. Scbniidt, Zs. Kr., xii, 97. 

Mont Dore, crystals described, Oebbeke, Zs. Kr., xi, 367, 373. 
Ice. Observations on the crystalline form compared, Kcnugott, Jb. Min., 1886, ii,184. 
Ilmexite. ^ee Mexaccanite. 
lOLiTE. Glencullen, Ireland, in minute crystals in feldspar, Joly, Scientif. Proc. Roy, 

Dublin Soc, V, 65. 
Tuscany, altered crystals described and analyzed, E. Scacchi, Att. Accad. Line 

[4], II, 183. 
Iron. Crystalline structure of meteoric iron, O. W.Huntington, Proc. Amer. Acad., 

May 12, p. 478, and Amer. Journ. Sc, xxxii, 284. 
IQ.IXOSITE. Hittero, new yttrium mineral, Nordenskiold, Geol. FiJr. F6rh., viii, 143, 
KALioPniDiTE. Monte Somma, a potash nephelite, Micrisch, Min. petr. Mitih., Yiii, 

159. 
Kaolixite. Analysis of Chiua clay, Macadam, Min. Mag., vii, 76. 
KoppiTE. Kaiserstuhl, analysis, Bailey, J. Ch. Soc, March, 153. 
Krenxerite. Nagytig, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 210. 
LiEVRiTE. Thyrill, Iceland, crystals described, G. Fliuk, Bihang Vet. Akad. Handl., 

XII, 2, p. 44. 
Lantiianite. Crystallographic investigation of a related artificial lanthanum car- 
bonate, Morton, (Efv. Ak. Stockh., XLii, 6, 192, 1885. 
Laumoxtite. Transylvania, analysis, Medgyesy, Zs. Kr., xi, 264. 
Lead silicate. Bonne Terre, Missouri, artificial, H. A. Wheeler, Am. J. Sc,xxxii, 

272. 
Lepidolite. Schiittenhofeu, Bohemia, twinning structure investigated, Schaiizer, 

Zs. Kr., XII, 1. 
Maine, analj'ses (Kiggs) and discussion of composition, F.W.Clarke, Am. J. 8c. , 

XXXII, 356. 
Lepidomelaxe. Litchfield, Maine, analysis, F. W. Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 268. 
LiLLiTE. Theissholz, Hungary, shown to be a mineral mixture, Krenner, Zs. Kr., xi, 

265. 
LiMOXiTE. Beloit, Wisconsin, psendomorph after pyrite, E. G. Smith, Am. J. Sc, 

XXXI, 376; Lexington, Virginia, iiseudomorphs, J. G. Meem, id., xxxii, 274. 
Analyses, AVelch, Chem. News, Liii, 65. 

Rossshire, Scotland, occurrence, Macadam, Min. Mag., vii, 72. 
LoLUNGiTE. Andreasberg, analysis, Loczka, Zs. Kr.,xi, 261. 
LUCASITE. Macon County, North Carolina, a new vcrmiculite, T. M. Chatard, Am. J. 

Sc, XXXII, 375. 
Magxesite. Juan Fernandez, composition of the '' Glockenstein," Darapsky, Verb, 

■wiss, Ver. Santiago, 3, 113. 



MINEKALOGY. 467 

Magnetite. Nordmark, Sweden, crystals describe;!, G. Fliuk, Bihaug Vet. Akad. 

Handl., Xli, 2, 14; manganomagmtitc, id., 2^. 
Cr^'stals described with 43:^ (2-^) and 11.9.7 (V— \j^) andotlier planes, Sclieibe, Zs. 

G. Ges., XXXVIII, 4G9. 
Fiirtsclilagl, iuvestigatioa of twinaiug striations, Catbreiu, Zs. Kr., xii, 47. 
Zerinatt, polar maguetic properties, Hornstein, Jb. Min., i, 253, 
Scalotta, analysis, Cathreiu, Zs. Kr., xii, 37. 

Greiuer, Zillerthal, association with menaccanite, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., xii, 40. 
Sardinia, pseiulomorph after micaceous hematite, Striiver, Att. Acad. Line. [4], 

11, 331. 

Manganite. Oberstein, crystals described, Brauns, Jb. Min., i, 252. 

Manganomagxetite. See Magnetite. 

Makekanite. a volcanic glass (not a mineral sjiecies) in a condition of strain, allied 

to Rupert's Drops, Judd, Geol. Mag. [3], iii, 241. 
Menaccanite. Belgium, analysis, Klement, Min. petr. Mitth., viii, 12. 

Greiuer, Zillerthal, associated with magnetite, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., xii, 40. 
Mica. Rheinwaldhoru, Switzerland, analysis, Wiiliing, Ber. chem. Ges., xix, 2433. 
MiCROCLiNE. Meran, Tyrol, analysis (Schwager) and occurrence, Oebbeko, Zs. Kr., 

XI, 256. 
MiCROLiTE. Amelia County, Virginia, crystal described, Feist, Zs. Kr., xi, 255. 
MiCROSOMMlTE. Monte Somma, analysis, Mierisch, Min. petr. Mitth., viii, 161. 
Milarite. Optical examination, Ramsay, Oilfv. Vet. Stockh., XLii, 9, 29, 1885. 
Mimetite. Durango, Mexico, pseudomorphous crystals, vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. 

Bonn, Jan. 11. 
MoNAZiTE. Alexander County, North Carolina, twin crystals described, W. E. Hid- 
den, Am. J. Sc, XXXII, 207; vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, Feb. 8. 
Schiittenhofen, Bohemia, description of crystals, Scharizer, Zs. Kr., xii, 255. 
Molybdenite. Renfrew, Canada, crystals described, W. E. Hidden, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 

210. 
MoNiMOLiTE. Pajsberg, Sweden, crystals described and analysis, G. Flink, Bihang 

Vet. Akad. Handl., xii, 2, 35. 
MUKSINSKITE. Mursinsk, Ural, new mineral, Kokscharow, Min. Russland, ix, 341. 
Muscovite. Auburn, Maine, analysis, Riggs, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 356. 

Leon County, Texas, analysis of an altered variety approximating to vermiculite, 

Leighton, Proc Amer. Acad., xxii, 158, or Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 317. 
Meran, Tyrol, analysis (Schwager) and occurrence, Oebbeke, Zs. Kr., xi, 257. 
Nagyagite. Nagyiig, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 211. 
NiccoLiTE. Dobsina, Hungary, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 215. 
OcTAHEDRiTE. Biuncuthal, crystals described, G. Seligmann, Zs. Kr.,xi, 337. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico, occurrence described, A. E. Foote, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

Philad.,278, 1885-'86. 
Ortiioclase. Elba, description of crystals with new planes, Des Cloizeaux, Zs. Kr., 
XI, 605. 
Kilima-njaro, and Switzerland, crystals described, Miers, Min. Mag., vii, 10. 
Mulat, crystals described, Cathrein, Zs. Kr., xii, 35. 
Kraflite, from Krafla, Iceland, analyses, G. Fliuk, Bihaug Vet. Akad. Handl., xii, 

12, 64. 

Ottrelite. Bastogne, Belgium, analysis, Klement, Min. petr. Mitth., viii, 19. 
Oxalate of soda and ammonia from Peru, Lacroix, Bull. Soc Min., ix, 51. 
Ozocerite. Sobiesky mine, occurrence, Rihiier, Schles. Ges. f. vat. Cultur, lxiii, 

119. 
Pectolite. Chemical investigation, Doelter, Jb. Min., i, 12(!. 

Percylite. Carocoles, Peru, occurrence described, Websky, Ber. Ak. Berlin, 1045. 
Pharmacosiderite. Sandberg, Hungary, occurrence described, Sz'ibo, Zs. Kr., xi, 

5J66, 



468 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Phenacite. Floiissant, Colorado, crystals described, A. Des Cloizeaux, Am. J. Sc, 
XXXII, 210; Bull. Soc. Miu.,ix, 171. 
From the Alps, Seligmaun, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, May 11, 1835, Oct. 3, 1886. 
Phillipsite. Crystallograpliic and chemical relations discussed, Langemann, Jb. 

Min., II, 110. 
Phosgenite. Sardinia, occurrence at Monteponi, Lovisato, Att. Accad. Line. [4], ii, 

254. 
Finite. ^S'ee Agalmatolite. 

Planerite. Ural, optical characters, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 5. 
Plattnerite. Leadhills, analysis (PbOj), and shown to be a good species, E. Kiuch, 

Min. Mag., vii, 63. 
POLYARSEXITE. Relation to hematostibiite, Igelstrom, Geol. For. Forh., viii, 179. 
PsEUDOBROOKiTE. Mout Dore, crystals described, Oebbeke, Zs. Kr., xi, 370. 
Ptilolite. Jefi'erson County, Colorado, a new zeolite, W. Cross and L. G. Eakins, 

Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 117. 
Pyrargyrite. Audreasberg, twin crystals with hemimorphic development, and dis- 
cussion of twinning in general, Schuster, Zs, Kr., xii, 117 ; Verb, G. Reichs., 70. 
Pyrite. Brosso, Piedmont, crystals described, Bruguatelli, Att. Accad. Torino, 1885, 
20. 
Baltimore County, Maryland, complex crystal (changed to limonite) described, 

G. H. Williams, Johns Hopkins Univ. Circular, Lii. 
California, crystals described, A. W. Jackson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sc, No. 4, 365, 370. 
Pyrochroite. Nordmark, Sweden, crystals described, G. Fliuk, Bihang Vet. Akad. 

Handl., xii, 2, 12. 
Pyrostilpnite. Chemical examination, Streng, Jb. Min., i, 57, 

Pyroxexe. Nordmark, Sweden, crystallographic monograph, G. Flink, Zs. Kr., xi, 
449. 
A^ar. diopside from Val d' Ala, crystallographic monograph, G. La Valle, Accad. 
Line, Mem. [4], iii, June 6. 
Ala and Reichenstein, description of crystals with summary of all planes ob- 
served, with authoiities, etc., Gotz, Zs. Kr., xi, 236. 
Crystals from De Kalb, New York, described, vom Rath, Ber. iiicd. Ges. Bonn, 
July 7. 
Kremnitz, Hungary, crystals of grass-green color described, A. Schmidt, Zs. Kr., 

xii, 100, 
Twin crystals in quartz trachyte, A. D'Achiardi, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 40. 
Tyrol, crystals described with analysis, v. Zepharovich, Lotos, 1885. 
Twinning structure developed by pressure, Miigge, Jb. Min., i, 185. 
Var. augite, Dognacska, analysis, Loczka, Zs. Kr., xi, 262. 
Pyrriioarsenite. Grythyttan, Sweden, new mineral described, Igelstrom, Bull. 

Soc. Min., IX, 218, 
Pykuiiotite. Cyclopean Islands, crystals described, Seligmann, Zs. Kr., xi, 343. 
Artificial formation, with discussion of chemical composition, Doelter, Min. petr. 
Mitth., VII, 535. 
Quartz. Alexander County, North Carolina, description of crystals, vom Rath, Yer^ 
Nat. Cassel, Festschrift. Crystals with the basal plane, W. E. Hidden and A. Des 
Cloizeaux, Am. J.Sc, xxxii, 208. 
Impression-forms resembling pseudomorphs, W. E. Hidden, School of Mines 

Quart., VII, 334. 
Is. Giglio, crystals described, Busatti, Att. Soc. Tosc, vii, 196. 
Determination of the constants of elasticity for rock crystal, Voigt, Festschrifr, 

Gcittingen. 
Decoloration of agate exposed to the sun's rays, Dutremblay du May, Bull. Soc, 

Min., IX, 216. 
St-C16ment, pleromorphs, Gonnard, C. R., cm, 1036. 



MINERALOGY. 469 

Ealstonite. Greeuland, analysis and discussion of composition, S. L. Penfield and 

D. N. Harper, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 380. 
EiiODOXiTE. Pajsberg and Laugban, Sweden, crystallograpbic monograpb, G. Fliuk, 

Zs. Kr., XI, 506. 
RiCHELLiTE. Produced artificially, Cesaro, Ann. Soc. Geol. Belg., Mdm., xiii, 21. 
RiTTiNGERiTE. Chemical examination, Streng, Jb. Min., i, 57. 
RuTiLE. Crystallograiihic observations, Doelter, Jb. Min., i, 147. 

Alexander Couuty, North Carolina, crystals described, vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. 

Bonu, February 8. 
Secondary twinning, Miigg®) Jb. Min., i, 147. 

Crystallograpbic description of a mineral from North Carolina, having appar- 
ently the same composition and related, though distinct in form, Des Cloizeaux, 

Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 184. 
Samauskite. Spectroscopic examination of rare elements, Crookes, Proc. Roy. Soc, 

XL, 236 ; XLi, 502. 
SCAPOLITE. Discussion of the chemical relations of the group, Tschermak, Min. petr. 

Mitth., VII, 400. 
SciiEELiTE. Tyrol, crystals described, v. Zepharovich, Lotos, 1885. 

Saint-Lary, Pyrenees, occurrence, Januettaz and Goguel, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 39. 
ScHEFFERiTE. Laugbau and Pajsberg, Sweden, crystallograpbic and chemical de- 
scription, G. Flink, Zs. Kr., xi, 487. 
SCHORLOMITE. Magnet Cove, relation to garnet discussed, Ka3nig, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sc. Philad., 355. 
SCHUNGITE. A form of amorphous carbon, Inostranzeff, Jb. Min., i, 92. 
Sc'OLEZiTE. Optical examination, Schmidt, Zs. Kr., xi, 587; Wyrouboff, Bull. Soc. 

Min., IX, 266. 
Semseyite, Felsob^nya, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 216. 
Serpentine, Franklin, New Jersey, containing manganese and zinc, Kceiug, Proc. 

Acad. Nat, Sc. Philad., 350. 
Chemical examination, Wartha, Zs. Kr., xi, 266. 
Smaltite. Microscopical structm-e investigated, Baumhaner, Zs. Kr., xii, 18. 
Smithsonite, Siberia, a supposed orthorhombic variety, Grifliths and Dreyfus, Chem, 

News, Liv, 67. 
SoDALiTE, Litchfield, Maine, analysis, F. W, Clarke, Am. J. Sc, xxxi, 264. 
Sphalerite. Spain, index of refraction measured, Ramsay, Zs. Kr., xii, 218. 

Hungary, analyses, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 216, 217, 
Spinel. New related mineral in iihouolite of Olbriick, K. de Kroustchoflf, Bull. Soc. 

Min., IX, 85, 
Spodumene, Alexander County, North Carolina, var. hiddeiiite, occurrence described, 

W, E, Hidden, Am, J. Sc, xxxii, 204, 483. Crystals with new planes measured, 

vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonu, February 8. 
Stepiianite. Exhaustive crystallograiihic monograph, with many figures, Vrba, Ber, 

bohm. Ges., 119, 
SriBNiTE, Japan, crystals showing curvature, L. Bombicci,Acc Sc, Bologna, Janu- 
ary 24, 
Stilbite. Crystallograpbic and chemical relations discussed, Langemann, Jb. Min., 

II, 126, 
Stromeyerite, Mexico, analysis, Kcenig, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 281. 
Stuvenite. Chili, new variety of alum, Darapsky, Verb, wiss, Ver. Santiago, 3, 105. 
Sulphur, Rabbit Hollow, Nevada, crystals described, E. S. Dana, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 

389, 
Dispersive power determined, Schrauf, Wied, Ann., xxvii, 300. 
SVANBERGiTE, HoiTsjoberg, Sweden, occurrence, Igelstrom, Geol. For, Forh., Viii, 

176. 
Sylvanite. Offenbiinya, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 210. 
Sylvite. Molecular structure investigated, Brauns, Jb, Min., i, 224, 



470 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Tellurite. Faczebaja, crystals tlescribed, Breziua, Anu. Mus. Wien, i, 136. 
Tetrahedrite. Pulacayo mine, Haauchaca. Bolivia, crystals described, vom Rath, 

Ber. uied. Ges. Bonn, June 7. 
Thomsonite. Scoulerite, microscopic examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 80. 
Titaxite. Nordmark, crystals described, G. Flink, Bihang Vet. Akad. Handl., xix, 

12, 69. 
Topaz. Durango, Mexico, crystals described, with numerous new planes, Des Cloi- 
zeaux. Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 135. 
Ural, indices of refraction measured, Ramsay, Zs. Kr., xii, 209. 
Brazil, pyroelcctrical experiments. Mack, Wied. Ann., xxviii, 153. 
Investigation of inclusions, Nordenskiold, Jb, Min., i, 242. 
Nathrop, Colorado, occurrence in lithophyses of rhyolite, W. Cross, Am. J. Sc, 

XXXI, 432. 
Occurrence with tin, deposits of Mount Bischof, Tasmania, described, Groddeck, 
Zs. G. Ges., XXXVIII, 370. 
Tourmaline. Pierrepont, New York, crystals described, vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. 
Bonn, July 7. 
Alexander Countj% North Carolina, crystallographic note, W. E. Hidden, Am. 

J. Sc, xxxii, 206; vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, February 8. 
Electrical experiments, Schedtler, Jb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 519. 
Tridymite. Twin crystals discussed, vom Rath, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, July 7. 
Turquoise. New Mexico, chemical and microscopic examination, F. W. Clarke and 

J. S. Diller, Am. J. Sc, xxxit, 211. 
Urvolgyite (Herrengruudite). Sandberg, Hungary, occurrence described, Szabo, 

Zs. Kr., x,,267. 
Vanadinite. Arizona and New Mexico, crystals described, S. L. Penfield, Am. J. Sc, 

xxxii, 441 ; occurrence, .T. C. Cooper, Washburn Coll. Bulletin, i, 169. 
Variscite. Arkansas, optical characters, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 5. 
Vermiculite. See Lucasite and Muscovite. 

Vesuvianite. Zermatt, association with garnet, Lewis, Min. Mag., vii, 9. 
Composition discussed, Rammelsberg, Zs. Geol. Qcs., xxxviii, 507. 
Jacobsberg, Sweden, analysis showing the presence of 4.7 i)er cent, of MnO., 

Igelstrom, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 22. 
Var. ynangan-vesuvianile, crystals described, with analysis, G. Flink, Bihang Vet. 
Akad. Handl., xii, 2, 57. 
ViViANiTE. Artificial crystals studied, Ces^ro, Ann. Soc. G^ol. Be]g.,M6ni., xiii, 21. 
Yuba County, California, crystals described, A. W. Jackson, Proc Cal. Acad. Sc, 
No. 4, 370. 
Waluewite. See Xanthophyllite. 
Warwickite. Edenville, New York, oi)tical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., 

IX, 74. 
Wavellite. Optical characters, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 4. 
Wehkllte. Deutsch-Pilsen, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 212. 

WiiEWELLiTE. Burgk, near Dresden, crystals described, Weisbach, Jb. Berg- Hiitt. 
Witiiamite. Scotland, optical examination, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 75. 
Wolframite. Sierra Almagrera, crystals described, Seligmann, Zs. Kr., xi, 347 

Felsobanya, analysis, Sipocz, Zs. Kr., xi, 211. 
Wollastoxite. An artificial mineral of the composition CaSiOa, Doelter, Jb. Min., 

I, 119. 
Wulfenite. Yuma County, Arizona, occurrence, J. C. Cooper, Washburn Coll. Bul- 
letin, I, 169. 
Xantiiolite. Scotland, optical examination showing identity with staurolite, La- 
croix, Bull. Soc Min., ix, 78. 
Xanthophyllite. Var. waluewite, exact determination of crystalline form and anal- 
ysis, N. vou Kokscharow, Min. Russland, ix, 273. 



MINERALOGY. 471 

Xenotime. Alexander County, North Carolina, crystallograpliic note, W. E. Hidden 
and A. Des Cloizeaux, Am. J. Sc, xxxii, 20G; voni Rath, Bcr. niod. Ges. Bonn, 
February 8. 
Hitterij, Norway, crystals described, G. Fliuk, Bihaug A'^et. Akad. Haudl., xii, 2, 

41. 
Minas-Geraes, Brazil, occurrence, Gorceix, C.R., cii, 1024. 
ZiNCiTE. Stirling Hill, New Jersey, crystals described, E. S. Dana, Am. J. Sc, 

XXXII, 388. 
ZiRKOX. Pfitschgrund, Tyrol, crystals described, Gehmacher, Zs. Kr., xii, 50. 
Laacher See, occurrence in lava, Hubbard, Ber. nied. Ges. Bonn, June 7. 
Altered in coloration by the action of light, Michel, Bull. Soc. Miu., ix, 215. 
Occurrence in diliereut rocks, ChrustschofF, Miu.petr. Mitth., vii, 423. 
ZoisiTE. Var. thuJite, pleochroism studied, Lacroix, Bull. Soc. Miu., ix, 77. 
ZoRGiTE. Argentine Republic, analyses of related seleuides, Heusler and Klinger, 

Ber. chem. Ges., xviii, 2556, 1885. 
Zygadite. See Albite. 

EXPLAXATIOXS OF ABBREVIATIONS EMPLOYED.' 

Am. Ch. J. — American Chemical Journal, Baltimore. 

Ann. Ch. Phys. — Annales de Chiniie et de Physique, Paris. 

Am. J. Sc. — American Journal of Science, New Haven. 

Am. Phil. Soc. Philad. — American Philosophical Society of Philadeli)hia. Proceedings- 

Anii. Mines. — Aunaleu des Mines, Paris. 

Ann. Mu8. Wien. — Annalen des naturliistorischen Hofmviseums, Vienna. 

Ber. Ak. Berlin. — Sitzuugsberichte der kais. preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften, 

Berlin. 
Ber. Ak. jUllnehcn. — Sitzungsbericlite der kais. bayerischen Akademie der Wisseuschaf- 

ten, Munich. 
Ber. Ak. IFien. — Sitzuugsberichte der kais. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Vienna. 
Ber. chem. Ges. — Berichte der deutschcn chemischou Gesellschaft, Berlin. 
Boll. Com. Gcol. — Bolletino Comitato Geologico d' Italia, Rome. 
Bull. Cal. Acad. Sc. — Bulletin of the California Academy of Science. 
Bull. Soc. Ch. — Bulletin de la Soci6t6 chimique, Paris. 
Bull. Soc. Min. — Bulletin de la Soci6t6 frangaise de Mineralogie, Paris. 
Ch. Ketps. — Chemical News, London. 

C. R. — Comptes Rendus de I'Acad^mie des Sciences, Paris. 
Geol. For. Fiirh. — Geologiska Foreniug i Stockholm, Forhandlingar. 
Jb. geol. Beiehs. — Jahrbuch der k. k. geologischen Reichsaustalt, Vienna. 
Jh. Min. — Neucs Jahrbuch liir Miueralogie, etc. 
J. Phys. — Journal de Physique, Paris. 
Min. Mag. — Mineralogical Magazine and Journal of the Mineralogical Society of 

Great Britain. 
Min. petr. Mitth. — Mineralogische uud petrographische Mittheilungen gesammelt von 

G. Tschermak, Vienna. 
Oefv. Ak. Slockh. —Oiifyerslgt af k. Vet. Akad. Forhandlingar, Stockhohn. 
Wied. Ann. — Annalen der Physik uad der Chemie, Wiedemann, Leipzig. 
Zs. geol. Ges.— Zeitschrift der deutscheu geologischen Gesellschaft, Berlin. 
Zs. ges. Diss. — Zeitschrift flir die gesammteu Naturwisscuschaften, Halle. 
Zs. Kr. — Zeitschrift fiir Krystallograi>hie, etc. 

* Only the more important publications, and those whose titles are contracted so 
as to need explanation, are here included. 



472 RECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



NECROLOGY OF MINERALOGISTS. 

Waltkr Flicht. — Born January 21, 1841 ; died November 4, 1885. From 18G7 on, he 
was assistant in the mineral department of the British Museum. He was an ac- 
tive worker in chemical mineralogy, and was especially interested in meteorites. 
He published a number of papers on these subjects, among others a chapter on 
the History of Meteorites, which ran through a number of issues of the Geologi- 
cal Magazine. 

Arnold von Lasaulx.— Born June 14, 1839; died January 25, 1836. He was pri- 
vatdocent at the Bonn University iu 1868, then professor (ausserordeutlicljer) of 
mineralogy at Breslau, later (1880) full professor at Kiel, and in the same year 
made ])rofessor at Bonn, where he spent the remainder of his life. He was an 
exceptionally active and successful worker in mineralogy and in petrography, 
and the list of his original papers in these and allied subjects is a long one. He 
was the author of two books, Elemeute der Petrographie (1875) and Einfiihrung 
in die Gesteinslehre (1885). He also extended his researches into the geological 
field, writing of earthquakes and volcanic phenomena. 

Martin Websky.— Born July 17, 1824 ; died November 27, 1886. He was a student 
of Weiss at Berlin in 1846, and later studied at Freiberg and Bonn. From 1850 
to 1865 he was engaged iu practical work in connection with the mining com- 
mission of Silesia, but during this time made many contributions to science. 
From 1865 to 1873 he lectured at the Breslau University, and after the death of 
Gustav Rose he was called to be his successor at Berlin, where he remained till 
his death. He stood conspicuously in the front rank of German mineralogists, 
and his contributions are many and of high grade; they are largely crystaHo- 
graphic, dealing with the description of crj'stallized minerals or with general 
theoretical problems of crystallography; he was also a successful analytical 
chemist. During his life at Berlin he devoted himself almost exclusively to the 
arrangement of the large collection of the university, and his activity in this di- 
rection, while perhaps an equal benefit to science in the end, was a great sacrifice 
from a personal point of view. His larger w^orks include the well known "Die 
Mineralspecies nach den fiir das specifische Gewicht derselben angeuommeneu 
und gefundeuen Werthen," which passed through several editions. 

Charles Upham Siiepard. — Born in- 1804; died May IT 18S6. During the whole of 
his long life zealously" devoted to mineralogy. He was graduated at Amherst 
College in 1824; in 1827 was assistant to Professor Silliman, at New Haven, in 
chemistry, mineralogy, and geology; after 1832 he divided his time between New 
Haven, Amherst, and Charleston ; from 1845 to 1852 and 1861 to 1877 he was pro- 
fessor at Amherst, and in 1854 he was made professor of chemistry at Charleston, 
continuing his duties there till 1869, except as interrupted by the civil war. He 
was an active collector and student of minerals, and science owes to his keen eye 
the discovery of many new and interesting species, such as microlite, warwickite, 
danburite, as well as the development of many valuable localities. His large 
private collection, which became the property of Amherst College, was unfortu- 
nately destroyed by fire in 1880, but he continued to collect until his life ended. 
He was also active in collecting and describing meteorites, and brought together 
one of the largest collections in the country. In addition to many shorter papers, 
he was the author of a Treatise on Mineralogy in 1832, and in 1837 he published a 
report on the mineralogy and mineral producta of Connecticut. 



MINERALOGY. 473 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MINERALOGY— 1886. 

I. — Mineralogical works. 

Bauer, Max. Lebrbuch der Mineralogie. 562 pp. 8vo. Berliu aiid Leipzig. 
BoRX, M. Beitiiige zur Bestimnmug der Lichtbrecliungsverbaltuisso doj>p(dtbre- 

cbeuder Krystalle durcb Prisiiieubeobacbtungeu. 51 pp., witb 2 plates. Bvo. 

Stuttgart. 
BouTAX, E. Le diamant. (Extrait de l'Encyclop6dio cbimique de M. Fr<5iiiy.) 32:5 

pp. 8vo, witb plates. Paris. 
BuRNHAM, S. M. Precious Stones in Nature, Art, and Literature. 400 pp. 8vo. 

Boston. 
Caxada. Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of tbe Economic Minerals of Canada. 

By tbe geological corps. 17*2 pp. 8vo. Loudon. 
Chester, A. H. A Catalogue of Minerals, alpbabetically arranged, witb tbeircbeiii- 

ical composition and synonyms. 52 pp. 8vO. New York. 
CoMMENDA, H. Uebcrsicbt der Mineralien Oberosterreicbs. 44 pp. Bvo. Vienna. 
Crosby, W. O. Geological Collections. Mineralogy. 184 pp. Boston. 
Day and Williams. Mineral Resources of tbe United States; calendar year 18S5. 

.576 pp. 8vo. Wasbingtou (Dept. of tbe Interior, U. S. Gcol. Survey, J. W. 

Powell, in cbarge). 
Eagiotto, a. Diedrimetria di Cristallo Microscopici, con proposta d' un nnovo 

Metodo. 14 pp. 8vo. Reggio. 
Fletcher, L. An Introduction to tbe Study of Meteorites, witb a list of tbe meteor- 
ites in tbe collection of tbe Britisb Museum. 77 pp. London. 
FoYE, J. C. Handbook of Miueralogy ; determination, description, and classifica- 
tion of minerals found in tbe United States. 180 pp. 12mo. New York. 
GoLDSCHMiDT. V. Index der Krystallformen der Miueralien. Indrei Biinden. Erster 

Band. 601 pp. Large 8vo. Berlin. 
Groth, p. Repertorium der niineralogiscben nud krystallograpbiscben Literatnr 

voni Eude d. J. 1876 bis Anfang d. J. 1885, nnd General-Register der Zeitscbrift 

fiir Krystallograpbie nnd Mineralogie, Band i-x. pp. 208 and 146. 8vo. 

Li'ipzig. 
Haxks, Henry G. Sixtb Annual Report of tbe State Mineralogist of California for 

tbo year ending June 1, 1886. 145 pp. 8vo. Sacramento. 
Henrich, F. Lebrbiicb der Krystallbcrecbnung. 300 pp. 8vo. Stuttgart. 
Horxstein, F. F. Kleines Lebrbucb der Mineralogie. 4tb ed. Gr. 8vo. 411 pp. 

Kassel. 
Hunt, T. Stekry. Mineral Pbysiology and Pliysiograpby; a Second Series of Cbem- 

ical and Geological Essays, witb a general introduction. 710 pp. 8vo. Boston. 
A Natural System of Mineralogy, witb a classification of Native Silicates (re- 
printed from tbe above volume). 
Kokscharow, N. vox. Materialieu zur Mineralogie Russlands. Band ix. pp. 

273-365. 
Rammelsberg, C. F. Die cbemiscbe Natur der Mineralien. Syatematiscb zusam- 

mengestellt. 89 pp. Bvo. Berlin. 
Handbucb dor Mineralcbemie. Erganzungsbeft zur zweiteu Anflage. 276 pp. 

8vo. Leipzig. 
Raxdall, J. S. Minerals of Colorado. 49 pp. Georgetown, Col. 
Roth, L. Krystallnetze zur Verfertigung der beim mineralogiscben Anscliauungs- 

nnterriebt vorkommenden wicbtigsten Krystallgestallten. 8tb ed. 3 plates. 

Folio. Vienn.a. 
Sandberger, F. Untersucbungen iiber Erzgiinge. Erstes Ileft, 158 pp. 1882 ; 

zweites Heft, pp. 159-431, witb plates, 1885. 



474 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Teichmaxn, F. Der Mineralog. Darstellung des Gesammtgebietes der Mineralogie. 

4th ed. 106 pp. Svo. Halle. 
TouLA, F. Mineraloglsclie und petrograpbisclie Tabellen. 166 pp. Svo. Leipzig. 
Weisbach, a. Tabelleu zur Bestimmuug der Mineralieu mittelst iiusserer Keun- 

zeichen. 3d ed. 106 pp. Leipzig. 

II. — Memoirs of a general character, chiefly chemical or physical. 

Ansdell aud Dewar. Ou the gaseous coustituents of meteorites. Proc.Roy. Soc. 

Loudon, XLi, 549. 
^siiBURNEU, C. A. The classification and composition of Pennsylvania anthracites. 

Amer. lust. Miniug Engineers, February. 
Baumhauer, H. Ueber die Structur und die mikroskopische Beschaffenheit von 

Speiskobalt nnd Chloauthite. Zs. Kr., xii, 18. 
Behrkxs, T. H. On the micro-chemical analysis of minerals. Chem. News, nv, 196, 

208, et seq. 
Bertrand, E. Refractrometre coustruit sp6cialemeut pour I'i^tude des roches. Bull. 

Soc.Miu., IX, 15-21. 
BoMBicci, L. Sulla contorsione di tipo elicoide nei fasci prismatici di antimonito 

del Giappone. Accad. So. Bologna, January 24 (read). 
Brauxs, R. Ein Beitrag zur Kenutniss der Structurfliichen des Sylvin. Jb. Min., i, 

224-233. 
Ueber dieVerweudbarkeit desMethylenjodidsbei petrographischen undoptischen 

Uutersuchungen. Jb. Min , ii, 72. 
BRtJGELMANN, G. Ueber Krystallisatiou und iiber physikalische Biudung. Vierte 

Mittheilung, Leipzig. 
Calkkr, F. J. P. VAN. Uuiversalprojectionsapparat. Zs. Kr., xii, .55-59. 
Cesaro, G. Memoire sur la reproduction de quelques phosphates de fers natnrels par 

Paction do I'oxygfene de I'air sur une solution fcrreuse acide. Ann. Soc. G6ol. 

Belg., M6m., XIII, 21-33, with a plate. 
CONROY, J. Ou the polarization of light by reflection from the surface of a crystal of 

Iceland spar. Proc. Roy. Soc. Loudon, XL, 173. 
Crookes, W. On the genesis of the elements. Address before the Chemical Section 

of the British Association at the Birmingham meeting. 
DuFET, II. Sur uu uouveau microscope polarisaut. Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 275. 
15lik, B. Des coustantes d'»51.TSticit6 dans les cristaux. J. Pbys. [2], v, 204. 
Friedel. Progress of Chemistry aud Mineralogy. Address before the French Asso- 
ciation at Nancy. See Nature, xxxiv, 400. 
GoLDSCiiMiDT, V. Bestimmung des specifischeu Gewichtes von Mineralien. Ann. 

Mus. Wien, i, 127. 
Ueber das specifische Gewicht von Mineralien. Verb. geol. Reichs., p. 439, 
Gramont, a. de. Sur quelques experiences de double rtSfractiou par compression an- 

nulaire. Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 213-215. 
IIal'Shofer, K. Beitriige zur mikroskopischen Analyse. Ber. Ak. Miinchen, 1835, 

403 ; 1886, 70. 
Heciit, B. Ueber die Berechnung der Hauptaxeu bei endlichen homogenen Deforma- 

tioueu krystallinischer Korper. Zs. Kr.,xi, 531-549. 
HuxTixCxTOX, 0. W. Crystalline structure of Iron Meteorites. Proc. Amer. Acad., 

478, or Am. J. Sc.,xxxii, 284-304. 
IIUTCiiiNGS, W. M. Analysis of silicates in connection with blowpipe determinations. 

Chem. News, Liv, 173. 
July, J. On a method of determining the specific gravity of small quantities of dense 

or porous bodies. Scientif. Proc. Roy. Dublin Soc, V, 41-46. 
On the si^ecific heats of minerals. Proc. Roy. Soc, XLi, 250-274. 
On the melting points of minerals, Dublin, March 16. Abstract in Nature, xxxiv, 

22. See also Nature, xxxiii, 15. 



MINERALOGY. 475 

JuDD, J. W, On the relation between tbe solution-planes of crystals and those of 

secondary twinning; and on tlie mode of developing negative crystals along 

the former. A contribution to the theory of schillerization. Min. Mag., vii, 

81. See Quart. J. Geol. Soc, XLi, 374, 1885. 
Ketteleu, E. Eiu bemerlienswertlier Greuzfall dor Krystallretlexiou; eine Uuter- 

suchuug mittelst des vervollstiindigteu Kohlrausch'schen Totalreiiectometers. 

Wied.Aun., xxviii, 230. 
Nachtrag zur Totalreflexiou von Krystallen. Ihid., 520. 
Element and Kenard. Eeactions microchimiques a cristaus et leur application en 

analyse qualitative. Bruxelles. 
KuNDT and Blasius. Uemerkungen iiber Untersuchung der Pyroelectricitiib der 

Krystalle. Wied. Ann., xxviii, 145. 
Lkhmanx, J. Contractionsrisse an Krystallen. Schles. Ges. vat. Cultur, February 

11, 1885; January 20; February 17, 1886 (Zs. Kr., xi, 608). 
LiEBiscii, Til. Ueber die Bestimniung der Lichtbrechuugsverhiiltnisse doppelt- 

brecheuder Krystalle durch Prismeubeobachtungen. Jb. Min., i, 1-1-34. 
Ueber die Bestimniung der optischen Axeu durch Beobachtung der Schwing- 

ungsrichtungen ebcner Wellen. Jb. Min., i, 155-162. 
Ueber die Totalreflexion an doppeltbrechenden Krystallen. Jb. Min., ii, 47. 
Mack, K. Pyroelectrische nnd optische Beobachtungcn am brasilianischen Topas. 

Wied. Ann., xxviii, 153. 
Mackintosh, J. B. The action of hydrofluoric acid on silica and silicates. School of 

Mines Q., vil, 384. 
Mallard, E. Sur les hypotheses diverses propos^es pour expliquer les anomalies 

optiques des cristaus. Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 54-74. 
Sur la theorie de la reflexion totale cristalline d'aprfes M. Th. Liebisch. Bull. 

Soc. Min., IX, 154-16'J. 
MiEKS, H. A. Index to mineralogical papers, etc., 18S5. Min. Mag., vii, 93. 
MiNXEGERODE, B. Ueber Wiirmeleitung in Krystallen. i. Theil, 1-13. 
MuGGK, O. Zur Kenntuiss der Fiiichenveriiuderuugcn durch secundiiro Zwilliugs- 

bildung. II. Jb. Min., i, 136-155. 
Ueber kiiustliche Zwillingsbilduug durch Druck am Antimon, Wismuth nnd 

Diops.id. Jb. Min., i, 183-191. 
Ueber secuudiire Zwillingsbilduug am Eisenglauz. Jb. Min., xi, 35. 
MtJLLEU, W. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Chiastolitbs.' luangural-Dissertation 

an der Universitiit zu Jena. Berlin. 
Oberg, p. E. V. Bidrag till Kiinnedom of nagra miueraliers spcciflska Viirmc. 22 

pp., with 1 table. 8vo. Stockholm. 
Ramsay, W. Bestimmuug der Brechungsexponenteu in Prismen mit grossen hro- 

chendcn Winkeln. Zs. Kr., xii, 209-222. 
Sciiarizer, R. Ueber den Zwillingsbau des Lepidolithcs und die rcgelmiissige Ver- 

wachsung verschiedenerGlimnierarten von Schiittcnhofeu. Zs. Kr., xii, 1. 
SCHEDTLER, H. Experimentelle Untersuchungeu iiber das elektrische Verhalten des 

Turmalins. Jb. Min., Beil.-Bd., iv, 519-575, with 4 plates. 
Schrauf, a. Ueber Dispersion nnd axiale Dichte bei prismatischen Krystallen. 

Wied. Ann., xxviii, 433. 
Ueber Ausdehnungscoefficieuten, axiale Dichte und Parameterverhiiltniss trime- 

trischer Krystalle. Hid., 438. 
Ueber das Dispersionsaqnivalent von Schwefel. Wied.Aun., xxvii, SCO. 
Eine ueue Zonenfonnel lur orthogonalo Systems. Zs. Kr., xii, 175. 
Spurge, C. On the effect of polish on the reflection of light from the surface of Ice- 
land spar. Proc. Roy. Soc. London, xli, 463. 
Streng, a. Ueber eiuige mikroskojiisch-chemische Rcactioneu. (Fortaetzung.) 

Jb. Min., I, 49-61. 



476 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

TUMLIRZ, 0. Ueber d-is Verhalten der Bergkrystalle iiii magnetisclien Felde. Wied. 

Anu., XXVII, 133. 
Vatek, H. Der Apparat von Warburg nnd Kocli zur Best immung der Elasticitiits- 

coefficicuten, sowie Anweudiing desselbeii aiif zur Axe senkrechter Flatten von 

Kalkspath nnd Apatit. Zs. Kr., xi, 549-587. 
Velaix, C. Etude niicroscopiqne de quelqnes verres artificiels provenant d'nn in- 

cendie de l'Od<?on (1850), et de la fusion de ceudresde gramiuees. Bull. Soc. G. 

France [3], xiii, 297. 
VoiGT, W. Ueber die Torsion eines recbteclvigen Prismas aus homogener krystalli- 

niscber Sub.stanz. Wied. Ann. xxix, 004. 
VOLKMANX, P. Zur Tbeorie der totaleu Reflexion an der Grenze von isotropen uud 

anisotropen Medien. Jb. Min., i, 205-211. 
Websky, M. Ueber Construction flaclier Zonenbogen beim Gebrauch der stereo- 

grapbiscben Kugeljirojection. Ber. Ak. Berlin, 33. 
Wheeler and LItdeckixg. lodiue in Blowpiping. Trans. St. Louis Acad. Science, 

076-680, witli 3 plates. 
Wyrouboff, G. Sur deux cas embarrassants d'isoniorpbisme. Bull. Soc. Min., ix, 

102-115. 
La structure des corps crystallises douds de pou voir rotatoire. J. Phys. [2 j, v, 258. 



ZOOLOGY I]^ 1886. 



By Prof. Theodore Gill. 



Introduction. 

The progress of zoology durinj^ the year 188G has been in tlie same 
lines as during the ])recediDg- years, and with still greater concurrence. 
More and more attention is being paid to histology and embryology and 
perhaps at an undue expense to systematic zoology. Systematic zoology 
scieutifically treated is simply the co-ordination of all fiicts derived from 
every branch of biology, anatomy, embryology, histology, and physiol- 
ogy ; but there appears to be a disposition to relegate it to those who con- 
sider that its chief aim is to serve for identification of specimens, or to un- 
duly generalize from a very few embryological facts. Such tendencies 
are hurtfnl to the welfare of zoology, but uudoubtedl}' the tendencies in 
those directions will, in due time, be corrected. 

As in the previous reports, the language of the original from which 
the abstract is com[)iled is generally followed as closely as tlie case 
will permit. It lias however been found necessary to limit the ab- 
stract to the illustration of the prominent idea underlying the original 
memoir, and pass by the proofs and collateral arguments. At the same 
time, it has been often attempted to bring the new discovery into rela- 
tion with the previous status of information respecting the group under 
consid?ration. As to the special discoveries recorded, they have been 
generally selected (1) on account of the modifications the forms con- 
sidered may force on the sjstem; or (2) for the reason that they are or 
have been deemed to be of high taxonomic importance; or (3) because 
the animals j>er se are of general interest; or, finally (4), because they 
are of special interest to the American naturalist. Of course, zoologists 
cultivating limited fields of research will find in omissions cause for 
censure, and may urge that discoveries of inferior importance have 
been noticed to the exclusion of those better entitled to it. It is freely 
admitted that this charge may even be justly made; but the limits 
assigned to the record have been much exceeded, and the recorder has 
studied the needs of the many rather than of the few. The summary 
is intended, not for the advanced scientific student, but for those who 
entertain a general interest in zoology or some of the better-kiiowu 
classes. 



478 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 18SG. 

The bibliography which has been heretofore giveu with these reports 
is omitted from the present, as it has been thought that the space which 
woukl be occupied by it might be more profitably used for recording 
new discoveries. A i)artial bibliography is of little or no use to either 
the general reader or the investigator. The former rarely looks at it, 
and the latter seeks for information in the very full bibliographies or 
records of progress that are especially devoted to the subjects in ques- 
tion. For the current literature the " Zoologischer Anzeiger," published 
by W. Eugelmaun, of Leipzig, is available, and for the past years "The 
Zoological Eecord," hereafter to be published by the Zoological Society 
of London, the "Archiv fiir jSTaturgeschichte," published in Berlin, and 
the " Zoologischer Jahresbericht," also published in Berlin, are indis- 
pensable for the working naturalist. The compiler desires to make 
special acknowledgment for most material assistance to the Journal of 
the Royal j\Iicroscopical Society, whose abstracts of investigations have 
been freely drawn upon in the preparation of those for the present 
report. 

synopsis of arrangement. 

General Zoology. 
I. Protozoans. 
II. Porifers. Sponges. 

III. Ccelenterates. Polyps; Acalephs. 

IV. ECHINODERMS. Pelmatozoans ; Asterioids. 

V. Worms. Platyhelmiutbs ; Xematelminths ; Annelids. 
VI. Arthropods. Crustaceans; Arachnids; Insects. 
VII. MoLLUSKS. Acephals; Pteropods ; Gastropods; Cephalopods. 
VIII. Protochordates. Tunicates. 
IX. Vertebrates. Fish like Vertebrates; Selachians; Fishes; 
Amphibians; Reptiles; Birds; Mammals. 

general zoology. 

Bevivijication of animals after desiccation. — It has been repeatedly as- 
serted, and with but little contradiction, that certain low types of the ani- 
mal kingdom are capable of being revived after having been completely 
dried u[) or desiccated. Those who have questioned the statements 
have been comparatively unheeded. Bat the subject has been recently 
again investigated, practically, by Professor Zacharias, and it appears 
that the dissent expressed. by the few is justified by the new experi- 
ments. Near Professor Zacharias's residence is a large granite block, 
which has lain there for two hundred years, having a cavity which 
holds from two to three liters of water that evaporates in from two to 
six days, according to the weather. In the water resulting from rain, 
which is held in this cavity, "a characteristic fauna was found to exist, 
notwithstanding the periodical desiccation." A peculiar variety of the 
rotifer named ThUodina roseola^ a tardigrade, and various protozoans 



ZOOLOGY. 479 

lived therein. " Observ^ations made nearly fifty years ago indicate the 
presence at that date of a similar fauna, and there is every reason to 
believe that at least for a century similar forms have tenanted the cavity. 
Thus the fauna has persisted in spite of complete desiccation — thousands 
of times repeated. The problem is, Howf" 

In order to solve this problem, Professor Zacharias instituted a num- 
ber of experiments, and found that the Philodina and tardigrade, ''when 
allowed to dr}', invariably died,'''' but tlie ova were preserved from death 
by encystation. The persistence of the fauna is therefore not due to 
the survival of the adult animals, and their re^ ivificatiou on the reap- 
pearance of rain, but to the peculiar character of the eggs, which dC' 
velop with the returning rain. In fine. Professor Zacharias has been 
led most decit'edly to the conclusion that the desiccated forms in their 
mature condition, alwa^^s die, while the eggs may frequently survive. 
These results are in accordance with those obtained by other experi- 
ments, for example the non-revivification of neraatoid worms after des- 
iccation, as was proved by Hallez. That which is true for animals is 
likewise applicable to plants. Thus, according to Professor Zacharias, 
the resting stage of Hccmatococcus and the zygospore stage of Stepha- 
nospJuera " explain the persistence of these algoid forms in the pool." 
The conclusion is that "there is therefore probably no such thing as a 
real fauna and flora rediviva." (Biol. Centralbl., vi, pp. 230-235 ; J. 
E. M. S. (2), VI, pp. 799-800.) 

Minimum life temperatures. — A series of experiments upon various- 
animals has been made by Dr. H. von Iheriug in extension of Professor 
Pouchet's researches on the resistance which animals ma^' offer to cold. 
About twodozen worms, arthropods, and mollusks were made the subject 
of investigation. The results have been summarized in the following 
terms : 

(1) "Lower animals become frozen at temperatures varying greatly 
in the different genera and species. The resistance varies with the 
actual body heat of the animal, with its size, structure, and protective 
covering, with the freezing point of the blood, etc." 

(2) "The resistance usually increases with progressive development, 
but sometimes the adults are more sensitive than the young." 

(3) "Nothing can be directly inferred from the geographical distribu- 
tion." 

(4) " Perfectly frozen animals are never revivified." 

Dr. von Ihering suggests a curv^e, with the degree and the duration 
of the temperature as co-ordinates. These two factors must be consid- 
ered together. The absolute minimum is obviously the fatal temper- 
ature in unit time. He enumerates the various results, as exhibited by 
degeneration, cessation of certain functions, sleep, like paralysis, and 
death; and sums up his experiments in a tabular survey." (Zeitschr, 
f. Naturwiss., lix pp. 183-2U; J. R. M. S., 1887, vn, p. 52.) 



480 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Physiology of the imstriated muscles of invertebrates. — The physiology 
of the uustriated muscles of invertebrates has been iuvestigated by Mr. 
E. D. Varigny, and, as a result, he came to the couclusiou that "do essen- 
tial differeuce exists between the unstriated and the striated muscles. 
The unstriated muscles, under certain conditions, even surpass the 
striated ones from a physiological point of view. In the invertebrata 
their role is an important one, for whilst remaining the active agents of 
the movements of nutrition, they become the agents of voluntary move- 
ments, and in contact with the nerves of voluntary motion derive such an 
energy and acquire such a perfect physiological development that they 
occupy in the functional hierarchy a superior rank to that of certain 
striated muscles, whilst the striated muscle is the most perfect and most 
developed contractile agent, and the one whose evolution is most ad- 
vanced." In fine, "there is no ground for dividing the physiology of 
muscles into two classes," the diflt'ereuces existing in certain points being 
not essential, but of secondary moment only. (J. E. M. S. (2), v, p. 791.) 

PROTOZOANS. 

General. 

A new classification of protozoa. — In an article entitled "Protozoa," 
published in the Encyclopaedia Britaunica, Prof. E. Eay Lankester has 
given his views as to the best mode of groui)ing all the protozoa, in 
which he includes the mycetozoa. lie admits no less than thirteen 
classes in the sub-kingdom, which he segregates under two groups or 
"grades." The names and relations of the various classes will appear 
in the subjoined tabular enumeration: 

PROTOZOA. 

Grade A. — Gymiwmijxa. 

Section. Class. 

Proteana I. rroteomyxa (Vanips'rella, Protoiuyxa, Archerina). 

Plasmodiata II. IT^ceioj^oa (Eumycetozoa). 

LoBOSA III. Lobosa (Amwba, Arcella). 

f IV. LahryrinthiiUcIca (Labyrintliula, Chlamyilomyxa). 
J V. HeUozoa (Actiuophrys). 

\ VI. Bcticidaria {Gromia, Lituola, Astrorhiza, Glohigcrina). 

l^VII. Eadiolaria. (Very uumeroua.) 

Grade 13. — Corticata. 

LiPOSTOMA I. Sporozoa {Gregarina, Coccidiiim). 

( II. Flagcllata {Monas, Englena, Folvox.) 

I III. Diiwflagellata. {Prorocentrum, Ceratium.) 

Stomatophora { IV. lihynchoflageUata. (Noctiluca.) 

I V. Ciliata. {Vorticella, Paramoecium, Stentor.) 

{ VI. Acinetaria. (A acineta, Dcadrosoma.) 

(Enc. Brit., 9th ed., xix, 830-866.) 



ZOOLOGY. 481 

PORIFER. 

Spo7iges. 

The nervous system in sponges. — A specialized nervous system was 
formerly denied to the sponges, and has only been recognized within a 
comparatively few years. The last investigator of the subject has been 
Dr. E. von Lendenfeld. He has especially studied the muscular and 
nervous systems in the horny sponges, especially of Australia, and has 
formulated his conclusions and deductions therefrom. Premising that 
there are certain structures on the distal margin of the muscular mem- 
brane, he interprets them as follows : " The whole thickening, which 
is interrupted only here and there, consists of ganglion-cells, the nuclei 
of which are distinct in preparations, although their contours do not ap- 
pear distinctly. The granular threads which are given off from these 
ganglia in a tangential direction, are nerves which establish the con- 
nection of the ganglia with more distant and at present still unknown 
structures." 

From the description given, " it appears that the zone of sense cells 
runs along the upper margin of the muscular membrane, so that two 
bands of sense-cells are formed, bordering the tissue filling the groove 
at the surlace." 

Dr. von Lendenfeld believes that "this structure may be directly 
compared with the annular nerves of fycloneural medusae (Eimer), and 
indicates that the sponges, being capable of a development similar to 
that of those cnidaria, were not probably so very different from them 
as we commonly suppose. It must, indeed, be admitted," says Dr. von 
Lendenfeld, " that, by cowver<7eM^ development, a resemblance may here 
have been produced which does not justify any phylogenetic conclusions, 
especially as these structures in the sponges are mesodermal, and not 
subepithelial as in the hydromedusae." 

In conclusion, it is said that " both the muscle and nerve cells are 
mesodermal. The epithelia of the sponges nowhere appear to be further 
developed after the fashion of the higher ccelenterata. Both endoderm 
and ectoderm always remain single." (A. and M. Nat. Hist. (5), xvii, 
pp. 372-377.) 

CCELENTERATES. 

Polyps. 

The coral of madrepores in relation to the soft parts. — The compre- 
hension of the relations of the hard coral to the soft parts of the awi- 
mals which excrete it is rather difQcult, and has been facilitated by Dr. 
G. von Koch in a special memoir upon the subject. The results are 
summarized in the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society. 

I. The basal plate. " This is excreted between the aboral terminal sur- 
face of the body and the substratum to which the skeleton is attached." 
H. Mis. mo 31 



482 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

II. The external plate or epitheca. " This is a continuation of the basal 
plate, and yet more or less distinctly separable from it. It incloses the 
lateral body wall, but does not otherwise come into contact with the 
substratum." 

III. The internal plate or thcca. " This rises from the basal plate in 
the form of a circular ridge, usually parallel to the external plate, and 
generally ensheathed in an intruding fold of the body wall. There may 
be more than one internal plate." 

IV. The radial plates or septa. "These are represented by numerous 
radial ridges, which ascend at right angles to the basal plate, and lie in 
radial folds of the body wall, which alternate with the parietes (mes- 
enteries)." 

In further explanation it is also noted : 

(a) " The body wall always lies between the external and internal 
plates." 

(b) " The parietes always lie between two radial plates, and the latter 
are, for some distance upwards, always separated by the internal plate 
into a peripheral and central portion." 

(c) " The external plate is only clothed with tissue on its inner surface, 
but the internal plate on both surfaces." 

(d) "Where the radial plates come into secondary contact with the 
external plate they penetrate the body wall." 

With these postulates, "taken along with the fact that the skeleton 
is excreted by the ectoderm, a member of important conclusions may 
be deduced as to the origin, growth, and structure of the skeleton." 

(1) "All parts of the skeleton ate laid down as plates, and their 
growth is effected by the apposition of new particles on those already 
formed." 

(2) "As to superficial increase, all parts of the skeleton are alike, 
but they vary in the mode of their increase in thickness. The thick- 
ening of the basal and external jilates is only effected from one side, 
while that of the internal and radial plates may take place from both." 

(3) "In the basal and external plates, the oldest portions are thus 
obviously on the outer side and the newer portions are inwards." 

(4) "In the internal plate, the oldest portions are on either side, cov- 
ered by successive strata, but the growth on either side may be dispro- 
portionate." 

(5) " In the radial plates, the oldest portion is in the middle, and the 
subsequent depositions are symmetrically laid down on either side." 
(Morphol. Jahrb., xiii, pp. 154-100, 1 pi; J. E. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 
805-806.) 

Acalephs. 

New form of fresh-water hydroids. — Fresh- water hydroids are so few 
in number that any new species is noteworthy, and one has been de- 
scribed lately which is further interesting on account of some phases of 



ZOOLOGY. 483 

its life history. In 1871 Dr. Owsjannikow made known a peculiar par- 
asite discovered in the ova of the sturgeon. This parasite proves now 
to be simply " a stage in the development of a free-living hydroid." It 
was made the subject of investigation by Dr. M. Ussow for two years, 
and the results of his researches have appeared in a preliminary notice. 
The form in question is related to the hydromedusse in general, and 
has been named Polypodium hydriforme. The life history of the newly 
discovered hydromedusan is divisible into three stages, first, as a par- 
asite in the eggs of the sturgeon, Acipenser rnthenus, wherein it exists 
as a cylindrical spirally twisted tube, with numerous lateral buds; then 
as "a free-living form, equipped with 24^ 12, orG tentacles," and finally, 
"presumably as a sexual animal." 

The first stage, or that of parasitism, is noteworthy. " The youngest 
specimen observed had the form of a cylindrical hollow tube, 15 to 17™°^ 
in length, IJ to 2™™ in thickness, and superficially beset with primary 
buds. The walls consist of single layers of ectoderm and eudoderm, 
and of spindle-shaped (mesoderm) cells between. As this muscular 
layer develops, the body becomes spirally coiled in the longitudinal 
axis of the sturgeon's egg. The primitive buds become pear-shaped 
and the axial cavity of the organism is continued into each bud. 

"Each of the primitive buds soon exhibits a gradually deepening 
furrow, dividing it into two pear-shaped bodies — the secondary buds. 
These are afterwards developed into free-living forms. The secondary 
buds come, in consequence of spiral twisting, to lie on one side of the 
whole organism ('stolon'), on that turned towards the chorion of the egg. 
The ectoderm cells next the central yolk are filled with yolk granules, 
which they have directly ingested. The yolk substance thus acquired 
penetrates through the eudoderm into the cavit^^ of the buds and accu- 
mulates as reserve material. 

"The upper portion of the secondary bud exhibits a shallow furrow, 
and represents the aboral end of the future free-living form ; and the 
furrow extending parallel to the long axis indicates the direction of a 
division which results in the halving of the free generation (or 'mothers'). 

" Tentacles are developed as invaginate tulles, and exhibit all the 
three layers. Of the twenty-four tentacles, eight are specially differen- 
tiated, as short, strong, terminally swollen 'Seuktaster.' They exhibit 
numerous stinging cells developed in special cnidoblasts. The other 
sixteen are symmetrically arranged in pairs on both sides of the bud; 
they are thinner and much longer than the other eight. The tentacles 
are gradually and irregularly evaginated, the stolon begins to move, 
and eventually effects its liberation during spawning. 

"After being in water for twenty-four hours or so the whole stolon 
falls into thirty-two pieces, representing the thirty-two buds; and this 
disruption occurs in a perfectly definite fashion. The buds have 
changed their form considerably since their first formation, and after 
liberation the old stalk and an adjacent portion of the stolon form a 



484 RECORD or science for 1886. 

movable proboscis, at the end of which a mouth-opening eventually 
appears. After the disruption of the stolon the individualized buds 
seem to be nourished at the expense of the yolk stored up in their ca^i- 
ties. These cavities, which extend even to the end oftthe tentacles, 
may be justly termed gastral cavities. 

" The liberated mother bud (B), with twenty-four tentacles, is divided 
into two daughter forms (B^), with twelve each. These divide and give 
rise to two different forms, B^ and B^ft. The successive multiplication 
of the different generations is fully discussed and tabulated, and the 
three forms are described." 

In brief. Dr. Ussow regards the Polypodmm as ''a hydroid organism, 
with a motile ' trophosome' (B) passing through various assexual gen- 
erations before attaining the sexual (possibly medusoid) form. The 
planula of the latter migrates into the ovum" of the sturgeon, and 
"gradually develops into the stolon, with primary and secondary buds." 
(Morph. Jahrb., xii, pp. 137-153, 2 pL; J. K. M. S. (2), vi, pp. SOS- 
SOS.) 

ECHINODERMS. 

Pehnatozoans. 

Diversify among the hlastoids. — The pelmatozoans or crinoids, although 
comparatively rare at present, were formerly very abundant, and in the 
palsezoic seas represented by many diverse types. Among the most 
singular of these were the bhistoids, which have been by most au- 
thors regarded as an order of the pelmatozoans, but recently Dr. P. 
Herbert Carpenter has contended that the group is separable from the 
crinoids as a class. A monograph of the group has been recently pub- 
lished by Mr. Robert Etheridge and Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter as a 
" catalogue of the blastoidea in the geological department of the British 
Museum." The authors maintain that "the blastoidea constitute a re- 
markably compact group, which is pretty clearly marked off from the 
other pelmatozoa." They find that the perforate lancet j^late and the 
regular limitation of the hydrospires to the radial and the inter-radial 
plates, with their slits parallel to the ambulacra, are characters which 
are not as yet known to occur in either the crinoidea or the cystidea. 
Thg group thus distinguished is divided by Messrs. Etheridge and 
Carpenter into six families, which are segregated under two orders. 

One order, the Eegulares, includes "pedunculate blastoids with a 
symmetrical base, in which the radials and ambulacra are all equal and 
similar." This group includes four families : (1) Pentremitidw, with three 
genera, the chief of which is the genus so well known to American 
I)aleontologists under the name Pentremites, and (2) Troostoblastidce, 
a new family, with three genera, two of which have been established by 
American naturalists; (3) Nucleohlastidw, also a new family, including 
four genera, one of which is made the type of the subfamily Ekeacrinidce, 
while the other three belong to a second subfamily, Schizoblastidce ; (4) 



ZOOLOGY. 485 

Granatohlastidcv, with two genera; (5) Codasteridcv, with four genera, 
two of which belong to the special subfamily Phicnoschismidw, and the 
other two to another named Cri/ptoschismidw. 

The second order of blastoidea is named Irregulares, and is restricted 
to "unstalked blastoids, in which one ambulacrum, and the corre- 
sponding radial are different from theii fellows," and the " base usually 
unsjnnmetrical.'' This group includes only one family, long ago called 
AstrocrinidcE^ but amended by Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter, and 
made to include three genera. 

According to Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter, the true Mastoids do 
not appear previous to the Upper Silurian period, and they appear to 
have become extinct long before the close of the Carboniferous, no traces 
of blastoids from the Lower Carboniferous (or calciferous sandstone 
series), much less from any of the marine bands of the coal measures, 
being recognized. 

All the known blastoids of " the Upper Silurian period are confined 
to American strata, and represent the families Troostoblastidse and 
Codasteridse." 

In the Devonian period "all the families are represented. The Si- 
lurian Troostoblastidae, however, do not appear in the American De- 
vonian rocks; but they are well represented in Europe, although the 
Devonian blastoids generally are slightly more numerous both iu genera 
and species iu America than in Europe. Iu Europe the great center of 
blastoid life in Devonian times appears to have been in the north of 
Spain, whilst iu the British isles there is but the scantiest evidence of 
their presence in the rocks of that period." (Etheridge and Carj^enter, 
ojp. cit.; An. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xviii, pp. 412-417.) 

Asterioids. 

Organization of star-Jishes. — In the course of investigation of a new 
incubating star-fish from Cape Horu. to which the uiime Asterias hyadesi 
has been given. Prof. Edmond Perrier has described a peculiar organ, 
and deduced certain conclusions iu respect to the taxonomy of the echi- 
noderms : 

" On the wall of the sacciform canal which surrounds the hydrophoral 
tube there is attached a probb'matic organ, which is prolonged beyond 
the sacciform canal, in such a way as to form two organs connected with 
the intestine, and giving off two lateral branches, which are in direct 
relation with the genital glands. This problematic organ, which has 
lately been called the chromatogeuous organ by Hamann, has in young 
Asterias hyadesi the form of a lateral conical prolongation of the peri- 
toneal membrane of the digestive sac, and it contains a large number of 
vitelline bodies identical with those of the wall of the sac. The lobes of 
its surface are continuous with the trabeculte which form the living basis 
of the skeleton of the star fish, and it dilates at its external surface into 
membranes, which envelop the hydrophoral tube. This collateral organ 



486 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

of the tube is tben not a heart, but the site of the production of elements, 
some of which, becoming free, form the corpuscles of the general cavity. 
The canaliculi of the madreporite are due to nothing more than the 
folding of the walls of the vibratile iufundibulum, by which the hydro- 
phoral tube opens to the exterior. Prof. Perrier is conviuced that the 
tube communicates at the point where it unites with the apex of the 
funnel with the cavity of the sacciform canal. If the canaliculi of the 
madreporic iilate only lead iuto the hydrophoral tube or its upper ex- 
pansion, the tube itself opens iuto the sacciform canal laterally, and 
sea water can thus pass into the lacunar spaces, which Hamann con- 
siders as a schizocoel, into the subambulacral cavities, and into the 
general cavity." 

Professor Perrier concludes that in star-flshes, "as in echinids and 
comatulids, sea water plays an important physiological part, but 
its course is not regulated by as complicated a system of irrigating 
canals ; from this it is deduced that the echinoderms are divisible into 
two great groups. Oue of these contains cystoidea, blastoidea, stelle- 
ridpe, and ophiurida, and the other crinoids, echinoids, and holo- 
thurians, and it is added that in this phylum, as in coelenterata and 
sponges, the penetration of water is a general phenomeuon, while it is 
rare in worms, arthropods, raollusks, and vertebrates. It is therefore 
concluded that the old division of De Blainville, with certain modifica- 
tions, may be retained, and that all animals may be divided into three 
great groups. Protozoa, Pbytozoa, and Artizoa." (Comptes Rendus 
Acad. Sc, cii, pp. 1146-1148; J. R. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 624, 625.) 

WORMS. 

General. 

Resemblances and differences of the nervous system of worms. — In con- 
nection with the observations on the development of the nemertean 
worm named Monopora vivipora, Prof. W. Salensky has considered the 
homologies of certain parts, and esi)ecially of the nervous system and 
proboscis of the nemertean, rhabdocoelous, and annelidan worms, and 
gives his views in a tabulated form, contrasting the various groups. 

The nervous system of the nemertines is contrasted with that of 
the annelids in one table : 



Nemertines. 


Annelids. 


Cephalic ganglia. 
Ventral commissure. 
Dorsal commissure. 
Lateral nerves. 
0. 


Cephalic ganglia. 
Dorsal commissure. 
0. 

Circni!icesophageal commissure. 
, Ventral ganglionic chain. 



ZOOLOGY. 487 

The proboscis and its adjuncts in the nemertines, as compared with 
the parts of the rhab^ocoeles, is explained in thp following terms : 



Rbabdoccela. 


Nemertiuea. 


Poncb of proboscis. 

Epiibelum of proboscis. 

luternal layer of muscular in- 
vestmeut. 

External layer of muscular iu- 
vestmeut. 

Eadial muscles of muscular in- 
vestment. 


> Vestibule of proboscis. 

\ Epithelum of proboscis. 
( Muscular layer of proboscis. 
Walls of tbe sheatli of proboscis. 

Muscular baud. 



(J. R. M. S. (2), V, pp. 811-813.) 

Conodonts. 

Nature of conodonts. — The peculiar small tooth-like organisms found in 
paleozoic rocks, and which have been named conodonts, have been again 
subjected to investigation by K. von Zittel and J. V. Eohon. These 
little bodies have been regarded, at least by some old authors, as the 
remains of vertebrates related to the myzonts or lampreys and hags. It 
IS not probable that this view is now entertained by any competent to 
have an opinion, but the nature of conodonts is still undetermined. The 
authors just referred to conclude that the structures iu question are 
neither related to the dentine teeth of true fishes or selachians, the 
horny teeth of cyclostomes or marsipobrancbiates, the teeth of mollusks, 
the beaks of cephalopods, nor the spines of crustaceans, but do iu form 
and structure closely resemble the oral armature of annelids or gephy- 
reans. This view has been previously enunciated, but the corroborative 
testimony aflbrded by independent observers is of interest. It is well 
added that if the view thus entertained be true, " there must have been 
in i^aleozoic times an immense number of very varied worm forms." 
(S.-B. k.-bayer. Akad. Wiss. Miiuchen, 1886, pp. 108-136, 2 pi.; J. R. M. 
S. (2), VI, p. 984.) 

Flatylielmintlis. 

Origin of the nervous system of the nemertine worms. — The morphology 
of the nemertine worms has been investigated by Prof. A. A. W. Hu- 
brecht. The information respecting the origination and development 
of the nervous system is of special interest. " ISTo portion of the central 
nervous system" of the chief species examined, Lineus obscurns, "takes 
its origin from either iirimary or secondary epiblast, but the whole 
nervous system is of mesoblastic origin. At first the archenteron com- 
municates with the euteron by a wide blastophore, but later on the 
cavity of that portion of the intestine which grows backwards is closed 
anteriorly, and in front of this another portion of the embryonic intes- 
tine constantly remains in open communication with the exterior ; the 



488 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

anterior foregut opens by a crescentic slit, and this would seem to be- 
come the moutb of the adult; in other words, there is no epiblastic 
stomodoeum ; part of the foregut becomes the oesophagus, and the rest 
appears to be converted into the nephridal system. The uephridia 
seem to long remain in a more or less embryonic phase, but their history 
is very difficult to make out, aiul is as yet only incompletely known. 

" The mesoblast cells, once freely moving about in the blastocoel, 
soon accumulate against the inner surface of the plates of secondary 
epiblast, and the mass increases in size. The process of difi'erentiation 
leads to the appearance of muscle and nerve cells at a very early date ; 
the mesoblast cells form a massive group in the prostomium, and a com- 
paratively thin cell-sheet in the rest of the body. 

" Unexpected as is the mesoblastic origin of the nervous system, there 
appears to be no doubt about it. Hubrecht, indeed, thinks that Salen- 
sky's figures of Ampliiporus viviparus point to the mesoblastic origin of 
the nervous system in that animal rather than the mode of origin ap- 
proved by Salensky." (Quart. Journ. Micr. Soc, xxvi, pp. 417-448, 1 pL; 
J. E. M. S. (2), VI, G, pp. G14, 615.) 

Cephalic pits of nemertines. — On the surface of the heads of nemer- 
tine worms are developed certain pits whose functions and nature have 
been long unknown. It has been recently suggested by M. Remy de 
Saint Loup that the cephalic pits maybe "strictly compared to the 
essential forms of the segmental organs" of the leeches, from which 
they only vary in structure and function" (sic!) It is also suggested 
that "they may serve as auditory organs, as an irrigating and respira- 
tory apparatus, or as a head -kidney." (Comptes Rendus Acad. Sc, cii, 
pp. 157G-1578; J. E. M. S. (i>), vi, p. 797.) 

Nematelminths. 

Relations of hair-icorms. — The elongated hair-like animals which are 
generally believed by common people to be vivified horse-hairs — the 
Gor<^ttfZ(c of naturalists — have been investigated by Prof. F. Vejdovsky. 
As the result of his investigation the professor concluded that " although 
the external form of the bod}' appears to ally the Gordiidce with the nema- 
toid worms, the rest of their organization is so different that they ought 
to be separated from that class of nemotohelmiuths, and brought into 
closer relations with the Anuulata; the presence of a true coelom and 
of mesenteries, as well as the highly developed central nervous system 
and the segmental arrangement of their glands, demand this change." 
The absence of the enteric fibrous layer to the enteric canal, in which 
the Gordiidae resemble the nematoid worms, " may be explained by the 
fact that the Gordiidte take in no food during their free-living stages, 
while the conditions of these parts are unknown in the younger and 
parasitic stages. As in the Annulata, the mesenteries arise by the dif- 
ferentiation of the epithelial layer of the coelom." 



ZOOLOGY. , 489 

As to the nervous system, "both developmentally and histologically, 
the ventral cord agrees" with that of the annulates. Although the 
peripheral system of the Gordiids is very differeut from that of the An- 
nulata, " it is not difficult to find homologies between the two." Other re- 
semblances are found by Dr. Vejdovsky in -'the structure of the body 
wall, the hypodermis of the Euchytraeidae being exactly like that of the 
Gordiidse; Polygordius, again, has, like Gordius (and the nematoids), 
no circular muscular layer." Also the structure of the muscular tissue 
is of the annulate and not of the nematoid types. The characteristics 
of the Gordiids, thus briefly hinted at, are sufiQcient, Professor Vejdovsky 
thinks, to entitle the Gordiids to be isolated as an independent order, 
and for this the name of Nematomorpha is proposed. (Zeitschr. f. wiss. 
Zool., XLiii, pp. 369-433, 2 pi. ; J. R. M. S. (2), vi, p. 988.) 

Myzostomids. 

The relations of the myeostomids. — The curious parasites of the crinoids 
known as myzostomids. and having some superficial resemblance to 
mites, have been examined as to their anatomy and histology by Mr. 
F. Nansen. Various peculiarities of the nervous system have been 
described as well as characteristic features of other parts, but for a 
knowledge of these reference must be made to the original memoir or 
to a full abstract in the Journal of the Royal Microscopic Society. It 
will be sufiBcient here to summarize the results of the investigations 
upon complemeutal males and the systematic position of the group. 

Complemental males were found in three »\)Q,cm^^ M. giganteum, M.gi- 
gas, and M. carpenteri. Such males are "similar in structure to the her- 
maphrodites, except that where the latter have ovaries, the males have 
tubes with slightly developed cells, so that they have a certain resem- 
blance to young ovaries ; the dorsal oviduct (uterus) is feebly, but the 
lateral oviducts are well developed. The author disagrees with Beard 
as to the secondary origin of the hermaphroditism of Myzostomida, in- 
asmuch as the dioecious species are the most parasitic, and the rudi- 
ments of testes in M. cysticolum appear to be rather remnants of an 
androgynous stage than budding developments of male organs." 

The systematic relations of the group, according to our author, are 
rather with the chaetopods, from which, nevertheless, they are suffi- 
ciently distinct. They also show "a tendency towards certain arach- 
nids fLinguatulida, Tardigrada, and perhaps Pycnogonida) and crusta- 
ceans." On the whole, however, it is believed by Mr. Nansen that the 
group is derived " from the Trochophora, and, among archiannelids, are 
related to Histriodrilus." (Bidrag til Myzostomernes Anatomi og His- 
tologi, Bergen, 1885 5 J. E. M. S. (2), Vi, pp. 019-621.) 



490 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

ARTHROPODS. 

Crustaceans. 

The land isopod crustaceans. — The isopod crustaceans found upon the 
laud, aud some of wbich are known un«ler the name of pill-bugs and 
sow-bugs among the English-speaking peoples, have been studied by Dr. 
Gustav Budde-Lund, and it seems that the species are quite numerous. 
Four families have been admitted by Dr. Budde-Lund for the species, 
and are named by him Onisci, Ligise, Tylides, and S.vspastidffi. By 
far the best represented of these families is that of the Onisci, or, as it 
is more generally called, the Oniscidse. Fourteen genera are recognized 
for the species, and these genera are segregated into two sections, (1) the 
Armadilloidea, including eight genera, and (2) the Oniscoidea, embrac- 
ing six genera, and iu addition two or three genera unknown to the author 
have been noticed. The largest of the genera is Porcellio, to which one 
hundred and four species are referred, of which eighty-two or eighty 
four are new, and to this succeed, so far as numbers are concerned, 
OniscuSy with twenty-six or twenty-eight new species, and Armadillo, 
with twenty-seven. The family of the Ligite or Ligiidae has eight gen- 
era and thirty-three well-determined and fourteen doubtful species; 
that of the Tylides or Tylidse, a single genus, with twelve species; that 
of the Syspastidje includes only a single species. The total number of 
species described as members of the four families is " four hundred and 
four or four hundred and ten, of which three hundred and twelve or 
three hundred and sixteen are good species, and ninety-two or ninety- 
four are species unknown to the author, or reputed species. The total 
number of genera is thirty-six, or (if some be accounted subgenera) 
twenty-five. (Crustacea isopoda terrestria per familias et genera et 
species descripta a Gustavo Budde Lund, Havniae, 1885; noticed in Ann. 
and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xvii, pp. 81-84.) 

Arachnids. 

Ant-lilce spiders. — The ants are mimicked by representations of va- 
rious groups of spiders as well a? of other orders of insects. Prof. T. 
Bertkau has called attention to a number of such cases. Very frequently 
the ant like appearance is entirely superficial and disappears on close 
examination. Numerous hemipterous insects, and especially the AJydus 
calcaratus, exemplify this kind of mimicry. The resemblance i^ the 
case of Alydus is, however, due chiefly to the median constriction of 
the body, the dark brown color, similarity of size, and the slight dif- 
ference of development between the head and tail. In the spiders 
the resemblance is often quite close. Among the Attidse the cephalo- 
thorax and the posterior part of the bodj^ are often proximately equal. 
In the Drassidae ''there are frequent instances of ant mimicry, as, for 
instance, in the genera Fhruolithus, and especially Micaria.^'' Among 



ZOOLOGY. . 491 

the Theridiidse a beautiful instance of mimicry is furnished by the ap- 
propriately named Formkina mutinensis. On elm trees resorted to by 
ants of the geiiem Lasiiis and Formica, an ant-like spider named Lascmla 
procox occurs, but " as the mimicry is exhibited only by the developed 
males, which eat but little, the resemblance must be" in this case 
" purely protective." 

The spider families Thomisidw and Epeiridw do not furnish any exam- 
ples of such mimicry, and indeed, according to Professor Bertkau, in 
those spiders "ant mimicry seems impossible." (Verhandl. naturh. 
Verein Rheinlauds, xliii, pp. 66-69 ; J. E. M. S. (2), vi, p. 977.) 

Insects. 

Fnfomogenoiis fungi. — Insects are not rare in which appendages of a 
cottony or silky structure, or rather reminding one of such, and borne 
on long i^eduncles, are seen growing through the joints of the body. 
These appendages are really fungi of various kinds. A genus of large 
size, and which, to a considerable extent, flourishes upon insects of 
various kinds, is the genus Cordyceps. Forty-seven species of this 
genus have been recorded by Professor Saccardo, of winch twenty three, 
or about 50 i)er cent., are found in larvae, and sixteen, or about 33 per 
cent., in perfect insects. In fact, the fungus is not so common in perfect 
insects as in the larvoe. Of the sixteen species occurring on the imago 
or i)erfect insect noticed by Saccardo, three are noted as having been 
found upon various species of ants; they are (1) Cordyceps unilateralism 
found on the Atta, ceplialota of Brazil; (2) Cordyceps australis on Pachy- 
condyla striata, also of Brazil; and, (3) Cordyceps my rmecophila on Myr- 
mica rnfa (as well as on an ichneumon and a beetle), in North America, 
Europe, Ceylon, and Borneo. The Cordyceps nnilateralis has been also 
found infesting another ant of Brazil, as well as two species collected 
by Mr. A. E. Wallace at a village on the island of Celebes. The Bra- 
zilian ant is Formica sexguttata. Eecently a new forraicogenous spe- 
cies of the genus, named Cordyceps Uoydli, has been described by Mr. 
William Fawcett; the ant on which the new Cordyceps was found has 
the appearance of being attacked by the fungus while it was alive. 
The growth of the fine threads of the mycelium through the body 
would in time kill it. (A. & M. Nat. Hist. (5), xviii, pp. 316-318.) 

Luminous beetles. — Among the elateroid beetles are some conspicu- 
ous for the light which emanates from their bodies. These luminous 
elaterids, according to Mr. E. Dubois, are the animals " which best 
lend themselves to physiological analysis," and consequently facts bear- 
ing upon the general theory of biological luminosity may be gathered 
from them. The luminous elaterids are mostly found between 30° south 
and 30° north latitude and between 40° and 180° of longitude. "The 
emission of light is intimately connected with an important physiologi- 
cal function, but in some rare cases there is no luminosity. The posi- 



492 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

tion, form, and powers of the luiniuous organs vary slightly in different 
species, and a few have no such organs. One of the most brilliant is 
Pyrophoriis nocfilucus, which has been especially studied by Mr. Du- 
bois." A preliminary anatomical examination compelled Mr. Dubois to 
make certain corrections of statements previously current in regard to 
the situation of the stigmata, the distribution of the tracheae, and the 
relations of the nervous system to the light producing organs. 

The luminiferous organs are " composed of a special adipose tissue and 
of certain accessory organs. Histochemical investigation revealed the 
presence of a body which presents the character of guanin. Intense his- 
tolysis takes place in the photogenous adipose tissue, the changes being 
provoked or stimulated by the i)enetration of blood into the luminous 
organs; the histolytic process is accompanied by the formation within 
the photogenic cell of a vast number of small crystalline agglomeraticjns 
of special optic properties, and especially remarkable for their double 
refraction." 

The blood, however, is " not indispensable for the production of light, 
forthe ovum is luminous even before segmentation, and the adipose photo- 
genic cell, when isolated, exhibits the same property: these facts point 
to a similarity between the substance of the adipose body and that of 
the vitellus. ^he larvae, hitherto unknown, have been by the author 
found to resemble those of other Elateridte, but are luminous. "At 
first they have but a single luminous organ, but this extends over all 
the segments, and is localized at the points where histolysis is most 
active. In the adult insect there are three luminous spots, which are 
so placed as to aid walking, swimming, and flying in obscurity. The 
muscles of the luminous organs regulate the supply of blood to the 
photogenic organs, and so have an indirect action on the production of 
light; the nerves act through the muscles; the photosensitive reflex 
action has its seat in the cerebroid ganglia; centrifugal irritation of 
the ganglia produces the appearance of light, but this is not the case 
with centripetal stimulation. Eespiration has only an indirect influence 
on the photogenic function, and this by maintaining the vital conditions 
of the blood and of the tissues ; the nature of the food has no influence 
on the production of animal light. The cell (the non-segmented ovum, 
or the adijiose cell) prepares the photogenic principles under the influ- 
ence of nutrition, but the light is not the direct result of the jjroper 
activity of the organized and living anatomical element. When the 
structure of this anatomical element and its vitality are destroyed, the 
luminous phenomenon can still be produced by a i)hysico-chemical ac- 
tion, similar to that which converts glycogen into sugar in the liver. 
Though the luminous organs of Pyrophorus are the most remarkable 
known to us, the organic expense is almost insignificant as compared 
with the effect produced ; so, too, the loss of energy is very slight, 
whereas in artificial light it may be as much as 98 per cent." 



ZOOLOGY. 493 

The causes of " the admirable economic superiority " are analyzed and 
the author summarizes them as follows: 

(1) "There are a number of chemical rays in this light, as may be 
shown by photography, but there is only a small proportion of them; 
the result must be ascribed to the existence of a Huorescent substance, 
which has been discovered in the blood of Pyrophoriis, and which, by 
])euetrating into the organ, gives it the special and brilliant character 
which distinguishes the light. The greater number of the chemical 
rays are transformed into very brilliant fluorescent rays of a medium 
wave length." 

(2) " Optic analysis shows that the light is in great part composed of 
rays similar to those which are found at those points of the spectrum 
where experience has fixed the maximum of illuminating intensity." 

(3) "There is no loss by heat radiation; the aniount of heat given 
off, even at the time of greatest activity, is infinitesimal." 

(4) "There is no reason for supposing that there is any conversion 
of energy into electricity." 

(5) "This marvellous light is physiological because it is of vital origin, 
and because no other source is as well adapted to the wants of the 
organ of vision in the animal series." (Bull. Soc. Zool. France, xi, 
pp. 1-275, 9 pi.; J. R. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 595-597.) 

Odoriferous apparatus of the bed-bng. — A large section ot insects of 
the great order of Hemiptera are notorious for the unpleasant odors 
which emanate from their bodies, and not the least notorious is the form 
too well known to many under the name of bed-bug. The allies of the 
bed-bug have mostly wings. In the early or larval condition they have 
three abdominal and dorsal glands, and these persist until the last 
change of skin; they then become atrophied; when their wings appear, 
a thoracic and sternal glandular apparatus becomes developed. Those 
species " which suck sap are therefore provided with two systems of 
organs of secretion, situated In two opposite parts of the body, accord- 
ing as they are in the state of larva or pupa, or in the adult state." 

" The presence, at different ages," says Mr. Kiinckel, " in the same 
insect, of glands having different anatomical relations, but possessing 
the same physiological attributes, is a fact which leads us to interesting 
deductions." We need not follow Mr, Kiinckel in these deductions, but 
simply record his observations on the bed bug. " Some naturalists," 
he remarks, " have thought that these creatures, when adult, repre- 
sented the pupa state of other Hemiptera, and that the number of moults 
justified their opinion ;" but according to Mr. Kiinckel, " the disappear- 
ance of the larval and pupal odoriferous glands coincides with the ap- 
pearance of new odoriferous glands, the exclusive appanage of the adult 
Hemiptera; then the (Jimices capable of reproduction and regarded as 
pup?e are not able after another moult to acquire wings ; they are creat- 
ures which have attained the last term of their development." In fine, 



494 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

according to Mr. Kiinckel, " the bed-bug, from the time of its hatching, 
in tbe state of larva and pupa, possesses three dorsal, abdominal, odor- 
iferous glands, which disappear in the last moult, and are replaced in 
the adult state by a metathoracic, sternal, glandular apimratus. The 
presence of this apparatus is a criterion which enables us to prove that 
the Clmex has comjileted its evolution." (0. E., 1886, July 5, p. 81 ; Ann. 
and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xviii, pp. 167-168.) 

Odoriferous apparatus of butterjlies. — The nature of the i)roduction of 
the various kinds of odors emitted by butterflies has been investigated 
and reported upon by Dr. E. IJaase. Some odors are common to both 
sexes, while others are restricted to one or the other. 

Those odors which are common to both of the sexes are of two cate- 
gories, (1) " those which depend on some definite ethereal oil resulting 
from the food of the caterpillar," and (2) those which are of use in the 
protection of the animal, and emitted against its enemies. 

The odors which are restricted to one of the sexes are " the various 
attracting and captivating smells of sexually mature males and females." 
These are especially manifested by the Bombycidpe, containing some of 
the large moths, when the odor of the female attracts males from a great 
distance. Without their olfactory autenn?e, itis believed, the males would 
be unable to find the females, and it.is to be noted that " the males are 
odoriferous only when the female is capable of flight." The fragrance 
is '• variously disposed, on scales of the wings, in thoracic pouches, in 
pouches on the posterior wings, etc. There are small odoriferous scales, 
usually occurring. They are generally protected, often associated with 
tufts of hair, which diffuse fragrance." The modifications of the odorif- 
erous apparatus, exemplified in various German and tropical Lepidop- 
tera, are noticed. (S.-B. naturf. Gesell. Isis, 1886, pp. 9, 10 ; J. R. M. S. 
(2), VI, pp. 969-970.) 

MOLLUSKS. 
Acephals. 

Poison of the edible mussel. — The poisonous qualities of the common 
table mussel have been investigated by Dr. G. Baumert and Mr. E. 
Salkowski. The poison of the mussel was found by Salkowski in a 
cold alcoholic extract of the substance of the molluskj watery extracts 
were also poisonous ; these results were obtained by physiological ex- 
periments. 

Chemical investigations were undertaken by Mr. Brieger, and it was 
shown that "there was a non-poisonous base, the specific mussel poison, 
an extremely poisonous substance which produced a copious flow of 
saliva and diarrhoea, but was not mortal, and a decomposition product 
of poisonous properties. The mussel poison appears to belong to the 
group of ptomaines, and is therefore a decomposition product of the 
llesh of the mussel. Dr. Schneidemiibl is of opinion that the liver is the 



ZOOLOGY. 495 

seat of the poison, therein agreeing with Salkowski." (Zeitschr. f. 
Naturwiss., lix, pp. GO-62 ; J. E. M. S. (2), vi, p. 587.) 

Pteropods. 

The food ofpte'^'opods. — In a memoir on the systematic relations and 
biology of pteropods, Dr. J. E. V. Boas, of Copenhagen, has given de- 
tails as to the food of seven si^ecies of j)teropods, i. e., Umacina halea^ 
L. Jielicina, Cleodora pyramidata, Ili/alcea trispinosn, Cuvierinacohimnella, 
and an undetermined si)ecies of Tiedmannia. The food of these species 
varies according to the temperature of the water in which the species 
abound; those found in warm water had a specially rich and varied 
assortment of food. The GIoMgerince and Acanthometrce, and other radi- 
olarians contributed to the food of most of the species. lufusorians 
were also largely partaken of, and especially a goodly portion of Tin- 
tiunoidea were found in almost all of the species.; cocospheres and dia- 
toms were also found in the food of several species. Very few animals 
or plants of a higher grade of organization formed any portion of the 
contents of the stomach. Only in two species were there found any 
remains of crustaceans ; in one fragments of a copepod being found, and 
in another remains of an undetermined crustacean. (Zool. Jahrbiicher, 
I, pp. 311-340.) 

Families of gymnosomatous pteropods. — A remarkable gymnosomatous 
pteropod was obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross 
off the coast of Carolina, in north latitude 38<^ 10', west longitude 74° 
15'. It measured S™'" in length, and has been made known by Mr. Paul 
Pelsener under the name Notohranchcea macdonaldii. It has the " body 
contracted behind, presenting only a posterior branchia formed by 
three crests (one dorsal and two lateral), of which the dorsal one 
alone is fringed ;" the anterior and posterior lobes of the foot are long 
and narrow and the former free for the posterior two thirds. These 
characters contrast in one or other respects with all the other repre- 
sentatives of the suborder, and have been regarded by Mr. Pelsener 
as of family value. The family is named Notobranchteidse. 

The other families of Gymnosomota are as follows : 

In the Pneumodermatidce, the visceral envelope presents a specialized 
branchial apparatus, and acetabuliferous buccal ajipendages are de- 
veloped. 

In the Clionopsida;, the visceral envelope presents a specialized bran- 
chial apparatus, but no acetabuliferous buccal appendages are devel- 
oped. 

In the CUonidw, the visceral envelope presents no special branchial 
apparatus, and the body is elongated and pointed beliind. 

In the HalopsycJmhe, the visceral envelope also i)reseuts no special 
branchial apparatus, but the body is ovoid and rounded behind. (Ann. 
and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xix, pp. 79, 80.) 



496 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Oasteropods. 

Nervous system of ctenohranchiate gasteropods. — In a memoir upon the 
nervous system of the scuti branchiate gasteropods, Mr. E. L. Bouvier 
has directed special attention to the character of the jiroboscidial com- 
missure. In a memoir upon the nervous system of the ctenohranchiate 
gasteropods he had maintained that the proboscidial commissure disap- 
pears, but that "there is another connective which is very characteristic. 
It is that which more or less distinctly connects the right commissural 
ganglion with thesubintestinal. This connective results from the anas- 
tomosis of the right pallial nerves, which issue from the right commis- 
sural and from the sub-intestinal ganglia. The author enumerates vari- 
ous forms in which this arrangement is found. In the Cerithiidfe the 
conversion of the anastomosis into a connective may be studied step by 
step. When once formed it varies very greatly in dimensions. On the 
left hand side the pallial nerve always retains its origin in the commis- 
sural ganglion, except in Ampullaria, when it is converted into a con- 
nective, going from the left commissural to the supra-intestinal gan- 
glion." (Comptes Keudus Acad. Sc. Paris, cm, pp. 938, 939 ; J. E. M. 
S. (2), 1887, p. 60.) 

Nervous system of scutibranchiate gasteropods. — The nervous system of 
various diceceous gasteropods of the groups Scutibranchiata, Aspido- 
oranchiata, and Cyclobranchiata has been investigated by Mr. E. L. 
Bouvier. He found that a number of them agree in certain characters 
and consequently proposed to combine them under a general heading as 
scutibranchs. The common characters are stated to be as follows : 

(1) "The cerebroid commissure is very long, so that the ganglia are 
set at the sides of the digestive tube; these ganglia are produced for- 
wards and below to form a strong ganglionic projection, which is united 
with that of the opposite side by a suboesophageal commissure; this 
cord is called the proboscidial commissure." 

(2) "The stomato-gastric system arises from the inferior point of the 
proboscidian i)rojection and forms a loop ; the two sympathetic ganglia 
are generally widely separated." 

(3) " The pedal ganglia are well developed and form pedal cords, 
while the principal nerves, witli which they are continuous, are almost 
always united by transverse commissures." 

(4) " The pallial ganglia are always more or less intimately connected 
with the pedal ganglia." 

Of these characters, the first two are regarded as being "primitive in 
nature," and the presence of the proboscidian commissure, described 
by Lacaze Duthiers \n Haliotis tuberculata, is maintained in contradiction 
of the statements of Bela Haller, who denied its existence. Other 
statements of Haller are likewise traversed by Mr. Bouvier. (Comptes 
Eendus Acad. Sc, cii, pp. 1177-1180; J. E. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 584, 585.) 



ZOOLOGY. 497 

Morphology of the ampnllariids. — The ampullariids or apple-snails are 
especially iuteresting on account of the union of a lung-like breathing 
apparatus with true brauchife, and this peculiarity is combined with 
some salient differences from other gasteropods in the development of 
various parts of the body. The Shell varies in different forms, being 
generally subglobose, but in some discoid and like a Flanorhis, and in 
others turreted and very much like the shell of the typical viviparids. 
The anatomy of such a type must therefore be always of interest. It 
has been investigate d again by Mr. E. L. Bouvier. An examination of 
the nervous system has shown that it is " bothchiastoreurous and zygo- 
neurous." The '' penis is an appeudageof the mantle, and is innervated 
by the right pallial nerve," an interesting fact, as it is "a very rare if 
not unique arrangement." The epipodium is supplied by the commis- 
sural ganglia, and not, as had been previously stated, by the pedal; it 
is consequently a derivative from the mantle, and it becomes thus mani- 
fest that " the so-called epipodial structures are not all of the same mor- 
phological significance, for some are appendages of the foot, and others 
of the mantle or body wall." 

As in the ctenobranchiates or gasteropods bearing pectinated gills 
generally, " the gill and false gill are innervated by the supra- intestinal 
branch of the commissure," and, on account of this mode of supply, " it 
may be concluded that in AmjniUaria and all other ctenobranchs, the 
gills are the homologues of the left gill and so-called olfactory organ 
of the zeugobranchs," and not of the right gill of the latter, as most 
anatomists have considered. Mr. Bouvier concludes that the systematic 
relations of the ampullariids are with the zygoneurous tsenioglossates, 
and that the family approaches most nearly to the calyptrseids. Whether 
this view will be generally accepted is perhaps doubtful. (0. R. Acad. 
Sc. Paris, cm, pp. 162-165; J. R. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 949, 950.) 

Cephalopods. 

Relations of the cephalopods. — In the discussion of the morphology 
and relationship of the cephalopods, Prof. 0. Grobben contends that 
those moUusks are most closely related to the scaphopods or dentaliids, 
and not to the pteropods, as has been thought by many to be the case. 
In his latest communication, he has devoted special attention to the in- 
nervation of the arms as well as their development, and to a compari- 
son of the type with Dentalium. 

In Professor Grobben's opinion, the arms certainly can not be consid- 
ered as modifications of the anterior portion of the foot, as is abundantly 
proved by the nerve supply. (1) '-The cerebral ganglion is continued 
downwards round the oesophagus," and " a portion of the suboesophagus, 
more apparently belonging to the pedal gauglou, really belongs to the 
cerebral." (2) "Of the nerve fibers supplying the arms, many undoubtedly 
terminate in the downward-directed portions of the brain, but others 
may be traced through the anterior and posterior lateral commissures 
H. Mis. 600 32 



498 KECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

into the posterior basal lobes of the cerebral gaugliou." The arm nerves 
and brachial gaugliou therefore owe their origiu, " uot to the pedal but to 
the cerebral gaugliou," aud von Ihering's suggestion that " the brachial 
was really a separate portion of the cerebral gaugliou," is thus cor- 
roborated. 

The comparison is especially interesting between the structure of 
Naiitilns aud Sepia on the one hand aud Dentalium ou the other. The 
body of Dentalium is so oriented that " of the two mantle apertures, the 
larger, through which the foot projects, is turned forward aud down- 
ward, while the narrower lies at the apical pole of the body. The mantle 
cavity occurs at the posterior side of the body." In connection with 
the superior mantle aperture in Dentalium, considerable space is devoted 
to the discussion of the origin and development of the mantle cavity 
and cleft. Finally, it is contended that the arms of cephalopods are 
homologous with and derived from the cirri of the scaphopod or deuta- 
lioid gasteropods, and special comparison is made with the tentacles of 
Nautilus, each tentacle of the nautilus being regarded as homologous 
with an arm. of a dibranchiate cephalopod. These conclusions will 
doubtless be dissented from by not a few morphologists. (Arbeit. zooL 
Inst. Univ. Wien, vii, pp. 61-82; J. E. M. S. (2), vi, pp. 950, 951.) 

Living cephalopods. — The recent cephalopods have been investigated 
by Mr. William Hoyle in connection with the specimens obtained by the 
Challenger expedition, and a monograph of those acquired by the great 
expedition, as well as " a catalogue of recent cephalopoda," has been 
published. 

Mr. Hoyle admits, in his catalogue, " three hundred and eighty-eight 
species, which are disposed in sixty-eight genera, aud these into four- 
teen families." Of these species at least sixty to seventy " have 
been inadequately characterized, so that it is unlikely that they could 
be recognized from the published descriptions, aud the same is true of 
several of the genera ; hence it may be said in round numbers that we 
are acquainted with the fifty or sixty recent genera, containing three 
hundred species. It is worthy of remark that twenty-nine, or half the 
genera, contain only one species each, while nearly oue-half the sjiecies 
one hundred and seventy, belong to the three genera Octopus, Sepia, 
and Loligoy 

The species have been considered by Hoyle with reference to their 
distribution and have been referred to three primary groups: (1) the 
pelagic ; (2) the abyssal; and (3) the littoral. Those of the first two cat- 
egories have been further associated together as "oceanic" species, and 
have been distributed in three groups " corresponding to the Atlantic, 
Pacific, and Indian (including the Southern) Oceans, rather from con- 
venience than from a belief that such a division is natural, although 
the great majority are confined to one area. The chief factor limiting 
their spread," according to Mr. Hoyle, "is i>robably temperature, though 



ZOOLOGY. 499 

doubtless other conditions, such as presenceof gulf weed, also have their 
influence." 

The littoral species or " those found in moderately shallow water not 
far from the coasts, whether they be active swimmers, like Loligo, or more 
sedentary, like Octopus, are much more restricted in their range than the 
oceanic." Such have been referred to a number of regions, which agree 
very closely with those proposed by Dr. Paul Fischer, in his recent 
"Manuel de Conchyliologie," based upon a study of all the mollusks. 
Seventeen regions of this character are admitted, and the species, so far 
as known, are distributed in the following manner : Confined to one 
littoral area, 199 species ; common to two littoral areas, 27 ; to three lit- 
toral areas, 12; to four littoral areas, 4; to five littoral areas, 1 ; to six 
littoral areas, 2 ; to ten littoral areas, 1. From these indications it ap- 
pears that 80 per cent, of the species, so far as known, are confined to 
one area, " a striking confirmation of the proposition that littoral 
forms in general belong to many species, each of which is confined 
within narrow limits." The oceanic types are also limited in their dis- 
tribution, as will appear from the exhibit tabulated by Mr. Hoyle. From 
one oceanic area, 66 species are known ; from two oceanic areas, 15 ; from 
three oceanic areas, 3. In fine, " about 75 per cent, of the oceanic forms 
are confined to one ocean, and cosmopolitan forms must be regarded as 
exceptional." 

Finally, "thirty-five species are recorded from both oceanic and lit- 
toral regions, but the majority of these are typically pelagic, and hence 
their occurrence in the latter areas must be regarded as accidental. 
Furthermore, it will be seen, that almost without exception, the littoral 
regions where a species has been found are those bordering upon its 
proper ocean, which is precisely what would have been expected." 

PROTOCHORDATES. 

Tunicates. 

The relations of the tunicates. — The mooted question as to the rela- 
tionships of the tunicates, and especially the degree to which they are 
connected with the vertebrates, has been again discussed. This has 
been done by Messrs. E. Van Beneden and C. Julin in a memoir on 
the morphology of the animals of that class. For knowledge of the de- 
tails we must refer to the original memoir and to the full abstract in 
the Journal of the Eoyal Microscopical Society. In this place the sug- 
gestions as to the systematic position of the group can alone be consid- 
ered : 

(1) The Urochordata or tunicates form, in connection with the Cepha- 
lochordata {%. e., Branchiostoma) and Vertebrata, a single primary 
group — the Chordata. 

(2) " The tunicates have, like the other two divisions, arisen from seg- 
mented euterocoelous organisms, like the archiaunelid worms. Animals 



500 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

like Protoclrili, but with dorsal chord, aud anterior respiratory diverti- 
cula from the gut, formed the commou starting point for the Chordata. 
In these Protochordata the jjosterior portion of the trunk is adapted 
more especially for locomotion, while the caudal region of the ancestral 
digestive tube has undergone progressive atrophy aud the vegetative 
functions have become more localized in the anterior part of the trunk. 
The transformation of one part of the segmented body of the vermiform 
ancestors has affected all the trunk, except the cephalic extremity and 
first segment of the body, in those forms whence the Urochordata have 
arisen." 

(3) " The affinities between TJro- and Cephalochordata are much closer 
than between either aud the Vertebrata." 

The manner in which the various groups have originated and the sup- 
posed degree of their relationship are exhibited in a scheme herewith 
presented: 

Cephalochordata. 
Vertebrata. 

Urochordata. 

Auuulata. 



Protochordata 




Protannulata. 



(Arch, de Biol., VI, pp. 237-47G, 9 pi.; J. R. M. S. (2), 1887, pp. 
62-05.) 

Classification of the tunicates. — The tuuicates have been variously sub- 
divided into orders, but according to M. F. Lahille all of these arrange- 
ments are more or less unnatural, aud in his opinion the best basis for 
a primary classification of the class is furnished by the development of 
the gills. "The Salpidte have a single row of holes on either side of 
their gill organs ;" the Doliolidfe are similarly characterized, but the holes 
are more developed as well as more numerous. The Didemnid£E have 
three rows, and, finally, the Leptoclinidae have four. In the "higher 
types the gill is larger, and is placed beside the intestine. In the Tha- 
liacea the respiratory organ is very simple and without papillae." 
Those forms, which are characterized by a simple gill, are grouped 
together under the name " Aplousobranchiata." Those in which " the 
gill is provided with longitudinal vessels " are grouped together under 
the name " Phlebobranchiata." Finally, those which " have longitudi- 
nal folds on the gills" are distinguished as " Stolidobranchiata." The 
progressive complication of the gill, it is affirmed, corresponds "to in- 
crease in the differentiation of the whole ascidian organism," and the 
proposed classification, it is urged, is therefore not the outcome of de- 
pendence on a single character, but the result of a coordination of 



ZOOLOGY. 501 

various systems. (Comptes Rendus Acad. Sc. Paris, cii, pp. 1573-1575 j 
J. E. M. S. (2), VI, pp. 777, 778.) 

VERTEBRATES. 

FAslies and fish- like forms. 

Factors in the geograpliical distrihution of American fresh-icater fishes. — 
Professors Jordan and Gilbert have published a " List of fishes collected 
in Arkansas, Indian Territory, and Texas," and have concluded with 
some general considerations on the distribution of the species : 

(1) Many species have been regarded as very local, but research has 
shown that some of them have " a very wide distribution in the West 
and South, and what is true of these species will very likely be found 
true of all these now known from only a few localities ; " such is espec- 
ially the case with the small percoid fishes named Etheostomin^e or 
Ethiostomatin?e. 

(2) " As our knowledge of the geographical range of a species widens, 
it becomes necessary to extend our ideas of the range of variation in- 
cluded by it, and we are compelled to admit under it geographical vari- 
eties or subspecies." Eventually, therefore, a trinomial nomenclature 
must be adopted in ichthyology, as has been done in ornithology. 

(3) "The environment and conditions of life being similar, the water 
communication being free, we have a similar fauna in regions widely 
separated." For example, the fishes of the Ozark region are substan- 
tially identical with those of the hilly regions of Tennessee. 

(4) "Free water communication is essential to a varied fauna," and 
"the larger a river system the greater" is the "number of species in 
each of its affluents," while, on the contrary, short streams emptying 
into the ocean have a comparatively meager fauna. 

The factors "favorable to the production in any stream of a large num- 
ber of fishes" are (1) "clear water;" (2) "a moderate current*," (3) "a 
bottom of gravel, preferably covered by a growth of weeds;" (4) " water 
not too cold and not stagnant;" (5) connection with a large hydro- 
graphic basin ; and (6) " little fluctuation in the year in volume of the 
stream or in the character of the water." 

The conditions enumerated, it is added, are " well realized in the 
Washita Eiver and in certain affluents of the Ohio and the Tennessee, 
and in these, among American streams, the greatest number of species 
has been recorded." (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886, pp. 1-25.) 

Selachians. 

Relations of the extinct Hyhodonts. — The Hybodonts were sharks 
numerous in the ancient seas, and which have generally been supposed 
to be closely related to the Cestracionts or Heterodontids, although 
much doubt has existed in the minds of some ichthyologists as to their 
exact affinities. Some remains of the lower jaw and the hyoid arches 



602 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

of a cretaceous species, Ryhodus duhrisiensis, have beea studied by Mr. 
A. Smith Woodward, of the British Museum, with reference to this 
question. Without going into details, it may be observed that Mr. 
Woodward thinks that "on the whole, the form of hyoid arch" devel- 
oped in this type bore " a greater resemblance to that of the Notidan- 
idse than to that of any other living family; it agrees in the fact that 
the hyomandibular and ceratohyal are most contracted at their i)oint 
of union, but the elements are somewhat stouter than those both of 
Eeptanchus and HexancliusP He concludes that "it must suffice at 
present to add that, though there are well preserved pterygo-quadrates" 
from both the different geological horizons in which remains of the 
skeleton have been found, " there appears to be none but the most un- 
certain evidence of an articular facette on the otic process in any; and 
if this observation can be confirmed it will become of considerable in- 
terest when taken in connection with the fact pointed out by Professor 
Huxley, that the postorbital articulation in the living Heptanchus is 
only acquired comparatively late in the development of the foetus. It 
is also interesting to note that one of the Liassic specimens exhibits 
traces of a persistent notochord, with the arches alone calcified, whereas 
in the cretaceous form," as has been shown by Mr. Woodward, "there 
are well differentiated centra." The differences between the anterior and 
posterior teeth are likewise more marked in Hybodus dubrisiensis than 
in any of the earlier species of which satisfactory remains are known. 
'•It would appear indeed that there is distinct evidence of specializa- 
tion, as the Hybodonts are traced through the Mesozoic period, and it is 
almost certain that future research in regard to structures other than 
teeth will lead to the subdivision of the multitudinous forms hitherto 
groui^ed under one generic name." (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1886, pp. 
218-224, pi. 20.) 

The question still remains an open one as to the degree of relation- 
ship of the Ilybodonts to the Heterodontids, for it is scarcely probable 
that there is any close relationship between the former and the Notid- 
anids. 

Fishes ])roper, or Teleostomes. 

Fishes with males larger than females. — It has been believed by some 
ichthyologists, and especially affirmed by Dr. Glinther, that " with re- 
gard to size, it appears that in all teleosteous fishes the female is larger 
than the male." This statement is altogether too general, and various 
exceptions are knowm. It is indeed possible that in a large proportion 
of those fishes whose males are distinguished by brilliancy of coloration 
or other striking secondary sexual characters, while the females are 
comparatively plain, the males are larger than the females. Such is 
the case at least with certain species of the family of Gobiesocids. These 
fishes are common in certain waters, although rather local and rare 
along the coasts of eastern America. Several species are however 



ZOOLOGY. 503 

found along' the British coasts, and in some localities some one or other 
may be quite abundant. The external appearance of some is also very 
striking. In the words of Mr. W. Anderson Smith, " Xo brush can give 
any adequate conception of the brilliance of Lepadogaster himaculatus 
from eight to twelve fathoms on scallop ground; or the vividness of 
coloring of the male of L. Decandolii in the breeding season. The pre- 
vailmg tone of this fish is a somewhat sober-tinted combination of olive- 
greens and grays. At the breeding time the female is much smaller^ 
less conspicuous in every way, and commonly marked with a band 
across between the eyes, which somewbat resembles the spectacle mark 
on the Cornish sucker of Couch— Z>. gouanii of Day. More timid, more 
active, slighter built, and more sober-tinted, the female might well have 
been supposed to be a different species from its brilliant companion, 
whose bright carmine spots on the dorsal fin commonly give him a suffi- 
ciently distinctive appearance." 

The species oi Lepadogaster are known, in common with other repre- 
sentatives of the family, as well as those of the family Liparididse, as 
suckers, on accoiint of the development on the breast or the ventral 
fins as a suctorial apparatus by means of which they attach themselves 
to stones and other substances, remaining fixed, as for example, a boy's 
sucker does when likewise applied. Tliis characteristic seems to be a 
<}0-ordinate of other organs in tbe structure of the species so distin- 
guislied. "It would appear," says Mr. W. A. Smith, "as if a slender 
body and weak vertebrate system had developed" a "habit of clinging 
to tbe sea-ware and sea bottom that stimulated the pectoral region to 
meet the necessities of the situation, and in the case of Lepadogaster to 
cushion itself, the pectoral fins curving around the swelling bosom of the 
fish. Between these cushions depressions were left, and these proving 
very advantageous to the fish by their sucker action, the advantage was 
pursued by nature and transmitted." Differences prevail and specializa- 
tion of various kinds supervene. "Although the small cushion-like 
disks of Cyclopterm and Liparis are the truest suckers, yet the species of 
Lepadogaster are perhaps the most truly sucker fish. This especially 
applies to L. Decandolii (Day), which is really a sucker fish all the way 
forward from the sucker proper itself; two thirds of its length, and prac- 
tically three-fourths of its weight and horizontal surface, is a sucker. 
By sucking up its lower jaw, and allowing its cartilaginous frame- work 
to rest on any object, the front jaw adds its sucking action to the sucker 
proper. This is aided by the plentiful discharge of mucus, in which 
the species emulates the unctuous sucker, L. linearis [Liparis vulgarisy^ 

Tbe movements of the sucker-fishes are uncertain, and it is difficult 
to account for their changes. " At one time they will be comparatively 
common under stones on a certain piece of foreshore at low spring tide; 
and again they may be searched for in vain even in the same season of 
the year." This difference was supposed by Mr. W. A. Smith to be due 
to the prevalence or absence of rough water. 



504 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

The Scottish species of Lepadogaster spawn in June and July. The 
eggs of all are large compared with the fish, and this, Mr. W. A. Smith 
adds, " may be said as a rule of shore fishes whose ova are compara- 
tively few in number and more carefully watched over and tended by 
the parents. The eggs indeed of Lepadogaster may be readily counted^ 
and average about one hundred and fifty." They are generally depos- 
ited in regular layers within the empty shells of scallops, and are usually 
" accompanied by the parent, curled up inside the shell, watching over 
the j)rogress of their progeny ; and if the dredge should bring up a shell 
thus supplied with ova from eight to twelve fathoms off scallop ground, 
if the fish is not in the shell, it is almost sure to be in the other contents 
of the dredge, showing it had either come out in the capture, or been 
watching close by." 

It is nearly a month before the eggs of the Lepadogaater Decandolii 
are hatched, and the young then has " no sign of a sucker or the con- 
comitant habits;" they are indeed "extremely active." The "develop- 
ment of the muscles that act upon the pectoral region are merely em- 
bryonic at forty-six days old," and it is not until some time afterwards 
that the suctorial apparatus is completely developed. (Proc. R. Physi- 
cal Soc. Edinburgh, 1885-'86, pp. 143-150.) 

Variations in oviposition of CalUchthyoid fishes. — It had long been 
known that the Hoplosternum (or Callichthys) littoralis makes a nest and 
takes assiduous care of its young. Additional information has been 
recently given by Capt. J. A. M. Vipan, in observations made on 
fishes from Trinidad and preserved in the aquarium at his house in 
England. Two individuals " commenced making a nest on June 6 but 
that " and another they made three days later they soon pulled to 
ineces. " On the night of the 11th they began a new one ; it consisted 
of pieces of Vallisneria, of the leaves of Nympliwa that were growing 
in the tank, which they bit oft" close to the roots of the plants, and a 
great quantity of river-moss {Fontinalis antipyretiea)^ each i)iece being 
two or three times the size of the fish, so that it must have had hard 
work to bring them to the surface. They worked these materials 
together by some mucous substance until the outside was bard, the 
whole being under a quarter of an inch thick ; they next buoyed up the 
structure with a quantity of mucous foam until it was raised 3J inches 
above the water. The whole nest was 9 inches long and 7 inches wide, 
and somewhat resembled a finger-glass turned upside down on the top 
of the water, with the interior filled with froth. The fish kept swim- 
ming close under it all the time on their backs, and filling it with foam 
when finished. On the 12th the female shed her spawn between her 
ventral fins, which were clasped right together, and, when full, swam 
to the nest, and, turning on her back, deposited the spawn in it; this 
occurred several times, the male each time putting the spawn in its 
proper place and covering it with froth. As soon as the female had 



ZOOLOGY. 505 

dropped all her spawn the male took entire possession of the nest and 
would not let his mate go anywhere near it, and treated her so badly " 
that Captain Vipan had to '' place her in another tank to save her life. 
Unfortunately the spawn was not good, only a few eggs hatching, 
and the young fishes dying soon afterwards." 

Captain Vipan adds some interesting information relative to a small 
species of a genus allied to the Eoplosternum, the Gorydoras (or Callich- 
tliys) punctatus. He bred large numbers of that little fish obtained from 
the Amazon, but "they never made the slightest attempt at making a 
nest, always depositing their spawn all over the tank, and even on the 
floating thermometer kept in it." He does not mention whether the 
male guarded the eggs, and it might be inferred indeed that such was 
not the case. Such neglect, however, would be excei)tional among the 
Nematognathous fishes, inasmuch as the male almost always takes care 
of the eggs during maturation. (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1886, i)p. 330, 
331.) 

The constituents of white hait. — The nature of the famous English lux- 
ury known as " white-bait" was for a long time doubtful. In the earlier 
part of the century it was generally referred to a i^eculiar species of the 
family of Clupeids, and the English naturalist Tarrell described it as a 
new species under the name Clupea alba, Sbud hyeven such a distinguished 
ichthyologist as Valenciennes this view was not only accepted but the 
supposititious species was regarded as being a representative of a dis- 
tinct genus, Bogenia, and consequently the Rogenia alba was inscribed 
for some time in the books as a specific name of the white-bait. Later 
the white-bait was very generally considered to be simply the young of 
the common herring. Still later observations, however, indicated that 
the problem was not to be so easily solved, and that the name white- 
bait, instead of indicating any specific fish, was rather a generic term 
under which various small fishes were combined, and recent investi- 
gation has been made by Prof. J. C. Ewart, who examined specimens 
obtained in the London markets for several mouths, from the middle 
of February to the middle of August, 1885. The results of this inves- 
tigation are interesting and noteworthy. During February, out of 
fourteen hundred specimens examined, 93 per cent, were sprats and 
only 7 per cent herring; during March, of twelve hundred specimens 
examined, 95 per cent, were sprats and 5 per cent, herring; in April^ 
of eight hundred specimens 86 per cent, were sprats and 14 per cent, 
herring ; in May, of six hundred specimens 70 i^er cent, were sprats and 
30 per cent, herring; in June, of eight hundred specimens 87 per cent, 
were herring and 13 per cent, sprats ; in July, of six hundred specimens 
75 per cent, were herring and 25 per cent, sprats ; and in August, of 
five hundred specimens 52 per cent, were herring and 48 per cent, sprats. 
The specimens varied in length from about 1 inch to 3, but averaged ia 
the neighborhood of 2. 



506 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

The results thus obtained conclusively demonstrate that the nature 
of white-bait varies considerably; sometimes it consists almost entirely 
of sprats, while at other times it consists chiefly of herring ; and not 
only does it vary as to the number of sprats and herring, but also in the 
size of these fish. " In February and March the white bait in the Lou- 
don market was almost entirely made up of about half-grown sprats; in 
April the white bait was smaller and the number of herring had con- 
siderably increasetl ; in May, June, and July the white bait was almost 
entirely composed of small fish, many of them with only a few scales, 
and undoubtedly young herring." In August the herring were larger 
and fewer in number, while the sprats were considerably smaller. From 
the figures given, it will be evident that the white bait examined during 
the six mouths consisted of about 60 per cent, of sprats and about 40 
per cent, herring, the sprats diminishing from 93 per cent, in February 
to 13 per cent, in June, and rising again to 48 per cent, in August; the 
herring rising from 7 por cent, in February to 87 per cent, in June, and 
falling to 52 per cent, in August." It is also noteworthy that in all the 
lots examined by Professor Ewart, there were a few small fish that be- 
longed to neither the herring nor sprat species; there were, e. g., gobies, 
small i)ii)e-fish, sand-eels, and conger eels, and, in addition to both, there 
were often shrimps and specimens of Beroe, and on one occasion a small 
octopus," 

In view of these facts, it is evident that white bait can be enjoyed 
Wherever the young of the clupeids can be obtained in sufificent abund- 
ance, and that even small fish or the young of other fishes can be admin- 
istered as white bait. If it is desirable, then, white-bait dinners can be 
as readily provided for in the United States as in England. The white- 
bait dinner is indeed simply a matter of fashion, but the strength of 
this is shown by the fact that in Scotland, for example, when they were 
^' spreading tons of absolutely fresh whitebait taken from the Forth " 
on the fields and " sending still larger quantities from the Tay to be 
manufactured into manure at Montrose," they were at the same time 
importing white bait at a considerable cost from London. (Proc. R. 
Physical Soc. Edinburgh, 1885-'86, pp. 78-81.) 

A neio Fediculate fish of tlie family Ceratiidce. — A group of remarkable 
deei) sea fishes of the order Pediculati, to which a number of forms have 
been added within the past few years, has received another notable ad- 
dition during the past year. A single specimen, about 2 inches (49™™) 
long, was obtained by Capt. P. Andresen, a Norwegian sailing-master, 
in May, 1877, "floating in the sea," near the island of Madeira, and was 
presented to the museum of the Christiania University. It has, how- 
ever, only been lately described by Prof. Robert Collett. Like so many 
of the other deep-sea forms, the new fish, has a very deeply cleft mouth 
armed with enormously long teeth at the front; its head is very large, 
and the deeply cleft mouth but moderately oblique; the body is com- 



ZOOLOGY. 507 

pressed and the "skin smooth; the spinous dorsal fin, is reduced to a 
single cephalic tentacle, the basal part of which is erect, not procum- 
bent ; " the soft dorsal and anal are very far back near the caudal and 
even more reduced than usual, the dorsal having only three unbranched 
rays and the anal two. But what especially distinguishes the new 
fish from its relations is the development of a long tentacle from the 
throat; the tentacle originates between the rami of the lower jaw "at 
a distance from the symphj^sis about equal to half the length of the 
jaw, " and is " nearly three times and a half as long as the tentacle on 
the snout," extending a distance equal to that " from the front of the 
eye to the root of the caudal fin ; it is thinner than the cephalic spine, 
.and divides itself at the end into two short, i)oiuted blades, the length 
of each being 6™". Whilst the tentacle otherwise is black, the inner 
edges of these blades are white, like the upper half of the snout ten- 
tacle, and are furnished with a row of round papilliie, about thirty 
on each, resembling a chain of pearls. These small bodies undoubtedly 
have a use, either as organs of sense or as the source of a phosphor- 
escent light." As usual in the family, the color of the new fish is "jet- 
black, with the exception of the upper half of the bulb of the tentacle 
on the snout and the inner margins of the ends of the guttural tenta- 
cle, which are white, but which in the living fish have probably been 
silvery and phosphorescent." 

The fish thus distinguished has been named by Prof. CoUett Linophryne 
Incifer, and would be regarded by some ichthyologists as the represent- 
ative of a new subfamily within the family Ceratiidse, to be named Lino- 
phrynince. 

Captain Andresen was on a voyage to the West Indies when he saw 
the fish. " He was capturing turtle in his boat; there was a heavy 
swell, but the water was smooth. After a time he caught sight of this 
little black fish, which lay on the surface quite alive, but almost mo- 
tionless, which was not surprising when it was discovered that it had 
just swallowed a fish larger than itself. It did not lie on its side, but 
was apparently unable to swim. By getting the bailer under it he lifted 
it out with ease, and in order to keep it fresh he gave up his search for 
turtle and rowed back to the ship, where it was placed in spirit for 
preservation." The fish contained in the stomach was " one-half 
longer" than its captor, and belonged to the family Scopelidse. (Prpc. 
Zool. Soc. London, 1886, pp. 138-143, pi. 15.) 

Amphibians. 

Recent additions to the amphibians. — In 1882 Dr. Gr. A. Boulenger pub- 
lished his catalogues of all the existing amphibians. Recently he bas 
given the "first report on additions to the batrachian collection in the 
Natural History Museum," and it appears therefrom that sixty-three 
species of ecaudate amphibians (frogs, toads, etc.), four species of cau- 
date (salamanders), and seven species of ajjodal amphibians (coecilians) 



508 EECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

have been added since that time. The largest proportion of them have 
been described since 18S2. Forty-five of the new species are represented 
by the types In the British Museum. (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1886, 
pp. 411-416, pi. 39.) 

Varieties of ovipositon among the tailless amphibians. — Great variety 
of oviposition is manifested by the tailless amphibiaus, and a very use- 
ful resume of the information that has been collected up to the present 
time has been published by Dr. G. A. Boulenger, in connection with 
some observations by Dr. H. von Ihering '' on the oviposition in Phyl- 
lomedusa." Most of the anurans lay their eggs in the water, but the 
exceptions are numerous and some of them very siugular. Dr. Boulenger 
groups the eggs i)rimarily into those in which the ovum is very small, 
in contradistinction from others in which the yelk-sack is very large. 

In some " the ovum is small, and the larva leaves it in a compara- 
tively early embryonic condition." Such are the ova of the great ma- 
jority of the anurans. (1) Further, in most cases, they are laid di- 
rectly in the water ; all of the European types except of the genus Alytes 
display this mode of oviposition. (2) But by a few species "the ova 
are dewosited out of the water." {a) Certain South- American species 
deposit i^hem " in holes on the banks of pools, which become filled with 
water afttr heavy rain," whereby the larvae are liberated. The species 
so distinguished, as far as known, are Leptodactylus oceUatus, Leptodac- 
tylus 7nystacim(s, and Paliidicola gracilis, (b) A couple of other species 
likewise deposit their eggs out of the water, but instead of in holes, on 
the leaves of trees hanging over the water, so that the larvse may drop 
down into the water after leaving the egg. One of the species thus 
distinguished is the Chiromantis rufescens^ of West Africa, and another 
the Phyllomedusa Iheringii, of southern Brazil. 

In other anurans " the yelk-sack is very large and the young under- 
goes the whole or part of the metamorphosis within the Ggg', at any 
rate, the larva does not assume an independent existence until after the 
loss of the external gills." 

In some of these " the ova are deposited in damp situations, or on 
leaves, and the embryo leaves the egg in the perfect air-breathing 
form." Such are a true frog, Rana ojyisthodon, of South America, and 
a tree-frog, Hylodes martinicensis, of the island of Martinique. 

In other cases " the ova are carried by the parent." 

The parent in some instances is the male, {a) By the male of one 
species the eggs are carried in a chain " around the legs," while " the 
young leaves the egg in the tadpole state." Such a phase is manifested 
by the Alytes obstetricans of Europe. (6) In another instance the male 
takes care of the egg, but in another and very remarkable manner, for 
the eggs are carried about in a gular sack, which is simply a modification 
of the vocal, and " the young is expelled in the perfect state," such as 
the Rhinodenna. 



ZOOLOGY. 509 

In other cases it is the female that assumes the role of custodian to 
the eggs. 

In one case the female carries the eggs " attached to the belly;" the 
Bhacophorus reticulatus of India is the only known species in which this 
method is manifested. 

In another and long known species, the Pipa surinaniensis, the eggs 
are "attached to the back of the female by the male, and her skin 
develops into cells for their reception, wherein the young complete their 
metamorphosis within the egg.''^ 

Equally remarkable instances of the carriage of the eggs on the back 
of the mother are furnished by the toads of the family Hylidoe and genus 
Nototrema. In all of these a special dorsal pouch is developed, and it is 
in allusion to this that the name Nototrema has been given. The species 
vary, however, in the extent to which they carry the young. In one 
form, the Nototrema marsupiatum, " the young leaves the pouch in the 
tadpole state," while in two other species, Nototrema, testudineum and 
Nototrema oviferum, the young remain in the pouch until they have at- 
tained their natural form and are only then expelled. (Ann. and Mag. 
Nat. Hist. (5), xvii, pp. 461-464.) 

Reptiles. 

A remarTiahle Tortoise, — The fauna of Papua, or New Guinea, has fur- 
nished within the last decade some very remarkable previously unknown 
types to naturalists, and not the least interesting of them is a new gen- 
eric type of tortoises made known during the past year by Prof. E. P. 
Eamsay, of Sydney, New South Wales. The new type is referred to the 
family Trionychidae, and, indeed, in a preliminary communication, the 
species was noticed as a member of the genus Gyclanosteus. The 
perusal of the description and an examination of the plate, however, 
show that its affinities to any of the known tortoises are very slight, and 
that it is not only not referable to any previously described genus, but 
should be kept apart from the family Trionychidse at least. The cara- 
pace,oruppershe]l,is'''sbield-shaped, rounded, and high in front, pointed 
and keeled behind, and the plastron, or lower shell, is composed of 
*'nine shields rounded anteriorly and posteriorly, the second and third 
pairs anchylosed to the marginals." In detail, " the plastron or ventral 
shield is flat, of nine plates," and the second, third, and fonrth pairs of 
plates have a straight median suture, while the second and third pairs 
are anchylosed to the fourth and seventh marginals ; " the whole of the 
plates of the carapace and sternum are covered with small round, raised 
rugations, or wavy irregular raised lines between shallow sculptures, 
towards the lower borders on the sides. These take an elongated form, 
sometimes parallel to the sutures." There are no scxites. 

The head of the animal is "large, subquadrangular, narrowed ante- 
riorly," and covered by six (?) plates, which are "anchylosed" and 



510 RECOED OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

"rugose J " the nostrils are "anterior," and the "jaws naked, with sharp 
cutting edges, the lower curved," and not notched. 

What is especially remarkable, however, is the character and form of 
the members. The arms are "elongate, narrow, compressed, ridged 
on their rounded anterior portion, with narrow plates," and the nails 
are "free on first two digits only," the rest being "without nails and 
strongly webbed, the tips flattened," and " the third the longest." The 
hind legs are " short," and the first two toes have " strong, sharp nails," 
which nails are alone free, the rest of the toes being " strongly webbed 
to the tips." 

The tortoise thus distinguished was obtained in the Fly Eiver, and 
was a female of large size, the total horizontal length of the carapace 
being 18 inches, and along the curve of the back 19 inches, while the 
head and neck were about 7 inches long. 

From the paragraphs of the description thus selected, it is not evident 
why the new tortoise should have been referred to the family of Triony- 
chidse. Apparently the only reason was because the scutes were not 
developed, and consequently a rudimentary or tense skin alone invested 
the bones. The differences manifested from all the Trionychidie, how- 
ever, are very great, and in the classification lately proposed or adopted 
by Professors Oope and Dollo it would belong to a different section of 
the order. In fact, assuming that the tortoise is a cryptodire, according 
to the classifications adopted by those gentlemen it would enter into 
the group of Clidosterna or Clidoplastra, inasmuch as the plastron 
unites " with the costal bones of the carapace by suture, with ascending 
axillary and inguinal buttresses." 

But the assumption that the tortoise is a cryptodire is itself some- 
what violent, and in view of the geographical distribution of the order 
to which it belongs it may quite likely prove to be a cryptodire. 

But whatever may be the relations of the new genus, whether to the 
cryi^todirous or pleurodirous tortoises, it has many quite peculiar char- 
acters. From all known forms it is apparently distinguished by the ab- 
sence of scuta, the peculiar feet, and other characters. Undoubtedly, 
therefore, the new genus does not belong to any of the established mod- 
ern families, and apparently not to any of the extinct ones named, al- 
though Avhen more is known of Carettochelys, as well as the extinct forms, 
it may turn out that the Papuan animal is related to one of the fami- 
lies now regarded as extinct. Meanwhile, it will be better to isolate 
the genus, and regard it as the type of a peculiar family. This family 
of Carettochelyidne has a "clidosterual" shell destitute of scuta; the 
carapace has six vertebral plates separated from each other by inter- 
vening costals, eight costal plates, the last two of which are connected 
mesially by the entire borders (no vertebral plates intervening), and 
ten pairs of marginal plates, as well as a nuchal and a pygal. The 
plastron is composed of nine plates, completely ossified and leaving no 
fontanelle, an "interclavicle" or mesosternal beinsf well developed. The 



ZOOLOGY. 511 

head is wide and blunt in front, and tbe jaws are uncovered by lips. 
The feet are pinuiforra, with the first and second digits short and en- 
tirely involved in the skin, leaving only the claws exposed, while the 
third (which is the longest) and the succeeding have the last two pha- 
langes elongated and exserted,but connected by an extensive web, and 
destitute of claws. (Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales (3), i, pp. 158-162, 
pi. 3-6.)* 

A family of Lizards new for tlie American fauna. — In Asia there are a 
few lizards having the eye entirely concealed by the skin, and with the 
tongue scaly, constituting the family of Auelytropidae. Their life is 
mainly subterranean, and consequently they rarely come within the field 
of observation, unless specially sought for. In the examination of a 
collection of reptiles made by the geographical and exploring commis- 
sion of the Republic of Mexico, Professor Cope detected a specimen evi- 
dently belonging to this family, which he has described as a new generic 
type, under the name Anelytropsis papillosiis. The importance of this 
discovery, he thinks, " is considerable, as it shows that the scincoid 
lizards have undergone in the New World the same degenerative pro- 
cesses as in the Old World, and in the same way. This is a new fact, 
even supposing that the Aniellidse of America are a degenerate form of 
the same family, which is not probable. Dr. Boulenger believes that 
that family is a degenerate type of the Auguid stem," and with this 
view Professor Cope is disposed to concur. Anelyptropsis, according to 
Professor Cope, is "a degree further down in the scale than Aniella, in 
having the epidermis absolutely continuous over the eye, as in other 
members of the family of Anelytropidae, and as in the Typhlopoid family 
of snakes." (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886, p. 196.) 

The feat of an amphisbcenoid lizard. — A singular instance of the ex- 
cavating powers and vitality of an amphisbaenoid has been noticed by 
Dr. Boulenger, the keeper of the department of reptiles in the British 
Museum. A coral snake {Elaps lemniscatus) was found with an amphis- 
baenoid, a species known as Lepidosfernon polystegum, projecting from a 
hole in the anterior half of the body, while the posterior part protruded 
from the mouth of the snake. "The Lepidosternon had been swallowed 
headforemost by the snake, and had, apparentl.y by means of its sharp- 
edged cutting snout, partly forced its way out of tbe body of its enemy, 
making its escape 3 inches from the mouth." (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 
1885, pp. 327-328; Am. Nat., XX, p. 178, Feb., 1886.) 

Uarth- SnaJces of India. — A group of curious snakes is found in India 
and are peculiar to the main-land and the island of Ceylon, where they 

*Pos<scryjt— After this report had beeu prepared, the "Anuals and Magazine of 
Natural History" for March, 1887, was received, and in it is an article by Dr. Boulenger 
"On a new family of Pleurodirian turtles" (xix, pp. 170-172), in which Carettocbelys 
is declared to be a Pleurodirian, and the representative of a peculiar family (Caret- 
tochelydidai). The more correct form is Charettochelydae, (^eAiif, ;i;eAwc.) Dr. Bou- 
lenger only knew the form through the description and figure above referred to. 



512 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

are chiefly known as earth snakes ; the scientific name is Uropelticlse. 
They are almost worm-like in appearance and have a cylindrical body 
and a small head not distinct from the neck, small eyes, and the cleft of 
the mouth is of moderate width or much more restricted than in ordi- 
nary snakes. The tail is very short and truncated and terminates in "a 
rough shield, which is rounded, square, and more or less bicuspid, or 
flat with the caudal scales more or less keeled, or somewhat tapering, 
with a small terminal scute, which is 1 — 2 pointed, or with a horizontal 
ridge." It is in allusion to this terminal shield that the name Uropel- 
tidaB owes its origin. The species of the family have their headquarters 
in "the western ranges of mountains from the Canara to Cape Comorin, 
only one species having been found on the mountains of the east coast, 
and only three north of the Kudra Mukh in South Canara, on the west 
side; some few only are widely distributed, others are exceedingly local 
and appear to be very rare in their localities." The species are further 
" peculiar to the mountainous districts or to the heavy forests at the 
immediate foot of the mountains." In such places, "they burrow into 
the ground, and are often dug up about coftee and tea estates ; but they 
can always be collected by turning over logs and large stones in the 
forest, and even on the grass land at high elevation, and during the 
rainy season they are not unfrequenfly found along the roads. They 
are generally of small size (about 1 foot long) with a girth of scarcely 
an inch." The greatest length as yet known was reached by a Silybura, 
and was 24 inches. The maximum girth (3 inches) was realized in an- 
other species of the genus Uropeltis. "They never attempt to bite, how- 
ever much they may be handled or teased ; they will at once twine them- 
selves tightly round a stick, and can be carried along without their at- 
tempting to escape. They are all ovoviviparous; they live almost en^ 
tirely upon earth worms." The various species have been collected and 
comparatively studied by Col. K. H. Beddome, and he recognizes seven 
generic types and thirty-nine species ; of these most have the tail trun- 
cated, but in several it tapers backwards. The genera are chiefly marked 
by peculiarities of the caudal or terminal shields. Nineteen of the spe- 
cies belong to one genus (Silybura), while only one is recognized of the 
typical genus (Uropeltis). (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xvii, pp. 
3-33.) 

Birds. 

The cubital coverts of birds. — Along the preaxillary portions of the 
wings of birds, or close by the bones of the arm, are develoi)ed small 
feathers more or less imbricated, known as cubital coverts. " A refer- 
ence to the wing of the Golden Plover, a central type, and one that 
in itself represents all the leading modifications," says Mr. Goodchild, 
" may help to make the nomenclature" used by him the "more intel- 
ligible." The " terms used referred mainly to the relations of various 
parts of the wings to each other and to the body axis, when the wing is 



ZOOLOGY. 513 

extended and is viewed from the dorsal or upper surface. The wing- 
surface is primarily divided into the manual (primary) region and the 
cubital (secondary) region, this last embracing all the feathers that 
originate from any part of the forearm or cubitus." Of the manual re- 
gion, Mr. Goodchild has nothing to say. " In the cubital region the 
remiges, and the greater coverts that come on next above them, are uni- 
form in disposition in all carinate birds. In these feathers the overlap 
is uniformly distal ; that is to say, the several feathers are disposed in 
such a manner that the outer free edges of those nearer the vertebral 
axis overlap the inner edges of those originating near the distal • ex- 
tremity of the wing. The same observation applies also (but with some 
minor modifications of detail) to the lesser coverts, or those feathers that 
mainly originate in the patagium, and that extend along the anterior 
border of the wing from the humeral fold to the carpal joint. The re- 
maining feathers, which are generally comprehended under the term 
median coverts, vary considerably in both their direction of imbrication 
and in the number of rows thai run parallel to the greater coverts in 
each case." The object of Mr. Goodchild was to consider " the nature 
and the extent of the variation referred to, without regard to the 
morphological details of any other kind soever." Many of the facts 
signalized by him " have either not been noticed, or else, if they 
have been noticed, their significance appears to have been missed." 
For convenience of description, the tract occupied by the median cov- 
erts has been divided by Mr. Goodchild into " three areas by lines 
parallel to the main direction of the cubital quills." (1) The area near- 
est the vertebral axis is referred to as " the proximal area;" (2) that 
next is called the " middle area," and (3) the remaining " up to the 
distal border next the manual region" is distinguished as the "distal 
area." The " rows of feathers composing the median coverts range, in 
a general way, i)arallel with the greater coverts ; the number of rows 
varies from one to six, or even more, in different forms of birds ; and 
the row nearest the greater coverts is the one most subject to variation 
in the disposition of the feathers composing it." 

Many of the results reached by Mr. Goodchild in his investigations 
are interesting. While some bring additional confirmation to the views 
accepted by systematists of the relations of various birds, others con- 
travene such views and mny possibly indicate affinities other than have 
been accepted. 

The passerine style of imbrication represents one system of arrange- 
ment well exemplified by the wing of the thrush or migratory robin. 
In the crows, " an approach toward a somewhat different mode of ar- 
rangement is made," and "another minor modification is seen in the 
AlaudidrB"or larks. "The swallows all appear to follow the normal 
p.asserine type," but that of the swifts appears to be essentially different. 

With reference to the mooted question of the propriety of the group- 
H. Mis. 600 33 



514 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

ingof the humming-birds with the swifts, Mr. Gooclchikl hassomethiag 
to say. 

Mr. Goodchild examined the whole of the Gould collection of hum- 
ming-birds, and "checking the results by comparing them with those 
made on a large series of other specimens," he was " convinced that one 
general type of wing-pattern characterizes the whole of these birds ; it 
is of a very simple character," and distinguished by the fact that " the 
proximal lapping row of median coverts found throughout all the pas- 
seres is absent entirely" in the humming-birds. These " might, indeed, 
be described as possessing no median coverts at all, the place of these 
being taken up by feathers having the same mode of imbrication as the 
lesser coverts. All the feathers of each series overlap outwards and 
backwards from the vertebral axis towards the distal end of the wing 
in these birds." 

Comparison of the swifts with the humming-birds was significant. 
"Observations on the order of overlap in the wing of freshly killed 
specimens of Cypselus apus, afterwards extended by an examination of 
the whole series of swifts in the national collection, showed that in these, 
as in the hnmmiug-birds, no one series of feathers overlaps backward. 
In fact the wing-pattern in the genera Cypselus, Acanthylis, Choetura, 
and Colloealia^^ seemed to him to "differ in no essential respect from 
that found throughout the trochilidte. So far as the disposition of the 
wing coverts is concerned, the swifts and humming-birds agree among 
themselves, and differ from all of the Passeriform birds, with the pos- 
sible exception of the birds of paradise." 

The gallinaceous birds, according to Mr. Goodchild, rank "near to 
the accipitrine," and "perhaps leading away from them somewhere 
near the Polyborine birds." In the case of the turkey {Mcleagris) 
" proximal overlap characterizes nearly all the median cubital coverts, 
as in the Accipitriues," and in this respect " the turkey stands alone 
amongst the Gallinse;" but neither in the turkey " nor in any one of the 
Alecteropods do anj^ traces of the upper wing-coverts exist." 

Among the pigeons it is interesting to note that the large goura is 
distinguished from the ordinary pigeona by some well marked charac- 
ters. The cubital covering exemplified in the goura approaches that of 
the curassows and is very different from that of the typical pigeons. 
The differences appears to Mr. Goodchild to be " both striking and sig- 
nificant," and he has correlated the differences observed in the cubital 
coverts with other characters. 

(1) "In the normal pigeons an oil-gland is present; but is absent in 
Goura.''^ 

(2) " In the normal pigeons the tail-feathers are 12 in number; while 
there are 16 in Goura.^'' 

(3) "In the normal pigeons the pterylosis is columbine; and is galline 
in Gonray 

(4) " In the normal pigeons ciBtni are present; but are absent iu 
Goura.'''' 



ZOOLOGY. 515 

(5) " lu the normal pigeons a gall-bladder is present ; no gall-bladder 
in Go7ira." 

(6) " In normal pigeons incubation lasts 16 days, but extends to 28 
days in Goura.^^ 

In view of these characters there seems to be no doubt that Goura is the 
type of a family quite distinct from the Columbidie and the rest of the 
columbine birds. It is noteworthy that, excepting Goura, the ptero- 
graphic characters of the Oolumbte are remarkably uniform throughout. 

The family PteroclicliTB has been generally approximated to the co- 
lumbine series. Fterocles arenarius " shows an arrangement of the 
wing-feathers somewhat like tbat of the pigeons, especially so far as 
the proximal and Ihe distal areas of the cubital region are concerned. 
But the distal imbrication of all the feathers next the manual region is, 
in the Pterocletes, carried to excess. In this respect the Pterocletes 
stand as far removed from the pigeons as these are from the Gallinse." 

With regard to the shore or wading birds, it is remarked that " if we 
start with the Plovers as the representatives of the order," the ptero- 
graphical characters "nearly approach those of the pigeons." And 
"from the central forms of the Limicola?, nearly all the modifications of 
style observable in the Cariuatae could be traced without difficulty." 
Thus, "in one direction, and at no remote distance from the Plovers, 
we come to the Rails;" in another "gradations equally gentle conduct 
us to the Galls and the Terns." Again, "along another line of modifica- 
tion we arrive at the Cranes. The Storks again stand at no great dis- 
tance," Further, "each of the forms here mentioned, in turn, leads to 
others more distantly removed froQi the central type." 

Sometimes curious resemblances appear; thus, "between the style 
of the median cubital coverts in LeptoiHilus,^ one of the Storks, and 
that of the turkey buzzards, or cathartids, Mr. Goodchild "failed to de- 
tect any difference of importance in respect of the feature specially un- 
der notice. " So far as the imbrication of the wing-coverts is concerned, 
Leptoptilus and the Oathartidte might even stand in the same family." 

On the other hand, some forms which agree closely with others in 
structure differ considerably in the cubital covering. One of these is 
the common Osprey or Pandion and another is the Kite or Milvus. 

The conclusions of Mr. Goodchild are very temperate and judicious. 
" In regard to any conclusions connected with taxonomy that may be 
drawn from a study of the facts herein referred to, there will probably 
be much difference of opinion." But " there can be little doubt, also, 
that up to a certain point there is a remarkable correlation of particu- 
lar styles of imbrication of the cubital coverts with certain structural 
characteristics — osteological, myological, visceral, and pterographical; 
so that, within certain limits, the disposition of the cubital coverts may 
be taken as a kind of index to the presence, or the absence, of deeper 
seated characters whose importance in relation to taxonomy is gener- 
ally recognized." (Proc. Zool. Soc. LondoUj 1880, pp. 184-203.) 



516 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

A new check-list of North American birds. — When the "ADierican Or- 
nithologists' Union" was organized, in September, 1883, a resolution was 
passed " that the chairman appoint a committee of five, including him- 
self, to which shall be referred the question of a revision of the classifi- 
cation and nomenclature of the birds of North America." The gentle- 
men appointed on this committee were Dr. Elliot Coues, Mr. J. A. Allen, 
Mr. Robert Eidgway, Mr. William Brewster, and Mr. H. W. Henshaw. 
These were also materially assisted by Mr. Leonhard Stejneger. Tlie 
result of the deliberations of the committee was published in 1886 un- 
der the title of " The Code of Nomenclature and Check-list of North 
American Birds, adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union." The 
work thus published differs considerably from its predecessors. The 
"principles, canons, and recommendations" for nomenclature were con- 
sidered at length and have been published as a portion of the volume. 
Those most essential are three. " Canon 13" premises that "zoological 
nomenclature begins at 1758, the date of the tenth edition of the ' Systema 
naturfe' of Linnjeus ; " " Canon 42 '^ provides tha t '' the basis of a generic or 
subgeueric name is either (1) a designated, recognizably described spe- 
cies, or (2) a designated, recognizable plate or figure, or (3) published di- 
agnosis;" '• Canon 43 " further proclaims that " the basis of a specific or 
subspecific name is either (1) an identifiable published description, or 
(2) a recognizable published figure or plate, or (3) the original type, 
specimen, or specimens absolutely identified as the type or types of the 
species or subspecies in question." 

It was likewise provided that a system of trinomial nomenclature 
should be adopted, where such was required, under the regulation of 
canon 11. That canon states "Trinomial nomenclature consists in ap- 
plying to every ijidividual organism, and to the aggregate of such or- 
ganisms known now to undergrade in physical characteristics, three 
names, one of which expresses the subspecific distinctness of the organ- 
isms from all other organisms, and the other two of which express re- 
spectively its specific indistinctness from or generic identity with certain 
other organisms; the first of these names being the subspecific, the 
second the specific, and the third the generic designation ; the three, 
written consecutively, without the intervention of any other word, term, 
or sign, constituting the technical name of any subspecifically distinct 
organism." 

The names adopted in consonance with these several canons are ar- 
ranged in a different sequence from any previous list, and in fact the 
lists previou§ly published by the Smithsonian Institution and Dr. Coues 
are practically inverted, the intention being to commence with the gen- 
eralized types, and proceed to the more si)ecialized and highly devel- 
oped ones. It has for this purpose been assumed that the previously 
recognized relations were ai)i)roximately correct, and that only an in- 
version was needed to present the system in its new phase. It will 
probably be found heieafter, however, that the exigencies of classifica- 



ZOOLOGY. 



517 



tion have not been yet successfully disposed of. The species embraced 
witbiu the North Americau fauua are referred to sixty-six families and 
seveuteeu orders. These orders, it must be always remembered, have 
much less taxonomical value than the orders of other classes of the ani- 
mal kingdom, and are in fact probably more nearly of the value of what 
have been called super-families. It may also be added that the families 
of passerine birds have been accepted with approximately the limits gen- 
erally conceded to them, and consequently the species of the passerine 
group occurring within the limits treated of are referred to as many as 
twenty families, but of these few have tangible characters. The series 
of families commences with the three of the order Pygopodes and termi- 
nates with the Passerine. As many as seven hundred and sixty-eight 
species of birds are recognized as belonging to the North America 
fauna, and besides these there are numerous subspecies. A so-called 
"hypothetical list" is added, including the names of twenty-six species 
which have been at various times ascribed to the North American fauna, 
but which, for various reasons, are now excluded, although some of them 
may hereafter be legitimately added. 



I. Pygopofles. 

a. Podicipides. 

1. PodicipidsB. 
6. Cepphi. 

2. UrinatoridiB. 

3. AlcidaB. 

II. Longipennes. 

4. Stercorariidae. 

5. Laridte. 

6. Ryucbopidse. 

III. Tubiuares. 

7. DiomedeidiB. 

8. Procellariidae. 

IV. Steganopodes. 

9. Pbaetboutidse. 

10. Snlidfp. 

11. Anbingidfe. 

12. Pbalacrocoracidse. 

13. Pelecanidae. 

14. Fregatidae. 

V. Anseres. 

15. Anatidae. 

VI. Odontoglossse. 

16. PbcenicopteridiB. 

VII. Herodiones. 
a. Ibides. 

17. Plataleidse. 

18. Ibididai. 
h. Cicouite. 

19. Cicoaidse. 
c. Herodii. 

20. Ardeidaj. 



VIII. PaludicoliB. 

d. Grues. 

21. GruidsB. 

e. Ralli. 

22. Aram id ae. 
23.^RaIirdiB. 

IX. Limicolie, 

24. Pbalaropodidae. 

25. Recurvirostridae. 

26. Scolopacidae. 

27. Cbaradriidte. 

28. Aphrizida>. 

29. Huiuiatopodidse. 

30. Jacanidie. 

X. Galinte. 

/. Pbasiaui. 

31. Tetraouidae. 

32. Pbasianidae. 
g. Penelopes. 

33. Cracidae. 

XI. Columbie. 

34. CoJuinbidae. 

XII. Raptores. 

h. Sarcorbauipbi. 

35. Cathartidae. 
i. Falcones. 

36. Falconidae. 
/. Striges. 

37. Strigidaj. 

38. Bubonidae. 

XIII. Psittacidae. 

39. Paittacidae. 



518 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886, 



XIV. Coccyges. 
k. Cuculi. 

40. Cuculidse. 
I. Trogoues. 

41. Trogonidse. 
m. Alcyones. 

42. Alcediuidae. 

XV. Pici". 

43. Picidse. 

XVI. Macrochires. 
n. Capriiuulgi. 

44. Capriiuulgidse. 
0. Cypseli. 

45. Micropodidae. 
p. Trocbili. 

46. TrochilidaB. 

XVII. Passe res. 

q. Clamatores. 

47. Tyrauuidse. 
r. Oscines. 

48. Alaudidse. 



XVII. Passeres — Continued. 
r. Oscines — Continned. 
41). Corvidse. 

50. Sturnidae. 

51. IcteridsB. 

52. Friugillidse. 

53. Tauagridte. 

54. Hirnudiuidae. 

55. Anipelidte. 

56. Lauiidse. 

57. Vireonidoe. 

58. Coerebldae. 

59. Mniotiltidae. 

60. Motacillidse, 

61. Cinclida?,. 

62. TroglodytidsB. 

63. Certhiidaj. 

64. Paridae. 

65. Sylviidaj. 

66. Turdida}. 



Recent abundance of a Uttlel-noivn Shearivater. — Only a few years ago 
(in 1881) a previously unknown species of Shearwater was discovered off 
tbe coast of Massachusetts, and made known from a single specimen 
by Mr. Cory. It was named Puffinus horealis and it has become popu- 
larly known as Cory's Shearwater. Not a single other specimen had 
been obtained since, until the summer of 188G.. Towards the end of 
September, however, herring approached the shore in great numbers, 
from Point Judith to Buzzard's Bay, and Vineyard Sound, and in their 
wake were enormous numbers of Shearwaters and Jaegers, and singu- 
larly enough the Shearwater proved to be almost exclusively the rare 
Puffinus horealis; among them, however, werea few of the Puffinus Stride- 
landi, hut uouQ of the Puffinus major. ''The Shearwater occurred in 
flocks of perhaps from fifty to two or three hundred, the bunches being 
generally found quietly resting on the water, and feeding, while swim- 
ming, upon the herrings that were so abundant in the vicinity. They 
were very tame, but approach to them could be best made by a steam- 
launch, which would almost run over them before they would start to 
fly. A dozen birds w^ere killed by the discharge of two guns from a 
launch. About a hundred specimens were secured, and thousands 
could easily have been killed if necessary." Subsequently, the Shear- 
water remained along with the herring and occurred "abundantly off 
Gay Head, Menemsha Bight, Cuttyhunk, and elsewhere, both in Vine- 
yard Sound and Buzzard's Bay." The previously excessively rare 
Shearwater will consequently be hereafter in most of the principal 
ornithological cabinets, for large numbers were obtained for that pur- 
pose. (Auk IV, pp. 71-72.) 

Mammals. 

The eggs of Tacky glossus.— It was noticed last year that the spiny ant- 
eater or Tachyglossus of Australia has been found to be oviparous and 



ZOOLOGY. 519 

to carr5' a single egg in a marsupium or pouch. Professor Ramsay has 
given some acUlitional information iu regard to the egg, the pouch, and 
the cbaracteristics of the mother at the time of ovulation. His observa- 
tions were based upon four females. Ou examining the pouch of one 
lie found therein " an egg, vt^hite iu color, and about half an inch iu 
length, having a rather tough skin," and with very little lime in it, and 
on the whole, much like a reptile's egg; it is oval and equally rounded 
at the respective euds. "Tbe pouch was much warmer than the body 
of the echidna generally," and Prof. Eamsay was surprised to notice the 
degree of warmth when he put his fingers in it. "The pouch entirely 
disappears, or rather does not appear at all, until the parent is about 
to lay her egg." The mother " showed great resentment at being ex- 
amined," and, "on placing her in a cask of sand she at once burrowed 
out of sight, covering herself with sand to a depth of 4 inches." In 
captivity all animals were "fed on fresh milk, sweetened with a little 
sugar, and some bread crumbs added." Some became tame very soon, 
and readily went after the milk ; others did not drink except when their 
keeper was out of sight. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), xvi, p. 479.) 

Tlie embryo of the armadillos. — Until comparatively lately but little 
was known concerning the embryology of the edentate mammals, but 
information has been gradually accumulating, and we are now ac- 
quainted with the outlines of the development of each living type of the 
order. 

Some additional information respecting the fcetal stages of the arma- 
dillos has been published by Dr. H. von Ihering. Dr. von Ihering's 
researches were chiefly based upon the Praopus hybridus, a southern 
Brazilian species. It appears that " several foetuses — six or more — are 
inclosed in a single chorion, which is surrounded by as mauy zouary 
placentae as there are foetuses;" the zones thus constituted are not, 
however, perfect. It appears tliat the ungual phalanges in the embryo 
differ from those of the adult in that tbey are " wide and hoof-shaped 
with a trilobate margin," instead of being long and claw-shaped, as they 
are in later life. This fact is of special interest, inasmuch as it recalls 
characteristics exemplified in the gigantic extinct relations of the arma- 
dillos known as Gyptodonts. Another very interesting feature is the 
apparent development of a male organ iu every individual of the litter, 
thus apparently corroborating a popular idea that the youug are always 
males. Perhaps however in this case we have an analogy of a feature 
exemplified in the striped hyena, in which the clitoris is so excessively 
developed as to simulate the male organ. (Kosmos, — ; and Am. ISat., 
XX, pp. 667-678.) 

Alternation of generations in armadillo. — Dr. H. von Ihering has 
shown that in tbe armadillos known as Praoims eight embryos result 
from a single germ j and having considered this fact in connection with 



520 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

others furoisbed by tlie animal kingdom, he has enunciated some rather 
curious propositions to which he was led. 

According- to Dr. von Ihering, "in all groups twins may occur from 
one ovum; the polar bodies are morphologically nothing less than 
abortive germs; in fact, the origin of the multiple embryos from a sin- 
gle ovum is the primitive condition ; the development of only one is 
the secondary and adaptive. Now if this be pressed to its logical con- 
clusion," continues Dr. von Ihering, '-one would be forced to the para- 
doxical conclusion that the Praopus, for instance, brings forth grand- 
children, and that the mother of twins from one ovum is really their 
grandmother." If this be so, the categories previously admitted in the 
schemes of development are evidently insutficient, and Dr. von Ihering 
has proposed a revised classification, as follows : 

f. '^Hologenous Development (Haeckels' hypogenesis). The fertil- 
ized ovum develops with or without metamorphosis into a single indi- 
vidual. 

II. " Merogenous Development. The fertilized ovum develops into 
two or more individuals^ which 

A. "return directly to the parent form and mode of reproduction 
{Temnogenesis), or, 

B. '• exhibit an antithesis of diversely reproducing individuals or gen- 
erations {Metagenesis., or Alternation of Generations) 

{a) " Calycogenesis in Salpcc aud Medusw, 

(h) " Ficdogenesis in Cccidomyw, 

[c) ^^ Heterogenesis, in whmh either both generations reproduce sex- 
ually or one or several multiply parthenogenetically." (Biol. Ceutralbl., 
VI, pp. 532-530; J. R. M. S. (2), vii, p. 44.) 

The species of Manatee. — A few years ago a species of Manatee was 
described as peculiar to the headwaters of the Amazon. The speci- 
mens on which the species was based were obtained in the early part 
of the century by Dr. Natterer, but for many years it had remained unde- 
scribed. This species and the other representatives of the genus liave 
been recently investigated by Dr. C. Hartlaub. The result of Dr. Elart- 
laub's examination of all the specimens accessible to him of the family of 
Manatees is a confirmation of the species indicated, Manatus (rather 
Triclieclius) inunguis aud the ascertaining of good characters. Two 
other of the formed}- recognized si^ecies are admitted, aud for them the 
names senegalensis and latirostris are retained. The former, as is of 
course indicated by the name, is of African origin, and the latter oc- 
curs in the West Indies and along the Florida coast. For the details 
of the ditierences between the various species, reference must be made 
to the memoir of Dr. Hartlaub in the "Zoologische Jahrbiicher." 
Here it can only be stated that the differences are well marked in the 
young as well as iu the adult. Some of the most salient are the differ- 
ences in the width and extension of the facial bones, the character of 



ZOOLOGY. 521 

the ribs and zygomatic arches, and the size of the teeth. The molars 
of T. senegalensis are especially remarkable on account of the large size 
and the extension of the series forwards, while in the American spe- 
cies they are much smaller and the series terminate considerably in 
froutof the antorbital foramina or under the zygomatic processes. There 
can be no question that the three species thus recognized at least are 
perfectly distinct. (I) Under the African species for which the name 
Manatus senegalensis is retained, the Trichechus manatus of Linnaeus 
and the Manatus nasutus and M. Vogelii are embraced. (2) The com- 
mon American species is called Manatus latirostris, and to the species 
for which this name is retained are referred the Manatus americanus 
and M. aiistralis of most authors, but not the T. australis of Shaw. (3) 
The third species is the Manatus inunguis. Individuals of the species 
have been known but have been confounded by previous authors with 
the common American species. (Zool. Jahrbiicher, 1886.) 

NECKOLOGY OF ZOOLOGISTS, 1886. 

Becher (Edward), died November 11, 1886, at Vienna; an ento- 
mologist, and assistant in the Imperial Museum. 

Benecke (Berthold), died February 27, 1886, aged forty-three; an 
ichtliyologist and pisciculturist. 

BoECK (EuGEN von), died January 30, 1886, in Cochabamba, Bolivia; 
an ornithologist. 

Busk (George), born 1807, died August 10,1886; especially notable 
for his labors on the Polyzoans. 

CoBBOLD (T. Spencer), born 1828 in Wortham, Suffolk, died March — , 

. 1886, at London ; an eminent helminthologist. 

Cole (William Willoughby), Earl of Euniskillen, born 1807, died 
]Sovember 21, 1880 ; well known for his eoUection of fossil tishes. 

Cornet (Francois Leopold), born at Givry, Belgium, February 21, 
1834, died January — , 1886 ; best known for his work ou the creta- 
ceous formations. 

Fischer (Gustav A.), died November 11, 18S6, at Berlin ; an orni- 
thologist and African traveler. 

Fischer (Heinricii Leopold), born , died February 1, 1886; 

well known for his contributions to the knowledge of orthopterous in- 
sects. 

GiRARD (Maurice), died August — , 1886, aged sixty-four; an emi- 
nent French entomologist. 

Guiscardi (Guglielmo), born at Naples, March, 1821, died at Naples, 
December 11, 1885; a palaeontologist. 

Haller (Gustav), died May 1,1886, at Bern; well known for his 
studies on the mites. 

Harold (Baron Edgar von), died August 1, 1886, at Munich ; a 
celebrated coleopterist. 



522 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

HORNIG (JoHANN VON), died iSTovember 29, 1886, at Vienna; alepidop- 

terist. 
Jenkins (Henry Michael), born near Llandaff, June 30, 1841, died 

1880; a student of the mollusks. 
Knox (Arthur Edward), died September 23, 1880, near Arundel; 

an English ornithologist. 
Lea (Isaac), born at Wilmington, Delaware, March 4, 1792, died at 

Philadelphia, December 8, 1880; an eminent student of the mollusks 

and especially of the unionidie. 
LiCHTENSTEiN (JuLES), died at Montpelier, [November 20, 1880, at the 

age of sixty-eight; a special investigator of the aphides. 
LiENARD (VALi:RE), died August 20, 1880, at the age of thirty, in Brus- 
sels; a comparative anatomist. 
MoRREN (Charles Jacques Edouard), died February 28, 1880, at 

Louvain; a casual investigator in zoology, but better known as a 

botanist. 
Peach (Charles William), died February 28, 1880, aged eighty-six, 

at Edinburgh; a student and collector of English animals. 
Plotz (Karl), died August 12, 1886, in Greifswald, at the age of 

seventy-three; a well known lepidopterist. 
Pollen (Francois P. L.), born in Ptotterdam January 7, 1842, died 

January 7, 1886, at Leyden ; well known on account of his collections 

and investigations in Madagascar. 
Power (John Arthur), born March 18, 1810, died June 9, 1880, in 

Bedford; an English coleopterist. 
Schooler (J. Eduard), died l^ovember 19, 1886, at Berlin ; known 

on account of his studies of the crustaceans of the family Daphnididse. 
TscHUDi (Johann Jakob von), born June 25, 1818, at Glaris, died 

January 24, 1880, at St. Gallen, Switzerland ; a zoologist and traveller. 



ANTHEOPOLOGY I^N" 188G. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



INTRODUCTION. 

In this introduction to tlie jirogress of anthropological work in 1886, 
attention will be drawn to coDiprehensive summaries, courses of lect- 
ures, and description of instrumentalities. It is well known that origi- 
nal investigation, instruments of precision and research, and philosoph- 
ical discussions are three distinct elements of progress in any science, 
which are mutually dependent, which severally move forward in a line 
marked out by the other two, and whose momentum is decided by 
dynamic and kinetic forces regulated by the other two. The final 
stage of progress is instruction, whereby the results of investigation 
are popularized and became part and parcel of universal thought and 
action. 

Instruction in anthropology is better organized in Paris than in any 
other city. By this it is not designed to say that anthropological re- 
search of the highest order is confined to the French capital. What is 
emphasized is this, that in the ficole d'Anthropologie and other public 
lectures the French anthropologists have come to realize the crowning 
function of any science. 

The course in the Ecole in 1885-'86 included the following subjects 
and lectures : 

(1) Zoological anthropology, by Dr. Mathias Duval. Programme: 
Anthropogeny and comparative embryology 5 the blastoderm and the 
first x>hases of development. 

(2) General anthropology, by Dr. Paul Topinard. Programme: Type 
and race. Part I, races of Europe from prehistoric times to our day; 
Part II, succession and transformation of races in time, their past and 
their future. 

(3) Ethnology, by Dr. D all}'. Programme: Ethnic craniology; nor- 
mal and abnormal skulls; prehistoric anthropology, by M. Gabriel de 
Mortillet; tertiary man; origin of man; medical geography, by Dr. 
Bordier. General action of environment. 

(4) History of civilizations, by Dr. Letourueau. Evolution and eth- 
nology of ethics. The course of linguistics had been given in the pre- 
vious summer. 

523 



524 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



The minister of public instruction added to the course in the I^cole 
des Hautes Etudes a filth section on the science of religion. To show 
the scope of these lectures the programme is added: 

Eeligious of India, by M. Bergaigue. Eeligion of Egypt, by M. 
Lefebure. Keligions of the Far East, by M. de Rosuy. Semitic Re- 
ligions, by M. Maurice Verner. Islamism and the Religions of Arabia, 
MM. Hartwig and Derenbourg. The Hebrew Language, M. Carriere. 
Origin of Christianity, by M. Ernest Havet. History of Dogmas, by 
M. Albert Reville. Christian Literature, by MM, Sabatier and Mas- 
sebrian. History of the Christian Church, by M. Jean Reville. History 
of Canonical Law, by M. Esrnein. 

Chairs of anthropology have been established in Rome, in several 
German universities and in one or two ximerican colleges, examinations 
being necessary to a degree. 

The InconograpMc Encyclopwdia. — The second volume of this publi- 
cation is based on von Eye's Culturgeschichte, but has a chapter on pre- 
historic archaeology, by Prof. Daniel G. Brinton, which doubles the value 
of tbe original work. We have no hesitation in placing this article at 
the head of all compendiums upon this subject. The method of treat- 
ment is historical. The introductory chapter is devoted to a sketch of 
the science and the methods and problems which have for tbe past 
quarter of a century engaged the minds of archaeologists. The char- 
acteristics and art production of the European age of stone in its two 
periods, the pahBolithic and neolithic; the age of bronze and the age 
of iron are treated in the first fifty pages. 

The prehistoric archaeology of the western hemisphere is treated un- 
der the following analysis: 



I. PaljEolithic period. 



II. Neolithic period. 

B. Arcbajology of Mexico and Central 

America. 

4. Bone and shell. 

5. Paper. 

C. Archaeology of Andean nations. 

1. Art in stone. 

2. Art in hone, shell, and wood. 

3. Metals. 

4. Pottery. 

5. Other arts. 

D. Archaiology of southern and south- 

eastern South America and 
the West Indies. 

1. Art in stone. 

2. Pottery. 

3. Metals, bones, and shell. 
General observations on American 

art. 



In tbe second number of the Revue d'Anthropologie of the current 
year Dr. Toj^inard commences a series of catalogues of the prehistoric 





1. The paheolithic period of 




North America. 




3, The palaeolithic period of 
South America. 




Concluding remarks on the 


paheolithic period. 
II. Neolithic period. 

A. Archaeology of the United States. 




1. Art in stone. 




2. Pottery. 

3. Bone. 




4. Shell. 




5. Metals. 




(i. Other ancient remains. 


B. 


Archieology of Mexico and Central 




America. 




1. Art in stone. 




2. Metals. 




3. Pottery. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 525 

crania in France, as well as a bibliography of anthropological papers 
appearing in current journals. This work can not be too highly com- 
mended. It would occupy only a little more space to give the number 
of pages in each, and this would secure the thanks of many collabora- 
tors. Each year brings us thus nearer to a cooperative bibliography of 
anthropology throughout the world. 

Anthropological literature. — Catalogue in Archiv flir Anthropologic, 
XVI, Supplement, pp. 1-135. 

I. Pre-history and ArchiBology, J. H. Miiller, 1-30 pp 
II. Anatomy, Ad. Pansch., 31-36 pp. 

III. Volkerkuiide, Dr. R. Scheppig. 

(1) Sources, such as general literature, bibliographies, annals, Journals, con- 
gresses, museums, and expositions. 

(2) Ethnology: methodic, general sociology, special sociology in characterist- 
ics, family, domestication, mutilations, medicine, justice and the state, 
religion, language, technology. 

(3) Ethnography, studied geographically. 

IV. Zoology, as related to anthroijology in recent and fossil mammals. 
Congresses in 188G : 

Association Fran^aise pour I'Avancement des Sciences, at Nancy, August 12-20. 
British Association for the Advancement of Science, Birmingham, Septeniber 1-8. 
American Association for the Advancement of Science, Buffalo. Aug. 27-Sept. 7. 
German Congress of Anthropologists, in Stettin, August 10-17. 
Norwegian Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Seventh Congress of Orientalists, Vienna, September. 

ARCHEOLOGY. 

One of the most thorough archreological investigations ever under- 
taken is that of Professor Putnam, of Cambridge, and Dr. C. L. Metz, 
ill the mounds of the Little Miami Valley, especially in the Marriott and 
the Turner Group. The minute account of these diggings will occupy 
a separate memoir, but in the eighteenth and nineteenth annual report 
of Peabody Academy enough is told to give a clear outline of the work. 
The scientific value of this exploration is due to the method, to the ap- 
l)lication of detailed biological processes throughout. Not only is every 
ounce of earth passed backward through a screen or sieve, but the ex- 
plorers have made some of their best finds beneath the original surface. 
Dr. Whitney has made a study of the human bones and reports the 
lesions to belong to three classes: (1) Anomolies or variations from 
type; (2) those that have lollowed from injuries; (3) those resulting 
from disease. 

The archneolgical explorations of the Bureau of Ethnology were still 
under the direction of Mr. Cyrus Thomas, and not only embraced the 
United States, but extended southward through Mexico and Central 
America. 



626 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



Recognizing the value of geograpliical distribution as a concept in 
dealing with arcbgeological phenomena, Major Powell has devised a 
scheme ofcouv^eutions for the archceologic cartography of North Amer- 
ica. This is published in his fourth annual report of the Bureau of 
Ethnology and should be adopted at once by all who write upon Amer- 
ican archaeology. 

SCHEME OF CONVENTIONS FOR THE ARCH^OLOGIC CAKTOGRAPHY OF NORTH AMERICA. 



^ Indian village. 
£l Wood lodge. 

£fX Group or village of wood lodges. 
.A. Earth lodge. 

AA Group or village of earth lodges. 
H Stone lodge. 
m Group or village of stone lodges. 

r\ Cliff lodge. 

Group or village of cliff lodges. 

C| Cavate lodge. 

q Group or village of cavate lodges. 

TT Subterranean lodge. 
TTT Groupor village of subterranean lodges. 
^ Igloo lodge. 
^ Groupor village of Igloo lodges. 

Rn Inhabited stone village (Pueblo). 

@ Assembly lodge of wood, 
Q Assembly lodge of earth. 
Q Assemby lodge of stone. 

@ Cliff assembly lodge. 
/») Cave assembly lodge. 
(g) Subterranean assembly lodge. 
X. Tower. 
^^ Mound. 
^^ Group of mounds. 
@ Assembly mound. 
^ Effigy mound. 
a£A, Group of effigy mounds, 
m. Domiciliary mound. 



^ Burial mound. 

•^' Mound with single stone grave. 

J3X Mound with stone graves. 

»_; Grave or single burial, 

N-u Cemetery. 

\ai Stone grave. 

vm/ Stone grave cemetery, 

\x/ Ossuary. 

G Inclosure. 

C Inclosure with interior mound. 
C Inclosure with exterior mound. 
Ty Excavation, 
e^ Reservoir. 
JS3 Canal. 
— » Copjier mine, 
♦-I Flint mine or quarry. 
»^ Soapstone mine. 
,_i Mica mine. 
c Cave deposit. 
V Cave burial, 
xa. Refuse heap, 
■J^ Shell heap. 
£. Sculpture. 
££l Group of sculptures. 
S Petroglypt. 
^ Group of petroglyps. 

♦ Cache. 

* Cairn. 
— Trail. 



A work on archjieology of which the year may justly feel proud is 
that of M, Eniile Cartailhac upon the prehistoric age of Spain and 
Portugal, the result of a scientific mission under the patronage of the 
minister of public instruction of France, The Iberian peninsula is one 
of the most favored spots in the world for gaining a view of the whole 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



527 



industrial history of humauity. Let us commence by following M. Ri- 
biero, who in 18G6 found in the tertiary beds of tlie valley of Otta white 
and colored quartzites, some showing that spalls had been knocked off, 
others worked or foshioned. These are described at length and figured 
by M. Cartailhac. 

The paleolithic periods of the quaternary shell-heaps, the caverns and 
lake dwellings of the neolithic period, and the extraordinary structures 
of the bronze and early iron age, bridge over the time between the man 
of Otta and the historic period. 

BIOLOGY. 

Professor Virchow reports in Archiv fiir A^nthrop. (xvi, 275-475) the 
result of the investigation by the Anthropological Society of Germany 
on the color of the skin, the hair, and the eyes among school children. 
In the second meeting of this society (1871) at Schwerin a plan was 
adopted for collecting statistics of crania. The next year Dr. Ecker pro- 
posed the study of the size of the body and the color of hair and eyes. 
Finally, in 1873, Dr. Virchow proposed, at Weisbaden, the consideration 
of the subject of blondes and brunettes, through the schools. The fol- 
lowing scheme was sent out: 



School --- -- - - 




Description 


Whole 
number. 


Jews. 


1 Blue eyes blonde hair, white slviii ... .. 






2 Blue eyes brown hair white skin 






3 Blue eyes brown hair l)ro\vn skiu 






4 Gray ey^es blonde hair white skin ... 












6 Gray eyes brown hair brown skiu . .. 
























10 Brown e\cs brown hair, brown skin . . 






IL Brown eyes, black hair, brown skin 













The result of the entire investigation is as follows: 





Number. 


Per 

cent. 


School children 


6, 75=!, 827 
75, 377 




Jews 


1.1 






School children: 

Blondes 


2, 149, 027 

949, 822 

3, G59, 978 


31. 80 


Brunettes 


14.05 


Mixed 


54. 15 








(), 758, 827 


100. 00 


. 




.. - 



528 



KECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 





Ntniber. 


Per 

cent. 


Jews : 

IMonde 


8,421 
31,673 
35, 283 


11 17 


Brnuette 


42 00 


Mixed 


46 83 








75, 377 


100. 00 


Hair: 

Blonde 


4,617,546 

1,988,966 

133, 864 

17, 499 

24, 154 
41, 025 

8,644 
319 

2, 673, 539 
1,839,214 
2, 242, 702 

14, 559 
39, 207 
20, 380 

6,184,406 
571,628 


68 02 


Bio \vu 


29 48 


Black 


1 98 


lied 


25 


Jews, hair: 

Bloude 


32 03 


Brown „ 


54 39 


Black 


11.46 




42 


Eyes : 

Blue 


39 55 


Brown 


27 21 


Gray 


33 18 


Jews, eyes : 

Bhie 


19.30 


Brown 


51 99 


Gray 


27 00 


Skin: 

White 


91.50 


Bro wu 


8.45 







A series of volumes is being- published in Paris entitled Bibliothique 
Ethnologique. The first of this series printed in 1880, though bearing 
date of the following year, is by de Quatrefages, and bears the special 
title "Introduction a I'etude des races humaines." Though apparently 
a work on ethnology simply, it really covers the whole field of anthro- 
pology, as the following headings of chapters will show : 

(1) Regne hnmain. Does man form a kingdom of nature^ 

(2) Unity of the liumau species. 

(3) Origin of the human species. 

(4) Antiquity of the human species ; fossil races; survival of fossil races. 

(5) Geographical origin of the human species. 

(6) The peojtliug the globe. 

(7) Acclimation of the human species. * 

(8) Primitive man, antiquity of ethnic types, 

(9) Formation of human races. 

(10) General ethnic characteristics. 

(11) Physical characteristics. 

(12) Intellecttial characteristics. 

(13) Moral and. religious characteristics. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



529 



M. (le Quaterfages gives tho followiug scheme of knowledge with 
refereuce to the kiugdoin of man: 



Empires. 



Inorganic 



Organic .. 



Kingdoms. 



Sidereal . 
Mineral . 



Vegetable .. 



Animal. 



Human 



Plienoraeua. 



Kepleriau movement 

Kepleiian moveinentjj/ff.spUj'sico- ' 
chemistry. ] 

Kepleriau movement phis pliysico- 
chemistry^?«s vitality. ' 

Kepleriau movement jpZws pbysico- 
chemlstry 2>ltis vitality 2)his vol- < 
untary motion. 

Kepleriau movement j9??/s physico- 
chemistry jj/ws vitality 2)lus vol 
untary motiou ^j/«s uiorality' 
and leligiosity. 



Causes. 



Gravitatiou. 

Gravitation. 

E the rody namics. 

Gravitatiou. 

Etherody namics. 

Life. 

Gravitation. 

Etherodyuamics. 

Life. 

Auimal spirit. 

Gravitation. 

Etherodyuamics. 

Life. 

Auimal spirit. 

Humau spirit. 



Being a pronounced monogenist the author brings his theory into 
contra.st with that of the polygenists in the scheme. 



MONOGENISM. 

All men belong to one and the same 
species. 

The differences which distinguish hu- 
man groups are racial characters. 

At what epoch did this single species 
appear on the surface of the globe ? The 
question of antiquity is simple. 

The humaii species first occupied only a 
circumscribed area of the globe. There is 
then a question of geographic origin to 
resolve. 

The globe was jieopled by migrations of 
which we have to search tho traces aud 
reconstruct the history. 



To-day there probably exists no au- 
tochthonous people. America in partic- 
ular aud Polynesia were peopled only by 
colonists. 



The human species inhabit to-day the 
entire globe, the jtole as well as the equu- 
II. Mi,i. {JOO- — oi 



POLYGENISM. 

There are several species of men. 

These differences are like specific char- 
acters. 

At what epoch have appeared the dif- 
ferent humau species ? Have they arisen 
simultaneously or successively? The 
question of antiquity is multiple. 

The difi'erent species have first appeared 
on the spots where history aunouuced 
their discovery. The question of geo- 
graphic origin does not exist. 

Migrations count for nothing in the 
general peopling of the earth. The ques- 
tion of primitive migration does not exist. 
The emigrations of which history has 
preserved the memory are exceptional 
and have exercised only an insignificant 
influence over the geographical distribu- 
tiou of peoples. 

Excepting the Europeau colonies 
founded in our day and those recorded iu 
history, almost the entire globe has beeu 
peopled by autochthones. Specially, all 
the peoples of America and Polynesia 
were and could only be the products of 
the soil where modern explorers have 
found tbeni. 

The human peoples constituting so many 
species origiuatiug outhe spot were made 



630 



RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 



tor. It has, therefore, subjected itself to 
the most diverse environments. The ques- 
tion of acclimation in its widest and in its 
most special sense is necessarily raised. 

In these migrations the human species 
exposed to the action of new environments 
could but be modified. This explains the 
forma' ion of a certain number of races. 
Facts of the same nature passing in our 
day ought to arrest in a special mauuer 
the attention of anthropologists. 

Crosses between human races in the past 
have given rise to races whose origin has 
been revealed by mixed characters im- 
printed by the parent types. We have to 
search the ethnic elements combined in 
peoples of this class. 

Crosses between human races most di- 
verse take place under our eyes. They 
have given birth to population, which en- 
larges from day to day and becomes more 
and more developed. The study of these 
populations presents a double and serious 
interest in that it teaches us concerning 
the past and permits us to look into the 
future. 

All present populations have been more 
or less modilicd, either by environments 
or by crossing. The primitive type of we now recognize them, the problem of 
humanity is lost. Even did it now exist primitive man has no existence, 
we could not recognize it in default of 
knowledge. Nevertheless, is it not possi- 
ble to trace out some of the marks which 
would characterize it ? • 

M. de Quatrefages justly draws attentiou to the fact tbat tlie argii- 
meut between the mouogenists and poljgenists seems to leave out of 
view the fact that there may be different species of man and yet may 
have been only one original species. That is, in order to believe in more 
than 0!ie human species it is not necessary for one to be a polygenist. 

PietroBelsanti,in his work on "Progressive Characters of the Euman 
Sknll," exainiued fifty two crania of anthropoids and two hundred an.d 
twenty of the lower races of men. Those studied were the following, 
for which the results are given : 
1. Inferior human races. 

Polyhedry accented, 197 in 200, or 89.5 per cent. 

Nasal bones atrophied, 171 in 214, or 79.9 j)cr cent. 

Nasal spine atrophied, 141 in 216, or 65.2 per cent. 

Alveolar arch in upsilon, 139 in 215, or 64.6 per cent. 

Osyeons crests well developed, 123 in 220, or 58.2 per cent. 

Sutures simple, 119 in 210, or .50.6 per cent. 

Pterion retlexed, 56 in 214, or 10.8 per cent. 

Wormian bones pterique, 65 in 214, or 30.4 per cent. 

Volumes of three molars enlarged, 10 in 113, er 8.8 per cent. 



to live in the environments which eucom- 
l>ass them. There is no general question 
of acclimating. We have only to study 
the special cases resulting from the expan- 
sion of modern population. 

The different human species have ap- 
peared with all the characteristics now 
marking them. Change of environment 
could not alter these. We are not to search 
how these distinctive characters could be 
brought out. 

Populations with mixed characters are, 
like the rest, distinct species and au- 
tochthonous. One need not disturb him- 
self, therefore, about their pretended eth- 
nic origins. 

Crosses among human species can have 
no durable consequences. The resulting 
peoples would remain stationary or dis- 
appear if the crossing ceased. Their 
study possesses, therefore, no serious in- 
terest for us. 



All the human species having appeared 
with their appropriate characters, such as 



ANTHROPOLOGY. ' 531 

2. Anthropoid Apes. 

Polyhedry accented, 52 in 52, or 100 per cent. 
Alveolar arch in upsilon, 52 in 52, or 100 per cent. 
Sutures simple, 26 in 23, or 92 per. 
Nasal bones atrophied, 47 in 51, or 92 per cent. 
Absence of nasal spine, 36 in 52, or G9.2 per cent. 
Osseous crests highly developed, 24 in 33, or 03. 6 per cent. 
Pterion reflexed, 20 in 43, or 46.5 per cent. 
Among orangs, 8 in 31, or 26 per cent. 

In the Index Medicus a special department is assigned to Hygiene, 
and the following analysis of that department Avill show how deeply 
rooted anthropology is becoming in the learned professions; 
XIII. State Medicine. 

1. Medicine and medical ethics. 

2. Hygiene and iJuhlic hygiene. 

a. Construction and management of hospitals. 

b. Heating and ventilation. 

c. Hygiene of cities. 

d. Hj'giene of habitations. 

e. Hygiene of occupations. 
/. Hygiene of person. 

g. Hygiene of schools. 

h. Inspection and disposal of the dead. 

i. Inspection of food and drugs. 

l\ Sewerage, drainage, and water supply. 

3. Medical education and schools. 

4. Medical jurisprudence and toxicology. 

5. Military and naval medicine. 

PSYCHOLOGY. 

Dr. Alexander Bain read at the last meeting of the British Associa- 
tion, a paper on the scope of anthropology and its relations to the science 
of mind. Says this distinguished authority : "The mode of research 
grounded on discriminatiYe sensibility, aud working up from that, ac- 
cording to the best known priuci[)les of our intellectual nature may be 
contrasted with another mode which has always been in vogue, namely, 
finding out and noting any surprising feats that animals can perform 
out of all proportion to what we should be led to expect of them. 

"The spirit of such inquiries is rather to defy explanation than to pro- 
mote it. They delight to nonplus and puzzle the scientific investigator 
who is working his way upward by slow steps to the higher mysteries. 
Before accounting for the exceptional gifts of animals — the geniuses of a 
tribe, — we should be able to prove the average and recurring capabil- 
ities. 

"It is an error to suppose the mental qualitiesdonotadmitof measure- 
ment. No doubt the higher complex feelings of the mind are incapable 
of being statea "^itli numerical precision, yet by a proper mode of ap- 
proaching the sub^^ct a very considerable degree of accuracy is at- 
tainable. 



532 KECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

"As to tbe present position of the science of mind in the British Asso- 
ciation, it is nowhere. Taken in snatches, it appears in several places ; 
it would come in under zoology, which embraces all that relates to 
animals 5 under physiology, in connection with the nervous system and 
the senses, and it figures still more largely, although in an altogether 
subordinate and scarcely acknowledged fashion, in the section on an- 
thropology. Indeed, to exclude it from this section would be impossible ; 
man is nothing without his mind. Now, while zoology and physiology 
would keep the study of mind within narrow limits,' there is no such 
narrowness in the present section. In the ample bosom of anthropology 
any really valuable contribution to the science of mind should have a 
natural place. 

" Psychology has now a A'ery large area of neutral (non-controversial) 
information; it possesses materials gathered by the same methods of 
rigorous observation and instruction that are followed in the other 
sciences. The researches of this section exemplify some of these. If 
these researches are persisted in they will go still further into the heart 
of psychology as a science and the true course will be to welcome all 
the new experiments for determining mental facts with precision and to 
treat psychology as an acknowledged member of the section. To this 
subdivision would then be brought the researches into the brain and 
nerves that deal with mental functions; the experiments on the senses 
having reference to our sensations; the w^hole of the present mathe- 
matics of man, bodily and mentally; the still more advanced inquiries 
relating to our intelligence; and the nature of emotion as illustrated 
by expression in the manner of Darwin's famous treatise. Indeed, if 
you were to admit such a paper as that contributed by Mr. Spencer to 
the Anthropological Institute you would commit yourself to a much 
further raid on the ground of j^sychology than is implied in such an 
enumeration as the foregoing." 

Experimental psychology is the application of instruments of precis- 
ion to human thinking and acting, and in the last few years has become 
one of the most fascinating branches of anthropology. Professor 
Wundt, in Leipzig, has pursued this study most systematically in a 
laboratory especially fitted up for the purpose. A quarterly publication, 
Philosophische Studien, is devoted mainly to publishing the work of 
this laboratory. 

The studies relate to the powers of the mind in various directions, as 
memory, judgment, etc., but especially to the re-action time of various 
operations. Dr. J. M. Cattell, an American student, has examined this 
class of phenomena in three groups: (1) The re-action time, which is sim- 
ply the time after the application of a sense stimulus necessary for an 
individual to record the fact that he has received the serration ; (2) the 
distinction or perception time, which is theadditionp" lime necessary for 
liim to api)reciate the nature of the sensation ; c. g., whether a light was 
red or blue; (3) the choice or will time, which is the additional time 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 533 

necessary to react in a certain way on the reception of a certain sensa- 
tion ; e. <7 , to press a key with the right hand when the red light appears, 
with the left hand or not at all for the bine light. The following sum- 
mary gives results: 

Second. 

Re-actiou time for light 150 

Perception time for ] igbt 040 

Perception time for a color • 095 

Perception time for a picture 105 

Perception time for a letter 120 

Perception time for a short word 1*25 

Will time for colors 340 

Will time for pictures 365 

Will time for letters 155 

Will time for words 105 

The most extensive contribution is that of Dr. J. M. Cattell, recount- 
ing experiments made in the Psychological Laboratory of the University 
of Leii)zic. {v. Psychometrische Untersuchuugen [Doctor's Disserta- 
tionj, von James McKean Cattell, pp. 72. Reprinted in Wandt's 
Pliilosophische Studien, iii, 2 and 3, and abridged in Mind, 1886; v. 
also Brain). This observer has re-investigated almost the entire field | 
has improved the method of research, and introduced new variations 
in the experiments. (L) For simple re-action-times Dr. Cattell uses 
a magnetic falling screen which at a definite point in its fall reveals a 
card or a color, conveys a shock to the finger, or arouses any sense- 
organ that is desired ; it simultaneously releases the magnet of a Hipp 
cbronoscope (strictly regulated by finding the most suitable electric 
currents for its release), while the observer re-acts by closing a key, or 
speaking into a tube, which, like tiie hand-key, instantly stops the clock. 
The time to see daylight was found quite constant and 151(7 ((> = j-qL-. of 
a second) in one observer, llTfT in the other, if the hand-key is used in- 
differently with the right or left hand; the lip key takes 30(r longer. 
He can also measure how long a color, etc., must be seen to make any 
impression; this latent time is for orange, .Sff ; yellow, Id; b'ue, 1.2(t; 
red, l.Sc; green, l.lo"; violet, 2 3(T. Distracting the attention by dis- 
turbing sounds had little effect on the time, which unusual result is ex- 
plained by the great automaticity of the process. Addng numbers 
lengthens the time; extreme attention maintainable for only one second 
shortens it. (2) Perception-times. The additional time necessary for 
recognizing whiteness and sending out the voluntary impulse was for 
the two observers Cldand 95(7, which time is divided equally between 
the two operations, as in (1) the closing of the key was automatic. To 
see that a color is or is not black requires a slightly longer time. To 
distinguish one of two colors required 100 and llOc in the two observers: 
one of ten colors, 105 and 117(7. It thus takes 5.8(7 longer to distinguish 
one of ten than one of two colors, but 33(7 longer to say what the color 
is than that it is not black. For two letters the time is lengthened by 



634 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

38(7. E is the most difficult letter to read ; M A Z B E was the order 
of ease in the five letters used. The time for short English words was 
142(7, being slightly longer for longer or for foreign words. The word 
is the reading unit, requiring only a slightly longer time for its recog- 
nition than for that ot a single letter. It takes less time to recognize 
a small picture than a short word. (3) Choice-time. To act with the 
right hand for one color, and with the left for another, lengthens the time 
by 26(7. To re-act by naming {i. e., reading) a letter requires 400(7; a 
one-place numeral 300(7,393(7 for a two-place, and 418(7 for a three-place, 
tlie increase in time diminishing. It takes longer to read (not pro- 
nounce) long than short, foreign than vernacular words. It actually 
takes only 111(T or 50a less to name a short word than a letter, indicating 
the closeness of the association between the name and the word. A 
color is seen quickly, but to name it requires 343(7 ; a picture can be 
named in about equal time. By way of summary we have: 

a 
Ro- action time for lijiht 150 



Perceptiou-time for light 40 

Perception-time for color 95 

Perception-time for picture 105 

Perception-time for letter 120 

Perception-time for (short) word... 125 



Choice-time for color 3-10 

Choice-time for picture 305 

Choice-tiiLe for letters 155 

Choice-time for wortls 1 105 



Dr. Cattell also shows that extreme attention can shorten central pro- 
cesses ; that the effect of practice is marked at first, but soon reaches a 
limit as automatism sets in ; that fatigue is not so easily induced or so 
disturbing as usually thought. In a later research (iMind, January? 
18S7) he adds the following : To give the name of the picture of an ob- 
ject in a foreign language (English for German, and vice I'ersa) took 
649(7 and 694(7, respectively, or 172(7 and 149(r longer than in the ver- 
nacular. This suggests a mode of gauging one's acquaintance with a 
foreign tongue. It similarly takes longer to translate from the foreign 
to the vernacular than the reverse. Given a city to name the country in 
which it is situated required 400(7; given a month to name the following 
month, 367(7; to name the preceding month, as much as 798(7. Given a 
month to name its season, 363(7 ; the reverse, 498(7; showing that it is 
easier to go from part to whole than the reverse. To give an action for 
a substantive [e. g., swim-Jish), 646(7; an object for a verb {icritc-Iettcr), 
5L7(7. To judge the length of a line took nearly one second. In general 
the closer the association the shorter the time ; and the more complex 
the operation the greater the individual variation. 

Tambroui and Algeri observed (1) the time of feeling a contact on the 
skin ; (2) tbe time of feeling whether a single point or two points 2.2'"™ 
a[)art was drawn across the tip of theright forefinger in patients suffering 
with various kinds of insanity. The paranoiac re-acts more quickly, all 
other forms of alienation more slowly, than normal. When the normal 



ANTHROPOLOGY, 535 

time is ISSc the paranoiaced time is 174a', the maniacal type is 312a', 
the demented 3440", the epileptic 36L>a, the melancholic 374a' — a very 
snggestive table. 

Gniccardi and Cionini stndied the effect of repetition in shortening 
the time of simple acts, and conclude that the more complicated the 
act the greater abbreviating power has repetition. A simple touch 
re-action was shortened ISa by 2o0 repetitions; distinguishing that a 
single point was in contact by 1210"; the time of writing three letters 
by 1,9560" in 500 repetitions; in associating a word, a diijference of 
nearly five seconds betweeji the shortest and longest. 

Dr. Joseph Jastrow (Science, September 10, 1886, Proceedings of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science, xxxv, p. 272) 
proposes a simplification of the methods of measuring simple re-action 
time, distinction time, choice time, and association time that dispenses 
with all api)aratus except a watch, packs of cards, and slips of paper, 
and is well suited for a class demonstration. The principle throughout 
is to have a continuous series of the processes, the time of which is to be 
measured, and by dividing, to get the time of a single act. For simjyie 
re-actiontinies a circle of persons touch hands, and the time it takes for 
a pressure to pass around the circle divided by the number of persons 
(after considerable drill) gives a normal reaction time. [This was pre- 
viously suggested by Dr. O. W. Holmes.] The perception time is meas- 
ured by the difference in time necessary to throw down a pack of cards 
one by one, and the time necessary to notice the color, suit, or the like 
while throwing. The cards must be held with the backs towards the 
subject. The additional choice time is gotten by subtracting the unre- 
duced perception-times from the time needed for sorting the cards into 
heaps according to suit, color, and so on. For the association time you 
first get the sum of the association-times of two observers by subtract- 
ing (fl) the time for each to call a certain number of words from (b) the 
tin)e fur one to call a word to which the other replies with an associa- 
tion-word, and in turn gives a call- word to the first, etc., and then group 
a third person with each of the two in the same process. This gives 
six equations, from which all the values may be ascertained. The 
method is found to be satisfactorily accurate and admits of much varia- 
tion and adaptation. 

Mr. Francis Galton (A descriptive list of Authropometrical Appa- 
ratus) describes an instrument which by the release of a falling rod 
on the presentation of the stimulus (to eye, ear, or touch), and by its 
being caught again when the subject re-acts to the signal, measures 
simple re-action-times very conveniently and without the need of an 
.assistant. 

In announcing the publication of a journal of psychology, Prof. G. 
Stanley Hall outlines the study as it now stands in the minds of ad- 
vanced anthropologists. 

The records of psychological work of a scientific as distinct from a 



536 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 188(3. 

speculative character have been so widely scattered as to be largely 
naccessible save to a very few, and often to be overlooked by them. 
Several departments of science, often so distinct from each other that 
their contributions are not mutually known, have touched and enriched 
psychology, bringing to it often their best methods and their ripest in- 
sight. It is from this circumstance that the vast progress made in this 
department of late jears is so little realized and that the field for such 
a journal is so new and the need believed to be so great. The journal 
will contain original contributions of a scientific character. These will 
consist partly of exi)erimental investigations on the functions of the 
senses and brain, physiological time, psychophysic law, images and their 
association, volition, innervation, etc., and partly of inductive studies 
of instinct in animals, psycho-genesis in children, and the large fields of 
morbid and aothropological psychology, not excluding hypnotism and 
the field vaguely designated as that of psychic research; and lastly, 
the finer anatomy of the senses and the central nervous system, espe- 
cially as developed by the latest methods of staining, section, etc. 

ETHNOLOGY. 

Ethnology and nationality. — The testimony of ethnology is invoked by 
diplomatists with reference to European boundaries and politics, nota- 
bly in the settlement of the Turkish problem. What are the bounda- 
ries of nationabty ? To this question various answers have been given. 

(1) A nation is an ensemble of people under the same government. 

(2) A nation is all the inhabitants of the same region. 

(3) A nation comprises all who speak the same language. 

(4) A nation includes people of the same race. 

At present, says Mr. Topinard, the living question is the principle of 
nationality resting upon race, words of pleasant sound which flow 
gracefully from the pen of the daily Journalist. The same writer 
utters a timely caution against the excessive application and draws 
attention to the complicated elements which go to make ui) that 
community of right aud interest called a nation, (llev. d'Anthrop., 
3 s., 1, 24.) 

Major Powell, in the preface to the fourth annual report of the 
Bureau of Ethnology, divides the work of his bureau into three classes : 

(1) A series of charts showing the habitat of all tribes when first met 
by Europeans and at subsequent eras. 

(2) A dictionary of tribal synonymy, which should refer the multi- 
plied and confusing titles, as given in literature and in varying usage, 
to a correct and systematic standard of nomenclature. 

(3) A classification on a linguistic basis of all known Indians of 
North America (remaining and extinct) into families or stocks. 

Relationships beticecn Eslcimo tribes. — Dr. Rink gives a short paper in 
Journal of the Anthropological Institute on the relationship of the 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



537 



Eskimo tribes as determined by dialects. The following table il!iis\ 
trates the order of thought : 

Aboriginal inland Eskimo. 



Principal stem, Eskimo proper. 



Side branch, Aleutians. 



Eastern. 



III. Middle regions: 
Iglnlik, Repulse 
Bay, Churchill. 



IV. Mackenzie. 



I. Greeulanders. II Labradorians. 



V. Western. 



Northern. 
Pt. Barrow. 
Kaviagmut. 
Malemut. 
Unaligmnt. 
Ekogmut. 
Asiatics. 



Southern. 
0. Tschiigazzet. 

7. Kadjagians. 

8. Kaugengdlit. 



TECHNOLOGY. 



Technology, in the anthropological sense, is the natural history of 
human arts. Whatever men habitually think about gives rise to spe- 
cific industries and arts. The study of the progress of mind through 
these arts is a proper study for anthropologists. 

An excellent example of research in this direction is afforded by Mr. 
Holmes's papers on pottery in Major Powell's fourth annual rei)ort — 
notably by the one on the origin and development of form and ornament 
in ceramic art. 

Forms of pottery arise as follows : 



Origin of form < 



by adventition 
by imitation 
by invention 



of natural models 
of artificial models 



Modification of form may arise in many ways 



Modification of form < 



f incapacity ^ to assume form 

I incapacity of the artisan ) to retain form 

, ^ .... ! changes of method in numutacture 
by adventition < . "^ r- ^ 

J u, I, u uus^ changes of environment 

changes of use 
tlack of use 
influence of men or exotic forms 
, • f i ^ to enhance usefulness < for the beautiful 
■ ""^"'« I to please fancy \ for the grotes(iue 

Mr. Holmes classified decorative motives as follows : 

Suggestious of features of natural utensils or objects 

handles 



Origin of ornament- 



functional 



suggestions of features 
of artificial utensils; 
or objects 



Suggestions from accidents attendin' 



legs 
bands 

perforations 
f the coil 
I the scam 
constructional^ the stitch 
I the plait 
(^ Ubo twist, etc. 

( marks of fingers 
construction <' marks of implements 
^ marks of models, etc. 



538 RECORD OF SCn.NOE FOR 1886. 

Syijcjestions of ideographic features or irktorial delineation. — Professor 
Morse's Japanese Homes is an excellent example of tlio application of 
scientific metbods to a human art. Amon^^- tlie elaborations of culture 
the habitation has kept itself steadily in harmony with progress, 
climate, material, and the ruling ideas of different peoples. A descrij)- 
tion of the houses and house-life of the races of men would furnish 
abundant material for the reconstructiou of past history in that regard. 

Prof. E. S. Morse has made the method of arrow- release throughout 
all times and places a subject of ethnic study. Proceeding to trace the 
Ujigrations of men by the movements of a habit, the methods of release 
are as follows: 

(1) Primary. — The nock of the arrow is grasped between the end of 
the straightened thumb and the first and second joints of the bent fore- 
finger. It is practiced by children universally, and by the Ainos, 
Demeraras, Utes, Navajos, Chippewas, Micmacs, Peuobscots. 

(2) Secondary. — The nock of the arrow is grasped with the straight- 
ened thumb and bent fore-finger, while the ends of the second and third 
fingers are brought to bear on the string to assist in drawing. It is 
practiced by Zufiis, Chipi)ewas of Wisconsin, Ottawas. 

(.3) Tertiary. — In this release the fore-finger, instead of being bent, is 
nearly straight with its tip as well as the tips of the second and third 
fingers, pressing or pulling on the string, the thumb, as in the primary 
aud secondary release, active in assisting in pinching the arrow and 
liulliiig it back. It is practiced by Sioux, Arapahos, Cheyennes, As- 
siniboins, Comanches, Crows, Blackfeet, jSTavajos, Siamese, Great An- 
damanese. 

(4) Mediterranean. — The string is drawn back with the tips of the first, 
second, aud third fingers, the balls of the fingers clinging to the string 
with the terminal joints of the fingers slightly flexed. The arrow is 
lightly held between the first and second fingers, the thumb straight 
and inactive. Practiced by nations around the Mediterranean, by mod- 
ern archers, Flemish (using first and second fingers only), Eskimo, Little 
Andamanese. 

(5) Mongolian. — In this release the string is drawn by the flexed 
thumb bent over the string, the end of the fore finger assisting in liold- 
ing the thumb in position. The thumb is protected by a guard, of sonu^ 
kind. It is practiced by Manchus, Chinese, Coreaus, Japanese, Turks, 
Persians. 

COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY. 

Colonel Mallery's paper on the pictographs of the North American 
Indians fills a gap in the study of the natural history of languages. In 
a former paper he discussed the gesture language as perhaps the earliest 
method of thought-transference. In the author's own words, " a picto- 
giaph is a writing by picture." The execution of the pictures of which it 
is composed often exhibits the first crude efforts of graphic ait. When 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 539 

pictures are employed as writing the conception intended to be i)re- 
seuted in generally analyzed, and only its most essential points are in- 
dicated, with the result that the characters when frequently repeated 
become conventional, and in their later forms cease to be recognizable as 
objective portraitures. 

A striking example of the interdependence of language and arts is 
aftbrded by Mr. Cushiug's paper on Pueblo pottery. Following up Mr. 
Holmes's investigations into the origin of decoration, the author finds 
that these theories are justified by an intimate study of language. In- 
deed, the names of certain forms of pottery and decoration as well as of 
building do not refer to the things as they now exist, but are the ver- 
itable designations of things and forms out of which the modern forms 
are thought to have sprung. 

Origin of languages. — The vice- presidential address of Hon. Horatio 
Hale before Section H of the Americau Association at Buffalo was 
upon the origin of languages and the antiquity of speaking man. It 
contains views so original and novel that it is eminently proper to pre- 
sent a condensed scheme of the argument. 

Among the puzzling questions in anthropology which we are bound 
to notice are these two: When did linguistic stocks originate! When 
did man acquire the faculty of speech! It will be seen that the origin 
of languages and the origin of language are two very different questions. 

Mr. Hale, rejecting the old theories which rely upon time, the disper- 
sion of a monosyllabic i)arent stock, or the dispersion of speechless mnn, 
and the origination of languages in different centers, avers that the ori- 
gin of linguistic stocks is to be found in what may be called the language- 
making instincts of very young children. To insure the creation of a 
speech which shall be the parent of a new linguistic stock, all that is 
needed is that two or more young children should be placed by them- 
selves in a condition where they will be entirely, or in a large degree, free 
from the presence and influence of their elders, and that they should con- 
tinue in this condition long enough to grow up and form a household, and 
to have descendants to whom they can communicate their new speech. 

This theory is elaborated with great care, and the multiplicity of 
stocks in California made a camping-ground of the argument. 

The second part of the argument is also accompanied with the revival 
of startling doctrines, namely, that while the antiquity of man is incal- 
culable, the speaking man is of recent origin, having occujiied this 
planet not over ten thousand years at most, 

If we are willing to give the name of man to a half-brutish being, in- 
capable of speech, we must allow to this being an existence of vast and as 
yet undefined duration, shared with the mammoth, the woolly rhinoce- 
ros, and other extinct animals. But if we term the beings of that race 
the precursors of man and restrict the name of man to the members of 
the speaking race that followed them, then the first appearance of man, 



540 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

properly so styled, must be dated at about six tliousaud or ten tbousaud 
5'ears ago. Aud this man who thus appeared was not a man of feeble 
powers, a dull witted savage. He possessed aud manifested from the 
first iutellectual faculties of the highest order, such as none of his de- 
scendants have surpassed. His speech, we may be sure, was not a 
mere mumble of disjointed sounds ; it was a full, expressive, well-organ- 
ized speech, complete iu all its parts. The first men spoke becaut^e 
they possessed along with the vocal organs the cerebral faculty of 
speech; " that faculty was an instinct of the mind, as irresistible as any 
other iustiuct." 

MYTHOLOGY AND FOLK- LORE. 

The folk-lorists of England have been wrestling for the last three 
years with the following questions : 

(1) The definition, the inclusions and exclusions of the term folk-lore. 

(2) The establishment of classific concepts for the material included. 
It is very easy to say, put things together that are alike, but it is most 
difficult to settle upon that characteristic of likeness which willcombiue 
our examples into what may be called natural genera, species, etc. Con- 
nected with this idea of classific concepts is the associated one of ter. 
minology. 

(3) The anatomy of tales, customs, practices, etc., and the invention 
of a glossary' of their organic parts, their dramatis personw, their essen- 
tial incidents. 

In vol. Ill of the Folk-lore Journal (pp. 1-16), Mr. G. L. Gomme un- 
dertakes to answer these questions. He had previously in (vol. ii, pp. 
28'», 311) advocated a systematic eflbrt of folk-lorists in the same direc- 
tion. A few definitions are given below to indicate the mental drift of 
the gentlemen interested : 

" Folk lore is anthropology dealing with ijrimitive man." (Alfred Nutt.) 
"Folk-lore is anthropology dealing with the psychological phenomena 
of uncivilized man [meaning uidettered as well as savage], and em- 
braces both folk-thought and folk- wont "(practice). (E. Sidney Hartland, 
Folk-1., II, 340.) " That portion of anthropology which deals with the 
psychological phenomena of primitive man." (C. Stanilaud Wake, Folk-1. 
J., II, 345.) 

'•Folk-lore is the unwritten learning of the people. Folk-lore is not 
a science ; it is the thing itself. One of the chief objects of the collection 
and arrangement of the facts of folklore is to generalize and jihiloso- 
phize; but the generalizations which we arrive at will not be folk-lore." 
(Henry B. Wheatley, Folklore J., Ii, 347.) 

" Folk-lore deals primarily with the survival of primitive customs aud 
beliefs among civilized races, and is comparable with, not identical with, 
the living primitive customs and beliefs of savage races. The sanction 
back of folk-lore is tradition. Folk-lore is the science which treats of 
the survivals of archaic beliefs and customs in modern ages." (G. L. 
Gomme, i c. iii, 14.) 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 541 

"Folk-lore, 'the folk's learning;' all that the folk believe or practice ou 
the authority of inherited tradition and not ou the authority of written 
records." (Charlotte S. Burue, Folk-lore J., in, 103.) 

"Folk-lore is the science which has for its object the study of undif- 
ferentiated or anonymous humanity from an epoch which may be con- 
sideredits infancy down toourown day." (Antonio Wachadoy Alvarez, 
Folklore J., in, 113.) This whole essay must be read. One can not 
afford to omit a sentence. 

" Folk-lore is knowledge of folk-life or the life of uncultured classes, 
as distinguished from culture lore, knowledge of individualized life, 
the lite of the cultured classes, and the generalizations arising from 
these two knowledges or the sciences of folk-life and of culture-life are 
complementary and mutually corrective divisions of the same mental 
and moral sciences, the historical sciences, namely, or mental develop- 
ment and of civil progress." (T. S. Stuart Glennie, Folk-lore J., iv., 75.) 

We come now to tlje second series of questions, the subject of classific 
concepts, the study of "What should go where," as Miss Charlotte S. 
Burne happily puts it. 

Mr. E. Sidney Hartland divides folk-lore into two departments, /y/fc- 
thought and folk- practice, or, still better, /oZ/c-wori^. I like folk- wont for 
the reason that folk-lore does not so much include practice. For in- 
stance, I may tell you how an arrow-maker or potter produces his 
ware, and do it so graphically that a mechanic may counterfeit them. 
But I have omitted the thousand and one dispensables which the lowly 
artisan considered indispensable, leaving them for the folk-lorist to 
glean. 

Folk-lore is thus divided : 

1. Folk-thought: (1) tales of all kinds, sagas (world god, hero, elf, 
ghost-sagas, etc.), nursery tales drolls, cumulative tales, apologues; 
(2) folk-songs ; (3) weather-lore ; (4) proverbs ; (5) local and personal 
saws and prophecies; (0) riddles; (7) folk-speech. 

2. Folk-wont: (1) worship, every practice designed to propitiate the 
powers influencing man's destiny; (2) folk-lavr ; (3) folk-leechcraft; 
(4) games ; (5) folk-craft. 

Mr. Gomme gives the following scheme: 

1. Traditional narratives: {a) folk- tales; (&) hero-tales; (c) ballads 
and songs ; [d) place legends. 

2. Traditional customs : {a) local customs ; (h) festival customs ; 
(c) ceremonial customs ; {d) games. 

3. Superstitions and beliefs: {a) witchcraft; {l>) astrology; (c) super- 
stitions, practices, and fancies. 

4. Folk-speech: (a) popular sayings; (&) popular nomenclature; (c) 
proverbs; (c/) jingle rhymes, riddles, etc. 

This is amended by Miss Charlotte S. Burne as follows : 
Group 1. Traditional narratives: chiss «, folk-tales; class &, hero- 
tales; class c, ballads and songs; class d^ place legends and traditions. 



542 RECORD OF SCIEATE FOR 1886. 

Group 2. Superstitious, beliefs, and practices: class «, gobliudom ; 
class &, witchcraft; class c, astrology ; class (7, superstitions connected 
with material things. 

Group 3. Traditional customs: class a, local customs; class h, fes- 
tival customs ; class c, ceremonial customs ; class d, games. 

Group 4. Folk-sayings : class a, jingle, uursery rhymes, riddles, etc. ; 
class b, proverbs; class c, old saws, rhymed and uurhymed; class f/, 
nicknames, place rhymes and sayings, folk-etymology. 

Mr. J. S. Stuart Glenuie divides the study of man's history into tliat 
of folklore and of culture life. The classification of folk-lore is iden- 
tical with the psychological elements of folk-life corresponding (A) 
with the most general facts of human consciousness: ^1) an external 
world, (2) other beings, (3) an ancestral world; (B) and with the most 
general facts of human faculty: (1) imagination, (2) affection, (3) mem- 
ory. Corresponding with these facts of consciousness and of faculty 
the three psychological elements of folk-life are (1) folk-beliefs, (2) folk- 
passions, (3} folk-traditions, and the expressions of these are to be 
found in (1) customs, (2) sayings, (3) poesy. Folk-customs, as expressive 
of folk-life, may be more especially expressive of folk-belief or of folk- 
passions or of folk-traditions, and hence folk-customs may be classified 
as (1) festivals, (2) ceremonies, (3) usages (religious, sexual, and social). 
Folk-sayings may be classified as (1) recipes (magical, medical, and 
technical), (2) saws (proverbs, tests, riddles), (3) forecasts (omens, 
weather signs, and auguries). Folk-poesy may be chissified as (1) 
stories, (2) songs (mythological, affectional, and historical), and (3) 
sagas. 

Elements of folk-lore and subjects of folk-lore: (1) Folk-beliefs, (2) 
folk-passions, (3) folk-traditions. 

The expressions of folk-life and records of folk-lore: (1) folk-customs, 
(2) folk- sayings, (3) folk-i>oesy. 

fd) Eeligious. r(l) Magical. ^ Stories C*^^ Mytlu.logical. 

1. Festivals -...-i (2) Sexual. 1. Recipes..^ (2) Medical. ^' s„jj,,g ' < (-') Affictional. 

[(3) Social. 1(3) Tecbuical. ' " ■"' 1 (3) Historical. 

f(l) Religious. f (1) Proverbs. 3. Sagas— | (1) Metor.s. 

-2. Ceremonies..^ (2) Sexual. 2. Savrs <( (2) Tests. Folk--^ (2) Melodies. 

I (3) Social. '( (3) Riddles. music. [ (3) Instruments. 

f (1) Religious. ( (1) Omens. 

3. TJsages •( (2) Sexual. 3. Forecasts <( (2) Auguries. 

i(3) Social. 1(3) Weather signs. 

We are not prepared to accept Mr. Glennie's dictum that folk-lore is 
our lore about the folk, for that would really be culture lore, according 
to his own definition. Several of the gentlemen have wisely started 
their study with the two inquiries. Who are the folk and what is lore ? 
Seiior Alverez remarks, " The word folk, German volk, Latin vulgus, 
Italian volgo, Sanish vulgo, signifies not the whole of humanity, but a 
portion of the human race, who possess a series of common signs, and 
are really anonymous in contradistinction from that other series of men 
who possess a notable personality." He would include practically all 



ANTHKOPOLOGY. 543 

savages and tbe UDtutored herd of civilized society. It is very certaiu 
tbat what coustitutes the knowings, the sayings, and the ways or wonts 
of the untutored, the uuthinliing, and the unprogressive among us, re- 
mind us much of savagery. It is also very certaiu that each age of the 
world, each gradusof society, resembles the geological ages; that is, each 
one in addition to all that it has added of new, embraces or includes 
much of all the antecedent ages, grades, or epochs. The folk-lorists are, 
therefore, altogether scientific in collecting tbe lore of savages cii masse, 
the lore of barbaric and civilized peoples, so far as they are survivals 
of times not tlieir own. 

Practically, therefore, what do the folk-lorists wish us to collect, and 
how shall we name and classify our material after it is gathered ? Just 
at this writing we are inclined to use Miss Burne's modification of Mr. 
Gomme's scheme. For the filing of tales the folk-lore society has adopted 
a scheme with printed headings as follows : 

1. Generic name of story (not to be filled up). 

2. Specific name. 

3. Dramatis personaj. 

4. Tliread of story. 

5. Incidental ciicnmstances. 

6. Where piiblislied. 

7. Nature of collection. 

(1) Original or translation. 

(2) If oral, state narrator's name. 

(3) Otlier particulars. 

8. Special points noted by the editor of the above. 

(Signed) . 



Including all human thought and wont, or creed and cult respecting 
the spirit world under the term religion, we necessarily view the medi- 
cine man of savages as a priest rather than as a physician. It is hard 
to tell whether in America or in Australia more is being done to under- 
stand the social and intellectual condition of the aborigines. 

The men and women who in lower tribes stand for the clergy, as dis- 
tinguished from the laity, or uninitiated, are variously styled doctors, 
wizards, or witches, sorcerers, seers, or prophets, mediums, soothsayers, 
necromancers, "ain-makers (better weather makers), magicians, augurs, 
fortune tellers, enchanters, priests, personators, diviners, etc. 

Now, these can readily be divided into two classes or functions, viz, 
those who see into, understand, and reveal the spirit world; and those 
who have more or less control over it, comiiellingit to do their bidding. 

The medicine man, doctor, sorcerer, wizard, fetish man are all of the 
latter class. Whatever disease and death may be, whether merely the 
person or s])irit of some noxious thing, or an independently existing 
spirit, one of tlie powerful charmers can induce or con^.pel it to do his 
bidding, either by direct command, or by some diplomatic action called 
magic. 



544 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

In tlie collection of material for a scientific investigation of this class 
of persons I have found it convenient to adopt the following questions: 

(1) What are the actors called and what social rank do they htdd? 

(2) By what rites or initiations do they attain to the privileges of their 
class ? 

(3) What do they profess to do ? What are they believed to be able 
to do ? That is, to which class above named do they claim to belong ? 

(4) What do they actually perform f What is their mode of treat- 
ment? I)o they sing, dance, go into ecstasy, suck the wound, spit out 
the disease in the form of a bone, stone, etc.? That is, not what they 
claim to do, but what do they, actually? What dress, paraphernalia, 
implements, and dramatic performances do they resort to? What fees 
do they charge ? 

(5) What is the area of their operations, both in the spirit and in the 
mundane world ? Some cause, others cure, disease. Some have influ- 
ence in one sphere, others in other spheres of spirits. Again, some op- 
erate on the sick, others on the conjured, lovers, lost cattle, epilepsy, etc. 

(6) Folklore, beliefs, and customs of the folk in view of the foregoing 
subjects of inquiry. 

A significant fact in the progress of science is the establishment of a 
professorship of the science of religion in the ficole des Hautes Etudes 
at Paris, in the University of Eome, under the auspices of the Italian 
Government, and at Brussels. 

It is worthy of remark that such savants as Derenbourg, Eosny, 
Havet, Verues. Libauea, and d'Alviella have charge of these courses. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY, 1886. 

Abbott, C. C— Animal weather-lore. Pop. So. Month., xxviii, 635-642. 

Acad<5mie des Inscriptions et Bellos-Lettres. Abounds iu notices of arcbieological 

exploration. 
Alberto, A. — Coutribuciou al estudio dc las localizationes cerebrales. An. d. Circ. 

Jlod. Argent., Buenos Ayres, ix, 247-258. 
Albkecut, J. F. — Der Meusch und sein Geschlecht, oder Belehrungen iiber physisclie 

Licbe, etc. Quedleuburg : Ernst. 8vo. 
Albrecut, p. — Sur la place ruorphologique de rhomme dans la sdrie des mammi- 

I'eres. Hambourg. 13 p., 2 fig. 8vo. 
Allen, Gkant.— A thinking machine. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 51)6-605. 
Alsberg, M.— Die Anfjinge der Eisenkultiir. Berlin. 8vo. 
American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Ed. Stephen D. Poet, Clinton, Wis. 

Vol. VIII. 
American Antiquarian Society. Worcester, Mass. Proceedings. A^)l. iv, pts. land 2. 
American Association for the Advancemenl; of Science, 35th meeting, held at Buffalo, 

N. Y. Vice-president, Horatio Ilale. 

PAPERS READ. 

Sepulchral lites of the Mound-Builders. Ed. P. Vining. 

Notes uiion a. native Brazilian language. J. C. Brauner. 

Wampum. "W. M. Beauchamp. 

Piute nerbalist. CJbarles P. II.iTt. 

Ejah Shah, a sacrificial stono of the Dakotahs. H. C. Hovey. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 545 

Cliaracturistic curves of composition. T. C. Mendenhall. 

Origin and autiquity of New Yorli Iroquois. W. M. Beauchamp. 

On f;okl and silver oruuiiients from Florida. George £'. Kunz. 

Gold ornaments from the United States of Colombia. "George F. Kunz. 

Longevity of great men. Joseph Jastrow. 

The departiiiiiit of Chiriqui. Wolfred Nelson. 

Observations on the Iroquois League. John W. Sanborn. 

Ancient art in Chiriqui. John A. McNoil. 

Torsion of the humerus in North American Indians. Frank Baker. 

Ancient methods of arrow release. E. S. Morse. 

Child mind. George M. Maxwell. 

An Indian se'-ret society. J. Owen Dorsey. 

Ancient fortifications in the Ohio Valley. George M. Maxwell. 

The way bone fish-hooks were made. F. W. Putnam. 

Self-evident limits regarding a knowledge of the origin of languages. John Miiller. 

Facts indicating a great antiquity of the ancient Chiricaiios. J. A. McNeil. 

On the recalciflcation of the human teeth. J. K. Walker. 

The terms grandfather and grandmother among the Siouan tribes. J. Owen Dorsey. 

Analysis of the Mexican inscriptions and codices. Zelea Pinart Nuttall. 

Diversity of the mounds and earthworks of the United States. F. W. Puluam. 

The Maoiis of New Zealand. John Miiller 

The salt-kettles and pans of the Mound-Builders. W. McAdams. 

Old copper kettle of Spanish origin, from a mound in Illinois. W. McAdams. 

The testimony of some recently explored mounds. Cyrus Thomas. 

American Journal of Archaeology and of the History of the Fine Arts. Vol. ii. [Or- 
gan of the Archseological Institute of America.] Baltimore, Md. Johns Hopkins 

University. 
American Journal of Philology. Johns Hopkins University. Vol. vii. Quarterly. 

[Each number Las list of works on philology.] Baltimore. 
American Naturalist. Hlustrated magazine of natural history. Philadelphia. Vol. 

XX. [Has departments of psychology and anthropology. 
American Oriental Society. 
American Philosophical Society. 
Ammox, F. a. von. — Die ersten Mutterpflichten und die erste Kindespflego. Leipzig: 

Herzel. 8vo. 
Anales de Museo Nacional de Mexico. Mexico. Vol. V, 4to. 
Anderson, J. — Scotland in pagan times; the bronze and stone ages. Edinburgh. 

422 pp. 8vo. 
Anderson, W. — The Pictorial Arts of Japan. London : Sampson Low. Rev. in 

Nature, Feb. 25. 
Andree, R. — Die Anlhropophagie. Leipzig. 8vo. 
Die Masken in der Volkerkunde. Arch. f. Authrop., Brnschwg, xvi, 477-506, 

1 pi. 
Angiia, Zeitschrift fiir englische Philologie. Halle: Welcker &. Trautmanu. [Vol. 

VIII published in 1885.] 
Annales de I'Extreme Orient et de I'Afrique. Paris (?). Vol. viii published in 1886. 
Annales du Mus6e Guimet. Vol. x, by E. Lefebure on the hypogees royaux de Thebes. 

Rev'd. in Rev. de I'Hist. des Relig., xiv, 117-119. 
Antananarivo Annual and Madagascar Magazine. Reprint of first four numbers. 

London. 542 p. 8vo. 
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, vol. xv and xvi. 

London. 
Anthropological Society of Bombay. Founded in 1886. Presidett, Edwards Tyrrell 

Leith. 
Anthropologic crimiuelle. Archives de 1', et des sciences p6nale8. Tome I, No. 1. 

Paris: Masson, 1886. 96 p. 8vo. 
Antiquary, The. A magazine devoted to the history of the past. London. E. Stock, 

Vol. XV. Monthly. 
H. Mis. 600 35 



546 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886 

Archiv fiir Anthropologie. Zeitschrift fUr Naturgescbiclile iiud Urgescbichte de.s 
M nschen. Organ der deutscheu Gesellscliaft fiir Antliropologie, Ethnologic nnd 
Urgescliichte. Vol. xvii. Braunschweig. 

Archives de I'Anthropologie Criminelle. Paris. Volume i in I086. 

Archives des Missions scientifiques et litt^raires. Paris. Imprim. Nationale. '3s., 
viii-xii. [This important publication contains several papers of great anthrop- 
ological value.] 

Archives du Musde National de Rio de Janeiro. Recherches sur les populations ac- 
tuelles et i)r6historiques du Br6sil. [Rev. in Mat6riaux, 3s., 111, 264-267.] 

Archives slaves de biologic. Paris. Vol. i in 1886. 

Archivio di Psichiatria. 7th volume in 1886. 

Archivio per 1' Antropologia e la Etnologia. Organ della Society Italiana di Antropo- 
logia, Etnologia e Psicologia Comparata. Firenze. xvi. 

Archivio per lo studio delle tradizione popolare, iv. 

Armas, J. I. de.~Les crAnes dits d6form6s. Havane : El Fenix. 1885. 16 p. 8vo. 

Arnold, A. B.— Circumcision. New York. 22 p. 8vo. [From N. Y. Med. J., 1886.] 

Arnold, J. — Ueber das Vorkommen " heller " Muskelu beim Menschen. Heidelberg : 
C. Winter, Bvo. 

Asiatic Society of Bengal. Proceedings. Calcutta. Also Journal. Vo1.lv. 

Association frau^aise pour I'avancement des sciences, k Nancy, du 12 au 22 aoftt. 

FAPEUS READ. 

K6partition en France de la couleur des yens, des chevenx et de la peau. Dr. Paul To- 

pinard. 
Du saug dans les diff6rentes races hnniaines. Dr. Maurel. 
Anthropologie de la Tunisio. Dr. Collignon. 

Les anomalies de.s os propres dvi nez chez lea oraugs. Dr. Chndzinski. 
Etude d'anthropologie aifistiqno sur le proiil grec. M. Manouvrier. 
Des diff6iences intellectuelles dans un mtme groupo etbnique. Dr. Fauville. 
Les terrains quaternaires de la Somme. D'Ault-Dumesnil. 
Nouvelles Studes sur la fauna des grottes de Menton. Emile Rivi6re. 
La r6union de plusieurs epoques de la pierre sur un meme plateau. J. de Baye. 
Les sepultures k deux degr6s et lea rites lun6raires de I'iige ae la pierre. E. Cartailhac. 
Le dolmen a double 6tage de Kervilor k Trinit6-sur-Mer et les dolmens k grandes dalles et 

ceux k cabinets lateraux. F. Gaillard. 
L'&ge du bronze et du fer en Lorraine. MM. Bleicher et Barth61eray. 
Les mati^res premiferea de rornementation a IMge du fer. Drs. Blucher et Faudel. 
Carte pr^historique de Tunisie. Dr. Collignon. 
Les silex tailing de Breonio (Italie). Thomas Wilson. 
La date de I'Sge du renne k Geneve. Dr. Gosse. 

Les pioced6s de taille de Tobsidienne aux fepoquea pr^historiques. Adrien de Mortillet. 
Tin rapport arch6ologique entre Tancien et le nouveau continent. J. de Baye. 
Hache de forme amcricaine en Suisse. Dr. Gosse. 
Exposition des sciences anthropologiques en 1887. M. G. de Mortillet. 

Association g^nerale des m^dicens de France. Reunion g^ndraleannuelle. J.demM. 

de Bordeaux. 1885-6, xv, 449-454. 
Ausland, Das. Stuttgart. Vol. LViii, 52 numbers. 
Avery, John. — Notes from the Far East. Am. Antiquar., viii, monthly. 

The Ao Naga language of southern Assam. Am. J. PhiloL, Balto., vii, 344-366. 

Avon, L'Abbe. — Antiquit^s mexicaines du Mu.sdo du Grand S^minaire de Nlme.s. 

Tours: Bouserez. Extr. du Bull. Monument. [Rev'd in Rev. d'Ethnog., v,275.] 
Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions. Vol. xiv. Yokohama. R. Meiklejohn. 
Bacon, C. A. — The inequality of the upper extremities and the cause of left-handed- 

uess. Med. 'Rec, N. Y., xxix, 515. 
Bain, Alexander. — The scope of anthropology and its relation to the science of mind. 
Baker, Francls. — Evolution in architecture. Pop. Sc. Mouth., xxviii, 642-649. 
Bamps, A. — Le calendrier aztfeque. Le Mus^on, Louvain, V, 487-500. 
Banuelier, Ad. F. — La d^couverte du Nouveau Mexique par le moine franciscain 

frfere Marcos de Nice en 1539. Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 193- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 547 

Bandelier, Ad. F. — La d^couverte du Nouveau Mexique, par Marcos de Nice en 1539. 

Rev. d'Ethnog., Ist aud 2d uumbers. 
Barber, Edwin A. — The Museum. A department of the American antiquarian de- 
voted to the interests of collectors. 
Bahon, R. — Les Brachistoc^phales. Rec. de M6d. Vet., Paris, 70, iii, 525-54"2. 
Barroil, G. — De la longueur relative des premier et deuxi&me orteils du pied humaiu. 

Arch, per Anthrop., xv, 7. 
Bassett, James. — Persia: the land of the Imams. Loudon: Blackie, 1887 [1886], 

xvii-f342 p., map.Svo. 
Bastian, A.— Die Cnlturliiuder des alten America. Bd. III. Berlin. 200 p. 8vo. 

Zur Lehre von deu geographlschen Provinzen. Berlin : Mittler. 118 p. 8vo. 

Die Seele indischer uud hellenischer Philosophie in den gespensten moderner 

Geister&eherei. I'erlin : Weidmaun. 222 p. 8vo. 
Baye, J. DE. — Siijets ddcoratifa empruut^s an regne animal dans I'industrie gauloise. 

M€m. Soc. des Antiq. de France. Paris, xlvi. 

Congrfes iuternat. des Ara6ricanistes. Session V. Chalons. 8vo. 

Beaurfgakd, O. — Antbropologie et philologie. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop. de Paris, 188G, 

3s., IX, 220-250. 
Beauvois, E. — Deux sources de I'histoire des Quetzalcoatl. Le Mus6on, Louvain, 

V. 427, 597. 
Les colliers de pierre trouv^s k Porto Rico et en ficosse. Mat6riaux, 38., iii, 

15 p. 
Behla, Robert. — Die friihere Ausbreitung des Elch in Europa. Corr. Blatt., No. 

10, p. 97-106. 
Beitriige zur Anthropologie uud Urgeschichte Bayerns, vii., Munich. 
Bell, R. — The " medicineman," or Indian and Eskimo notions of medicine. Canada 

Med.&. Surg. J., xiv, 456-462. 
Beloch, Julius. — Die Beviilkerung der griechisch-romischen Welt. Leipzig: Dun- 

cker. 520, 8vo. 
Belsanti, Pietro. — Alcuni caratteri regressivi del cranio umano. Arcbiv. per 

1' Antrop., XVI, 173-222. 
Benedikt, M. — Die Kriimmungsfliichen am Schiidel. Centralbl. f. d. Med.Wissensch., 

Berlin, xxiv, 273-275. 
Benedikt, Moriz. — Zur krauionietrischen uud kephalometrischen Methode. Wien 

Med. Blatt., ix, 636-639. 
Benjamin, S. G. W. — Persia and the Persians. Boston : Ticknor & Co. 14-J-507 j). 
Bent, J. Theodore. — On insular Greek customs. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 391-402. 
Bergen, F. D. — Animal aud plant lore of children. Pop. Sc. Month,, xxviii, 367- 

373. 
Berlin, A. F. — Fraudulent stone objects. Am. Antiquar., viii, 228-230. 
Berliner Gesellsch. f. Anthrop. Ethnol. uud Urgesch., Verba ndlungen, year 1886. 

Contents reviewed in Rev. d' Anthrop., 3 s., i, 574. 
Bernard, Captain. — Observations arch6ologiques faites dans la province d' Alger. 

Rev. d'Ethnog., V, 241. 
Bertillon, a. — De I'ideutification par les signalements anthropomdtriques. Arch, de 

I'aTithrop. crimiuelle, Paris, i, 19.3-223. 
Bertin. G. — The Bushmen and their language. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 51-81. 

The pre-Akkadian Semites. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 409-436. 

Bibliotheca Americana. Paris : Maisonueuve. Supplement I. 

Biblioth&que Ethnologique, published under the direction of A. de Quatrefages and 

E. T. Hamy. This series will include "The Black Races," by E. T. Hamy ; the 

"Yellow Races," by M. J. Montano ; the " Red Races," by Lncien Biart, and other 

monographs. 
Billings, J. S. — On a new craniophore, for use in taking composite photographs of 

skulls, Photogr. Times and Am, Photogr., N, Y., Jan. 15. 



548 RECOKD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

BiNET, Alfred. — La psychologie du raisoanenient ; recberches experimeutales par 

bypnotisme. Paris : F. Alcan. 171 p., l2mo. 
Blagovidov, Ivan —Sanitary researcbes amoug the tribes of tbi3 Simbirsk govern- 
ment, etc. St. Petersburg. 105 p., 1 diagr., 7 tab. 8vo. 
Boas, Franz. — Spracbe der BeUa-Coola Iiidiauer. Verhandl. Berliner Autbrop. 

Gesellscb.,20 Miirz. 
BoiNET. — Les parentes morbides. Paris: Asseliu & Houzeaii. 152 p. 8vo. 

• Tableaux g(5n(5ab)giqiies des families morbides. [N. p.,u.d.] 1 tab., 4to. 43 p. 

Boletino de la sociedad autropologica de la Isla de Cuba. Habana. Vol. i pub- 

lisbed in 1886. 
Bollinger, Dr. and Gerhard Ku^nen. — Zur geograpbischen Verbreituug der 

Rhacbitis. Miincben, 
Bosch-Reitz, G. J. A.— History of the Origin, Customs, Religion, Wars, and Travels 

of the CaribS; savages of the Antilles in America. Temehri-Demerara. V. 
BoSELLi, E.— II contrasto fra 1' amore e la bellezza. Milano. 
BoTTiCHEK, E. — Die Cultusmaske und der Hocbsitz des Obres an iigyptischen, assy- 

rischen und griechisch-romischen Bildwerkeu. Arch. f. Autbrop. Brnschwg., 

XVI, 52:3-528. 
Bouche-Leclercq. — Manuel des institutions romaines. Paris: Ilachette, xvi, 654 

p. 8vo. 
BowDiTCH, H. P., and J. W. Warren. — Pletbysmographic experiments on the vaso- 
motor nerves of the limbs. J. Physiol., Lond., vil, 416-450, 1 pi. 
Brian, Ren#.. — Introduction de la m6decine dans le Latium et a Rome. Paris: Le- 

roux, 1885. 20 p. 8 vo. [Part of Rev. Archdol., Paris'.] 
Brinkerhoff, H. R. — Nah-uee-ta, a tale of the Navajos. Washington : J. H. Soule. 

7+236 p. 
Brinton. Daniel G. — Ikonoiwatic writing. Am. Philos. Soc, Phila., Oct. 1. 
The Iconographic Encyclopedia. Anthropology and Ethnology. Philadel- 
phia. 184 p. 8vo. 

Notes on American Ethnology. Monthly in Am. Antiquar., vol. viii. 

Pre-bistoric arcbieology. The Iconographic Encyclopedia, ii, 3-116. Philad.: 

Icooogr. Pub. Co. 

The study of the Nahuatl language. Am. Antiquar., Jan., 1886. 

British Association. 

The native tribes of Egyptian Soudan. Sir Ciiarles Wilson. 

The Celtic and Germanic designs on Kunic crosses. W. Boyd Dawkiua. 

The scientific prevention of cousiimptiuu. G. W. Haiubleton. 

Dragon sacrifice at the vernal equinox. Geo. St. Clair. 

Preglacial man in North Wales. Ur. Honry Hicks. 

Exxdoratiou of Gop cairn and cave. W. Boyd Dawkins. 

Bowl's Barrow, in South Wilts. W. Cuunington. 

The crania in Bowl's Barrow. J. G.Garson. 

Papuans and Polynesians. George Bio\Vn. 

What is an Aryan 1 Sir Geo. Campbell. 

Intiuence of Canadian climate on Europeans. W. H. Iliugston. 

The life history of a savage. George Brown. 

Photographs of mummies of ancient Egyptian kings. Sir Wm. Dawson. 

Prehistoric man in Manitoba. C. N. Bell. 

Tan cross on the badge of a medicine man. R. G. Haliburton. 

Browne, L. — The voice as a stringed instrument. Brit. Med. J., i, 738. (See also 
Stoker, id., 641.) 

Brunton, T. L. — On the connettiou between chemical constitution and physiolog- 
ical action. Brit. Med. J., Lond., ii, 326-329. 

Brownlie, J. R. — On certain ujummy teeth. ,J. Brit. Dent. Assoc, Lond., All, 
4U1-403. 

Bryant, Sophie. — Testing the character of school children. J. Authioi). Inst., xv, 
338-350. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 549 

Ri'CHNER, L. — Der Tertiarmenscli. Deutsche Rev., Breslan unci Berlin, xi, G9-79. 

Bulletin lueusueldes recentes publicMtioiis fVaupaises. Biliotheque Natiouale. Paris. 

Bollettiuo di paletnologia italiaua. L. Pigoriui and P. Stiobel. S. 2, ii. Papers by 
Parazzi, Pigorini, Castelfranco. 

Bureau of Ethnology. 

BuTTNER, C. G. — Medical practice in Dauiaraland. Pop. So. Month., xxviii, 52G-."):W. 

Calcutta Review. 

COLLiGNON, R.— La nomenclature quiuaire de I'indice nasal dn vivant. Rev. d'An- 
throp., 3 8., 11,8-19. 

Campbell, Sir George.— Opening address. Section of Anthropology, British Associ- 
ation. Nature. Sept. 9. 

Campbell, John.— Etruria Capta. Proc. Canadian Inst., iii, 123 p. 8vo. Reprint. 

Canadian Institute. Toronto, Canadti. Vol. m, 1385. 

Cappie, J.— Some points in the physiology of attention, belief, and will. Brain, 
London, ix, 196-206. 

Cartailhac, E. — Les ages pr^historiques de I'Espagneet du Portugal. Paris: Reiu- 
wald. 347 p., 4iJ0 figures, and 4 plates. [Preface by A. de Quatrefages.] 

Lea premiers travaux sur les monuments m<5galithiques. Materiaux, 3 s., iii, 

229-240. 

Ossements et squelettcs hu mains dans lescavernes et les stations quaternaires. 

Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., i, 448-470. 

Castelfranco, Pompj&o. — Pal6oethnologie italienne. Rev, d'Anthrop, 3 s., i, 499- 

511. 
Castonnet des Fosses, H.— L'Espagne telle qu'elle est, etc. Bull. Soc. G6og. de 

Lille, V, 225-253. 
Catalog der ethnologischen Sammlung der Neu-Guinea Compagnie. V. O. Finsch. 

Berlin. 46 p. 
Catalogue des crAnes pr^historiqucs do France. Rev. d'Anthrop., 30, i, 360-363. 
Catalogue of anthropological literature. Archiv. f. Anthrop., xvi. Appendix. 

I. Protohistory and archivolosy. J. H. Miiller, 1-30. 
II. Anatomy. Ad. Pausche, 31-37. 
m. Ethnology. Dr. Scheppig, 37-97. 
IV. Zoology. Max Schlosser. 

Cattell, James McKeen.— Psycho mctrische Untersuchnugen. Leipzig: Engel- 

mann, 72 p. 
The time it takes to see and name objects. Mind., xli, 63-65; 220-242; 377- 

392; 524-538. 
Caucasus Branch, Imperial Russian Geographical Society. Tiflis., vol. viii, 1884-'85, 
Cels, a., et L. de Pauws. — Consid6rations sur la taille du silex a Spiennes. Bruxelles. 

12 p., 2 pi. 8vo. 

Elements d'anthropologie. I. Paris : G. CarrfS. 210 p. 8vo. 

Chamberlaix, Basil Hall.— A simplified grammar of the Japanese language 

(modern written style). London : Triibner. 114 p. 8vo. 
Channing, Edward.— The Narragausett Indians. Johns Hopkins Hist, and Pol. 

Ser., IV, 60 p. 
Charencey, H. de.— Textes en langue tarasque. Le Musdon, v, 328. Textes chana-"" 

bals, i&., 621-624. 
Charnay, Desire.- Letters upon travels in Mexico. Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 282-294. 
Chauvet, G. — Les m6taux dans les dolmens. Materiaux, 3 s., iii, 251-255. 
China Review, vol. xiv. 
Chudzinski et M. Duval.— Description morphologique du cerveau de Gambetta. 

Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., 129-152. 

Crane d'un assassin, Ibid, 127. 

Clairvoyant doctors and their prescriptions. Boston Med. and Surg. J., cxiv, 354. 
Clarke, J. C. C. — The origin and varieties of the Semitic alphabet. Chicago: Am. 

Pub. Soc. of Hebrew, 18 p., 20 pi. 



550 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188G. 

Cochin, Denys.— L'^volution et la vie. Paris : G. Massou, 306 p. 8vo. 

Cole, Alan S. — The art of tapestry making and embroidery, J. Soc. Arts, xxxiv, 

931-940 and 947-958 ; 9G3-973. 
Colin, Dr. — La population du Bambouck, Senegal-Niger. Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., I, 

432-447. 
Colinet, Ph. — La divinit6 personnelle dans I'lnde aucienne. Le Mus6on, Louvain, 

v,212. 
CoLLiGNON, R. — L'angle facial de Cuvier sur le vivant mesurd a I'aide du goniom&tre 

facial ra6dian de Topinard. Rev. d'Anthrop., Paris, 3 s., i, 471-498. 
Note sur un cas t6ratologique rare ; arret de d6veloppement en longueur des 

humerus. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. ix,28. 
CoLLiNEAU. — Le cretin ; I'homme, No. 1. D6population et avortemeut, No. 3. 
Colonial and Indian Exhibition at South Kensington, London. List of catalogues 

published in Rev. d'Ethuog., iv, p. 396. 
Colonial and Indian Exhibition Empire of India. Special catalogues. Loudon: 

Clowes, VI, 317 pp., Bvo. 
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, 1886. The handbooks and catalogues of this exhi- 
bition are full of ethnological matter. 
CoNDEK, C. R. — Condition of the native tribes of Bechuanaland. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

XVI, 76-96. 
Congres arch<5ologi(iue de France. Held at Nantes, July. 

Congres des soci^t^s savantes li la Sorboune. 27-29th April. Section of Archeology. 
Cope, E. D. — On lemmine reversion in human dentition. Am. Naturalist, xx, 941- 

947. 

The material conditions of memory. Am. Naturalist, xx, 83-85. 

CoRBALLY, T. P. — The nomenclature of sanitary science. Sanitarian, New York, 

xvii, 97-110. 
COTTEAU, E.— Quelques notes sur Sarawak (Borneo). Rev. d'Ethiiog., v, 262-270. 
Crane, Th. Frederick. — Italian popular tales. London : Macmillan, 1885, XXXIV, 

389 pp. 
Crolla. — Vleux dictous et proverbes arabes. Le Mus6on, v, 605. 
Crombie, J. W. — History of the game of hop-scotch. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 403-408. 
Cunningham, D. J. — Royal Irish Academy. "Cunningham Memoirs," II. The lumbar 

curve in man and the apes. Dublin: By the Academy. 148 pp., 1 ch., 12 pi. 4to. 

The neural spines of the cervical vertebriB as a race character. J. Anat. and 

Physiol., Loudon, xx, 637-640 

Curran, W. — The making of eunuchs. Prov. Med. J., Leicester, v, 149. 

CusT, RoBT. N. — Internationaler Orieutalisten-Congress in Wien. Malaisch-polyne- 

sische Abtheilung. London : Trlibner, 22 pp., 8vo. 
Dachiller y Morales, A. — Algunas observaciones filologica-filosoficas sobre el feti- 

cismo. Bol. Soc. Antrop. de Cuba, i, 66-71. 
Dalla Rosa, Luigi. — Das postembryonale Wachstum des menschlichen Schliifemus- 

kels, etc. Stuttg : F. Enke, 202 pp., 23 pi., 8vo. 
Dallas, James. — On the primary divisions and geographical distribution of mankind. 

J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 304-330. 
Dally et Manoitvrier. — Les cinq cranes s(5n6gambien8 de M. Bellamy. Bull. Soc. 

d'Anthrop. 3s, ix, 129-152. 
Damelbekov, a. — Weight and volume of head and spinal column of children under 

one year of age. St. Petersburg, 20 p., 6 tab. 1885. 8vo. 
Danvers, F. C. — Historical and recent famines in India. J. Soc. of Arts, xxxiv, 

317-349. 
Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. Proc, iv, 1882-1884, 347 pp., 5 pi. 
Deans, J. — On the copper images of the Haidah tribes of British Columbia and 

Alaska. Proc. Numismat. and Autiquar. Soc, Philadelphia, 1~85, 11-17. Also, 

on the Haidah women at the period of puberty. 18-19. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 551 

Debierre, Ch. — Manuel cl'embryologie humaine et compar^e. Paris: O. Doiu. 789 

pp. 8 pi., 8vo. 
Delbceuf, J. — What may animals be taught. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 168-179. 
Deniker, J. — Les singes authropokles. These iuaugurale. Paris. Also, J. Anat. et 

Phys., Paris. 
Recherches anatomiques et embryologiques sur les singes anthropoides. '26.5 

pp., 9 pi., 8vo. From Archives tie Zool. Exp^rimeutale, iii. Rev. in Rev. d'An- 

throp. 3 s., II, 88-94. 
Derenbourg, Hartwig. — La science des religions et I'lslamisme, deux conferences 

faites k I'ouverture du cours sur I'lslamisme et les religions de I'Arabie. Rev. de 

I'Hist. des Religions, xiii, 292-333. 

Silvestre de Sacy. Interuat. Zeitschr., iii, i-xxviii. 

Destruction oflife by wild beasts and snalves in India. Indian Med. J., v, 78. 
Deutsche Anthropologische Geaellschaft. 17th General Meeting, Stettin, 10 to 12 

Aug. Corr.-Blatt, xvii, 67. 
Dewey, John. The psychological standpoint. Mind, xli, 1-19 ; 153-173. 
Dictionnaire de g6ographie universellc. Vivien de Saint-Martin et Louis Rousselet. 

Ill, No. 33. Paris : Hachette. 
Dictionnaire des sciences aathropologiques. Liv. 17, Mi.-Ne. Paris. Figs. 4to. 

Liv. 18, Ne.-Pa., id. 
Dictionnaire encyclop6dique des sciences m^dicales. 
DlEBOLD, W. — Ein Beitrag zur Anthropologie der Kleinrussen. Dorpat : Schnacken- 

burg. 8vo. 

Ein Beitrag zur Anthropologie der Kleinrussen. Dorpat. 45 p., 2 tab. 8vo. 

Also separate pub. by Schnackeuburg. 

Die ethuologische Ausstelluug der Neu-Guiuea Compaguie. Berlin. 12 p. 4to. 

DoBiHAL, N. — Ueber den Ban von Humanitiitsaustalteu, etc. Oesterr. Artzl. Ver- 
eiusztg, Wieu, x, 80; 102. 

DOBROVOLSKi, V. L. — Some explanations and complements to the question of propa- 
gation of blindness in Russia. Vrach, St. Petersburg, vii, 385 ; 405. 

DoDD, J. — A glimpse at the manners and customs of the hill tribes of North Formosa. 
J. Str. Br. R. A. S., No. 15, 1885, p. 69. 

The Hill tribes of North Formosa. J. Str. Br. R. A. S., No. 15, 1885, p. 69. 

Dorset, J. Owen. — On the Migrations of Siouan Tribes. Am. Naturalist, Mar., 1886, 

XX, 121-222. 

Indian Personal Names. Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sei., xxxiv. 

The Dhegiha Language. Am. Antiquarian, Sept. and Nov., 1886. 

DOLTIN, Georges. — La croyance a riuimortalite de I'fime chez les anciens Irlandais. 
Rev. de I'Hist. des Religious, xiv, 53-66. 

Douglass, F.— The Future of the Colored Race. N. Am. Rev., N. Y., cxlii, 436-440. 

Douglas, R. K. — Ancient Sculptures in China. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 469-476. 

Duval, M. — L'anatomie gduerale et son histoire. Rev. Scieut., Paris, xxxvii, 65 ; 
107. 

Dyer, W. T. Thistelton. — The cereals of prehistoric times. Nature, Oct., p. 545. 

Edkins, Joseph. — Ancient navigation of the Indian Ocean. J. R. A. Soc, x viii, 1-27. 

Eells, M. — Vessels and utensils of the Indians of Puget Sound. Am. Antiquarian, 
Jan. Also " Ten Years at Skokomish." 

Ebner, V. VON. — Ueber Vererbung. Memorabilien. Heilbronn, vi, 65-81. 

Egleston, Melville. —The land system of the New England Colonies. Johns Hop- 
kins Hist. & Polit. Ser., iv. 

Ecole d'Anthropologie. — The eleventh course of lectures in this school, covering the 
winter of 1886-'87, included the following subjects : 

Characteristics of inferiority iind superiority among the races of men. Paul Topinard. 
Differentiation of races Ijy the measurements of the body. E. Dally and L. Manouvrier. 
Prehistoric archiBolojry, origin of arts, ajrricnltnre, and industry. 
Evolution of marriage and the family. Ch. Letourneau. 



552 RECORD OF SCIE.VCE FOR 188G. 

Ecole (I'Antliropologie — Contiimerl. 

Tbe influences of environment and comparative pathology. A. Bordin. 

Comparative anatomy of man and tbo hifjlier animals: The brain. Dr. Herv6. 

The Ecole d'Anthropologio Ls unlike any other in the world. The lectures are free, the 

professors are paid by the state, and year after year hundreds of persons are acquiring 

a knowledge which will tell on the history of the science. 

Ellis, Robert. — Sources of Etrnscau ami Basque lauguages. London. 8vo. 

Emin Bey, Dr.— Sur les Akkas et les Baiis. Zeitschr. f. Etbuol., 1886, iv, 145-166. 

Elting, Irving.— Dutch village communities on the Hudson River. Johns Hopkins 
Hist. & Polit. Ser., iv, p. 68. 

Emo. a. — II boomerang. Arch. p. 1' Autrop. Firenze, xvi, 17-89, 11 pi. 

Euc^phale. Paris. Vol. vi. 

Eucyclopajdia Britanica, ninth edition, vol. xx, with notable articles on Prussia, 
Psychology, Ptolemy, Public Health, Punjab, Pyramid, Quakers, Queensland, 
Quintiliau, Rabbi, Rajsutana, Raleigh, Reforraatiou, Reformatory, Relics, Reli- 
gions, Renaissance, Roman Catholic Church, Romance Languages, Roman law 
and literature, Rome. 

Ernst, A. — Venezuelanische Volkspoesie. Verhandl. d. Berl. Anthrop. Gesellsch., 43- 
47. 

EsTOURNELLES DE CONSTANT, P. d'. — Les soci6t6s secr&tes chez les Arabes, &c. Rev. 
des deux Mondes, p^ 100-128. 

Evans, Arthur J. — Flint-knapper's art in Albauia. J. Anthrop. Inst., xvi, 65-67. 

Fauvelle. — De I'atavisme. Bull. Soc. d'Authrop. de Paris, ;5 s., ix, 77-88. 

De rh^r6dite. Ibid., 54-74. 

La s<?pulture ches les H6breux d'apros les livres jndaiques. L'Homme, Paris, 

III, lGl-171. 

De I'origine de la vie. Bull. Soc, d'Anthrop. de Paris, ix, 162-170. 

Des doigts surnum^raires d6velopp6s chez I'adulte, leiir mode de d6veloppe- 

ment et leur disposition. Bull. Soc. d'Authrop. de Paris, '.^ s., ix, 3'H-49. 

Des relations entre les organes du toucher et de I'odorat. Bull. Soc. d'Au- 
throp., Paris, XIX, 274-282. 

La science est une. L'Homme, Paris, iii, 335-342. 



Faye, Eugene de. — De I'iufluence du ddmon de Socrate sur sa pens6e religieuse. 

Rev. de I'Hist. des Relig., xiii, 47-69. 
F£r£, C. and J. Segalas. — Quelques varidt^s morphologiques du pavilion de I'oreille 

humaiue. Rev. d'Authrop., Paris, 3 s., i, 226-239. 
Feui^, C. — Note sur le poids du cerveau chez les sujets a crane m^topique. Compt. 

rend. Soc.de biol., Paris, 3 s., in, 363. 
Ferri, E. — Rapport sur les rravaus du premier Cougres iuternaticmal d'Authropologie 

criuiinelle. Arch, di psichiat., Torino, vil, 3-18. 
Fehry, E. — L'anthropologie crimiuelle en 1885. Rev. Scientifique, 9 January. 
FiNSCii, Otto. — Les vetements, les parures, et les tatouages des Papouas. Paris : 

E. Leroux. 
FiRMiN, A. — Del'<5galit<? des races humaines. Anthropologie positive. Paris, 1885, F. 

Pichon, 684 p., 2 pi. 
Fischer, H. — Die geographische Verbreitung der Beile aus Nephrit, Jadeit uud Chlo- 

romelanit in Europa. Arch. f. Anthrop., xvi, 563-590, with map. 
FisciiL, J. — Enfahrungen iiber einige neuere Untersuchungsmethoden des Gehirns. 

Wien. Med. Presse, xxvii,117. 
Flint, Earl.— Pre-adamite footprints. Am. Antiquar., viii, 230-233. 
Flower, W. H. — The varieties of the humau species. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 315- 

324. 
FOL, Hermann. — L'instinct et I'intelligeuce. 13th February. 
Folk-Lore Journal (The). London: Elliot Stock. Quarterly, vol.iv. [Organ of 

the Folk-Lore Society.] 
Foster, Wm. E. — Town Government in Rhode Island. Johns Hopkins Hist, and 

Polit. Ser., IV, ii. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 553 

FOTHERBY, H. A. — A family in which a similar deformity appeared in five genera- 
tions. Brit. Med. J., i, 1)78. 

P^RANK, Carl. — Uber die Entwickelnng der menschlichen ans der tierischen Sprache. 
Kosmos, 1886, 1, 98-110. 

Frazer, p. — Composite photography and the identification of handwriting. Frank- 
lin Institute. 

French Association for the advancement of Science. 

Freund, H. W. — Uel)er Schwanzbildiing beim Menschen. Arch. f. path. Auat., Ber- 
lin, civ, 531-539 

Fritsch, a. — Note sur un crane hnmain trouv6 dans I'argile de Podbaba prcs Prague. 
Arch, slaves de bid., Paris, i, 1-4. 

Gabelenz, Georg von der. — The languages of Melanesia. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 
484-490. 

Zur chinesischen Sprache nnd zur allgemeinen Grammatik. Internal. Ztschr., 

Ill, 93-109. 

Gaiuoz, II., et P. S^BILLOT. — Bibliographie des traditions et de la litdrature popu- 
laire des Frances d'oiitre-iuer. Paris: Maisonneuve. vii4-94 p. 8vo. 

Gaidoz, Henri. — Le Dieu gaulois du soleil et le symbolisme de la roue. Paris : E. 
Leroux. 1 pi. 26 figs. 8vo. 

Galeppe, v.— M^decine 16gale. Note sur le systeme dentaire de quatre supplicids. 
J. de conn. ni4d. prat., Paris, 3 s., viii, 241; also in France m^d., Paris, ii, 1157- 
1160. 

Galton, Francis. — Family likeness in stature. Proc. Roy. Soc, Lond., xl, 42-73. 

Hereditary stature. J. Authrop. Inst., London, xv, 489-499. 

Recent designs for anthropometric instruments. J. Anthrop. Inst., xvi, 2-10. 

Types and their inheritance. Brit. Assoc. Rep., LV, 1206-1214. 

Garnier, p. — Dictionnaire annuel des progr^s des sciences et institutions mMicales. 
21"= ann<5,e. Paris: Balli^re, G07 p. 12mo. 

Garson, J. G. — On international agreement on the classification and nomenclature 
of the cephalic index. J. Anthrop. Inst., Loud., xvi, 17-20; also 11-17. 

The Cephalic Index. J. Anthrop. Inst., xvi, 11-20. 

Gatschet, a. S.— Die Karankawa Indianer. Globus, XLix, 123-125. 

On the affinity of the Cherokee to the Iroquois dialects. Proc. Am. Pbilolog. 

Soc, XL-XLV. 

The Yuchi tribe and language. Science, 1885, April. 

Fiji dialects. Technier's Internat. Ztschr., ii, 193-208. 

Der Yuma-Sprachstamm. Vocabs. of Seri, Hualapai, Arasupai, Yavapai, etc. 



Ztschr. fiir Ethnol., 97-122. 
Gasco, Francisco. — Influenza della biologia sul peusiero moderno. Rome: Locs- 

cher. 57 p. 8vo. 
Gavoy, E. — L'enc6phale. Preface by Vulpian. 200 p. Atlas of 59 pi. Paris. 4to. 
L'enc6phale, structure et description iconographique du cerveau, du cervelet, 

et du bulbe. Paris: Balliere. 32 p., 12 pi. 4to. 
German Anthropological Association, xviith annual meeting at Stettin, 10th to 12th 

August. Report in Corr. Blatt, xvii. No. 10 and 11. 
GiBBS, James. — The history of archaeology in India. Soc. Arts, xxiv, .555-568. 
GiLLMAN, Henry. — Skull of adult with frontal suture. Am. Naturalist, 748. 
Gladstone, Huxley, etc. — The order of creation. The conflict between Genesis 

and geology. N. Y. 178 p. 
Globus.— Illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lauder und Volkerkunde. Braunschweig: Kie- 

pert. "Vols. 49 and 50. 
Goblet d'Alviela. — Introduction a I'histoire ggn^rale des religious. Bruxelles. 3 

vols, in 8vo. 
Goldziher, Ignace. — Le sacrifice de la chevelure chez les Arabes. Rev. de I'Hist. 

des Relig., xiv, 49. 



554 RECORD OP SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

GoMME, G. L. — Archaic types of society in Scotland. Discourse at the opening of 

the Archaeologic Society of Glasgow. 
Gentleman's Magazine Library. Vol. V. Archieology, geology, and history. 

Boston : Houghton. 
Gould, C. — Mythical monsters (dragons, sea serpent, unicorn, Chinese phoenix, etc.). 

London. 406 p. 8vo. 
Grandidier, Alfred. — Des rites fun^raires chez les Malgaches. Rev. d'Ethnog., 

V, 213-232. 

Madagascar et ses habitants. Public seance of the tive academies. Paris. 

25th Oct. F. Didot. 

Greenley. — Longevity of man. Am. Prat, and News., Louisville, n. s., ii, 193-iyU. 
Grimm, Dr. — Abriss der Kulturgeschichte Ostafrikas. Verhamll. badisch. geog. Ge- 

sellsch, Karlsruhe, 18d4-6, p. i-LVi. 
Gruning, J. — Ueber die Liinge der Finger und Zehen bei einigen Volkerstiimmeu. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., Brnschwg, xvi, 511-518. 
GUDDEN, VON. — Ueber die Frage der Localisation der Functionou der Grossbirurindf. 

Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiat., Berlin, XLii, 478-499. 
GuiCCiARDi, G. and A. CiONixi. — Rlcerche psicometriche sulla ripctiziouc. Riv. 

sper. di freniat., Regio-Emilia, xi, 404-433, 2 diagr. 
GuiNARD, A. — Comparaisou des orgaues genitaux externes dans les deux sexes. Paris : 

Davy. 8vo. 
GUPPY, H. B. — On the physical characters of the Sol unou islanders. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., XV, 266-284. 
Hahn, L., et L.Thomas. — Embaumements. Diet, eucycl. d.sc. m6d., Paris, xxxiii, 

584-600. 
Hager, C. — Die Rassenfrage der insularen Volker. Ausland, 26. 
Hale, Horatio. — Origin of primitive money. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 296-306. 

Ethnology of the Blackfoot tribes. Pop. Sc. Mouth., xxviii, 204-211. 

Hallez, Paul. — Pourquoi nous ressemblons k nos parents. Paris: O. Doiu. 32 p. 

8vo. [From M6m.sc.de Lille, 4s., xv.] 
Hallez, Th. — La question de Madagascar, Hovas et Sakalaves. Rev. des deux 

Moudes, 1885, 649-672. 
Hall, G. S., and J. Jastrow. — Studies of Rythm. Mind, xli, 55-02. 
Hampton, W. D. — The picture cave of West Salem, Ohio. Am. Autlquar., viii, 243- 

246. 
Hamy, E. T. — Decades AmericaniB. Current numbers of Rev. d'Ethnog., v. 

Decades Americanje. M^moire d'arch6ologie et d'ethnographie am^ricane. 

Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 233-240. 

fitudes ethnographiqueaet arch^ologiquesa I'Exposition Colonialeet Indienne 

de Londres. Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 333-375. 

Le cimetitJre de Teuenepanco et les sacrifices a Tlaloc. Rev. d'Ethnog., Paris, 



167-180. 
Handworterbuch der Zoologie, Anthropologic und Ethnologic. Breslau : Trewendt. 

Vol. IV, 640 pp., ill. 
Hansen, J. — Bidrag til Ostgronlaendernes Anthropologi. Copenhaven : Bianco 

Lunos. Br. in 8vo. 
Hansen', Soren.— Bidrag til Ostgronlandernes Anthropologi. Copenhagen. [Rev. 

in Rev. d' Anthrop., 3s., I, 716-718.] 
Tumulus de la valine de Calabasso, pres Corouel, Chili. Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 

433-440. 
Harley, Timothy. — Moou-Iore. London : Swan «fc Sonnenschein, 1885, XVI, 296 pp., 

8vo. 
Harlez, C. de. — Scfeues de la vie tartare au moyen dge. Le Mus6ou, v, 379 ; 506 ; 636. 
Hart, Ernest.— Japanese Art Work. J. Soc. of Arts., xxx, 1204-1215; 1231-1241; 

1268-1274. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 555 

Haktmann, J. S.— ludiauerstiimrae von Venezuela. Mitteil. Ethnol. Mus., Berlin, 

I. IGO pp. 
Haktmann, K. — Les singes authropoules compar6s a I'homme. [Rev. by Blanchard.] 

Rev. d'Anthrop., 3s., i, 532-535. 
Les singes anthropo'ides et leur organisation compar^e a celle de rhomme. 

Tours : Arrault et Cie. 8vo. 
Les singes anthropo'ides et I'homme. Bibliothfeque sc. et internat., Paris: 



Alcan, 232 pp., 63 fig., 8vo. 
Haubekg, p. — CouiJ d'oeil sur I'histoire de la monuaie en Danemark de 1241-1377. 

M6m. Soc. Roy. d'Autiq. du Nord, 1886, 193-224. 
Haynes, H. W. — "Early Explorations of New Mexico." Nar. and Crit. Hist, of 

America. Vol. ii, chap. vii. 
" Primitive Marriage." Science, Feb. 5. 

"The Bow and Arrow unknown to Paleolithic Man." Proceed, of Boston Soc. 

of Nat. Hist., vol. xxiii, p. 269. Feb. 

"The Palace of the Kings of Tiryus." Science June 8. 

"The Races of Britain." Science, Jan. 22. 



Henry. B. C. — Ling-Nam, or Interior views of Southern China, including Explora- 
tions in Hainan. London : Partridge. Nature, Oct. 21. 

Heksman, C. C. — Heredity and consanguinity. Tr. Med. Soc. W. Va., Wheeling, 
273-278. 

Hervey de Saint-Deny'S, M. de. — L'Anuam ou Tong-King et la Cochinchino au 
point de vue historique et philologique. Compt. Rend. Acad. Inscr. et Belles- 
lettres. Paris: Impr. Nat. 8to. 

Herzen, a. — Gruudliuieu eines allgemeinen Psycbo-Physiologie. Kosmos, 1886, ii, 
27-35; 99-110. 

HiGGiNSON, Thomas VVentworth. — English sources of American dialect. Proc. Am. 
Antiq. Soc, IV, 159-'66. 

Hinds, Clara Bliss. — Child Growth. Women's Anthropological Society, Washing- 
ton, D. C, 8 pp. 

His, W. — Beitiiige zur Anatomie des menschlichen Herzen. Leipzig: Vogel. 8vo. 

HiTZiG, E. — Von dem Materielien der Seele. Leipzig : Vogel. 8vo. 

Hochheimer, Lewis. — The Whipping-post. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 830-834. 

Hoffman, W. J. — Vocabulary of the Selish language. Am. Philos. Soc, 11 pp. 8vo. 

HoLCOMB, Wm. p. — Pennsylvania Boroughs. Johns Hopkins Hist, and Polit. Series, 
IV, 51 pp. 

Holm, G. — Eskimoiske Kaart af Trae. Geogr. Tidskr., Copenhaven: Hoffersberg. 
Br. in 4to. 

Holmes, W. H. — Ancient pottery of the Mississippi Valley. Proc. Davenport Acad., 
IV, 123-196. 

Ancient pottery of the Mississippi Valley. From 4th An. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., 

361-436. 102 figs. 

A sketch of the great Serpent Mound. Science, viii, 624, 625. 

Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art. From 4th An. 

Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., 437-465, 26 tigs. 

Pottery in the ancient pueblos. From 4th An. Rep. Bur. Ethnology, p. 2.57- 

360, 150 figs. 

Textile art in prehistoric archisology. From Am. Antiquarian, Sept., pp. 3-8. 



Hommel, Fritz. — The Sumeriali language and its affinities. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 

351-363. 
Homme, mat^riaux pour I'histoire primitive et uaturelle de 1'. Ed. by E. Cartailhac 

etE. Chantre. 3d ser., tome, iii. Paris: Rein wald. 1886. 64 p., illustr. 8vo. 
Hoosley, v., and E. A. Schafer. — Experiments on the character of the muscular 

contractions which are evoked by excitation of the various parts of the motor 

tract. J. Physiol., Lond., vii, 96-110, 1 pi. 



556 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Hough, W. — Thumb-marks. Scieuce, N. Y.,\t;ii, 166. 

IlovELACQUE, A., et Geokge TlERvi;. — Precis d'antbropologie. 20 figs., 6.54 p. 8vo. 
[Bibliotheque anthropologique.] Paris: Delahaye & Lecroisnier [dated 1887]. 

Place de I'homme dans le monde animal. L'Homme, iii, 16-25. 

HovELACQUE, A. — The evolution of language. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 98-106. 

HowiTT, A. W. — Australian medicine men. J. Anthrop. Inst., XVi, 23-58. 

Migrations of the Knrnai ancestors. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 409-421. 

Hoy, p. R. — Who built the mounds? How and by whom were the copper imple- 
ments made? Racine: Times Co. 30 p. 

HUART, C. Imbault. — Kouan Ti, le Dieu de la guerre chez les Chinois. Rev. de 
I'Hist. des Relig., xni, 129-168. 

Humphry, G. M.— Centenarians; Miss Hastings, who died aged 104. Brit. Med. J., 
London, i, 1104. 

Hunt, E. M.-- Sanitary nomenclature. Am. Public Health Assoc. Rep., xi, 31-37. 

Huxley, Th. Henry. — The evolution of theology. Nineteenth Century, April ; Pop, 
Sc. Month., XXVIII, 449-459. 

Hyades. — Les dpiddmies chez les Fuegians. B., Paris, 3s., ix, 202-205. 

Imperial Gazetteer of India. W. W. Hunter. Vols, i-v ; in 1885, vols, vi to viii. 

Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, U. S. A. Vol. vii. 
Insignares to Leghorn. Washington: Govt. Print., 959 p. 8vo. [Exhaustive an- 
thropological titles were Instinct, Inundation, Ireland, Italj', Jahresbericht, 
Japan, Jaw, Journal, Jurisprudence, Kciniglich, Larynx, Left-handedness.] 

Indian antiquary. 

Internationale Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft. Ed. by F. Techmer. 
Leipzig : J. H. Barth. B'd iii. 

Jacobs, Joseph.— Comparative distribution of Jewish ability. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 
351-379. 

The need for a society for experimental psychology. Mind, xLl, 49-54. 

Jacquinot. — Les m6galithes de la Nievre. Bull. Soc. d' Anthrop'., Paris, xix, 323. 
Jameson, J. F. — Introduction to the Constitutional and Political History of the In- 
dividual States. Johns Hopkins Hist, and Polit. Series, IV, 29 p. 

Jastrow, J. — An easy method of measuring the time of mental processes. Science, 
New York, viii, 237-241. 

Experimental psychology in Leipzig. Science, viii, 459-462. 

The longevity of great men. Science, N. Y., viii, 294-296. 

The perception of space by disparate senses. Mind, xli, 539-554. 

.Jespersen, O. — Zur Lautgesetzfrage. Internat. Ztschr., iii, 188-216. 

.Johns Hopkins University. Studies in Historical and Political Science. Herbert B. 
Adams, editor, 

1. Dalcb Village Communities on the Hudson River. Irving Etling. 

2. Rhode Island Town Governments. William E. Foster. 

3. The Narragansett Planters. Edward Channing. 

4. Pennsylvania Boroughs. William P. Holcomb. 

5. Introduction to the Constitutional and Political History of the Individual States. J. F. 

Jameson. 

Johnston, H. H. — The Kilima Njaro expedition. London: Kegan Paul. Rev. in 

Nature, February 4. 
.JoLY, H. — Psychologic coniparde. L'homme et I'animal. 2 (5d. Paris. 
Jones, C. C, jr. — A Primitive Store-house of the Cr^k Indians. Smithsonian Rept. 
Journal of Speculative Philosophy (The). N.York: Appleton. Vol. xx. 
JuGE, F. Gabriel. — La r6g^n^ration physique de I'homme et de la femnieet celle des 

animanx domestiques. Paris : Lechevallier, 1.57 p., 3pl. 12mo. 
Kevdall, IIexry. — Natural Heirship ; All the world akin. Pop. Sc. Month., 377-387. 
Knowles, J. HiN'TON. — Adictionary of Kashmiri proverbs. London : Trubner. 188.'). 

VIII, 263 p. 12mo. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 557 

KoiiLEK.— Die Fr.ige vou Schwanzmenschen. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch.f. Antbrop. 

1885, -515. 
KoLLMANN, J. — Rassenanatomie der europaisclieu Menachenscliadel. Veihaudl. 

Natnrf. Gesellsch. iu Basel, viii, 115-126. 
Kosnios, Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte EDtwickelimgslehre. Stuttgart. Vols, iii, iv. 
Krause, R. — Ueber microuesische Schiidel. Corr.-Blatt, No. 10, 12:2-128. 
Kruszewski, N. — Priuzipien der Spracheutwickeluug. Interuat. Ztsclir., iii, 145-173. 
Laboulbkxe, a. — Les auatoniistes ancieus. Rev. Scient., Paris, xxxviii, 642-648. 
Lacassagxe. a., and E. Magitot. — Du tacouage. Diet, eucycl. des sc. m^d. Paris: 

Masson. 

Du tatouage, recherches anthropologiqucs et m6dico-16gales. [From Diet. 

eucycl. des sc. in^d.]. Paris: Massou. 

Tatouage; authropologie; ethnograpbie. Diet, encycl. d. sc. m6d. Paris, 3s., 



XVI, 95-160. 
La cbasse et la pScbe cbez les Fu6gieu8 de I'Arcbipel du Cap Horn. By Dr. Hyados. 

Rev. d'Etbuog., iv, No. 6. 
Lachi, Pilade. — Snl modo di formazioue e sul significato del terzo coudito uell' 

uoiuo. Sieua. From Atti d. r. Accad. de fisiocrit. di Siena, 3s., iv. 
Lapouge, G. de. — L'b6r6dit6. Rev. d' Antbrop., '3s., i, 512-521. Rev. of Galtou, La- 

pouge, Candolle. 
Laxg, A. — Folk-lore et mytbologie. Response h M. Cb. Plois. Rev. de I'llist. d. Relig., 

XIII, 191-205. [For Ploix's article, see id., p. 1 sg.] 
Lakrabee, W. H. — De Candolle on tbe production of tbe men of science. Pop. Sc. 

Montb., N. Y., xxix, 34-46. 
Larsen, C. F. — Contributions to tbe knowledge of bodily development in tbe differ- 
ent parts of Norway. Norsk. Mag. f. Laegevidensk., Cbristiaua, xlvii, 313-348. 
Laugl, J. — Das menscblicbe Skelet. Wandtafel. Wien : Holder. 4to. 
Laveieye, DE. — La p^ninsule des Balkans. 2 vols. Brussels: Muquarolt. 
Leather, Stanley.— Foreign words in tbe Hebrew text of tbe Old Testament. J. 

R. A. Soc, xviii, 527-542. 
Le Bon, Gustave. — Applications de la psycbologic a la classification des races. Les 

races de I'Inde. Rev. Phil., Paris, xi, 593-619. 
Leclerc, Max — Les peuplades de Madagascar. Rev. d'Etbuog., v, 397-432. 
Ledouble, a. — Contributions a I'bistoire des anomalies musculaires. Rev. d'An- 

tbrop., Paris, i, 111-123. 
Lefebure, E. — Les hypogdes royaux de Tbebes. Div. I, Le tombeau de Seti I. 

Paris: E. Leroux, 32 p., 55 pi. 4to. Auuales du Mus6e Guimet. Vol. ix. 
L'^tude de la religion (5gyptienne. Sou 6tat actuel et ses conditions. Intro- 
duction h uu cours sur la religion de I'figypte a l'£cole des hautes-6tudes. Rev. 

de I'Hist. des Relig., xiv, 26-48. 
Lefebure, Paul. — Souvenirs de I'Indo-Chine. Faces jaunes. Moeurs et coutumes 

de I'Extreme-Orieut. Paris : Cballamel, 224 p. 12mo. 
Legge, James. — A record of Buddbist kingdoms. Oxford : Clarendon Press, xv+ 

123 p. fCorean text appended.) 
L'Enc(5pbale, Journal des maladies mentales et nerveuses. Paris. 
L'Heurkux. Jean. — Astronomical customs and religious ideas of tbe Cbokitapia or 

Blackfeet Indians, Canada. J. Antbrop. Inst., xv. 301-303. 
Le Musdon, Revue Internationale. Oigau of tbe 8ociet6 des Sciences et Lettres. So- 

ciete Orientale. Louvaiii. Vol. v. 
Lermoyez, Marcel. — Etude experimentale sur la pbonation. Paris. 214 pp. 4to. 

No. 128. 
L'Homme, Journal illustrd des sciences anthropologiques, dirigd par G. de Mortillet. 

III. Paris. 
Levermore, Ch. H. — Town and city government of New Haven. 
Lewis, T. H. — Tbe Monumental Tortoise Mounds of Decoodab. Am. J. Arcbieol., ii, 

65-69. 



558 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Letourneau, Ch.— L'dvolution de la morale. Paris: Delabaye. 

LiNDENSCHMiDT, L. — Haudbuch der deutscheu Alterthnniskunde. Bra«uschweig: 

Vieweg. 
Haudbuch der deutscheu Alterthumskunde. Theil i. Meroviugische Zeit. 

Braunschweig, 321-456 p., tigs., 8vo. 
Livi, RiDOLFO. — L'iudice cefalico degli Italiani. Archiv. per I'Antrop., Firenze, XVI, 

223-304. 

— L'iudice cefalico degli Italiaui. Firenze. 

Lowell, Percival. — Chostiu, the land of the morning calm. A sketch of Corea. 

Boston: Tinknor & Co. 
LuYS, J.— Recherches sur la c6phaIom^trie. Union M6d., Paris, 3 s., xlii, 733-736. 
Lyall, Alfred C. — Studies ou the religious and social customs of the extreme 

Orient. Rev'd in Rev. de I'Hist. des Relig., xiii, 35'.*. 
Macalister, Alexander. — Skull from an ancient burial place in Kamtchatka. J. 

Authrop. Inst., XXI, 21-23. 
MacLennan, J. F. — Studies in Ancient History, comprising a reprint of primitive 

marriage. Loudon: Macmillan. 388 p., 8vo. 
Mah6 de la Bourdonnais, a. — Les peuplades barhares du Tonkin. Rev. Scient., 

XXXVIII, 108-113. 
Mailand, O. — Beitrage zum Sounen- und Mondmytheu. Mitth. Authrop. Gesellsch. 

in Wieu, xvi, 3-4. 
Mallery, Garrick.— Ou the pictographs of the North American Indians. 4th An. 

Rep. Bur. Ethnol., 13-256 p., 207 tigs., 83 pi. 
Man, E. H.— Account of the Nicobar Islanders. J. Authrop. Inst., xv, 428-450, 2 pi. 
Mann, Adolphus.— Numerical system of the Yoruba nation. J. Authrop. Inst., xvi, 

59-(;3. 
Manouvrier, L. — Les crimes des supplici^s. Arch, de I'authrop. crim., Paris, i, 

119-141. 
Place et importance de la craniologie anthropologique. Mat6riaux, 3 s., iii, 

32-50 and separate. 

Studio sugli assassiui. Arch, di psichiat., Torino, Vll, 33. 



Mantkgazza, p.— Authropologisch-kulturhistorische Studieu iiber die Geschlechts- 
verhiiltnisse des Menscheu. Jena : Costeuoble. 8vo. [From the Italian. \ 

Gli amori degli uomiui. Saggio di uua etuologia dell' amore. 2 v. Milano : 

Mantegazza. 269 and 259 p. 12mo. 

La trapanazione dei crauii nell' antico Peru. Arch, per I'autrop., Firenze, 



XVI, 99-109, 2 pi. 

Progetto di uu museo psicologico. Archiv. per I'autrop., xvi, 431-436. 

Studia sulla etnologiti dell' India. Fireuze. Soc. ital. d' Authrop., 378 p., 30 

pi. 8vo. 
Marre, Aristide.— L'immigration malaise dans Madagascar. Le Mus6on, V, 5. Les 

uouis des mois en malgache. Id., 256. 
Martel, E.— Les homnies qui ruminent; dtude sur le m^rycisme. Rev. interuat. d. 

sc. m^d., Paris, iii, 91-104. 
Mason, Otis T.— The Guesde collection of antiquities in Poiute-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, 

West ludies. Smithson. Rep., 1884, 731-837. 215 figs. 
Maspero, G.— Unbandagiug of Egyptian mummies. S. World, Loud., vi, 5. 
Mat6rianx pour I'histoire primitive et naturelle de I'homme. Paris. 
Mather, F. G.— Primitive clocks. Pop. Sc. Mouth., xxviii, 180-191. 
Matthews, W.— Apparatus for tracing orthogonal projections of the skull in the U. 

S. Army Medical Museum. J. Anat. & Physiol., Loud., xxi, 43-45, 1 pi. 

Navajo names of places. Am. Naturalist, xx, 767-777. 

Some deities and demons of the Navajos. Am. Naturalist, xx, 841-850. 

Maudsi.ey, a. p.— Exploration of the ruins and site of Copan, Central Aioerica, 

PjOC. Roy, Geog. Soc, vili^ 568, maps and plaus, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 559 

Manuel, E. — fitude anthropologique du peaple Khmer. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., Paris, 

XIX, 4 16. 
Histoire anthropologique des peuples de I'Indo-Chine. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., 

3 8., IX, 287-290. Le peuple Khmer. 41fi-421. 
Maxwell, W. E. — The history of Perak from native sources. J. Str. Br. R. A. S., No. 

14, 1885, 305-321. 
McCaw, Samuel R. — Mortuary customs of the Puyallups. Am. Antiquar., viii, 233- 

235. 
McKee, E. S.— Consanguinity in marriage. Med. Rec, N. Y., xxx, 4-7 ; Lancet Clinic, 

XVII, 38-45. 
McLennan, John Ferguson. — Studies in Ancient History comprising a reprint of 

Primitive Marriage. London : MacMillan, 387 p. 8vo. 
Menjkoski, K. — Problems and methods of examining the physical development of 

children. Med. pedagog. Vestuik, St. Petersburg, ii, No. 1, 63-97 ; No. 2, 53-76. 
MenliHilty, J. — Das rationellu Schlafon. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol., Bonn, xxxviii, 

339-357. 
Metz, C. L. and Putnam, F. W. — "Explorations in Ohio," Marriott Mound No. 1. 

Eighteenth report of the Peabody Mus., 1884. Separately printed in 1885. 
Meyer, A. B. — Krao, sowie Namengebung und Titel bei den Siameseu. Verhandl. 

d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Authrop., 516-518. 
Meyer, E. — Les associations religieuses musulmanes. Ann. del'Ecole libre de Sc. 

polit.. No. 2. 
Meynert, T. — Die frontale Entwicklung des Gehirnes. Wien Med. Bl., ix, 448-450. 
Meynveks d'Estrey. — La momie de I'ancienne figypte. Ann. de I'Extr. Orient et de 

I'Afrique, viii, 236-244 ; 271-277. 
Mills, C. K. — Arrested and aberrant development of fissures and gyres in the brains 

of paranoiacs, criminals, idiots, and negroes. Polyclinic, Phila., iv, 65, 
Mills, T. W.— Comparative psychology. Pop. Sc. Month., N. Y., xxx, 651-660. 
Ministere de la marine. La Cochiuchine frangaise, excursions et reconnaissances. 

Saigon. 16 lasc. in 8vo. 
Misteli, F. — Studien iiber die chinesische Sprache. Internat. Ztschr., iii, 93-97. 
Mitchell, W. — Moral obligation. Mind, xli, 20-34. 
Mittheiluugen der deutscheu Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Volkerkunde Ostasieus. 

Heft 34, Yokohama. 4to. 
Mnemosyne, Vol. xiv. 
MoDiGLiANi, Elio. — Richerche uel grotta di Bergeggi (Savona). Archiv. perl'Antrop., 

XVI, 407-412. 
MoNCELON, L. — Les Kanaques de la Nouvelle-Caledonie et des Nouvelles-H6brides. 

Paris : Jouve. 

Les N<?o- Cal^doniens. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, xix, 34.5-3H0. 

MoNCELON. — M^tis de Frangais et de N6o-Caledonien. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de 

Par., 3 s., IX, 10-19. 
Mondi£:re, a. T. — Mariage entre blancs et nfegres; legislation. L'Homme, Paris, iii, 

481-486. 
MoNiER-WiLLiAMS, Sir MONiER. — On Buddhism in its relation to Brahraanism. J. R. 

A. Soc, xviii, 127-156. 
MONTANo, J.— Voyage aux Philippines et en Malaisie. Paris: Hachette. 354 p., 30 

figs. 8vo. Rev. in Matdriaux, 3 s., iii, 226-260. 
Morgan, C. Lloyd.— On the study of animal iuteUigence. Mind, XLi, 174-185. 

The Spi'ings of Conduct: An essay in evolution. Loudon: Kegan Paul. Rev. 

in Nature, March 11. 

Morgan, J. DE. — Exploration de la presqu'lle malaise ; liuguistique. Rouen. 47 p. 
4to. 

Sur les Negritos de la presqu'lle malaise. L'Homme, No. 2. 

JSifoRRis, Charlf.s,— The making of nian, Am, N^turg-list, xx, 493-504. 



560 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Comtnunal Societies. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 325-333. 

The relations of mind and matter. Am. Naturalist, January, coutiuued from 



the previous year, xx, 10-26. 
MORKISON, M. A. — The geographical distribution of the modem Tiirlii hiuguages. J. 

R. A. Soc, XVIII, 177-195. 
Morse, Edward S. — Ancient and modern methods of arrow release. Separate from 

Bull. Esses. Inst., xviii, 1885, 56 p., 58 tigs. 
Japanese homes and their surroundings. Boston: Ticknor & Co., 372 p., 307 

ill. See Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 643-655. 
MoRTii.LET, A. DE. — Le prdhistorique en Corse. Association fraii^-aise en Cougres a 

Nancy; Materiaux, 1886, p. 466-467. 
Les proc6(.L6s de taille de I'obsidienue aux 6poques prehistoriques. Id., 1886, 

p. 467-468. 
MORTiLLET, G. DE. — Origlnc dela fabrication du A'ei-re. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., Paris, 

3s., t. IX, p. 261-263. 

Caveau fun^raire dolm^uique do Cr6cy-en-Vexin. Id., p. 755-760. 

L'epoques pal6oIithiques en Italie et Brdonio. L'Honmie, July, 1886, p. 385- 

394. 
Question de Br^onio. L'Homme, October, 1886, p. 577-582. 



Mosso, U. — La paleur et la rongeur. Rev. Scient., xxxvii, 590-593. 

MfJLLEU, F. C. — Physiologische Studieu iiber Psychophysik. Arch, f, Physiol. 

Leipzig, 270-320, 1 pi. 
MuLLER, Fritz. — Ein Ziichtungsversuch an Mais. Kosmos, 1886, ii, 22-26. 
MuLLER, Max. — On the Dhatupatha. Internat. Ztschr., iii, 1-28. 
MiJLLER, SoPHUS. — Discours commemoratif sur J. J. A. Worsaae. M^m. Soc. Roy. 

d'Antiq.du Nord., 1886, 141-192. 

L'origine de I'^ge du bronze en Europe. [From the Danish.] Materiaux, 3 s.. 

Ill, 1-31 ; 88-107 ; 143-164. 

MuNRO, Robert. — Ancient British Lake Dwellings. J. Anthrop. Inst., xv, 453-470. 
Murdoch, John. — A new legendary fragment from the Point Barrow Eskimo. Am. 
Naturalist, xx, 593-598. 

The parts of Eskimo harpoons. Am. Naturalist, xx, 823-831. 

Mus^e Guimet. Annales, t. ix. 

IsADAiLLAC, Marquis dk. — Atfaiblissement de la natality en France, ses causes et ses 

cous6queuces. Paris : Masson. 

Ddcouvprtes dans la grotte de Spy. Materiaux, 3 ser.. III. October. 

La Guadeloupe pr6historique. Matdriaux, 3 s., Ill, 15 p. 

Les pierres a cupules. Rev. d'Anthrop., Paris, 3 s., i, 93-110. 

Sur les trepanations pidhistoriques. Acad, des Inscriptions, etc., Paris. 

Natesa Sastri. — Folk-lore in southern India. Loudon : Triibner. Part 2. 
Neelmeyer-Yukassowitsch, H. — Grossbritannien und Ireland, mit besonderer 

Beriichsichtiguug der Kolouien. Leipzig : Uuliad. 914 p. 
Neve, Felix. — L'Arm6uie chr^tienne. Louvaiu : Ch. Peeters. V, 403 jj. 8vo. 
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia. 
NuTTAXL, Zelia. — The terra-cotta heads of Teotihuacan. Am. J. Archa3ol., ii, 157- 

178; 318-330. 
Oliver, Samuel P. — Madagascar. Lond.: Macmillau. xix+569 and x-|-576 pp. 8vo. 
Orientalist. Vol. ii. 
Original Mittheilungen aus der ethnologischen Abtheiluug der Konigiicheu Museeu 

in Berlin. Berlin : Spemann. 174 p., 8 tab. 4to. 
Ornstein, B. — Ein Fall von iibermiissiger Behaarung verschiedener Korpertheile. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., xvi, 507-510. 
Pare.ta, F. — Arte de la longua Timvqvana compvesto en 1614 y publicado conforme 

al ejemplar original unico por Lucien Adam. Paris : Maisonnouve. 8vo. 
Parker, T. Jeffery. — On the nomenclature oi" the brain and its cavities. Nature, 

Dec. 30. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 561 

Paulitschke, Dr. — Etbnologie imd Authvopologie der Soinal, Galla, und Haraft. 
Leipzig: Froliberg. 4-f-106 i)p., fol. 

Peabody Museum of American Archaeology aud Ethnology. 18th and 19th An. Re- 
ports. 

Peck, H. T. — Onomatopoeia in some West African languages. Am. J. Philol., vii, 
496-500. 

Peckham, Grace. — Infancy in the city. 

Peei , Stephen D. — The serpent symbol in America. Am. Antiquar., viii, 197-221. 

Penka, K. — Die Herkuuft der Arier. Neue BeitrJige zur historischen Anthropologic 
der europiiischen Vollier. Tescheu : Prochaska. 8vo. 

Perkins, George H. — The stone ax in Vermont. Am. Naturalist, xx, 333-339. 

P^TiTOT, Emile. — Traditions indiennes du Canada nord-ouest. Paris: Maisonneuve, 
XVII, 521 pp. 12mo. 

Traditions indiennes du Canada uord-ouest. Paris, xviii, 521 pp., 16mo. 

Phillips, Henry. — Notes on European Archaeology. Monthly, in Am. Antiquar., 

vol. VIII. 

PniLiPPi, RoDOLFO A. — Aborijeues de Chile. Ann. Universidad de Chile, vol. lxix, 

Santiago. 
Uber die Veranderungen welche der Mensch in der Fauna Chilis bewerkt hat. 

Kassel. 
Pizzi, I. — Les langues et les litt^ratures de la Perse. Le Mus^ou, v, 445, 625. 
Platz, B. — Der Mensch, sein Ursprung, seine Rassen und seiu Alter. Hft. 1. Wurz- 

burg: Woerls. 8vo. 
Ploix, Ch. — Mythologie et folk-lorisme. Rev. de I'Hist. des Relig., xiii, 1-46. 
Plongeon. a. le — Sacred mysteries among the Mayas and the Quiches 11,500 years 

ago. (n. p. n. d.) 
Sacred mysteries among the Mayas and Quiches. Brooklyn : Le Plongeon, 16, 

163 pp. 
Pohlig, M. — Monographie des dldphants fossiles de I'Allemagne. Bui. Soc. geol. de 

France, Jan. Rev. in Matdriaux, 3 s., iii, 313-314. 
POKROWSKY, Dr. — Influence du berceau sur la deformation artificielle du cr3,ne. 

M6m. Soc. des Amis d. Sc. Nat. [Rev. in Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ii, 258, 259.] 
Pothier, Edgard. — Les tumulus do la Daia deTilghemt. Rev. d'Ethnog., v, 301-332. 
POTTj A. F. — Einleitung in die allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft. Internat. Zeitschr., 

Ill, 110-126. 
Pressense, E. de. — La religion chaldifo-assyrienne. Rev. des Relig., xiv, 73-94. 
Preston, G. J. — Hereditary diseases and race culture. Pop. Sc. Month., New York, 

XXIX, 639-642. 
Preyer, W. — Counting unconsciously. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 221-225. 
Probst, C. O. — The physical results of mental forces. Columbus Med. J., iv, 385-397. 
Proceedings of the English Society for Psychical research. London: Triibner. Pt. x. 
Proudfit, S. V. — The Lodge Dweller. Am. Antiquar., viii, 222-228. 
Putnam, Charles E. — Elephant pipes and inscribed tablets in the museum of the 

Academy of Natural Sciences, Davenport, Iowa. 2 ed. Davenport : Glass & 

Axtmau. 
Putnam, F. W. — Central American Jades. Proc. American Antiq. Soc, vol. v, April, 

1886. 

Jadeite Ornaments from Central America. Proc. Mass. Hist. Soc, Jan., 1886. 

Methods of Archajological Research in America. Johns Hopkins Univ. Circu- 
lars, vol. V, No. 49, May, 1886. 

— ^ Notes on Alaskan Jade. Proc. American Soc, vol. v, April, 1886. 

Parini, C. — Le culte des gdnies tutdlaires chez les anciens Chiuois. Le Musdou, v, 

193. 
Quatreeages, a. de. — Croyances religieuses des Hottentots et des Boschimaus. J. 

des Savanna, 188.5-1886, July, Dec, May. 

H. Mis. 600 3G 



562 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

QUATREFAGES, A. DE. — Histoite g6n6rale des races huuiaines. Introduction a I'^tudc 
des races huinainos. Questions gdu^rales. Paris: Hennuyer, dated 1887. 281? 
pp., 227 figs., 4 pis., 2 chs. [Vol. i of Bibliothfeque Ethnologique.] 

lutroductiou h I'^tude des races humaines. Paris: Hennuyer, 227 tigs., 4 pla., 

2 chs. 8vo. 

Randall, Daniel R. — The Puritan colony at Annapolis, Maryland. Johns Hopkins 

Univ. Ser., iv, 47 pp. 
Ranke, Johannes. — DerMensch. Leipzig: Bibliogr. Inst., 2 vols., '52 pi., 6 ch., 990 

figs. 8vo. Rev. in Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ii, 224-253. 
Ratzel. — Viilkerkunde. II, Die Naturvolker Ozeaniens, Amerikas und Asieus. 815 

p., 391 figs., 11 pi., 2 charts. 
Rau, C. — Review of "Affaiblissenient de la natality en France." The "Nation," p. 

218, September 9. 
Ray, p. H. — Manufacture of bows and arrows among Natano (Hnpa) and Keuuek 

(Klamath) Indians. Am. Naturalist, xx, 832-833. 
Reclus, E. — Contributions ^ la sociologie des Australiens. Rev. d'Anthrop., Paris, 

3 8., I, 240-282. 

Contributions a la sociologie des Australiens. Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ii, 20, 

1687. 

Regnaud, Paul. — Essais de linguistiqne ^volutioniste. Paris: Leroux. 8vo. 

Rein, J. J. — Japan. Bd. ii, Land- und Forstwirthschaft, Industrie und Handel. 
Leipzig. 111. 8vo. 

Reisch, E. — Blicke in das Menschenleben. Leidenschaften, Laster und Verbrechcu, 
dereuEutstehung, Heilung und Verhiltuug, 6-10. Schaffhausen: Rotbenuel. bvo. 

Die Erblicbkeit der Gebrechen des Menschen und die Verhiitungder Gebrech- 

lichkeit. Berlin: Zimmer. 8vo. 

Reiss, W., and A. Sttbel. — The necropolis of Ancon in Peru. Pt. 14. Berlin : Asher 
&, Co., Folio, 22 plates. 

Religion, Bibliography of. In the appendices to the Revue de I'Histoire des Reli- 
gions, Paris, will be found copious references to current literature on the subjtct 
of religion. The journals of all countries are systematically examined for this 
purpose. 

Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs. Washington: Govt. Print., cxlii-|-486 
p. 8vo. [Excellent on education and statistics.] 

Reville, Jean. — De la complexity des mythes et des 16gendes. Rev. de I'Hist. des 
Relig., XIII, 169-196. 

Revue Arch6ologique. Ed.: Alex. Bertrand and G. Perrot, Paris: Vol. vii. 

Revue Celtique. Editor: de Jubainville, Paris, Vol. vii. 

Revue d'Anthropologie. Paris: Masson, 3 s6r., ii. Bi-monthly. 

Revue d'Ethnographie. Edited by Dr. E. T. Hamy. Paris: E. Leroux. Bi-month., 
Vol. V. 

Revue de I'Histoire des Religions. Annales du Mus^o Guimet. Bimonthly. Vt)ls. 
XIII and XIV in 1886. Ed.: Jean Reville. Paris: E. Leroux. Articles by Gaidoz, 
Barth, Bonet-Maury, Lef6bure, Hal<5vy, Paul Regnaud, Maspero, Tiele, Goblet 
d'Alviella, Feor-Imbault-Huar, R6ville, Derenbourg, Kueneu, Goldziher, De Pres- 
8ens6, Hild, Am^.liueau, 

Revue des traditions populaires. Monthly, Vol. i. Paris : Maisonneuve. Organ of 
the Society des traditions populaires, founded December 27, 1885, in Paris. 

Revue figyptologique. Founded by Brugsch, Chabas, and Revillout. Vol. iv cur- 
rent in 1886. 

Eevista Frenop^tica Barcelonica. 1885, v. 

Revue Scientitique. Paris : M. Charles Richet. Weekly. Vols, xxxvii and xxxviii. 

Retes, W. — Estudio comparativo de los negros criolles y africanos. Bol. Soc. Au- 
trop., Cuba, i, 130-135. 

RiCCARDi. — Crani e oggetti de gli antichi Peruviani appartenenti al museo civico di 
Modena, etc. Archiv. per I'Antrop., Fiieuze, xvi, 305-406. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 563 

RicCARDi. — Statnra e intelligenza studiate nei Bolognesi contsmporanei. Archiv. 

per I'Antrop., xvi, 3-19. 
Richardson, B. W. — The physiology of historical repetitions. Asclepiad, London, 

in, 315-331. 
RiCHET, Charles. — A psychological study of fear. Pop. So. Month., xxviii, 771-783. 
RiEGER. — Die weiteren, zur exakten Craniographie nothigen Instnimente. Sitzungs- 

ber. phys.-med. Gesellscb. zii Wiirzb., 1885, 123-125. 
Ein neuer Projections- nnd Coordinaten-Apparat fiir geometrische Anfnahmen 

von Schiideln, etc. Centralbl. f. Nervenheilkunde, ix. 
Rivii:RE, £mile. — Fanne des oiseaux, des reptiles et des poissons trouv^s dans les 

cavernes des Baouss^-Rousse (Italy), called Grotto of Menton. Mat6riaux, 3 a.. 

Ill, 526. 
Rochet, Charles. —Trait6 d'anatomie, d'anthropologie et d'ethnographie appliqu6es 

aux beaux-arts. Paris. 276 p. 8vo. 
Rodriquez, M^ndkz. — Matrinionio entre consanguineos y frendpatas. Rev. freno- 

pfit., Barcelona, v, 91-104. 
Romanes, G. J. — Physiological selection. Paper before Linnean Society. Nature, 

Aug. 5, 12, 19, 26. [See.subseqvieut numbers for discussion.] 
ROMiLLY. — The Western Pacific and New Guinea. London : Murray. Map. 8vo. 
Rosa, L. dalla. — Das postembryouale Wachsthum des menschlichen Schliifemuskels, 

etc. Stuttgart: Enke. 4to. 
RosCHEN, F. A. — Die Zauberei und ihre Bekampfung, Giitersloh: Bertelsmann. Ill 

, p. 8vo. 
Royal Asiatic Society. Journal. Vol. xviii. 
RoYER, Mme. ClJcmence. — L'art de faire du feu chez les races sauvages ou primitives. 

Rev. Scient., xxxviii, 134-141. 
Sar I'origine du bronze et de l'6tain pr^historiques. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de 

Paris, 3 s., ix, 290-296; 303-310. 
Rust, M. A.— Heredity. Virginia Med. Month., Richmond, xin, 318-328. 
Sabatier. — Du progres ind^fiui dans l'humanit6. L'Homme, Paris, iii, 321-334. 
Salesses. — Contribution k I'histoire des localisations c6r6brales. Euc6phale, Paris, 

VI, 286-307. 
Salmon, Philippe. — Age de la pierre ouvr6e. Mat^riaux, 3 s., iii, 129-142, and sepa- 
rate. Paris: Reinwald. 

La s6rie pal^oethnologique des ossements pnmatiens. Mat6riaux, 3 s., iii, 482. 

L'alimentation i)r6hi8torique. L'Honrme, Paris, in, 97-103. 

Sanson, A — Le moteur anim6 et le moteur a vapeur. Rev. Scient., xxxvii, 787-789. 
Sato, Shosuke. — History of the land questions in the United States. Johns Hopkins 

Hist, and Polit. Ser., iv, 181 p. 
Scarenzio e Soffiantini.— Craniometria della prostituzione. Arch, di Psichiat., 

Torino, vii, 29. 
ScHAAFFHAUSEN, H. — Anthropological catalogues of Germany. Corr. Blatt, x, 116- 

122. 
Ueber die Entwicklung des menschlichen Handwerks und den Eintluss des 

Stoffes auf die Kunstform. Corr, Blatt, xvii, 10-12. 

Ueber das menschliche Gebiss. 

Schelhass, p. — Die Maya-Handschrift der koniglichen Bibliotek zu Dresden. Ztchr. 

f. Ethuol., 13-42, III. 
Schuzer, F. — Tchao-Sien-Tche, m6moire sur la Cor6e par un Cor^en anonyme. Paris : 

Impr. Nat. 8vo. 
SCHLIEMANN, Henry.— Tiryns : The pre-historic palace of the King of Tiryns. Loud. : 

Murray. Ixiv +385 p., 188 cuts, 24 pi., 1 map, 4 plans. Cr. 4to. 
SCHMELLER, J. A.— Ueber Schrift uud Schriftunterricht. Internat. Ztschr., iii, 127- 

144. 
SCHCEBEL, Ch. — Doctrines cosmogoniques et philoeophiques de I'Inda. Le Museou, 
V, 68. See also p. 359. 



564 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 188(;. 

Schmidt, Oscar. — The teeth of the coming man. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 817-818. 
ScHRADEK, O. — Liugnistische historische Forschungen zur Handelsgeschichte and 

Waarenknude. Pt. i. Jena: Costenoble. 8vo. 
Scientific and Learned Societies of Great Britain and Ireland, comprising titles of 

papers read in 1885 before eveiy society of importance in the United Kindom. 

London. 8vo. 
Scot, Reginald. — The discoverie of witchcraft. Loudon : E. Stock. 674 p. 4to. 
Seaman, Louis L. — The social waste of a great city. Repr. Science, N. York: Trow. 

20 p. 8vo. 
S#.BiLLOT, Paul. — Couturaes populaires de la Hante Bretagne. Paris : Maisouneuve, 

vii+376. 8vo. Also l^geudes, croyauces et superstitions de la mer. Paris : 

Charpentier, xi+3G3 p. 

La tete de I'homme dans les superstitions et les l^gendes. L'Hounne, No. 2. 

Les coquilles de mer. Rev. d'Ethuog., v, 499-528. 

Contes de marins recueillis en Haute-Bretagne. Archiv. per le tradiz. pop., 

V, 245-267. Les herbes de mer. L'Honinie, October 10, 1886. 

La tete de mort dans les superstitions et les l(?gendes. L'Homme, Paris, iii. 



33-40. 
Section des Sciences Religietises in I'ficole des Hautes fitudes, Paris. 
Sekland, N. — Les Kirghis. Rev. d'Anthrop., Paris, 3 s., i, 25-92. 
Sergi, G. — Indicatore cranionietrico. Arch, per I'Antrop., Fireuze, xv, 177-181. 
Interparietali e preinterparietali del cranio umano. Atti. d. R. Acad. Med. 

d. Roma, xii, 2. 
Serrurier, L.— Mtis^e Royal d'Ethnographie, Notices anthropologiques. No. 2, Sin- 

galais. No. 3, Crjlnes neo-cal6doniens. Leyde : Bull. 4to. 18 p., 5 charts. 
Sewell, Robert. — Early Buddhist Symbolism. J. R. A. Soc, xviii, 364-408. 
Shaw, George A. — Madagascar of to-day. London: Relig. Tract. Soc, 190p. 32mo. 
Shufeldt, R. W. — A Navajo skull. J. Anat. and Physiol., London," xx, 426-429. 

Additional notes by W. Turner. 
Sedgwick, Henry. -Outlines of the history of ethics for English readers. London: 

Macmillan. [Nature, October 28.] 
Silvagni, L. — L' uso e il rito della circoncisione negli Ebrei. Arch, per I'antrop., 

Firenze, xv, 159-176. 
Simon, G. Eugene. — Mus^e Guimet (Rev. of Millou^). Rev. d'anthrop., 3 s., i, 528- 

532. 
Skinner, J. R. — The identification of the British inch as the unit of measure of the 

mound-builders of the Ohio Valley. J. Cinciu. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, 51-63. 
Smith, C. — Influence of invention on civilization. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 474-484, 

G50-GG7. 
Smithsonian Institution. Annual Report of 1884. 

ANTlIROrOLOGICAL PAl'EKS EDITED BY OTIS T. MASON. 

Progress ol anthiopiilogy. Otis T. M ason. 

Antitiuities at Pantaleon, Guatemala. Clias. E. Vreeland and J. F. Bransford. 
The Guesde collection of antiquities in Poiut-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe. Otia T. Mason, 
Ancient mouud.s in Clinton County, Michigan. M. T. Leach. 
Ancient forts in Ogemaw County, Michigan. M. T. Leach. 
Sketch of Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio. C. M. Smith. 
Earthworks and mound.s in Miami County, Ohio. E. T. Wiltheiss. 
Papers in Part II: 

Throwing-sticks in the National Museum. Otis T. Mason. 279-289, 22 tigs. 
Basket-work of the Xorth American aborigines. Otis T. Mason. 291-306 p., 109 13gs. 
A study of the Eskimo bows in the U.S. National Museum. John Murdoch. 307-316,39 
tigs. 

Sociedad antropologica de la isla de Cuba, llabaua : Soler, Alvarez & Co. "Vol. i 

published in 1^85. 
Soci6t6 d'authropologio de Bordeaux et du Sud-Oiiest. Vol. in. 



ANTHROPOLOGY 565 

Socidt^ d'authropologie de Bruxellea. Vol. v, 1886. 

Society d'anthropologie de Lyon. 

Soci^td d'anthropologie de Paris. Bnlletins, ser. 'A, vol. ix, quarterly. 

Soci6t6 d'anthropologie de Slockholoa. 

Soci6t6 des Etudes japonalses. 

SoMMiER, Stephen. — Due comunicazioue 8ui Laponi e sui Findlandesi settentrionali. 

172 p., 2 figs. Arch. per. I'autrop. xvi, fasc. 1. 
Sui Laponi c sui Finlandesi settentrionali. Archiv. per I'antrop., Firenze, 

XVI, 111-172. 
SouRY, J. — Les fonctions du cerveau ; doctrine de F. Golz. Enc^phale, Paris, vi, 

129-151. 
SoziNSKEY, T. S. — As to our length of life. Med. and Surg. Reporter, LV, 70-72. 
Spencek, Herbert. — Ecclesiastical Institutions. Principles of Sociology. Pt. vr. 

N. York : D. Appleton. 4+671-853 p. 
Spengel, J. W. — Die Stellung des Meuschen in der Reihe der OrganiSmen. Bremen : 

Rocco. 8vo. 
Stanley, H. M.— Feeling and emotion. Mind, XLI, 66-75; also C. Read, 76-82. 
Stanley, W. F. — A portable scale of proportions of the human body. Rep. Brit. 

Assoc, LV, 1206. 
Steenstrup, J. Japetus. — Les Kjiikken Moddings. Copenhagen : Hagerup. Rev. 

in Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ii, 86. 

Les Kjcikken Moddings. Copenhagen : Hagerup. 

Stephenson, F. B. — Arabic and Hebrew in anatomy. N. Y. : D. Appleton. 10 p., 

12mo. 
Stetson, George R. — Literacy and crime in Massachusetts, from Andover Review. 

Boston : Blair & Hallett, 31 p. 
Stevens, L. T. — On the time-sense. Mind, London, xi, 393-404. 
Stockwell, G. Archie. — Indian Medicine. Pop. So. Month., xxviii, 649-659. 
Stuart, Glennie J. S. — The principles of the classification of Folk-Lore. Folk-L. 

J., IV, 75-79. 
Sully, James. — Development of Moral Faculty. Pop. Sc. Month., xxviii, 29-33. 

Genius and Precocity. Id., 594-603. 

Szombathy, J. — Bemerkung fiber die Technik prehistorischer Thongefiisse. Mittheil. 

Anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 45-48, fig. 7. 
Tallqvist, J. V. — Sur la tendance a une moindre fecondite des mariages. Helsing- 

fois: Frenckel, ll8+xx p. 
Tarde. — La criminalite comparde. Paris. 8vo. 
Tenchini, Lorenzo. — Sulla cresta frontale dei criminali. Parma: L. Battel. 31 p., 

1 pi. 8vo. 
Ten Kate. — Travels in Guiana and Venezuela. Rev. Colon. Internat., ill, 537. 
Testut, Dr. — Les polissoirs n^olithiques du ddpartement de la Dordogne. Materiaux, 

3 s.. Ill, 65-82. 
Theron, Emmanuel. — Druides et Druidisrae. Paris: Perrin. 16mo. 
Thiel, B. a. — Vocabularium der Sprachen der Boruca-, Terraba- und Guatuso-Indi- 

aner in Costa Rica. Arch. f. Anthrop., xvi, 591-622. Also 623-627. 
Thomas, Cyrus. — The Davenport Tablets. Science, vii, 10-11; 538-540. 

Mound explorations in 18^5. Am. Antiquarian, viii, 35-37. 

Discoveries in Mexican and Maya codices. Id., 69-76. 

Mound excavations in Tennessee. Id., 162-164. 

Thomas, Julian. — Cannibals and convicts. Experiences in the Western Pacific. 

Loudon: Cassell, xvi+408 p. 8vo. 
Thropp, J. — The ancient boat at Brigg. Builder, London, li, 88. 
Timehri. Journal of the Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society of Br. Guiana. 

Vol. IV, pts. Ill and iv, and vol. v, pts. i and ii. Demerara : J. Thompson. 
Tipton, F. — The negro problem from a medical standpoint. New York Med. J., XLill, 

569-572. 



566 RECORD OF SCIENCE FOR 1886. 

Tipton, F. — The negro problem from a medical standpoint. N. Y. Med. J., reprint, 

11 p., 12mo. 
TisCHLER. — Ueber vorrumisclies uud romisches Email. Corr.-Blatt, No. 10, 128-132. 
Todd, J. E. — Bowlder mosaics in Dakota. Am. Naturalist, xx, No. 1. 
Todd, J. S.— The superstitious of medicine aud mental influences as curative agents. 

Atlanta Med. and Surg. J., n. s., ii, 709-718. 
Topinard, Dr. Paul. — Les caractferes simiens de la mS,choire de la Naulette. Rev. 

d'Anthrop., 3 s., i, 385-451. 
Carte de la repartition de la coulenr des yeux et des cheveux en France. 

Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ii, 1-7, 1887. 
Du principe g6u6ra\ h adopter dans les divisions et nomenclature quiuaire de 

rindice c6phalique. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., 3 s., ix, 91-108. 
Mensuration des cranes des grottes de Baye (dpoque n6olithique) d'apres lea 



registres de Broca. Rev. d'Anthrop., Par., i, 1-9. 
TORNERY, de. — Les colonies fran^aises de la mer des Indes. [Rev. of Rambaud]. 

Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., i, 662-67.5. 
Trucy. — Cranes de Hovas et de Sakalaves. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop., ix, 19-28. 
TSAKNY, N. — Les sectes religieuses eu Russie. Rev. Scient., January .30. 
TUKE, D. Hack. — Le corps et I'esprit. Action du moral et de I'imagination sur le 

physique. Trans, into French by V. Paraut, introduction by A. Foville. Paris: 

Ballifere, 433 p., 2 pi. 
Turner, William. — Sur les squelettes humains rapport^s par le Challenger. Part II. 

The bones of the skeleton. Ediuburg. Rev. iu Rev. d'Anthrop., 3 s., II, 95-101. 
The lumbar curve of the spinal column iu several races of men. J. Anat. and 

Physiol., XX, Edinburg, 536. 
The lumbar curve of the spinal column in several races of men. J. Anat. and 

Physiol., XX, 536-543. 

The zoology of the voyage of PI. M. Challenger. Part II. Bones of the skel- 



etons. Edinburg. 
Tyler, J. — Native worship in South Africa. Andover Review, June. 
Uhle, Max. — Ueber einige seltene Federarbeiten von Californien. Mittheil. 

Anthrop. Gesell.sch.^Wien., xvi, 15-20. 
Ujfalvy, Ch. de. — Classilicatiou des criminels de Maurice Benedikt. Bull. Soc. 

d'Anthrop., XIX, 435-439. 
Uncovering the mummy of Rameses II. Boston : Cupples, 2 1. fol. 
Varaglia, S. — Sulla cresta froutale interna e suUa fossella occipitale mediana. 

Arch. di. psichiat, Torino, vii, 109-111. 
Van der Beugh. — L'homme avant I'histoire. Piuis. 8vo. 
Van Martek, J. G. — Further evidences of prehistoric dentistry. ludepend. Pract., 

Bulfalo, VII, 57-61, 1 pi. 
Vercoutre. — La m6deciue sacerdotale dans l'antiquit6 grecque. Angers. (Froui 

Rev. Arch^ol.) 
Verneau, R. — La race Cro-Magnon, ses migrations, ses descendants. Rev. 

d'Anthrop., Paris, 3 s., i, 10-24. 
Veeira y Carreras, J. — El examen del peso de los ninos durante los prlmeros meses 

de la infancia. Rev. de cien. med., Barcel., xii, 4-11. 
Verrier, E. — De I'angle form^ par le plan du d^troit supt^rieur du bassin peudant la 

station debout dans diff6rentes races humaiues et de I'iudice sacro-pubieu. 

L'Homme, lii, 108-115. 
Villemont, Michel.— Dictioanaire historique et scieutifique de I'amour et du marl- 
age. Paris: L6vy & Co., 489 p. 12mo. 
ViRCHOW, H. — Graphische uud plastische Aufuahme des Fusses. Verhandl. d. Berl. 

Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., 118-124. Anthropologie der Bulgaren, 112-118. Neger 

von Darfur, 488-497. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 567 

ViRCHOW, H. — Schadel eiues hydrocephalischen Arrowakeu Kiudes. Verhandl. Berl. 
Gesellscb. f. Anthrop., 108-112. 

Ueber die Farbe der Haut, der Haare uud der Augen der Schulkinder in 

Deiitscblaud. Arcb. f. Authrop., Brnscbwg, XVI, 275-475, 5 maps. 

Accliiuatizatiou. Pop. Sc. Montb., xxviii, 507-516. 

Ueber Kraukbeit veriinderte Knocbeu alter Peruaner. Berliu. 12 p. 8vo. 



VoiT, C. VON. — Ueber die Periodicitat iu Gewichte der Kinder. Miinchen. med. 

Wcbnscbr., xxxui, 139-131. 
Wagner, Moritz. — Die Kulturziicbtung des Menscben gegeuliber der Natiirziicbtung 

im Tierreicb. Ko&iuos, 1886, i, 19-34. 

Tbe origiu of buiuan races aud types. Kosmos, 1886, p. 23. 

Wake, C. Staxiland. — Tbe pbilosopby of folktales. Folk-L. J., iv, 63-75. 
Wake, S. — Les Cambodgiens et leur origiue. Rev. d'Autbrop., Paris, i, 204-225. 
Walshe, Walter Hayle. — Tbe colloquial faculty for languages, cerebral localiza- 
tion, and tbe nature of geuius. London: Cburcbill, 244 p. 

Warner, Francis. — Pbysical expression, its modes and principles. N. Y. : D. Apple- 
ton & Co., 392 p. 8vo. 

Westwood, J. O. — On tbe Gunmarc stone. Arcbeologia Cambreusis., V, viii. 

Whitmee, S. J. — Poly esia. Article in Encycloptedia Britannica. 

Wilder, B. G. — Notes on tbe foramina of Magendie iu man and tbe cat. J. Nerv. and 
Ment. Diseases, N. Y., xi, 206. 

The collocation of a suture and fissure in tbe baman foetus. J. Nerv. and Ment. 

Diseases, N. Y., n. s., xi, 463-468. 

WiLKiNS, W. W. — Comparative measurements of tbe cbest. Trans. N. H. Med. See. 

Maucbester, N. H., 125-130. 
Wilson, D.— Primeval dexterity. Proc. Canad. Inst., Toronto, 3s., Iii, 125-143. 
WiNSOR, Justin. — Narrative and critical bistory of America. London: Sampsons 

Low & Co., vol. II, ix + ix -|- 640 pp. ; vol. iii, xi + 518 pp. 
WiNTON, Francis de.— Tbe Congo Free State. Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc, viii, 609-626. 

See continuation by Grenfell, etc., 627-637. 
WOLDVICH. — La descendance du cbien domestique en Europe. L'Homme, No. 3. 
Wolf, Ludwig. — Volkstiimme Central-Afrika's. Verbandl. Berliner Gesellscb, f, 

Antbrop., etc., 725-767. 
Wood, J. G. — Man and bis handiwork. London. 500 ill. 8vo. 
Ymer. — TidskrifcutgifvenafSveuskaSiillskapetfor AntropologiocbGeografi. Stock. 

holm: Normans, vii. 
Yule, Col. H., and A. C. Burnell. — Hobson-Jobson : A glossary of Anglo-Indian col- 
loquial words and phrases. London, 870 pp. 
YZERMAN, J. W. — Ruiues du Boro-Boudour, Java. Rev. d'Etbuog., v, 485-491. 
Zentgraff. — KiinstlicbeDeformiruugderZahneimunterenCongogebiete. Verbandl. 

der Berl. Gesells. fr. Antbrop., Berlin. 
Zabarowski. — Sur quelques cranes fiunois anciens, les peoples finnois actuels et le, 

origiues tinuoises. Arcb. slaves de biol., Paris, i, 411-425. 
Zeitscbrift der deutscbeu morgenlaeudiscben Gesellscbaft, XL. 
Zeitscbrift fiir Assyriologie u. verwandte Gebiete. Ed. by Carl Bezold. Leipzig. 

Otto Scbulze. Vol. i iu 1886. 
Zeitscbrift fiir Etbnologie. xvii. 
Zeland, N. S. — On Kirgbeez from an antbropological point of view. Voyenno-san. 

dielo, St. Petersburg, vi, 174, 188. 
Ziem. — Zur Frage liber die kiinstlicbe Verbilduug der Fiisse. Allg. Med. Centr. Ztg. 

Berliu, lv, 201. 
ZoGRAFF, M. — The Indigenes of tbe Altai according to the researches of N. Yadrinzeff. 

M6m. Soc. imp. des amis d. sc. nat. de Moscou, XLix. 



MISCELLANEOUS ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



AN INDIAN MUMMY. 



By James Lisle, Long Fine, Nebraska. 



vVest of Fort Casper, in central Wyoming, is Poison Spider Creek, 
a tributary of the North Platte River. The valley of this stream is 
bounded on the northwest and nortli by a ridge of sand-rock, forming 
the water-shed. 

In places this rises precipitously to the height of 40 to 50 feet, with a 
width at the top of 100 to 300 feet. Elsewhere the rock barely shows 
at the surface. In a cave in the west face of one of these precipices 
was found by S. D. Helm and D. VV. Moftatt, the mummified body of 
an Indian. The cave is open to the weather — a mere recess about 14 
feet long, 7 feet high, and 8 feet deep. Inside this is a second cave or 
recess, the floor of which is about 2^ feet above the main floor. This 
recess is about 7 feet long, 4 feet high, and 4 feet deep. The tvhole 
opening is natural. 

The body, evidently that of some important personage, was i>laced in 
the inner cave in a kneeling posture, quite erect, with a very slight bend 
at the hip-joints to balance. The head is thrown well back, the chin 
high, and both head and face turned a little to the right. The hands 
are joined across the bowels, the right hand outermost. The face was 
to the front, looking westward. Originally there must have been scmie 
kind of stay or prop to support the body in its position, but this had 
long since disappeared, and the body had fallen to the left, the limbs 
and feet being slightly twisted in consequence. 

The clothing was entirely rotted away, except fragments under the 
bracelets; the bits remaining here are of cotton. A leather belt, much 
decayed, is around the loins. Around each wrist is a coil of brass wire, 
forming a bracelet. That on the left wrist makes forty to fifty turns 
and extends about 6 inches. On the right wrist the coil is about 2 inches 
shorter. On the fingers are several coarse brass rings. In the ears are 
rings made of brass wire, the metal being very much corroded. 

560 



570 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Around the neck is a necklace or collar made of pieces of quills cut 
from the wing-feathers of some large bird. The pieces are about an 
inch long, and the size about that of the wing-quills of a chicken. There 
is no pattern proper. The pieces extend lengthwise of the collar, about 
ten of them being placed side by side, making the width of the collar, 
about 2^ inches. Underneath this collar is another of similar work- 
manship considerably decayed. No weapons were found save pieces of 
nine or ten arrows, some with metal points, the others pointed with 
tlint. Fragments of a bridle and saddle wero found, the leathered work 
reduced to dust. The bridle-bit was a very primitive afiair, but appar- 
ently made by a white man. The saddle was of Indian workmaushi}) — 
a sort of "tree" made of bones. The man was of middle height and 
fifty to fifty-five years of age at his death. His hair, which is about 15 
inches long, is slightly streaked with gray in front. He evidently died 
of an acute disease, since there is no sign of wasting sickness nor of 
bodily injury. The body was not embalmed nor was any special effort 
made to preserve it. The brain and internal organs have not been 
touched, the preservation of the body being due to the climate, aided 
to some extent possibly by chemical agencies within the cave itself (in 
places in the reef near by, the rocks are impregnated with petroleum, 
etc.). The flesh has dried up and shrunken to the bones. The weight 
of the body is about 25 pounds. 



MOUND IN JEFFERSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE. 



By Dr. J. C. McCokmick, Straivberry Plains, Tennessee. 



The mound of which this paper is the subject is ou the left or east 
bank of the Tennessee River (Holston) 4 miles north from Strawberry 
Plains, Jefferson County, Tennessee. It is much larger than any other 
in this valley. It is about 30 yards from the river's bank, and its re- 
markable size and well-defined contour is such as will attract the atten- 
tion of the most casual observer. Flints, broken stone, shells, and pieces 
of broken pottery all attest that it is the work of the mound-builders. 
The river at this point follows a course south 20 degrees east. No 
ditches or signs indicating that this mound was used as a place of de- 
fense are visible. Had these formerly existed the continued cultivation 
of the land for so great a period would most assuredly have obliterated 
them. 

The mound is circular in outline, and is, properly speaking, an earthen 
burial mound. No stones of any size or in any considerable number 
were used in its construction. In the immediate vicinity are the remains 
of broken bowlders, but they do not occur in great numbers, neither do 
they enter into the ''make-up" of the mound. In outline the mound is 
nearly a perfect circle. Measured from the base ou one side to a cor- 
responding point on the opposite side, on a horizontal plane, it is 120 
feet in diameter. Its present diameter is somewhat greater than when 
completed. This is easily explained when we take into consideration 
tiic repeated plowings it ha^ from time to time received for a century. 
Aside from this, the wearing and washing away produced by natural 
causes were sufficient to increase its natural diameter to a slight extent, 
while its perpendicular height has been greatly reduced. Its present 
height is 12 feet. 

On Tuesday, November 2, 1886, 1 began an exploration of the mound. 
A trench was dug on a level 3 feet above the bottom of the mound. This 
trench extended in a direction north and south through the mound and 
was about 5 feet wide. Another trench of like dimensions and on the 
same level was begun on the west, and carried forward to a point where 
it intersected the trench running north and south. At a point near the 
junction of these, and 3 feet below the surface, was found the first skel- 

S71 



r)72 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

etoii. It had been buried with the head toward the east; bad evidently 
been placed upon its right side, the face toward the north. The thigh 
bones were to some extent flexed upon the body, and the arms had been 
placed in front of the body and were somewhat extended. The cranium, 
teeth, tarsal, and metatarsal, carpal and metacarpal bones were in a 
fair state of preservation. No relics were found with this individual. 
Further exploration led to the discovery of five other skeletons during 
the day. These were found with their heads towards the east. Beads 
were found, and from their position it is evident they had been worn 
around the neck. During the day a skeleton was discovered near the 
apex of the angle formed by the south and west trenches. 

On the second day the first skeleton observed was that of a child, 
evidently less than two years old. It had not passed the period of first 
dentition. The cranium was broken down and decayed to such an ex- 
tent as to render any measurement of it utterly impossible. Of the long 
bones, the following linear measurements were taken at the time: Fe- 
mur, 8.12 inches; tibias, 6.62 inches; humerus, 6 inches; radius, 4.55 
inches. The others were in a very bad state of preservation and accu- 
rate measurement was impossible. Another skeleton, that of a large 
sized individual, presented some interesting peculiarities. The skull of 
this skeleton was the first part met with in the process of unearthing. 
The bones of the cranium were in a fair state of preservation, as were 
those comprising the vertebral column and those of the upper extremity. 
The pelvic bones, also, were almost entire ; but on searching for the 
bone of the thigh I was somewhat surprised when, after a careful search, 
only a small portion of the right femur was discovered. The remaining 
bones of both the lower limbs were entirely missing. That [)ortion of 
the right femur exhumed presented all the characteristic signs of dis- 
eased bone, and the individual to whom it belonged had evidently been 
the subject of necrosis. It is not unfair, neither is it unreasonable, to 
assert that this disease prevailed among the mound builders as well as 
among races of mankind at the present day. But what wais most per- 
plexing was the absence of the other bones belonging to the lower ex- 
tremities. 

Of the remaining fifteen skeletons that w^re removed from the mound 
during the three days of my exploration, there was not one that pre- 
sented this peculiarity. In all of them the bones of the lower extremi- 
ties, or at least some portions, were found. Six skeletons were taken 
from the mound during the second day. Among tliis number were 
several in which some of the bones were in a good state of preserva- 
tion. One of these gave the following measurements: Cranium, ver- 
tical heightinside, 4.90 inches; occipitofrontal arch, 13.50 inches; pari- 
etal diameter, 6 inches; horizontal circumference, 20 inches; length, 7 
inches; length of femur, 18.50 inches; length of tibias, 15 inches; tibial 
circumference in middle, 3.75 inches; tibias, least circumference, 3.25 
inches; humerus, 12.85 inches; radius, 10.12 inches; clavicle, 0.25 inches. 



MOUNDS IN JEFFERSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE. 573 

Four skeletons were found during the third day. My assistant while 
removing one of them found a pipe and gorget that had been placed in 
front of it. The gorget is a circular disk 4 inches in diameter. It is 
made from a large and heavy shell. Both sides have been smoothly 
dressed, but are now somewhat roughened and stained, no doubt by 
the action of the soil in which it has lain. There are two perforations 
near the margin of the disk. They are considerably worn, thus indi- 
cating its long continued use. The convex surface is plain and pre- 
sents nothing for examination worthy of mention. The lines are well 
defined, and are clearly and deeply cut. The design is no doubt in- 
tended to represent a bird ; in fact, the profile is plainly to be seen. Its 
resemblance to the cedar bird, Ampelis cedrormn, is very marked. The 
eye is represented by a small circlet ; within this there is a small de- 
pression or pit that is intended to represent the iris. The mandibles are 
short and conical in outline. A pointed crest that arises from the back 
of the head is plainly discernible. The incisions are clearly and cleanly 
traced, and the entire design exhibits the skill of the mound builder 
artist in a remarkable degree. 

Among the objects obtained from the mound were several hundred 
beads of various sizes. The greater number of these are made of shell ; 
some are of bone. Many are in a good state of preservation. Several 
flints were found that had apparently never been used, as their sharp 
edges and points would seem to indicate. Three whole vessels were 
taken from the mound. Several small disks of shell were found ; these 
presented no particular ornamentation that is worth mentioning. Two 
pipes were recovered; these were uninjured and are without ornamen- 
tation. Three implements of bone are smoothly and evenly finished. 
They are hollow throughout their entire length. They are bevelled on 
one side for about half their length, and near the circular end there is a 
perforation on one side extending to the cavity within. They are no 
doubt made from the tibias of some animal, perhaps that of a deer. In 
addition to those already mentioned, there were found several pins, awls, 
and stones of various shapes and sizes. 

In structure the mound consists of alternate layers of clay, sand, and 
ashes, varying in thickness, the material of which was probably ob- 
tained near by. The clay used in the construction of the mound was 
most likely taken from the river bank. Sand is found along the river. 
Stone was not used in the construction of this mound. Both land and 
fresh water shells are found scattered throughout its extent. The fresh 
water species largely predominate. Among them are louud Helix s;pi- 
nosa, H. alternata, H. appressa. H. elevata, Gampeloma ponderosa, G. de- 
cisa, lo spinosa (the latter abundant), Angetrema verrucosa, Pleuroeera 
untkonyi, P. Jilum^ Anculosa prwrosa, Unto verrueosu.s, besides many 
others which I am unable to determine. 

Sixteen skeletons were taken from the ujound. Of the crania, 
several were saved in fair condition. The bodies were usually interred 



674 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

with the heads to the east, lu almost all cases, the limbs were 
flexed. Two skeletons I found had evidently been buried in a sitting 
position. In these the lower limbs had been flexed so that the knees 
were drawn up nearly as high as and in front of the chin. The bodies had 
been placed on a layer of soil ; above this was a layer of sand, and above 
the sand a layer of ashes. Very few pieces of charcoal were observed, 
and it is fair to suppose from this that cremation had not been practiced 
here. Aside from this there were no bones found that showed any evi- 
dence of the action of the fire. In the northern half of the mound I 
discovered what had formerly been posts or timbers placed on end. 
These were very much decayed ; upon close examination they proved 
to be of black walnut, Juglans nigra^ which is common in this locality. 
They did not occupy a perpendicular ix)sition, but had been placed 
about 12 feet apart at an angle of perhaps 60 degrees to the north. I 
examined carefully around these for anything that might have been 
placed there, but nothing was found. I very much regret that inclem- 
ent weather and other unavoidable circumstances prevented auy further 
investigation of the mound at that time. At some time in the near 
future I hope to resume the work of a more thorough and minute ex- 
amination of the mound and its contents. 



ANCIENT MOUNDS AND EARTH- WORKS IN FLOYD AND 
CERRO GORDO COUNTIES, IOWA. 



By Clement L. Webster. Charles City, Iowa. 



Floyd and Cerro Gordo Couuties, in the northern central portion of 
Iowa, are among the most fertile portions of the State. The region is 
watered mainly by the Shellrock and Cedar Rivers and their tributa 
ries. The surface of the country is a gently undulating prairie with 
only narrow belts of timber along the streams and a few isolated groves 
or "patches of timber" adjacent to them. 

The west side of the valley of the Shellrock and Lime Creek sometimes 
rises to a height of from 70 to 123 feet above the water in the stream, 
thus affording a beautiful and extensive view of the surrounding 
country. The soil of the entire region is a rich deep black loam, mostly 
of drift deposit, easily cultivated, and remarkably well suited to the 
production of the cereals. When first settled by the white man mueh 
less timber occupied the surftice than now. 

In early times this region, especially the Shellrock and Cedar valleys, 
was the seat of populous settlements of the red men; but not so (except 
in the Cedar valley), of the moiind-builders, the remains of which are 
mostly their burial mounds and earth works. 

On the south bank of Lime Creek, at Hackberry, Cerro Gordo 
County, a small mound is located. This mound occupies a position on 
the edge of a bluff, which at this place rises abruptly to a height of 70 
feet above the water in the stream, and commands a beautiful and ex- 
tensive view of the region to the north, northwest, and east. By the 
caving away of portions of this bluff about two thirds of this mound 
has been destroyed ; but, judging from the portion which still remains, 
it must have been, originally, about 15 feet in diameter, and from 1^ to 
2 feet in height, circular at the base, and with a gently rounded top. 
Excavations revealed a horizontal layer of broken pottery, the frag- 
ments almost always lying with the concave side upward. The surface 
of the pottery had been ornamented by rude impressions, and had been 
broken before being placed in the mound. This pottery occupied a 
position slightly below the natural surface of the ground around the 
mound. Associated with the pottery were numerous tiint arrow- 
points (finished and unfinished), of various designs. In the extreme 

576 



576 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

southeast portion of the mound, and occupying a jjositiou a few inches 
above the layer of broken i)Ottery, were several plates from the lower 
])ortion of the carapace of a turtle. It is possible that these plates may 
have gained this position long subsequent to the formation of the 
mound. No human bones, or other relics than those mentioned, were 
found. 

About the center of the southeast quarter of section 5, township 95, 
range 17 north, and half a mile west from Flood Creek, in the western 
part of Floyd County, a peculiar mound is located. The topography of 
the country immediately adjoining this creek, in this region, is rather 
low and level, but not usually wet. This mound is situated on the 
margin of a belt of timber, bordering a low, wet depression of the gen- 
eral surface of the land. It was about 16 feet in diameter, and 1 foot 
high at the center, with a circular basilar outline and flat top, except a 
rounded ridge 8 or 10 inches high and 1 foot wide at the base, which 
occupied the outer edge of the surface area. All round the base was a 
trench, about 10 inches deep and 1 foot wide, from which earth had no 
doubt been taken to form the ridge, and, in part, the mouud itself. The 
surface of the mound was densely covered by poplars {Populus tremu- 
loidcs), wild plum {Primus americana), and hazel brush {Cceylus ameri- 
cana). 

Mr. Mertou T. Webster and the writer together made a partial ex- 
ploration of this mound by extending an excavation part of the way 
through it, 2 feet wide and 1^ feet in depth, with the following result : 
First there was a layer of decomposed plant remains and earth, and 
then a layer of charcoal, then a bed of ashes, and afterwards a layer 
of soil. Below this layer of soil was another bed of charcoal and ashes, 
occupying the same i)osition relative to each other as those above. 
Tliis bed of ashes rested directly upon the natural surface of the ground, 
which did not show any particular evidence of strong heat. 

This description may be illustrated by the following cut, Fig. 1 : 




Fig. 1. — Section of ancicut mound near Flood Creek, Floyd County, Iowa 



A careful examination of the charcoal, wh^ch was mostly in large 
pieces and finely i)reservefl, convinced us that the fuel had been largely 
poi)lar wood. Xo burned bones or remains of artificial objects were 
found. 

In the eastern part of Floyd County, near Charles City, a large and 
very interesting group of ancient mounds occur, most of which have 
been explored by tlic writer. 

All these mounds, thirty- one in number, are located, with one cxcep- 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 



57T 



tion*, two miles northwest from Charles City, near the center of section 
26 1, township 96, range 16. 

These mounds occur (except the three isolated ones) in a nearly 
straight line, running about 20 degrees west of north, on the summit of 
a low, broad ridge. 




Fig. 2. — Map, showing locatiou of Mounds. 
By referring to the accompanying map it will be seen that a spring 



•This "exceptional" mound is located near- the center of the aquthwest quarter of 
section 23. Section 23 joins sections 26 on the north, 
t Nearly all this laud is now owned by Mr, John Scringer. 

Uf Mis, 600 37 



578 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

brook flows past the south end of this line of mounds, and the Oedar 
River about half a mile to the west; while a quarter of a mile to the 
east is located a slough, and a longitudiual depression occurs at the 
base of the ridge on the west. 

These mounds are in reality situated in the valley of the Oedar River, 
the true valley side being from half to three-fourths of a mile to the 
east. 

This entire ridge was originally covered with a heavy growth of oaks, 
poplars, etc.; but most of it has long since been cleared away in the 
opening up of the land for cultivation. 

Mound IS'o. 1 (counting from the south end of the line), 63 feet in 
length, and 48 feet in width, and 3 feet in height. This appears to have 
been a natural elevation to which dirt has been brought and so com- 
pleted the mound. This was partially explored, but nothing found. 
Seventy-five feet to the west from No. 1 is a circular mound 21 feet in 
diameter and 1^ feet in height. Unexplored. 

Fifteen feet northwest from the last is another circular unexplored 
mound, 20 feet in width and 2 feet in height. 

Ten feet from No. 3 is a large curved mound 163 feet in length (follow- 
ing the outer basal curvature), and varying from 20 to 25 feet in width 
and from 2^ to 3 feet in height. This mound tapers, and decreases in 
height toward the northwest, where, at the extremity, it has a height of 
1^ feet and a width of 8 feet. 

Not far from the northwest extremity of this mound occurs a spur or 
extension of the main mound. This spur is 27 feet long, and quite 
rapidly diminishes iii heighi and width (especially in height), until at 
the end it is less than 1 foot high and only 10 feet in width. This ap- 
pears to have been an original mound with additions made to it by 
human hands. Excavations were made in this mound at dift'erent points 
down to the level of the ground at the base of the mound, but without 
tiuding anything. 

The north part of this mound is still covered with hazel brush, while 
the south part has been plowed over for many years. 

This mound, as well as mound No. 1, seems not to have been raised 
for sepulchral purposes, as nearly all others of the group have been. 

No. 5, a circular mound, 300 feet from No 4, H feet in height, 21 feet in 
diameter, and surface occupied by hazel brush. Unexplored. 

No. 6, a mound 200 feet from tlie base of No. 5, circular, 1^ feet in 
height, and 21 feet in diameter. This has been degraded by the plow. 
Unexplored. 

Between Nos. 5 and 6 there is another mound ; but as there is some 
uncertainty regarding its origin, it is not represented on the map. 

No. 7, a mound about the same in all resi)ects as No. G. Unexplored, 
degraded by the plow, and 100 feet or more from No. 6. 

No. 8, a circular mound, 45 feet in diameter, 3 feet in height, and 50 
feet distant from No. 7. Degraded and unexi)lored. 

No. 9, a mound 10 feet distant from No. 8, is about 30 feet in diameter, 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 579 

and 2^ feet in height. An exploration of this mound was made by an 
excavation in the center, 8 feet square, and extending down to the level 
at the base. From 20 inches below the surface and downward frag- 
ments of pottery were found. Lying on the natural surface of the 
ground was found a closely packed bundle of human arm and leg bones, 
lying due east and west. On the east end of these bones reposed a 
crushed and somewhat separated cranium, some portions of which were 
very thick, and the teeth large and strong. The bones and skull were 
those of a young adult person. Two feet to the northeast from the 
first bundle of bones was another similar bundle, lying directed a few 
degrees south of east. On the east end of this bundle lay a portion of 
a crushed skull. The skull and bones were somewhat charred by fire, 
which appears to have been done after being placed in the mound. A 
few feet to the southeast from the last bundle of bones, was found 
another similar closely packed bundle, lying directed about 13 degrees 
south of east. No skull was found with this bundle. A few feet to 
the northwest from the first bundle of bones was found another like 
bundle, lying due east and west ; no skull was present. Scattered 
through the mound were a few small pieces of charcoal, hard-burned 
clay, and pieces of limestone showing the action of fire. Some years 
ago an excavation was made in the center of this mound, and a skull, 
together with one or two bundles of bones, was taken out. All the 
bones in this mound showed more or less evidence of calcination. With 
one exception, all the remains had been elsewhere cremated before 
being placed in this mound. Formerly an oak tree, 12 inches in diam- 
eter, occujned the surface of the center of this mound, only the stump 
now remaining. 

No. 10, a circular mound, 36 feet in diameter and 3 feet in height, and 
12 feet from No. 9. Degraded by the plow. An examination of this 
mound was made, but without finding anything. 

No. 11, a mound 4 feet from No. 10, circular, 45 feet in diameter and 
2^ feet in height. Degraded. An excavation 8 feet square and 2^ feet 
in depth was made in the center of this mound. Ten inches below the 
surface and slightly east of the center a piece of broken pottery and a 
few small fragments of charcoal alone were found. No evidence of fire 
was observed save the charcoal, which appears to have been brought in. 

No. 12 is similar to No. 11, but slightly smaller, and 12 feet distant 
from it. A partial exploration of this mound was made, and numerous 
pieces of hard-burned clay were found scattered through it, all of which 
had been brought in. Ten inches below the surface of the mound a 
portion of a calcined femur was found. No trace of fire was noticed in 
the mound. 

No. 13, a mound 15 feet from No. 12, circular, 45 feet in diameter and 
2 feet high. Degraded and unexplored. 

No. 14, a mound 16 feet from No. 13, circular, 51 feet wide and 1^ feet 
high. In the center of the mound and 10 inches below the surface, a 



580 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



l»ecaliar, imperfect skull, apparently that of a dog, was fouud, facing the 
southwest. Near this skull, aud 7 inches below, were found quite closely 
associated five bundles of leg aud arm bones similar to those found in 
other mounds of this series already described. In three cases a skull 
(crushed) had been placed on the west end of the bundles of bones, 
and in one instance a skull had been placed between two of these bun- 
dles. TJnderueath the west end of the north bundle was one-half of a 
lower jaw still retaining the teeth. The skull between the bundles had 
been placed on its right side, with mouth wide open, facing the north- 
west; scattered in the soil near it were numbers of its teeth, indicating 
that they had dropped out before being covered with earth. All the 
bundles of bones lay directed in an east, northeast, or southeast direc- 
tion, none of them outside of the radius of the rising sun at some period 
of the year. In all but two instances the bones occuiDied a horizontal 
position ; but in two cases they sloped upward in an easterly direction 
at an angle of several degrees. Seven inches below the dog skull, nu- 
merous pieces of ribs and other small bones were found, which had been 
thrown in promiscuously. All the skulls were rather thick, jaws and 
tee't h large and strong. Some of the bones were those of very old in- 
dividuals, while tbe majority were those of young adult persons. As- 
sociated with the human remains, and scattered through the mound, 
were numerous pieces of burned clay aud charcoal which had been 
brought in. This charcoal was of oak of the same species as now 
grows in the region. Six inches below the surface of the mound two 
large slabs of water-worn (Devonian) limestone were fouud. These 
•were obtained from the Cedar Eiver, near by. 







Fig. 3. — Diagram of mound No. 14. Human boues and crania. (1) Scattered fragf* 
ments of rib aud other small boues; (•<}) akull of a dog 10 iuohes below the surface 
pf the TOOund; (8) scattered fragments of charcoal au(| l)urRed play, 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 581 

The human remains had all been cremated before being placed in the 
mound. 

The accompanying- diagram (Fig. 3) will illustrate this description, as 
well as show the general method of interment practiced here by these 
ancient people. 

No. 15, a mound 10 feet from Ko. 14, circular, 30 feet in diameter and 
1^ feet in height. A partial exploration of this mound failed to show 
any indications of fire or to yield relics of any kind. 

No. 16, 16 feet from No. 15, is ; lOther mound of the same character. 
A partial exploration of this mound revealed the presence of human 
leg and arm bones, 17 inches below the surface of the mound, ap- 
parently thrown in promiscuously. No trace of fire or other relics 
than those mentioned were found. 

No. 17, a mound 3 feet from No. 16, circular, 1^ feet in height, and 
25 feet in diameter. An oak stump 8 or 10 inches in diameter still 
occupied a position on the edge of this mound. Degraded and unex- 
plored. 

No. 18, a mound 20 feet from No. 17, circular, 42 feet in diameter and 
2^ feet in height. A trench 2 feet wide and 2^ feet deep was made 
through the center of this mound from east to west, but no trace of fire 
or relics of any kind was found. The material of the mound was homo- 
geneous throughout. Degraded by cultivation. 

No. 19, a mound 20 feet distant from No. 18, circular, 42 feet in diam- 
eter and 2| feet in height. Occupying the surface of the mound was 
some hazel brush, and growing on the edge was a burr-oak tree 1 foot in 
diameter. Near the center of the mound three large oaks had recently 
been grubbed up; on the stump of one was counted sixty three annual 
rings. In the center of this mound an excavation 8 feet square and 2^ 
feet deep was made. Lying at length, on a level with the ground around 
the mound, a skeleton of an adult person was found. This skeleton 
lay with the head 11 degrees south of east. The body had been placed 
on its back, head lying on its left side, mouth open about 1 inch, left 
shoulder drawn up and chin resting on the clavicle, and arms at the side. 
The cranium was largo and well formed, the jaws and teeth strong and 
rather large, and judging from the worn condition of the crowns of the 
teeth, it was thatof a person somewhat advanced in years. This skeleton 
indicated a person over 6 feet in height. As this skeleton, together with 
others, was stolen soon after being exhumed, it has made it impossible 
to give cranial measurements here as was desired. All the bones were 
in a poor state of preservation. No trace of fire was observed in the 
mound, or relics of any description found with the bones. The earth 
around and for IJ feet above the body had been tamped very hard. 

No. 20, 21 feet from No. 19, was another mound of the same form and 
dimensions, and covered with a growth of hazel brush, the young oaks 
and poplars which but a few years ago occupied it having been cut 
down and removed. An exploration of this mound was made with the 



582 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

following result : In the center of the mound, and 26 inches below the 
surface, was found three bundles of leg and arm bones, five skulls iu 
a crushed condition, and what appeared to be two pelvis bones much 
decayed. In the center of this assemblage of bones was a small earthen 
vase or urn, set upright. Associated with and distributed in the earth 
above the bones were numerous pieces of charcoal, burned clay, and one 
or two pieces of broken pottery. The bundles of bones, with one excep- 
tion, all lay m an easterly and westerly direction, while the skulls and 
other bones were placed here without apparent order. Mostof the crania 
were those of young adult individuals, one of them a babe with milk 
teeth. Some of them however were those of very old persons, the crowns 
of the teeth (the teeth in all the skulls were very large) all having been 
worn down to and sometimes deeply into the dentine. The urn, which 
was of the rudest form the writer has ever seen from any mound, was 
nearly perfect. The bones, which were all in a poor state of preserva- 
tion, were more or less calcined, some before and some after having been 
placed in the mound. The charcoal (one piece found was 21 inches in 
length and 4 inches in diameter) was of oak, and of the same species as 
now abundantly occupies the region and the surface of some of the 
mounds. The soil above and around the bones had been packed very 
hard. 

No. 21, a circular mound, about 30 feet in diameter and 2 feet in height, 
and 25 feet distant from No. 20. The surface of this mound was covered 
by small hazel brush, and until recently by a growth of young oaks and 
poplars. An exploration revealed a circular, oval mound of red burned 
clay, 1 foot in thickness at the center and about 10 feet in diameter, 1 
foot below the surface of the rest of the mound. Near the center of the 
mound, and underneath the burned clay, were three bundles of bones, 
similar to those found in other mounds of this series. Two of the bundles 
lay directed 11 degrees east of south ; the third bundle lay directed due 
northwest and southeast. On the north end of the two first bundles 
of bones reposed a crushed skull, and on the southeast end of the third 
bundle was also a crushed cranium. These bones were all very much 
charred by fire. Associated with these bundles of bones were large 
quantities of other human bones, almost entirely consumed by burning. 
In the black soil above the burned clay a few small pieces of oak char- 
coal were found. Neither charcoal nor ashes, bones nor other relics, were 
found in the burned clay. The following section (Fig. 2) will illustrate 
the above description : 




Fig. 4. — Diagramof uiouud No. 21. (1) Burned clay ; (-2) black homogeneous drift 
sciil. 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 583 

This mound appears to have beeu used not only as a burial mound, 
but as a cremation mound as well. It is known that the human remains 
found in the majority of the mounds of this group had been elsewhere 
cremated before being placed in the mounds. 

No. 22, a mound of the same dimensions as the last, and 30 feet dis- 
tant from it. Surface occupied by a few hazel brush aiid young oaks. 
Near the center, and 2 feet below the surface of the mound, a bundle of 
bones was found, together with a portion of a skull; all of which were 
in a much decayed condition. The bundle of bones lay due northeast 
and southwest. Distributed through the mound were pieces of oak 
charcoal and burned clay which had been brought in. There was no 
evidence that fire was used at this burial here. The soil around and 
for some inches above the bones had been beaten hard. 

No. 23, 25 feet from No. 22, was a circular flattened mound, 30 feet in 
diameter and 1 foot high. The surface was occupied by hazel brush and 
a few small and medium-sized oak trees. A partial exploration of this 
mound was made, but no relics were found or evidence of fire observed. 

No. 24, a mound, 25 feet from No. 23, circular, 45 feet in diameter and 
1^ feet in height. Surface occupied by the same class of vegetation as 
the last. Three feet south of the center of the mound came upon a bun- 
dle of bones lying due east and west. Lying one on the east end and one 
on the west end of these bones, were two skulls. The skull occupying 
a position on the east end, lay on its left side facing south by southwest. 
Skull large, of moderate thickness, forehead low and sloping abruptly 
backward ; teeth large and strong, and with crowns of molars and pre- 
molars worn smooth, indicating an old individual. As this skull soon 
crumbled in pieces on exposure to the atmosphere, definite measure- 
ments were not taken. The second skull was in a crushed condition, 
although a partial reconstruction of its parts was possible. Through 
the back part of the skull (left i)arietal bone) were three circular holes 
arranged in a line (the smaller one in the center), 5, 8, and 11 millime- 
ters in diameter respectively. Whether these perforations were made 
by human hands or by the agency of some insect or its boring larva, 
after the burial of the bones and their softening by decay, we are unable 
to state. The latter supposition, however, seems to us the most probable. 

No. 25, a circular mound, 45 feet wide, 3 feet high, and 20 feet distant 
from No. 24. Surface occupied by the same, but more dense, arboreal 
vegetation and undergrowth as occupies the surface of many of the other 
mounds. An exploration of this mound revealed nothing save a few 
scattered fragments of charcoal and burned clay, which had been brought 
in from some other locality. The material of the mound had been tramped 
hard. 

No. 26, a mound about 53 feet distant from the last, circular, 33 feet 
in diameter, and 3 feet in height. Surface occupied by a few brush and 
the stumps of three oaks, one showing forty- eight and another sixty-one 
annual rings. Nothing was found in this mound except a few small 
pieces of charcoal of oak wood. 



584 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

No. 27, a mound 5 feet from No. 2G, and of the same fom jut some- 
what smaller. Surface occupied by hazel brush. Unexplored. 

No. 28, a mouud 40 feet from the last, circular, 1 foot iu height, and 
24 feet in diameter. Surface partially occupied by small hazel brush 
and the stumps of a few small trees. Unexplored. 

About one-third of a mile to the northwest from this line of mounds 
an isolated circular mound occurs. It is located on the brow of a some- 
what higher and much narrower ridge, and about 40 rods from an aban- 
doned portion of the channel of the Cedar, marked 1 on the map. This 
mouud, we were informed by Mr. Oapron, the present owner of the land, 
was originally about 1^ feet in height and 20 feet in diameter, but as 
it had been industriously plowed over for more than thir!y-five years, 
its greatest height when examined by the writer was only about 6 inches. 

A thorough exploration of this mound was made and with the following 
result: One foot below the surface of the mouud, aud 6 inches below 
the natural surface of the ground around the mound, was found a large 
quantity of broken pottery, charcoal, two sinkers, one rude arrow point, 
and a few flint chippiugs. All these relics showed evidence of having 
been burned after having been placed in the mound. One foot below 
the pottery, portions of a human skeleton were found. The bones (which 
appeared not to have been placed in a bundle) were too few and too 
badly decayed to allow of any definite knowledge as to the original 
placing of the body. A portion of the pottery found here presents a 
combination of net or basket markings and of separate cord markings. 
The regularity of the impressions upon the subglobular bodies indicates 
almost unbroken contact with the interior surface of the woven vessel. 
The rims have been ornamented by separately impressing coarse twisted 
cords. The rims of two of the vessels were ornamented exactly like tbe 
"Ancient British Vase" figured on page 399 of the Third Annual Re- 
port of the Bureau of Ethnology, except that the three upper and. the 
three lower parallel lines are wanting. 

Some of the vessels were smooth ; all of a very moderate thickness, of 
a yellowish-red color, and made of pounded granite of drift origin, tine 
gravel, and clay. Portions of six vessels were found, and all, with oue 
exception, having the rim variously molded and artistically decorated 
by the impressions of coarse twisted cords. One of the largest vessels, 
which was less fractured than the rest, and which admitted of a partial 
reconstruction of its parts, had an aperture diameter of 20^ centimeters, 
and a diameter of the large and abruptly flaring portion near the base 
of 31, and a height of IG centimeters. 

The neck of this vessel was sharply constricted. With one or two ex- 
ceptions, all the other vessels were of tlie same general form but some- 
what smaller.* 

*In a future paper we desire to give a more detailed description, accompanied by 
cuts, of tbe pottery found iu these mounds, together with that of tbe pottery (now in 
tbe writer's possession) showing the impressions of textile fabrics, from ancient 
mounds iu other parts of Iowa. 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 585 

Some years ago Mr. Capron made an excavation in this mound and 
took out numerous small pieces of pottery, and one sinker larger and 
finer than either of those obtained by the writer. 

About 6 feet to the northeast from the mound was a saucer-shaped 
depression 10 feet in diameter and 1^ feet in depth, from which dirt had 
been taken in the construction of the mound. It is stated by Mr. Capron 
that this excavation was originally much larger. 

On a much lower and level space (marked A on the map) on the bank 
of the now abandoned channel of the river, and about 40 rods to the 
northwest from the mound, considerable quantities of broken pottery 
some of it differing greatly in decoration from any found in the mounds, 
has been plowed up. Considerable numbers of arrow points, together 
with lance points, drills, hammers, flint chippings, etc., have also been 
found. 

It seems quite probable that this was the site of a village of these an- 
cient people who erected the mounds. 

About half a mile to the northeast from the above described mound 
another isolated circular mound occurs. This is located upon the ex- 
tremity of the brow of a rather high and abruptly truncate ridge, which 
here approaches to within a few rods of the Cedar. From this point a 
tine view of a considerable portion of the valley may be gained. This 
mound, which was opened by parties from CharlesCity some years ago, 
was said to have been circular, 20 feet in diameter, and 2 feet in height. 

But little information as to the result ot the exploration of this mound 
has been obtained by the writer, save that a considerable quantity of 
fabric and cord marked pottery, much of it similar to that obtained from 
the mound on the Capron farm, was found, and that it had been sub- 
jected to the action of fire after ha\ ing been placed in the mound. Sev- 
eral fine specimens of "this pottery were sometime afterward presented 
to the writer by one of the party making the exploration. The larger 
fabric marked specimen is of peculiar interest from the fact that in the 
manufacturing of the vessel the hand was used in pressing the plastic 
clay into shape,* the interior of the vessel (that portion of it known) 
showing deep depressions or indentations made by pressure of the hand 
or fingers, this giving both the interior and exterior of the vessel an 
uneven surface. 

This vessel appears to have been formed by placing the material in 
some subelastic mold (perhaps of willow) and pressing into form by 
the hand ; but prior to which the mold had been lined with some coarse 
woven fabric, for, perhaps, the purpose (1) of facilitating the removal 
of the vessel from, the mold, and (2) for the purpose of ornamentation. 
Near this mound was found (by Mr. Burt Harwood, one of the explorers 
of the mound) and presented to the writer numerous arrow points, a 
fish-spear (according to Abbot), knife, and a fine plumb-bob. 

The point of special interest regarding the arrow heads is their (in 

*In all other observed examples some smooth instrument was used for this purpose. 



686 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

some cases extreme) rudeness of form. The knife, which is the most 
beautiful specimen of its kind that we have ever seen, is of milky quartz, 
7f centimeters in length, about 3 centimeters wide at the middle, and 
tapers to a point at either end. 

The fish spear has a length of 5^ centimeters and width at the base 
of 2 centimeters ; this spear point tapers gradually to the front, the 
forward half very thick and heavy, the breadth and thickness being 
about equal. 

The plumb-bobis a beautiful symmetrical specimen, ovate in form, with 
a length of 5^ centimeters and diameter of 5^ centimeters. Eunning 
longitudinally around this specimen is a rather profound groove. 

The three last named implements, knife, spear, and plumb, are, so far 
as known to me, of very rare occurrence in Iowa. 

On the second ridge, west (which is slightly lower) from the line of 
mounds, and directly opposite mound No. 14, is another isolated mound. 
This mound is 42 feet long from north to south, and 30 feet wide and 1 
foot high at the center. Formerly a fair-sized oak tree occupied the 
surface in the center of this mound. Many years' working of the plow 
has reduced the height to a considerable degree. 

About 3 feet from the base of the northeast part of the mound was 
a saucer-shaped depression (originally larger and deeper) about 22 feet 
in diameter and 1 foot deep. Along the entire east side at the base 
was a depression somewhat shallower than the first one. From these 
depressions dirt had been taken for the construction of the mound. 

Near the northeast part of the mound, and 2 feet below the surface 
of the mound and 1 foot below the natural surface of the ground around 
the mound, was found part of a calcined skull and several leg and arm 
bones. These bones had the appearance of having been placed here 
in a loose, careless manner, most of them lying directed north and 
south. Five feet to the south of the remains of the first body were the 
remains of a second body. This body was represented by a somewhat 
larger number of calcined leg and arm bones than the first one. The 
condition of the few well-preserved teeth found with these bones would 
indicate that they belonged to a person somewhat past middle life. 
The long bones, with one exception, all lay directed north and south. 

Both bodies found here had been cremated at some other locality be- 
fore being placed in the mound. From near the surface of the mound 
was obtained a few pieces of charcoal, flint chippiugs, and a small piece 
of pottery. 

The bones in this mound, as well as the bones in many of the other 
mounds examined, had been considerably gnawed, and some of them 
destroyed, by the pouched gopher {Geomys bursarius). These burial 
mounds being usually located upon the highest and dry est portion of a 
region offer special inducements for these troublesome rodents to ap- 
propriate them for their domiciles, which they often have done. 

The charcoal found in this mound and in the mound on Mr. Capron's 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 587 

farm as well was of a very flue- grained compact wood, differiug widely 
from the oak. 

Judging from the great difference (in many respects) in the mode of 
burial, the state of preservation of the bones, etc., it seems not improba- 
ble that they are the remains of a different tribe of the mound-builders 
from those who erected the line of mounds, and that the interments 
were made at a period considerably prior to those interments in the 
line. 

The material of all the mounds, except the charcoal and burned clay 
mentioned, is a black, homogeneous drift soil, such as everywhere occu- 
pies the surface of the region. No "dugholes," ditches, or excavations 
of an^' kind (with the two exceptions noted) were observed near or ad- 
jacent to the mounds, from which earth might have been taken for 
their construction. The diameter of the mounds and their distance 
apart has been ascertained by pacing.* 

One-third of a mile to the south of the line of mounds, and at a lower 
level, are situated several circular mounds (now nearly obliterated by 
the cultivation of the soil) similar to those already described, none of 
which have been explored. 

At Floyd, 4 miles farther up the Cedar from these mounds, there are 
several other ancient mounds which in general form and appearance 
approach those already described. 

About 8 miles to the northeast from Charles City, on the southwest 
part of the northwest quarter of section 36, township 96, range 15, 
Floyd County, an ancient earth-work or fortification occurs on the east 
side of the Little Cedar Kiver.t The topography of the region in the 
immediate vicinity of this stream is broken and possessed of considera- 
ble beauty of natural scenery. The valley of this stream is from one- 
fourth to one-half a mile in width, and its sides rise to a height of from 
50 to 300 feet above the stream. 

This fortitication, as will be observed by reference to the accompanying 
map, is located about 150 feet distant from the bank of the abandoned 
channel of the Little Cedar River, and about the same distance from a 
ravine, which is located near the southeast extremity of the fortification 
and which is tributary to the Little Cedar. The bottom of this ravine 
and the abandoned channel of the Little Cedar, is from 18 to 20 feet 
lower than the base of the fortification. This fortification is located in 
the valley of the Little Cedar, the east valley side being one-fourth of a 
mile from it and, as before stated, rises many feet above it. The earth- 
work itself is 124 feet in length, 16 feet in width at the base, and 2| 
feet in height. The top is gently oval, sides gradually sloping to the 

* Thanks are here due Mr. Scringer, who, although most of the area occupied by the 
mounds was also possessed by fine growing crops, willingly allowed au exploration 
of the mounds to be made. 

tThis stream is little more than a large creek, although receiving the appellation 
of "river." 



»88 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



base, aud ends truncate. This earth- work runs about 17 degrees west of 
north, and is composed of the ordinary drift soil of the region. 

No "dug-holes," or other excavations, were observed, from which earth 
might have been taken for the construction of the fortification. 



FoBXtPiOATtoS. 

\MmiimmmMmiimmmmiiiiimyimmmism 









Fig. 5.— Map showing locjition of ancient fortification. 

Several excavations had been made in different parts of this earth- 
work by various parties, but no relics were discovered. Flint arrow 
points are not unfrequently found on the surface in this region. 

So far as is at present known to me, this is the first mound-builder 
fortification discovered in northern Iowa. It is reported that there oc- 
cur in what is known as the "big woods," on the west side of the Little 
Cedar, 7 miles below the above locality, three mounds. These mounds 
are composed of drift bowlders and soil, are about 2^ feet high, 2 feet 
wide, and from 4 to 7 feet in length. 

POSTSCRIPT. 

At the time the preceding account of ancient mounds in Floyd and 
Cerro Gordo Counties was prepared, a portion of the surface near the 
southern extremity of the line of mounds was covered by an almost im- 
penetrable growth of brush, vines, and weeds. Here were observed 
what appeared to be several artificial mounds ; but, under the condition 
stated, there was so much doubt regarding their origin that no mention 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. 



589 




Fig. 6. Supplementary to Fig. 2. (p. 577). 



was made iu the article regarding them ; neither were they represented 
in the map accompanying the paper. A few weeks ago however we 
made another examination of the region. The brush, etc., had been 
cleared from the surface aud burned, thus fully exposing the mounds. 
They were shown to be the work 
of human hands, and are repre- 
sented in the accompanying dia- 
gram. No. 2 is accurately repre- 
sented iu the map given, and is 
here introduced simply to show 
its relations to the other mounds. 
No. 1 is an obloug mound, 30 feet 
long, 24 feet wide, and 2 feet 
high. From the center it slopes rather more rapidly to the north than 
to the south. The distance between No. 1 aud 2, at B, is between 4 and 
5 feet. No. 3 is a long mound, 81 feet iu length, 15 feet wide at the base, 
aud 2 feet iu height at the center. The distance between this mound 
and No. 2, at C, is 24 feet. At A, an excavation, 1^ feet in depth, had 
been made; this excavation was much the deepest at the base of No. 2. 
Here doubtless was where a portion of the material for the construction 
of No. 2 was obtained. The material for the other mounds was appar- 
ently scraped from the surface in the immediate vicinity. 

These three mounds were apparently reared for the purpose of de- 
fense. Eunning north by northwest (in a Hue) from No. 1 are several 
small circular mounds from 8 to 10 feet in diameter. For what purpose 
these were raised, we are at present unable to state, as no exploration 
of them has beeu yet made. 



INDIAN GRAVES IN FLOYD AND CHICKASAW COUNTIES, 

IOWA. 



By Clement L. Webster, Charles City, Iowa, 



Our Indians, like the wild bnffalo, are fast disappearing before the ad- 
vance of civilization. Only a few generations hence and the last ves- 
tige of this once noble race will have disappeared, and nothing be left 
to mark their occupancy of this broad and beautiful land of ours save 
the few graves of their dead which dot our hills and valley sides. And 
even these silent records of a fast vanishing race are rapidly disappear- 
ing with the march of time. So it seems fitting and well that whatever 
of interest they may possess be recorded now. 

On a low but dry piece of ground, iu what was known as " Carman's 
Woods," near the confluence of Beaver Dam Brook* with the ShoUrock 
Eiver, one-half mile north from Rockford, in Floyd County, a peculiar 
Indian grave is located. 

This grave is 7 feet long, 2^ feet wide, 1^ feet in height, and 3 feet in 
depth. 

Mr. Merton T. Webster and the writer together made an exploration 
of this grave, but without finding human remains or relics of any kind. 
'J lie grave had been excavated in the soil down to the underlying lime- 
stone strata. Running lengthwise through the center of the grave, 
from bottom to top, was a row of limestone slabs from 2 to 3 inches in 
thickness set up edgewise. 

For the first foot the grave had been filled in with small fragments 
and blocks of limestone; the rest of it was then filled by laying in, ob- 
liquely, slabs of limestone on each side of the central row, one ed^e rest- 
ing in the outer portion of the grave and the otiier against the central 
row of stones. The surface slabs were so large and heavy as to require 
the entire strength of one man to remove them. 

The following section (Fig. 7) will illustrate this description. 

Two miles northwest from Charles City, in Floyd County, are located 
a group of four Indian graves t This group of graves is situated on 

* This is now called " Whisky Creek" by some, 

+ The exact location of this group and the isolated one above described are indi- 
cated on the map (Fig. 2) which accompanies the preceding paper entitled "Ancient 
Mounds and Earthworks in Floyd and Cerro Gordo Comities, Iowa," (J«ie, p.577.) 
590 



INDIAN GRAVES IN IOWA. 



691 



high, dry ground, back to the north from a small creek which comes 
in here from the east. 




Fig. 7. — Transverse section of Indian grave near Rockford, Iowa. 

These graves are apparently made like ordinary graves of the whites. 
With one exception they all lie directed northeast and southwest, the 
exceptional one lying due north and south. They all occur close to- 
gether. Three of them are nearly 7 feet in length ; the fourth one is 
that of a small chihl, and is only about 3i feet long. 

It is said by old settlers that these graves have been known here ever 
since the country was first settled, over thirty years ago, and that "they 
probably belong to Winnebagos." 

About one-fourth of a mile to the west-southwest from the above de- 
scribed group an isolated grave might hava been seen a few 5 ears ago. 
The history of the death of the one whose resting-place it was has been 
furnished me bv some of the old pioneers of the section who were per- 
sonally acquainted with the facts. The history, in brief, is this : In the 
winter of 1849-'50 a band of Winnebago Indians came in here from the 
east (?) on a hunting expedition ; among the number was the son of the 
chief of the tribe, eighteen or twenty years of age. In chasing a bear 
this young Indian became over-heated, took cold, a fever setting in, and 
he soon died. His body was wrapped in his blanket and placed on the 
ground in the timber on a level space back from the creek a short dis- 
tance. He was laid at length, with head to the northeast and feet to 
southwest. Slabs of green wood, 3 feet long, were then split out and 
placed over the body in an inverted V'Shaped form, meeting at the top. 
The ends of this inclosure were then closed up by other slabs. At the 
head of this a post of green wood 6 inches in diameter was firmly driven 
into the ground, after the bark had been ciirefully removed. This post 



592 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

extended 3 feet above ground, and on it was rndely painted with some 
red pigment figures resembling Xs, Ys, etq. Around this inclosure a 
tight log crib was made. This crib was 10 feet long, 7 feet wide, and 
slightly over 3 feet in height, and was made of green unpeeled logs, 
from 6 to 7 inches in diameter, laid up in log-house style, and so notched 
at the ends as to leave but little if any space between them, this being 
intended to keep the wolves and other wild animals from the body. 
Over the top of the crib were tightly fitted other logs. The skull of 
this Indian is now in the possession of Dr. J. W. Smith, of Charles City. 

One mile below the above-described grave, in the timber on the south 
bank of an elbow of the Cedar Ri^'er, which extends out here to the east, 
there might have been seen a few years since the graves of several 
Winnebago Indian children. The bodies had apparently been placed 
on the surface of the ground, and on all four sides logs 12 inches in 
diameter had been arranged, the si)ace inclosed being filled in with 
earth, and a mound 13 inches or more in height raised over the body. 
These gravies were situated on the bank, 10 feet above and 10 or 15 
yards distant from the stream. 

On the brow of the hills, which here form the east valley side of the 
Little Cedar River, at Bradford, in Chickasaw County, and where a 
beautiful view of the surrounding region is atforded, formerly existed a 
Winnebago burial ground. Here more than twelve Indians were buried. 
Their bodies were wrapped in their blankets; a quantity of provisions, 
their guns, and other things, supposed to be needed in the "happy hunt- 
ing ground," were placed at their sides. Over the body an inclosure was 
formed by driving staves into the ground obliquely on each side, meet- 
ing at the top, as described in the burial north from Charles City. 

As these graves were located on the prairie, no log crib was placed 
around this inclosure; but instead, clods of earth were arianged all 
around the outside, completely covering the slabs from view save a 
slight portion at the top. In the heavy timber on the west side of the 
stream at this place numerous other graves existed. Here tight log 
cribs, similar to the one already described, were placed around the inner 
inclosure. In one instance the body of the dead was put in a rude slab 
coffin and placed on crotched poles, 10 feet from the ground. In an- 
other instance the body of a papoose was laid in a rough slab box, and 
this placed in the crotches of a tree. 

Whether the two last burials were those of the Winnebagoes, or those 
of some other tribe, I am unable to state with certainty, although the 
settlers living in the region at the time affirm that they were those of 
the Winnebagoes. 

The Indians in passing up and down this stream during the summer 
find fall " would place wisps of June grass on the graves of their dead." 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN JOHNSON COUNTY, IOWA. 



By Clement L. Webster, Charles City, Iowa. 



Johnson County occupies a position in the southeastern portion of the 
State. Its topography is peculiarly that of loess regions, being for the 
most part a very rolling and (along the streams) broken prairie country. 
This area is watered by the Iowa Eiver and its tributaries. The Iowa 
is a beautiful meandering stream. Entering the county near its north- 
west corner, it flows almost due east to the center of the county, where 
it abruptly turns and continues its course through the region in a south 
by southeast direction. The valley of the Iowa River and its tributaries 
is relatively narrow and deep, and bordered by more or less steep 
acclivities and flanked at frequent intervals by deep but narrow and 
rapidly ascending ravines. 

The immediate valley of the Iowa River attains an average width of 
slightly over one-half of a mile, and its channel has been eroded to a 
depth varying from 50 to over 175 feet below the valley borders. The 
small tributaries have also eroded their course to a depth of from 10 to 
80 feet. There are no extensive marshes or swamps. 

The soil of the area is for the most part a yellow homogeneous loess, 
and is of quite inferior quality for farming and the production of the 
cereals compared with the rich black drift soil of other portions of the 
State to the north. 

The valley of the Iowa, especially in the northern half of the county, 
with its heavy skirting of timber, fluted sides, and often bold escarp- 
ments of Devonian rock, is perhaps one of the most beautiful regions in 
the State. 

This valley was once the seat of a populous settlement of the mound- 
builders, as is evidenced by their remains. Of these silent records of a 
long vanished race the most important as well as the most legible are 
the earthen mounds which cover the bones and dust of their dead. 
They crown many of the peaks and ridges of the bluffs, most of them 
assuming only moderate proportions while large numbers are mere 
swellings of the surface not readily recognized as being of artificial ori 
gin — this arising mainly from the degradation by the plow. 

H. Mis. 600 38 593 



594 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



Along the Iowa in this county there are known to be, or have 
been, at least one hundred of these mounds. It would be useless labor 
and waste of time to attempt to locate on a map the situation of each 
mound in Johnson Connty, and a tedious and unprofitable repetition to 
detail minutely the examination of each separate mound. 

For brevity of description they can be readily grouped in two classes 
according to their form, and the description of one will answer generally 
for all of its particular class. 

The first class of mounds, and by far the largest in number, are cir- 
cular at the base and have an oval or flattened top, a diameter varying 
from 12 to 24 feet, and a height of from lA to 3 feet. The second class 
of mounds are long and narrow, sometimes forming an extension to one 
of those of the first class. These mounds have, so far as observed, a 
length varying from 45 to 130 feet, with a width of from 12 to 13^ feet, 
and a height varying from 1^ to 2 feet. 

Near Mr. Iker's, 5 miles north from Iowa City, occurs an interesting 
group of these ancient mounds, eighteen in number, located in a line on 
the summit of a high, narrow ridge, which forms the east baulv of the 
Iowa and the west bank of Sanders Creek, and extends nearly parallel 
to them. 

The highest point of this ridge rises about 100 feet above the bed of 
the Iowa Eiver, but to a lesser height above the bed of the creek. From 
this ridge a beautiful and more or less extensive view of the valley is 
obtained. The mounds are arranged in a slightly curved line, follow 
ing the crest of the ridge. The surface of the summit of the ridge has 
a slope of several feet from the south to mound No. 5. From mound 
No. 12 the surface gradually rises until within about a quarter of a mile 
an altitude varying from 25 to 30 feet is attained above the base of this 
mound. 

The accompanying map will illustrate the position and relation of the 
mounds to one another, while the table will give their dimensions, etc. 



No. 


Width. 


Length. 


Height. 


Direction. 


Distance. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

• li 

13 

14 

1.) 

16 

17 

18 


Feet. 
24 
20 
18 
16 
24 
12 
18 
17 
15 
15 
16 
l:ii 
u' 

17 
12 
24 
JO 
24 


Feet. 


Inches. 
24 
24 
24 
27 
36 
18 
21 
30 
30 
24 
30 
20 
3G 
24 
18 
24 
36 
36 


N.toNo. 2 .. 

N. toNo. 3 


Feet. 
54 
45 
40 
72 
33 
36 
15 
48 
30 
75 
33 
30 

125 
24 
24 

170 
90 









N. to No. 5 

N. to No. 6 


130 


N.to No. 7 


N to No. 8 




N to No. 9 




N.to .N'o.lO . 

N.toNo.U 




N to No 12 


45 


N.by NE. to No. 13 ... 
N.bv NE.toNo. 14 .. 
N.by NE.to No. 15 ... 
N.by NE.to No. lb .. 
N.by NE to No. 17 ... 
N.bv NE.toNo. 18 ... 















MOUNDS IN IOWA. 



595 



Most of the mounds have been partially, and a few thoroughlj^ ex- 
plored by Mr. M. W. Davis, of Iowa City, who has taken much inter- 
est in their study and the securing of their relics, of which he has now 
quite a large and valuable collection obtained from this county. 




Fig. 8. — Map showing position of Mounds. 

To Mr. Davis I am indebted for most of the notes on the exploration 
of these mounds. 

In mound No. 1 (counting from the south) a skeleton of an adult in- 
dividual, in a sitting posture, was unearthed ; near this was also found 
a small peculiar shaped vase of burned clay, made apparently to repre- 
sent some horned ruminant. These relics were found at or slightly below 
the natural surface of the ground around the mound. In mound No. 2 
was found the skeleton of a child, "apparently about seven years old." 
The bones in this mound, as well as the bones in mound No. 1, were in 
a poor state of preservation. 

It is reported by Mr. Davis that in nearly all other mounds examined 
by him fragments of human bones were found, and iu nearly all mounds 
a layer of charcoal and ashes occupied a horizon a few inches above the 



596 ANTHROPOLOGICAl. PAPERS. 

human remains. He also reports the tinding of several barued drift 
bowlderettes in some of the mounds. 

Mound No. 11 was partially explored by the writer by making a trench 
2 feet wide and 2^ feet deep through it from north to south. Nothing 
was found save an arrow point, a few flint chippings, and several bowl- 
derettes of drift origia, probably placed here by human hands. Ko evi- 
dence of fire was noticed. 

Mound No. 6 is of peculiar form, and for what purpose it was origi- 
nally constructed is difficult to conjecture. The large expansion at the 
south end is circular in basal outline, with a diameter of 40 feet and 
height of 1^ feet. Extending north from this portion is a long, oval, 
or slightly flattened mound. The entire length of this mound, as in- 
dicated in the table, is 130 feet. Some feet north from the large ex- 
pansion the writer made a trench 2 feet wide across this mound, but 
without finding any trace of fire or relics of any kind. 

Mound No. 12 is another peculiar form, and appears to have been 
raised for the same purpose as mound No. 6, whatever that may have 
been. This is unexplored. 

The material of all the mounds (except the ashes and charcoal men- 
tioned) is a yellow homogeneous loess, with a dark hunnis stained layer 
at the top, such as everywhere occupies the surface of the country. No 
. " dug-holes " or excavations of any kind were observed near the mounds 
from which their material might have been taken. The ridge and 
mounds here .are covered by a heavy growth of young oaks, hickories, 
poplars, etc. 

On the opposite side of the valley, and slightly below this group, is 
another group of five circular mounds. These occupy a position on the 
brow of a ridge which commands a beautiful view of the valley and 
country to the east. 

As these mounds are in the main identical in form and structure with 
the circular ones of the first group, a delineation of. them here is un- 
necessar^". 

These mounds have been partially explored and the finding of human 
bones in them reported. Near the mouth of Turkey Creek, 2 miles 
north from the first group of mounds described, an isolated circular 
mound occurs. This mound is situated on the brow of a perpendicular 
cliif of Devonian limestone which rises to a height of 100 feet (by esti- 
mate) above the water of the Iowa, and constitutes one of the highest 
and most sightly localities of the vicinity. This mound is somewhat 
higher than any of those previously described. It has been partially 
explored, but with what result is unknown to the writer. 

Near the flouring mill, half a mile north from Iowa City, there occurs, 
on the top of a high but rather narrow ridge, two series or lines of cir- 
cular mounds. This point commands a tine view of the surrounding 
country. The mounds are usually low and from 20 to 21 feet in diame- 
ter and 30 feet distant from one another. They occupy the center of 



MOUNDS IN IOWA. " 597 

the ridge, and in doing so are sometimes de 'ected from a true north and 
south line. There are from fourteen to sixteen of these mounds, a large 
number of them having become almost obliterated iu the cultivation of 
the soil. 

A portion of these mounds was explored many years ago, but with 
what result we have been unable to learn. 

About one-half or three-quarters of a mile to the northwest from the 
mill, a row of from fourteen to sixteen long and circular mounds existed, 
but most of them have now disappeared before the plow. The form 
and dimensions of these mounds were about the same as those already 
described at other localities. 

As these mounds were long since explored, it is unknown to us what 
relics, if any, were obtained. 

At various other points along the Iowa River, in Johnson County, 
circular and linear mounds occur. At no locality have "dug-holes," 
trenches, or other excavations been observed near the mounds which 
would indicate where the material was obtained for their construction. 

Although stone relics are rarely found iu the mounds, yet field relics, 
such as stone axes (sometimes very large), drill- arrow- and lance- 
points, etc., are common. 

It is a matter of regret that a complete record of the results obtained 
in the exploration of these interesting mounds has not been kept. 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN IOWA AND WISCONSIN. 



By Clement L. Webster, Charles City, Iowa. 



Along the shores of the " Father of Waters" in Iowa and Wisconsin 
there once existed large numbers of that deeply interesting but little 
known race, the mound-builders. How long the shores of this mighty 
river continued to be the home of portions of this race, can not even be 
conjectured. But the valleys and bluffs of this cliff-bound river are 
dotted with the monuments of these departed people. 

Large numbers of these ancient mounds have been explored and the 
record given to the world of science, while perhaps a still larger num- 
ber have been explored and the records and relics lost. 

In this paper is chronicled the result of explorations in a few of these 
ancient mounds. These explorations were made by Dr. W. T. Knapp, 
now of Charles City, Iowa, and to whom I am indebted for most of the 
following facts : 

In the town and vicinity of Guttenberg, which is located on the level 
flood-plain of the valley of the Mississippi, on the west or Iowa side of 
the river, are located large numbers of small circular and long mounds, 
most of which were reared apparently by the present Indian race. 

Large numbers of these mounds have been opened by those incited 
merely by curiosity, and many valuable facts and relics obtained only 
to be so on irreparably lost. 

Nearly, if not quite all, these mounds contained, in greater or less 
abundance, implements, ornaments, etc., of copper, silver, and stone, as 
well as human remains. 

Some of the mounds here are 124 feet in length, and contain great 
quantities of human bones. Numbers of these burials have been made 
in recent time and have been witnessed (so claimed) by white men now 
living. Most of the burials are those of Indians. 

One mound at Guttenberg opened by Dr. Knapp was circular, 16 feet 
in diameter at the base, and 3 to 4 feet in height. In the center, 2 feet 
below the surface of the ground at the base of the mound, was discov- 
ered a human skeleton, the bones being in a fairly well preserved con- 
dition. On each side of the head was found a large circular silver 
ornament, 2 inches in diameter, which, from their position, would indi- 

59d 



MOUNDS IN IOWA AND WISCONSIN. 599 

cate that they bad beeu worn suspended from the ears. With the body 
was also found a number of flint arrow points. There was no evidence 
that fire had been employed at this burial. The material of the mound 
was rather soft, moist soil. There seems to be no doubt but that this 
burial was that of an Indian. 

About 4^ miles west from Guttenberg, on the steep side of a deep 
ravine, through which Miners Creek courses its way, was a burial mound. 
This mound was located about 60 feet above the bed of the creek, and 
was some 7 feet wide and 10 feet long. Excavations in this mound re- 
vealed the presence of a well-preserved human skeleton, together with 
stone arrow points, pestle, pipe, and other implements of stone. The 
pipe (which the writer has jjersonally examined) was a beautiful and 
finely wrought specimen, made from red pipe-stone. The soil from 
which this mound was constructed was soft — considerably softer than 
the earth surrounding it. This was doubtless an Indian burial. 

On the brow of a bold perpendicular bluft", which rises some 250 feet 
above Buck Creek, near where it empties into the Mississippi and be- 
tween 5 and 6 miles southeast from Garnavillo, Iowa, an earthen mound 
occurs. This mound had a circular basal outline and oval top ; was 3^ 
feet in height and nearly 24 feet in diameter. In the center and 2^ feet 
below the surface of the soil sui ; .ding it a finelj' preserved human 
skeleton was discovered. The body had been placed at length, with the 
head to the north and the feet to the south. The temple of this indi- 
vidual had been crushed in as if by a heavy blow from some blunt in- 
strument, and which had doubtless been the cause of death. No imple- 
ments or ornaments were reported found with this body. 

The material from which this mound had beeu made was not packed, 
as is frequently the case with many other ancient mounds in different 
portions of the State, The summit of this bluff was covered with tim- 
ber, and one large "hard maple" tree, about 2 feet in diameter, occupied 
the surface of the mound. 

Near Buena Vista, in Clinton County, Iowa, between 3 and 4 miles 
west from the Mississippi, there occurs on the summit of a high hill 
a very interesting ancient mound. On exploring it a rude box, con- 
structed out of large stone slabs, was discovered, and in it the remains 
of a human skeleton. The body had been placed at length, with the 
head to the north and the feet to the south. In the box with the body 
a large quantity of stone implements, as arrow points, axes, etc., were 
found. 

Near Cassville, Wis., a sub-circular mound, 40 feet in diameter and 5 
feet in height, is situated. This mound is located on the flood-plain 
(above the reach of high water) of the Mississippi, and less than 100 
feet back from the margin of the stream. A partial exploration of 
this mound was made, and human bones discovered, some 2 feet be- 
low the base. With the human remains was found a considerable quan- 
tity of stone implements, among the most interesting of which were 



600 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

a uuinber of hoes or spades, two of the liuest of which are now iu the 
author's collection. These hoes were made from chert, probably derived 
from the Silurian rocks of the region, which in places contain great 
quantities of nodules of this material. The largest hoe iu the writer's 
possession has been rather roughly chipped out; is 4 inches in length 
and 2 inches iu width ; the lateral margins nearly straight or slightly 
curved, the anterior end rather broadly rouuded, and the posterior trunc- 
ate. The smaller specimen is cordate in outline, 2f inches in length, 
2^ inches in greatest width, and abruptly truncate posteriorly. Grow- 
ing on the surface near the center of the mound was an oak tree 2^ feet 
in diameter. 

Near the last mound was another circular mound, 15 feet in diameter 
and between 3 and 4 feet in height. Close to the center of the mound, 
and 2i feet below its base, a single human skeleton was unearthed. 
The body had been placed on its back with the head to the north. The 
knees were drawn up to the breast, the elbows bent, and the hands 
brought to the sides of the face. With the body were found large num- 
bers of copper ornaments, which, from their position, showed that they 
had been used as leg and arm ornaments. Judging from the structure 
and delicacy of the bones, this body was that of a woman. Fire had 
apparently not been used at this burial. 

On the Mississippi, 6 miles north from Glen Haven, Wisconsin, are 
situated four or five aucieut burial mounds. These mounds are com- 
posed of sand and are from 18 to 20 feet in height and from 20 to 30 
feet in diameter. 

Owing to the fact that the owner of the land on which two of these 
mounds are located was unwilling that these works should be disturbed, 
the internal structure and contents of them is unknown. One of this 
group of mounds, partially explored by Dr. Knapp, contained large 
quantities of human bones. 

Near Glen Haven is an interesting Indian grave. This grave is 
located on a flat ledge of rock on the bank of the Mississippi, 50 feet 
above the stream and at the base of the bluffs which form the valley 
side, and which rise from 200 to 300 feet above the water in the stream. 
A few feet from this grave a spring of water issues from the rocks. 
The body had been placed at length in a rude box made of slabs of 
limestone and with the head to the north and feet to the south. Over 
this box a small earthen mound had been raised. With the body were 
found (lying near the breast) large numbers of stone implements, as 
axes, arrow points, skinners, pestles, etc., some of them objects of much 
interest. One or two old pioneers of the region, who claim to have been 
present at the burial of this Indian, assert that it was that of the half- 
brother of Black Hawk. As to the truthfulness of this statement, 
however, we do not vouch. 

The measurements of the mounds and their exact position relative to 
known points given in the foregoing description maybe regarded as only 
approximate. 



MOUNDS IN IOWA AND WISCONSIN. 



601 



MetJiod of flint- chipping. — Some years ago Dr. Knapp, while making a 
reconnaissance of "■ Twelve-mile Island,'' in the Mississippi near Gutten- 
berg, Iowa, made the acquaintance of a roving baud of the Pottawatomie 
Indians who were encamped for the time on this island. While among 
them he witnessed the process of flint arrow-point manufacturing as 
carried on by this band, and as the writer has not observed a descrip- 
tion of this process in print before, a short account of it is here given. 

A tree from 12 to 20 inches in diameter was selected and a large 
notch or cavity 6 inches in depth was made in one side of the trunk at 
a sufficient distance from the ground to allow of a person occu])ying a 
sitting posture on the ground to work this "instrument" with facility. 
The upper portion or roof of this cavity sloped obliquely downward ; 
the farther side was perpendicular and the bottom horizontal. On the 
bottom of this cavity a small even slab of rock of some hard material 
was placed. A short distance above this rock a small hole or notch 
was made in the farther side of the cavity. Into this notch was in- 
serted the "leg bone of a deer," and under this was placed, edgewise 
and resting on the basal rock below, the piece of stone to be wrought, 
this possessing the quality of conchoidal fracture. The implement was 
then deftly worked out by pressure of the carefully manipulated cylin- 
drical bone. 

The size of the instrument to be wrought was regulated by moving 
the specimen farther from or near to the outer margin of the basal rock. 

This description may be further illustrated by the following cut (Fig. 
9) from a rude sketch of the " instrument" made by Dr. Knapp: 




Fig. 9. — (a) Cavity cut in the tree,; {b) cyliudrical boue of " deer'a leg; " (c) stone 
to be wrought ; (rf) basal stoue. 



602 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Another method of fliut arrow-poiat making (which we have not 
seen noted elsewhere) practiced by some of the existing tribes of In- 
dians was described to the writer by Hon. S. P. Leland, of Charles City. 
This method was observed by Mr. Leland as he was among some of the 
Indian tribes of the Western Territories a few years since. 

This process consisted in the application of heat and pressure. First, 
three stones of some hard material not easily acted upon by heat, of a 
rounded form, about 5 inches in diameter and 6 inches in length, were 
placed in the fire and heated hot. Then a fragment of stone of suit- 
able size and quality was selected to be wrought. One of the stones 
was then taken from the fire and applied with pressure to the edge of 
the piece of stone to be worked, this causing chips or flakes to be broken 
from the jjiece. While the first stone was still hot it was replaced in 
the fire and a second one taken out and used as the first. This process 
was repeated until the work in hand was finished. By this method 
beautiful arrow points were wrought. 



MOUNDS OF THE WESTERN PRAIRIES. 



By Clement L. Websteh, Charles City, Iowa. 



lu travelling over the beautiful prairies of the West the attention of 
the traveller is struck by the beauty and number of the flowering plants 
which are presented to view on every hand, their bright yellow, blue, 
pink, and other varied colors and hues being in happy contrast to the 
rich green of the prairie grass among which they mingle. The differ- 
ent portions of this emerald expanse, as high and low, wet and dry, 
support, to a greater or less extent, their own peculiar flora. The fine- 
ness, coarsness, richness, or sterility of the soil of its different parts 
have often a marked effect upon the distribution of many of its species. 

Regions much trodden over by the cattle, on the large Western 
ranges, present beautiful fields of gold, in the latter i^ortion of the sea- 
sou, by the blooming of myriads of plants of the order Cotnpositce, 
many of which are represented by the genera Vernonia, etc. 

Another characteristic which 9,ttracts the attention of the traveller 
who for the first time passes over this beautiful region is the scarcity or 
absence of all arboreal vegetation, the only timber of this region being 
confined to the margins of some of the streams which meander through 
it and the small isolated groves which occur upon it. 

But a widely prevalent feature, which attracts perhaps no less in- 
terest but more speculation, even among many of those who have long 
inhabited these prairies, is the great number of isolated or grouped 
mounds which are seen over the surface, and which are often denomi- 
nated by the inhabitants as Indian mounds. These mounds are gen- 
erally circular and have an oval or flattened top with a diameter at the 
base of from 4 to 20 feet, and commonly rise to a height of from 1 to 3 
feet. 

Although the marginal outline of these mounds is usually circular, 
still at times some of them are oblong or have a gently flowing contour. 
These mounds are either isolated from 5 rods to 1 mile from one another, 
or are closely and irregularly grouped, or grouped into rude circles, semi- 
circles, or even straight lines. In some instances, as many as sixteen 
of these mounds have been counted in an area containing about 2 acres. 

The location of these mounds is almost exclusively in the prairie 
regions and may be found on high and dry or low and rather moist 

603 



604 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

laud. In Iowa and southern Miuuesota, where these mouuds have been 
most studied by me, they may be seen for many miles over the level 
prairies of these regions. 

During the summer and early autumn they are usually clothed with 
a very luxuriant and rank growth of perennial plants, most prominent 
among which are observed Galamagrestis canadensis. Vernonia pascicu- 
lata, etc. These rise to a height of from 4 to 13 feet above the surface 
of the ground at the base of the mound, and thus constitute a very con- 
spicuous feature of the surface. 

Although the external appearance of these mounds is analogous to 
that of some of the Indian mounds of Iowa and other States, still they 
may be distinguished from those of the mound builders by their rel- 
ative position and the region occupied, as well as by their greater irreg- 
ularity of contour. 

For more than twenty-five years I have resided in the prairie regions 
of the West, and have thus been afforded a fine opportunity to study the 
origin and development of these "siugular" mounds. By far the greater 
number of them owe their origin to tlie pouched gopher {Saccomyid(e 
bursarius), that year by year has made additions to them by dirt brought 
forth in the extension of their under-ground channels until they finally 
assume the proportions now seen. Upon the death of the animal, or 
for some other cause, these mounds and channels are finally abandoned 
and the mouuds left to be taken possession of by the indigenous plants 
of the region, which are always, under such circumstances, of much 
ranker growth than is usual under other conditions. 

Others of these mounds are developed by the American badger (T«nV7ft; 
americana) and the prairie wolf (Cawis latrans). The mounds formed by 
the badger and wolf may be distinguished from those of the pouched 
gopher by their large and partially tilled burrows. The burrows of the 
badger are always located upon the highest and dryest portions of the 
region, and those of the prairie wolf usually upou the border of " runs" 
or general surface drainage depressions of the country. These mounds 
have sometimes been described and published as works of the " mound- 
builders." 



THE TWAI^A, CHEMAKUM, a:N^D KLALLAM INDIANS, OF 
WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 



By Rev. Myron Eells. 



NAMES AND SITUATIONS OF THESE TRIBES. 

Twanas. — The uarae of the Twanas is spelled Tooau-hooch, iu their 
treaty. The Klallams pronounce it Tu-an'-hu. The Twanas say Tu- 
ad-hii. The difference between the Klallam and the Twana language 
here exemplified is often observed — the Klallam being the more nasal. 
These various pronunciations have been shortened into Twana, now 
used in all governmental reports. It is said to mean a portage, and to 
be derived from the portage between the head of Hood's Canal and the 
main waters of the Sound, where the Indian, by carrying his canoe 3 
miles, avoids rowing around a peninsula 50 miles long. 

These Indians originally occupied both sides of Hood's Canal, and 
were divided into three bands, the Du-hle-lips, Skokomish, and Kolsids. 
The Du hie lips lived at the head of the canal, where a small stream 
empties into it, now called Du-lay-lip. Fifteen miles below them were 
the Skokomish, who lived around the mouth of the river of that name, 
now their reservation. This word is pronounced Ska-ka-bish by the 
Twanas and Skaka-mish by the Klallams. The Americans have 
changed it to Skokomish, and thus they universally spell the name of 
the river, reservation, and post-oflBce. Dr. Gibbs, in vol. i, "Contribu- 
tions to North American Ethnology," gives this as the name of the tribe, 
but it was originally the name of only one band. Yet even now, because 
of its being the name of the reservation and river, these Indians are 
known fully as well by the name Skokomish to the whites on the Sound 
as by the name Twana. Skokomish means the "River People;" ka, sig- 
nifying fresh water, is doubled to denote one form of the plural, proba- 
bly because of the size of the river, which is by far the largest that 
empties into the canal. The termination ish is very common for the 
Indian names of tribes and streams on the Sound. I incline to the opin- 
ion that it comes from what is called the old original form of plural iu 
the Twana language — the suffix obish. 

There are two ways of forming the plural — one by reduplication, the 
other by adding this termination; both seem to be combined in this 
word. The prefix letter o is, I have often noticed, in other words. 

605 



(j{)6 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

In conversation I have heard tbem pronounce the names of the tribes 
Makah and Haidah, S'ma-kah and S'haidah, and yet when I have asked 
how they pronounce the names of those tribes they woukl reply Makah 
and Haidah. Many times, too, in collecting common words they have 
been pronounced as beginning with an s, and in a second pronunciation 
the letter would be dropped. After careful inquiry I have gererally 
concluded to drop the s as the more correct. When first used by the 
whites the whole word was written S'Kokomish. 

Thirty miles below this band were the Kolsids, as pronounced by 
themselves (or Kol-sins by the Klallams), who lived around the bay of 
that name and the mouth of the Dos-wail-opsh River. Their name is 
now variously spelled by the whites: Colcins, Colcene, Colseed, and 
Quil-cene. These three bands were not always at peace, but sometimes 
waged petty war with each other. For twenty years, however, they have 
mostly been collected on the same reservation, have been on good terms 
with one another, and have intermarried, so that the band distinctions 
are rapidly becoming obsolete. Yet, when the older Du-hle lips have 
the reservation for tisbing they are apt to go to their old waters, and 
the same is true of the Kol-sids. 

The dialects of the different bands formerly varied a little: Thus the 
word for go in Du-hle-lip was bi-sedab, but in Sko-ko-mish M he-dab. At 
'the present time, not finding it practicable in collecting the vocabulary 
to separate the dialects, I have gathered most of the words from older 
school-boys who have been brought up on the reservation and familiar 
with the different dialects which are now rapidly merging into one. 

At present most of these Indians live on the reservation. A few fami- 
lies live between it and Seabeck, 30 miles north of the reservation ; about 
thirty persons make Seabeck their home, where the men earn their 
money mainly by working in the saw-mill and the women by washing. 

Although the Skw-aksin tribe by treaty and language belong to the 
Nisqually Indians, yet about thirty of that tribe, since the selection of 
the Skokomish reservation, have moved to it and become incorporated 
with the Twanas. They have done so because their own people are 
scattered and nearly extinct as a tribe and because of the nearness of 
the reservation to their old haunts and numerous marriages between 
them and the Twanas. They use their own language for the most part, 
but the majority understand the Twana, and the Twanas understand 
them. 

Chemakums. — In the tre ity their name is written Chemakum ; George 
Gibbs writes it Tsemakun ; J, G. Swan spells it Chemakum, which rep- 
resents the way in which both the Indians and whites of this region 
pronounce it. The whites call a prairie by this name. Its origin or 
meaning I can not learn. These people call themselves A-hwa-ki-lu. 
They occupied the laud from the mouth of Hood's Canal to Port Dis- 
covery Bay. According to their tradition and that of the Kwilleuts, 
they originally came from the latter tribe, who live on the Pacific coast 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 607 

south of Cape Flattery, 125 miles distaut, and from whom they are now 
separated by the Clallams and Makahs. In regard to this, J. G. Swan 
says that the Kwilleuts have a tradition that a long time ago there was 
a very high and sudden tide, which took four days to ebb, after which 
a portion of the tribe made their way to the vicinity of Port Townsend, 
and are known as Chemakums. The latter tribe have a similar tradi- 
tion. The Chemakum numerals seem to corroborate this legend. They 
are said to have been originally a war-like tribe, not very numerous, but 
strong and brave. They had a village at the head of Port Townsend 
Bay called Ts6ts-i-biis, which was a kind of a capital for nearly all the 
tribes on the Sound, where they occasionally collected. George Gibbs, 
in 1852, states that their number is ninety, but they are now virtually 
extinct, there being only ten left who are not legally married to white 
men or into other tribes. Of these ten there is only one complete fam- 
ily, four in number. With the exception of two or three very old per- 
sons, they now mainly speak the Klallam language. They say that their 
diminution was caused by small-pox, but probably war had something 
to do with it, as Gibbs says thev have been engaged in wars with the 
Makah, Klallam, Twana, Snokomish, and Duwamish Indians, by whom 
their power has been broken. 

Klallams. — In the treaty this name is spelled S'Klallam, but I am in- 
clined to think that the "s" is the same as that in S'kokomish. Other 
tribes now call them Klallam, from which the whites have derived this 
word ; but it evidently originated from their own name for themselves, 
Nu-sklaim, meaning a strong people, for they were formerly a strong 
tribe. Their territory at one time extended from Port Discovery Bay 
to the Hoko Eiver, on the northern coast of Washington Territory. The 
treaty expected them to go to the reservation, and the Government was 
to furnish the means for this purpose. This was never done, and they 
have never been moved, except that some have occasionally been taken 
there for a limited period as punishment for crime. At present many 
of them have moved farther up the Sound to obtain work. Their vil- 
lages are now as follows : 

(1) Opposite Seabeck, where for a long time about thirty have lived, 
but of late all but about a dozen have moved to Port Gamble. Their 
main dependence for money is from their work at the saw-mill. 

(2) Opposite Port Gamble, across the bay, 20 miles north of Seabeck, 
are about one hundred who earn their money principally at the saw- 
iiiills there. This village is enlarging and has a small Catholic church. 

(3) Around Port Ludlow, 6 miles north of the last place, are nine 
who depend on the saw-mill there for their living. 

(4) In and around Port Townsend, 13 miles north of Port Ludlow, are 
about twenty. More would live there, as from the size of the place they 
could easily find work, but the facilities for obtaining whisky are so 
great the agent has forbidden them to come there. 

(5) Around Port Discovery, 14 miles west of the last place, are nearly 



608 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

forty Indians who gain their livelihood mainly from the saw-mills at that 
place. 

(6) Fifteen miles northwest of them is Sequim, where there are forty 
more. Most of these are old or infirm people who get their food chiefly 
from the water, but make some money by canoeing for the whites to 
Port Discovery and Port Townsend. 

(7) Six miles north of Sequim is Jamestown, near Dunginess, in and 
near which are about one hundred. Six years ago these Indians were 
so worthless (being almost constantly drunk) that the surrounding 
whites were considering the subject of petitioning the agent to remove 
them. Hearing of this the leading ones, as they did not wish to be 
taken from the home of their fathers, determined to reform. Gathering 
together their money they bought 210 acres of land, divided it among 
themselves according to the amount of money furnished by each, and 
have been steadily improving it. They have also improved in morals 
until they are now the most civilized and prosperous band of the whole 
tribe. Their village fronts the water and the houses are on one street, 
which is straight and presents quite a neat appearance. This is the 
home of the head chief of the tribe, and they have a school, church, 
and jail. They gain their living by agriculture and by working and 
canoeing for the neighboring farmers. 

(8) Eighteen miles farther west is Port Angeles, where there are about 
thirty-five Indians nominally resident. Many years ago the United 
States custom-house was at this place, work abundant, and the Indian 
village lively ; but the customhouse was afterwards removed to Port 
Townsend, the whites left, and employment became scarce. Many of 
them live at other places a good share of the year, and when at home 
they make some money by canoeing for the few whites to Dunginess, 
Port Discovery, Port Townsend, and Victoria. 

(9) Eight miles west of them is Elkwa, Elwhah, or Elwah, a village 
of seventy-five. These once formed a very strong band of the tribe, 
being almost independent of the others, but they are not so now. They 
live largely on fish, but canoe considerably to Victoria and Dunginess 
for the few whites near them, and some of them spend considerable 
time at other places working, and go to the Makah waters for seals. 
Three men here and one at Port Angeles have taken homesteads a mile 
or two back from the salt water, and are the only members of the tribe 
who live so far away from it. 

(10) Thirty miles farther west is Pisht, with thirty Indians. 

(11) Ten miles still farther west are Klallam Bay and Hoko, with 
forty more. These live more on fish and alter the old Indian style than 
the rest of the tribe. They, however, canoe and seal some and gather 
salmon and halibut for a cannery recently established there. I can 
learn of only two dialects spoken by this tribe ; the Elkwas and those 
west of them being said to speak as if with thicker tongues than those 
east of them, and so to pronounce some words somewhat differently. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 609 

The vocabulary which I have obtained is from the eastern members 
of the tribe, but I do not understand that tliere is enough difference to 
make it advisable to do anything with the other. 

Besides the Indians just mentioned there are about seventy-live more 
in various places who properly belong to the tribe. Many of these are 
DOW on the northern side of the Straits of Fuca, in British Columbia. 

The three tribes here spoken of are so nearly alike in their manners 
and customs that I have thought it best to describe them together, 
simply noticing the points in which they differ. To have described 
them separately would have involved much useless repetition. 

The Klallams believe that they were all, except the Chemakums, 
created where they now are ; and also that nearly all other tribes and 
nations were created each one where it now lives. They have no relia- 
ble knowledge of their own history earlier than the recollections of the 
oldest Indian. 

In obtaining their names for various articles I have often found that 
persons of eighteen or even twentyfive years of age do not know the 
names for stone arrow-heads, axes, chisels, anchors, rain-stones, and the 
like, which went out of use soon after the whites came. This shows 
how quickly the past is forgotten with them. The following stories 
were mostly written for me by a Twana school-boy, as they were told 
him by his father: 

'' Queen North and the Colcine Indians. — "While the Colcine Indians 
were at peace in their habitations, a girl went out and looked into a 
house and saw many of their enemies (in her mind) getting ready to go 
into every house of the Colcines. She returned and told her master's 
fauiily, but they would not believe her. The same day a boy went to 
get some water j when he looked into the water he saw some shadows, 
which were smiling, and these were the Queen North Indians ; so he 
went home in haste to tell his parents, but they would not believe him. 
The girl took one of her master's sons and hid in the woods. Hence 
these Indians were not afraid, and so were all killed, except the girl, the 
little boy, and one man, for the Queen North Iiuliaus went into every 
house and slew the Colcines. One man took his small babe and ran 
away. His enemies pursued him, and when he saw they were about to 
overtake him he laid down his child and begaii to swim the bay. The 
Queen North Indians knew that they could not swim after the man, so 
they took his child and cut it in pieces. When the girl came back she 
found her master dead, because he would not believe her." 

" The Victoria Indians and two families. — Two families were travelling 
together, and at night they lodged. While they were there some one 
shot from the woods, and when they looked they saw some Indians. 
One family went off" as fast as they could, but the other had left their 
child near a log. The Victoria Indians took him, but his father got 
ready and fired at them, and they restored the child. My father thought 
H. Mis. 600 39 



610 AIsTlIKOPOLOGICAL TAPE US. 

that if they should shoot at their enemies they woukl think them brave 
and be afraid. The child that was taken captive is still living, and the 
daughter of the brave man is also alive." 

'' Queen Norih again After the battle the Colcines went out to search 

for their enemies, whom at last they found. Then they made a great 
shelf over their own beds. Their enemies came and were placed under 
the shelf, and one of them took a wife from the daughters of the Col- 
cines. After a long time they laid themselves down on their beds, and 
the Colcines cut the ropes which held up the shelf. It fell down on the 
heads of the Queen ]:!^orth Indians, and none of them escaped. Once 
the Colcines bored some holes in the bottom of their canoes when their 
enemies came to see them. As they went home the Colcines started to 
take them across tbe bay. When they were in the middle of the bay 
they took out the sticks, the water came into the canoes and filled them. 
The Queen North Indians were drowned, but the Colcines were saved, 
because their neighbors went to them and helped them. So the Col- 
cines prevailed over their enemies, and there was peace." 

''''Story of another family. — There was a man with his wife and chil- 
dren. One woman, who was very fair, was walking with a babe and 
some boys and girls. This was the daughter of the sick man, but when 
she came home she found some other Indians slaying the ftimily, and 
her father was killed. These took hold of her; one wanted her, another 
wanted her, and all wanted her, and so they killed her, and none had 
her. The man's wife dug deep in the ground, put one of her daughters 
there and covered her over; she did also the same for herself, and an- 
other person climbed a tree, and none saw her, so three were left alive. 
The man was sick, and yet they showed him no mercy." 

'■^ A Jight icith a grizzly hear. — A long time ago a man came to the 
canal to marry a wife. He found one, and gave some things to her 
father. The woman loved the man, but her father did not like his son- 
in-law, but threw away the things which the man gave him, hence the 
man went home. After awhile this woman and some others went to 
gather berries. My mother's mother was among them. The woman 
had a companion, and the two went away from their comrades where 
they saw the bear, but they did not fear it, they simply talked about it, 
and made fun. The bear went off, but after a time they saw it again, 
wher. they talked just as at first. The bear went around to the woman 
who wished to marry the man and suddenly jumped at her. The other 
woman went to help her, but soon received some wounds, so that she left 
and went to tell her other comrades, while the woman kept fighting 
with the bear. Poor woman ! She called aloud to her companions to help 
her, but they ran home to tell the news. She was soon killed, but her 
friends told her parents, and that night very many people gathered 
together with spears, arrows, and knives to fight the bear. When they 
reached the place they told the woman's jiarents to stand on a fallen 
tree, so that they would be safe. Then they surrounded the bear au(^ 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON 'rERRITORY. 611 

had a groat figbt. They shot the bear and wounded her on each side, 
but after a while she ran awaj- and they ran after her. But after a time 
they had no more arrows or spears, with the exception of two or three 
young- men, who still followed her. When they reached a muddy place 
the bear stood on her hind legs and danced. The young men became 
frightened and ran back. When they looked at the dead woman they 
found very many wounds in her." 

><[oTE. — Thus far I have given the stories just as they were written 
for me by the school-boy. The last one I presume is true in the main, 
as I have heard it from several parties. 

The Twanas relate that a long time ago they were camped in a scat- 
tered condition on Hood's Canal, nearly 10 miles south of Seabeck. 
The Klallams came and killed those farthest north, taking some girls 
captives. Those farthest south were afraid, and some wished to flee, 
but others said no. The Clallams, however, did not come to them, but 
returned. Four or five captives were taken. 

History by the ichites.* — George Gibbs says the first visit by the whites 
of which we have any knowledge was in 1789, by Captain Hendrick, of 
the ir«s/ii«^fo«, or in 1790 by Lieutenant Quimper, Spanish, in the Pr/«cess 
Royal. They came as far as Dunginess. Two other vessels came a year 
or a year and a half later, but they did not go above Port l^iscovery. 
In 17912 came Vancouver, who gives the first account extant of these 
Indians. He visited the three tribes, Skokomish (Twana), Tsemakumg, 
and Klallams, and was probably the first who ascended Hood's Canal. 
After that, until within about thirty years, the greater part of their in- 
tercourse was with the Hudson Bay Company, who had no fort in their 
land, though it had one to the north at Victoria and another to the 
east at Nisqually. During these thirty years the Americans have sup- 
planted the British traders. We have erected saw- mills, stores, and 
towns, and have cultivated farms in the midst of these Indians. 

In 1855-'5G the Indians on the eastern part of the sound were engaged 
in war with the whites, but neither of these tribes, as tribes, engaged 
in it, and they have never been at war with us. A few of the Twanas 
crossed the sound and joined the other Indians in that war, but white 
men lived among the Twanas during the whole war in safety. January 
20, 1855, a treaty was made with the three tribes at Point No Point, which 
was ratified by the Senate March 8, 1859, and proclaimed by the Presi- 
dent on the 29th of the following April. 

The Indians chose a place near the mouth of the Skokomish River in 
the Twana land for their reservation. By the terms of the treaty a 
blacksmith, carpenter, farmer, physician, and school-teacher, with an- 
nuity goods, were to be furnished them for twenty years. An agent or 
sub-agent has also been furnished to them. The tirst agents were ap- 
pointed under the political plan, which lasted until 1809. when the mil- 

— , — _ — __ _____ — — _ - ^■-■- --J 

*Yg1. I, Contribution North American Etliuology, 



612 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

itary took charge for about a year, and then another political agent 
was appointed. In 1871, under General Grant's religious or peace policy, 
the nomination of the agent was assigned to the American Missionary 
Association, since which time there has been no change. 

The census for 1S78, the last full one taken, gives their population as 
follows : 

Twaiias: Men GS, women 84, cMldren 78, unknown 20 ; total, 250. 

Klallams: Men 149, women 171, children 147, unknown 80; total, 597. 

Chemakums : Men 5, women 4, children 4 ; total, 13. 

Total of three tribes, 800. 

Gibbs, in the volume of North American Ethnology already referred 
to, gives as the census for 1852, or thereabouts, Twanas 290, Chema- 
kums 90, and Klallams 92G; total, 1,306. I have some reasons for think- 
ing his estimate too low. 

Mr. H. 0. Hale, whose father was for a time superhitendentof Indian 
affairs in this Territory, has informed me that he at one time, many years 
ago, soon after the treaty was made, issued rations to twenty-eight hun- 
dred Indians at this agency ; but probably there were more present than 
belonged to the three tribes, as other Indians would be likely to come 
at such a time. Again, I get no estimate from any old settler that there 
were less than two and a half times as many twenty years ago as now, 
and some estimate them at five times as many then as now. 

A census of the Indians is v^ery difficult to obtain, and this may be 
one reason why Gibbs placed them so low. In the winter of 1877-'78 
the agent traveled from Skokomish to Elkwa and obtained the names of 
four hundred and fifteen Klallams between Seabeck and Hoko, and esti- 
mated that there were one hundred more of them on the British Colum- 
bia side. Two months later I was at Dunginess to observe a potlatch, 
where every village of the tribe was well represented, and obtained the 
names of about forty-five more, and most of these lived between Elkwa 
and Hoko, in the region where the agent had not traveled. The Elkwa 
Indians, although living not more than 40 miles from the most distant 
of these tribes, had failed to remember many of them. 

I see no reason why the country might not have supported a large 
number of Indians, for while they get quite a share of their living from 
the waters of the sound now, the whittis are exporting to California and 
other places salmon, halibut, and clams from their waters. 

Mr. Finlayson, of the Hudson Bay Company, made a count of the 
Klallams in 1845 and ascertained their number to be 1,700. 

Gibbs* (1852-1855) gives 926 Klallams, 90 Chemakums, and 290 
Twanas. In 1870 a census was taken by the Indian De[)artment which 
gives the names of 194 men, Klallams and Chemakums, 233 women, 97 
boys, 81 girls, 15 infants, unknown 11; total, 631. Twenty-seven of these 
were Chemakums, 291 Twanas. 

These Indians have undoubtedly decreased greatly since their first 

*Coat. to North Aniericau Ethnology, voL I, p. 183, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 613 

intercourse with the whites. The Klallanis and (Jhemakuins have de- 
creased more rapidly than the Twanas. An accurate census of the 
Twanas in 1875 gave 259 in all the families which I am now able accur- 
ately to trace. In 1879 there were in the same fiimilies 239 persons. 

Until within a few years intemperance has been one of the greatest 
foes to the lives of these Indians. The Klallam head chief has said that 
five hundred Indians have been killed by the saloons of Dungiuess 
within twenty years. This is probably an exaggeration, but not a very 
wide one. The diseases consequent upon licentiousness and consump- 
tion have caused the death of many. At a very early day, too, small- 
pox undoubtedly worked great destruction, and whooping cough and 
measles have made havoc among the children. All of these diseases 
except consumption were introduced by the whites. 

As the subject of the increase and decrease of the Indians has been 
quite widely discussed of late, 1 submit the following suggestions: On 
the first contact with the whites they decrease, but if the tribes are 
large and keep together somewhat compactly, and there is comparatively 
little intercourse with the whites, except on the outer edge, and whole- 
some efforts are made to civilize them, they do not diminish rapidly, and 
when somewhat civilized they begin to increase, as Drs. liiggs and 
Williamson, of Dakota, state. But where the tribes are small and the 
intercourse with worthless whites is considerable their decrease is rapid, 
and sometimes a tribe will become extinct before it has time to rally. 
This has been the case with the Chemakums. 

Progress. — This has not been uniform in all localities and with all 
classes, those on the reservation and near the whites having pro- 
gressed the most, while in the most favored places the older Indians 
have not changed much. As a whole, these tribes may now be called 
more than half civilized. The Twanas have progressed more than the 
KlalLims, chieflj- because they have had more instruction and help from 
the Government ; yet, many of the latter tribe have made as strong 
individual efforts as their more fortunate brethren to improve their con- 
dition. 

In regard to food, the estimate of the agent for 1878 is that 75 per 
cent, is obtained by Indian labor in civilized pursuits and 25 by hunting, 
fishing, and by gathering roots and berries. The Twanas generally 
have tables and some have table-cloths. 

I was lately present at one feast where tables, white table-cloths, 
chairs, dishes, and civilized food had entirely superseded the old style 
equipments and provisions. On the 1st of July, 1878, they prepared a 
long table oiit-doors, with seats and a stove near by to warm tea, coffee, 
etc., with a full supply of dishes and food, much the same as the whites 
on this coast would have done at a feast. 

Many have abandoned the old way of smoking the salmon, their native 
food, and have adopted the American style of salting it. Potatoes, flour. 



614 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

and sugar are almost as indispensable to theoi as to the whites, while 
they also purchase pork and beef, rice, beans, coilee, tea, butter, yeast- 
powders, saleratus, salt, lard, spices, sirup, dried and green apples, 
crackers, cherries, and pears; and raise in their gardens corn, peas, 
beans, onions, turnips, beets, carrots, i>arsnips, cabbages, and rasp- 
berries. 

Medicines. — They are slow to use the white man's mediciue (although 
on the reservation they are furnished free of charge)^ often preferring 
their old remedies in slight cases of illness, and in severe cases their 
tamanous. If a medicine cures quickly they like it; but if after a few 
days they are not well, they abandon it. Those who live oft' the reserva- 
tion seldom have any treatment except in the old style. 

Houses. — Most of the Twanas and a large number of the Klallams east 
of Port Angeles build their houses in the style of the whites, with floors 
and stoves or fire-places, and often their houses have two or three 
rooms. These now dislike the ground and dirt floor, the smoke and the 
communal room. Some of the women regularly wash their floors, but 
with the majority there is room for improvement in this respect. The 
rooms have been almost entirely changed from the old one-sided shed 
style of long boards to two-sided roofs of shakes or shingles. Whenever 
they can they buy sawed lumber, locks, and windows. Brooms, chairs, 
and benches are in common use. It seems still, however, somewhat 
difficult for many of the women to sit on chairs when sewing ; they then 
prefer a mat on the floor. IVlany have some kind of civilized bedstead, 
but there are still a large number of the old-fashioned kind fastened to 
the wall all around the room. Carpets or rugs are very scarce. Mats, 
baskets, and ladles are in common use, and still manufactured, but are 
steadily yielding to American articles for similar purposes, while dishes, 
knives, forks, cups, lamps, and buckets are nsed by a large number. 
When they are logging they live very nearly as well as their white 
neighbors in the same business. 

Clothes. — I have never seen one of these Indians dressed in the old 
native style, but there are some of the older ones and those more re- 
mote from the towns who wrap themselves in a blanket when at home, 
only putting on their civilized clothes when going abroad. This is more 
common among the Clallams than among the Twanas. -On the Sabbath 
and on public occasions they appear well dressed, mostly clean, and 
some quite tastily robed. At such times hats, linen coats, white shirts, 
broadcloth coats, woolen and calico dresses and good shawls are com- 
mon. The only exceptions in respect to dress reform are among the 
women, who have been slow to adopt shoes, and still seldom wear any 
head covering, except a shawl. The ornaments formerly worn in the 
nose have been entirely abandoned. Other ornaments, such as finger- 
rings, ear-pendants, bracelets, and the like, except among the aged and 
conservative, are mostly purchased of the whites. Tattooing is going 
out of practice, many of the older Indians being ashamed of the figures 



INDIANS OF Washington' terhitory. 615 

on themselves. Painting of the face is not couiuion, exc('[)t at the tam- 
anoiis feasts and potlatches, cind sometimes when gambling-. Mirrors, 
brushes, combs, and soap of American manufacture are commonly in 
use. 

Implements. — The native articles for general use, war and the (;hase, 
fire-making, building, and agriculture are almost entirely abandoned, 
and those of civilized make have taken their i)laces. In fishing they 
use manyof theold style articles, as they see no advantage in giving 
them up; but wlien they see something that is an improvement and 
they can obtain it, they are not slow to do so. Native tools for leather- 
working and working fiber are more common than American ones, but 
knitting, carding wool, and sewing are entirely reformed. Pamts and 
ropes are mostly American. 

Travelling. — They cling to their canoes, for they are lighter and swifter 
than American boats. 

American standards are used in measuring and valuing. Their music 
is mostly native, and so their art-work.* 

Social customs. — Most of the Twanas under forty j'earshave been mar- 
ried in our style as well as theirs, but none of the Klallams, except 
those who are land owners, as otherwise the property would not descend 
to their children. Permanent marriages is becoming quite common, and 
polygamy is dying out. Kew polygamous marriages are not allowed, 
and there are but ten men in both tribes who have more than one wife 
each. Slavery is dead. Potlatches are said to be growing somewhat 
less frequent than formerly, some having abandoned them entirely. 
The custom, though, has a strong hold on the northern Klallams.' The 
majority of the able-bodied men among the Twanas and those of the 
Klallams who live at Seabeck, Port Gamble, Port Discovery, and around 
Jamestown, and a few others are engaged in civilized labor, the 
Twanas being occupied as farmers, loggers, and day laborers, and the 
Klallams mainly in saw-mills and as day laborers. They raised in 1878 
1,125 bushels of vegetables, 120 tons of hay, and 20 bushels of grain; 
cut 100 cords of wood; owned 72 horses and G8 cattle, and cultivated 
150 acres of land — an increase over 1872 of 900 bushels of vegetables, 
30 tons of hay, and 18 cattle, and a decrease of 30 bushels of grain and 
28 horses. Their principal crops are hay and potatoes. 

In 1878 a number of them voluntarily gave a day's work each as their 
contribution to the road taxes of the country. Children are cradled 
mainly in the old style, but the custom of flattening the head is dying- 
out. 

Morals. — There is progress here, but it is slow. There is very little 
theft among the Twanas, more among the Klallams, but not a large 
amount. Falsehood and profanity are common, and it is difficult to in- 
duce them to abandon either. In regard to chastity the}' also improve. 

* For Gambling and Language, seo^os^, pp. 647 and 652. 



616 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Murder is rare. Parental and filial love are quite strong, and the poor 
are generall}'^ cared for by their relations and friends. 

SURROUNDINGS. 

Outline and size of Territory, elevation, and ivater systems. — Eeserva- 
tion near the head of Hood's Canal on Puget Sound in Washington Ter- 
ritory, and at the mouth of the Skokomish Eiver. It is nearly square, 
and comprises about 5,000 acres ; two-thirds of it but a few feet above 
tide- water, the other third mountainous and several hundred feet high. 
The Skokomish is the only river whicb, coming from the north in the 
Olympic range of mountains, flows east on the south side of the reser- 
vation and north on the east side, when it empties into Hood's Cana\ 
There are several sloughs running from the river to the canal across the 
reservation. 

Geological environment, both stratigraphical and economic. — The strat- 
igraphical environment has not been thoroughly studied. Both lava 
and granite evidently lie at the bottom ; the granite 1 think to be 
the oldest. Since the granite, evidently there has been a long wash- 
ing either by salt water or fresh, I do not know which, but presume it 
was salt, as the upland is mostly a gravel-bed. As the sea then went 
down, the river formed most of the soil good for cultivation. 

Economic condition. — The soil of about two fifths of the reservation 
is black rich bottom land, very excellent for cultivation when cleared 
of the timber which covered it. One-fifth of the laud is swampy, and 
1,800 acres, nearly two-fifths, is gravelly and covered with fir timber 
and is almost useless excei)t as timber land. 

Climate. — Chiefly a dry and wet season as in western Washington 
and Oregon, but little snow and cold weather generally during the win- 
ter, but a large amount of rain, which continues at intervals during the 
summer. The spring is generally backward, as the Olympic Mountains, 
some of which are snowcapped during the summer, are but 20 miles 
distant to the north Frosts in the fall, generally not early, coming from 
the 1st to the 25th of October usually.* 

The following is a list of the mineral substances which are of prac- 
tical value to them; they are, as far as I know, fourteen in number, be- 
sides the soil for cultivation. 

I am indebted to Prof. T. Condon, of the Oregon State University, 
for many of these named: 

Agate is used for arrows-heads ; basalt for the same and for hammers; 
beach stones for anchors, hammers, sinkers in fishing, and for slinging 
and tanning stones ; black mud of salt marshes for dyeing; chalcedony 
for arrow-heads ; clay stones for pipes and rain stones; clay of a rod 
and a clay color for paints ; jasper for arrow-heads ; metamorphic stones 
for axes and adzes; quartzite for hammers and whetstones; sedimen- 

*Eell3 on Twanas, p. 61. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 617 

tary rock for hammers; slate for knives, and trap rock for hammers and 
tauuing stones. 

PLANTS. 

The following fifty varieties of native plants are of practical use, be- 
sides cultivated plants and grasses for stock : 

Alder. — The wood is used for fire-wood and for making dishes, plates, 
ladles, bailers, and masks, and for the building of fish-traps and rough 
houses. The bark is used for medicine, strings, ropes, and dyeing. 

Barberry. — The bark is used for medicine. 

BlacJcberry. — The berry is used for food, the juice for paint, the young 
leaves for tea, and the roots for medicine. 

Cattail rush. — The blades for making one kind of baskets and partly 
in making several other kind ^ ; for mats, which are among their most 
useful articles, and for strings and ropes. The head was formerly used 
in making blankets. 

Cedar. — This is the most useful vegetable production of their country, 
its woods being used for planks for houses, burial inclosures, and the 
like ; for canoes, oars, baby-boards, buoys, spinning-wheels, boxes, 
torches, arrow-shafts, rails, shingles, fish-traps, tamanous sticks, and 
fire-wood. The limbs for baskets and ropes ; the bark for baskets, mats, 
sails, baby-head covers, springs, bailers, women's skirts, and, when 
beaten, beds for infants, wadding to guns, napkins, head bauds, blank- 
ets, and for gambling purposes ; the gum and leaves for medicine. 

Cherry. — The bark is used for strings and medicine. 

Cottonwood. — The wood is useful for firewood, the bark for medicine 
and strings, and the buds for medicine. 

Cranberry. — The berry is employed for food, the juice for paint, and the 
young leaves for tea. 

Crab apiile. — The wood is used for wedges, hoes, and fire-wood j the 
fruit for food, and the bark for medicine. 

Currant. — The berry for food. 

Dogivood. — The wood is manufactured into gambling disks and hollow 
rattles, and is used for fuel. 

Elder. — The wood is made into arrow-heads, used as j^laythings ; the 
bark used for medicine, and the berr^' for food. 

Fir {red). — The wood is valuable for tire- wood, boards, masts, spear- 
handles, spits, and oars ; the bark is preferred to everything elf e for fire- 
wood, as it is often 2. or 3 inches thick and pitchy. The pitch wood is 
good for torches, fire-pots, and kindlings, and for the latter use it is sold 
to the whites. The pitch is used for fastening on arrow-heads and spear- 
heads, and as a cement. 

Gooseberry {tico varieties). — The berry is used for food and the juice for 
liaint. 

Grass, specific name unknown, is used extensively in making and or- 
namenting baskets of several kinds. 



CAS ANTHROPOLOGICAL {'APLliS 

Jlazel.— The nuts u^ed for food, the wood for rims for suow-siioe;-, uets^ 
and the like, and the bark for strings. 

Hemlocli. — The wood serves for fire-wood and halibut hooks, the leaves 
for tea, and the branches for covers in steaming food. 

Huckleherry (hlacJc). — The berry is used for food and the juice for 
paint. 

HucMeberry {blue). — Same purpose. 

Hiickleberry [red). — Same purpose. 

Iromvood. — The wood is used for arrow-shafts, arrow and spear heads, 
and mat needles, and the bark for medicine. 

Indian onion. — The bulb is eaten. 

Kelp. — Strings and ropes are made from the root. 

Kamast. — The root is edible. 

Laurel. — This is used for making spoons, vessels, and fancy work, as it 
is easil}" carved ; the leaves are medicinal. 

Licorice. — The root is used for medicine. 

Maple. — The wood is utilized for hacklers, mat-blocks, paddle oars, 
bobbins, and blocks for making seines, combs, fish and duck spear-heads, 
fish clubs, rails, and fire-wood. The leaves are used in steaming. 

Maple {small variety). — The wood for fire-wood. 

Moss is used for wrapping around wood while steaming it to make 
l)ows, the whole being buried in the ground. 

Nettle, used for making strings. 

Oregon grape, barberry (?). — The root and bark are valuable for medi- 
cine, the root for dyeing. 

Raspberry. — The berries used for food and the juice for paint. 

Rose. — The roots and leaves serve as medicine. 

Rnsh {round). — For making mats. 

Rush {small). — Roots for food. 

Sallal berry. — The berry used for food, the juice for paint. 

Salmon berry. — The berry and young shoots are eaten. 

Skunlc cabbage. — The leaves used as medicine and the roots for food. 

Spruce. — The wood is carved and the leaves employed medicinally. 

Strawberry. — The berry is gathered for food. 

Thimble cap. — The berry and young shoots are good for food. 
Vine maple'. — The wood is burned for fuel. 

Willow. — The wood is occasionally used for fire- wood and the bark for 
strings. 

Yew). — Paddles, bows, and fish-clubs are made from this wood. 

BEASTS. 

Fifteen kinds of animals are useful to them, as follows : 
Bear (blade). — The flesh is used for food, the skins for robes and quiv- 
ers, and the teeth for ornaments. 

Bear {grizzly). — The skin is dressed for robes, but it is a scarce animal ; 
supposed to be used by medicine men for making people sick. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITOKY. 019 

Beaver. — The meat for food, the skius for furs, aud the teeth employed 
iu games. 

Cat {wild). — The flesh is eateu ; the skius are made into robes. 

Bog {common) is of use for domestic purposes, hunting, and the like. 

Dog {wool). — The hair used iu making- blankets. The breed now ex- 
tinct. 

Deer.— This is probably the most useful wild animal known to them. 
The flesh used for food, skins for robes, strings, fringes, moccasins* 
clothes, and shot-pouches. The fawn-skins are sometimes made into 
buoys, used in whaling. Formerly they made shirts, which answered 
the purposes of shields or suits of armor, out of buckskin. Of the 
sinews they make thread, and of tlie hoofs, rattles used in religious 
dances. The brains employed in' tanning. 

MJc. — The flesh serves for food ; the skins for robes, shield-shirts, and 
when dressed, for strings and clothes ; of the horns they make chisels, 
wedges, and paint. 

Music-rat. — The skins are used for furs, and the teeth they gamble 
with. 

Otter. — The flesh is eaten. 

Otter {sea). — The fur valuable. 

Panther. — The skins are made into robes and clothes. 

Raccoon. — The skin is used for furs, and the flesh for food ; the bones 
for dishes and ladles. 

Wolf. — The skin is used for robes, quivers, and caps. 

The iutestiues of several of these are used for holding oil, and the 
bones for various articles, such as awls, arrow and spear heads, combs, 
fastenings, and the like. 

BIRDS. 

There are seventeen kinds of birds, which they utilize as follows : 

Crane. — The flesh is used for food ; the feathers for beds and pillows, 
and also for ornamenting the hair at festivals. 

Duels. — Seven varieties of these, viz : The mallard, pin-tail, scoter (?), 
wood-duck, teel, diver, and canvas-back, are used for food, and the 
feathers for the same purposes as the crane feathers. 

Eagle. — The feathers are used for feathering arrows and in tamanous 
head-bands. 

Grouse. — The flesh for food. 

Goose. — The flesh for food. 

Gull.— The flesh serves for food for old people occasionally, and the 
feathers for beds. 

Hawlc. — The feathers are worn in tamanous head-bands. 

King-fislier. — A piece of the skin, where the tail or wing- feathers en 
ter it, was used in fishing attached to the line near the hook, as it was 
superstitiously supposed to attract fish. 

Loon. — Two kinds, the light and dark, were used for food, and the 
feathers were made into beds. 



620 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Woodpcclxcr {redheaded). — The feathers are employed for feathering 
arrows aud in taiuanous head-bands. 
Pheasant. — The tiesh is eaten. 

FISH AND OTHER MARINE iNIMALS. 

Five kinds of these are used as follows : 

Abaloiie. — The shells for money aud ornaments. 

Clam. — Three kinds of clam are used for food, and the large shells as 
drinking dishes. 

Codfish.~The flesh and eggs of two kinds are used for food. 

Crab. — Two varieties are used for food. 

Dogjish.— Oil obtained from it; occasionally the flesh is eaten ; the 
bones are used for ornaments, and a part of the skin as a substitute 
for sandpaper. 

Dentalid. — The shells for money and ornaments. 

Flounder. — Two varieties are used for food. 

Halibut, herring, and mussels. — Also used as food. 

Olivella.— The shells used for ornaments and sometimes money. 

Oyster. — Food. 

Porpoise. — Food and oil. 

Salmon. — Five varieties, viz: Silver, dog, red, black, and hump- 
backed; both the eggs and flesh are used for food, and the eggs for 
bait. 

Seal {fur). — Is highly esteemed. 

Seal {hair).— Bnoys nsed in whaling, small sacks, pouches, etc., are 
made from the skin; oil is made from the blubber, aud the flesh is 
eaten. 

Shark. — From this oil is obtained. 

Smelt and sea-eggs. — Used as food. 

Scallop. — The shells are used for rattles iu tamanousing, and the flesh 
for food. 

Skate and trout. — Food. 
. Whale furnishes food aud oil, bones for war clubs, sinew for thread, 
and whale bone for a piirt of the cod-fish hook. 

Cuttlefish. — Food. 

SOCIAL CUSTOMS. 

Travels. — These are confined chiefly to places where those reside 
among whom they iuter-marry. A few however of each tribe have 
been on sailing vessels to California. 

Commerce. — I have seen dishes made from the horn of the mountain 
sheep or goat, which are said to have come from the Stikine Indians of 
British Columbia, 600 or 800 miles to the north ; baskets and pipes 
from the Klikitats of eastern Washington, 150 miles to the east; bask- 
ets from the Chehalis and Cowlitz Indians, 100 miles to the south ; and 
baskets from the Quinaielt Indians, on the Pacific coast, 50 miles to the 



INDIAiSS OF Wx\SlIINGTON TERKITORT. 621 

west. The articles from tliese distant tribes are, however, limited in 
number, but there is considerable traffic among Indians who live inside 
these limits. The distances spoken of above are in a direct line; the 
way by which the articles come is much farther. 

The traffic with the northern nations is by water, and therefore over 
a more circuitous route than the traffic with other tribes, which is by 
land. 

CULTURE, 

Means of subsistence. — Food formerly consisted solely of fish, roots, 
berries, and game, the spontaneous products of land and water. 

The fish and marine mammals formerly used are still eaten, and are 
of at least nineteen kinds, namely, two varieties of cod fish, two of floun- 
ders, five of salmon, the silver, dog, red, black, and humpbacked, and 
one each of dog-fish, smelt, skates, hair-seal, trout, whale, halibut, her- 
ring, porpoise, and cuttle-fish. The dog-fish is used only occasionally 
when other food is scarce. The salmon, halibut, herring, and smelt are 
dried as well as eaten fresh, the salmon being split open and tbe back- 
bone being taken out. The halibut is cut into strips, and the herring 
and smelt are dried whole. Salmon are now also sometimes salted. 
Besides the flesh of the dogfish, porpoise, seal, and whale, the oil was 
formerly eaten. The eggs of the cod -fish and salmon are a luxury. The 
porpoise, from its resemblance to pork, is called Indian pork. 

Ten kinds of shell-fish are used for food, four of them being difierent 
varieties of clams, two of crabs, and one each of oysters, mussels, sea 
eggs, and scallops, the latter two being found only in the Klallam waters. 
Clams alone are dried. In drying them the Indians first build a large 
fire, in which they heat a number of stones, and when the fire has nearly 
burned down, they remove the coals, pour on the clams, perhaps bushels 
of them, and cover the whole with several thicknesses of mats. They 
are thus steamed until they are cooked and opened, when they are 
taken from the shell, spitted on slender sticks 2 or 3 feet long, and put 
over fires in their houses to dry. 

Fish eggs are dried by being placed on small wooden frames, a foot or 
two square, and placed over the fire. Salmon was formerly their staft" 
of life, and their chief business in the summer was to dry it for winter. 
There are some kinds offish in their waters all the year round, though 
some varieties they do not eat unless food is scarce. 

Boots and branches. — The kamass was formerly the most ])rized, but 
as it does not grow in their land, having been imported from quite a 
distance, they seldom use it now. 

The root of the skunk cabbage, steamed, the Indian onion, a kind of 
rush root, that of au unknown plant, and of fern were also eaten. The 
fern roots were dried, laid on a rock, beaten with a bone club into a 
kind of flour, which was mixed with fish eggs and made into a cake 
called by the KlaUams skive-u. 



622 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

The young- shoots of the thimble-cap, salmon berry, and a plant, name 
unknown, were and are still eaten; of all these the kamass and fern 
cakes, as far as I know, were alone put up for future use; neither is now 
much used. 

Wild fruits. — The blackberry, three kinds of huckleberry (black, red, 
and blue), sallal berry, cranberry, gooseberry, hazel-nut, salmon berry, 
strawberry, raspberry, crab-apple, currant, elderberry, and a small red 
berry from their tobacco plant, are all used for food. The blackberry, 
two varieties of huckleberry, and sallal berry are dried for storage, the 
first being often pounded up and made into cakes. Between the young 
shoots, roots, and fruits they have some kind of vegetable food most of 
the time. 

Land mammals. — The beaver, black bear, deer, elk, otter, wild cat, rac- 
coon, and mountain sheep were used for food, all except the mountain 
sheep and wild cat being still in use. When a bear is killed it is very 
common to invite friends and have a feast. The flesh of the deer, elk, 
and bear is dried. 

The crane, grouse, goose, gull, light and dark loon, pheasant, and 
seven varieties of ducks, viz, the mallard, pin-tail, scoter, wood, teal, 
diver, and canvas-back, are eaten. The grouse and mallard duck were 
not eaten until the whites came; the mallard because it fed on snails. 
None of these were put up for future use, but now ducks are sometimes 
salted down by the barrel. 

Salt was never used until the whites came, and even now they do not 
salt much of their food. There is no place in this region where salt can 
be obtained, except in the sea. They did not even have in their lan- 
guage a word for salt, though they had terms designating its quality 
and also one for salt water. I have occasiopally seen them drink salt 
water with relish, and they may have thus satisfied the demands of 
nature. 

Coolcing. — Birds and oysters are now generally boiled. Young sprouts 
are eaten raw. Muscles are roasted in the fire. Fish, Avhen eaten fresh, 
are boiled or roasted on spits before the fire. Other animal food is 
roasted on the spit, boiled, or steamed. Berries are eaten raw, stewed, 
and in pies. In steaming food in large quantities they follow much the 
same rules as when cooking and opening clams, but dry branches 
of trees are used in connection with the mats. Formerly in boiling 
they heated stones and placed them in water in their water-tight 
baskets. 

Storing. — Cultivated roots when stored are commonly "cached" in 
the ground and covered with boards and earth, regular cellars being 
uncommon. 

Brinlis. — Tea and cofl'ee are now very common, but when not able to 
obtain these they have occasionally^ made a tea from the leaves of the 
cranberry, blackberry, and hemlock. They use but little milk, for while 
they have some cows they think dair^un^ too much trouble, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TEREITORY. 623 

MEDICINES. 

I have been unable to obtain a complete list, but give the following 
renjedies, some of which were given in my article on the Twanas: 

Alder buds. — Used for colds and biliousness. They eat them and 
afterwards drink salt water as an emetic. 

Alder hark. — This they grind in water and drink the infusion as a 
tonic. 

Barber)^ baric is prepared in the same way as the last, and used to 
purify the blood. 

Blaclxberry root is used for colds. 

Cedar gum chewed for toothache. 

Cedar leaves are chewed and bound on cuts. 

■Cherry bark prepared as alder bark for a physic and tonic. 

Cottonwood bark, from the body of the tree, after having been soaked 
in salt water, is ground and used as a medicine. 

Cottonmood buds are also used as a medicine. 

Crahapplebark. — A cold tea is made from this as a wash for the eyes. 

Elder bark. — An infusion taken internally and in a vapor bath is used 
for diarrhoja. 

Licorice. — Used for colds. 

Oregon grape. — The root and bark are used in the same way as alder 
bark for skin diseases. 

Rose bark and roots, used as medicine. 

Potatoes, scraped, for burns and scalds. 

Skunk cabbage leaves. — They heat rocks, throw water over them, place 
leaves on them, and get over the steam for strengthening general de- 
bility. 

Earth is sometimes bound on bruises. 

Cautery. — Rheumatism is souietimes treated by taking a red-hot iron, 
stick or small bunch of cedar bark, and burning the flesh to the bone. 

Bloodletting is done by scarifying the body in various places. 

HABITATIONS. 

Dwellings. — Their houses are of nine kinds. The potlatch houses are 
the only public houses which they have. They are not constructed on 
a uniform plan. In the account of potlatches will be found a descrip- 
tion of a house on the Skokomish Reservation and another at Dnngi- 
ness. One built by the Twana Indians, ten years ago, was somewhat 
similar, to the one on the reservation, but was larger, being about 50 
feet wide and 300 feet long. One at Port Angeles"was also somewhat 
similar, and these were used very little as dwellings after the potlatch. 
Those at Sequin and Port Gamble are more nearly like the one at 
Dunginess, and have since been used as dwellings. 

Sweat houses are very uncommon ; the only ones which I have seen 
have been used by the uaedicine men. They are 3 or 4 feet in height 



624 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

and a little more in diameter, being couoidal. Sticks are driven into the 
gronud near together, bent over, covered with large leaves, as those of 
tlie maple tree, and then covered with dirt. They are only intended for 
one person at a time. 

Large dwelling houses. — These are usually 25 or 30 feet wide by 40 
or 50 long, though occasionally they are made 80 or 100 feet long. 
They are each owned by one man, but intended for sov^eral families, 
usually his friends and relations, who pay no rent. There is no floor. 
The doors are either at each end or in the middle of one siite, and in- 
side the house there are small walls on each side of the entrance, siniilar 
to that in the potlatch house, to guard against the wind. Each corner 
is intended for one family, but sometimes more occupy it, On the in- 
side, all around the building, there is abed platform about 3i feet wide 
and 2 feet high. A part of this is used for storing their effects. Under- 
neath it, also, many things are kept. Below and in front of it is a low 
seat about G inches high and 3 feet wide, which is also sometimes used 
as a place lor sleeping. The fire is ou the ground in front of this and 
the smoke escapes by holes in the roof immediately over the fire and 
about 7 feet above tlie ground. Sticks are placed in various posi- 
tions wdiere food, especially fish and clams, are hung to dry. This 
class of houses is now used very little by the Twanas. 

Flat roofed dwelling-houses. — The sides of such houses are made both 
of upright and horizontal boards, and the roof is composed of two parts, 
that made of s[)lit cedar boards or clap-boards, which generally have a 
steep pitch, and another part made of long boards. Such a house is in- 
tended for only one or two families, and the inside arrangement is very 
similar to that of the large dwelling-house. 

Mouse with roof wholly on one side. — In this the roof is similar to that 
of the last. This is said to have been anciently the almost universal 
mode of building all permanent houses, and the boards for the roof were 
hollowed out. This form of house is now seldom used. 

The Government houses. — These were built on the reservation for the 
Twanas by the Government carpenter, the Indians having been in- 
duced to use a part of their annuity money to purchase the lumber, and 
are now the dwellings most in use. A number of the Klallam Indians 
have also built similar structures for themselves. These houses are 
mostly 16 by 22 feet, with a shed kitchen 8 or 9 feet wide added on 
one side. Inside they are generally divided into a bed-room, sitting- 
room, and kitchen. Some of the rooms are papered and are furnished 
with beds, tables, chairs, benches, a cupboard, and a stove or two, and 
a few either have mats, a few rugs, or pieces of carpet on the floors. 
They have also clocks, dishes, looking-glasses, etc., and in one there is 
a bureau. 

The mat house. — These are made of mats, and of late some boards are 
also used in their construction. They are intended as temporary houses 
aud are generally put up at fishing places during the summer. Inside, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 625 

the beds are laid around the side on boards a few inches from the ground. 
The lire is in the middle ; most of the space overhead is occupied with 
fish which are being" dried. People and things are stowed where any 
room can be found, and tlie whole atmosphere is filled with smoke. 

TIte half-circle camp. — Wheu traveling in stormy weather thej^ often 
place poles in the ground in the form of a semicircle to the windward 
and fasten mats to them, the whole standing so as to answer both as 
wall :ind roof. Under this shelter they sleep. The fire is to the lee- 
ward, which is open. 

Tents of cotton cloth are now often used in travelling, and sails are 
also si)iead over poles so as to form a kind of low tent. 

Outbuildings. — These consist of barns, stables for horses, stables for 
oxen when they are logging, cellars and caches for roots (chiefly pota- 
toes), woodsheds, which are also rather scarce. They often take their 
canoes into their large houses. These outhouses are all built after the 
style of those of the whites, though not usually as substantial. None 
of them were in use, as far as I know, before the coming of the whites. 
Their houses were originally near the beach in small villages, but 
arranged withno order. Those at Jamestown are now on one straight 
street and those on the reservation on their farms. 

APPURTENANCES TO DWELLINGS. 

Boors. — These are opened or closed by sliding boards over the aper- 
ture. At present all doors are made after the civilized style. Some- 
times only mats are hung over the entrance. 

Fireplaces. — These are of five kinds, two of which are ancient and 
three modern. (1) Anciently the Klallams, at least, dug a i)lace about 
a foot deep and 5 or G feet in diameter in some of their houses, heap- 
ing up the dirt around the edge. There are none of these now in use. 
(2) They build their fires on the ground without any preparation but 
a smoke- hole. This is usually about 3 feet square and often has a 
cover which may be used when a severe rain occurs or the occupants 
are absent. In the Government houses a hole is sometimes cut in the 
floor about 3 feet square; the space from the ground to the floor filled 
with earth, and perhaps the edges of the boards around the fire lined 
with tin. In the flat-roofed houses a board or two is removed at one 
end, or for the whole length, in order that the smoke may escape. A 
board chimney is sometimes used, which is the connecting link between 
the fire on the ground and our chimney. The hearth is of earth, the 
sides simply of boards nailed up. Its peculiarities are its size and ma- 
terial. It is built large for two reasons: First, that the boards may not 
take fire, and as an additional preventive sometimes an old piece of iron 
is placed against the sides of the chimney. Second, that the occupants, 
especially when sick, may lie inside the chimney near to the fire. 

A common sized chimney of sticks and dirt is sometimes built similar 
H. Mis. 600 40 



626 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

to those of the whites in the uew .settlement. Another form from the 
logging camps of the whites is a truncated pyiamid phiced so that the 
base, which is about 5 feet square, hangs some 5 feet above the tire and 
the smaller end passes through the roof. The draught through this is 
suliicient. Such a chimney is placed near the center of the room, so 
that occupants can gather around the fire. 

Material for building in all permanent buildings is of wood, and of late 
years sawed boards are usually obtained. Barns are often sided with 
split cedar boards from 3 to 5 feet long, called roof-boards, clap-boards, 
or sliakes. Formerly their large planks were split from cedar trees, and, 
as cedar decays slowly, this is still in use in many places. The largest I 
have seen were among the Klallams at Elkwa, and they were 2^ feet 
wide and 40 long, and 3J wide and 20 long. These were split, and 
afterwards trimmed by hewing. 

FURNITURE AND UTENSILS. 

Mats. — These are of seven kinds. Three kinds are made of cattail 
rush. The plants are cut by the women in July and August, dried in 
the sun, and tied in bunches as large as can be comfortably carried. 
When a woman finds that she has time to make mats she assorts her 
rushes according to size into three lots. Of the largest rushes she makes 
the largest mats, about 5 feet wide; of rushes of medium length she 
forms mats about 3 feet wide, and of the smaller stalks she weaves 
mats about 2 feet wide. All these may be of any desired length. 
The largest mats are used chiefly for lining wooden houses and in con- 
structing mat houses. Those of medium size are used at times for the 
same purpose, for the half-circle camps, for beds, pillows, seats, table 
covers, and as substitutes for umbrellas and oil-cloth, two layers form- 
ing an almost complete protection from the rain. The narrowest mats, 
usually from 3 to 4 feet long, are used mostly for cushions, as in canoes, 
and for the paddlers to kneel on. These cattail mats are thus made : 
The ends of the rushes are first fastened together in tlie shape of the 
mat, then strings made of the same material, shredded and twisted, arc 
passed transversely through these rushes, and about 2^ inches apart. 
This is done with a needle of hard wood 3 feet long, half an inch wide, 
tliree cornered, and with an eye in one end, in which the string is placed. 
After the string is passed through, a small piece of wood with a crease 
in it, is pressed over the mat where the strings are, to render it firm and 
of good shape. The edges of the mats are fastened by weaving the ends 
of the transverse threads firmly together. 

Another mat is made and used in a manner similar to the mediiiii). 
sized cat-tail mat, but it is made from a round rush which usually 
grows to a height only sufficient to make mats about 3 feet wide. 

A rough mat is made from the inner bark of tlie cedar, split into strips 
half au inch wide or thereabouts and woven together at right angles. 
It is used chiefly to lay fish upon when, they are cleaned. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 627 

A mat is also made from the inner bark of tbe cedar, which is split 
into strips a quarter or a third of an inch wide and woven in a manner 
simihir to the last, but much more firmly and with more carefully fin- 
ished edges. Sometimes a portion of the strips are colored black and 
woven in at regular distances, or else a border is made of the black strips. 
These mats are usually about 4 feet by 7 or 8, and were formerly used 
for sails, but are now used for bouse lining, matting, and to place food 
on at feasts. 

Small table mats are also manufactured, much more as an article of 
commerce for the whites than for their own use. 

Baslxcts. — These are of eleven kinds. They are woven and sewed, 
and are made of grass. The^^ usually hold from a pint tea half bushel 
and are used for the following purposes: 

(1) Carrying water and juicy berries, and formerly for cooking by 
placing heated stones in them. 

(2) A stiH' basket, but not water-tight, about the same size as the last, 
is made from nearly the same material, but not sewed. These are for 
more delicate use. 

(3) Baskets made of cedar limbs split, the bark usually taken off", 
are woven. They hold commonly from a half bushel to a bushel. Those 
whose capacity is only a half bushel are ordinarily used for rough work, 
such as carrying fish, potatoes, clams, muscles, and roots. The upper 
loops are made also of cedar twigs twisted, and in these the carrying 
strap is fastened. 

(4) The fancy basket is made of small grass and usually ornamented 
by figures. It holds from 2 quarts to 3 pecks, and is generally used by 
the women for storing clothes and fancy articles of the house. 

(5) A basket made of a bush split and shaved on both sides. The 
pieces are a third or half an inch wide, and are woven together at right 
angles. It is used more by the whites than the Indians as a clothes 
basket, and seems a copy of some American baskets. 

(6) Baskets made of the cat- tail woven, and usually holding about a 
bushel each. They are not durable and not much used, and chiefly for 
storing their effects. 

(7) A large carrying basket somewhat angular and used in much the 
same way. 

(8) Small baskets, usually holding not over 2 quarts; they are made of 
small grass, obtained by the Makahs, and used by women for holding- 
sewing materials and similar small articles. 

(9) Baskets made of the inner bark of the cedar, split into strips a 
half or third of an inch wide and woven. They are of various sizes, 
holding from 2 quarts to a bushel or more ; used for storing purposes. 

(10) Baskets made of some kind of grass, holding about a bushel, 
and really more of a sack than a basket ; used as the last. 

(11) Another similar to the last, but made of another kind of grassj 
also used for storing purposes. 



628 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Of these Nos. 1, 2, aud 3 are common to these tribes, both in manu- 
facture aud use. Nos. 2, 4, aud G I have ouly seen among the Twauas. 
No. 10 is made by the Quinaielt Indians, and is imported by the Twanas. 
No. IL is made by the Klikitat Indians, and is also imported by the 
Twanas. I have never seen the Klikitat baskets among the Klallams 
or Chemakums. 

Boxes. — I have only seen two kinds of boxes which are peculiar to 
these Indians. The water-box, which is made perfectly tight with the 
exception of a hole in the upper part, where the water is poured in, and 
the one from which it is poured out or drunk. The size of this is usually 
about 8 inches square aud of the same length. This and the water- 
tight baskets are the only native water vessels, as far as I know. The 
box has the advantage of keeping out the dust. The second kind is 
used to keep shell money and small valuables. This consists of two 
parts — the box proper and the cover, which fits over it to the bottom. 
Such boxes were formerly made large enough to contain blankets. The 
construction of both of these boxes is similar and somewhat peculiar. 
The sides and ends are made of one board ; where the corner is to be a 
small miter is cut, both on the inside and outside, partly through. Then 
the corners arc steamed aud bent at right angles, and the inside miter 
is cut so perfectly that it tits water-tight when the corners are bent. The 
corner where the two ends of the board meet are then fastened with 
wooden pegs driven in diagonally. The top and bottom of the box are 
fastened with pegs similarly inserted. (See Eell on the Twana Indians, 
p. 09.) 

Dishes are used mainly for holding fish and seal oil. They are made 
of wood, alder being preferred. One made by the Indians of British 
Columbia, and which found its way among the Twanas, is made of the 
horn of the mountain sheep. There is no paint on it, but all the figures 
are made b^" carving, the darker shade representing the deeper cut. 
Some of these dishes were evidently made for holding food as well as 
oil. The intestines of seals, deer, and some other large animals are 
also sometimes used for holding oil. At present the Klallams chiefly 
use them. 

The water-tight baskets already described were formerly used for 
stone boiling. Two kinds of spits are now in use for roasting. One is 
a simple straight stick, nearly round, half an inch or less in diameter, 
from 1 to 2^ feet long, aud sharpened at both ends. By using several 
of these, some set at right angles to the others, a salmon is stretched 
out so as to be either dried or roasted. On a single one clams are im- 
paled and dried, and smelt or other small fish are roasted. The other 
is a stick about three-fourths of an inch wide, IJ inches thick, and 3 or 
3^ feet long, which is split for about 2 feet and then tied with grass to 
prevent its splitting further. The three ends are sharpened. On the 
two smaller ones the fish is fastened, and the other is stuck into the 
ground before the fire. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 629 

For serving and eating food, the following utensils are commonly em- 
ployed : 

Mafx. — Some of these are often placed on the ground during feasts 
and the food placed on them, the guests seated ou the ground ou each 
side. 

Baskets. — Berries are often served in the water-tight baskets. 

Plates and troughs. — These are made of wood and are quite shallow. 
Alder wood is preferred. They are generally from 9 to 12 inches wide, 
and from 16 inches to 6 feet long and 10 inches wide. Of late years, 
since lumber has become common, troughs 6 inches wide and from 8 to 
12 feet long are made of boards. They are for use during the large 
feasts, food being placed upon them. Rice, boiled fish, and semi-liquid 
food are now generally served from American kettles, plates, and pails. 

Trays. — Occasionally trays are nmde. I have seeu one 40 inches 
long, 25 wide, and 7 deep, and others smaller. 

Ladles. — These are made both of wood (maple) and horn. Theseladles 
are used for semi-liquid food; but are not always placed in the mouth, 
but near the mouth, and the food is pushed from them into the mouth 
with a small stick, or taken from them with a smaller ladle, which is 
placed in the mouth. 

tStonedish. — The only stone dish I have seen was obtained from the 
Klallam Indians of Port AMgeles. It is said to have been used for 
holding oil while eating it. It is a quarter of a sphere and quite reg- 
ular. Another one was found while plowing at Port Angeles. It is a 
half-sphere, made of clay stone, and the Indians are not certain that it 
was ever used as a dish, as many similar ones are found at Klallam Bay. 
Its upper edge seems to haVe been trimmed for use. 

Pipes. — The only two stone pipes which I have seen, appear to have 
been made from a soft grayish stone, perhaps clay stone. 

I can not learn that pipes or narcotics were used by these Indians 
previous to the coming of the whites. When tobacco is scarce they 
often mix with it the leaves of a small bush which has a red berry, 
called ska rcail-dai by the Twauas; ske-icad, by the Skwaksins, and 
sfains7cot-man ish, by the Klallains. Tobacco is used by the majority of 
this people, but they are not as much addicted to it as eome other In- 
dians. I have seldom seen them chew it. The Twanas rarely smoke it 
except at some gatherings. The Klallams use it much more freely than 
the Twanas. 1 have never known of their smoking the pipe of ])eace. 

N'a2)lcins are seldom used except at great feasts. One form is made 
of cedar bark, slightly beaten, about 2 feet long and tied into bunches 
an inch in diameter, I have seen also a piece of calico stretched by 
two individuals from end to eiul along a row of feasters, near their 
mouths, on which they wipe their hands and mouths when done eating. 

Miscellaneous. — Fir pitch wood is generally used for torches, and when 
this is wanting, cedar is si)lit somewhat fine and a handful of it lighted, 
but the lights of the whites have nearly taken the place of these rude 
lights, except for fishing and duck hunting night. 



630 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

CLOTHING. 

Eats. — A bat made by the Makalis, but which finds its way among 
the Twanasand Khillams, is water-tight and seems to be made in a man- 
ner somewhat siruihir to that of the water-tight baskets. Other hats 
somewhat like these, but with flat tops, are made by Indians of Brit- 
ish Columbia and imported. None are made by the Twanas, Klallams, 
or Chemakums. They commonly go bareheaded. 

Body clothing. — Pantaloons, shirts, and coats were formerly made of 
buckskin by these Indians, but are not now. The only buckskin clothes 
I have seen were imported from the Chehalis and Takania Indians. 
Short skirts for the women were made of cedar bark finely split and 
bound together at the upper edge where they were fastened around the 
waist. 

Blankets. — Three kinds of blankets were formerly in use. One was 
made of dogs' hair, geese feathers, and the head of the cat-tail rush, 
twisted and woven together on a loom. A kind of dog, rather small, was 
kept specially for its hair, which was very long, and a woman's wealth 
was esteemed by the number of such dogs owned. 

Another blanket was made by them from the inner bark of the cedar, 
slightly beaten and woven, the strings made of geese feathers. Skins 
were often used, especially those of the bear, deer, and wild cat, sev- 
eral of the latter being sewed together. Hardly any of these articles 
of native clothing are now worn, the civilized style being adopted. 

Mat coats. — One kind of coat made of mats was short in front, ex- 
tending only about as far as the elbows, but long behind, with a hole 
for the neck, it being put on over the head. 

Arm clothing. — I have not been able to learn of any special covering 
for the arms, as some part of the body clothing already described would 
naturally extend over the arms. 

Leg and foot clothing. — Moccasins were occasionally used, but the cli- 
mate is too wet to admit of their being worn with comfort. They gen- 
erally went barefooted, and the old ones still adhere to this custom. 

Parts of dress.— A. few women have of late learned to make lace from 
thread. 

There is a native-made iron fastening for shawls and blankets. Such 
fastenings are also made in a little different shape and of brass and 
wood. Formerly they were made of bone. Fringes are appended to 
the leather coats, shirts, and pantaloons already mentioned. This is 
made of leather an inch or two long. 

Receptacles for dress. — Baskets, described in the previous section, are 
all used for receiving clothing, except the eighth one mentioned, which 
is for thread and nicknacks. 

PERSONAL ADORNMENT. 

Tattooing. — In tattooing they use a needle and thread, blackening the 
thread with charcoal and drawing it under the skin as deeply as they 
can bear it. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 631 

Mead ornaments. — Head-bauds mMe of dentaliam shell. Threads are 
run through the shells, then through the leathers which keep the shells 
in their places. 

Ear pendants.— There are two kiuds, one of deutalium shells, a num- 
ber of which are fastened together in a bnnc'.i. Small pieces of black 
or red cloth are often fastened to the lower ]>art of the shell for greater 
ornament. Another is made of abelone shells. Both of these were 
formerly used as money. 

Neck ornaments. — ISTecklaces were formerly made by stringing both the 
dentales and olivella shells, but such are little used now. Sometimes 
these strings were 5 feet long, and were doubled several times. Beads 
of various colors, shapes, and sizes, some being- very large, have now 
taken the place of shells. Blue ones are the most common, being pre- 
ferred when the whites first came; but of late their taste is changing,, 
and other colors are being used. Dog-fish bones and bears' claws were 
also strung for necklaces, the latter being used as charms. 

Ornaments for the limhs. — Bracelets are made of washed iron and brass 
of native make, and of silver and other material made by the whites. 
I do not know that any were used previous to the coming of the whites. 

Toilet articles. — Single wooden combs are common. I have seen only 
one double one; this was found on a grave at Elkwa, and the handle 
was partly gone, the whole being decayed. One was fonud near Port 
Augeles of horn. 

WORKING IMPLEMENTS. 

Knives. — A knife in very common use and of native make has the 
blade of steel and the handle bone. It is especially convenient in fin- 
ishing canoes or anything hollow. 

Another hunting-knife of native make has a double edged steel blade*, 
and the handle is of two pieces of bone rivetted around the steel, which 
extends beyond the handle. 

Axes and adzes. — At present they use the American adzes and axes, 
with one exception. Stone axes belong to the archaeology of the coun- 
try. One of this class I have seen, which was obtained in a shell-bed 
at Dunginess among the Klallams. It was of metaphoric rock, three- 
fourths of a pound in weight, nine-sixteenths of an inch in thickness, 
and the edge is ground twice as much on the flat side as on the other. 
Another specimen found near the same place was of the same thickness; 
weight one-half pound, and the edge ground a little more on the flat 
side than on the other. 

Some Indians say that these axes were used as hatchets or axes for 
ordinary chopping and there are trees near Dewater and Doswailopsh, 
on Hood's Canal in the Twana country, that have been partially or 
wholly cut by such axes. Others say they were used as hand adzes with 
which to finish canoes after they had been hollowed by burning. Such 
adzes are now in commoa use, only they are invariably made of old 



632 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

rasps and liafted with wood fastened together by a thong. All but 
one appear to be flattened at least on one side and some on both sides, 
and evidently intended to be halted in that way. They are all well 
polished. 

Wedges. — Large wedges were and are still made of wood. At present 
those of iron regularly made for the purpose, or old iron ax-heads, are 
very commonly used. 

Chisels. — Those of American manufacture are now wholly used. I 
hav^e seen only two of native make. Hammers of American make are 
also chiefly used, though occasionally stone tools are employed. 

Implements of special use. — The number of stone axes, hammers, etc., 
which still remain among them show that some tools were used iu 
their construction, but I have seen no such tools and heard of none, ex- 
cept that some say one stone was used to break, grind, and polish 
another. Their bone knives must have been used for making bows and 
arrows. There was but little need of implements for straightening ar- 
rows, as both cedar and iron-wood are naturally straight enough. For 
fastening the leathers and heads to the shafts a string of some thin 
bark like the hazel bark is used, and in securing the heads the string 
is covered with i)itch of the red fir. Their fish-spear heads are fastened 
in the same way. The ends of the bows are bent by being wrapped in 
sea- weed or moss and buried iu the warm ground very near the fire, 
where they steam, after which they are easily bent. Nettle strings and 
entrails of deer and the like, properly prepared, were used for bow-strings 
previous to the coming of the whites. 

WEAPONS. 

Striking arms. — Clubs were nsed for striking, especially when the 
Indians creep up by night in some stealthy way and surprise their 
enemies. One found near Dunginess had a whale-bone handle. The 
carvings are intended to represent the head of the thunder-bird, an 
emblem of i)ower. Wooden clubs were also used. 

Slings and shots or stones are used only by boys as playthings, and 
formerly by young men iu killing ducks. 

Fire-pots, filled with pitch wood, were formerly used to set houses 
on fire iuto which the enemy had fled. A part of the besieging force 
would attack one side of the house in order to draw the attention of the 
besieged away from the opposite side, when the party with these fire-pots 
would approach, set fire to the pitch wood, throw it on the roof, and as 
the besieged attempted to escape they were kdled with spears, clubs, 
knives, or were shot. 

Thrusting arms. — Spears for hunting ducks have usually a handle 15 
or 20 feet long, and the prongs so far apart as not to injure the body 
of the bird. The teeth of the prongs are on the outside so as simply to 
catch in the feathers. These were formerly made both of bone and 
hard wood, but iron has been substituted for bone. A school-boy wrote 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 633 

me that ducks are caught with these spears at night by the light of a 
fire kindled in the back of the boat, which is generally occupied by two 
men, one to use the spear and the other to paddle. Geese and fish are 
also caught in the same way. Sometimes in foggy weather these In- 
dians cover their canoes over with green boughs, among whiclrthey 
hide, then they paddle quietly among the ducks and shoot them. 

Bows and arroics were formerly their only weapons of the projectile 
class, but they have been almost entirely superseded by guns. The 
shaft of the arrow is either cedar or iron-wood; of late many of the 
heads are made of wire of about three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter 
and 5 or inches long. Chalcedony and basaltic rock were also used in 
their manufacture, but stone arrow-heads are very scarce. The Indians 
have a tradition that they were made by the wolf or panther while those 
beasts were men, before being metamorphosed by Dokibatt. They 
also say that when broken into small pieces and shot at men or animals 
they are sure to cause death. This tradition, taken in connection with 
those of Dokibatt, is about all that seems to point to the existence of 
a race inhabiting this country previous to these Indians. 

Armor. — The only bodily protection against the missiles of enemies 
of which I have heard is a kind of shirt made of dried buckskin cover- 
ing the body. 

FISHING IMPLEMENTS. 

Spears and /tooA-s.— Living as they, do on Puget Sound, a great por- 
tion of their lood has always been obtained from its water. The Klal- 
lams practice nearly all the methods which the Twanas have for catching 
fish, and also have some additional devices, as there are halibut, seal, 
and whale living in the waters of the lower sound which are not found 
in Hood's Canal. They have now adopted most of the methods prac- 
ticed by the whites, especially the use of the hook and line. They buy 
hooks of European make, and also forge them from iron or steel. 
They have fish-spears naade with three prongs, and sometimes with 
only two. The handles of such spears are usually of fir, it being both 
strong and straight, and the prongs are of some hard wood, as maple 
or iron. They are used for spearing flounders, crabs, salmon, and the 
like, and bringing up fish eggs. When doing so one person i)addles 
while another uses the spear, and, because of long practice, they will 
see a fish partly buried in the mud, and having seen one, they hardly 
ever miss spearing it. There is a hook made of iron, but which is fast- 
ened to a pole 15 or 20 feet long by a thong or two. The end of the 
pole fits into a piece of wood which is fastened around the hook. By 
means of the pole the hook is moved around in the water and hooked 
into a fish, but when the fish is caught the pole is pulled out and the 
strain is on the thongs. The double herring spear or rake is made of 
wood, 15 or 20 feet long, with nails fastened into the lower end, usually 
only on one side, making a single herring spear, but occasionally on 
both sides. The nails are all sharpened. Another form of spear-head 



634 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

or Dative book is worked in much the same way as the last. It con- 
sists of two spear-lieads, the sharp point of each being of iron (formerly 
boiie was used). This is fastened to two bones or pieces of hard wood 
by strings covered with pitch, and the whole is then fastened by strings 
or thongs to poles which also fit into tjje hooks. 

There are several fishing implements used only by the Klallams, since 
the prey they are designed to capture, viz, halibut, whale, and seal, 
valuable for its furs, are not found in the Twana waters. One is a hali- 
but hook made of a piece of bone and fastened by strings of cedar bark 
to a piece of hemlock wood bent by steaming to the required shape. 

There is also a cod-fish hook. The head is of bone fastened with 
bark to a piece of whalebone. The bait, which is often a small fish, is 
slipped over the end; hence the necessity of a loop by which it is fast- 
ened to the line. The liues used with this hook are often of tine root- 
lets of the kelp, which when dry are brittle, but when wet are very 
strong. 

These lines are used for various kinds of fishing by the Klallams, 
but are uot used by the Twanas, as the kelp does not grow in their 
waters. Another, used for seal and whales, has a steel head which 
fits over a wooden handle to which it is fastened by thongs. The 
lower Klallams alone know the i)rocess of catching seal, and they 
have to go to the Makah waters for this purpose. 

TrapH and nets. — A way of taking salmon in rivers is to build a 
tra}) across the river. A number, of small sticks three-fourths of an 
inch in diameter and 6^ feet long are fastened together 2 inches apart. 
Long sticks are placed across the stream and secured by braces. The 
small sticks or weir are placed so as to lean against these larger ones, 
the upper end slanting down-stream and tied to the poles; while for 
additional security the gravel of the bed of the river is shoveled on 
around the bottom of them. The weir prevents the fish from ascending 
the stream. Nets are then provided, about 6 feet broad and 2 feet deep, 
made of strings and secured to a rim of wood. Native strings of this 
sort are made of nettle or alderbark twisted, but American twine is 
now often used. During the day-time these nets are pulled up, but let 
down at night, when the fish are running, one man watching each net. 
The fish striving to ascend get into these nets, and their presence is im- 
mediately known by the moving of the string. The net is then pulled 
up, the fish killed with a club and laid on a platform. These clubs are 
often common sticks, but are sometimes fancifully carved. There are 
usuall}^ four nets let down at once to form the trap. Another trap is 
made in a similar way as regards the weir, but otherwise differing 
across the stream. Up-stream from the weir several pens are built, in 
which doors are made V shaped, opening from below. The fish easily 
enter this, but, unable to find the way out, are speared. 

Salmon in the salt water are also taken with seines, either bought or 
made by the Indians. In making them they wind the twine on a frame 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 635 

or bobbin of wood, which is open at the ends so as to receive the twine. 
The knots are tied over a block so as to secure interstices of uniform 
size. Another form of net, for gathering sea eggs and small tish, has a 
handle about 10 feet long aud the rim of hoop-iron. 

A sinker of stone is not manufactured, but a water- worn stone of the 
right kind is found on the beach and bark is fastened around it, to 
which the line is attached. 

INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES. 

Leather-worMng. — The deer or elk hide is soaked for two days and 
the hair removed by scraping it with a rough iron. It is then soaked 
a half day with the deer brains in hot water over the fire, the brains 
being rubbed over something like soap. It is then stretched aud rubbed 
with rocks until it becomes soft aud pliable, when they dig a hole in 
the ground, build a fire of rotten wood or cedar bark, stretch the skin 
over it and cover it with blankets, thus smoking it, after which it is fit 
for use. The stick on which the skiu is placed to remove the hair is 4 
inches in diameter, but on the under side about 1 inch is taken off. An 
irregular broken stone, fastened to a wooden handle, is used for rubbing 
the skin to render it pliable. The handle is about 3i feet long. Some- 
times, though, the stone is used without being fastened to a handle, 
being simply held in the hand. This one is about an inch thick. 

Sticksof various kinds, and sometimes irons about 2 feet long, are used 
for digging roots, clams, etc. 

Basket n'orking. — A bone implement is used for pressing the parts 
closely together in weaving baskets. Such tools are also made of hard 
wood. This and an awl for sewing the water-tight baskets are the only 
tools I have seen used in this work. 

Implements for worM7ig fiber. — There is a wooden hand-spindle used 
now for making woolen yarn, but formerly for making yarn of other 
materials to be woven into blankets. This implement consists of a slen- 
der stick fixed in the center of a circular disk or wheel about one-fourth 
of an inch thick. The material to be spun is fastened to one end of the 
stick, the opposite end is taken in one hand and rolled over and over in 
the lap, while the other hand holds the yarn, which made in this way 
is very uneven. Occasionally very inferior yarn is made in this way by 
twisting the material with the hand on the lap. American cards are 
now used, and spinning-wheels have been introduced to some extent. 

A loom secured to the ground by its pointed feet was formerly used 
in weaving blankets, but it is now occasionally used in weaving rugs. 

Painting. — Before the introduction of American paints, black paint 
was made from coal, which is still used as a cheap paint, especially 
when painting the face; one kind of red paint was made from a red clay 
obtained by the Twanas about G miles below the reservation on the east 
side of the canal. There is a tradition about that clay as follows: 
" Long ago, before Dokibatt came, this bank was the Klikitat Indians 



636 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

and the opposite side of the canal was the Tvranas. Tiiere was a gam- 
bling contest between the two tribes, and the Kiikitats won the game. 
When Dokil)att came he changed them all to land. For this reason 
the Twanas use the red paint as a charm in dancing, gambling, and 
tamanous; lor this reason also the Twanas are still beaten in such 
contests with other tribes ; i. e., once overcome, always overcome." An- 
other red paint was made from the gnarls of a certain kind of tree found 
in the mountains; the wood passed through some kind of process under 
the ground. 

The juice of berries is also sometimes used for painting faces. 

A white or yellowish paint is said to have been made by burning 
elk horn, })owdering it, and mixing it with oil, A clay-colored paint 
was made from a kind of earth in tlie Twana land. The Klallams ob- 
tain their red paint from a red clay in the Makah land; it is burned 
and mixed with dog-tish oil. 

JJyes, — Cedar bark and grass is dyed black for ornamenting baskets 
by being buried in the black mud of the salt marsh for two days. To 
color the same yellow they are boiled with the bark of the root of the 
Oregon grape for a short time. To color them a deep red they are 
soaked with alder bark. Baskets are imported from the Makahs in 
which tlie grass is dyed purple, crimson, blue, and two shades of slate. 

Sandpaper. — The skin of the dog-fish is used for this, and it is very 
serviceable. 

Ropes and strings. — The largest ropes I have seen made by these In- 
dians are of cedar twigs twisted in much the same style as our own 
hemp ropes, but they look coarser. These are very strong and lasting. 
The largest are made on the buoys employed in catching seal, and are 
three fourths of an inch in diameter. Some one half inch in diameter 
are used for fastening canoes, and those three-sixteenths of an inch are 
utilized in fastening cross-pieces to canoes. Of braided cat-tail they 
make a flat rope, not very durable, about three-eighths of an inch thick 
by three-fourths of an inch broad, which is used for tying paddles into 
bundles, and of the beaten fiber of the same material twisted they 
make strings from an eighth to three-sixteenths of an inch thick, which 
are used in sewing mats together. They are not very strong, but for 
this purpose are good enough. 

The ropes at the ends of the head-bands used in carrying baskets are 
made of the bark of the alder braided. They are about three-eighths 
of an inch thick and five eighths broad. Of the inner bark of the alder 
split and twisted a kind of string is made which is manufactured into 
fishing nets. Another string one-sixteenth to one-eighth inch in di- 
ameter, also used in making nets, is made by hackling and twisting the 
outer fiber of the nettle. This is strong and looks much like linen twine. 
The Klallams make, without special preparation, lines out of the smaller 
part of the help root of about one-eighth inch diameter. When dry it 
is brittle, but when soaked a short time in water it becomes quit* 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 637 

Strong. Flat grass aud strips of bark from au eighth to a half inch 
wide are also used in various ways, especially in making arrows and 
fishing implements. 

Kopes used as hitching ropes, bridles, etc., for horses are made by 
braiding the long hairs from the horses' manes and tails. They are 
made about a half inch in diameter and are very strong and durable. 
Elk, deer, and other skins, both dried and tanned, are cut into thongs 
which are used for various purposes. Fibrous tissue from the deer, 
the elk, and the whale is used in sewing. 

Other processes. — Obtaining oil from the liver of the dog-fish by boil- 
ing has become quite a business, as the oil is in demand by the loggers. 
Gathering oysters and clams, halibut and salmon for American canne- 
ries occupies a number. The Twanas are engaged iu farming more than 
the Klallams and more in logging, but the latter work more in saw- 
mills than the former. 

LOCOMOTION AND TRANSPORTATION. 

Travelling by tcater. — This is the chief mode of travel by these Indians, 
as their land is all situated on the shores of the sound, with its bays 
and inlets. The Klallams are more confined to it than the Twanas, 
owing to the mountainous character of their country, which makes it 
impracticable to visit by way of land any other Indians, while the 
Twanas are obliged to travel at least 10 miles southeast by land iu 
order to reach the waters on which the Skwaksins live, and 30 or more 
to the south to reach the Chehalis Indians, with both of which tribes 
they have considerable intercourse. Trips to these tribes, and occa- 
sionally to Olympia and the Nisqually country, 40 miles to the south- 
east, together with their hunting excursions, constitute the sum of their 
land journeys. All other travel is by water. The Klallams own larger 
canoes and are better navigators than the Twanas, as they live nearer 
the month of the Straits of Fuca, where there is less protection from 
the ocean winds than in the Twana waters. 

On January 30, 1878, I started with about sixty-five Twana Indians, 
in seven canoes, to attend a potlatch. We paddled until it began to 
rain, and also to blow favorably, so that nearly all, except those who 
steered, spent the time in trying to keep dry. A few had oilcloth 
coats, a few umbrellas, but the most of them used their common mats, 
which are almost water-proof. It was rather comical to see a number 
of persons, mostly women and children, sitting in a canoe with a mat 
stretched over them, extending almost from one end of the canoe to the 
other. From a side view, only their heads were visible. Towards even- 
ing, after travelling seven and a half hours, aud making a distance of 
30 miles, we arrived at Seabeck. The next day it rained heavily until 
noon, and they decided not to start again on the voyage until the fol- 
lowing day, as there was a head wind which would prevent their reach- 
ing a shelter before night, and moreover they did not wish to be the 



638 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

first at the potlatcb. Some of them made a fire of pitch wood and cedar 
on a board, then putting their canoes on blocks, about a foot high, they 
placed the fire underneath, moving it along the whole length of the 
canoei?, so as to burn off the moss and other material which might have 
accumulated on the outside of them, but not leaving the fire long enough 
in one place to burn the canoe. They do this to make the canoe run 
more easily. On Friday morning the messenger came to me at 7 
o'clock, saying they were about to start. I hurriedly ate a part of my 
breakfast, and taking the remainder in my hand I started to their ca- 
noes. Four of them had gone, but the one in which I was travelling had 
not even been loaded. This it took them fifteen minutes to do. Then 
it was said one of the company was sick, so they stopped to tamanous 
over him, and it was half past 8 before we started. One more canoe, 
with ten i)ersons, was here added to our company. The wind blew favor- 
ably and strongly, as much so as our crafts would bear. There was a 
fellow-feeling among all, for no single canoe of either set of four was 
allowed to be far away from the rest, for fear of some accident. If one 
could not keep up, the rest waited for it. 

In eight hours we travelled about 35 miles, and arrived at some Indian 
houses, where all camped within 3 miles of Port Townsend. It had 
rained most of the day. We did not stop for dinner, but all ate a 
little dry lunch at noon. At morning and night they had warm meals. 
The next morning they had a short tamanous to obtain fair wind and 
weather. It consisted of singing, jjounding on the drum, and on sticks. 
About 8 o'clock we started and reached Port Townsend in about an 
hour. Here they spent nearly two hours in purchasing things to pre- 
sent to the principal men at the potlatch, and the day being pleasant 
we went on, having a race in which nearly all the canoes took part. 
As there was little wind it was a trial of strength and endurance, and 
was engaged in for mere sport. It was kept up for 2 or 3 miles, until 
one canoe had passed all the rest and the losers were satisfied that it 
was useless to contest further. At about half past 5 we reached our des- 
tination, having made the entire trip in twenty-two traveling hours. 

We set out on our return to Skokomish on the 11th of February at 
11 o'clock. Tbey intended to travel only (» miles, camp at Sequim and 
visit these Indians, but the wind and weather })roving favorable, they 
passed Sequim Bay without going into it, and encamped within 5 miles 
of Port Townsend. They would have gone farther, but the wind was 
blowing so strongly they were afraid to round Point Wilson, which is a 
dangerous place when the sea is rough. Here they cami)ed out, away 
from houses, for the first time on the trip. This they often do in summer, 
but not so in winter if the women and children are along. It was a 
calm night, and they did not make much preparation for camping. 
Some hlept in their canoes, but most of them lay on the ground, and 
some fixed up their sails and mats so as to shelter themselves from the 
wind. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 639 

The next morning I was np at G o'clock and called tbem, but they 
heard the wind blowing and thought it would not yet be safe to go 
around Point Wilson, so tbey did not get up, but in an hour it had 
calmed down and tbey concluded to start ; fearing though that it would 
rise again (as it did soon after), they rose and started without any 
breakfast, teaching Port Townsend tbey remaiued tbere until about 
noon. Then most of them went 3 miles farther and camped; but the 
owners of the smaller canoes feared to go across the bay, as it was very 
rough. 

About 8 o'clock the following morning we again started and to shorten 
the distance some of our i)arty took a route where we were obliged to 
make a short portage. Often in doing this, wben tbere are but few 
persons along, they unload the canoes and take the articles and canoes 
separately across, but this time there were so many along that they 
were able to pull the loaded canoes across, having first laid down sticks 
over which they were dragged. During the day there was another 
race. We reached Port Gamble about 2 o'clock in the afternoon and 
some thought it best to proceed, but the Port Gamble Indians invited 
my companions to spend tbe night with them and partake of a small 
feast, which invitation they concluded to accept. The feast consisted 
chietly of potatoes and rice, cooked in kettles, around which they sat, 
taking tbe food out with their large ladles. After dark the women as- 
sembled in one house and sat down in two rows opposite each other, 
singing for an hour or more, accomi)anied by the drum and the pound- 
ing of sticks. When this was over, two of the Port Gamble women 
made presents of from 5 to 12 yards of calico to each of Twana wouien, 
and after 10 o'clock some of tbe Twanas and Klallanis began to gamble 
and kept up tbeir game until 3 o'clock in the morning. 

Tbe next morning tbere was anotber feast of bread, crackers, and 
coffee, some of which was carried away. It was half past 10 o'clock 
before we left Port Gamble, boping to reach Seabeck, 20 miles dis- 
tant, by nigbt. But soon after starting we met a strong head wind 
which grew stronger. Sometimes, especially in rounding small points, 
we used poles to push the canoes. The Indians seldom carry poles for 
this purpose, but generally use spears. About 3 o'clock in tbe after- 
noon tbe Indians got tired and encamped, only one canoe reaching iSea- 
beck that night, and tbat was the one wbich belonged tbere. Tbe rest 
were scattered, singly and in groups of from two to four, for a distance 
of about 4 miles, and were not together again after this ; but the In- 
dians were now in familiar waters and no longer felt uneasy concerning 
the safety of each otber. I was camped with a party having four ca- 
noes. The wind blew violently that night, the trees constantly falling 
near us, and it rained so tbat it was almost impossible to make a tire. 
A few had tents, others used their sails as shelter, and tbe rest arranged 
tbeir mats on poles placed in a slanting direction so as to keep off most 
of the rain and wind. About 3 o'clock the next moruiug an unusually 



640 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

high tide arose, covering all the beach where we were encamped, com- 
pelling us to leave. The water was fiom 6 to 12 inches- deep in our 
camp before we could get our things into the canoes. So we went back 
to Seabeck for breakfast, reaching the place about 7 o'clock. It was 
a cold ride, as we were wet, and the wind blowing somewhat against us. 
We had to take turns at paddling, to i)revent our suffering from cold. 
Other canoes came in later. Remaining here until half past 10 o'clock 
we again started, and though there was some head wind, we traveled 
15 miles more before 5 o'clock, about which time we made cam[). Six 
of our canoes were in company, the other having remained at Seabeck 
until the next day. That night I witnessed a silent tamauous over a 
sick woman. 

We encamped on as high ground as we could find along the beach, 
but next morning about 4 o'clock the tide was so high as to compel us 
to run for fear of being again submerged. The water came only to the 
edge of our beds. 

Some of the canoes started about 5 o'clock and with a fair wind part 
of the time they reached Skokomi.sh about half past 10 o'clock. Others 
waited until after daylight and did not arrive until two or three hours 
later. Thirty-three hours were occupied in our return trip. 

In July, 1876, I made another trip over the same route with these 
differences in circumstances: The latter trip was with one canoe and 
in the summer. With one man to steer, one to row, and two women to 
paddle, we left Skokomish about G o'clock in the morningand at Go'clock 
we camped on the beach without tents, having traveled 35 miles. The 
next day, the crew wishing to start early, I gave them permission, and 
we were off about 3 o'clock in the morning. They took a cold lunch at 
about 7 o'clock, and at 4 p. m. we were at PortTowusend, 35 miles from 
the last camp; but tlie wind was so strong around Point Wilson that 
they did not dare to venture there, although they were accustomed to 
the place, for they were Klallams and were at home in these waters. 
We were obliged, therefore, to remain at Port Townsend all day. The 
following day the wind died down and they wished to go, but as it was 
Sunday 1 forbade them; but on Monday, at 2 o'clock a. m., we contin- 
ued our journey and arrived at Dunginess about So'clock, havingrowed 
20 miles that day. We had no favorable wind during the whole trip 
and made 90 miles in thirty-one travelling hours, though there was little 
head wind to 0[)pose us. 

In returning we started at half past 4 o'clock, and were at Port Town- 
send by 10 o'clock, where we remained four hours and then set out for Port 
Gamble, which place we reached by half past p. m. There we remained 
for the night with the Indians of that place. The next morning, on 
account of missionary work, we did not leave until 9 o'clock, and during 
the day we were detained about two hours in the same work, so that 
we traveled only 32 miles. The next day by 1 o'clock p. m. we reached 
home, 18 miles farther. Having had a favorable wind most of the time, 
we made the whole distance in twenty-three traveling hours. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 641 

The quickest trip I ever made in one of tlieir canoes was 30 miles iu 
five hours, before a stroug wind, and with two sails a part of the time. 
But at last the wind was so strong we only dared to have one sail. At 
this time I had a good canoe and experienced navigators, or it would 
not have been safe. Few of the Twauas would have dared sail in such 
a wind. 

In addition to the tamanous for wind, mentioned in the account of 
former trijjs, they would, especially in a calm, when they wished for 
a fair wind, pound on the canoe with their paddles or strike the water 
with them, spattering it forward. They also whistled for wind. 

Canoes. — These are dug-outs made from cedar trees. In making them 
they formerly burnt them out, and finished them with the hand adzes 
of stone, but now they universally use American axes and adzes for the 
first part of the work and the hand adzes of rasp for the second part, 
although the finishing touch is put on sometimes with the curved knife. 
After this they are steamed, spread apart at the sides, and fastened 
with round cross-pieces or thwarts about an inch and a quarter in 
diameter. Holes bored through the ends of the cross-pieces and the 
sides of the canoe admit ropes of cedar which keep the cross-pieces in 
position. A rim or gunwale is often made for the upper edge of the 
canoe, about an inch in diameter, which can be replaced when worn 
out. Those in use are of three kinds. Large canoes, which are made 
chiefly by the Indians of British Columbia, and imported, are used 
very extensively by all the Indians on Paget Sound for carrying large 
loads and for dangerous travelling. 

One that I saw was 35 feet long, 5 feet wide in the center, with a per- 
pendicular height from the ground of 3 feet at one point, 2 feet 3 inches 
at another, 1 foot 10 J inches at another, and 4 feet 1 inch at the end. 
There were two places for masts, and a seat for the one who steers. The 
head of this kind of a canoe is a separate piece of wood. Such vessels 
are made both larger and smaller thaii this one, the largest I have 
known being the one exhibited at the Centennial Exhibition, which is 
60 feet long and 8 feet wide. None as large as these are, however, owned 
by these Indians, but a few of the Klallains have some very large ones 
for whaling. The smallest I have seen was about 10 feet long. 

Shovel canoes. — These are very scarce, even among the Twanas, and 
I have seen none of them among the Klallams. They are used in much 
the same manner as the next kind. 

Small canoes. — These are very common, are made by both tribes en- 
tirely of one piece of wood, except that some have the movable rim 
mentioned, and are used for fishing, river travel, and even for going on 
the sound when it is calm and they wish to take only a small load. I 
have travelled 30 miles in this kind on the salt water, but we seldom 
venture far from shore. 

Very few of these Indians own any skiffs or boats of American make, 
as their canoes are much lighter and easier for them to handle, and be- 
H. Mis. 6O0 41 



642 ANTliKOPOLOGlCAL PAPERS. 

ing accustomed to them from iufauc.y they fear uo danger, although a 
white person entering a small one for the first time is apt to be upset, 
and they have uo keels. 

Sometimes two of the large ones are fastened together side by side 
and covered with boards in order to carry a large amount of hay or 
ferry a horse for a long distance on the sound, but not for crossing 
rivers, as there are none in the country so wide that a horse can not 
swim across. 

Poles. — In travelling against a strong wind, especially around points 
of land near shore where the water is shallow, or where ascending a 
swift shallow river, poles about 12 or 15 feet are often used veryef- 
fectively for pushing; generally they are poles connected with the sail. 

Paddles. — The most common form in use is a man's paddle and the 
woman's paddle, a little shorter in the blade and about an inch wider, 
as the stroke of the men is deep and long, and that of the women 
quick and more superficial. These are generally made of maple, but 
occasionally of yew. 

The river paddle which is made by the Chehalis Indians and occa- 
sionally by the Twanas has the advantage that in rivers where logs are 
numerous the end fits onto the log and enables the rower to push the 
canoe where he can not paddle it. 

Oars. — They knew nothing of these until the whites came. Row- 
locks of either wood or iron are now fitted into most of the large canoes 
so that oars can be used, but paddles are also used in connection. In 
dangerous waters they lay aside the oars ami use the paddles entirely. 
They often make oars of fir, sometimes of cedar, and sometimes purchase 
them made of hard wood. The small canoes are propelled exclusively 
with paddles. 

iSails. — These are used with the larger sized canoes, and the largest 
otten have two. Formerly the cedar-bark mats were used, but these 
have now entirely gone out of date, and those of cloth fastened and 
fashioned in shape and style by the American skiff sails have taken 
their place. Many sails are made entirely of Hour sacks. 

Rudders. — Very few cauees have rudders fitted to them according 
to the American style. Most Indians prefer the old way of steering 
with the paddle, for they can steer and i)addle at the same time, and 
the shape of the stern of a canoe is not well adapted to a rudder. Usu- 
ally the best paddle is used for this purpose. Formerly, when slaves 
were owned, it was the business of one of them to steer, for when the 
wind was fair the others could rest while he was compelled to remain 
at his post. Otherwise I have not been able to learn that there is or 
was any place of distinction observed by i)addlers. Now thesteerer is 
selected according to circumstances. If the water is rough and the 
paddling easy, the strongest person and best navigator steers, but if 
tlu' rowing is hard tlie strongest persons are put at this work. 

Anchors.—ThesG were formerly made of stone, but now some kind of 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 643 

iron is used. Most of the smaller canoes have no anchors, being tied 
with ropes or haule<l on shore. 

Bailing vessels for canoes are of several kinds, sonietimes carved out 
of alder wood and without handle. Some are made of cedar bark, the 
handle only being of wood. This is used but very little now. Often the 
water is bailed out with the hand, and old tin vessels of American man- 
ufacture are used. 

TRAVELLING ON FOOT. 

They generally travel only short distances on foot, seldom more than 
10 miles, except in hunting. In coming to the Twana potlatch of 1878, 
however, the Quinaielt Indians came about 100 miles, chiefly on 
foot. In this short journey they often, the women especially', carry 
large loads. The way they usually prefer to do this is to take the car- 
rying strap, tie the ends, which are several feet long, around the load, 
when it is of wood, mats, and such articles, or into the handles of bas- 
kets filled with potatoes, fish, apples, and other small objects. They then 
place the load on the back, and the flat part of the strap around the 
forehead. Formerly these straps were made of some tough bark, such 
as that of alder, braided. Now they use straps woven of strings and 
rags. 

Snoiv-shoes. — These are very scarce and are not often used, except 
for hunting in the mountains in the winter, as the snow is not usually 
deep nor does it lie long on the shores of the sound. 

Land conveyances. — Horses are used much more by the Twanas thau 
by the Klallams, but so little by either tribe that they take very little 
pride in adorning their saddles and trappings. Common American or 
Spanish saddles are generally used ; occasionally their horses shod'. 
For some reason the word for horse, ste-a-Jce-o, is evidently derived from 
the Nisqually word stuk-ai o, meaning wolf, but from what resemblance 
to that animal I have never been able to learn. The same word, stiakeo, 
is found, as I am told, in the Chehalis language, and in all languages of 
the Sound except the Makah and the almost dead Chemakum. 

MEASURES AND VALUES. 

Counting. — The vocabularies for the first ten numerals of the Twana, 
Nasqually (Skwaksin dialect), Chemakum, and Klaliam, are here given; 
to which for the sake of comparison are added those of the languages 
of several neighboring tribes which I have gathered from the members 
of these tribes who are either inter-married or have visited at Skoko- 
mish. These comprise most of the languages spoken on the Sound. 



644 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



1 


Twana. 


Nisqually.* 


Snohomish. 


Dii-kfts. 


Dft-cho. 


Dft-chi. 


2 


Es-sa-li. 


Ts^-li. 


Siili. 


3 


CLo us. 


Kle hu. 


Kle-hu. 


4 


Bii-sus. 


Bos. 


Bos. 


5 


Tsa-liwes. 


Tsil-iits. 


Tsil-^ts. 


6 


I-a-pd-clii. 


Dyil-^-chi. 


I-hits and I-Mchs. 


7 


Tu-kos. 


Tsoks. 


Tsoks. 


8 


Tu-kiC-chi. 


Tu-kri-chi. 


Tu-kc4-chT, 


9 


Hwrdl-i-a. 


Hwail. 


Hwul. 


10 


O-pa-dicli. 


P^-dat8. 


0-lob. 



' The Skwaksin and Nisqually are identical in numerals. 



1 


Chehalis. 


Chinook jargon. 


Kwi-n^i-elt. 


Ot-ses. 


Ikt. 


Pan. 


2 


S^-IL 


Mfikst. 


Sd-li. 


3 


Chiit-li. 


Kloue. 


Chilt-la. 


4 


Mos. 


Lak-it. 


Mos. 


5 


Tsi-lats. 


Kwin-ntlm. 


Ts6-luks. 


6 


Ta-!ifim. 


Ta-hfim. 


Si-tftch-i. 


7 


E-ts6ps. 


Sin-a-mliskt. 


Tsops. 


8 


Tsa-nios. 


St61-kiu. 


Tsa-nins. 


9 


To-hu. 


Kwist. 


Tftg'-\vi-ha. 


10 


Pa-uats. 


Tat-htln. 


Pii-naks. 



1 


Iloh. 


Makah. 


Kwil-li-ut. 


Lik':. 


Tsark wark. 


Watch«. 


2 


KUi-n. 


Attl or utl. 


Klii-hu. 


3 


Kwail. 


Wi. 


Kwii I. 


4 


Biii-yas. 


Boh. . 


Bai-es. 


5 


T^-sl. 


Shut-che. 


Tahs. 


6 


Chi- this. 


Che-patl. 


Chit-liihs. 


7 


Kla-wak-tsis. 


Atl-po. 


Klti-wtik-et-ses. 


8 


Kla-we-tilt. 


A-tles-siib. 


Kla-ut-fil. 


9 


Wetl-hltl. 


Sa-kwas-sClb. 


Walt-ill. 


10 


Chetl-tat. 


Klnh. 


Eks-chi-tdL 



1 


Kwil-li-ut.* 


Klallam. 


Cowichan. 


Welt. 


Nftt-sa. 


Nflt-sfts. 


2 


Klfi-we. 


Ches-sa. 


I-s^-li. 


3 


Kwc1-li. 


K16-hu. 


Kle-hwfts. 


4 


Ma-es. 


Nos. 


Hils-si-ufts. 


5 


StJis. 


Tl-k^chs. 


Til kiits-us. 


6 


Chil-iis. 


Tuhiiug. 


Til-hflm-mtls. 


7 


Ivla-6k-u8-2s. 


Tsoks. 


Tsaks-fis. 


8 


Klau-utl. 


Tats. 


Tdts-fLn. 


9 


Wetl-tatl. 


Til'k-ho. 


T6-o-hwtls. 


10 


Kft-shetl. 


0-pen. 


0-pans. 



*Given by another infoimant, and I presume fully aa correct as the 
former one. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TEREITORY. 



645 



1 


Snrarai. 


Skagit. 


Chemakum. 


Nut-sa. 


Du-cho. 


Kwetl. 


2 


Ches. 


Sii-li. 


Klak-we. 


3 


Kli-hn, 


Kli-hn. 


Kwail-li. 


4 


Ngas. 


Bos. 


Me- 6s. 


5 


Tl-kacli-es. 


Si-liits. 


Ch^-a. 


6 


T-hiiug. 


I-lats. 


Tsit-las. 


7 


Ts^-kwiis. 


Tsoks. 


Tskol-kwvlnt. 


8 


Tats. 


Tu-hri-cl.i. 


Kwai kwunt. 


9 


Ttik-liu. 


Hwftl. 


Kwelts-hail. 


10 


A-pen. 


0-lope. 


Che-ta. 



Tbese languages are arranged in about the order in which the tribes 
speaking them live. In the Twaua schuch-ha-chi, and in theNisqually 
ska suka-chi means hand, hence we have from the same root, for six 
i-a pa-chi in the Twaua, and dzil-a-chi in Nisqually, aud a word for six 
of similar derivation may be found in the Snohomish, Skagit, and 
Kwinaielt; Tukachi, eight, from the same root, is found in Twana, Xis- 
quallj^, Snohomish, and Skagit ; kl-tats is the Klallam word for hand, 
and tats for eight, and this is found in the Cowichan of British Colum- 
bia and Sum-mi, hul-kwunt is the Chemakum word for fingers, and 
it is seen as the origin of their words for seven and eight. 

Sail, two, runs with a little variation through the Twana, Nisqually, 
Snohomish, Chehalis, Kwinaielt, Cowichan, and Skagit, and an exami- 
nation of vol. 1, Contributions to American Ethnology, pp. 262 aud 280, 
shows that a similar sound is in the Shooswaaj), Okinaken, Shwoyelpi, 
Skoj-elpi, Spokan, Kullispelm, Coeur D'Alene, Flathead, Tait, and 
Kuwalitsk. The Hoh, Kwilliut, and Chemakum would would fall into 
a separate class in regard to this word. 

Kle-hu-for, three, slightly varied, is in the Nisqually, Snohomish, Klal- 
lam, Cowichan, Surami, and Skagit, while in Major Powell's work, 
quoted above, the Tait and Kuwalitsk agree with them. In this word 
the Hoh, Kwil-li-ut, aud Chemakum are again similar. The Chehalis 
and Kwinaielt also agree with one another, and in Major Powell's work 
the Shiwapmukh, Shooswaap, Nikutemukh, Okinaken, Wa ky-na kaine, 
Shwoyelpia, Skotyelpi, Spokan, Piskwans, Kalispelm, Kulluspelm, 
Coeur D'Alene, Flathead, Silowab, and Ko-mookhs are similar. 

The word for /o((r, however, in slightly varied forms, easily traced, 
combines more of the languages given than any other numeral ; bales, 
bu-sus, bos, boh, nos, mos, mees, and similar variations are seen in all 
but the Chinook. It is the only numeral which connects the Makah 
with the others, and it shows relationship in all of the tongues, adding 
the Belhoota above, quoted from Major Powell's work, with the excep- 
tion of the Silowat, Tait, and Kuwalitsk; in all, fifteen out of the eight- 
een dialects there given. 

The Chinook is connected witli the Chehalis only by the word for six. 
Singularly, the words for one and ten vary more than most of the 
others. 



646 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

There bad been considerable discussion as to whether words which 
sound alike show a similarity of origin in the tribes speaking them ; 
but Prof. W. D. Wbitney says that numerals and words indicating re- 
lationship are of more value as evidence on this point than any others. 
A further comparison of the four languages which accompau}" this shows 
that the Twaua and Nisqually agree in many points, and the Klallam 
is similar to them in some, but the Chemakum, except in a few instances, 
is different from all the others, and these instances are such that the 
words may have been adopted from the Klallam, their neighbors. Dr. 
Gibbs* is doubtful whether the Chemakums ought to be included in the 
Selish family or not. There is no doubt but they are connected with 
theHohs and Kwilliuts, judging from the numerals and their traditions.! 
Dr. Gibbs is also of this opinion. 

In this connection I would say that a comparison of the manners and 
customs of all the above-named tribes, as far as I have been able to 
learn them, show that they are much the same, varying only as their 
different environments compel them. 

Whether or not similarity of customs shows a similarity of origin 
seems to be an open question. If any customs do, it is to my mind their 
religious rites, for experience and observation prove that they are less 
likely to change these than any other. In customs there is little differ- 
ence among these tribes, the more northern ludians being a little more 
savage. 

The Twana language has another form of numerals for counting 
money, stones, aud small round things, which differs from the form 
given mainly in adding to it lis, elis, alis, or ta lis as a final termina- 
tion. The Skwaksin a second series, used mostly for counting money, 
which is made by adding els. The Klallam has also a secoud form, used 
in the same way as the Twana and formed by annexing ut-hu or aiut- 
hu ; and also a third form for counting animals, which annexes to the 
original eks, iiks, or e iks. In counting large numbers they cut notches 
on sticks to assist their memories. I am not aware that any of them 
knew anything about multiplication before the whites came, except by 
lepeated additions. 

Time. — The year was divided into thirteen moons, for each of which 
they had names, but I have not been able to learn that they had any 
names for particular days. The day-time was divided into dawn, sun- 
rise, forenoon, noon, afternoon, sunset, and dusk, and the night had 
only the division of midnight. The present names of the days of the 
week have been adopted since the whites came among the Twanas. 
They signify holy day, one day past, two days past, etc. 

Length. — They had four standards of measurement of length : (1) from 
end to end of the middle finger outstretched ; (2) from the shoulder to 
the end of the corresponding hand, arm extended ; (3) from the shoulder 

* Vol. 1 Coutributious to Amorican Ethnology, pp. 159-177. 
tSoe Swan's Indians of Cape Flattery, p. 57. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 647 

to the end of the opposite hand, arm extended, and (4) the fathom. In 
travelling the standard was the distance which a person could travel in 
one day. 

I do not know that land was measured, but in all square measure the 
above linear measures were used. 

Quantity. — In measuring articles in bulk their baskets were used, but 
I know of no basket of standard size being used. A person making a 
bargain for a certain number of basketfuls would have to see the bas- 
ket. 

Currency. — The dentalia shell and the abelone shell, or parts of it, 
were the nearest thing to money which they had, the former being the 
most valuable. A species of olivella shell, found in Klallam waters, 
was sometimes brought to the Twanas, by whom it was used partly for 
money. Slaves, skins, and blankets were ialso used for a similar pur- 
pose, or rather for barter, but I have been unable to learn what value 
they put upon them or on the shells, as their values have changed 
greatly since the whites came. The value of the dentalia shell de- 
pended on the size as well as number, a long one being much more 
valuable than a short one. 

WRITING. 

They had no system of writing i)revious to the coming of the whites. 
Since that time a small vocabulary of the Klallam language, by G. Gibbs, 
has been published as No. Jl of Shea's Library of American Linguis- 
tics; another, of the iSTisqually language, by the same author, may be 
found in Major Powell's Contributions to North Amei'ican Ethnology, 
vol. I. A number of vocabularies of the Chinook jargon have been pub- 
lished, a list of which is given in Gibbs's Dictionary of Chinook Jargon, 
published by the Smithsonian Institution.* A small Chinook hymn 
book has been published in connection with the mission of the Ameri- 
can Missionary Association at this reservation, and about two hundred 
words of the Twana language are published in Eells on the Twaua In- 
dians, p. 93. Otherwise I know of no writings or publications in any 
of the languages used among these tribes. 

GAMES AND PASTIMES. 

Gambling. — This is very common, there being but few who do not en- 
gage in it. There are also professional gamblers, who, like the whites, 
generally visit large gatherings, especially i^otlatches, to ply their trade. 
Among the women it is not so common. 

There are three native modes : 

(1) With one or two bones. This is played mostly by young men 
and boys, but sometimes a large game is played by experienced gam- 
blers. The players sit in two rows about G feet apart and facing each 

* Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. vii. 



648 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Other with a loug pole in front of each. There are from one to six 
])layed on each side, but rarely more. Then one person takes one or both 
of these bones and rapildly changes them from one hand to the other. 
One person on the opposite side guesses in which hand it is, or if both 
bones are used he guesses in which hand a certain marked one is. I£ 
he guesses aright he wins, and he or some one on his side plays next; 
but if not, he loses, and the other side continues to play. While one 
man is playing the rest of his party beat with a small stick upon the 
pole in front of them, and keep up a continuous sing-song noise in reg- 
ular time. The sums bet on this game are generally small, say from 
50 cents to $1.50, but sometimes the stakes are much larger. 

Some grow so expert at this game that even if the guess of the oppo- 
nent is right the player can afterward change the bone to the other 
hand without its being detected. 

The tally is usually kept by two of the players, one for each side, 
with sticks 8 or 10 inches long, sliarpened at one end and stuck in the 
ground. These sticks are moved according to the success of either 
party. A modified form of this game is played by using two larger 
bones or pieces of wood. One of these is marked in some way, either 
with a string tied around the middle of it, a carved circle, or if it be of 
wood the bark may be removed except in the middle, where a zone is 
left When the small bones are used, it is optional whether one or two 
be employed, but when they play with the larger ones it is necessary 
that both be used, fur if the player has but one it would plainly be 
seen in which hand it was. 

(2) With round disks. This is the men's game, as a general thing, 
but sometimes all engage in it. There are ten of these disks in a set. 
All biit one have a white or black and white rim. Five of them are 
kept under one hand of the player on a mat, and five underneath the 
other baud^ covered with cedar bark, beaten fine. After being shuffled 
round and round for a short time, one of the opposite party guesses 
under which hand the disk with the black rim is. He tells this without 
a word, but with a peculiar motion of one hand. If he guesses right, he 
wins and plays next; but if his conjecture is incorrect, he loses, and 
the other side continues to play. The two rows of players are 10 or 
12 feet apart. Generally they have six or more sets of these blocks, so 
that if, as they suppose, luck does not attend one set they can try an- 
other. These different sets are marked on the edges to distinguish 
them from other sets. Another way of distinguishing them is by hav- 
ing them of slightly different sizes. They are made very smooth of 
hardwood, sand papered, and then b^' use are worn still smoother. In 
this game they keep tally with a number of sticks, used as checks, 
about 3 inches long. The number of these varies according to the 
amount bet, twelve of them being used, it is said, when $20 is wagered. 
I have never seen more than forty used. They begin with an equal 
number of checks for each party, antl then each side tries to win all, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORy. 649 

one being transferred to the winner each time the game is won. If 
there is a hirge number used, and fortune favors each party nearly 
alike, it takes a long time, sometimes three or four days, to finish a 
game. This game is sometimes played by only two persons, but usu- 
ally there are many engaged in it. In the latter case, when one player 
becomes tired, or thinks he is in bad luck, another takes his place. 

Another form of this game is called the tamanous game. A large 
number of people, who have a tamanous, including the women, take 
part in it, but the men only shuffle the disks. The difference between 
this form of the disk game and the other form consists in the tamanous. 
While one man plays the other members of his party beat a drum, clap 
their hands, and sing, each one, I believe, singing his or her own 
tamanous song to invoke the aid of his special guardian spirit. I was 
lately present at one of these games where forty tally blocks or checks 
were used, and which lasted for four days, when all agreed to stop, 
neither party having won the game. Very seldom do they play for 
mere fun. There is generally a small stake, and sometimes from $100 
to $200 is bet. 

The Indians say that they now stake less money and spend less time 
in gaming than formerly. It is said that in former years as much as a 
thousand dollars was sometimes staked and that the players became so 
infatuated as to bet everything they had, even to the clothes on their 
backs. At present they seldom gamble except on rainy days, or when 
they have little else to do. 

There is no drinking in connection with it. Outside parties some- 
times bet on the game as white people do. 

There is a tradition that when Dokibatt " came a long time ago he 
told them to give up all their bad habits and things, these amongothers ; 
that he took the disks and threw them into the water, but that they 
came back. He then threw them into the fire, but they came out. He 
threw them away as far as he could, but they returned, and so he threw 
them away five times, and every time they came back, after which he 
told the people that they might use them for fun or sport." 

(3) The woman's game. This is played with implements made of 
beaver or muskrat teeth. It is played much after the manner of dice. 
There are two pairs of them. Generally two persons play, one on each 
side, but sometimes there are two or three on each side. The teeth are 
taken quickly in one hand and thrown down on a blanket. One has a 
tring around the middle. If this one is down and all the rest up, or up 
and all the rest down, it counts four; if all are up or down it counts two. 
If one pair is up and the other down it counts one, but if one pair is 
up or down and the other divided (unless it be as above when it counts 
four), then it counts nothing. Thirty is a game, but they generally 
play three games and bet more or less money, dresses, or other things. 
They sometimes learn very expertly to throw the one with the string 
on it differently from the others by arranging them in the hand so that 



650 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

tliey can bold this one, wliicli they know by feeling a trifle longer than 
the others. They often keep tally with small sticks 3 or 4 inches long 
and about the size of a lead-pencil. But if they can they use the bones 
of birds' legs of about equal size. Each one keeps tally for herself It 
is seldom that I have seen this game played, as the women have so 
much to do they have less time at their disposal than the men. They 
can make mats and baskets on rainy days. 

(4) In addition to this a cousiderable number of the men have 
learned to play cards on wliich they bet considerable amounts. This, 
as yet, is the only mode of civilized (?) gambling which they have 
learned. 

FIELD SPORTS AND FESTIVE GAMES. 

Dancing. — This is usually a religious performance. It is, however, 
sometimes practiced for mere sport, and I have seen them thus dance 
until exhausted by their laughing and eftbrts. 

Horse-racing. — As far as I know the Klallams have none of this, but 
a few times during each year the Twanas engage in it. It is usually 
conducted after the manner of the whites as far as they can do so. 

Shooting. — A iield sport which is now entirely out of date was the 
shooting of arrows, the object being to see who could shoot the farthest, 
and large bets were made. The winning arrow would sell for a large 
price. 

Children's plays. — Indian children, like white children, have their own 
special plays, and also imitate the ways of their superiors. Among the 
former are ball, shuttle cock, shinny, and a native game in which there 
are two parties. One side holds some article, while a person from the 
other side advances to get it. The members of first side say all the 
funny things they can, and the opposite can not have the article unless 
their representative can get it without laughing. 

In games of imitation they go through all the motions of gambling 
and tamanous, and these seem to be the principal ways in which they 
mock the older Indians. 

In imitating whites they sometimes have several post-ofQces a short 
distance from each other, with as many postmasters, and a mail carrier 
who carries bits of paper from one to the other, or they will hold a 
council in remembrance of the time when some distinguished person 
from Washington has been here, when they will make speeches, have 
an interpreter, and all things in regular order. Again it will occa- 
sionally be a church, while they go through with the services, or a court 
with judge, jury, lawyers, witnesses, and a criminal. An odd occur- 
rence took place at one of these mock courts some time ago which 
happened to be overheard by their teacher. A boy was on trial for 
drunkenness. When the proper time came the criminal arose and said 
substantially as follows: " Gentlemen, I am a poor man and not able 
to employ a lawyer, so I must plead my own case. The court has been 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 651 

sligbtly mistaken about the case. 1 am a white man ; ray name is Cap- 
tain Chase (a white man living near the reservation). I came to church 
on Suuday. The minister did not know me; as I was well dressed he 
thought I was a good man, and might have something to say, hence he 
asked me to speak. I knew I was not a suitable man to address the 
congregation, but I could not well refuse. So I rose and went to the 
platform, but I had some tobacco in my mouth. I tried quietly to take 
it out and throw it down without being seen, but the Indians noticed it, 
and thought a minister should not chew tobacco, and beside I did stag- 
ger a little. These are the reasons I am on trial here." 

MUSIC. 

Music among these Indians consists more of noise than melody. As a 
rule the Klallams are fixr more musical than the Twanas. The women 
sometimes sing alone when at work, at funerals, and when tending the 
children ; but in nearly all their gambling, war, boat, and religious 
songs the men take the lead. All persons sing the same melody, but 
sometimes the pitch varies considerably with different persons. 

Their instruments are also intended more for rhythm than anything 
else. Indeed, no single one can vary the tone, the only modifications 
being loud and soft. They are used chiefly in their religious perform- 
ances. They consist of the drum, deer-hoof rattles, scallop-shell rattles, 
and hollow rattles made from wood. Those who have no instruments 
pound with small sticks on larger ones, and clap their hands. 

Songs. — These consist of work, patriotic, and boat songs, and songs 
for gambling and the nursery, for love and war, for funeral and relig- 
ious ceremonies. I have known of instruments being used only with 
those for war and gambling, the boat songs, and religious songs, and in 
all of these the aid of their spirits or tamanous was invoked. 

When gambling the singing is universal in the first method described, 
and is accompanied by the pounding on large sticks with smaller ones, 
different songs being sung by opposing parties. The words have no 
meaning. When gambling in the second method there is usually no 
singing unless it becomes a tamanous game, when a drum, one for each 
party, is brought in, and there is pounding on sticks and clapping of 
hands and singing. In this singing I understand that each one is in- 
voking the aid of his or her tamanous, so as to win the game. I was 
present at such game not long since, and when in the house the singing 
was a confused medley on different keys and I could catch nothing of 
it, but when I was a few hundred yards away the sounds had mainly 
blended into song. 

Drums. — These with the Twanas have a square rectangular head, the 
sides of which vary in length from 1 to 2 feet or a little more. They 
are made of deer-skin stretched over a wooden frame. Each one has 
only one head, and on the reverse side two leather thongs or straps are 
crossed at right angles, so as to form a handle. The drum is held with 



652 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

oue band and the drum stick in the other. They are only from 3 to 6 
inches deep, but vary in tone according to size. The KlaUams use the 
same kind of drums, and also have another, which is similar in all re- 
spects except that the head is round instead of rectangular. 

Rattles. — One variety of rattle is made of deer-hoofs, sometimes in 
large bunches. These bunches are held in the hand or fastened to the 
waist while dancing. The Klallams sometimes also use rattles made of 
the scallop-shells which are found in their waters. A hole is made near 
the hinge of each shell, and a number of them are strung on a stick 
about the size of a lead-pencil, which is bent in a circular form and 
serves for a handle. These are shaken edge downwards. If shaken 
side downwards they are likely to be broken, in which case the person 
holding them will, according to their belief, die soon. 

It has been found impracticable to translate American hymns into 
Chinook or to compose hymns in this language which will rhyme. The 
chief peculiarity which I have noticed in making hymns in this language 
is that a large proportion of the words are of two syllables, and a large 
majority of these have the accent on the second syllable, which renders 
it almost impossible to compose any hymns in long, common, or short 
meters. 

ART. 

There is no special class of artists among them as there is among the 
tribes to the north in British Columbia, still they make considerable 
work that is quite artistic on baskets, cloth, leather, wood, etc. 

Their work as a general thing does not equal that of more northern 
tribes, but is fully equal to that of the tribes east and south. All the 
figures on baskets are woven in with colored grass. 

LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE. 

Six languages are in use by these Indians to a greater or less degree. 
The Twana is spoken by those who originally constituted the tribe. 
The Skwaksin dialect of the Nisqually language is employed by a num- 
ber who have become incorporated into the Twana tribe and who now 
constitute about one sixth of it. It is understood also by nearly all of 
the original Twanas, and is used besides by a large number of the 
tribes on the Sound as a means of intercommunication. 

The Chemakum is used partly by a few members of that tribe. The 
Klallam is used by all the members of the Klallam tribe, and dialects 
of the language extend into British Columbia. 

The Chinook jargon has been ably compiled by Hon. G. Gibbs. I 
know of but three words in this locality of Indian origin which are not 
in that dictionary. (1) '^^■hy ., a long time, fowwd in Swan's vocabulary; 
(2) Sto-blo, the north wind, from the J^isqually stobla; (3) Whilom, a 
thread or rope, which is of Klallam origin. Out of about 800 words and 
phrases which answer for words given by him, only about 470 are used 
here, which shows how the same language will vary in diflerent localities. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 653 

MYTHS. 

Thunder and lightning. — The general belief has been that these are 
caused by a great bird fiappiug its wiugs, aud some poiut to trees that 
have been struck bj^ lightning and say that the bird touched these 
trees aud hence they were torn to pieces. Some say they have seen the 
bird, but others do not believe this. A fable by the Indians says that 
tbeUoswailopsh mountain had two wives: Mount Ranier was one, aud 
a mountain near Hood's Canal was the other; Mount Ranier aud this 
mountain quarrelled and Mount Ranier moved away, and now they 
always fight by thunder and lightuing. 

The sun. — In addition to those traditions given in " Eells on the 
Twanas," I give the following from the Klallams : 

" A long time ago there was only oue woman in the world, but no man. 
She made a man of gum and set him up and wished him to become alive 
aud to be her husband. She went to sleep and life came to him. Being 
of gum, he was very sensitive to the heat of the sun, which was much 
hotter then than now. He worked when it was cool aud rested in the 
shade when it was hot. He had some children. One day he went fishing 
and told his wife to look out for him if it became hot; but she went to 
sleep and did not do so, and the heat grew intense aud melted him, aud 
he died. His sous were very angry at the sun for this ; oue of them made 
a bow and very many arrows. He shot them up towards the sun aud 
they formed a chain or roj)e on which the boys ascended, aud found a 
prairie land. They asked the geese, who could then talk, ' Where is the 
man who killed my father?' and the geese pointed in one direction aud 
said ' Yonder.' The boys went in the direction indicated, and came to 
a house where two blind women lived, aud they sat down. As oue 
woman gave some food to her companion oue of the boys took it. 
'Have you received your foodf said the first woman to the other. 
The latter replied ' No,' aud both wondered what had become of it. 
Soon one of the boys said he had taken it and asked ' Where is the 
man who killed my father?' The woman rei)lied, 'Farther on,' and 
gave them a very small basket, in which were six salmon berries. The 
boys went on aud soon found some swallows which could talk, aud 
again they asked, 'Where is the man who killed my father?' The 
swallows said ' In yonder house.' The pair went to the house and found 
an old man piling pitch wood on a very hot fire, so hot it nearly roasted 
the boys, aud this was what made it hot on the earth. They gave the 
old man the six salmon berries, which became very many aud swelled 
within him and killed him. The fire then went down somewhat, aud it 
has not been so hot on the earth since." 

FABLES OF THE TWANAS. 

The pheasant and the raven. — The raven had a trap Jind caught very 
many fishes, but would not give any to the pheasant. At last the 
pheasant went to hunt deer. While he was on his way a deer met 



654 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

liiin, driven by a man. The pheasant killed it, and when he was skin- 
ning it the man stood watchiug him and said, " Well, pheasant, you 
can shoot straight;" but the pheasant thought it was not so. So» 
when the man saw that the i^heasant was not proud, he said that the 
latter would be able to carry the deer nearly home, only when he should 
almost reach his house that it would become very heavy. And so it 
was; for when he was almost home it became so heavy that he could 
not carry it. He laid it down, and his wife came and helped him. 
When the raven heard that the pheasant had killed a deer he sent liis 
sons to carry some fishes to the pheasant, so that he might receive 
some meat in return; but when they were going incothe pheasant's 
house the pheasant drove them out. Then the raven told his children 
to fight with the children of the jiheasaut, and they had a battle. The 
raven's children threw fishes at the pheasant's children, who, in return, 
threw the grease of the deer at the raven's children. The raven sat 
between the two armies, and when the little pheasants threw any 
grease the raven caught it and at« it. After a time the raven went to 
hunt deer. While he was travelling lie met and shot a deer, driven by 
the same man whom the pheasant had met. W^hile he was skinning it 
the man, acting as if he was surprised, said, "The raven can shoot 
straight." The raven was proud, and said, " I can shoot straight, be- 
cause I am a raven." When he was about to carry the deer home the 
man said that when he should nearly reach his house it would turn 
into something else. So, when the raven had almost got home, he 
dropped his game and went and told his wife where to find it. She 
went to the place where he had left the deer, but when she arrived she 
found it had all turned to rotten wood. 

A u'oman and her husband. — At one time there was a woman living 
at ber father's house, and after awhile a man came by night and took 
her for his wife, but soon afterwards he deserted her. After a time she 
took some of her father's slaves and went to the other side of the water 
to hunt for the man, but was unable to find him. So she started for 
home, but after having gone some distance she looked down on the 
bottom of the canoe and saw a man smiling at her. She knew it was 
her husband; he pulled her down, and the slaves saw her no more. 
Some time afterward she made a visit to her parents. At a second 
visit a child was born to her. On a third visit her face was covered 
with some kind of moss. During her second visit her parents wished 
to deceive the man, hence they took a slave with a face exactly like 
that of t^e married woman and started to carry her to the man, but a 
sea-gull cried out and said it v.as not the right woman, so they took 
the true wife and restored her to her husband. This man killed a 
great many fishes and sent them to his father-in-law. After a time 
the woman died and there was afterwards heard a voice crying, which 
was the woman's voice. When this woman's tribe go off to sea they 
always capsize. (Some Indians believe this to be true.) 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 655 

A Colcine Indian and a wolf. — One day a woman espied a wolf swim- 
miug across Colciue Bay. She told her husband, who, wishing to have 
the skin, went lo kill the wolf, but his wife begged him not to do so. 
The man rowed out to the wolf and patted him on the head with his 
I)addle. The wolf looked at hira and threw liis ears back as if he would 
beg for his life. At last they both reached the shore, when the wolf 
did not run away from the man, but stood on the shore and looked at 
him with his ears back. The man, then wishing to deceive the wolf said, 
"I do not want to kill you but was afraid you might drown, so I came 
to help you across. Now, for a reward, I ask this : You must drive as 
many deer to me as you can." So the wolf went into the woods and 
drove home deer until the man's house was filled with meat. Every 
time the wolf came home he would drive home a deer. 

The taming of two young loolves. — There was once a great hunter (who 
the narrator saiil was his father's brother), at one time when out hunt- 
ing who found two young wolves which he thought he might tame, so 
that they would assist him in huntiug deer. He brought them home, 
and when they were partly grown he took them out. While they were 
going along they found the mother wolf, and as the man wished the 
cubs to grow fast he took her too. After that this hunter never failed 
to kill deer. " This," said the narrator, "only shows how animals can 
understand and act well to those who are kind to them." 

Although there is something fabulous in the former of these last 
two stories, if not in both, the}^ may show how the Indian dogs were 
first obtained by domesticating wolves. 

DOMESTIC LIFE. 

Marriage. — Among these Indians marriage by purchase was formerly 
the universal custom, and even now they are loath to abandon it. It 
is customary for a man to seek for a wife within a certain circle of his 
relatives. I knew a widower of i^erhaps forty-five or fifty years who 
sought to marry a woman properly related, but being refused he was at 
liberty to seek for one wherever he wished. He found a girl not over 
fifteen years of age among the Skwaksins, not as old as one of his daugh- 
ters, and married her. Her father consented to the marriage and she, 
although reluctant, was obliged to submit. It is not often that a mar- 
riage takes place where either party strongly objects, but oftentimes 
the relations consult the parties to some extent, doing at the same time 
most of the courting for them. 

Usually a man's relatives help him to pay for his wife from $100 to 
$400 worth of money, blankets, guns, horses, and such articles, which 
are given with many si^eeches and much ceremony, something being 
said as each article is presented, the whole occupying one or two days. 
Occasionally the parties live together for some time, even a year, be- 
fora this formal ceremony takes place. 

Marriages with other tribes are common. The Twanas are intermar- 



656 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

ried with the Cliebalis, Skwaksiii, Nisqaally, Pnyallup, Snohomish, 
Port Madisou, Lummi, Chemakum, and Klallam Indians, and the Klal- 
lams with the Twaua, Snokomish, Chemakum^, Makah, Kwilleut, Nitti- 
nat, Cowichau, Sook, Victoria, and Summi Indians. It is very common 
when an Indian begins to speak of his ancestry to find tLiat there is the 
blood of some other tribe in his veins, through either the jiarents or 
grandparents. The children belong to the tribe of the father usually, 
and the mother is adopted into the same tribe, though there are occa- 
sional exceptions to this rule. At one time I saw a Klallam man who 
had just married a Nittinat woman, and when they were married the 
man could talk the Klallam and Chinook languages but not the Nitti- 
nat, and the woman could not speak either Chinook or Klallam. The 
Twanas, Klallams, and Chemakums are also intermarried with the 
whites. Very few of either tribe have more than one wife each, the 
custom of the whites and the law of the agent preventicg new cases of 
polygamy, although those who formerly had more than one wife have 
not been compelled to give them up. 

Children and their cradles. — A few have adopted cradles on rockers, 
similar to the poorer ones of the whites, but the old way of bedding in- 
fants is by far the most common. For this they take a board a little 
longer and a little wider than the chikl, or hollow out a thick cedar 
board, about the same size, to tbe depth of an inch. In either case they 
place on this board beaten cedar bark, on which they lay the child, 
who is then covered with cloth and tied to the board b}^ strings which 
pass through the holes in it. The hollowed form is more common with 
the Klallams, and the other with the Twanas. A cap of cedar bark, 
usually of Makah make, is sometimes used by the Klallams as a cover 
to protect the babies from the smoke. 

The practice of flattening the head, which was formerly common, is 
now ceasing. It has so often been described that I can say nothing new 
about it. Some who have had the head flattened in infancy seem to 
make as good scholars as those who have not been thus treated. One 
Indian attributes much headache to this cause. 

Naming children. — Usually they are not named at as earlj an age as 
with the whites, but when one, two, or three years old. Formerly, 
when the name was given, a feast was made and presents given to the 
guests. An Indian may change his name once or several times during 
his life ; sometiuies he does so when one of the same name dies, as it is 
not good etiquette to pronounce the name of the recently dead. Two 
or three years after death the name of the deceased may be mentioned; 
and with the Klallams, at least, a person may take the name of his de- 
parted father, grandfather, or other direct paternal ancestor. Often 
when this is done, the j)ersou thus changing the name makes a feast 
and gives presents. Nearly all the men, women, and children have 
"Boston" names which they have received in various ways. Some of 
these are a combination of Indian and American names and constructed 
utterly regardless of taste. 



INDIANS OF WA«IIlNGITpN TERRITOKY. 657 

SOCIAL LIFE AND CUSTOMS. 

Eating. — Generally they^eat three times a day. At a visit of seventy- 
five Twanas to tlie Khillains of Port Gamble, they feasted three times 
during- one night, closing at 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. The feast- 
ing was interspersed with gambling, conversation, and the giving of 
presents. In December, 1878, the Duuginess Indians and some In- 
dians from Port Discovery were invited to a feast at Sequin, which 
lasted two nights. They feasted first at one house, where they taman- 
oused in a manner similar to that described as occurring at the same 
place two years previous, and made presents ; after this they went to 
another house and did the same, then they repeated the same perform- 
ances at a third house, and closed about 2 in the morning. On the 
next night they went through the same acts and ceremonies; fourteen 
boxes of biscuitand a barrel of sugar were consumed or carried away by 
about one hundred and twenty-five persons, men, women, and children; 
quite an amount was carried away by them, this being customary. 
Very often their feasts occur in the day-time, and consist of only one 
meal if the guests are few. There is more or less feasting at all their 
large gatherings, including those for religious purposes. 

Fotlatchcs. — A peculiar custom with the Indians in this region is the 
potlatch, which takes its name from the Chinook word, meaning to give, 
as the most prominent feature in it is the distribution of gifts. I have 
never heard of this custom existing farther south than the Columbia 
River or farther east than the Cascade Mountains, but on the west it 
extends to the Pacific Ocean, and on the north into Alaska, a rich 
chief there having in 1877 made one at which four thousand Indians 
are said to have been present. It seems to be chiefl}' confined to 
those Indians who live near the salt water, as it would be diflicult 
for thoie who have to travel on horseback to carry the amount of 
articles which they have need of on such occasions. How old the 
custom is no one seems to know. A iiart of the ruins of a very old 
potlatch house were found while digging below Port Gamble. The 
origin of the custom is supposed to be as follows: A chief wishing to 
gain the favor of his people gathered them together and madepresentsto 
them; after a time this was repeated and people of other tribes were in- 
vited on account of friendship, and the compliment was returned; chiefs 
or other persons who wished to become prominent followed the example 
until the custom grew to its present proportions. Now nearlj^ all the 
surrounding tribes are invited and almost every individual, both man and 
woman, feels bound once, at least, to have a share in giving a potlatch; 
the potlatches now become so expensive that seldom does a single person 
feel able to make one, hence many combine their resources for this 
I^urpose. 

Often a person will save everything possible for years in order to give 
it away on such occasions, and when one feast is done they will begin 
H. Mis. 600 42 



658 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

to save for another. In the distribution all do not receive equal 
amounts, but special friends, the young and strong and those who are 
planning to make a potlatch, generally receive the most in the hope tiiat 
they may return the compliment at some future time, but the old and 
those not likely to give such an entertainment receive but little, it 
being a poor investment to give to such persons. Potlatches are the 
greatest festivals of these Indians. 

Tamanous ceremony and social intercourse, including feasting and the 
distribution of presents, are the prominent features of the occasion, 
while as side ghows they have courting and gambling, the latter being- 
very prominent. 

These feasts do not occur with any regularity, and there are many 
old persons who have not taken part in giving more than one potlatch 
in their lives. Abouc the year 1808 one was given by a number of 
Twanas. In 1876 another was given to a totally different set of the 
same tribe, and in 1878 another was given by them in which only one 
man participated who was present at one ten years previously. Others 
of those engaged in 1868 had intended to take part, but some of their 
children having died they gave way so much at theirfunerals that they 
had nothing left to share in the potlatch. 

I was present at a potlatch given by several Twanas on the Skoko- 
mish reservation in October, 1876. For many years they had been pre- 
paring for it. Old women went in rags, while filling trunks with 
calico to give away at this time. Of these boxes of dry goods some had 
been deposited in my hands for more than a year. In the winter of 
1874-75 they began the erection of the house, working only a day or 
two at it now and then ; but in the summer following the leader of the 
affair died and nothing more was done until the spring of 1870, when 
others took hold of it and half finished it. They set the time for the 
potlatch in August, but because they were not ready deferred it for one 
mouth and then for another. Two or three weeks previous to the event 
they agciin went to work at the house and finished it. It was by no 
means large enough for all who were present, but mat houses, tents, 
and other temporary shelters were put up around it by various persons. 
About the 14th of October they sent runners to the various surround- 
ing tribes and on the 29th the first installment arrived, consisting of 
about a hundred Chehalis Indians. They came in wagons and on 
horseback to within about 4 miles of the house — as near as they could 
because of water. Here they were met by a leader of the potlatcb, and 
after considerable speech-making they camped for the night. The next 
day the Twanas sent six large canoes to take them to the house. At 
noon they rowed past the agency, 1 mile from camp, abreast, singing a 
solo and chorus, accompanied by drumming on two drums and pound- 
ing on canoes. After passing the agency they broke line and so went 
on for a mile or more until they came in sight of the ])otlatch house, 
when they again formed abreast and rowed to the house in alignment 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. G59 

with their music. At landing there was more ceremony, for the visit- 
ors had brought many presents. Each present was held by the donor 
while he made a speech, after which he gave it to aTwana, who replied 
to the speech, when the gift was handed to the one for whom it was 
intended. 

These presents consisted of calico, blankets, two beeves, dried meat, 
and money {$iiO having been counted as coming from one canoe), and 
seemed to be given to the prominent Twanas. The Chehalis then landed 
and went to one part of the house Rssigued them, where they took 
lodgings. The whole performance occupied three hours and was longer 
than that of any other tribe. Two days afterwards the Klallams came 
in sight and when about 3 miles away a member of the Twanas went 
into a canoe to meet them and learn their wishes about lauding, this 
being the common custom. 

They learned however that while the Klallams were coming, a child 
had been killed by the caving of a bank. The child had some relations 
among the Twanas, who immediately began a mourniug. The Klallams 
stopped on the beach at a Twana burying-ground, a mile from the jjot- 
siatcn house, where they left the corpse in a box on a log, covered with 
mats and blankets, as they intended to take it home with them on their 
return Here a canoe-load of the Twana relations of the child came, 
and there was mourning again, but it did not last very long, and after 
it was done the Klallams entered their canoes, went a half mile farther 
and camped, most of the afternoon having been thus consumed. The 
next morning they all came abreast close to the shore near the house in 
about fifteen canoes, singing and dancing and pounding on drums, ca- 
noes, and boards. It was intended that this should be the grand re- 
ception, as the Klallams are about the best musicians and performers 
on the Sound, but a strong wind arose so that it was hardly possible 
for the canoes to remain long near the water's edge. While they were 
in front of the house they sung solos and choruses, some of them 
holding guns and paddles in their hands and jumping up and down. 
One had a rattle. Some had on cedar-bark bands, which had eagles' 
and hawks' feathers and wings in them. The faces of the majority were 
painted — many black, a few red. After a few minutes of this perform- 
ance the Twanas replied to them from the beach in a somewhat similar 
way. Some of the faces of the Twanas were blackened a little, but not 
as much as those of the Klallams, and they had neither rattles, head- 
bands, guns, or i)addles. 

Thus, the salutation and reply were kept up for about half an hour, 
when the Klallams landed with no further ceremony and went to their 
quarters in the house. 

The ceremonies of landing were a slight part of the black tamanous 
and the only performance of the kind during the potlatch,and this was 
the only reception in which the Twanas replied to the songs of their 
guests. 



660 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Other tribes kept coming every day or two for two weeks, and the 
reception was much like that already described. Generally, they were 
met 2 or 3 miles before reaching their destination by some of the Twa- 
nas, who learned their wishes about landing and directed preparations 
to be made accordingly, and commonly they brought some presents of 
cloth, food, and money and danced and sung, but a few landed without 
any ceremony. When they had all arrived it was estimated that there 
were from a thousand to twelve hundred present, comprising, besides 
those already mentioned, Skwaksiuo, Nisqually, and Port Madison In- 
dians and a few from the Snohomish, Lummi, and Puyallup reservations. 

They who lived farthest off had come a distance of about 150 or 175 
miles, but these had relations by marriage among the givers of the pot- 
latch. Generall}^ the evenings were occupied with dancing of some 
kind, either serious or comic. Frequently one whole evening was al- 
lotted to the dancing of one tribe. These dances were accompanied 
■with drumming, singing, and clapping of hands. In dancing they 
jumped up and down, sometimes joining hands in a circle, and some- 
times each one dancing singly, jumping the whole length of the house. 
At times the men alone danced, and again the women joined them, 
generally having a part of the circle to themselves. Once almost all 
joined in the dance, having green branches in their hands. On this 
occasion they danced at one time without progression, and at another 
time they moved around from one end of the house to the other. The 
Klallams gave one dance, difficult to describe, in which men only par- 
ticipated. In this a leader, j^ainted, with eagle wings and feathers 
dangling from his head, and arrayed in a long blanket, played very 
curious antics with contortions of his neck, hands, and entire body, 
while the rest stood near him, jumping up and down to their music, and 
afterwards all dressed in striped shawls and blankets, danced the whole 
length of the floor Avith many absurd maneuvers. I think this was a 
war dance. One dance was said to be in memory of a deceased child, 
after which presents were made by friends of the child to some of the 
Twanas. Thus almost every evening was occupied from the time of the 
arrival of the lirst until the close of the affair, a period of three weeks. 

There was more or less gambling during the day-time and occasionally 
at night, but few, comparatively, being engaged in it at any one time. 
Sometimes the gambling was accompanied by music. Once it was said 
there was a bet on a game of $200 in money, together with several horses 
and guns, but the parties played until 6 o'clock in the morning and then 
stopped, neither iiarty winning. 

Generally they gambled with disks, but sometimes with the pairs of 
bones or cards already described. There are said to be professional 
gamblers among them who visit such gatherings, without an invitation, 
in order to ply their avocation. 

There was much of tamanous in connection with the dancing, and 
one evening was wholly occupied in a tamanous over a sick woman and 
child. There was some of this in the day-time also, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 661 

The Twauas, from their own resources or from the presents which 
they received, were expected to feed their guests most of the time. 
Sometimes they gave the food to the visitors, who cooked it for them- 
selves, but once or twice a day commonly they both cooked and dis- 
tributed the food. When this was done, they seated their guests in 
the middle of the house in two rows on mats. When the meal con- 
sisted of boiled rice, wheat, or fish it was placed before them in large 
kettles, from which they helped themselves with their native ladles ; 
but when it consisted of berries and crackers, bread, apples, potatoes, 
and dry food it was placed in troughs, made of 6-inch boards, 8 or 10 
feet long and three-sided. Sometimes, when the meal was over, two 
persons would stand, one at each end of a long row of eaters, holding 
tightly before their faces a piece of calico on which all would wipe their 
mouths. They then arose and departed. 

The potlatch or distribution of gifts took place in the day-time, two 
days after all had arrived. The women first gave away their things, 
and afterwards the men did the same. The gifts of the women were 
chiefly new calico, with a few dresses and a little money. Each giver 
gathered those to whom she wished to make presents in two rows fac- 
ing each other, in the middle of the house; next she placed her trunks 
at one end of the rows, took out the j^ieces, laid them in a j)i\e or two, 
counting them over, then, taking one or two things at a time, she carried 
one to each woman. Each piece contained, commonly, between 5 and 
9 yards. Occasionally two or three women combined together and gave 
at the same time, if they were not very wealthy, but the richer ones 
gave each by herself. About thirty women thus distributed their gifts. 
Often several gave to the same person ; though every woman present 
did not receive gifts, only those who were preferred. Three of the 
more prominent women gave away about one hundred pieces each, and 
I am not aware that any woman gave to more than this number of per- 
sons. If all averaged half as much, they gave away nearly 10,000 
yards, and this was the best estimate I was able to make of it. This 
occupied about two days and a half. A day and a half was then 
consumed by the men, who gave money chiefly, but occasionally blankets 
and a few guns. The recipients were arranged much as with the 
women, but were all men, and the distribution was conducted in much 
the same style. There were ten male donors, each of whom gave, gen- 
erally, from $1 to $2 to each of his friends, so that most of the latter 
received from $2 to $10 each; some got more, and one who was ex- 
pected to make a large potlatch in a year or two received $40. They 
gave on an average a little over $300 each, and the whole sums given 
away amounted to about $3,300. A few of the donors borrowed some 
of this money from their friends with considerable ceremony, promis- 
ing to repay. One Indian who received a nice beaded cloak and some 
other articles put them on a fire, where they were consumed, in mem- 
ory, it was stated, of a deceased child. 



662 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

The distribution of gifts was the last sceue, for then the visitors put 
their things in their canoes and left with very little ceremony as quickly 
as possible, and in three weeks from the first arrival the house was de- 
serted by the visitors. It is considered by them a breach of etiquette 
to remain in the house any longer than absolutely necessary after the 
gifts are distributed. A few of the Twanas remained in the house, 
using it as a dwelling, for a month or two, after which it was deserted 
for nearly two years, and some things about it suffered to go to ruin. 
This whole affair occurred 3 miles from my residence. I was not able 
to be there all the time, but was present a few evenings and a part of 
nearly every day and gathered what information I could from others 
who were there in my absence. 

Another potlatch took place at Jamestown, in Clallam County, and 
was giv^eu from February 2 to February 10, 1^78, by a part of the In- 
dians of that place. The house was built for a large dwelling a j'ear 
or two before, the potlatch, however, being in contemplation, and was 
about 32 by 84 feet. It was by no means large enough to hold all of 
the Indians who attended, but in the village there were about a dozen 
dwellings, in which some of the visitors were received. The beds and 
seats of this potlatch house were much the same as that of the Twanas, 
but the shelves overhead for the storing of articles were differently 
arranged. Instead of being all around the house over the beds, they 
were along the side walls, with one shelf across the middle of the house. 
The two at the ends were used chiefly for storing articles belonging to 
the visitors, and the central one was for storing food, which included 
sixty sea-biscuit and a few half barrels of sugar, brought by the guests 
and presented to their hosts. In one corner a blanket was fastened up, 
evidently to make a screen for a dressing-room. I was present nearly 
all of the time, having been requested by the Twana and Klallam chiefs 
and the Indian agent to go, in order to oversee the festivities and pre- 
vent any conduct that might tend to produce a disturbance. 

The invitation was received at Skokomish on the 20th of January, 
and on the 30th we started, and arrived at Dungiuess on the evening 
of February 2. The morrow being Sunday, I induced them to land 
at once, instead of postponing it until next day as is usually their cus- 
tom when reaching a potlatch place in the evening. My companions 
preferred that I should not be with them during the reception and hence 
I went ashore in a Klallam canoe which came to meet us. 

About ten canoes from Sook, in British Columbia, had arrived that 
morning, with perhaps one hundred and twenty-five Indians ; twenty, 
five persons from Port Discovery, the same number from Port Town- 
send, and forty from Sequim had arrived during the day; sixty from 
Port Gamble had also arrived within a day or two. 

That evening was given to the Twanas, who sang and danced the 
black tamanous. In the dance each remained in one place, and, to keep 
time to the music, jumped up and down a little or bent the knees. Their 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 063 

faces were also blacked in various ways. In fact, from this time for 
five days the faces of most of the Indians present, men, women, and 
children, were blacked more or less, some during the whole time. The 
paint was laid on in diverse patterns of stripes and spots, and some 
were wholly in black, others in red or black. The next day being Sun- 
day, most of them attended divine service; but they were too much 
excited to give up the whole day to rest, so in the afternoon a number 
of the women assembled in one of the large dwelling-houses in the vil- 
lage, sat down on mats in two long rows, facing each other, and pounded 
with small sticks (1 J or 2 feet long) on larger sticks and boards in front 
of them, and sang for some time. There was a second performance in 
another house afterwards by the women, in which they sang much as 
before, only they were accompanied with the drum, and were seated in 
a large circle. Within this circle two women and four girls danced. 
These six dancers, being graduated in size, arranged themselves accord- 
ingly, from the tallest to a child about eight years old. Their shawls 
were pinned behind their backs so as to cover their hands, which were 
extended about a foot and a half from their bodies, and they danced 
around a circle 8 or 10 feet in diameter. The evening was given to the 
Sook Indians in the potlatch house. For a time they danced in one 
end of the house in a manner similar to that of theTwanas the previous 
evening, but with more jumping, and their singing was more varied and 
quite wavy. After a tima two of them stripped to the waist, and, with 
their drawers rolled above theirknees, ran forward the whole length of 
the house, striking at everything and everybody within their reach, 
their arms constantly swinging around them; sometimes they went 
down on all fours, and, having snuffed the ground, rose again. Around 
the waist of each was tied a rope which extended back 6 or 8 feet, and 
was held by another Indian, who frequently jerked it, sometimes throw- 
ing the tied man to the ground. 

Another dancer had a hideous mask on his face and a blanket on his 
shoulders, bat his actions were not so fierce as those of the other two. 
He often sat down. When these were done, other Sook men came, 
shaking rattles, beating drums, singing, and going back and forth in 
the bouse and scattering the people who were standing around. This 
performance was kept up until late at night. 

Monday forenoon was spent at a feast, to which men only were bid- 
den. Beef and potatoes were cooked thus : A large number of stones 
v^-ere placed in a fire out of doors, and when hot the food was placed 
on them, covered with small dry bushes and mats, and so kept until it 
was cooked. At this feast the Indians did not eat in the main pot- 
latch house, but at the residence of one who helped to give the pot- 
latch, and who was the sole giver of this particular feast. The ludiaus 
all ate around the house on the platform made for beds, and the long 
trouglis for food were placed in front of them on the same platform. 
Most of these troughs or plates were similar to those, used in the Twana 



664 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

potlatcli already described, but some were dug ont of wood, were o or 
6 feet long, 2 or 3 iuclies deep, and about 10 inches wide. There was 
one which was dug out roughly, about 24 feet long and the same width 
as the others. Whatever food was not eaten was carried away, and 
after the feast was over crackers were given the guests on purpose to 
be carried off. 

For napkins they used small bundles of beaten cedar bark about 2 
feet long, which are very desirable, as in these feasts they eat with their 
hands. As soon as the meal was finished there was to be some kind 
of performance by the medicine men, and no other persons were allowed 
to remain. In the afternoon, as I returned from my dinner, I saw a 
masked Indian, the same I suppose that was masked the night before, 
and three others similar to the two half-naked men of the previous 
night, dancing backward and forward for a distance of about 100 yards 
on the beach in front of the houses. The masked dancer went through 
some performances not fit to be described. Their dance consisted 
chiefly in running around with ropes encircling them, held by others, as 
on the previous night. This dance continued until about 2 o'clock 
p. M., when they danced off into the woo'ls, followed by forty or fifty 
of their friends, with the singing, etc. They all formed a large circle 
as they moved oft', and did not return until 5 o'clock, when they reached 
the beach a quarter of a mile from where they left it. Some three of 
them, apparently tired out, .were each jerked up by six men wrapped in 
blankets and carried into the potlatch house. One walked in supported 
by attendants. I have inquired frequently the meaning of this cere- 
mony, and could get only the answer, " It is their tamanous." I infer 
it was an initiatory custom with the black tamanous. Some of them, 
I heard, were starved a part or all of the time. Oue young Klallam half- 
breed, it was said, was told that he would be obliged to go through 
some such initiatory ordeal at this potlatch, and he delared he would 
rather run awayaud hide until it was over, but the Port Discovery 
Indians took him some time before the festival, guarded him closely, 
and compelled him to submit. I suppose this was true, as he was not 
seen anywhere until the ceremony was over. While these scenes were 
being enacted the women met and sang in their usual way, and when 
I asked why they did so I was told that they were tamanousing in order 
to get strong minds towards the men. 

Towards evening the Indians of Elkwa, Pisht, and Klallam Bay 
arrived, and landed with considerable ceremony, dancing, drumming, 
rattling, singing, and making presents. The presents were generally a 
blanket or a few dollars to each one making the potlatch. Oue man 
gave the head potlatches eight or ten small sticks about 3 feet long, a 
promise, it was said, that he would, after reaching the house, give his 
host $150 in money. There were also a few more large presents given 
to the same man, which were kept, and returned to the givers at the 
close of the potlatch, so that the presenting was a mere form. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 665 

Many of them bad the down of ducks on their heads and blankets. 
Before they reached the house a few Elkwa Indians, who had previ- 
ously arrived, ran along the beach and entered the Elkwa canoes, so as 
to land with their own people. This was the last arrival. Some were 
invited from Victoria, but did not come. Those present were, as near 
as I could estimate : Twanas, from Shokomish, 90 miles distant, eight 
canoes, seventy-five persons; Sook Indians, from British Columbia, 
from 40 to 75 miles away, ten canoes, one hundred and twenty-five per- 
sons ; Klallams, from Elkwa, Pisht, and Klallam Bay, 25 to 75 miles 
distant, five canoes, seventy-five persons ; from Port Angeles, 20 miles 
distant, twenty persons ; from Port Discovery, 7 miles, twenty-five per- 
sons ; from Sequim, 6 miles, forty persons; from Port Townsend, 25 
miles, twenty-five persons ; from Port Gamble, 40 miles, five canoes, 
sixty persons; at Duuginess, one hundred. Total, five hundred and 
forty- five. 

The evening was given to the Elkwas, and their performances were 
similar to those described. On Tuesday I was not present, but was in- 
formed that gambling and the giving away of calico were the principal 
features of the day. 

On Wednesday forenoon the Indian who was to give the feast, Tenas 
Joe, made his potlatch in his own house, and in the afternoon there 
was a dance given by four girls, graduated in height. These were led 
by two old men. Some handkerchiefs and other articles were burned 
on a fire in memory of the wife of Tenas Joe, deceased. In the evening 
the Klallams danced their war dance, which was rather pretty and was 
said to be an imitation of the Makah dance. There were nearly twenty- 
five dancers, mostly men, who were dressed in American style, except 
that they had no shoes and wore parti-colored shawls and blankets 
thrown around them. One man carried an open umbrella. Their heads 
were bound with head-bands of cedar bark or kerchiefs, in which were 
long white or gray feathers generally tipped with red. Much feathery 
down was sprinkled over them. They had hollow wooden rattles and 
tails and wings of hawks or eagles in their hands. Their faces were 
blacked in various ways. With the music of the drum and singing 
they jumped around in a space 20 feet in diameter, throwing their arms 
wildly about, now up, now nearly to the ground, with movements quick 
as those of a cat in the midst of hot fire. That evening six of the prin- 
cipal potlatches gave me $7.50 to pay for my .board while watching over 
them. 

About 11 o'clock A. M. the finale of the black tamanous began. First, 
five men came out of the potlatch house to an open space in front of it. 
They were stripped to the waist, with no pantaloons on, but with 
drawers rolled up above their knees, and with shawls thrown over their 
shoulders. Each wore a head-dress consisting of a band, from which 
hung a large number of strips of cloth of various colors, but mostly 
red, about an inch wide and 12 or 15 inches long.* So many of these 



GGS ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

strips huDg ill front that it was impossible to catch a glimpse of the 
face. Their legs were painted with stripes of red, and wet with water 
to imitate blood. They jumped around in many ways, high and low, 
sometimes running and clapping their hands, while the other Indians 
accompanied them with the usual chanting and black tamauous music. 
After a few moments they ran back into the house. Then about as 
many more came out in much the same garb as those seen ou Sabbath 
evening and Monday afternoon, with ropes around their waists held by 
others. These had cut themselves slightly under their tongues and 
chins, so that the blood ran down their arms and breasts a little, and 
their faces were so black that it was impossible for me to recognize 
them, although well acquainted with some of them. They jumped 
around much as the previous set had done, and then went back to the 
house. Then the first set again came and performed in the same way 
as before, and ere they returned the second set were out again, but 
some of them were not held this time by the ropes. Such actions as 
these were kept up for nearly three quarters of an hour, when one set ran 
off up the beach for 200 or 300 yards, accompanied by their friends, both 
men and women, and soon the other set followed in a similar manner. 
I judged from appearances that I was not wanted, so did not go. They 
remained there about two hours, while I w^ent to dinner, and the per- 
formers, it was said, were washed by the others. After this they came 
back. The first set were in front, surrounded by their friends, who 
kept up the usual noise. They ran towards the water as they advanced 
and then away from it a few rods, so that they moved along the beach 
very slowly. After them the second set came in a similar way and 
three women had by this time become so excited that they also danced as 
the men did, but in their usual dress. After them came a third com- 
pany following one boy. He had on a shirt and pair of i)autaloons, 
rolled up above his knees, and on his head a band with a very long 
feather standing up in it. He walked into the water knee deep, bowed 
his head until he dipped the tip of his feather in the water, then he 
walked slowly up the beach for about 2 rods, then went into the wate^; 
again as before, and so advanced along the beach very slowly towards 
the house. This was said to represent a crane, and is called the crane 
tamanous. I understood that this boy, who was about fourteen years 
old and was a Klallam, was being initiated into this kind of tam- 
anous. When each company came near the house each dancer was 
seized by two or three persons and hurried, half running and half car- 
rie«l, into the potlatch house. Two or three times I asked them what 
this was intended to teach and could only get the answer, " It is their 
tamanous." So I could oidy look on and gather most of my informa- 
tion in this way. As these are the rites of a secret society it is not 
strange that the members do not explain them to the uninitiated. After 
all went into the house two coiui)anies were formed, one at each end, 
and there was a strife to see which should conquer ; but the house was 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 667 

SO crowded it was impossible to see what had become of the daucers 
who were outside. A uew dance was nov/ performed. In this a num- 
ber of men, taking hold of each other's hands, formed a circle about 12 
feet in diameter and ran around a pole which was set in the ground. 
Outside of this circle was another running in an opposite direction, and 
outside the second was a third going in the same direction as the first. 
Tliere was no confusion and they kept good time to the usual noises. 
After this they formed sides to push against one another, each endeavor- 
ing to push the other from its position. There was not room inside for 
any one who did not wish to be pushed, so I stepped outside. The fun 
continued about two miuutes and ended in a hearty laugh, which closed 
the scene for the afternoon. In the evening all dancing was carried on 
in one-half of the house. A large fire was built in the center of that 
half. At the end of the house I saw four of the heads adorned with 
head-dresses of cloth strips which I had seeil during the day. I sup- 
pose they belonged to the first set of daucers. Their bodies lay prone 
underneath the bed platform. Each one, held down by a single man. 
kept his head constantly moving from side to side, and one groaned 
most of the time. They evidently struggled to rise, and during the 
evening one did get up, and it required two or three men to put him 
down again. Most of the company were seated around the side walls. 
Soon oue man of the company arose, took a hollow wooden rattle, said 
a few words, and walked around the fire, frequently makingsome motion 
towards the men who were held down. Having gone around the fire 
once or twice, he shook the rattle towards some one, whereui^on ten or 
fifteen men jumped up, ran around, threw their arms wildly about them, 
bent down almost to the ground, and went through various antics ; at 
times two or three would catch hold of each other and jump up and 
down together; then one or two woul I seize the one with the rattle with 
feigned violence and exertion, feigned, I suppose, because only once dur- 
ing the evening did I see him brought to the ground, while he seemed 
to make little eftbrt to stand up. This would occupy about five minutes, 
during which the music ceased not, when all would return to their seats, 
and the leaders would lay down the rattle. Then another would take 
the rattle, and the performance would be repeated, and this was kept 
up for an hour or more. After this was done, two of those nearly naked 
arose and danced the whole length of the house and back again, held 
with the ropes around their waists as before, and accompanied by others; 
then they were taken out with a great shout and, as I supposed, re- 
leased. This done a company of half dozen men took one of those who 
had been held down and slowly carried him outside where with a whoop 
he was let go ; after him three others were taken out and released in a 
similar manner, the whole act being accompanied with the usual music. 
That ended the black tamanous scene as far as I know. By the next 
day nearly all the black paint was washed from their faces, and I saw 
but very little more of it daring the potlatch. As far as I have learned 



0)68 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

the northern tribes on the Sound practice this black tamanous in a more 
savage manner than their brethren of the south, and I am told that in 
British Columbia it is marked by still greater severity. Friday fore- 
noon was occupied by Dick Sooks and his father in potlatching money 
in the potlatch house, for the residence of the former was 5 miles away, 
and he was a relation of the head potlatcher. In the afternoon Port 
Discovery John gave sea-biscuit to the men, twenty-five to each. In the 
eveuing fifteen or twenty Klallam youug men came dancing into the 
house where I was sitting. For a time they stood in a row and danced 
backward and forward the length of the house, but at last they stood 
at one end, dancing to the usual noises, except that of the hollow wooden 
rattle, for this instrument was laid aside when the black tamanous 
ceased. One Indian put on a shawl, took another sort of rattle made 
by the Clyoquot Indians, and danced in front of the rest shaking his 
rattle, jumping up and down and around and squatting. While this 
was in progress a small company of Twana young men were dancing in 
the doorway and on the outside, mostly out of my sight, but there was 
evidently some rivalry between the two companies. There was consid- 
erable merriment in thpse dances. 

Saturday forenoon, Port Discovery John, son-in-law to. the principal 
potlatcher, gave away his money and blankets. It was the first time 
I had witnessed all the ceremonies connected with the donation. He 
first arranged all the men around the house on the bed platform, and 
then, with five or six friends, spent some time in counting his money. 
Next, twelve or fifteen women came to serve as a choir, and sat down 
on mats near the money. Then came four girls, arranged according to 
size, as before described, with faces painted completely red, hair covered 
with down, hands extended, as on the previous Sunday, under shawls 
or blankets pinned behind them, who danced the whole length of the 
house and back a few times, the tallest going first, led by an old man — 
"Old Slaze*' — and followed by one still older. The choir sang, accom- 
panied with a drum. These ceremonies occupied about fifteen minutes, 
after which the potlatch began. The giver told a man who acted as 
crier the name of the person to whom the money or article was to be 
given ; the crier then took the gift, heralded forth the amount of the 
same, with the name of the receiver, and carried it to the latter. Pre- 
vious to this, however, certain amounts, varying from $20 to $50, tied 
up, were given to several persons, which I was told was to pay them for 
certain articles brought, or was money which they had brought and was 
now returned to them. These things occupied all the forenoon, and in 
the afternoon Old Slaze gave about twenty-five sea-crackers to each man. 
The next day being the Sabbath, I was with them but a very short time. 
The ceremonies, I was told, were abont as those of the preceding day. 
This ended the affair, and after it, all left as soon as possible. 

They left about noon, but the greater part of them went only 5 or 6 
miles away, as they were reduced to sea-biscuit and sugar, which was 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 669 

very dry, and they wished to go where they could get clams aud fish. 
The Twauas only remained with me until next morning, when we left. 

The amounts given by the men, as near as I could learu, were as fol- 
lows: 

Wednesday: Money, $.00; one beef, $30; one gun, $8; total, $138. 

Thursday: Money, $170; one canoe, $20; twenty blankets, $40; 
total, $230. 

Friday: Money, $270; one gun, $10; twenty seven blankets, $54; 
total, $354. 

Saturday: Money, $430; twenty-five blankets, $50; total, $480. 

Sunday: Money, $420; twenty blankets, $40; total, $460. Total: 
Money, $1,390; blankets, $184; miscellaneous, $68; whole amount, 
$1,542. 

One hundred dollars of Old Slaze's money belonged to his wife, but 
they combined together. 

The men present received various sums, generally about $10 each, 
but some received as much as $30. Besides this, seventeen women gave 
to the other women calico at different times from Monday until Friday, 
each piece containing generally 5 yards, but varying from 4 to 9 yards. 
A rough estimate made the whole of this amount to 5,000 yards. There 
was only one case each of drunkenness and quarrelling that came to my 
knowledge. 

During most of the time there was a large amount of gambling among 
the men, and some among the women, with disks and bones. 

FUNERAL AND BURIAL CUSTOMS. 

Their sepulchers, as far as I can learn, represent five different ages 
and have, to some extent, co existed. There are places where skeletons 
and parts of them have been plowed up or still remain in the ground, 
and near together in such a way as to give ground for the belief that for- 
merly Indians were buried in the ground and not in regular cemeteries. 
Such deposits exist at Doswailopsh, among the Twanas, aud at Dun- 
giness and Port Angeles, among the Klallams. These graves were 
made so long ago that the Indians of the present day profess to have 
no knowledge of the occupants, but believe them to have been their 
ancestors. They care so little however about the remains that fifteen 
years ago the land containing bones at Doswailopsh was taken by a 
white man, and they were told to remove the dead before all traces of 
the graves were obliterated, but no one went there to do so, nor were 
they angry when the underbrush of the cemetery was burned and the 
ground plowed and levelled. 

Formerly when a person died, the body was placed in a box which 
was put in a canoe, and the canoe placed in the forks of two trees and 
left there. There was no particular cemetery, but the body is said to 
have been left near where the death occurred. The Skokomish Valley 
was once, I am told, full of sepulchral canoes. Au old resident informs 



070 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

me that the Klallams always burietl tbeir dead iu a sitting posture, and 
I am satisfied that the Twanas at least bent theirs up until the knees 
nearly touched the chin. 

The following is an account of a modern burial of this kind which I 
wituessed in Cctober, 1877 : The deceased was about thirty-five years 
of age and was a widow. Her father took charge, and being an old 
man there was more of the old Indian style than I ever saw before. 
She died about 9 o'clock iu the morning and at 3 o'clock in the after- 
noon I was invited to go to the house and hold a religious service. 
When I arrived she had been placed in a Iludson Bay Company's 
box, which was only about 3^ feet long, If wide, and 1^ high. She was 
much emaciated when she died or they could hardly have put her in 
the box, even by doubling her so that her knees nearly touched her 
chin. A fire was still burning where many of her things had been con- 
sumed according to their custom. Her mother was singing a mourn- 
ing song, others joining in it at times, often saying, ^' My daughter, my 
daughter, why did you die?" About thirty persons were present and 
all out of doors, the coffin box being under an old shed. I held a fu- 
neral service and returned home, having been invited to go to the grave 
the next day. About 9 o'clock the next morning they called for me 
and we went in a canoe 3 miles to the cemetery, two other canoes 
having preceded us, one carrying the corpse. Sometime previous a 
medicine man had asked the deceased to become his wife, but she had 
refused, and he had said if she did so, he would kill her by his " tama- 
nous." This, her friends believed, was the cause of her death, and 
they compelled him to give the canoe (25 feet long and worth $30) in 
which she w^as buried. Four boards of old Indian make, about a foot 
wide and 7i feet long, used as posts, were secured iu the ground to the 
depth of a foot and a half. Before being erected a hole was cut in 
each post 2 feet from the upper end, and 5 inches square, in which 
cross-pieces were placed for the canoe to rest on. As each hole was 
cut, and the board laid aside until the rest were ready, a handful of 
green leaves was placed over it which was allowed to remain until the 
post was ready to set up, when the leaves were thrown aside. Leaves 
were not however put on the last board, tor as soon as the hole in it 
was cut, they were ready to set all of them in their places. Two other 
boxes, which I presume contained many articles belonging to the de- 
ceased, or brought by her friends, were placed in the canoe, together 
with the coffin box, and the whole was elevated to its position and 
braced. Over the central part of the canoe, a roof of boards covered 
with white cloth so as to more than cover all the boxes, was placed, and 
holes cut in the canoe so as to render it valueless for travelling. On the 
two posts nearest the water the head -board and foot- board of her bed- 
stead (American make) were nailed, and on each of these a dress was 
fastened. I then said a few words to them and pronounced the bene- 
diction, when all went down from the bill to the beach except her father, 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 671 

mother, and brother, who remained for ten or fifteen minutes mourning 
and pounding on the canoe. 

It was now half past 1 P. M., and a little food was given to all, there 
being twelve men and three women present, after which the father and 
mother of the departed made presents to all. One man received a gun, 
two persons a blanket each, and the rest $1.50 each. After this four 
men made short speeches in their native language which I did not un- 
derstand. 

They said she was buried in this way because she was a prominent 
woman, and that in about nine months a potlatch would take place very 
near where she was buried, and that as each tribe should come, a few of 
their prominent men would be sent to the grave with presents, after 
which she would be put under ground. The predicted potlatch took 
place about thirteen months afterwards, but she still remains in the 
canoe. 

Scaffold burial in cemeteries. — Unprincipled white men having stolen 
many of the canoes in which their dead were placed, induced these In- 
dians to adopt a different mode of burial. Instead of placing them in 
forks of trees they collected their dead in cemeteries, placing them in 
boxes or canoes on scaffolds. The ruins of such a grave-yard now re- 
main about 2 miles from the agency, but nearly all the dead were re- 
moved some years ago. 

In March, 1878, two Twana children, related to one another, died 
almost at the same time — one was the child of a medicine man. All of 
the tribe, it is said, were invited to the funeral; about fifty went, but 
not a single child among them. They went to the cemetery, 3^ miles 
distant, in canoes, with much mourning. When they arrived at the 
cemetery the medicine man tore down an inclosnre where two of his 
children had been buried with four other children, relations. Another 
medicine man, belonging to the same elan, also tore down an inclosnre 
where the bodies of two of his children were pla.ed along with those 
of two others, their relations. Two of these corpses were above ground 
and two below. The coffins beneath the ground could not be taken up, 
but the clothes around the bodies were so well preserved there was no 
difficulty in removing them. One of the coffins was large enough to 
hold two children, and other rude boxes ^rere made of such capacity as 
to admit of twelve children being put into eight of them. In one case 
it was found impossible to place two of the bundled bodies in the same 
coffin, whereupon the cloth which was wrapped around one was roughly 
torn off, a little calico wrapped around the skeleton, and then it was put 
in with ease. 

A large grave was dug near by, about 12 feet long and 5 feet wide 
and 4 feet deep, lined with mats, and all the boxes and coffins were 
placed in it, completely covering the bottom of the grave. Several of 
these boxes were wrapped with many thicknesses of calico, and quilts, 
blankets, shawls, calico, and a few fancy articles of bead- work and a few 



672 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

small boxes were placed in tbe coffins with the bodies. All the coffins 
were next covered with several layers of calico, blankets, mats, and 
cedar boards to the depth of about 8 inches. An old man then made 
some remarks, followed by a speech from tbe child's father, and when 
this was concluded the grave was filled with earth, a little new calico 
having been thrown in with the dirt. Next all gathered on the beacb, 
a fire was built on wbich two or three pieces of cloth were burned, a 
few men made presents to the fathers of tbe cbildren just deceased, 
some calico was given by tbe women to tbe mothers, and tbe two 
fathers, with another medicine maj, presented small sums of money to 
the men. 

RELIGION. 

Tbe practical part of their religion is a compound of Shamanism and 
Spiritism, called in Chinook's jargon tamanous, tamahnous, or tamana- 
mus, and the word ex'presses their idea so completely that it has been 
somewhat adopted into English, for tbe word expresses a combination 
of ideas for which we have no exact English equivalent. Tamanous is 
a noun, and as such refers to any spiritual being, good or bad, more 
powerful than man and less powerful only than God or Satan. Hence 
the being may be a good or bad tamanous. It is also used to express 
tbe work of influencing any of tbeir spirits by incantation. The word 
is also an adjective, and as such is used to describe any stick, stone, or 
similar article in wbich spirits are at times supposed to dwell, and also 
any man, as a medicine man, who is supposed to have more than ordi- 
nary power with these spirits; hence we often bear of tamanous sticks 
and tamanous men. It is likewise a verb, and to tamanous is to per- 
form tbe incantations necessary to influence these spirits. In some 
cases it is done mainly by tbe medicine men, but in others by any one. 

Objects and implements of icorship. — I do not believe tbat these Indians 
ever had any idea of the Great Spirit before the coming of tbe wbites. 
Tbey have however a plain idea of a great being, perhaps mythologi- 
cal, who has much to do with tbe world as it now is, and wbo is called 
in Twana and Nisqually Do-ki-batt, and in Klallam Mi-ki-matt. Tbe 
word means a changer, and considering his work, it is an appropriate 
name. Wben he was here he was supreme, and they think he may have 
a second coming at any time. 

Demons. — They firmly believe in the presence and power of malignant 
spirits, and much of their tamanous is to conquer them and to gain 
tbeir favoi: and aid. The chief of these demons, according to tbe 
Twanas, is Skwai il, who resides below, but in another place from tbe 
disembodied human spirits. Often a parent tells a cbild, "You must 
not steal or do wrong ; if you do, Skwai-il will see you and take you to 
his dwelling-place." 

Angelic spirits tbey believe to be constantly around. Every man and 
nearly every woman formerly was thought to have cue which was called 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 673 

his or her tamanous. Such a spirit was supposed to guard the man or 
woman who often communed with it in the dark, when alone in the 
woods, and, by various incantations, Invoked its aid in time of need. 
These angels were the most useful deities they had. 

Inanimate objects, images, pictures, etc. — They believe that these spirits, 
both good and bad, maj^ dwell at times in certain sticks or stones, hence 
these sticks and posts become objects of res ereuce. The sticks are gen- 
erally reverenced at all times, for, although the spirit dwells there only 
a small portion of the time, yet after it has been given to the spirit by 
its earthly owner that spirit is supposed to always watch over it and 
be angry with any one who treats it disrespectfully. 

Tamanoiis icater. — It was believed that formerly the Klallam Indians 
of Elkwa possessed a mysterious power over all other Indians ; that if 
they wished to call a person a long distance off, 20, 30, or 50 miles away, 
they simply, talking low, called him and he came; that if they talked 
thus about a person, his heart was in a complete whirl, and that if they 
talked ill and wished to do evil to any one thus distant, his eyes were 
made to whirl and the evil wish came to pass. The cause assigned for 
this was as follows : Far up in the mountains at the head of the Elkwa 
Eiver are basins in the rocks ; one of these is nearly full of black water 
and it is always as full whether the weather is wet or dry. In this water, 
which is thought to be tamanous, the Elkwa ludians washed their hands 
and arms and thus, it was believed, gained their dreaded power. 

Idols. — The sticks, posts, and the like just described are made by the 
Indians consecrated to this tamanous, and hence contain the principle 
of idolatry. 

The sun. — An old Klallam man informed me that before the coming 
of the whites they knew nothing about God, but worshiped the sun as 
their God and they prayed to it daily, saying, "Sun, take care of me," 
and they gave food to it at noon. Another Klallam told me that 
they also believed the sky to be supreme, and that it was a common 
saying of the old ones to their children, " You must not do wrong 
or the sky will see you." Such ideas come to the surface but very little 
in their intercourse with the whites, yet I think my informant spoke 
the truth, and I quote the following from Swan's " Indians of Cape 
Tlattery " in corroboration : " Every night we wash and rub ourselves 
with cedar and every morning talk to the great chief or his represent- 
ative, the sun, whose name is Kle-sea-kark-tl," while the following note 
is added by Mr. Gibbs: "Among the western Selish or Flathead tribes 
of the Sound I have not detected any direct worship of the sun, though 
he forms one of their mythological characters. He is by them repre- 
sented as the younger brother of the moon." According to Father Men- 
garini he is, however, the priucipal object of worship among the Flat- 
heads of the Rocky Mountains or Selish proper, as well as by the 
Blackfeet. Among both tribes he. was supposed to be the creation of 
a superior being. 

H. Mis. GOO- — 43 



674 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

Sacred legends. — They have a distinct tradition of the flood which I 
modify a little from the one given in Eells on the Tvvanas : " The flood 
was sent because the people were wicked, and it overflowed all the 
land except one mountain. The people fled in their canoes to the high- 
est mountain in their country — in the Olympic range — and as the water 
rose above it they tied their canoes with long ropes made of cedar limbs 
to the highest tree ; but the water rose above them. While they were 
there some of the canoes broke from their fastenings and floated away, 
so far that they never returned, which accounts for a few being left in 
the tribe (Twanas) now." 

Ecclesiastical organization. — Medicine men are numerous, and are 
feared because of the power they are supposed to have with spirits. 
They demand large fees, and sometimes in advance, for healing the 
sick. If the medicine man does not consider the amount oflered suffi- 
cient, he will do nothing until enough is given to satisfy him 5 but if he 
fails to heal he gets nothing, and sometimes has to pay the relations of 
the deceased for his failure. He also receives pay for other work he is 
supposed to do, such as making a person sick at the request of an 
enemy. The calling is conflned to the men among the Twanas ; but at 
a Twana potlatch a Skwaksin woman acted as doctress, and there is 
at least one medicine woman among the Klallams at Elkwa. 

There are no rain makers; but at Eneti there is on the reservation 
an irregular basaltic rock about 3 feet 4 inches in diameter and 1^ feet 
high. On one side there has been hammered a face, said to be the face 
of the thunder bird, which could also cause storms. The two eyes are 
about G inches in diameter and the nose about 9 inches long. It is said 
to have been made a long time ago by a man who felt very badly and 
went and sat on the rock and with another stone hammered out the 
eyes and nose. For a long time they believed that if the rock was 
shaken it would cause rain; because the shaking made the thunder 
bird angry. They have now about lost faith in it, sjo much so that 
about two years ago they formed a boom of logs around it, many of 
which struck it. That season was stormy and many of the older Indians 
said "No wonder, as the rock is shaken all of the time." It is qu the 
beach facing the water where it is flooded at high tide, and the impres- 
sion is being gradually worn away by the waves. 

Finding tamanous. — The first thing for a young man to do in the way 
of a sacred rite is to get his tamanous. In order to accomplish this I 
am told that a father would send his son into the woods a long way 
from home, where he was not allowed to eat or drink during a period 
of from ten to thirteen days, though he was allowed to bathe often and 
keep up a good fire. At last his tamanous revealed itself to him in the 
shape of some animal, either a bird or beast, which was afterwards 
sacred to him. They think that ordinarily such fasting would kill a 
man, but that he is kept alive by his tamanous. 

Using tamanous. — After this the Indian tamauouses for what he wishes 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITOEY. 675 

very earnestly on sotnewliat the same principle tiiat the Mohammedan 
prays. Hence they tamanous for wind, for gambling, and to cure the 
sick or cause sickness. 

A wicked medicine man can, as they believe, in an invisible manner 
shoot a stone, ball, or poison into the heart of a person to make him 
sick. They believe this so tirmlj^ that they say when the heart of one 
who died was opened the stone or bone has been found in it. He is 
also 8Ui)posed to bi^ able to send a woodpecker, squirrel, bear, or any 
treacherous animal to the heart of his enemy to eat his heart, plague 
him, make him sick, or kill him. The good medicine man finds out from 
his sickness what kind of an animal it is and then tries to draw it forth, 
and while the common people make a noise, pounding on a rough drum, 
on sticks, halloing, singing, etc., the medicine man places his hands on 
some part of the body and draws forth, or says he does, the evil spirit, 
and when he says he has it he holds it between his hands, invisible, and 
blows it up or takes it to another man who throws a stone at it and 
kills it. When the sick person is not cured they say there are several 
evil spirits, but sometimes the person dies before they are all drawn out 
or else the opposing medicine man is stronger than he and so he can 
not draw them all out. Sometimes the good spirit of the person is gone 
and he is sick. Then the medicine man draws them all out.- Some- 
times the good spirit of the person is gone and he is sick. Then the 
medicine man tries with hi ; hands to draw it back and so cure him. 

The first time I ever saw an Indian doctor perform over a sick per- 
son was in October, 187G. The patient was a woman of perhaps fifty 
years. As I went to the house a prominent Indian came out and told 
me that although they had sent to the agency physician for medicine, 
yet they were not certain where she was sick. At times she could not 
see, she would know almost nothing, and could not tell where she was 
sick, and they were tamanousing to find out what was the difficulty, 
and when they had learned this they would send and obtain the right 
kind of medicine. They say that they often do tamanous, first in order to 
learn what is the difficulty and afterwards to cure. Having asked per- 
mission, I went in and took my seat, as directed, behind the doctor, so 
that he was between me and the patient. The house was about 20 feet 
square, a summer house, built on the gravelly beacli of the Skokomish 
Eiver. There were about fifteen persons in the house, both men and 
women, all of whom while the doctor was performing beat with small 
sticks on larger ones and sang in regular time. I was in one corner of 
the house, the patient (female) in the opposite corner facing me, sitting 
up and held by another woman. There were two fires near the middle, 
and the doctor was between them on his knees on the gravel. He was 
stripped to the waist, having only pantaloons and boots on, and faced 
the woman. He had a small tub of water-near the woman. As he be- 
gan he almost laid down on the gravel and sang and kept swinging his 
head up and down, constantly singing, while the other Indians joined 



676 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

in the singing for about twelve mimites, when he began to vomit 
violently over himself and the ground. Then came a rest of a few 
minutef, when he rested and washed himself off. But soon all began 
again, when he worked up to the woman and, as near as I could see, 
X)lnced his mouth on her chest or sboulders and sucked very strongly 
and then blew out of his mouth with all his force, making a great noise, 
sometimes blowing into the air, always renmining on his knees. This 
was kept up about titteeu minutes longer, when 1 left during another 
respite. But this was neither the beginning nor end of the tamanous. 
Sometimes they kept it up for most of the day and night or longer. 
The agency physician said she had disease of the brain, but at no time 
was very dangerously ill. He afterwards attended her very faithfully, 
and the Indians tamanoused as faithfully, and she recovered. The fol- 
lowing account was given me by a school-boy in regard to his brother: 

" When 1 was at the Indian doctor's house they tamanoused over my 
brother, for that is the reason my parents went to his house. First, he 
learned what was the kind of sickness. The doctor took it and soon 
after that my brother, about nine or ten years old, became stiff and 
while 1 sat I heard my father say that his breath was gone. I went out, 
for I did not wish to see my brother lying dead before me ; when I 
came back he was breathing just a little but his eyes were closed; the 
doctor was taking care of his breath with his tamanous and waiting for 
more persons to come, so that there should be enough to beat on the 
sticks when he should tamanous so as to learn the kind of sickness. 
Then he went on and saw that there was another kind of sickness be- 
sides the one he had taken out and it went over ray brother and almost 
immediately killed him. The doctor took it and travelled (in his spiiit) 
with another kind of temanous to see where my brother's spirit was; 
he found it at Humhummi (15 miles distant), where my parents and 
brother had camped in a recent journey. So my brother became better 
after a hard tamanous. 

" There is a class of persons which we can not see; they are poor look- 
ing persons ; they take young people from these and other Indians ; 
■when they take a certain person that person always gets crazy. Another 
brother of mine heard their dog barking ; the people thought it was from 
some white i)eople, but there was no white man near and they knew it 
belonged to these people." 

I once witnessed a performance which I have been inclined to call a 
silent tamanous. I was camped with five canoes of Indians one night 
in February, 1878, one of our number being a medicine man ; after supper 
some water was poured into a bowl not far from a woman who I had 
not learned was ill, but she must have been ailing a little; she was sit- 
ting perhaps 10 feet from me. The doctor went to the bowl but no one 
else seemed to take any notice of it; the woman's husband went away. 
Another woman lay unconcerned in the camp, it being a half-circle mat 
house, and other Indians were about, but they did not come near; there 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 677 

was no noise or singing, or pounding on sticks or dramming; the doctor 
put bis bands in tbe water, warmed t)iem a little, and tbeu placed tbem 
on tbe woman's side, ber dress baving been opened and partly taken 
down for tbe purpose, and he acted as if he were trying to draw out 
something. This was done a second time, when be plunged them into 
water, placed bis mouth next to tbem and blew suddenly and power- 
fully a few times ; this was done two or three times, when he left, the 
performance being ended. 

Tama noushig for lost siuls. — Sometimes before a person dies, it may 
be months, it is suppose<l that a spirit comes from the spirit world and 
carries away tbe spirit of tbe person, after which the person v/astes away 
or dies suddenly. If by any means it is discovered that this has been 
done, and there are tbose who profess to do it, then they attempt to 
get the spirit back by a tamauous, and if it is done the person will live. 
Sometimes a person who has much intercourse with the other world 
persuades one who is in the best of health that he has visited tbe 
spirit laud and seen tbe spirit of his dupe there, and the latter is thus 
frightened into having a tamanous. Again, when some credulous indi- 
vidual has been ailing a little for a long time, but not suflBciently to feel 
that he needs to employ a medicine man, one of these arrant humbugs 
takes a fancied journey to the laud of shades to search for the lost soul 
of tbe invalid, tbe discovery of which he soon announces, and once 
more there must be a tamauous. Frequently in tbe winter when time 
hangs heavily on their hands and they are at a loss for amusements 
these soul searchers preteud that they have received tidings of a num- 
ber of errant spirits and they get up a general spirit bunt. 

In January, 1878, a tamanous of tbe last kind took place among the' 
Twanas, and I learned the following facts concerning it from one white 
man and some school boys who were present : 

The performance is carried on mostly in the night, as it is said that 
day-time with us is night-time in tbe spirit world, and vice versa. The 
breaking of the ground is an important part of the ceremony. The sur- 
face of the earth is often actually broken in order, they say, that the 
spirits of those who are performing can descend into the other world. 
When, as they pretend, tbe descent is accomplished, they represent 
pantomimically that they travel along a road, cross at least one stream, 
and travel on until they come to a place where the spirits dwell. These 
they surprise and engage in fight (a great noise is here kept up by all pres- 
ent), and having captured they bring back to this world the spirits of 
three persons which they pretended to roll over up in cloth and work 
for some time, after which they seemed to give them to their real own- 
ers. When they put tbe spirit of one man on him, be sang his tamanous 
song, and when a medicine man received bis, he cried very much. Only 
men enact the part of travellers in tbe nether world, although women 
and children are present at the tamanous. When they are supposed to 
cross tbe stream they actually set up some boards against opposite sides 



678 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

of a beam in the house which is about 10 feet from the ground, thus A, 
to represent the bridge. They crawl up the board on one side and 
down the other. If, in going down, a man slips they believe he will 
die within a year. Several years ago it is said a man did slip on such 
an occasion, and as he died within a year they are convinced of the 
truth of this belief. Only eight men went through this journey at one 
time, but the rest of the numerous body in attendance pounded sticks 
and sang their tamanous songs to the accompaniment of the drum. 

While performing they danced with the hand sticks around the idol. 
They also wore the head-baud. The house in which this took place was 
built the previous season for this purpose, and was similar to the large 
dwelling-house. I am told that when they are professing to fight with 
the undergrouud spirits and conquering them they break through the 
sides of the house, which are not very strong, and run outside accom- 
panied by all the spectators. At times they also profess to bring ber- 
ries from the other world, and if so, the bushes in this world will bear 
abundantly the next season. 

Black tamanous rattle. — In the black tamanous a hollow rattle is 
used. To make one pieces of wood are carved and iiollowed, small 
stones or shot are ])laced between them, and they are fastened together 
with bark at the handle and strings at the sides. Such rattles are 
usually painted black, and are shaken in the hand with a circular move- 
ment. They are not now used by the Twanas. 

Purification. — When a young man went forth to obtain his tamanous 
he washed himself, much as already described, this cleansing being 
very essential. A Klallam doctor told me that the chihlren, if they 
wished to become strong tamanous men, were accustomed daily, both 
summer and winter, to bathe, remaining in wtiter a long time, some- 
times, he said, for hours, supposing they thereby gain the favor of the 
tamanous. He said that he did so when young. 

BELIEFS. 

Dreams. — The following story of a dream was told me by the medi- 
cine man who dreamt it : A child of his died and he felt very sorry about 
it, crying much of the time. One night he went to sleep and dreamed 
that some one came to him, similar to the picture of an angel which I 
had shown him, and took him off to the other world, leading him at 
first by the finger-nails. They went till they came to wher^ the roads 
forked, one going up towards the good land and the other downwards. 
He was led in the lower one where there was no fire and where it was 
very dark. A tree or stick stood between the two roads, and his leader 
jumped on it and thence to the upper road and laughed at him, saying 
he could not jump so, but if he did try he could not get into the good 
road and go to his child. He however made the attempt, and in two 
jumps reached the upper road, and they went up until they came to a 
house, at which his leader knocked. They were admitted, but there Avas 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 679 

no one in the house save an old man, who told them that the child was 
farther on. They proceeded until they came to a prairie where was 
excellent grass and some sheep, which were very lean and did not eat. 
Next they came to a barren laud where were some fat sheep, and again 
to a good grass country with lean sheep. After a time they reached a 
hill where were some children and persons singing, and his leader told 
him that his child was among them, but that he must not go over the 
hill and see the child. The spirit then gave the dreamer some maple 
leaves and huckleberry leaves, tell. ng him that the maple leaves would 
be a girl and the others a boy, as children for him. He was also told 
that he must not cry for his child as he now knew that it was safe, and 
that he must not cry for other friends, as his wife or mother, if they 
should die J but if he felt very sad he might cry for three days. 

The man says that since that time, when a friend of his has died, he 
only mourns for three days. His leader also told him that this world 
would come to an end in three years. 

Snakes. — There is a tradition among the Twanas that a long time ago 
they were not afraid of snakes, but that one man killed several, and at 
last killed the king of snakes. Then all the small snakes gathered to- 
gether and attacked the man, fastening themselves to his mouth, eyes, 
ears, nose, face, and in many other places, and bit him, and killed him, 
and now they are afraid to kill or even approach a snake. 

Future existence. — Their belief was that the next world was neither 
above or below, but somewhere within the earth. There was only one 
place for all, both good and bad. 

Incarnatioti. — The tribes under consideration, as well as the others in 
this region, have a tradition that a great being called the changer went 
all through this region and did many wonderful things. Whether this 
be a dim tradition of the incarnation of Christ, or not, I can not de- 
termine ; but I have thought it might be. When the Indians first 
heard of Christ they associated him at once with the changer, whom 
they said they believed to be the great Creator. When I have been 
teaching them about the coming of the Savior they have said they al- 
ways knew of this, and have repeated some of their legends about the 
changer, our God and this mythical being having the same name in 
the Chinook jargon, Saghalie Tyee, but in the native language they 
have diftereut names. 

God is called, in Twana, Wis s6-wul-us; in Nisqually, Shuk-si-ab; 
and in Klallam, Tsilt si— all of which, as well as the Chinook, Saghalie 
Tyee, means the above chief, while the changer is called by the Twanas 
and Kisquallies Do-ki-batt, and by the Klallams Nu-ki-matt. 

The following are the traditions concerning him : 

Klallam traditions express some uncertainty as to who this being 
was, but they usually consider that it was a woman who came from the 
south and changed human beings into lower animals and inanimate 
objects. Protection Island, at the mouth of Port Discovery Bay, was 



680 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

once, they say, a part of the main-land, and it and the main-land were a 
man and his wife, but the man became vexed with the woman and 
kicked her away, and when Nukimatt came she changed them into land 
as they are now. 

The mountain back of Freshwater Bay, about 9 miles west of Angeles, 
was, according to tradition, a woman, and Mount Praher, in British Co- 
lumbia, was her husband, both living near Freshwater Bay, while the 
large rock off the cape at the western end of the bay was their daugh- 
ter. The woman was bad and abused her husband ; he bore it for a long 
time, but at last took his things, put them in his boat, and went across 
the Sound to where the mountain now stands. When Nukimatt came 
she changed them all into what they now are. 

One Klallam has told me that they supposed that the sun was the 
creator of the world and that when Nukimatt came she was the sun in- 
carnate. Another name for her was I-nach-tin-ak. 

Dokibatt, the Twanas say, was the creator of all things, making birds 
beasts, and all lower creatures before he made man. According to one 
Indian he made the moon and sun, the moon first and in the night, in- 
tending it to be the sun. In the morning it rose, but it shone too hot 
and caused the water to boil, killing the fish and also many animals on 
land, and did much damage generally, so then he made the sun as it 
now is to rule the day, and condemned the moon to shine at night. 
This tradition differs only a little from one given in Eells on the 
Twanas. He created man out of the ground and a woman out of his 
rib and gave them a good land, telling them they might eat of all the 
fruit except one kind of berries. But the woman, tempted by the king 
of evil spirits, Skwai-il, ate of those berries, and when Dokibatt came 
he said, "Have you been eating of those berries?" She said "No." 
He replied, " Yes, I know you have." On account of this they think 
that her children became Indians, ignorant, foolish, and dark-skinned. 
But the man did not eat of the berries, and to his children were given 
letters, the knowledge of books, and a white skin. 

A long time after this Dokibatt came again to this world because 
things were not good, and rectified them by changing them, hence his 
name, which means a changer. The man, knowing that Dokibatt was 
coming, sat down and began to whet his knife on a stone, saying, " 1 will 
kill Dokibatt when he comes." Soon he came and asked the man, " What 
are you doing?" "Nothing special," was the reply. Again the same 
question was asked, with the same reply. Then Dokibatt said, "I 
know what you have said; you want to kill me. Let me take your 
knife." He took it and felt of its edge ; it was very sharp. He plunged 
it into the leg of the man up to its handle, when the man began to jump, 
and jumping away became a deer; and that knife slightly sticking out 
is still seen in the legs of the doer (the small part behind, as I under- 
stand). Acting similarly with his knife he was changed into a beaver, 
his knife becoming the tail. 



INDIANS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 681 

Another person was pounding against a cedar tree, and Dokibatt 
asked bim what he wished to do. The reply was, "To break or split 
the tree." Dokibatt said, " You may stop and go away and I will help 
you." As the person went wings came to him, also a long bill and a 
strong head, and he became the woodpecker. 

A boy who knew that Dokibatt was coming to make great changes 
was in mortal fear, as he did not wish to be changed ; so he began to 
run away, carrying with him a water-box with some water in it ; but 
as he ran wings came to him and he began to flj*. The water shaking 
sounded something like pu-pupu repeated rapidly, and the sound was 
changed into the present noise of the bird as it begins to fly. So the 
dove then began its present mourning cry, " hum-6-hum-6." And the 
Twanas to this day call the turtle-dove " hum-6." 

Other men had painted themselves in various ways, and when they 
were changed the colors partially remained ; hence the different colors 
of various birds. 

About a mile above Silanwofs are two large impressions in the 
basaltic rock, somewhat similar to large foot-prints, 2 or 3 inches deep. 
These, they say, are his tracks. They are between high and low tide, 
and were evidently formed by the water. 

At Skwaksin a man was crying, and the tears running down his 
face he was changed into a stone, and the lines of tears are lines on the 
stone, still visible. 

He taught them how to catch fish, how to make the fish-traps, and 
when to fish. 

He went to all lands, gave to each tribe their language, and to some 
tribes special kinds of food. To one tribe he gave crows, to another a 
special kind offish, and to one beyond the Cascade Mountains snakes. 
He came from the south or west, where they suppose the sky comes 
down to the earth, as it appears* to do, and that is his dwelling place. 
He came once to create, a second to change, and will come again to 
make the world over again when it becomes old. 



ANCHOR STONES. 



By B. F. Snyder, M. D., of Virginia, Cass County, Illinois. 



In the study of American antiquities we meet with many objects of 
prehistoric art that baffle our comprehension, for the reason that we 
are igfnorant of many of the methods of life and the superstitious ob- 
servances and religions rites of the ancient people who wrought them. 
Of this class the so-culled "plummets," "discoidal stones," "gorgets," 
"amulets," and "banner stones "are mysteries to us, because their 
original purpose is unknown, our civilization admitting of no use or 
necessity for them. The names we have assigned to them are some- 
times misleading, and even the uses to which recent Indians have applied 
them can not be relied upon as correctly indicating their true design. 
Thus, Adair, Lawson, Timberlake, and others have described the game 
of Clmnglce which they saw played by the Mandans, and by the Cherokees, 
Creeks, and other Southern Indians, with discoidal stones; but neither 
they nor any other white persons have ever seen an Indian mmwfacttir- 
twr; a discoidal stone; and because recent Indians utilized them in their 
games, it is by no means coDclusive that they may not have found them 
already made, as we do, or that they were not as ignorant of the spe- 
cific service for which their remote ancestors made them as we are. 

But, on the other hand, it is reasonably certain that many of the ways 
and means of obtaining subsistence employed by the earlier aborigines 
were identical with those practiced by the Indians here who first met 
the invasion of Europeans and sullenly receded before it. In securing 
food by hunting and fishing all primitive people, the world over, yet 
unacquainted with the use of metals, resorted to very much the same 
arts and appliances. The bow and stone-pointed arrows and spears, 
bone fish-hooks and harpoons, rude traps, nets, and seines were the in- 
ventions and contrivances alike of peoples widely separated and un- 
known to each other. To savages who had progressed so far as to 
venture upon the water, on rafts or in canoes for catching fish, the neces- 
sity of remaining stationary while so engaged would soon become ap- 
parent, and the means for accomplishing this would naturally suggest 
the employment of some heavy substance resting on the bottom of the 
lake or stream as an anchor. A stone would the most readily and con- 
veniently supply this want, and almost anywhere along the shore* of 

683 



684 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

our rivers and lakes stones of requisite dimensions for such use could 
be easily obtained. Eough stones, demanding no labor for their prep- 
aration, were probaby so used since the first canoes were launched. 
Taken from the nearest point when needed, they were cast aside at any 
place when no longer wanted, bearing no mark or sign of their service. 
In some instances the same stone was repeatedly used as an anchor 
during the fishing season, and received from the fisherman some modi- 
fication of form to better fit it for its oflQce, and in a few exceptional 
cases the anchor stone was completely and artistically fashioned from 
the rough, angular rock. In one respect the aboriginal American did 
not materially differ from a numerous class of his civilized successors; 
he had no especial fondness for manual labor. Consequently, it is not 
surprising that he expended so little work on his stone anchors when 
he found them to answer his purpose as well or better without it. 

Of the very few mamifactured anchor stones, presumably of pre-his- 
toric date, of which we have any account, I have been so fortunate as 
to secure a fine specimen, which is figured on page 194 of the elabor- 
ate monograph on Prehistoric Fishing, by the late learned curator of 
the departmentof antiquities of the Smithsonan Institution, Dr. Charles 
Kau, accompanied by a brief description of it by myself in a note I ad- 
dressed to the author. Before reproducing that description here I will 
describe the first specimen of the kind that came into my possession, 
and which was also mentioned in my note referred to.* 

This anchor stone, represented by Fig. 1 (accompanying Plate I), I 
stated to Dr. Rau, was " apparently natural in its form ; a smooth, water- 
worn river rock, etc." A subsequent careful inspection of the stone 
proves this statement to be not altogether correct. By attrition and the 
force of water currents it had probably approximated its present shape 
in general outline; but it is plainly to be seen that its smooth, rounded 
edges and uniform surfaces have been wrought with patient labor guided 
by consummate skill. There is little doubt that this stone was designed 
to serve a double purpose; or, having been made for a specific use, in 
which it did duty for a time, was afterward converted, by cutting the 
groove across it, into a canoe anchor. In diameter it is 13 inches, in thick- 
ness 2^ inches, and weighs 26 pounds. It is nearly circular, and its sur- 
faces are concavo-convex; the one side convex to the extent of rising in 
the center three-fourths of an inch above the plane of its circumference, 
and the other side has been hollowed out to a corresponding depth. 
Across its face and over the edges a groove has been cut an inch and a 
quarter wide, but not deep; sufficiently deep, however, to clearly indi- 
cate its use — or one of its uses — as an anchor. It is a white, crystal- 
line limestone, from one of our local carbon liferous strata that crop out 
in many places on the Illinois River. But for the vertical groove in this 
specimen it would not differ materially from many others found here and 

'Prehistoric Fisliinj;, pp. 194. 195 (Sniitbsouiau Contributions to Knowledge, VoL 

XXV). 



Smithsonian Report, 1887, Parti. — Snyder. Anchor Stones. 



Plate I. 




Fig. l.-(i) 




Fig. 2.—(i.) 



ANCHOR STONES. 685 

elsewhere iu the Mississippi Valley, having on one side, and sometimes 
on both, shallow, basin-like depressions artificially scooped out. Stones 
of this character are found of various dimensions and different kinds, and 
are commonly known as " mortars," the general belief being that they 
were used iu some inexplicable way for s"rinding grain with the aid of pes- 
tles, somewhat as the metate is still employeil by the Pueblos and Mex- 
icans. Fig. 2 (Plate I,) represents a typical specimen of the objects 
mentioned, now in my collection. It was found near the bank of the 
Illinois River in excavating a cellar in the city of Beardstown, in this 
county, on the site of an ancient Indian camping ground. It is a smooth, 
water-worn bowlder of hard greenstone (diorite), with both sides hol- 
lowed out dish-like to the depth of almost an inch at the center below 
the edges. It weighs a fraction over 15 pounds, is 9i inches iu length, 
7 inches wide, and 3^ iu thickness at the circumference; with rounded 
borders smooth, excepting at both ends, and on one side for a space the 
stone is roughened and battered as though it had been used as a maul 
for breaking other stones, or as an anvil upon which hard substances 
had been hammered. Fig. 3 (Plate II) is another so-called mortar of 
the class most frequently found, from one of the counties in the south- 
ern ijart of this State (Illinois) ; a rough block of granite weighing 16 
l)ouuds, with smoothly-worn dei>ressious on both sides. The excava- 
tions in all the objects of this class, including Fig. 1, are so insignificant, 
so shallow and broad, as to preclude their supposed use as mortars. 
" Dished " stones of this character are comparatively common in south- 
ern Illinois and farther east on both sides of the Ohio River. And in 
tbe same territory stone uiullers, of which Fig. 4 (Plate II) is the ordi- 
nary type, are also frequently met with. The correlation of the two im- 
plements is a natural inference at first sight, but the experiments I have 
tried with those in my collection satisfied me that the two implements 
were not used together. I could find none of the pestles to fit the mor- 
tars. The pestles have broad, flat bases not adapted to concavities, 
and must have been used, if used as pestles at all, on plane surfaces, as 
our painters of a generation ago employed similar stone mullers for 
grinding their jiaints on broad, flat slabs of marble. The "dished" 
stones, in my opinion, are simply the rubbing-stones, or whetstones 
upon which, with the aid of sand and water, the diorite axes and celts 
received their cutting edges. 

The anchor stone I was describing when led into this digression was 
found in a small sand mound, 15 feet in diameter and 2 feet high, a 
short distance from the Illinois River, in the suburbs of the city of 
Beardstown. The mound covered the much-decayed skeleton of a 
large, middle-aged individual, who had been laid on the surface of the 
ground, on his back, at full length, with feet to the west and arms ex- 
tended down his sides. The back of the skull rested in the concavity 
of the stone, which had been i)laced as a pillow under the occiput of 
the corpse. Under each shoulder and under each elbow, each hip and 
each heel of the skeleton, was found a common, smooth, water worn 



686 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

pebble, of the average size of a hen's egg; in or near one hand, seven 
flint arrow points; and in or near the other hand, three hirge scales of 
the alligator gar — that perhaps had also served as arrow points — com- 
pleted the sepnlchral deposit. 

My second anchor stone, Fig. 5 (Plate II), the one figured in Prehis- 
toric Fishing, was brought up from the bottom of the Illinois Eiver, 
half a mile below the confluence of the Sangamon, by one of the Gov- 
ernment boats employed in improving the channel for navigation. It 
is of compact, yellow sandstone, the most i^rominent rock of the coal 
measures underlying the Sangamon and Illinois bluffs in this county. 
It weighs 34:i pounds; is symmetrically proportioned; circular in con- 
tour; 12 inches in diameter by CJin thickness at the center, with neatly 
rounded edges, and is encircled by a groove, li inches wiileand three- 
fourths of an inch deep, cut across the face equally on both sides. The 
surface of the stone is not smooth, but presents the a])pearance of hav- 
ing been " bush-hammered " — to use a term of modern stonecutters — the 
result of pecking with sharp-pointed flints or other hard stones. The 
groove around it is regularly and skillfully cut, and shows throughout 
the pitting of the pointed stone instrument that shaped it. 

Not long after the recovery of this anchor stone the dredge brought 
up another one from the bottom of the river, at a ])oint 2 miles farther 
down stream, that was almost an exact copy of the one I have just 
described, in material, dimensions, and form. Unfortunately it escaped 
the notice of any one cai)able of i)roperly appreciating its value, and 
fell into the possession of an ignorant German who at the time was 
employed as a laborer on the boat. His estimate of this interesting 
nautical relic was more practical than scientific; and carrying it to his 
home he there utilized it as a weight in the family kraut barrel that 
stood in a corner of his kitchen. In this ignoble service I found it 
and attempted its deliverance ; but, suspicious that my desire to obtain 
the stone sprung from a secret knowledge of some extraordinary in- 
trinsic value it possessed, neither price nor persuasion would induce 
the kraut-eating plebeian to part with it, and I sadly left it in its 
vulgar obscurity. Before another opportunity was presented for re- 
newing my eiibrts to secure it the Teuton's hovel was accidentally 
destroyed by tire, and the much -coveted anchor stone was shattered 
in fragments by the intense heat. 

A few years later, in the same locality, I discovered another anchor 
stone near the door step of a snjall farm house at the foot of the bluffs 
on the west side of the Illinois. The farmer, who was also a fisher- 
man, found it at the river's edge at low water, and, noticing its peculiar 
shape and surface marks and the encircling groove, he was intelligent 
enough to recognize it as as "Indian relic" and mercenary enough 
to hold it for a good price. This stone anchor had not been finished 
when it was lost or abandoned by its ancient owner. The rough 
angles of the rock had been jiccked away and rounded with sharp 
flints and the block reduced to an irregular oval, as shown in Fig. 6 



Smithsonian Report, 1887, Part I.— Snyder. Anchor Stones. 



Plate li. 





Fig. 4.— (1). 



Fig. 3.— (i.) 




Fig. 5.-(i0 



ANCHOR STONES. 687 

(Plate III). The groove around it is not completed, bat cut suffi- 
cieutly deep to securely hold the anchor line. It is of the same yellow, 
massive sandstone from which the two last-described anchors were 
wrought. It weighs 43 pounds 5 is 12 inches in length, 10| inches in 
width, and 6 in thickness. This stone, like Fig. 1, had served in more 
than one capacity. Though in general contour each side approaches 
regular convexity, there is in the middle of each surface a slight, sau- 
cerlike depression worn on the side shown in the cut, perfectly smooth; 
but on the reverse side the hollow is rough and incomplete. The stone 
bears all over, excepting in the front depression, the pitting marks of 
the sharp-pointed flints used in its reduction. 

The extended researches of Dr. Eau throughout both hemispheres* 
in the arts and artifices employed by primitive peoples for catching 
fish, with all the facilities afforded him by the Smithsonian Institution 
and his mastery of several languages, have brought to light a very 
limited number of wrought stones designed to serve especially as boat 
anchors. The conception of making an anchor of a rock was as natural 
to savages unacquainted with metals as was the expediency of making 
weapons and tools of stone ; but as the rocks in their natural condition 
were the most efficient as anchors, it is difiicult to comprehend why so 
much labor was expended in cutting any of them to prescribed patterns 
for this service. The sculptured rounded anchor stones perhaps were 
port of the equipment of bark canoes, so thin and fragile as to be en- 
dangered by carrying rough stones heavy enough to answer as safe 
anchors ; hence cutting down projecting points and angles became 
necessary as a precautionary measure to guard against accidental scut- 
tling of the craft. If this explanatory suggestion is rejected as improb- 
able or inadequate, we must then ascribe the exceptional flint-chiseled 
anchor stones to the esthetic element inherent in the Indian. In point 
of age there is little doubt that these interesting relics ante-date the ad- 
vent of Europeans, They are certainly the product of Indian art, for 
the negative reason, if no other, that white men had no incentive and 
were under no necessity for wasting so much useless labor on such ob- 
jects. " Stones are still employed," rem:arks Dr. Rau.t " instead of an- 
chors for snuill craft in Europe as well as in North America, and prob- 
ably all over the world. With regard to North American anchor stones, 
therefore, some discrimination is required to discover whether an object 
of this class is a relic of the former inhabitants or of their white suc- 
cessors, and there may be cases in which a proper distinction becomes 
well-nigh impossible. Our fishermen on the great lakes and rivers al- 
most universally use stones in lieu of anchors." 

In this respect there can however be no uncertainty as to the an- 
tiquity of my first specimen. Fig. 1. Its inhumation with the body of 
the fishermen who probably made and used it, and its association in 
the mound tumulus with flint arrow points, are sufficiently conclusive. 

. " See Prehistoric Fishing, Washington, 1884. 
t Prehistoric Fishing, p. 195. 



688 ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 

But with the others their claim to prehistoric origin rests more on pre 
snmptiou and assumption than upon positive evidence. They were 
sculptured in symmetrical form from rough blocks by precisely the 
same method employed by pre-historic makers of stone celts and grooved 
axes, who reduced fragments and small bowlders of igneous rocks to 
the required shapes of finished impiements by pecking them down with 
pointed pieces of flint or quartz. Of all the stones used as anchors in 
the historic period (of North America) there is not an instance recorded 
of one of them having been wrought throughout by this method. But 
stones are at this day modified by the pecking process for use as anchors 
by Indians, and it may be, by whites also. 

A few summers ago my collection was visited by Dr. W. H. Daly, an 
eminent physician of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as he was returning 
from one of his annual hunting and fishing excursions, this time to the 
northern lakes. The anchor stones attracted his notice, and he told me 
that a few days ago he had seen quite a number (fifty or more) "stones 
like those, with grooves cut around them," scattered along the lake 
shore near the town of Bayfield, in Wisconsin, Here indeed was a rev- 
elation ; enough anchor stones to stock all the museums of our coun- 
try. I lost no time in writing to a friend at Bayfield, and the corre- 
spondence in due time fructified in my receipt of two of the anxiously 
expected objects, one of which is represented by Fig. 7 (Plate III), ac- 
companied by a brief account of them as follows: " The stones you inquire 
about, two of which I to-day express to you as requested, are not pre- 
histoi-ic, but very recent. They are the common water- worn bowlders of 
primitive rocks found everywhere on our lake shores by thousands. The 
Indians (Chippewas) living up north come down here every spring to 
fish, and use these stones to anchor their bark canoes while fishing near 
the lake shore. As the bowlders are quite smooth, and mostly round, 
the fishermen have to cut grooves around them to hold the anchor lines. 
This they do very quickly and expertly by pecking the groove out with 
sharp-pointed pieces of quartz and other hard rocks. When they get 
done fishing here they leave these grooved bowlders on the shore for 
use again the next spring. Some are lost by rolling into the lake and 
others are carried away by floating ice; so they have to be replenished 
by making new ones every year." Fig. 7, 1 was assured, was fairly rep- 
resentative of the entire lot. It is a polished bowlder of dense, bluish 
trap, weighing 3ii pounds, and is 11 inches in length by 9J inches in 
diameter at the middle. The groove is an inch wide and three-fourths 
of an inch deep, and presents the same pitting that marks the entire 
surfaces of Figs. 5 and (J. 

On receiving the grooved bowlders I immediately wrote to my la- 
mented friend. Dr. Ran, giving him a minute description and drawings 
of them, and inclosing a copy of the foregoing letter. But his Prehis- 
toric Fishing had then passed through the press, and he answered : 
" What a pity that your valuable discovery of modern aachoi: 8.tone% 
came post festum.^^ 



Smithsonian Report, 1887, Part I. — Snyder. Anchor Stones. 



Plate III. 




Fig 6.— (i.) 




Fig, r.—il) 



ANTIQUITIES IN MEXICO. 



By S. B. Evans. 



The town of Tezcoco in Mexico, though uninteresting in general ap- 
pearance, contains within its limits and vicinity several large mounds, 
one of which is reputed to be the site of the palace of Nezahuyucoatl, 
and upon it is a female chapel. An Indian is the owner of one of the 
tloletes or mounds and in leveling the base or lower terrace on the 
western side, for the purpose of increasing* the area of his kitchen 
garden, he recently encountered a large stone which interfered with 
his plans and set him to work clearing off another portion of the mound. 
Hearing of this stone, and obtaining permission to lift it from its rest- 
ing place, I found it to be a section of an ancient monument of por- 
phyry, sculptured in bas-relief. It is 8 feet in length and 6 feet 9 inches 
at the greatest diameter, the sculpture representing a colossal human 
figure, a portion of wliich is visible on this fragment. It appears that 
it was broken off at the neck and divided down the trunk to the hips, 
leaving intact the left side, the arm, and a calendar beneath the arm 2 
feet in diameter. The left hand is shown with palm turned inward. 
The calendar, which is near 6 feet in circumference, is provided with an 
index, which points to a certain place on the dial, indicating probably 
the time of the dedication of the monument. The surface of this stone 
shows marks of violence, as is indicated in the drawing (Fig. 1), given 
on the following page. 

There is a gorget on the neck, a decoration on the breast, and hiero- 
glyphics on the arm, representing, according to Mexican authority, 
phases of the moon. Upon the index of its calendar is a well-defined 
Maltese cross. The pedestal of this monument was perhaps in the tem- 
ple, built on the summit of this mound, from which it was hurled by 
the Si)aniards at the time of the conquest. 

The mound was about 60 feet in height and had three terraces or 
stages, traces of which are to-day plainly perceptible. 

It is probable that the Tezcoconians whom Cortez found here were 

the sculptors of this monument. They, as well as the Aztecs of Mexico, 

were but a wandering tribe of barbarians three hundred years previous 

to the advent of the Spaniards. They entered the valley in the begin- 

H. Mis. 600 44 6i9 



690 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL PAPERS. 



ning of the thirteenth century and settled on the eastern border of 
the lake opposite Mexico. The descendants of these people live in 
the vicinity of Tezcoco to-day and for three hundred and sixty years 
have been in contact with European civilization without having ac- 
quired much knowledge of civilized arts. They are still the Indians 
whose highest works of art are the feathered pictures which their an- 
cestors made at the time of the invasion. 




Fig. 1. — Fragmeut of sculptured porphyry. 

If these Indiivns, whom Cortez found jn possession of the soil, were 
not the authors of these monuments, who did make them? .It is quite 
the fashion to ascribe to the Toltecs everything which is not under- 
stood and about which there is a doubt; but there is a grave doubt as 
to the Toltecs themselves and as to the time when they occupied this 
valley. It is certain however as to the date of occupation of the 
Aztecs. It is certain, too, that Tenochlitlon or Mexico was their highest 
achievement in art or architecture, and Mexico at the time of the con- 
quest, instead of being such a city as Prescott pictures it, was but a 
collection of mud houses. There were no palaces and tliere are no re- 
mains of palaces in the city of Mexico. Wearied with wandering, the 
Aztecs finding the remains of a civilization adapted'themselves to it the 
best they could, adopting the idols and blending the religion of the 
people who preceded them with their own rude idolatry. This is per- 
haps the cause of the strange contradictions in Aztec remains. In no 
other way can we account for the defiicement of the so-called sacrificial 
stone by the cutting of a rude channel through its finely sculptured 



ANTIQUITIES IN MEXICO. 691 

surface, iu which the blood of victims flowed iu honor of the fierce 
Aztec deities. The same theory will also account for the presence of 
such a work of art as the sculptured slab of Tezcoco in the midst of a 
collection of mud huts, such as Cortez found and dignified with the 
name of a city. 

The drawing of this " find " (represented in the foregoing figure), was 
made by Mr. W. H. Bishop, and the following is the translation of the 
certificate of discovery issued to me by citizen Eugenie Villadosola, 
political chief of the district of Tezcoco, in the State of Mexico, June 3, 
1882: 

I certify that Senor S. B. Evans, chief of the expedition sent by the director of 
the newspaper called the Chicago Times, has presented himself in this town for the 
jDurpose of examining the ancient monuments that exist iu this district which is 
under my direction, and having discovered in an excavation th"at had already been 
begun a stone that is said to be the ancient calendar stone of Tezcoco, the dimensions 
and drawings of which he has in his possession, I hereby issue to said Senor Evans 
this certilicate of discovery this 5th day of Jujie, 18d2. 

Eugenie Villadosola, 
Political Chief. 
Antony C^sar, 

Clerk. 

The monument, by order of Sei5or Mendoz^ (since deceased), director 
of the national museum at Mexico, has been removed to the city. 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF ARNOLD GUYOT.* 



By James D. Dana. 



It is a remarkable fact in the history of American science that, forty 
years since, the small Rejuiblicof Switzerland lost, and America gained, 
three scientists who became leading men of the country in their several 
departments — Agassiz in Zoology, Guyot in Physical Geography, and 
Lesqnereux in Paleontological Botany ; Agassiz coming in 1846, Guyot 
and Lesqnereux in 1848. A fourtli, Mr. L. F. De Pourtales, who ac- 
companied Agassiz, also merits prominent mention; for he was "the 
pioneer of deep sea dredging in America,"! The Society of the Nat- 
ural Sciences at Neuchatel lost all four. As an American Academy of 
Sciences we can not but rejoice in our gain ; but we may also indulge 
at least in a passing regret for Neuchatel, and recognize that in the 
life and death of Agassiz, Pourtales, and Guyot we have common inter- 
ests and sympathies. 

My own acquaintance with Professor Guyot commenced after his ar- 
rival in America, when half of his life was already passed. In prepar- 
ing this sketch of our late colleague I have therefore drawn largely from 
others, and chiefly from his family, and from a memorial address by Mr. 
Charles Faure, of Geneva, one of his pupils, which was published in 
1884 by the Geographical Society of Geneva.t 

Youth — Education in Switzerland and Germany, 1807 to 1835. — To ob- 
tain a clear insight into the character of Professor Guyot it is impor- 
tant to have in view, at the outset, the fact that the Guyot family, early 
in the sixteenth century, became Protestants through the preaching of 
the French reformer, Farel, the cotemporary of Luther; and also the 
sequel to this fact, that at the revocation of the edict of Nantes, the 
Guyot family was one of the sixty that moved into the principality of 
Neuchatel and Valangin from the valleys of Pragela and Queyraz in 
the high Alps of Dauphiny. Thus the race was one of earnestness and 
high purpose, of the kind and origin that contributed largely to the 
foundations of the American Republic. 

* Read before the National Academy of Sciences, April 21, 1886. (Biographical 
Memoirs, vol. ii, pp, 309-347. ) 

t A. Agassiz, Amer. Join-. Sci., 3d ser., xx, 254, 1830. 

t Vie et Ti-avaus d'Ai'uold Gnyot., 1807-18-54, par Charles Faure, 72 pp., Bvo. Read 
before the Geographical Society of Cxcneva, April 25 ami August 25, 1884. 

693 



694 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

Professor Gnyot's father, David Pierre, esteemed for his "prompt 
intelligence and perfect integrity," married, in 1796, Mademoiselle 
Constance Pavarger, of I^euchatel, "a lady of great personal beauty 
and rare nobility of character." Arnold Henri, one of twelve chddren, 
was born at BoudevilJiers on the 2Sth of September, 1807, and was 
named after the Swiss patriot of the fourteenth century, Arnold von 
Winkelried. About 1818 the family moved to Ilauterive, 3 miles from 
Neuchatel, where his father died the following year. From the house 
at Hauterive young Guyot had before him, to the southeastward, the 
whole chain of the Alps from Mt .Blanc to Titlis; and his sensitive nature 
must have drawn inspiration from the glorious view — the same deep 
draughts that he attributed to young Agassiz in his academic memoir 
of his friend, with reference to the same circumstance — the snowy Bern- 
ese Oberland, the Jungfrau, the Sclireckhorn, the Pinsteraarhorn, the 
Eigers, and other summits to Mt. Blanc, "looming up before his eyes 
in the view from his house." Such views are calculated to make phys- 
ical geographers and geologists of active minds, Guyot early found 
pleasure in the collection of insects and plants, and evinced in this and 
other ways the impress that nature was making upon him. 

Previous to the year 1818, and for a while after, Guyot was at school 
at La Chaux-de- Ponds, a noted village " at the foot of a narrow and 
savage gorge of the Jura," 3,070 feet above the sea. In 1821, then 
fourteen years of age, he entered the College of Neuchatel, where he 
was a classmate of Leo Lesquereux, the botanist. " Guyot and I," says 
Lesquereux, " were, for some years, brothers in study, working in com- 
mon and often spending our vacations together, either at Guyot's home, 
at Hauterive, or with my parents at Pleurier; and I owe much in life 
to the good influences of this friendship." His studies were classical, 
Latin, Greek, and philosophy, arranged for preparing a boy for the 
profession of the law, medicine, or theology, with almost nothing to 
foster his love of nature. 

In 1825, then eighteen, he left home to complete his education in 
Germany. After spending three months at Metzingon, near Stuttgart, 
in the study of the German language, he went to Carlsruhe, where he 
became an inmate of the family of Mr. Braun, a man of wealth and sci- 
entific tastes, the father of the distinguished botanist and philosopher, 
Alexander Braun, the discoverer of phyllotaxis — terms of intimacy 
with the family on the part of several of his relatives having been of 
long standing. The family comprised also a younger son and two 
daughters. Agassiz was then a student at Heidelberg along with 
young Alexander Braun and Carl Schimper, but he spent his summer 
vacations at the Carlsruhe mansion. A vacation soon came. "The 
arrival of the eldest son of the house," says Guyot, "already distin- 
guished by scientific publications, with his three university friends — 
Agassiz, Schimper, the gifted co-laborer of Braun in the discovery of 
phyllotaxis, and Imhoff, of Bale, the future author of one of the best 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT 695 

Entomological Fannas of Switzerland and Sonthern Germany — was a 
stirring event, which threw new life into the quiet circle. After a 
short time devoted to a mntual acquaintance, every one began to work. 
The acquisition of knowledge was the rule of the day, and social en- 
joyment the sweet condiment to more solid food." " My remembrance," 
remarks Guyot, "of those few months of alternate work and play, at- 
tended by so much real progress, are among the most delightful of my 
younger days." "Add to these attractions the charm of the society of 
a few select and intimate friends, professors, clergymen, and artists, 
dropping in almost every -evening, and you will easily understand how 
congenial, how fostering to all noble impulses, must have been the 
atmosphere of this family for the young and happy guests assembled 
under its hospitable roof." "Months were thus spent in constant and 
immediate intercourse with nature, the subjects of investigation chang- 
ing with the advancing season. Botany and entomology had their 
turn," and "demonstrations of x>hyllotaxis," he says, "now reduced to 
definite formula by Braun and Schimper, and shown in various plant 
forms, but especially in jiine-coues, were of absorbing interest. The 
whole plan of the present animal kingdom in its relations to the ex- 
tinct paleontological forms was the theme of animated discussions." 
He adds, "It would be idle to attempt to determine the measure of 
mutual benefit derived by these yonng students of nature from their 
meeting under such favorable circumstances. It certainly was great, 
and we need no other proof of the strong impulse they all received from 
it than the new ardor with which each pursued and subsequently per- 
formed his lifework."* 

Guyot took in, equally with Agassiz, the newly developed views in 
botany, embryology, and zoological classificationthat were the subjects 
of thought and discussion, and became profoundly impressed thereby, 
as his later work shows. 

From Carlsrnhe, Guyot went to Suttgart and took the course at the 
gymnasium, where he made himself a proficient in the German language. 
Returning to iSTeuchatel in 1827, and there quickened in his religious 
faith and feelings by the preaching of the Eev. Samuel Petit-pierre, his 
benevolent impulses, under a sense of duty, led him to turn from science 
to theology and commence serious preparation for the ministry. In 
1829, then twenty-two years of age, having this purpose still in view, 
he went to Berlin to attend the lectures of Schleiermacher, Neander, 
and Hengstenberg, and there remained for five years — 1830 to 1835. 
In order to meet his expenses he accepted the invitation of Herr Mliller, 
privy counselor to the King of Prussia, to live with him and give his 
children the benefit of conversation in French, The position brought 
him into intercourse with the highest of Berlin society, and was in 
many ways of great benefit to him. 

While pursuing theology in earnest, his hours of recreation found 

* Gnyot's Academic Memoir of Agassiz, read April, 1878. (Biographical Memoirs, 
vol. ir, pp. 44-47. 



696 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

him making collections of the plants and shells of the country, and 
otherwise following- his scientific leadings. Hnmboldt introduced him 
to the Berlin Botanical Garden, where the plants of the tropics were 
a source of special gratification and profit. Moreover, other courses of 
lectures attracted him, as those of Hegel, of Stefifens, on psychology and 
the philosophy of nature, Mitscherlich on chemistry, Hofmann on geology. 
Dove on physics and meteorology, and especially those of Carl Ritter, 
the eminent geographer, whose philosophical views were full of delight 
to his eager mind and touched a sympathetic cord. Under such influ- 
ence he found his love for nature-science rapidly- gaining possession of 
him, and, yielding finally to his mental demands and to his conscience, 
which would not permit him to enter the ministry with a divided pur- 
pose, he determined to drop theology and make science his chief pursuit. 

liitter, of all his Berlin teachers, made the profoundest impression on 
his course of thought; and his biographical sketch of him, presented 
to the American Geographical Society in ISGO, four years after his death, 
exhibits the admiring affection of a pupil who was like Ritter in his 
profounder sentiments. A paragraph from the memoir will show the 
tenor of Ritter's geographical teaching and something of the mental 
affiliation between them. Guyot says (p. 48): 

"Ritter, in the introduction to the 'Erdkunde,' declares that the 
fundamental idea which underlies all his work, and furnishes him a new 
principle for arranging the well digested materials of the science of the 
globe, has its deep root in the domain of faith. This idea, he adds, 
was derived from an inward intuition, which gradually grew out of his 
life in nature and among men. It could not be, beforehand, sharply 
defined and limited, but would become fully manifested in the comple- 
tion of the edifice itself. That noble edifice is now before us, and, un- 
finished though it be, it reveals the plan of the whole and allows us 
clearly to perceive that fundamental idea on which it rests. It is a 
strong faith that our globe, like the totality of creation, is a great or- 
ganism, the work of an all- wise Divine Intelligence, an admirable struct- 
ure, all the parts of which are purposely shaped and arranged and 
mutally dependent, and, like organs, fulfill, by the will of the Maker, 
specific functions which combine themselves into a common life. But 
for Ritter that organism of the globe compries not nature only; it in- 
cludes man, and, with man, the moral and intellectual life." "None be- 
fore him perceived so clearly the hidden but strong ties which mutually 
bind man to nature — those close and fruitful relations between man and 
his dwelling place, between a continent and its inhabitants, between a 
country and the people which hold it as its share of the continent — 
those influences which stamp the races and nations each with a charac- 
ter of their own, never to be effaced during the long period of their ex- 
istence." We have here ideas that took, in Guyot, a still larger expan- 
sion. 

Guyot derived great profit also from the works and the friendship of 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 697 

Humboldt. His address at the Humboldt Commemoration of the 
American Geographical Society, in 1859, was a beautiful tribute to this 
model student of nature.* 

The five years of study at the Berlin University terminated with an 
examination which brought him the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. 
His graduating thesis, written in Latin, as was then the rule, was on 
"The Natural Classification of Lakes." 

To Paris, the Pyrenees, Italy, etc., 1835 fo 1859. — From Berlin, Guyot, in 
his twenty eighth year — June of 1835 — went to Paris to take charge of 
the education of the sons of Count de Pourtal^sGorgier, and continued 
with the family four years. Letters of introduction from Humboldt led 
to much intercourse with Brongniart and other savants of the great city. 
For the summer he accompanied the family to Eaux Bonnes, in the 
Pyrenees. While there he made ascents of the higher peaks and took 
excursions in various directions — to the amphitheater of Gavarnie, to 
the borders of Spain by the Pout d'Espagne and the pass beyond, to 
the valley of the Eaux Chaudes, etc. — in order to study the features 
and flora, and compare the mountains in these respects with the Alps. 
In the autumn he went with his pupils to Belgium, Holland, and the 
Ehiue to study the characteristic features of these countries. The fol- 
lowing year he visited Pisa, and there, besides enjoying the new scenes, 
made various barometrical measurements, determining the elevation of 
the observatory at Florence and of other points. 

Trip to the glaciers in 1838. — In the spring of 1838 Agassiz found 
Guyot still at Paris. During the summer preceding Agassiz had 
startled the scientific world by his declarations as to a Universal Gla- 
cial Era, contained in a paper read before the Helvetic Society of Nat- 
ural Sciences assembled at Neuchatel. His work in 1837 — prompted 
in 1836 by Charpentier's discoveries proving the fact of a former epoch 
of immense glaciers in Switzerland — had led him to the bold conclu- 
sion, and he was full of his new idea when he met his old companion. 
He urged Guyot, who hesitated at accepting his views without exami- 
nation, to study the facts, and obtained the promise that he would visit 
the glaciers that summer. 

In his memoir of Agassiz, Guyot states that his six weeks of investi- 
gation that season in the Central Alps (nearly two years before Agas- 
siz commenced his investigation on the Glacier of the Aar) were fruit- 
ful beyond expectation. He says that from the examination of the 
glaciers of the Aar, Rhone, Gries, Brenva, and others, he learned (1) 
the law of the moraines; (2) that of the more rapid flow of the center 
of the glacier than the sides; (3) that of the more rapid flow of the top 
than the bottom ; (4) that of the laminated or ribboned structure (" blue 
bands"); and (5) that of the movement of the glacier by a gradual mo- 
lecular displacement, instead of by a sliding of the ice-mass, as held by 
de Saussure. 

* Journal of the American Geographical Society, October, 1859; vol. i, p. 242. 



698 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

The facts and conclusions were communicated to the Geolog-ical So- 
ciety of France at a meeting at Porrentruy, in September, 1838. The 
communication is mentioned in the bulletin of the society for that year,* 
but no report of it is given because the manuscript remained in his 
hands unfinished, in consequence of his protracted illness the winter 
following. The portion then finished (which was withheld from publi- 
cation because, by special arrangement between them, Agassiz in 1840 
entered upon the special study of the glaciers, and Guyot on that of 
the Swiss erratic phenomena, for their separate parts of a general sur- 
vey) has recently been printed in volume xiii (1883) of the Bulletin of 
the Xeuchatel Society of Natural Sciences. In 1842 this manuscript was 
deposited, by motion of Agassiz, in the archives of the Neuchatel So- 
ciety, and in 1848 it was withdrawn by Guyot when he left for America. 
It is to be regretted that publication was not substituted in 1842 for 
burial. Its recent publication was made by the request of Guyot, early 
in 1883, from a certified copy of the original manuscript. 

This paper gives the facts on which Guyot based his conclusions, 
and since these conclusions comprise some of the most important of 
the views now accepted relating to glacial motion and structure, and 
antedate the observations of Agassiz, Eendu, and Forbes, they have 
special interest. 

The fact of a less rapid movement of the bottom ice than the top, owing 
to friction, he ascertained by the observation that in glaciers of steep 
descent, like the Ehoue at its rapids, and the Gries, the transverse 
crevasses and the masses they cut off are at first vertical or nearly 
so ; but below the rapids, where the slope is gentle and the crevas- 
ses become mostly closed, the masses are inclined with the pitch up 
stream, and this up-stream inclination is reduced at the termination 
of the glacier to a few degrees. The crevasses, ■ although closing 
up below, are still traceable. He says the so-called layers are not 
strictly layers ; but great numbers of cracks remain, which give to the 
mass the appearance of being made up of beds several yards thick, 
as may be seen in the glaciers of the Grindelwald valley, Aar, and 
others. 

Further: To this pitch in the stratification at the lower extremity, 
the beds rising outward, Guyot attributes also the origin of the ma- 
jestic ice chambers, whence in most cases flow great streams, as that 
of the iihone, of the Arveyrou at the foot of the Mer de Glace, of the 
Liitschinen from the glaciers of Grindelwald. 

The more rapid movement of the center than the sides also was learned 
from the Rhone glacier and others of steep descent. The crevasses, 
at first transverse, were found to be arched in front below the rapids, 
and increasingly arched to the extremity, and the successive crevasse- 
lines were very nearly concentric with the semicircular outline of 

*Vol. IX, p. 407. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 699 

the extremity of the glacier. He gives a figure of the Ehone glacier 
as seen from the Maienwaud in ilhistratiqn, and other later glacial- 
ists have appealed to the same evidence of lateral friction. 

The semicircular outline of the terminal moraine was found to be 
another result of the cause just mentioned; and so also the "even- 
tail " arrangement of the several moraines immediately above the ter- 
mination. The greater height and breadth of the central moraine is 
made a consequence of the greater velocity of the ice at the middle 
of the upper surface, more transportation taking place consequently in 
a given time. 

Again : The conclusion that the movement of the glacier ivas largely 
through molecular displacement was supported by his observation that 
the ice, instead of breaking up and rising into an accumulation of 
masses on its passage by an isolated rock, or rocky islet, in its course, 
spread around and enveloped it without fracturing ; and he refers to 
a fine example of this at the two isolated islets of rock in the midst 
of the great Brenva glacier, called the '' eyes of the glacier." The 
same thing is observed "atthe Jardin du Talefre, a true islet in the 
midst of a mer de glace, having a border of blocks of rock, or of a 
moraine, cast upon its sides by the march of the glacier, just like the 
coast dunes of an island in the ocean." 

In view of such facts, Guyot observes: " If it is true that the differ- 
ent parts of a glacier move with different velocities; if the glacier 
adapts itself to the form of a valley and fills all depressions without 
ceasing to be continuous ; if it can bend around an obstacle and closely 
inclose it without the fracturing of its mass, like a spreading liquid, 
we may affirm that the movements take place through a molecular dis- 
placement, and we must abandon, at least as the only cause, the idea 
of a slow slidiug of the mass upon itself as incompatible with the phe- 
nomena presented."* 

The " blue bands " of the glacier were first described by Guyot. He 
called the structure stratification, and observed it in the ice of the sum- 
mit of the glacier of Gries, at a height of about 7,500 feet. A peculiar 
furrowing of the surface of the ice, the furrows 1 or 2 inches broad, at- 
tracted his attention ; and this result of weathering he found to have 
come from the unequal firmness of the layers constituting it, layers of 
a softer " snowy ice" alternating with those of firm bluish glassy ice. 
The stratification was found by him to extend over hundreds of square 
meters, and downward, on the sides of crevasses, 20 to 30 feet deep, or 
as far down as the eye could penetrate ; and it was evident that " the 
layers of the two sides of a crevasse were once continuous, like the 

*' In French bis words of 1838 are: *' On pent affirraer que ces monvetnents ne 
peuvent avoir lien qu'en vertu d'un ci6p1aceinent inol^cnlairo, et il faut abandonner, 
au moins comme cause unique, I'iil^e d'un glissement lent de la masse sur elle- 
mfirae, comme incompatible avec les ph6nom6ues que pr6seute la marche des gla- 
ciera." 



700 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

strata of the opposite sides of a tran verse valley." He compared the 
stratification to that of certain coarsely schistose limestones.* 

He remarks, in conclusion : " We should say that the layers were 
not annual layers, but rather a series made day by day from small suc- 
cessive snowfalls that were melted in part by the sun of the day, and 
covered each night by the thick frost-glazing which envelops all the 
snowy summits of the high Alps."t 

He further observes that " these beds were evidently formed at a 
greater height and in a diflereut position from that where observed." 
He adds, in closing his remarks on the subject : " Do the beds, at first 
horizontal, or at least parallel to the surface of the glacier, accomplish, 
during its movement, evolutions, as yet imperfectly understood, analo- 
gous to those before mentioned [that is, those occasioned by differences 
in velocity of the middle, sides, and bottom, owing to unequal friction]. 
This is a point which should have further examination, with observa- 
tions as minute, numerous, and universal as possible. Unfortunately a 
thick fog and threatening weather forced me to stop work before I had 
ascertained whether this structure was general for the whole mass of 
the glacier at that altitude, or whether restricted to that locality not- 
withstanding the proof of so large an extension of it." 

Guyot had some confidence in his conclusions, but he also felt, as he 
states, the importance of more detailed investigation in order to decide 
on their real value. 

On the 1st of December, 1841, Guyot communicated the results of his 
observations of 1838, so far as relates to the " blue bands," at a meeting 
of the Keuchatel Society of Natural Sciences, "reading some passages 
from his note written in 1838." This communication contains the addi- 
tional fact that the layers of the stratification in the Gries glacier were 
inclined about 45 degrees, were nearly transverse to the principal gla- 
cier, and appeared also to have sinuosities due to lateral compression.^ 

Agassiz, in his Syst^me Glaciare (1847), cites from Guyot's manu- 
script (then deposited with the Neuchatel Society) the part relating to 
the " blue bands" (the only part he ever cited), and in this citation there 
is a paragraph on the inclination or pitch of the layers, with Guyot's 
additional suggestion that the pitch of the layers looked as if a result 

* His words are : "Stratifi<5 h la fa^on de certains calcaires grossiferement schis- 
teux," and he explains it himself as implying a lamellar structure. 

tin the original, the words are: "On aurait dit, non pas des couches annuelles, 
mais une s^rie de couches plutdt journaliferes de neige tomh6e successivement par 
petites quantit^s, puis fondue en partie par lesoleil de la journ^e, et couvertechaque 
nuit de cefc ^pais verglas qui, au-dessus de la region des glaces, recouvre toutes les 
8ommit6s ueigeuses des hautes Alpes." 

t The report of the meeting of the Neuch&tel Society is contained in the Verhand- 
lungen of the " Schweiz. Nat. Gesellschaft," Altdorf, 1842. The abstract of Guyot's 
couinuinication there given (pp. 199-200) says: "La position de ces couches etait in- 
clinfie d'environ 45° dans le sens de la pente g^n^raledu glacier. Leur dii'ection sem- 
blait presque transversale A celle du glacier principal, mais longitudinale ficelle de 
son penchant meridional. Elle prfeentait quelquefois des sinuosit^s qui semblaient 
ua efiet de compression lateral®." 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 701 

of the advance of the surface portion over that below, a point already 
explained by him [by reference to friction at bottom].* 

Guyot opens his account of the blue bands with the remark that, as 
he had seen them only on one occasion, he dares not hazard an explana- 
tion; but his later sentences show that he was inclined to regard them 
as a result of deposition, and to consider the varying inclinations in the 
layers as due to subsequent disturbing action — that is, to the irregu- 
larities of glacier movement, caused by friction and pressure under the 
varying conditions of the glacier valley as to form and size. 

Whether right or wrong in these suggestions as to the bands, Guyot's 
six weeks' work in the summer of 1838 was indeed fruitful. He had the 
satisfaction of seeing his conclusions for the most part confirmed by the 
facts collected by Agassiz, Forbes, and others, but not of receiving 
credit for his work and original conclusions, except on one point, and 
chiefly because of the want of proper publication.! 

* The ciled paragraph iu the Systeme Glaciaire (p. 209) is as follows : " La direction 
de ces coaches coupait h angle droit la ligne de marche (de pente) du glacier, leur 
incliuatiou d^viait dc 30° a 40° de la perpeudiculaire vers la partie iuf^rieure, comme 
ei la pente superticielle gaguait de I'avance sur la partie inf6rieure ainsi que je I'ai 
d6crit plus haut." The writer learns from Mrs. Arnold Guyot that this paragraph is 
a part of the original manuscript, and that it was by oversight that it was not sent 
to the Neuchatel Society iu 1683 with the rest. 

t Keudu's " Th6orie des Glaciers de la Savoie " was published iu 1841 (Mem. Soc. 
Roy. Savoie, Chamb^ry, vol. x). Forbes's first letter from the Alps, annouucing his 
discovery in August, 1841, of the " blue bands " in the Aar Glacier, was commuuicated 
to the Rojal Society of Edinburgh, December 6, 1841, and published in January in 
Jameson's N. Phil. J., vol. xxxii, 1842. Agassiz's first work on glaciers, " Etudes 
sur les Glaciers," was published in 1840. Neither of these publications mentioned 
Guyot or his observations. 

Guyot's communication of 1841, published iu the Altdorf Verhandluugen, was 
drawn out by a discussion between Forbes and Agassiz relating to priority as to ob- 
servations on the blue bands, and it was made just five days before Forbes's first letter 
was lead in Edinburgh. Agassiz claimed credit for Guyot at the meeting iu 1841, as 
a set-off agaiust Forbes's claim, and again, iu the N. Phil. Journ., xxxiii, 265, 1842. 
Forbes, iu the following volume of that journal, xxxiv, 145, 1843, gives Guyot credit 
for original discovery as regards the "blue bunds." and speaks of his corresponding 
with him on the subject; and he repeats the acknowledgement to the "ingenious 
lirofessor of Neuchdtel," in his Travels through the Alps of Savoy, 1843 (first edition) 
and 1845 (second edition), page 28. Desor, in the same journal, xxxv, 308, 1843, in a 
paper on Agassiz's recent glacier researches, introduces a translation of Guyot's ac- 
count of the banded structure, but cuts it short at the words, "opposite sides of a 
transverse valley," leaving off the explanatory remarks which follow. 

Tyndall, in his "Forms of Water" (1872, page 183), gives Guyot credit for pri- 
ority ; and he cites, both in this work and in his earlier " Glaciers of the Alps " (1856), 
a translation of Guyot's account, endiug it a sentence short of Desor's citation, with 
the words, "certain calcareous slates" in place of Guyot's "certain schistose lime- 
stones" ; and on page 187 of " The Forms of Water," knowing only a part of what Guyot 
had written, he does him more than justice (admitting Tyndall's view to be estab- 
lished) in saying that he " threw out an exceedingly sagacious hint when he compared 
the veined structure to the cleav^age of slate rocks," for the comparison in Guyot's 
paper implies rather stratification from deposition. 

The first detailed comparison of the " blue bauds" to slaty cleavage in structure, 



702 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

Having attended at Berlin the lectures of Dove on physics and 
meteorology and those of Kitter on physical geography, Guyot knew 
when he went to the mountains what to look for in case the glaciers 
were great Howing streams of ice, as had often been supposed ; he knew 
that the How of a stream is retarded along the sides and bottom by fric- 
tion, and he naturally looked also for something in the encounter of the 
glacier with rocks answering to molecular displacement. Hence, in his 
six weeks of observations on the glaciers, he reached, without waste of 
time, good conclusions — the conclusions of a physical geographer. His 
iuvestigation did not enable him to appreciate the interior fracturing 
that works along with molecular displacement in the flow of the ice, 
but his conclusion was still far in the right direction and decisive 
against the hypothesis he opposed. That he did not continue his study 
of the glaciers to thoroughly established results was owing to his yield- 
ing the subject afterward to Agassiz. Fidelity to his friend and his 
volunteered agreement curbed in and silenced him ; and so his paper, 
excepting the paragraphs on the " blue bands," remained buried until 
after Agassiz's decease. 

At Neuchdtel, Professor in the Academy^ 1839 to 1848. — In 1839, at the 
age of thirty-two, Guyot left Paris and returned to his native town. 
He became at once an active member of the Society of the Natural 
Sciences (which had been initiated by Agassiz in 1332), and was made 
by the Society one of a committee — including also M. d' Osterwald, and 
H. Ladame — for the oigauization of a system of meteorological observa- 
tions in Switzerland and the selection of the best instruments for the 
purpose. On the establishment of the "Academy " at Neuchatel, for 
the purpose of furnishing a university education to the graduates of the 
college or gymnasium, he was appointed to the chair of history and 
physical geography, and became a colleague of Agassiz. He hesitated 
about taking charge of the department of history, as this had not been 
one of his special lines of study ; yet, once committed to it, he plunged 
into the subject with great earnestness. He says he groped on among 
the details for two years before he began to distinguish its grand pe- 
riods, and the light as it broke in upon him caused so intense excitement 
that he was made ill. 

Instruction was a great pleasure to him, because of his deep interest 
both in his subject and in his pupils. His two departments called out 
from him thirteen general and special courses of lectures. With re- 
gard to the lectures, Mr. Faure says : ^'From the first, in spite of his 
apprehensions, he captivated his audience by his easy, elegant, sympa- 
thetic words, by the breadth of his views, and the abundance and happy 
arrangement of his facts. He had, each winter afterward, the pleasure 

position, and origin appears to have been made by Prof. Henry D. Rogers at the Cam- 
bridge meeting of the American A&sociation in 1849 (Proc. Am. Assoc., ii, 181). But 
Rogers attributed the structure in both to conditions of temperature and not, like 
Tyndall, to pressure. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 703 

of seeiug men of cultivation of all classes in Neuchatel pressing into 
the large ball of the college and listening to him with riveted attention." 
His pupil adds : " What zeid he inspired ! what ardor for work ! The 
fire with which he was filled passed to us. He was more than a pro- 
fessor ; he was a devoted friend, a wise counselor, associating himself 
with us and encouraging us in our work." 

Gu3'ot, besides lecturing and instructing, did all he could of outside 
work — meteorological, barometric, hydrographic, orographic, and 
glacialistic. The hydrographic work was the careful sounding of Lake 
Neuchatel (in all eleven hundred soundings) as the commencement of 
a study of the annual variation in the temperature of the waters of the 
Swiss lakes. His chief research — that on the distribution of the bowl- 
ders or erratics over Switzerland — occupied him, "single-handed, seven 
laborious summers, from 1840 to 1847," he allowing himself only, "at the 
end of his working season, the pleasure of a visit of a few days to the 
lively band of friends established on the Glacier of the Aar, in order to 
learn the results of their doings and communicate his own to them."* 
Switzerland in the ice period was his subject; and the sources of the 
bowlders and the courses of ice transportation were the chief inquiries. 
The investigation involved excursions on foot and careful examination 
of the whole range of the Swiss Alps, the slopes into Italy, the plains 
of Switzerland, and the mountains on the northern and western borders, 
including the Juras — in all an area of 190 by 310 miles — in order to 
trace the erratics to their high sources among the snowy summits, ex- 
amine the rocks of all peaks, ridges, and valleys for comparison with 
those of the erratics, measure the heights along the lines and limits of 
the erratics from plain to mountaiu peak, and note all glacial markings. 
The task was accomplished with the greatest possible fidelity; " thou- 
sands of barometric measurements " were made in the course of it, and 
between five and six thousand specimens were gathered in duplicate. 

Thus, says Guyot, " Eight erratic basins were recognized on the 
northern slope of the Alps — those of the Isere, the Arve, Rhone, Aar, 
Reuss, Limmat, Sentis, and Rhiue ; and four on the southern slope — 
that of the Adda, including Lake Como, of Lugano, of Ticino, including 
L. Maggiore, and that of the Val d'Aosta. 

"Moreover, a question left hitherto untouched — the distribution in 
each basin of the rocks special to it — was minutely examined, and the 
final results of all the laws observed in the arrangement of the erratic 
fragments were shown to be identical with the laws of the moraines. 
This identity, and the absolute continuity of the erratic phenomena 
from the heart of the Alps down the valleys and beyond to the Jura 
left no alternative but to admit the ancient existence of mighty glaciers 
as vast as the erratic regions themselves, and having a thickness of 
over 2,000 feet." 
Brief notes on his work were published in the Bulletin of the Neuchatel 

•Memoir of Agassiz. (Biographical Memoirs, ii, p. 67.) 



704 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

Society of the Natural Sciences for November, 1843, May and December, 
1845, aud January, 1847.* 

Guyot reserved the complete report for the second volume of Agas- 
siz's great work on glaciers. But, unfortunately, after the first volume 
by Agassiz appeared at Paris, in 1847, there came tlie revolution of 
1848, which put an end to their plans. 

The study of the geological structure of the Jura Mountains, in 
which he worked out the system in the flexures of the strata and proved 
that it must have been produced by lateral pressure, was another of 
Guyot's labors soon after his return from Neuchatel, although not re- 
l)orted on until 1849, at the Cambridge meeting of the American Asso- 
ciation.! 

Guyot had been teaching at Neuchatel nine years when suddenly the 
''Academy" was suppressed by the grand revolutionary council of 
Geneva of 1848. The 13th of June brought the tidings, and on the 
30th the end came "without any indemnity to the professors." Letters 
from Agassiz urged him to come to America. Though reluctant to take 
the step because of the many ties of friendship and association that 
bound him to Switzerland, and especially on account of the family 
under his charge, consisting of his mother, then seventy years old, 
and two sisters, which he should have to leave behind, he had the de- 
cision of his mother, after her careful reading of Agassiz's letter, in favor 
of it, I and in the following August he left friends, home, and Europe. 

In America. — The Lowell Lectures at Boston — ^^JEJarth and Man^^ — 
1848, 1849. — Without English speech, with no plans ahead, and with 
more than forty years of his life behind, a crowd of apprehensions con- 
tinued to haunt Guyot until he reached the American shores. Once 
landed in New York, he was soon after at Cambridge with his friend 
Agassiz; and from that time the calamity that had befallen him, com- 
menced to prove itself a blessing. It was for him, falling in with the 
" geographical march of history," aud coming to the land and ''•peoi)le 
of the future," where no ijolitical or religious shackles were in the way 
of success, and where an audience as wide as the continent was ready 
for whatever he had to communicate. 

In September, a fortnight after his arrival, Agassiz took Guyot to the 
meeting of the American Association at Philadelphia. At its close he 
made his first journey to the Alleghauies, spending a week in crossing 

*The facts are well presented also, though briefly, in the second volume of D'Arch- 
iac's Histoire des Progres de la G6ologie, pp. 259-265. 

t Proc. Aiuer. Assoc, ii, 115, 1850. 

}; August 8th, 1848, the day of his departure from Neuchdtel, he writes: "Ma 
nifere a 6t6 toujours si forte et si confiaute qu'elle m'a souteuu jusqu'au dernier mo- 
ment, mais son dernier sanglot, en me quittaut, m'est alle au ccour: Oh! que Dieu 
me donne de la revoir et d'embellir ses derniers jours." This desire was realized. In 
the autumn of 1849 he had the happiness of welcoming his mother, two sisters, aud 
a niece to the new home which he had prepared for them in Cambridge. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 705 

the region in Pennsylvania to Bedford and Cumberland. On his re- 
turn he stopped in Princeton to deliver a letter of introduction to Dr. 
Charles Hodge, and found there friends who later welcomed him as a 
colleague. 

Returning to Cambridge, he was soon afterward, invited by Mr. Low- 
ell to deliver one of the winter courses of lectures at the Lowell Insti- 
tute, and in January he resumed in Boston his academic work, taking 
for his subject Comparative Physical Geography. He spoke in French, 
almost without notes, to a large and appreciative audience, and from 
that time the Swiss professor had an American reputation. These lect- 
ures, written out after the delivery of each, were translated by Pro- 
fessor Felton " with rare kindness and a disinterestedness still more 
rare," says Guyot,* and published under the title — now familiar — of 
t' Earth and Man." 

The views of Eitter, which had put life and humanity into geography, 
are used by the author as tbe basis of still wider generalizations bearing 
on the earth and human history. Guyot first draws out in admirable 
style the distinctive physiographic features ot the continents and seas, 
and then proceeds to consider the i)hysiology of the continental forms, 
by which he meant the interactions of the continents in their own his- 
tory, and in that of man as their tenant. Having finished the physio- 
graphic portraiture in the first seventy pages, he says : " We must 
now see these great organs in operation ; we must see them in life, 
acting and reacting upon each other," that is, "their physiological 
l)henoniena." 

In order to exhibit the "living" action between these "organs" in 
its true relations, he first exi^lains the fundamental law of progress in 
all growth or development; then exhibits the application of the law to 
the earth in its genesis, and in its later progress through the ages, and 
finally draws out and puts into order the grander facts in the conditions 
of the earth connected with the development of man in his social, polit- 
ical, and moral relations. 

Guyot makes all historical progress a development., carried forward 
through the incessant action and reaction of differences or unlike con- 
ditions; he speaks of it as a gradual specialization of parts and func- 
tions, comparable to the progress in germ development and having the 
same general formula; as beginning in a homogeneous unit, which has 
real but unmarked differences of parts, advancing through various 
changes and individualizations, and ending in the complex " harmonic 
unit." He finds the law exemplified in the development of the earth 
after the nebular theory of La Place; in the slow progress of the earth's 
continents from the condition of scattered islands in a large, shallow 
sea to that of united distinctively featured lands ; in the progress of 
the earth's life, as made known by geology; the progress in tbe devel- 
opment of the races of men, and in the origin of human societies. 

*Iii the dedication of " Earth aud Mau" to Professor Felton. 
M. Mis. GOO 45 



706 MEMOlli OF GUYOT. 

The three phases recognized in the process are that of uudistiuguishable 
parts, germ-like j that of diversification ; that of unity, which "allows 
all differences, all individualities, to exist, but co-ordinates and subjects 
them to a superior aim." ^Further, the final product or •' harmonic 
unit," be it an organic species, or a continent, or societies, or whatever 
condition, has its purpose fulfilled not in existing, but in jjreparing for 
and producing other development beyond. 

As diltereutiatiou goes forward increasing diflerences, inter-actions 
become more energetic. The greater the variety of individualities and 
relations in a society of individuals the greater also is the sum of life, 
the more universal, more complete, and more elevated the develop- 
ment. 

Further, besides the unfolding of life "in all its richness of kinds 
and forms by diversity, there is involved an exhibition of it in its util- 
ity, in its beauty, in its goodness, by harmony; and this also for the 
entire globe, collectively considered as a single individual." -This last 
point was the special subject of the larger part of his lectures. 

Here was development for all history. All was put under one 
formula, that which is expressed in embryonic development, and was 
illustrated by details sustaining the application of the law. 

With regard to the geological succession of life, he had learned, 
from Agassiz's announcements in his " Poissons Fossiles" (the first 
volume, published in 1834), that the geological succession in species 
was analogous in many respects to embryonic succession,* and he had 
gathered other ideas from the philosophical thoughts of Goethe and 
Stefifens, as well as Eitter; but in his special application of the princi- 
ple to the earth's early and later history, and to human progress, he 
went beyond his teachers. 

In reply to an inquiry as to the originality of his views, he wrote me, 
December G, 1856, as follows : 

"The principle at the basis of development is at the bottom of all 
the modern philosoi)hy of Germany, especially the philosophy of nature, 
but in what an abstract and indigestible form will be seen on opening 
any one of their uninviting volumes. Goethe, the poet and philoso- 
pher, has, in a more concrete and tangible form, the beautiful law that 
the more homogeneous, the lower the organism, and the more diversi- 
fied in its parts, the higher the grade. Steffens, of Berlin, acted more 
directly on my mind, and from him I got a distinct view of the impor- 
tance of the internal contrasts and differences as regards the process 
of life." - - - "All these notions of the law were taken, as was 
natural, from the organized being ; I do not recollect to have seen it 
applied, as I have applied it, to inorganic nature; to astronomy; to 
geology — I mean to the growth of continents, and to the successive 
and increasing diversifications of the surface keeping pace with the 
wants of an increasing development of life; to physical geograpby, in 
* Quoted, by Guyot iu bis sketcb of Agassiz, p. 57. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 707 

wliich the law of internal contrasts, as conditions of a more active life, 
plays so great a part. Hence the whole scheme of that part of earth 
and man. This law thus became for me the key for the appreciation 
and understanding and grouping of an immense number of phenomena 
both in nature and history. My views of the human races and of uni- 
versal history are, in great part, on the same base. So also the idea of 
the true sense of the tirst chapter of Genesis as a characteristic of the 
great organic epochs." 

His recognition of the same principle in organic nature is expressed 
as follows in a letter of March 17, 185G, referring in the iirst paragraph 
to the view of Agassiz that the sub-kingdoms among animals and the 
grander divisions among plants represent so many plans of structure: 
" But do we not too much forget that even structure is but a means — 
the expression of a mode or function of life, which mode or function is 
the idea of it, and in one sense its cause f If so, then structures only 
express various aspects and functions of life, animal or vegetable, and 
they are related and connected together as the various aspects, modes, 
and functions of organic life are with the essential idea of life itself. 

" Now, life is essentially (I mean phenomenally) growth, develop- 
ment, movement from phase to phase, from birth to death, and it seems 
to me that I can find no principle which gives me a more clear, natural, 
and connected idea of the innumerable types and forms of vegetables 
and animals than to consider them as typical of so many phases of life, 
whether of growth, or mode of life, or function of life." 

Guyot endeavored to find the expression of the formula of develop- 
ment in the details of the systems of life, animal and vegetable, as ex- 
hibited in the progressive life of the globe as well as the existing 
species; and the preceding sentences in his letters were introductory 
to further explanations with regard to this system. His philosophical 
ideas were broad and deep enough to embrace the results of all dis- 
covery, although his illustrations manifested something of the limited 
knowledge of species and groups of thirty years since. 

In 1862 he delivered a course of lectures at the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion on this subject, or "The Unity of Plan in the Systems of Life, as 
exhibited in the Characteristic Ideas and Mutual Relations of the great 
groups of the Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms;" but, although publi- 
cation was desired by the Institution and urged by others, the manu- 
script was never ready. Full stenographic reports were made, which 
he never found time to revise. 

It is interesting to note, in both Agassiz and Guyot, this full faith in 
a system of development as the best and truest expression of the order 
of succession in the progress of life, and, in Guyot, the application of the 
principle to all progress, while, at the same time, neither doubted the 
constancy of species or the necessity of divine acts for originating spe- 
cies and carrying forward the development. Agassiz declares, in his 
" Poissous Fossiles :" " More than fifteen hundred species of fossil fishes 



708 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

with which I have become acquainted, say to me that the species do not 
pass gradually from one to the other, but appear and disappear sud- 
denly, without direct relations with their predecessors." To each the 
system of progress was as orderly a system as that which evolutionists 
now recognize. The successioual relations made known by paleontologj^ 
were welcomed for the same reason as now — because they illustrated 
the true system of progress. The difference was not as to these rela- 
tions, or the system of progress,*but as to the means of carrying for- 
ward the development. 

Guyot also gives a brief explanation of his views with regard to the 
Geographical March of Human History, and this is all he ever published 
of his historical course. In the expression " geographical march" he 
refers to the fact that human progress took place not by gradual eleva- 
tion at one center of civilization, but by successive transfers from one 
nation or center to another. He points out and illustrates three stages 
in the progress : 

First. The stage characteristic of the old Orient — that of subjection; 
Subjection not only to the despotism of rulers and of society through 
castes, but also to that of nature's forces through fear and superstition, 
and to the despotism of priests, exerted over both people and rulers 
through the superstitious element, and to priests and rulers conjoined, 
making the subjection complete. It was "the subjection of human lib- 
erty to the yoke of nature," " to the immutable, blind laws of necessity, 
which regulate the courses of the celestial bodies and the life of nature j" 
to the "inflexible, unloving, inexorable gods of the early East." 

Secondly. The stage of growth in iiidividual freedom, worked out in 
and characterizing Greece — a land " neighboring still the East," but ad- 
mirably organized by its very features, by the combination within it of 
all the contrasts of the continent for the development of individuality ; 
a free people full of the energy of youth and the conscious strength of 
freemen, converting "the world of nature" into "that of the human 
soul," where " all the riches of poetry, of intellect, of reason, which are 
the heritage of the human mind, display themselves without obstacle 
and expand in the sun of liberty "; where " religion is a deification of 
the faculties and affections of man " ; where " the forces of nature, the 
trees of the forests, the mountains, the springs, and the rivers appear 
as objects of worship," " under the form of gods, of goddesses, and of 
nymphs, endowed with all the affections and subject to all the weak- 
nesses of common mortals." 

But, he says, the Empire of Alexander, and of individuality, and of 
fratricidal wars was not for the future. The Greek principle wanted 
the addition of association, " a principle determined by nature and not 
by voluntary agreement." 

Thirdly. The third stage was that of Rome, its center a little farther 
toward the west, which , through the spirit of association, became the great 
empire and law-giver for the world. But selfish and corrupt, " one-half 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 709 

of tlie men slaves to the other half," " exacting only one worship, that 
of the emperor, who personifies the state," the Roman world, an aggre- 
gate of nations without a common faith, " perishes, like the rest, of its 
own vices." 

At that time, when the principle of association under human enact- 
ments was proving itself a failure, and despair was settling over the 
people, then, says Guyot, " the meek fprm of the Stiviour appeared upon 
the scene of the world," to " recall man to the only living God," and 
" proclaim the equal worth of every human soul," " the unity and 
brotherhood of human kind." ''It was upon this new basis that hu- 
manity, recommencing its task, goes on to build a new edifice." The 
task was not committed to the corrupt Eoman ; the Roman Empire 
broke before the Germans from the North, and the center of civilization 
passed to the north of the Alps, and soon embraced all Europe. The 
new influences tended to harmonize the conflict ing nationalities and 
bring about finally " a family of states so closely bound together that 
they are only members of the same body." And while liberty was thus 
gained for man, nature, as never before, opens herself to him and be- 
comes his aid in all progress. Not only Europe, but, through her peo- 
ple, all the world receives the new light and commences to participate 
in the new progress. 

But Europe and all the old nations, " through historical ties of every 
kind, ancient customs, acquired rights," encounter almost insurmounta- 
ble difficulties in the way of adaptation to the exigencies of a new prin- 
ciple — that of " liberty, equality, and fraternity " rightly interpreted ; 
and the carrying out of this work to reality demanded for its full devel- 
opment, as the law of history shows, that it should be transferred " to 
a new people ; " transferred, as " the geographical march of civilization 
tells us, to a new continent west of the Old World — to America" — a 
land wonderfully adapted to this purpose by the simplicity and unity 
of its features, by its great plains and rivers, and by its commanding 
position between the oceans. 

He says, in conclusion, referring to the historic nations: "Asia, 
Europe, and North America are the three grand stages of humanity in 
its march through the ages. Asia is the cradle where man passed his 
infancy under the authority of law, and where he learned his depend- 
ence upon a sovereign master. Europe is the school where his youth 
was trained ; where he waxed in strength and knowledge, grew to man- 
hood, and learned at once his liberty and his moral responsibility. 
America is the theater of his activity during the period of manbood, 
the land where he applies and practices all he has learned, brings into 
action all the forces he has acquired, and where he is still to learn that 
the entire development of his being and of his own happiness are only 
possible by willing obedience to the laws of his Maker." 

When Carl Ritter received a copy of the work "Earth and Man" 
from his old pupil, he sent Guyot a letter of congratulations, with the 



710 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

strongly underscored word, excellent, thrice repeated ; and more than 
once he wrote him that the whole conception carried out in the volume 
was a marked i^rogress. He also told Guyot that he had made the 
volume his vade mecum on a long summer journey. 

The work has passed through several editions in Great Britain, and 
has been translated into German and Swedish ; and a translation into 
French, by Mr. Faure, will be published this year in Paris. 

Guyot's views put the earth's 'genesis or development, as a sentence 
cited from him shows, under his general formula for historical progress; 
and although the subject is not dwelt upon in his Earth and Man, a 
brief statement of his argument and conclusions is, therefore, in place 
here. 

The subject came under his consideration at Neuchatel, in 1840, while 
preparing a lecture for his course iu Physical Geography. Looking 
only to the suggestions of science, under which the so-called nebular 
theory had iu his mind a place, he made out a scheme of the successive 
stages in the earth's development. After its completion it "flashed" 
upon him that the Succession arrived at was just that of the cosmogonic 
record in Genesis, and this led later to a critical comparison of the two. 
Harmonizing the Bible and science was, hence, far from his original 
purpose. 

Tiie succession in the scheme so derived was (as I learned it from 
him) as follows : 

(1) The endowing of matter and space with forces, whence the begin- 
ning of its activity. 

(2) The stage of specialization, or that of the subdividing of the origi- 
nal matter or nebula through the forces communicated, and thus the 
development of systems of spheres in space. 

(3) The stage of the individualized worlds — the earth among them — 
and the commencing preparation of the earth for new developments 
j)ertaining to organic nature. 

The events thus far are those of the inorganic part of the cosmogony. 
In the organic period there was : 

(1) Life, manifested in the simpler kinds of plants. Next, animal or 
sentient life under simple forms — the Protozoans. These simple kinds 
of plants and animals represented the first or germ-like or homogeneous 
stage iu the development of the system of life. He believed it to be 
probable that both existed before the close of Archaean time. 

(2) The stage of specialization, or that of the development of plants 
and animals of higher and higher grade, under various types or sub- 
divisions, based severally on different structural and physiological 
qualities. 

(3) The stage of the synthetic or harmonic type. Among plants, that 
of the Dicotyledons, in which the different kinds of tissues in plants, 
and the stem, leaf, and flowers are for the first time harmoniously com- 
bined ; and among animals, that of the vertebrates, in which the ner- 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 711 

vous system has first its proper commanding position; and, lastly, 
among mammals, that of man, eminently the '' harmonic unit" for the 
system of life, combining the highest of structural qualities and phys- 
iological characteristics under the most perfect harmonious development. 

It is not surprising that after the conception of such a scheme he 
should have recognized a relation in it to the record in Genesis. Look- 
ing to this record, which announces, the grand stages in a few brief 
sentences, he observed that the "fiat" of the first day, "Let light be," 
indicated, since light is a result of molecular action, the imparting of 
activity to matter as the first step in the development of the universe ; 
that the dividing of the waters on the second day appeared to have its 
only befitting explanation in the subdividing or specialization of the 
primal nebula, as stated above; and that the fiat "Let the dry land 
appear," on the third day, indicated the defining of the earth and the 
preparation of it by the appearance of dry land for its new work. Thus 
he found the first three works in Genesis to correspond essentially with 
the first three in the scheme taught him by science. The following 
works, the creation («) of plants, (b) of the invertebrates and inferior 
vertebrates, (c) of mammals — the remaining vertebrates, {d) of man, have 
in the record the order of their first appearance as made known by 
science. It has to be admitted that doubt at present exists as to the 
earliest birds having preceded the marsupial mammals, but none as to 
their long preceding ordinary mammals. Future discovery may place 
them before the marsupials. Remains of birds are the rarest of fossil 
veterbrates. 

Guyot recognized also a still deeper concordance between Genesis 
and science, namely, that not only in the opening verses, but through- 
out the chapter, the idea of a system of development is taught. The 
fiat " Let light be" was the commencement of developrnents before the 
earth or other spheres had existence, not the creation of an entity. 
With regard to the earth, the first verse announces that it was formless, 
empty, waste, or, as the Septuagint translation describes it, "uncom- 
posed and invisible." Then, on the third day, where the second men- 
tion comes in, the words are not Let the earth be, but "Let the dry land 
appear," implying that the specializing changes had gone forward 
eventuating in the earth and making it ready for further developments. 
The fiat creating plants was not Let plants be, but " Let the earth bring 
forth," which words imply development in someway; aud a similar 
idea is to be derived from the fiats "Let the waters bring forth" for the 
invertebrates and lower vertebrates on the fifth day, and " Let the earth 
bring forth" for mammals on the sixth day. 

Such a system of developments, which, after an initiating fiat, con- 
tinued on their progress through the ages following, was not consistent 
with the idea that the days of Genesis were definite periods of time. 
It teaches that they simply mark the beginnings of new phases or new 
grand stages in the history of creation. 



712 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

Guyot's critical eye further discovered that the two triads of days in 
the record — the first, the inorganic, iuchidiug days oue to three, the sec- 
ond, the organic, days four to six — have three parallel features which 
emphasize strongly this subdivision of the chapter, aud indicate paral- 
lel stages in the developments : first, in each triad, the work of the first 
day was light 5 second, in each, the work of the last day comprised two 
great works; third, the second work of the last day in each triad was 
the introduction of an element that was to have its full development in 
the following era; in the first triad this element was life, plants being 
the second work and life having its chief display in the succeeding era; 
in the second triad it was spiritual life, that of man, a planting of the 
moral world in the material, for the exaltation of the latter in aim and 
character. 

Guyot thus shows that the old document is philosophical in its ar- 
rangement, true to the principles of development in history, and essen- 
tially true in the order of its announcements, and that the best explana- 
tion which science is now able to give on the great subject of cosmogony 
is also that which best explains, in all its details, the first chapter of 
Genesis and does it justice. 

I have said that Guyot, while adopting the law of development and 
applying it to all history, still believed that true species came into ex- 
istence only by divine act. In his later years^, as his work on " Crea- 
tion" shows, he was led to accept, though with some reservation, the 
doctrine of evolution through natural causes. He excepted man, and 
also the first of animal life , for in the case of both, while science speaks 
undecidedly, the record in Genesis teaches, by the use of bara for create 
and by not using the word elsewhere subsequent to the first verse in 
the chapter, that actual creation was intended. He also held that there 
might be other exceptions ; and he objected, moreover, on other grounds 
to the development of man through nature alone. Still, as always with 
Guyot, God's will was the working force of nature, and secondary causes 
simply expressions of it. 

Guyot's views on Genesis, although dating from 1810, aud presented 
by him since that time in occasional courses of lectures, were not pub- 
lished in detail until the last year and hours of his life. With the pub- 
lication of the volume his work and life ended.* 

Educational Worl^ — 1849 to li84. — I pass now to Guyot's work in 
America. His lectures at Boston were '' a brief epitome of his teach- 
ing in Neuchatel,"t and they were, therefore, a part of European Guyot. 
He now becomes, though European in equipment, an American in his 
labors. 

His lectures had made him known as a geographer of the widest and 

* Creation, or the Biblical Cosmogony iu the light of modern science. 136 pp., bvo., 
Scribner's Sons, New York, 1884. A short article by him appeared in 1873 in the re- 
port of the sixth conference of the Evangelical Alliance, New York. 

t Letter to the writer of February 4, 1881. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 713 

most elevated kind. From Agassiz's home at Cambridge his acquaint- 
aDce extended rapidly, and he was soon known also as a man of prac- 
tical ideas with regard to school instruction in geography and in other 
subjects. It was at once accepted from him that the starting point in 
geographical education should be nature and not books ; that teachers 
should take their pupils to the hills and show them the valleys and 
streams and mountains, and aid them in tracing out the general feat- 
ures, so that they might make themselves geographers of the region 
about them and lay a foundation for broader geographical study; that 
the study of the geography of nature should precede that of man and po- 
litical geography ; that maps showing in strong lines the reliefs, or the 
mountains and plains, and then those showing the river systems and 
other natural features, should come before those of States and towns. The 
idea commended itself that each country should be presented to the 
mind of the pupil by such groupings of prominent features, inanimate 
and animate, as would, so far as possible, reproduce the reality of 
nature ; and that waters, lands, and climates should not merely be de- 
scribed, but also displayed in their mutual inter-actions and relations, 
and in their inter-actions with the living tribes of the waters and land, 
that thereby the activities of the earth and their varied consequences 
might be understood, and also the influences thence arising that bear 
on man and human history. 

These views he had learned from his teacher, Carl Kitter, and the 
latter in part directly from Pestalozzi. They were so obviously good 
that they spread ra])idly. Guyot was soon under appointment from the 
Massachusetts board of education, lecturing on geography and methods 
of instruction to the normal schools and teachers' institute ; and this 
engagement took him to all parts of the State and gave him each year, 
for the six years he held the position, aggregate audiences of 1,500 to 
1,800 teachers.' His friend Agassiz, moreover, was associated with him 
in the work, giving a like and equally strong impulse to studies in 
natural history. 

Giiyot lived to see his methods of instruction become universal. He 
furthered this end by preparing, on his jilan, between the years 1861 
and 1875, a series of school geographies of different grades, six in num- 
ber, ending in a school physical geography, and also a series of wall 
maps, physical, political, and classical, thirty in number, all of which 
passed into wide use.* These books forced the old books and atlases 
to change about or succumb, and they led also to many imitations among 
book-makers. 

His plan for the completion of the series in a general treatise on 
physical geography, unfortunately, was never carried out. His failure 
is to be attributed in part to the diflQculty he felt in putting his ideas 

* Guyot had a valuable aid in map-making iu bis uepbew, Mr. E. Sandoz, who came 
to America with him, after having previously spent two years at Gotha with the 
geographer and publisher, Herr Petermann. 



714 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

down in English. He writes iu 18S2 to his Swiss friend, M. F. Godet:* 
" Que ne don uerais-je pas pour avoir la facilite d'ecrire et de dieter ! Mais 
cette malheureuse langue, qui n'est pas la mieune, est un obstacle tou- 
jonrs reuaissant. La phrase m'entrave et me coute dix fois plus que les 
id^es." That Guyot understood the language well is evident from his 
memoirs of Eitter and Agassiz, and his tribute to Humboldt, as well as 
from his scientific papers. 

Besides the geographical works already mentioned, Guyot was the 
author of the Treatise on Physical Geography in Johnson's Family 
Atlas of the World, and editor, with President Barnard, of Johnson's 
New Universal Encyclopedia, iu which are several papers by him on geo- 
graphical and other subjects. His school atlases and geographies re- 
ceived the medal of progress at the Vienna Exposition in 1873, and the 
gold medal, the highest honor awarded, at Paris in 1878. 

In 1854 Guyot received an appointment to the professorship of Phys- 
ical Geography and Geology at Princeton, then established for him on 
an endowment from one who had learned to admire him as a Christian 
philosopher, Mr. Daniel Price, of Newark, New Jersey,t and in 1855 he 
removed with his family from Cambridge to Princeton, where he found 
his tastes, his social instincts, his desires to impart ideas as well as ac- 
quire them, all fully gratified. To the duties of his professorship he 
permitted himself to add other educational work, becoming and continu- 
ing for several years lecturer on physical geography in the State normal 
school at Trenton, and from 1861 to 18G6 lecturer extraordinary iu the 
Princeton Theological Seminary, on the Connection of Eevealed Re- 
ligion and Physical and Ethnological Science, and also giving courses 
of lectures for a time in the Union Theological Seminary, New York, 
and in connection with a university course in Columbia College, New 
York. At the Smithsonian Institution he delivered a course of five 
lectures in 1853 on the Harmonies of Nature and History, and in 1862 
six lectures on the Unity of Plan in the System of Life, as previously 
mentioned. 

Besides class instruction at Princeton, Guyot did important work for 
the college in the establishment of a museum. He found nothing there 
of the kind, but by effort at home and while on a trip to Europe, and 
with the aid of students inspired by him, and the generosity of friends, 
the museum became, under his care, rich both paleontologically and 
ethnographically, and in foreign as well as American specimens. It 
derives special interest, moreover, from possessing, through his gift, 
the five thousand rock specimens collected in his study of the erratic 
phenomena of the Alps which he brought with hira to the country. The 
specimens are so displayed in cases that, in connection with maps in 
the room, they teach "the extent, thickness, limits, and courses of the 

* Mr. Faure's biographical sketch, p. 39. 

tWith the consent of Mr. Price, this chair was subsequently fully endowed by and 
named for Mr. John J. Blair, of New Jersey. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 715 

great ice-mass that oiice covered all Switzerland." Guyot, besides, 
found much gratification in the successful work of his pupils in Rocky 
Mountain exploration and the large additions to the collections thus 
secured. The memoir of Guyot, by William Libbey, jr., vice-director 
of the museum, speaks of the museum as the most substantial monu- 
ment that Professor Guyot has left behind him in Princeton. 

Meteorological and Geographic Worfc, 1849 to 1881. — At the Philadelphia 
meeting of the American Association in 1848, where Guyot went with 
Agassiz soon after reaching the country, he met Professor Henry, of the 
Smithsonian Institution, and this meeting was soon followed by the 
perfecting of plans for a national system of meteorological observations. 
Guyot was charged by Professor Henry with the selection and ordering 
of the improved instruments that were required; and among his changes 
he rejected the old barometers in favor of the cistern barometer of Fortin 
as improved by Ernst and further improved in accordance with his own 
suggestion as regards safety of transportation, making what is now the 
Smithsonian barometer. He also prepared directions for meteorolog- 
ical observations, which were published by the Institution as a pamphlet 
of forty pages in 1850, and a volume of meteorological and physical 
tables, which was printed and distributed in 1852. The latter very im- 
portant work was afterward enlarged and became, in the edition of 
1859, a volume of 634 pages, containing over 200 tables admirably ar- 
ranged and adapted for the best meteorological and hypsometric work.* 
A letter of his to Professor Henry in 1858 says that two-fifths of the 
pages of tables, representing 68,000 computed results, were wholly new 
and were prepared for the volume. He adds: "It is essentially a work 
of patience, in doing which the idea of saving much labor to others and 
facilitating scientific research is the only encouraging element." 

One important part of Guyot's meteorological labors consisted in the 
selection and establishment of meteorological stations. With this ob- 
ject in view, he made in 1849 and 1850, under the direction of the regents 
of the University of New York, in conjunction with the Smithsonian 
Institution, a general orographic study of the State of New York in 
order to ascertain the best locations for such stations. Tliirty-eight 
stations were then located by him at points widely distributed over the 
State ; and, at the same time, patient, earnest Guyot took pains to in- 
struct observers at the stations in the use of the meteorological instru- 
ments. Similar work was also done under like auspices in the State 
of Massachusetts. The report of the regents of the University of New 
York for 1851 contains the topographical results of the exploration, 
giving an excellent sketch of the high plateaus and the larger valleys 
of the State.t The exploration in 1849 extended into the depth of 

*The voliime of tables is No. 538 of the Smithsonian Publications. In 1859 it re- 
ceived from its author a further addition to its tables of 70 pages, and in 1884 a new 
and enlarged edition, in preparation since 1879, was issued; forming vol. xxvxii, of 
the "Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections." 

t Reprinted in the American Journal of Science, second series, xiii, 272, 1852. 



716 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

winter, and his long journeys in that inclement season were often over 
unbroken roads and in the roughest of conveyances. 

Thus Guyot went almost immediately to work in his favorite fields, 
laying the foundations not only for geographical education, but also for 
geographical investigation, and for a national system of meteorological 
observations and records. The national plan was not then inaugurated : 
but the work thus carried forward under the Smithsonian Institution 
was the initiator, in fact, of the United States Signal Service Bureau. 

In the summer of 1861 Guyot had occasion to visit Europe, and he 
took advantage of the opportunity, observes Professor Henry, " to de- 
termine, by his own observation, the relations of the standard barom- 
eters used by the Smithsonian Institution with the most important 
standards of the European observatories; and it is believed that these 
comparisons establish a correspondence of the Eurojiean and American 
standards within the narrow limit of one or two thousandths of an 
inch."* 

Besides the general survey of Few York topography, Guyot carried 
forward, during his leisure weeks of the summer and autumn, a study 
of the altitudes and orography of the Appalachian chain, or the mount- 
ain system of eastern North America, in which work he had encour- 
agement from appropriations by the Smithsonian Institution. He com- 
menced, as early as 1849, a barometric exploration of the White Mount- 
ain system of New Hampshire, and continued his work at the North 
until he had spent five years over New Hampshire, the Green Mount- 
ains in Vermont, and the Adirondack s, and other parts of New York. 

From these more northern portions of the Appalachian system he 
went to Virginia and North Carolina. In July of 1S5G he measured 
barometrically twelve of the highest peaks of the Black Mountains in 
North Carolina, all of them higher than the White Mountains of New 
Hampshire. He was occupied with this southern parC of the system 
from that time till late in the summer of 1860, when his measured 
heights in that region of endless forests and great altitudes had in- 
creased in number until they exceeded one hundred and eighty; how 
much exceeded his paper does not say, as the altitudes determined in 
1860 remain still unpublished. Besides these measurements, he made 
his survey complete by extending a net- work of triangles over the area 
(nearly 150 miles in length), so fixing the positions of the peaks and 
ridges. 

In a letter of October 3, 1859, he writes, speaking of his work of that 
season in the Smoky Mountains, 'Hhe culminating range of North Car- 
olina": "My trip to the Smoky Mountains was a long and laborious 

*Professor Henry's report to the Regents of the Smitlisoniau Institution for the 
year 1862. The observatories with which the comparisons were made were that of 
Kew, then under the direction of Stanley ; that of Brussels, under Quetelet; that of 
Berlin, under Encke, and that of Geneva, under Plantamour, -who had already com- 
pared the Geneva barometer with that of the College de France and that of the Ob- 
servatory of Paris. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 717 

one. Much rain, great distances, imperviable forests, delayed me two 
months. I camped out twenty nights, spending a night on every one 
of the highest summits, so as to have observations at the most favor- 
able hours. The ridge of the Smoky Mountains 1 ran over from begin- 
ning to end, viz, to the great gap through which the Liitle Tennessee 
comes out of the mountains." 

Having thus far finished his study of the mountain system, a new 
map of the whole Appalachian chain, made under his direction by his 
nephew, Mr. Sandoz, was published in 1860, in the July number of 
Petermann's "Mittheilungen." This map, with some emendations, was 
republished in 1861, in volume xxxi (second series) of the American 
Journal of Science, in illustration of an accompanying paper on the 
Appalachian system. This paper, after a brief history of his work, pre- 
sents his results in an orographic description of the mountain region 
and an explanation of the laws which he had deduced, together with 
tables of more than three hundred altitudes. 

His " thousands of measurements" in the Alps had prepared him for 
accurate and thorough work here. As evidence of exactness, his 
barometric measurement of Mt. Washington in 1851 gave for the height 
6,291 feet; the measurements by spirit-level made by X. A. Godwin, 
civil engineer, in 1852, gave 6,285 feet, and a similar levelbng under the 
direction of the Coast Survey in 1853 gave 6,293 feet. So, again, the 
Black Dome of J^orth Carolina, made 6,707 feet by him, was measured 
with a spirit-level by Maj. J. C. Turner, civil engineer, setting out 
from Guyot's point of departure, and the height made 6,711 feet. 

There was still left unmeasured the heights of the Catskill Mountain 
range. In 1862 he went to work in this region, and continued it, as 
before, during his summer and autumn vacation months until the close 
of the summer of 1879, excepting the year 1871, when he took a trip to 
California for his health and some barometric work in the Rocky Mount- 
ains and the Coast Kauge. Gray's Peak, in Colorado, was one of the 
heights ascended and measured — an easj' walk for him, said the young 
men of the party. 

The Catskill region, a plateau of "piled-up strata owing its mountain 
forms chiefly to sculpturing waters," had its diflQculties. Although so 
near New York and the Hudson River, and frequented each summer by 
thousands of tourists, it was to a large extent, especially over the south- 
western part, an untracked wilderness of forests. In several cases his 
only chance for making his triangulatiou was by climbing to the toi)S 
of the highest trees, and then there was difficulty in identifying the dis- 
tant, featureless, forest-buried summits. Moreover, many peaks had 
no names, and again the same name was often found to be used for 
two or three diflerent peaks. He accomplished his work nevertheless, 
and when finished had gratifying proof of his great accuracy in spite 
of the difficulties. One point in the triangulatiou, the extreme western, 
was in common, as he afterwards found, with that of the State survey 



718 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

of New York, under Mr. James T. Gardiuer; and "in the position of 
this station," he says, writings August 12, 1849, " we agree perfectly." 

He discovered, by his explorations in the Catskllls, nineteen summits 
that were higher than the highest previously known, three of them over 
4,000 feet above tide-level. For the highest, called " Slide Mountain," 
he found the elevation 4,205 feet, while that of "High Peak," which 
had been thought the highest, proved to be only 3,GG4 feet. 

This work, closing so grandly Guyot's study of the Appalachian sys- 
tem — begun by him when he was forty-two years of age, was finished 
in 1881 when seventy-four. It was his " vacation" work. His memoir 
on the Catskills was published in 1880 in volume xix (third series) of 
the American Journal of Science, with two illustrating maps. The oro- 
graphic structure of the range is described, its origin briefly and 
judiciously considered, and the heights given for over two hundred 
points. A larger maj) (14 by 20 inches) was issued the year before as 
a pocket mai). And thus his orograpnic labors have already contrib- 
uted greatly to the convenience of tourists as well as to geographical 
science. 

Guyot's first scientific work, fifty years since, and his last was mount- 
ain work. And I think I am safe in saying that no one before him, if 
any since, can claim to have made with the barometer more numerous 
and more accurate hypsometric measurements ; his field books make 
the number of such measurements by him over twelve thousand. In 
all his explorations he manifested that unflagging energy and thor- 
oughness which are required for accurate work. At the same time his 
acuteness of intellect and well-furnished mind, while demanding the 
fullest investigation for final results, led him quickly and surely in the 
path toward right conclusions, as was strikingly manifested in the out- 
come of those six weeks in 1838 over the glaciers. Besides these qual- 
ities of the careful and judicious observer his ever searching mind, as 
shown by his comprehensive views on the earth, living nature, and 
man, was remarkable for its powers of philosophical analysis and gen- 
eralization. The combination of the thorough student of facts in nature 
with the far-seeing student of principles and fundamental law has sel- 
dom been more complete, and we may therefore well describe him as in 
a remarkable degree— using his own language — "a harmonic unit." 

The two friends from Switzerland, Guyot and Agassiz, were both 
needed by the country when they reached its shores. Each performed 
a work among us of great service to education as well as to science, 
and we owe them lasting gratitude. But their change of base in com- 
ing to America gave them a position for wider influence over the world, 
and American gratitude is not all that is due them. 

In recognition of Guyot's services to science he was elected to hon- 
orary membership in several learned societies, among them the Geo- 
graphical Society of London, and that of Paris ; and since his decease 
a geograx)hical society has been organized at i^euchatel, this being, in 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 719 

the words of Prof. Louis Favre, " the finest monument that could be 
erected to the memory of a savant who had brought so much honor to 
his native land." 

In 1867 Guyot married a daughter of the late Governor Haines, of 
New Jersey, a lady of intelligence and refinement, who made for him 
the happiest of homes ; and his gentleness, consideration, and warmth 
of heart fitted him to contribute his share to that happiness. 

Guyot's face and manner betokened deep and earnest thought ratber 
than enthusiasm and quiet self-possession without self-assertion. A 
mail of medium height, deep set eyes, and spare figure, he looked as if 
made more for thinking than for acting, and yet his power of walking 
and climbing seems to have had no bounds, and scarcely failed him at 
all until after his three-score and ten had been passed. The greatest 
ascents gave his well-trained muscles no more fatigue than a walk in 
his garden; and pathless tangled forests for weeks in succession, with 
nights in the wild woods, were a source of great enjoyment. Un the 
liDth of December, 1883, hardly six weeks before his decease, he wrote 
to the president of the Society of Natural Sciences of Neuchatel, M. 
Coulon, after congratulating him on keeping up his walks to Chau- 
mont, although then eighty years of age, " Even last year I could have 
told you of my seventy-six years and my ability still to climb our 
mountains, but unhappily it is not so now."* 

His special weakness was a virtue in excess, an unobtruslveness 
that disinclined him to assert himself, that made him too easily content 
with work without publication. Hence his results aud original views 
often failed of recognition, aud but one of his proje(!ted works of the 
higher series was ever completed. In a letter of November 15, 1858, 
in replying to one who had urged him to publish, he says : "And I am 
A. G., who thinks a good deal and delights in it, but is too easily satis- 
fied with that selfish pleasure." Yet much of this reluctance was, as 
before said, owing to the hesitation of his critical mind in the use of the 
English language. Besides, he was ever waiting for more facts. And, 
too, he was overburdened, as he often said, with his educational labors. 
In accordance with his unassuming ways, he did not become a natura- 
lized citizen of his adopted country until 1860, he feeling, rather than 
reasoning, that a foreigner should not hasten to intrude himself into 
political affairs. 

Although indisposed to push himself, still, when in conversation with 
a man of like intelligence, he was sure to command eager attention, an(i, 
without other effort, to find places of honor and congenial work open to 
him. Within six months of his arrival in the country, a talk in Phila- 
delphia with Professor Henry gained for him the position of a virtual 
manager in the meteorological department of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and, by similar means, there came about his connection with the 

• Memorial sketch of A. Guyot, by Prof. L. Favre, vice-president, Bull. Soc. Sci. 
Nat. Neuchatel, xiv, 327, 1^84. 



720 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

Massachusetts board of education. Through his wealth of ideas, not 
self-effort, he secured the several high positions occupied by him in the 
country. 

Guyot was a man of devoted friendships. He manifested this deeply 
in his tribute to his old teacher, Carl Kitter, and in that to his compa- 
triot, Agassiz. There was no limit to his good-will. Children of his 
acquaintance knew this, and all who had the privilege of intercourse 
with him. On the 7th of November, 1864, he writes from Princeton, 
"I have bought the house in which I live, and my care has been to 
prepare and shape the garden for the next season according to my taste. 
A quiet green retreat to study and write, and good friends visiting me 
in it and filling it with the warm rays of affectionate friendship, is an 
ideal for which, if realized, I should heartily thank God." 

Guyot was a fervently religious man, living as if ever in communion 
with his heavenly parent; a Christian, following closely in the foot- 
steps of his Master. His search into nature's phenomena antl laws was 
a search for divine truth and a divine purpose. His field-notes of 1850 
contain theentt-y : "On n'est fort qu'avec la verity, et ce que m'importe 
c'est de I'avoir de mon cote. Dieu sait que je la desire avant tout, et 
il me fera la grace de la reconnaitre." In his trip to Europe in 18G1, 
he went as a delegate from the Presbyterian Church of America to the 
convention of the Evangelican Alliance which met that year in Geneva. 
He writes from Paris under date of October 24, just before his return, 
of his " great pleasure in attending, in that old stronghold of Protest- 
ant faith, the large and exceedingly interesting meeting," and in wit- 
nessing the "grand spectacle ot so many sympathizing Christians from 
all quarters of Christendom uniting in the services with perfect free- 
dom and unanimity." And then he shows his kindly nature in allu- 
sions to "the testimonies of love and true friendship" which had greeted 
him everywhere in his journey through Europe and the land of his 
youth, and in expressions of thankfulness " for those old affections" and 
those " deep sympathies which are destined, by their very nature, to 
outlive our mortal frames." 

His Neuchatel pupil, Mr. Faure, well observes : " He cared little for 
renown, but much for the study of nature and for the education of man." 
As fellow-students, we have special reason to admire in Guyot — as he 
wrote of Humboldt — " that ardent, devoted, disinterested love of nature 
which seemed, like a breath ot life, to pervade all his acts; that deep 
feeling of reverence for truth so manifest in him which leaves no room for 
selfish motives in the pursuit of knowledge, and finds its highest reward 
in the possession of truth itself." 

Arnold Guyot died atPrincetonon the 8th of February, 1884. Funeral 
services were held in the church, where the officers and students of the 
college and other friends were gathered with the relatives of the de- 
ceased, and excellent memorial discourses were pronounced by Eev. 
Horace Hinsdale and Dr. James Murray, dean of the college. His re- 
mains lie buried in the Princeton cemetery. 



MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 721 

LIST OF THE WRITINGS OF PROF. ARNOLD GUYOT. 

1835. Inaugural Dissertation, at Berlin, on the Natural Classification of Lakes. (In 
Latin.) ^ 

1835. Numerous contributions to the EncyclopMie du xix^me Siecle, Paris. Among 
them the more extensive are on Germany, Physical Geography of Germany, 
and on the System of the Alps. 

1838. On the Structure of Glaciers and the Laws of Glacier Motion. Read before the 
Geological Society of France in 1838, but not published until 1883. 

1842. On the Ribboned Structure of the Glacier of Gries. From the paper of 1838. 
Read before the Soc.Sci.Nat.de Neuch4tel December 1, 1841, and published 
in abstract in the Verhaudl. d. Schweiz Nat. Gesellschaft, Altdorf, 1842, pp. 
199, 200. Published in full, excepting the last part, in New Phil. J., Edin- 
burgh, XXXV, 1843, in a pai>er on Agassiz's Glacial Researches, by Desor ; 
also in Tyndall's Glaciers of the Alps (1856), and his Forms of Water (1872) ; 
also in full in Agassiz's Syst^me Glaciaire (1847). 

1842. Observatii ns on the Erratic Phenomena of Lower Switzerland and the Juras. 

Verhaudl. d. Schweiz. Nat. Ges., Altdorf, for July, 1842, pp. 132-145. 

1843. '45, '47. Observations on the Erratic Phenomena of Switzerland. Bull. Soc. Sci. 

Nat., Neuchatel, for November, 1843, May and December, 1845, and January, 
1847. 

1844. On the Law of the Formation and Distribution of Glacier Crevasses. 

1847. Erratic Phenomena in the Alps. Abstract in D'Archiac's Hist. Progr. G6ol., 
vol. II, pp. 259-265. 

1849. Earth and Man, or Lectures on Comparative Physical Geography in its Relation 

to the History of Mankind. 310 pp. 8vo. Boston. Second edition in 1850. 

1850. On the Upheaval of the Jnra Mountains by Lateral Pressure. Proc. Amer. 

Assoc, II, 115. Read before the association in August, 1849. 

1850. Directions for Meteorological Observations. For the observers of the Smith- 
sonian system of meteorological observations. 

1852. Meteorological and Physical Tables. 212 pp. 8vo. Prepared for and pub- 
lished by the Smithsonian Institution. A second edition in 1857,639 pp.; 
a third edition in 1859, received an addition of 70 pages ; a fourth edition in 
1884, 738 pp. 

1852. On the Topography of the State of New York. Rep. Regents Univ. New York 
for 1851, p. 232. Albany. Reprinted in Am. Jonr. Sci., 2d ser., xiii, 1852. 

1859. Address at the Humboldt commemoration of the American Geological Society 

in October, 1859. Jour. Amer. Geogr. and Statist. Soc, i, No. 8, 1859, pp. 
242-245. 

1860. CarlRitter: An address to the American Geographical Society, February 16, 

1860. Jour. Amer. Geogr. Soc, ii. No. 1, 1860, pp. 25-63. 

1861. On the Physical Structure of the Appalachian System of Mountains, with a 

physical map of the system. Amer. Jour. Sci., 2d ser., xxxi, 157. 

1861. Altitudes in North Carolina and Georgia. Geol. Rep. North Carolina of 1861, 
and also of 1875. 

1866-'75. A series of School Geographies, six volumes, including a Physical Geog- 
raphy. A series of wall maps, containing thirty maps. 

1873. A Treatise on Physical Geography. Johnson's Family Atlas of the World. 

1874. Cosmogony of the Bible, or the Biblical Account of Creation in the Light of 

Modern Science. Rep. of the Sixth Gen. Conference of the Evangelical Alli- 
ance, in New York, 1873. 

H. Mis. 600 46 



722 MEMOIR OF GUYOT. 

1874-'77. Many articles in Johnson's Encyclopaedia, of which Professor Guyot was 

one of the editors-in-chief. 
1875. Memoir of James Coffin. Read before the National Academy of Sciences. 
1877-78. Memoir of Louis Agassiz. Read before the National Academy of Sciences 

October 23, 1877, and April, 1878. Published at Princeton. 50 pp. 8vo. 

April, 188;i. Biographical Memoirs of the Academy, vol. Ii. 

1879. Physical and Orographic Map of the Catskill Mountain Region. Size, 14 by 20 

inches. 

1880. On the Physical Structure and Hypsometry of the Catskill Mountain Region, 

with two plates. Amer. Jour. Sci., 3d ser., xix, 429. Communicated to the 
National Academy of Sciences in part at t-essions in 1875 and 1876. 

1883. On the Existence in Both Hemispheres of a Dr\- Zone and its Cause. Amer. 

Jour. Sci., 3d ser., xxvi, 161. Read before the National Academy of Sciences 
November, 1882. 

1884. Creation, or the Biblical Cosmogony in the Light of Modern Science. 136 pp. 

12mo. New York. 



PAPERS COMMUNICATED TO THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, BUT NOT DEPOS- 
ITED IN MANUSCRIPT. 

August, 1864. At the meeting at New Haven. On the influence of the hour of the 
day on the results of barometric measurements of altitudes. 

August, 1865. Northampton. Ou the probable cause of the Glacical Epoch of the 
Post-tertiary. 

August, 1866. Northampton. On the influence of the hour of the day on the heights 
obtained by barometic measurements. 

January, 1868. Washington. On the practical character of the usual thermometric 
scales, and a common substitute for them. 

August, 1869. Northampton. On the law of distribution of volcanoes and its bearing 
on the theory of volcanic action, 

April, 1873. Washington. On the altitude of Gray's and Torrey's Peaks, in Colorado ; 
some questions connected with the determination of barometric altitudes in 
the interior of continents. 
On the unity of the system of life in animals and the true principle of grada- 
tion in the various animal types. 



I]S3^DEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Accessions to National Museum 18 

report on 5 

Accounts, examination of xvii, 3 

Acting secretary, appointment of 3 

Adams, A. F., duties of, in exclianges 29 

Administrative staff of Museum, no clianges in 17 

Agency in Europe, establishment of, recommended 52 

Agency for Government exchanges, necessity of 16 

Alaska Eskimos, report on, by E. W. Nelson 25 

Algeria, exchange shipment to 34 

Allen Steam-ship Com pany, services rendered by 13 

Anchor Steam-ship Line, services rendered by 13 

Anchor stones, by Dr. B. T. Snyder 683 

Ancient mounds and earth-works in Floyd and Cerro Gordo Counties, Iowa, 

by Clement L. Webster 575 

in Iowa and Wisconsin, by Clement L. Webster 598 

in Johnson County, Iowa, by Clement L. Webster 593 

Ancient works in Ohio, exploration of 20 

Angell, Dr. James B., elected regent x, xiii,2 

Annual report, contents of v 

extra copies of, ordered to be printed ii 

of the Board of Regents for 1885, Parti..* 11 

Executive Committee xvii, 3 

National Museum 10, 19 

Prof. S. F. Baird xiv, 11 

Smithsonian Institution 10 

printed by order of Congress ii, 10 

submitted to Congress iii 

Anthropological papers, miscellaneous 569 

Anthropology, account of progress in, by O. T. Mason 523 

miscellaneous papers relating to 9, 11 

Antiquities from Panama 7 

in Mexico, by J. B. Evans 689 

Appendix, general 53 

to report of secretary 29* 

Appropriations, Congressional, for ethnology xix 

exchanges xix 

National Museum xix 

Appropriations. (5ce Congressional appropriations) 4 

Archaeological maps in preparation by Bureau of Ethnology 23 

Argentine Republic, exchanges 34,48 

Arizona, explorations in - 23 

Armory Square renamed " Henry Park" 4 

Army of the United States details curators to National Museum 17 

723 



724 INDEX. 

PaecA. 

Assistant secretaries appointed xiv, 3 

Astronomy, account of progress in, by W. C. Winlock 99 

Astronomical bibliography 163 

observatories, list of, by George H. Boehmer 8, 11 

Atlas Steam-ship Line, services rendered by 13 

Australia, exchanges 38 

exchanges with Government of 12, 13, 38 

Anstria-Hungary, exchanges 34, 38 

Austrian legation, Washington, correspondence with 40,42,43 

B. 

Bailey, H. B., & Co., services rendered by 13 

Baird, Professor, illness of, prevented completion of report 27 

Report to Board of Eegents xiv, 1 

Baird, S. F., letter to Funch, Edye & Co., relating to exchanges with Austria.. 42 

Consul-General of Austria, at New York 39, 40, 42 

Secretary of State, relating to exchanges with Govern- 
ment of Peru 44, 45 

Barber «fe Co. attend to shipments of exchanges for England 34 

Barker, George F., account of progress in physics 327 

Batrachia and reptiles of North America, catalogue of, by E. D. Cope 18 

Bayard, T. F., letters to Smithsonian Institution relating to exchanges with 

Government of Peru 44, 45, 46 

Bean, Dr. T. H., retired from editorship of Museum publications 18 

B6bian, L. de, services rendered by 13 

Belgian exchange conferences 14 

Belgium, exchanges to 34, 38 

Berry, F. V., duties of, in exchanges ••• 29 

Bibliographic studies of J. C. Pilling 23 

Bibliography of astronomy, by W. C. Winlock 163 

chemistry, by H. C. Bolton 429 

fossil invertebrates, etc., by John Belknap Marcou 9 

mineralogy, by E. S. Dana 461 

North American paleontology, by J. B. Marcou 232 

papers published by officers of the Museum 18 

vulcanology, by C. G. Rockwood, jr 305 

Biographical memoir of Arnold Guyot, by James D. Dana 693 

Biological Society of Washington held meetings in National Museum 19 

Bison, American, exploration for 5, 19 

Birds, exchange of, circular regarding 10 

Bixby, Thomas E. & Co., services rendered by •-- 13 

Board of Regents, Annual Report of, for 1885, Part I 11 

journal of proceedings of xi 

(See Regents) x,xr 

Boehmer, George H., duties of, in exchanges 29 

list of astronomical observations 8,11 

report on exchanges 29 

Bolivia, exchange shipments made to 34 

Bolton, H. Carrrington, account of progress in chemistry 387 

catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 9 

Boulton, Bliss & Dallett, services rendered by 13 

Borland, B. R., services rendered by 13 

Brazil, exchanges 34, 38 

British America, exchange shipments made to 34 



INDEX. 725 

Page. 

British Colonies, exchange shipments made to 34 

Brown, Vernon H., & Co., services rendered by 13 

Brussels exchange conferences 14 

Buffalo, exploration for 5, 19 

Buflfaloes, scarcity of 6 

Building, additional, required for National Museum 17 

expenditures for xvii, 3 

for National Museum required 4 

Buildings of Institution and Museum 4 

Bulletins of the National Museum 9, 18 

from volumes of Miscellaneous Collections.. . 9 

Bulletins 30, 31, 32, 33, and 34 of National Museum 9,10,18 

Bureau of Ethnology 20 

details curator to National Museum 17 

general field studies of 21 

mound explorations by 20 

office work of 22 

report on 20 

Bushotter, George, employment of, in linguistic work 26 

C. 

Cameron, R, W., & Co., services rendered by 13 

Campbell, Mr. M., communication from, respecting a department of language... xv 

Cape Colony, exchange shipments made to 34 

Catalogues of scientific and technical periodicals, by H. C. Bolton 9 

Central America, exchanges 38 

Cerro Gordo County, Iowa, ancient mounds and earth-works in, by Clement L. 

Webster 575 

Chemakum Indians of Washington Territory, by Rev. Myron Eells (05 

Chemistry, account of progress in, by H. C. Bolton 387 

bibliography of, by H. C. Bolton 429 

Chester, Capt. Hubbard C, tribute to memory of 19 

Chickasaw County, Iowa, Indian graves in, by Clement L. Webster 590 

Chili, exchange shipments made to 34 

China, exchange shipments made to 34 

Circular concerning the lending of typical specimens 10 

regarding exchange of birds or birds' eggs 10 

relating to speculative correspondence 5 

Clark, A. H., editor of Museum publications 18 

Collections, national, growth of 17 

overflow of 4 

Colombia, exchange shipments made to 34 

Committee. {See Executive Committee) x,xvii 

Compagnie G^n^raleTransatlautique, services rendered by 13 

Condition of the Smithsonian fund xvii, 3 

Conferences on exchange subjects 14 

Congressional appropriation for ethnology xix 

exchanges xix, 14 

fire proofing of west wing of Smithsonian build- 
ing xix, 4 

National Museum xix 

resolution regarding deposit of books in Library of Congress 16, 17 

to print extra copies of report ii 

relating to exchangees ............13, 14, 16 



726 INDEX. 

Page^ 

Consul-Gen eral of Austria at New York, letters to and from 39,40,42 

Consuls, foreign, acknowledgments due 13 

Contents of annual report v 

Contributions to knowledge 8 

Cope, E. D., catalogue of the batrachia and reptiles of Central America and 

Mexico .- 18 

catalogue of the batrachia and reptiles of North America IB 

Copp^e, Dr, Henry, a regent x, xi 

Correspondence of the Institution 4,& 

relating to exchanges with Government of Austria 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 

Peru 44, 45, 4& 

Costa Rica, exchange shipments made to 34 

Cuba, exchange shipments made to 34 

Cullom, Hon. Shelby M., a regent x, xi 

Cunard Royal Mail Steam-ship Line, services rendered by 13 

Curators of National Museum .^ 17 

Cnrtin, Josiah, assisted in work of the synonymy of Indian tribes 27 

investigations of 22 

Cushing, Frank H., work among the Zufiis 23 

D. 

Dana, Edward S., account of progress in mineralogy 44^ 

Dana, James D., biographical memoir of Arnold Guyot *... <593 

Darton, Nelson H., account of progress in North American geology 189 

Denmark, exchanges 34, 38 

Dennisou, Thomas, acknowledgements due 13 

Dental Association held meetings in National Museum 19 

Dictionary cards for contributions to North American ethnology 26 

Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, study of Indian synonymy 26 

E. 

Earth-works, ancient mounds and, in Floyd and Cerro Gordo Counties, Iowa, 

by Clement L. Webster 575 

Easter Island, ethnological collections from 7 

Ecuador, exchange shipments made to 34 

Eells, Rev. Myron, the Twana, Chemakum, and Klallam Indians of Washington 

Territory SOS' 

Egleston, Thomas, catalogue of minerals 18 

Eggs, exchange of, circular regarding 10 

Egypt, exchange shipments made to — 34 

Elmore, J. F., letter to Secretary of State relating to exchanges with Govern- 
ment of Peru 44 

Emmert, J. W., ethnological explorations by 20 

Eskimo, report upon , by Lucien M, Turner 25 

Estimates xx 

Ethnological Bureau details curator to National Museum 17 

Congressional appropriations for xis 

report on 20- 

collections from Easter Island 7 

European agency for Government exchanges 16 

exchange agency, establishment of, recommended 52 

mission of exchange clerk, results of 15* 



INDEX. 727 

Page. 

Evana, J. B., antiquities in Mexico 689 

Exchange agency for Europe recommended 52 

Exchanges of birds or birds' eggs, circular regarding 10 

Exchanges, international 12, 29 

assistance by the Government 14 

centers of distribution 34 

Congressional appropriations for xix 

delay explained 36 

expenditures for 3 

Government 13,38 

insufficiency of the service 15 

international conferences 14 

personnel and duties 29 

report on 29 

result of mission to Europe 14, 15 

shipments received from abroad 38 

shipments to foreign countries 34 

shipping agents 13, 34 

Smithsonian 29 

transportation companies 34 

transportation facilities 12,34 

with Government of Peru.. 43 

work performed 12, 32 

Executive committee, examination of accounts xvii,2 

annual report of xvii, 3 

Expenses of exchange service 15 

• Expenditures of Museum, etc xvii, 3 

of the Institution xvii, 3 

Exploration, and account of progress in geography, by William Libbey, ji ... 313 

of mounds, by Bureau of Ethnology 20 

Explorations 5,6,7 

expenditures for 3 

for American bison 5, 19 

Extra copies of report ordered by Congress - ii 

F. 

Field studies of the Bureau of Ethnology 21 

work of Bureau of Ethnology 20 

Finances of the Institution xvii, 2 

Fire-proofing west portion of Smithsonian building 4 

Fish Commission details curators to National Museum 17 

Fixtures, expenditures for 3 

Florio-Rubattino Line, acknowledgments due 13 

Floyd County, Iowa, ancient mound and earth- works in, by Clement L. Webster 575 

Indian graves in, by Clement L. Webster 590 

Foreign countries, shipments of exchanges made to 34 

Fossil invertebrates, bibliography of, by John Belknap Marcon ,. 9 

Fowke, Gerard, ethnological explorations by 21 

studies of 23 

France, exchanges 34,38 

Free freight on exchanges 13, 34 

Freight, free, on exchanges 13, 34 

Fritsch, Hugo, Austrian consul, letters to Smithsonian Institution 40 



728 INDEX. 

Page. 
Funch, Edye & Co., acknowledgments due 13 

shipment of exchanges to Government of Austria 41 

Fund, condition of the xvii,3 

Furniture, expenditures for xvii, xix, 3 

G. 

Gatschet, Albert S., linguistic work of 21 

study of synonymy of Indian tribes 26 

General expenses, expenditures for 3 

Geography and exploration, account of progress in, by William Libbey, jr ... 313 

Geological Survey, details curators to National Museum ^ 17 

Geology, North American, account of progress in, by N. H. Darton 189 

Georgia, ethnological explorations in along Savannah River 20 

Germany, exchanges 35, 38 

Gibson, E. L. , a Regent x 

Gill, Theodore, account of progress in zoology 477 

Gliddeu and Curtis, offer to Smithsonian Institution 7 

Goode, Prof. G. Brown, appointed assistant secretary xiv, 3 

report on explorations 5 

Government assistance to exchange service 14 

exchanges 12,13,38 

insufficiency of 15 

Graves, Indian, in Floyd and Chickasaw Counties, Iowa, by Clement L. Web- 
ster 590 

Gray. Dr. Asa, a Regent x 

report on the scientific writings of Henry xv , 

Great Britain, exchange shipments made to 35 

Greece, exchange shipments made to 35 

Guatemala, exchange shipments made to 35 

Guun, James, offered for sale portrait of Smithson 3 

Guyot, Arnold, biographical memoir of, by James D. Dana 693 

meteorological and physical tables, edited by W. Libbey, jr ... 8 

H. 

Hayti, exchange shipments made to 35 

Hamburg- American Packet Line, acknowledgments due 13 

Henderson Brothers & Co., acknowledgments due 13 

Henry, Joseph, scientific writings of xv,9 

Henry Park, name given to Armory Square 4 

Henshaw, H. W., work upon the synonymy of Indian tribes 26 

Hoffman, Dr. W. J., assisted in work of the synonymy of Indian tribes 27 

Holland, exch.anges 35, 38 

Holmes, William H., archaeological work of 23 

Hornaday, W. T., exploration for American bison 5, 6, 19 

Huxley, T. H. , on advance of science in the last half century 55 

I. 

Iceland, exchange shipments made to 35 

Illmois, southern, ethnological explorations in - 21 

Illustrations, list of viii 

India, exchange shipments made to 35 



INDEX. 729 

Page. 

Indian (Am.) mummy, by James Lisle 569 

graves in Floyd and Chickasaw Counties, Iowa, by Clement L. Web- 
ster 590 

tribes, linguistic classification of 22 

synonymy of, work upon 26 

Indians of Washington Territory, by Rev. Myron Eells 605 

Ingalls, Hon. John James, a regent of the Institution x, 1 

Inman Steamship Line, acknowledgments due 13 

International exchanges. (See Exchanges.) 

Institutions in the United States receiving Smithsonian publications 9 

Invertebrates, fossil, bibliography of, by John Belknap Marcou 9 

Jowa, ancient mounds in, by Clement L. Webster 598 

in JohuHon County, by Clement L. Webster 593 

and earth-works in Floyd and Cerro Gordo Counties, by 

Clement L. Webster 575 

Iroquois Indians, researches regarding 22 

Italy, exchanges to -. 35,38 

J. 

Japan, exchanges to 35,38 

Jeft'ereon County, Missouri, mounds in, by Dr. J. C. McCormick 571 

Johnson County, Iowa, ancient mounds in, by Clement L. Webster 593 

Jones, Charles C, jr., in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents xi 

K. 

Kentucky, western, ethnological explorations in 21 

Klallam Indians of Washington Territory, by Rev. Myron Eells 605 

Koehler, J. R., acting curator of National Museum 17 

L. 

Labels in use in Museum 18 

Laugley, Prof. Samuel P. , appointed acting secretary 3 

elected assistant secretary xiv, 3 

letters to Austrian ambassador at Washington 43 

Librarian of Congress relating to defects 

of the exchange system 46 

Lectures in National Museum . .: 19 

Legislation on exchanges, insufficiency of 46 

Lending of typical specimens, circular relating to 10 

Letter from secretary submitting annual report iii 

Letters. (*See Correspondence.) 

Libbey, William, jr., account of progress in geography and exploration 313 

edited Arnold Guyot's meteorological and physical tables. 8 

Library, increase of , during 1886-'87 16 

of Congress, Smithsonian deposits in , 16, 17 

Museum, increase of 18 

Linguistic classifications of Indian tribes 22 

Lippe-Weissenfels, Count, letter to Smithsonian Institution 39 

Lisle, James, account of an Indian mummy 569 

List of astronomical observatories, by George H. Boehmer 8,11 

institutions in the United States receiving Smithsonian publications.. . 9 



730 INDEX. 

M. 

Page. 

McCormick, Dr. J. C, mounds in Jefferson County, Missouri 571 

McNiel, J. A., explorations by 7 

Maclean, Kev. Dr. John, a regent, death of. xi,l 

remarks on the death of, by Dr. Welling xi 

resolutions by board xii i 

MacLean, J. P., in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9 

Mallery, Col. Garrick, work performed by 26 

Maps, charts, etc., in preparation by Bureau of Ethnology 22 

Marcou, John Belknap, account of progress in North American palaeontology .. 231 

bibliography of fossil invertebrates, etc 9 

Marsh, Prof. O. C, honorary curator of National Museum 17 

MasoD, O. T., account of progress in anthropology 523 

Maxey, S. B;, a regent x 

Meek, Fielding B., bibliography of, by John Belknap Marcou 9 

Meigs, General M. C, a regent x, xi 

Members ex-oMcio of the establishment ix 

Memoir, biographical, of Arnold Guyot, by James D. Dana... 693 

Merchants' line of steamers, acknowledgments due 13 

Meteorological and physical tables by Arnold Guyot, edited by W. Libbey, jr. 8 

Mexico, antiquities in, by I. B.Evans 689 

exchanges to 35, 38 

Middleton, J.D., ethnological explorations by 21 

Mindeleff, Cosmos, duties of 25 

Mindeleff, Victor, work of 24 

Mineralogy, account of progress iu, by E. S. Dana 449 

bibliography of, by E. S.Dana 461 

Ministers, foreign, acknowledgments due 13 

Miscellaneous anthropological papers 569 

collections, account of volumes xxviii, xxix, and xxx 8,9 

volumes formed by museum collections 9 

proceedings of National Museum . 10 

Miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9, 11 

Mission to Europe of exchange clerk, results of 15 

Mississippi , ethnological explorations in, along Yazoo River 20 

Missouri, Jefferson County, mounds in, by Dr. J. C. McCormick 571 

Mitchell, S. Weir, and Edward T., Eeichert, researches upon the venoms of 

poisonous snakes 8 

Models made by Cosmos Mindeleff 25 

Monarch line of steamers ceased to exist 34 

Mooney, James, work performed by 26 

Morrill, Hon. Justin S., a regent x,xi 

Mortuary customs, report of 23 

Mound explorations by Bureau of Ethnology 20 

Mounds, ancient, in Iowa and Wisconsin, by Clement L. Webster 571,573,593,598 

of the western prairies, by Clement L. Webster 60'a 

Mummy, an Indian, by James Lisle 569 

Muuoz y Espriella, acknowledgments due 13 

Murray, Ferris & Co., acknowlegments due 13 

Museum. {See National Museum) 4 

N. 

National collections, growth of 17 

National Museum, annual report for 1884 10 

appropriation by Congress xix 



INDEX. 731 

Page. 

JTational Museum building, a new one required 4 

bulletins of 9, IH 

publicatious 18 

report on 17 

volumes of proceedings 10,18 

Navy of the United States details curator to National Museum 17 

Nelson, E. W., report on Eskimos of Alaska 25 

Nttherland-ADierican Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgments due 13^ 

New Mexico, explorations in 23 

New South Wales, shipments made to 35 

New York and Brazil Steam-ship Company, acknowledgments due 13 

Mexico Steam-ship Company, acknowledgments due 13 

New Zealand, shipments made to 35 

North American Indian tribes, linguistic classification of 22 

syrphidae, synopsis of, by Samuel W. Williston 10,18 

North Carolina, explorations in 20 

North German Lloyd, acknowledgments due 13 

Norway, exchanges 35, 38 

O. 

Observatories, astronomical, list of, by George H. Boehmer 8, 11 

Oelrichs «feCo., acknowledgments due 13 

Ohio, ancient works in, exploration of 20,21 

P. 

Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company, acknowledgments due 13 

PalsBOutology, North American, account of progress in, by J. B. Marcou 231 

bibliography of, by J. B. Marcou 232 

Panama Railroad Company, acknowledgments due 13 

au+lquities from, in National Museum 7 

Papers, anthropological 569 

relating to anthropology 9, 11 

Paris exchange convention 14 

Parker, H. A., duties of, in exchanges 29 

Pennsylvania, ethnological explorations in 21 

Periodicals, scientific and technical catalogue of, by H. C. Bolton 9 

Peru, exchanges with Government of 12, 13, 43 

exchange shipments made to 35 

Phelps, Hon. William W., a regent x,xi 

Physical and meteorological tables, by Arnold Gnyot, edited by W. Libbey, jr. 8 

Physics, account of progress in, by G. F. Barker 327 

Pilling, J. C, bibliographic studies of 23 

Pim, Forwood & Co., acknowledgments due - 13 

Porter, Noah, a regent x,xi 

Portrait of Smithson 3 

Portugal, exchange shipments made to 35 

Powell, J. W., in charge of Bureau of Ethnology 20 

linguistic classification of Indian tribes 22 

Prairies, western, mounds of the, by Clement L. Webster 603 

President of the Senate as member of Board of Regents x, 1 

Printing of extra copies of report ordered by Congress li 

Proceedings of the Board of Regents, journal of xi 

National Museum 10. 18 

contentsof volume IX 10 

form part of Smithsonian miscellaneous col- 
lections 10 



732 INDEX. 

Publications of Bureau of Ethnology 11 

United States Government not received for exchange purposes. 51* 

National Museum 18 

the Smithsonian Institution 8 

annual reports 10,18 

bulletins of National Museum 9,18 

contributions to knowledge 8 

expenditures for 3 

miscellaneous collections .- 8 

proceedings of National Museum 10, 18 

Q. 

Queensland, shipments made to 35 

E. 

Eeceipts • xvii 

of the Institution 2 

Record of scientific progress 55 

Red Star Line, acknowledgments due 13 

Regents of Smithsonian Institution x,xi 

applied to Congress for new Museum building 4 

Board of, action with regard to death of Dr, Maclean xi, 1 

changes in xiii, 1 

journal of proceedings of the board xi 

meeting of xi 

Professor Baird's report to xiv, 1 

Rei chert, Edward T., and S. Weir Mitchell, researches upon the venoms of 

poisonous snakes 8 

Relief maps for Bureau of Ethnology 25 

Repayments xvii 

Report, extra copies of ii 

of National Museum for 1884 18 

of the secretary, Professor Baird, to Board of Regents xiv, 1 

of the executive committee xvii 

presented to the Board of Regents xviii 

on Bureau of Ethnology 20 

defects of exchange system.... 48 

explorations 5 

Smithsonian exchanges, by George H. Boehmer 29 

Reports. (iSee Annual Reports. ) 

Reptiles, batrachia and, of North America, catalogue of, by E. D. Cope 18 

Researches upon the venoms of poisonous snakes, by Mitchell and Reichert. .. 8 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of report ii 

Resolutions of Board of Regents with regard to death of Dr. Maclean xiii, 2 

Congressional, relating to exchanges 13, 14, 16 

Reynolds, H. L.,jr., studies of 23 

Rivas, M. M., letter to Secretary of State relating to exchanges with Govern- 
ment of Peru 46 

Rockwood, C. G., jr., account of progress in vulcanology and seismology 289 

Rogan, J. P., explorations by 20 

Royce, Charles C, work upon Indian tribes 23 

Russia, exchanges, with ,.. 35,38 



INDEX. 733 



Page. 
Salaries, expenditures for a 

Sandwich Islands, shipments made to exchanges 35 

Saturday lectures in National Museum 19 

Schoolcraft, Henry R., in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology & 

Schumacher & Co., acknowledgments due 13 

Science, advance of, in the last half century, by T. H.Huxley 5S 

Scientific and technical periodicals, catalogue of, by H. C. Bolton 9 

department of Museum, work of 19 

progress, record of ^55 

writings of Joseph Henry, from volume XXX of Miscellaneous Collec- 

lections 9 

Seaton Park 4 

Secretary's letter submitting annual report iii 

report to the Regents — annual reports 11 

Seismology, vulcanology and, account of progress in, by C. G. Rockwood 2y9 

Sellers, George Ercol, in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9 

Shepard, James, in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9 

Sherman, Hon. John, a regent of the Institution x, xi, I 

Shoemaker, C. W., duties of, in exchanges 29 

Singleton, Hon. Otho R., a regent x, xi 

Smithson, portrait of 3 

Smithsonian Building, fire-proofing of west wing of 4 

Institution, the exchange agent of the Government 13 

Snakes, poisonous, researches upon the venoms of, by Mitchell and Reichert.. 8 

Snyder, Dr. B. F., anchor stones 683 

South Australia, shipments made to 35 

South Carolina, ethnological explorations in 20 

Spain, exchange shipments made to 35 

Specimens in National Museum, number of 17, 18 

typical, lending of, circular concerning 10 

Speculative correspondence, circular relative to 5 

Spoflford, Hon. A. R., remarks on exchange service 15 

Statistics of exchanges 12,32,33,34,35,36,37,38 

Students accommodated by National Museum 18 

Surinam, exchange shipments made to 35 

Swan Islands, explorations in 7 

Sweden, exchanges 35,38 

Switzerland, exchanges 35, 38 

Synopsis of the North American syrphidte, by Samuel W. Williston 10, 18 

Syrphidae, North American, synopsis of, by Samuel W. Williston 10, 18 

T. 

Tables, meteorological and physical, by A. Guyot, edited by W. Libbey, jr 9 

Tasmania, shipments made to 35 

Tavera, Chevalier, letters to Smithsonian Institution 40, 42, 43 

Taxidermical work for National Museum 19 

Tennessee, explorations in 20 

Technical periodicals, scientific and, catalogue of, by H. C. Bolton 9 

Thomas, Cyrus, explorations of mounds 20 

in charge of mound explorations 20 

studies of 22 

Tolson, M. A., duties of, in exchanges 29 

Townsend, C. H., explorations by 7 



734 INDEX. 

Page. 

Transportation companies granting free freight on exchanges 34 

Transportation facilities 12,34 

Tnrlsey, exchange shipments made to 35 

Turner, Lucien M., report upon the Eskimo 25 

Twana, Chemakum, and Klallam Indians of Washington Territory, by Rev. 

Myron Eells 605 

Typical specimens, lending of, circular concerning 10 

U. 

Uruguay, exchange shipments made to 35 



Venezuela, exchange shipments made to 35 

Venoms of poisonous snakes, researches upon, by Mitchell and Reichert 8 

Vice-President of United States, a member of the Board of Regents x, 1 

Victoria, shipments made to 35 

Visitors to National Museum 18 

Vulcauology and seismology, account of progress in, by C. G. Rockwood, jr... 289 

bibliography of 305 

W. 

Waite, Chief Justice, president of the Board of Regents x, xi 

Walcott, Charles D., bibliography of, by John Belknap Marcou 9 

Washington Territory, the Twana, Chemakum, and Klallam Indians of, by Kev. 

Myron Eells 605 

Water-color portrait of Smithson 3, 4 

Webster, Clement L. , ancient mounds in Iowa and Wisconsin 598 

in Johnson County, Iowa 593 

and earth- works in Floyd and Cerro 

Gordo Counties, Iowa 575 

mounds of the western prairies 603 

Welling, Dr. James C, a regent x, xi 

tribute to memory of Dr. Maclean xi, 1 

Wesley, William, purchased portrait of Smithson 3,4 

West Indies, exchange shipments made to 35 

West Virginia, ethnological explorations near Charleston 21 

explorations in 20 

White, Charles A., bibliography of, by John Belknap Marcou 9 

White Cross Line, acknowledgments due 13 

Whittlesey, Charles, in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropology 9 

Williams, Mark, in miscellaneous papers relating to anthropolopy 9 

Williston, Samuel W,, synopsis of North American syrphidae 10, 18 

Wilson & Asmus, acknowledgments to 13 

AVilson, W. L., a regent x, xi 

Wilson, Col. J. M., communication from, relative to Henry Park 4 

Winlock, William C, account of progress in astronomy 99 

Wisconsin, ancient mounds in, by Clement L. Webster 598 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, acknowledgments due 13 

Writings, scientific, of Joseph Henry xv, 9 



INDEX. 735 

Y. 

Page. 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, work upon mortuary customs 23 

Yellowstone Park, buffaloes in 6 

Z. 

Zoology, account of progress in, by T. Gill 477 

Zuui, architecture of, report on 25 

material, work on ^ 23 

o 



