wimm&rm 




A/1 



' 3 U; t> 



ANNUAL REPOPiT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWIXG THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 



1878. 



WASHIKGTOIT: 

aOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1879. 



FORTY-FIFTH CONGEESS— THIRD SESSION. 



In the Senate of the United States, 

March 3, 1879. 
The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate February 10, 1879, and con- 
curred in by the House of Representatives March 3, 1879 : 

Resolved h]) tlic Si'iiate {the House of Bcprcsentatives concurring), That 10,500 copies 
of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1878 be printed, 1,000 copies 
of which shall be for the use of the Senate, 3,000 copies of which shall be for the use 
of the House of Rej)resentatives, and 6,500 for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Attest : 

GEO. C. GORHAM, 

Secretary. 
2 



LETTER 

FROJI THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

The annual report of ilie Institution for tlie year 1878. 



February 8, 1879. — Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

February 7, 1879. 
Sir : In behalf of the Board of Eegents, I have the honor to submit 
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera- 
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year 1878. 

I liave the honor to be, your obedient servant, 

SPENCER F. BAIED, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. W. A. Wheeler, 

President of the Senate. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1878. 



This document contains : 

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1878, with the sta- 
tistics of collections, exchanges, &c. 

2. The report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial 
afiairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, 
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1878, and the estimates for 
1879. 

3. The proceedings of the Board of Eegents for the sessions of May, 
1878, and January, 1879. 

4. A general appendix, including translations from foreign journals 
or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the collaborators 
and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested in 
the promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



KUTHERFOKD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, ChanceUor of the Insti- 
tution (President of the Board of Regents). 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary (Director of the Institution). 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States- 
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 
HANNIBAj:^ HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States. 
AARON A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States. 
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States. 
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives. 
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, member of the House of Representatives. 
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF EEGENTS. 



PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAJVI T. SHERMAN. 



MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States. 

WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

WILLIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of State. 

JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury. 

GEORGE W. McCRARY, siBcretary of War. 

RICHARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy. 

DAVID M. KEY, Postmaster-General. 

CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior. 

CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General. 

H. E. PAINE, Commissioner of Patents. 



OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUAEY, 1879. 



SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Secretary, Director of the Institution. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, 

^Ckief Cle)-k. 
DANIEL LEECH, 

Clei-lc, Cwrespondenee. 
CLARENCE B. YOUNG, 

Clerk, Accounts. 
HERMANN DIEBITSCH, 

Clerk, Foreign Exchanges, 
JANE A. TURNER, 

Clerk, Library. 
MAGGIE E. GRIFFIN, 

Clerk, Distribution of Publications. 
SOLOMON G. BROWN, 

Clerk, Transportation. 



G. BROWN GOODE, 

Curator of the Museum. 
F. M. ENDLICH, 

Assistant, Mineralogy. 
ROBT. RIDGWAY, 

Assistant, Ornithology. 
TARLETON H. BEAN, 

Assistant, Ichthyology. 
CIHAS. RAU, 

Assistant, Archwology. 
EDWARD FOREMAN, 

Assistant, Ethnology. 
F. H. GUSHING, 

Assistant, Ethnology. 



JOSEPH PALMER, 

Taxidermist. 
T. W. SMILLIE, 

Photographer. 
JOSEPH HERRON, 

Janitor. 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETAEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1878. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentleimen : I have tlie lionor lierewith to present the report of the 
operatious aud. condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1878. 

The most important event during that time, and, indeed, in the history 
of the establishment, is the death of Professor Henry, its lamented Sec- 
retary, to whom was intrusted its organization in 184G, and under whose 
firm and judicious direction it has been carried safely forward, surmount- 
ing in its progress many obstacles and trials, to its present condition of 
efficiency and prosperity. 

It is difficult to overestimate the importance to science and humanity 
of the administration of Professor Henry in chis connection. It was a 
mere chance that the right man for the place would be selected, and 
whether any other of the candidates would have done equallj' well it is, 
of course, impossible to say. It is very certain, however, that the chances 
would have been adverse to such a result. The most logical methods 
of operation and research, the strictest economy of administration, the 
restriction of the Institution to its legitimate functions in the increase 
and difl'usion of knowledge among men, and the avoidance of all en- 
tangling alliances of everj^ kind, signally characterized the administra- 
tion of affairs by Professor Henry for the long period of nearly one third 
of a century. This time sufficed to impress upon the Institution a defi- 
nite policy, and one which will, I trust, be permanent. It will certainly 
be my endeavor, as the successor of Professor Henry, lo carry out his 
principles during whatever period Providence and your good- will may 
grant me the direction of affairs. 

The characteristics of the policy adopted by Professor Henry at the 
beginning of his administration, aud sanctioned by the Board of Eegents, 
were, first, never to attempt to do with the funds and appliances of the In- 
stitution what could equally well be done by other appro]iriate agencies ; 
secondly, to attempt nothing which might not strictly be considered as 
coming within the department of science, theoretical or api^lied ; thirdly, 
to keep all expenditures within the income of the Institu.tion, and never 
to allow the operations of one year to be hampered by indebtedness 
carried over from the preceding ; and, finally, not to restrict the opera- 
tions of the institution to Washington, or even to the United States ; 
but to extend its benefits to the whole world, in view of the proper iater- 

7 



8 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

pretation of tlie Mill of Mr. Smitlison that the main functions of tlie 
institution should be "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." 

Numerous illustrations of the policy of Professor Henry in regard to 
the first principle adopted by him can be adduced, l^o matter hoM 
favorite the branch of research might have been with him, nor what 
amount of reputation might be gained to the Institution by prosecuting 
it, he was always ready to transfer it to those who could carry it on with 
success. The most noteworthy instance, x)erhaj)s, was that in connection 
with the subject of meteorology, which had from the beginning been one 
of special interest to him. The very earliest action in the scientific direc- 
tion of the Institution had reference to the adoption of a general system 
of meteorological observations throughout the United States and the 
adjacent portions of America, and the proper reduction of the results in 
a systematic form. Up to the time of the establishment of the Signal 
Office, this was by far the most important feature of Smithsonian activity. 
It embraced a connection with about six hundred observ^ers from all 
the walks of life and in all parts of the country. With these, constant 
communication was held, and from them were received monthly detailed 
observations of various degrees of minuteness and accuracy on l)lanks 
furnished to them previously by the Institution; and an extended 
correspondence was maintained with them, not only on meteorological 
subjects but upon others of scientific interest. For more than twenty- 
five years this relation continued with the most important results, the 
work extending and enlarging year by year in a rai^id ratio. 

As soon as the oi)erations of the United States Signal Office were 
established by government, under General Myer, Professor Henry 
offered to turn over the Smithsonian system with its observers to that 
establishment, and this offer being accepted the transfer was made ; 
since then the Institution has confined itself to woi'king up the results 
of a quarter of a century's labors and publishing them in a systematic 
and digested form. The series of such digests has been nearly com- 
pleted and the w^hole will be finished as rapidly as the funds of the 
Institution will permit. 

It was to this restriction of effort to subjects of importance, in a scien- 
tific or practical point of view, which were not otherwise provided for, 
that is due the impression made upon the progress of learning by the 
Smithsonian Institution as administered by Professor Henry. There 
are numerous establishments in the United States, not of precisely sim- 
ilar character, but with the same general object, and with equal or larger 
funds of endowment, but which are scarcely known or even heard of 
outside of the limits of the city in which they may happen to be sit- 
uated. The name of the Smithsonian Institution, on the contrary, is a 
familiar one in every part of the world ; and it may almost be said that 
it is even better understood, comprehended, and appreciated in the 
remotest parts of Europe than it is in some sections of the United States. 



REPORT OF THE. SECRETARY. 9 

At the beginning of the active operations of the institution, Professor 
Henry prepared what he called a " Programme of organization." This 
was first submitted to the judgment of leading men of science through- 
out the United States and Europe, and received general approval. It 
was presented to the Board, and adopted as the basis of future opera- 
tions. It is interesting to note that whatever new lines of research or 
of practical work have been taken up from time to time by the Institu- 
tion, were simply the carrying out into practical effect of one or other of 
the subdivisions of the proposed programme. 

The board at its special meeting, held on the 17th of May, 1878, di- 
rected the preparation of a suitable biography of its late Secretary, and 
also the holding of a memorial service in one of the halls of Congress, if 
it could be obtained for the purpose. The preparation of this biography 
was intrusted to a committee, consisting of President Porter, of Yale 
College, Dr. Maclean, of Princeton, and Professor Gray, of Harvard ; 
and it has been prepared by the latter gentleman, and will be submitted 
by him to the Board. 

The arrangements for the jnemorial services have been made, to take 
place on the evening of Thursday, January 16, 1879. In addition to 
the records prepared by the direction of the Board, two other memoirs 
have been written, and were presented, October 26, 1878, to the Philo- 
sophical Society of Washington, of which Professor Henry had been the 
presiding oflicer from the time of its organization. One of these me- 
moirs, by Dr. Welling, president of Columbian University, gave an 
account of Professor Henry's life and character with reference to his 
personal, social, and educational qualities ; and the other, by Mr. Will- 
iam B. Taylor, set forth more particularly his scientific work and the 
succession of his discoveries. 

Professor Henry's last illness dates from the autumn of the year 1877, 
and was apparently induced in a considerable measure by exposure 
while carrying on a series of experiments in behalf of the Light-House 
Board. After his return from Staten Island, he was able to bestow but 
little attention to the details of the work of the Institution ; although, 
up to the very day of his death, he was directing and controlling it as 
from the beginning. Shortly after his return in the autumn, he made a 
visit to Philadelphia, for the i^urpose of being under the care of Dr. S. 
Weir Mitchell, and came back to Wasliiugton after an absence of a few 
weeks. His death took place on the 13th of May, 1878, — a peaceful and 
happy death — surrounded by his familj' and friends. 

After his decease, as in his life, he was signally honored. Congress 
adjourned to attend the funeral, which was also marked by the presence 
of the highest dignitaries of the country, including the President and 
his cabinet, the justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, and 
those of the District of Columbia, the diplomatic corps, and numerous 
organizations of which he was a member, as well as others from abroad. 



10 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

Honored by the Board in being selected to succeed Professor Henry, 
it was with the greatest diffidence, and with an nnaftected distrust in my 
ability to administer worthily the operations of the Institution, that I 
accepted the trust. Animated by a desire to secure the continuance 
of the wise policy inaugurated and maintained by Professor Henry, — 
by a consciousness of familiarity with the varied duties required, — and 
by a natural sympathy of purpose resulting fi^om a long association with 
him — holding steadily before me his example — I venture upon the ex- 
l>eriment ; hoi)ing only that the c.ontrast of the present administration 
of the Institution with that of the past will not be too unfavorably marked. 

I may, i^erhaps, be pardoned for calling attention to the fact that my 
own connection with the Institution and association with Professor 
Henry dates back to the year 1850, and that consequently, for more than 
twenty-eight years, I have been engaged in carrying out the principles 
established by the late Secretary, and that the details of administration, 
and the general plans of operation, are consequently not unfamiliar to 
me. My association has indeed been, indirectly, longer than the time 
mentioned, since as early as 1848 I visited Professor Henry and was en- 
gaged by him to carry out certain researches in reference to the natiu-al 
history of Pennsylvania, aided by a grant of money from the funds of 
the Institution, for the purpose. 

Although the fact of the death of Professor Henry was promptly 
spread over the United States and transmitted throughout the Old 
World by means of the telegraph, it was thought jiroper, in accordance 
with the usage of similar establishments, to make a formal announce- 
ment by a circular letter, addressed to the foreign correspondents of the 
Institution. A cii'cular was accordingly prepared in the name of the 
Chancellor and widely distributed. This has elicited a great number of 
responses, containing gratifying expressions of condolence and sympathy. 

The regular session of the Board of Eegents for the winter of 1877 
was held in January, 1878, at which time the report for 1877 was pre- 
sented by Professor Henry and approved. An extra meeting was called 
on the 17th of May, on the day after Professor Henry's funeral, at which 
an election of his successor took place, and arrangements were made for 
a proper eulogy and the memorial meeting in January, 1879. 

The law of Congress establishing and organizing the Smithsonian 
Institution makes no provision for the discharge of the duties of the 
chief officer by any person other than the Secretary ; and as no bills for 
services, for salaries, labor, supplies, &c., can be paid without his 
indorsement, the disability or death of the Secretary during the recess 
of the meetings of the Board is likely to involve very serious difficulties. 
For the purpose of providing for this contingency, Senator Hamlin, a 
Eegent of the Institution, has introduced a joint resolution into the 
Senate, providing that in case of the death, disability, or absence of the 
Secretary, the Chancellor be empowered to appoint some one to discharge 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

his duties until any necessary provision can be made by tlie Board in 
lull session, it not being expected that the Board could be brought 
together outside of the period of the meeting of Congress. This reso- 
lution has already passed the Senate, and it is hoped will soon x)ass the 
House and become a law. 

The only change in the Board of Eegents to be placed on record is 
the resignation of Mr. Bancroft and the election of General Sherman, a 
former Eegent, to fill his place. General Sherman was also elected by 
the Board at its special meeting of the 17th of May to serve as one of 
the Executive Committee. 

The continued expansion of the operations of the Institution, especially 
those connected with its department of international exchanges, has 
called for accommodations more extended than those that have been 
available ; and Professor Henry, for some time before his death, had in 
contemplation a removal from that portion of the building occupied by 
his family, to a private residence in the city. He was considering this 
question more urgently when his illness supervened, and of course inter- 
rupted any further action on his part. 

Although the occupation of the east wing of the building free of rent 
was one of the privileges of the Secretary of the Institution, I found 
that all the rooms ia the building could be used to great advantage as 
offices of the Institution ; and I therefore determined, with the consent 
of the members of the Executive Committee, to devote them to that 
purpose. A door was opened in the waU separating the present rooms 
from the ai)artments adjacent to them, and some other trifling inex- 
pensive alterations were made, by which the entire house was trans- 
formed into a series of offices and work-rooms. Every room is now in 
use, and the entire force of clerks and employes has been concentrated 
in the east range and wing, so that they are closely connected in their 
work, adding very greatly to the efficiency of operations. 

A system of electric bells and telephones has been established through- 
out the building, by means of which instant communication can be had 
between the several offices and work-rooms without involving the loss 
of time required to pass fi'om one to another, or without calling any one 
from his work. 

FINANCES. 

In the report of the Executive Committee will be found a detailed 
statement of the finances of the Institution, which are believed to be in 
a satisfactory state. The amount to the credit of the late Secretary at 
the time of his death was $8,522.98. This was transferred on the 2Sth 
of May, 1878, to the credit of his successor, with whom a new account 
was opened at the Treasury. The premium oh the gold-bearing interest 
of the Smithsonian endowment, which has heretofore constituted a more 
or less prominent item of the receipts for the year, has, of coiu'se, disap- 
peared j only a small percentage having been realized on the July pay- 
ment. As the natural counterj)art to this, however, the reduction in 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the price of labor and the decrease in the cost of many articles of gen- 
eral supply leaves the Institution in a correspondingly better financial 
condition than before. 

The following is a statement of the condition of the Smithson fund at 
the beginning of the year 1879 : 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 

■ United States in accordance with the act of Congress of 

August 10, 1846 $515, 16^ 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 18G5, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States in accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 26, 210 63 

Total bequest of Smithson 541, 379 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, 
derived from savings of income and increase in value of 

investments 108, 620 37 

Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Carlisle, Pa., February 24, 1874 1, 000 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of 
the United States, bearing interest at 6 jDer cent., 

payable semi-annually in gold 651, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, 
viz: Consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates, 
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total, $88,125.20, 

valued January, 1879, at 34, 000 00 

Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning 
of the year 1879, for current expenses 19, 632 57 

Total Smithson funds January 8, 1879 704, 632 57 

BUILDING. 

Some damage was done to the Smithsonian building by the severe 
storms of the summer of 1878, and considerable expense incurred in re- 
pairs. The finial on the west tower was blown ofi" and a large number 
of slates torn away, all of which required reconstruction. The occasion 
was taken to give the gutters, spouts, and lightning-rods a thorough 
overhauling, leaving everything, it is believed, in the best condition. 
The basement has been cleaned and whitewashed, and all unserviceable 
material, including scrax)-iron, &c., has been suitably disposed of. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

As has been frequently stated in former reports, the publications of 
the Institution consist of three classes : The first, the " Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge"; the second, the "Smithsonian Miscellaneous 



KEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 13 

Collections"; and the third, the "Annual Reports of the Eegents" of 
the Institution. The works of the first class, the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge, are published in quarto form, and are intended to 
embrace original memoirs, either the result of special investigations 
authorized and directed by the Institution, or prosecuted under other 
auspices and presented to it. The works of the second class, the Mis- 
cellaneous Collections, are similar in plan and construction to the " Con- 
tributions," but are in octavo form, and embrace more particularly mono- 
graphic and descriptive papers in natural history, formal or systematic 
lists of species of animals or plants, physical tables, reports on the pres- 
CHt state of knowledge in some department of physical or biologic sci- 
ence, &c. As with the "Contributions," each volume is composed of 
several distinct and independent papers, having no necessary connection 
with each other, the collection being determined chiefly by the aggregate 
number of pages suitable for a volume of average size. The average 
number of pages in the quarto volume is about 600; in the octavo volume, 
about 800. Each paper or memoir in either class is separately paged and 
indexed, with its own title-page, so as to be complete in itself, and sepa- 
rately distributed according to its subject. Of the quarto "Contribu- 
tions," twenty-one volumes, and of the "Collections," fifteen volumes 
have been published. 

The Smithsonian annual reports commenced in 1817, and being made 
to Congress, are published by that authority, and not at the expense of 
the Smithsou fund. The earUer reports of the Secretary were printed 
in smaU pamphlet editions, but were collected and reprinted with the 
report for 1853, and with this the series of bound volumes may be said 
to have begun. The number, or edition, ordered by Congress has varied 
from year to year, but the proportion of copies placed at the disposal of 
the Institution has been distributed to its correspondents as fuUy and 
liberally as possible. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge piMisJied in 1878.— For sev- 
eral years past the Institution has had in its archives a paper by the 
late Prof. Henry J. Clark, relating to the Lucernariai, an extremely in- 
teresting group of marine animals closely allied to the Acalephs, or 
Jelly-fish. The death of the author before the work could go to press, 
and' the difficulty of finding any one wilhng to undertake the editing of 
it, prevented immediate action on the memoir; but Prof. A. E. VerriU hav- 
ing agreed to take charge of the work, it was at length put to press, and 
was finally published in 1878. The memoir consists of 138 quarto pages 
and eleven plates, and it has been distributed to the leading zoologists. 
The Institution is under great obligations to Professor Verrill for the 
careful and critical supervision of the typographical execution of the 
work, as weU as for some important notes and rectifications. Mr. 
Samuel P. Clark, of Johns Hopkins University, is also entitled to the 
thanks of the Institution for assistance in revising proofs dui'ing the 
period when Professor Yerrill was iU. 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The second quarto memoir, published in 1878, is a paper by Mr. 
William H. Dall, " On the Eemains of later Prehistoric Man, obtained 
from caves in the Catherina Archipelago, Alaska Territory, and espe- 
cially from the caves of the Aleutian Islands." In the Secretary's re- 
port for 1875 (page 48) will be found a brief notice of some interesting 
mummified human remains from the Aleutian Islands presented by the 
Alaska Commercial Company. These comiirised a series of nine mum- 
mies from Kagaymil Island and one from Prince William's Sound. Mr. 
Ball's memoir on the subject has been printed, containing the result of 
a careful examination of these remains and the relics found with them, 
an account of the tradition and history relating to them, and such ex- 
planations of the manufacture, character, and use of the various asso- 
ciated articles as the author's observations during eight years in that 
region enabled him to furnish. Ten heliotype illustrations accompany 
the memoir, which, though inferior to finely engraved views in an 
artistic point of view, ofler a style better suited to convey a correct idea 
of the complicated details represented than any other mode of illustra- 
tion at present in use. 

Two remaining quarto papers now in press will be published early in. 
the year 1879. The first of these is the memoir of Dr. S. Habel, describ- 
ing " The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, in Guatemala." 
As this interesting work was quite fully described in the Secretary's last 
Eeport (for 1877, pages 13 to 16), it is unnecessary here to particularize 
it further. 

The other paper referred to (constituting the fourth of the above- 
mentioned series) is "A Classification and Synopsis of the Trochilidse," 
by Mr. D. G. Elliot. The beautiful and brilliant-colored <' metallic" 
plumage of the humming-birds in many instances assumes, among 
individuals of the same species, widely-contrasted hues, rendering 
the correct identification of the species by the naturalist only possible 
through a considerable experience or the opportunity of examining a 
large series of specimens. Within the past ten years a large number of 
new species have been discovered in this group, supplying important 
links between previously-known species that could not have been here- 
tofore harmoniously ranged in the family. The vast collection which 
has produced the material for this work contains many types and speci- 
mens of great rarity, obtained from such well-known trochilidists as 
Bourcier, Gould, Verreaux, &c. Of the 426 species acknowledged in the 
work as worthy of such rank, 380 are contained in the author's collection, 
represented by about 1,800 specimens. A novel feature of the work is 
the engraving that accompanies the diagnosis of each genus, illustrating 
the characteristics by which any specimen may be readily referred to its 
proper genus. The characters recognized as most important for deter- 
mining a system of classification are taken from the male bird alone, it 
being found impossible to harmonize in so large a grouj) any that should 
be selected from the two sexes indiscriminately. The present synopsis 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 15 

will be useful both to the student and to the naturalist by enabling 
them to easily identify their specimens, and will assist them to a natural 
classification of the family. 

MisccUaneous Collections pvhlMied m 1<S78. — Among the "Collections" 
published in the past year have been several very important circulars 
intended to facilitate the collection of material for scientific research. 
The first of these, prepared by Prof. O. T. Mason, at the request of the 
Institution, relates to the various remains of American archaeology scat- 
tered throughout different parts of our continent, consisting of mounds, 
earthworks, ditches, graves, &c. A vast amount of isolated and discon- 
nected research has been directed toward these objects, in most cases 
by persons ignorant of the true method of examination or of the precise 
nature of the problems to be solved in connection with them. The cir- 
cular referred to comprises 15 pages, indicating the features of special 
Interest, a record of which it is desired to possess, and giving a table of 
symbols to be used to secure uniformity of illustration and facility of 
reference. It also invites contributions of notes, surveys, maps, illus- 
trations, &c., of the objects, and also requests the contribution of such 
specimens as may be found in the localities described, including stone 
implements, pottery, bone tools, &c. Of this circular many thousand 
copies have been distributed, and these have elicited a vast amount of 
material. This is all carefully and systematically classified and arranged, 
and as soon as it appears to be measurably complete it will be placed in 
the hands of one or more specialists, by the aid of whom it is hoped the 
Institution may be able to prepare an exhaustive treatise on the sub- 
ject which will mark as important a stage of progress in the history of 
American archaeology as was done by its publication, in 1849, of Squier 
& Davis's work upon the ancient mounds of the Mississippi Valley. 

The second circular published was one prepared by P. E. XJbler, of 
Baltimore, in reference to the collection of specimens of craic-JisJies. This 
group of fresh-water crustaceans, which is found in most parts of the world, 
withsome curious exceptions, furnishesan interesting field for inquiry into 
the modifications produced in animal forms by certain physical or other 
conditions, Professor Huxley, among others, having lately prepared an 
elaborate paper upon the subject. In i)revious years quite a number of 
new craw-fishes were described from the collections of the National 
Museum, by Mr. Charles Girard. The group was afterwards made the 
subject of a very comprehensive investigation by Dr. H. Hagen, of 
Cambridge. It is, however, thought that there is room for still further 
inquiry, and the material in possession of the Smithsonian Institution 
will be placed in the hands of competent specialists for investigation. 
In the circular an illustration of the craw-fish is given, for which the 
Institution is indebted to Messrs. Appleton & Co., New York. 

The third circular, to form part of a forthcoming volume of Smithson- 
ian Miscellaneous Collections, is in reference to the Jiving 7'eptiles of 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ISTortli America. The United States Fisli Commission, under tlie au- 
spices of the Smithsonian Institution, exhibited at the Philadelphia 
Centennial of 1876 an extremely interesting series of plaster and papier 
mach6 casts of fishes, cetaceans, and some reptiles, all carefully colored 
from nature, and representing a much larger number of such objects than 
had ever been brought together under one roof. Since that time the 
artists connected with the JSTational Museum have been diligently en- 
gaged in extending and improving the series, and for nearly two years 
past their efforts have been conducted especially in the line of the rep- 
tiles. The circular in question was intended to indicate precisely the 
forms or species desired, and it has been extensively distributed. As 
the result, the Institution was the recipient, in 1878, of very large num- 
bers of living turtles, serpents, lizards, salamanders, &c., the greater por- 
tion of which has been carefiilly molded and reproduced in artistic style. 
It is believed that no museum extant can show such a series of serpents, 
in their natural attitudes, as is now on exhibition in the !Mational 
Museum. 

Another publication of 1878 is a new " List of Foreign Correspond- 
ents." The rapid increase in the number of scientific establishments in 
relationship with the Institution requires a new edition of this list every 
few years ; and although the present one is much more extensive than 
that published in 1872 (containing 2333 numbers of titles as compared 
with 1919), even now arrangements are being made by the Institution for a 
still more complete and exhaustive edition. With this view a circular 
has been sent to all the names upon the present list, asking for rectifi- 
cations or typograx)hic corrections, and the addition of any addresses 
of public libraries, learned societies, or scientific bureaus of govern- 
ments not already included. The Institution also requested secretaries 
of societies to furnish a list of the names and addresses of i>ersons act- 
ively engaged in scientific or literary iu^^estigations in their respective 
towns, together with the particular branches of learning to which each 
was devoted, with the view of facilitating communication and exchanges 
with specialists in all parts of the world. The responses to these re- 
quests are coming in rapidly ; and when all are received, a suitable ar- 
rangement and publication of the material will be made. 

Twenty years ago (in 1858), the Institution published a list, of the 
Dqjtera (flies, musquitoes, «S:c.) of ITortli America, by Baron R. Osten- 
Sacken, at that time attached to the Eussiau Legation at Washington. 
The author, although especially a student of the order of diptera, was 
interested in other groups, and coming to the United States at a time 
when our entomologists were few and widely scattered, he devoted a 
considerable part of his leisure to travel over the country, making the 
personal acquaintance of most of those interested in this branch of natu- 
ral history. In that connection he rendered a valuable aid to the ex- 
tension of American entomologic science, which is entitled to public 
recognition. Through his efforts numerous entomologists, situated far 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

a])art, and pi'osecutin.u' studies of a similar character, without tlie knowl- 
edge of other labors than their own, were brought into relations of 
correspondence and exchange, and thus, by their mutual s.ym])ath5^ and 
support, and by the concentration of etibrt on the part of each to some 
si)ecial line of research, the common interest of science was advanced. 
We regret to say that after many years sojourn in this country, Baron 
Osten-Sackeu has returned to Europe, where, however, his assistance 
is continnallj" invoked by entomologists desiring infi^rmation in regard 
to type specimens, books not procurable in the United States, &c. 

Tlie list of Biptera aforesaid (published in the Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions) brought together a mass of references to the descriptions of about 
1,800 species, scattered in more than one hundred different works 
and scientific papers. Such a i)ublication was an indispensable preliai- 
inary step before any study of the diptera could bo attempted. This 
formed the first of a series of works undertaken by the Institution to 
facilitate the study of entomology, which has included diptera, coleop- 
tera, lepidoptera, neuroptera, and hymenoptera. 

During the past year the work of Baron Osten-Sacken, much extended 
by his later critical studies, has been republished by the Institution. 
This new edition of the work is not merely a revision of the catalogue 
imblished twenty years ago ; but it is an entirely new one prepared on 
a different plan. The difference between eleven and sixfy-sLic, the num- 
ber of species of one genus, Trypeta^ represents the addition made to 
our knowledge during the interval between the two catalogues. Other 
genera give similar results. Another important difference between the 
old and new catalogues consists in the fact that the majority of the 
species enumerated in the latter are represented in a collection now in the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, Mass., which contains 
over 2,000 named and described species of diptera from ISTorth America. 
The region embraced in the present catalogue is the whole of IsTortk 
America, including the West Indies. It has been the effort of the 
author to uiake sure that every name in the list should actually rep- 
resent a different species. To attain this result, he visited and examined 
the museums in London, Paris, Lille, Berlin, Frankfort, Darmstadt, 
Turin, and Vienna. Of all orders of insects the diptera offer probably 
the most difiiculties to the describer, arising from the minuteness of the 
characters on which generic and specific distinction are based. Each 
family requires a special study, and a (li]»terologist may be very well 
A'ersed in some families, without being able to express any ojnnion with 
regard to questions concerning others. In the introduction to the cata- 
logue, the author presents some recommendations as to the best course 
to be pursued in the study of diptera, and advises specialization. 
AmatcHirs may collect and name specimens, but should not publish 
anything until they have chosen some single family and nearly ex- 
hausted it by study and collecting. "The exhaustive study of a single 
family is far more remunerative both in pleasure and in usefulness 
S. Mis. 59 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

than tbe random description of numerous nevr species." The catalogue 
forms an octavo vohime of 324 pages, and inchides a full index. 

Another paper published in 1878, to be mentioned, is a " Botanical 
Index," prepared by Prof. Sereno Watson, of Cambridge, Mass. The 
purpose of this index is to furuish references to whatever has been pub- 
lished respectiug the plants of North America, under their Linnean spe- 
cific names, in works or papers that may be classed as belonging to sys- 
tematic botany. For the region west of the Mississippi and for British 
America, the literature of which is almost wholly fragmentary and 
greatly scattered, and on account of which especially the work was orig- 
inally begun, it is intended to be complete. And it is essentially so also 
for the eastern flora, where, however, there is not the same necessity 
that the citations should be exhaustive. To avoid the perpetuation of 
errors it was desirable to eliminate false species and to correct wrong 
determinations wherever they had gone upon record. This could not 
have been thoroughly done without a com]ilete revision of the flora 
itself, which was of course out of the question; nevertheless it was ren- 
dered to a considerable extent possible as respects the Avestern Ilora, by 
the author's connection with the "Botany of California"; and in many 
other cases he was enabled to decide upon the validity of species, and 
to verify determinatioiis or to settle doubtful synonymy by comparisons 
of specimens themselves in the collection of the Harvard Herbarium. 

The delays that have arisen in the preparation of the volume have 
not been without compensation in the far more complete and satisfactory 
results which were only thus made possible; and the deficiencies of the 
earlier portions are largely supplied by the copious appendix, which 
makes the whole essentially complete, up to the date of publication. 
The portion now printed covers the ground of Torrey and Gray's Flora 
of North America, which was pul^lished in 1838-1840, and is now so com- 
pletely out of date as to leave this portion of our botany nearly as much 
in need of revision as any other. Until such revision can be made 
(and it must still be delayed some years), the " Index " will necessarily 
be a partial substitute — in some respects sufficient, inasmuch as it shows 
Avhat genera and species ai;e recognized as forming our flora, and also as 
concerns the synonyuiy, which could not be given with any such com- 
pleteness, withiu the limits of the desired revision, and moreover suffi- 
cient in its references to all existing descriptions of those species. In 
any given case, these descriptions may indeed be practically inaccessible, 
or they may be incomplete or faulty, and it is herein that nothing can 
be a substitute for a " Flora," which shall bring together into one vol- 
ume perfected descriptions, together with such grouping of genera and 
species as to indicate their natural affinities. For the preparation of 
such a Flora, or for the study of any special portion ot the field, the 
present Index will meantime be an important aid, giving as it Avere a 
skeletonized history of each individual species, and affording a clue to 
all that is known toward the needed filling out of the outline. The 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY, 19 

total number of orders given in the Index is 69; of genera, 545; of 
species, 3,038. The work forms an octavo volume of 484 pages. 

A work too long delayed, and constituting a most important addition 
to the Miscellaneous Collections — a memoir of the founder, James Smith- 
son, Avith a collection of his published contributions to science, followed 
by a documentary history of the organization, rise, and progress of the 
Institution — has during the past year been collected and prepared, and 
is now in press. 

At a meeting of the Board of Eegents, held January 23, 1878, it was 
resolved that the Secretary be requested to have a memoir of James 
Smithson prepared and iDublished, to include all his scientific papers now 
accessible; and that the Secretary prepare and publish a history of the 
origin and progress of the Institution. In accordance with these resolu- 
tions, the Secretary directed Mr. William J. Ehees, the chief clerk, who 
had l)een connected with the Institution for more than twenty-five years, 
to commence the collection of material for these works, and on the death 
of Professor Henry, Mr. llhees was requested to continue his labors. No 
compilation of this character having been previously attemi^ted, the in- 
vestigation involved a laborious research. 

The scientific papers of Smithson, which originally appeared in the 
Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal Society of London, and in Thom- 
son's Annals of Philosophy, have been collected and reprinted ; they • 
occupy 120 octavo pages. These memoirs were submitted to several chem- 
ists and mineralogists for an estimate of the scientific value of Smith- 
son's researches, and the present acceptance or recognition of the results 
obtained by him. 

The history of the Institution contains the will of Smithson, the man- 
ner in which the bequest was obtained by the United States, the corre- 
spondence between Hon. Ei chard Eush, the special agent of this govern- 
ment, and the officials and attorneys in England, an account of the suit 
in chancery which was found necessary to obtain the fund, an account 
of tlu' n^siduary legacy or sum left in England as the principal of an 
annuity to the mother of the nephew of Smithson, and how this was 
finally obtained and added to the fund. The legislation of Congress in 
refereiice to the bequest is given, including a reprint of every resolution, 
memorial, report, speech, and act from the proceedings of Congress that 
have any reference to the fund or to the establishment and objects of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from December 17, 1835, when President Jack- 
son first informed Congress of the bequest, down to the 1st January, 
1878. 

The collection of this part of the history involved a minute examina- 
tion of every page of the "Globe," containing the report of the proceed- 
ings of Congress, and also a large number of documents and manj^ of the 
records printed and in nmnuscript on file at the Capitol or elsewhere. 
The various plans proposed in the Senate and Ilouse of liepresentatives 
for the carrying out the intentions of Smithson, by John Quiuc^^ Adams, 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Mr. Eobbins, Mr. Clioate, Mr. Marsh, IMr. Owcii, aud many otliers are 
oivcii in full, aiul form an exceedinj^ly interesting exhibit of the views 
of men in political life as to the best means of increasing and diffusing 
knowledge. This part also includes the history of the controversy in 
relation to the management of the Institution arising from the resigna- 
tion of Mr. Choate from the Board of Eegents, and the speeches of Sen- 
ators Pearce, Mason, Douglas, Badger, and Clayton, and of Eepresenla- 
tives English and Meacham, together with the reports of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee, and of a special committee of the House. As 
throwing light on much of Congressional action aud to show the intense 
interest Mr. John QuJncy Adams felt in the bequest, copious extracts 
are made from his diaries. 

The volume also contains the various plans proposed for the organiza- 
tion of the Institution by scientific and literary men, including Mr. Eush, 
Dr. Wayland, Dr. Cooper, Dr. Chapin, with the report of the committee 
of organization of the Board of Eegents ; the programme presented by 
Professor Henry in December, 1847, and the opinions of this programme 
expressed by Dr. Beck, Professor SilHman, Dr. Gray, the American 
Academy of Arts and Sciences, the presidents of Columbia, Williams, 
Hamilton, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Georgetown, Amherst, Saint John's, 
Brown, Bowdoin, Charleston, Hampden Sidney, Madison, William and 
Mary, Cumberland, Alabama, Marietta, Tennessee, Korth Carolina, 
Trinity, and many other colleges and societies. 

These articles will form parts of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col- 
lections, and will not only be of interest to the Eegents and those imme- 
diately connected with the management of the Institution, but to all who 
wish +0 ascertain the views and acts of some of our most prominent men 
in relation to science for nearly half a century. The history of the 
Institution will show Avhat difficulties surrounded its organization, the 
diversity of opinion as to its proper functions, the opjiosilion to be over- 
come, and the value of the wide and comprehensive plans of the Secre- 
tary, Professor Henry, to whose clearness of conception, firmness of 
puri>ose, and purity of character the success of the Institution is maiidy 
indebted. His views, though but little understood and appreciated at 
first, have steadily gained the favor of the scientific and literary world, 
and arc now universally recognized as the best adajited to accomplish 
the great purpose of Smithson. 

BnUetins of the Xational Musc7im. — In the Secretary's Eeport for 1875 
(page 14) it was stated that, during the past year another series of pub- 
lications, which would form a part of the Miscellaneous Collections, had 
been commenced under the above title. This series is intended to illustrate 
the collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the Cnited 
States, and constituting the stock of the National Museum, of which 
the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. These bulletins, prepared 
at the request and mainly by the attaches of the institution, have been 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

pnntcd uuder the autliority of the Secretary of the Interior. They form 

r: Independent series, .vhich has proved v-y -cepta^let. nj^.jrah^^ 

as enabling them to obtain prompt intormation as to the additions to 

and the components of the National ^luscum. ^ ,. ^ . 

The foUowing is a list of the Bulletins already f^'^f^ 

No. 1. Check-list of North American Batrachia and Keptilia, Dy 

Edward D. Cope. 1875. lOG pp. r i i K,r 

so. 2. Ooutributions to tl.c Natural History ot Korgueleu Islaml ; by 

,1. H. Kidder, M. D.; Part I, Ornithology; edited by tlliott toues. 

^'1^; :" Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelcn Island; rave 
11, Oology, Botany, Geology, Mammals, Fisb, Mollnsks, Insse.s, Crus- 
taceans, Annelids, Ecldnoderms, Anthozoa; by Kulder, t-o"*--'. ^rnj, 
Lullicb, Gill, Dall, Osteu-Saeken, Hagen, 8. J. Smith, Verrdl, and b. F. 

^"no?L KHls of Southwestern Mexico ; collected by Francis E. Sami- 
(^hY'^^f r.v Georuc N. Lawrence. 187(5. 50 pp. 
No. 5. Catalogue of the Fishes or the Bermudas; by G. Brown Goode. 

^'nc; (fcnl^sificationof the collection to iUustrate the Animaliles 
of the United States; by G. Brown Goode. 187G. 130 pp. 

No 7. Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawanan ami 
Fanning Islands, and Lower California; by Thomas H. Streets, M. D. 

''m, ^'li^x to the names which have been api>lied to the subdi~ 
of the class Brachiopoda previous to the year 18 m ; by ^\ ilUam H. Dall. 

^^No. l^'J!!!itributionstoNorth American Ichthyology ; Part I; Eevi^-^ 
of Eafinesque's Memoirs on North American Fishes ; by David S. Joidaii. 

1877. 53 pp. -r , .Li 1 -o,,.f7T. roi 

No. 10. Contributions to North American Ichthyology; P. it II, Co ■ 

tidre, Etheostomatidx, Percida., Centrarchid», ^^^^^^^^^^^'^^ 
matid.^i, Cyprinida., Silnrid^c. By I>. S. Jordan. lb,b. 1.0 pp., N^.th 

45 plates. 
No. 11. Not yet published. r , ., ^ P..vf TTT • bv 

No 12. Contributions to North American Ichthyology ; Paitlll, by 

D. S. Jordan and A. AY. Brayton. 1878. 237 pp. milotins 

Of the above, those published during the past year a«3 tl^e Bulletins 

numbered 10 and 12. The former comprises the «^^«- l^^^, I^A^^a 
David S. Jordan's Contributions to North American Ichthyology and 
includes notes on Cottid., Etheostomatid.e Percul., ^^^^ 
AphododeiKhe, Dorysomatida^, and Cyprinuhe, .ith ^-^--^^ ^ ^ 
oenera and descriptions of new or little known species; and Synopsis 
ot th: Silurid.. of the fresh waters of North America, with a bibliogra- 
phy of all the genem and species. It forms an octavo pamphlet ol 1-0 
pages, with 45 plates. 



22 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The latter (No. 12) coiT)prises the tliird part of Contributions to ^ortli 
American Iclitliyolooy, including- the distribution of the Hslies of the 
Allegheny region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with de- 
scriptions of new or little known species; by David S. Jordan and 
Alembert W. Bray ton. This paper is based primarily on the collections 
made by the authors and a party of students of Butler University, 
Ohio, during the summer of 1877, in various streams in the Southern 
States, classified under the following basins : 1, Santee; 2, Savannah; 
3, Altamaha; 4, Chattahoochie ; 5, Alabama; 6, Tennessee; 7, Cum- 
berland. In the course of the investigations detailed in this paper some 
light has been throwTi on the laws whicli govern the distribution of fresh- 
water iislies in general. A synopsis is also given of the ftimily Catosto- 
midjB; b}' David S. Jordan, and a bibliography is given of all the known 
works on Catostomida?. 

Froceedings of the National Museum. — In imitation of the practice of 
those learned societies which publish periodically descriptions of new 
species, &c., in the form of ijroceedings of weekly or monthly meetings, 
and thus present to the world the discoveries connected with tlie estab- 
lishment at tlie earliest practicable moment, it appeared to be very desir- 
able that the National Museum should have some medium of prompt 
publication for announcing descriptions of specimens received (many of 
which are new species), as well as other interesting facts relative to 
natural history furnished by the correspondents of the Institution. To 
meet this want, an order was obtained from the honorable Secretary of 
the Interior, authorizing the publication of a volume of "Proceedings 
of the National Museum" for the year 1S78, not to exceed 500 pages. 

The publication of the " Proceedings of the National Museum " has 
accordingly been commenced, the work comprising short descriptions of 
the additions to the Museum, and accounts of new species, or illustra- 
tions of species collected in particular regions of country. It is printed 
in successive signatures, as fsist as copy sufficient for 16 pages is pre- 
pared, each signature having printed at the bottom of its first page the 
date of actual issue, for settling any questions as to priority of publica- 
tion. It is at once distributed to scientific societies and leading natu- 
ralists in this country and in Europe. A large number of imi^ortant 
articles of greater or less length have already been printed, to form the 
volume for 1878, now nearly completed. They consist of articles 
on new species of fishes collected by the United States Pish Commission ; 
papers on the birds of the West Indies, collected under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, &c. Of this series, about 250 pages have 
been printed during the year 1878, being produced (as in the case of 
" Bnlletins") at the expense of the Interior Department, l)y which all the 
disbursements connected with the service of the National Museum are 
made. 

Reports of the United States Fish Commission. — A series of publications 
which may be considered as in some respects connected with the work 
of the Institution not only in the personnel, but in the subjects of natu- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 26 

ral history discussed and in the resulting contributions to our knowledge 
may properly be bere noticed. The present Secretary being at the bead 
of the United States Commission of Fisb and Fisberies, and tbe work 
accomplisbed by this agency in increasing and dilfusing scientilic as well 
as practical information being quite witbin tbe objects and province of 
tbe Institution, mucb of tbe material would legitimately form a jjortion 
of the Smitbsonian Contributions or Miscellaneous Collections. Tbeso 
reports are, bowever, published by tbe government, and are distributed 
by Congress. 

Four volumes of this series have been pubUsbed, each being of octavo 
size and comprising about 1,000 images. Tbe last of these reports, pub- 
lished in 1878, contains 1,089 pages, and embraces : (A) General con- 
siderations on tbe ijrogress of operations ; (B) Iu<juiry into the decrease 
of the food-fishes ; (C) The propagation of food fishes, as the shad, the 
salmon, tbe white-fish, and the carp; (D) Tables showing the distribu- 
tion of shad, salmon, &c., tbe places, dates, and quantities batched by 
the United States Fish Commission from 1872 to 1870. The Appendix 
contains a number of important i^apers, the most elaborate of which is a 
history of the American whale fishery, by Capt. Alexander Starbuck. 
This is followed by one on the an]} and its culture, by Rudolph Hessel. 

Smithsonian annual report. — Tbe Annual Report of tbe Institution for 
1877 was transmitted to Congress on the Gth of February, 1878, and 
10,500 extra copies of it were ordered to be printed, 1,000 for the use 
of the Senate, 3,000 for the House of Representatives, and 0,500 for the 
lastitution. It forms an octavo volume of 500 pages, with 49 wood-cut 
illustrations. Tbe principal articles in the Appendix are a list of tbe 
more important explorations and expeditions, tbe collections of which 
have constituted the main sources of supply for the National Museum 
from 1850 (and even earlier) to 1877; a translation of Holmgren's memoir 
on color-blindness, in connection with which is reprinted an article on 
tbe same subject by Professor Henry, published in 1845; translatious of 
the reports of the transactions of the GeneA^a Society of Physics and 
Xatural History lor 1875, 187G, and 1877, of Weisman's article on tbe 
change of the Mexican Axolotl to an Ambly stoma, and of short memoirs 
on meteorological subjects, by Hanu, Reye, Sohncke, Colding, and Pes- 
lin ; notes on the history and climate of New Mexico, by Thomas Mc- 
Parlin, and brief articles on ethnological topics, by C. Ran, George L. 
Cannon, Tyloses Strong, J. X. de Hart, E. E. Breed, 'm. W. Moulton, Mrs. 
Gilbert Knapp, W. H. R. Lykins, James Shaw, J. Cochrane, George AV. 
Hill, H. B. Case, F. Miller, Joseph Friel, W. M. Clark, Charles C. Jones, 
jr., W. B. F. Bailey, A. S. Gaiues, K. M. Cunningham, S. S. Haldemau, 
A. ]\r. Harrison, S. P. Mayberry, William M. Taylor, Edwin M. Shepard, 
George J. Gibbs, F. L. Gait, and Stephen Bowers. 

ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Ak in previous years, tbe subject of tbe anthropology of Xorth America 
received special attentiou liom tlie Institution. Its earliest publica- 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tion, constitnting the first volume of tbe " Smithsoman Contributions 
to Knowledge," was the work of Squier and Davis on the ancient 
monuments of the Mississippi Valley ; and to this the inquiries of the 
past third of a century into the early history of man in the ISTorthwest 
owe their chief impetus. The book is a universal guide, and is even now 
a standard. The edition at the command of the Instiiution has long- 
since been exhausted, and it has been proposed to republish it to meet 
the urgent calls of the public. Unfortunately, the destruction of the 
wood-cuts by the fire of 1805 would render the cost of reproducing them 
so great as to make it doubtful whether it would not be better to use the 
money that would be needed for it in the preparation of a more es- 
teiuled work on the same subject, which has been in contemplation by 
the Institution for several years past. 

In the list of publications of the year is mentioned an archaeological 
circular, prepared by Professor Mason, and distributed in very large 
numbers. The object of this has been to secure information of the 
minutest details in reference to the construction of mounds, earthworks, 
and other traces of aboriginal engineering, as well as of articles of every 
description and character found in the mounds, in the graves, and in 
the superficial soil. 

The answers to this circular have been unexpectedly abundant and 
varied, and a great mass of material is now in the possession of the In- 
stitution and in i^rocess of elaboration. The papers in relation to the 
mounds, earth-works, «&c., are i)laced in the hands of Professor Mason, of 
Columbian University, for critical investigation and examination ; and 
under his editorshij) they will be arranged and ultimately printed,, to- 
gether with numerous illustrations which accompany them= A series 
of ma]xs will also be completed, containing information obtained from 
these and other sources, so that we shall have some satisfactory idea of 
their geograi)hical distribution, extent, &c., throughout the country. 

The nivestigation of the aboriginal relics is in charge of Prof Charles 
Ran, the superintendent of the archaeological department of the National 
Museum. As preliminary to a systematic work in this direction Prof. 
Rau has lately completed the rearrangement of the archaeological col- 
lections of the Museum, carefully eliminating the duplicates, but retain- 
ing whatever may serve to illustrate the geograi)hical distribution of 
forms and material, or tlie variation in pattern. Under his direction, 
also, numerous drawings liave been made on wood and partially engraved. 

A detailed statement of the donations to the National Museum relat- 
ing to this branch of science will be found in the list of Contributors to 
the Museum, and also in the general account given subsequently, of 
the several additions to the ]\Iuseum. It may, however, be well to call 
snecial attention to two northern collections in this department; one 
received from JMr. E. W. Nelson, a signal-station observer' at Saint 
Michaels, in Alaska ; the other from IMr. L. Kumlien, the naturalist of 
the Howgate expedition to Arctic America. These illustrate very fully 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

the nature and character of art among the Esquimaux on both sides of 
the continent, and with what has been heretofore obtained from the 
same region, as also the coast of Arctic America, through the agency 
of Mr. E. E. McFarlane, render this series the most complete of its kind 
in existence. 

Special acknowledgment is due to the American Express Company, ■ 
through Jas. C. Fargo, esq., general superintendent, for giving instruc- 
tions to all the agents of this company to co-operate with the Institution 
in the collection of archseological material for the Museum. 

IHETEOROLOGY. 

Among the first objects of consideration by Professor ITenrj", after 
the commencement of active operations on the part of the Smithsonian 
Institution, was that of meteorology, and for more than twenty-five 
years it has received a large proportion of his own attention and considera- 
tion, as well as the aid of the Institution as far as its means would 
permit. Prior to the period named more or less attention had been i)aid 
to the subject, and efforts had been made to secure an extensive and 
continuous series of observations. These, for the most part, however, 
were limited to single places, and more rarely extended to counties or 
States ; and it is to Professor Henry that we owe the establishment of 
a uniform sj'stem over an entire continent. Little by little the work was 
extended until, at the time of its fullest activity, it had its agents in 
nearh- every county of most of the States of the Union ; indeed, tlirough.- 
out the whole of British jSTorth America, and even in the remotest post 
of the Hudson's Bay Company, in Mexico and Central America, the 
services of observers were utilized. Some of these were provided with 
full sets of meteorological ai)paratus, so that observations could be made 
with the utmost precision ; others had only a thermometer and barom- 
eter, while still others had nothing but a thermometer. 

Several difl'erent series of blanks were distributed by the Institution 
corresponding to the diflerent classes. The blanks were returneil 
monthly and duly filed. In the earlier part of the work some instru- 
ments were furnished, such, as barometers and thermometers. Subse- 
quently, however, it was found that the exijense was too great, and only 
occasionally were thermometers and rain-gauges supplied. There was, 
however, no lack of persons who were ready to take part in this sj'stem, 
and not only to give their time, but also to purchase their own instru- 
ments. 

The interest of the observers was maintained by a constant corre- 
spondence with the Institution. Copies of the Smithsonian Eeports 
and other publications were duly transmitted to them, and any incpiiries 
or conunuuications from them on scientific subjects were i)romptly re- 
sponded to. 

In this way a body of collaborators was secured to the Institution, 
whose services cannot be overestimated, since they not only furnished 



26 REPOET OF THE SECRETAEY. 

information relating to meteorology, but tliey were always ready to sup- 
ply information and assistance in other directions. To that body of men 
the National Museum owes a very large part of the extensive and com- 
plete series of illustrations of North American natural history that gives 
to it so great a prominence, this being the result of successive applica- 
tions for aid from particular classes. Thus, whenever the attention of 
the Institution was directed to the fact that some particular branch of 
natural historj^ required its fostering care, ciix-ulars were prepared and 
issued to the meteorological correspondents, invoking cooperation, and 
ashing them to collect objects of the hind that might be Ibund in their 
neighborhood, so that, not only all North American species r.iight be 
gathered, but accurate determinations made of their geographical dis- 
tribution. Yery extensive responses usually followed these appeals, 
and in many cases sufficient material was secured to place the snbject 
on a permanent and satisfactory basis. The works of the Institution on 
many orders of insects and on fresh-water and land shells, reptiles, 
birds, mammals, &c., were all based more or less entirely on collections 
and information obtained by the Smithsonian observers. 

As a result, therefore, of over twenty-live years' observations by such 
men, the mass of meteorological information obtained became very great, 
and even thongh a certain per cent, of the observations could not lay 
claim to that minute accuracy which is generally required, yet it was 
found that, for many purposes, such as the general indications of varia- 
tio]is in temperature, barometrical i>ressure, rain-fall, &c., in the colla- 
tion of all observations the errors disappeared, and an average was se- 
cured which did not differ essentially from what would have been derived 
from more accurate observations. 

The results of these observations have been published by the Institu- 
tion in several forms. During the time when the work was carried on 
partly by the assistance of the Department of Agriculture, the reports 
of that establishment contained the general results. In 1855, two qnarto 
volumes were published at the expense of the government. Subsequently, 
however, a system of special digests was undertaken under the super- 
vision of Professor Coffin, for the winds; and of the temperature, rain- 
fall, «S:c., under Mr. Charles A. Schott, of the United States Coast Sur- 
vey, a full account of which will be found in the former reports of the 
Institution. 

A second edition of the work on the Winds of the Globe, commenced 
by Professor Coflin, and uniinished at his death, a few years ago, was 
completed under the auspices of his son, and published by the Insti- 
tution. This is one of the most important treatises on meteorological 
science that has ever appeared from any i^ress. 

Shortly after being honored with the appointment as Secretary, I in- 
vited a committee, consisting of IMr. Charles A. Schott, Prof. Cleveland 
Abbe, and Mr. William Ferrel, to consider the subject of the unQnished 
meteorological work of the Institution, and to suggest a plan by which 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

it could bo carried on and completed, with due reference to the state of 
its finances. This committee met at the Institution aud carefully con- 
sidered the whole subject, with the manuscripts before them, and con- 
cluded that a new edition of the rain-fall tables should be completed as 
soon as possible, this being a. subject of great interest, both theoretically 
aud in its practical applications. An allowance was therefore made for 
the completion of this work, and it will be ready for the press during the 
present year. The publication of this new edition of the rain-fall tables 
will be commenced and completed as soon as practicable. The baro- 
metrical reductions, the digest of the x^eriodical phenomena of animal 
and vegetable life, «S;c., will be prosecuted as rapidly as the funds of the 
Institution will warrant. 

It is, of course, unnecessary to refer to the flict that active operations 
in regard to meteorological observations, in accordance with the policy 
of Professor Henry have been transferred to the Weather Bureau of the 
Signal Department of the United States Army, under the care of General 
A. J. Myer, and that hereafter the meteorological expenditures will be 
confined to completing the i)resentation of the results obtained during the 
twenty-five years of the active work of the Institution in that direction. 

RESEARCHES. 

The appropriation made to Dr. II. C. Wood, jr. in 187G and 1877 for 
experiments to determine the nature and cause of the increased tempera- 
ture of the body during fever has been expended and a report of the 
investigations is being prepared for publication by the Institution. A 
brief abstract of this memoir will be found in the ai)pendix to this 
rejiort. 

The first point to be determined was whetlier fever was as comi:>lex 
as it appears, or whether there be not some dominant symptom charac- 
teristic of the process. By artificially heating living animals, generally 
aud locally, it was found that elevation of the bodily temperature is 
sufiicient to produce all the nervous and circulatory symptoms of fever 
and that the cooling of the heated part is capable of removing the 
symptoms, so that fever may be defined to be a morbid process which 
produces elevation of the bodily temperature. 

The next point was to determine whether the increase of the bodily 
temperature in fever was due to an increase of the amount of heat pro- 
duced, or to the failure of the body to throw off its heat. For this pur- 
pose the laws governing the production and loss of animal heat in health 
were studied by means of calorimetric and cardiometric observations on 
animals under various conditions, and it was determined that there is in 
the cortical region a nerve-center which controls the production of aniuml 
heat. 

The subject of fever itself was then investigated. The esi^eriments 
were mostly made upon dogs, each experiment continuing for from three 
to six days. Thermometrical readings were made every twenty minutes 



28 EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

by niglit and by day, and the normal and febrile states were stndied 
both when food was administered and when withheld. The result of 
this was to show that there are two sources of animal heat, one from the 
stored-up materials of the body, and the other from the food, the first 
being the one manifested in fever. 

The results of the whole investigation are summed up in eleven con- 
clusions which are given in the abstract referred to. 

The publication of recent investigations of the motion of the moon* 
has rendered a re-discussion of the ancient solar eclipses desirable. 
This work has been commenced under the auspices of this Institution 
by Mr. D. P. Todd, M. A., Assistant Nautical Almanac Office. Hansen's 
tables of both the sun and moon are employed, the latter being corrected 
from the results of Professor Newcomb's researches. So far as the work 
has now progressed, the comi:)utations relate to seven eclipses — those 
of Thales, at Larissa, of Ennius, of Agathocles, at Stiklastad, and the 
two eclipses of the thirteenth centurj' which have been discussed by 
Celoria, of Milan. The adoi)ted value of the secular acceleration hav- 
ing been deduced from entirely independent data, it is hoped that this 
investigation will throw new light on the interpretation of the ancient 
eclipses, and point toward the true value of the secular acceleration 
which ought to be adopted in the construction of new tables of the moon. 
The i)rogress of this investigation will be much facilitated by the new 
tables of eclipses, t now in press ; and it is proposed to extend the original 
scope of the research to include a large number of supposed ancient 
ecliptic dates. 

LABORATORY. 

The original act of Congress calls for a laboratory as one of the ele- 
mentary features of the Institution, and an establishment of tliis kind 
has always been maintained, with a greater or less degree of efficiency. 

In consequence of the limited appropriations by Congress for the 
maintenance of the IsTational Museum, it has for several years been im- 
possible to secure tlie services of a mineralogist. Arrangements have 
been made, however, for such an officer 5 the laboratory has been put in. 
thorough order ; additional fittings have been introduced, necessary for 
its efficiency, and a complete stock of chemicals and other materials 
procured. It is now in proper condition for the prosecution of investi- 
gations requiring chemical and mechanical appliances. 

The principal woi'k of the laboratory at present is examining min- 
erals sent to the Institution for that purpose from various parts of the 
(jountry, very few days j^assing without the reception of one or more par- 
cels, many of them from members of Congress, requiring consideration. 
The Institution does not undertake to make quantitative analyses, ex- 

* Researches on the Motion of the Moou. By Simon Newcomb, Professor U. S. Navy. 
Washin,!^ton Observations for 1875, Appendix II. 

tTables of Eclii)ses, from B. C. 700 to A. D. 2300. By Simon Newcomb, Superin- 
tendent Nautical Aknauac. Washington, 1879. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 



29 



cepting in behalf of the government, but is alvrays ready to indicate 
the general composition of specimens sent for the purpose. 

The laboratory will also be used in the identification of large quanti- 
ties of crude mineral substances in charge of the Institution, to be clas- 
sified i)reliminary to the selection of duplicates and their distribution 
to colleges and academies of the United States. 

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEIMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES. 

As in previous years, the Institution has served as the medium for tel- 
egraphic communication between astronomers of the Old and Isew 
World, in regard to such astronomical discoveries as reciuire prompt 
announcement, for the purpose of having all their phenomena investi- 
gated by concurrent action on both sides of the ocean. An accompany- 
ing list represents the announcements referred to and the dates at which 
they were respectively made. This feature of the work of the Institu- 
tion is one of great importance, and is a very satisfactory demonstration 
of the extent to which its labors are prosecuted for the world in general, 
and not merely for a restricted portion of the United States. 

The following is a list of the minor jilanets discovered in 1878: 



No. 



ISO 

ISI 

ISZ 
183 
184 
185 

186 

187 

IKS 
189 
11)0 
191 



Xaiiie. 



Ganiinna ... 
Eucliaii.s. .. 

Elsboth 

Istria 

Deiopeia. ... 

Eunike 

Celuta 

Lainberta . . . 
jViciiippe . ... 

I'hiliia 

Isau'iio 

Kol-a 



Date. 



January 

February 

February 

February 

February 

Marcli 

April 

April 

Juue 

Se})tember 

yex)teuil)er 

September 



29 



30 



Diseoverer. 



Perrotin 

Cottenot 

Palisa 

....do 

....do 

Peters 

Pr. Henry .... 

Co,!fgia 

Peters 

....do 

....do 

....do 



Discover- 
er's No. 



5th. 

1st. 
12th. 
13th. 
14th. 
28th. 

? 

'id. 

29th. 

30Th. 

31st. 

32d. 



Observatory. 



Toulouse. 

Paris. 
Poia. 

Do. 

Do. 
Clinton. 
Paris. 
Marseilles. 
Clinton. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 



The comets of 1878 have been — 

Comet I, discovered July 7, by Lewis Swift, of Rochester, X. Y. 
This comet was observed in America by Dr. C. H. F. Peters only, the 
majority of American observers being in the West on eclipse expeditions. 
It is probably identical with a comet discovered by P. Ferrari at Eome 
in July. On July 20, Tempel's periodic comet was found by AYinnecke, 
quite away from its ephemeris place. 

Encke's comet was found on August 3 by Mr. Tebbutt, of Windsor, 
N. S. W. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

^Mention has been made hy my lamented predecessor on several occa- 
sions of the general character of the correspondence of the Institution, 



30 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and of its increasing- extent. As miglit naturally be expected, this is 
now greater than ever before. 

During- the past year the number of letters received and sent out ex- 
ceeded that for any previous corresiwnding- period in the history of the 
establishment, the latter covering about 8,000 pages of press copy books. 
This increase was largely due — 

(1) To renewed activity in the department of exchanges; 

(2) To the execution of a comi^rehensive plan for extending the archce- 
ological cabinet of the Institution ; and 

(3) To the acknowledgment of letters of condolence on the death of 
the late Secretary. 

As explanatory of the first of these sonrces of increase in the corres- 
pondence it may be stated that some months since a systematic efibrt 
was made looking to the early completion of as many as possible of the 
series of publications of foreign societies in the Smithsonian library, 
and, reciprocally, to sui)i)lying deficiencies in the numerens series of 
Smithsonian publications held abroad. . To this end a communication 
was addressed to each of the nearly 3,000 foreign establishments in cor- 
respondence with this Institution, mentioning the volumes or parts of 
their respective transactions not at the time in jDOSsession of the Insti- 
tution, and requesting that these be sui^plied 5 one of the conditions of 
a favorable response being a promise that the Smithsonian Institution 
would, in turn, fill whatever gaps it could in its own series. The re- 
sponses, as was exiiected, were very prompt and most gratifying. Ee- 
sulting therefrom, the Smithsonian lilirary — now constituting the science 
library of the government — has been enriched by the addition of hun- 
dreds of valuable works of a character not usually obtained even by 
purchase, w^ile the Institution itself has been brought into closer and 
more active relations than ever with its foreign correspondents of both 
hemispheres. 

Eegarding the second source of increase in the correspondence, it 
may be remarked that more recently a wide-spread distribution has been 
made of a circular relative to archaeology. Indeed, it is hardly too 
much to say that this circular has been scattered broadcast over the 
land. oSTot only was it distributed to organized establishments of a lit- 
erary, educational, and scientific character, to newspapers, postmas- 
ters, and, by generous permission of express companies, through their 
agents to individuals who might be known to tliem as specially inter- 
ested in the subject, but a copy was systematically mailed with each 
icrittcn comuuTnication sent out by the Institution, no matter what the 
subject. This circular has proved more prolific of correspondence than 
was anticipated by its most sanguine friends. Inquiry soon followed 
inquiry for more detailed information as to desiderata in the waj of 
specimens and information; requests were continuous to know if this or 
that article would be welcome ; offers to lend objects for copying were 
numerous from individuals possessing unique and choice specimens, val- 



EErORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 31 

uable to them onl^^ as heirlooms or curiosities, but "^bo, while easily 
convinced of the little value of isolated collections in comparison with 
the importance to science of one grand, complete series, could not be 
persuaded to part with their archaeological treasures ; now and then 
private cabinets of more than ordinary character and extent have been 
brought to light; and, finally, modern '^ manufactories "of relics have 
been detected, and in this way forgeries, to some extent, driven from 
the market. Thus an extra amount of correspondence has been en- 
tailed that has proved no inconsiderable addition to the previous ardu- 
ous labors of the officers of the Institution. 

As the result, the Institution has received hundreds of specimens from 
all parts of North America as gifts, while by making copies in plaster or 
metal it has added to its cabinet many forms that would otherwise be 
unknown and inaccessible to the student as well as to the public at large. 
Many of these objects have proved of great archseological interest, and 
while not a few of them are almost indispensable for corai)arative study, 
all are more or less, valuable in the elucidation of questions relating to the 
geographical distribution of aboriginal remains in the United States, and 
for filling gaps in State series. Moreover, by soliciting illustrations and 
descriptions of the rarer or more curious forms in j^rivate cabinets, the 
Institution has been saved much expense for transportation, its archaeo- 
logical experts rarely finding recourse to the original specimen necessary 
in determining what is or is not a desideratum. 

As in previous years, the Institution was the recipient in 1878 of a 
large number of communications, having as a principal object the over- 
turning of theories established by Newton and others, which, founded 
on experiment and observation, have long since been accepted as true 
by the scientific world. These, as is usual with papers of this class, 
while purporting to furnish the only rational explanation of the pheno- 
mena to be accounted for, generally displayed a degree cf assumption 
entirely out of keeping with the spirit of true science; and while it 
would not be a work of much moment to prove to the unprejudiced, 
who may be acquainted with the subjects of such essays, that the pro- 
positions enunciated are wholly at variance with the fundamental and 
generally accepted jn^inciples of science, it is always exceedingly difficult 
to convince the authors of these "new doctrines" that they are not in 
accord with the scientific world. It would sometimes appear either that 
they are incapable of receiving the truth, or that, convinced of the fal- 
lacy of their reasoning, they prefer to cling to a false notion of original- 
ity rather than confess their error. Such communications, never brief, 
have, from time to time, been simply reiterations of previous expres- 
sions. " Correspondence with this class" of writers, as has been most 
truly observed by the late Secretary, is, indeed, "not only very onerous 
l)ut difficult to manage, inasmuch as the rejection of their propositions 
is generally attributed to prejudice." 

Another class of communications of a more intelligent character was 



32 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

also received during' the past year, relating to subjects in physics and 
chemistry. In accordance with the custom of the establishment, these 
were submitted to gentlemen eminent in the several sciences to which 
they pertained, who for many years have cheerfully acted as collabora- 
tors of the Institution. 

Although the Smithsonian system of meteorology was several years 
ago transferred to the United States Signal Office, communications con- 
tinue to be received on practical questions connected with this subject. 
These with few ex(;eptions have been referred to General Myer, and their 
authors so informed. 

But increase in the correspondence of the Institution is by no means 
wholly attributable to the sources above mentioned. As the character 
of the establishment has become more widely known from year to year, 
the number of applications for information in the line of natural history 
has annually increased, particularly in botany, zoology, and mineralogy. 
In the last branch, supposed discoveriesof mineral wealth are frequently 
made known to the Institution, and the specimens forwarded for exam- 
ination — v.hich is always gratuitous. The determination of their char- 
acter, however, seldom requires more than a quaUtaiive analysis, and 
in the great majority of instances the specimens are found to be of no 
commercial value. 

EXCHANGES. 

There is, perhaps, no one feature of the Smithsonian Institution by 
Vv'hich its mission for the diffusion of knowledge, if not its increase, is 
more thoroughly accomplished than by its extended system of interna- 
tional exchanges. This began in the earliest days of the Institution, from 
the necessity of making- some suitable arrangement by which its publi- 
cations might be promptly transmitted to the learned societies of Amer- 
ica and the world, and corresponding works received in return. This 
required the organization of a thorough system, including special ar- 
rangements for transportation a.gencies in the various parts of the United 
States and of foreign countries ; and as the machinery was sufficient to 
carry a larger amount of material than that belonging to the Institution 
itself, it was considered in strict accordance with the policy of the In- 
stitution to olfer its services to other establishments. 

Year by year the number of participators in the exchange was in- 
creased, and at the present date it is world-wide in its extent. With 
very few exceptions the institutions of learning, not only of the United 
States but of all America, carry on the greater portion of their scientific 
exchanges with the rest of the world through the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Among the outside countries more especially to be mentioned 
are Canada, Mexico, Chile, Venezuela, «ls:c. 

The institutions are for the most part scientific societies publishing 
transactions, colleges and universities, State historical and agricultural 
societies, and technological institutions. All the departments of gov- 
ernment in Washington, with few exceptions, also depend upon the same 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

system for their foreign relationships. The system also includes the ex- 
change of publications of special students in science. 

For a long time the Smithsonian Institution carried on this work by 
the establishment of agencies through which its own ti'ansmissions were 
distributed to their destination, and from which all the returns were col- 
lected and forwarded to Washington. Of late years, however, in certain 
countries, these labors have been laaterially lightened by a portion of 
the exchange being undertaken by some learned society or by the gov- 
ernment. These being constituted Smithsonian agents in their respect- 
ive countries, receive whatever may be sent to them for distribution, 
collect the returns and transmit them, thus giving to the Institution the 
benefit of an intelligent superintendence of the work. The first of these 
organizations was that established some years ago by the University of 
Christiania, IS^orway; and by Holland in the patronage of the Scientific 
Bureau at Harlem, under the efficient supervision of Dr. E. H. Von 
Baumhauer. During the past year a similar organization has been 
effected for Belgium, and it is hoped that their number will continue to 
increase. Even now, without any formal arrangement to that effect, the 
Academies of Science of Stockholm, of Copenhagen, of Madrid, and of 
Milan discharge the services of agents of the Institution for their respect- 
ive countries. 

A still more recent movement has in contemplation the establishment 
of departments of exchange in all countries under the direction of their 
respective governments; and this is intended primarily to facilitate a 
mutual interchange of government documents, but is broad enough in 
its scope to include the publications of societies and of men of science. 
At present this arrangement has only been carried out formally for Bel- 
gium by the "Commission Beige d'Echanges internationaux," and for 
France by the "Commission Franyaise des Echanges internationaux." 

In the Appendix will be found the usual series of tables, showing, 
first, the number of parcels sent out by the Institution in behalf of es- 
tablishments in North America ; and, secondly, the packages received 
for the same parties. The total number of shipments of boxes, contain- 
ing such transmissions, has not been quite so great in 1878 as in the 
year preceding*. This was due to the interruption of the business caused 
by the death of Professor Henry, and in the desire, by the reorganiza- 
tion of departments, to give greater efficiency to that of the exchanges. 
On this account a large number of bundles have accumulated, which,, 
however, will be distributed in the earlier months of the year; after 
which there will be no interruption to the usual routine of transmission. 

Up to the present time the entire expense of this system of interna- 
tional exchanges has been borne by the Smithsonian Institution, be- 
yond requiring that all outgoing parcels be delivered to the Institution 
free of expense. The enormous increase, however, in the number and 
bulk of the packages delivered to the Institution has made it necessary 
to charge a small amount on this class of transmissions, and under the 
S. Mis. 59 3 



34 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



authority of the board, a circular has been prepared and issued, making 
one of the conditions of receipt the payment of five cents per pound on 
the parcels. This is actually below the cost, as it includes the expense 
of wrapping-, of boxing, of forwarding, and a share of the salary of em- 
ployes and agents, and other incidentals. It is about the same rate as 
is charged by the express companies for freight in bulk from Washing- 
ton to Chicago. 

To facilitate the business connected with the system of the Smith- 
sonian exchanges the following rules have been adopted : 

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution for foreign 
countries to be confined exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and 
other printed matter, sent as donations or exchanges, and not to in- 
clude those procured by purchase. The Institution and its agents will 
not receive for any address apparatus and instruments, philosophical, 
medical, &c. (including microscopes), whether purchased or i^resented; 
nor specimens of natural history, excei^t where special permission from 
the Institution has been obtained. 

2. The Departments or Bureaus of the United States Government to 
pay the Smithsonian Institution five cents per pound on their packages, 
which includes all expense of boxing, shipping, and transportation. 

3. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each send- 
ing to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of 
transmission. 

4. Packages to be legibly addressed and to be indorsed with the name 
of the sender and their contents. 

5. Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely pasted or 
tied with strong twine — never sealed with wax. 

6. No package to a single address to exceed one-half of one cubic foot 
in bulk. 

7. To have no inclosures of letters. 

8. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents free of 
expense. 

9. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned by 
the party addressed. 

10. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly stated on or 
in the package. 

Unless these conditions are comi)lied with, the parcels cannot be for- 
warded by the Institution. 





Statistics of exchanges sent during 


the last ten years. 








1869. 


1870. 


1871. 1872. 


1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


Number of boxes . . 
Bulk in cubic feet 
Weight 


112 

1,033 

23 376 


121 

1,189 
31 383 


108 179 

772 954 
28 950 26 850 


196 

1,476 

44 236 


131 

933 

97 990 


208 

1,503 

45, 300 


323 

2,261 
80, 750 


397 
2,779 
99, 250 


309 
2,160 
69, 220 















The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments 
with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



35 



words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others 
in return : 

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. 



Algeria 6 

Argentine Republic 14 

Australia and Tasmania 32 

Austro-Hungary 156 

Belgium 112 

Bolivia 1 

Brazil 10 

British America 20 

British Guiana 3 

Cape Colony and St. Helena 7 

Central America 2 

ChilL 8 

China 1 

Colombia 3 

Denmark 28 

Dutch Guiana 1 

Ecuador 1 

Egypt 8 

France 327 

Germany 507 

Great Britain and Ireland , . 309 

Greece 8 

Holland 66 



Iceland 

India 

Italy 

Japan 

Java 

Liberia 

Mauritius 

Mexico 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Portugal 

Russia 

Sandwich Islands . 

Spain , 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

West Indies 



4 

30 

187 

6 

5 

1 

3 

16 

15 

25 

4 

3 

32 

162 

2 

24 

22 

73 

12 

2 



International societies 



Total 2,333 



Special reference has been made in previous reports to the arrange- 
ment by which Congress places fifty copies of all the publications of 
the United States Government at the disposal of the Library Committee 
of Congress. These copies are to be exchanged, under its direction, 
through the Smithsonian Institution, for correspondingly complete series 
of the publications of such other governments as agree to the proposi- 
tion. At present, the number of sets amounts to thirty-two, and includes 
the following governments. Of these, several came for the first time into 
the arrangement during the year 1878, and seventy-three boxes of the 
publications referred to, each box measuring seven cubic feet, have been 
distributed : 

International exchange of government publications in 1878. 



Boxes 

Argentine Republic 2 

Bavaria 11 

Belgium 2 

Brazil 2 

Buenos Ayres 2 

Canada (Ottawa) ^ 2 

Canada (Toronto) 2 

Chili 2 

England 2 



Boxes. 

France 2 

Geimauy 2 

Greece 2 

Hay ti 2 

Holland 2 

•Japan 2 

Mexico 2 

New South Wales 2 

New Zealand 2 



36 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Boxes. 

Norway 2 

Portugal 2 

Prussia 2 

Queensland 2 

Saxony 2 

Scotland 2 

South Australia 2 

Spain 2 



Boxes. 

Sweden 2 

Switzerland 2 

Tasmania 2 

Turkey •. 2 

Venezuela 2 

Victoria 2 

Total 37 



LIBRARY. 

In accordance with the arrangement entered into shortly after the 
fire of 1865, between the Smithsonian Institution and the Congress of 
the United States, all the publications received by the Institution, in 
exchange or by donation, are transferred to the Library of Congress. 
The following enumeration represents the sum total of such increment : 

Statement of the hools, maps, and cJiarts received by tJie Smitlisonian Insti- 
tution during the year 1878, and transferred to the Lihrary of Congress. 

Volumes : 

Octavo, or less 860 

Quarto, or larger 403 

1,263 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo, or less 2, 356 

Quarto, or larger 2, 620 

4,976 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo, or less 1, 953 

Quarto, or larger 463 

2, 416 

Maps and charts 74 

Total 8, 729 

Of course, as heretofore, the more important works, like the publica- 
tions of the leading scientific and industrial societies and academies 
throughout the world, by their aggregation s have continued to render 
the Smithsonian library one of the most valuable -of the kind extant. It is 
believed that no collection elsewhere contains so large a number of vol- 
umes of scientific transactions and journals, or in so complete a series. 

For the purpose, however, of perfecting the catalogue, it is proposed, 
in the early part of 1879, to print a list of what the Institution possesses 
of this character, inviting contributions of deficiencies and promising 
similar courtesy, so far as the publications of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion are concerned. 

The following is a list of some of the principal works received by the 
Smithsonian Institution in 1878 : 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

From the Ministry of Public Works, Commerce, and Industry, Lisbon: 
O Arcliivo Eural, vols, i-xv, Lisboa, 1858-1874, 4to. Memoria sobre 
a Populagao e a Agricultura de Portugal, Lisboa, 1868, 8vo. Chimica 
Agricola, por J. I. F. Lapa, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo. Geograpbia e Estadistica 
Geral de Portugal e Oolonias, por G. A. Perry, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo. Ee- 
latorio do Conselho Especial de Veterinaria, Lisboa, 1873, 4to. Manual 
de Viticultura pratica, por Visconde de Villa Major, Coimbra, 1875, 8vo. 
A Agricultura no Districto de Vizen, por J. B. Ileis, Lisboa, 1871, 4to. 
Fomento da Povoa(;ao Pural em Hespana.por D. F. Caballero, Lisboa, 
1872, 8vo. A Lombardia a Suisse e o Monte Eosa, por E. de Laveleye, 
Lisboa, 1871, 8vo. Eecenseamento Geral dos Gados no Continente do 
Eeino de Portugal en 1870, Lisboa, 1873, 4to and Atlas. A Vinlia e o 
Vinho em 1872, por A. B. Eeis, LivSboa, 1873, 8vo. 

From the Society of Medical Sciences of Lisbon : Journal da Socie- 
dade das Sciencias Medicas de Lisboa, 1836-1877, Lisboa, 8vo (54 vols). 

From the Ministerio dos Kegocias da Marinha e Ultramar, Diregcao 
Geral da Marinha, Lisboa : Bullarium Patronatus Portugallite, curante 
Vicecomite de Paiva Manso, vols, i-iii, and App., vol. i, Lisboa, 1868-1873, 
4to (3 copies). Examen des Viagens do Doutor Livingstone, por Jose 
de Lacerda, Lisboa, 1867, 8vo (3 copies). Eelatorios dos Governadores 
das Provincias Ultramarinhas, vols, i, ii, Lisboa, 1875, 4to (3 copies). 
Tratado de Hygiene Naval, por J. B. Fonssagrives, Lisboa, 1862, 8vo 
(3 copies). Descripyao e Eoteiro da Costa Occidental de Africa, por A. 
Magno de Castilho, vols, i, ii, Lisboa, 1866, 8vo (3 copies). Africa Oc- 
cidental, vol. i, Lisboa, 1864, 8vo (3 copies). Eegulamento para o Ser- 
vi^o de Sande Naval, Lisboa, 1871, 8vo (3 copies). Viagem da Corveta 
Dom Joao I a Capital do Japao no Anno de 1860, Lisboa, 1863, 8vo (3 
copies). Historia Ecclesiastica UltramHrina pelo Visconde de Paiva 
Manso, vol. i, Alrica Septentrional, Lisboa, 1872, 8vo (3 copies). Ensaios 
sobre a Estatistica das Possessoes Portuguezas no Ultramar, vols, i-v, 
Lisboa, 1844-1862, 8vo (3 copies). Eegulament para o Servigo de- 
Fazenda a Bordo dos Navias do Estado, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo (3 copies). 
Eelatorio 4cerca do Servico de Sande Publica, Lisboa, 1871, 8vo (3 
copies). As Possessoes Portuguezas na Oceania, por A. de Castro, 
Lisboa, 1867, (2 copies). Codigo Commercial de Signals para uso Inter- 
nacional, Lisboa, 1868, 8vo (2 copies), &c., &c. 

From the Australian Museum, Sydney : The Mammals of Australia, il- 
lustrated by Miss Harriett Scott and Mrs. Helena Forde. With a short 
account of all the species hitherto described. By Gerard Krefft. Syd- 
ney, 1871. Folio. 

From the Hellenic Philological Society of Constantinople: Periodical 
Journal (Greek), vols, iv-viii, Constantinople, 1871-1874, small 4to. 
Homeric Theology, by George Konstantinidos (Greek), Constantinople, 
1876, 8vo, Les Grecs de I'Empire Ottoman, par A. Synvet, Constanti- 
nople, 1878, 8vo. 

From the Government of France : Direction G(§n6rale des Douanes. 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Tableau general du Commerce de la France, avec les Colonies et les 
Puissances etrangeres, 18G9-1875, Paris, 1871-1876, 4to (7 vols.)- Tableau 
genc^ral des Mouvemeuts du Cabotage, 18G9-1875, Paris, 1871-1870, 4to 
(7 vols.). 

From the Medical Society of the State of New York, Albany: Trans- 
actions, 1807-1831, 18G7-1870, 1873-1877. Albany. 8vo (9 vols.) 

From the State Library of Pennsylvania, Hiirrisburg: Eeports on 
Geology, Mineralogy, Oil- Wells, &c., &c. Harrisburg, 1870-1878. 8vo 
(21 vols.). 

From the Library of the German Parliament, Berlin : Stenographische 
Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen des deutschen Eeichstages. iii. sess., 
1875-76, vols, i-iii ; iv. sess., 1870, vols, i-iii ; i. sess., 1877, vols, i-iii ; 
Berlin, 1870-1877, 4to. Eeichs-Gesetzblatt, 1875-1870, Berlin, 4to. 

From the University of Chile, Santiago : Anales de la Universidad de 
Chile, 1875-1870 (4 vols.), Santiago, 8vo. Memoria del Interior, 1870, vols, 
i-ii, Santiago, 8vo. Memoria de Eelaciones Esteriores, 1876, Santiago, 
8vo. Memoria de Justicia, Culto, &c., 1876, Santiago, 8vo. Memoria de 
Hacienda, 1876, Santiago, 8vo. Memoria de Guerra y Marina, 1876, San- 
tiago, 8vo. Sesiones del Congreso JSTational de Chile, 1875 (4 vols.), San- 
tiago, 4to. Anuario Estadistico de Chile, vol. x\4i, Santiago, 1876, 4to. 
Anuario Hidrografico de la Marina de Chile, auo ii-iii, Santiago, 1876- 
1877, 8vo. Quinto Censo Jeueral de la Poblacion de Chile, 1875, Valpa- 
raiso, 1876, 4to. Coleccion de Tratados celebrados por la Kepublica de 
Chile con los Estados estraujeros, tomo ii, Santiago, 1875, 4to. La ChiU 
tel qu'il est, par E. Seve, tome i, Valparaiso, 1876, 8vo. Historia de Chile, 
1831-1871, por Don R. S. Valdes, tomo i, Santiago, 1876, 8vo. La Cro- 
nica de 1810, jjor M. L. Amunategui, tomo ii, Santiago, 1876, 8 vo. Ensaye 
sobre los depositos metaliferos de Chile, por Don I. Domeyko, Santiago, 
1876, 8vo. 

From the Eoyal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon : Memorias da Acade- 
mia, Nova Serie, tomo iv, v, parte i, Lisboa, 1872-1877, 4to. Decada 13 
da Historia da India, i, ii, Lisboa, 1870, 4to. Portugalliae Monumenta, 
2 parts, Lisboa, 1873, folio. Subsidios para a Historia da India Portu- 
gueza, tomo v, Lisboa, 1868, 4to. Corpo Diplomatico Portugueza, tomo 
V, Lisboa, 1874, 4to. Quadro Elementar dus Eelaoes politicas e diplo- 
uiaticas de Portugal, vols, xii and xiii, Lisboa, 1874, 1876, 8vo. Flora 
Cocliinchineusis, vols, i, ii, Lisboa, 1790, 4to. Historia dos Estabeleci- 
mentos scientiticos e areisticos de Portugal, toms iii, vi, Lisbon, 1873- 
1876, 8vo. Jornal de Sciences Mathematicas, toms iv, v, Lisboa, 1873, 
1876, 8vo. Tratado Elementar de Optica, Lisboa, 1874, 8vo. Historia 
de Congo, Lisboa, 1877, 8vo. Carro de Meteorologia, Lisboa, 1869, 8vo. 
Chimica Agricola, Lisboa, 1875, 8vo. 

From the British Government : Facsimiles of Kational Manuscripts of 
Scotland, selected under the direction of the Eight Hon. Sir William 
Gibson-Craig, Bart., lord clerk register of Scotland, and photozinco- 
graphed by command of Her Majesty Queen Victoria by Colonel Sir 
Henry James, part iii, Edinburgh, 1872, folio. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

From tbe Eoyal Library, Stockholm : Government Documents, 1877, 
1878, Stockholm, 17 vols, and 8 parts, 4to, 

From the Government of South Australia, Adelaide: Acts and Ordi- 
nances of the Province of South Australia, 18;37-183o, Adelaide, 4to 
(0 vols.). Proceedings of the Parliament of South Austialia, 1857-'8, i, 
ii ; 1858, i, ii ; 1859, i, ii ; 18C0, i-iii ; 18G1, i-iii ; 18G2, i-iii ; 18G3, i; 1864, 
i-iii ; 18G5, i, ii ; 18G5-'G, i, ii ; 18GG-'7, i-iii ; 18G7, i-iii ; 18G8-'9, i-iii ; 
18G9-'70, i-iii; 1870-'71, i-iii; 1871, i, ii; 1872, i-iii; 1873, i-iii; 1874, 
i-iii; 1875, i-iii; and special session, Adelaide, folio (53 vols.). Statis- 
tical Sketch of South Australia, by Josiah Boothby, London, 187G, 8vo. 

From the Xorwegiau Government, Christiajiia : Norges Oiticielle Sta- 
tistik, 13 volumes and 43 ])arts, Christiania, 1870-187G. Forklaringer 
til K. ]S'orges Statsregnskab, 1875, Christiania, 187(5, 4to. 

From the second geological survey of Pennsylvania : Eeports 1875- 
1878 (20 volumes). 

From the Universities of Wiirzburg, Marburg, Berlin, Louvain, Bonn, 
Halle, Gottingen, Jena, Erlangen, Leipzig, Zurich, Greifswald, Heidel- 
berg, Dorpat, and Freiburg : Inaugural dissertations for 1877. 

From Dr. A. Ernst, Caracas: Statistical documents, 24 volumes, 
Caracas, 1875-1877, 4to. 

From the Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Ontfirio : 18 volumes gov- 
ernment documents. 

From the State Library of Ohio : 14 volumes State documents. 

An addition of special interest will be found in the palieoutological 
library of the late Prof. F. B. Meek, whose death at the Institution, 
after many years' sojourn within its walls, was recorded in the report for 
1877 (p. 10). Mr. Meek died without any known heirs, and his books 
being api)raised in due legal manner, the Institution purchased them. 
This was the more desirable as, in regard to many of the works there was 
some uncertainty whether they had been presented to Professor Meek 
in his individual capacity or as the officer in charge of the paloeontolog- 
ical department of the Institution. This question is, of course, now set- 
tled. The books of this library (especially the volumes enriched by 
copious manuscript notes and interpolations) have been repeatedly' con- 
sulted by palaeontologists and conchologists. 

NATIONAL, MUSEUM. 

The relations existing between the Smithsonian Institution and the 
National Museum have been so frequently referred to by my predecessor 
that it is only necessary to mention briefly that the Museum constitutes 
no organic part of the Institution, and that, whenever Congress so 
directs, it may be transferred to any designated supervision without 
affecting the general plans and operations connected with the "increase 
and diffusion of knowledge among men," For the most part, the articles 
consist of the collections made by the United States surveying and 
exploring expeditions, and the expense of their care is entirely covered 



40 EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

by government appropriations, wliich liave been sufficient to meet the 
actual cost of maintenance and a restricted supervision, although with 
a larger fund the Museum could be placed on a more satisfactory basis, 
and one much more serviceable to science. 

Attention has been called, in several previous reports of my lamented 
predecessor, to the importance of suitable provision for the accommo- 
dation of the vast amount of material now stored in the Armory build- 
ing and in the basement of the Smithsonian edifice, and thus withdrawn, 
from public examination. This surplus consists of the following essen- 
tial elements: 

First, the collections made by the United States exploring expeditions. 

Second, the contributions sent by private individuals who reside iu 
every section of the country. 

Third, the exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution, the Indian Bu- 
reau, and the United States Fish Commission, at the Centennial. 

Fourth, the donations to the United States by domestic and foreign 
visitors and commissions on that occasion. 

The number of private contributions to the National Museum con- 
tinues to increase in A^alue and magnitude year by year, and embraces 
specimens of mineralogy and geology, objects of American antiquity, 
and other desirable articles. The government surveys, too, of Messrs. 
Hayden, Wheeler, and Powell have furnished a very large number of 
specimens of great value as illustrating the reports published by these 
parties. It is, however, under the two last-mentioned heads (the Cen- 
tennial exhibits and donations) that b^^ far the greater amount of this 
unexhibited material is comprised. 

By means of an appropriation by Congress, as fully set forth in the 
Eeports for 1875 (pages 8 and 4G) and for 187G (pages 8-11, 42, and 
75-77), the Smithsonian Institution was enabled to exhibit a very full 
collection illustrating the animal and mineral resources of the United 
States ; the Fish Commission to present every variety of boat, net, hook 
and line, harpoon, and other fishing implements, as well as models and 
illustrations of all the fishes useful for food or other purposes ; the In- 
dian Bureau to show a valuable representative ethnological series of 
ancient implements, of dressed figures, and of objects illustrating the 
life and customs of tlie North American aborigines. 

At the close of the Exhibition, the foreign commissioners, induced by 
a desire to do honor to the United States, presented, with scarcely an 
exception, the whole of their exhibits (corresponding with those made 
by the Smithsonian Institution) to the United States Government, em- 
bracing the contents of many thousands of square feet in the different 
Centennial buildings. Of forty-one foreign commissions, thirty-four gave 
to the United States either the whole of their displays or a full series, 
probably representing 75 per cent, of all such matter as was shown under 
the patronage of the resi)ective governments. 

Many private exhibitors from abroad made similar contributions, some 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

of these valued singly at over $20,000 each. A large proportion, too, of 
the more desirable exhibits by State commissions, as also of home ex- 
hibitors, was added to the mass, and nearly two months were spent at 
the close of the Exhibition in simply removing these articles to the gov- 
ernment building and there packing thein for transportation to Wash- 
ington, a large force being required for the purpose. 

The collection sent from Washington to Philadelphia filled twenty 
freight cars, and the donations received at the Centennial required forty 
more for their transportation, the entire amount to be brought to Wash- 
ington making sixty car-loads, a quantity far beyond the storage capac- 
ity of the basement of the Smithsonian building. 

In anticipation of these donations. Congress had j)reviously authorized 
the transfer to the Smithsonian Institution, for the purpose of storage, of 
the Armory building, on the square between Sixth and Seventh streets, 
and made an aj^propriation to tit it up for the reception of the collections. 
To this building a portion of these collections was transferred, where 
they now fill four floors, of about 5,000 square feet each, from top to 
bottom, the remainder being stored in the basement of the Smithsonian 
Institution. At present, with the articles received from other sources, 
it is estimated that the quantity of objects not exhibited represents 
nearly five times the bulk of those at i)resent displayed in the Smithson- 
ian building. 

It is to be understood, too, that these objects are not simply specimens 
of natural history, possessing an abstract interest to the student, but 
represent the ai^plication of natural objects to the industries, and as 
such are of great importance. In what is now a fairly com^jlete series 
of economical minerals, such as ores, combustibles, building stones, 
clays, earths, &c., from all parts of the world, with their incidentals of 
reduction and application, and specimens of similar objects of art and 
industry derived from them, we have a collection of very great indus- 
trial importance, for it furnishes to the American manufacturer and de- 
signer information of the utmost value. The illustrations of means and 
apphances for the pursuit, capture, and application of food-fishes, fi"om 
all parts of the world, are also of exceeding value, while the articles of 
Indian manufacture from Alaska, AVashington Territory, and the Pry- 
bilov Islands are of the utmost interest. 

Several donations from foreign countries are of considerable magnitude 
and importance ; the first being from the King of Siam as a present to 
the United States Government; the second the display of the maimers 
and customs of the Chinese made by the Chinese Commissioner ; the 
third an exhibition of the industries illustrating the manners and cus- 
toms of the Japanese, i)resented by the Japanese Government. The 
intrinsic value of all these objects i^resented to the United States is very 
great, having j)robably cost their respective contributors, either govern- 
ments or individuals, not far from three-quarters of a milUou to a million 
of dollars. 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The necessity, tlierefore, of some adequate means of divSiilaying tliis 
rich collection, now withdrawn from the inspection of the i)ublic, has 
weighed very heavily upon the officers of the Smithsonian Institution, 
and several efforts have been made to secure an appropriation from 
Congress for the erection of a fire-proof building sufficient to contain 
it, but of the most inexpensive form of construction comx)atible with 
protection against fire, and allowing the greatest convenience of display. 
A plan was prepared on the basis of suggestions from General Meigs, 
and approved by the Committees on Public Buildings and Grounds of 
both the Senate and House. The Senate, at the second session of the 
Forty-fourth Congress, passed a bill appropriating $250;000 for the 
erection of a building of the kind, without a dissenting vote. This also 
passed the House; but obtained only a majority vote, under circum- 
stances requmng a two-thirds vote. 

A bill making an appropriation for the erection of such an edifice 
was again introduced into Congress at the current session, which it is 
hoped will be more successful. Owing to the i>articular form of con- 
struction of the proposed building, it can be completed in probably not 
more than a year, and the collections removed into it. 

It is now proposed to i)lace this building in the southeastern corner 
of the reservation of 52 acres, situated between Seventh and Twelfth 
streets and North and South B. It will be so situated as not to obstruct 
the view of the Smithsonian from the Capitol or from any other impor- 
tant point. As originallj^ contemplated, the building was to occupy the 
space between the present Smithsonian edifice and Twelfth street; but 
it was finally concluded that if placed there it would obstruct the view 
of the Agricultural building, and the change of location was accordingly 
determined upon. 

Attention was called by the report for 1877 (page 36), to the continued 
increase of the number and variety of the collections received during the 
year, the exceptional year of the Centennial being the only one that fur- 
nished a larger quantity of material. The returns for 1878 have again 
been much larger than usual, exceeding considerably those of the pre- 
vious year. The total number of donors was 635 for the year, to 335 in 
1877, of which 180 were contributors to the collections of the United 
States Fish Commission at Gloucester. The number of donations was 
455, to 489 in 1877 ; and of separate packages 1,107, to 815 in 1877. A 
large part of the increase is due to the extensive contributions made to 
the United States Fish Commission by the fishermen and merchants of 
Gloucester, Mass., in which city the Commission has had a station for the 
prosecution of researches and the propagation of food-fishes during the 
last half of the year. The heartj^ appreciation, by all classes of the com- 
munity, of the operations of the Commission, caused those fishermen re- 
siding at the port to save many articles brought up on the trawls from 
the deep water, and to bring them to the office of the Commission at 
Gloucester. The result is to be seen in several hundred donations, some 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

of them embracing specimens of very great interest, and adding largely 
to our knowledge of the distribution of animal life in the waters off the 
coast of New England. As the result of these contributions, together 
with the gatherings of the Fish Commission itself, many species of tishes 
and of marine invertebrates have been added to the fauna of the coun- 
try, several of them being entirely new ; others were previously found 
only in the deep waters off the European coast or in those of Spitz- 
bergen and Greenland. 

Eeference is, of course, quite impossible to even a small percentage of 
those collections added to the National Museum during the year covered 
by the present report, and they will be found under the names of the 
donors, alphabetically arranged, in the appendix. Even this, however, 
fails to give a complete idea of the magditude of the additions, as a 
collection embracing from five to twenty or more boxes may be included 
in a single line of the record. The books of the Institution, in which all 
these articles are entered systematically, give a more detailed statement; 
and the fact that a portion of these has required 9,973 entries, will fur- 
nish some idea of the aggregate. 

Among the more important general collections received are those 
made by the United States Fish Commission at Gloucester, as already 
referred to, embracing a complete and exhaustive series of the marine 
animals of the ocean between the New England coast and that of Nova 
Scotia, Newfoundland, and the outer Banks, including the Georges, the 
Grand Banks, Flemish Cap, Le Have, Bank Quero, &ii. This material 
embraces a great many duplicate specimens, which will, in time, be 
distributed to the educational and scientific establishments of the United 
States. 

Next to this in importance and magnitude are two collections from the 
far North, one from E. W. Nelson, Signal Office observer at St. Michaels, 
in Alaska, consisting very largely of ethnological articles and birds ; the 
other made by Mr, L. Kumlien, while a member of the Ho wgate expedi- 
tion to Arctic America, this embracing much the same class of objects 
as those sent by Mr. Nelson. 

The collection of birds and ethnological articles, gathered by Mr. Ober 
in the islands of the West Indies, to which further reference will be 
made, has also been of great moment. Mr. J. Zeledon, formerly an as- 
sistant in the Institution, and for many years resident in Costa Eica, 
visited Washington in the spring of 1878, bringing a very large collec- 
tion of birds, mammals, &c., of his country. 

Large collections have also been received from Lieut. George M. 
Wheeler, the proceeds of the expeditions of 1877 and of earlier years, 
transmitted by him in accordance with the law of Congress requiring 
their deposit in the National Museum. 

In another part of the report will be given a more detailed account 
of some of the explorations to which reference has been made. 

Following the plan of previous reports, we shall now proceed to iudi- 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cate, briefly, the cliaracter of the more important additions to the Mu- 
seum in systematic sequence with some reference to the result in in- 
creasing our knowledge of particular regions. 

Antlir apology. — Beginning with anthropology as the most interesting 
and important of such additions, I may refer again to the collections 
made by Mr. Nelson at Saint Michaels. These are very exhaustive and 
complete, and taken in connection with those sent by Mr. Lucien M. 
Turner from the same region supply a very full illustration of man- 
ners and customs of the Indian and Esquimaux races found in north- 
western America. A special feature of Mr. Nelson's collection, like that 
of Mr. Turner, is the immense variety of carvings in bone and wood, 
representing various animal forms either in contour or in simple lines; 
the latter calling to mind the engraving upon bone, especially of antlers 
of reindeer found in the caverns of France and Germany, and throw 
much light upon the region and character of these remains. Many 
models of boats, traps for securing animals, fishing apparatus, articles of 
clothing, and many other objects constitute the mass of the great collec- 
tion sent by Mr. Nelson. 

Not at all inferior in interest, and only less in extent, are the collections 
of Mr. Kumlien made by him during several months' residence at Cum- 
berland Gulf, in Arctic America, and on the opposite coast of Greenland. 
They include great numbers of ancient stone implements found in the 
Esquimaux graves, and supply a previous deficiency in the collections 
of the National Museum. There are also many articles of dress and 
adornment, implements of war, and the chase, &c. In the last year's 
collections of both Mr. Nelson and Mr. Kumlien are many stone imf)le- 
ments, objects of horn, bone, or wood, illustrating in a very high degree 
the functions and applications of certain articles of stone familiar to the 
American archfeologist, the uses of which Avere previously conjectural. 
These embrace scrapers, knives, planes, gouges, driUs, and many other 
articles. 

During the past year the attention of the Institution has been called 
especially to the subject of the soap-stone quarries, where the aborigines 
obtained their material for soap-stone bowls, dishes, &c., constituting 
so common a feature in American archaeology, but the source of which 
has been heretofore but little noticed. Of these quite a number were- 
met with during the year, and an examination more or less extensive 
has been made of each under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. 

During the spring of 1875, some specimens of steatite were received 
from the quarry of John B. Wiggin, in Chula, Amelia County, Virginia. 
Among these were fragments of rude vessels, which, from their number 
and unfinished condition, were regarded as indicating that the place in 
question was once an aboriginal mine. Mr. Wiggin was requested to 
carefully save and forward all specimens of the kind which he might 
discover ; and the receipt from him during the centennial jear of an 
additional collection proved beyond doubt the correctness of the con- 
jecture. 



EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 45 

Inasmucli as, at the time, no quarry of this kind liad been discovered,* 
and as, moreover, aboriginal methods of mining and working pot-stone 
were entirely unkno-svn, it was thought advisable to have a careful ex- 
ploration of the place nndertaken, which was intrusted to Mr. F. H. 
Cushing, who visited the locality in June last, cansing excavations 
of suflflcient extent to be made to reveal a large portion of the rock- 
surface worked by the Indians. Again, in August and September, fur- 
nished with suitable instruments, and a complete photographic outfit, 
he continued these investigations, and, with the sanction and kindly aid 
of Mr. Wiggin, was enabled to greatly extend the diggings, thus making 
his examination very thorough and sufficient. 

The surface indications of aboriginal quarrying were found to be shal- 
low circular depressions, from ten to seventy feet in diameter. Mr. Cush- 
ing began operations by causing a space of earth, GO feet in length 
by 40 in width at the base, to be cleared away from the center of the 
largest of these depressions. Everywhere over the rock- surface, thus 
exposed he found grooves and hollows made by the Indians in taking 
out sugar-loaf shaped masses of the rock ; and throughout the soil re- 
moved he found numerous fragments of these masses mostly hollowed 
as the beginning of pots, together with equally numerous rude quartz- 
picks, some broken axes and mauls, and a few hammers of soapstone, 
which had been used in quarrying and working the material. 

Erom the base of the triangular excavation a cutting was made, about 

17 feet in width by nearly 40 in length. This was extended to the left 

18 feet, to remove the earth from around a large out-cropping bowlder, 
from the base of which it was found that the Indians had cut the rock 
away piece by piece, until only a slender stem remained as its sup- 
port. Another extension, nearly 40 feet to the right and 30 feet wide, 
laid bare one side and the center of a second quarry almost as much 
worked as the first. From this last a ditch 3 feet wide was carried for- 
ward more than 80 feet, all along the course of which were found Indian 
cuttings wherever the rock-surface was exposed. Thus the area worked 
over by the aborigines in one direction was shown to be not less than 
180 feet. How far to either side of this their work extended can only 
be conjectured. The number and extent of those depressions not exca- 
vated, however, seemed to indicate that less than one-third of the In- 
dian work was exposed by the diggings just described. Mr. Cushing 
not only procured from the earth removed, a collection of several hundred 
specimens, but also made and brought away photographic views and 
accurate plaster models of portions of his diggings. 

Attention being drawn to these explorations while in progress by no- 
tices in some of the Washington newspai)ers, Mr. Elmer E. Reynolds, of 
the city, brought to notice some similar specimens of vessels which he had 
found within the District, on Soapstone Eun, a branch of Eock Creek, 

* Intelligence liad been received of some surface workings in Chester County, Penn- 
sylvania ; so slight, however, that they could hardly be regarded us quajryings. 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

whicli were recognized at once as indications of another quarry, and Mr. 
Gushing was directed to make a thorough examination of it. Here, as 
in Virginia, depressions along the hill-side in whicli the quarry occurred 
showed that the Indians had worked the underlying ledge, although ex- 
cavations subsequently made revealed the fact that they had depended 
mainly upon surface material for their supply. Large numbers of un- 
finished vessels, quartz-picks, hammer-stones, &c., were here found. 

Another quarry has been repored by its proprietor, Mr. M. E. Holmes, 
as occurring on the right bank of the Potomac above Little Falls. This, 
though rich in ancient remains, has not yet been thoroughly examined 
by the Institution. 

Mr. J. D. McGuire, of Ellicott City, Maryland, called our attention to 
still another quarry, not unlike the one on Eock Creek, and remarkable 
for the fine specimens of Indian work that it furnished. Through the 
hospitality and kind assistance of this gentleman, Mr. Cushing was en- 
abled during the month of December to make a personal examination 
of the place, and secure for the museum nearly two hundred superior 
specimens. 

It may be well to add that since the discovery of the Virginia quarry, 
public attention having been drawn to this kind of research by widely 
circulated newspaper notices, similar sources of aboriginal supply have 
been discovered in Ehode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsyl- 
vania, Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, and Wyoming, from several of 
which the Institution has already received specimens. 

An aboriginal quarry, recently discovered near Providence, E. I., on the 
farm of Mr. Angell, was visited by myself in July, accomi)anied by Pro- 
fessor Jenks, through whose assistance I was enabled to obtain specimens 
of the unfinished pots and of the mining apparatus. 

Eeference has already been made to the plans of an extensive work 
on the American Stone Age, to be prepared under the direction of the 
Institution, to serve as a manual for this department of archaeology. The 
publication of the circular referred to as among the publications of the 
Institution for 1878 has been of great benefit in bringing in both large 
and small collections, as will be seen by reference to the list of donations. 
Every part of the country is represented in these returns, which are so 
many indeed as to render it somewhat invidious to select any for special 
notice. Justice, however, to the contributors, makes it proper that I 
should mention a few of tliese in greater detail. 

The first collection to be noted is that presented by INIr. A. B. Critten- 
den, of Middletowu, Conn., a large and extensive one, made during sev- 
eral years of effort. This is particularly rich in the shell heap or Kjok- 
enmoedding deposits, from Cai)e Cod, showing a variety and complexity 
not previously exhibited. 

To one correspondent, Mr. J. E. Gere, of Eiceville, Wisconsin, of the 
Institution, is indebted for an important increase of its collection of 
ancient copper implements. Mr. Gere, during a visit to the Institution, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

three years ago, had his attention called to the paucity of such objects 
in the National Mnseum, and offered his assistance in obtaining and 
forwarding such specimens. As the result of his promise, the Institn- 
tion has received from him during the year a large number of these 
articles, greatly adding to the variety of the series. Masses of native 
copper, plowed np by Mr. Gere on his own farm, were sent to illustrate 
the source of the material of these implements, and to show that it does 
not necessarily follow that it must have been obtained in barter or oth- 
erwise from the copper mines of the Lake Superior region. 

From Mr. William Brady, of Minong, in the Lake Superior region, 
was received a barrel of hammers, used by the ancient miners in that 
vicinity, enabling us to make a very interesting comparison between 
these and corresponding instruments used by the Indians in working the 
soapstone quarries already referred to. 

The collections received from Dr. Frank L. James, of Arkansas, are 
of great beauty and variety, as also those from Professor Eandle, of 
Kentucky. 

The result of long-continued examinations of shell mounds in Florida 
by Mr. Henry J. Biddle, of Philadelphia, is also of very great value. 

Dr. Benjamin H. Brodnax, of Louisville, in continuation of previous 
sendings, .has contributed articles of special interest; and the collec- 
tions made in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, by Dr. T. H. Bean and 
Mr. Galbraith, have also added greatly to the specimens from that 
State. 

Among the more important collections received from regions outside 
of the United States is a number of implements, vases, &c., from Peru, 
presented by Mr. W. W. Evans, who has been for many years a corre- 
spondent of the Institution, and a contributor to the National Museum. 

The arehseology of Japan is represented by collections received from 
Professor Morse, consisting of shell-heap pickings and mound diggings 
on the Japanese coast. The fragments of pottery in this collection are 
rude and unfinished, scarcely more advanced than those found in the 
ancient graves and mounds of North America. They are supposed to 
have been the production of the Ainos of the early days, who are believed 
to have occupied, at one time, the entire country. 

An interesting contribution to European anthropology was made by 
Professor Kollmann, who presented a series of crania of the earlier, al- 
though scarcely prehistoric, inhabitants of Germany. 

Mammals. — While many single specimens or small collections of mam- 
mals have been received from various parts of the country, those re- 
ceived from Lieut. George M. Wheeler, of the Engineer Bureau, repre- 
senting quite a variety of species, collected by Mr. Henshaw and other 
collaborators of the survey, deserve special mention. 

A series of the seals of Arctic America, both of skins and skeletons, 
brought back by Mr. Kumlien, supplies a very important gap in the col- 
lections of the National Museum, exhibiting the variations of condition 



48 EBPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

in several species, from tlie fcetal to tlie adult state, of both sexes, with 
correspouding skeletons of all these gradations. 

The collection brought by Mr. Zelcdon includes nearly all the known 
mammals of Costa Eica, from the largest to the smallest, and in most 
admirable condition of preservation, well fitted to mount for exhibition 
in the National Museum. 

The Zoological Society of Philadelphia has presented a specimen, in 
thetlesh, of the Aodad {Ovis Tragldaphus), which died in the menagerie 
of that establishment. 

From the Public Library and IMuseum at Calcutta, in India, under the 
direction of Mr. Murray, was received quite a number of specimens of 
Indian mammals, including skins of the smaller kinds, and a considera- 
ble number of stuffed heads of tigers and other felidie, as well as several 
crania of much value. 

Birds. — The collections of birds received during the year have also 
been extensive and important, as shown by the number of specimens 
entered in the record book. Principally noteworthy is the donation by 
Mr. George B. Sennett, of Erie, Pa., of a series of the collections made 
by him during the preceding year in the vicinity of Brownsville, Tex. 
This embraces several species new to the Museum. In view of their 
admirable preparation, it is proposed to mount the greater jiart of them 
for ijermanent exhibition in the Museum. 

From Dr. James C. Merrill, U. S. Army, stationed at Brownsville, 
Texas, was also received a very acceptable collection of skins and eggs 
of birds, from that region. 

The collections of Mr. Nelson in Alaska and of Mr. Kumlien in Arctic 
America, already referred to, embrace many species of much interest, 
although none actually new to the Museum. 

The more important addition made to the collection has been* a series 
of oceanic birds, found oft" the coast of the United States. Mr. Eayraond 
L. Newcomb having been sent out by the Smithsonian Institution on 
board the schooner Marion, Captain Collins in command, for the pur- 
pose of ascertaining what were the birds occurring on the tishing- 
banks, in such numbers as to be serviceable in furnishing bait for the 
capture of codfish, he brought back a large and Avell-prepared collection, 
embracing some quite rare species, although none previously unrepre- 
sented. Some of the plumages were new, and it became possible, from 
the collections and his notes, to interpret the meaning of various appella- 
tions employed by the fishermen. 

For the assistan(;e rendered to Mr. Newcomb, as well as in furnishing 
information to the Fish Commission, Captain Collins and his crew deserve 
sjjecial mention. 

Of extra-limital collections, those made by Mr. Fred. A. Ober in tlie 
West Indies, referred to in another part of this report, are of particular 
value and importance. As the result of these the National IMuseum is 
now in i^ossession of by far the most complete series extant of birds of 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

the West Indies, showing better than any found elsewhere the geo- 
gTaphieal distribution peculiar to each island, and the precise distribu- 
tion of those common to two or more islands. 

To this end especially have contributed the labors of Dr. Henry 
Bryant, in the Bahamas, and of Mr. William T. March, in Jamaica; of 
Dr. John Gundlach, Mr. Charles Wright, and N. H. Bishop, in Cuba ; of 
jMr. Alfred Newton, in Santa Cruz ; of Mr. George Latimer, and Mr. 
Thomas Swift, in St. Thomas and Porto Eico; of Dr. Bryant, in Porto 
Eico, and of Mr. Galody, in Antigua. 

Xot only were many species previously described contained in Mr. 
Ober's collection, but he furnished types of nearly twenty new s])ecies. 

A series of memoirs, bj^ Mr. George N. Lawrence, published in the 
"Proceedings of the I^ational Musenm," includes lists of the collections 
and embraces descriptions of the new species. 

From foreign regions an interesting collection, for the most part of 
water-birds, was sent troiu the Bosphorus by the Eobert College of Con- 
stantinople, and one from the coast of Syria by Mr. William T. Van Dyck. 

Reptiles. — Eeference has been made in previous reports to a very 
extensive collection of casts of American fishes which were prepared 
originally for exhibition at the Centennial, and continued since then by 
the addition of new species, coming to the Institntion in proper condition 
for reproduction. 

It was determined to inclnde the ISTorth American reptiles in the series 
of life reproductions of such objects as are not easily exhibited as stuffed 
si)ecimens. In order, therefore, to secure living objects from all i^arts 
of the country, a circular was distributed, inA'iting contributions of ser- 
pents, frogs, lizards, and salamanders, in all their variety; and, as in 
previous apxieals from the Institution for assistance, the response was 
generorip and extensive. A large number of specimens, both of rare and 
common species, was received, and kept the entire force of Smithsonian 
artists occupied during the jear. 

Eesulting therefrom, the J^Tational Museum now has an extremely 
interesting and attractive collection of these animals in their natural 
attitudes, either as plaster or papier mache models, and very carefully 
colored from sketches made while the animals were alive. In some cases 
it was found possible to make the casts from the living specimens, and 
in several different attitudes, from the same individual. As heretofore, 
tlie casting and molding have been under the direction of Mr. Joseph 
Palmer, assisted by Mr. A. J. Forney and Mr. William Palmer. The- 
coloring of the reptiles has been performed by Mr. A. Z. Shiudler ; that 
of the fishes by I\Ir. J. 11. Eichard. 

Besides the living reptiles referred to, quite a variety of species has^ 

been obtained from other sources, among others from Mr. Ober in his 

West Indian explorations. Dr. Euth, U. S. X., the surgeon of the steamer 

Enterprise, in Avhicli Captain Selfridge made his exploration of the Am- 

S. Mis. 59 4 



50 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

azon in 1848, also fmnislied a valuable collection from that river. From 
Dr. Hering was also received a collection of the species of Surinam. 

Fishes. — As might naturally he expected, from the close connection 
of the operations of the United States Fish Commission with those of 
the Smithsonian Institution, the additions in this department have been 
especially noteworthy, and include not only various specimens of im- 
j)ortant scientific interest, but also many illustrating and attesting the 
propriety of national aid in the multiplication of useful food-fishes. 

It is considered especially desirable to bring together in Washington 
a complete rej^resentation of the food-fishes of the United States, both 
inland and marine ; and also such kinds from other countries as tend to 
illustrate the American species, or as may suggest future action in the 
way of their introduction and acclimation in the jSTew World. 

The series of species of the salmon family, contributed by Mr. Living- 
ston Stone from the salmon-hatching establishment on the McCloud 
Eiver, in the Upper Sacramento Valley; and those furnished by Mr. 
Charles Gr. Atkins, from his works in Bucksport and Grand Lake Stream 
in Maine, have constituted the most important additions of fresh- water 
species; while the special labors of the United States Fish Comudssion 
at Gloucester, Massachusetts, aided by the fishermen of that place, have 
brought to light nearly 20 forms of deep-sea fishes, previously unknown. 

Next to the collections from the station of the United States Fish 
Commission at Gloucester, the most important additions to the marine 
fishes have been received from Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, for a long time an 
employe of the Commission, and stationed at Wood's Holl, whose vigilant 
attention to the subject brought to light a number of additional species, 
so that now the Wood's Holl record embraces nearly 140 different kinds. 

From Mr. Silas Stearns, of Pensacola, while connected with the Pensa- 
cola Ice Company; from Mr. James C. Leslie, of Charleston; from Mr. 
Samuel Powel, of Newport ; from Dr. Porter, U. S, A., and Mr. Moore, 
of the Tortugas, have come many additions to our knowledge of the dis- 
tribution of species, through their contributions to the National Museum. 

The Museum is also indebted in a very marked degree, as for many 
years past, to the services of Mr. E. G. Blackford, the well-known fish 
dealer of Fulton Market, New York, for the transmission of many valu- 
able specimens. By an arrangement with the wholesale dealers and the 
fishermen, this gentleman is always notified of the appearance in the 
market of specimens that are believed to have an interest, either from 
their novelty or any other cause, and, in the exercise of an excellent 
judgment, whatever is thought will be valued in Washington is promptly 
transmitted to the National Museum. To no other single i)erson is the 
Institution indebted for so many favors in this direction as to Mr. Black- 
ford. 

From the museum of the Wesleyan University, at Middletown, have 
been received a considerable number of fishes, collected in the Bermudas 
by Mr. G. Brown Goode ; from Professor Felipe Poey also a number of 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

Cuban fishes, wliicli liave an especial value, as being tj pes of liis pro])ose(l 
memoir on the subject, which, should it appear ou the scale contemplated, 
^yill be the most extensive work ever published ou the fishes of auy 
country. 

From the west coast of the United States the most important additions 
have been of the fishes of Alaska, sent by Mr. E. W. Nelson, from Saint 
Micliaels, and those of Puget Sound, by Mr, James G. Swan. 

In the collection of fishes gathered in Cumberland Gulf by jMr.L. Kum- 
lien, while connected with the Howgate Exjyedition, were several of kinds 
new to the fauna of northeastern North America, and others of great 
value as illustrating the species obtained by the United States Fish 
Commission at Gloucester, either by its own efibrts or by the aid of the 
fleet of fishermen belonging to that port. 

The Natural History Museum of Paris has contributed a series of the 
fishes of France and the Mediterranean. A series of the fresh-water 
fishes of Northern Siberia has been furnished by Dr. Otto Finsch as the 
result of his recent well-known exj^l orations. 

Among the more noticeable results of recent efforts to extend and 
increase the useful food-fishes of the United States, that have come to 
hand, are specimens of full-grown shad from the Sacrameiito Eiver, con- 
tribvited by JMr. Thomas Bassett; a pair of shad from the Oliio, by Mr. 
AVilliam Grifiith, of Kentucky; a mature salmon from the Connecticut 
Eiver, obtained through ]Mr. E. G. Blackford; one from the Delaware, 
weighing 23 pounds, presented by jMr. E. J. Anderson, Fish Commis- 
sioner of New Jersey; aud one of 19 pounds, taken in the Susquehanna, 
by Mr. Frank Farr near the shad-hatching station of the United States 
Fish Commission, five miles below the railroad bridge at Havre de Grace. 
In addition to these, many specimens of young California salmon and 
of landlocked salmon have also come to hand. 

Invo'tch rates. — In the department of invertebrates the collections have 
been largely confined to the marine species, especially as no particular 
eftbrt is now made to gather the insects which form the great body of 
terrestrial forms. By an arrangement between the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and the Department of Agriculture, all the collections in the line of 
insects and terrestrial articulates generally are transferred to tlie care 
of that department, where, uuder the supervision of its entomologist, 
they are likely to render excellent service. 

Of land and fresh-water mollusca quite a number of specimens have 
been received and properly cared for. Of marine im'ertebrata most 
gatherings have been secured, especially through the efibrts of the 
United States Fish Commission, at Gloucester, the labor being jier- 
formed under the special direction of Prof. A. E. Yerrill, of Yale Col- 
lege, assisted by Messrs. Kichard Eathbun and Warren J. Upham. In 
this service, however, the work connected with the collection and ar- 
rangement of the marine mollusca was under tbe direction of ]\Ir. Siin- 
derson Smith, of New York, a competent conchologist, the value of whose 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

gratuitous services to the Fisli Commission and to the Smithsonian In- 
stitution is not easily to be overestimated. 

With the assistance of the extensive and powerful apparatus on board 
the Speedwell vast numbers of specimens of all kinds were secured, ap- 
propriately assorted, and packed by the gentlemen referred to, and are 
now in charge of Professor Yerrill at Kew Haven undergoing the neces- 
sary examination for their arrangement and identification. A great 
number of duplicates was obtaiTied for tbe purpose of supplying sets to 
educational and scientific institutions throughout the country. 

A collection of fossiliferous rocks, brought up from time to time by 
the trawls from the various banks of the New England coast, and found 
in the possession of various citizens of Gloucester, by Mr. Warren J. 
Upham, while connected with the Commission, revealed, under the crit- 
ical labors of Professor Verrill, Mr. Smith, and himself, the existence of 
a submarine formation quite different from any now known on the land, 
and embracing a number of new species, and others in peculiar combi- 
nations. The idea has been suggested by Professor Verrill that at some 
earlier day the whole or the greater part of the interval between North 
America and Europe, exteuding possibl}^ as far north as Iceland, was 
occupied by a continent, which, after a certain amount of erosion and 
excavation, was submerged, the plateaus or highest remaining portions 
constituting a portion of the banks, which furnish such rich harvests. 
The indications of this deposit are believed to be found at Gay Head on 
Martha's Vineyard, and possibly at Siasconset in Nantucket, in the 
Georges, at Le Have and Quero Banks, the Grand Banks, Flemish 
Cap, &c. Of course so im})ortant a generalization Avill require further 
determinations, and it is hoped that the labors of the Fish Commission 
during the coming year may tend to solve the problem. 

In the collections made by the several methods, and from the several 
sources referred to, are to be found all the orders and classes of marine 
invertebrata, such as radiates, mollusks, worms, Crustacea, &c. 

Apart from the collections of shells and of invertebrates referred to, 
we may mention a valuable (collection of shells of Florida, presented by 
the Chicago Academy of Sciences, and of those of the German seas, by 
Professor M()bius. 

Of terrestrial fossil remains from the land no important additions have 
been made. Among those received, however, there is an interesting 
and valuable collection of species from California, presented by Hon. A. 
A. Sargent, United States Senator from that State, and a Eegent of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Eeference has been made to the arrangement with the Dei)artment 
of Agri(Milture, by which that establishment receives all the collec- 
tions of land articidates; and a similar arrangement has been made in 
regard to the plants, special efforts in regard to that branch of natural 
history being left to the department. All the specimens offered spon- 
taneously or collected by government expeditions have been turned over 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

to the department as soon as received. Tlie most important of these 
consist of a series of species from Japan and Asia, presented by the 
Botanic Garden of St. Tetersbnrg. Professor Sargent, of the Botanic 
Garden at Cambridge, has contribnted quite a number of vakiable living 
aquatic plants for the purpose of embellishing the United States carp- 
ponds on the Monument lot in this city, and of furnishing desirable food 
for the herbivorous fish. 

Dr. William G. Farlow, of Cambridge, ^^hile associated Avith the Fish 
Commission at Gloucester, made a large collection of marine algse, of 
which, as heretofore, a part will be presented to the National Museum. 

A circular issued by the Institution some years ago, relative to the 
habits, &c., of the grasshopper and other insects, elicited many responses, 
which were referred to Prof. S. H. Scudder. The material, however, was 
never fully worked up, and it has been transferred, with the consent of 
the Institution, by Professor Scudder, to the United Slates Entomolog- 
ical Commission lately organized by Congress. 

I have thus furnished as briefly as possible a review of some of the 
more important contributions to the jSTational Museum, but as the limit 
of space has prevented my going into much detail, I have been obliged 
to make selections from large numbers of contributions of value fully 
equal to those- specially noted. All these, as stated, Avill be found in the 
list of donations entered in the record-books of the Institution. Every 
specimen received has, as far as possible, been recorded in its proper 
register, with a number affixed in some irremovable form ; and whenever 
the size of the specimen would admit, with the name of the locality and 
of the donor attached. Of these entries no less than 9,973 have been 
made during the year, as shown by the table at the end of this Eeport. 
As heretofore explained, however, one entry may embrace a large number 
of specimens, especially of the same general character, without any spe- 
cial individuality, gathered at the same date, in the same locality, and 
received from the same person. It may fairly be assumed that the total 
number of pieces actually recorded and provided with numbers amounts 
to 15,000. 

Considered with reference to geographical distribution — illustrating 
the several faunas of the various quarters of the globe, as would nat- 
urally be expected, by far the greater portion of these accessions has 
been received from North America, the regions from which the most 
important materials have been derived being Alaska, furnished by Mr. 
Nelson, Arctic America, by Mr. Kumlien, and the eastern coast of New 
England by the Fish Commission itself and its friends at Gloucester ; 
of fishes and invertebrates from Puget Sound by Mr. Swan, fishes of the 
Upper Sacramento by Mr. Stone, fishes of Florida by Mr. Stearns, Dr. 
Porter, and ]\Ir. Moore ; and general collections by Mr. llidgway, are 
among the most notewoithy. 

From South America were received ethnological specimens from Peru, 



54 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

by Mr. W. W. Evans; fislios and reptiles from the Amazon, by Dr. 
Kuth, IT. S. iST,, of the United States steamer Enterprise. 

From Mexico valuable specimens have been received from Professor 
Duges, consisting especially of ummmals, birds, reptiles, and fishes; 
illustrations of the ethnology and zoology of CTuateraala have been fur- 
nished by Dr. Flint and United States Minister Williamson. 

Of the animals of Surinam, collections were sent by Dr. Hering; of the 
vertebrata of Costa Eica, generally in a large variety, by Mr. J. Zele- 
don ; of the tishes of Cuba, by Professor Poey ; general collections from 
various islands of the West Indies, by Mr. Ober; fishes of Bermuda, by 
the Wesleyan University, of Middletown, collected by Mr. Goode ; fishes 
and archipological remains from Japan, by Prof. E. S. Morse; the fishes 
of France and the Mediterranean, by the Museum of iSTatural History, 
Paris ; of Northern Siberia, by Dr. Finsch, of Bremen ; skins, skulls, 
and heads of the mammals of India, by the Public Library of Kurra- 
chee. 

Mineralogy. — In the department of mineralogy and geology, as usual, 
additions of many specimens, including several large collections, have 
been received, as it has now become quite a common thing for people 
all over the United States to send samples by mail or otherwise to the 
Institution for determination. 

Many valuable additions have been made by the officers of the Land 
Department of the Interior, especially by Mr. John Wasson, surveyor- 
general of Arizona, and Mr. Hardenberg, the surveyor-general of Cali- 
fornia. By far the most noteworthy and important addition in this line, 
has been that of the greater part of the Swedish exhibit of iron, steel, 
and other metals, made at Philadelphia in 187G. The valuable iron 
and steel exhibit by the Swedish Commission at the Centennial Ex- 
position had in part been promised to the American Institute of Min- 
ing Engineers, and at its solicitation any effort on the part of the Smith- 
sonian Institution to secure the remainder for the government was 
waived in its behalf. It apjiears, however, that the necessary arrange- 
ments for their acquiring this collection were not completed, and during 
the year 1878, Dr. Joshua Lindahl, the representative of Sweden in con- 
nection with the Permanent Exhibition, offered the remainder of the col- 
lection as it stood, to the National Museum. This proposition was, of 
course, very gladly accepted, and the collection was duly transmitted 
under the direction of Mr. Thomas Donaldson, including the greater part 
of the display of the Iron and Steel jNIiuing Company of Motala, and the 
iron and steel of Sandvik, a well-known and conspicuous Swedish estab- 
lishment. 

The institution received also, on special deposit, through the aid of 
Dr. Lindahl, the immense mass of native iron, weighing five tons, the 
smallest of three nuggets brought from the island of Disco by the Swed- 
ish Government, the one referred to having been i^resentedto Professor 
Nordenskjold, who had charge of the transfer, and by him sent for exhi- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

bitioii to Pliiladolpbia. Opinions of experts are at present divided as to 
wliether this is actually of meteoric origin, or a representative of almost 
the single instance of metallic iron in considerable masses, as a native 
metal. Whatever be the actual fact, it makes no difterence in the in- 
terest of the specimen ; and its acquisition, even for a short time, by the 
National Museum, is a subject of cong'ratulation. 

Scientific investigation of coUcctions. — As in j>revions years the collec- 
tions of the jSIational Mnseum, in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, 
have been freely open to the examination of competent investigators. 
It is preferred, of course, that this work be prosecuted in Washington; 
but w here it is impossible to do this there is no hesitation in sending arti- 
cles or collections, under suitable conditions, to any part of the Avorld. 

Most of this work of investigation is done by the resident naturalists 
connected with the Smithsonian Institution, directly or indirectly — the 
mammals by Professor Gill and Dr. Coues ; the birds by Mr. Kobert 
Eidgway ; the reptiles by Dr. II. C. Yarrow and Dr. Bean ; the fishes by 
Professor Gill, Mr. Goode, and Dr. Bean ; the mollusks and marine inver- 
tebrates by Mr. William H. Dall ; the insects by Professor Eiley ; the 
fossils by Prof. Charles A. White; the minerals by Dr. F. M. Eudlich; the 
plants by Dr. Geo. Vasej^ 

Outside of Washington the principal collaborators have been, for the 
mammals, Mr. E. D. Alston, London, and Mr. J. A. Allen, of the IVIuseum 
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.; for the birds, Mr. George N. 
Lawrence, of New York, Dr. P. L. Sclater, of London, and Mr. Osbert Sal- 
vin, of Cambridge, England ; for reptiles and vertebrate fossils, Prof. 
E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia. These gentlemen have all rendered more 
or less service in this connection by investigating the specimens, identify- 
ing those that were previonsly known, and describing the new species. 

Distribution of collections. — The extent of the distribution of specimens 
during 1878 will be seen by reference to the table tit the end of this re- 
I)ort. It has been quite large, and has furnished much educational 
and scientific material. It is expected, however, that a very much larger 
amount will be sup})lied during the year 1879. There is a great number 
of duplicates of minerals, rocks, fossils, &c., which cannot be reached 
until the liberality of Congress shall appropriate the necessary means to 
erect the new building for the National ^Museum. Such building is 
required even for the unpacking of the si)ecimens and the separation of 
the series to be reserved for ])ermanent dis[)lay. This will leave a large 
quantity of surplus material, of considerable \'ariety, which will enable 
the Institution to supply to a good degree the wants and applications 
of many colleges, academies, and scientific societies throughout the 
country. 

GALLERY OF ART. 

The principle of co-operation and not of competition which has for so 
many years been the basis of action of the Smithsonian Institution, finds 



5G EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

a portion of its expression in the arrangement with the Corcoran Art 
Gallery. Its pictures, statnary, and engravings have for the most part 
been removed to the Gallery, and the remainder is being in\^pared for 
the same destination. Tbey are not presented to the Gallery, but simi^ly 
deposited, and are subject to reclamation at any time. 

For many years Professor Henry was one of the trustees of the Cor- 
coran Gallery, and was thus able to look after the interest of the Insti- 
tution in its collections. I have been honored by receiving a similar 
appointment at the hands of the board of trustees. 

The propriety of the action of the Board of Eegents in directing that 
a first-class portrait of Professor Henry be painted, the work being ex- 
ecuted in April, 1877, hy Mr. Le Clear, of Xew York, has been fully justi- 
ified. His picture is now exhibited in the Eegent's room in the Institu- 
tion, after having been displayed for a time at the Corcoran Gallerj^ 
Several excellent crayon heads, of life size, of Professor Henry have been 
executed by Mr. Ulke and copies have been ordered for Princeton College 
and other institutions where Professor Henry's was an honored name. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

Attention has been called in the reports of my lamented predecessor 
to the extent to which the time of the officers of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution has been occupied in the prosecution of labors undertaken by 
direction and in behalf of the general government; his own record of 
twenty-six years' service in connection with the Light-House Board, for 
a large portion of the time its chairman: his service on various special 
boards, such as those for the selection of building-stones for the Capitol, 
for the consideration of the question of ventilation of the Hall of the 
House of Eepresentatives, &c., and in many other cases, furnishing 
am])le illustration. 

My own more immediate relations to the general government com- 
menced in 1871, when Congress passed an act authorizing the appoint- 
ment of a Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, to investigate questions 
connected with the condition of the fisheries of the sea-coast and the 
lakes, and providing that the appointment should be bj' the President 
and confirmed by the Senate, and that his services should be rendered 
without compensation. 

Having received the appointment from the President, I commenced 
the work by an investigation, of several months' duration, of the condi- 
tion of the fisheries on the New England coast, especially as to the 
supposed conditions affecting their extent and development . 

In 1872 the subject of the propagation of food-fishes in the waters of 
the United States was added by Congress to the other duties of the Com- 
missioner, and since then his time has been largely occupied with the 
prosecution of researches into the American fisheries and in the propa- 
gation and distribution of various desirable species into every State in 
the Union. Previous reports will be found to contain general statements 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

of what lias been done each year; and I shall therefore give a brief ac- 
count of what was done in 1878, premising that the appropriations, 
beginning with $5,000 in 1871, have increased with each year, until those 
for 1878 amounted to $78,200. 

The work of Ihe Fish Commissioner is now prosecuted under the two 
distinct heads of inquiry, and propagation, each with a corps of assist- 
ants, for the most part occupied in different regions of the country. The 
propagation department has special reference to the shad, the salmon of 
California, the salmon of Maine, the land-locked salmon, the white-fish, 
and the carp. 

The invention of apparatus hj Mr. T. B. Ferguson, one of the fish 
commissioners of Maryland, by which the hatching of shad could be 
prosecuted on a much larger scale than before, and under more conven- 
ient circumstances, marks a new era in the art of fish culture, experi- 
ments made bj^ him in 1877 having been extensively prosecuted by the 
United States Fish Commission in 1878. 

For the purpose in question four scows were fitted up in Baltimore, 
two with suitable machinery and apparatus, and two as quarters for the 
men. These were taken to Albemarle Sound and established at a point 
on the fishery of Dr. Capehart, of Avoca, bj' whom every assistance was 
rendered in the supply of ripe fish, from which 10,000,000 of young fish 
were hatched out and deposited in adjacent waters or transferred to 
distant points. 

After the season for work in that vicinity had iDassed, the vessels were 
taken to Havre de Grace and anchored about five miles beh)w the rail- 
road bridge, in a sheltered co^e. Here a much larger number of fish 
was hatched out, and the young were distributed by special messengers 
throughout the Union. The work of distribution of the young shad Avas 
under the special supervision of Mr. James W. Milner, first assistant of 
the commission ; Mr. T. B. Ferguson, fish commissioner of Maryland, the 
inventor and constructor of the hatching apparatus, however, having 
charge of the ])ropagation of the shad here, as also during the greater 
part of the sojourn at Avoca. 

The result of the new experiment was perfectly satisfactorj', and so far 
as relates to the shad in the future, there is no limit to tlie amount of 
work that can be done other than that of the number of ripe eggs i)ro- 
curable. 

The hibor of obtaining the eggs of the California sahnon at the Uni- 
ted States hatching-station on the JMcCloud I-iver, in the Upper Sacra- 
mento Valley, was also carried on on a mucli larger scale than ever 
before, it being possible, as the direct result of the ])ropagatiou in the 
earlier part of the o[)erations of the commission, under the cliarge of 
Mr. Livingston Stone, to procure as many eggs as were caHed for; and 
no less tlian 15,000,000 eggs were obtained, and partly developed, and 
then distributed to various State commissioners and other parties, by 
whom they were hatched out and planted in the waters. A large num- 



58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ber was liatcbed ou account of tlic United States Fish Coniniissioii by 
Mr. Fraulc ^\ Clark, of Northville, Mieli., and by Mr. Ferguson, at Bal- 
timore. These were distributed to such of the Southern and Western 
States as were without arrangements of their own for prosecuting the 
work. 

Nothing was done with the eastern salmon ; but the t^ivorable re- 
sults of the work initiated five or six years ago, in restoring this fish in 
large numbers to the Merrimack and the Connecticut, and in i)lanting 
them in the Delaware and the Susquehanna, will probably induce the 
renewal of the station at Bucksport, Mahie, during the coming year. 

The operations connected with secuiing eggs of the land-locked sal- 
mon at Grand Lake Stream were entirely successful, although not so 
many were obtained as hist year. These are now in process of incuba- 
tion, and will shortly be distributed. 

Congress appropriated a sum of money for tlie purpose of fitting up 
the two lakes in the vicinity of the Monument in the city of Washing- 
ton for the culture of European carp, a considerable number of the 
best varieties having been obtained in 1877, and deposited with the kind 
liermission of the Park Commissioners in the ponds of Druid Hill Park, 
in Baltimore. When the Monument lot ponds were in proper condition 
a portion of the fish were transferred from Baltimore to their new 
quarters, where it is hoped they will find a congenial home. A distri- 
bution of the young will probably be made in the course of 1879, enough, 
it is hoped, to meet a part, at least, of the demand which has already 
sprung up for supplying fish-ponds throughout the country. 

The most important progress in practical fish culture has been made 
by the United States Fish Commission during the year, in the applica- 
tion of its methods to the production of the sea-fishes. Experiments 
were instituted at Gloucester, in Massachusetts, in reference to cod, the 
siiawning season of which takes place in the winter. The establishment 
w^as properly fitted up and, after varying results, the proper method of 
developing them was ascertained. Many millions of the young fish were 
hatched out and deposited in the waters, and about 20,000 sent on to 
Washington for exhibition to members of Congress, and others interested 
in the experiment. Nothing has yet been done Avith mackerel, but' it is 
believed that the arrangements prepared for the cod will be equally 
ef&cient for that fish, as also, jwobably, for the halibut, while many other 
species, such as the tautog, sea-bass, and scup, can be treated in the same 
way. 

The im]iortauce of this new departure of the United States Fish Com- 
mission cannot be overestimated, as it gives us the means of improving, 
at small expense, the sea fisheries of our coast, and also furnishes the 
opportunity of establishing them at points where they do not at present 
exist. Thus, by carrying the young cod from Massachusetts and plant- 
ing them on the coast of New Jersey or Maryland, of Virginia or North 
Carolina, there is every assurance that, in accordance with the univer- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

sal rule, these fish, when ready to spawn, will return to their starting 
place and become the means of establishing profitable fisheries to the 
inhabitants of the region. It is well known that in the Southern States 
the fisheries, contrary to the fact in the Northern States, are of little 
moment in the winter season, the most prominent species coming up in 
the spring and returning as the waters become chilly. The establishment 
of cod fisheries, and possibly of those of halibut, as winter fisheries along 
the southern coast, will therefore be of great imj)ortance. 

The second branch of the Fish Commission's work, namely, that of the 
investigation of the sea fisheries, was carried on at Gloucester for three 
months, with the co-operation as heretofore of the Secretarj^ of the Xavy 
in furnishing a suitable vessel, and the general work was done with more 
efficiency and completeness. The same vessel, the United States steamer 
Speedwell, used in 1877, was detailed by the Secretary for the service, 
and was in command of Capt. L. A. Beardslee, who had previously sus- 
tained similar relations to the Commission when in charge of the steamer 
Blue Light. 

The longer period of service of the vessel and the more favorable 
station enabled the Commission to perform a very large amount of work, 
the results greatly exceeding those of any i)re\'iou8 year. Important 
determinations were made of the character of the sea-bottom, of the tem- 
perature and chemical constituents of the sea-water at different depths, 
the currents, &c., while the exhaustive collections of marine animals and 
plants showed clearly the character of the food of the fishes, and at the 
same time furnished a vast amount of natural history material of the 
greatest scientific interest. As heretofore, special efforts were made to 
obtain a large number of duplicates, so that by their distribution in 
named sets the colleges and other educational establishments of the 
country might participate in the results of the labors of the Commission. 

As heretofore, the labors of the Commission at Gloucester, connected 
with the invertebrate department, were in charge of Prof. A. E. Yerrill, 
of Yale College, New Haven, assisted by Mr. Sanderson Smith in the 
department of the mollusca, and by Mr. Eichard Eathbun and Mr. 
Warren J. Upham. The collections made, as in previous years, were 
placed in the hands of Professor Yerrill, who is now engaged in their 
classification and arrangement in sets. Dr. William G. Parlow, of Cam- 
bridge, as usual, spent considerable time with the Commission, and 
devoted himself especially to the investigation of the marine algae. 

The investigation into and classification of the various kinds of fish 
brought in were in charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode, a collaborator of 
the National Museum, assisted by Dr. T. H. Bean, of the same estab- 
lishment, and by Mr. E. E. Earll. 

Capt. H. C. Chester had general charge of the laboratory and the di- 
rection of the actual dredging and trawling on the steamer. 

The special superintendence of the hatching of the codfish was con- 



60 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

ducted by Mr. J. W. Milner, with the assistance of Mr. E. E. Earll. 
The propagation department was in charge of Mr. Frank N. Chirk, of 
Michigan. The machinery was superintended by Capt. H. C. Chester, 
and it is to his nigenuity that we owe the construction of the apparatus 
by which the actual work of hatching the codfish was rendered practi- 
cable. The difficulty of using the apparatus employed for hatching 
shad arose from the fact that while the eggs of the shad are heavier 
than the fresh water, those of the cod are lighter than the salt water, 
and new conditions had to be devised to keep the eggs down instead of 
lifting them up. This problem, as already stated, was satisfactorily 
solved, after many experiments, by Captain Chester, who is therefore 
entitled to much credit for the success of the work. 

HALIFAX COMMISSION. 

In 1871 a convention was held by the United States and Great Britain, 
at Washington, for the purpose of settling certain questions at issue be- 
tween the two governments, notably that of the depredations upon 
American commerce by Confederate cruisers, fitted out or supplied in 
British ports; and also certain disputed points in reference to the fish- 
eries of British North America. 

The treaty agreed upon was not ratified by the several contracting 
parties, consisting of the United States and the five British maritime 
provinces, until 1873, when commissioners were duly appointed by the 
respective governments, Mr. Alexander T. Gait being named by Great 
Britain; Governor Clifl:brd, of Kew Bedford, by the United States, and 
INIr. Maurice. Delfosse, the Belgian minister to the United States, as the 
tliird. For various reasons, and partly owing to the death of Governor 
Clifford, no definite action was taken until 1870, when Mr. E. H. Kellogg, 
of Pittsfield, Mass., was appointed to succeed Governor Clilibrd ; and 
tlie place of meeting was fixed at Halifax, Nova Scotia, on the 15th of 
June, 1877, and after receiving the British claim the commission ad- 
journed until the 2Sth day of July, 1877, when it reassembled and 
continued in session until nearly the stipulated limit, in the month of 
November. 

The United States commissioner was assisted by Mr. Eichard Henry 
Dana and Mr. William H. Trescott. The British commissioner ha'd, as 
his counsel, one distinguished gentleman from each province, namely, 
]\rr. Joseph Doutre, for Canada; Mr. S. E. Thomson, for New Bruns- 
wick ; Hon. W. V. Whiteway, for Newfoundland ; Hon. Louis H. Davies, 
for Prince Edward Island ; and Mr. E. L. Weatherbe, for Nova Scotia. 

At the request of the Secretary of State, I attended the meeting at 
as early a date as my other duties would permit, arriving on the 17th of 
August, and remaining until the 21st of October. 

The British commission had on its side the minister of marine, Mr. 
A. Smith, assisted by Mr. W. F. Whitcher, the commissioner of fisheries. 

The deliberations of tlie court involved a careful consideration of all 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

the facts and statistics of the two countries, and a vast amoant of in- 
formation relating to the subject was brought together in the form of 
testimony of witnesses and experts and by the presentation of tables, re- 
ports, and digests. The volumes of the reports of the proceedings of 
the commission constitute a rich field for the naturahst as well as the 
statistician. 

Material service was rendered by the United States Fish Commission, 
in the collection of important statistics gathered expressly for the pur- 
pose, especially in the presentation of tables, showing the catch of fresh 
lish along the coast of the United States within the treaty limits. This 
work was more particularly under the charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode, 
who executed it to the entire satisfiiction of the American counsel. 

. The occasion was made use of by me to collect information and to 
prepare a systennitic account of what is known of the habits of the cod 
and mackerel, and the various methods of capturing them, the bait to 
be used, &c., which will form the subject of special reports hereafter. 

The award of five and a half millions of dollars, as representing the 
value to Great Britain of the privileges conceded to the United States, 
has given very great dissatisfaction in this country, to the I^ew England 
fishermen especially, who denounce it as unjust in the highest degree, 
and express the hope that at the earliest possible moment the treaty will 
be abandoned, even if the original condition of things be restored. 

The very great lack of published information on the subject of the 
American fisheries, as compared with the extremely methodical and 
precise summaries of the Canadiau authorities, has induced me to give 
especial attention to this subject for information in the future, and with 
the co-operation of the State Department, which has placed a small 
fund at my disposal for the purpose, I am engaged in collecting, col- 
lating, and digesting the facts and statistics in reference to the Ameri- 
can fisheries, an information doubtless of much value on the occasion of 
another arbitration similar to that at Halifax. This work is more par- 
ticularly in charge of Mr. Goode. 

To ascertain the accuracy of the figures presented at the Halifax 
convention as to the catch by citizens of the United States of mackerel 
off the American and Canadian coast, I employed Mr. Alexander Star- 
buck, of Waltham, Mass., to make a new digest of the records, as 
shown by the State inspections of Maine, IsTew Hampshire, and Massa- 
chusetts. His work has been completed and shows a material ditl'erence 
from the old figures, bat without afiecting the strength of the American 
case. 

Sfatisties of sea fisheries. — Eeference has already been made to the data 
relative to this subje(;t at Halifax, and the intention on the part of the 
commission to secure reliable records of the catch, export, and consump- 
tion in the United States of the more important fish. For this purpose 
circulars were issued, requesting answers to certain questions relating to 
the habits, mode of capture, statistics, and disposition of the cod, the 



62 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mackerel, the mullet, the alewife, and tlie smelt. Also another blank 
inviting- information as to the extent of tlie fisLery marine, tlie nature of 
the crews, the tonnage of the vessels, the apparat as used for capture, and 
other incidentals. For the puri>ose of collecting this information, Mr. 
Yinal Edwards, of Wood's Holl, an assistant of the commission, was 
detailed to visit the fishermen along Buzzard's Bay and Vineyard Sound 
and obtain the data which were needed for the various purposes refer- 
red to. This was found to supplement very satisfactorily the valuable 
body of statistics now being collected under the direction of the com- 
missioners of inland fisheries of Massachusetts. These gentlemen have 
been authorized by the legislature to require a report of the statistics in 
regard to the character and catch of all the pounds, weirs, and gill-nets 
in the commonwealth. 

The results of these several circulars will be published in full in future 
volumes of the report, and I take great pleasure in referring to the 
first of the series — namely, that upon menhaden, as x)repared by Mr. 
CJloode. This is a most exhaustive and comi^lete history of the subject 
in all its relationships, scientific, biological, and economical. It occupies 
520 pages, and is illustrated by 30 plates. It forms one of the same series 
with the exhaustive paper by Mr. Starbuck upon the whale fisheries, 
Ijublished in the fourth volume of the reports of the Commission. 

It is also proposed to direct special attention to the history of the 
Southein mullet. This fish in many respects represents and may be 
said to replace in the South the mackerel in the ^orth. It occurs in 
enormous numbers, indeed such as to permit its capture in even larger 
quantities than the mackerel, coming in shore to spawn in immense 
numbers in the autumn months. It is not at all improbable that a 
catch of half a million barrels could easily be made, and under circum- 
stances involving very nnich less expense and exposure than w^ould be 
needed for taking one-quarter that number of mackerel. It is caught 
abundantly all the way from Xorth Carolina southward into the Gulf ot 
JMexico, and is destined at no distant day to represent a very important 
element in the resources and business of the South. At present the 
methods of taking and curing the fish are very inferior to those prac- 
ticed in regard to the mackerel, and the fish is consequently less esteemed ; 
but it is not improbable that in time it will be found to occupy an almost 
equal rank as a food-fish, and a much more important one as an article 
of commerce. 

Another subject to which the attention of the Commission is being 
directed is a similar in<][uiry in regard to the lake herring, the white- 
fish, and the salmon trout, all of them species captured and cured in 
great quantities, and dividing with the mackerel and the cod the demand 
of the market. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Mr. William 11. Ball, for many years an associate of the Institution, 
in charge of its department of couchology and marine invertebrates gen- 



EEPORT OF THE SECTvETARY. 63 

erally, spent several months in 1878 in a visit to Europe, especially to 
the zoological museums and to the co-workers in his special department 
of research in Northern Europe. Acting as an accredited agent of the 
Smithsonian Institution, he was authorized to offer its services to special- 
ists in prosecuting their researches, and to invite exchanges of books 
and specimens. Many valuable alliances have been formed in conse- 
quence of this visit, and the Institution has had already the pleasure of 
supplying considerable material in response to calls for the same. 

Availing ourselves of a visit to France in 1878, by Mr. Thomas Don- 
aldson, whose services to the Institution during the Centennial Exhibi- 
tion had been of great value, that gentleman was requested to call on 
Mons. de la Batut, who had presented the Institution with relics of James 
Smithson, and procure from him all the information he could furnish rel- 
ative to the founder of this Institution. Mr. de la Batut is the half- 
brother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom the latter bequeathed his 
property, and in case of whose death it was to be devoted to founding 
the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Donaldson lisited Mr. de la Batut, 
and gathered from him a few facts of interest relative to Smithson, none 
of which, however, were entirely new. He also procured the tbllowing 
articles : 

1. An engraved portrait of Hugh Percy, Duke of Northumberland, 
father of James Smithson and of Col. Henry Louis Dickinson. 

2. A portrait of Henry James Dickinson, son of Col. Henry Louis 
Dickinson, the nephew and heir of Smithson. (Silhoutte i^roflle.) 

3. A paper in the handwriting of James Smithson, a copy of an article 
by an admiral on the cause of a shipwreck in the English channel. 

4. An inventory of the personal effects of James Smithson at the x)eriod 
of his death, made by the British consul at Genoa. 

5. An engraved visiting card bearing the inscription: "Henri de la 
Batut, Hotel Britannique, rue Louis le Grand, 20." 

0. Copy in wax of the seal of the de la Batut family. 

In addition to its irreparable loss in the death of its late Secretary, 
the Institution has also to lament that of a number of valued corre- 
sponelents. Among those to be first mentioned is Mr, Donahl Gunn, of 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, a veteran correspondent of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, one of the earliest of its meteorological observers, and one who 
for more than twenty years has 1)een a constant contributor of informa- 
tion and collections relating to the natural history of the Northwest. 

Mr. Gunn was a Scotchman by birth, and entered the service of the 
Hudson's Bay Company in 1813 ; but in 1823 resigned and establLshed 
himself in the Selkirk settlement in the Bed Eiver country, where he 
was for a long time a successful instructor of youth, and ultimately 
was appointed one of the judges of the court of petty sessions, holding 
that position for more than twenty years. He was also a member of the 
first legislative council of JManitoba, in 1871. 

As stated, the first connection of Mr. Gunn with the Smithsonian 



64 EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Institution was that of a meteorological observer. His long-coutinned 
observations of tiie weather are aiaoug the most reliable of those within 
its archives. His contributions of objects of natural history were still 
more important, embracing, as they did, nearlj* every branch in the 
various classes of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and luimerous 
collections in archceology and ethnology. Few reports of the Institu- 
tion since 1850 are without some reference to his ser\ices. 

In 18GG he made a special exploration, in behalf of the Institution, of 
the region west of Lake Winnipeg, spending considerable time in the 
vicinity of Shoal Lake and Lake Manitoba, in the course of which he 
collected large numbers of skins and eggs of birds ; among the latter, 
several previously entirely unknown in museums. Within a year cor- 
respondence was in progress with him in regard to the renewal of this 
exploration. 

The death of Mr. Gunn took place in the month of December, at the 
age of 81. It is understood that he has left behind him a minutely de- 
tailed journal of his experiences, and his relations to the colony in 
which he lived for over fifty years, which will doubtless be published 
on account of its great historical value. 

Hon. William jMcKinley, a valued correspondent of the Institution, 
who died on the 2d of May, 1878, was born in Abbeville District, South 
Carolina, in the year 1809 ; became a resident of Georgia in early life ; 
was educated at Franklin College, now the University of Georgia, where 
he was graduated ; entered the profession of law, served as a member of 
the Georgia legislature ; removed to Milledgeville, Ga., where he spent 
the remainder of his long and useful life in the active and extensive 
practice of his profession. He sought relaxation in other pursuits at 
times, none of which were more pleasing to him than the ethnological 
researches connected with that region, so rich in antiquarian remains, in 
which his life was sftent. He made, within the last few years, repeated 
contributions of aboriginal remains to the Smithsonian Institution, re- 
markable for their beauty and value. Mr. McKinley also contributed a 
valuable paper entitled "Mounds in Georgia" descriptive of aboriginal 
earthworks on the sea-coast, and of the celebrated Pyramid of Kolee 
Mokee in Early County, to the Smithsonian Eeport for 1872. Further 
additions of antiquities by Mr. McKinley are mentioned on page 82 of 
the Smithsonian Report of 1875; and at the time of his death, a still later 
collection was hi his possession, destined for the Smithsonian Institution. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Washington, Januartj, 1879. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIOXS AND SUEYEYS IN 1878. 

The following are brief accounts of the principal explorations of the 
government in 1878, from which specimens will be derived for increasing 
the collections of the National Museum. They are furnished by the sev- 
eral directors of the explorations : 

THE WORK OF THE UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL 
SURVEY OF THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE DIRECTION OF PROF. 
F. T. HAYDEN DURING THE SEASON OF 1878. 

The work of the survey was intrusted to four parties, viz : One for 
carrying on the primary triangulatioii ; two parties for geologic and 
topographic work; and a party for special geologic studies and photog- 
raphy. These were so organized that in case of necessity they could 
be divided for special duty. The field headquarters of the survey was 
at Cheyenne, Wyo., and the outlits and animals were transported via 
the Union Pacific Railroad to their points of departure. 

Geologij. — Dr. Hayden, the geologist in charge, accompanied the pho- 
tographic division, and the route pursued gave him an opi^ortunity t& 
secure a very accurate general knowledge of the geological structure of 
a large area. The Wind River Range proved one of remarkable interest. 
It has a trend about northwest and southeast, with a length of about 100' 
miles. On the west side all the sedimentary belts have been swept away, 
down to the Archaean, older than the AVahsatch, and the latter formation 
rests on the Arch^an rocks all along the base of the range, seldom in- 
clining more than 5° to 10°. On the east side of the range the seams 
of sedimentary formations usually known to occur in the northwest are 
exposed from the Potsdam sandstone, which rests upon the xlrchoean 
rocks, to the Cretaceous inclusive. 

Along the northwestern portion of the range the Wahsatch Group only 
is seen for some distance, but as we proceed down the Wind River 
Yalley the formations apjiear one after the other, until at the lower end 
the entire series is exposed. The Wind River Range may be regarded 
as originally a vast anticlinal, of which one side has been entirely 
denuded of the sedimentary, except the Middle Tertiary. On the same 
side of the range the morainal deposits and glaciated rocks are shown 
on a scale such as we have not known in any other portion of the West. 
Three genuine glaciers were discovered on the east base of Wind River 
and FrtMuont Peaks, the first known to exist east of the Pacitic coast. 
S. Mis. 59 5 C5 



GG APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The moraiiial deposits are also fouud ou a grand scale in the Snake 
Kiver Valley, ou the east side of the Teton Range. The numerous lakes 
have been the beds of glaciers, and the shores of the lakes are walled 
with uiorainal ridges. North of the Teton Mountains the prevailing 
rocks are of modern volcanic origin, and in the Yellowstone Park the 
hot springs and geysers are the later manifestations of the intense vol- 
canic activity that once existed. All these interesting features were 
studied with care, and the results will be elaborated for the twelfth an- 
nual report of the survey. 

Mr. W. H. Holmes acted as geologist to the secoud division. The 
first mouth of the season he wa^ with the fourth division, which pro- 
ceeded from Point of Rocks Station northward, along the west side of the 
Wind River Mountains, and up the Snake River Valley to the Yellow- 
stone Park, where he joined the second division. In the mean time he 
was engaged in making sketches, panoramic views, and geological sec- 
tions of the intermediate country, all of which will i)rove of the highest 
imi)ortance in illustrating the geological structure of this most interest- 
ing and complicated region. 

The latter part of the summer was spent in making detailed geological 
examinations in the district that includes the National Park. The greater 
portion of the park was found to be covered with somewhat uniform 
flows of the ordinary volcanic rocks. Features of more than ordinary 
geologic interest occur, however, along the northern border of the park 
district. Here a small belt, not more than 15 by Si) miles in extent, con- 
tains a fair epitome of the geology of the Rocky Mountain region. The 
whole series of formations from the earliest to the most recent are almost 
typically develoi^ed. The only marked irregularity in the succession of 
geologic events occurred during the great mountain-building period of 
the early Tertiary. After that followed a number of inferior oscillations 
of the surface, during which an extensive series of recent Tertiary and 
volcanic rocks were deposited. Connecting this ])eriod with the present 
are the deposits of a number of great lakes, which at the present time 
have their chief representative in Yellowstone Lake. 

The formations of the Tertiary period present features of more than 
ordinary interest. They consist of upward of 5,000 feet of strata which 
.are almost totally made up of fragmentary volcanic products. The whole 
period seems to have been one of unparalleled volcanic activity, the lat- 
ter i)art esi^ecially having yielded such immense quantities of ejecta that 
the strata are almost wholly breccias and conglomerates. These forma- 
tions are therefore so unlike those of corresi)ondingperiods in neighboring 
provinces that it is almost impossible, considering the absence of both 
vertebrate and invertebrate remains, to make satisf\ictory correlations. 
This difiiculty is increased by the fact that these formations have a much 
.greater elevation than those of any of the neighboring basins of the 
interior or eastern i)lains districts. They lie in a horizontal position, 
upon the eroded surfaces of the strata of precediug ages, at an eleva- 
tion of from 0,000 to 11,500 feet above the sea. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Gl 

A very extraordinary feature of these rocks is the occurrence of silici- 
fled forests which are found in situ not only at one liorizon but at a great 
number of horizons throughout a great part of the whole series. Fos- 
sil leaves found associated with the silicified forests near the middle of 
the series indicate the prevalence of a flora very closely related to that 
of the present time. They belong, according to Professor Lesquereux, 
to late Miocene or early Pliocene times. 

Among the many points of interest in the way of flowed volcanic 
rocks was the discovery and examination of extensive deposits of obsid- 
ian. In one locality upwards of 600 feet of obsidian strata occur, much 
of which is solid glass ; banded, sphernlitic, and brecciated varieties are 
interbedded with the more solid layers. A very extensive collection of 
these and other volcanic rocks was made. 

ifo workable beds of coal have been found within the park area, nor 
have any deposits of the i^recious metals been discovered. 

To Br. A. C. Peale and Mr. J. E. Mushbach was assigned the special 
investigation of the hot springs and geysers. Owing to the lateness of 
the season when the park was reached, and the early storms in Septem- 
ber, there was comparatively little time for work. About two months 
were spent by them in mapping and investigating the sjirings in the 
Shoshone Basin, Upper and Lower Fire-Hole Basins, Red Mountain 
Basin, Gibbon's Fork Basin, the Mammoth Hot Springs, and the Mud 
Springs localities of the Yellowstone River. 

Over 1,500 temperatures were recorded, and about 2,500 springs were 
mapped and notes taken for their description. Special attention was 
paid to the geysers and notes of their times of eruption and the heights 
reached by them were taken. 

Two of the geyser basins were almost unknown before and had never 
been described. The Gibbon's Fork Basin presented many features of 
interest, among which were the numerous varieties of the siliceous de- 
posits, many of them probably new to science. Water from important 
springs of the principal localities was brought in for future analysis. 
Notes were taken for mapping the different groups of springs on a large 
scale, so that hereafter they may enable the tourist to identify the in- 
dividual springs. Many new geysers were discovered and new points of 
interest in relation to the old ones obtained. 

Large collections of specimens were made and brought east. 

The notes of this division of the survey being largely statistical, the 
complete results of the work cannot be detailed until they are thor- 
oughly worked up. 

The following is a summary, by Mr. O. St. John, of the geological 
work prosecuted in the field assigned to the Wind River division : 

The region explored comprises a triangular area extending along tlie 
forty-third parallel from Salt River to the Wind River Valley, a distance 
of about 100 miles. The boundaries on either side converge, uniting 
near the parallel 13° 45'. It thus includes about half of the Wind River 



68 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Range and the contiuental water-slied north to Togwotee Pass, the Gros 
Ventre Mountains southeast of Jackson's Basin, and in the southwest 
the considerable area south of the Grand Canon of the Snake filled by 
the southern i)rolongation of the Snake River Mountains, or what is 
here known as the Wyoming- Range, in which latter quarter the work 
commenced. 

The approach was from the soutb up the valley of Green River, which 
forms a considerable basin area in the southern central portion of the 
district, and which is entirely filled with deposits of the age of the Ter- 
tiary. These decline basin wards on the three sides hemmed by the Wy- 
oming, Gros Ventre, and Wind River Mountains, attaining a thickness 
of several thousand feet. 

The northern end of the Wyoming Range was here found to consist 
of several quite well defined low ridges which reach the maximum of 
ruggedness in the Carboniferous barrier ridge on the western border 
along Salt River. To the east of this belt Hoback's River rises in a basin 
area south of the Gros Ventre Range, which, geologically, is part of the 
Green River Basin, the water-divide being merely a low ridge composed 
of the soft arenaceous Tertiary beds. The latter are here unconformably 
uplifted on the border of the Hoback Caiion ridge, the easternmost of 
the Wyoming Range, and which is made up of Carboniferous and Meso- 
zoic formations occupying a synclinal, either border of which apprars 
iu the monoclinal crests on the east and west sides of this ridge. 

A tributary of the Hoback on the w^est of the canon ridge flows 
through a valley which penetrates southwards nearly to the southern 
border of the district. In this vicinity the western crest of the Hoback 
Canon ridge shows an anticlinal structure, the Carboniferouson the west 
flank being succeeded by the Trias, Jura, and Cretaceous, and finally a 
heavy series of sandstones and variegated arenaceous shales which prob- 
ably pertain to the Laramie. The latter stretch across the valley, (lip- 
ping westwardly, and impinge on the next west-lying mountain ridge, 
which is also composed of Carboniferous strata, abruptlj^ tilted and 
faulted, with downthrow on the east. Inclining off the west slope of 
this ridge the same series of geological formations are met with as men- 
tioned abov^e, the later-formed showing subor<linate folds and making up 
the bulk of the highland to the west which has been carved into a ^ery 
broken belt by the erosion of the eastern tributaries of John Gray's 
River and the gorges descending to the Snake. lU'yond tliis nearly the 
same stratigraphic;il and structural features r(^cur in tlie more bulliy 
ridge which occu])ies the interval extending over to Salt River, viz, 
westerly dipping Mesozoic and Post-Cretaceous deposits, in!])inging 
against the faulted Carboniferous in the ridge <»n tiie west. 

In the latter region much information was gained relative to the 
identity in stratigraphical and structural elements that subsist here and 
in the cluster of mountains culminating in Mount Baird north of the 
Grand Canon. The whoh^ region here referred to proved to be exceed- 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. G9 

ingly rough, but witli redeeming valley spaces abounding in good graz- 
ing, while the hills are quite well wooded with coniferous forests. 

The southern flank of the Gros Ventre Mountains was traversed from 
a point near where the Hoback's CaQon ridge first approaches this range, 
thence east to the broad depression separating it from the northern 
portion of the Wind Kiver Eange. In the west the culminating peak 
rises into a bared Archaean cone, the primal rocks occurring at one or 
two points farther east, where they have been laid bare in the deeper 
caiious which all the streams penetrating the mountains from this side 
have excavated. But for the most part this mountain front is heavily 
plated with Pala?ozoic formations, iucludiug the Potsdam quartzite^ 
Quebec limestones, the magnesian limestone, and the still heavier series 
of Carboniferous limestones and saudstones, which latter forms the mass 
of the eastern i)ortion of the range over to the divide at the head of 
water flowing into Green EiA'cr. The Palseozoic rocks have been up- 
lifted into great folds, with abrupt inclination on the southerly flanks, 
contrasting with long declivities in the opposite direction, on which side 
the range loses much of its rugged, imposing character. Here and there 
patches of Mesozoic appear low in the south-side mountain flank, suc- 
ceeded by the unconformable Tertiary beds descending into theHoback 
and Green Eiver Basins. In some of the larger cahon mouths interest- 
ing exhibitions of morainal and other glacial phenomena were first met 
with. 

The work in the Wind Eiver Mountains was commenced towards the 
northern end on the west side, and thence carried southwards, circum- 
stances compelling a rapid march round via South Pass to Camp Brown, 
from which point the work was prosecuted northwards along the east 
ern flank of the range. 

In the vicinity of Green Eiver Caiion, on the west side of the Wind 
Eiver Eange for a few miles, the outer barrier of the mountains preserves 
a remnant of the Paleozoic formations. These deposits are very similar 
to the corresponding formations in the Gros Ventre Mountains, and 
identical with the much more extensive occurrence of strata of that era 
on the east side of the range. They have been lifted high up on the 
mountain with minor undulations, and, as seen from the open basin to 
the southwest, they have the appearance of curving round the extremity 
of the range. But the latter appearance was found to be deceptive, the 
Archaean soon reappearing in the outer slope to the north of Green 
Eiver Caiion, and thence continuing until all the more ancient rock 
series is hidden by the Cenozoic and Post-Tertiary accumulations at the 
northern end of the range. 

The brief visit paid to the summit of this portion of the Wind Eiver 
Mountains aftbrded what is to the student of American geology a field 
of greatest interest in the existence here of li\ing glaciers. The snow- 
fields were found to be much more extensive than was surmised from 
the distant views of the summit, and the ice-filled gorges, especially on 



70 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the east side at tbe sources of Torrey's Creek, presented most interesting 
examples of many of the associated phenomena connected with the gla- 
cier. But compared with their former extent these are but the merest 
vestiges of the ice masses which flowed down and polished the canon- 
walls of all the drainage courses which penetrate the range, and in the 
amount of glaciation and the piled-up debris strewn along the sides of 
the debouching valleys something like an adequate conception of their 
former extent and comparatively recent dissipation may be formed. 

A few miles south of the canon of Green Eiver the older sedimenta- 
ries have been entirely removed from the mountain border, the Tertiary 
coming in contact with the bared Archaean rocks. Such are the 
geologic features to the southern border of the district, and probably, 
indeed, throughout the west flank to the extreme southern terminus at 
South Pass. 

The eastern flank of this range was found to possess a much more ex- 
tensive area occupied by the Palieozoic formations, which, for the most 
part, are simply upraised, forming so many more or less well-marked in- 
clined benches. The most recent of these is composed of the Carbon- 
iferous, preceded by the magnesian limestone, Quebec limestone, and 
primordial quartzites, which lithologically, and in the topographic fea- 
tures molded out of them, bear close resemblance to the west flank of 
the Teton Mountains. At no point were the Trias and later Mesozoic 
formations found rising to any considerable elevation on the mountain 
border ; on the contrary their presence marks the boundary between 
the orographic and basin areas. The latter formations present in a gen- 
eral way typical lithologic features characterizing their occurrence in 
the region to the west, with however many and in some respects some- 
Avhat strongly contrasted local stratigraphic peculiarities. The "red 
beds" of the Trias exhibit enormous local accumulations of massive and 
laminated gypsum, and the Cretaceous here contains seams of coal 
which will become of economic value. 

In the Wind Eiver Basin the unconformable Tertiary occupies the 
interval reaching over to the Owl Creek ^lountains to the northeast. 
The border of this basin along the foot of the Wind Eiver Mountains 
presents some extraordinary spring deposits of very modern date in 
places incorporated with the gravel deposits occurring in terraces at 
the foot of the mountains. Many, perhaps tlie majority, of the spring 
sources have become extinct; but a few remain, evidently but feeble as 
compared with their former volume, but which have built up quite ex- 
tensive deposits of calcareous tufa. Some of the older deposits present 
much the appearance of porous limestones forming extensive benches in 
the mountain's foot. The presence of these deposits in some of the 
cafions on this side of the mountains is associated with the most pictur- 
esque scenery. All the streams that rise high up in the mountains 
were formerly the beds "of extensive glaciers which built up the great 
morainal ridges, like those which border the debouchiu^es of the Little 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71 

Wiud Eiver, Bull Lake, DiiiwicUlie, and Torrey's Forks, only less ex- 
tensive accumulations of glacial materials than those found along- the 
west border of the range. 

In the water-shed extending northward from the northern end of the 
Wiud Eiver Kange extensive arenaceous deposits of modern-looking 
Tertiary age but slightly disturbed, are met with, and which evidently 
form uninterrui)ted connection with the Wind Eiver Tertiaries on the 
one hand and the deposits which occui^y so large area east of Jackson's 
Basin on the other. In the latter quarter, in the Mount Leidy high- 
lands, and along the upper courses of the main tributaries of the Gros 
Ventre, in lower strata of the same series, extensive developments of 
lignite were met with, the special investigation of which was undertaken 
by 3Ir. Perry. In still more ancient horizons other lignitic seams were 
found which, together with those just mentioned, render this one of the 
most important coal-i)roduciug areas as yet discovered in this region. 

In the latter region the lignitic and older mesozoic formations within 
a narrow belt at the northern foot of the Gros Ventre Mountains have 
been thrown into a series of sharj) j)arallel folds. To the northeast the 
Tertiaries dip, with gradually slackening inclinatiou, until they pass be- 
neath the volcanic mantle in the vicinity of Togwotee Pass ; on the op- 
posite side the older Mesozoics as uniformly rise up on the flank of the 
Gros Ventre Mountains, whose northern crest reveals the regular 
courses of the Carboniferous limestone which in i)laces preserves a cop- 
ing of the Triassic " red beds." 

During the last two months the expedition encountered much in- 
clement weather, embarrassing the prosecution of the field-work; aud 
on its arrival in the region of JMount Leidy and Buffalo Fork, about the 
middle of October, it was overtaken bj' the early snows of winter, which 
virtually closed the field-work for the season. 

Paleontology. — So large an amount of i^aleontological material hr.d 
accumulated during the previous years that its critical study became 
necessary for the purpose of aiding in the elucidation of certain problems 
in structural geology which had arisen in the prosecution of the field- 
work. Dr. C. A. White, paleontologist to the survey, therefore deyoted 
the whole season of 187S to this work at the ofiice, instead of takijng the 
field as he did the previous season. The work which thus engaged his 
attention embraces the preparation of a detailed report of his field work 
for 1877, including the discussion of important questions conne(;t<^d with 
it, the preparation of a large number of new fossil invertebrates for 
publication and illustration, and the illustration of all the types of 
species in the collections of the survey which the late Mr. F. B. Meek 
had described, but not illustrated. 

Besides the collections made ])y the various parties of the survey, 
others have from time to time been received from several persons not 
ofiicially connected with it, from ditterent parts of the western portion of 
the national domain. The investigation of these collections brings out 



72 APPENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

some interesting facts concerning- tlie geograpliical distribution of tyi^es, 
especially those of marine Cretaceous invertebrates. Among the more 
interesting results of Dr. White's investigations is the recognition of a 
Triassic fauna in the rocks of Southeastern Idaho. This is of especial 
interest as being the first discovery of distinctively Triassic invertebrate 
types in the West, east of those now well known to exist in the Pacific 
coast region; and also on account of the close relationship of these 
types with those of the Middle Trias of Euroi^e, while those of the 
Pacific coast represent the Upper Trias. 

Frimary triangulation. — The prhnary triangulation of 1878 was ex- 
tended northward from that of 1877 which was begun at Eawlins, Wyo., 
where it connected with the system of triangulation of the survey of the 
fortieth parallel. 

The triangulation party, in charge of Mr. A. D. Wilson, left the Union 
Pacific Eailroad at Point of Eocks, Wyo., on July 28. They traveled 
northward to the western base of Wind Eiver Eange, where their Avork 
began. In this range two stations were made, on Wind Eiver and Fre- 
mont's Peaks. 

Traveling westward from the base of this range, they crossed the head 
of Green Eiver Basin, and, threading the canon of Hoback's Eiver, they 
reached the Snake at the head of its canon. 

They followed this stream up to the eastern base of the Grand Teton, 
where, finding it impracticable to ascend this mountain from the east, 
they crossed to Pierre's Hole by way of the Teton Pass. From this, the 
west side, the peak was found to be more accessible, and Mr. Wilson 
succeeded in reaching, with his instruments, a secondary summit 100 to 
200 feet lower than the main crest, and distant from it about 400 feet. 
He reported the true summit to be practically inaccessible. 

From Pierre's Hole the party next went northwest to SaAvtelle's Peak, 
near Henry's Lake, in Eastern Idaho. On the night following the as- 
cent of this mountain, all the animals belonging to the party were stolen 
by Bannock Indians, leaving the party afoot, at least 100 miles from 
the nearest settlement. 

After carefully caching their instruments, the party made their way on 
foot across arid plateaus to the Geyser Basins, where they met the par- 
ties of Messrs. Gannett and Jackson. With their aid, and the kind as- 
sistance of Mr. James Eccles, an English gentleman who, with a party 
of his own, was visiting the country, Mr. Wilson was again fitted out, 
his instruments having in the mean time been recovered, and his work 
went on with but little delay. 

His next station was Mount Sheridan, the highest jieak of the Eed 
JVIouutains, in the southern part of the Yellowstone National Park. 
Thence he visited Electric Peak, near the northern boundary of the 
l)ark, and the highest summit within its limits. The well-known Mount 
• Washburn was his next station, and from that mountain he went south- 
ward, passing around Yellowstone Lake and vq) the Upper Yellowstone, 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ,73 

intending to make a station on a high peak of the Yellowstone Eange, 
near the head of the latter stream. The snow, however, which had 
been accnmulating for a month in that high mountain region, had be- 
come at that time (about the end of September) so deep that it was im- 
possible to do any more work. Indeed, it had accumulated so in the 
])asses about the heads of the Upper Yellowstone, Snake, and Wind 
Elvers, that the party found dithculty in getting their animals over 
them. Finally, however, the party reached the head of Wind Eiver, 
and thence traveled to Eawlins, Wyo., on the Union Pacihc Eaiiroad, 
where they were dislianded. 

Topography. — To the party in charge of Mr. Henry Gannett was in- 
trusted the work of making a detailed survey of the Yellowstone Park, 
with extended study of the phenomena of the hot springs and geysers. 
]\Ir. W. H. Holmes was detailed as geologist of this division, while to 
Dr. A. 0. Peale was intrust?ed the study of the hot springs and geysers, 
Mr. Gannett undertaking the secondary triangulation and topography 
of the park, and his assistant, Mr. J. E. Mushbach, the detailed survey 
of the geyser basins and other groups of springs. 

The party left Granger Station, Wyo., on July 28; drove up Green 
Eiver to the head of the basin; thence down the rugged defile of Ho- 
back's Eiver to the Snake, and up the Snake to its forks at the south 
boundary of the Yellowstone Park. 

Turning westward at this point, they spent a few days in surveying 
Pall Eiver and its afduents, then returned to the Shoshone Geyser Ba- 
sin at the west end of Shoshone Lake. Here the party was joined by 
]\rr. Holmes, who up to that time had accompanied Dr. Hayden in the 
Wind Eiver and Teton ]Mountains. 

Lea\ing the body of the party in permanent camp at the Shoshone 
Geyser Basin, Messrs. Holmes and Gannett visited the Eed Mountains 
and the country south of Yellowstone Lake. On their return from this 
trip, which occupied a Aveek, the party, re-enforced by that of Mr. Jack- 
son, moved across the divide to the Upper Geyser Basin, near the head 
of the Madison (Fire Hole) Eiver. Here Dr. Peale and IMr. Mushbach 
were left to carry on their work, while the party continued on down the 
Fire Hole Eiver to the Lower Geyser Basin. Thence they crossed to the 
Yellowstone Eiver via Howard's road, and continued down that river 
to tbe Mammoth Hot Springs on Gardiner's Eiver, where the supplies 
for the season were stored. 

Eetitted with provisions, the party returned up the Yellowstone as 
far as the mouth of its east fork, which they ascended nearly to its head 
in the ragged Yellowstone Eange; then crossed a high, rolling divide 
to l^elicau Creek, a tributary to Yellowstone Lake. Following this 
stream down they reached Yellowstone Lake at its northeastern corner, 
skirted its eastern shore to its head, and traveled several miles up the 
Upper Yellowstone Eiver ; thence they returned to the foot of the lake 
and followed the river down to the Mammoth Hot Springs, arrixing 
there about October first. 



74 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

Starting a second time from tlie spring's, the party traveled south- 
ward to tlie headwaters of Gardiner's Eiver and Gibbon's Fork of the 
Fire Hole, following the road recently cut by Colonel Norris, superin- 
tendent of the Yellowstone National Park, from the Mammoth Springs 
to the Geyser Basins. Having completed their work in this direction, 
they spent a few days in studying the south end of the Gallatin Eange, 
which separates the waters of the Yellowstone from those of the Gal- 
latin, and then returned to the Mammoth Spr>ngs; whence, having been 
joined by Messrs. Peale and Mushbach, they went to Bozeman, Mont., 
where the party disbanded. 

The above is a sketch of the route of travel of the party. From it 
the geologist and topographer branched off widely, thus covering the 
country between the routes of travel. 

The area embraced in this survey is about 3,500 square miles, of which 
material for a map on a scale of one mile to an inch was secured. In 
prosecution of the work of secondary triangulation and topograi>hy 47 
stations were made, from which 2,100 horizontal and 500 vertical angles 
were measured. Altogether 370 points were located, an average of 1 in 
9| square miles ; 230 observations for height were made with the mer- 
curial barometer, and 100 with the aneroid. 

Material for maps in detail of all localities of special interest was col- 
lected. Among these may be mentioned the well-known Geyser Basins, 
on the Fire Hole, the Shoshone Geyser Basin, the fine group of springs 
at Heart Lake, and those on Gibbon's Fork discovered by Colonel N or- 
ris, the Mammoth Si)riugs on Gardiner's Kiver, the Mud Geysers on tlie 
Y^ellowstone, and others. The heights of all important waterfalls were 
determined by measurement with the tape-line, and thus the vexed ques- 
tion of the height of the Yellowstone Lower Falls was definitely settled. 

The area occupied by the Yellowstone Park has a great elevation, 
ranging in the flat country from 0,500 feet to 9,000, while its mountain 
peaks reach heights of 11,000 feet. Its mean elevation is about 8,000 
feet. Within this elevated region head three large rivers, the IMadison 
and Yellowstone, which flow ofl" northward to join the Missouri, and the 
Snake, or Lewis Fork of the Columbia, which at first has a southerly 
course. The greater part of the Park is a rolling jflateau, broken here 
and there by small groups of mountains, as the Bed Mountains and the 
"VYashburu Group. East of the Yellowstone Eiver, separating its drain- 
age from that of the Big Horn, is a high, rugged, volcanic range, whose 
peaks reach 11,000 to 12,000 feet. This range was, in 1871, named 
"Yellowstone Eange" by Dr. Hayden. 

Excepting a narrow belt in the northern i^art, this park is everywhere 
heavily timbered. Indeed, with the exception of Washington Territory 
and the western i)ortion of Oregon, it is the most densely timbered area 
in the West. There is practically no arable land within its limits owing 
to its great altitude, and, except along its northern border, little open 
country suitable for pasturage. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 75 

The heavy growth of timber indicates and fosters a comparatively 
moist climate. The park is a region of lakes and swampy tracts, of 
springs, and abundant perennial streams. The summer season is short. 
While frosts may be expected any night in the >'ear, the winter holds 
until June and commences again in September. July and August 
usually aflbrd fine but cool w^eather, with cold nights; but September 
brings frost and snow. 

The third division, under Mr. F. A. Clark, surveyed the Wind Eiver 
Mountains, a portion of the Wyoming Eange, the Gros Ventre liange, 
■with a large area in the Snake Eiver Valley. Mr. Clark made 31 gradi- 
enter stations and 15 compass stations. The area lies between latitude 
43° and 44° and longitude 109° 15' and 111°. This includes the upper 
portion of the Wind Eiver Mountains, with portions of the Wyommg 
Eange, the Gros Ventre Eange, and portions of the Shoshone Mount- 
ains and the Owl Creek Eange ; also the sources of Green Eiver, Hoback 
Basin, and upper waters of Wind Eiver. Mr. St. John acted as geolo- 
gist and Mr. N. W. Perry as mineralogist to this party. Their reports 
will prove of general interest. Mines of gold, silver, iron, and vast beds 
of gypsum, as well as many other minerals, were found. 

Photography. — In the prosecution of the field-work of the survey dur- 
ing the past season a photographic division was again put in operation, 
after an interval of two years, under the leadership of Mr. W. H. Jack- 
son, who has been connected with the survey as its i^hotographer during 
the i)ast nine years. 

Leaving Point of Eocks, on the Union Pacific Eailroad, on July 24, 
the first points of interest were reached on the western flank of the 
Wind Eiver Mountains. Two side trips, undertaken in connection with 
Mr. AVilson, in charge of the priraarj- triaugulatio.i, were made to the 
crest of the range, and some grand views of that remarkable region 
were obtained. From the summit of Fremont's Peak views w ere made 
of an immense glacier now occupying its eastern slope. Fine views 
w^ere also obtained of the great glaciated plateau lying between the 
plains and the crest of the range. 

Proceeding next to the vicinity of the Grand Tetons, lying to the east 
of the headwaters of the Snake Eiver, several magnificent views of the 
remarkable range in which they occur were made fi'om the neighborhood 
of Jackson's Lake. 

Eeaching Shoshone Lake the 18th of August, the entire month follow- 
ing was devoted exclusively to photographing the remarkable phenomena 
connected with the hot springs and geysers of the various basins within 
the Park. Especial attention was paid to the almost unknown but ex- 
ceedingly interesting features of the new Shoshone and Eed Mountain 
Basins. The ''Fire Hole" and "Mammoth Hot Spring" Basins were 
again gone over, and the experience derived from the work done here in 
former years shows its benefits in the remarkably eftectiv<i views obtained 
this season. At this latter basin many detailed as well as general views 



76 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

were made with especial reference to the future production of an exact 
model in plaster of the whole group. 

On the homeward route, which was by the way of the Upper Yellow- 
stone, across the headwaters of the Snake to the Wind River and thence 
via Camp Brown to the railroad, a number of very effective views were 
made, particularly about the Grand Falls and the canon of the Yellow- 
stone. At the Yellowstone Lalie some very fine views were made, but 
that region was not completed, in consequence of a prolonged snow-storm. 

At the Togwotee Pass some characteristic views were obtained of the 
remarkable breccia mountains, whose castellated forms adorn that por- 
tion of the continental divide, and also some of the curious '"bad lands" 
farther down on Wind River. The season's work closed at Camp BroAvu, 
where portraits and groups were made of the Bannock prisoners in con- 
finement at that post. 

A brief summing up of the season's operations of three months, much 
of which time was characterized by extremely inclement weather, shows 
an increase to the already very extensive collection of the survey, of 45 
negatives 11 by 14 inches in size, and 110 of smaller ones, 5 by 8. 

Publications.— During the year 1878 the publications of the United 
States Geological Survey have been numerous and important, yielding 
in no respect to those of any previous year, and fully sustaining the 
reputation this organization has acquired for the ])rompt and lull exhibit 
of its operations. Eleven separate publications have appeared and others 
have been brought to a forward state of preparation. 

Perhaps the most important of these as a contribution to pure science 
is the seventh volume of the quarto reports. This is Prof. Leo Lesque- 
reux's beautiful monograph, " The Tertiary Flora," forming a compan- 
ion volume to the same author's " Cretaceous Flora," which latter con- 
stitutes the sixth volume of the series. It consists of nearly 400 pages, 
and is illustrated with 65 x)lates. 

A further contribution to the fossil floi-a- of the West has been made 
in the publication of 20 plates, entitled " Illustrations of the Cretaceous 
and Tertiary Plants of the Western Territories of the United States " 
This volume consists only of the plates and explanatory text, the fnil 
report upon the subject being deferred. 

The regular annual report of progress for the year 187G, being the 
tenth of this series, appeared during the past year. This makes a vol- 
ume of about 550 pages, illustrated with 79 plates and various wood- 
cuts. There has also been issued in pamphlet form the preliminary re- 
port of operations for 1878, in advance of the regular report for that 
year. 

The Miscellaneous Publications' Series has been continued during the 
year by the issue of oSTos. 10 and 11. Miscellaneous Publication No. 10 
consists of a Bibliography of North American Invertebiate Paleontology, 
prepared by Dr. C. A. White and Prof. II. Alleyue Nicholson. Miscel- 
laneous Pirblication No. 11 is entitled " The Birds of the Colorado Val- 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 77 

ley," and consists of Part First of an extensive work upon I^orth Ameri- 
can Oi nitbology, by Dr. Elliott Cones, U. S. A. Both these treatises 
have become indispensable to the students of the special branches of 
which they respectively treat. 

The Bulletins of the survey have appeared during the year with the 
usual regularity, the four numbers issued in 1878 forming volume IV. This 
publication is nosv established as a regular annual serial, and the pres- 
ent volume, like its predecessors, contains articles on a wide range of 
scientific topics embraced within the general scope of the operations of 
the survey. 

The United States Entomological Commission, conducted under tlie 
auspices of thit* survey, has during the year issued its first annnal re- 
port, as an octavo volume of nearly 800 pages, with plates and wood- 
cuts. It is devoted to the subject of the Eocky Mountain Locust, and 
contains a full exhibit of the results secured by the commission ap- 
pointed to investigate that important iiroblem. 

UNITED STATES GEOGRAPHICAL SURVEYS WEST OF THE ONE HUN- 
DREDTH MERIDIAN, IN CHARGE OF FIRST LIEUT. GEORGE M. 
WHEELER, CORPS OF ENGINEERS, UNITED STATES AR3IY. 

The work duriug 1878 was performed by nine main parties and three 
astronomical parties, which operated in the States of California, Colo- 
rado, ]!:^evada, Oregon, and Texas, and Arizona, New Mexico, and Vv^ash- 
ington Territories. Forty-six observers took the field, leaving a small 
force at the Washington office engaged in the preparation of maps and 
reports. The astronomical parties, in charge of Professor T. F. Salford, 
at the Ogden Observatory, Mr. J. H. Clarke in the California sections, 
and Mr. Miles Bock in the Colorado section, made observations at 
Walla- Walla, Washington Territory ; the Dalles, Oregon; Fresno, Cali- 
fornia ; Fort Bliss, Texas ; and Fort Bayard, New Mexico, connecting 
with Ogden as the initial meridian. 

In California, topographical parties occu])ied points in the Cascade 
Mountains and ranges to the eastward within the Great Interior Basin 
extending towards the Blue Ridge, reconnoitring a large area. Opera- 
tions were carried southward from Lake Tahoe along the Sierra Nevada, 
one party occui)ying the White IMountain Bange and connecting with 
the triangulation which joins the astronomical station at Austin, Nevada,- 
A contour survey of the Washoe mining region was comj^leted, and 
numerous details gathered relating to the operations of the vertical and 
meridional sections of the lodes. 

Work for completing the topography of the section between Sierra 
Neviida and Cascade Ranges was also carried on. From the southern 
end of the Sierra Nevada a party transferred from the Utah section 
connected with the work of 1S75 from Los Angeles east and nortli. and 
operated along the Coast Range to latitude oO^ 30' N. - 

In Colorado, one party, following the Rio Grande northward, lilled in 



78 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

details of new routes of communication and of incomplete meanders, 
and Tvas further employed upon detailed work. A detachment mean- 
dered north and westward from the Eio Grande at Los Lanos, opposite 
Fort McEae, through the basin of the Little Colorado to Camp Apache, 
Arizona, and thence eastward again to the Eio Grande, making mean- 
ders of considerable precision along three natural routes of communica- 
tion from the drainage basins of the Gila Salt Eiver and Colorado Chi- 
quito to the Eio Grande. 

Another party extended the triangulation southward to connect with 
astronomical station at Fort Bliss, Texas; also connecting with the 
astronomical monument of the Mexican Boundary Survey at E»l Paso, 
Texas, and the monument on that part of the boundary-line on the west- 
ern bank of the Eio Grande. 

The following list shows the number of the principal observations 
made : 

Sextant latitude stations 90 

Bases measured. 5 

Triangles about bases measured 64 

Main triangulation stations occupied 62 

Secondary triangulation stations occupied 21 

Miles measured on meanders 10, 298 

Cistern barometer stations occupied 1, 141 

Aneroid barometer stations occupied 7, 057 

Magnetic variations observed , 165 

Mining camps visited 12 

Mineral and thermal sjirings noted 20 

The estimated area occupied by the survey during the season, includ- 
ing main triangulation and i^reliminary reconnaissance work, was 35,000 
square miles. The area from which detailed topographical data were 
gathered sufficient for a map, on a scale of one inch to four miles, was 
approximately 27,500 miles. 

Besides the topographical work, one party in the Colorado section Avas 
devoted entirely to geological examination, under the charge of Pro- 
fessor J. J. Stevenson, assisted by Mr. J. C. Eussell. Its area of opera- 
tions was along the Spanish ranges between the Eio Grande and Cana- 
dian Eivers, in the northern i^art of New Mexico, where its labors were 
greatly facilitated by the use of the completed topographical maps. The 
section of the liguitic group was worked out, and twenty-six beds of lig- 
iiitic coal were recognized as present at most localities within the area 
where the horizon was reached. Much labor was bestowed upon a study 
of the axes, the structure of which was found to be exceedingly comrdi- 
cated, requiring further detailed examination. Quite large collections 
were made of igneous rocks and fossils, about three hundred s])ecimens 
of the former being obtained from seventy localities, forming a complete 
series illustrating the lithology of the injected dikes, volcanic overflows, 
and extinct craters of the region. 

The fossils, numbering over thirteen hundred specimens, are from 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79 

rocts of the Carboniferous age, from Cretaceons strata, ISTos. 2, 3, and 
4, and from overlying beds of the Lignitic group. 

From the Carboniferous formation, about seven hundred specimens 
were obtained ; from the Cretaceous, five hundred, ilhistrating its in- 
vertebrate fauna ; and from the coal-bearing Lignitic group, resting on 
the black shales of Cretaceous stratum Ko. 4, about two hundred speci- 
mens of fossil leaves. 

Zoological collections were mainly made by the party operating from 
IS^orthern California northward, and illustrate the zoology of the area 
extending from Camji Bidwell, California, to the Columbia Eiver, Ore- 
gon. To this party IMr. H. W. Henshaw was attached as naturalist. 
The collection made comprises upwards of three hundred specimens of 
birds, specimens of fishes from most of the lakes and streams encoun- 
tered , with Lepidoptera, OftJioptera, and numerous reptiles and Batra- 
chians. 

The field season ended early in December. The work of this survey 
has now covered, since its commencement in 1859, connected areas 
reaching from the Columbia Eiver on the north to the Mexican border, 
and from the 100th meridian, near Fort Dodge, to the Pacific Coast, near 
Los Angeles, an area now exceeding 350,000 square miles. 

The publications during the year are as folio vvs : Vol. II, quarto series, 
Astronomy and Barometric Hypsometry ; "A Catalogue of 2,018 Stars, 
for Latitude Work West of the Mississippi," and ten of the regular atlas- 
sheets. Vol. VI, quarto series, was in stereotype at the close of 1878 ; 
a " List of Distances, Positions, Altitudes," &c., was well advanced in 
printing ; and Vols. I and VII, of the quarto series, awaited the appear- 
ance of Vol. VI. Seventeen atlas-sheets, also from work i)rior to 1878, 
are in various stages of i)rogress. 

GEOGRAPHICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE ROCKY^ MOUNT- 
AIN REGION, BY PROF. J. ^Y. POWELL. 

The labors of this survey have been continued during 1878. From 
the return of the field-parties in the autumn of 1877 till July, 1878, the 
entire cori)s remained in Washington, preparing the results of the field- 
work for publication. In July, 1878, a division was sent to the field, 
but a force was also retained at Washington to continue the ethno- 
graphic work, and to complete and edit certain unfinished reports. 

The oiScL'-work thus acquired an exceptional importance as comi)ared 
with the field-work, which, for the season of 1878, was placed in charge 
of Mr. C. K. Gilbert, his principal assistants being Messrs. J. H. Een- 
shaw, O. D. Wheeler, and S. II. Bodfish. 

Taking the field at Gunnison, Utah, in the early part of August, the 
work was carried on by four independent parties till the middle of De- 
cember, when the advance of winter made it necessary to disband them. 

The Kanab base-line, four and one-third miles long, has been care- 



80 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

fully remeasiired, with a probable error of 1.5 inclies, as well as tlie 
southern portion of the chain of triangles connecting it with the Gun- 
nison base-line. The main change of triangnlation, consisting of eight 
quadrilaterals, one triangle, and one pentagon, is now ready for discus- 
sion. At each end of the chain a base-line has been measured, and an 
astronomical determination has been made of latitude, longitude, and 
azimuth. The most southerly points visited were Mount San Francisco 
and Mount Floyd, volcanic peaks on the (Colorado plateau south of 
Grand Canon. Southern Utah is not w^ell adapted for triangnlation. 
Its principal eminences are table-lands or plateaus covered with timber, 
there being very few sharj) peaks readily distinguishable from all direc- 
tions. 

The work of Mr. Eenshaw's party, with plane-table and orograph, em- 
braces all of the region lying south of the Grand Caiion in sections 105 
and 100, covering about 7,500 square miles. This field comijrised a 
portion of what is known as the Colorado Plateau, a high table-land 
lying immediately south of the Colorado Eiver, which there runs west- 
wardly at the bottom of a deep chasm. On the southern edge of the 
plateau there are innumerable extinct volcanoes, the ground being 
covered by a forest of pine, the most valuable tract of timber in Arizona. 
The northern edge is lower, and is bare of timber. Kear the Colorado 
Caiaon it is broken by gorges, and is difficult of access, but in other 
directions there is little impediment to travel. Water is scarce, and is 
found only in pockets and small springs, there being none available for 
irrigation. The only wealth of the country lies in timber and grass. 
West of the plateau, Mr. Eenshaw's map includes a portion of Hualapai 
Valley and the adjacent mountains. This region is almost an absolute 
desert, water being so scarce that in some places it is sold by the gallon. 
Agriculture is out of the question, and there is no timber. Grazing is 
practicable to a limited extent. The only important industry, present or 
prospective, is mining, and only the richest of the numerous gold and 
silver deposits can now be worked with profit, owing to the remoteness 
of all sources of supplies. 

Mr. Wheeler worked with iilane-table and orograph in the western 
half of the region comprised by atlas-sheet oSTo. lOG, and estimates his 
total area at 5,000 square miles. Through the centre of his district there 
runs from nortli to south a natural barrier called the Echo Cliff. The 
escarpment faces westward, and the plateau at the west of it is 1,000 
feet lower than that to the eastward. The eastern plateau is a broad 
desert of sand, scantily watered, and useful only for grazing purj^oses. 
The western plateau is equally barren and worthless, but presents more 
variety of surfiice. A portion consists of naked "bad lands," soft strata 
carved by the elements into hills of picturesque beauty, and tinted with 
a variety of brilliant colors which warrant the title of Painted Desert, 
bestowed by Lieutenant Ives. Another portion is extremely rocky, and 
divided by a net-work of impassable caiions. Through this region runs 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

the Little Colorado Eiver, a stream of considerable magnitude, but, on 
account of the cliaracter of its banks, of no service to agriculture. Echo 
Cliff is interrupted at one point by a cross-line of drainage, and there 
are a few springs available for farming. jSTo other spot invites settle- 
ment. Maps, on a scale of four miles to one inch, show the geography 
of the entire region embraced in the survey of Major Powell ; a map 
is also under construction intended to represent the distribution of the 
various tribes of Indians when first discovered by Europeans. 
S. Mis. 59 G 



82 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Tahle sJiowinfj the numher of entries in the record-hoohs of the United States 
National Museum at the close of the years 1877 and 1878, respectively. 



Class. 


1877. 


1878. 


Jlamnials . . - 


12, 838 
17, 523 

9, 500 
20, 864 
15, 877 
17, 500 

2, 324 

100 

30, 721 

3, 229 

7,906 
20, 135 
30, 883 


13, 069 

76, 666 




Reptiles and. ainpliibiaua. . .. .. .... 


10, 015 


Fishes .- 


22, 000 


Skeletons and skulls .. . .. . 


16, 155 


£"■"■8 . .. . ... -. .. 


17, 791 
2, 324 




Annelids ... . .... . .... . 


ICO 


Mollusks 


31, 268 


Radiates .- 


3, 230 


Invertebrate fossils .. .. . . ... . ... . 


8, 020 


ilinerals 


20, 135 


Etliuoloo^ical specimens . . 


34, 600 






Total 


245, 400 


255, 373 


Increase for 1878 


9, 973 









Approximate tahle of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 

1878. 



Class. 



Skeletons and skulls. 

Mammals 

Birds *... 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Xests and eggs of 
birds 

Insects 

Crustaceans 

Shells 

Radiates 

Other marine inver- 
tebrates 

Plants and packages 
of seeds 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks.. 

Ethnological speci- 
mens 

Diatomaceons earths 
(packages) 

Total 



Total to the end of 

1877. 



Distribution during 

1878. 



Species. 



536 
2, 1.59 

27, 594 
2, 135 
6,140 

7,639 

4, 209 

1,089 

90, 171 

593 

1,892 

29, 437 
4, 361 
9,104 

2,234 

428 
189, 719 



Specimens. 



1,818 
4,810 
41,866 
3,488 
9,645 

18, 746 

9, 500 

2, 664 

196, 443 

793 

5,225 

50, 969 
10, 468 
16, 838 

2, 681 

1,182 



Species, i Specimens. 



377, 166 



123 
221 



267 
99 


377 





506 

30 

1 

1,389 

446 



60 
12 

148 

352 

6 

604 
241 



904 





1,015 

50 

1 

2, 587 

446 



Total to the end of 

187c!. 



Species. I Specimens. 



540 

2, 1G7 

27, 717 

2,356 

6,145 

7,906 

4,308 

1,087 

90, 548 

593 

1,892 

29, 943 
4, 391 
9,105 

3, 623 

874 



3,476 



6,426 i 193, 195 

I 



1,878 
4, 822 
42, 014 
3, 840 
9, 651 

19, 350 

9,741 

2,664 

197, 347 

793 

5, 225 

51,984 

10, 518 
16, 8J9 

5,268 

1,623 



383, 592 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION'S OF THE NATIONAL MU- 
SEUM IX 1878. 

Akron {Ohio) City Museum. Eighteen species of fresh-water Unios; 
from Ohio. 

AJbro, Samuel {throu{/h Hon. Samuel Powel). Fish {Pseudopriacanthus 
altus) ', from Newport, II. 1. 

Ahlrich, Charles. Collections of living snakes, turtles, and frogs; and 
specimens of Indian relics; from Iowa. 

Alexander, James R. Box of ethnological and mineralogical specimens; 
from New York. 

Allen, Charles A. Collection of birds' eggs and nests, and six living 
tiirtles; from California. 

Allen, Charles S. Collection of birds' skins and eggs; from Long Island, 
N. Y. 

Allen, George K. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Anderson, Capt. Chris. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Anderson, E. J. Salmon {Salmo salar); from the i:)elaware Eiver. 

Anderson, William. Six stone implements ; from Ilhnois. 

Andrews, Franlc I>. Eight rude arrow-heads; from New Jersey. 

Andrews, F. 8. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Artes, Charles F. Photographs and drawings of ludian relics, and rel- 
ics from mounds in Illinois. 

Armistead, E. P. Ball of hair taken from stomach of cow. 

Atldns, Charles G. Three boxes of fishes; from Bucksport and Grand 
Lake Stream, Maine. 

AfJxinson, John. (See Washington, D. C, United Stales Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Bahcoeh, A. L. Six birds' skius; from Massachusetts. 

Bahson, Fltz J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Bahson, Fifz J., jr. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bahson, William R. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Balrd, Prof. 8. F. Five gudgeons {Ri/bof/nathus regius), from Babcock 
Lake; three terrapins, from the Susquehanna Biver. 

Balder., Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Banfa, W. V. and J. Garrison. Bones of human skeleton; taken from 
India u mound at Salem, Iowa. 

Barber, F. A. Articles of Indian ornament, from Arizona and Utah; 
mariue auimals and ludian stone relics, from New Jersey, Pennsyl- 
vania, and Maryland. 



84 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Barl'cr, Br. S. W. Mud-eel {Siren laccrtiua); from Chaiiestou, S. C. 
Barth, Henry. Mineral; from Maryland. 

Bartlett, A. (See Washington, T). C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Bassett, L. Stone axe; from Iowa. 

Bates, James. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Ba2isett, William A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 
Bean, Br. T. H. Collection of stone implements, from Eastern Fenn- 

sylvauia ; collection of frogs, snakes, lizards, and fishes, from Frince 

George's County, Maryland; four specimens of fisli, from JSTorlblk, Ya. 
Beardsley, Grant. Stag-beetle {Cerphus elephas) ; from North Carolina. 
Beanchami), Eev. IF. M. Five stone implements ; from Kew York. 
Becl'u-ith, Harney. (See King's Mountain Mine.) 
Belding, L. Seven boxes of birds' skins and twelve Indian relics ; from 

California. 
Bell, William. Specimen of iron pyrites ; from Yirginia. 
Bellamy, FranJc H. Box of fragmentary erennite stems, from Alabama; 

Indian relics, from Alabama and North Carolina. 
Bcndire, Capt, Charles, U. S. A. Nest and eggs of Passer ell a toicnscndii 

var. scMstacea, and Clark's crow, also box of birds' skins ; from Oregon. 
Benner, B. B. Squeezed copy of rock inscription and Indian relics ; 

from Yirginia. 
Berlin, A. F. Collections of stone implements ; from Eeading, Pa. 
Bernays, Leu-is A. Fhotographs of mummies found in forks of trees, 

Queensland, Australia. 
Berry, Henry. Steel dagger used by Ylsconsin Indians. 
Biddle, Henry J. Box of relics exhumed from mound in Florida. 
Bigelow, 0. Stone implement ; from New York. 
Blacl-hnrn, Capt. .William. (See Washington, T>. C, United States Fish 

Commission.) 
Blaclvford, B. G. Many specimens of fish (salmon, cod, trout, shad, &c.), 

brought to Fulton Market, New York, from various parts of the United 

States. 
Blaeldy, C. P. Mounted specimen of American eared grebe {Podiceps 

auriius var. californicus) ; from Kansas. 
Blair, Capt. J. G., U. S. B. M. Specimen of Femora; from Ehode Island. 
Bland, Thomas. Specimens of shells {Bulinms, Pagurus, and Ligmis) ; 

from Tobago and Gonaive Islands. 
Blatehford, Capt. B. F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 

Commission.) 
Boardman, George A. Specimens of spotted ury-mouth {Cryptacanthodes 

maculatus) and stickleback {Gasterosteus hiacidcatus); from Calais, 

Maine. 
Boehmer, George H. Collection of" fossil-casts," from Maryland; speci- 
men of itacolumite, from North Carolina. 
Bomar, Thomas H. Snakes {Ophiholus getulus, Crotalus miliaris) and 

arrow-heads ; from South Carolina. 



APrENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85 

Bofiton^ Mrs. C. B. Box of sliells ; from Illinois. 

Brace, Lewis J. K. Box of birds from the Bahama Islands. (Eeceived 
in 1877.) 

Brackett, Col. A. G., TJ. 8. A. Head of eel-pout, from Little Big Horn 
Eiver, Montana; specimen of lield-mouse {Arvicola)^ from Montana. 

Brady.! Samuel. Copper spear and barrel of stone mining-hammers; 
from Michigan. 

Braner, WilUam. Collection of copper and flint arrow-heads; from Wis- 
consin. 

Brazier, Benjamin S. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Breed, E. E. Nest of ''carpenter-bee." 

Braion, Fred. Specimens of arrow-heads, &c. ; from West Virginia and 
Indiana. 

Brewer, Br. T. 21. Egg of Clarke's crow. 

Brewster, William. Five skins of Sitla 2)>isilla. 

Briggs, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
luission.) 

Brisbane. (See Queensland.) 

Britt, Thomas A. Collection of Florida shells. 

Brock, R. A. Cocoons of Cecropia silk-work ; from Virginia. 

Brodnax, Benjamin H., M. I). A fine collection of stone axes, spear 
and arrow heads, hematite plummets, &c. ; from Louisiana. 

Broicn, Br. J. J. Specimen of coral {Biploaria cerehriformis) ; from 
Nassau, N. P. 

Brown, Stephen S. Sample of " Nicaragua " wheat; from Waco, Texas. 

Brown, William. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bryan, Oliver iV. Box of rude stone implements ; from Maryland. 

Burhank, Martin. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Burger, Peter. Carolina rail [Porzana carol inensis); from Virginia. 

Burke, Henry E. (See Washington, D. C, L^nited States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Burnes, B. J. Specimen oi samarskife ; from Alabama. 

Burns, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Bullock, Theron. Copper nodule ; from Wisconsin. 

Butler, Isaac. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Cadle, C. Indian pipe of micaceous sandstone ; from the east shore of 
Mobile Bay, Alabama. 

Calderwood, Capt. M. W. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Cambridge, Mass., Botanic Garden of Harvard University, C. S. Sargent, 
Director. Seeds and plants of aquatic plants [Nymphcea tuherosa, 
Rumex hydrolapatum, tSrc). 



86 APPENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zoologi/. Box of birds' skins, 
box of alcoholic specimens of general natural history, and specimen 
of menhaden {Breroortia aurea). 

Camphell, J. B. Specimens of reptiles, turtles, and batrachians ; from 
Iowa. 

Ca}nphell, Kent. Nest and eggs of wood pewee {Contopus vircns) ; from 
Ohio. 

Capeliart, Br. W. R. Specimens of shad and herring ; from Avoca,N. C. 

Capron, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Capron, General Uoracc. Two dressed figures representing the noble 
class of Japan. (Purchased.) 

Chappell & Storer {through U. G. Blaclcford). Large number of Trachu- 
rops crumenophtha Im us. 

CarJsen, Arnold. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Carritt, William. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Carroll, Capt. Daniel. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Case, Thomas S. Specimen of Lota maculosa ; from Missouri. 

Cavener, Nicholas. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Chester, H. C. Jar of fishes, from the Potomac Eiver; model of cod- 
fish hatching a^rparatus. 

Chicago Academy of Science. Collection of shells ; from Florida. 

Ch'ilds, Edward B. (See AYasldugton, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Churchill, B- C. Malformed robin {Turdus migratorius) ', from Kew 
York. 

Claris, Benjamin. (See Washington, 13. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Clarl; Franlc N. Water-snake; from Spesutia Island, Maryland. 

Clarli, Samuel C. "Mule-killer" {Theh/phonus glgantens), from Florida ; 
arrow-heads and fragmentary pottery, from Georgia. 

Clarke, Prof. F. L. Box of ethnological and natural-history specimens; 
from Hawaii. 

Clarke, J. H. Box of fossils (fishes, «S:c.) ; from Connecticut. 

Clarke, Dr. W. M. Mica arrow-head and shell; from mound in Ten- 
nessee. 

Clinton, Capt. George T. (See Washington, L). C, United States Fish 

Commission.) 
Coast Wrecking Company, Kew York {through W. B. T. Jones). Speci- 
men of marble bored bj^ sponge {Cliona); taken from the wreck of 
the steamer Grecian off Long Island. 



APPENDIX TO THE PtEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87 

Colbij, CharUs. (See Wasliingtoii, D. C, United States Fi«li Commis- 
missioii.) 

Cole, J. B. Iron pyrites ; from Texas. 

Collins, Capt. Joseph W. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Collins, ^YilHam. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Comptou, J. W. Larvae of EclopliUas anax; from North Carolina. 

Conley, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Conrad, L. Specimen of mineral ; from Ohio. 

Cool', Caleb. Two bottles of fish-oil. 

Cool; I). ^S. Stone sinker and axe; from Pennsylvania. 

Cooper, William A. Skin of Ftucliorhamphus aleuticus ; from Santa 
Cruz, Cal. 

Cope, Prof. E. D. Two living lizards {Crotaphytus collaris) ; from Texas. 

Coster, John. Small stone axe ; from Wisconsin. 

Cratcford, General S. W. Box of geological specimens and birds ; from 
Iceland. 

Cressy, Charles C. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Crittenden, A. B. Three boxes of Indian relics ; from the New England 
States. 

Croohe, John J., N'eic Yorl; K. Y. Twenty-five ponnds of pnre tin. 

Cunningham & Thompson. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Curie, Dr. T. J. Ilair-worm [Gordius)', from Kentucky. 

Curtis, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Ciishing, Franh E. Collections of rude potstone vessels, from Virginia 
and District of Columbia ; living reptiles, from Virginia. 

Cuvier Club, Cincinnati, Ohio. Collection of bird-skins, from Indiana, 
Ohio, and Florida. 

Dall, 17. E. Four specimens illustrative of the economic application of 
shells; two marine shells from Japan ; two land shells from Germany. 

Dalrymple, Br. Specimens of Indian pottery ; from Maryland. 

Danforth, John. (See Washington, 1). C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Davis, Mrs. Abby L. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Davis, Capt. Alfred B., U. S. B. 3L Specimen of coral ; from the Drj 
Tortugas, Florida. 

Davis, Eenry. Samples of soil and wood; from McGregor, Indiana. 

Davis, Joshua. Indian clundcy-stone ; from District of Columbia. 

Davis, Tj. Specimen of iron ore; from Missouri. 

Davis, M. C. Specimen of iron ore; from Harper's Ferry. 



88 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Davis, Mrs. 2Iarij E. (See Wasliington, D. C, Uuited States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bay, Thomas, Keeper of Seguin Light, Maine. Three flslihoolis. 

I>e Hart, J. N. Box of Indian bones and relics ; from mound in Illi- 
nois. 

Bempseij, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C, United Std's-es Fish 
Commission.) 

Dennis, George li. Box of sea- weed and Trichiurus lepturus ; from Mary- 
land. 

Denton, Shelley W. Eggs of burrowing owl ; from Fort Collins, Colo- 
rado. 

Devan, James. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Devoe, Capt. Lulce. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Dexter, Newton. Eggs of Phceton flavicauda ; from Bermuda. 

Dixon, Eugene F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Dixon, Capt. Geo. ^Y. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Dor an, TJiomas S. Sx)ecimens of turtles roudfish; from Montgomery, 
Ala. 

Douglas, W. T. Insect; from Catlett's, Va. 

Douglass, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Douglass, Robert, 2(1. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Driggs, John W. Collection of birds' skins; I'rom Florida. 

Driscoll, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Duffield^ U. S. G. Malformed eggs of common hen. 

Duges, Dr. Don Alfredo. Box of natural history specimens ; from Guana- 
juato, Mexico. 

Dttlaney, John. (See W^ashington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Duncan, Capt. J. F. (See Wasliington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Earle, T. L. Small box of minerals ; from Korth Carolina. 

Edwards, Yinal N. Eleven boxes of fishes collected in Vineyard Sound, 
Massachusetts. 

Eggert, H. Foiu- living turtles; from Missouri. 

Ellis, Albert N. Specimens of snakes ; from Florida. 

Ellis, J. B. Collection of ISTorth American fungi. 

Espersen, Henry, Surveyor- General ofDalvta. Two packages of minerals ; 
from Dakota. 

Etzel, C. Stone axe; from Wisconsin. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89 

Uvans, Samuel B. Four stone implements, from Iowa ; casts of stone 
axe and pipe from Kansas. 

Evans, W. W. A large collection of pottery, silver and copper idols, 
bronze implement, and egg of enni; from Tern. Also, 27 sheets of 
photographs of Peruvian antiquities. 

Ferguson, Mr. {through 0. C. Trcada-ag), Specimens of minerals ; from 
Big Sioux Eiver, Iowa. 

Finscli, Dr. Otto. Twelve species of Siberian fishes. 

Firth, William A. Threesamplesofdiatomaceous earths; from Ireland. 

Flanagan, A. H. Collection of stone implements and pottery, and human 
and animal bones ; from a mound in Virginia. 

Flint, Dr. Earl. Two boxes of fossils and alcoholic specimens; two 
boxes ethnological specimens ; from Nicaragua. 

Floyd, Josejyh D. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Fox, F. N. {through licv. J. J. McCoolc). Eough stone axehead, frag- 
ment of celt, and fragment of pottery ; from Niantic, Conn. 

Foster, Mrs. Abner. Box of stone implements ; from Illinois. 

France, Museum of Natural History. Collection of fishes from the Medi- 
terranean Sea and rivers of France. 

Eraser, Charles. Pottery figure; from Botica, Puerto Plata. 

French, S. Levin. Four boxes of "American sardines." 

Friend, Sidney. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Gaffney, William M. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Gaines, A. S., and K. M. Cunningham. Terra-cotta mask; from vicinity 
of Mobile, Ala. 

Galbraith, F. G. Four boxes of stone implements, collection of alcoholic 
fishes, insects, &c., and a small living alligator; from Eastern Penn- 
sylvania.. 

Garret, W. M. Pottery fragments, spear-head, and quartz crystal ; from 
Alabama. 

Gates, D. C. {through Rev. J. J. McCooh). Stone chisel ; from Xiantie, 
Conn. 

Gatschet, A. S. Samples of the food of the Klamath Indians of Oregon. 

Gere, J. E. Collection of copper knives, spear and arrow heads, masses 
of native copper and tiint arrow-heads, stone axes, &C. ; from Wiscon- 
sin. 

Germany, Berlin Museum, Dr. E. von j\rartin. Kine species of shells. 

Gerrard, Edward, Jr. Sixteen mounted si)ecimens of I^nglish quail, 
woodcock, and snipe. (Purchased.) 

Gcssncr, William. Collection of Indian arrow-heads, &c. ; from Ala- 
bama. 

Getchcll, Capt. John Q. (Sec Washington, 1). C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 



yO APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

GlhhSj George J. Coliectiou of etlinologica j from Grand Turk, Yv'est 
Indies. 

Glhhs, J. D. Three malformed feet of pig. 

Gilbert,, Rev. C. A. Collection of shells, insects, fossils, &c. ; from Florida. 

Ginnevany Thomas, and Fhili]} Merchant. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Commission.) 

Githens, W. H. Box of shells and casts of Indian relics ; from Illinois. 

Godding, Dr. W. W. Specimen in flesh of bear {TJrsus americanus). 

Go ff, George P. "•Sea-dollar"; from Galveston, Tex. 

Goode, F. C. Collection of living snakes ; from Florida. 

Goode, G. Broivn. Tank of alcoholic fishes and three boxes living snakes 
and turtles, from Florida ; box of fishes, corals, &c., from Charleston, 
S. C. ; three cans alcoholic fishes, from Bermuda. Also, fresli speci- 
mens of shad, from the St. John's Eiver, Florida. 

Goodrich, Wilbur F. Specimens of funt^l ; from Massachusetts. 

Good'win, Thomas. (See Washington, 13. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Gore, IF Specimen of ore ; from Pennsylvania. 

Gorton, ^lade cO Co. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Goslin, Capt. Joseph. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fisli Com- 
mission.) 

Goss, N. S. Skin of Far us airicapilhis ; from Wisconsin. 

Gourville, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Green, F. C. Box of stone implements and collection of minerals; from 
Wisconsin. 

Green, Br. Samuel A. Cast of Indian pot found at Canterbury, N. II. 

Greenlcaf, Capt. ^YilUam H. (See AVashiugton, D. C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 

Griffith, ^VilHam. Two roe-shad ; from the Ohio Eiver. 

Griiber, Ferdinand. Two living turtles {Chelopus marmoratus); from 
California. 

Gunnan, Miss Bessie C. Scale of tarpum {Mcgalop>s thrissoidcs) -, from 
near xs^oriblk, Ya. 

Ilallocl; Charles. Specimen of Coregonus quadriJateraJis ; from Michigan. 

Ilamlen, Capt. Feter. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Hardenburgh, A. B., United States Surveyor- General, California. Collec- 
tion of tJie ores of various mines in California. 

Flarhcr, 0. II. Collection of minerals ; from Colorado. 

Harris, B. S. Specimen of itacolumite ; from North Carolina. 

Hartsfield, John M. Skink snake, from North Carolina; and eggs of 
white-eyed flycatcher, from Delaware. 

Earvey, Edward. (See ^Vashiugton, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91 

Harvey^ Rev. M. xMcoliolic specimens of capeliii ; from Newfoundland. 

Hasl-ell, Samuel. (See AVasliington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Ilaslin, S. D. Flint arrow-head ; from Tennessee. 

JIaiclins, Capf. James. (See Washington, 1). (J., United States Fish 
Commission.) 
• IlaicMns, Capt. Z. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Ilavneus, , Sfocl-Jiolm, Sweden. Series of manufactured fire-ljricks. 

llayicard, F. W. Box of rice plants, tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, 
&c., living specimens of mud-puppy {Siren lacertina), and living sna])- 
ping-turtles ; from South Carolina. 

Ilayicood^ ^Y. P. Two red ants ; from New Jersey. 

Helper, H. E. {through George Hillier). Saw of sawfish {Pristis anii- 
quomm). 

Hemphill, Henry. Collection of land and fresh- water shells, from Utah; 
collection of shells and fossils, from California. 

Hempstead, Elias. Box of ethnological specimens ; from Santa Eosa 
Island, Florida. 

Henderson, Judge J. G. Box of ethnological specimens; from Illinois. 

Henderson, Mr. {through Dr. H. B. Koblc). Slate carving; from the 
Northwest coast of America. 

Hendriclis, Lindsley. Mineral; from Texas. 

Henshaio, H. W. Living turtle {Cistudo clausa clausa) and nest and 
eggs of Seiurus aurocapillus and Turdus mnstelimis ; from Washington, 
D. C. 

Hering, Dr. C. J. Collection of alcoholic mammals, reptiles, insects, 
&c. ; from Surinam. 

Herring, Richard. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Hessel, Rudolph. Two specimens of snake {Tropidonoiiis sipedon) ; from 
Baltimore, Md. ; and one of Hyla arhorea, from Germany. 

Hewitt, Isaac L. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Highie, A. B., & Co. Specimen of Tetrodon Iccvigaius; from off Cape 
Henlopen. 

Higgins <& Gifford. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Hillier, Fred. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fisli Commission.) 

Hirst, F. Specimens of amblystoma and larvic and fishes {Potamocottus), 
from Utah; and fishes {Potamocottus, Catostomus), from Wyoming. 

Hitchcoclx, Prof. E. Casts of Indian vessels. 

Hitchcocl; George N. Specimens of living turtles ; from California. 

Hitt, Dr. D. F. Box of fossil plants ; from Illinois. 

Hodgdon, Capt. T. F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 



92 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

SodffMns, Edicard ^V. (See WasliiDgton, D. C, United States Fisli 
Commission.) 

Solbrool', W. C. Flint arrow-bead, stalagmite, fossil shell and bone of 
bnman foot ; from Illinois. 

SoUenhush, H, W. Box of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 

Romans, Capf. Charles A. (See Wasbingtou, D. C, United States Fisb 
Commission.) 

Eoran, Henry. Turtle {CJwlojms guftatus); from Washington D. C. 

Horod, C. H. Two fossil teeth of horse. 

Hough, I)r. F. B. Cast of tusk of fossil elephant, found near Copen- 
hagen, X. y. 

Hoy, Geo. W. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Hoy, JR. B. Snake {Coluher) and turtles {Chrysemys); from Michigan. 

Hubregtse, A. Three arrow-heads. 

Hudson, J. M. Pharyngeal teeth of sheeps-head. 

Hughes, W. JV". Specimen of fossil coral ; from Tennessee. 

Hunt, Henry C. Four articles of native dress ; from Peru and Bolivia. 

Himt, Capt. H. TT. Samples of cordage and duck manufactured by the 
Kussian Government. 

Hurlhert, Cap. li. H. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Huss, Oscar E. Specimens of woods, teas, and ethnologica ; from Uru- 
guay, Paraguay, Chile, and Argentine Eepublic. 

Hutchinson, Dr. Edwin. Four small terra-cotta masks ; from near San 
Juan de Teotihuacan, Mexico. 

Illinois State Laboratory. Living turtle. 

India, Kurrachce Municipal Library and Museum, James A. Murray, 
Curator. Collection of skins, heads and skulls of East Indian mam- 
mals. 

Ingersoll, T. Bwight. Specimens of shells ; from Lake Erie. 

Irion, I)r. I. L. Spear-head and skull of alligator; from Texas. 

Iricin, Alexander H. Sample of polished fossiliferous stone. 

JacJison, Dr. E. E. Siiecimens of turtles, salamanders, and fishes; from 
South Carolina. 

James, Dr. Franic L. Collection of i^ottery and stone implements; from 
Arkansas. 

Jameson, John S. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Jefferson, Lieut. J. P., U. S. A. Specimen of Aiilostoma colorata; from 
the Dry Tortugas, Florida. 

Jelloio, JohnH. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Jenison, 0. A. Collection of stone axes, knives, fleshers, &c. ; from 
Michigan. 

JenJcs, J. W. P. Lot of stone hammers found in old steatite quarr}' near 
Providence, E. I. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93 

Jenner, David. Copper spear-bead ; from Wisconsin. 

Jcicctt, Thomas. (See WasLinj^ton, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Johnson, Capt. George A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Johnson, Capt. Peter. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

JiJinson, j\[r. [thronyh J. E. Gere). Copper nodnle; from Wisconsin. 

Kaiicher, WiUiam. Samples of fire-clay ; from Wisconsin. 

Kearuei/, ^YiU^am. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Kee2), Josiah. Package of diatomaceoiis earth, from Massachusetts; 
alcoholic specimens of Cerithidea sacrata, from Lake Merritt, Cali- 
fornia. 

KeithJey, Mrs. E. {through Rev. F. B. Sehcetz). Large stone celt ; from 
IMissouri. 

Keller, John. Stone axe; from IMissouri. 

Kerrey, H. F. Specimens of skins, nests, and eggs of birds, mammals, 
minerals, and Indian relics; from Maryland and Pennsylvania. 

KUjiatriel; Cap. Briggs. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

King, James. Three malformed eggs of domestic hen. 

King, Jjarhin. Mineral ; from Texas. 

King, W. A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

King^s Mountain Mine, North Carolina, Harney Beelacith, President. Ma- 
chinery used in extracting gold at, and a series of the ores of, the 
King's JMountain Mine. 

Ki])pen, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Klotz, H. E. Living iguana; from Navassa, W. I. 

Knotvlcs, Mr. Dried sound of hake. 

Kocher, J. F. Three fojtal flying squirrels {Pteromys voluceUa) ; from 
Pennsylvania. 

Kolimann, I)r. Collection of crania of the natives of Hungary, Austria, 
and Bavaria. 

Kwnlien, Lndwig. Skin, nest, and eggs of Zonotrichia coronaia; from 
Shasta, California. Also 24 boxes of general natural history and eth- 
nological collections ; from Cumberland Island and Greenland. 

Lalce, C. ^Y. Block of black-ash ; from Michigan. 

Lalicman, J. (See AYashington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Lamson, J. S., it Brother. Arrow-head and earth; from ancient grave 
in Chiriqui, Central America. 

Langdon, Franlc W. Collection of birds' skins and ethnological speci- 
mens ; from Ohio. 

Barlin, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 



94 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOKT OF THE SECRETx\PtY. 

Laucrmann, Peter. Collection of flint arrow -heads, copper knife, two 
darts, and uodnle ; Ixom Wisconsin. 

Lawrence, J. J. Insect ; from Beresford, Florida. . 

Laicson, James. Specimen of asbestos ; from Alabama. 

L'Acee, M. S. Specimen of calc-spar ; from Texas. 

Le Blanc, Simon. (See \yasLington, D. C, United States Fish (Jommis- 
sion.) 

Leonard, ^Y^U^am. Specimen of ore ; from Pennsylvania. 

Leslie, C. C. Many fresh specimens of fish from Charleston, S. C, mar- 
kets. 

Lettermann, George W. Shell of periwinkle. 

Leicis, James. Two boxes of living snails ( Vivipara contectoides) ; from 
Mohawk, K Y. 

Lewis, IF. H. Cast of canoe-shaped object, from Seneca Lake, New 
York ; and box of minerals, from Westchester Conuty, ]^ew York. 

Lieber, H. Qnartz pebble with adherent mica. 

Lloyd, J. D. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Locl'c, W. M. Two boxes of stone implements ; from Ohio and Western 
I>rew York. 

Lovetf, Dr. A. A. Specimen of petrified coral ; from Indiana. 

Low, Maj. L). Vi\, Postmaster, Gloucester, llass. Collection of fossilifer- 
onr roclcs ; from George's Banks. 

Loive, Francis A. Specimens of copper and silver ores and amethyst; 
from the north shore of Lake Sn^ierior. 

Lundberf/, John A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Lytic, A. E. Thirty-two specimens of cisco {Argyrosomus) ; from Geneva 
Lake, AYisconsin. 

McBride, Sara J. Twelve samples of artificial tront-fiies. 

McClelland, Dr. M. A. Collection of stone im])Iements; from Illinois. 

McCollum, George. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McCoolc, Eci\ J. J. Two hnman crania and box of Indian relics ; from 
Niantic, Conn. 

McCormiel', P. G. Stone image (liead); from 3Iissonri. 

McCown, General J. P. Box of ethnological and natnral history speci- 
mens ; from Arkansas. 

McDonald, Duncan. (See Washington, D. C, L'^nited States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McDonald, James and John P). (See Washington, I). C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 

McDonald, Capt. Jerome. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) ^ 

McDonald, Marshall. Specimen of Dnfrenite ; from Yirginia. 

McDonald, Copt. 2Iattliew. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95 

McDonald, Miles. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion,) 

McDonald, Capt. William. (See "VVasliington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

McEachern, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fisli Com- 
mission.) 

McElderry, Dr. Ilcnry, TJ. S. A. Pacliage of marine diatoms ; from Fort 
Monroe, Va. 

McJEntire, Daniel. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McGinnis, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McGuire, J. G. Lot of fragmentary steatite vessels ; from Grimes Place, 
Md. 

McGuire, J. D. ■ Three polished-stone arrow-heads; from Howard Connty, 
Maryland. 

Mclnnis, L. L. Chrysalis of moth ; from Texas. 

McKinley, William. Stone tnbe ; from Georgia. 

McKinnon, Capt. D. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McKinnon, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

McNeill, J. A. {through J. 8. Lamson & Co.). iSTest and eggs of tinamoo; 
from Chiriqui, U. S. of Colombia. 

McPhee, Capt. K (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

McQuinn, Michael. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McQuinn, Edward. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Madden, Henry F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Maggs, P. F. Moth ; from Indiana. 

Mansfield, James, & Sons. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

2Iartin, Capt. George R. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Martin, 8. J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Marshall, Henry. Living snake (Hetcrodon) ; from ]\Larylaud. 

Mason, Prof. 0. T. Nest of meadow-lark {Sturnella magna). 

Mason, Peter. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

3Iason, Hon. Roswell H, TJ. S. Surveyor-General, Montana. A large col- 
lection of minerals from varions mines in Montana. 

Masterson, Thomas. Glass and shell beads and fragments of Indian pipes; 
from Western Pennsylvania. 



96 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

If either, Fred. Two crustaceans. 

MattesoUy F. S. Bat ( VcspertiUo priiinosus) ; from Oregon. 

MattJieics, Dr. Fdicard, U. K N. Jar of fishes, reptiles, and inverte- 
brates ; from Santo Domingo. 

Mauler, Eugene. Samx)les of diatomaceous earths ; from Italy, Jutland, 
and Bohemia. 

Maw, Uicliard {tlirough Anderson Merchant dj Co., Wew Yorl:). Collec- 
tion of tiles, pottery, and majolica, exhibited at the Permanent Exhibi- 
tion, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Meel; Jeimcs. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Meigs, General M. C, U. S. A. Indian pipe of catlinite. 

Menezer, Joseph. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Mercer, B. W. Collection of stone axes, arrow-heads, &c.; from 
Ohio. 

Mercheint, George J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission. ) 

Merchant, FhUlj). (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Merrill, Dr. J. C., TJ. 8. A. Box of mammal and bird skins; from 
Texas. 

Mexico, National Museum of, G. Mendoza, Director. A valuable collection 
of ancient Mexican pottery and stone relics. 

Middleton, Carman & Co., Neic Yorl: Two shad {Alosa siqndissinm). 

Middletoivn, Conn., Museum of Wesley an College. A collection of fishes 
from Bermuda and one of reptiles from the New England States. 

Miller, J. D. Eattlesnake {Crotalus) ; from Kew York. 

Miller, Thomets I. Specimen of iron ore ; from West Virginia. 

Milner, J. W. Shells {Viripeira georgianei), from Lake jNFonroe, Florida ; 
salmon {Seibno saleir), from Chesapeake Bay, Maryland ; box of living 
salamanders {Plethodon glutinosus), from Albemarle Sound, ]S"orth Car- 
olina. 

Mitchell, B. Specimens of ethnologica ; from Illinois. 

Mitchell, G. M. Specimen of "Quillback" {Carpiodes 8]}.) -, from Illi- 
nois. 

Mitchell, Mr. [through Hon. George Williamson, United States Minister to 
Central America). Foetal shovel-nosed shark from Acajutla, Sal- 
vador. 

Mohius, Prof. Keirl. Collection of mollusca ; from Germany. 

Mohr, C. Box of ethnological specimens ; from Alabama. 

Moody, H. A. Specimen of kaolin 5 from Mississippi. 

Moore, Mr. 11. C. (See Washington, D. C , United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Moore. (See Porter, Dr. J. Y., U. S. A.) 

Morris, A. P., Jr. Skull of possum [Didclphys virginianus.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97 

Morris, Edward S., tC Co. Package of seeds of Liberian cofiee plant. 

Morrisey, Capt. Daniel C. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fisli 
Commission.) 

Morrisey, James D. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Morrison, Capt. R. N'. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Morse, Prof. E. S. Collection of ethnologica, fishes and two rodents ; 
from Japan. 

Morsfeldcr, George. Copper spear-head 5 from Wisconsin. 

Mortimer, Capt. J. H. Collection of dried marine animals ; from the 
equatorial Pacific. 

Motaia Iron and Steel Manufacturing Company, Sweden. Collection of 
manufactured steel and iron, being their exhibit at the International 
Exhibition, 1876, at Philadelphia, Pa. 

Munroe, Prof. Charles, E., IT. S. N. Box of eocene tertiary fossils ; from 
South Eiver, Md. 

Murpliy, J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Murphy, Michael J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Murphy, Capt. Nicholas. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Murray, David. Living turtle ; from Ellaville, Fla. 

Mynster, William A. Two salmon; from Iowa. 

Nelson, E. W., Signal Service, U. S. A. Nineteen boxes of general nat- 
ural history and ethnological specimens ; from Saint Michaels, Alaska. 

Nevins, Rev. R. D. Upper jaw of Hypsifario Eennerlyi ; from Oregon. 

New Jersey, College of Princeton, N. J. Plaster casts of stone imple- 
ments. 

New Zealand, Auckland Museum, T. F. Cheeseman, Curator. Twenty-one 
crania of the Maori. 

Newberry, Dr. J. S. Specimens of silicified wood 5 from California and 
Antigua, W. I. 

Newlon, W. S. ^i^ecimens of Productus jnt^nctatus ; from Kansas. 

Neivman, Williain P. Bone of turtle ; from mound in Alabama. 

Nesbit, John. Specimen of phosphatic rock ; from Georgia. 

Noble, Dr. R. B. Carved duck-shaped stone ; from Northwest coasts 

Nolan, Joseph. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Norris, J. E. Specimen of ore from the Gila mine, Nevada. 

Norris, P. W., Superintendent of Yell oto stone National Park Collection 
of minerals, pottery, and stone implements. 

Norton, Dr. [through Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Specimens of aboriginal stone 
implements ; from Missouri. 

Norway, W. H. Specimens of invertebrate fossils ; from California. 
S. Mis. 59 7 



98 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Nott, W. B. [throwjli Rev. F. B. Scheetz). Perforated tablet; from Mis- 
souri. 

Nye^ Willard, jr. Specimens of Gasferosfeus hlaciilecdns ; from Xew Bed- 
ford, Mass. 

Oher, F. A. Seven boxes of general natural history and ethnological 
specimens ; from various islands of the West Indies. 

Olmsted^ E. B. Box of stone implements ; from Illinois. 

Olsen, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Connnis- 
sion.) 

Orme, William d; Sons. Large living spider. 

Osborne, L. C. Two oval hornstone disks ; from Illinois. 

Osgood, F. Storey. Two specimens of mineral ; from Massachusetts. 

Otis, Br. George A. Two living iguanas; from Kavassa, West Indies. 

Palmer, Joseph. Mounted head of Virginia deer and specimen of snake 
{Ophiholus doUatus); from Virginia. 

Palmer, William. Jjivmg snake {Tropidonottis sipedon); from Virginia. 

Parsons, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Parsons, WUliain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Peacorl; J. S. Jaw of shark {Eula;mia Milherfi.) 

Pearce, F. A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Pease, A. P. L. Stone mortar; from Ohio. 

Pease, W. B. Insect; from ISTew Mexico. 

Peel, J. B. Specimen of mineral ; from Texas. 

Pendleton, A. G., Beputy Surveyor, Arizona. Specimens of gold, silver, 
and copi^er ores ; from Arizona. 

Pensacola Ice Company, Florida. Many fresh specimens of fish taken in 
the vicinity of Pensacola, Fla. 

Pergande, Theodore. Stone axe; from Missouri. 

Peterson, Martin, and Benni^ Theleueng. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Peterson, M. B. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Pettihons^ William. Taylor-shad {Borysoma cepediamim) ; from the Poto- 
mac Eiver. 

Pettingill & Cunningham. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Pfeil^ John. Two fossils and two copper spear-heads; from Wisconsin. 

Philadelphia, ZoologieM Society of, A. E, Brown, Superintendent. Speci- 
men in flesh of Barbary Wild Sheep {Ovis trageJaphus.) 

Phillips^ B. A. Box of remains from Indian tumuli in Pennsylvania. 

Phillips, J. P. Specimens of smelt; from Hancock County, Maine. 

Pengry, John T. Tarpum [Megalops thrissoides) ; from Long Branch, 
K.J. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99 

Pocy^ Prof. Felipe. Collection of turtles aud fislies stuffed and dried ; 
from Cuba. 

Polsen, Alfred. (See Wasliington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Porter, H. H. Specimens of artificially raised lake-, brook-, and salmon- 
trout. 

Porter, Dr. J. T., TJ. 8. A., and Mr. Moore, Keeper of Loggerhead Light, 
Florida. Collection of tisbes; from tbe Dry Tortugas, Florida. 

Potter, Thomas. Specimens of clay from GO fatboms deep in Long Island 
Sound. 

Powel, Hon. Samuel. Collection of marine fisbes; from lNrew];)ort, E. I. 

Preston, D. A. Box of lead and zinc ores; from Joplin, Mo. 

Princeton, N. J., College of Neiv Jersey. Casts of stone implements. 

Prinyle, 6. M. Specimens of mineral; from Oregon. 

Purman, J>. Gray. Specimens of lead and zinc ores. 

Putnam, Thomas J. Two "fool-fisb" {Pleuronectes glaher); from Salem, 
Mass. 

Queensland Acclimatization Society., Australia, Leicis A. Bernays, Vice- 
President. Sponge gemmules from river in Western Australia. 

Quinlion, J. W. Teetli of fossil elepbant, borse, and sbark; from Bull 
Eiver, Soutb Carolina. 

Eadcllffe, William H. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Com- 
mission.) 

Randle, Prof. E. H. Box of stone relics and minerals; from Kentucky. 

Ban, Charles. Cast of ceremonial spear-bead, from Saint Clair County^ 
Illinois ; and bat ( Vespertilio), from Wasbington, D. C. 

Reed, ilf. C. Specimen of sbell conglomerate ; from Obio. 

Peed, Thomas. Living iguana ; from Navassa, West Indies. 

Eeid, A. J. Specimens of fisb {Notemigonus chrysoleucus) ; from tbe Fox 
Eiver, Wisconsin. 

Reynolds, A. M. Specimens of minerals. 

Reynolds, Elmer R. Two boxes of fossils, fragmentary pottery, and 
arrow- beads ; from Virginia. 

Reynolds, J. H. Collection of stone relics and jiottery ; from West Vir- 
ginia. 

Rhodes, B. V. Large bug ; from Indiana. 

Rich^ Capt. A. F., Boston, Mass. (See Wasbington, D.C., United States 
Fisb Commission.) 

Richmond, A. G. Cast of Indian stone ornament. 

Ridgiray, Robert. Four boxes of general natural-bistory specimens; 
principally from Illinois. 

Riley, William. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Com- 
mission.) 

Roach, David. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Commission.) 

Rol)M7is, Elisha. String of cells of periwinkle. 



100 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

BohertSj N. E. Four living turtles {Cistudo)', from Fairfax County, 
Illinois. 

Boessler, A. E. Specimens of jasper; from ISTortli Carolina. 

Bogers, . Samples of various kinds of fish-glue. 

Bomig, Bev. B. Two boxes of shells, fossils, and woods ; from Antigua, 
West Indies. 

Bonex, W. J. Tail of milk-snake [Coluber eximius). 

Boo^), C. Five small arrow-heads ; from Oregon. 

Boss, A. C. Three boxes of Indian stone relics; from Ohio. 

Bosser, B. B. [through Bev. F. B. Scheetz). Part of iiint ceremonial im- 
plement ; from Missouri. 

Botce, George T. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Boice, Capt. John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bowe, Timothy 8. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bust, Miss Carrie A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Bust, H. y. Cast of Franklin on Eing cent of the United States, 1787. 

Btist, John B. Double-headed lamb. 

Bussia. Herbarium of Botanic Gardens, 8t. Petersburg, C. J. Maximowicz, 
Director. Over two hundred species of Japanese plants. 

Buth, Br. 31. L., U. S. N. Collection of alcoholic reptiles and fishes; 
from the Madeira Eiver, Brazil. 

Sale, C. J. Beetle ; from Virginia. 

Sammis, Col. J. 8. SiJecimen of living snake [Abastor erythrogrammus); 
from Florida. 

8andviJc Iron and Steel Worl-s, Sweden. Collection of manufactured iron 
and steel, being their exhibit at the International Exhibition, 187(J, at 
Philadelphia. 

Sanford, H. G. Fossiliferous boulder; from George's Banks. 

Sargent, Senator A. A. Box of fossils ; from California. 

Saunders, Hoicard. Five skins of gulls and terns ; from Europe. 

Savage, Joseph. Box of invertebrate fossils ; from Kansas. 

Sayler, Marcus. Collection of Indian stone implements ; from Ohio and 
Illinois. 

Sayivard, E. P., jr. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Schanno, Joseph. Sample of fir-sugar ; from Washington Territory. 

Schnech, Br. J. . A large collection of living turtles and terrapins, and 
a box of water-plants ; from Illinois. 

Scott, George W. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Scupham, J. B. Small reptile ; from Kern County, California. 

Sells, P. B. Box of stone implements and pottery; from Georgia. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101 

Sennett, George B. A collection of bird-skins ; from Fort Brown, Texas. 

Serviss, E. F. Box of etlinological specimens ; from Kansas. 

Shelhi/, B. Parasphenoid bone of alligator-gar. 

Shcmelin, Joseph P. (See Wasliingtou, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Shemelin, James C. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish. Com- 
mission.) 

ShimUer, A. Z., mid George H. Boelimer. Large stone axe; from Vir- 
ginia. 

Sibley, R. F. Specimens of stone implements ; from Illinois. 

Silva- Terra, Antoji. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Simons, Capt. A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Singleton, John. Copper chisel ; from Illinois. 

Small, George. Specimens of alewives ; from Bncksport, Me. 

Small, F. F. Specimen of "spinous shark" {Fchinorhimis spiiiosus) } 
from Provincetown, Mass. 

Smith & OaJces. (See Washington, J). C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Smith, Bonglas B. Specimens of shells and beads; from Evanston, 111. 

Smith, Jacob. Skin of Wilson's j)halarope [Phalaropus icilsonii) ; from 
Manitoba. 

Smith, James A. Series of manufactured clay tobacco-piiies. 

Smith, Prof. H. L. Four alewives {Pomolobus vernalis) ; from Geneva, 
N. Y. 

Smith, John L. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Smith and Oalces. Specimen of yellow cod [Gaclus morrhua)', from 
Gloucester, Mass. 

Snyder, T. W. Five invertebrate fossils ; from Illinois. 

Sorensen, John P. Specimen of ore ; from Utah. 

SontJnvicl; J. M. K. Two samples of codfish-hooks. 

Sontter, August. Case of mounted birds and photographs. 

Spalding, R. M. (through Eev. F. B. Scheetz). Two stone axes ; from 
Missouri. 

Sperry, Mrs. James L. Eight skins of California birds. 

Spurr, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Stabler, J. P. Specimens of living snakes ; from Maryland. 

Stanshe, Charles. Copper nodule and stone axe ; from AVisconsin. 

Staples, Fdicin B. Two boxes Indian relics, one box turtles [Pscudemys 
mobiliensis), and shell mouth-peg ; from Florida. 

Stearns, Silas. Ten boxes of specimens of fish and sliell, including type 
of new fish, Caulolatilus microps Goode & Beau ; from Florida. 



102 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECKETAEY. 

Steele^ TF. iV". Living snake [OpMholus doliatus doUatus); from Mary- 
land. 

Stevens, James A. Collection of shells ; from Summit County, Ohio. 

Stewart, W. E. Five shad {Alosa sapidissi7na)',_ specimen of Elops sau- 
rus; from the Potomac Eiver. 

Stone, Livingston. Large collection of alcoholic fishes, from the McCloud 
Eiver, California ; also, one box fossils, from California. 

Story, L. D. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Stout, W. G. Branchial ai^paratus of Lepidosteus. 

Studley, Edwin. Grooved stone axe ; from Wisconsin. 

Sumner, M. T.,jr. Sections of oak showing old surveyor's marks. 

Sutherland, John. Specimen of land-locked salmon (Salmo salar, var. 
sehago) ; from the Merrimac River. 

Swan, James G. Collection of fishes, in alcohol ; and specimens of bone 
implements used by the Haidah Indians ; from Washington Territory. 

Sweden. Academy of Sciences, Stoclcholm. Ten species of shells ; from 
Xova Zembla. 

Sweeney, FranJc. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Sweet, Gapt. William E. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Symmes, Rev. Francis M. Box of ethnological specimens ; from Orange 
County, Indiana. 

Tarr, Gapt. James. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Tarr, James G. (See Washington, D, C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Tatham & Go., New York. Bag of " dust " shot. 

Taylor, Eev. Horace J. Collection of shells, beetles, and ethnological 
specimens ; from the Gilbert and Marshall Islands. 

Thompson, Gapt. William. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Thompson, W. H. Mass of quartz crystals ; from Tye Eiver, Virginia. 

Thomson, J. H. Crab taken from hold of the bark Osprey, New Bed- 
ford, Mass. 

Thorpe, Eev. Thomas M. Wing and bill of woodpecker and four hickory- 
nuts 5 from Arkansas. 

Tobey, Gerard, G. Squilla', from Buzzard's Bay, Ehode Island. 

Toellner, A. Fragments of human skull and pottery ; from mound in 
Illinois. 

Towers, David. Living slug ; from Washington, D. C. 

Toivner, Wayne. Gypsum ; from Pennsylvania. 

Tresiiian, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Triece, W. G. Specimens of snake and turtle ; from Pennsylvania. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103 

Turner, C. W. S. Four arrow-lieads ; from Virginia. 
Turner, L. M. Turtle {Malacoclemmys 2>eudo-(jeo(jrapMcus) ; from South- 
ern Illinois. 
Turner, Mrs. 21. E. Three boxes of living turtles ; from Southern Illi- 
nois. 
Turlxey. Robert College, Constantinople. Collection of bird-skins. 
Van Dyclc, W. T. Three boxes of general natural-history collections ; 

from Syria. 
Van SooJc, J. C. Snake {Coluber obsoletus obsoletus); from Virginia. 
Vance, James A. Mineral ; from Arkansas. 
Velie, Br. J. V(^. Collection birds' eggs and shells, from Florida ; cast 

of stone axe, two living turtles and living snake, from Illinois. 
Voss, A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Wade, Joseph i\I. Pectoral of flying-fish, taken in the South Pacific Ocean. 
Walher., Br. B. L. Four living hell-benders {Menopoma alleglmniensis) j 

from Western Pennsylvania. 
Wallace, James B. Insect ; from Texas. 
Wallace, John. Two Australian parrakeets. 
WaUls, Br. G. B. Specimens of fossils and copper ore. 
Walton, W. B. Oyster with double shell. 
Washington, B. C. : 
Bepartment of State, TJ. 8. A. (See under name of Hon. O. A. Will- 
iamson, United States minister to Guatemala.) 
Treasury Bepartment, U. S. A. : 

United States Bevenue-Marine. (See under name of Capt. Alfred B. 

Bar is.) 
United States Coast Survey. (See under name of W. H. Ball.) 
War Bepartment, U. S. A. : 

United States Army. (See under names of General M. C. Meigs, Col. 
A. G. BracTxCtt, Lieut. George 31. Wheeler, and Lieut. J. P. Jef- 
ferson.) 
Surgeon- GeneraVs Office, United States Army Medical Museum {Br. 
G. A. Otis, in charge.) A collection of bird and mammal skins, 
fossils, ethnologica, &c., collected in Texas by Br. B. H. White, 
U. S. A. (See also under the names of Brs. J. Y. Porter, W. 
Whitney, T. E. Wilcox, and H. C. Yarrow, medical oflicers United 
States Army.) 
Surveys tcest of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut G. M. Wheeler in 
charge. Collection of mortars and pestles, pottery, arrows, quiv- 
ers, &c., also a large collection of plants; from Arizona and 
California. 
Bureau of Ordnance, General S. Y. Benct. Specimens of copper-ore 

from Rock Island, 111. 
Signal Service, United States Army, {^ee under naine Private B.W. 
Ifelson.) 



104 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, 1). C. — Contmiied. 
N'avy Department, U. S. A. : 
Bureau of Navigatiou, Commodore Wbitiug in cliarge ; Go bottles 

of soundings made by the United States steamer Tuscarora. 
Surgeon-GcneraVs Office. (See under names of Drs. M. L. Ruth and 
Robert Whiting, medical officers United States Navy.) 
Agricultural Department, U. S. A., Hon. W. G. Le Due, Commissioner : 
Two pairs of antlers of Virginia deer 5 sucker- fish {Gatostomus) from 
Alabama. 
Interior Department, JJ. S. A. : 

General Land Office. (See under the names of Surveyors- General 
RosiveU, IT. Mason and John Wasson ; also under name of P. W. 
Norris, superintendent Yelloicstone National Pari:) 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. {Prof. Spencer F. 
Baird, Commissioner.) About 100 boxes zoological collections 
from Gloucester, Mass., and vicinity, made by Prof. A. E. Verrill, 
G. Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean. (See also under names 
of Charles G. Atldns, Tarleton H. Bean, H. C. Chester, F. N. Clarlc, 
Vinal N. Edwards, G. Broicn Goode, James W. Milner, and Living- 
ston Stone.) Specimens have also been obtained by the commis- 
sion from the following parties : 

Anderson, Capt. CliarJes, and crew of scliooner Alice G. Wonson. A collection 
of fishes, corals, shells, sj»onges, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

AiJcinson, John. Skull of cod^sh. (Gadiis morrliua) ; malformed claw of lob- 
ster (Momarus americanus). 

Allen, George K., schooner Marion, Specimen of gold-banded rush-coral 
(Keratoisis ornata). 

Allen, George K., sclwoner M. H. Perlins. Collection of corals, sponges, sea- 
feathers, and fishes ; 40 miles south-west of Sable Island. 

Anderson, Capt. Chris, schooner Solomon Poole. A large and interesting col- 
lection of living hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, &c. ; from 15 miles ott' 
Pollock Rip Light-Ship. 

Andrews, F. S. Specimen of si)ider-crab brought in by schooner Clara 13. 
Sweet from Middle Bank. 

Bal)8on, Fitz J. Specimen of "old wife" (Rarclda glacialls) shot in Squam 
River, and axis of coral. 

Babson, Fitz J., jr. Lobster (Romarus americanus), with deformed claw. 

Bahson, William H., schooner Marion. Axis of coral (Prtmnoa reseda), from 
Banquereau. 

Baker, Captain, schooner Peter D. Smith. Specimen of young dog-fish 
(Squalus americanus), lump-fish {CycJoptcrns hinqnts), &c. 

Bansett, TFilliam A., New Bedford, Mass. Pilot-fish {Xaitcratcs ductor.) 

Bartlett, A., New Bedford, Mass. Rabbit-fish {Tetrodon Imvigatus); from 
Buzzard's Bay. 

Bates, James. Rough swell-fish (Chiliclithys tnrgidns). 

Blaclcbnrn, Capt. William, schooner Charles Carroll. Part of skull of whale 
covered with bryozoans and siionges; from western part of George's 
Bank. 

Blatchford, Capt. B. F. Specimen of bush-coral (Primnoa reseda) ; from 
Banquereau. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 105 

Wasliingt072, D. C— Continued. 
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

- Brazier, Benjamin S. Sfcring of eggs of Sifcofupkus canaliciilafiis, from Moii- 

omy Bcacii ; aud pebbles from Steelwagcn's Bank, covered with bryozoa. 
Briggs, Captain, scliooner City of Gloucester. Samples of fisb-oil made on the 

Grand Bank. 
Brown, William, scliooner Marion. Three specimens of black dog-Ssh new to 

the coast. 
Burhanlc, Martin. Young lobster {Romarus americamts) ; from Monhegan 

Island. 
Burlce, Henry E., scliooner Hattie S. Clarlc. Bryozoans and sea-corn; from 

the Grand Bank. 
Burns, Thomas. Specimens of gull {Lams delaicarensis) and star-fish (Hlp- 

pasteria), from off Gloucester; specimens of chimsera aud lancet-mouth 

(Alepidosaurus ferox); from George's Bank. 
Butler, Isaac, schooner Esther Ward. Specimens of star-fish, sponges, &c. ; 

from Brown's Bank. 
Calderwood, Capt. M. W., scliooner Jennie M. Calderwood. Perforated rocks 

with sponges and shells attached ; from Western Bank, G8 fathoms. 
Capron, John, schooner Solomon Poole. A large and beautiful collection of 

branching bryozoan corals ; from the Grand Banks. 
Carlson, Arnold, scliooner Alice G. Wonson. Specimen of rush-coral {Acan- 

ella) ; from between Brown's and George's Bank. 
Carritt, William, schooner Mary E. Shell new to America; from Flemish 

Cap. 
Carroll, Capt. Daniel. Skua gull (Sfercorarius sl'ua) ; from George's Bank. 
Cavener, Nicholas, scliooner Marathon. Chalina sponge and dog-fish skins; 

from George's Bank. 
Childs, Edivard B., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Young green turtle {Chelonia 

mydas); from SE. Le Have. 
Clark, Benjamin, schooner Water Sprite. Vase-shaped sponge (riiaMlia); 

from Brown's Bank. 
Clinton, Capt. George T., scliooner Rcnry Wilson. Barnacles, bryozoans, sea- 
corn, &c. ; from Grand Bank. 
Colhy, Capt. Charles. Pipe-fish (.S^.';h</h««;«8 sp.) and star-fish (JT/jJiJastova 

phrygina) ; taken eight miles off" Gloucester. 
Collins, Capt. Joseph W., schooner Marion. A large aud very valuable col- 
lection of fishes, sponges, shells, and other marine animals, many of 

which are new both to the American fauna and to science. 
Collins, William. Jaws of shark caught off Monhegan Island. 
Conley, John. Specimens of finger-sponge (Chalina) and mackerel-shark 

(Lamna cornuhica) ', from off Gloucester. 
Cressy, Charles C. Specimens of oceanic dolphin {Corypliana punctulata); 

from the Grand Bank. 
Cunningham cj- Thompson. Very large sponge ; from Le Have Bank. 
Curtis, Capt. Andrew, ship Ida Lily of lUchmond. Pens of squid (Sejna), from 

Cadiz Bay; larval lobster (?); fossiliferous rock; from George's Bank. 
Danforth, John. A large sea-worm. 

Davis, Mrs. Abby L. Fossiliferous rock ; from George's Bank. 
Davis, Mrs. Mary E. Fossiliferous bowlder; from Banquereau. 
Demsey, Capt. William, schooner Everett Steele. Parasites of codfish (^f/rt 

psora) ; from George's Bank. 
Devan, James, schooner Flying Scud. Base of coral ; from Eastern George's. 
Devoe, Capt. Luke, schooner Epes Tarr. Branching bryozoans and sea-corn , 
from Grand Bank, 



lOG APPENDIX TO THE REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, D. C. — Continued. 

Z7. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Dixon, Eugene F., schooner William T. Smith. Hydi'oids aud 1 ryozoa; from 
15 miles oft" Virgin Rock. 

Dixon, Capt. George TF., schooner William T. Smith. Bryozoaus aud sea-corii ; 
from George's Bank. 

Douglass, Capt. George, schooner Constituiion. Specimens of lump-fisli, dollar- 
fisli, rock-eel, moon-fisli, &c., and a crustacean (Idotea robusta) ; from Casco 
Bay. 

Douglass, John, specimen of ribbon-snake (Eutwnia sanrita). 

Douglass, Eobert,2d. Specimen of j)liantom-eel {LexAoccphalus); from off 
Gloucester. 

Driscoll, Daniel, schooner Solar Wave. Busli coral ; from Banquoreau. 

Dulaney, John. Rare liolotliurian ; from off Gloucester. 

Duncan, Capt. J. F., schooner Mary Low. A very large sponge; from Sable 
Island Bank. 

Floyd, Joseph D. Fossiliferous boulder and rock perforated by Saxicava 
arctica; from George's Bank. 

Friend, Sidney. Same as above. 

Gaffney, William M. Rock covered witb barnacles audbryozoans and fossil- 
iferous boulder ; from George's Bank. 
• Getchell, Capt. John Q., schooner Otis P. Lord. Specimens of fisb, sponges, 
corals, &c., two living liagdons, sbells ; from George's and Brown's Banks, 
and Cape Cod. 

Ginnevan, Thomas, and Philip Merchant. Two very large spider-crabs {Lithodcs 
maia). 

Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, schooner Elisha Crowell. Coral {Acantliagorgia), 
from Western Bank ; eyes of fishes, coral, and sponge, from Sable Island 
Bank; lancet-mouth (^Zep'fZosrtMrMs/erox), from Le Have Bank. 

Goodwin, Tliomas, schooner Bellerophon. Limestone rock containing fossil 
shells {Cyprina) ; from Grand Bank. 

Gorton, Slade, <f- Co. Specimens of "red" salted swordfish and codfish. 

Goslin, Capt. Joseph, schooner Shooting Star. Chalina sponge ; 25 miles south- 
east of Sankaty Head. 

Gourville, Capt. John, schooner Pchecca Bartlett. Specimens offish (Anarrhichas 
lupus, Triglops, Sebastes), shells, star-fish (Crossaster papposus), sponges 
{Chalina, Isodictya), crabs, bryozoa, &c., «&c. ; from George's Bank. 

Greenleaf, Capt. William LL., schooner Chester E. Lawrence. Specimens offish 
{Haloporphyrus viola, Synaphobranchus pinnaius, Petromyzon, &c.), great 
northern sea-feather (Pennatulaborealis), corals (Flabellum, Acanthomastus> 
Acantliagorgia) ; from George's Bank. 

Hamlen, Capt. Peter, schooner Andrew Leighton. Wolf-fish {Alepidosaurus 
ferox) aud pug-nosed eel ; from George's Banks. 

Harvey, Edward, schoona- Rebecca Bartlett. Small crustacean {Idotea robusta); 
from George's Bank, 

Haskell, Samuel. Fossiliferous boulder brought by schooner Conductor, 
Captain Curtis ; also, bryozoans aud fossiliferous boulder from Grand 
Bank, brought in by schooner Etta E. Turner, Ca^jtain Olscu. 

Hawkins, Capt. James, schooner Gwendolen. Basket star-fish, black rudder- 
fish (Palinurichthys), slime-eel (Myxine), crabs, shells, &c. ; from Saint 
Peter's and Le Have Banks. 

Hawkins, Capt. Z., schooner Gtvendolcn. Fishes (Zoarces, Petromyzon, Syna- 
phobranclius, &e.), embryo sharks, star-fishes, crabs; from George's Bank. 

Herring, Itichard, schooner William H. Paymond. Large gray gannet (?) and 
fossiliferous rocks; from NE. George's Bank. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPOPtT OF THE SECPtETARY. 107 

Washington, I). C. — Continued. 
IJ. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Umitt, Imac S., schooner J. J. Clark. Largo buucli of barnacles {Balanus 

porcatus) ; from Middle Bank. 
Higyins tf Gifford. Model of a Gloucester fish-wharf and houses. 
MilUer, Fred., schooner Alice M. Williams. Two rare species of eel-like fishes 

and bnsh-coral (Acanella normani) with basket-fish attached. 
Hodgdoii, Capt. T. F., schooner Bessie JF. Somes. Collection of corals (Acanella 

normani), spouges, sea-feathers (Pennatula iorealis, F. aculeata, FaUicina, 

Finmarchiclia), shells, &c. ; from Sable Island Bank. 
HodiiVms, Edward W. Crabs {Leithodes maia and Cancer irroratus); from 

Gloucester. 
Homans, Capt. Charles A. Specimens of Sipo wood used by the Carib In- 
dians, of South America, for intoxicating and catching fish. Specimens 

of codfish from the West Indian market. 
Hoy, Georye W., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. File-fish (Balisies ca2yriscus) and 

axis of sea-pen ; from Le Have Bank. 
Hurlhtrt, Capt. B. H. Eggs of perd winkle, from Cape Henlopen ; Gunther's 

midge {Hypsiptera argentea), from off Cape May; shells of scallop and her- 
ring-spawn from George's Bank. 
Jameson, John S., schooner Henry Wilson. Bryozoans, scallops, and sea-corn; 

from Grand Bank. 
Jellow, John, schooner Laura Kelson. Fragments of gold-banded rush-coral 

(Keratoisis ornata) ; from Le Have Bank. 
Jellow, John H., schooner George F. Whitman. Specimens of coral (Acanella 

normani, Frimnoa reseda), snails (Lunatiu), and scallojis (Fectcn); from Le 

Have and George's Banks. 
Jeweti, Capi. Thomas, schooner City of Gloucesier. Specimens of sponge, fan- 
shaped and gold-banded corals, sea-pens (Fennatula), &c. ; from Le Have 

Bank. 
Johnson, Capt. George A., schooner Augusta Johnson. A large and interesting 

lot of rare fishes, including the grenadier (Macrurus Fuhricii), chimtera 

(Chimcera plunibea), black dog-fish (Centroscy Ilium and Centroscymnus), 

wolf-fish (Anarrhiclias lupus), (Synaphohranchus), shells, sponges &c. ; from 

Sable Island and George's Banks. 
Johnson, Capt. Feier. Collection of shells, star-tlshes, sea-cucumbers, &c. ; 

from George's Bank. 
Kearney, William, schooner Marathon. Chaliua sponge; from George's Bank. 
Kilpatricli, Capt. Briggs, schooner City of Gloucester. A rare sucker-lish 

(Bemoropsis Irachyptera) taken from tht^ gills of a swordfish. 
King, W. A., schooner Otis D. Dana. Bush-coral (Primnoa reseda); from 

George's Bank. 
Kijyjiin, John, schooner Solomon Foole. Chaliua sponge, and stones bored by 

Saxicava arciica; fr'om Grand Bauk. 
Ldkcman, J. Spider-crab (Leithodes maia). 

Larlcin, John, schooner George W. Stetson. Young hagdou, living. 
Lc Blanc, Simon, schooner Behecca Bartlett. ^t&v-^s'h. (Crossastcr papposus); 

from George's Bank. 
Lloyd, J. D. Stones bored by Saxicara arciica, fossils, &c. ; from George's 

Bank, 
Liuuiberg, John A. Sponge (Chalina aculeata)', from George's Bank. 
McCallum, George, schooner Fitz J. Bahson. Specimen of the King-of-the- 

hcvring (Chimara 2)lumbea) ; from Le Have Bank. 
^[cDonald, Duncan, schooner Folar Ware. Specimens of coral and ''turbot" 
(^Platyiomatichthys hippoglossoides); from Eastern Baiupiereau. 



108 APPENDIX TO TEE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

WasJiington, B. C. — Continued. 
U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

McDonald, James and John D., schooner Addison Center. Okl-fasliioned iron 
kettle ; liauled up ou trawl near Halifax, N. S. 

McDonald, Cajit. Jerome, schooner G. P. Whitman. Rare barnacles and Kin<i- 
of-tlie-herriug (Chimara plumbea); froTn Le Have Bank; two specimens 
of lancet-mouth (Alepidosaurus ferox) ; from George's Bank. 

McDonald, Capt. Matiheiv, schooner Lizzie K. Clarlc. Sjtecimens of rare fish 
(Chimccra plumbea, Synaphohranchus pinnatus), corals (Keratoisis, Acantha- 
gonjia, Acanella), shells, sponges, sea-feathers, &c. ; from Western and 
Sable Island Banks. 

McDonald, Miles. Sea-mouse {Aphrodite acnleata) ; from Middle Bank. 

McDonald, Capt. William, schooner N. H. Phillips. Five sj)ecimens of coral 
{Acanella normani) ; from SE. Le Have Bank, and one {Para<jorgia) from 
Seal Island Bank. 

McEachei'n, Daniel, scliooner Guy Cunningham. Bases of fan-shaped coral 
taken on Grand Bank; and specimens of eels {Myxine and Petromyzon); 
sponges and sea-anemones ; from George's Bank. 

McEntire, Daniel. GjT^)sum; from mouth of Saint Lawrence River. 

McGinnis, Captain, scliooner M. H. Perkins. Black dog-fish {Ceatroscymnus 
coclolepis) ; from Sable Island Bank. 

McKinnon, Capt. Daniel., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Specimens of fish 
{Myxine, Seiastes Petromyzon), crabs, corals, «fec. ; from Sable Island and 
Le Have Banks. 

McKinnon, Capt. John, schooner B. B. Hayes. Siiider-crab {Leithodes inaia) ; 
from 25 miles off Gloucester, SE. 

McPhee, Capt. X., and crew, of schooner Carl Schurz. Specimens of corals 
{Alcyonium, Flaielhim, Acanella), sea-feathers, star-fish, parasites of hali- 
but {JEga psora), &c. ; from near Sable Island Bank. 

McQuinn , Edw. Specimens of Bemoropsis hrachypiera ; brought in by schooner 
W. H. Perkins from Grand Bank. 

McQuinn, Micliael, schooner N. H. Phillips. Rare shells {Aporrhais), and eggs 
of shark ; from George's Bank. 

Maddtn, Denry F. Axis of tree-coral {Primnoa reseda) ; from off Sable Isl- 
and. 

Mansfield, James, ^ Sons. Fossiliferous boulder ; from George's Bank. 

Marhle, Franlc. Large finger-sponge (C/(flZ(«rt), King-lash {Menticirrus neiii- 
losus), and fish-spawn ; from Norman's Woe. 

Martin, Capt. George H., schooner Korthern Eagle. Specimens of fish, Crus- 
tacea, barnacles, hydroids, «fec., from between Boone Island and Matin- 
icus Rock, swordfish {Xiphias gladius) ; taken off" Portland, Me. (pur- 
chased); 5 swords of swordfish from South Channel; j)ipe-fish(.S'^H(/Ha(7t«.s' 
fuscus) ; from Provincetown, Mass. 

Martin, Capt. S. J. Living specimen of hagdon {Puffinus anglorum); from 
George's Bank. 

Mason, Peter. Shells and hydroids taken by crew of schooner Hattie S. 
Clark on Grand Bank. 

Meelc, James, schooner Alice G. Wonson. Specimen of tree-coral {Paragorgia 
arhuscula) ; from between Brown's and George's Banks. 

Menezer, Joseph. Herring-gull; from Gloucester, Mass. 

Merchant, George, jr., scliooner Hattie B. West. A small goose-fish {Lophius 
piscatorius) taken off Cape Elizabeth. 

Merchant, Philip, schooner Marion. Specimens of coral {Mopsia, Keratoisis, and 
Acanella) ; from 30 miles off Sable Island. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109 

^VasUngton^ J). C. — Continued. 
U. S. Commission of Fish and jPis/icn'es— Continued. 

Moore, E. C, schooner Chester B. Lawrence. Tusk of walrus ; found on tlic cast 

coast of Newfouuclland. 
Morrissey, Capt. Daniel C, schooner Alice M. Williams. Two specimens of 

busli-coral (Jcanclla normani) ; from the Western Bank. 
Morrisseu, Capt. James D., schooner Alice M. Williams. Specimens of fisk 
{Chimwra plumljea, Centroscymmts ca:Mepis, Fetromtjzon) and coral; from 
George's Bank. 
Morrison, Capt. E. N., schooner Laura Nelson. Lampor-eel (Petromyzon) and 

fragments of tree-coral {Parayoryia arhorea) ; from Le Have Bank. 
Murphy, J., schooner Gertie Foster. A beautiful sponge ; from George's Bank. 
Murphy, Michael J., schooner Ma(jic. Specimen of tree-coral {Parayoryia ar- 
horea) ; from Grand Bank, and busli-coral (Acanella normani) ; from Ban- 
quereau. 
Murphy, Capt. Nicholas, scliooner FranUin S. Schcnclc. Pebbles covered with 

bryozoans; from Whaleman's Shoal oif Nantucket. 
Nolan, Joseph, schooner Bessie W. Somes. Specimen of bush-coral (Primnoa 

reseda) ; from Banquereau. 
Olsen, Capt. Chris., and crew,sclwoner William Thompson. Specimens of sea- 
mouse {Aphrodite) star-fish, hydroids, bryozoans, &c. ; from Grand and Le 
Have Banks. 
Parsons, John. Young pipe-fish (Syngnathns fuseus). 
Parsons, William. Specimen of snipe-eel (Ncmichthys seolopaceus); taken by 

schooner Howard Steele, on George's Bank in 1875. 
Pearce, F. A. Specimens of fish, star-fish, shells, &c. ; from Western Bank. 
Peterson, Martin, and Dennis Theleueng, schooner William Thompson. Speci- 
mens of rare fish {Alepidosaurus ferox, Macrurus Fabricii, Ccntroscymnus 
cmlolepis) and coral; 39 miles off Sable Island. 
Peterson, M. P., schooner Guy Cunninf/ham. Specimen of gold-banded rush- 
coral (Eeraioisis ornata) with barnacles attached, &c. 
Pettingell ^- Cunningham. Fossiliferous boiilders bored by Saxicava; from 

George's Bank. 
Polsen, Alfred, schooner Mary E. Hat-sponge from Flemish Cap. 
Badcliffc, William U., yacht Uncle Sam. Sea-lemon {Boltenia) ; from off Glou- 
cester, Mass. 
Rich, Capt. A. F., Boston, Mass. Specimen of sucker-fish (2?e;)ioroi9Sis Irachyp- 

tera) ; from South Channel. 
Biley, William, schooner Grace C. Hadley. Living fulmar-petrel; from 

George's Bank. 
Poach, David, schooner Lizzie E. Clark. Tobacco-pipe made from axis of tree- 
coral. 
Schooner Alice G. Wonson. Lancet-month (Alepidosaurus fcrox), corals (Pa- 
ragorgia arhorea, Flahellum articum, Primnoa reseda), star-fishes, shells, &c. ; 
from between George's and Le Have Banks. 
Schooner Carl Schurz. King-of-the-herring (Chlmara plumhca) and bush- 
coral (Acanella normani); taken 30 miles south of Sable Island; also 
sword of swordfish. 
Schooner Charger. Specimen of spider-crab (Leithodes maia) ; from Marble- 
head Bank. 
Schooner G. P. Whitman. Rock covered with bryozoans; from Banque- 
reau. 
Schooner Grace C. Hadley. Stone covered with barnacles and bryozoa; 

from George's Bank. 
Schooner Jloward Uolhrooh. Scallop-shells ; from Grand Bank. 



110 APPENDIX TO THE PtEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, B. C. — Continued. 

IT. 8. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Schooner Josie M. Calderu-ood. Pcrioriited rocks witli sponges aufl shells ad- 

liering ; from George's Bank. 
Schooner Lizzie K. Clark. Shells of Bncc'mmn cyaneum ; from 30 miles south 

of Sable Island. 
Schooner Northern Star. Three living hagdons (Puffinus amjlornm) : from 

Grand Bank. 
Schooner Otis P. Lord. Collection of star-fishes {Crossasier papposus), barna- 
cles, sea anemones, &c. 
Schooner Phoenix. Skin of spear-fish (Tctrapturus alhidus); taken iu the 

South Channel. 
Schooner Belwcca BartJcti. Tail of swordfish {Xiphias gladius.) 
Schooner Wacliuselt. Collection of scallops, hydroids and barnacles : from 

Grand Bank. 
Bowe, George T. Specimen of Zoarccs; from off Gloucester. 
Boive, Capt. John. Specimen of bush-coral {Primnoa reseda) ; from Banque- 

reau. 
Boive, Timothys. Si^ecimen of "gulf-weed;" from the Gulf Stream. 
Bust, Miss Carrie A. Barnacles {Lcpas fascieularis) ; from Harpswell, Me. 
Sayward, E. P., jr. Fossiliferous rocks ; from George's Bank. 
Scott, George W., schooner Lizsie. Collection of rare ^s\\Gs{Centroscy'lJmn Fah- 

ricii, Centroscymnus coslolepis, Chima;ra plumhca), shells, sponges, corals, 

&c. ; from Banquereau. 
Scott, George W., schooner Edwin C. Dolliver. Specimens of fish {RaJopor- 

phyriis, Anarrhichas, PJiycis, Synai^hobranchus, Chimara), Ae\i\ iifih {Octojnis 

Bairdii), corals (Alcyonium, Keraioisis), sea-feathers {Pennatnla, Balticina), 

shells, &c. ; from lat. 43° 23', long. 60° 16'. 
Scott, George TV., schooner City of Gloucester. Sample of black-dog-fish oil. 
Shemelia, Joseph P., schooner William H. Baymond. A large collection of liv- 
ing water-birds, five species ; from NE. George's Bank. 
Shemelia, James C, schooner William H. Baymond. Chalina sponge, barnacles, 

hydroids, and bryozoans ; from George's Bank. 
Silva-Terra, Anton, schooner Behecca Bartlett. Specimens of dog-fish skin. 
Simons, Capt. A., schooner Defiance. Living sjiecimen of sea-robin (Priono- 

tus) • from the Brewsters. 
Smith, John X. Specimens of sea-corn taken by schooner Conductor on 

Grand Bank ; also tree-coral from George's Bank. 
Smith ^- Oakcs. Fossiliferous boulder bored by Saxicava ; from George's 

Bank. 
Spurr, Captain, schooner John F. Wonson. Muscles, hydroids, bryozoans, i&c; 

from George's Bank. 
Story, L. D., Magnolia. Small fish {Argyreiosns vomer)', from Magnolia. 
Sweeney, Franlc. Parasites from gills of codfish taken off Gloucester. 
Sweet, Capt. William E., schooner Grace C. Badlcy. Sea-cucumber {Thyoiti- 

dium Dabenii), star-fish, and parasites of cod (^Ega psora) ; from George's 

Bank. 
Tarr, Capt. James. French hooks taken from the stomach of codfish on 

shoal ground off Salvages in 1856 and Jefi"ries Ledge, 1870. 
Tarr, James G. Samiiles of iish-oil. 

Thompson, Capt. William, schooner Magic. Collection of corals, sponges, sea- 
feathers, shells, &c. ; from Sable Island Bank and Banquereau. 
Tresilian, Thomas. Troo-coral {Primnoa reseda) ; from George's Bank. 
Voss, A. ''Devil's claw," or box-hook used iu boxing halibut. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ill 

Washington, D. C. — Continued. 

U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Con tinned. 

TVeJ)b, Capt. Henry, Eocliport. Specimens of pollock, -whiting, and Greenland 

sculpin ; from Milk Island, Rockport. Also, lobster-pot bait-hook. 
WcUs, Capt. William N., schooner E. B. PldUips. Shells from Grand Bank. 
WeJfih, Capt. James, schooner Martha and Susan. Specimen of chalina sponge; 

from George's Bank. 
Welsh, Morris. Specimen of chalina sponge ; from George's Bank. 
Whiting, Scnri/, schooner Webster Sanhoi^n. A largo collection of shells (Pec- 
fen islanclica, Ehijnchonella, sp.) ; from Grand Bank. 
Whitman, George P., Poclport. Mounted specimens of Richardson's ja-ger- 

gull (Stercorarius parasiticus). 
Williams, Capt. B. A., schooner Centennial. Scallop shell and pebbles with 

barnacles, bryozoans, and sea-corn adhering. 
Wilson, John I., schooner Otis D. Dana. Specimens of iiomariue jteger {Ster- 
corarius pomatorhinus) ; from George's Bank. 
Wonson, Everett P. . A collection of shells, barnacles, corals, &c. ; from New- 
foundland and George's Bank. 
Wasson, John, United States Surveyor-General, Arizona. Collection of 

ores and minerals from varions mines in Arizona. 
WatJcins, Joseph C. Small collection of fragmentary bones, pottery, 

arrow-beads, and fine stone pipe; from mound in Missouri. 
Wehb, Capt. Henry. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Com- 
mission.) 
Wells, Capt. William N. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb 

Commission.) 
Welsh, Capt. James. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Com- 
mission.) 
Welsh, Morris. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Commis- 
sion.) 
Welsher, H. W. Four specimens of wbiteflsb {Coreyomis alMis); from 

Madison Lake, Wisconsin. 
Werner, Johann, children of. Arrow-bead and copper nodule; from Wis- 
consin. 
Wheeler, C. Le B. Specimens of stone implements; from New York. 
Wheeler, Lieut. George M., U. S.A. (See Wasbington, D. C, War Depart- 
ment.) 
Whitall, Tatum & Co., Philadelphia. Samples of glass jars. 
White, Artemas. Copper celt, slate arrow-beads, and minerals; from 

New York. 
Whiting, Henry. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Commis- 
sion.) 
Whiting, Dr. Robert, U. S. N. Copper idol; from tbe valley of tbe 

Rimac, Peru. 
Whitman, George P. (See Wasbington, D. C, United States Fisb Com- 
mission.) 
WJiitynore, Hon. A. H. Young sturgeon; from Verona, j\le. 
Whitmore, Joshtia. Lamprey; from Bucksport, Me. 
Whitney, L. FHut laiives, arrow-beads, and stone ax; from Illinois. 



112 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Whitney, Br. W., U. 8. A. Stoue axe; from New Mexico. 

Whittal-er, E. E. Three samples of ore ; from Oregon. 

Wiggins, Fred. B. Living snake {Hcterodon) ; from Virginia. 

Wiggins, John B. Three boxes of aboriginal soapstone vessels; from 
Virginia. 

V,Hcox, Br. T. E., U. S. A. Bottle of alcoholic reptiles ; from Indian 
Territory. 

Wilder, General J. F. Stone figure-head, pipes, and other valuable 
relics. 

Willard, C. C. Fresh specimen of Eocky Mountain sheep; from Wyo- 
ming. 

Willetts, Joseph C. Two specimens of lake-trout ; from Skaneateles Lake, 
New York. 

Williams, Benjamin. Box of stone implements; from Michigan. 

Williams, Capt. B. A. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Williamson, Eon. G. A., United States Minister, Guatemala. Box of eth- 
nological and geological specimens ; from Guatemala. 

Wilson, John I. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Wilson, W. M. Collection of li\ing reptiles ; from Prince George's Count}', 
Maryland. 

Wiltheis, G. T. Box of stone relics; from Ohio. 

Wittmdn, E. Box of Cincinnati Group fossils. 

Wonson, Everett P. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Wood, A. 8. Civet cat {Bassaris astuta)-, from Oregon. 

Wood, Br. Presto7i. Specimens of stone implements; from Illinois. 

Wood, Br. William. Specimen of Lota maculosa; from Connecticut. 

Woodward, A. J. Shell of turtle; from Otter Creek, Florida. 

Woolley, C. W. Specimens of the tobacco-worm moth ; from Illinois. 

Wooster, A. F. Specimens of arrow-heads and eggs of ro bin and chicken- 
sparrow. 

Wooster, L. C. Package of Upper Cretaceous fossils; from the Caclui 
la Poudre Eiver, Colorado. 

Yarroiv, Br. M. C. Mummy of Arapahoe child and surroundings; frort. 
Sidney, Nebr. 

Zeledon, Jose G. Six boxes of general natural history and ethnological 
collections ; from Costa Eica. 

Unhioicn. Corals ; scales of tarpum, Indian stone tube, amethystias 
crystal; specimens of mule-killer [Thehjphonus); specimen of coal: 
snake; stone relics from West Virginia ; insect; box of fossils from 
Lawrence, Kans. ; fossil plant ; living black-snakes {Bascanium con 
strictor) ; living helgramite ; from Virginia. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



113 



i:t^TERN^ATIONAL EXHIBITION.* 
1876. 

Certificate of Award 

To tlie Smitlisonian Institutioii, for Hon. Thomas Donaldson, Collector. 

Collection of Ores. 

No. 1. — Ch-oup 1. 

UNITED STATES CENTENNIAL COMMISSION, 

(In accordance with the Act of Congress) 

Philadelphia, September 27, 1876. 



A. T. Goshorn, 
Director General. 



John L. Campbell, 
Secretary. 



Jos. R. Hawley, 
President. 



STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES. 



BOXES SENT ABROAD EST 1878. 



Country. 


Smithson- 
ian ex- 
changes. 


Govern- 
ment ex- 
changes. 


Total. 


AMERICA. 

Aigentino Confederation 


No. of 
boxes. 


No. of 
boxes. 

4 
2 


4 




2 
1 


4 


British Guiana 


1 


Canada 


4 
2 
2 

2 


4 


Chili 


1 


3 

2 


Hayti 




2 

1 
1 

2 
1 

1 

i 

1 

1 

G 
6 

40 
60 
54 


4 


Peru 


1 


Venezuela . . . 


2 
2 


3 

4 
1 


ASIA. 


Syria 


AUSTRALIA. 

New South "Wales 


2 

2 
2 

2 
2 


3 




4 
3 
3 




South Australia 


Tasmania . 


3 




4 
g 


EUROPE. 

Belgium 


Denmark 


6 


Franco 


17 
4 

2 




Gonnanv 




Great Britain 


58 


Greece 


3 


Holland 


6 

10 
4 
3 
7 
3 
G 

12 


g 


Italy 


10 


Niirwav 


2 
2 


6 


Portugal 




Kussia 


9 


Spam 


5 


Sweden 


g 


Switzerland '.. 


14 







S. Mis. 59 8 



* Omitted from the Keport for 187G, page 83. 



114 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETAEY. 



EECAPITULATIOSr. 



Couutry. 


Smithson- 
ian cx- 
clianges. 


G-overu- 
ment ex- 
cliauges. 


Total. 




No. of 

boxes. 

8 

3 

8 

217 


No. of 
boxes. 
18 

12 
41 


26 




5 




20 




258 






Total 


236 


73 


309 







KOTE. — No. of boxes, 309; bulk, in cubic feet, 2,1G0; -yeight, in pounds, 69,220, containing fourteen 
thousand six hundred and forty-eight miscellaneous packages, of wluch 60 contained specimens of nat- 
ural history. 

PACKAGES EECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FEOM EUROPE, 
&C., FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA. 



ALABAMA. 

Tuscaloosa : 
Alabama University . . . 

ARIZONA. 
Prescott : 
Territorial Library 



AKKASSAS. 
Little Rock: 
State Library 

CALIFORNIA. 

Berkeley : 
University of California 

Sacramento : 
Agricultuial and HorticnlturalSociety 

California Institution 

California Institution for the Deaf 

and Dumb and Blind 

Geological Survey of California 

State Agricultural Society , 

San Francisco : 

California Academy of Sciences 

California Historical Society 

Mayor of the city of San Francisco . . 
Mechanics' Institute 

Stockton : 

Society of Natural History 

State insane Asylum 



COLORADO. 

Colorado Springs: 
El Pa.so County Library Association. 

Denver : 
State Library 

CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 

American Philological Association . . 

Connecticut Society of Natural His- 
tory 

Connecticut State Agricultural So- 
ciety 

Ketreat for the Insane 

Society of Natural Sciences 

State iioard of Agriculture 

State Library 

Young Men's Institute 

Watkinson Library of Reference 

Middletown : 

Hospital for the Insane 

New Haven : 

American Journal of Science and 
Arts 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and 
Sciences , 

ShofHeld Scientific School 

Tale College 



DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown : 
Georiietown College 

Hillsdale: 
Pioneer School 



1877. 1878. 



10 



3.5 
16 

119 

1 

34 



District of Columbia.— Continued. 

"Washington: 

Agi'iculturerDepartment of 

American Medical Association 

Board of Public Schools 

Botanic Garden 

Coast Siuvey 

Census Bureau 

Columbia Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

Columbian University 

Corcoran G^allery of Art 

Education, Bureau of 

Engineer IJuieau 

Fish Commission 

Geological Survey of the Territories 
Government Hospital for the Insane. 

Hydrographic Office 

Indian Commissioners, Office of the. . 

Interior Department 

Land Office 

Library of Congress 

Light-ilouso Board 

Medical Society of the District of 

Columbia 

National Academy of Sciences 

Nauti cal Almanac Office 

Naval Observatory 

Navigation, Bureau of 

Navy Department 

Ordnance Office 

Patent Office 

Paymaster-General, U. S. A 

Philosophical Society 

President of the United States 

Signal Office 

Statistics, Bureau of 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Swedish and Norwegian Legation 

Treasury Department 

War Department 



GEORGIA. 

Athens : 
University of Athens 

Augusta : 
Horticultural Society 

Savannah : 
Historical Society of Georgia 

ILLINOIS. 

Aurora : 
Literary and Historical Society 

Bloomington : 
Illinois Museum of Natural History. 

Carbondale : 
Southern Illinois Normal University. 

Chicago : 

Chicago Academy of Science 

Chicago Board of Trade 

Chicago Historical Society 

Chicago Public Library 

Dearborn Observatory , 



1877. 1878, 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



115 



Packages received by the Smithsonian iHstituUon, ^-c. — Continued. 



Illinois — Contiuucil. 



Mayor of the city of Chicago 

National Live Stocli Journal , 

Public School Library 

University of Chicago 

Elgin : 
Northern Hospital for the Insane 

Evanston: 
Northwestern University 

Galesbnrg: 
Lombard. University 

JacksonviUo : 
State Hospital for the Insane 

Moro: 
Ameiican Pomological Society 

Normal : 
Illinois Natural History Society and 
Museum 

Ottawa : 
Academy of Natural Sciences , 

Eautoul : 
Kantoul Literary Society 

Springfield : 
State Board of Agriculture 



INDIAN A- 

Bloomington : 
Indiana University 

Greencastle : 

Indiana Asbury University 

Indianapolis : 

Creological Survey of Indiana , 

Historical Society 

Indiana Horticultural Society 

Institution for the Education of the 

Blind 

Public Library 



IOWA. 

Burlington : 
Iowa Historical and G-enealogical 
Institute 

Davenport: 
Davenport Academy of Sciences 

Decorah : 
Norwegian Lutheran College 

Des Moines : 
Department of Public Instruction . . . 
State Library 

Grinnell : 
GrinneU University 

Iowa City : 

Director Iowa Weather Service 

Iowa State University 

Laboratory of Physical Science 

Mount Pleasant : 
Asylum for the Insane 



KANSAS. 

Baldwin City : 
Baker University 

Ossawatomie: 
Kansas Insane Asylum 

Topeka ; 
Kansas Natural History Society 

KENTUCKY. 

Frankfort : 
State Library 

Hoi)kinsville : 
Western Lunatic Asylum 

Lexington : 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 

Kentucky University 

Louisville : 
Mayor of the city of Louisville . 

Public Libiary 

University of 'L(misville 

Russellville : 
Logan Female College 

LOUISIANA. 

Baton Rouge : 
State University 



LouisUNA— Continued. 

Clinton : 
Louisiana Insane Asylum 

New Orleans : 

Athenee Louisiauais 

Insane Asylum 

Mayor of the city of New Orleans . . 
New Orleans Academy of Natural 

Sciences 

State Library , 

University of Louisiana 



1877. 1S78. 



MAINE. 

Augusta : 
Commissioner of Fisheries of the 

State of Maine 

Maine Hospital for the Insane 

Natural History and Geological So- 
ciety 

State Board of Agriculture 

Brunswick : 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 

Calais : 
Calais High School and Academy . . . 

Lewiston : 
Androscoggin Natural History So- 
ciety..-. 

Norway : 
High School and Academy 

Portland : 

Maine Agricultural Society 

Portland Society of Natural History. 

Waterville :' 
Colby University 



MARYLAND. 

Annapolis : 

St. John's College 

United States Naval Academy 

Baltimore : 

Baltimore City College 

Johns Hopkins University 

Maryland Academy of Science 

Maryland Asylum for the Insane . . . 

Maryland Historical Society 

Maryland Institute 

Mayor of the city of Baltimore 

Peabody Institute 

St. Paul's Lyceum and Library As- 
sociation 

University of Maryland 



MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst : 
Amherst College . .*. 

Andover : 

Theological Seminary 

Boston : 
American Academy of Arts and 

Sciences 

American Gynecological Society 

American Social Science Association. 

American Statistical Association 

American Unitarian Association 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Art Club 

Boston Athenfeum j>. 

Boston Hospital 

Boston Medical and Surgical Journal 

Boston Microscopical Society 

Boston Society of Natural History. .. 

Bowditch Library 

Department of Public Instruction . .. 

Institute of Technology 

Massachusotf.s A.^ylum' for tb(> Blind. 
Massacliusetts IJnind of Kducation .. 

Massachusetts Historical Soeiety 

ivrayor of the city of Boston 

JMedical and Surgical Journal 

New iMiyland Historic Genealogical 

Society 

Nort li American Review 

Public Library 



2 

14 

1 

3 

1 

3 

1 

12 

1 

168 

1 



182 
4 



1 

3 

1 

11 

'166 
4 
1 
3 
1 
1 
2 
1 



116 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

Packages received hij the Smithsonian Institution, tj'-c. — Continued. 



Massachusetts — Continued. 



Science Observer 

State Board of A s^iculture 

State Board of Charities 

State Board of Health 

State Library 

Cambridge: 

Cambridge Philosophical Society 

Eutomolojiical Club 

Harvard College 

Harvard (Jollege Herbarium 

Harvard Ciillege Observatory 

^Museum of Comparative Zoology... 

INuttall Ornithological Club-..-". 

Peabody Museum of American Arch- 
aeology 

Jamaica Plains : 
Bussey Institute 

Leicester: 
Leicester Public Library 

Newton Centre : 
Theological Institution 

Pennikese Island : 
Anderson School of Natural History. 

Salem : 
American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science 

American Naturalist 

Esses InstitU'te 

Peabody Academy of Sciences 

North Church and Society 

Taunton : 
State Lunatic Asylum 

Wellesley : 
Wellesley College 

Williamstown : 
Williams College 

"Worcester : 
American Antiquarian Society 



MICHIGAN. 

Ann Arbor : 
Herbarium of the University of 

Michigan 

Observatory 

University of Michigan 

Cold water : 
Michigan Library Association 

Detroit : 
Michigan State Agricultural Society , 

Kalamazoo : 
Asylum for Insane 

Lansing : 
Michigan State Board of Health 



MINNESOTA. 

Duluth: 
Scandinavian City Library 

Minneapolis: 
Minnesota Academy of Natural 

Sciences 

University of Minnesota 

Saint Peter : 
Hospital for the Insane 

Saint Paul : 
Minnesota Historical Society 

MISSISSIPPI. 
Oxford : 
University of Mississippi 



MISSOURI. 

Columbia: 
University of Missouri 

Fulton : 
State Lunatic Asylum 

Glasgow : 
Morrison Observatory 

Saint Louis : 
Geological Survey of Missouri . 



22 



MissouKi— Continued. 

Mayor of the city of Saint Louis. 

Public Library 

Saint Louis Academy of Science . 

Saint Louis University 

State Board of Agriculture 

Washington University 



NEBRASKA. 

Lincoln : 
University of Nebraska . 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord : 

Department of Agriculture , 

New Hampshire Historical Society 

State Agiioultural Society 

State Lunatic Asylum 

Hanover : 
Dartmouth College 



NEW JERSEY. 

Hoboken : 
Stevens Institute of Technology . . . 

Newark : 
New Jersey Historical Society 

New Brunswick : 
Geological Survey of New Jersey. . 
Natural History Society 

Princeton : 

College of New Jersey 

Observatory of College of New Jersey 

Trenton : 
State Lunatic Asylum 



NEW YORK. 

Albany : 

Adirondack Survey Office 

Albany Institute 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Agricultural Society. 

New York State Library , 

New York Medical Society 

New York State Museum of Natural 

History 

New York State University 

Blackwell's Island : 
New York City Lunatic Asylum 

Brooklyn :' 

Long Island Historical Society 

Mayor of the city of Brooklyn 

Buflalo : 

Buft'alo Historical Society 

Buffalo Medical Association 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.. 
Observatory 

Clinton : 

Hamilton College , 

Litchfleld Observatory 

Cornwall : 
Cornwall Library 

Geneva : 
Hobart College 

Hamilton: 
Madison University 

Ithaca : 
Cornell College 

New York : 

American Chemical Society 

American Chemist 

American Christian Commission 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geographical Society 

American Institute 

American Institute of Architects 

American Library Journal 

American Microscopical Society 

American Museum of Natural History 
American Numismatic and Archaeo- 
logical Society 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 117 

Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, cj-c. — Continued. 



New York— Continued. 

American Public Health Association 
AiiicTican Society of Civil Ensuioers 
Anthropological Institute of New 

York 

Astor Library 

Bloomincdalo Asylum for the Insane 
Board of Health of the city of Now 

York 

Columbia College 

Commissioners of Central Park 

Engiaeering and Mining Journal . . . 

Insurance Department 

Mnnufacturer and Builder 

Mayor of the city of New York 

Mi'dical Journal 

Medical Kecorder 

Mercantile Library Association 

Metropolitan Board of Health 

Metropolitan Museum of Art 

New York Academy of Medicine . . . 

New York Academy of Sciences 

New York Historical Society 

New York Meteorological Observatory 

Observatory 

Sanitarian 

School of Mines 

Scientiflc American 

Scottish American Journal 

Swedenborg Society 

Swedish-Norwegian Consulate 

United States Sanitary Commission . 
University of the City of New York 
Van Nostrand's Eclectic Engineer- 
ing Magazine 

Poughkeepsio : 
Vassar College 

Rochester : 
Theological Seminary 

Schenectady : 
Union College 

Utica: 
State Lunatic Asylum 

West Point : 

Observatory 

United States Military Academy 



OHIO. 
Ashtabula : 

Anthroiiological Society 

State Archffiological Society , 

Athens : 
Ohio University 

Cincinnati: 

American Medical College 

Cincinnati Observatory 

Cincinnati Quarterly Journal of 

Science 

Historical and Philosophical Society . 

Loiigvirw Asylum for the Insane 

Mayor of tlic city of Cincinnati 

Mercantile Library 

Natural History Society 

Public Library 

University of " Cincinnati 

Young Men's Mercantile Library . . . 

Cleveland ; 
Academy of Natural Sciences 

Columbus : 

Geological Survey of Ohio 

Ohio State Boardof Agriculture 

Oliio State Library 

Delaware : 
Museum of "Wesleyan University . . . 
Ohio \Vesleyan University 

Gambie'r : 
Kenvon College 

North Bend: 
Ohio Horticultural Society 

Urbana : 
Urbana University 



18 


18 


1 




2 




4 


2 


1 




18 


12 


2 




la 


7 


1 


1 


1 




1 




4 


2 


1 




1 


1 


3 


4 


81 


100 


1 


C 




11 


1 




14 


10 


15 


10 


2 


1 


2 


1 


1 





1877. 



Ohio— Continued. 



Yellow Springs : 
Antioch College 



PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny : 

Allegheny Observatory 

Society of Natural Sciences 

Carlisle : 

Belles-Lettres Society 

Dickinson College 

Chester: 
Crozer Theological Seminary 

Easton : 
American Institute of Mining En 

gincers 

Lafayette College 

("rermantown : 
Germantown Library Association . . . 

Harrisburg : 
Medical Society of the State of Penn 

sylvania . 

State Library 

Philadelphia ; 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society — 
American Journal oi" Conchology . . 
American Pharmaceutical Association 

American Philosophical Society 

Board of Health 

Board of Public Education 

Central High School 

Commissioners of Pairmount Park. 

Dental Cosmos 

Director of the Mint 

Franklin Institute 

I'riends' Book-Store 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

Girard College . .'. 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb 

Jetferson Medical College 

Library Company 

Mayor of the city of Philadelphia. - 

Medical Times 

Mexican Commission 

Observatory of Girard CoUege 

Office of Gray's Atlas 

Pennsylvania Hospital 

Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane. 
Philadelphia Society for the Promo- 
tion of Agriculture 

Social Science Association 

Stacey Stone Dressing Machine Com- 
pany , 

University of Pennsylvania 

"Wagner Free Institute of Science 

Zoological Society 

Pittsburg : 
National Iron and Steel Publishing 
Company 

South Bethlehem : 
Lehigh University 



RHODE ISLAND. 

Providence: 

Brown Univeisity 

City Registrar's Office 

Rhode Island Historical Society 

Rhode Lslaud Society for the Encour- 
agement of Domestic Industry 



SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston : 

Cliarleston Library Society 

Chark'ston Medical Journal and Re- 
view 

Charleston Museum of Natural His- 
tory 



146 

21 

3 

31 

108 
1 
3 
2 
2 
1 



200 

22 

4 

28 

145 



118 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

Pachages received hij the Smithsonian Institution, t^-c. — Coutiuucd. 



South Caeolena— Continued. 



Charleston Observatory 

Elliott Society of Natural History 

South. Carolina Historicnl Society 

South Carolina Medical Association - 

Columbia: 
University of South Carolina 

Lexington : 
Theological Seminary of the Evan- 
gelical Lutheran Club 



TEJvNESSEE. 

KnoxvUle : 
East Tennessee University. . . 
Philomathean Society 

Lebanon : 
Cumberlanil University 

NashvUle : 

Hospital for the Insane 

Teuucssee Historical Society. 
University 



Austin : 

State Library 

University of Texas. 

Chapel Hill: 
Soulo University 



VERMONT. 

Bamet : 
Vermont Historical and Antiquarian 
Society 

Brattleborough : 
Vermont Asylum for Insane 

Burlington: 
University of Vermont 

Castleton: 
Orleans County Society of Natural 
Sciences 

Montpelier: 
State Cabinet of liTatural History... 
State Library 



Charlottesville : 
University of Virginia 

Hampden Sidney: 
Hampden Sidney CoUege 

Norfolk: 
Agricultural Society 

Richmond : 
Historical Society of Virginia. 
Medical Society of Virginia . . . 
State Library .' 



WISCONSIN. 

Applet on: 
La^vl■cncc University 

GalesviUe : 
Galesvillo University 

Inmansville : 
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society 

JanesvUle : 
"Wisconsin Institute for the Educa- 
tion of the Bhnd 

Madison : 
State Historical Society of Wisconsin. 

State Library ... 

Su]iiriutendent of Public Instruction. 

Uiiivevsity of Wisconsin 

Washburn Observatory 

Wisconsin Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences , 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society. 

Milwaukee : 
Milwaukee University 



1877. 1878. 



Wisconsin— Continued. 

Natural History Society 

Skandinaviske'Pressefoming 

Neenah : 
Scandinavian Library 

Oshkosh : 
Northern Hospital for the Insane 

BRITISH AMERICA. 

Eredericton, New Brunswick : 
University of New Brunswick 

Halifax, Nova Scotia: 
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural 
Sciences 

Hamilton, Ontaiio : 
Scientitic Association 

Kingston, Ontario : 

Botanical Society of Canada 

Observatory 

Queen's College 

Milltown, St. Stephen's, New 
Brunswick: 
Public Library 

Montreal, Quebec: 

Entomological Society 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Mayor of the city of Montreal 

McGiU College.. 

Mechanics' Institiite'. 

Montreal Observatory 

Natural History Society 

Societ6 d' Agriculture du Bas-Canada. 

Ottawa, Ontario: 

Library of Parliament 

Literary and Scientitic Society 

Quebec, Quebec: 

Geographical Society 

Laval University 

Le Naturaliste Canadien 

Literary and Historical Society 

Observatory 

Superintendent de I'lnstruction Pu- 
bUque - 

St. John, New Brunswick : 
Natural History Society 

Toronto, Ontario : 

Board of Agriculture 

Canadian Institute 

Literary and Historical Society 

Meteorological OtHce 

Museum of Education 

Observatory 

School of Practical Science, of Agii- 

culturo and Arts 

University of Toronto , 



1877. ! 1878. 



INDIVIDUALS. 



Abbe, Prof. C 

Adams, Prof. H 

Agassiz, Prof. A 

Aikens, M. L. A , 

Alexander, Prof. S 

Allen, J. A 

Allen, H 

Alvord, General 

Ames, Mrs. M. P 

Anderson, E. B 

Andrews, W. V 

An.aeU, J.B 

Anthony, J. G 

Appleton, N 

Arch, Col. M 

Annstrong, Doctor 

Ashe, Commander E 

Ashley, A 

Astor, W. B 

Atkinson, C 

Atkinson, E 

At wood & Culver, ilessrs 



APPENDIX TO THE ilEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Packages received hi/ the Smithsonian Institution, <!j'c. — Coutiuued. 



119 



Individuals — Continufd. 



Austin, Mrs. R. M 

Aiistiu. C. F 

13aird, rrof. S. F 

Bailev, H. B 

Bake'v, Prof. W. S 

Ballard, J 

Bancroft. Hon. G 

Bancroft, H. H 

Bannister, H. M 

Barber, E. A 

Barker, Prof. G. F 

Barlois, Hon. F. C 

Barnard, Prof. F. A. P. . . 

Barnard, J. M 

Barnes, Hon. W 

Barnes, Surgeon-General. 

Barrett, G. H. M 

Bartlett, Prof. W. H. C . . 

Bassett, H. T 

Bascomb, Prof. J 

Baxter, Dr. J.W 

Bean, Dr. T. H 

Bebb, M. S 

Bell, E 

Bennet, J. G 

Berckiuaus, J. J 

Berton, 

Bessels, Dr. E 

Bessey, Prof. C. E 

Bethune, liev. C. J. S...'. 

Biirclow, F. H 

Biilinus, E 

Eiuiiev, W. G 

Blakei Prof. W. P 

Bland, T 

Blazius, Professor 

Blod.-et, L 

Boardman, G. A 

Boebmer, G. H 

Bolauder, Doctor 

Bor.s, Consul C 

Bowditcb, Dr. H 

Bowditcb, n. T 

Bowles, G. J 

Bradbrook, S. G 

Bradley, F. A 

Bradley, Judcie 

Bradley, F. H 

Brady, S» 

Brendel, Dr. F 

Brevoort, J. C 

Brewer, Dr. T. M 

Broadbead, G. C 

Brocklesby, Professor 

Brooks, Maj. T. B 

Blown, S 

Brown, S. G 

Bninet. L'Abbe O 

Brusli, Prof. J. G 

Buchanan, Doctor 

Bucbanau, Dr. A 

Bullard, J 

Burdens, E 

ISimihai'.i, S. W 



Butle 



J. D. 



Butler, G. D 

Cauby, W. M 

Capron, G enernl H 

Carpenter, Prof. S 

Carey, H. C 

Case, L 

Cbalmers, Tl 

Chamberlain, J. C 

Chandler, jr., S. C 

Chandhr, Prof. C. F 

Chandler, Prof. W. U 

('harlier. E 

Chase, Prof. P. E 

Chauveau, Hon. J. P. O... 



1877. 



1878. 



INDIVIDUALS — Continued. 



Cherry, C 

Clasbom, J. L 

Clarke, Prof. F. "W 

Clark, S. F 

Claypole, E. W 

Cleveland, D 

Clinton, W. G 

Coffin, J. H. C 

Coffin, S.J 

Cobn, Professor 

Comstock, General 

Congdon, T. W 

Conklin, A 

Conrad, Doctor 

Cook, G.n 

Cook, J.P 

Cook, ir., J. P 

Cope, E. D 

Coues, Dr. E 

Cos, E. T 

Craftes, Prof. J. M 

Cresson, E. T 

Cushing, F. H 

Cutting, H. B 

Dabney, Rev. Professor 

Dale, Prof. T.N 

DaU, W.H 

Dalton, Dr. J. C 

Dana, E. S 

Dana, Prof. J. D 

Dana, jr.. Rev. R. H 

Davidson, Prof. G 

Davis, Rear- Admiral C. H 

Davis, H. E 

Davison, E. F. 

Dawson, Dr. J. "W 

Deane, Dr. C 

De jardin, P 

Dike, C 

Dobson, James 

Dobson, John 

Dow, Capt. J. M 

Downes, J 

Draper, Dr. D 

Draper, Dr. H 

Draper, Prof. J. W 

Draper, L. C 

Ducatel, Madam 

Eads, J.B 

Eastman, Prof. J. R 

Eaton, Hon. J 

Eaton, Williams 

Edwards, H 

Edwards, W 

Egleston, Prof. T 

Eisen, Dr. G 

Elder, Dr. "W 

Eliot, Prof. C. "W 

Eliot, S 

Ellinwood, Dr. E. M 

I'^lliot, Doctor 

Ellis, J.B 

Ellis, F. B 

Elli.s, Rev. G. E 

En.erson, Prof. B 

Emuious, Jud'ro 

Endlicb, Dr. F. M 

Engelmann, Dr. G 

Ericson, Capt. J 

Exall, H 

Fallow, Dr. W. G 

Farqnarsou, R. J 

Farskey, Colonel 

Fav, S 

FeiTell, Prof. W 

Fields, D. D 

Firth, A 

Fish, Hon. H 

Fisher, Dr. G. J 



120 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, ^-c. — Continued. 



iNDivmuALS— Continued. 



Fiske, "W 

Fiss.G.W 

Fitch,A 

Fitch, G.T 

Pleisclier, F 

Flugel, W 

Force, W. Q 

Ford,S.W , 

Foreman, Dr. E 

Fowler, W. C 

Fremont, G eneral J 

Fuller, H.W 

Gabb.Dr. W.M 

Gatschct.N.S 

Genth, Dr. F. A 

Gibbs,W 

Gilbert.G.K 

GiU.Prof.T 

Gilman.Prof. D. G 

Gilpin, Governor W 

GoodaU, A.G 

Goode.G.B 

Goodfellow, E 

Goshoru, A. T 

Grant, Ma.i. C. C 

Gray, Prof. A 

Greene, Rev. E. L 

Gre2;ory, J. M 

Grote.A.R 

Gurman, Dr 

Guttenbcrg, G 

Guyot, Prof. A 

Habel, Doctor 

Hasen, Dr. H. A 

Haldeman,S.S 

Hall,Prof.A 

Hall, Prof. J 

Hammond, Dr. "W". A 

Hanson, P 

Hardins.C.L 

Hardins, E 

Hardincj, G. "W 

Hare, Prof. H.B 

Harkness, Prof. W 

Harper & Brothers 

Haningtou, Prof. M. "W 

Hartranft, Hon. J. F 

Hawley, General J. B 

Hayden, Dr. F V 

Hayes, Dr. J. J 

Heinzer, G 

Henry, Prof. J 

Heizer, J. M 

Herbert, G 

Hi£;o;iiiS, E. S 

HiijVard.E.W 

Hilirard, Prof.J.E 

Hill,G.W 

Hinrichs, Prof. G 

Hilton, W 

Hitchcock, Prof, C. H 

Hitchcock, Prof. K. D 

Hitz,J 

Holden, Prof. E. S 

Holden,AV 

Holley, A 

Holmes, W.H 

Holmes, D.S 

Holmes, N 

HormDr. G.H 

Horsford, Prof. E. N 

Hough,F.B 

Hovoy, Prof. A 

Howe.E C 

Howclls.W.D 

Hoyt.J. W 

Humphreys, General A. A . 

Hun,T 

Hunnies, A , 

Hu]it,Prof. T.S •-. 



1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
116 
1 
1 
32 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
8 



125 



11 



Individuals— Continued. 



Hyatt, Prof.A 

Isaacs, S. E. IJ 

Jackson, W. H 

Jagger, Bishop 

Jarvis, Dr. E 

Jewett, Col.E 

Jolmson, J. A 

Johnson, O. C 

Johnson, S. W 

Jones, C. C 

Jones, M.E 

Joly,H.G 

Joor, Dr. J.F 

Joi)lin 

Joy, Prof CM" 

Joyce, Dr. R 

Kaiser, Dr. P. D 

Kendall, Prof. O 

Kennedy, J. C. G 

Kerr, W. C 

Keyes,E.W 

Kiuff.C 

Kingsloy, T.S 

Kingsley, W. L 

Kingston, Prof G. T . . . . 

Kirtland, Dr. J. P 

Kuight,E 

Kiinig, Doctor 

Kiiuings, Rev. A 

Kolkin, Mr 

Koren, Rev. V 

Lamphore, A. T 

Landreth & Sons 

Lane.G.M 

Langley, Prof J. P 

Lanmaii, C. R 

Lapham, Dr. S. G 

Lawrence, G. N 

Lawrence, Hon. "W". B .. 

Lea, Dr. I 

Lea. G 

LeClair, T. S 

LeConte, Dr. J 

LeConte, Prof. Joseph.. 

Lee, Admiral S. P 

Lee,Col.F.L 

Lees, J. S 

Leidy, Prof. J 

Lcmmon, J. G 

Leonard, Prof. T. M . . . 

Lesley, Prof. J. P 

Lesquereux, Prof. L . .. 

Leyman, T 

Lindermann, H. R 

Longfellow, H 

LongfeUow, F. W 

Longstroth, F. W 

Loomis, Prof. E 

Loverins, Prof. J 

Lyman, 'Dr. B. T 

Lyman, Prof. C. S 

L>anan, T 

McCagg, E. B 

Macoun, Prof. J 

Magelsen, Rev. C 

Mallet, J. W 

Manigault, G. E 

Marcy, Dr. O 

Marsii, Prof. F. A 

Mar.sh, Prof. O. C 

Mason, Prof. O. T 

Master, A 

Matile, G. A 

Matthews, G. F 

Mayes, Prof. A. M 

Mecliau, J. H. M 

Mechan, Dr. T 

Meigs, Dr. J. A 

Meri'iam, G. & C 

Merriinan, Dr. M 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 121 

Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, ^x. — Continued. 



iNDiviDUAi.s — Continued. 



Mover, J. E 

Michelet, N 

MiUer, S. A 

Milner, Mr 

iliuot, Professor 

Mitcliel, J. E 

Mitchell, H 

Mitchell, Dr. S. "Weir 

Morgan, Dr. L 

Mornian, A. T 

Morris, Prof. (1. S 

MoiTis, Dr. .r. Ct 

Morse, Dr. E. S 

Morton, Dr. U. H 

Motley, J. L 

Mimroe, F. H 

Muns, Rev. B. J 

Myer, Brig. Gen. A. J 

JTeumogen, B 

Newberry, Dr. J. S 

If cwconiij. Prof. S 

Newton, Prof. H. A 

Newton, General J 

Nicholson, W. L 

Nichos, Prof. TS, 

Nipher, Prof. F. E. 

Nivens, J. P 

Nolan, E.J. 

Northrop, Hon. B. E 

Norton, Prof. W. A 

Norton, Prof. G. E 

Nourse, Prof. J. E 

OlcLs, L.P 

Oliver, Prof. J. E 

Olmstead, Kev. L 

Olsen, A 

Ordway, Dr. A 

Osten-feacliou, Baron R 

Ottesen, Rev. J. A 

Outerbridge, A. A 

Paaren, Dr. A. H 

Packard, Dr. A. S 

Packard, jr. , Dr . A. S 

Paine, Dr. M 

Palpev, J. G 

Parker, Dr. P 

Parkman, F 

Parsons. I'rof. T 

Patterson, Capt. C. P 

Peale, Dr. A. C 

Peale, T. R 

Pearson, J 

Peck, C.H 

Peckham, Prof. S. F 

Peirce, Prof. B 

Perkins, C. C 

Perrv, Dr. A. W 

Peters, Dr. C. H. F 

Pettersen, Dr. F. V 

Pettit, H 

Philbrick, J. D 

Pickard, J. L 

Pickering, Dr. C 

Pickering, Prof. E. C 

Pierrepoiut, W. C 

Pinkham, Prof. G. L 

Pitkin, Doctor 

Poesche, T 

Porse, B. P 

Porter, Prof. S. C 

Ponrtales, L. F. de 

Powalkv, Dr. C 

Powel],MaJ. J. "W 

Powers, H." A 

Prime, Dr. F 

Prime, T 

Pringle, C. G 

Prout, Dr. H. A 

Pumpellj", Prof. R 



1877. ' 1878. 



Individuals— Continued. 



Putnam, F. W 

Putnam, Doctor 

Quinby, Dr. \V. F 

Quincy, Hon. J 

Randolph, B 

Rassmussen, Rev. P. A 

Rau, Dr. C 

Redfield, Professor 

Reed, E. W 

Reis, N. T 

Reverbon, J 

Reynolds. Miss M 

Rhees, William J 

Richardson, Dr. W. T 

Ridgway, R 

Riley, C. N 

Roberts, G 

Robin.son, R. W 

Rodgers, Rear- Admiral J 

Rodgers, Prof. R. E 

Roessler, A. R 

Regers, Prof. F 

Rogers, Prof. W. B 

Rood, Prof. D. N 

Rood, Prof. 0. N. 

Rosengarten, J. G 

Ross, A. M 

Roy, Mrs. J 

Rust, F. N 

Rutherford, L. M 

Safford, Prof. J 

Safiord, Prof. T. H 

Salisbury, Prof. E. E 

Sanborn, F. B 

Sandford, J. E 

Sands, Rear- Admiral B. F 

Sargent, C. S 

Saiissure, W. de 

Savre, Prof. L. A 

Sciiaff, P 

Schott, C. A 

Schroeder, Mrs. E 

Schumacher, P 

Schurz, Hon. C 

Schuster, M 

Scott, Colonel 

Scudder, S. H 

Sellers, W 

Selwyn, A. R. G 

Sequard, Dr. C. Brown 

Seyflfarth, Dr. G 

Shaler, Prof. N. S 

Sheidy, L. P 

Shugley, J 

Sibley," J. L 

Sillhnan, Prof. B 

Simon, Prof. W 

Slater, jr., H. N 

Smith, A , 

Smith, Alex 

Smith, B. S 

Smith, Prof H. L , 

Smith, Prof. J. L 

Smith, Prof. S. I 

Smith, Prof. S 

Smith, W.H 

Snow, Dr. E , 

Soldan, F. P , 

Squier, E. G 

Stallo, Judge F 

Stanley, A. & F 

Steams, R. E. C 

Steel,T , 

Stcere, Prof. J. B , 

Sterling, C 

Stevenson, J. J , 

Stowardson, T 

Stewart, E. F 

Stirling, C 



122 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, cfc. — Continued. 



IXDiviDU ALS — C out inucd. 



SlockvrcU, J. W 

Stone, Dr. O 

Stover, Prof. P 

Strecker, H 

Suokow, B. ISr 

Swallow, Prof. G. C 

Sweet, B. G 

Taft, R.C 

Taylor, Prof. "W. B 

Tliomas, Prof. C 

Thomas, S. U 

Thomson, J. n 

Thompson, Dr. J. II 

Todd, D. P 

Toner, Dr. J. M 

Trowbridge, Prof. J. P 

Trowliridge, Prof. W. P 

TrumbuU, Dr. J. H 

Tryon, G. AV 

Tiickenuan, Prof. E 

Twimr, Ilex. Dr 

Twining, Prof. A. G 

Tyler, S 

Uhler, Prof. P. R 

Van der Wevde, Prof. P. H. . 

Van Xame, Prof. A 

Vasev, Dr.G 

Verrill, Prof E. A 

Wacksmuth, C 

"Waite, Judge 

Walcott, C.'D 

Walker, Dr. D 

Walker, Prof. F. A 

Walker,J 

Walton, J. J 

Ward, Prof. A. H 

Ware, Mrs. M. G 

Warini, Col. G. E 

Watson, Prof. J. C 

Watson, Prof S 

Weeden, W. B 

Welling, Prof J. C 



1877. 



1878. 



Individuals— Continued. 



Wells, J 

Wells, W. H 

Welsch, J 

Werner, Prof. A 

Weston, H. C 

Wheatley, Prof. CM 

Wheeler, Lieut. G. M 

Whetherby, Prof. A. G 

Whito,Dr:C. A 

White, Dr. M. C 

Whiting, Commodore W. B. . 

Whitney, Prof. J. D 

Whitney, Prof. W. D 

Wbittier, J. G 

Wibbe, Prof H 

Wickham, W. H 

Wiffglesworth, E 

AVilder, Prof B. G 

Willey, H 

Willey, O. S 

Williamson, S 

Wilson, J. M 

Wincholl, Prof A 

Winchell, Prof. N. H 

Wines, Rev. D 

Wing, E 

Winslow, E 

AVood, W 

Wordrow, Rev. Professor 

Woodward, Dr. J. J 

Woolsey, Prof D 

Worthen, Prof A. H 

Wright, Prof A. M 

Wright, Prof A. W 

Wright, Prof. R 

Wurtz, H 

Wyman, M 

TamaU, Prof M , 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C 

Young, Prof C. A 

Young, C. B 

Zeledon, Prof. M 



15 



RECAPITULATION. 



Total addresses of institutions 

Total addresses of individuals 

Total 

Total number of parcels to institutions 
Total number of parcels to individuals. 

Total 



1877. 



392 
374 



1878. 



292 
370 




4,9G2 5,292 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECPtETAEY. 



123 



AGENTS FOR TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION OF SMITHSONIAN 

EXCHANGES. 



Countries. 



Shipping agents. 



Distributing agents. 



Algeria , 



Argentine Eepuljlic 

Australia. (See New South. 
■\V;'.ks, 3few Zealand, 
Queensland, South Aus- 
tralia, Tasmania, Vic- 
toria.) 

Austro-Hungary 



Belgium . 



Conipagnio Gen6rale Transatlantiquc 

(L. de Bebian), New York. 
Ed. F. Davison, New York 



Bolivia , 
Brazil.. 



Canada 

Cape Colonies. 



Central America. (See 
Costa Rica, Guatemala.) 

Chile 

China 



Colombia, Dnited States of. 



Costa Eica. 
Cuba 



Denmark 



Ecuador 



North German Lloyd, New York and 
Baltimore. 

"White Cross Line of Antwerp (Funch, 
Edyo & Co.), New York. 

Joseph S. Spinney, New York 

Charles Mackall^i vice-consul, Balti- 
more, Merchants' Line of Steamers 
(B. R. Borland), New York. 

New York, Alexandria, Washington, 
find Georgetown steamers. 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign 
freight department. 



H. R. Grace & Co., New York 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign 

freight department. 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, 

New York. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company 

Havana and West Indian Express 

(Carrington & Co.), New York. 
Hamburg -American Steam Packet 

Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New 

York. 
A. Elorcs, New York 



Egypt . . 
Finland . 



France. 



Germany 

Great Britain . 



Greece 

Guatemala . 



Guiana, British . 
Guiana, Dutch.. 

Hayti 



S. L. Merchant & Co., New York 

Abs, Wyburg, Wasa and Finland 
Steam Navigation Company, Hull. 

Compannie Geuerale Transatlantique 
(L. (le Bebian), New York. Boyd 
>fc Hiucken, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co., 
New York; Schumacher & Co., Bal- 
timore). 

Cunard Line (C. G. Francklyn), New 
York. Baltimore and Ohio' Railroad 
foreign freight department. 

Consul D. W. Botassi. New York 

Pacitio Mail Steamship Company, 
New York. 



Holland. (SeoNetherlands) 
Iceland 



India 

Italy - 



Thomas F. Bixby & Co., Boston 

Atlas Stearashi]> Company (Piin, For- 
wood & Co.), New York. 

Hamburg -American Steam Packet 

Comjjany (Kunhardt & Co.), Now 
York. 



Jamaica 
Japan .. 



Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson 
& Bro.), New York. 



Java . 



Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New 
Yoik. Japanese consuls in New 
York and San Francisco. 



Liberia 



Mauiitius 

Mexico 

Netherlands 



American Colonization Society, Wash- 
ington. 



Now South Wales 
New Zealand 



Juan N NavaiTo, consul, New York.. 
Netherland- Ameiicau Steamship 

Navigation Company (H. Cazaux), 

New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., Now York 

R. W. Cameron &Co., New York 



Commission Fran9aise des Echanges 

Intemationaux, Paris. 
Museo publico, Buenos Aires. 



Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 

Commission Bel":o d'Eohanges In- 
temationaux, Brussels. 

University, Chuquisaca. 

Lnstituto Historico, Geografico y 
Ethnograflco, Rio Janeiro. 

Geological Survey of Canada, Mon- 
treal. 
WiUiam Wesley, London. 



TJniversidad, Santiago. 
William Wesley, London. 

Sociedad de Naturalistas, Bogota. 

University, San Jos6. 
Prof. F. Poey, Havana. 

Kongelige Danske Yiden.skabemes 
Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, 

Quito. 
Institut Egyptien, Alexandria. 



Commission Fran^aise des Echanges 
Intemationaux, Paris. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 



William Wesley, London. 



Sociedad Economica de Amigos del 

Pais, Guatemala. 
Queen's College, Georgetown. 
Surinaamsche Kolouiaale Biblio- 

theek, Paramaribo. 
Secretaire de I'Etat des Relations 

Ext6rieures, Port-au-Prince. 

Kongeligo Danske Videnskabemes 
SelsktU), Copenhagen. 

William Wesley, London. 
Ulrico Hoepli, MUano. 

Royal Society of Arts, Kingston. 
Imijerial University, 'Tokio. 



Genootschap van Kunsten en Wo- 
tenschappeu, Bata\-ia. 



William Wesley, London. 

Museo Nacional, jMexico. 

Bureau Scientili(|ue (Prof, von 
Baumhauer), Harlem. Fred. 
MuUcr, Amsterdam. 

Royal Society of New South Wales, 
isydney. 

Parliamentary Library, Welling- 
ton. 



124 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECEETAEY. 

AGENTS FOE TRANSMISSION, &C.— Continued. 



Countries. 



Shipping agents. 



Distributing agents. 



Norway 



Peru 

Pliilippino Islands . 



Poi-tiigal 

QucLiisland 



Eussia 

Sandwich Islands . 

South Australia . . 

Spain 

Sweden 



Switzerland. 



Syria 

Tasmania . 



Trinidad . 



Turkey — 

Venezuela , 



Victoria 

"West Indies . 



Hamburg - American Steam Packet 
Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New 
York. 

Joseph S. Spinner, New York 

Spanish consul, San Francisco (of- 
fered). 

Consul Gustav Amsink, New York - . . 

Hon. A. McAllister, Queensland de- 
partment, London. 

Wm. Eopes & Co., New York 

Consul Seyerance, San Francisco 



E. W. Cameron & Co., New York . . . , 
Spanish consul. New York 



Hamburg -American Steam Packet 
Company (Kunhardt & Co.), New 
York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & 
Co.), Baltimore. Consul yon Hey- 
man, Bremen. 

J. Chrysoyoloni & Co., Liyerpool 

Crown agents for the colonies, Lon- 
don. 



Turkish Minister, "Washington . 
C G. de Garmendia, New York. 



E. "W. Cameron & Co., New York . . . . 
Thomas Denuison, New York (for 

Antigua ) . H. B. Bailey, New York. 

"SVilsou & Asmus( for Turks Islands). 

Thomas Bland, New York. 
See also Cuba, Jamaica, Hayti. 



Kongelige Norske Frcderiks Uni- 
yersitet, Cbristiania. 

Biblioteca Nacional, Lima. 

Eoyal Economical Society, Manila. 

Ecola Polytechnica, Lisbon. 

Goyemment Meteorological Ob- 
seryatorj', Brisbane. 

L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg. 

Eoyal Hawaiian Agricultural So- 
ciety, Honolulu. 

Astronomical Obseryatory, Ade- 
laide. 

Eeal Academia de Ciencias, Ma- 
drid. 

Kongliga Syenska Vetenskaps Ak- 
ademien, Stockholm. 

Bnndes Canzlei, Bern. 



Eoyal Society of Tasmania, Ho- 

barton. 
Scientific Association, Port of 

Spain. 

Soc. de Ciencias Eisicas y Natu- 

rales, Caracas. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 



APPENDIX TO THE PtEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 125 

ACTS AND EESOLUTIONS OF C0:NGRESS EELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

FoETY-FiFTn Congress, Session II. 

Public Resolution — No. 6. 

JOINT RESOLUTION filling an existing vacancy in the Board of Regents of the 

Smithsonian Institution. 

Resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in the Boaixl 
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than mem- 
bers of Congress, shall be filled by the appointment of Noah Porter, 
of Connecticut, in place of James D. Dana, resigned- 
Approved, January 2G, 1878. 

Public Resolution — No. 15. 

JOINT RESOLUTION fiUing an existing vacancy in the Board of Regents of the 

Smithsonian Institution. 

Resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United' States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancy in the Board 
of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than mem- 
bers of Congress, shaU be filled by the appointment of WilliA]M T. 
Sheriman, of the city of Washington, in place of Georg-e Bancroft, 
of said city, resigned. 

Approved, March 25, 1878. 

Forty-fifth Congress, Session III. 

Chapter 21. 

AN ACT authorizing the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution to appoint an Act- 
ing Secretary in certain cases. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That in the case of the death, 
resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is hereby, author- 
ized to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who for the time being 
shall be clothed with all the powers and duties which by law are de- 
volved upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said position until an elec- 
tion of Secretary shall be duly made, or until the Secretary shall be 
restored to his health, or, if absent, shall return and enter upon the 
duties of his office. 

Approved, January 24, 1879. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSOiNIAN LNSTITUTION FOR THE 
YEAR 1878. 



The Executive Committee of tlie Board of Eegents of tlie Smithson- 
ian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the support 
of the IsTational Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the 
Institution and the Museum for the year 1878, and the estimates for the 
year 1879: 

Statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning of the year 1879. 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithsou, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1846 $515,109 00 

Eesiduary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with 
the act of Congress of February 8, 18G7 26, 210 63 

Total bequest of Smithson , $541, 379 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States as 
authorized by act of Congress, February 8, 1867, derived 
from savings of income and increase in value of invest- 
ments 108,620 37 

Amount of the bequest of James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., 

February 24,1874 - 1,000 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the United States 
Treasury, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 

semi-annually in gold $651, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund, 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, viz : 

Consolidated bonds $58, 700 00 

Deferred certificates 29, 375 07 

Fractional certificate 50 13 

Total 88,125 20 

Valued January, 1879, at 34, 000 00 

Also, the cash balance in the United States Treasury 

at the beginning of the year 1879 19, 632 57 

Total Smithson funds, January 8, 1879 $704, 632 57 

126 



EEPOET OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 127 

RECEIPTS IN 1878. 

Interest on 8650,000, for the year 1878, at 6 per cent., gold . $39, 000 00 

Premium on gold interest, July 1, 1878, at h per cent 97 50 

Interest on Vii'giuia bonds : 

Sale of coupons by Riggs & Co., for January 1 and July 

1, 1878, for $3,522 (December 9, 1878) at 78-79 2, 776 31 

Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000 for the year 

1878 $60 00 

Premium on gold, July 1, 1878, at J per cent. . 15 

00 15 



Repayment by Library of Congress : 

For advances made for international exchanges in 1877 . 1, 781 00 
Balance on hand at the beginning of 1878 25, 0S3 90 



Total receipts for the year 1878 $08, 798 89 

EXPENDITURES IN 1878. 

Building, furniture, and fixtures $4, 712 72 

General expenses 18, 136 42 

Publications, researches, and explorations 15, 732 92 

International literary and scientific exchanges. 10, 250 41 

Gallery of art 333 So 

$49, 166 32 



Cash balance, January 7, 1879 $19, 032 57 

HAMILTON BEQUEST. 

Received from James Hamilton, February 24, 1874, and de- 
posited with the Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States $1,000 00 



Interest received from February 24, 1874, to December 31, 

1878 306 32 

Appropriated in 1876 for exploration of cave near Carlisle, 
Pa $150 00 

Appropriated in 1878 for exploration of steatite 

quarry in Virginia 156 32 

oub oJ 



Statement of expenditures in 1878, in (h'tail. 

BUILDINa. 

Repairs and improvements $4, 346 43 

li'urinture and fixtures 366 29 



$4,712 72 



128 KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetiugs of the Board $399 25 

Ligliting the building , 260 80 

Heatiug the building 593 37 

Postage and telegraphing 395 54 

Stationery 797 96 

Incidentals (ice, hauling, insurance, &c.) 642 03 

Salaries (including allowance to family of Profes- 
sor Henry, $2,812.50) 14,371 96 

Extra clerk hire and labor 200 00 

Books and periodicals 475 51 

$18, 130 42 

PUBLICATIONS, KESEAECHES, ETC. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge $5, 523 14 

Miscellaneous Collections 7, 432 48 

Annual Eeport 942 20 

Eesearches 1, 032 13 

Apparatus 121 56 

Laboratory 86 21 

Explorations , 595 20 

15, 732 92 

Literary and scientific exchanges 10, 250 41 

Gallery of art 333 85 



$49, 166 32 

A larger exjienditure for repairs of the building than was anticipated 
was made necessary by a violent and destructive storm which visited 
Washington last summer by which the finials or caps on some of the tow- 
ers, and several hundred slates from the roof, were blown off, the light- 
ning-rods detached, and much other damage done to the exterior of the 
building. Some alterations in the interior of the east wing have been 
jnade also. 

The expenses attending "international exchanges" have steadily in- 
creased, until they now absorb about one-fourth of tlie entire income of 
the Institution. It has, therefore, in accordance with authority given 
by the Board of Kegents, been decided to make a charge of five cents 
a pound on all packages received or sent by the government depart- 
ments, a measure rendered necessary on account of the great increase 
in bulk of the public documents sent by them. 

REPAYMENTS. 

The Institution has made temporary advances during the year for 
freight, &c., the repayment of which, with the amount received from 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 129 

sales of tbo publications of the Institution, have been deducted from 
the expenditures for the year. These credits have been as follows : 

Pubhcations, sales $261 83 

Exchanges, repayments for freight 263 28 

Books, repayment ,..^ 3Q 00 

Gallery of art, reiiaymeut 14 65 

Postage, repayment 3 00 

Incidentals, repayment 2 00 

Total in 1878 $574 76 

ESTIMATES. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the 
year 1S79, and the appropriations required for carrying on its opera- 
tions during the same period : 

Estimated receijyts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1879, 

and January 1, 1880 $39, 000 00 

Interest on the Hamilton fund for 1879 60 00 

Sale of Virginia coupons due January 1, 1879, and July 1, 
1879 2,500 00 



41,500 00 
Estimated appropriations. 

For building $2, 000 00 

For general expenses 14, 000 00 

For publications and researches 14, 000 00 

For exchanges , 10, 000 00 

For booli;s and apparatus 1, 000 00 

For contingencies 560 00 



41,560 00 

The death of Professor Henry, the Secretary of the Institution, on 
the 13th of May, 1878, rendered necessary a special examination of the 
accounts up to that date by the Executive Committee, who found that, 
of the amount on hand at the beginning of the year 1878 ($25,083.90), 
there had been exi)ended under his supervision and direction the sum 
of $16,560.92, every cent of which was accounted for by vouchers and 
entries in the usual books of account, with his characteristic precision 
and care. The balance ($8,522.98) was transferred, on the 28th of May, 
1878, by the Treasurer of-, the United States, to the credit of the new 
Secretary of the Institution, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, in whose name the 
account of the Institution is now kept. 
S. Mis. 59 9 



130 EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

IN^ATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1878 for the 

" National Museum." * 

" For preservation and care of the collections of the Na- 
tional Museum, including those from the International 
Exhibition of 187G," for the fiscal year ending June 30, 
1879 $18, 000 00 

" For expenses of making up into sets, for distribution to 
institutions of learning and museums, the duplicate 
ores, minerals, and objects of natural history belonging 
to the United States," for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1879 5, 000 00 



23,000 00 
Armory BnUding. — "For expense of watching and storage 
of articles belonging to the United States, including 
those transferred from the International Exhibition of 
1876," for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1879 2, 500 00 



25,500 00 

The following statement gives the receipts and expenditures of the 
National Museum during the year 1878 : 

RECEIPTS. 

Balance of appropriation for "preservation 

of collections," January 1, 1878 $11, 323 21 

Balance of appropriation for "Armory," Jan- 
uary 1, 1878 1, 488 25 

Balance of appropriation "National Museum" 

deficiency bill, January 1, 1878 2, 040 90 

One half of the appropriation for "preserva- 
tion of collections " and " distribution of du- 
plicates," for year ending June 30, 1879 ... 11, 500 00 

One half of the appropriation for "Armory 
building," for year ending June 30, 1879 ... 1, 250 00 



Total receipts $27,602 36 

EXPENDITURES. 

TV,. , i ^ -lor-o T (Preservation.. $6,338 55 
Fn^st quarter of 18.8, Jan- \ ^^ ' 897 24 

uary-March ^ Deficiency .... 1, 914 18 

cj 1 ^ e lor-o C Preservation . . 4,984 66 
Second quarter of 18.8, \ ^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^ 

Aprd-June ^ Deficiency . . . . 126 72 

* Statutes of tlie Uuited States, 1877-78, page 233. 



EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 131 

Third quarter of 1878, July- ( Preservation. . |5, 423 Gl 
September ( Armory 643 78 

Fourth quarter of 1878, Octo- ( Preservation. . G, 187 09 
ber-December ( Armory 684 98 



Total expenditures $27, 781 82 



The balance on hand for the purposes of the Museum for the remain- 
ing six months of the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1879, is $12,560.54; 
of which $11,389.30 belong to the "i)reservation" account, and $1,171.24 
to the "Armory." 

On the 27th of September, 1877, a commission was appointed by the 
President to examine the jiublic buildings and report what additional 
means should be provided to secure them from destruction or injmy by 
fire. This commission consisted of Col. Thomas L. Casey, United States 
Engineers, Commissioner of Public Buildings; Mr. Clark, Architect of 
the Cajiitol, and Mr. Hill, Architect of the Treasury. This Commission 
visited and inspected the Smithsonian Institution, and made the follow- 
ing report in regard to it, which was submitted to Congress on the lOtli 
of December, 1877:* 

''Smithsonian Institution. — All the combustible materials used in tlio construc- 
tiou of the museum portion of the building should be removed and the parts renewed 
of fire-proof construction, and the openings comrectcd with other xiarts of the building- 
should be supplied with lire-proof doors." 

An estimate has been submitted to Congress by the Hon. Secretary of 
the Interior for an appropriation of $3,000 to provide additional security 
against fire in the Smithsonian building for the government collections, 
in accordance with the foregoing report. 

All payments on account of the "National Museum " are made by the 
disbursing-ofificer of the Department of the Interior on the presentation 
of the usual vouchers, approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

SUMMARY. 

The Executive Committee have examined 755 vouchers for j)ayments 
made from the Smithson income during the year 1878, and 578 vouchers 
for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the JSTational 
Museum, making a total of 1,333 vouchers. All these vouchers bear the 
approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the 
materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the 
Institution. 

The committee have also examined the account books of the National 
Museum, and find the balance as before stated, viz, $12,560.54, to cor- 
respond with the certificates of the disbursing-ofificer of the Department 
of the Interior. 

*Ex. Doc. No. 10, Forty-lifth Congress, Second session, House of Kei^reseutatives. 



132 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The quarterly accouuts-curreut, bank-book, cbeck-book, and journal 
of the lustitutioa liave been examiued aud found to be correct, and show 
a balance to the credit of the Institution on the 8th of January, 1879, in 
the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, of $19,032.57, available 
for the current oj)erations of the Institution. 
Kespectfully submitted. 

PETER PAEKER, 
W. T. SHERMAlSr, 
Executive Committee^ Smithsonian Institution. 
Washington, January 13, 1879. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 



Washington, D. C, 3Iai/ 13, 1878. 
A meetings of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution was 
held this day at the Institution, at 8 o'clock }). m., under the following 
call: 

Smithsonian Institxjtion, 

May 13, 1878. 
The Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution are requested to meet at 
the Smithsonian building at 8 o'clock this Monday evening, to make suit- 
able arrangements for the obsequies of Prof. Joseph Henry, whose 
decease occurred at 12.10 o'clock this afternoon. 
By order of — 

M. E. WAITE, Chancellor. 

Present, the Chancellor — Chief Justice Waite, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. 
A. A. Sargent, Hon. K. E. Withers, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. J. A. Gar- 
field, Hon. Peter Parker, General W. T. Sherman. 

The Chancellor made the following remarks : 

My Brethren of the Board op Eegents: I have asked you 
to come together this evening not to take action upon the great loss our 
Institution has sustained, but to consult as to what may best be done to 
l)ay honor to all that is mortal of the great and good man who, conceiv- 
ing what Smithson willed, has devoted his life to making the bequest of 
our benefactor what he wished it to be, an instrument " for the increase 
and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

The Chancellor stated that hennderstood that the family of Professor 
Henry had expressed the wish that the Board of Eegents should make 
all the arrangements for the funeral. 

Several of the Eegents expressed their opinion that this was not the 
appropriate time to eulogize the deceased, as another and full meeting 
of the Board should be called for that purpose. 

The following resolutions were adopted : 

Besolvcd, That the Chancellor be directed to notify the President of 
the United States and his Cabinet, the Supreme Court of the United 
States, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the two houses of 
Congress, the General of the Army, the Admiral of the Navy, the Diplo- 
matic Corps, the Light-House Board, the jSTational Academy of Sciences, 
the Washington Philosophical Society, and other organizations with 

133 



134 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

■wliicli he "was connected, of tlie death of Prof. Joseph Henry, and to in- 
vite them to attend his funeral. 

Eesolved, That the funeral take place on Thursday, ICth May, at the 
I^ew York Avenue Presbyterian Church, at 4.30 o'clock p. m. 

BesoUed, That the Eegents meet at the Institution on. Thursday next 
at 4 o'clock p. m. to attend the funeral in a body. 

Eesolved, That a committee, consisting of General Sherman, Hon. 
Peter Parker, and Prof. S. F. Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Institu- 
tion, be appointed to make arrangements for the funeral ceremonies. 

Resolved, That a meeting of the Board of Eegents be held on Friday 
next, 17th May, at 10 o'clock, a. m. for the purpose of transacting such 
business as may come before it. 

The Board then adjourned. 

Washington, D. C, May 17, 1878. 

A meeting of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution 
was held this day at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present, the Chancellor — Chief Justice Waite, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. 
A. A. Sargent, Hon. E. E. Withers, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. J. A. Gar- 
field, Eev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Dr. Asa Gray, Gen- 
eral W. T. Sherman, President Noah Porter. 

General Garfield was requested to act as secretary. 

At the request of the Chancellor, Eev. Dr. Maclean led in prayer 
for Divine guidance of the Eegents in their present dehberations. 

The following resolutions were then adopted : 

1. Resolved, That the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby 
express their profound sorrow at the death of Prof. Joseph Henry, 
late Secretary of this Institution, and tender to the family of the de- 
ceased their sympathy for their great and irreparable loss. 

2. Resolved, That in consideration of the long-continued, faithful, and 
nnselfish services of Joseph Henry, our late Secretary, there be paid to 
his widow the same sum to which he would have been entitled, as sal- 
ary, for the remainder of this year, and that the Secretary be directed 
to make payment to her for the amount thereof montlily. 

3. Resolved, That Mrs. Hemy be informed of this action of the Board, 
and the desire of the Eegents that she wiU continue the occupancy of 
the apartments now in her use for such period, during the remainder of 
this year, as may suit her convenience. 

4. Resolved, That a committee be appointed who shall prepare and 
submit to this Board at its next annual meeting a sketch of the life, 
character, and public servdces of the late lamented Secretary, which 
shall be entered upon the records. 

5. Resolved, That the Executive Committee of the Board be requested 
to make arrangements for a public commemoration in honor of the late 
Secretary of the Institution, of such a character and at such a time as 
they may determine. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 135 

The Chancellor appointed as the special committee under the fourth 
resolution, President Porter, Dr. Gray, and Dr. Maclean. 

On motion, it was resolved to consider the subject of election to fill 
the vacancy in the office of Secretary of the Institution. 

Dr. Parker urged the propriety of deferring the election of Secretary 
to a later meeting, as it might ap])ear iirecipitate to elect now. 

Senator Hamlin thought the Board ought to proceed at once to elect 
a Secretary. To delay would be to invite great contention for the 
office. 

Senator Withers thought the discussion should be confined to the 
question of postponement. 

Dr. Parker then moved that the appointment of a permanent Secre- 
tary be postponed until the next annual meeting in January, and sug- 
gested that the Assistant Secretary might be invested with power to 
perform all the functions of Secretary during the interim. 

Dr. Maclean said that when President Burr, of Princeton, died, his 
successor. President Edwards, was elected the fourth day after. He 
thought prompt action the wisest, and advocated the election of Pro- 
fessor Baird. 

Mr. Clymer read the statute, and insisted that the Board was legally 
bound to elect a Secretary. No funds could be drawn nor payments 
made by any other officer, and an ad interim appointment was not pro- 
vided for by the law of organization. 

General Garfield suggested to Dr. Parker that he withdraw his mo- 
tion, and that the Board proceed to elect, so that action might be taken 
of an affirmative rather than of a negative character. 

President Porter expressed the opinion that the Board could elect a 
Secretary jpro tempore. 

Dr. Parker then withdrew his motion ; and the construction of the 
statute by Mr. Clymer was agreed to by the majority of the Board. 

Mr. Clymer moved to proceed to the election of a Secretary j which 
was agreed to. 

The Chancellor appointed Mr. Sargent and Mr. Clymer as tellers. 

The vote was then taken by ballot, and the tellers reported that eleven 
ballots were cast, all of which were for Spencer Fnllerton Baird. 

Messrs. Sargent and Clymer were appointed a committee to wait upon 
Professor Baird and inform him of his election, and invite him to attend 
the meeting of the Board. 

The committee discharged this duty ; and at half past eleven o'clock 
a. m. introduced the Secretary-elect to the Eegents. 

The Chancellor then formally announced to Professor Baird his unani- 
mous election as Secretary. 

Professor Baird made a brief acknowledgment of the honor con- 
ferred upon him, and stated that he would endeavor to discharge his 
duties faithfully and in accordance with the views of his lamented pre- 
decessor. 



136 JOUKNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

On motion, it was 

Besolved, That tlie Chancellor prepare a suitable notice of the death 
of Professor Henry, to be sent to foreign establishments in correspond- 
ence with the Institution, and also notifying them of the election of Pro- 
fessor Baird as Secretary. 

The Chancellor stated that the resignation of Mr. Bancroft had 
occasioned a vacancy in the Executive Committee, and, on motion, it 
was 

Besolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee be filled by 
the election of General Sherman. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



Agreeably to the resolution of the Board, the Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution, on behalf of the Eegents, prepared the following circulars, which 
were promjjtly distributed to the corresiJondents of the Institution in all 
l)arts of the world : 

" Smithsonian Institution, 
" WasMngton, D. C, May 14, 1878. 

" On behalf of the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, it becomes 
my mournful duty to announce the death of the Secretary and Director 
of the Institution, Joseph Henry, LL. D., which occurred in this city on 
Monday, May 13, at 12.10 o'clock p. m. 

" Professor Henry was born in Albany, in the State of New York, De- 
cember 17, 1799. He became professor of mathematics in the Albany 
Academy in 1826 ; professor of natural philosophy in the College of 
i^ew Jersey, at Princeton, in 1832, and was elected the first Secretary 
and Director of the Smithsonian Institution in 1846, 

" He received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Union Col- 
lege in 1829, and from Harvard University in 1851. 

" He was president of the American Association for the Advancement 
of Science in 1849; was chosen x>resident of the United States National 
Academy of Sciences in 1808 ; president of the Philosophical Society 
of Washington in 1871, and Chairman of the Light-House Board of the 
United States in the same year; the last three positions he continued 
to fill until his death. 

" Professor Henry made contributions to science in electricity, electro- 
magnetism, meteorology, capillarity, acoustics, and in other branches of 
physics ; he published valuable memoirs in the transactions of various 
learned societies of which he was a member, and devoted thirty-two 
years of his life to making the Smithsonian Institution what its founder 
intended it to be, an efficient instrument for the " increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." 

" M. E. WAITE, 
"Chancellor oftlie Smithsonian Institution. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 137 

" Smithsonian Institution, 
^^ Washington, J). C, May 17, 1878. 
"At a special meeting of tlie Board of Eegeiits of the Smithsonian 
Institution, held this day, Prof. Spencer Fnllerton Baird, for many 
years the assistant secretary of the Institution, was duly elected as the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to succeed the late Prof. Joseph 
Henry. 

"M. E. WAITE, 
" Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution^ 



Washington, D. C, January 15, 1879. 

A meeting of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution 
was held this day in the Eegents' room, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present, the Chancellor — Chief Justice Waite ; Hon. W. A. Wheeler, 
Vice-President of the United States, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. E. E. 
Withers, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. H. Clymer, Dr. J. Maclean, Dr. A. 
Gray, Dr. H. Copp^e, Hon. Peter Parker, President Porter, General Sher- 
man, and the Secretary, Professor Baird. 

An excuse was received from Hon. H. Hamlin for non-attendance, his 
absence being occasioned by his appointment by the Senate on a special 
committee to accompany the remains to Texas of Hon. G. Schleicher, a 
deceased member of (Congress. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The following communication from Mrs. Henry was Liid before the 
Board bj' the Chancellor : 

Hon. M. E. Waite, 

Chief Justice of the United States, 

Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution : 

My Deae Sir : In my great affliction it is consoling to receive from 
friends tributes of sympathy and testimonials of respect for my late 
husband. I feel very deeply the kind consideration of the Board of 
Eegents in their offlcial capacity. Permit me, through you, to express 
to them the heartfelt thaidcs of my children and myself for the liberality 
extended to us and the full appreciation of Mr. Henry's character and 
labors while connected with the Institution, and for the pubhc testi- 
monials of respect and honor to his memory. 

With my best wishes for the continued jirosperity of the Institution, 

beheve me yours, respectfully, 

H. A. HENEY. 
Washington, January 15, 1879. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Resolved, That the letter of Mrs. Henrj' be placed in the files of the 
Institution, and entered in the journal of the Board. 

The Secretary, Professor Baird, presented a statement of the financial 
condition of the Institution for the year 1878, which for convenience of 
reference he had printed. 



138 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

Dr. Parker, in belialf of the Executive Committee, iireseuted the an- 
nual report of receipts, expenditures, estimates, &c., which at his request 
was read by General Sherman. 

On motion of Mr. Withers, the report was adopted. 

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a report 
in relation to the duty imposed on them by the fifth resolution of the 
Board of Eegents, adopted at the meeting of May 17, 1878, " to make 
arrangements for a public commemoration in honor of the late Secre- 
tary of the Institution." The committee had held numerous meetings, 
the minutes of which were read, and the arrangements had finally been 
made as follows : 

The exercises will be held in the Hall of the House of Eepresentatives 
on Thursday evening, 16th of January, 1879. 

The Vice-President of the United States, supported by the Speaker 
of the House, will i)reside on this occasion, and the Senate and House 
will take part in the exercises. 

1. Opening prayer by Eev. Dr. McCosh, President of Princeton Col- 
lege. 

2. Address by Hon. H. Hamlin, of the United States Senate. 

3. Address by Hon. E. E. Withers, of the United States' Senate. 

4. Address by Prof. Asa Gray, of Harvard University. 

5. Address by Prof. W. B. Eogers, of Boston. 

C. Address by Hon. Jas. A. Garfield, of the House of Eepresenta- 
tives. 

7. Address by Hon. S. S. Cox, of the House of Eepresentatives. 

8. Address by General W. T. Sherman. 

9. Concluding prayer by Eev. Dr. Sunderland, Chaplain of the Senate. 

By authority of the Speaker of the House, reserved seats will be pro- 
vided on the floor of the House for the following bodies with which Pro- 
fessor Henry was associated : 

1. The Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution and the orators of the 
evening, who will meet in the room of the Speaker of the House. 

2. The iSTational Academy of Sciences. 

3. The Washington Philosophical Society. 

4. The Light-House Board, who will meet in the room of the Commit- 
tee of Ways and Means. 

5. The Alumni Association of Princeton College. 
C. The Trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art. 

7. The Washington Monument Association, who will meet in the room 
of the Committee on Appropriations. 

On motion of Mr. Sargent, the action of the committee was approved. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Eesolved, That the Board of Eegents assemble on Thursday evening 
next at half past seven o'clock, in the Speaker's room at the Capitol, to 
proceed in a body to attend the exercises in the Hall of the House of 
Eepresentatives in honor of the memory of Professor Henry. 



JOUKNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 139 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Resolved^ That the Chancellor be empowered to act for the Board of 
Eegents in making the final arrangements for the memorial exercises. 

President Porter, from the special committee appointed at the last 
meeting, under the fourth resolution adopted by the Board, "ro prepare 
a sketch of the life, character, and public services of Professor Henry," 
made a report that Dr. Gray had been selected by tlie committee to pre- 
pare the eulogy on behalf of the Board of Eegents, and that it would 
foi-m part of the exercises at the public commemoration at the CapitoL 

Dr. Gray remarked that he had only recently been informed of his 
appointment to iierform the service required, but that he had prepared 
a paper, which he would now present to the Board.* He had been limited 
by the committee to thirty minutes, but had arranged with Professor 
Eogers so that both should only occupy an hour. He would, however, 
insert details and documents in notes which could be printed with the 
eulogy. 

On motion of General Garfield, Dr. Gray was requested, as the repre- 
sentative of the Board of Eegents, to make his address as full and com- 
plete as possible. 

General Garfield called attention to the fact that the increased busi- 
ness of the Institution had made it necessary to take the rooms in the 
east wing, formerly occupied by Professor Henry as a residence, for 
offices, and that it was therefore proper that a suitable allowance be 
made to Professor Baird for house-rent. After some conversation on 
the subject, it was — 

Resolved. That the Executive Committee consider the propriety of 
making an allowance to the Secretary for house-rent and report on the 
subject at the next meeting of the Board. 

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was — 

Resolved, That the Board adjoiu-n to meet on Friday morning, 17th 
January, at half-past 9 o'clock, to hear the annual report of the Secre- 
tary and to transact any other business which may be necessary. 

The Board then adjourned. 

Washtngton, D. C, January 10, 1879. 
A mcetnig of the Board of Eegents was held this day at 7.30 o'clock, 
p. m., in the room of the Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives, and 
at 8 o'clock the Eegents proceeded in a body to the Hall of the House of 
Eepresentatives, to attend the public exercises in honor of Prof. Joseph 
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Washingtox, D. C, January 17, 1879. 
A meeting of the Board of Eegents was held this day in the Eegent's 
room at 9.30 o'clock a. m. 

Present, the Chancellor— Chief-Justice Waite, Hon. A. A. Sargent, 
Hon. E. E. Withers, Hon. James A. Garfield, Hon. Hiester Clymer, 
* See Ai^pendix to Journal of the Board. 



140 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

Hon. Peter Parker, Eev. Dr. John Maclean, Prof. Asa Gray, Prof. Henry 
Copp^e, President Noah Porter, General Sherman, and the Secretary, 
Professor Baird. 

The minutes of the meeting of January 15 were read and approved. 

The Ghancellor laid before the Board several hundred letters received 
in reply to the circulars issued by the Institution, announcing the death 
of Professor Henry, and the election of his successor. 

The subject of the publication of the eulogies on Professor Henry, 
together with an account of his scientific writings, «&c., was discussed, 
and on motion of Dr. Maclean, it vfns — 

Besol'ved, That a special committee of three be appointed, of which 
the Secretary of the Institution shall be one, to prepare a memorial of 
Professor Henry, to include in a separate volume of the Smithsonian 
series such biographies and notices of the late Secretary of the Institu- 
tion as may be considered by them worthy of preservation and publi- 
cation. 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird, as the 
committee. 

The Chancellor then stated that any remarks the Eegents desired to 
make in relation to Professor Henry were in order. 

Dr. Parker addressed the Board as follows : 

Mr. Chancellor and fellow Regents: We are making history, 
and I wish to say a few words that shall remain upon its page, in mem- 
ory of Joseph Henry, our beloved and lamented friend and Secretary, 
when we, like him, shall have passed from earth. 

Man}" have already pronounced his eulogy and set forth his rare tal- 
ents and influence upon the world, and I need not, and could not, were 
I to attemi)t it, add to your appreciation of Professor Henry, his life 
and character, as a friend, scientist, and Christian, the highest type of 
man. 

For twenty years I have been intimately acquainted with Professor 
Henry, and happily associated with him in many ways ; for ten years as 
a Pegent of the Smithsonian Institution, aud as a member of the Exec- 
utive Committee all that period our intercourse has been frequent and 
intimate. I liare never Icnown a more exceUent mem. 

His memory has been much on my mind since he left us, and I often 
find myself inquiring how he and others like him are occupied now. 
His connection with time is severed, but his existence continues. When 
I recall the names of Professors Franklin Bache, Charles G. Page, Louis 
Agassiz, Joseph Henry, and others of similar intellect and virtue, I 
find myself asking the question. Are to them all consciousness and 
thought suspended by separation from the body? I am reluctant to 
come to such conclusion. But this I know, the Injinite Father's ways are 
right. 

It seems most providential that Professor Henry had the opportunity 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 141 

and the streugth to give in person his last words, a priceless legacy, to 
the National Academy at its annual meeting in Washington, in April, 
and through that association to the civilized and scientific world; I 
refer to his sentiment " that moral excellence is the highest dignity ofman.^^ 

The loftiest talents and highest attainments without this are deficient 
in that, which, in the judgment of wise men and of Infinite Wisdom, is 
of greatest worth. Was there ever a man from whom the sentiment 
could come Avith better grace? 

The opinion has been expressed, and I do not regard it extravagant^ 
that the letter addressed by Professor Henry to his friend Joseph Pat- 
terson, emanating from such a mind, such a man, at the close of a pro- 
tracted life of singular distinction, was worth a lifetime to produce; It 
has probably been read by millions, in various languages, and will be by 
future generations. 

Professor Henry was not only a man of science, a discoverer of nature's 
laws and forces, but a sincere believer in God then* xVuthor and in his 
atoning Son. To quote his language : " We are conscious of having evil 
thoughts and tendencies that we cannot associate ourselves with a Di- 
vine Being, who is the Director and Governor of all, or even call upon 
him for mercy, without the intercession of one who may affihate himself 
with us." 

Let me quote from the iirayer offered at his obsequies and to which 
we repeat our sincere Amen; the lips that uttered it, in less than one 
short month were silent in death, and the two remarkable men. Pro- 
fessors Joseph Henry and Charlas Hodge, closely united in life were not 
long diA-ided by death : 

"We thank Thee, O God, that Joseph Henry was born; that Thou 
didst endow him with such rare gifts, intellectual, moral, and spiritual; 
tliat Thou didst spare him to a good old age, and enable him to accom- 
plish so much for the increase of human knowledge and for the good of 
his fellow-men; and above all that Thou didst hold him up before this 
whole nation as such a conspicuous illustration of the truth that moral 
excellence is the highest dignity of man." 

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was — 

Eesolved, That the thanks of the Board of Eegents be presented to 
the gentlemen who took part in the memorial services held in the Uni- 
ted States Capitol on the IGth of January in honor of the late Professor 
Henry, and that they be requested to furnish coi^ies of their remarks on 
that occasion. 

Dr. Maclean stated that he intended in the above resolution to include 
General Sherman, who was prevented by the lateness of the hour from 
delivering the whole address he had prepared, Eev. Drs. McCosh and 
Sunderland, who offered prayers, and Mr. Clymer, who made a few 
introductory remarks of an exceedingly interesting character in pre- 
senting telegrams which had been sent to the meeting from London. 



142 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

General Sherman, from tlie Executive Committee, presented a report 
on the subject of an allowance for house-rent to the Secretary, with the 
following preamble and resolution : 

Whereas the east wing of the Smithsonian building, heretofore used 
as a residence by Professor Henry, is required for the purposes of the 
Institution; and whereas the present Secretary owns and occuijies a 
separate residence in the city of Washington, for which it is but just 
and proper that he should be allowed compensation : Therefore, 

Resolved., That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Pro£ S. 
r. Baird, be allowed the sum of one hundred dollars per month for rent, 
fuel, gas, &c., from the date of his election as Secretary, May 17, 1878, 
to the 31st of December, 1879. 

The Secretary presented his annual report, which was read, and it was 

Resolved^ That the annual report of the Secretary be approved and 
transmitted to Congress. 

Dr.. Parker suggested that there was a matter of some imi^ortance 
which ought to receive attention at this jneeting. The Senate had 
jmssed on the 9th of January the following bill 

For the erection of a fire-proof buildiug for the National IMuseum. 

^^ Be it enacted hy iJie Senate and House of Bepreseiitatives of the United 
States of America in Congress asseinhlcd, That for a fire-proof building 
for the use of a National Museum, three hundred feet square, to be 
erected under the direction and supervision of the Eegents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the 
Joint Committee of Public Buildings and Grounds, on the southeast 
corner of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, the sum of two 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars is hereby approi^riated out "of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated ; said building to be 
placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, leaving a roadway between 
it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with its north front on a line 
with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department 
and of the Smithsonian Institution ; and all expenditures for the pur- 
X)Oses herein mentioned, not including anything for architectural plans, 
shall be audited by the proper officers of the Treasury Department." 

If this should pass the House and become a law it would be necessary 
for the Board of Eegents to take action in regard to the new building. 

On motion of Mr. Clymer, it was 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee of this Board, and the Sec- 
retary, or a majority thereof, be, and they are hereby, authorized and 
empowered to act for and in the name of the Board of Eegents in car- 
rying into effect the provisions of any act of Congress which may. be 
passed providing for the erection of a building for the National Museum. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY, 

PEEPAEED IN BEHALF OF THE BOAED OF EEGENTS, 

BY 

Prof. ASA GRAY. 

The Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, on the day following the 
obsequies of their late Secretary, resolved to place upon record, by the 
hands of their committee, a memorial of their lamented associate. The 
time has arrived when this should be done, now that the Institution 
enters upon another ofiQcial year, and its bereavement is brought freshly 
to mind. 

Although time may have assuaged our sorrow, as time will do, and 
although the recollection that a well- spent life was well appreciated and 
not prematurely closed should temper regret, yet they have not dulled 
our sense of loss, nor lessened our estimate of the signal services to 
science, to this Institution, and to the general good which remarkable 
gifts and a devoted spirit enabled this man to render. 

If we would fit this memorial to the subject of it, we must keep in 
mind Professor Henry's complete and transparent, but dignified sim- 
plicity and modesty of character, in which a delicate sense of justice 
went along with extreme dislike of exaggeration, and aversion to all that 
savored of laudation. 

Yet it is not for ourselves, his associates — some of few, some of many 
years — that this record is made ; nor need we speak for that larger circle 
of his associates, the men of science in our land, who will, in their sev- 
eral organizations, recount the scientific achievements of their late leader 
and Nestor. And nothing that we can say will enhance the sentiments 
of respect, veneration, and trust with which he was regarded here, in 
Washington, by all who knew him, whether of high or humble station. 
Even those, here or elsewhere, who came only into occasional intercourse 
with him, will remember that thoughtful and benignant face ; — certainly 
it will be remembered by those who, in that recourse to him which it 
was always easy to gain, have seen the mild seriousness of a somewhat 
abstracted and grave mien change into a winning smile, sure precursor 

143 



144 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIE OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

of pleasant words, clieerM attention, and, if need were, wise counsel 
and cordial help. But we are all passing,. as he has passed, and the 
tribute to his memory which it is our privilege to pay, is a duty to those 
who are to come after us. 

Joseph Henry was of Scotch descent. His grandparents, paternal 
and maternal, landed at Xew York from the same vessel on tlie day 
before the battle of Bunker Hill. The Henrys settled in Delaware 
County, the Alexanders in Saratoga County, New York. Cf his father, 
Wilham Henry, little is known. He died when his oldest son, Joseph, 
was eight or nine years old. His mother lived to a good age.* He was 
born at Albany very near the close of the last century, t His boyhood 
was mostly passed with his maternal grandmother in the country at 
Gal way. His early education was such as a country common school 
would furnish to a lad of inquisitive mind but no ai)tness for study. 
The fondness for reading came earlj', but in a surrei^titious way. 

One day, in the piu-suit of a pet rabbit, he penetrated through an 
opening in the foundation- wall of the village meeting-house. A glim- 
mer of light enticed him through the broken floor into a room above, in 
which an open bookcase contained the village library. He took down 
a book — Brooks's Fool of Quality — was soon absorbed in the perusal, 
returned again and again to this, which he said was the first book he 
ever opened voluntarily, and to all the works of fiction which the library 
contained. Access in the regular way was soon granted to him. 

The lad at this time was a clerk, or office-boy, in the store of a Mr. 
B^oderick. He returned to Albany at the age of fourteen or fifteen. 
We may count it as a part of his education that he there served a brief 
apprenticeship to a silversmith, in which he acquired the manual dex- 
terity afterward so useful to him. Opportunely perhaps, the silversmith 
soon failed in business, and young Henry was thrown out of employ- 
ment. His iiowers were now developing, but not in the line they were 
soon to take. To romance reading was now joined a fondness for the 
theater. Not content with seeing all the plays he could, he found his 
way behind the scenes, and learned the methods of producing stage 

* Slio is remembered as a lady of -winning refinement of mien and character, of small 
size, with delicate Grecian features, fair complexion, and when young she is said to 
liuve been very beautiful. 

tThe date, December 17, 1797, given in the American Cyclopedias, appears to be 
wrong; was perhaps misprinted. There is little doubt that he was born on the 17th 
of Deoeraberj 1799. 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH IIEXRY, 145 

effects. Ho joined a juvenile forensic and tlieatrical society, called tliu 
Eostrum, and soon distinguished himself iu it by his ingenuity iu stage 
arrangements. He was made president, and having nothing else to do 
at the time, he gave his whole attention to the Eostrum. He drama- 
tized a tale, wrote a comedy, and took a part in its representation. Un- 
usually comely in form and features, and of i)repossessing address, our 
future philosopher was in a fair way to become an actor, perhaps a dis- 
tinguished one. 

But now a slight illness confined him for a few days to his mother's 
house. To while away the hours he took up a small book which a 
Scotchman, who then occupied a room in the house, had left upon his 
mother's table. It was '•• Lectures on Experimental Philosophy, Astron- 
omy, and Chemistry, intended chiefly for the use of young persons, by 
G. Gregory," an English clergyman. It is an unpretending volume, but 
a sensible one. It begins by asking three or four questions, such as 
these : 

"You throw a stone, or shoot an arrow into the air; why does it not 
go forward in the line or direction that you give it ? Why does it stop 
at a certain distance, and then return to you ? * * * On the con- 
trary, vviiy does flame or smoke always mount upward, though no force 
is used to send them in that direction? And why should not the flame 
of a candle drop toward the floor when you reverse it, or hold it down- 
ward, instead of turning up and ascending into the air? * * * 
Again, you look into a clear well of water and see your ovrn fjice and 
figure, as if painted there. Why is this? You are told that it is done 
by reflection of light. But what is reflection of light?" 

Young Henry's mind was aroused by these apt questions, and allured 
by the explanations ; he now took in a sense of what knowledge was. 
The door to knowledge opened to him, that door which it thence became 
the passion of his life to open wider. Thenceforth truth charmed him 
more than fiction. At the next meeting of his dramatic association he 
resigned the office of president and took his leave in a valedictory ad- 
dress, in which he assured his comrades that he should now prepare to 
play his part on another stage, with nobler and more impressive scenes. 
Tlie volume itself is preserved in Professor Henry's library. On a fly- 
leaf is the following entry: 

'' This book, although by no means a profound work, has, under Prov- 
idence, exerted a remarkable influence upon my life. It accidentally 
fell into my hands when I was about sixteen years old, and was the first 
work I ever read with attention. It opened to me a new world of 
thought and enjoyment; invested things before almost unnoticed with 
S. Mis. 59 10. 



146 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HEXEY. 

the higliest interest; fixed my mind on the study of nature, and caused 
me to resolve at the time of reading it that I would immediately com- 
mence to devote my life to the acquisition of knowledge." 

The pursuit of elementary knowledge under difficulties and priva- 
tions now commenced. At first he attended a night-school, where he 
soon learned all the master could teach. At length he entered Albany 
Academy, earning the means at one time by teaching a country district 
school, later by serving as tutor to the sons of Gen. Stephen Van Eens- 
selaer the patroon. Then he took the direction of a road-survey across 
the southern portion of the State, from West Point to Lake Erie, earn- 
ing a little monej' and much credit. He returned to Albany Academy 
as an assistant teacher, but was very soon, in 1828, appointed professor 
of mathematics. He had already chosen his field, and began to make 
physical investigations. 

It is worth noticing that just when Henry's youthful resolution to 
devote his life to the acquisition of knowledge was ready to bear fruit, 
another resohe was made, in England, by another scientific investiga- 
tor, James Smithson, in his will, executed in October, 1828, wherein he 
devoted his patrimony "to found at Washington an establishment 

FOR the increase AND DIFFUSION OF KNOW^LEDGE AMONG 3IEN." 

Who could have thought that the jioor lad, who resolved to seek for 
knowledge as for hid treasure, and the rich man of noble lineage, who 
resolved that his treasure should increase and diliLise knowledge, would 
ever stand in this interesting relation; that the one would direct and 
shape the establishment which the other willed to be founded ! 

The young professor's position was an honorable but most laborious 
one. Although Albany Academy was said by the distinguished presi- 
dent of Union College in those days to be " a college in disguise," it 
began its work low down. Its new i)rofessor of mathematics had to 
teach seven hours of every day, and for half of this time to drudge with 
a large class of boys in the elements of arithmetic. But he somehow 
found time to carry on systematically the electro-magnetic researches 
which he had already begun. In the very year of his appointment, 
1828, he described in the Transactions of the Albany Institute a new 
application of the galvanic multiplier, and throughout that year and the 
next he carried on those investigations which, when published at the 
beginning of the ensuing year, January, 1831, in that notable first 
paper in the American Journal of Science and the Arts, at once brought 
Henry's name to the front line among the discoverers in electro-mag- 
netism. 



BIOGKAPIIICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 147 

Sturgeon may be said to have first made an electro-magnet ; Uenry 
undoubtedly made the electro-magnet what it is. Just after Barlow in 
England had declared that there could be no electric telegraph to a long 
distance, Henry discovered that there could be, how and why it could 
be; he declared publicly its practicability, and illustrated it experi- 
mentally by setting up a telegraph with such length of wire as he could 
conveniently command, delivering signals at a distance b}^ the sounding 
of a bell. 

Previously to his investigations the means of developing magnet- 
ism in soft iron were imperfectly understood (even though the law from 
which they are now seen to flow had been mathematically worked out 
by Ohm), and the electro-magnet which then existed was inai)plicable/ 
to the transmission of power to a distance. Henry" first rendered it ap- 
plicable to the transmission of mechanical power to a distance; was the 
first actually to magnetize a x>iece of iron at a distance, and by it to 
deliver telegraphic signals. He showed what kind of battery must be 
employed to project the current through a great length of wire, and 
what kind of coil should surround the magnet used to receive this cur- 
rent and to do the work.* 

For the telegraph, and for electro-magnetic machines, what was now 
wanted was not discovery, but invention, not the ascertainment of 
principles, but the devising of methods. These, the proper subjects of 
patent, have been sui)i)lied in various ways and, as to the telegraph, 
with wonderful efiliciency ; — in Europe, by the transmission of signs 
through the motion of a magnetic needle ; in America, by the production 
of sounds or records by the electro-magnet. Morse was among the first 
to nndertake the enterprise, and — when directed to the right way 
tlirough Professor Gale's acquaintance with Henry^'S published re- 
searches — he carried the latter mode into practical and most successful 
execution. If Henry" had patented his discovery, which he was urged, 
but declined to do, Morse could have patented only his alphabetical mode 
of signaling, and i)erhaps the use of relay-batteries, the latter indis- 
pensable for long lines upon that system. 

The scientific as well as popular eifect of Professor Henry's first 
paper in Silliman's Journal was immediate and great. With the same 
battery that Sturgeon used he develo])ed at least a hundred times more 
magnetism. The instantaneous production of magnets lifting four hun- 

*Sce Supplementary Note I, Leading Points in the History of tlie Tclcsvapli. 



148 BIOGRArHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

dred aud twenty times their own weight, of those which with less than 
a pint of dihite acid acting on two hands' breadth of zinc would lift 
seven hundred and fifty pounds, and this afterward carried up to a 
magnet lifting thirty-three hundred pounds, was simply astonishing. 
Yet it was not these extraordinary results, nor their mechanical appli- 
cations, which engaged Professor Henry's attention so much as the 
prospect they opened of a way by which to ascend to higher discovery 
of the laws of nature, lii other hands, his discoveries furnished the 
means by which diamagnetism, magnetic effects on polarized light, and 
magneto-electricity — now playing so conspicuous a part — soon came to 
bo knovn. In his own hands, the immediate discovery of the induction 
of a current in a long wire on itself* led the way to his next fertile field 
of inquirj', the following up of which caused unwise tardiness in the 
announcement of what he had already done. For it is within our 
knowledge that the publication of the paper which initiated his fame 
had been urged for months by scientific friends, and at length was has- 
tened by the announcement of some partly similar results reached in a 
different way by Moll, of Utrecht. In a letter not long afterward writ- 
ten to one of us, Professor Henry" had occasion to declare : " My whole 
ambition is to establish for myself a7i(l to deserve the reputation of a man 
of science." Yet throughout his life ardor for discovery and pure love 
of knowledge were unattended by corres])onding eagerness for publica- 
tion. At the close of that very year, 1832, however, he did announce 
the drawing of a spark from a magnet, that first fact in magneto-elec- 
tricity, and, as he supposed, a new one. But he had been anticipated. 
In May, 1830, Professor Henry married his cousin, Harriet L. Alex- 
ander, of Schenectady, who, with three daughters, survives. Two 
earlier children died in infancy, and a son in early manhood. 

Pleasant in most respects as his situation at Albany was, it was not 
an unwelcome invitation which, in the summer of 1832, it became the 
duty and the privilege of the most venerable of our number, then vice- 
president of the College of iSlew Jersey, to give to Professor Henry, 
ofTering him the chair of Natural Philosophy at Princeton. By this early 
call that college secured him for her own during the years most prolific 
for science. It was on a later occasion that Sir David Brewster wrote : 
'• The mantle of Franklin has fallen upon the shoulders of Henrys" 
But the aureole was already visible to his fellow- workers in science; 

* Aunomxced iu American Journal ol" Scioucc and tlie Arts in 1832. 



BIOGRAPIIICxVL MEMOiR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 149 

and Silliman, EemTick, and Torrcy urged liis acceptance of the new 
position, and congratulated Princeton upon the acquisition. 

The professorship came to him unsought. In his hist address to one 
of the learned societies over which he presided, Professor IIenry men- 
tions that the various oflices of honor and responsibility which he then 
held, nine in number, had all been pressed upon him ; that he never 
occu])ied a position for which he had of his own v\ill and action been 
made a candidate. It did not occur to him at that moment to make one 
exception. When a pupil in Albauj^ Academy he once offered himself 
as a teacher of a country district school. The school trustees thought 
him too young, but took him on trial at eight dollars a month. At the 
beginning of the second month they raised his pay to fifteen. 

At Princeton Professor IIeney found congenial companions and 
duties well suited to his powers. Here he taught and investigated for 
fourteen fruitful and happy years ; here he professed the faith that was 
in him, entering into the couununion of the Presbyterian Church, in 
which he and his ancestors were nurtured ; and here he developed what 
might not have been expected — a genius for education. One could 
count on his being a clear expositor, and his gifts for experimental illus- 
tration and for devising apparatus had been already shown. But now, 
as a college professor, the question how to educate came before him in 
in a broader way. He appreciated, and he made his associates and 
pupils appreciate, the excellence of natural philosophy for mental disci- 
pline, for training at once both the observing and the reasoning faculties. 
.V science which rises from the observation of the most familiar facts, 
and the questioning of these by experiment, to the consideration of 
causes, the ascertaining of laws, and to the most recondite conceptions 
respecting the constitution of matter and the interplay of forces, offers 
discipline to all the intellectual powers, and tasks the highest of them. 
Professor He?<;ri^ taught not only the elementary facts and general 
principles from a fresh survey of both, but also the methods of philo- 
sophical investigation, and the steps bj' which the widest generaliza- 
tions and the seemingly intangible conceptions of the higher physics 
have been securely reached. He exercised his pupils in deducing par- 
ticular results from admitted laws, and in then ascertaining whether 
what was thus deduced actually occurred in nature ; and if not, why 
not. Though very few of a college class might ever afterward under- 
take a physical or chemical investigation, all would or should be con- 
cerned in the acquisition of truth and its relations; and by knowing 



150 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HEXRY. 

how truth was won and knowledge advanced in one fiekl of inquiry, 
they would gain the aptitude which any real investigation may give, and 
the confidence that springs from a clear view and a sure grasp of any 
one subject. 

He understood, as few do, the importance of analogy and hypothesis 
in science. Premising that hyi:)othesis should always be founded on 
real analogies and used interrogatively, he commended it as the pre- 
requisite to experiment, and the instrument by which, in the hands of 
sound philosophers, most discoveries have been made. This free use of 
hypothesis as the servant and avant-courier of research — as means rather 
tlian end — is a characteristic of Heivey. His ideas on the subject are 
somewhat fully and characteristically expounded by himself in his last 
presidential address to the Philosophical Society of Washington — one 
which he evidently felt would be the last. 

How Henry was valued, honored, revered at Princeton, the memo- 
rial i)ublished by his former associates there feelingly declares. AVhat 
he did there for science in those fourteen years would be long to tell 
and difficult to make clear without entering into details, here out of 
place. Happily the work has been done to our hand by the Professor 
himself, several years ago, in a communication which is printed in the 
index volume of the Princeton Eeview, and reprinted in the Princeton 
Memorial. This careful and conscientious, though cursory, analysis of 
the principal researches of that period we propose to append to this 
record.* There is also in preparation, by a competent scientific hand, a 
detailed list of all Professor Henri"'s contributions to science, which we 
desire likewise to appeud.f , 

One of these, of the Princeton period, ought to be mentioned. It is 
upon the origin of mechanical power and its relations to vital force. It 
is a characteristic example of Professor Henry^'s, happy mode of treat- 
ing a scientific topic in an untechuical way. It also illustrates his habit 
of simply announcing original ideas without putting them prominently 
forward in publication, as any one who was thinking of himself and of 
his own fame would be sure to do. The doctrine he announced was com- 
municated to the American Philosophical Society in 1844 in brief out- 
lines. He developed it further in an article published in the Patent 
Office Eeport for 1856, twelve years later ; a medium of publication which 
was naturally overlooked. Only at a friend's desire was the paper re- 

* See Suiiplemeutary Note II. A Letter from Professor Henry. 

t See Supplementary Note III. A List of Professor Henry's Scientific Papers 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 151 

lirodnced, in 1860, in the American Journal of Science, where it would 
be noticed. The attention of Professor Henry was turned to the topic 
(as we happen to know) by an abstract which was given to him of 
Dumas' celebrated lecture, in 1841, on the Chemical Statics of Organized 
Beings. If he had published in 1841, with some fullness, as he then 
wrought them out, his conception and his attractive illustrations of the 
sources, transformation, and equivalence of mechanical power, and given 
them fitting pubhcity, Henry's name would have been prominent among 
the pioneers and founders of the modern doctrine of the conservation of 
energy. 

In the year 1837 Professor Henry first visited Europe, and came into 
personal communication with the principal men of science of England, 
Scotland, and France. One of us had the pleasure, a few years after- 
Avard, of hearing Faraday speak of Henry" in terms of hearty regard 
and admiration. The two men were in some respects alike, wholly alike 
in genuine simplicity of character and in disinterested devotion to sci- 
eiitific discovery. They ^xere then rival investigators in the same line ; 
and the race for a time was not unequal, considering how Henry^ was 
weighted with onerous professional work. For Faraday, while that most 
acute mind retained its powers, there was the congenial life of pure re- 
search, uudistracted by cares of administration or of instruction, beyond 
a few popular lectures ; supplied with every means of investigation ; 
stimulated by the presence or proximity of many fellow-workers ; re- 
warded by discover}' after discovery, and not unconscious of the world's 
applause — such was the enviable life of the natural philosopher favor- 
ably placed. But in this country, where fit laborers*are few, duty rather 
than inclination must determine their work. Midway in his course Pro- 
fessor Henry" was called to exchange a position which allowed the giv- 
ing of considerable time to original researches, for one of greater prom- 
inence, in which these had practically to be abandoned. Not, indeed, 
that this was assuredly expected, but it was contemplated as probable. 
And the event justified the ai)prehension, while it opened other fields 
of not inferior usefulness. 

In August, 184G, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian 
Institution was passed and approved. On the 7th of September ensu- 
ing the Regents held their first meeting. On the 3d of December fol- 
lowing they resolved: 

" That it is essential for the advancement of the proper interests of 
the trust that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be a man 



152 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEril HENRY. 

possessing weight of character and a high grade of talent ; and that it 
is farther desirable that he possess eminent scientitic and general acquire- 
ments ; that he be a man capable of advancing science and i)romoting 
letters by original researcli and efibrt, well qualified to act as a respected 
channel of communication between the Institution and scientific and 
literary individuals and societies in this and foreign countries ; and, in 
a word, a man worthy to represent before the world of science and let- 
ters the Institution over which this Board presides." 

Immediately following the adoption- of this resolution, Professor Jo- 
seph Henry, of Princeton, was elected Secretary. On the 14th of De- 
cember a letter was read from him accepting the appointment. At the 
meeting a week later, he appeared and entered upon the duties of his 
office. From this time the biography of Professor Henry is the history 
of the Institution. That history is set forth in the Secretary's anniud 
reports, presented by the Board of Eegents to Congress, and it need not 
be recapitulated. A few words may give some idea of the deep impres- 
sion he made upon the Institution while it was yet i)lastic. 

Some time before his appointment he had been requested by members 
of the Board of Regents to examine the will of Smithson, and to suggest 
a plan of organization by which the object of the bequest might, in his 
opinion, best be realized. He did so, and the plan he drew was in their 
hands when he was chosen Secretary. As he himself summed it up, 
the plan was based on the conviction " that the intention of the donor 
was to advance science by original research and publication ; that the 
establishment was for the benefit of mankind generally, and that all 
unnecessary expenditures on local objects would be violations of the 
trust." The plan proposed was, in the leading feature, " to assist men 
of science in making original researches, to pulilish thern in a series of 
volumes, and to give a copy of these to every first-class library on the 
face of the earth." 

His " Plan of Organization," filled out in its details and adjusted to 
the conditions prescribed by the law and by the action of the Pegents, 
was submitted to the Board in the following year, was adopted as its 
" governing policy," and it has been reprinted, in full or in part, in 
almost every annual report. All would understand, therefore, that Pro- 
fessor Henry^'s views were approved, and that they would be carried 
into effect as far and as fast as they commended themselves to the judg- 
ment of the Regents, and as opportunity made them practicable. 

If the Institution is now known and praised throughout the woild of 
science and letters, if it is fulfilling the will of its founder and the reason- 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH IIEXRY 153 

able espectatious of tlie nation wliick accepted and established the 
trust, the credit is mainly due to the practical wisdom, the catholic 
spirit, and the indomitable perseverance of its first Secretary, to whom 
the establishing act gave much power of shaping ends which, as rough- 
hewn by Congress, were susceptible of various diversion. For Con- 
gress, iu launching, did not shape the course of the Institution, except 
iu a general way. And in intrusting its guidance to the Ilegents, the 
law created only one salaried and permanent ofiicer, the Secretary, on 
whom, by its terms and by the conditions of the case, it devolved great 
responsibility and commensurate influence. Some of us are old enough 
to remember the extreme diversity of opinion in Congress over the use 
to be made of Smithson's legacy. Que party, headed by an eminent 
statesman and Ex-President, endeavored to found with it an astronomical 
observatory, for which surely the country need not be indebted to a 
foreigner. A larger party strove to secure it for a library ; not, prob- 
ably because they deemed that use most relevant to the founder's in- 
tention, but because rival schemes might fritter away the noble bequest 
in popular lecturing, itinerant or stationary, of which the supply and 
the quality are in this country equal to the demand; or in the dissemi- 
nation of elementary knowledge by the printing-press, as if that were 
beyond the reach of private enterprise; or in setting up one more col- 
lege, university, or other educational establishment on half an endow- 
ment; or in duplicating museums and cabinets, which, when supported 
by a fixed capital, necessarily soon reach the statical condition in which 
all the income is absorbed in simply taking care of what has been ac- 
cumulated. 

Congress rejected, one after the other, the schemes for making of the 
Institution an observatory, a library, a normal school, and a lecturing 
establishment, with professors at Washington. It created a Board of 
Eegents, charged it with the care of the collections and museums be- 
longing to the United States; authorized the expenditure, if the liegents 
saw fit, of a sum not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars annually 
for the formation of a library; and in all else it directed them to make 
such disposal of the income " as they shall deem best suited for the pro- 
motion of the imrpose of the testator." 

Under this charter, and with the course of the Institution still to be 
marked out, it is not surprising that the official adviser and executive 
of the Board should look to the will of Smithson for the controlling in- 
terpretation of the law. He knew, moreover, that in an earlier will 



154 BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

Smitbsou had bequeathed his fortune to the Eoyal Society of London, 
an institution expressly for the furtherance of scientific research ; and 
that he changed, as we may say, the trusteeshij) for a purely personal 
reason. Henry took his stand on the broad and simple terms of the 
bequest, "for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

And he never — 

NarroAYod liis miud, 
And to locality gave what was meant for mankind. 

He proposed only one restriction, of obvious wisdom and necessity, 
that, in view of the limited means of the Institution, it ought not to un- 
dertake anything which could be done, and well done, by other exist- 
ing instrumentalities. So, as occasion arose, he lightened its load and 
saved its energies by giving over to other agencies some of its cherished 
work — meteorology, for instance, in which a most popular bureau now 
usefully expends many times more than the whole Smithsonian income. 

He has in these last years signified his desire to go still further in 
this direction, and to have the Institution relieved from the charge 
of the ISTational Museum, now of imperial dimensions and importance. 
His reasons were summed up in few words in his last report, along with 
his synopsis of the appropriate functions of the Institution, which he 
prays may not be merged in or overshadowed by any establishment of 
the Governmeiit, but may stand "free to the unobstructed observation 
of the whole world, keeping in perpetual remembrance the will of its 
founder." Its true functions he declares are: 

" First. To enlarge the bounds of human thought by assisting men of 
science to make original investigations in all branches of knowledge ; to 
publish these, and to present copies to all the i^rincipal libraries of the 
world. Second. To institute investigations in various branches of 
science, and explorations for the collection of specimens in natural his- 
tory and ethnology, to be distributed to nuisenms and other establish- 
ments. Third. To diffuse knowledge by carrying on an extended inter- 
national series of exchanges by which the accounts of all the original 
researches in science, the educational progress, and the general advance 
of civilization in the Kew World are exchanged for similar works of the 
Old World." 

The plan which our late Secretary originated lias commended itself to 
the judgment of successive Boards of Eegents, and, we may be permit- 
ted to add, is now approved wherever it is known and understood. 

Professor Henry took his full share of the various honorable duties 
to which such men are called. He was in his turn President of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science, in the year 1849 j 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSERII HENRY. 155 

of tlie Society for the Advancement of Education, in 1855; a Trustee of 
Princeton College, and of Columbian University, also of tlie Corcoran 
Gallery of Art, in which the Smithsonian Institution deposits its art 
collections; Visitor of the Government Uospital for the Insane; Presi- 
dent of the Philosophical Society of Washington ; President of the 
National Academy of Sciences at Yv^ashiugton. For many years a mem- 
ber of the Light-House Board, to which he gave gratuitous and invalu- 
able services as Chairman of its committee on experiments, he added for 
the last seven years the chairmanship of the board itself, in his adminis- 
tration no sinecure. Advice and investigation were sought from hij3, 
from time to time, by every department of Go\-ernment. All were sure 
that his advice was never biased by personal interest; and his sound 
judgment, supported by spotless character, was greatly deferred to. 

AYe have said that in coming to Washington a career of investigation 
was exchanged for a life of administration. It should rather be said that 
his investigations thereafter took a directly practical turn, as his mind 
was brought to bear upon difQcult questions of immediate importance 
which were referred to him by Government or came in the course of 
ofdcial duty. In the light-house service alone his timely experiments 
upon lard-oil lighting, and the firmness with which he pressed his con- 
clusions into practice when sperm-oil became dear, has. already saved 
more than a million of dollars; the adaptation of mineral oil to the lesser 
lights made another great saving; and the results reached by his recent 
investigations of the conditions ^^hich influence the transmission of 
sound and their application to acoustical signaling are not to be valued 
by the saving of money only. 

It was in the prosecution of these last investigations, over a year ago, 
and probably in consequence of exposure in them, at the light-house 
station on Staten Island, that an intimation of the approaching end of 
these labors was received. Yet a few months more of riseful life were 
vouchsafed to him, not free from sulieriug, but blessed with an unclouded 
mind and borne with a serene spirit; and then, at midday on the 13th 
of May last, the scene was closed. 

At the sepulture of his remains (on the IGth) and afterward, it was 
generally remarked at Washington that never before had the funeral of 
a private citizen called forth such sense of loss, such profound demon- 
strations of respect and affection. 

It is not for us to assign Professor Henry's place among the men of 
science of our time. Those who do this will probably note that his 



If; 6 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HEXRY. 

American i^reclecGSSors were FranldiuandEuinford; that all tlirec were 
what we call self-made men; that all three, after having ijroved then- 
talents for original investigation in i)hysics, were called in their mature 
years to duties of administration and the conduct of affairs. There are 
interesting parallels to be drawn from their scientific work, if one had 
time to trace them. 

Xot often is a great man of science a good man of business. IIexrv's 
friends at Princeton, Avho besought him not to abandon the peaceful 
academic life vrhich he was eujoying and the quiet pursuits which had 
given him fame, were surprised when in another sphere he developed 
equal talents for organization and administration. We have seen how 
he always developed the talent to do wisely and well whatever he un- 
dertook. Ilis well-poised spirit, at once patient and masterful, asserted 
itself in the trials he encountered in the early years of the Institution, 
and gave assurance that he could deal with men as well as with the 
for(!es of nature. 

Again, not often is a man of science free from the overmastering in- 
fluence of his special i)ursuit. More or less his "nature is subdued to 
what it works in, like the dyer's hand." IS^ow, Henry's mind was uu- 
colored by the studies of his predilection. His catholic spirit comes out 
in his definition of science: "Science is the knowledge of the laws of 
l)henomena, whether they relate to mind or matter." It appears in his 
choice of the investigations to be furthered and memoirs to be published 
by the Institution. These nowhere show the bias of a specialist. 

Then, he was a careful, painstaking man, very solicitous — perhaps 
nnduly anxious— about the particulars of everything for which he felt 
responsible. Therefore he was sometimes slow in making up his mind 
on a practical question. May we here condescend to a trivial anecdote 
of his early boyhood, which he amusingly related to one of us many 
years ago and pleasantly recalled at one of our latest interviews. It 
goes back to the time when he was first allowed to ha^e a pair of boots, 
and to choose for himself the style of them. He Avas living with his 
grandmother in the country, and the village Crispin could oifer no 
great choice of patterns; indeed, it was narrowed down to the alterna- 
tive of round toes or square. Daily the boy visited the shop and pon- 
dered the alternatives, even while the manufacture was going on, until 
at length the shoemaker, who could brook no more delay, took the 
dilemma by both horns and produced the most remarkable pair of 
boots the wearer ever had; one boot round-toed, the other square-toed. 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH IIEXRY. 157 

Deliberate as Henry was in after years, taiiglit by tLis early lesson, 
lie probably never a-jjain postponed decision till it was too late to choose. 
One result of due deliberation was that be rarely bad to change his 
mind. When he had taken his course, he held to it. Ilis patience and 
kindness under demands upon his time were something wonderful. 
Some men are thus patient from easy good-nature; Henky was so from 
principle. A noticeable part of the Secretary's correspondence was with 
a class of men — more numerous than would be supposed — who thought 
they had discovered new laws of nature or new applications of .them, 
and who appealed to him to make their discoveries known. The Secre- 
tary never returned a curt answer to such appeals or inquiries, whether 
made personally or by letter. Many are the hours Vvhich he would con- 
scicMitiously devote to sucli paradoxical schemes — sometimes of wonderful 
ingenuity — and to the dictation of elaborate replies to them. Detecting- 
far down in the man's mind the germs of the fallacy which had misled 
him, he would spare no pains to present it and its consequences so 
plainly to his bewildered correspondent that he could find his own way 
out of it; while at the same time he awarded credit and encouragement 
for whatever was true, probable, or ingenious. 

Although of sensitive spirit and with a just sense of what was due to 
himself, Professor IIenky^ kept free from controversy. Once he took up 
the pen, not because his discoveries were set at naught, but because his 
veracity was impliedly assailed. His dignified recital of undeniable 
facts (in his Annual Ueport for 1857) was all that was necessary, and 
not even a word of indignant comment was added. 

He left his scientific work to form its part of the history of science 
and to be judged by scientific men. The empiric he once sententiously 
defined to be " one who appeals his cause to an incompetent tribunal." 
lie never courted publicity ; not from fastidious dislike, still less from 
disdain of well-earned jiopular applause, but simply because he never 
thought of it. 

Ilis disinterested devotion to this Institution was shown in many 
ways ; among others in successive refusals to accept increase of salary 
lest it should be thought that the office he held was lucrative. Twice 
or thrice, moreover, while cumbered with anxieties, he promptly declined 
calls to positions of greater emolument, less care, and abundant leisure 
for the pursuits lie loved. 

We cannot here continue these delineations, and it may be that the 
character of the man has portrayed itself in general outlines as the 



158 BIOGExiPIIICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HEXEY. 

narrative proceeded. But one trait ma^^ not be wholly omitted from the 
biography of one who has well been called " the model of a Christian 
gentleman," and who is also our best example of a physical philosopher. 
His life was the practical harmony of the two characters. His entire 
freedom from the doubts which disturb some minds is shown in that 
last letter which he dictated, in which he touches the grounds of 
faith both in natural and revealed religion; also in his sententious 
declaration upon some earlier occasion, that the person who thought 
there could be any real conflict between science and religion must be 
either very young in science or ignorant of religion. 

The man for whom this memorial is placed was a veteran in both ; was 
one of that noble line of natural philosophers for whom we may in all 
sincerity render to Almighty God hearty thanks, not only for the good 
example and fruit of their lives, but also that, having finished their 
course in faith, they do now rest from their labors. 



SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES. 

XOTE I. 

SEQUENCE OF DISCOVEEY AND INVEXTIOX RESULTING IN THE ELEC- 
TRO-MAGNETIC TELEGRAPH. 

The following appear to be the main points in the order of discovery 
which led to the electro-magnetic telegraph. They are here condensed 
from Professor Henry's "Statement", in the "Proceedings of the Re- 
gents", published in the Sraitlisonian Eeport for the year 1857, and from 
a note appended by Mr. William B. Taylor to his "Memoir of Joseph 
Henry and his Scientific Work," read before the Philosophical Society of 
Washington. 

1810-1820. Oersted showed that a magnetic needle is deflected by the 
action of a current of galvanic electricity passing near it. It 
appears that this discovery had already been made as early as 
the year 1802, by Romagnesi, and published in 180o. 
1820. Arago discovered that while a galvanic current is passing through 
a copper wire it is cai)able of developing magnetism in soft 
iron. 
1820. Ampere discovered that two wires through which currents are 
passing in the same direction attract, and in opposite directions 
repel, each other ; and thence he niferred that magnetism con- 
sists in the attraction of electrical currents revolving at right 
angles to the line joining the two poles of "the magnet, and 
is produced in a bar of steel or iron by induction from a series 
of electrical currents revolving in the same direction at right 
angles to the axis of the bar. 
1820. Schweigger in the same year jiroduced the galvanometer. 
1825. Sturgeon made the electromagnet by bending the bar, or rather 
a piece of iron wire, into the form of a horse-shoe, covering it 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HEXRY. 159 

with varnisli to insulate it, and suiTOuuding it with a helix of 
vfirc the turns of which were at a distance. 

1829-1830. Ilenry, in accordance with the theory of Ampere, produced 
the intensity or spool-wound niagnet, insulating the wire in- 
stead of the rod or har, and covering the whole surface of tlie 
iron with a series of coils in close contact. He extended the 
I>rinciple to the full by vrinding successive strata of insulated 
wire over each other, thus producing a compound helix fonued 
of a long wire of many coils. At the same time he developed 
the relation of the intensity magnet to the intensity battery, 
and their relations to tlie magnet of quantity. He thus made 
the electro magnet capable of transmitting power to a long 
distance, demonstrated the principle and perfected the magnet 
applicable to the purpose, was the first actually to magnetize a 
piece of iron at a distance, and to demonstrate and declare the 
applicability of the electro- magnet to telegraphy at a distance. 
Using the terminal short-circuit magnet of quantity and the 
armature as the siguiiling device, he was the lirst to make by 
it acoustic signals, sounding a bell at a distance by means of 
the electro-magnet. 

1833. Weber discovered that the conducting-wires of an electric tele- 
graph could be left without insulation except at the points of 
support. 

1833. Gauss ingeniously arranged the application of a dual sign in such 
manner as to produce a true alphabet for telegraphy. 

1830. Daniel invented and brought into use a constant galvanic battery. 

1837. Steinheil discovered that the earth may form the returning half 
of the circuit, so that a single conducting wire suffices for 
telegrai^hy. 

1837. Morse adopted, through the agency of Dr. Gale, the principle of 

the Henry electromagnet, and the armature made of a record- 
ing instrument. 

1838. Morse devised his "dot and dash" alphabet, a great improvement 

upon the Gauss and Steinheil alphabets. 
1814. Morse suggested and brought into use the system of relay-mag- 
uets, and relay-circuits, to re-einforce the current. 



NOTE II. 



LETTER FRO:.I PROFESSOR HENRY TO THE REY. S. B. DOD, GIVING A 
SKETCH OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHES AT PRINCETON. 

[From the Princeton Memorial of Professor Henry.] 

My Dear Sir : In compliance with your request that I would give 
an account of my scientilic researches during my connection with the 
College of Xev,- Jersey, I furnish the following brief statement of my 
labors within the period mentioned: 

I. Previous to my call from the Albany Academy to a professorship 
in the College of New Jersey, I had made a series of researches on ele<5- 
tro-magnetism, in which I develo])ed the i)rincii)les of the electro-mag- 
net and the means of accumulating the magnetic power to a great ex- 
tent, and had also applied this power in the invention of the lirst elec- 
tro-nuignetic machine; that is, a mechanical contrivance by v>hich elec- 
tro-magnetism was applied as a motive i)ower. 



IGO BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

I soon savv', liowever, iiuit the application of this poorer was but an in- 
direct method of employing tlie energy derived from the combustion of 
coal, and, therefore, could never compete, on the score of ex])ense, with 
that agent as a means of in-opelling machinery, but that it might be 
used in some cases in Vvdiich expense of poV) er was not a consideration 
to be weighed agrinst the value of certain objects to be attained. 

A great amount of labor has since been devoted to this invention, es- 
pecially at the expense of the Government of the United States, by the 
late Dr. Page, but it still remains in nearly the same condition it was 
left in by myself in 1831. 

I also applied, while in Albany, the resxdts of my experiments to the in- 
vention of the firstelectro-magnetic telegraph, in which signals were trans- 
mitted by exciting an elecitro-magnet at a distance, by v> hich means bells 
Avere struck in succession, capable of indicating letters of the alphabet. 

In the midst of these investigations I vras called to Princeton, through 
the nomination of Dr. Jacob Green, then of Philadelphia, and Dr. John 
Torrey, of New York. 

I airived in Princeton in iSTovember, 1833, and as soon as I became 
fully settled in the chair v^hich I occupied, I recommenced my investi- 
gations, constructed a still more pov.'erful electro-magnet than I had 
made before — one which would sustain over 3,000 ]>ounds — and with it 
illustrated to my class the manner in which a large amount of power 
might, by means of a relay-magnet, be called into operation at the dis- 
tance of many miles. 

I also made several modifications in the electro-magnetic machine be- 
fore mentioned, and just previous to my leaving for England, in 1837, 
again turned my attention to the telegraph. I think the tirst actual 
line of telegraph using the earth as a conductor, was made in the be- 
ginning of 183(3. A v/ire was extended across the front campus of the 
college grounds, from the upper story of the library building to the 
philosophical hall on the opposite side, the ends terminating in tvro wells. 
Through this wire, signals were sent from time to time from my house to 
my laboratory. The electro-magnetic telegraph was lirst invented by 
me, in Albany, in 1830. Professor Tilorse, according to his statements, 
conceived the idea of an electro-magnetic telegraph in his voyage across 
the ocean in 1833, but did not until several years afterward — 1837 — attempt 
to carry his ideas into practice; and when he did so, he found himself so 
little acquainted with the subject of electricity that he could not make his 
simple machine operate through the distance of a few yards. In this di- 
lemma he called in the aid of Dr. Gale, who was well acquainted with 
what I had done in Albany and Princeton, having visited me at the lat- 
ter idace. He informed Professor Morse that he had not the right kind 
of a battery nor the right kind of magnets, whereupon the professor 
turned the matter over to him, and, witlithe knowledge he had obtained 
from my researches, he was enabled to make the instrument vrork 
through a distance of several miles. For this service Professor Morse 
gave him a share of his patent, which he afterwards purchased from 
iiim for 815,000. At the time of making my original experiments on 
electro-magnetism in Albany, I was urged by a friend to take out a pat- 
ent, both for its application to machinery and to the telegraph, but this 
I declined, on the ground that I did not then consider it compatible 
with the dignity of science to confine the benefits which might be de- 
rived from it to the exclusive use of any individual. In this. ])erhaps, 
I was too liistidious. In brielly stating my claims to the invention of 
the electro-magnetic telegraph, I may say I was the lirst to bring the 



BIOGEAPIIICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 161 

f^lectro-inagnet into tlie condition necessary to its nse in telegPciphy, and 
also to point out its application to the telegrapli, and to illustrate this 
by constructing a working telegraph, and, had 1 taken out a patent for 
my labors at that time, Mr. Morse could have had no ground on which 
to found his claim for a patent for Lis invention. To Mr. Morse, how- 
ever, great credit is due for his alphabet, and for his i^erseverance in 
bringing the telegraph into practical use. 

II. My next investigation, after being settled at Princeton, was in re- 
lation to electro-dynamic induction. Mr. Faraday had discovered that 
when a current of galvanic electricity was passed through a wire from 
a battery, a current in an opposite direction was induced in a wire ar- 
ranged parallel to this conductor. I discovered that an induction of a 
similar kind took place in the i^rimary conducting wire itself, so that a 
current which, in its passage through a short wire conductor, would 
neither produce sparks nor shocks, would, if the wu-e were sufficiently 
long, produce both these phenomena. The effect was most strildngly 
exhibited when the conductor was a tlat ribbon, covered with silk, rolled 
into the form of a helix. With this, brilliant deflagrations and other 
electrical effects of high intensity were produced by means of a current 
from a battery of low intensity, such as that of a single element. 

III. A series of investigations was afterward made, which resulted in 
producing inductive currents of different orders, having different direc- 
tions, made up of waves alternately in opposite directions. It was also 
discovered that a plate of metal of any kind, introduced between two 
conductors, neutralized this induction, and this effect was afterward 
found to result from a current in the plate itself. It was afterward 
shown that a current of quantity was capable of producing a current 
of intensity, and, vice versa, a ciu'rent of intensity would produce one 
of quantity. 

IV. Another series of investigations, of a parallel character, was made 
in regard to ordinary or frictional electricity. In the course of these it 
was shown that electro-dynamic inductive action of ordinary electricity 
was of a peculiar character, and that effects could be produced by it at 
a remarkable distance. For example, if a shock were sent through a 
wire on the outside of a building, electrical effects could be exhibited in 
a parallel wire within the building. As another illustration of this, it 
may be mentioned that when a discharge of a battery of several Ley- 
den jars was sent through the wire before mentioned, stretched acrosvS 
the campus in front of Nassau Hall, an inductive effect was produced 
in a parallel wire, the ends of which terminated in the plates of metal 
in the ground in the back cami)us, at a distance of several hundred feet 
from the primary current, the l3uilding of xsTassau Hall intervening. The 
effect produced consisted in the magnetization of steel needles. 

In this series of investigations, the fact was discovered that the in- 
duced current, as indicated by the needles, api)eared to change its di- 
rection with the distance of the two wires, and other conditions of the 
experiment, the cause of which for a long time baffled inquiry, but was 
finally satisfactorily explained by the discovery that the discharge of 
electricity from a Leyden jar is of an oscillatory character, a principal 
discharge taking place in one direction, and immediately afterward a re- 
bound in the opposite, and so on forward and backward, until the equi- 
librium is obtained. 

V. The next series of investigations related to atmospheric induction. 

The first of these consisted of experiments with two large kites, the 

lower end of the string of one being attached to the upper surface of a 

second kite, the string of each consisting of a fine wire, the terminal end 

S. Mis. 59 11 



162 BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

of the wliole being coiled around an insulated drum. I was assisted in 
these experiments by Mr. Brown, of Philadelphia, who furnished the 
kites. When they were elevated, at a time when the sky was peifectly 
clear, sparks were drawn of surprising intensity and pungency, the elec- 
tricity being supplied from the air, and the intensity being attributed to 
the induction of the long wire on itself. 

VI. The next series of exi^eriments pertaining to the same class was 
on the induction from thunder clouds. For this purpose the tin cover- 
ing of the roof of the house in which I resided was used as an inductive 
l)late. A wire was soldered to the edge of the roof near the gub'^er, was 
passed into my study and out again through holes in the window-sash, 
and terminated in connection with a i)late of metal in a deep well im- 
mediately in front of the house. By breaking the continuity of that 
part of the wire which was in the study, and introducing into the open- 
ing a magnetizing spiral, needles placed in this could be magnetized by 
a flash of lightning so distant that the thunder could scarcely be heard. 
The electrical disturbance produced in this case was also found to be of 
an oscillatory character, a discharge first passing through the wire from 
the roof to the well, then another in the opposite direction, and so on 
until equilibrium was restored. This result was arrived at in this case, 
as well as in that of the Leyden jar, before mentioned, by placing the 
same, or a similar needle, in succession, in spirals of greater and greater 
numbers of turns ; for example, in a spiral of a single turn the needle 
would be magnetized plus, or in the direction due to the first and more 
XDOwerful wave. By increasing the number of coils, the action of the 
second wave became dominant, so that it would more than neutralize 
the magnetism produced by the first wave, and leave the needle minus. 
By farther increasing the number of turns, the third wave would be so 
exalted as to neutralize the effects of the preceding two, and so on. In 
the case of induction by lightning, the same result was obtained by plac- 
ing a number of magnetizing spirals, of different magnetizing intensities, 
in the opening of the primary conductor, the result of which was to pro- 
duce the magnetization of an equal number of needles, plus and minus, 
indicating alternate currents in opposite directions. 

VII. In connection with this class of investigations a series of experi- 
ments was made in regard to lightning-rods. It was found that when a 
quantity of electricity was thrown upon a rod, the lower end of which 
was connected with a plate of metal sunk in the water of a deep well, 
that the electricity did not descend silently into water, but that sparks 
could be drawn from every part of the rod sufficiently intense to explode 
an electrical pistol, and to set fii-e to delicate inflammable substances. 
The spark thus given oft" was found to be of a peculiar character, for 
while it produced combustion and gave a slight shock, and fired the 
electrical pistol, it scarcely at all affected a gold-leaf electroscope. In- 
deed, it consisted of two sparks, one from the conductor and the other 
to it, in such quick succession, that the mixture of the air by the first 
served for the path of the second. The conclusion arrived at was, that 
during the passage of the electricity down the rod, each j)oint in succes- 
sion i^eceived a cliarge analogous to the statical charge of a i^rime con- 
ductor, and that this charge, in its passage down the rod, was immedi- 
ately preceded by a negative charge ; the two in their passage past the 
point at which the spark was drawn, giving rise to its duplex character. 
It was also shown by a series of experiments in transmitting a powerful 
discharge through a portion of air, that the latter, along the path of 
discharge, was endowed for a moment with an intense repulsive energy. 
So great is this that in one instance, when an electrical discharge from 



BIOGKAPIIICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 163 

the clondts passed between two chimneys throngh the cockloft of a house, 
the whole roof was lifted from the walls. It is to this repulsive energy, 
or tendency in air to expand at right angles to the path of a stroke of 
lightning, that the mechanical effects which accompany the latter are 
generally to be attributed. 

In connection with this series of investigations an experiment was 
devised for exhibiting the screening effect, within a space inclosed with a 
metallic envelope, of an exterior discharge of electricity. It consisted 
ill coating the outside of a hollow glass globe with tinfoil and after- 
ward inserting, through a small hole in the side, a delicate gold-leaf 
electrometer. The latter, being observed through a small opening in 
the tinfoil, was found to be unaffected by a discharge of electricity passed 
over the outside coating. 

VIII. Another series of investigations was on the phosphorogenic 
emanation from the sun. It had long been known that, when the dia- 
mond is exposed to the direct rays of the sun, and then removed to a 
dark place, it emits a pale blue light, which has received the name of 
phosphorescence. This effect is not i^eculiar to the diamond, but is 
possessed by a number of substances, of which the sulphuret of lime is 
the most i^rominent. It is also well known that phosphorescence is 
produced by exposing the substance to the electric discharge. Another 
fact was discovered by Becquerel, of the French Institute, that the 
agent exciting phosphorescence traverses with difficulty a i^late of glass 
or mica, while it is transmitted ap]3arently without impediment through 
plates of black quartz impervious to light. 

My experiments consisted, in the first place, in the reproduction of 
these results, and afterward in the extension of the list of substances 
which possess the capability of exhibiting iihosphorescence, as well as 
the effects of different interposed media. It was found that, among a 
large number of transparent solids, some were i)ermeable to the i^hos- 
phorescing agent, and others impermeable, or imperfectly permeable. 
Among the former were ice, quartz, common salt, alum. Among the 
latter class, mica, tourmaliue, camphor, &c. Among liquid permeable 
substances were water, solutions of alum, ammonia: while among the 
unpermeable liquids were most of the acids, sulphate of zinc, sulx)hate 
of lei>d, alcohol, «&c. 

It was found that the emanation took place from every point of the 
line of the electric discharge, but with more intensity from the two ex- 
ti'emities ; and also, that the emanation producing phosphorescence, what- 
ever be its nature, when reflected from a mirror, obeys the laws of the 
reflection of light, but no reflection was obtained from a surface of 
polished glass. It is likewise refracted by a i>rism of rock salt, in ac- 
cordance with the laws of the refraction of light. By transmitting the 
rays from an electrical spark through a series of very thin plates of 
mica, it was shown that the emanation was callable of polarization, and, 
consequently, of double refraction. 

IX. The next series of investigations was on a method of determining 
the velocity of projectiles. The plan proposed^ for this purpose con- 
sisted in the application of the instantaneous transmission of elec- 
trical action to determine the time of the passage of the ball between 
two screens, placed at a short distance from each other in the path of 
the projectile. For this purpose the observer is provided with a re- 
volving cylinder moving by clock-work at a uniform rate, and of which 
the convex surface is divided into equal parts indicating a fractional 
part of a second. The passage of the ball through the screen breaks a 
galvanic circuit, the time of which is indicated on the revolving cylinder 



164 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

by the terminal sparli: produced in a ^Yire surrounding a bundle of iron 
wires. Since the publication of this invention various other plans 
founded on the same principle have been introduced into practice. 

X. Another series of experiments was in regard to the relative heat 
of different parts of the sun's disk, and especially to that of the spots 
on the surface. These were made in connection with Prof. S. Alex- 
ander, and consisted in throwing an image of the sun on a screen in a 
dark room by drawing out the eye-piece of a telescope. Through a hole 
in the screen the end of a sensitive thermo-i)ile was projected, the wires 
of which were connected with a galvanometer. By slightly moving the 
smaller end of the telescope diiferent parts of the image of the sun could 
be thrown on the end of the thermo-pile, and by the deviation of the 
needle of the galvanometer the variation of the heat was indicated. In 
this way it was proved that the spots radiated less heat than the adja- 
cent parts, and that all parts of the sun's surface did not give otf an 
equal amount of heat. 

XI. Another series of exj)eriments was made with what was called a 
thermal telescope. This iHstrument consisted of a long hollow cone of 
pasteboard, lined with silver leaf and painted outside with lampblack. 
The angle at the apex of this cone was such as to cause all the parallel 
rays from a distant object entering the larger end of the cone to be re- 
flected on to the end of a thermo-pile, the poles of which were connected 
with a delicate galvanometer. When»the axis of this conical reflector 
was directed toward a distant object of greater or less temperature than 
the surrounding bodies, the difference was immediately indicated by the 
deviation of the needle of the galvanometer. For example, vv'hen the 
object was a horse in a distant field the radiant heat from the animal 
was distinctly percei^tible at a distance of at least several hundred yards. 
When this instrument was turned toward the celestial vault the radiant 
heat was observed to increase from the zenith downward; when directed, 
however, to different clouds, it Avas found to indicate in some cases a 
greater and in others a less degree of radiation than the surrounding- 
space. When the same instrument was directed to the moon a slight 
increase of temperature was observed over that of the adjacent sky, but 
this increase of heat was attributed to the reflection of the heat of the 
sun from the surface of the moon, and not to the heat of the moon itself. 
To show that this hyi)othesis is not inconsistent with the theory that the 
moon has cooled down to the temx)erature of celestial space, a concave 
mirror was made of ice, and a thermo-pile placed in the more distant 
focus. When a flame of hydrogen, rendered luminous by a spiral plati- 
num wire, was placed in the other focus, the needle of the galvanometer 
attached to the pile indicated a reflection of heat, care being taken to 
shade the pile by a screen with a small opening introduced between it 
and the flame. 

XII. Another series of experiments connected with the preceding may 
be mentioned here. It is well known that the light from a flame of 
hydrogen is of very feeble intensity. The same is the case with that of 
the compound blowpipe, while the temperature of the latter is exceed- 
ingly high, sufficiently so to melt fine platinum wire. It is also well known 
that by introducing lime or other solid substance into this flame its radi- 
ant light is very much increased. I found that the radiant heat was 
increased in a similar ratio, or, in other words, that in such cases the 
radiant heat was commensurate with the radiant light, and that the 
flame of the compound blowpipe, though of exceedingly high tempera- 
ture, is a comparatively cool substance in regard to .radiant heat. To 
study the relation of the temjierature of a flame to the amount of heat 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 165 

given off, four ounces of water were placed in a platinnm crucible and 
supported on a ring -stand over a Hame of hydrogen; tlie minutes and 
seconds of time were then accurately noted which were required for the 
raising of the water from the temperature of G0<=> to the boiling point. 
The same experiment was repeated with an equal quantity of water, 
with the same flame, into which a piece of mica was inserted by a handle 
made of a narrow slip of the same substance. With this arrangement 
the light of the flame was much increased, while the time of bringing 
the water to the boiling point was also commensurately increased, thus 
conclusively showing that the increase of light was at the expense of the 
diminution of the temperature. These experiments were instituted in 
order to examine the nature of the fact mentioned by Count Eumford, 
that balls of clay introduced into a fire under some conditions increase 
the heat given oft' into an apartment. From the results just mentioned 
it follows that the increase in the radiant heat, which would facilitate 
the roasting of an article before the fire, would be at the expense of the 
boiliug of a liquid in a vessel suspended directly over the point of com- 
bustion. 

XIII. Another investigation had its origin in the accidental observa- 
tion of the following fact : A quantity of mercury had been left undis- 
turbed in a shallow saucer, with one end of a piece of lead wire, about 
the diameter of a goose-quill, and six inches long, plunged into it, the 
other end resting on the shelf. In this condition it was found, after a 
few days, that the mercury had passed through the solid lead, as if it 
were a'siphon, and was lying on the shelf still in a liquid condition. 
The saucer contained a series of minute crystals of an amalgam of lead 
and mercury. A similar result was produced when a piece of the same 
lead wire was coated with varnish, the mercury being transmitted with- 
out disturbing the outer surface. 

Wlien a length of wire of five feet was supported vertically, with its 
lower end immersed in a vessel of mercury, the liquid metal was found 
to ascend, in the course of a few days, to a height of three feet. 
These results led me to think that the same property might be possessed 
by other metals in relation to each other. The fii'st attempt to verify 
tins conjecture was made by placing a small globule of gold on a plate of 
sheet-iron and submitting it to the heat of an assaying furnace, but the 
experiment was unsuccessful, for, although the gold was heated much 
beyond its melting point, it showed no sigus of sinking into the pores 
of the iron. The idea afterward suggested itself that a difi'erent result 
would have been obtained had the two metals been made to adhere to 
each other, so that no oxide could form between the two surfiices. To 
verify this a inece of copper, thickly plated with silver, was heated to 
near the melting point of the metals, when the silver disappeared, and, 
after the surface was cleaned with diluted sulphnric acid, it presented a 
uniform surface of copper. This plate was next immersed for a few 
minutes in a solution of muriate of zinc, by which the siu-face of copper 
was removed and the surface of silver again exposed. The fact had 
long been observed by workmen in silver-plating that, in soldering the 
parts of plated metal, if care be not taken not to heat them unduly, the 
silver will disappear. This eflect was supposed to be produced by evap- 
oration, or the burning off, as it was called, of the platiiig. It is not 
improbable that a slow diffusion of one metal into the other takes place 
in the case of an alloy. Silver coins slightly alloyed with copjior, after 
having lain long in the earth, are found covered with a salt of copper. 
This may be explained by supposing that the alloy of copper at the sur- 
face of the. coin enters into combination with the carbonic acid of the 



166 BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIE OF JOSEPH HENEY. 

soil, and, being tlins removed, its place is supplied by a diffusion from 
within, and so on ; it is not improbable that a large portion of tbe alloy 
may be removed in progress of time, and the purity of the coin be con- 
siderably increased. It is known to the jeweler that articles of copper 
plated with gold lose their brilliancy after a while, and that this can be 
restored by iDoiling them in ammonia. This effect is probably i)roduced 
by the ammonia acting on the copper and dissolving off its surface so 
as to expose the gold, which by diffusion had jienetrated into the body 
of the metal. 

The slow diffusion of one metal into another at ordinary temperatures, 
would naturally require a long time to produce a perceptible effect, since 
it is probably only produced by the minute vibrations of the particles 
due to variations of temperature. 

The same principle is applied to the explanation of the phenomenon 
called segregation — such as the formation of nodules of ffiut in masses 
of carbonate of lime ; or, in other words, to the explanation of the man- 
ner in which the molecular action, which is insensible at perceptible dis- 
tances, may produce results which woidd appear, at first sight, to be the 
effect of attraction acting at a distance. 

XIV. Another series of experiments had reference to the constitution 
of matter in regard to its state of liquidity and solidity, and they had 
their origin in the examination of the condition of the metal of the large 
gun constructed under the direction of Captain Stockton, by the explo- 
sion of which several prominent members of the United States Govern- 
ment werie killed at Washington. It was observed in testing the bars 
of iron made from this gun, that they varied much in tensile strength in 
different parts, and that, in breaking these bars, the solution of the con- 
tinuity took place first in the interior. This phenomenon was attributed . 
to the more ready mobility of the outer molecules of the bars, the inner 
ones being surrounded by matter incapable of slipi^ing, and hence the 
rui)ture. A similar effect is produced in a piece of thick copper wire, 
each end, when broken, exhibiting, at the point of rupture, a cup-shaped 
surface, showing that the exterior ot the metal sustained its connection 
longer than the interior. From these observations the conclusion was 
drawn,, that rigidity differs from liquidity more in a j)olarity which pre- 
vents slipping of the molecules, than in a difference of the attractive 
force with which the molecules are held together ; or that it is more in 
accordance with the phenomena of cohesion to sui)pose that, in the case 
of a liquid, instead of the attraction of the molecules being neutralized 
by heat, the effect of this agent is merely to neutralize the polarity of 
the molecules, so as to give them perfect freedom of motion around any 
imaginable axis. In illustration of this sul)ject, the comparative tenacity 
of pure water and water in which soap had been dissolved was measured 
by the usual method of ascertaining the weight required to detach from 
the surface of each the same plate of wood, suspended from the beam of 
a balance, under the same condition of temperature and pressure. It 
was found, by this experiment, that the tckiacity of pure water was 
greater than that of soap and water. This novel result is in accordance 
with the supposition that the mingling of the soap and the water inter- 
feres with the perfect mobility of the molecules, while at the same time 
it diminishes the attraction. 

XV. A series of experiments was also made on the tenacity of soap in 
films. For this purj^ose sheets of soap-water films were stretched upon 
rings, and the attempt made to obtain the tenacity of these by placing 
on them pellets of cotton until they were ruptured. The thickness of 
these films was roughly estimated by Xewton's scale of the colors of thin 



BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENEY. 1G7 

plates, and from tlie results the conclusion was arrived at that the at- 
tractive force of the molecules of water, for those of water, is approxi- 
mately equal to that of the molecules of ice for those of ice, and that the 
difiereuce in this case, of the solidity and liquidity, is due to the want of 
mobility in the latter, which prevented the slipping of the molecules on 
each other. It is this extreme mobility of the molecules of water that 
prevents the formation of permanent bubbles of it, and not a want of 
attraction. 

The roundness of drops otf water is not due to the attraction of the 
whole mass, but merely to the action of the surface, which in all cases 
of curvature is endowed with an intense contractile power. 

This class of investigation also included the study of soap bubbles, 
and the establishment of the fact of the contractile power of these films. 
The curvature of the surface of a bubble tends to urge each particle 
toward the center, witb a force inversely as the diameter. Two bubbles 
being connected, the smaller will collapse by expelling its contents into 
the larger. By employing frames of wire, soap bubbles were also made 
to assume various forms, by which capillarity and other phenomena 
were illustrated. This subject was afterward taken up by Plateau, of 
Ghent. Another part of the same investigation was the study of the 
spreading of oil on Avater, the phenomenon being referred to the fact that 
the attraction of water for water is greater than that of oil for oil, while 
the attraction of the molecules of oil for each other is less than the 
attraction of the same molecules for water ; hence the oil spreads over 
the water. This is shown from the tact that when a rupture is made in 
a liquid compound, consisting of a stratum of oil resting on water, the 
rupture takes place in the oil, and not between the oil and water. The 
■sery small distance at which the attraction takes place, is exhibited by 
placing a single drop (»f oil on a surface of water of a considerable ex- 
tent, when it will diffuse itself over the whole surface. If, however, a 
second drop be placed upon the same surface, it Avill retain its globular 
form. 

XVI. Another contribution to science had reference to the origin of 
mechanical power and the nature of vital force. Mechanical power is 
defined to be that which is capable of overcoming resistance ; or, in the 
language of the engineer, that which is employed to do work. 

If we examine attentively the condition of the crust of the eartb, we 
find it, as a general rule, in a state of permanent equilibrium. All the 
substances which constitute the material of the crust, such as acids and 
bases, with the exception of the indefinitely thin pellicle of vegetable 
and animal matter which exists at its suiface, have all gone into a state 
of permanent combination, the whole being in the condition of a burnt 
slag of a furnace, entirely inert, and capable in itself of no change. All 
thechanges which we observe on the surface of the globe may be referred 
to action from without, from celestial space. 

The following is a list which will be found to include all the prime 
movers used at the present day, either directly or indirectly, in produc- 
ing molecular changes in matter : 

C Water power. ^ Immediately referable 

Class I. } Tide power. > to celestial disturb- 

( Wind power. ) ance. 

( Steam and other powers devel- ^ Immediately referable to 
Class II. } oped by combustion. > wliat is called vital 

( Animal power. ) action. 



168 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

The forces of gravity, cohesion, electricity, and chemical attraction 
tend to produce a state of permanent equilibrium on our planet ; lience 
these principles in themselves are not primary, but secondary, agents in 
producing mechanical effects. As an example, we may take the case of 
water-power, which is approximately due to the return of the water to 
a state of stable equilibrium on the surface of the ocean ; but the pri- 
mary cause of the motion is the force which produced the elevation of 
the liquid in the form of vapor — namely, the radiant heat of the sun. 
Also, in the phenomena of combustion, the immediate source of the 
power evolved iu the form of heat is the passage from an unstable state 
into one of stable combination of the carbon and hydrogen of the fuel 
with oxygen of the atmosphere. But this power may ultimately be re- 
solved into the force which caused the separation of these elements from 
their x)revious combination in the state of carbonic acid — namely, the 
radiant light of the sun. But the mechanical power exerted by animals 
is due to the i)assage of organized matter in the stomach from an un- 
stable to a stable equdibrium, or as it were from the combustion of the 
food. It therefore follows that animal power is referable to the same 
source as that from the combustion of fuel — namely, developed power 
of the sun's beams. But according to this view, what is vitality 1 It 
is that mysterious principle — not mechanical power — which determines 
the form and arranges the atoms of organized matter, employing for this 
purpose the power which is derived from the food. 

These propositions were illustrated by different examples. Suppose a 
vegetable organism impregnated with a germ — a potato, for instance — 
is planted below the surface of the ground in a damp soil, under a tem- 
perature sufficient for vegetation. If we examine it from time to time, we 
find it sending down rootlets into the earth and stems and leaves upward 
into the air. After the leaves have been fully expanded we shall find the 
tuber entirely exhausted, nothing but a skin remaining. The same effect 
will take place if the potato be placed in a warm cellar. It will con- 
tinue to grow until all the starch and gluten are exhausted, when it will 
cease to increase. If, however, we now place it iu the light, it will com- 
mence to grow again, and increase in size and weight. K we weigh the 
potato previous to the experiment and the plant after it has ceased to 
grow in the dark, we shall find that the weight of the latter is a little 
more than half that of the original tuber. The question then is, what 
has become of the material which filled the sac of the potato ? The an- 
swer is, one part has run down into carbonic acid and water, and iu this 
running down has evolved the power to build up the other part into the 
new i)lant. After the leaves have been formed and the plant exposed to 
the light of the sun, the developed power of its rays decomposes the car- 
bonic acid of the atmosphere, and thus furnishes the pabulum and the 
power necessary to the further development of the organization. The 
same is the case ^vith wheat and all other grains that are germinated in 
tlie earth. Besides the germ of the futiu'e plant, there is stored away 
around the germ the starch and gluten to furnish the power necessary 
to its development and also the food to build it up until it reaches 
tlie surface of the earth and can draw the source of its future growth 
from the power of the sunbeam. In the case of fungi and other plants 
that grow in the dark, they derive the power and the pabulum from sur- 
rounding vegetable matter in process of decay or in that of evolving 
power. A similar arrangement is found in regard to animal organiza- 
tion. It is well known that the egg continually diminishes in weight dur- 
ing the process of incubation, and the chick when fully formed weighs 
scarcely more than one-half the original weight of the egg. What is the 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 169 

interpretation of this phenomenon ? Simply that one part of the con- 
tents of the shell has run down into carbonic acid and water, and thus 
evolved the power necessary to do the work of building up the future 
animal. In like manner when the tadpole is converted into a frog the 
animal for a while loses weight. A portion of the organism of its tail 
has been expended developing the power necessary to the transforma- 
tiou, while another portion has served for the material of the legs. 

AYhat, then, is the ofidce of vitality ! We say that it is analogous to 
that of the engineer who directs the power of the steam-engine in the ex- 
ecution of its work. Without this, in the case of the Gg;g, the materials, 
left to the undirected force of affinity, would end in simply producing 
chemical compounds — sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, &c. There 
is no special analogy between the process of crystallization and that 
of vital action. In the one case definite mathematical forms are the 
necessary results, while in the other the results are precisely like those 
which are produced under the direction of will and intelligence, evincing 
a design and a purpose, making provision at one stage of the process for 
results to be attained at a later, and producing organs intended e\adently 
for locomotion and x^erception. Not only is the result the same as that 
which is produced by human design, but in all cases the power with 
which this principle operates is the same as that with which the intelli- 
gent engineer i^roduces his result. 

This doctrine was first given in a communication to the American 
Philosophical Society in December, 18-14, and more fully developed in a 
paper i)ublislied in the Patent Office Eeport in 1857. 

The publication in full of three of the series of investigations herein 
described was made in the Transactions of the American Philosophical 
Society. Others were published in Sillimau's Journal, and both these 
are noticed in the Royal Society's Catalogue of Scientific Papers; but 
the remainder of them were published in the Proceedings of the Ameri- 
can Philosophical Society, and are not mentioned in the work just 
referred to. 

In 1840, while still at Princeton, I was requested by members of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, which was then just 
founded, to study the will of Smithson, and to give a plan of organiza- 
tion l)y which the object of the bequest might be realized. My conclu- 
sion was that the intention of the donor was to advance Science by origi- 
nal research and ])ublication ; that the establishment was for the benefit 
of niankiud generally, and that all unnecessary expenditures on local 
objects would be violations of the trust. The plan I proposed for the 
organization of the Institution was to assist men of science in making 
original researches, to j^ublish these in a series of volumes, and to give 
a copy of these to every first-class library on the face of the earth. 

I was afterward called to take charge of the Institution and to carry 
out this plan, which has been the governing j)olicy of the establishment 
from the beginning to the present time. 

One of the first enterprises of the Smithsonian Institution was the 
establishment of a system of simultaneous meteorological observations 
over the whole United States, especially for the study of the phenomena 
of American storms. 

For this purpose the assistance of Professor Guyot was obtained; who 
drew up a series of instructions for the observers, which was printed 
and distributed in all parts of the country. He also recommended the 
form of instruments best suited to be used by the observers, and finally 
calculated, with immense labor, a volume of meteorological and physical 
tables for reducing and discussing observations. These tables were 



170 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

publislied by tlie Institution, and are now in use in almost every part of 
the world in whicli the English language is spoken. The prosecution of 
the system linally led to the apiilication of the principles established to 
the predictions of the weather by means of the telegraph. 

JOSEPH HEmiY. 

Washington, D. C, December 4, 1876. 



NOTE III. 

LIST OF PROFESSOR HENRY'S SCIENTIFIC PAPERS. 

[Prepared by Wm. B. Taylor: Published in the Bulletin of tbe PMlosopbical Society 

of Wasbiugton, Vol. II. ] 

1825. On the Production of Cold bytbe Earefaction of Air : accompanied 
with Experiments. (Presented Mar. 2.) Abstract, Trans. Al- 
bany Institute, vol. i. part ii. p. 36. 

1827. On some Modifications of the Electro-magnetic Apparatus. (Bead 
Oct. 10.) Trans. Albany Inst. vol. i. pp. 22-24. 

1829. Topographical Sketch of the State of New York ; designed chiefly 
to show the General Elevations and Depressions of its Surface. 
(Read Oct. 28.) Trans. Albany Inst. vol. i. pp. 87-112. 

1829. First Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New 
Y^ork, for 1828. ' (In conjunction with Dr. T. Eomeyn Beck.) 
Annual Report of Itegents of University, to the Legislature of 
New York.— Albany, 1829. 

1829. On the Mean Temperature of Twenty-seven different Places in the 

State of New York, for 1828. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Eo- 
meyn Becli:.) Brewster's Edinburgh Jour. Science, Oct. 1828, 
vol. i. pp. 249-259. 

1830. Second Abstract of Meteorological Records of the State of New 

York for 1829. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.) 
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of 
New York.— Albany, 1830. 

1831. On the Application of the Principle of the Galvanic Multiplier to 

Electro magnetic Apparatus, and also to the development of 
great Magnetic power in soft iron, with small Galvanic Ele- 
ments. Silliman's American Jour. Science, Jan. 183J , vol. xix. 
pp. 400-408. 

1831. Tabular Statement of the Latitudes, Longitudes, and Elevations, 
of 42 Meteorological Stations in New York. Annual Report 
Regents of University to Legislature N. Y. 1831. 

1831. Third Abstract of Meteorological Records of State of New York 
for 1830. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.) Annual 
Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of New 
York.— Albany, 1831. 

1831. An account of a large Electro-magnet, made for the Laboratory 
of Yale College. (In conjunction with Dr. Ten Eyck.) Silli- 
man's Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1831, vol. xx. pp. 201-203. 

L831. On a Reciprocating Motion produced by Magnetic attraction and 
repulsion. Silliman's Am. Jour. Scl. July, 1831, vol. xx. pp. 
340-343. Sturgeon's Annals of Electricity, etc. vol. iii. pp. 
430-432. 



BIOGKAPHICAL MEMOIE OF JOSEPH HENEY. 171 

1832. On a Disturbance of ttie Earth's Magnetism in connection witli 
the appeaiance of an Aurora as observed at Albany on the 10th 
of Ai^ril, 1831. (Communicated to the Albany Institute, Jan. 
20, 1832.) Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature 
of IS'ew York. — Albany, 1832. Silliman's Am. Jour. ^ci. July, 
1832, vol. xxii. pp. 143-155. 

1832. Fourth Abstract of IVIeteorological Eecords of the State of New- 
York for 1831. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Romeyn Beck.) 
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of 
IS^ew York.— Albany, 1831. 

1832. On the Production of Currents and Sparks of Electricity from 

Magnetism. Silliman's Am. Jour. ^Sci. July, 1832, vol. xxii. 
pp. 403-408. 

1833. Fifth Abstract of Meteorological Eecords of the State of New 

York, for 1832. (In conjunction with Dr. T. Eomeyn Beck.) 
Annual Report of Regents of University, to the Legislature of 
New York. — Albany, 1833. 

1835. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. I. Descrij^tion 
of a Galvanic Battery for ijroducing Electricity of different in- 
tensities. (Eead Jan. 1 4.) Transactions Am. RhUosopli. Society, 
vol. V. pp. 217-222. Sturgeon's Annals of Electricity, etc. vol. 
i. pp. 277-281. 

1835. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. II. On the in- 
fluence of a Spiral Conductor in increasing the intensity of 
Electricity from a Galvaiuc arrangement of a smgle Pair, etc. 
(Eead Feb. G.) Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. vol. v. "^pp. 223-232. 
Sturgeon's Annals of Electricity, etc. vol. i. pp. 282-290. Tay- 
lor's Scientific Memoirs, vol. i. pp. 540-547. 

1835. Facts in reference to the Spark, etc. from a long Conductor unit- 
ing the poles of a Galvanic Battery. Journal of Eranllin In- 
stitute, Mar. 1835, vol. xv. pp. 109, 170. Silliman^s Am. Jour. 
Sci. July, 1835, vol. xxviii. pp. 327-331. 

1837. A Notice of Electrical Eesearches, particularly in regard to the 

" lateral discharge." (Eead before the British Association at 
Liverpool, Sept. 1837.) Report Brit. Assoc. 1837. Part II. pp. 
22-24. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1838, vol. xxxiv. pp. 
10-19. 

1838. A Letter on the production directly from ordinary Electricity of 

Currents by Induction, analogous to those obtained from Gal- 
vanism. (Eead to Philosoj)h. Society, May 4.) Proceedings 
Am. Phil. Soc. vol. i. p. 14. 

1838. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. III. On Elec- 

tro-djmamic Induction. (Eead Nov. 2.) Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 
vol. vi. pp. 303-338. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. 1840, vol. 
xxxviii. pp. 209-243. Sturgeon's Annals of Electricity, etc. vol. 
iv. pp. 281-310. L. E. D Phil. Mag. Mar. 1840, vol. xvi. pp. 
200-210 : pp. 254^205 : pp. 551-502. Becquerel's Traitc experi- 
mental de VElectricite, etc. vol. v. pp. 87-107. Annales de Chinm 
et de Physique, Dec. 1841, 3d series : vol. iii. pp. 394-407. Pog- 
gendorff's Annalen der Physilc und Chemie. Suijplemental vol. 
i. (Nach Band li.) 1842, pp. 282-312. 

1839. A novel phenomenon of Capillary action : the transmission of Mer- 

cury through Lead. (Eead Mar. 15.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. 
vol. i. pp. 82, 83. Silliman's Ayn. Jour. Sci. Jan. 1839, vol. 
xxxviii. i)p. 180, 181. Bihlioth. Universelle, vol. xxix. pp. 175, 
170. Liebig's Annalen der Chemie, etc. vol. xl. pp. 182, 183. 



172 BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

1839, A Letter on two distinct kinds of dynamic Induction by a Gal- 
vanic current. (Read to Phil. Soc. Oct. 18.) Froceedings Am. 
Phil. Soc. vol. i. pp. 134H36. 

1839. Observations of Meteors made ]S"ov. 25, 1835, simultaneously at 

Princeton and at Philadelphia, for determining their dift'erence 
of Longitude. (In conjunction with Professors A. D. Bache, S. 
Alexander, and J. P. Espy.) Froceedings Am. Fhil. Soc. Dec. 
21, vol. i. pp. 102, 103. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. Oct. 1810, 
vol. xxxis. i)f). 372, 373. 
1810. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. ITo.IY. On Electro- 
dynamic Induction. (Eead June 19.) Trans. Ain. Fhil. Soc. 
vol. viii. pp. 1-18. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1811, vol. 
xli. pp. 117-152. Sturgeon's Annals Electricity^ etc. vol. vii. 
pp. 21-50. L. E. B. Fhil. Mag. June, 1841, vol. xviii. pp. 482- 
514. Annales de Ghim. et Fhys. Dec. 1841, 3d ser. vol. iii. pp. 
407-430. Poggendorff's Armal. der Fhys. und Chem. 1841, vol. 
liv. pp. 84-97. 

1840. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. IV, — continued. 

Theoretical Considerations relating to Electro-dynamic Induc- 
tion. (Read Nov. 20.) Trans. Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. viii. i^j). 
18-35. 
1840. On the production of a reciprocating motion by the repulsion in 
the consecutive parts of a conductor throngh which a galvanic 
current is passing. (Read Nov. 20.) Froceedings Am. Fhil. 
Soc. vol. i. p. 301. 

1840. Electricity from heated Water. (Read Dec. 18.) Froceedings 

Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. i. pp. 322-324. 

1841. Description of a simple and inexpensive form of Heliostat. (Read 

Sept. 17.) Froceedings Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. ii. p. 97. 

1841. Observations on the effects of a Thunderstorm which visited 

Princeton on the evening of the 14th of July, 1841. (Read 
Nov. 5.) Froceedings A771. Fhil. Soc. vol. ii. pp. 111-110. 

1842. Resume des Recherches faits sur les Courants d'Induction. Ar- 

chives de VElecfricite, 1842, vol. ii. pp. 348-392. 

1842. Contributions to Electricity and Magnetism. No. V. On Electro- 

dynamic Induction : and on the oscillatory discharge. (Read 
June 17.) Froceedings Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. ii. pp. 193-19G. 

1843. On Phosphorogenic Emanation. (Read May 26.) Froceedings 

Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. iii. pp. 38-44. Walker's Electrical Magazine^ 

1845, vol. i. pp. 444-450. 
1843. On a new Method of determining the Velocil?^ of Projectiles. 

(Read May 30.) Froceedings Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. iii. pp. 165-167. 

Walker's Electrical Magazine, 1845, vol. i. pp. 250-352. 
1843. Nouvelles Experiences sur I'Induction developpee par I'Electricit^ 

ordinaire. (Translated.) Archives de VElectricite, 1843, vol. iii. 

pp. 484-488. 
1843. On the ai)plication of Melloni's thermo-electric apparatus to Me- 
teorological purposes. (Presented orally Nov. 3.) Froceedings 

Am. Fhil. Soc. vol. iv. x>. 22. 

1843. Theory of the discharge of the Leyden jar. (Presented Nov. 3.) 

Froceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 22, 23. 

1844. On the Cohesion of Liquids. (Read April 5.) Froceedings Am. 

Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 56, 57. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. Oct. 1844, 
vol. xlviii. pp. 215, 216. 
1844. On the Cohesion of Liquids, — continued. (Read May 17.) Pro- 
ceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 84, 85. Silliman's Am. 



BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 173 

Jour. 8cL Oct. 1844, vol. xlviii. pp. 21G, 217. L. E. D. PML Mag. 
June, 1845, vol. xxxvi. pp. 541-54:3. 
1844. Syllabus of Lectures on Physics. Princeton, 8yo, 1844. Eepub- 
lislied in part in Smithsonian Ecport, 1856, pp. 187-220. 

1844. Classification and Sources of Mechanical Power. (Eead Dec. 20.) 

Froceediiujs Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 127-129. 

1845. On the Coast Survey. Princeton Eevieiv, Ai^ril, 1845, vol. xvii. 

pp. 321-344. 
1845. On tlio Eelative Eadiation of Heat by the Solar Spots. (Eead 

June 20.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 173-170. 

Brief Abstract in Report Brit. Assoc. 1845, Part II. p. G. 

Walker's Electrical Magazine, 184G, vol. ii. pp. 321-324, 
• Froriep's Neue Notizen., etc., i^o. 826, 1846, vol. xxxviii. coL 

179-18i3. Poggendorff's Annalen der Physilc und Chemie, 1846, 

vol. Ixviii. pp. 102-104. 
1845. On the Capillarity of Metals. (Eead June 20.) Proceedings Ayn. 

Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 176-178. Froriep's iVewe^Vo/fcew, etc., jSTo. 

825, 1846, vol. xxxviii. col. 168-160. Poggendorff's Annalen der 

PhysiJc und Chemie. 2d supijlemental vol. (iSTacli Band Ixxii.) 

1848, pp. 358-361. 
1845. On the Protection of Buildings from Lightning. (Eead June 20.) 

Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 170. Silliman's uim. Jour. 

Sci. 1846, vol. ii. pp. 405, 406. Walker's Electrical Magazine, 

1846, vol. ii. pp. 324-326. Froriep's JS^eue Xotizen, etc., No. 823, 

1846, vol. xxxviii. col. 133, 134. 
1845. An account of peculiar eiiects on a house struck by Lightning. 

(Eead June 20.) Proceedings Aon. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 180. 
1845. On Color Blindness. Princeton Review, July, 1845, vol. xvii. i)p. 

483-489. 

1845. On the discharge of Electricity through a long wire, etc. (Eead 

Nov. 7.) Proceedings Am. Phil, Soc. vol. iv. pp. 208, 209. 

1846. Eepetition of Faraday's Exj)criment on the Polarization of Liquids 

under the influence of a galvanic current, (Eead Jan. 16. j 

Proceedings. Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pj). 229, 230. 
1846. Extrait d'une Lettre a M. de la Eive, sur les Telegraphes Elec- 

triques dans les Etats-Unis de I'Ainerique. Bihlioth. Univer- 

seile. Archives, 1846, vol. ii. p. 178. 
1846. Eeport on the action of Electricity on the Telegraph Wires : and 

Telegraph-poles struck by Lightning. (Eead June 19.) Pro^ 

ceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 260-268. Silliman's Am. 

Jour. Sci. 1847, vol. iii. pp. 25-32. L. E. If. Phil. Mag. 1847, 

vol. XXX. pp. 186-194. Agricultural Report, Comuir. Pats. 1859, 

pp. 509-511. 
1846. On the ball supported by a water jet : also experiments in regard 

to the "interference" of heat. (Eead Oct. 16.) Proceed i]igs 

Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. p. 285. 
1846. On the corpuscular hypothesis of the constitution of Matter. (E^ad 

Nov. 6.) Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc. vol. iv. pp. 287-290. 

1846. On the Height of Aurorai. (Eead Dec. 3.) Proceedings Am. Phil, 

Soc. vol. iv. p. 370. 

1847. Programme of Organization of the Smithsonian Institution. (Pre- 

sented to the Board of Eegents, Dec. 8, 1847.) Smithsonian 
Report, 1847, pp. 120-132. 
1847. Article on "Magnetism" for the Encyclopaedia Americana. En- 
cycl. Awier.1847, vol. xiv. pp. 412-426. 



174 BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENEY. 

1848. On Heat. — A Thermal Telescope. SiUiinan's Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. 
1848, vol. V. pp. 113, 114. 

1848. Explanations and Illustrations of the Plan of the Smithsonian 

Institution. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. Nov. 1848, vol. vi. pp. 
305-317. 

1849. On the Eadiation of Heat. (Eead Oct. 19.) Proceedings Am. PItil. 

Soc. vol. V. p. 108. 

1850. Analysis of the dynamic phenomena of the Leyden jar. Proceed- 

ings Amer. Association, Aug. 1850, pp. 377, 378. 

1851. On the Limit of Perceptibility of a direct and reflected Sound. 

Proceedings Amer. Association, May, 1851, pp. 42, 43. 
1851. On the Theory of the so-called Imponderables. Proceedings Amer. 
Association, Aug. 1851, pp. 84-91. 

1853. Address before the Metropolitan Mechanics' Institute, Washing- 

ington. (Delivered March 19.) 8vo. Washington, 1853, 19 pp. 

1854. Meteorological Tables of mean diurnal variations, etc. prepared as 

an Appendix to Mr. Eussell's Lectures on Meteorology. Smith- 
sonian Report for 1854, pp. 215-223. 

1854. Thoughts on Education; an Introductory Discourse before the 

Association for Advancement of Education. (Delivered Dec. 
28.) Proceedings Assoc. Adv. Education, 4th Session, 1854, pj). 
17-31. 

1855. On the mode of Testing Building Materials, etc. Proceedings Am. 

Assoc. Aug. 1855, jip. 102-112. Silliman's J.m. Jour. Sci. July, 

1856, vol. xxii. pp. 30-38; Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp. 

303-310. 
1855. On the effect of mingling Eadiating Substances with Combustible 

Materials: (ov incombustible bodies with fuel). Proceedings 

Am. Assoc. Aug. 1855, pp. 112-116. 
1855. Account of Experiments on the alleged spontaneous separation of 

Alcohol and Water. Proceed. Am. Assoc. Aug. 1855, pp. 140-144. 
1855. On the Induction of Electrical Currents. (Eead Sept. 11.) Pro- 
ceedings Am: Academy of Arts, etc. vol. iii. p. 198. 
1855. jSToto on the Gyroscope. Api^endix to Lecture by Prof. E. S. 

Snell. Smithsonian Report, 1855, p. 190. 
1855. Eemarks on Eain-fall at varying elevations. Smithsonian Report, 

1855, pp. 213, 214. 
1855. Directions for Meteorological Observations. (In conjunction with 

Prof. A. Guyot.) Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp. 215-244. 
1855. Circular of Inquiries relative to Earthquakes. Smithsonian Repwt, 

1855, p. 245. 
1855. Instructions for Observations of the Aurora. Smithsonian Report, 

1855, pp. 247-250. 
1855. On Green's Standard Barometer for the Smithsonian Institution. 

Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp. 251-258. 
1855. Circular of Instructions on Eegistering the periodical phenomena 

of animal and vegetable life. Smithsonian Report, 1855, pp. 

259-263. 

1855. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part I. Agri- 

cultural Report of Commr. Pats. 1855, pj). 357-394. 

1856. On Acoustics applied to Public Buildings. Proceedings Am. Assoc. 

Aug. 1856, pp. 119-135. Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp. 221-234. 
Canadian Journal, 1857, vol. ii. pp. 130-140. 
1856. Account of a large Sulphuric-acid Barometer in the Hall of the 
Smitlisonian Institution Building. Proceedings Am. Assoc. 
Aug. 1856, pp. 135-13S, 



BIOGEAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 175 

1856, Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part II. Gene- 

ral Atmospheric Conditions. Agricultural Report of Commr. 
Pats. 1856, ])p. 455-492. 

1857. Communication to the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution, relative to a publication by Prof. Morse. Smitlisonian 
Report, 1857, pp. 85-88. 
1857. Statement in relation to the history of the Electro-magnetic Tel- 
egraph. Smithsonian Report, 1857, pp. 99-106. 

1857. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part III. Ter- 

restrial Physics, and Temperature. Agricultural Report of 
Commr. Pats. 1857, pp. 419-506. 

1858. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part IV. Atmos- 

pheric Vapor, and Currents. Agricultural Report of Commr. 
Pats. 1858, pp. 429-493. 

1859. On Meteorology. Canadian Waturalist and Geologist, Aug. 1859, 

vol. iv. pp. 289-291. 

1859. Application of the Telegraph to the Prediction of Changes of the 
Weather. (Read Aug. 9.) Froceedings Am. Academy of Arts, 
etc. vol. iv. pp. 271-275. 

1859. Meteorology in its connection with Agriculture, Part V. Atmos- 
pheric Electricity. Agricultural Report of Commr. Pats. 1859, 
pp. 461-509. 

1859. On the Protection of Buildings from the effects of Lightning. 

Agricidt. Report, Com. Pat. 1859, pp. 511-524. 

1860. On the Conservation of Force. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. July, 

1860, vol. XXX. pp. 32-41. 
1860. Circular to Oflicers of Hudson's Bay Company (April 20). Smith- 
sonian Miscell. Collections, No. 137, vol. viii. pp. 1-6. 

1860. Descrii)tion of Smithsonian Anemometer. Smithsonian Report, 

1860, pp. 414-416. 

1861. Letter on Aeronautics to Mr. T. S. C. Lowe. (March 11.) Smith- 

sonian Report, 1860, pp. 118, 119. 
1861. Article on " Magnetism " for the American Encyclopaedia. Edited 
by Eililey and Dana. Am. Encycl. 1861, vol. xi. pp. 61-63. 

1861. Article on "Meteorology" for the American Encyclopsedia. 

Edited by Ripley and Dana. Am. Encycl. 1861, vol. xi. pp. 
414-420. 

1862. Report of the Light House Board on the proposed Transfer of the 

Lights to the Xavy Department. Exec. Docts. 37th Cong. 2d 
Sess. Senate, Mis. Doc. No. 61, pp. 2-18. 

1863. Introduction to Memoir by Prof. J. Plateau. On the Figures of 

Equilibrium of a Liquid Mass, etc. Smithsonian Report, 1863, 
pp. 207, 208. 

1864. On Slaterials for Combustion in Lamps of Light-Houses. (Read 

Jan. 12, before the National Academy of Sciences.) [Not pub- 
lished in Proceedings.] 

1865. Report relative to the Fire at the Smithsonian Institution, occur- 

ring Jan. 24th, 1865. (In conjunction with JVIayor Richard 
Wallach,) Presented to the Regents February, 1865. Smith- 
sonian Report, 1864, pp. 117-120. 
1865. Queries relative to Tornadoes : directions to observers. Smith- 
sonian Miscell. Collections, No. 190, vol. x. pp. 1-4. 

1865. Remarks on the Meteorology of the United States. Smithsonian 

Report, 1865, pp. 50-59. 

1866. Report on the Warming and Ventilating of the U. S. Capitol. 

(May 4.) Exec. Doc. No. 100. H. of Rep. 39th Cong. 1st Sess. 
pp. 4-6. 



176 BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 

1866. Eeport of Building Committee on Repairs to Sm. Institution from 
Fire. (In conjunction with Genl. Kicliard Delafleld, and Mayor 
Eichard Wallacb.) Presented to Eegents April 28. Siniih- 
sonian Report^ 1865, pp. 111-114. 

1866. On the aboriginal Migration of the American races. Ayipendix 
to paper by F. Von Hellwald. Smithsonian Beport, 1866, pp. 
344, 345. 

1866. Eemarks on Vitality. Smithsonian Report, 1866, pp. 386-388. 

1866. Meteorological l^J^otes. To Correspondents. Smithsonian Report^ 

1866, pp. 403-412. 

1867. Circular relating to Collections in Archfeology and Ethnology. 

(Jan. 15.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, iSTo. 205, vol. viii. 
pp. 1,2. 
J 867. Circular relative to Exchanges. (May 16.) Smithsonian Report, 

1867, p. 71. 

1S67. Suggestions relative to Objects of Scientific Investigation in Eus- 
sian America. (May 27.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, i^o. 
207, vol. viii. pp. 1-7. 

1867. Notes on Atmospheric Electricity. To Correspondents. Smith- 

sonian Report, 1867, pp. 320-323. 

1868. Appendix to a i^otice of Schcenbein. Smithsonian Report, 1868, 

pp. 189-192. 
1860. Memoir of Alexander Dallas Bache. (Eead April 16.) Biograph- 
ical Memoirs of Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. 1. pp. 181-212. Smithsonian 
Report, 1870, pp. 91-116. 

1870. Letter. On a, Physical Observatory. (Dec. 29.) Smithsonian 

Report, 1870, pp. 141-144. 

1871. Observations on the Eain-fall of the United States. Proceedings 

California Academy of Sciences, vol. iv, p. 185. 

1871. Instructions for Observations of Thunder- Storms. Smithsonian 
Miscell. Collections, jSTo. 235, vol. x, p. 1. 

1871. Circular relative to Heights. For a topographic chart of X. 
America. Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No. 236, vol. x. p. 1. 

1871. Directions for constructing Lightning-Eods. Smithsonian Miscell. 
Collections, No. 237, vol. x. pp. 1-3. Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. 
Nov. 1871, vol. ii. pp. 344-346. 

1871. Letter to Capt. C. F. Hall, in regard to the Scientific Operations 
of the Expedition toward the North Pole. (June 9.) Smith- 
sonian Report, 1871, pp. 364-366. 

1871. Suggestions as to Meteorological Observations ; during the Expe- 
dition toward the North Pole. Smithsonian Report, 1871, pp. 
372-379. 

1871. Meteorological Notes and Eemarks. Smithsonian Report, 1871, pp. 
452, 455, 456, 459, 461. 

1871. Effect of the Moon on the Weather. Smiilisonian Report, 1871, 
pp. 460, 461. 

1871. Anniversary Address as President of the Philosophical Society of 

Washington. (Delivered Nov. 18.) Bulletin Phil. Soc. Wash- 
ington, vol. i. pp. 5-14. 

1872. Eemarks on Cosmical Theories of Electricity and Magnetism: an 

Appendix to a Memoir bv Prof. O. B. Douati. Smithsonian 
Report, 1872, pp. 307-309. " 

1872. On certain Abnormal Phenomena of Sound, in connection with 

Fog-signals. (Eead Dec. 11.) Bulletin Phil. Soc. Washington, 
vol. 1. p. 65, and Appendix ix. 8 pp. 

1873. Letter to John C. Green, Esq., of New York, on bis establishment 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR OF JOSEPH HENRY. 177 

of the "Henry Chair of Physics" in the College of New Jersey. 
Washington Daily Chronicle, Mar. 21, 1873. 
1873. On Telegraphic Announcements of Astronomical Discoveries. 
(May.) Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, ifo. :HJ3, vol. xii. pp. 
1-4. 

1873. Remarks on the Light-House Service. Report of Li<jht-House 

Board, 1873, pp. 3-7. 

1874. Eeport of Investigations relative to Fog-Signals, and certain ab- 

normal phenomena of Sound. Report of Light-House Board, 

1874. Appendix, pp. 83-117. 

1874. Memoir of Joseph Saxton. (Read Oct. 4.) Biographical Memoirs 
of N'at. Acad. iSci. vol. i. pp. 287-31G. 

1874. Remarks on Recent Earthquakes in North Carolina. Smithsonian 

Report, 1874, pp. 259, 200. 

1875. Remarks on the Light-House Service. Report of Light-House 

Board, 1875, pp. 5-8. 
1875. An account of investigations relative to Illuminating Materials. 

Report of Light-House Board, 1875. Appendix, pp. 80-103. 
1875. Investigations relative to Sound. Report of Light-House Board, 

1875. Appendix, jip. 104-120. 

1875. On the Organization of Local Scientific Societies. Smithsonian 

Report, 1875, pp. 217-210. 
1870. Article on "Fog," for Johnson's Universal Cyclopsedia. Edited 

by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. ii. pp. 187, 188. 
1870. Article on "Fog-Signals," for Johnson's Universal Cyclopfedia. 

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol ii. pp. 188-190. 
1870. Article on " Hvgrometry," for Johnson's Universal Cyclopaedia. 

Edited by DiC Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. ii. pp. 1072-1074. 
1870. Letter to Rev. S. B. Dod; On researches at Princeton. (Dated 

Dec. 4.) Princeton Memorial, :May 19, 1878, 8vo., N. Y., pp. 51-70. 
1877. Article on "Lightning," for Johnson's Universal Cyclopiedia. 

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. iii. pp. 32-30. 
1877. Article on "Lightniug-Rods," for Johnson's Universal Cyclopaedia. 

Edited by Dr. Barnard. J. Univ. Cycl. vol. iii. pp. 30, 37. 
1877. Remarks on the Light-House Service. Report of Light-House 

Board, 1877, pp. 3-7. 
1877. Report of Operations relative to Fog-Signals. Report of Light- 
House Board, 1877. Appendix, pp. 01-72. 

1877. Address before the Philosophical Society of Washington. Bul- 

letin Phil. Soc. Washington, vol. ii. pp. 102-174. 

1878. On Thunder Storms. (Letter Oct. 13.) Journal Am. Electrical 

Society, 1878, vol. ii. pp. 37-43. 

1878. Letter to Joseph Patterson, Esq., of Philadelphia, on the "Joseph 
Henry Fund." (Dated Jan. 10.) Public Ledger and Transcript, 
May 14, 1878. The Press, of Philadelphia, May 14, 1878. 

1878. Report on the Ventilation of the Hall of the House of Repre- 
sentatives. (Jan. 20.) 45th Cong. 2d Sess. H. R. Report, iSo. 
119, pp. 1-0. 

1878. Report on the Use of the Polariscope in Saccharimetry. (Feb. 5.) 
Mis. Doc. 45th Cong. 2d Sess. H. R. 

1878. Opening Address before National Academy of Sciences. (Read 
April 10.) Proceedings Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. i. part 2, pp. 127, 128. 

1878. Closing Address before National Academy of Sciences. (Read 
April 19.) Proceedings Nat. Acad. Sci. vol. i. part 2, pp. 129, 
130. 
8. Mis. 59 12 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 18T8. 



The object of this appendix is to iUnstrate the operations of the Institution by 
reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish information 
of a character suited especially to the observers and other persons interested in the 
promotion of knowledge. 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 



By M. Arago. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. A. Henry. ] 
INTEODUCTION. 

During the latter years of his life, George Cuvier consented to spare 
a few moments from his immortal researches to make some notes for 
the benefit of his future biographers. One of these notes commences 
thus : " I have written so many eulogies, that it Is not presumptions to 
suppose that some one will write mine." This remark of the illustrious 
naturalist has reminded me that the last secretary of the old Academy 
of Sciences, himself the author of fifty-four biographies of academicians 
equally remarkable for their conception and their expression, has not 
yet received in this assembly the tribute which on many accounts is 
justly his due. The fact that we have owed this debt to his memory 
half a century is only a more powerful reason that it should be discharged 
without further delay. Oar eulogies, as our memoirs, should have truth 
for their foundation and their object. But truth in regard to public men 
is difficult to attain, particularly when their lives have been passed in 
the midst of political storms. I therefore earnestly appeal to the few 
contemporaries of Oondorcet whom death has spared, for correction of 
any error I may have made in spite of my careful efforts. 

It has perhaps been observed that I have called my article a biog- 
raphy and not as usual an liistorical eulogy. It is in fact a detailed biog- 
raphy I have the honor to present to the Academy. Without desiring 
to establish a precedent for future secretaries, I will explain how in this 
instance the old form did not fulfil the enci I desired. 

Condorcet was no ordinary academician devoted alone to the labors 
of the closet: a speculative philosopher, and a citizen of unbiased judg- 
ment, — his life, his public and private conduct, and his works, were in- 
fluential in literary, economical, and political associations. No one suf- 
fered more from the instability of public favor, jealousy, and fanat- 
icism, — those three terrible scourges of reputation. In sketching a 
portrait, which it is my duty to render as faithful as possible, I cannot 
pretend to claim belief on mere assertion. It is not enough that for 
every characteristic feature I have endeavored with the greatest care 
to assure my own mind that my impressions are correct; I must enable 
the public to intelligently decide between the prevailing judgment and 
my own ; it is necessary, therefore, to carefully examine and combat 

180 



CONDORCET: A BIOGEAPHY. 181 

the false views of those who, in my estimation, have never truly com- 
prebeuded the majestic aspect presented to his generation by the great 
Condorcet. 

If I venture to hope that I have fonnd truth where others have 
fallen into error, it is because I have had access to private sources of 
information. The distinguished daughter of our former secretary, and 
her illustrious husband, General O'Connor, have placed their rich 
archives at my disposal, with a kindness, unreserve, and liberality for 
which I cannot sufficiently thank them. Many manuscripts of Condorcet 
finished or incomplete, his letters to Turgot, answers from the lord lieu- 
tenant of Limoges, the comptroller- general of finance, fifty-two unpub- 
lished letters of Voltaire, the correspondence of Lagrange with the sec- 
retary of the Academy of Sciences and with d'Alembert, letters of Fred- 
erick the Great, of Franklin, of Mademoiselle de I'Espinasse, of Borda, of 
Monge, &c. — such are the treasures I received from the honorable family 
of Condorcet. This is the material which has led me to clear and precise 
ideas of the part taken by our confrere iu the political, social, and intel- 
lectual movement of the second half of the eighteenth century. 

I have a fear that I have not sufficiently avoided a temptation result- 
ing from the kindness of General and Mrs. O'Connor. In going over 
the manuscript confided to me, my mind was involuntarily impressed 
with the apprehension of the thousand accidents which might happen to 
those precious pages, and the result has been an uncommon number of 
quotations, and therefore an expansion of points which perhaps might 
better have been only alluded to. I am aware of the inconvenience 
of such elaboration, but consider as sufficient compensation that I have 
perhaps rescued from oblivion facts, opinions, and literary judgments 
of great value ; that I have made to speak in my place many eminent 
personages of the last century. 

One word as to the unusual length of this article. I am well aware of 
the demands it must make upon the patient attention of my hearers, 
and the gr^at desirability of retrenchment even after the numerous 
omissions which had become necessary by the exigencies of a public 
reading, but I consider my mission unusual, and more than ordinarily 
solemn ; in fact I am about to undertake the rehabilitation of a col- 
league, and that in every point of view, scientific, literary, philosophical, 
and political. Any feeling of self-love that might interfere with this end 
would manifestly be unworthy of the assembly I address as well as of 
myself. 

Infancy and youth of Condokcet — His studies, his chaeacter, 
HIS mathematical labors. 

Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat de Condorcet, formerly perpetual sec- 
retary of the Academy of Sciences, was born on the 17th of September, 
1743, in Picardy, in the small village of Eibemont, which had already given 
to the Academy the engineer Blondel, celebrated by the construction of 



182 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

the gate of Saint Denis. The father of Condorcet, M. Caritat, a captain 
of cavalry, originally the Dauphin's, was the younger brother of the 
prelate whom we see successively from 1741 bishop of Gap, of Auxerre, 
and of Lisieux. He was also related to the cardinal of Bernis and the 
famous archbishop of Vienna, M. d'Yse of Saleon, who while bishop of 
Eodez made himself so prominent in the council of Embrun by his 
warm support of the Jesuits. 

Condorcet had hardly attained his fourth year when he lost his 
father. The widow of Captain Caritat was very devotional in her 
tendencies. As, in her opinion, an infallible means of protecting her 
only son from the dangers of youth, she dedicated him to the Virgin 
and to the wearing of white garments. Condorcet accordingly wore 
for eight years the costume of a girl. This singular circumstance, as 
an effectual interdiction of all gymnastic exercises, retarded greatly the 
development of his physical powers. It also i^revented him from enter- 
ing the public schools, since a boy in petticoats could not fail to be an 
object of derision. 

When he had attained his eleventh year, his uncle placed him nnder 
the care of one of the members of that celebrated Society of Jesus, 
around which began already to gather the political storm. 

Not to trespass upon your time, permit me here a reflection. Madame 
Caritat de Condorcet, in the excess of her maternal love, subjected the 
childhood of the future secretary of the Academy to practices tending in 
more than one respect to superstition. The young Condorcet, as soon 
as he opened his eyes, was surrounded by a family composed of the 
highest dignitaries of the church and military ofi&cers, whose ideas were 
without exception aristocratic ; his first guides, his first instructors, were 
Jesuits. Behold the result of so unusual a concourse of circumstances. 
In politics, a complete rejection of all idea of hereditary prerogative ; 
in religion, scepticism carried to its utmost limits. This reflection con- 
firmed by many observations of a similar character history can furnish, 
should it not calm somewhat the ardor with which political and relig- 
ious parties, setting aside the rights of families, dispute by turns the 
monopoly of public instruction. Such a monopoly is dangerous only in 
a country where thought is chained ; with the liberty of the press, 
reason, whatever may be done, will finally assert itself. 

In the month of August, Condorcet, then thirteen years of age, car- 
ried off the second prize in the institution the Jesuits had established 
at Reims. In 1758 he commenced at Paris his mathematical studies, at 
the College of Navarre. His success was brilliant and rapid, for at the 
end of ten months he maintained a very difficult analytical thesis with 
so much distinction, that Clairaut, d'Alembert, and Fontaine, who ex- 
amined him, saluted him as a future member of the Academy. 

Such a horoscope from persons so eminent decided the future of the 
young mathematician. In spite of the resistance he foresaw on the 
part of his family, he resolved to devote himself to the pursuit of science, 



condorcet: a biography. 183 

and established himself at Paris for the purpose with his old master, M. 
Giraud de K6roudon. 

When Condorcet left college he was already a profound thinker. I 
find in a letter of 1775, addressed to Turgot, and entitled My confession 
of faith, that at the age of seventeen years the young scholar had seri- 
ously reflected upon the moral ideas of justice and virtue, and upon the 
question whether (leaving aside other considerations) it was to man's 
interest to be just and virtuous. I give his solution of the question, 
although not sure of its originality with him. I am quite convinced, 
however, of the novelty of the extreme resolution to which it led him. 

"A sentient being suffers from the evil which another sentient being 
experiences. In society, an unjust or criminal action cannot fail to injure 
some one. The author of such an action has, then, the consciousness of 
having caused suffering to one of his own kind. If the sensibility with 
which nature has endowed him remains intact, he must therefore suffer 
himself. In order, then, not to destroy his natural sensibility he must, 
in self-interest, strengthen his ideas of virtue and justice." 

This conclusion followed naturally from the premises. It led the 
young Condorcet to renounce entirely the chase, and prevented him from 
killing even insects, provided that they did not harm him. 

There were very few subjects in regard to which Condorcet had, even 
in early youth, vague and unformed opinions, and there is a beautiful 
harmony between the various periods of his laborious and agitated 
f career. We see him, while still a youth, place kindness towards ani- 
mals among the most efficacious means for preserving natural sen- 
sibility, — according to him, the principal source of all virtue. This idea 
controlled him throughout life. Even just before his death, in the 
admirable tract called Advice of an outlaw to Ms daughter, he writes these 
touching exhortations: 

"My dear daughter, preserve in all its purity, all its force, the feeling 
which leads us to share the sorrow of every sentient being. Do not 
confine your sensibilities to the sufferings of the human race, but let 
your humanity extend even to animals ; render those happy which be- 
long to you; do not disdain to consider their well being ; be not insen- 
sible to their naive and sincere gratitude; cause them no useless pain. 
* * * Ti^e want of foresight in animals is the only excuse for that 
barbarous law which impels them to uselessly destroy each other." 

I must seize the first opportunity which offers to show you Condorcet 
resolutely following these principles. Such as he was in morals we find 
him later in politics. 

The first fruit of the meditations to which Condorcet devoted himself 
with M. Geraud de K6roudon was a work entitled Ussay upon the inte- 
gral calculus. The author was only twenty-two when he presented it to 
the Academy. Allow me to preface with a few general reflections what 
I have to say of this treatise and of other mathematical works of Con- 
dorcet. 



184 condokcet: a biogkaphy. 

Wo cau liardly mention in the vast domain of science more than eight 
or ten important discoveries wliich have not required the successive ef- 
forts of several generations of savans. Unhaj^pily, inventors, from a mis- 
taken feeling of self-love, are not ready to acknowledge to the historians 
of science tbe sources from which they have borrowed; they desire more 
to astonish than to instruct. They do not see it is far better to confess 
loyally their indebtedness than to incur the suspicion of bad faith. 

In the sciences of observation every course of stones composing a 
complete edifice is more or less apparent. Books, academic collections, 
tell when and by whom these courses have been laid. The ]niblic may 
count the stages which must be surmounted by him to whom is reserved 
the ha{)i)iness of laying the cap-stone. Each has his appropriate share 
of glory in the work of centuries. 

Such is not the case with pure mathematics. The filiation of methods 
often escapes the most practised eye ; at each step we find processes, 
theories without apparent connection with any which precede. Certain 
geometers move majestically in the upper regions of space, while it is 
not easy to say who prepared the road for their ascent. We may add 
that this road is usually established upon a scaffolding taken care of 
by no one when the road is comi)leted. To collect scattered debris is a 
task unpleasant, ungrateful, and without glory, and, for this triple rea- 
son, is seldom undertaken. 

The savans who devote themselves to pure mathematics without at- 
taining the first rank must resign themselves to all these disadvantages. 
I have not yet mentioned the most important; it results from the neces- 
sity the historian of mathematics experiences of divesting his mind en- 
tirely of the light of his own century in judging of the works of former 
times. To this may be principally attributed the fact that Condorcet 
has never taken his true rank among geometers, and it is also on 
account of this difficulty that I have shrunk from the obligation of de- 
scribing in a few lines the numerous mathematical works of our former 
secretary . Happily, as I have already said, I have in my hands unpub- 
lished articles of Lagrange, of d'Alembert, in which the memoirs of Con- 
dorcet ate noticed at the time of their publication. Condorcet was thus 
judged by men of the utmost competence; an advantage by no means 
always secured to mathematical workers in the appreciation they receive 
from their contemporaries. 

The first work of Condorcet, his Integral calculus, was examined by 
an academical committee, in May, 1765. The rei)ort of it, presented by 
d'Alembert, ends thus: "This work indicates great talent and deserves 
the approbation of the Academy." 

Certain superficial critics, who scarcely looked at the work of Condor- 
cet, spoke of it with ridicule and contempt, undoubtedly considering that 
the reporter of the academical committee treated it with culpable indul- 
gence; and they seemed to have referred the matter to Lagrange, for 
this great geometer wrote to d'Alembert the 6th day of July, 1765 : "The 



CONDORCET: a BIOGRAPnY. 185 

Tutej^ral calculus of Coudorcet appears to me well wortby of the praises 
with which you have honored it." 

But settiagf these authorities aside, it is none the less established that 
this work contains the first serious well considered discussions of the 
conditionsof integration of the ordinary differential equations of all orders, 
as well relatively to the integral of an immediately inferior order, as to 
the deiiuitive integral. In it we also find the germs of several import- 
ant works, since completed, on equations with finite differences. 

The volume of the Academy of Sciences for 1772 contains the memoir 
in which the inventive spirit of Coudorcet is most brilliantly manifested. 
The blind or systematic detractors of the mathematical ability of our 
former secretary are again controverted by the following verdict of La- 
grange upon this production : 

" The memoir is filled with great and fruitful ideas sufficient to have 
supplied the material for several works. The last article has esi)ecially 
impressed me by its elegance and utility. Recurrent series have so 
frequently been treated before, that the subject-might have been con- 
sidered exhausted. In this article, however, is a new application of 
these series, more important, iu my opinion, than any which had been 
made before. It opens to us, so to say, a new field for the perfection 
of the Integral calculus." 

Without leaving the field of pure mathematics, I might find in the 
academic collections of Paris, Berlin, Bologna, St. Petersburg, works bear- 
ing ui)ou the most difficult questions of the science which would equally 
attest the ability of our former secretary, but I must hasten to notice 
some applications of £nalysis which did him no less honor. To do jus- 
tice to the subject in any reasonable time I cannot proceed by order of 
date. 

When we refl.ect upon the difficulties of all kinds astronomers have 
to overcome iu order to determine \\ith precision the orbits of the 
planets; when we consider, further, that it has been possible to har- 
monize the positions taken by the planets at the apogee, at the perigee, 
and all the intermediate points, only because they are constantly observ- 
able, we can hardly dare to conceive the hope of ever tracing iu si)ace the 
course of most of the comets, those vagrant stars which show themselves 
for a few days, only to be lost for centuries. 

A very simple analytical calculus dissipates this impression. It shows 
that, speaking theoretically, three observations are more than sufficient 
to determine a comet's orbit, supposed to be parabolic, but the elements 
of this orbit are found to be so entangled in the equations that it appears 
difficult to free them without calculations of inconvenient length. 

The problem thus regarded was not really solved, even after Newton, 
Fontaine, Euler, &c., had made it the subject of assiduous study. When 
the Academy of Berlin proposed it as a prize subject, the astronomers, 
instead of employing the methods of computation of these great geome- 
ters, still pursued the graphic systems, in which parabolas of card-board 



186 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

of various parameters are used. The aim of the Academy was clearly 
expressed — to have the processes employed, at once direct aud simple. 
The award of the prize was to have been made in 1774, but it was de- 
ferred. In 1778 Condorcet shared it with M. Tempelhoff. "Your beau- 
tiful essay," wrote Lagrange to our confrere (June 8, 1778), "would have 
received the entire prize if the application of your theory had been made 
to any particular comet. This condition was in the programme." Tlie 
condition was certainly there, but Condorcet had, as he himself acknowl- 
edges, an extreme repugnance "for calculations which tax without pleas- 
ing the attention." Of course it will be understood that numerical 
calculations are meant. 

Among the great mathematical discoveries the world owes to France 
is a branch of calculus still very little appreciated, notwithstanding the 
services it has already rendered and those it still promises. ' This is the 
calculus of probabilities. 

I do not hesiiate to claim this discovery of the calculus of probabili- 
ties for our country, notwithstanding the efforts which have been made 
to dei)rive her of the credit. To dignify as inventors of this calculus the 
authors of some numerical remarks, without precision upon the various 
ways of computing a certain sum of points, in the simultaneous throw 
of three dice, would be a baseless pretension, which even national 
prejudice could hardly excuse. 

Among the eminent services this calculus has rendered to mankind 
we should mention in the first line the aliolition of the lottery and sev- 
eral other games of chance, which were as traps set for cupidity, cre- 
dulity, aud ignorance. Thanks to the evident and simile principles 
upon which the new analysis is ibundcd, it is no longer possible to dis- 
guise the frauds in which these fiiuiucial combinations were formerly 
entrenched: discounts, annuities, tontines, insurances of all kinds, have 
lost their character of mystery and obscurity. 

On this ground the application of probabilities has been admitted 
without much resistance. But when Condorcet, after some essays of 
Nicolas Bernoulli, made incursion, by means of the new calculus, into 
the domain of jurisprudence and of moral aud political science, an oppo- 
sition almost general warned him that he could not take possession of 
this field without a severe contest. To tell the truth, the contest still 
continues. In order to end it, the geometers, on the one hand, must 
consent to put the principles of probabilities in clear, precise terms, as 
free as possible from technical expressions ; while, on the other hand 
(and this is much more difiQcult), the public must be led to recognize, 
that appreciation of certain very com[)lcx matters cannot be attained 
at a glance ; that it is impossible to speak pertinently of figures without 
mastering first at least the principles of enumeration ; finally that there 
exist truths, legitimate connections, outside of those, the rudiments of 
which may have been acquired in youth, or by the reading of classical 
works. To comprehend that civil and criminal tribunals should be con- 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 187 

stituted so that tbe innocent may run very little risk of condemnation ; 
in order also to comprehend that the chances of an unjust condemna- 
tion will be as much les-sened as the judgment is rendered by the greater 
majority, the simple natural light of the most ordinary sentiments of 
humanity is all that is necessary. The problem becomes much more 
complicated when the question is to reconcile the proper guaranty of 
justice to the innocent with the need of society that the guilty shall 
not escape ; simple reason here gives only vague results, to these cal- 
culation alone can give precision. 

Let me repeat, that injudicial decisions there are certain phases, cer- 
tain points of view, where resort may be had to calculation. By carrying 
into this labyrinth the torch of mathematical analysis, Condorcet not 
only proved his own courage, but oi^ened an entirely new path. This, 
if pursued by geometers with a firm but cautious step, should lead 
to the discovery, in the social, judicial, and political organization of 
modern societies, of anomalies hitherto unsuspected. 

It is quite evident that in its incursions into the domain of jurispru- 
dence, the calculus of probabilities has for its object solely the numeri- 
cal comparison of the decisions obtained with such or such a majority; 
to find the relative value of such or such number of witnesses. I may 
then in terms of severe reproof direct the attention of the public to the 
passages La Harpe, in his FhilosopMe du XVIII Steele, has devoted to 
these applications of mathematics. It will be seen there, I dare say, 
with astonishment that the writer accuses our colleague of wishing to do 
away with testimony, aud even written i)roof ; of pretending to replace 
these advantageously by analytical formulae. Instead of desiring to 
refute expressions so far from academical as "this is a supremely ridicu- 
lous useot science," it is "an extravagant conquesu of the revolutionary 
philosophy," "this shows what insanity mathematics may produce," one 
regrets to see a man of real talent fallen into such incredible errors. As 
to tlie rest, it is a new proof that no one, not even an academician, can 
safely speak of that which he has not studied. 

I must confess that the mathematical writings of Condorcet lack the 
elegant clearness which distinguish in so high a degree the memoirs 
of Euler and of Lagrange. D'Alembert, who was himself not irre- 
])roachable in this respect, endeavored, but with no great success, to 
induce our former secretary to take more pains. In March, 1772, he 
wrote to Lagrange: " I wish much that our friend Condorcet, who has 
so much sagacity, and such genius, had a better manner of expression, 
but it seems to be the nature of his mind to work in this way." This ex- 
cuse for him has more ibundation than might readily be accepted. 
Euler, d'Alembert, Lagrange, with an equal talent for mathematics, had 
each entirely different modes of working. Euler calculated without 
apparent effort, as men breathe, as the birds fly. In a letter I have 
under my eyes, dated 17G9, d'Alembert thus speaks of himself to 
Lagrange : " It is not in my nature to occupy myself with one thing 



188 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

long at a time. I leave a subject and resume it again as often as 
the liunior takes me, without discouragement, and ordinarily this inter- 
mittent perseverance is successful." A third way in which genius 
works seems to be indicated by this passage, which I copy from a man- 
uscript note from the author of the Mecanique analytique: "My occu- 
pations are reduced to studying geometry tranquilly and in silence. 
As I am not pressed and work more for my own pleasure than from 
duty, like the lord of a chateau who builds, tears down, and rebuilds 
again, I make, unmake, and remake until I am tolerably content with 
the results, which, however, rarely hax)pens." It is well, perhaps, that 
variety and individuality exist in mathematical researches, as in every- 
thing else ; that ways the most diverse may equally lead men of ability 
to such discoveries as the mutual attraction of celestial bodies, the cause 
of the change in the obliquity of the ecliptic, the cause of the precession 
of the equinoxes, and that of the libration of the moon. 

It may be asked with very natural surprise how Condorcet could 
renounce so easily the success a scientific career promised him in order 
to throw himself into the discussions of a subject often very problemati- 
cal — social economy, and into the heated arena of politics. If this was a 
fault, many others also were equally culiiable. Moreover, here is the pal- 
liation: Early convinced that the human race is indefinitely perfectible, 
Condorcet (I copy) regarded its improvement " as one of the pleasantest 
occupations, one of the first duties of the man who has strengthened 
his reason by study and meditation." He expressed the same thought 
in other words when, in a letter to Voltaire, he speaks with regret ot 
returning to geometry: "It seems cold to work only for vainglory, when 
one desires to be working for the public good." I do not admit the distinc- 
tion ; the vainglory Condorcet speaks of was more directly conducive to 
thebeuefitof humanity than the researches, economical andphilosoi)hical, 
which our confrere undertook with so much zest in the social com- 
muuit3\ The good done by science has roots deeper and more extended 
than those from any other source. It is not subject to the fluctuations, 
the sudden caprices, the retrograde movements which so often produce 
perturbations in society. The torch of science dissipates a hundred old 
and debasing prejudices, inveterate maladies of the moral and intel- 
lectual world. If Condorcet was inclined to insinuate that scientific dis- 
coveries have no direct or immediate influence upon the body politic, 
I will not revert to such well known benefactions as the mariner's com- 
pass, gunpowder, and the steam-engine to refute the suggestion ; I will 
take one fact from a thousand that show what important events may 
result through the agency of the simplest inventions. 

In the year 1746 the Pretender had appeared in Scotland, and France 
was sending him powerful succor. The French fleet and the English squad- 
ron passed each other during a very dark night. The most vigilant of the 
watch saw nothing, gave no signal; but, unhappily for France and its 
ally, Admiral Kowles, on leaving Loudon, was provided with a glass 



condoecet: a biography. 189 

of recent and very simple construction, known under the name of the 
night-glass — a glass in which the artist had sacrificed magnif\ing power 
to illumination. With this instrument he descried, outlined on the hori- 
zon, numerous vessels ; he pursued them, reached them, captured them : 
the humble night-glass decided the destiny of the Stuarts. 

We may explain the sadness felt by Condorcet on returning to mathe. 
matics by the fact that even the most illustrious of geometers were at 
that time discouraged. They believed that they had reached the final 
limits of the science. We may judge this from the following passage I 
copy from a letter of Lagrange to d'xYlembert: "I believe that the mine 
is already too deep, and, as we discover no new branches, sooner or later 
it must be abandoned. Chemistry and physics proffer a richer reward, 
with easier research. The taste, too, of tlie century does not lie in our 
direction. It is not impossible tbat the pursuit of geometry in the acad- 
emies will some time become as rare as the study of Arabic is today in 
the universities." 

Nomination of Condorcet to the Academy of Sciences— His 

JOUENEY TO FeENEY — HiS RELATIONS WITH VOLTAIEE. 

I learn by a letter from d'Alembert to Lagrange that Condorcet might 
have entered the Academy in 1 768, at the age of twenty five years. Ilis 
parents objected ; to make science his official occui)atiou was in their eyes 
derogatory to his station. He was received in 17G9. His family yielded 
rather because tired of objecting than from conviction; for, six years 
later, Condorcet, already perpetual secretary of the Academy, wrote to 
Turgot, "Look with favor upon M. Thouvenel; he is the only one of my 
relatives who forgave me for not being a cavalry captain." 

I must class among the first of Condorcet's academic works, an unpub- 
lished memoir upon the best organization of learned societies. This 
was intended for the Spanish Government. Influenced by the desire to 
calm the susceptibilities of the court of Madrid, the author has underrated 
certain phases of the question, but in it we find general views the fruit 
of an enlightened judgment and some curious anecdotes, which give the 
key, hitherto lost, to various provisions of our ancient academic rules. 

It would show an entire want of understanding of the Spain of the 
XVnith century to dream of establishing an academy in which the 
Medina Cell, the d'Ossuna, &c., as representatives of the nobi'Ug, would 
have no iilace. Condorcet made this concession ; he created honorary 
members, but stipulated for an equality of rights which would, he hoped, 
"raise the academicians in the eyes of the public, and perhaps in their 
own estimation, for savans unfortunately are not always philosophers." 
" To render," said Condorcet, " this union of the men of rank, who love 
science, and the savans devoted to her progress agreeable to both par- 
ties, this saying of Louis XIV should be kept in mind: ' Do you know 
why Kacine and M. de Cavoye agree so well? Kacine with Cavoye is 
a man of the court} Cavoye with Eacine is a man of letters.'" 



190 condorcet: a biography. 

Perhaps I may be excused if, in this conDection, I divulge from the 
manuscript of Condorcet the origin of an article of the first charter of 
our society relating to the nomination of men of rank : 

" When we introduced," said our confrere, " honorary members in the 
Academy, for fear that true savans might be troubled by the hauteur or 
abuse of power of the monks, Fontenelle proposed that the class of 
honorary members should be the only one to which they could be ad- 
mitted." 

In the hope of inducing the Spanish authorities not to be influenced in 
their choice of members by the religious principles of candidates, Con- 
dorcet proposed to them this question : " In an academy composed of the 
heathen Aristotle, the Brahmin Pythagoras, the Mussulman Alhasen, 
the Catholic Descartes, the Jansenist Pascal, the Ultramontane Cassini, 
the Calvinist Huygens, the Anglican Bacon, the Arian Newton, the De- 
ist Leibnitz, would there be any question of preference in regard to sect? 
Think you there would be consideration in such an assembly for any- 
thing but pure geometry and physics f 

Condorcet aspired at Madrid not only to secure for the director of the 
academy extended authority and large prerogatives; he desired, to 
use his own words, " to free the savans from the indignity, especially 
distasteful to them, of being under the protection of subalterns — an evil, 
in fact, of all times and all countries." 

If the memoir of Condorcet ever sees the day, i: may be considered that 
he i^ronouuced too absolutely against the admission of foreigners among 
the resident members of the academies. If so, history may say in his 
defense that when he wrote it, the French Government was prodi- 
gal of its favors to foreigners of moderate ability, while it neglected 
men of superior talent born in the country. Witness, for example, an 
Italian, — Boscovich, jjrovided with a large pension by the same ministers 
who refused to d'Alembert, notwithstanding his genius, and contrary 
to all rule, the reversibility of 1,200 livres of revenue, proceeding from 
the succession of Clairaut. See also this same individual, who is men. 
tioned very slightingly by Lagrange and d'Alembert in the letters I have 
in hand, attempting to enter the Academy without waiting for a vacancy 
and on the point of success, thanks to the foolish admiration entertained 
for any one with a foreign termination to his name.* 

Until 1770 Condorcet seemed desirous of confining his attention ex- 
clusively to mathematical and economical studies. After this period he 
threw himself into the world of literature. There will be no hesitation 
in discerning the cause of this revolution, when we remark that it 
coincides in date with the journey made by d'Alembert and Condorcet to 
Ferney, the home of Voltaire. Upon his return the young academician 
of twenty-seven years wrote to Turgot, intendant of Limousin, " I found 
Voltaire so full of activity and enthusiasm that one would be tempted 
to believe him immortal, if a slight injustice towards Rousseau and too 
*Thi8 paragraph scarcely does justice to the distinguished Italian physicist. 



condorcet: a biography. 191 

great sensibility in regard to the follies of Fr^ron did not prove him to be 
human." With reference to some articles in the Dictionnaire philoso- 
phique {then unpublished), articles the importance and originality of which 
may be a matter of doubt, Condorcet says: "Voltaire works less for 
reputation than for the good of his cause. He should not be judged as 
a philosopher but as an apostle." Could there be an appreciation of 
certain works of Voltaire of greater delicacy and taste ? 

Voltaire became a sort of Dalai-Lama of the intellectual world. His 
friends were undignified courtiers, blindly devoted to the caprices of 
their master, and endeavoring to obtain, by outrageous flattery and un- 
limited complaisance, one of those letters from Ferney, which then 
seemed in the eyes of the world a certain token of immortality. As for 
Condorcet, a few words will show his opinion of this foolish adulation. 

Madame Necker received in 177G some very flattering verses from Vol- 
taire. Her husband, successor of Turgot as comptroller-general of finances, 
received a large meed of praise also in these verses. All this was un- 
doubtedly a matter of little consequence, but Condorcet's rigid sense of 
propriety was disturbed; he considered it an act of weakness, and feared 
that the reputation of the philosopher would suffer by it; his uneasiness 
and displeasure were vented in expressions of considerable severity. " I 
am sorry for these verses. You do not consider the weight of your name. 
* * * You are like that class of people who would leave a Jupiter to 
applaud a harlequin. * * * I know your piece only by hearsay, but 
those who have read it tell me that apropos of Mme. Euveloppe (M. 
and Mme. Necker) you speak of Cato. This reminds me of a young for- 
eigner who once said to me, ' I have seen three great men in France, Vol- 
taire, d'Alembert, and the Abb6 de Voisenou.'" 

One more example of his independence and loyal frankness: Voltaire 
was desirous of committing to the stage, at Paris, the tragedy he had 
composed in his old age, Irene. Condorcet, dreading a failure, resisted 
the pressing request of Voltaire to assist him in this step, with judicious 
and firm criticisms, couched in respectful language, however, in which 
is never lost the disciple addressing the master. Thus, for example, in 
a letter at the end of 1777 : " See, sir ! See ! you have accustomed us 
to perfection in action and in character, as Racine has accustomed us to 
perfection in style. * * * If we are severe it is your own fault." 

Condorcet was a profound geometer. He belonged to that class of 
intellectual men who, even when witnessing the most beautiful tragedies 
of Corneille and Eacine, would mentally ask at each scene, what does 
that i)rove? Voltaire surely ought to have cared little for the criticism 
of a judge so incompetent. Listen and decide : 

" Ferney, January 12, 1778. 

" My Universal Philosopher : Your discretion is astonishing and 
your friendship day by day more dear to me. I am grieved and ashamed 
to have differed from you in regard to the last effort of an old man of 
eighty-four years. I believed, upon the faith of a few tears shed in my 



192 CONDOECET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

presence by those who knew how to read and to assume without feeling 
passion, that if my little effort was well depicted and well acted it might 
produce at Paris a happy effect. I was, unfortunately, mistaken. I 
was aware of most of the faults you have the kindness to point out, 
and I add to them many others. I was endeavoring to make a picture 
out of a rough sketch, when your criticisms, dictated by friendship and 
by reason, came to increase my doubts of its worth. We can do noth- 
ing well in the arts of imagination and taste without the aid of an en- 
lightened friend." 

1 feel that I am dwelling too long upon a point of the life of Condorcet 
which would seem to be alieady sufficiently illustrated, but I am irre- 
sistibly impelled to give a third and last incident of the frankness of 
Condorcet, which, in this case, truly amounted to a beautiful and noble 
action. 

Voltaire and Montesquieu, did not like each other. Montesquieu even 
allowed this to be too evident. Voltaiie, irritated by some pamphlets 
published by Montesquieu, wrote atFeruey, against the VJEspritdes Lois, 
several articles, which he sent to his friends in Paris, asking to have 
them published. Condorcet did not yield to the demand, imperious 
as it was, of the illustrious old man. "Do you not see," he remon- 
strated, " that to what you say to-day will be opposed your former 
praises of Montesquieu'? His aihnirers, displeased l>y the way in which 
you take up some of his erroneous statements, will seek for similar inad- 
vertencies in your own works, and they cannot possibly fail to find such, 
for even Caesar describing his campaigns in his Commentaries, commits 
some inaccuracies. * * * You will, I hope, pardon me for notcomply- 
ing with your request in this matter, which you seem to have so much 
at heart. My attachment compels me to tell you what is for your advan- 
tage and not what will please you. If I loved you less, I would not dare 
to oppose you. 1 know the faults of Montesquieu, but he is worthy 
enough for you to overlook them." After this noble and loyal lan- 
guage, which was wellcalculated to rectify wrong ideas, it cannot, be said 
that all the philosophers of the XVIIIth century were the vassals of 
Voltaire. The short response of the illustrious old man to the remon- 
strances of Condorcet is a document so valuable to the history of our lit- 
erature that I cannot allow it to lemain hidden in my portfolio ; here it 
Is: 

"There is but one way to respond to what a true philosopher wrote 
me on the 20th of June. I thank him very sincerely. One ought not 
to blush to go to school, even if of the age of Methuselah * * * I 
repeat my thanks." 

Condorcet successor of Grandjean de Fouchy, as Secretary 
OP THE Academy of Sciences — Appreciation of his eulogies 
OF THE Academicians. 

Fontenelle had given so much eclat to the functions of the secretary 
of the Academy of Sciences that at his death no one wished to succeed 



CONDORCET : A BIOGRAPHY. 193 

him. After much solicitation, Mairan consented to occupy provisionally 
the place iu order to allow the learned body time enough to make a 
choice they would not afterwards regpet. It was finally concluded that 
the only v\ay to avoid all disagieeable comparison, was to give to the 
nephew of Corneille a successor trho would not aspire to imitate him, 
and who would disarm all criticism by his extreme modesty. It was 
under these circumstances that iu 1743 Graudjean de Fouchy becam^e 
the official organ of the old Academy. 

Fouchy had occupied this position for more than thirty years when 
Condorcet entered the learned company. The infirmities of the perpet- 
ual secretary and his age made him desirous of a collaborator, and for 
this purpose he cast his eyes upon his j^oungest confrere. This was to 
create survivorship, to establish a precedent, and produced violent oppo- 
sition iu the Academy. 

After an excitement rarely caused by the discussion of an abstract 
principle, the question finally stood as follows: ThesuccessorofFontenelle, 
shall it be Bailly or Condorcet ? The struggle could not fail to be noble 
and loyal in all that concerned these two gentlemen. Condorcet, through- 
out his life modest in the extreme, thought it necessary to give some 
evidence of his fitness for the place, of his facility in the art of writing, 
and undertook to compose some academic eulogies. The regulation of 
1G99 imposed upou the perpetual secretary the obligation of paying a 
tribute of respect to the memory of the academiciiins reirioved by death. 
This is the origin of the numerous biogiaphies, olten eloquent, always 
ingenious, left by Fontenelle, and confined all of them to the interval 
comprised between the last year of the XVIIth century and 1740. Fon- 
tenelle in his annals of the society does not take up the past, but com- 
mences only with the time of his entrance into ofitice. The admirable 
collection he has left us, therefore, leaves a gap of thirty-three years. 
The academicians, deceased between 1G66 and 1G99, had no biographer, 
and it is iu this third of a century that Condorcet found the subjects for 
the exercise ot his pen, and among them such savans as Huygens, 
Eoberval, Picard, Mariotte, Pcrrault, Roemer, &c. These, his first eulo- 
gies, are written with a profound knowledge of the subjects treated by 
the academicians, and in a simple, clear, and concise style. Condorcet 
said, in sending them to Turgot, "If I were able to give them more 
brilliancy of expression they would be more pleasing, but nature has 
not endowed me with the gift of such union of words. If 1 attempt any- 
thing of the kind, one word, astonished at another, starts back iu affright 
to see itself so associated. I am humiliated belore those whom in this 
resi)ect nature has treated so much better than myself." Condorcet was 
mistaken iu his low estimate of work which procured for him a large 
majority in the Academy, and of which Voltaire, d'Alembert, and La- 
grange always spoke with great esteem. On the 9lh of April, 1773, 
d'Alembert wrote to Lagrange, "Condorcet merited well the place of 
secretary on account of the excellent eulogies he has j)ublished of the 
S. Mis. 59 13 



194 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

academicians deceased since 1666. * * * Thej' have had with us a 
complete success." "Your work," said Voltaire on the 1st of March, 1774, 
"is a monument to you. You always appear the master of those of 
whom you speak, but a master kind and modest; a king describing his 
subjects." Such commendation gave to these first essays of Condorcet 
a rank from which malevolence has in vain endeavored to reduce them. 
Condorcet had hardly entered into his relation with M. do Fouchy, 
when he was commissioned to write several eulogies, among others that 
of the geometer Fontaine, deceased August 1:1, 1771. Difficulties un- 
foreseen immediately assailed him. When he wrote the biographies of 
the earlier members of the Academy of Sciences a century had placed 
all thiugs in their proper light — persons, labors, and discoveries, — and 
there was nothing for the writer to do but to express, in terms more or 
less happy, the irrevocable and already' known decrees of posterity. 
Xow he found himself in contact with the requirements, almost always 
blind, of families : with contemporary susceptibility sometimes of friends, 
always of rivals; finally with opinions based upon prejudice or personal 
animosity, than which nothing in the intellectual world is more diffi- 
cult to eradicate. I suspect that Condorcet exaggerated somewhat 
these difficulties, although they were undoubtedly real, for he certainly 
spent an enormous amount of labor on his first eulogy of a contem- 
poraneous academician. In his correspondence with Turgot we find 
him about the middle of 1772 already very busy with Fontaine. In 
the beginning of September he sent to the illustrious intendaut a 
first copy of his work. The same eulogy, retouched and altered, in 
September, 1773, was on its way to Limoges. This, it must be ad- 
mitted, was a loug time to devote to an article of only twenty-five 
octavo pages. However, the maxim of Boileau was not in this instance 
without fruit. D'Alembert, writing to Lagrange, calls the eulogy of 
Fontaine a chef-cVoeuvre. Voltaire says, in a letter of the 24th of De- 
cember, 1773, "You have made me pass a half hour very agreeably. * 

* * You have relieved the dryness of the subject by a moral treat- 
ment noble and profound * * * which will delight all honest men. 

* * * If yQij need your copy I will return it to you, asking permis- 
sion to make one for myself." Voltaire asking permission to copy for 
his own use a eulogy of Fontaine! Could there be a greater compliment 
than this ? 

To the eulogy of Fontaine succeeded that, not less piquant, not less 
ingenious, not less philosophic, of Condamine. The Academy and the 
public at large received it with unanimous applause. With the exception 
of the years 1775 and 1770, during which the Academy experienced no 
loss, the secretary had to provide annually until 1788, three, four, and 
even eight similar compositions. The style of these latter eulogies of 
Condorcet is grave and noble. There is ia them no trace of affectation 
of manner or of effort ; no desire to produce effect by expression, to 
cover, by striking or eccentric language, feebleness of thought. 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 195 

Our confrere resisted with the more assurance the invasion of bad 
taste, the confusion of style, and the dithyrambic tendencies attempted 
by a certain school, because encouraged by Voltaire, who thus writes to 
him from Feruey, on the 18th of July, 1774: '-It is without doubt a 
misl'ortune to be born in a century of bad taste, but what will you have! 
The i^ublic for eighty years have been content to diink bad brandy at 
their repasts." 

It is now generally considered as a matter of hearsay that Coudorcet 
lacked in his eulogies force, warmth, elegance, and sensibility. I differ 
from this opinion without fear of fin<ling myself alone. In fact what 
have those wbo complain of his want of force to say to the following 
portrait of the academicians, happily few in number, whose names are 
connected with factious intrigue "? 

" Such intrigues have always been the work of those men tormented 
with the feeling of their own insignificance, who seek to obtain by noise 
what they fail to merit by worth, who having no right to reputation of 
their own, would destroy that merited by others, and overcome by petty 
malice the men of genius who oppress them with the weight of their 
renown." 

To the critics who have accused Condorcet of a want of sensibility, 
I oppose the following passage from the unpublished eulogy of fathers 
Jacquier and Le Seur: * * * "Their friendship was not of that 
vulgar sort produced only by conformity of tastes and interests. It 
had its origin in a natural and irresistible attraction. In these deep 
and delicious friendships each endures the sufferings of his friend and 
enjoys all his pleasures. He has not a thought, he has not a senti- 
ment, which his friend does not share ; and if he is not always one with 
him, it is solely on account of the preference he gives him over himself. 
This friend is not only a man that one prefers to all other men, he is a 
being apart, whom none resembles ; it is not his qualities, his virtues 
that one loves in him, for others may have these and yet not be loved 
the same ; it is himself that one loves, and because it is himself. Those 
who have never experienced the sentiment can alone deny that it exists. 

* * * From the instant they encountered each other at Rome, every- 
thing was in common between them; troubles, pleasures, labors — glory 
even, the good, of all others, that two men very rarely share in good faith. 
Still each of them published separately a few articles, but these were of 
little importance, and in tbe judgment of him to whom they belonged 
not worthy to appear with the name of his friend. They desired perfect 
equality in the situations they occupied ; if one obtained a distinction, 
he was not content until he had procured a similar honor for his friend. 

* * * Father Jacquier had the misfortune to survive his friend. 
Father le Seur succumbed to his infirmities in 1770. Two days before 
his decease he appeared to have lost all consciousness. 'Do you know 
me?' said Father le Jccquier to him a few moments before his death. 
' Y'es,' answered the dying man ; ' I have just resolved a difficult cqua- 



196 condoecet: a biography. 

tiou Tfith you.' Thus, iu the midst of the destructiou of his organs he 
had not forgotton the objects of his studies, and remembered the friend 
with whom he had all iu common. Father Jacquier was forcibly taken 
from the arms of the dying man by the friends who, to use Jaequier's 
own expression, did not wish to lose them both. He resumed the chair 
his health had obliged him to vacate ; caring little to prolong the days 
no longer brightened by friendship, he still wished to fill them with 
useful labor and thus divert the feelings of sorrow which nothing could 
cure. He knew better than to add the weight of time to that of grief. 
For minds that suffer, leisure is the most cruel torture." 

The valuation Condorcet has given of the divers virtues of Conda- 
mine could, if we are not mistaken, be placed, without disadvantage, 
besule the eloquent speech Bufifon addi^essed to the illustrious traveler, 
on the day of his reception by the French Academy. It would bear as 
well comparison in elegance with the eulogy of the same academician, 
pronounced by the Abbe Delille, his successor. 

The biographical compositions of Condorcet please because they con- 
tain what should naturally be their essence. The history of the human 
mind is in them viewed from a high standard. In the choice of details 
the author has constantly in view instruction and utility rather than 
entertainment. Without trespassing in the least upon truth, whose 
demands he places before every other interest or consideration, Con- 
dorcet is constantly ruled by the thought that the dignity of the savant 
is to a certain degree that of science ; and that any applause which 
might be accorded to a witty portrayal of a ridiculous incident, would 
be a poor return for even a slight wrong done to the most modest 
branch of human knowledge. 

We expect too much of Monsieur plus que Fonfenelle, as Voltaire calls 
our confrere in several unpublished letters I have in hand, if we hope to 
find in his eulogies any chapters devoted entirely to the subsequent 
history of the sciences. Condorcet did not commit the error of giving 
to his auditors food stronger than they could digest. 

Our former secretary was especially distinguished in his eulogies by 
the utmost impartiality, by philosophic thought, and by the interest he 
gave to the most simple biographical circumstances, by his constant 
abnegation of all personal feeling, of all party spirit, of all self-love. 
Condorcet described his own works, as well as those of Franklin, when 
he said of the latter : " We seek in them in vain for a line which could 
be suspected of having been written for his own glory." 

The long career of Franklin certainly does not offer a better instance 
of frank, true modesty than is contained in this passage from the eulogy 
of Fontaine : "I thought, at one time, said this geometer, that a young 
man with whom I had been brought into connection had more talent 
and might attain greater eminence than myself. I was jealous of him, 
but I have not feared him since." — *'The young man in question," added 
Condorcet, "is the author of this eulogy." 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 197 

The class of the envious, always numerous and active, and ready to 
create disturbance, received through the mouth of Fontenelle a lesson 
of good sense and of wisdom, from which, unfortunately, they profited 
little. The first edition of Voltaire's Age of Louis XIV was about to 
ap[)ear. This was too good an occasion to irritate two great men against 
each other to be neglected. "How am I treated in this work?" asked 
Fontenelle. lie was answered : " Voltaire commences by declaring that 
you are the only living person for whom he would make exception of the 
rule he had made for himself to speak only of the dead.-' "Stop," said 
tbe secretary of the Academy, " I do not wish to hear more. With any- 
thing Voltaire may add to that I must be content." Notwithstanding 
some criticism, Buffon, the immortal author of the Sistoire Natiirellc, 
would surely have been equally satisfied could he have heard the follow- 
ing tribute Condorcet renders to his eloquence: ''The passages which 
escape from the pen of Buftbu show the sensibility as well as the pride 
of his nature; but always controlled by a superior judgment, they make 
us feel, so to say, as if we were conversing with a pure intelligence, with 
only enough humanity to understand us and to be interested in our weak- 
ness. * * * Posterity will place the works of this great naturalist 
besiv.e the dialogues of the disciple of Socrates and the teachings of the 
philosopher of Tusculum. * * * m. de Buffon, more varied, more 
brilliant, more prodigal of images than the two great representatives of 
Greece and Borne, joined facility to energy, grace to majesty. His phi- 
losoiihy, with a character less pronounced, is more varied and less mel- 
ancholy. Aristotle seems to have written only for savants, Pliny for 
philosophers, M. de Bufibn for all enlightened men." 

After this quotation shall I injure Condorcet if I admit that Buffon 
never testified any kindness for him ; that he was the most active friend 
of his rivals for the place of perpetual secretary of the Academy of 
Sciences and for that of member of the French Academy ; that the idea 
of an academic censure, strongly recommended to the ministers of Louis 
XVI, and which constantly threatened the historian of our labors, orig 
inated with Buffon. It is worthy of note that the bickerings which at 
this time disturbed the Academy, as d'Alembert writes to Lagrange, on 
the 15th of April, 1775, to so great a degree "as to dishearten us for 
all serious study" and in which the illustrious naturalist took a prom- 
inent part, are revealed to us by the correspondence of La Harpe and 
numerous unpublished articles from other sources, but we seek in vain 
for any trace of them in the eulogies of the loyal secretary. 

Fontenelle left a gap in his eulogies of deceased academicians, from 
1699 to 174Q; was this by design f One is tempted to think so, on 
observing among the omitted the Duke d'Escalonne, the famous Law 
and Pere Gouye. I will leave no doubt of the kind in regard to Condor- 
cet. If he did not make a eulogy of the Duke de La Vrilliere, it was 
because in his eyes the title of honorary- bestowed bj* the Academy 



198 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

did not render honorable the minister who all his life made a cruel 
and scandalous use of the lettres de cachet. His timid friends calcu- 
lated \Yith uneasiness the danger of irritating M. de Maurepas, prime 
minister and brother-in-law of M. de la Vrilliere. Condorcet answered : 
"Would you prefer that I should be persecuted for a foolish act rather 
than for a jast and moral one? Do you not think 1 will in the future 
be more easily pardoned for silence, than for speech, since I am resolved, 
if compelled to speak, to tell exactly the truths' 

Eulogy of IMichel de l'H6pital — Letter of a theologian to 

THE author op THE DICTIONARY OF THREE CENTURIES — LET- 
TER OF A LABORER OF PlCARDY TO A. M. NECKER, PROHIBITION- 
IST — Reflections upon the commerce in grain — New edition 
OF Pascal's thoughts — Entrance of Condorcet into the 
French Academy. 

Hitherto we have followed step by step the geometer, the perpetual 
secretary of the Academy. Now we see our confrere throw himself with 
l^olemic ardor into literary and philosophical controversy, appearing 
before the public, often anonymously, in order, ho said, not to add his 
personal enemies to the enemies of his cause. Condorcet was already 
by fair title secretary of our society when the French Academy issued 
as the subject for a competitive essay the eulogy of Michel de I'Hopital. 
Captivated by the scope, the interest, and also the beauty of the theme, 
our confrere entered the lists with all the ardor natural to a young man 
of unknown antecedents and with a reputation to make. He did not 
obtain the prize, however; the preference was given to a paper, to-day 
completely forgotten, by the Abbe Remi. Some of the causes for his 
disappointment have become known to me, and it may perhaps be worth 
while to notice them. 

What did the French Academy desire in proposing the eulogy of de 
I'Hopital for a prize essay 1 A superficial review of the literary work 
of the illustrious chancellor, a general sketch of his political and admin- 
istrative acts, a homage to his memory, written in a more or less florid or 
exalted style. To-day this kind of composition is little to the taste ot 
the public; indeed what the celebrated assembly demanded could hardly 
be dignified with the name of a discourse. 

It was not thus Condorcet regarded the subject presented to him. In 
his mind utility was preferred to every other merit. The life of I'Ho- 
pital seemed to him to offer a salutary example to those finding them- 
selves in difficult circumstances obliged to choose between repose and 
the public welfare. He did not hesitate as to the character of his essay. 
It was a history of the life, not merely a eulogistic notice of I'Hopital, he 
felt impelled to write. 

The life of I'Hdpital : but this is a history of a century of terrible 
events, of a long succession of shameful disorders, of barbarous and 



CONUORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 199 

cruel actions, a century of intolerance and fanaticism. The field was 
large, but was not too much for the power, the knowledge, and the zeal 
of the writer. In his beautiful work Condorcet first shows us I'llopital 
in Italy, with the constable of Bourbon, in the parliament and council 
of Bologna. We then see him at the head of the finances. Later it is 
the chancellor, the minister, the statesman whose acts are revealed to 
the reader. The history of a life so full of incident could not properly 
be reduced to the limits of an article which could be read in sixty min- 
utes — the time prescribed by the academy. Condorcet could not comply 
with this limitation, and his eulog}' was three times longer than the 
programme allowed. This was sufficient in itself to make the rejection 
of the essay a foregone conclusion, to say nothing of the criticism the 
work excited in the literary Areopagus, of which the author of the 
Lyceum has preserved some specimens. 

According to La Harpe, the style of the eulogy of l'H6i)ital lacked 
harmony. The charge would have been a graver one had he said (if it 
could be said) that it lacked character, nerve, accuracy ; that the ideas 
were neither new nor profound, and in that case it would be only nec- 
essary as a refutation to refer to such passages as the following : 

" If Bertrandi (keeper of the seal of Henry II) has escaped the exe- 
cration of succeeding centuries, it is because always petty even in the 
midst of his greatest power, always subaltern, even while occupying the 
highest places, he was too insignificant to attract attention." 

" All the citizens wept over the ruin of their country. L'Hopital alone 
did not despair. Dope never abandons noble souls. The love of the public 
good had with the chancellor all the characteristics, all the illusions of a 
veritable passion; I'Hopital did not ignore obstacles, but felt his power 
to cope with them." 

But " the obscurity of the style." In this criticism, I do not know what 
La Harpe means by " phrases which double upon each other." He is cer- 
tainly clear enough, however, when he complains of Condorcet's want of 
dignity in speaking of vine-poles, billets of wood, and little pies, in the 
eulogy of a chancellor. We ought to hope in the spirit of loyalty that 
this remark of La Harpe's did not influence the decision of the Academy. 
Would you know where the expressions occur which made the critic so 
indignant ? They are in a note, in which with reason the author denounces 
the strange, we might better say the deplorable regulations, which 
the prohibitive system suggested to even such minds as that of Michel 
de I'Hointal. Yes, gentlemen ; the fact cannot be denied ; the virtu- 
ous chancellor prohibited the crying of little patties in the streets, in 
order — his words are unequivocal — to insure the pastry-shops from idle- 
ness and the people from indigestion. We may laugh in these days, we 
may be astonished, but none the less the sale of fagots, and vine- poles also, 
was forbidden. The laws of the time even determined theform of breeches 
and of farthingales. The fact that I'Hopital could approve such re- 
strictions, shows clearly to what point even men of genius may yield to 



200 • CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

the influence of their century. But I do not know in truth what influ- 
ence Condorcet would have obeyed if he had substituted elaborate 
phrases for the technical expressions that I'Hopital, even with his poet 
hand, employed, if he had used ornamental style apropos of farthingales, 
of billets of wood, and little patties. 

Voltaire certainly did not agree with La Harpe and his friends in their 
opinion of Condorcet, for, on the 3d of October, 1777, he writes to M. 
de Values, '' I have just read, with great satisfaction, I'Hopital, by 
Condorcet; all that he does bears the mark of a superior mind." I find 
expressions no less significant in an unpublished letter of Franklin : " I 
have read with extreme pleasure your excellent eulogy of I'Hopital. 
I knew before that you were a great mathematician ; now I consider you 
one of the first statesmen of Europe." Such praise is surely equal in 
value to an academic reward. 

"The Lettre dhin Theologien to the author of the Dictionnaire des trois 
Siecles is one of the most piquant articles published for several years. 
This pamphlet, unaccompanied by the name of the author, has been 
generally attributed to the illustrious patriarch of Ferney. Never has he 
been more happy in his criticisms, never more good-natured in his rail- 
lery." It is in such terms that a correspondence since published and be- 
come celebrated announced, in 1774, the anonymous i^amphlet of Con- 
dorcet. 

Voltaire, to whom the authorship was then unknown, thus writes to 
our (ionfrere on the 20th of August, 1774 : " There are, in the Letter of 
a Theologian, passages of humor, as well as of eloquence, worthy of 
Pascal." He then proceeds to prove that, notwithstanding a prevalent 
opinion, the Abbe de Voisenon could uot be the author of a piece so 
remarkable. As to himself (Voltaire), he ought not to be suspected of it, 
for the letter indicates a profound knowledge of mathematics; and, he 
adds, "In consequence of the trouble I experienced with the elements 
of Newton, I renounced, forty years ago, that class of studies." 

The audacity of the Letter of a Theologian, since he was suspected of 
writing it, caused Voltaire great uneasiness, and he took every occasion 
to disown its authorship. " I do not wish," he said, "at the age of 
eighty-three to die elsewhere than in my bed." He thus speaks of it to 
M. d'Argental (August 17, 1774) : " One could not be more eloquent 
nor yet more foolhardy. This work, as dangerous as it is admirable, 
will undoubtedly furnish means of attack to the enemies of philosophy. 
* * * 1 desire neither the glory of having written the Letter of a 
Theologian nor the punishment which will follow it. I am sorry that so 
good a cause has been injured by being defended with too much spirit." 
Again Voltaire writes: "How could any one dare, unless in command 
of two hundred thousand soldiers, to publish so audacious a work ?" 

If he took every occasion, as we have said, and every waj' to declare 
that he was not tbe author of the Letter of a Theologian, mark well, this 
was because he needed repose and feared persecution ; not because his 



CONDOECET: A BIOGRAPHY. 201 

self-love was alarmed. He is evidently far from coosidering this sup- 
position of the public injurious to him as a man of letters. 

To such evidence as this would I call the attention of those who have 
considered Condorcet's style wanting in eloquence and depth. 

In the society of d'Alembert our former confrere became a geometer. 
Turgot in his turn inspired him with a taste for social economy. Their 
ideas, their hopes, their sentiments became identical. It would really 
be impossible to mention a single point in science upon which Turgot 
and Condorcet differed, even in an almost imperceptible shade. They 
were both persuaded that in matters of commerce " entire and absolute 
liberty is the only law of utility and even justice." They believed that the 
protection accorded "to one special branch of industry was detrimen- 
tal to all ; * * * that the minute precautions with which legislators 
deemed it necessary to load their regulations were the fruits of timidity 
and ignorance, and without any compensation, the source of inconven- 
ience, intolerable vexations, and real losses. 

Turgot and Condorcet were, if possible, still more closely united upon 
the special question of commerce in grain. They maintained that 
entire libert}^ in this commerce was of equal importance to owners, to 
cultivators, to consumers, to employes ; that there was no other rem- 
edy for the effects of local scarcity, no other means of reducing the mean 
price and diminishing the rate of variations, a matter of still more import- 
ance, for mean prices regulate the wages of the workmen. If, on 
the one hand, these rigorous principles were a formal discouragement to 
any yielding to disorderly clamors, or popular prejudices, on the other 
hand the two economists proclaimed distinctly that in times of scarcity 
the government ought to make provision for the poor. This relief 
should not, however, be dispensed blindly, but should be the price of 
work. 

Turgot and his friend professed the maxim that there exist for every 
man certain natural privileges of which no lot in life can legitimately 
deprive him. They considered among the most important of these the 
right to dispose of his own intelligence, his own hands, and his own labor. 
Our philosophers also advocated the abolition of a number of tedious 
formalities, often absurd and always costly, which made the condition 
of the workmen an odious slavery. If the mastership and the warden- 
ship were the despair of artisans and city workmen, the statutes of 
labor as severely affected the workmen of the rural districts. The 
labor statutes condemned to work without wages men who were depend- 
ent upon those very wages for their living. They allowed ])rodigality 
in labor because this cost the royal treasury nothing. The form of the 
requisitions, the hardness of the Ir.ws, the rigor of the penalties, added 
humiliation to misery. Turgot and Condorcet were the most ardent 
adversaries of this cruel servitude. 

The two philosophers were not men who become tolerant of crime 
through seeing it constantly committed. The slave-trade excited their 



202 • CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

utmost abhorrence. Ifl bad timeand space Icould here transcribe a quite 
recent letter from M. Clarkson,in wliichthis venerable gentleman renders 
touching homage to the active efforts of Condorcet in behalf of the holy 
crusade against this cruel practice, which had absorbed his long life. It 
is therefore very appropriate that our David has placed among the bas- 
reliefs of his beautiful statue of Gutteuberg the noble figure of the former 
secretary of the Academy, as one of the most ardent enemies of the 
shameful brigandage, which for two centuries depopulated and corrui^ted 
the African continent. 

At the death of Louis XV the public voice called Turgot to the minis- 
try. First the marine was confided to him ; a month after (August 21, 
1774), the finances. In his new and brilliant position Turgot did not 
forget the intimate confidant of his economical and philosophical thoughts; 
he appointed Condorcet comptroller of currency. Condorcet accepted 
this favor in terms worthy to be recorded. 

" It is said in a certain quarter that you are very generous with the 
public funds when you desire to oblige your friends. I should be sorry 
to give these foolish words any appearance of foundation. I pray you 
therefore do nothing for me in the way of remuneration just now. 
Although not rich, I am not pressed. Let me fill the place; trust me 
with some important work ; wait until my efforts have truly deserved a 
reward.'' 

Turgot during his ministry conceived, in 1775, a general plan for the 
interior navigation of the kingdom. This plan embraced a vast system 
of works for the improvement of the small as well as the large rivers, 
and for the excavation of canals to unite the natural ways of communi- 
cation. The celebrated minister, in this important matter, had to defend 
himself equally from the lovers of display, from those who seeing certain 
rivers separated on the map by only a little white paper, draw lines 
from one to the other and call these meaningless scratches their plans; 
from those, finally, who do not know how to gauge the power of running 
water, nor how to calculate its effects. Therefore he hastened to attach 
to the administration three geometers of the Academy of Sciences, 
d'Alembert, Condorcet, and Bossut. Their mission was to examine 
plans and to supply any hydrographic information that might be required. 

These operations, undertaken on so grand a scale, were stopped by 
Turgot's pecuniary inability to pursue them. Notwithstanding their 
short continuance they have left enduring results, although perhaps in 
more than one instance the counsel, contained in a memoir of Condorcet, 
was not sufficiently regarded : " Trust only such men who, could they 
join the Loire to the Yellow Eiver of China, would feel no vanity on that 
account, but consider that a little zeal and some knowledge was all that 
had been necessary to accomplish the work." 

The following extract from a letter of d'Alembert to Lagrange will 
appropriately end the brief notice just given of the works executed by 
the three geometers, the friends of Turgot : 



condorcet: a biography. 203 

" It will be told you that I am director of the canals of navigation with 
a salaiy of G,000 francs. This is not true. We, Condorcet, Bossut, and 
myself have undertaken, through friendship for M. Turgot, to give him 
our advice in regard to these canals, but we have refused the salary 
oflered to us by the coojptroller of the finances." 

Wben Turgot, as minister, wished to carry out the reforms he had 
conceived as simple citizen ; when the comptroller-general found himself 
assailed by the cupidity of courtiers, the powers of parliament, and the 
generally conservative spirit of routine, which when great changes were 
to be made threw doubt upon the wisdom of his plans, Condorcet did 
not remain a mere spectator of the struggle; he on the contrary, en- 
tered into it with the utmost ardor ; to a refutation of the work of Necker 
against the free traflic in grain, he especially devoted his pen, and for 
the first time he resorts to irony in the assumed Letter of a laborer 
of Ficardyto M.Neclccr, proMMiionist. Voltaire writes thus to our con- 
frere August 7, 1775 : 

"Ah, what a good thing, what a reasonable thing, and even what a beau- 
tiful thing is that Letter to the prohibiiionist ; it must attract all enlight- 
ened minds, although there are few such left in Paris, by its good sense 
and taste." I would not dare to say that good sense and good taste had 
deserted the capital, but I know that the witty Letter to the prohibitionist 
received little notice, and that Condorcet was obliged to publish a new 
refutation, more detailed, more methodical, and more complete, of the 
work of the celebrated and rich banker of Geneva. This second article 
was modestly entitled. Reflexions upon the commerce in grain. The author 
in it considers successively how these cereals are produced, how the 
difference sometimes occurring between the harvests of one place and 
another can be alleviated, and the regulation effected in iiroportion to 
wages. He treats also of the mean price and of its influence, and of the 
equalization of prices ; of the effects of unbounded liberty in commerce, 
and the political advantages of such liberty. Condorcet then examines 
the prohibitions, both in a general way and in their relations to the 
rights of property and legislation. Descending, finally, from these 
abstractions to questions more personal, without mentioning names, ho 
inquires how the authors of the prohibitory measures acquired popu- 
larity ; he seeks for the origin of the prejudices of the people, and com- 
pletes his work by some critical reflections, touching certain prohibitory 
laws, and the obstacles opposed to the good that liberty could produce. 

All the aspects of a very diificult problem are frankly considered in a 
severe and simple style. The work is not a mere pamphlet ; it extends to 
more than two hundred printed pages. Its publication excited general 
opposition among the numerous partisans of Necker. Writers of the 
highest rank became from the time of its appearance the implacable 
enemies of Condorcet. The Academy of Sciences and the French Acad- 
emy were unpleasantly affected for many years by the consequences of 
the discords it produced. 



204 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

With the mind free from prejudice I have asked myself if, under the 
circumstances, our confrere overstepped the bounds of proper criticism. 
I suppose no one will contest his right, which he used, conscientiously, 
to call the work of Keeker a mere translation of the celebrated dia- 
logues of the Abbe Galiani into prosy 'and pompous language, or to 
refer in this connection to the Greek statue, graceful and beautiful, 
which an emperor caused to be gilded and so ruined its beauty ; but this 
aside, in going over the work of tbe former secretary of the Academy I 
find only one note that could have excited the auger of the warmest 
partisans of Keeker. This note mentions a certain nobleman, designated, 
however, only by his initials, who had made a bad translation of Tibullus. 
The friends of Condorcet, uneasy lest the criticism they foresaw would 
trouble him, endeavored to console him. " Do not fear for my reputa- 
tion as an author," he said to them ; " I have just taken a better cook." 

Such in substance was the terrible epigram which disturbed the court 
and the city, which brought discord even into the bosom of the two 
Academies, and which endangered the liberty of our conirere. I was 
disposed to blame Condorcet. It seemed to me that his hostile atti- 
tude was assumed on insuflicient grounds; that Keeker and his adher- 
ents had not used in regard to him or Turgot injurious language, but I 
was mistaken. 

Buffbn wrote to the celebrated banker " I do not understand this 
liospital jargon — these beggars whom we call economists." Keeker ac- 
cused the same writers " of seeking to deceive others, and of imposing 
even upon themselves." He described them as imbeciles, and even for- 
got his dignity so far as to call them ferocious beasts. 

It is for the reader to decide whether any one has a right to complain 
who, after using a dagger upon his adversary, received in return only 
the prick of a pin. 

I have told how Condorcet entered into the administration of the cur- 
rency ; his manner of leaving this important post was not less noble. 
As soon as Keeker became comptroller-general of the finances, our confrere 
wrote to M. de Maurepas, " I have pronounced my opinion too posi- 
tively of the works of Keeker and of his character to retain any place 
which depends upon his disposal. I should dislike to be dismissed, but 
still more to be retained in office, by a man of whom I have spoken as 
my couseience has forced me to speak of M. Keeker. Permit me to place 
in your hands my resignation." 

Condorcet did not so exhaust his ire agaiust contemporary heresies, 
as to have none left to combat the errors of ancient writers, even the 
most illustrious. 

Ko one is ignorant that Pascal was occupied a few years before his 
death with a work intended as a defense of the truth of the Christian 
religion. This work was not finished. D'Arnaud and Kicole published 
extracts from it under the title of Pascal's Thoughts upon Religion and upon 
other Subjects. Condorcet, suspecting that this work had been brought 



condorcet: a biography. 205 

to light in the interests of a party and of certain mystical systems 
rather than for the reputation of the author, procured, in the beginning of 
177G, a complete copy of the manuscripts of Pascal, obtained from them 
various passages that the saints of Port-Royal, with their Jansenistic 
consciences, felt obliged to suppress, arranged them methodically, and 
composed of the whole an octavo volume of 507 pages, copies of which 
were sent to all the friends of the author, but which was not offered for 
sale. Frankness compels me to say that the compiler of this new edi- 
tion of Thoughts indulges, as did Arnaud, although in an entirely differ- 
ent spirit, in systematic suppressions. We hasten to add, however, that 
we have found a eulogy of Pascal by Condorcet, in which the great geome- 
ter, the ingenious physicist, the profound thinker, the eloquent writer 
is fully appreciated, and, with the most noble justice and impartiality, 
Condorcet adds critical commentaries to several of the Thoughts of Pas- 
cal. This audacity, in which Voltaire himself had already set him an 
example, excited great indignation ; it was considered a sacrilege. To- 
day the public would have been more indulgent. The admiration, amount- 
ing to veneration, of that time is out of fashion now, and, if 1 do not 
deceive myself, the tendency is in the opposite extreme. We no longer 
think of asking, is such a criticism of a celebrated author irreverent, 
but is it just. Considered, then, from our present point of view, the 
remarks of Condorcet may be approved almost without exception. 

When the author of the Thoughts, pushing misanthropy to its utmost 
limits, stated that if men were cognizant of all that was said by one of 
another there would be not four friends in the world ; I like to find 
the commentator protesting against this antisocial decision and blaming 
Pascal for giving such a strange idea of his friends. 

When, in his ardent war against man's love of his own greatness, Pas- 
cal insinuates that our actions, even those apparently most disinterested, 
are always tinged with feeliugs of self-love, by the hope of publicity 
and applause which follows in its train ; I read with delight, in a note 
of the commentator, this touching anecdote borrowed from our Annates 
Maritimes, and which contradicts the melancholy declaration of Pascal: 

" The vessel which contained the Chevalier de Lordat was wrecked 
and about to sink in view of the shores of France. The chevalier did 
not know how to swim ; a soldier, an excellent swimmer, offered, if he 
would spring with him into the sea and would cling to his arm, to save 
him if possible. After swimming lor a long time the strength of the 
soldier became exhausted. M. de Lordat perceiving this endeavored to 
encourage him, but the soldier at last declared that they must both 
perish. 'And if you Avere alone?' 'Perhaps I might still be able to save 
myself.' The chevalier let go his arm, and sank to the bottom of the 
sea." 

Voltaire caused the book to be reprinted at his own expense in 1778. 
Hitherto it had received only a partial publicity. Voltaire, let it be 
said in his praise, thus became the editor and the commentator of the 



206 CONDORCET : A BIOGRAPHY. 

young secretary of the Academy of Scieuces. This was for Condorcet 
a very great honor, and, moreover, deserved, on account of the merit 
of the work. Am I mistaken, however, in supposing that in this action 
of Voltaire with the sincere homage of the author of the Diet lonnaire 
p]dloso])hique was mingled some animosity against the Jansenistic writer; 
that the author of the Henriade, of Mero;pe, and of so many admirable 
smaller poems, saw with a secret joy the infallibility of that man attacked 
who, placed in the first rank among prose writers, had dared to say, even 
after the publication of the Cid and of Cinna, that "all poetry was in fact 
only a jargon'''' f A certain amount of anger must have influenced the pen 
of the illustrious poet when, in his api)reciation of a work in which the 
praise is always so frank and the criticism so moderate, he says to Con- 
dorcet, ''You have shown us the inside of the head of Serapis, and we 
find in it rats and spider-webs." 

In Ooudorcet's edition of Pascal we find this thought oft repeated : 
"Speaking according to the natural light of reason, if there is a God, He 
is infinitely incomprehensible, since having no beginning and no end, he 
can have no connection with us. We are then capable of knowing neither 
what he is nor if he is.^^ The portion of the phrase nor if lie is is not found 
in the old editions of the works of the illustrious thinker. Condorcet 
seemed, therefore, to have been guilty of an inexcusable interpolation 
of the text. The suspicion that he had committed this grave offense 
gained weight when, in 1803, M. Renouard, the celebrated bibliographer, 
declared (these are his own words) that "an obstinate search through the 
manuscripts of Pascal, preserved in the Eoyal Library, had failed to 
discover the three contested words." 

The fact stated by M. Renouard must at the time have caused some 
uncertainty even in the minds of those who had never doubted the per- 
fect rectitude of Condorcet. In this day the testimony of this celebrated 
librarian is worth nothing, since we know that in 1812 M. Renouard 
frankly acknowledged that the fourth page of the almost illegible manu- 
script of the library did in fact contain the thought of Pascal as Condor- 
cet had published it. To cut short all gratuitous supposition in regard 
to this supposed alteration of the precious manuscript, I will add that 
the contested words are found in an edition of the TlioiigMs anterior 
to that of Condorcet, and published by Father Desmolets. 

I cannot allow this opportunity to escape of justifying Condor- 
cet from an imputation of the same nature, shocking alike from its 
violence and its levity. Read, gentlemen, the article upon Vauvenar- 
gues, in the work of La Harpe, entitled Fliilosophy of theXVIlIth century. 
The irascible critic first recalls to memory the eloquent prayer which 
terminates the book of this moralist, and, immediately after accuses 
Condorcet of having afiirmed, with anti-religious views, that the prayer 
was not by Vauvenargues. It is in the Commentary upon the tvorls of 
Voltaire, says La Harpe, that this philosophical falsehood is to be found. 

Never, assuredly, was reproach of such gravity expressed in plainer 



condorcet: a biography. 207 

terms. Wliat must be my reply ? The most posith'e deuial of the charge : 
Condorcet never pretended that the prayer was not by Vauvenargues ; 
he said very clearly, on the contrary, that it was. Can there be possibly 
such a thing as an anti-philosophical falsehood ? 

At the end of one of his best eulogies, that of Franklin, our confrere 
blames very severely those persons who regulate their conduct upon 
the maxim, old but of low morality, the end justifies the means, and 
denounces indignantly all success obtained by falsehood or perfidy. 
The actions of Condorcet were in accordance with these noble senti- 
ments ; his life was one long contest, but he never had recourse to arms 
obtained through disloyalty and untruth. 

Formerly every nomination to the French Academy was an event, 
especially when men of the court were to be admitted. Condorcet took 
part more than once in the debates these occasions produced, but never 
allowed any consideration for rank to outweigh claims founded on true 
literary merit. When Saint-Lambert requested him to inform Turgot 
that the French Academy desired to give him a mark of its esteem and 
to nominate him in the place of the Duke of Saint Aignan, Condorcet, 
although he desired greatly that his friend should become a member 
of the Academy, very plainly advised him to decline the nomination 
if his acceptance should cause any one making literature a profession to 
be rejected by the court, which was at that time always consulted before 
the election of a member. Our confrere thus manifested his true esteem 
and profound respect for the love of letters. 

His counsel was addressed to one worthy to ap[)reciate it. Tnrgot did 
even more than his friend had advised. Here is his answer : " Thank 
for me M. de Saint-Lambert. At this time it would not be suitable 
for me to draw upon me the eyes of the public for any other purposes 
than the affairs of ray ministry. I think there should be an effort made 
to elect La Harpe. If this does not succeed, why should not the Acad- 
emy take the Abbe Barthelemy "? And there is M. Chabauon ; not to con- 
sider his claims to the nomination seems to me to be treating him very 
severely. He is not, whatever may be said, without talent. They were 
not always so i)articular." 

Perhaps in our time affairs are conducted as nobly; but even if this is 
so, I do not regret these citations, for they prove that our fathers were 
at least as worthy as ourselves. 

Condorcet entered into competition in 17S2 for the place of Saurin in 
the French Academy, and carried the nomination by only one vote over 
Bailly, the other candidate. The contest over the election was very 
warm, d'Alembert representing one side and Buffon the other. La 
Harpe gives some idea of the zeal manifested since he tells us that when 
the issue of the votes was declared d'Alembert cried out before the 
whole Academy: "I am more pleased to have gained this victory than 
I would be if I had found the quadrature of the circle." 



208 CONDOECET : A BIOGRAPHY. 

The disfavor that tbis nomination drew upon Condorcet (tlie expres- 
sion of tbis feeling is found in most of tbe writings of tbo time) is to me 
inexplicable. Were the literary claims of Bailly to the nomination so 
indisputably superior to those of Condorcet that the latter could not hon- 
estly have received the preference "? " Should speculation," d'Alembert 
maliciously remarks, " in regard to an ancient people, about whom every 
thing is known except their name and place of abode, overbalance the 
ingenious, learned, and often elegant descriptions of men of our timel" 

In any case, supposing Condorcet was mistaken in his claims to an 
Academic chair, the illusion was a very natural one. Thus in the unpub- 
lished Correspondence of Voltaire, I have so often quoted, I read, under 
the date of 1771 : " You should do us the honor of belougiug to the 
Academy. We have need of men who think as you do." Is this said in 
mere politeness, and not seriously % 

I pass over an interval of live years, and on the 26th of February, 
1776, iind in another letter of the great poet : " Belong to our Academy ; 
your name and your eloquence will have some effect upon the set of 
hired assassins established in Paris." The same desire is re])eated with 
variations in several letters of the month of March. That of the 16th 
contains this passage : '• I repeat to you that if you do not this time 
do me the honor of joining us, I shall go and pass the rest of my loutli 
at the Academy of Berlin or that of St. Petersburg." The old man 
becomes afterward still more pressing: "I wish you would promise 
me," he writes on the 9th of April, 1776, " for my comfort, that you will 
take my place in the Academy and aid our assembly with your words, 
as you have supported it with deeds. Be received by M. d'Alembert, and 
I will feel greater confidence that all will be well." 

Voltaire the sceptic doubts everything except the merit, the attach- 
ment, and the gratitude, of our confrere. 

We are now at the commencement of 1776. At the close of the year 
following, the 21th of November, 1777, the author of Merope wrote again 
to our former secretary : *' I shall always be tenderly attached as long as 
I live to him who forms the glory of the Academy of Sciences, and I 
hope he will some day do the same for the French Academy. Since the 
history of literature makes regretful mention of many candidates who 
entered the Academy only after soliciting long for the honor, I may be 
permitted to show one man of letters who became an academician only 
after he had been long solicited." 

Condorcet testaimentary executor of d'Alembert. — His mar- 
RiAGrE WITH Mademoiselle de Grouchy. 

The ordinary, the regular course of things in this world brings some 
days of mourning, of tears, and of deep sorrow even into the least 
troubled lives. Condorcet experienced this in 1783. That year, on the 
29th of October, death robbed him of his friend, the illustrious geometer, 



CONDORCET : A BIOGRAPHY. 209 

who under all circumstauces had been bis guide, bis support, bis foster 
father. 

The great man, who bad snccumbed in the plenitude of his mathemati- 
cal genius, bad assumed as a rule of conduct this maxim, which will no 
doubt by many be considered very puritanical: "The use of the super- 
fluous is wrong, when others are deprived of the necessary." D'xUembert 
acted through life upon this principle and died, therefore, without for- 
tune. In his latter days he was not only a prey to cruel physical pain, 
the consequences of a dreadful malady (the stone) ; he suffered perhiips 
even more deeply from the impossibility to which he had been reduced 
by bis constant generosity, of suitably rewarding his two faithful serv- 
ants. A classical incident occurred suddenly to the memory and brought 
peace to the mind of the celebrated academician. 

Eutamidas bequeathed to one of bis friends the mission of taking care 
of his mother, to another cf marrying his daughter ; a similar testamen- 
tary request confided to Condorcet the duty of providing annually for 
the needs of the two servants. The mission lasted long : Condorcet 
placed it among thenumber of his first duties and fulfilled it with religious 
fidelity. General and Madame O'Connor have continued his example. 

The arduous duties devolving upon the secretary of the Academy of 
Sciences, the obligation of maintaining an active correspondence with 
the cultivated men of all countries of the civilized world, an irresistible 
inclination to take part in the debates of which the social and political 
condition of the country was every day the object, very early decided 
Condorcet to give up general society. The sacrifice could not have 
cost him much, for in the eulogy of Courtauvaux be denounces its 
amusements as dissipation without pleasure, vanity without motive, 
idleness without repose. Outside of his scientific relations our confrere 
frequented only a few choice social gatherings where, in contact with the 
eminent men of the time, the young men learned to discuss the most 
exciting questions with moderation, delicacy, and modesty. It was 
in one of these family reunions that Condorcet met, for the first time in 
1786, Mademoiselle Sophie de Grouchy, niece on her mother's side of M. 
M. Frdteau and Dupaty, members of parliament. Like all the rest of the 
world our confrere admired, first, the rare beauty, the distinguished man- 
ners, the brilliantand cultivated mind of this young person. Soon he dis- 
covered that these attractions were united to a noble character, a heart 
most true, an affectionate and benevolent nature. Condorcet then be- 
came strongly attached to the young lady, and demanded her in mar- 
riage. Our confrere was at this time forty three years of age, and had 
only a moderate income ; but such was the violence of his passion that 
be made no written agreement, but only a verbal contract with bis 
future parents for the dowry of bis wife. This, gentlemen, is very far 
from the calculating, cold disposition which has been attributed to Con- 
dorcet, a character drawn i'rom that of certain of his friends for whom 
he professed an unlimited admiration, and with whom he was wrong- 
fully supposed to be in sympathy in every way and upon all subjects. 
S. Mis. 59 14 



210 



condorcet: a biography. 



At that time, with very few exceptions, savans, mathematicians 
especially, were regarded by the world as beiugs of a separate order of 
nature. They should, it was thought, like ecclesiastics, be interdicted 
the concert, the ball, the play. A geometer who married was considered 
as infringing upon a priuci[)le of right. Celibacy seemed the obliga- 
tory condition of whoever devoted himself to the sublime theories of 
analysis. Was this mistake altogether on the side of the public 1 Were 
not the geometers themselves instrumental in promoting such views ? 
Listen, gentlemen, and judge for yourselves. 

D'Alembert receives indirectly Irom Berlin the information that 
Lagrange is about to give his name to one of his young relatives. lie 
is somewhat astonished that a friend with whom he is in correspondence 
has told him nothing of such intentions. This does not, however, pre- 
vent him from mentioning the matter in a bantering way. "I learn," 
he writes on the 21st of September, 17G7, " that you have made what 
we philosophers call the perilous leap. * * * A great mathematician 
ought above all things to know how to calculate his own happiness. I 
do not doubt, then, that, having made this calculation, you find mar- 
riage to be the solution." Lagrange responds in this singular manner: 
" I do not know whether I have calculated well or ill, or rather whether 
I have calculated at all, * * * or I may be like Leibnitz, who, by 
force of reflection, never could come to a determination. I must confess 
to you that I have never had a taste for marriage, * * * [)ut cir- 
cumstances have decided me * * * to engage one of my relatives 
* * * to come and take care of me and all that C(mcerus me. If I 
have not informed you of this it was because it seemed to me a matter 
of so little importance in itseli that it was not worth while to trouble 
you with it." 

The marriage of Condorcet would also have appeared to me a matter 
of 110 importance, and not worth mentioning in this biography, it it had 
been, as d'Alembert suggests, the result of a calculation. On the con- 
trary, without calculation of any kind, but solely in obedience to the 
inspirations of a feeling heart, Condorcet had the happiness to find a 
companion worthy of him. The beauty, grace, and wit of Madame de 
Condorcet formed a sort of miracle. The most decided adversaries of 
marriage among the savans, especially the mother of the Duke de La 
Eochefoucauld, the respected Duchess d'Anville, yielded so far as to say 
to our former secretary, " We pardon you." 

Condorcet as a politician — A member or the municipality 
or Paris — Commissioner of the National Treasury' — Member 
OP THE Legislative Assembly — Member op the Convention — 

His VOTE IN THE TRIAL OP LOUIS XVI. 

We now enter into a series of considerations and events of a totally 
different nature from those whi'jh have hitherto occupied our attention. 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 211 

Condorcet is about to take part iu the most important events of our rev- 
olution. 

If it is true, as a celebrated diplomatist has said, that speech often 
serves to disguise thought, we may add that under certain circumstances, 
silence is a very unequivocal means of expression. Suppose, for example, 
that I say nothing of the political life of Condorcet, who would believe 
that it was not made up of blamable deeds ? Ileaven forbid that I 
should voluntarily give reason for a conjecture so contrary to the truth, 
that I should become the tacit auxiliary of the many scurrilous writers 
who attacked with a sort of fury the former secretary of this Academy. 
Every one, in his own cause, has assuredly the right to meet with silent 
contempt the abuse of adversaries he may consider beneath notice ; but 
this alone is not sufficient for him whose mission it is to defend an hon- 
orable citizen, an illustrious brother, the victim of the basest calumnies. 
In the society of Turgot our brother became a man of progress not 
only in social but political economy. Placed near the seat of power for 
eighteen months, he saw in their most secret details the play of the worm- 
eaten wheels of the ancient monarchy. Condorcet comprehended their 
insufficiency, and, although changes were to him i)ersonally prejudicial, 
he never allowed an opportunity to escape of urging their necessity. I 
do not know whether such noble disinterestedness is common at pres- 
ent; it was not at least iu the times of which I speak. Witness, for 
instance, the naive question addressed to Condorcet by aFermier (jeiwral, 
enjoying an income of two or three thousand livres: " Why innovate? 
Are we not well offf 

No, assuredly ; honest men were not common in the days when Tur- 
got, the minister, said to our confrere: "You do very wrong to write to 
me by the post; you may injure yourself and your friends. Write to 
me, I pray you, only by special opportunity, or by my couriers." 

The '■'■hlaclc cabinet" opening letters addressed to a minister! Is any- 
thing further necessary to show the character of the times ? In order to 
understand the ameliorations France desired, Condorcet did not need to 
consult the instructions that in 1789 the members of the constituent 
assembly brought from all parts of the kingdom. His programme of 
action, perfectly in accord with the best conceived resolutions of the 
provincial assemblies, was written out in advance. He had foiiud its 
elements in an earnest and philosophical study of the natural rights, of 
which a society well organized will not, and cannot, deprive the most 
humble citizen. The ideas,, the wishes, the hopes of our confrere form 
the chief interest of the IJfe of Turgot, published in 178G. Today, 
even, when most of the privileges claimed by Condorcet in the name of 
reason and humanity have been definitely acquired, publicists may still 
learn much from reading the work of our confrere. They will see iu it, 
with astonishment perhaps, but also with full conviction, that the 
vague principle of the greatest good of society has often been a fruitful 
source of inj irious laws, while they will always secure regulations and 



212 CONDORCET : A BIOGRAPHY. 

prescriptions the necessity and tbe justice of which must be acknowl- 
edged by all, when intent only upon securing to the public, the enjoy- 
ment of their natural rights. 

I do not know whether, in the present state of opinion, ray apprecia- 
tion of the worli of the illustrious philosopher will be generally approved. 
I may at least assert that every loyal man must experience one senti- 
ment, that of respect, in witnessing with what vigor, since the year 
1786, the Marquis Caritat de Coudorcet attacked the privileges of the 
nobility. 

Coudorcet after much study had written, at the dictation of his con- 
science, the imperative mandate he was prepared to issue, if circumstances 
ever gave him the political power. I perceive in this programme many 
points which have never been decided according to his views, either in 
fact by our assemblies, or in theory by publicists in general. 

Coudorcet did not wish two chambers ; but that which he demanded, 
particularly that which seemed to him the base of a well considered social 
organization, was a legal and periodical means of revising the constitu- 
tion, so as to adjust peacefully the disaffection of parties. 

The combination of two chambers seemed to him a useless com- 
plication, in some cases leading to results evidently contrary to the 
wish of the majority. He believed " that in the deliberations of a single 
assembly are found all the elements necessary to secure to legislative 
enactments all the consideration and the maturity ot judgment required 
for their justice and wisdom." Franklin, a decided partisan of a single 
chamber, confirmed Coudorcet in his views. The eulogy of this great 
man furnished later to our brother a natural occasion for the devel- 
opment of his opinion, which he seized with avidity. Also, in this same 
eulogy the learned secretary proclaimed as an inevitable source of evils 
and disorder any constitution considered unchangable, any constitution 
which did- not provide means for modifying such of its regulations as 
might cease to be in harmony with the state of society. 

With Coudorcet as simple citizen or as member of our assemblies, the 
political man is concentrated into these two ideas, — natural rights, rights 
imprescriptible which no law can infringe without injustice, and po- 
litical constitutions containing in themselves a legal means for the 
reform of abuses. This was his evangel. Whenever his favorite prin- 
ciples are combatted or even only questioned he hastens to their defense. 
His language then becomes animated, passionate. Eead, for example, 
this passage from a letter he wrote on the 30th of August, 1789, at the 
time when the constituent assembly had just rejected the proposition 
made by Mathieu de Montmorency to secure by means of an express 
proviso the possibility of future impiovements in the fundamental 
compact : 

"If our legislators aspire to work for eternity, they ought to bring 
down a constitution from the skies. To Heaven has alone been accorded 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 213 

the right to give immutable hiws. We h<ave lost the art of working 
miracles and of making oracles speak. The Pythoness of Delphos and 
the thunders of Sinai have for ages been reduced to silence. The legis- 
lators of to-day are but men, who can give to men — their equals, only 
laws as fleeting as themselves." 

The first functions of a political order exercised by Condorcet were 
those of member of the municipality of Paris. In this capacity he 
was the author of the celebrated address presented by the city to tlie 
constituent assembly, to demand the reform of a very important law, 
the law which had just been passed, and which made the right of citi- 
zenship and the other political rights to depend upon the quota of its 
contributions. The remonstrances of Condorcet and his colleagues 
were not without effect. 

Condorcet was still exercising his municipal functions when he de- 
manded, this time in his own name, that the King should always select 
his ministers from a list of those qualified, the formation of which 
should be one of the principal prerogatives of the representative as- 
sembly. Would such a process prevent a bad selection ? I certainly 
hesitate to affirm it. I am certain that the list of candidates would 
be very difficult to make, and would compel laborious investigation. 

Condorcet was much more in sympathy with the actual world when he 
pointed out the dangers attached to the creation of assignats, when he 
indicated almost infallible means for obviating all the inconveniences of 
this paper money. 

The flight of the King and the circumstances of his return threw dis- 
couragement over the minds of the most decided partisans of the mon- 
archial system. La Kochefoucauld, Dupont de Nemours, and others, 
even held meetings where the means of establishing a republic without too 
great violence were very seriously discussed. This project was after- 
wards completely abandoned. Condorcet, an active member of these 
extra-parliamentary debates, did not consider himself bound by the 
decisions of the majority to keep secret the opinions he had given ; 
he allowed his speeches to be read at the Cercle Social, and this assem- 
bly caused them to be printed. From this time dates the unhappy 
rupture which suddenly, and without hope of restoration, separated 
him from his best, his oldest friends, and in particular from La Eoche- 
foucauld. 

When the questions which the arrest of Varennes inevitably raised 
reached the national tribune, Condorcet, although he was not a 
member of the assembly, became in it an object of attacks and of 
violent personal abuse. The illustrious publicist admitted without 
hesitation that his opinions might be in part erroneous; but con- 
sidering the character of those who made such fierce war against 
him, their disdain excited his surprise. "Was it excessively ridicu- 
lous," he asked himself (1 copy here a passage from a manuscript), 
" that a geometer of lorty-eight years, who lor nearly a third of a cen- 



214 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

tury had studied political science, who was the first perhaps to apply 
mathematical calculation to this science, should be permitted to have a 
personal opinion upon questions debated in the constituent assembly?" 
Parliamentary customs were not yet fully developed. Condorcet could 
not divine that a day would come when, in order to be allowed to speak 
upon all subjects, it should be imperatively necessary to have made no 
special study of any. 

In 1791, after quitting the municipality of Paris, Condorcet became one 
of the six commissioners of the national treasury. The memoirs which 
he published at this period would occupy a prominect place in the eulogy 
of an author less fruitful and less celebrated. Embarrassed by want of 
time and abundance of material, I cannot even mention their titles. 

Condorcet, having renounced towards the latter months of 1791 the 
place of commissioner of the treasury, went to Paris as candidate for the 
legislative assembly. Never was there a candidate more violently op- 
posed, never did the venal press indulge in more libels. It was my duty 
to investigate and weigh these emanations of party spirit; but I should 
weary my audience if I attempted to gi%'e an analysis of them. I must 
confess that, amidst the torrent of calumnies and absurd accusations, 
there was one assertion made in such a clear and categorical manner 
that in the absence of an equally formal denial, which I could nowhere 
find, the wrong attributed to our confrere made me really uneasy. 
Thanks to the respectable M. Cardot, for a long time Condorcet's secre- 
tary, all clouds of doubt have di sappeared. Condorcet, said his accuser, 
visited the court nightly, and especially Monsieur, brother to the King, 
even at the time when he was attacking them in his writings, and then 
follow the names of persons who could testify to these clandestine com- 
munications. "Yes! yes!" cried the chief clerk of our secretary, when 
I consulted him, " I remember that grave imputation, but I remember 
also that it was proved that the mysterious nocturnal visitor was not 
Condorcet, but Count d'Ursay, master of the household of MonsienrP 
You see, gentlemen, in times of political animosity, how easily the repu- 
tation of the most honest man may be compromised. 

Hardly had he been nominated to the legislative assembly when he 
became one of its secretaries. Later he was raised to its presidency. 
Timidity, great feebleness of the lungs, the impossibility of preserving 
his sangfroid and presence of mind amidst the noise, agitation, and 
tumultuous movements of a large concourse kept him away from the 
tribune, which he mounted only on rare occasions, but whenever the 
assembly wished to make a serious and impressive address to the French 
people, the army, to interior factions, or foreign nations, it was always 
Condorcet who became its ofiQcial organ. 

During his legislative career Condorcet gave especial attention to the 
organization of public instruction. The fruit of his reflections upon 
this important subject are recorded in five memoirs, published in the 



condorcet: a biography. 215 

Bibliotheque de VTiomme puhlw, and in the exposition of his ideas on the 
law which he presented later to the legislative assembly. 

Condorcet entirely abandoned the beaten tracks. Ho has submitted 
to very careful examination even those institutions and methods 
which by their universality seemed beyond question. He threw 
new light upon the subject by considering it from points of view well 
worthy the attention of the legislator, as an enlightened friend of 
his country, on account of their novelty and importance. Whatever 
may be the opinion of the matter, the impartial reader cannot fail to 
render homage to the clearness of view, the largeness of conception 
manifested by Condorcet in the various parts of his work. 

Here, according to date, should be mentioned a motion of Condorcet I 
cannot fail to notice. The compass of this motion I am sure has been seri- 
ously exaggerated. This assertion has not been made without mature 
reflection, for it places me in direct opposition to one of the most illustri- 
ous men of our time. It requires considerable confidence in the power 
of truth to dare oppose alone an error, without doubt involuntary, but 
supported by the prestige of the highest eloquence. 

Parliamentary history offers nothing more touching, more curious, 
than the analysis of the session of the constituent assembly of the 19th 
of June, 1790. The day when Alexandre Lameth solicited the removal 
of four chained figures, then to bo seen in tho Place des Victoires at 
the feet of the statue of Louis XIY, an obscure deputy of Eouergue, 
M. Lambel, cried from his seat: "To-day is the tomb of vanity. I 
demand that henceforth it shall be forbidden any one to take the titles 
of duke, marquis, count, baron," &c. Charles Lameth supported the 
proposition of his colleague; he desired that in the future no one should 
be called noble. Lafayette considered tho two deinauds so evidently 
necessary, that he thought it superfluous to support them by many 
remarks. Alex, de Noailles agreed with the latter, but considered the 
suppression of liveried servants equally urgent. M. de Saint-Fargeau 
proposed that no one should bear any other name than that of his 
family, and set the example by immediately signing his own motion, — 
"Michel Louis le Pelletier." Lastly, Matbeu de Montmorency insisted 
that armorial bearings, heraldry, which were among the most apparent 
remains of the feudal system, must not bo spared, and demanded 
their immediate abolition. These propositions were presented, dis- 
cussed, adopted, almost in as short a time as I have taken to give an 
account of them. In all this our confrere did not take an active 
part, for the very simple reason that he was not a member of the 
constituent assembly. If it was a fault to rui)ture so suddenly all con- 
nection between the past and the present, Condorcet, at least, cannot 
be blamed for it. We have, in fact, since learned, through the memoirs 
of Lafayette, that upon the question of the abolition of heraldry, our 
learned philosopher did not agree with Montmorency. It seemed to 
him, on the contrary, more in accordance with the true principles of 



216 condorcet: a biography. 

liberty, ratber tban to suppress armorial bearings, to permit every one, 
the plebeian, the artisan, the beggar, as well as the noble, to assume 
them if so inclined. 

The law for the abolition of titles of nobility contained notbing spe- 
cific concerning the penalties attached to its infringement. Sucb a law, 
a law without proper sanction, is never observed in any country, and 
soon falls into disuse. It was, no doubt, to recall to mind its existence, 
that on the anuivers.iry of the day on which it was passed by the con- 
stituent assembly, the I9tb of June, 1792, the legislative assembly at 
Paris caused to be burned a large quantity of brevets or diplomas of 
dukes, marquises, vidames, &c. The flame was still burning at the foot 
of the statue of Louis XIV ; the last contribution to it was, perhaps, 
tbe original title of the Marquis Caritat de Condorcet, when the heirs 
of this family demanded of the national tribune tbat the same measure 
should be extended to all France. Tbe proposition was unanimously 
adopted. 

This proposition has been textually inserted in tbe Moniteur* It 
evidently relates only to titles of nobility. A decided partisan for unity 
in tbe legislative power, Condorcet hoped to defeat his adversaries 
(who still meditated tbe creation of two chambers,) by tbe destruc- 
tion of certain parchments which they seemed inclined to consult when 
composing tbe personnel of tbeir senate. The artifice was perbaps 
shabby, puerile. Still it does not authorize an illustrious writer, the 
bouor of our literature, to present it as the immediate cause of tbe 
abandonment of certain historical works, because these works had 
ceased entirely a year before, in 1791. It still less authorizes a serious 
journal, and of recent date, to tell us tbat tbe new Omar, Condorcet, 
caused to be burned tbe extensive records of the learned associations, 
for these records were not burned; tbe proposition can be read as 
Condorcet made it, and it refers absolutely only to titles of nobility; 
for (and this moral argument is in my eyes even stronger tban pos- 
itive facts and dates) there never could have existed a French cham- 
ber, whether created by a monarch or by tbe populace, with elections of 
any order, which would have sanctioned by a unanimous vote tbe bar- 
barous, anti-literary, anti-historic, anti-national act, so lightly attrib- 
uted to the former secretary of the Academy. 

It is at about this epoch, and not after tbe condemnation of Louis 
XVI, as has erroneously been supposed, tbat, by the formal order of 
Catherine and Frederick William, tbe name of Condorcet was effaced 
from tbe list of members composing tbe academies of St. Petersburg and 
of Berlin. Notwithstanding all my efforts, I have not been able to dis- 
cover whether these two acts of disapproval distressed to any great de- 
gree our secretary. Not a line, not a single word of bis numerous man- 
uscripts and printed works refers to this event. Condorcet imagined 
perhaps, tbat as tbe imperial and royal confirmations added little to tbe. 
* See the discourse oi Condorcet, of tbe 19th of June, 1792. 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 217 

actual value of the literary titles be could regard the withdrawal of 
these coufirtnations as a fact little w^orth his attention. 

Condorcet had seen arise in the legislative assembly the personal dis- 
sensions which, growing in bitterness, threatened to imbrue the conven- 
tion in blood, and bring the country to the verge of ruin, lie was never 
willing to take part in these combats when they seemed to center upon 
individual names. All his tendencies were to moderate rather than 
to excite these broils. Several times he addressed to the ears of the 
factions these words, full of wisdom : "Think a little less of yourselves 
and a little more of the public good." 

In times of revolutionary agitations, he who is governed by principle 
alone is soon considered weak by all parties. Of this Condorcet was an 
example. Witness on the one hand this passage from ]\radame Uoland: 
"We may say of the intelligence of Condorcet in relation to Lis person, 
it is a fine essence pervading cotton." On the other hand, the electoral 
corps of Paris, then completely Jacobin, when called upon to nominate 
its representatives to the convention, withdrew Irom Condorcet the 
mandate which had made him a member of the legislative assembly. 

A little later in this same convention, lor which hve departments, in 
default of that of tlie Seine, had nominated Condorcet, we will see that 
it is possible to be both cotton for personal questions and bronze for 
questions of [)rinciple. 

Condorcet acted as one of the judges of Louis XVI I know that, by 
a sort of tacit consent, it is customary to consider this period of our 
history as ground too hot to dwell upon with prudence. I think such 
reserve objectionable. The mystery in whieh the events of the time 
are enveloped tends to promote the belief that, to the eternal shame of 
our national character, not a patriotic feeling, not au act of courage, 
not au elevated idea, not a sentiment of justice, was brought to light 
during the long period of the painlul drama. 

The large portion of the public to whom the Moniteur and other offi- 
cial sources of information are interdicted, on account of their high price 
or their rarity,areacquainted with this part of cur annals only through 
a few barbarous phrases, several of which have been repeated from 
generation to generation, but are none the less contrary to the truth. 
The overcaution, which under such circumstances would ]u\nent the 
historian from attributing to each person his real part of the responsi- 
bility, is, iu my opinion, inexcusable. I will, therefore, tell you faith- 
fully and without reticence what was Condorcet's conduct during the 
celebrated trial. 

Could the King be tried? His inviolability: was it not absolute ac- 
cording to the terms of the constitution"^ Liberty: was it possible iu 
a country where ijositive law ceased to be the rule of judgment"^ 
Would it not be violating an eternal axiom, founded upon humanity 
and upon reason, to prosecute actions which no anterior law had 
stamped as derelict or criminal? In strict justice, should not the mode 



218 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

of judgment liave been regulated before the time of tbe offense or 
crime *? Was it to be hoped that a fallen sovereign might find impar- 
tial judges among those he once called his subjects'? If Louis XVI had 
not counted upon absolute inviolability, are we sure that he would have 
accepted the crown ? 

Behold the series of questions, assuredly very natural, which Condor-: 
cet presented to the tribune of the convention, and which he submitted 
to a severe discussion before the commencement of the trial of Louis 
XVL I ought to enumerate them if only to show to what extent they 
may deceive themselves to whom the history of our revolution is known 
only by a sort of oral tradition, which represents all the members of 
the convention as tigers, thirsty for blood, taking no care to cover 
their fury with even the appearance of right and legality. Condorcet 
admitted that the King was inviolable, that the constitutional compact 
justified all the acts of power which were delegated to him. He did 
not believe that the same rule should be extended to personal derelic- 
tions, if they were without necessary connection with the functions of 
royalty. Tbe most perfect codes, said Condorcet, contain defects. That 
of Solon, for example, makes no mention of the parricide. The monster 
guilty of such a crime, should he therefore remain unpunished'? No, 
certainly; to him was applied the penalty of the murderer. 

In admitting condemnations by analogy, Condorcet desired at least 
that the tribunal, constituted with unusual prerogatives, should be based 
upon dispositions favorable to the accused; he desired the right of re- 
cusation more extended ; the necessity of a larger majority for the con- 
demnation, &c. According to his views, the judgment of the King 
should have been confided to a special jury, chosen from the whole 
country by means of electoral colleges. 

The right to i)unish the King did not seem to our confrere so incontest- 
able as the right to judge him. The idea of a sentence in some sort 
moral might seem, perhaps, strange; Condorcet saw in it the occasion 
of showing to Europe, by a legal discussion, that the change of the 
French constitution had not been the effect of the simple caprice of 
some individuals. 

After having developed the opinions, true, false, or questionable, that 
have just been presented to you, Condorcet declared, with no less sincer- 
ity, that, without violating the first principles of jurisprudence, the con- 
vention could not judge the King. A legislative judiciary was in his 
eyes a veritable chimera. Such an assembl}', at once legislator, im- 
l^eacher, and judge, seemed to him a monstrosity, an example the most 
dangerous. In all times, he said, and in all countries, the judge has 
been considered lawfully reprehensible who in advance manifests any 
opinion of the culpability or the innocence of the accused. In fact, 
justice cannot be expected from men who, forced to renounce an opin- 
ion publicly exjiressed, must consequently incur at the least the 
reproach of ficlileness. Now, said Condorcet, in a solemn declaration 



condoecet: a biography. 219 

addressed to the Swiss nation , tbe convention bas already pronounced 
upon tbe culpability of tbe Kinjj^. Condorcet as to tbe rest demanded 
tbat in the case of condemnation, tbe rijjbt should be reserved of mitigat- 
ing tbe punishment. "To pardon tbe King," said be, "may become 
an act of prudence ; to conserve the power to do so is an act of wisdom." 

It is in the same discourse that I read tbe words, whose beauty are 
enhanced by the solemn circumstances of tbe speaker: 

"1 believe the punishment by death unjust. * * * The abolition 
of the death penalty would be one of tbe most efficacious means of ele- 
vating the human species by assisting to destroy the inclination to- 
wards ferocity, which has long dishonored it. * * * Punishments 
which allow correction and repentance, are alone suitable for the regen- 
eration of the race." 

The convention, scorning all tbe scruples Condorcet bad raised, con- 
stituted itself a sovereign tribunal for tbe trial of Louis XVI. Our 
brother did not decline to take part. Was this one of those cases in 
the body politic, when tbe minority must blindly submit to tbe yoke 
•of the umjority'? The most criminal of usurpations is, without con- 
tradiction, tbat of the judicial power; it wounds both the intelligence 
and the heart. On such a subject, could the testimony of the con- 
science be placed in the balance against the material result of the 
ballot ? Let us not always carry severity to tbe extreme ; let us remem- 
ber that in the open sea, in tbe midst of the storm, even tbe most in- 
trepid sailor is sometimes seized with dizziness the timid landsman safe 
on shore bas never experienced. It would certainly have been more 
Roman to have refused the function of judge; it was more human, accord- 
ing to tbe ideas of Condorcet, to accept it. Condorcet refused to vote 
for tbe punishment of death. Any other penalty he considered could be 
awarded, and he demanded an appeal to the people. 

Discussion of the constitution or the second year. — Condor- 
cet AN OUTLAW — His re'jrbat with Madame Vernet — His sketch 

of a history of the PROGRESS OF THE HUMAN MIND.— FLIGHT OF 

Condorcet — His death. 

Of all tbe writings of Condorcet none exercised so fatal an influence 
upon bis destiny as tbe plan for the constitution for the second year. 

In the midst of the incomparable efforts made by tbe convention to 
repulse the armed enemy, to suppress the civil war, to create financial 
resources, to resupply tbe arsenals, tbe political organization of the 
country was not forgotten ; a commission composed of nine of its mem- 
bers was intrusted with tbe preparation of a new constitution. Con- 
dorcet was one of the nine. After several months of assiduous labor 
and of profound discussion, this commission presented, on the loth and 
IGth of February, 1793, the result of its deliberation. The new plan 
of tbe constitution consisted of not less than thirteen heads, sub- 



220 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

divided into a great number of articles. An introduction of a hundred 
and fifteen pages, written by Condorcet, gave in detail the motives 
which had decided the commission. The "convention accorded to the 
draught of our colleague the preference over all the others presented for 
its consideration from other quarters, and concluded that it would with- 
out delay be publicly discussed. Violent debates excited each day by 
personal enmity, the bitterness of party spirit; the wearisome difficulties 
of the circumstances, and the incessant usurpations of the commune of 
Paris absorbed all the time of the sessions. Condorcet, caring only for 
what he considered as directly promoting the triumph, the glory, and the 
happiness of France, grieved to see the consideration of the constitu- 
tion day by day deferred. In his impatience he demanded a limit 
fixed for the delay, at the expiration of which a new convention should 
be called. At Paris the proposed constitution received very little 
attention; the departments, on the contrary, received it with favor. 
It carried and promoted ideas which had become so powerful that it 
was impolitic not to take them into account. Accordingly after the 
events of the 31st of May and the 2d of June, the part of the conven-- 
tion in the ascendency considered it opportune to gratify without 
delay the wish of the people for the constitution so long promised the 
country; but it refused to take up again the plan of Condorcet. Five 
commissioners, appointed by the committee of the public safety, at 
the head of which was H^rault de S^chelles, made a new plan which 
the committee amended and accepted in a single session. The conven- 
tion was not li-ss ex[)editious. The constitution presented on the 10th 
of June, 179.'], was decreed on the 24th of the same month. The happy 
shouts of the populace and the thunder of cannon announced in Paris 
the great event. , 

The constitution, according to the terms of the decree, was to be sanc- 
tio^ied or rejected by the i)rimary assemblies in the short space of three 
days from the time of notification, and here occurred an act of Condorcet 
in order to appreciate the bravery of which it-is necessary to go back 
in thought to that terrible period in our annals which followed the 31st 
of I\Iay. 

Sieves, in piivate confidence, called the work of H6rault de Seychelles 
a bad index of subjects. What Sieyes said in se2ret Condorcet dared to 
write to his constituents. lie did more: in a letter made public, the 
celebrated savant openly proposed to the peo{)le not to sanction the new 
constitution. His reasons were many and clearly expressed : 

"The integrity of the national rei)resentation," said Condorcet, "has 
just been destroyed by the arrest of twenty-seven Girondiu members. 
The discussion could no longer be free. Inquisitorial censure, the pillage 
of printing offices, the violation of the secrets of letters, must be consid- 
ered as having presented insurmountable obstacles to the manifestation 
of the popular sentiment. The new constitution," added Condorcet, "as 
it speaks of no compensation for the deputies, leads to the supposition 



condorcet: a biography. 221 

that it is considered desirable to compose the national convention always 
of rich men or of those with good prospects for the future. The elections, 
too indirect, are a premium for intrigues and mediocrity. It is an insult 
to the people to suppose them incapable of making good immediate elec- 
tions. To compose the executive power of twenty-four persons is to 
throw affairs into hopeless stagnation. A constitution which does not 
guarantee civil liberty is radically defective. There is in some minds a 
tendency toward federalism, toward the rupture of French unity, but the 
greatest mistake is to have rendered the means of reform illusory." 

A critic so quick, so accurate, so just, moreover, could not have been 
welcome to the authors of the project, but what followed irritated them 
still more, for self-love is always the weak side of our species, even with 
those who call themselves statesmen. 

"All that is good in the second project of a constitution is copied 
from the first, — which has only been perverted and corrupted by the 
attempt to correct and improve." Chabot denounced the letter of Con- 
dorcet to the convention in the session of the 8th of July, 1793. The 
ex- Capuchin called the new constitution of Ucrault de Sechelles a siih- 
lime icorlc. He spoke of the criticism as an infamous article which only 
villains could tolerate, and after the use of these abusive terms, adds: 
"Condorcet pretends that his constitution is better; that the primary 
assemblies ought to accept it. I propose, therefore, that he be placed 
under arrest, and compelled to plead his cause at the bar." 

The assembly accordingly decreed without further accusation that 
the illustrious deputy from Aisne should be arrested and the state seal 
placed upon his papers. 

Condorcet, although generally, but erroneously, considered a Girondist, 
was not among the number of the twenty-four deputies arrested on the 
31st of May. On the 3d of October, 1793, however, his name is found 
with those of Brissot, Yergniaud, Gensonne, Yalaze, in the list of the 
conventionals brought before the revolutionary tribunal, accused of 
conspiracy against the unity of the republic and condemned to death. 

Condorcet, condemned as^ contumacious, was outlawed; was placed 
upon the list of exiles and all his possessions were confiscated. 

"Honor took refuge in the camp." In this short sentence historians 
pretend to give an idea of the terrible years 1793 and 1791 of our 
revolution. But the great epochs of history can be described in so few 
words, only at the expense of truth. It is true the armies of the repub- 
lic manifested a devotion, a patience, and a courage really admirable; 
it is true the soldiers, badly armed, badly clothed, barefooted, strangers 
to the most simple military evolutions, hardly knowing how to use their 
guns, overcame by force of patriotism the best troops of Europe, and 
drove them disorganized beyond the frontiers; yes, from the bosom of 
the people, whose intelligence had been dwarfed by the aristocratic 
pride and prejudices of our ancestors, sprang as if by enchantment im- 
mortal leaders ; yes, when the welfare ortionor of the country required 



222 condoecet: a biography. 

it, tlie son of an humble jroatherd became the ilkistrions head of one of 
our armies, the conqueror of Marshal Wurmser and the peace-maker of 
the Vendee ; yes, the son of a simple tavern-keeper precipitated himself, 
like an avalanche from the heights of the Albis, and dispersed from 
under the walls of Zurich the Russian forces of Korsakoff, even at the 
moment when they considered themselves marching surely to the con- 
quest of France; yes, the son of a plasterer with a few thousand men 
gave at Heliopolis such proofs of skill and of bravery that the i)halanx 
of Macedonia and the legions of Coesarcan no longer be called the most 
valiant troops which have trodden the land of Egypt. 

I deplore, I denounce, as vehemently as any one, the sanguinary acts 
which stained the years 1793 and 1794, but 1 cannot regard our glorious 
revolution only under this sad aspect. I find, on the contrary, much to 
admire, even amid the cruel scenes which marked the various stages of 
its progress. Can we cite, for instance, any country, ancient or modern, 
in which the victims of both sexes and all parties have given greater 
proof at the foot of the scaffold of resignation, of force of character, of 
ready sacrifice of life, than was manifested by our unfortunate compa- 
triots'? Nor should be forgotten the intrepid assiduity manifested by 
many honorable citizens in assisting and sheltering the proscribed. 

This last reflection brings us back to Condorcet and the admirable 
woman who concealed him for more than nine months. It may be sup- 
posed that Condorcet did not fully measure all the gravity, all the import- 
ance, of the article which he published after the adoption of the constitu- 
tion of the second year. This mistake, however, must be corrected. That 
which presented itself to the mind of the deputy of Aisne as a duty, 
he accomplished with full knowledge of the imminent danger incurred. 
As indisputable proof of this, I find that the publication of the Address 
to the citizens of France vpon the new constitution coincides exactly with 
the steps taken to secure a place of refuge for the author. 

In the political as in the terrestrial atmos[)here, there are signs that 
herald storms, recognized at a glance by the experienced, however indefi- 
nite they may appear to others. Condorcet, his brother-in-law Cabanis, 
their common friend Vic-d'Azir, could not be deceived. After his pub- 
lic manifestation upon the subject of the constitution of the year II 
(of the llepublic), the impeachment of Condorcet was inevitable ; the 
thunder- bolt was launched at his head, and it was necessary for him to 
seek shelter without delay. 

Two pni)ils of Cabanis and of Vic-d'Azir, who have since become dis- 
tinguished members of this Academy, MM. Pinel and Boyer, suggested 
that he should resort for this purpose to No. 21 Servandoni street, 
where they bad resided. This house, ordinarily occupied by students, 
belonged to the widow of Louis Fran9ois Veruet, a sculptor and near rela- 
tive of the great painters of that name. Madam Veruet, as well as her 
husband, was born in Provence. She had a warm heart, a lively 
imagination, a character open and frank ; her benevolence amounted 



CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 223 

to self-sacrifice. These qualities obviated the necessity of circumlo- 
cution and long negotiation. "Madana," said MM. Boyer and Pinel, 
" we wish to save a proscript." " Is he an honest man ; is he virtuous ? " 
"Yes, madam." "In that case, let him come!" "We will tell you his 
name." "You can tell me that later; lose not a moment; while we 
speak together, your friend may be arrested." 

That same evening Condorcet intrusted his life to a woman whose 
existence even a few hours before was unknown to him. 

Condorcet was not the first fugitive received at No. 21 ; one other had 
preceded him there. Madam Vernet never consented, in regard to this un- 
known, to satisfy the natural curiosity of the family of our confrere. Even 
in 1830, after nearly thirty-seven years had elapsed, her answers to the 
pressing questions of Madam O'Connor never passed beyond vague 
generalities. The refugee, she said, was a great enemy of the revolution ; 
he lacked firmness, was frightened by the least noise in the street, and 
did not quit his retreat until after the 9th Thermidor. The excellent 
woman added, with a smile and some sadness, " Since that time I have 
not seen him ; how do you suppose I can recollect his name." 

Our confrere had hardly entered his retreat in Servandoni street, 
when he became a prey to the most cruel mental torture. His income 
was seized; he could not dispose of a straw belongiug to him. For 
himself, personally, he did not suffer on this account, for Madam Ver- 
net provided for his necessities ; with this incomparable woman to as- 
sist an unfortunate was so much a matter of duty, that afterward, when 
the family of the illustrious secretary became opulent, they endeavored 
in vain, with repeated and constantly-renewed efforts, to induce her to 
receive some remuneration. 

But, safe himself, " Where," thought the illustrious academician, "will 
she live who is so unfortunate as to bear my name to-day, when every 
noble woman, and much more every wife of a proscript, is excluded from 
the capital ?" " Trust to the resources of a devoted wife." JNIadam Con- 
dorcet managed to come into Paris every morning with the purveyors 
of the markets. " But how will she support herself?" still demanded our 
confrere in his uneasy solicitude. It seemed, in fact, impossible that a 
lady delicately reared, accustomed to be served and not to serve others, 
could gain by her own exertions sufficient maintenance for herself, her 
young daughter, her sick sister, and an old housekeeper. But the ap- 
parently impossible was soon in fact accomplished. The need of some 
representation of the lineaments of relations and friends is never greater 
than during a revolution. Madam de Condorcet passed her days in 
making portraits now in the prisons, and these were the most in demand; 
now in the silent retreats the charitable secured for the proscribed; in 
the brilliant drawing-rooms, or in the modest habitations of citizens of all 
classes who considered themselves threatened by approaching danger. 
The skill of Madam Condorcet also rendered much less vexatious, much 
less perilous, the frequent raids of detachments of the revolutionary 



224 condorcet: a biography. 

army upon her dwelling-place of Auteuil. Upon the demand of the sol- 
diers she reproduced their features with the pencil or the brush. She 
exercised over them the fascination of her talents, and almost converted 
them into protectors. As soon as i)ainting ceased to be remunerative, 
Madam Condorcet, exempt from prejudices, did not hesitate to open a 
store for lingerie. Later she became the skilful translator of the work 
of Adam Smith upon the moral sentiments, and published, herself, some 
letters upon sympathy equally worthy of esteem on account of their 
delicacy of perception and their elegance of style. 

The first steps, the first successes, of Madam Condorcet in the career 
of personal abnegation and courageous devotion we have just described 
were a balm to the almost fainting heart of the unhappy proscript. He 
felt himself inspired for jiersevering and laborious work. The force, 
the clearness of his mind were not less perfect in the retreat guarded by 
the heroic humanity of Madame Vernet than they were twenty years 
before, when he was secretary of the Academy, of Sciences. 

The first work written by Condorcet in his seclusion has never been 
printed. I will quote the opening lines: 

"As 1 cannot know whether 1 shall survive the present crisis," writes 
the illustrious philosopher, " I consider it a duty to my wife, my child, 
and my friends, who may sutler from the calumnies attached to my 
memory, to give a simple exposition of my priucii)les and my conduct 
during the revolution." 

Cabanis and Garat were mistaken when they affirmed in the introduc- 
tion to the Sketch of the progress of the human mind that their friend wrote 
only a few lines of this exposition. The manuscript consists of forty- 
one closely-written pages, and embraces nearlj- the whole of the public 
career of Condorcet. As secretary of the Academy of Moral and Polit- 
ical Sciences, I should perhaps transcribe the whole of this writing, in 
which the candor, the good faith, and the sincerity of our confrere are so 
brilliantly manifested ; but the specialties of the Academy of Sciences 
exclude such details. Nevertheless, as it is the manifest duty not only for 
all academicians but all citizens to free our national history, our common 
patrimony, from the miserable stains the action of a limited party have 
impressed upon her, I will give the opinion of Condorcet in regard to 
the massacres of September : 

" The massacres of the 2d of September," he writes, " a stain upon our 
revolution, were the work of the folly, the ferocity, of a few men, and 
not of the people, who endeavored not to see what they were unable to 
prevent. The factious party, few in number, to whom these deplorable 
events ought to be attributed, were artful enough to paralyze the public 
power, to deceive the citizens and the national assembly. They were 
resisted feebly and without system, because the true condition of affairs 
was not understood." 

Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen, to find the people, the true people of 
Paris, exonerated from all responsibility in the odious butchery, by a 



condorcet: a biography. 225 

man whose enlightened understanding, patriotism, and high position are 
a triple guarantee of truthfulness? In future the following apostrophe of 
a workman to the corarauue will not stand alone as an isolated expression 
of individual opinion: 

" You pretend to be destroying the enemies of the country. I do not 
call unarmed men such. Lead to the Champ de Mars these unfortun- 
ates who, as you say, would rejoice in the failure of the republic. Let 
us meet them equal in numbers, equal in arms, and there will then be 
nothing in their death to cause us to blush." 

Condorcet bore his seclusion with great resignation until he heard of 
the tragical death of the Girondist conventionalists, who had been con- 
demned on the same day as himself. This terrible circumstance concen- 
trated all his thoughts upon the danger incurred by Madame Vernet. 
Ho had an interview with his brave protectress, which, although it 
seems like sacrilege, I give without changing a single word : 

"Your kindnesses, madam, are engraved upon my heart with ineiface- 
able lines. The more I admire your courage, the more I feel it my duty 
as an honest man not to impose further upon it. The law is positive : 
if I am discovered in your 'dwelling, you will have the same sad end as 
myself. 1 am an outlaw; I cannot remain longer." "The convention, 
monsieur, has the right to put you beyond the amenities of the law, but 
has not the power to place you beyond those of humanity ; you will re- 
main." 

This admirable answer was immediately followed by the organization 
in No. 21 Servandoni street of a system of surveillance to prevent the 
departure of the illustrious refugee, in which most of the members of 
the household, and particularly the humble porter, had a part. Mad- 
am Vernet inspired with her own virtue all those who surrounded her. 
From this day Condorcet did not make a movement which was not ob- 
served. 

At this time occurred an incident which shows the superior intelli- 
gence of Madam Vernet, and her profound knowledge of the human 
heart. 

One day as he was mounting the staircase leading to the chamber he 
occupied, Condorcet encountered the citizen Marcos, deputy solicitor to 
the convention for the department of Mont Blanc. Marcos belonged to 
the section of the mountaineers; he had been lodging for several days 
with Madam Vernet. Under his disguise, Condorcet had not been rec- 
ognized; but was it possible to count upon this good fortune for any 
length of time ? The illustrious prescript confided his uneasiness to his 
devoted hostess. " Wait," said she, " I will arrange this matter immedi- 
ately." She ascended to the chamber of Marcos, and, without any pre- 
amble, addressed these words to him : "Citizen, Condorcet dwells under 
the same roof with yourself; if he is arrested it will be you who has 
denounced him ; if he perishes it will be you who has caused his head 
to fall. You are a benevolent man ; I have no need to say more." This 
S. Mis. 59 15 



226 CONDORCET: A BIOGEAPEtY. 

noble confidence was not betrayed. Marcos entered, even at the peril of 
bis life, into direct relations with Condorcet. It was he who provided 
him with the romances which our conliere devoured in large numbers. 
Madam Veraet felt that through the restlessness of the prisoner, an 
accident might at any time betray him ; that her efforts would in the 
end ijrove to be in vain if his mind were not more seriously occupied. 
At her instigation, Madam de Condorcet, and the friends of her hus- 
band, entreated him to devote his time to some important composition. 
Condorcet yielded to their counsel, and commenced his Sletch of a his- 
toric incture of the progress of the human mind. 

While thus, through the judicious influence of Madam Yernet, Con- 
dorcet turned his scrutinizing gaze on the social condition of the past and 
future human race, he succeeded in diverting his thoughts completely 
from the terrible convulsions in which France was then struggling. In 
the SJcetch of the progress of the human mind there is not a line in which 
the acrimony of the proscript has taken the place of the cool reason of 
the philosopher and the noble desire to promote the advance of civiliza- 
tion. "Everything tells us that we are on the eve of one of the great 
revolutions of the human race. * * * The present indications are 
that it will be a happy one." Thus Condorcet wrote when he was hope- 
less of escape from the active pursuit of his implacable persecutors; 
when the sword of death waited to fall only until the identity of the 
victim could be assured. 

It was in the middle of March, 1794, that Condorcet wrote the last 
lines of his essay ; to carry the work further without the aid of books 
was not in the power of any human mind. The work did not see the day 
until 1795, after the death of the author. Tbe public received it with 
universal approbation. Two translations — one English, one German — 
made the Shetch very popular abroad. The convention obtained three 
thousand copies, which were distributed through the efforts of the com- 
mittee of public instruction over the entire republic. In the autograph 
manuscript the work is called not a slcetch but a Programme of a historical 
picture of the progress of the human mind. Condorcet indicates its object 
in the following terms : 

" I intend to confine myself to the general traits which characterize 
the various phases through which the human lace must pass, which 
sometimes manifest its progress, sometimes its decadence, which betray 
causes and show their effects. * * * It is not the science of 
man in general that I undertake to treat ; I wish to show solely how, 
through time and his own efforts, he has been able to enrich his mind 
with new truths, to perfect his intelligence, to extend the use of his 
faculties, and to employ them to better advantage for his own happiness 
and the common good." 

The work of Condorcet is too well known to require analysis here. 
How, moreover, can a programme be analyzed ? I will merely draw the 



CONDOECET: A BIOGEAFHY. 227 

attention of unprejudiced minds to the curious chapter wbere, dwelling 
upon the future progress of the human mind, the author shows the 
necessity, the justice (these are his expressions) of establishing an 
entire equality of civil and political rights between the individuals of 
the two sexes, and proclaims, besides, the indefinite perfectibility of the 
human race. 

The latter philosophical idea was opposed with extreme violence in the 
beginning of this century by all the popular writers. According to 
them the doctrine of indefinite perfectibility is not only untrue, but 
productive of disastrous consequences. The Journal des Dchats pre- 
sented it ^'as favoring too much the projects of the seditious." In the 
severe criticism, made of it in the Mcrcure, in reference to a work of 
Madam de Stael, Fontaues flattering the passions of Napoleon, even 
maintained this dream of perfectibility to be a terrible menace to gov- 
ernments. Finally, to weaken (according to the ideas of the day) the 
rights of this philosophical doctrine to any serious consideration, it 
was pretended that Voltaire was its first, its true originator. This as- 
sertion, however, could not well be sustained. The idea of perfectibility 
is in fact found in Bacon, in Pascal, in Descartes. Nowhere, however, 
is it more clearly expressed than in this passage from Bossuet: "After 
six thousand years of observation the human mind is not yet exhausted ; 
it investigates, it discovers still, and may do so to infinity ; idleness 
alone can limit its knowledge and its inventions." 

The merit of Condorcet in regard to this particular subject is confined 
to having studied by means of data furnished through modern science, 
and by ingenious association of the facts obtained, the hypothesis of an 
indefinite perfectibility relative to the duration of thelife of man, and 
his intellectual faculties. But he was, I believe, the first to extend the 
system so as to induce the hope of the indefinite perfection of the moral 
facDlties. Thns I read in his work "that a day will come when our 
interests and our passions will have no more influence upon the judg- 
ments which control the will than they have now upon scientific opin- 
ions." Here, without entirely differing from the author, I would say he 
makes a prediction it will require a long time to fulfil. 

The programme was originally intended to have been followed by a 
Tableau complet (a complete picture) of the i)rogress of the human mind. 
This picture, composed principally of facts, of historical documents, and 
of dates, was not finished. The editors of 1804 published some frag- 
ments of it; other portions are found in the papers of M. and Mme. 
O'Connor. Let us hope that filial piety will favor the public with the 
rest. I dare to hope that it will establish the judgment given by Dau- 
non of the sketch: "I do not know any one, however erudite, either 
of this or any other nation, who deprived as Condorcet was of books, 
and with no other guide than his memory, could have composed such a 
work." 

As soon as the fever of authorship of our confi^rc w^as abated, his fears 



228 condorcet: a biography. 

of the danger incurred by Madam Vernet by bis presence in Servan- 
doni street were renewed. Ee then, to use his own words, resolved to 
quit a retreat which tlie unlimited devotion of his tutelary saint had 
transformed into a paradise. 

Condorcet was so well assured of the probable consequence of the 
step he was about to take, the chances of safety appeared to him so 
slight, that before leaving the protection of Madam Vernet he recorded 
his last wishes. This document, which I have in my hands, manifests 
throughout an elevated mind, a feeling heart, and a beautiful soul. I 
dare even to say that in no language can there be found anything more 
thoughtful, more touching, more graceful in form than some passages 
in this testament, the last effort of our confrere, which he called The ad- 
vice of a proscript to his daughter. I regret that time does not permit 
me to make some quotations from it. These lines, so clear, so full of 
delicate and natural feeling, were WTitten by Condorcet on the very day 
when ho was about to expose himself to great danger. The feeling that 
a violent death was almost inevitable did not disturb him; his hand 
traced these terrible expressions, my death, my approaching deaths with 
a firmness the stoics of antiquity might have envied. Sensibility, on 
the contrary, overcame his strength of mind when the illustrious pro- 
script considered that Madam de Condorcet might be included in the 
violent death which threatened him. When obliged to mention this 
terrible contingency, he no longer speaks directly to the point, but en- 
deavors, if we may so say, to veil from his own eyes the horrors of the 
situation by ambiguous expressions — "If my daughter is destined to 
lose both parents." This is the most explicit reference he makes to the 
subject in all the writing; and then, as if even this was too much for 
him, he immediately reverts to the support of his child, then only five 
years old. He hopes that his dear Eliza will remain with his benefac- 
tress. He foresees and provides for everything. Eliza will call Madame 
Vernet her second mother ; she will learn, under the direction of this 
excellent friend, besides the usual occupations of woman, how to design, 
paint, and engrave sufiBciently well to gain a living. In case of neces- 
sity, she might apply for assistance in Enghnid to Lord Stanhope, and 
Lord Dean ; in America, to Bache, grandson of Franklin, and to Jefferson. 
She should therefore be taught the English language; this, moreover, 
was the wish of her mother, which was, in itself, enough. At the proper 
time, Madam Vernet will cause to be read to Mademoiselle Condorcet 
the instructions of her parents from the original manuscript (this cir- 
cumstance is especially indicated). Eliza must be kept free from any 
desire for revenge, must be taught to overcome what would naturally 
be, under the circumstances, her filial tendencies in this respect. This 
was a sacrifice demanded of her in the name of her father. The will 
terminates with these lines: " I say nothing of my feelings toward the 
generous friend (Madam Vernet) for whom this document is intended j 



condoecet: a biography. 229 

let her pat herself in my place, then question her own heart, and she 
will kuow them all." 

Thus Coudorcet wrote, on the morning of the nth of April, 1794. At 
ten o'clock he left his room in his usual disguise, a vest and large cap, of 
wool, aud descended to a small apartment on the ground floor, hoping to 
elude the surveillance of which he was the object, and make his escape ; 
but fiuding Madam Yeruet there, he entered into conversation with 
another inmate of the house* who was present, interlarding his discourse 
with Latin phrases and making it in every way as tedious and uninterest- 
ing as possible, in order to drive her from the room, but in vain. The 
prescript was in despair, when, by chance or by calculation, he manifested 
annoyance at having forgotten his snuffbox. Madam Vernet, always 
kind, hastened to mount the stairs in order to look for it. Condorcet 
seized this moment to rush into the street. The distressed cries of the 
portress immediately informed Madame Vernet what had happened, aud 
that she had lost the fruit of nine months' unexampled devotion ; the 
poor woman fell back fainting. To avoid a pursuit, which would have 
ruined his benefactress, Condorcet passed rapidly through Servandoni 
street. Stopping to take breath, as he turned into the street Vaugirard, 
he saw at his side M. Sarret, the cousin of Madame Vernet. The pro- 
script had hardly time to utter some words of farewell, in which admira- 
tion was mingled with aflectionate gratitude, when M. Sarret said to 
him, with a firmness that admitted of no resistance, " The costume you 
wear does not disguise you sufficiently ; you do not know your road ; 
alone you will never succeed in escaping the active surveillance of the 
argus-eyed sentinels the commune has placed at all the gates of Paris. 
I have therefore determined not to leave you." 

It was at ten o'clock in the morning, in broad sunlight, in a frequented 
street, at the door even of the terrible prisons of Luxembourg aud of 
Carmes, out of which none ever came, except to go to the scaffold ; it was 
in full view of lugubrious notices, declaring in large characters that the 
punishmeut of death would be inflicted upon any one who rendered assist- 
ance to the prescripts that M. Sarret attached himself to our prescript. 
Was not this intrepidity equal at least to that of a body of soldiers who 
throw themselves upon the thundering artillery of a redoubt? The two 
fugitives escaped by a sort of miracle the dangers which attended them at 
the barrier of Maine, and then directed their steps to;,vard Fontenay-aux- 
Roses. The journey was long, after nine months of absolute inactivity 
had unfitted our confrere for walking. At last, about three o'clock iu 
the afternoon, Condorcet and his companion arrived without mishap, 
but extremely fatigued, at the door of a country house, occupied by a 
happy family, who for nearly twenty years had received from Coudorcet 
distinguished services and marks of favor without number. There ended 

"This man was named Sarret; was an author of several works. He had married 
Madame Vernet, but the marriage was kept secret, as the lady did not wish to give 
up her maiden name. 



230 CONDOECET : A BIOGRAPHY. 

the dangerons mission Sarret had undertaken j he left Condorcet and 
returned to Paris. 

What hajjpened then, accounts do not agree. As far as I can learn, 
Condorcet solicited hospitality only for a single night. Certain diflicul- 
ties, of which I will uotmakemyself the judge, prevented his friends from 
granting his request; nevertheless they arranged that a small garden 
door opening outward toward the country should not be closed at night, 
and that Condorcet might present himself there at ten o'clock. When 
taking leave of the unfortunate prescript, they presented him with the 
Epistles of Horace, a poor resource in truth for one obliged to seek a 
refuge in the dreary darkness of the quarries of Clamast. These old 
friends of Condorcet undoubtedly committed the irreparable fault of 
delegating to others, and not seeing themselves that the arrangement 
made was carried out. For one or two days afterward Madam Vernet 
who passed over the country of Fontenay-aux-Eoses in every direction, 
in the hope that her presence there might be useful to the fugitive, 
remarked a mound of earth and tuft of grass in front of the little gate, 
proving, alas, only too well, that for a long time it had not turned on 
its hinges; during two dreary nights no door had been. open for him, 
except in Servandoni street. There at No. 21 during a whole week front 
door, shop door, or alley-door would have yielded to the slightest pres- 
sure of the fugitive's finger. In the possibility, 1 can hardly say the 
hope of a nocturnal return, Madam Yernet did not think of the thieves 
and assassins w^ho at that time especially haunted Paris. Great, alas, 
was the difference in conduct of the tw^o families, with whom ties 
formed in prosperity by favors conferred and ties of misfortune had 
connected Condorcet. 

On the 5th of April, at two o'clock, we see Condorcet leaving with 
resignation, but not without sadness, the country house where he had 
hoped to pass twenty-four hours in security. No one will ever know the 
anguish, the sufferings he endured throughout the 6th. On the 7th 
we see him, wounded in limb and impelled by hunger, enter an eating- 
house of Clamart, and ask for an omelette. Unfortunately this man, 
of almost universal information, did not know even approximately how 
many eggs a workman eats at a repast. When asked by the shopman 
how many he desired, he answered a dozen. This unusual number excited 
surprise, soon suspicion, which spread quickly. The stranger was re- 
quested to exhibit his passport ; he had none. Pressed by questions, he 
called himself a carpenter, but the state of his hands contradicted the 
assertion. The municipal authorities were informed, had him arrested, 
and sent him to Bourg-la-Reiue. On the routea kind vine-dresser mett- 
ing the prisoner, seeing his wounded limb and his limping walk, gen- 
erously lent him his horse. I ought not to pass over this last mark of 
sympathy received by our unfortunate confrere. 

On the 8th of April (1794), in the morning, when the jailer of Bourg la 
Eeine opened the door of the dungeon in which the unknown prisoner 



condorcet: a biography. 231 

had been coufiued, ia order that the gendarmes might conduct him to 
Paris, he found only a corpse. Our confrere had escaped the scaffold 
b^' a dose of concentrated poison he had for sometime carried in a riug.* 

Bochard de Saron, Lavoisier, La Eochefoucauld, Malesherbes, Bailly. 
Condorcet — such were the losses sustaiued by the Academy during 
our sanguinary struggles. The memories of these illustrious men 
have fared very differently ; some have rested in peace in the universal 
and well-deserved regret : others have periodically been subjected to 
the storm of political abuse. 

If my powers obey my will, I hope soon in this place to speak to you 
of Bailly. To-day I shall not feel that 1 have accomplished my sacred 
task, even after all that has been said, if I do not free the memory of 
Condorcet from a calumnious imputation. The form of this accusation 
against our brother does not lessen my inquietude; it imputes to him 
only weakness, but weakness under some circumstances is a crime. 

In giving an account of the deplorable condemnation of Lavoisier, a 
pen very wise, very respectable, and very respected, wrote some years 
ago : "Much hope was felt for Lavoisier on account of certain circum- 
stances some of his confreres could adduce in his favor ; but terror 
froze their hearts." With this as foundation, a certain public, cruelly 
trifling, numbered upon their fingers the academicians who had seats 
in the convention, and so, without further examination^ the name of our 
former secretary is found fatally implicated in the stupidly ferocious 
act which deprived France of an excellent citizen, the world of a man 
of genius. Two dates, two simple dates, will show that when no names 
are mentioned in connection with so grave an event, when only general 
terms are used and no one is especially accused, it is not wise, to say the 
least, to implicate everybody. 

Condorcet, it has been said, might have interfered in favor of Lav- 
oisier. When? — at the time of the arrest? Then this is my answer: 
Lavoisier was arrested in the month of April, 1794. Condorcet was 
proscribed and hidden with Madam Vernet from the commencement 
of July, 1793. After the sentence of the revolutionary tribunal? The 
response is still more decisive : Lavoisier died on the Sth of May, 1791:. 
Condorcet poisoned himself at Bourg la Keine a month before, on the Sth 
of April. I need not add a word to these figures; thej will remain im- 
printed by ineffaceable lines upon the foreheads of the calumniators of 
our noble confrere. 

PORTRAIT OF CONDORCET. 

1 have successively presented to your eyes, and in what has appeared 
to me the true light, the savant, the literateur, the political economist, and 
the member of two of our national assemblies. It remains for me to 

* This poison (we do not know its nature), was prepared by Cabanis. That with 
■which Nai^olcon attempted to poison himself at Fcutainebleau was of the same origin 
and the same date. 



232 CONDOECET : A BIOGRAPHY. 

give the portrait of the man of society, to speak of his exterior appear- 
ance and of his manners. At one time I was in despair of fulfilling 
this part of my task, for I had not known personally the secretary of 
the Academy. I had never even seen him. I knew too well, besides, 
that books are very unfaithful guides to a knowledge of their writers ; 
that authors can assume sometimes in their works a character totally at 
variance with their habitual actions. The maxim of Buffou had often been 
contradicted by fact: "A man's style is the man himself." Happily, 
unpublished correspondence has in a manner transferred me into the 
family of Condorcetj has shown him to me surrounded by his relations, 
his friends, his confreres, his subordinates, and his clients ; has made 
me the witness, the confidant, I had almost said, of all his actions. So 
I feel reassured. Need I fear to speak with boldness of the most secret 
thoughts of the illustrious academician, of his private life, of his most 
sacred feelings, when I have for guides and references Turgot, Voltaire, 
d'Alembert, Lagrange, and a woman (Mademoiselle de L'Espinasse) 
celebrated by the extent, the penetration, and the delicacy of her mind? 

Condorcet was of large stature ; the immense size of his head, his large 
shoulders, his robust body, contrasted with limbs which had always 
remained slight on account, our brother thought, of the inactivity which 
his costume of a girl, and the too great solicitude of his mother, im- 
posed upon him during the first eight years of his life. 

Condorcet always retained, with great simplicity, something a.i>proach- 
ing to awkwardness. To see him only in passing, it would have been said. 
That is a good man, rather than. That is a wise man. Ilis principal trait, 
his truly characteristic quality, was an extreme kindness, which was in 
accordance with the gentle expression of a beautiful face. 

Condorcet was considered by his mere acquaintances as cold and in- 
sensible. This was a great mistake. He never, perhaps, addressed affec- 
tionate expressions to his relatives and friends; but he never lost an 
opportunity of giving active proof of his attachment. He was afflicted 
with their afflictions; he sulfered from their misfortunes to such a degree 
that his sleep was often disturbed and his health affected. 

How does it happen, then, that our confrere has been so frequently 
accused of insensibility ? Because the emotions of his noble soul were 
not manifested readily in his countenance. He would listen with an 
air of the utmost indifference to the story of an unfortunate; but while 
others were content to manifest their sympathy in vain words, he, with- 
out saying anything, would bring succor and consolation of all kinds 
to relieve the sufferings which had been revealed to him. You know now 
the true meaning of the words of d'Alembert, "Condorcet is a volcano 
covered with snow." It is a great mistake to suppose the immortal 
geometer, by his picturesque simile, meant to indicate violence of char- 
acter, disguised by coldness. 

D'Alembert had seen the volcano in full action in the year 1771. The 
geometer, the metaphysician, the political economist, the philosopher, 



CONDOECET: A BIOGRAPHY. 233 

Condorcet, entirely overwhelmed by an affair of the heart, had then be- 
come for all his acquaintances an object of pity. lie even thought of 
committing suicide. The manner in which he rejected the palliative tor 
his grief, recommended by his friend and confidant, Turgot, is interest- 
ing: "Make some verses; it is a kind ofcomposition you are unaccustomed 
to, and will distract your mind." '' I do not like bad verses ; I could not 
endure my own." "Attack some deep problem of geometry." " When a 
depraved taste has supplied us with aliment of strong flavor, all other 
food is displeasing to us. The passions are a degradation of the intel- 
lect; outside of the feeling which absorbs me, nothing in the world 
interests me." As a physician tries all remedies in des})erate cases, Tur- 
got then endeavored to excite the fortitude of his friend by examples 
taken from ancient and modern history and even mythology, but all in 
vain ; time alone could cure, time alone did cure, in fact, the wound 
which rendered our confrere so unhappy'. 

If the public were wrong in accusing Condorcet of insensibility, they 
were equally mistaken in considering him indifferent in matters of art. 

"When at the French Academy was read for the first time one of those 
literary productions which formed the glory and the honor of theeighteeuth 
century, Condorcet would remain completely impassive in the midst of 
the most enthusiastic manifestations of admiration for the author, would 
hardly seem to have listened, but as soon as opportunity offered he 
would analyze minutely the work, appreciating its beauties and indi- 
cating the weak portions with tact and delicacy as well as admirable 
judgment, while in support of his rcjnarks he would recite without hesi- 
tation long quotations in prose or verse which had become engraved 
upon his most remarkable memory. 

The reserve Condorcet imposed upon himself before strangers gave 
place in social intercourse to a gayety, simple, refined, and slightly 
epigrammatic in expression. It was then the immense variety of his 
knowledge was revealed. He spoke with equal clearness, equal assur- 
ance of the rules of geometry, and the regulations of the palace; of 
philosoi)hy and the genealogy of the court people ; of the customs of 
the republics of antiquity, and the trifles of society. 

The secretary of the ancient Academy of Sciences descended into the 
polemic arena onl}' to defend his friends against the attacks of mediocrity, 
of hate, and of envy. But his courageous devotion did not lead him to 
share the unjust prejudices even of those to whom he was most tenderly 
attached. This kind of independence is so rare I must give some exam- 
ples of it. 

D'Alembert, unconsciously influenced by a feeling of jealousy, did not 
render full justice to Clairaut. Yet we find Condorcet, in his eulogies 
of M. de Trudaine and of M. d'Arci, referring almost unnecessarily to the 
relations of these savans with the author of the beautiful work upon the 
figure of the earth, while he does not hesitate to call Clairaut a man of 
genius and to speak of the wonders he accomplished in his youth. 



234 CONDORCET: A BIOGRAPHY. 

Lagrange and d'Alembert bad a very low opinion of the Lettres cVEu- 
ler a une Princesse cVAllemagiie. They bad even gone so far as to call 
them, in allusion to a feeble work written by Newton in his old age, 
"the commentary upon the apocalypse of Euler "; Condorcet regarding 
them from another point of view found the letters useful, and not con- 
tent with praising them, became the editor of them, without the slight- 
est suspicion that this independence of opinion might cause umbrage to 
his best friends. 

The book of Helv^tius had irritated Turgot, who expressed himself 
very emphatically about it, in his correspondence. Upon this point the 
celebrated iutendant of Limoges was impatient of contradiction. Con- 
dorcet nevertheless maintained his own opinion of the work with great 
firmness; he was far from considering it irreproachable, but thought 
that its dangerous tendencies were exaggerated. 

Vanity reigns supreme in all classes of society, particularly, it is said, 
among men of letters. We can nevertheless affirm that this active and 
universal stimulant of our actions never affected the beautiful soul of 
our former confrere. A number of circumstances give evidence of this 
rare ijhenomenon. Jealousy is the just punishment of vanity ; yet Con- 
dorcet never experienced this cruel infirmity. When absorbed by his 
arduous dulies us secretary of the Academy, and by his literary and po- 
litical engagements, our confrere was obliged to renounce the great and 
pure pleasure of scientific discoveries ; he nevertheless wrote to Euler, 
to Lagrange, to Lambert (d'Alembert was sick at that time), " Give me 
news of your work; I am like one of those old gourmands, who, unable 
longer to digest, still take i^leasure in seeing others eat." 

Condorcet carried so far his desire to be useful that his door was never 
closed against anyone; he was always accessible; he received every 
day without impatience, without even appearing to be fatigued, the 
interminable visits of the legions of troublesome and idle fellows who 
abound in all great cities, especially Paris. Considering the value of 
his time, this was kindness carried to heroism. As to Condorcet's dis- 
interestedness, I need not speak of it, as it is well known. " In ethics, " he 
wrote in a letter to Turgot, " I am an enemy to indifference and a friend 
of indulgence." The phrase would not represent the truth if taken in 
an absolute sense. Condorcet was very indulgent toward others but 
very severe with himself. He was very independent in action, so much 
so as to injure himself seriously by considering certain forms of polite- 
ness, current in society, as species of small change too trifling to be 
taken into account. As an example of his disregard of popular opinion, 
especially where a principle was concerned, I give the following incident: 
M. de Maurepas was very much irritated by a letter directed against 
Necker, and in which occurred some passages which could be injurious 
to the public credit. It was wrongfully attributed to Condorcet. The 
Duke de iSiivernais endeavored to persuade his friend and confrere to 
write to the minister, but he resisted with a firmness whicil, at the time, 



condorcet: a biography. 235 

seemed inexplicable. To-day I find the explanation in an nnpnblished 
letter addressed to Turgot. The secretary of tbe Academy would not 
pay even the semblance of respect to a man whom he was far from 
respecting. 

Condorcet acknowledged his faults and the errors he committed with 
a frankness of which the following brief ilicideiit is an example: "Do 
you know," said some one to him, " the circumstances which caused the 
rupture between Jean Jacques and Diderot I" "No," he answered, "I 
only know that Diderot is an excellent man, and whoever involved him 
in dissension was wrong!" "But it was yourself"?" "Then I was 
wrong!" 

In the edition of Pascal's thoughts, by the author of Merope, I find 
this note ofCondorcet: "The expression, 'honest men,' signified originally 
men of probity' ; in the time of Pascal, it indicated men of good society; 
now it is applied to men of title or of money." "No," said Voltaire, 
addressing himself to the annotator, "the honest men are those at 
whose head you stand." 

To justify this exclamation, since it seemed to me the expression of 
truth, has been my object in writing these pages. 1 shall be happy if 
the portrait I have traced of the illustrious perpetual secretary of the 
ancient Academy of Sciences has dissipated the very cruel prejudices, 
neutralized the effects of the more detestable calumnies which have in- 
jured his memory ; if, with those who enjoyed the intimacy ofCondorcet, 
I have made you see in him a man who has honored science by his 
labors, France by his high qualities, humanity by his virtues. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ: 

A BIOGKAPHICAL NOTICE. 



By Ernest Favre. 



[Translated for the Smitlisoman Institution* by M. A. Henry.] 

The name of Agassiz, for twenty years intimately connected with the 
histoiy of science in America, has nevertheless retained its popularity ia 
Switzerland, where his works have a great celebrity. It is in our country 
that he was born, in our country he acquired renown, and Switzerland 
can never forget that he is among the number of her children. Without 
other resource than his intelligence and liis energy, he rose to the first 
rank among the eminent men of science of our country. AYe desire in 
these few pages, as a souvenir of this great scientist, to notice briefly 
the various phases of his life and the principal subjects of investigation 
he pursued.! 

I. 

Louis Jean Eodolphe Agassiz was born on the 28th of May, 1807, in 
the rectory of the village of IMotier, situated in the canton of Friburg, on 
the shore of Lake IMorat. iSTothing in his lamily nor in his surroundings 
gave promise of the brilliant destiny which awaited him. His ancestors 
had filled the ofQce of pastor for six generations ; his father, deprived of 
fortune, had embraced the hereditary occupation. It was then entirely 
to his own energy, his talents, and his genius that he owed the high 
position he afterward attained. 

There is little to be said of his early years. From his infancy the ob- 
servation of animals was one of his greatest pleasures. He passed many 
hours fishing in the lake and in studying the habits of fishes ; he watched 
with interest the metamorphoses of the caterpillar. The same taste was 
manifested both at Bienne, where he pursued his studies in the college, 
and at Orbe, where he resided later, by his passion for collecting insects 
and plants, and he Vv^as often heard explaining with enthusiasm to his 
younger brother phenomena of nature he as yet but imperfectly under- 

*From tlie " Archives des Sciences de la Biblioth&que Universelle, Geneve, Mai 1877, 
tome LXix." 

tin the " Catalogue of Scientific Pa.pers," published by the Eoyal Society of Lon- 
don, is found a list of 130 publications made by Agassiz. This list includes only 
articles wliich have appeared in scientific periodicals. To it must therefore be added 
all his various works published separately, as well as his numerous contributions since 

the vear 18G3, at which date the above catalogue terminated. 

^ ' 236 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 237 

stood. The course of the Academy of Lausanne afterward turned his 
attention toward classical studies. 

When he arrived at the age to choose a profession his parents desired 
to procure for him a commercial apprenticeship, but he obtained instead 
permission from them to pursue the study of medicine, which could give 
him both the means of providing for his support and the opportunity of 
continuing the study of natural history, for which he felt a decided voca- 
tion. He passed two years at Zurich, then a winter at Heidelberg, 
where Bischofi", Leuckardt, and Tiedemann were i)rofessors. While at 
this university fishes were still one of his favorite studies. He abeady 
began to classify them and to make drawings of them, and thus accumu- 
lated material which later was of great service to him. 

In the autumn of 182G he went to Munich, where the chairs of natural 
history were occupied by men of the first rank. Oken Martins received 
him with kindness ; Doellinger, the illustrious professor of embryology, 
took him under his protection, made him a member of his household, 
and developed in him a taste for this science, to which Agassiz always 
attached great imiiortance. At this time the young student had already 
excited great anticipations for his future ; soon his masters and comrades, 
among whom we find the botanists Schimper, and Braun, and Burck- 
hardt, his draftsman, were his friends, and he became the center of an 
eager group of scientists. "When we assembled," he wrote, "for con- 
versation, or to give each other lectures, as was frequently our custom, 
our i)rofessors were often among our auditors, and encouraged us in our 
efibrts for individual research. ]My room was the place of meeting — 
bedroom, work-room, museum, library, lecture-room, and fencing school, 
all in one. Students and professors called it the Little Academy." 

The four years he passed thus at Munich in the study of medicine, of 
the natural sciences, and even of i^hilosophy, with all the hope, the en- 
thusiasm of youth, were among the happiest of his life, and he always 
cherished a pleasant recollection of them ; moreover, it was during this 
period that his future career was definitely decided. Martins and Spix 
had only a short time before returned from an expedition to the river 
Amazon, and Spix had since died, having only commenced the descrip- 
tion of the fishes collected. Martins requested Agassiz, somewhat pre- 
pared for the subject hj his own studies, to take charge of the work. 
The young student acquitted himself of his difficult task \\dth honor, 
and this was the commencement of his reputation. The work appeared 
in 1829.* The same year Agassiz received the doctorate of philosophy. 
The following year he was admitted to practice as doctor of medicine, 
and went to Vienna in order to study, in the collections of that city, the 
fishes of the Danube. 

He was recalled to Switzerland by his father, who demanded that he 
should return there and practice medicine ; but he succeeded in obtain- 

*Selecta genera et species piscium quos collegit et piugenclos curavit, Dr. I.-B.de 
Spix ; digessit, descripsit et observationibus illustravit, Dr. L. Agassiz. 



238 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

ing a delay, and after a brief sojourn in Vienna went to Paris, where he 
conceived a strong desire to bring himself into relation with the pleiadea 
of celebrities of the Museum of Natural History. Cuvier, Blainville, 
Valenciennes received very kindly the young doctor. He saw frequently 
Humboldt, who was then in the height of his renown, and who gave him 
substantial proof of his friendship by furnishing him the means of pro- 
longing his stay in Paris. * 

The interest felt by Agassiz in the investigation of fishes increased 
with his knowledge of tlie subject. He found in Paris one of the most 
complete collections, and a beautiful series of fossil fishes from Monte 
Bolca belonging to Count Gazzola. Ho undertook the description of 
the latter. This was his first step in paleontological research. Cuvier, 
who soon observed in the young naturalist signs of rare ability, placed 
generously at his disposal material collected for a history of fossil fishes, 
and this influential encouragement decided his career. 

Zoology alone did not satisfy his j)owers of generalization, and he 
soon recognized that paleontology was its indispensable complement. 
The division of the animal kingdom into branches, classes, orders, fami- 
lies, genera, and species, was not in his opinion merely a system, in- 
vented to simplify research, but a divine institution ; according to ,his 
view, this great plan of creation existed from the beginning, and the 
organisms now found upon the surface of the globe form a part of it as 
well as those whose remains are found in the most ancient deposits. 
The nature of fossils, the entire system of their organization, prove in the 
most conclusive manner the existence of this primitive plan, which has 
developed regularly up to the present period. Paleontology furnishes 
thousands of species, of genera, and even of numerous families, which 
to-day have entirely disappeared, and which constitute an important part 
of this great plan. To base a zoological classification upon living organ- 
isms is to make a whole of a small part, is to eliminate arbitrarily from 
the divine system the majority of the elements of which it is composed. 
The great work of Cuvier had suddenly revealed the importance of pa- 
leontology. In his investigation of fossil bones he laid the foundation 
of this science, by showing that the species found below the surface of 
the globe are different from those living at the present time. He had 
established the laws of the unity of plan which allowed the conception 
of ancient from existing forms ; and the law of concordance of cJiaracterSj 
which, establishing the necessity that all parts of an organism are dis- 
posed for the same end, authorized the deduction from each of them of 
the character of the other parts, as well as of the kind of life of the ani- 
mal, t 

To understand an extinct type we do not need to have it entire under 
our eyes. The solid parts (which are alone preserved) not only give us 
sufficient characteristics to class it in the genus and the species to which 

'Letters of Agassiz to Louis Coulou, Mem. Soc. Pliys., Genfeve, 1874, XXIII, 472. 
t Pictet, Trait6 de Pal^outologie. Introduction. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 239 

it belongs, but a mrre fragment of this frame-work, a single bone, a jaw, 
a tooth is in most cases enough for this purpose. 

Tliese principles are based, above all, upon the comparative anatomy 
of living animals, the study of which is indispensable to a knowledge of 
extinct types. Agassiz applied them to that of fossil fishes, the collec- 
tions of which contained at that time many specimens which had not 
yet been examined. The public and private museums of England fur- 
nished most of the material for his investigations, but those of the conti- 
nent were also made to contribute. 

II. 

Hitherto we have seen Agassiz utilizing for the profit of science the 
great resources placed at his disposal. His return to Switzerland, in 
1832, makes us acquainted with a new attribute of his great mind, the 
talent for creation and organization. The liberal encouragement of 
Louis Coulon, and among others that of Humboldt, who exercised a 
great influence over the Ejug of Prussia, then suzerain of Xeuchatel, 
facilitated the establishment of Agassiz in that city. An annual com- 
l^ensatiou of 80 louis as professor at the gymnasium, and the sale of his 
collections for 500 louis, x)rovided the first resources necessary for the 
continuation of his publications. He had not here, as at Munich and 
Paris, immense stores of material at his command and illustrious men 
of science to come to his aid. Everything was in an unformed condi- 
tion ; but he was the i3ioneer, the chief, and he soon rallied about him a 
group of naturalists, who recalled upon anotlier theater the " Little Acad- 
emy" of Munich. The well-known names, Desor, C. Vogt, Gressly, 
Guyot, Nicolet, of Montmollin, are connected with this period of his 
life ; the fii^st two were his most active collaborators. Several of his 
fellow- students of Munich — Weber, Dinkel, and Burckhardt — followed 
him to this new residence, where they labored in the execution of his 
designs ; one of them, a citizen of ]S"euchatel, H. Nicolet, opened at his 
instigation a vast lithographic establishment, where all the plates of his 
memoirs were executed. The modest chair he occupied became soon the 
most distmguished of the gymnasium; the collections increased rapidly; 
the public became interested ; a few young men entered into these re- 
searches ; and thus was founded, in 1833, under the presidency of L. 
Coulon, the Society of ]S"atural History, of which Agassiz was the secre- 
tary and the soul for many years. Neuchatel became an important sci- 
entific centre ; thence proceeded successively and at short intervals 
voluminous scientific publications of the first order. 

In 1839 he published the commencement of his Hisioirc naturclJe dcs 
Poissons cFeau douce de VEurope centrale, which contains the embryology 
of the Salmonides by C. Vogt. This work, undertaken on a very exten- 
sive plan, was never completed. 

The history of fossil fishes, begun at Paris, was terminated at this 
period. The first part appeared in 1833, at his own expense, but his 



240 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

modest resources were not sufficient to continue the work, as it was ac- 
companied by expensive plates.* The Geological Society of London, 
aided by Lord Enniskillen and Sir Francis Egerton, furnished the means 
he lacked. A draftsman, Denkel, worked for him constantly for sev- 
eral years. This publication, which may be regarded as a continuation 
of Cuvier's Eesearches upon fossil bones, was not finished until 1843. 
It is the most original work of Agassiz, and one of the principal monu- 
ments of his greatness. 

There is no class of animals that can furnish elements more imi^ortant 
for the history of the development of the organic kingdom, the law of 
the succession of beings, and the relations of the fossil fauna than the 
fishes. They alone of the vertebrates appeared in the first ages of the 
world, and passed through all the phases of creation up to the present 
time. 

An osteology of fishes, a rational classification, the description of a 
multitude of new species, and theoretic consequences of great imijort- 
ance were the results of the wise researches of Agassiz. 

One of the distinctive characteristics of this class of animals is a skin 
covered with scales of peculiar form and structure ; now the nature of 
this envelope is in direct accordance with the interior organization. 
The scales, therefore, from this point of view, are of great importance, 
and may serve as a basis of classification. The author subdivides them 
into four orders, as follows : 

Cycloids. — Scales imbricated, corneous, and without enamel, the pos- 
terior edge simple. Skeleton bony. 

Ctenoids. — Scales imbricated, corneous, without enamel, the i^osterior 
edge indented. Skeleton bony. 

Ganoids. — Scales angular, and covered with a layer of enamel, their 
edges uniting regularly. Skeleton less bony than the preceding, some- 
times cartilaginous. 

Flacpids. — Osseous plates, disposed irregularly, terminated on the 
upper side by points or hooks. Skeleton cartilaginous. 

The last two orders have existed from the first appearance of life ui)on 
the surface of the globe. The others commenced with the Cretaceous 
period, and include most of the fishes of the present time. This classifi- 
cation has since undergone important modifications; it however assisted 
very considerably progress in the knowledge of this class. The hand 
of genius, said Pictet, is everywhere manifest throughout this beautiful 
work. 

The monograph of the fishes of the old red sandstone, undertaken at 
the request of the British Association for the Ad^'ancement of Science, 
and completed in 1844, sui)plemented the i)rcceding work.t The author 



* Eecherchcs sur Jes Poissons fossiles ; 5 volumes quarto, with au atlas of 384 plates, in 
folio, most of the figures beiug colored. 

\ SupxMment mix rechci sites sin- les Poissons fossiles. Monograpliie des poissons fossiles 
du vieux gres rouge ou systeme devonxen des ilea Britanniquea et de Eiissie. 4to. 41 x>l. 
1844-1845. ^^ 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 241 

was obliged to describe a very nnmerons and entirely new faiina. "When 
he commenced his investigation of fishes, he was not acquainted with 
any species older than those of the coal strata ; the number of these 
fossils has immeasurably increased since then, and is now counted by 
thousands. Agassiz recognized that among the living species a small 
number only have a heterocercal tail ; that is to say, one in which the 
upper lobe is formed by the prolongation of the vertebral column. These 
animals are the last representatives of a type largely diffused in the 
Devonian and Carboniferous seas. All the other fishes, on the contrary, 
have a homocercal or symmetrical tail, at the base of which the vertebral 
column stops, and does not penetrate either of the lobes. He observed 
that in the embryo of certain fishes the tail is at first heterocercal, as 
that of the paleozic fishes, and afterward becomes homocercal. This 
important discovery, in connection with others of a like nature, per- 
mitted him to establish the law that the " embryo of the fish during its 
development, the present class of fishes with its numerous families, 
and the type of fish in its geological history, undergo strictly analogous 
phases," and in a more general way he applies this law to vertebrates ; 
" The successive creations have undergone phases of development anal- 
ogous to those the embryo passes through during its growth, and simi- 
lar to the gradations the present creation shows us in its ascending 
series, considered as a whole." Then rising from the consideration of the 
fishes to more general views of the phases of creation, he writes : " The 
most incontestable result of modern paleontological research, in the ex- 
amination of the question which at present occupies us, is the fact, now 
beyond controversy, of the simultaneous appearance of particular types 
of all classes of invertebrate animals from the earliest development of life 
uijon the surface of the globe." The history of this successive develop- 
ment " shows conclusively the impossibility of referring the first inhabi- 
tants of the earth to a small number of branches, differentiated from 
one parent stock by the influence of the modifications of exterior con- 
ditions of existence."* 

It was in 1844 that Agassiz wrote these lifies, and he all his life re- 
mained faithful to this opinion. The future will decide whether he was 
right or wrong ; it is true that for the moment the balance does not seem 
to lie in his favor. It is difiicult, indeed, to comprehend why the results 
of these admirable researches, and of those he made later, did not lead 
him to sustain the theory of transformation of which they seem to be the 
natural consequence. Still it is impossible to consider his opposition to 
this theory as resulting from prejudice, or as resting upon other grounds 
than pure scientific reason. 

Agassiz had a mind too comprehensive, he was too enterprising, to con- 
fine his attention to a single class of the animal kingdom, and we find 
him soon producing a series of works upon a variety of subjects. Thus 
he undertoolv, with JVI. Desor, the study of the Eehinoderms ; and their 

* Introduction to a mouograpli of the fossil fishes of tlie old red sandstone, pp. 4, 13. 
S. Mis. 59 16 



242 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

researches formed the basis of the ulterior investigations of this class. 
Mr. Desor soon made a specialty of the subject, and to him we owe the 
publication of several works in the preparation of which Agassiz was 
only his collaborator. Agassiz also pursued some investigations, as new 
as they were original, on living and fossil mollusca.* 

A large number of articles upon special points of natural history and 
memoirs containing more general conclusions, succeeded each other rap- 
idly during these years. While these original memoirs exhibited the 
scientific genius of their author, his numerous lectures, the fruits of his 
vast erudition, formed the substance of various other works. 

One of the principal of these is a catalogue of the genera of all known 
animals, a work to which several of the most distinguished geologists 
of that period contributed. At the same time he collected the elements 
of a zoological and geological dictionary published later in London, t 

" We have a good working force," he writes to a friend in Geneva ; 
" Gressly is here. Desor is studying the Galerites. I am busy, alter- 
nately, with Myas and the fresh-water fishes. Vogt with anatomy. 
Thus the time passes agreeably and usefully." 

The energy he displayed during these years was something astonish- 
ing ; the history of science presents no other example like it. One of 
his collaborators gives us a vivid picture of the activity which reigned in 
the laboratories of Neuchatel. " It might be supj)osed," said Mr. Vogt, 
"that in such complicated machinery the wheels would sometimes have 
interfered with each other. The printing-oflice constantly demanded 
copy, the lithographic establishment designs, and yet the work of his 
original researches never ceased; hardly had we the time necessary to 
comiilete one set of labors before Agassiz had new plans and assumed 
new tasks. Every thought that passed through his head was converted 
into a great work, with hundreds of folio plates, hundreds of pages 
of text; in all this he was the acknowledged master, as well as in the 
collection of new material for his work. He knew how to draw all Eu- 
rope into contribution. Often boxes Avhich had been sent for and awaited 
with feverish impatience* remained weeks and even months unopened, 
because in the meanwhile another subject occupied attention, and the 
objects they contained had lost their interest." 

Order did not prevail either in the abode or in the laboratory of Agas- 
siz. " In my house everything is astray but nothing is lost," he would 
say to those who came to consult specimens or books he could not 
find. 

The reputation of the young savant extended rapidly. In 1839, at the 

* Memoire stir les moules dcs Mollusques vivants et fossiles. M^m. Soc. NeuchMel; II. — 
Etudes critiques sur les MoUusques fossiles. Memoire sur les Trigonies ; 1840. — Monographie 
des Mijes ; 1842-1845. — IconograpMe des Coquilles teriiaires r^putees identiqiies avec les 
rivantes ; 1845. 

\ BihUograpMa Zoologiae et Geologiae. A general catalogue of all books, tracts, and 
memoirs on zoology, by Prof. L. Agassiz, corrected, enlarged, and edited by Strickland. 
London, 1848. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 243 

age of 32, the Academj' of Sciences made him a corresponding member. 
Large in stature, well formed, endowed with excellent health, with an 
amiable face, and an eye which beamed with unusual intelligence, Agas- 
siz gained the sympathy of all who approached him. His countenance 
was frank and open, his manner winning; he animated the reunions of 
the naturalist and the work of the laboratories by his vivacity and good 
humor. 

" He was," said one of his scientific adversaries (formerlv among his 
devoted friends), " a man full of kindness, of enthusiasm for science, 
and easily moved by all that is beautiful and good." A warmth which 
•nothing could repress was with him united with facility' and charm of 
expression. Always ready to frame theories, to discuss them, and to 
advance new ideas, he captivated his auditors by the vigor and clear- 
ness of his exposition. His public and class lectures, too, were always 
extraordinarily successful. Even when he discussed the most abstruse 
subject his auditors hung upon his lips. The talent for speaking, which 
he possessed to a high degree, was one of his most valuable means of 
influence, and contributed greatly to his celebrity. 

He was premiuently a zoologist; he distinguished himself particularly 
by the justness and promptitude of his perceptions. He knew by the 
first inspection all a collection contained, the new specimens, the types 
ab'eady described, and he remembered admirably what he had seen. 
He has been accused of being too ready to form new species. The 
learned geologist of Berlin, Leopold von Buch, whose peculiar face and 
eccentric costume often excited curiosity, said one day, " When I am at 
isTeuchatel, and I knock at the door of Agassiz, I am always afraid." 
" Why '?" asked some one. ''I dread lest he will take me for a new 
species." Science has, however, ratified most of the distinctions he es- 
tablished. His just regard for the value of characteristics led him to 
circumscribe species within narrower limits, and in this respect he had 
a happy influence upon paleontology. 

His zoological works, which Avere numerous enough to have absorbed 
several ordinary lives, still did not occupy all his time, and a new field 
of research was opened to him. Let us then, for a moment, leave the 
museums and laboratories, and transport ourselves to the foot of the 
glaciers of the Alps, where we will soon see him arrive with his com- 
panions. 

For some time the attention of naturalists had been drawn to the 
l)reseuce throughout a large part of Switzerland of blocks of various 
dimensions, composed of rock different in nature from the soil upon 
which they rest. How did these rocks, to which has been given the 
name of erratic blocks, and which are of Alpine origin, come to be dis- 
persed over the Swiss plain and upon the Jura"? Two theories are given; 
Leopold von Buch, Elie von Beaumont, and others, maintain that they 
were transported hy water. But their size, sometimes enormous, and 
the height at which they are found upon the sides of the Jura, render 



244 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

this hyi'tothesis inadmissible. To a Yaloisiaii momitaineer, Perraiidin, 
belongs the honor of solving the j)roblera. Observing that the glaciers, 
at the present time, carry blocks, which they throw off at their extremity, 
he explained the dissemination of the bowlders in question by the 
hypothesis that the glaciers must have extended in times past much 
beyond their present limits, and brought with them, on their surface, 
material which they left when they retreated. He communicated this 
idea to Chari)entier, who discussed it with him, and ended by adopting 
it. The dispersion of the blocks is connected with other phenomena 
which confirm this origin; the polished and rounded surfaces, the 
accumulation of angular blocks, the hillocks, which have exactly the 
form of moraines, the unstratified deposits, in which are foimd pebbles 
covered with scratches — all these facts, which are repeated to-day in the 
immediate vicinity of the glaciers which i^roduce them, also show that 
these same glaciers once covered the larger part of Switzerland, leaving 
the traces we have indicated. If Perraudin was the inventor of the 
theory (1815), if Venetz contributed to its development (1833), it was 
Charpentier who examined it, studied it, perfected it, made it known 
(1835), and later disseminated it in the world of science with the authority 
his standing gave him (1841). "To this ingenious and persevering 
naturalist,'' said Alphonse Favre, ''should be given the greater part of 
the glory attached to the discovery of this great scientific truth." 

Agassiz having heard of this discovery made a visit to Charpentier 
for the purpose of combating it. He remained several months with 
him and left well convinced of the truth of the theory, and full of eager- 
ness to verify the proofs already advanced in its favor, to find new ones, 
and, in short, to study the subject with the activity he carried into every- 
thing. The question had been under discussion for some time when the 
Helvetic Society of Katural Science met at ]S"euchatel, under his presi- 
dency, on the 24th of July, 1837. The opening discourse turned upon 
this question, and fell like a bomb in the midst of the most positive 
adversaries of the glacial theory who happened to be present at the 
meeting. 

Leopold von Buch, who was not famous for sweetness of temper, was 
very angry, and would examine nothing, hear nothing in regard to the 
matter. Agassiz, who had foreseen his opposition, had prepared the 
following paragraph for the close of his speech to mollify him : " TTheu 
Mr. de Buch affirmed for the first time, in the face of the formidable 
school of Werner, that granite is of plutonic origin, and that the moun- 
tains were raised, what said the ^eptunists? He was at first alone in 
his support of the theory, and it was only by defending it with the con- 
viction of genius that he made it i)revail. Happily, in scientific matters, 
numerical majorities have never at first decided any question." 

Xotwithstanding the opposition of these great men, who had them- 
selves contributed so much to the progress of science, the theory gained 
ground, and is to-day generally admitted. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 245 

The basis of these researches was necessarily the study of existing 
glaciers. Their constitution, their increase, their motion, the influence 
of temperature, the transportation of blocks, the formation of moraines, 
were all so many questions to be elucidated. Agassiz threw himself 
with ardor into this new pursuit, and established himself with Desor, 
Yogt, and others, upon the glacier of the Aar. They constructed 
a lodging-place under the shelter of a large block of ice upon the 
centre morain, and went to work. The followiug year, the block hav- 
ing melted, they formed a cabin of wood and tent-cloth. It was di- 
vided into three chambers ; the first was both laboratory and parlor, 
whei-e they received the savans who flocked from all parts of the country 
to the Hotel des Neuchdtelois, a name the modest abode has retained in 
the history of science ; the second and third, furnished only with straw, 
served as bedchambers, one for the naturalists, the other for the guides. 
It may be imagined that the establishment was not comfortable, and 
it required an unusual amount of energy to lead such a life during sev- 
eral weeks every year. A letter of Mr. Desor gives some idea ot the 
difiiculties encountered: "You are much mistaken," he writes to one 
of his friends, "if you sui)pose that all is pleasure, satisfaction, and in- 
tellectual enjoyment at the Hotel Xeuchdielois. We have been shut up 
for three days in our tent unable to venture out, the gux* is so furious. 
Do you know what a (jiix is? I think not, and you are happy in your 
ignorance. I can only say in regard to it that if the founders of the va- 
rious religions had known of the gux they would not have imagined a hell 
for lost souls, but would simply have sent them to the Finsteraarhorn, 

and secnred for them a perpetual (/?< J- It takes hold of the limbs, 

dries the skin, renders the imagination heavy and obtuse, prevents the 
exercise of the culinary art. In the night of the 21st to 22d it over- 
turned our cabin, and we were obliged to work until morning to restore 
it again. Imagine how delightful it must have been to work in the 
open air at a temperature two degrees below zero, while a tempest was 
constantly blowiug clouds of pulverized ice in our faces."t But every 
day and night was not like this. Gayety and intellectual enjoyment 
often reigned under the tent on the glacier of the Art. These expedi- 
tions were continued until 1845. 

The greatest success crowned these persevering efforts. The ascents 
made by the jSTeuchatel naturalists and their establishment upon the 
glacier were widely known. Nothing similar had been undertaken since 
the explorations of de Saussure on Mont Blanc. The Genevese savant 
was too early in his eflbrts to have many imitators. But an excursion 
to Zermat, the ascent of the Jungfrau and of the Schreckhorn gave 
an impetus to mountain excursions, which began from that time to be 
popular. In the mean time our naturalists were studying seriously the 
constitution of the glaciers and the phenomena connected with them, 

*A Avhirlwind of snow, called so in the Oberland. 
t Letter to M. A. Favre, August 1, 1842. 



246 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

and uotwitlistanding their want of familiarity with the laws of physics, 
the subject was so new that they rapidly acquired valuable information. 
On his return from each expedition Agassiz published the results of 
his researches. His object was not only to give an account of his ob- 
servations, but to disseminate the theory of which he had become the 
defender and promoter. Numerous memoirs upon present and ancient 
glaciers of Switzerland, upon the glacial theory, upon the erratic blocks 
of the Jura, bear the date of these years. Large works which appeared 
later at Neuchatel and at Paris contained the results of his studies.* 
These works revealed numerous phenomena then completely unknown, 
made the knowledge of the glaciers popular throughout the world, and 
gave a decisive impulse to this kind of study. 

Many years later Agassiz, while navigating the river Amazon, gave 
the following illustration of the aspect presented by the glacial period : 
" There is a phenomenon not uncommon in the autumn in Switzerland 
which may help us to reconstruct this wonderful picture. Sometimes in 
a Septeml)er morning the whole plain of Switzerland is filled with vapor, 
which, when its pure white undulating surface is seen from the higher 
summits of the Jura, looks like a snow-covered sea of ice, appearing to 
descend from the peaks of the Alps, and extending toward the Jura, 
while from all the tributary valleys similar masses pour down to meet it." t 
In 1840 Agassiz went to Great Britain to seek there for traces of 
ancient glaciers. He had no trouble in finding them both in Enghuid 
and in Scotland. His journey through the country was a veritable tri- 
umph, a series of ovations. 

This period of incessant activity, during which the scientific corps of 
ISTeuchatel became so honorably distinguished, was not, however, for 
Agassiz a i^eriod of undisturbed happiness. 

To meet the expenses of his extensive publications, his travels, his 
expeditions to the glaciers, a large fortune was necessary, and this 
Agassiz did not possess. The sums he owed to the generosity of the 
King of Prussia, and which at that time had taken the form of a regular 
pension, were not at all suflicieut for his needs, and rapidly disappeared 
in the gulf of his expenses. Still the fire of his activity his labors, 
his expeditions, continued ; but the situation at last became so critical 
that he was forced to bring order into his affairs. Some letters of this 
time show the serious embarrassment these diflQculties occasioned him. 
" I am frightened at the approach of a new year, the time for the settle- 
ment of accounts in Neuchatel, and I work like a madman to be able to 
meet my indebtedness. If God preserves my health 1 hope, after one 
or two years of continued labor, if I moderate my expenses, and particu- 
larly if I abstain from publishing anything more on my own account, to 

*Agassiz. Etudes sur les (jlacicrs, avec un atlas de 32 pi. Neucliatel, 1840. Aouvelles 
etudes et experiences sur les glaciers actuels. Paris, 1847. 

t A Journey in Brazil, by Professor and Mrs. Louis Agassiz, Boston, 18G8, chapter 
iii, ]}. 116. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 247 

settle my affairs completely, but for the time I am horribly cramped, I 
must say almost paralyzed ; but it is my own fault, aud I must bear pa- 
tiently the consequences until I can succeed in getting- myself afloat 
again." " My great regret in the present condition of my affairs is that 
I am obliged to employ a portion of my time with matters I ought not 
to have neglected, unO, which occupy me now much more than if I had 
always attended to them, and then I am obliged to retard some of the 
publications I greatly desired to make next, but which it would be im- 
prudent for me to undertake at present, for I should reproduce the em- 
barrassment from which I only just commence to be relieved if I did not 
conduct all my enterprises with the utmost circumspection." " My life," 
he writes again, " is now a vortex, in which the best part of my nature 
is hardly conscious of its existence, so numerous and i^ressing are the 
exterior exigencies from which I suffer." 

But how many grand ideas, how many admirable works, would have 
been lost to science if the young savaut had not been willing in his pub- 
lications to dispense with the economy he would have been obliged to 
exercise to keep within his moderate pay as a professor. 

Agassiz was devoted above all things to science ; devoted without re- 
serve; and he had always great talent in making others share his enthusi- 
asm. Bringing into contribution the talents of some, the purses of others, 
adding all his own resources, modest it is true, but also all his time and 
his genius, he attained a result evident now to every one. A letter he 
wrote to Professor Silliman, when about to embark for America, shows 
how entirely he gave himself to science. " In order to pro\ade for the 
extra exi^ense, I shall be obliged to live very economically and in a man- 
ner little in accordance with the royal munificence which has furnished 
the means of making this journey." And, again, " My sphere is entirely 
circumscribed by the scientific world, and all my ambition is limited to 
being useful to the branch of science I particularly cultivate. With all 
this I am no misanthrope; but I learned early that where one has no 
fortune, one cannot serve science and at the same time live in the world. 
If I have been able to produce luimerous exi)ensive publications, it has 
been only by following this system of economy and voluntary seclusion ; 
and the results which I have obtained thus far have rewarded me so 
well for the privations which I have suffered, that I have no temptation 
to adopt another style of life, even should I hereafter, and especially in 
your country, suffer more trouble than I have had to sustain in my own."* 

Discord, however, had penetrated the scientific coterie of Xeuchatel. 
Enthusiastic over new ideas, Agassiz entered into them with ardor; 
when he found them just he developed them and diffused them. Older 
than his colleagues, more enterprising, already well known in the sci- 
entific world, he published under his own name the work done in his 

* Letter to Professor Sillimau, October 20, 1845. American Journal of Science: 
1874. Vol. vii, pp. 78, 79. 



248 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

laboratories, giviug- to tbe names of liis collaborators a secondary place. 
It was be wbo inspired tbe work, wbo collected tbe material, wbo bore 
tbe expense of tbe pnblication. But tbe aids soon demanded tbe credit 
tbey considered tbeir due; bence arose dissatisfaction and disagreements, 
wbicb continued to increase until tbe union was dissolved. Mr. Vogt 
was tbe first to leave tbe association in order to g;o to Paris ; Mr. Desor 
continued to labor on Agassiz's works, even after tbe departure of tbe 
latter for America. He later joined tbe savant tbere, but be afterward 
returned to Europe. One cannot but regret tbat tbese personal ques- 
tions sbould bave interfered so soon witb tbe bappy scientific labor of 
tbat time. 

Agassiz passed tbe muter of 1845-'4G at Paris. Tbe vast collections, 
public and private, of tbat city were generously placed at bis disposal, 
and enabled bim to complete, witb tbe valuable assistance of M. Desor, 
bis researcbes upon tbe Ecbinoderms. Tbose of Alcide d'Jrbigny, 
of Desbayes, of Mecbelin, of Graves, of Alexander Bronguiart, of de 
Verneuil Avere in turn examined. Tbe gallery of tbe museum con- 
taining tbe Ecbinoidea was reserved for bim and closed to tbe public, 
and bitber were brougbt in succession all tbe cases and barrels contain- 
ing Ecbinoids. Considerable material, derived from tbe scientific ex- 
plorations of Baudin, of Freycinet, of Captain Duperre, passed also 
tbrougb bis bands. All tbese documents were used in tbe publica- 
tion of tbe Catalogue raisonne. According to tbe classification adopted, 
tbe Ecbinoderms are subdivided into tbree orders: Tbe Stelleroids 
wbicb include tbe Asteroids, tbe Opbiuroids and tbe Crinoids, ra- 
diated animals, eitber free or fixed, and of wbicb tbe body is furnisbed 
witb rays. Tbe Ecbinoids, or sea-urcbins, witb a body globular and 
covered witb regular plates, and tbe Holotburioids, of wbicb tbe body 
is coreaceous, or leatberv, and elongated. He divided tbe Ecbinoids 
into foiu- families: Cidarida, Clypeastroidea, Cassidulidea, and Spatau- 
goida. In bis preceding works be deduced from tbe structure of tbese 
animals and tbeir successive appearance important consequences for tbe 
general bistory of creation. 

He sougbt at tbe same time to propagate tbe glacial tbeory, wbicb 
still encountered in tbe ranks of Freucb science a lively opposition ; 
but be discussed it only in private conv^ersation. Tbis subject did not 
excite mucb interest in tbe scientific public, wbo knew little of tbe 
mountains, and tbe beads of science entertained contrary ideas. 

Tbis same year Agassiz, wbose reputation was already far extended, 
was called to Boston, in America, by Mr. Lowell, director of tbe Lowell 
Institute, to give some lectures. He was also, tbanks to Humboldt, 
cbarged by tbe King of Prussia witb a scientific commission in tbat 
country. He went to England in tbe summer of 1846, and sailed for 
Boston in tbe montb of September. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 249 



III. 



Arrived iu America, where his reputation had preceded him, he did 
not lacli encouragement and support in that country, where great ideas 
so easilj^ lind an enthusiastic public and generous protectors. The first 
of the lectures he gave in Boston was repeated eight times to an audi- 
ence always new and always eager to hear. The success of the sub- 
sequent lectures was equal to that of the first. From the very outset 
the learned naturalist acquired great popularity. He was surrounded, 
feted, made much of, and was charmed by the zeal manifested on all 
sides for natural history. The first part of his sojourn was passed in 
giving single and courses of lectures. Embryology and the glaciers 
Avere his most frequent subjects. 

After his debut at Boston he lectured successively at New York, 
Albany, New Haven, and Charleston, where he passed the winter of 
1847-'4:8. He at the same time determined to profit by the resources 
which surrounded him, and immediately commenced to make collections. 
Everything about him was new, and he had only to stretch out his hands 
in order to fill them. A generous American, Mr. Abbott Lawrence, 
convinced of the importance of retaining a man of such value in the 
country, offered iu 1847 to create a chair for him of zoology and geology 
in Harvard College, Cambridge, if he would remain. Agassiz, who had 
come to the United States with very favorable anticipations, far sur- 
passed by the welcome he had received, did not hesitate to accept the 
proposition. He comprehended that his reputation would give him 
promptly a power and means of action which he could never acquire in 
Europe. Establishment in this country would also put an end to the 
rivalries, the cares of all sorts, to which he was a prey in Neuchatel. 
He would be able to consecrate to science his time and his strength 
without being obliged for want of money to restrict or retard his publi- 
cations. He abandoned, then, without regret the modest theater where 
he had first distinguished himself, and commenced an entirely new 
career, iu which he was to find resources even beyond his brightest 
dreams. 

He took i)ossession, upon his return from Charleston, of the chair of 
natural history, which had been offered to him. His dwelling was at Cam- 
bridge, in Oxford street. Count Frank de Pourtales, Professors Desor, 
Marcou, Gnyot, Lcsquereux, and his draughtsman, Burckardt, who 
since his sojourn at Munich had always worked for him, now joined him. 
Several of these naturalists lived for some time with him. He received 
them bounteously, and aided them with his influence and his purse, at 
that time better filled than when he was in Neuchatel. Soon he sent 
for his son Alexander, whose taste for natural history was a great joy 
to him. He passed the first four months of the year 1819 at Philadel- 
phia, where he gave courses of lectures, and in the winter of 1810-'50 



250 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

lie married Miss Elizabeth Gary, of Boston, a lady of great intelligeuce, 
who becauie the inseparable companion of his travels and of his work. 

The exploration of America was a vast field opened to him, and he 
devoted to this work a very important part of his time. In 1848 he un- 
dertook the charge of a scientific expedition to Lake Superior. Seven- 
teen persons started on this exploration in a country the geography 
and natural history of which were still very little known. The zoology, 
the botany, the general cliaracter of the country and the indigenous in- 
habitants, the influence even of the x)rogress of civilization upon the 
aspect of the countrj", upon the character of the fauna and of the flora, 
all were observed, recorded, discussed ; nothing of importance escaped 
the eager and masteily eye of the chief of the expedition.* 

The history of the journey was made by Mr. Cabot; the shells, insects, 
and birds collected were studied by various collaborators. Agassiz de- 
voted especial attention to the general characteristics of the vegetation, 
in order that he might compare it with that of the Jura and the Alps; 
to the fishes, the study of which wherever he went always captivated 
him; to some new reptiles, and finally to the phenomena of erratic 
bovvlders in this region, which his knowledge of the glacial district of 
Europe permitted him to prove belonged to a remarkable extension of 
the same system. 

The Americans have devoted for a long time especial attention to the 
study of the shores of their continent. The department of the govern- 
ment occupied with what is called the United States Coast Survey is 
now known all over the world on account of the great importance of 
the work it has accomplished. It united to a geographical knowl- 
edge of the coast a scientific study of the neighboring region, often 
j)ursued under great difficulties. Agassiz from the first was interested 
in this species of investigation. In 1850 he was commissioned by Dr. 
Baclie, director of the survey, to study the coral reefs of Florida. He 
examined upon the spot the development of the Polyp, which had cre- 
ated around this peninsula four concentric banks, the formation of 
which he found had been successive. According to the mode of increase 
of these animals, he could calculate safely within the limits of truth 
that these reefs had been at least thirty thousand years in forming. 
The outer reef, still in process of development, is constituted of the liv- 
ing coral. The animals belong to various types, each of which is limited 
to a certain depth beyond which it cannot exist. The deepest are the 
Astrseans, next the Meandrines; at the surface are the Madrepores, not 
more than two or three yards below the surface of the water and cover- 
ing vast spaces with their beautiful growth. Other animals become 
attracted to the coral branches. The sea breaks oft" the coral and throws 
the fragments upon the reef, which is little by little covered with soil, 

* Louis Agassiz. ''Lake Superior, its pliysical cliaracter, yegetatiou, and animals, 
compared witli tliose of otlier and similar regions. 1850." 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 



251 



and rises at last above the water. The winds then bring to it seeds, 
and plants are developed. Thus appears an island separated by a small 
lagoon from the mainland, to which it will soon be united. Florida has 
been entirely formed in this way by successive creations. The time 
required to produce this peninsula, according to Agassiz, must have 
been more than two hundred thousand years. 

At the same time that Agassiz undertook to du-ect these expeditions 
he desired to make known the results of his researches and the labors 
undertaken in his laboratories. The great collections he amassed at- 
tracted his attention to all branches of the animal kingdom. The Ver- 
tebrates, the MoUusks, the Ai-ticulates, the Eadiates, the relations of 
these branches to each other, their mode of appearance and develop- 
ment, were for him an incessant source of new observations, published 
in numerous articles and memoirs. 

In 1857, he gave to the public the plan of a work to be called Con- 
tributions to the Natural History of tJie United States. The popularity of 
the professor was at that time so great that he immediately obtained 
more than 2,500 subscribers. Four volumes of this work appeared in 
succession.* 

The first monograph comprehended a comx)lete study of the Chelo- 
nians, their anatomy, their distribution in the actual world and in geo- 
logical history, the description of American genera and species, and the 
embryology of the turtle. The second, in the preparation of which Mr. 
Clark rendered active assistance, is upon the Acalephs, which form with 
the Polyps and the Echinoderms the class Eadiata; they are divided 
into Ctenophores, Discophores, and Siphonophores. Mr. Sonrel was the 
artist of the magnificent plates which accompanied these two volumes. 
A complete resume of the ideas and the principles of Agassiz relative to 
the classification of the animal kingdom, serves as an introduction to 
these monographs. 

"In the beginning of this chapter," he writes, "I have ah-eady stated 
that classification ^eems to me to rest ux)on too narrow a foundation 
when it is chiefly based upon structure. Animals are linked together 
as closely by their mode of development, by their relative standing in 
their respective classes, by the order in which they have made their 
appearance upon earth, by their geographical distribution, and gener- 
ally by their connection with the world in which they live, as by their 
anatomy. All these relations should, therefore, be fully expressed in a 
natural classification ; and though structure furnishes the most direct 
indication of some of these relations, always appreciable under every 

* Contributious to the Natural History of tlie United States ; in quarto volumes, 
with numerous plates. Volume I, Essay on Classification ; North American Testudi- 
nata. 1857. Volume II, Embryology of the Turtle. 1857. Volumes III and lY, 
Acalephs in general, CtenophorsB, Discophorte, Hydroidaj, Homologies of the Radiata. 
1860-1832. The introduction to the first volume, "An Essay on Classification," was 
republished under the author's direction, at London, in 185U, in 1 vol. 8vo., pp. 361. 



252 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

circumstance, other consideratious sliould not be neglected wliicli may 
complete our insight into the general plan of creation." * 

In this point of view Agassiz had already perceived through his study 
of fossil fishes the importance of embryology. He had for the first time 
propounded the theory that the animals of our period in their embry- 
onic condition resemble the ancient representatives of the same tyi)e 
who lived in anterior geological ages. 

Classification, based upon these considerations, will no longer be a 
system invented by such or such a naturahst, but will result strictly from 
facts observed in nature. It will be proved, for example, that an insect 
in various degrees of its development resembles successively types of 
various classes of the branches of the Articulata, and that it assumes the 
character of a perfect insect only after it has achieved its metamorpho- 
sis. " When we study the gradual development of the insect * * * 
we have a simple, natui'al scale by which to estimate the comparative 
rank of these animals. Since we cannot suppose that there is a retro- 
grade movement in the development of any animal, we must believe 
tliat the insect stands highest (compared with Crustacea and other ar- 
ticulates), and our classification in this instance is dictated by nature 
herself." t 

" It may therefore be considered as a general fact, very likely to be 
more fully illustrated as investigations cover (i wider ground, that the 
phases of embryonic development of all hving animals correspond to the 
order of succession of their extinct representatives in past geological 
times. As far as this goes the oldest representatives of every class may 
then be considered as embryonic types of their resi)ective orders or fami- 
Ues among the living." | 

The class of Echinoderms furnishes a remarkable example. It is thus 
that the embryonic phases of the European Comatula corresi)ond with 
the principal forms of the Crinoids which characterize the successive 
geological periods ; Cistoids of paleozoic rocks ; Platycrinoids of the car- 
boniferous period ; Pentacrinoids of the freestone and the oolite. Anal- 
ogous facts are found in the families of the Asteroids and the Echinoids. 
The Trilobites are the embryonic type of the Entomostracans ; the Deca- 
pods of the oohte that of our crabs ; the heterocercal Ganoids that of 
the Lepidistes. 

By the side of these emhryonic types Agassiz recognised prophetic 
types. "Embryonic types exemplify only the peculiarities of develop- 
ment of the higher representatives of thek' own types ; while prophetic 
types exemi)lify structural combinations observed at a later period in 
two or several distinct types." One of the most striking examples he 
cites is that of the sauroid fishes. "These fishes, which have preceded 
the appearance of reptiles, present a combination of ichthjac and reptilian 

*Au Essay on Classiticatiou. 8vo., Loudon., 1859. Chap, i, sec. 32, pj). 205, 20G. 
t A jouruey in Brazil. Boston, 18G8, chap, i, p. 21. 
X Essay ou Classihcatiou, chap, i, sec. 25, p. 174. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. ^Oo 

characters not to be found in the true members of this class, which form 
its bulk at present." , 

The succession of organized beings in the course of time shoukl also 
serve as a principle of classitication. Thus in arranging, as many bota- 
nists do, the Gymnosperms among the Dicotyledons, we find no relation 
between the hierarcliical series of the living plants and their mode of 
appearance. If we make of the Gynuiosperms an isolated group, inter- 
mediate between the Cryptogams and the Angiosperms, a classification 
which corresponds with their principal characteristics, we find immedi- 
ately an intimate correlation between the hierarchal series of these 
plants, which commence with the Cryptogams and continue with the 
Gymnosperms, the Monocotyledons, and Dicotyledons, and their suc- 
cessi^'e appearance. 

" 1 confess," said Agassiz, "that this question as to the nature and 
foundation of our scientific classifications appears to me to have the 
deepest importance ; an importance far greater, indeed, than is usually 
attached to it. If it can be proved that man has not mvented but only 
traced this systematic arrangement in nature ; that these relations and 
proportions which exist throughout the animal and vegetable world have 
an intellectual, an ideal, connection in the mind of the Creator ; that this 
plan of creation, which so commends itself to our highest wisdom, has 
not grown out of the necessary action of physical laws, but was the free 
conception of the Almighty Intellect, matured in His thought before it 
was manifested in" tangible external forms ; if, in short, we can prove 
premefHfation prior to the act of creation, we have done once and forever 
with the desolate theory which refers us to the law^s of matter as account- 
ing for all the wonders of the universe, and leaves us with no God but 
the monotonous unvarying action of physical forces, binding all things 
to their inevitable destiny. * * * 

" To me it appears indisimtable that this order and arrangement of 
our studies are based upon the natural i)rimitive relations of animal 
life ; those systems to which we have given the names of the great lead- 
ers of our science who first proposed them, being in truth but transla- 
tions into human language of the thoughts of the Creator. And if this 
is indeed so, do we not find in this adaptability of the human intellect to 
the facts of creation, by which we become instinctively and — as I have 
said — unconsciously the translators of the thoughts of God, the most 
conclusive proof of our affinity with the Divine mind ? And is not this 
intellectual and spiritual connection with the Almighty worthy of our 
deepest consideration f If there is any truth in the belief that man is 
made in the image of God, it is surely not amiss for the philosopher to 
endeavor by the study of his own mental operations to comprehend the 
workings of the Divine Keason, learning from the nature of his own mind 
better to understand the Infinite Intellect from which it is derived."t 

*Essay on classification, Chap, i, sec. 26, p. 177. 

t Essay ou Classitication, chap, i, sec. 1, pp. 10 and 9. 



254 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

I have given this long quotation, because it shows clearly the elevated 
philosophical and religious point of view from which Agassiz regarded 
the history of creation. 

It is seen by the examples given what importance he attached to pa- 
leontology. He endeavored to show that from the ancient geological 
periods the number and diversity of animated beings was as great as it 
is to-day. Certain rocks are formed entirely of the debris of organized 
beings. The coral reefs of the tertiary, secondary, and even primary 
periods are in no wise inferior to the present reefs.* The coal-beds of 
the carboniferous period exhibit a vegetation richer than our tropical 
flora. These myriads of beings which have ceased to exist he regarded 
as the manifestation of the divine thought, which regulated their mode 
of appearance and succession. '' There were at various intervals during 
the successive geological ages i>eriods of creation, all the species of ani- 
mals and of plants created at each i^eriod having lasted for a given time 
in order to be replaced successively by others." The present creation is, 
according to his view, one of these phases, and he believed that all the 
animals in it api^eared simultaneously. 

Agassiz always remained faithful to this theory, which had many ad- 
herents at the time he advocated it. Science has made great advances 
since that jieriod. The progress of paleontology, to which he contrib- 
uted so largely, as well as that of zoological and botanical geography, 
demonstrates by the fullest evidence that the animated world which 
l)eoples the surface of the globe could not have issued complete and 
simultaneously from the hands of the Creator, for in the midst of new 
types there exist offshoots from numerous groups, whose great develop- 
ment took i^lace in the anterior geological periods, while other types 
have acquired in the present epoch a force and extension they never had 
before, although their successive increase was indicated in the later 
geological periods. The present ferns are only the representatives, 
greatly diminished in size, of tliat large group of Cryi)togams which at 
the carboniferous period clothed the entire world with their colossal veg- 
etation, and which since then have been constantly diminishing. 

The traveler who encounters isolated in the mountains of China the 
singular conifer called the Ginho hiloha will not hesitate to consider this 
type, unique in the present creation, as the last descendant of the Ginho 
which, at the secondary period, covered with a great number of species 
all the ancient continent. The zoologist who finds in the rivers of 
Australia the Lepidosteus osseus, the last representative not only of a 
genus but of an entire order of fishes, that of the Ganoids, cannot fail to 
recognize in this type the remains of an extinct race. The Marsupials 
of the same country, the Edentates of South America, and a hundred 
other examples furnish us to day- with the i)roof that the actual world 
is only the regular normal continuation of anterior periods. In spite of 
the embryological theories of which Agassiz was the author, and which it 

'American Journal of Science, 1854, vol. xvii, pp. 309-324. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 255 

would seem must necessarily hare led him to the idea of evolution, he 
always remained an absolute partisan of the hypothesis of successive 
creations, and he may be regarded as the chief of the opposition to the 
theory of development. 

The fact that the most distinct types exist simultaneously in identical 
circumstances, and that we find identical types in the most different cir- 
cumstances, the entire development of the animal kingdom, the harmony 
in its most diverse parts, its present and past distribution upon the con- 
tinents and in the sea, furnished him unceasingly with new arguments to 
combat this theory and to defend that of the individuality and the con- 
stancy of species. 

If it is evident that the flora and fauna are renewed a great number of 
times on the surface of the globe, it has never been proved, according 
to him, that the sx)ecies were changed during one of those periods. 
The observations made of the times in which we live, indicate that they 
remained invariable during each period. This is demonstrated by the 
plants and animals found in the tombs of Egyi)t and the fauna of the 
coral reefs of Florida. Daily discoveries contradict strongly the opinion 
that inferior beings first appeared upon the earth, and that types more 
and more elevated were manifested until the advent of man. On the 
contrary", representatives of numerous families of the four great branches 
of the animal kingdom, Eadiates, Mollusks, Articulates, and Vertebrates, 
lived simultaneously from the most ancient periods. The Vertebrates 
alone have not yet been found in the first deposits, but they appeared 
in immense numbers before the end of the first period. These branches, 
which manifest in their structure a complete independence, have tra- 
versed side by side all the series of geological ages up to the present 
time. The first three are even represented from the beginning by nu- 
merous types of their different classes, and the character of the branches 
of the classes of the families have always been as distinct as to-day. 
" Until the facts of nature are shown to have been mistaken by those 
who have collected them," said Agassiz, "and that they have a different 
meaning from that now generally assigned to them, I shall consider the 
transmutation theory as a scientific mistake, untrue in its facts, unsci- 
entific in its method, and mischievous in its tendency."* 

Agassiz preferred greatly direct observation of nature to theoretic 
research, and he found more than any other naturalist opportunities for 
this study in his numerous voyages and in the immense material he 
collected. In a country so rich, so varied in climate and conditions, and 
also so new, his collections rapidly accumulated ; he sold them in 1852 
to Harvard College. A building which had been put up to receive them 
proved to be too small. The University of Cambridge, aided by a pub- 
lic subscription and by the State of Massachusetts, caused to be erected 
the first wing of a large edifice, which was to bear the name of the Mu- 
seum of Comparative Zoology. Mr. Fr. C. Gray bequeathed 850,000 to 



On the Origin of Species. Am. Journal of Science. 1860. Vol. xxx, p. 154. 



256 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

found this establishment. The first stone was laid on the 14th of June, 
1859, and in December of the same year the building was sufficiently 
advanced to commence the installation of the collections. 

From that time Agassiz had but one aim, the increase and organiza- 
tion of this museum. "His activity, researches, diplomacy, resources," 
wrote to us one of his friends who saw him at work, "are something 
prodigious. He spared nothing where his museum was concerned, gave 
public lectures, resorted to all kinds of devices to promote its interests: 
he put under contribution all his friends and acquaintances; he spoke of 
nothing, saw nothing, but his museum; it became his one idea." The 
gifts of natural objects and of money poured in from all sides. The State 
and private individuals rivaled each other in generous assistance of this 
great work which Agassiz had succeeded in making a national affair, 
and in a few years the pecuniary subsidies amounted to the sum of 
$470,000. During the years 1872 and 1873 alone the museum received 
besides its annual supi^lies gifts equal to about $170,000. 

The vast learning of Agassiz, his amiability, his benevolence, his affa- 
ble gaiety, his enthusiasm for everything relating to science, and his 
personal disinterestedness, everywhere created for him friends who con- 
tributed to the increase of his museum. Never had any one so many. 
His language, winning and often rising even in English to true eloquence, 
captivated his audiences and attracted the crowds he loved to tesich. 
He was in communication with all the sea-captains, who made collections 
for him in their distant expeditions. When he was on a voyage every- 
body was at his disposal, and more than once the inhabitants of the dis- 
tant countries he visited made journeys of considerable extent in order to 
procure some rare animals for him only for the pleasure of seeing his 
joy, his astonishment, and his gratitude, which were always very warmly 
and openly expressed. 

All parts of America were explored. The Emperor of Brazil, whose 
interest in science has never flagged, sent him rich collections. The 
soundings made along the coast of America by the United States Coast 
Survey, under the direction of Mr. de Pourtal^s, and especially the voy- 
age to the valley of the Amazon and the expedition of the Hassler, added 
greatly to these zoological treasures. In 1863, that is to say, before the 
expedition to Brazil, the museum already contained G,000 species of fish, 
represented by 100,000 specimens. It is not, like most collections of 
natural history, a mass of material disposed in a purely zoological order. 
Its organization is based upon the principles of classification we have 
described ; and we find in it several distinct series. In the first the 
animals are classed in such a manner that one can study their natural 
associations, their zoological relations, the general characteristics of the 
genera and of the classes, their skeletons, and other anatomical pecul- 
iarities. A second series represents the fauna of each region, the geo- 
graphical distribution of living beings upon the surface of the globe and 
their various associations, upon each continent. The fossil animals are 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 257 

arranged so as to show at the same time their order of succession in the 
diifereut epochs and their rehition with tlie existing animals. This 
plan is completed by a third series devoted to the study of the A'arious 
jihases of development of animals from the embryonic to the adult con- 
dition. This museum, then, is destined to be an exposition of the history 
of creation, as complete as it is possible for it to be under the present state 
of our knowledge. Its organization absorbed more and more the time 
and energy of Agassiz. No other scientific establishment has aspired 
to a similar undertaking. 

When it came to the recent creation, it increased so rapidly that in 
1872, in his last report of the progress of the establishment, Agassiz 
could say that he was '^ in possession of the most beautiful collections 
in the world, not excepting the oldest and largest museums of Europe." 
What increased still more their value, was the zoological and paleon- 
tological labors to which these collections gave rise. Naturahsts of great 
distinction, Mr. Alexander Agassiz, our compatriots Messrs. Alexander 
de Pourtales, Lesquereux, and some American scientists, Messrs. Lyman, 
Hyatt, &c., described these treasures in works illustrated with magnifi- 
cent plates. 

A voyage which Agassiz made to Europe in 1859 interrupted for 
some time his incessant occupations. He was not forgotten in the Old 
World, the scene of his first successes. The most brilliant offers were in 
several instances made to him to induce him to remain, but he had in 
America too many resources of all kinds to make him able or willing to 
abandon his adopted country ; his only ambition was for science, and 
he always continued faithful to the direction of his museum. He was 
naturalized as an American citizen in 1862. 

The numerous labors he directed at last affected his robust health. 
During the winter of ISOl-'Go the physicians ordered absolute repose 
and a change of climate. But this rest proved to be as profitable to 
science as the continuations of the works he had undertaken. After 
some hesitation Brazil was selected as the destination of his voyage. 
He had been for a long time attracted toward this country, to which 
his first zoological researches had turned his attention. " Toward Brazil 
I was drawn by a life-long desire. After the death of Spix, when a 
student of twenty years of age, I had been employed by Martins to 
describe the fishes they had brought back with them from their celebrated 
Brazilian journey. From that time, the wish to study this fauna in the 
regions where it belongs had been an ever-recurring thought with me; a 
scheme deferred for want of opportunity, but never quite forgotten."* 

In order to render this voyage of real use, in order that he might not 
return to the United States " rich in pleasant memories but without any 
scientific residts," resources were necessary far beyond those required 
for his personal expenses. Here, as on so many other occasions of his 
life, bountiful means were voluntarily provided. Mr. Nathaniel Thayer 

* A journey in Brazil. (Preface, p. v.) 
S. Mis. 59 17 



258 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

offered to defray the expenses of tlie expedition, and authorized him to 
take with him, as assistants, six uaturaUsts. The Emperor of Brazil, 
the Secretary of the Navy of the United States, the president of the 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, each contributed in large measure to 
the success of this exxjedition, which had been joined by some distin- 
guished naturalists as voluntary recruits. On the 1st of Ai)ril, ISQo, 
Agassiz embarked, taking with him Mrs. Agassiz, who kept the journal; 
her husband communicated to her the scientific results as they were ob- 
tained, and thus was composed the book known under the name of "A 
Journey to Brazil." We refer to this volume any of our readers who 
desire to follow the American savans along the borders of the Amazon 
and explore with them the vast basin they undertook to study. 

Agassiz, during this voyage, made immense collections. These have 
already been, in part, studied and described, and will give rise to works 
which will make better known to us the fauna of the extraordinary re- 
gion. He observed, also, many general facts of natural history. The 
account of the expedition manifests the great talent he possessed of 
noting every peculiarity offered to his observation in the zoological 
character of the animals he discovered, in the ichthyological fauna of the 
Amazon, in the geographical distribution of the terrestrial and aquatic 
animals, and in the physical and geological characteristics of the great 
valley he traversed. 

One of the points which fixed his attention and to which he constantly 
refers in the history of the vo^rage, is the nature and the distribution of 
the drift of this region. This deposit, which is of great thickness and 
immense extent, for it is estimated to bo some thousand miles in length 
and six or seven hundred in width, could not have been formed by the 
sea, since there were no traces found of marine shells. It is, then, a fresh- 
water deposit. If a lake had occupied this vast space the basin must 
have been closed ; otherwise, this material would have been carried into 
the sea. Agassiz attributed this phenomenon to the ancient extension 
of the glaciers. An immense glacier, according to him, descended from 
the Cordilleras, augmented hy tributaries from Guiana and from Brazil, 
and covered the valley of the Amazon. It accumulated at its lower 
edge a moraine of colossal dimensions, forming thus a gigantic embank- 
ment, which bars the mouth of the basin. 

It is true that polished and scratched surfaces are not found; the 
rocks are too soft to have retained such traces, but the rounded rocks 
Agassiz observed in some localities, the blocks of the Erere, the nature 
of the deposit in the valley, the character of which is analogous to that 
of the material accumulated under the glaciers ; the resemblance of the 
upper formation of this country to the drift of liio, the glacial origin 
of which seemed to him beyond a doubt; the tact that the basin of 
fresh water must have been closed on the side of the ocean by a power- 
ful barrier, appeared to him sulticient arguments to establish the exist- 
ence of this glacial period. Later there was a rupture in the exterior 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. 259 

embankment ; the lake was emptied, while the moraine, beaten by the 
sea and carried away by the llo^\ing• waters, disappeared, as was also 
the case in great part with the ground upon which it rested ; for the 
violence and the rapidity with which the sea eats into the shores of this 
region is extreme, and a strip of hundreds of miles in width has already 
been carried away. * 

Such is, in a few words, the theory of Agassiz of the ancient glaciers 
of Brazil. This is not the place to discuss its claims ; it was attacked 
on all sides, and has now few defenders. 

In his latter years Agassiz, overburdened with his occupations, aban- 
doned special research; the organization of his museum, his public 
courses of lectures, his immense correspondence, were too much for his 
strength, and his health gradually failed. In 18C9 he became seriously 
ill. He had hardly recovered before he was at work again. He accom- 
panied Count Pourtales on one of the expeditions this zoologist made 
in the year 1807, to study the submarine relief, the currents, and the 
marine fauna of the coasts of America. These explorations, in which 
each sounding gave rise, so to speak, to a discovery, captivated him ex- 
tremely, and he soon conceived the idea of extending this kind of re- 
search. In 1871 he joined an expedition organized by the Government 
of the [Juited States for the exploration of the shores of America, the 
study of the Gulf Stream, the temperature of the water, and the marine 
animals. He sailed in the Hassler, and visited in this vessel the sea of 
the Antilles and the shores of America as far as San Francisco, doubling 
Cape Horn. A letter he wrote to Professor Pierce before starting, in 
which he set forth the results he hoped to obtain, drew ujion this expe- 
dition the attention of all the scientific world. He hoped to find living 
at the bottom of the sea a large number of the types known only by fossil 
representatives, and thus connect the actual with anterior creations. 

Soundings were made at first at great depths, but the apparatus was 
in a bad condition, and on the coast of Chili this kind of research had 
to be abandoned. Agassiz contented himself with the coast animals and 
the fishes, which he collected by thousands. In every port the deck of 
the vessel was covered with animals brought by the natives. The sin- 
gular fauna of the Gallapagos Islands were collected with the greatest 
care, and Agassiz was able, among others, to procure numerous shells 
of two species of reptiles of the genus AmhlyryncJms, the structure of 
which recalled that of these animals in the secondary period. Some idea 
may be formed of the collections made in this voyage, by the fact that 
the quantity of alcohol used to preserve the animals was about 3,500 gal- 
lons. He came back to Cambridge by the Pacific Eailroad. 

Immediately on his return he formed the project of establishing on the 
sea-shore a school for zoological research. x\s soon as the idea was con- 
ceived, an American, Mr. xVndcrson, gave him in 1871 a small island in 
Buzzard's Bay, the island of Penikese, and a considerable sum to assist 



' Journey in Brazil, Chap, xiii, pp. 419-436 ; Atlantic Monthly, 1866, pp. 49, 150. 



260 LOUIS AGASSIZ. 

iu carrying out Ms design. The illustrious naturalist immediately prof- 
ited by these resources. He constructed large laboratories provided 
with aquaria and other arrangements necessary for this kind of research. 
The upper story of the building contained fifty-eight rooms for the lodg- 
ing of the naturalists. Every effort was made to hasten the execution 
of the plan. The consequent increase of fatigue exhausted him. On 
the 2d of December, 1873, he gave a public address to the Agricultural 
Association of Massachusetts. He was in his laboratory for several 
days after, but was attacked on the 6th of December by weakness, which 
forced him to return home. He went to his bed, which he never left 
again, and expired on the 14th of December of a iJuralysis of the organs 
of respiration. 

The Academy of Sciences, of Paris, had a few months before nomi- 
nated him foreign associate member. 

'^For a long time," wrote Professor Silliman, who had been one of his 
best friends since his arriv^al in the country, "have we dreaded the sad , 
event which we now record. For many years the splendid physique of 
Agassiz manifested signs that his prodigious labors were overcoming 
his elasticity. His herculean strength, which made fatigue of body 
or mind unknown to him, yielded to the severer tax of the American 
climate and the incessant growing demands upon him from every source. 
His life and strength were renewed by his long voyage to San Francisco 
in the Hassler ; but both he and his friends recognized the fact that to 
lahor with his former activity was impossible and forbidden. Yet to live, 
was for him unavoidably to labor ; and to die in the harness rather than 
to live after the x)ower to serve his fellow-men was i)assed — his aspira- 
tion."* 

The death of the great naturalist, to whom this noble sentiment could 
be justly attributed, was a national calamity. An immense cortege 
formed by deputations from several cities, the Vice-President of the 
United States, the authorities of the State of Massachusetts, delegates 
from universities, academies, and learned societies, his numerous pupils 
and assistants, and a large concourse of citizens accomi)anied Agassiz 
to his last home. 

A bowlder from the glacier of the Aar, upon which is engraved his 
name, serves as a monument to him and recalls to those who visit it 
his native country and one of the great interests of his life. 

The prodigious capacity of Agassiz, his exceptional talent for observa- 
tion, the facility with which he made himself familiar with all questions 
and with which he attacked the most diverse subjects, the great intel- 
lectual movement he developed wherever he lived, the value of his own 
researches, have made his name one of the greatest in contemporary 
science. He has been the object, both while living and even after his 
death, of violent and sometimes coarse attacks : calumny has not spared 
him. But in every case it is not he who has been most injured. Un- 



*Amer. Jour. Science, 1874, vol. vii, p. 80. 



LOUIS AGASSIZ. ' 261 

cToubteclly, several of the ideas he put in circulation have been dropped, 
several of his theories have been abandoned, but the discussions they 
l)roduced have been a fruitful source of progress. The temple of knowl- 
edge is not raised by a single effort, and it is the clashing of ideas which 
produces light. The work he executed in the field of zoology and of paleon- 
tology is of very high importance. He i^ossessed the double merit of 
accomplisliing great things himself, and of knowing how to make science 
popular without dimiuishing its prestige. Everywhere he found friends 
and supporters. In Switzerland, in Germany, in England, in America, 
in every country where he took up his abode he made liimself the center 
of the scientific movement and succeeded in interesting the public. His 
sojourn in Keuchatel excited in that city an impulse the happy influ- 
ence of which is felt even to this day. Although when he first went 
to the United States there existed scientific culture in that country, and 
many distinguished observers, to Agassiz must be attributed the difiu- 
sion of a new enthusiasm for the sciences and much of the success with 
wliich they are now cultivated. This result is not due to chance, but to 
the noble and legitimate intiuence exercised by the superior intelligence 
of the savant, and the amiable qualities of the man. 



HEiNRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 



By Willi a^i B. Taylor. 



"Yet tliough thy purer spirit did not need 
The vulgar guerdon of a brief renown, 

Some little meed at least — some little meed 

Our age may yield to thy more lasting crown." 



In the impulsive tide of popular applause which follows the consum- 
matiou of great enterprises, or the material advancement from new con- 
quests of natural law, the labors and merits of those who patiently laid 
the deep and broad foundations of these successes, or who with rarest 
diligence, sagacity, and skill, made such successes practicable, are usu- 
ally whelmed ; and — save by the scientific student, are mostly forgotten 
and ignored. And this result is the more assured by reason of the en- 
tire self-uuconsciousness and devotion with which the higher work of 
original research is conducted, with no disturbing thought on the part 
of the investigator, of reaping immediate advantage or reward from the 
bestowal of the new discovery. 

" For praise is his who builds for his own age ; 
But he who builds for time, must look to time for wage."* 

That the award of time respecting Henrj-'s true relation to the tele- 
graph will be discriminating and just, may be confidently anticipated, 
since the materials and data for an accurate judgment are already matter 
of enduring record, t In attempting here to briefly review this record, 
justice will best be done to Henry's fame by rendering fuU justice to 
Henry's predecessors. 

The Grotcth of the Electric Telegraph. — " The electric telegraph had 
properly speaking, no inventor. It grew up little by little, each inventor 
adding his little to advance it toward perfection."! These words of 
soberness and truth are little apprehended by the multitude; who blind 
alike to the beginnings and to the growths of great ideas, contemn the 

* Prof. Grant Allen. 

tin the spirit of Kepler (though with less of self-assertion), Heniy, with a modest esti- 
mate of his own contributions to science, while evincing a remarkable iudittereuce to 
pcpularity, yet with the quiet contideuce of a clear and impartial judgraeut, declared 
'' I was coutent that my ])ablished researches should remain as material for the his- 
tory of science, and be pronounced upon according to their true value by the scientific 
world." — (Smitliisonian li('i)ort for 1857, p. 87.) 

t The Electric Telegraph. By Eobert Sabine. 8vo. London, 1867, part i, chap, iv, 
sect. 39, p. 40. 
2G2 



HENRY AXD THE TELEGRAPH. 263 

discoverer while tliey deify the artisan. When Galvani about a cen- 
tury ago (17SG) first opened slightly the door to one of nature's mar- 
vels, that large community ever distinguished by the vigor of its com- 
mon sense and the practical solidity of its judgment, asked with ready 
instinct the wise and ancient question, " What is the use of it V' And a 
majority of those who recognized the experimenter's appearance on the 
streets of Bologna, pointed him out as the '• frog philosopher," Their 
descendants and rejiresentatives at the present day have neither lost — 
nor gained in wit.* 

It is proposed to notice the development of the electric telegrai)h 
somewhat at length, in order to exhibit more cleaily the i^recise nature 
and value of Henry's contribution to its in^actical establishment and 
success. This survey naturally divides itself into a chronological re- 
view of the successive though overlai^iiing applications — of frictional or 
mechanical electricity (lirst suggested by Franklin ? or by Lesage ? about 
the middle of the last century) ; f of galvanism or chemical electricity 
(first suggested by Scemmering in 1808) ; and of galvano-magnetism 
(fii-st suggested by Amjjere in 1820). | 

Among the numerous flights of imagination by which genius has fre- 
quently anticipated the achievements of her more deliberate and cautious 
sister — earth-walking reason, none is perhaps more striking than the ro- 
mantic conception by Famianus Strada, of Eome, in the early part of the 
seventeenth century, of an intercourse maintained between separated 
friends by means of two sympathetic magnetic compasses, whereby the 
indications on the dial given by one, were instantly made visible to the 
other. § 

* On tlie value of abstract science, see " Supplement," Note A. 

t Mr. Stephen Gray, in a letter to Dr. Cromwell Mortimer, secretary of the Royal Soci- 
ety of London, dated February 8, 1731, recited among numerous electrical experiments, 
the passage of sparks and the excitation of an electroscope, effected through 293 feet of 
■wire suspended by silk, in 1729 ; through 66(5 feet on July 3 of that year ; a week or 
two later, through 765 feet; and in August, 1730, through 8S6 feet of wire. (Fhil. 
Trans. E. S. 1731, vol. xsxvii. No. 417, pp. 29, 31, and 44.) These experiments were 
made however for the purpose of determining conductive capacity, without any view 
of employing the indications for signals. 

A letter was published in the Scots^ Magazine, dated Renfrew, February 1, 1753, and 
signed " C. M.," which, under the title "'An expeditions method of conveying intelli- 
gence," proposed the sns])ension between two distant points of a number of insulated 
wires (equal to the niuuber of letters in the alphabet), through which electrical dis- 
charges should separately exhibit themselves by the diverging balls of an electroscope, 
or the striking of a bell by the attraction of a charged ball. The author of the com- 
numication was supposed by Sir David Brew.ster to be a Charles ^Marshall, of Paisley. 
(TIw Enfi'uwa; London, Dee. 24, 1858, vol. vi., p. 484.) It is probable that G. L. Le- 
sage. of Geneva, entertained the project of an electric telegraph as early as the middle 
of the last century. It Avas therefore rather the impulse of an age, than the inspira- 
•fion of an individual. 

jThe application of magneto-electricity, presenting no essential diftVrencesfrom the 
itse of galvano-electricity, (for which it is souietimes substituted,) reiiuires no special 
notice. Still less noteworthy is the project of thermo-electricity as the moror. 

^ Prolusiones Jcademica-: by F. Strada, quarto, Rome, 1617, lib. ii, prolusio 6. A 
century later, (but still a third of a century before man dreamed of electric telegraphs, ) 
Joseph Addison presented the fidlowing ver.siou of this fairytale: '-Strada. in one 
of his Prolusions, gives an account of a chimerical correspondence between two 
fi'ieuds by the help of a certain loadstone which had such a virtue in it that if it 



264 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

"Two faithful needles — from the iuformiug touch 
Of the same parent stone, together drew 

Its mystic virtue ; 

And though disjoined by kingdoms, — though the main 
Rolled its broad surge betwixt, — and different stai's 
Beheld their wakeful motions, — yet preserved 
Their former friendship and remembered still 
The alliance of their birth." * 

It needed but the later discovery of the galvanic wire for connecting 
the two needles, to realize comijletely this vision of an "oriental" fancy, 
and to render it the sober exj)erience of our present every-day life. 

I. — TELEGRAPHS BY ELECTRICITY. 

If the earlier attempts commencing in the last century to apply so-called 
" static " electricity to the purpose of telegrai)hy may to some appear 
to j)0ssess only an antiquarian interest, it will be seen that they form 
the necessary, and by no means insignificant, childhood of our modern 
systems. Neglecting generally mere speculations, as well as initial con- 
ceptions of executed schemes, the following comprise the more import- 
ant experimental devices, in the order of their approximate realization. 

1774. The first electric telegraph of which there is record, is that es- 
tablished at Geneva by Georges-Louis Lesage. The hue consisted of 
24 insulated wires for the alphabet, each terminating in a pith-ball elec- 
troscope duly lettered, for indicating by its excitement the succession 
forming the words and sentences given by the operator, who employed 
at the transmitting station a manual conductor from an electrical ma- 
chine, t 

1787. M. Lomond, at Paris, had a single brass wire extended from one 
closed apartment to another at some distance from it, in connection with 
a pith-ball electroscope at each end, by which arrangement he was able 
to communicate sentences in either direction. Arthur Young, the dili- 
gent writer on natural and industrial resources, has thus described the 
apparatus in his journal: October 10, 1787, — " In the evening, to Mons. 

touclied two several needles, when one of the needles so touched began to move, the 
other thougli at never so great a distance, moved at the same time aud in the same 
manner. He tells us that the two friends being each of tliem possessed of one of these 
needles, made a kind of dial-phate, iuscribiug it witli the four-aud-twenty letters, in 
the same manner as the hoars of the day are marked upon the ordinary dial-plate. 
They then lixed one of the needles on each of these plates in such a mannt'r that it 
could move round without impediment, so as to touch any of the four-and-twenty 
letters. . . . By this means they talked together across a whole continent, and 
conveyed their thoughts to one auother in an instant over cities or mountains, seas 
or deserts." {The Spectator, No. '241, Dec. 6, 1711.) A similar idea (probably borrowed 
from Strada) is found in Daniel Scliwenter's Mathematlsch-pMlosojjhischa Erquickimgs- 
stunden ; published at Nuremberg in 1(5:5(5, pp. 346, 347. 

*Akeuside, Pleasures of InuKjination (1744), book iii. 

t Lesage, in a letter addressed to Prof. Pierre Pr6vost, of Geneva, dated Berlin, June 
22, 1782, describing to his friend the details of his telegraph, states that the method of 
corresponding by means of electricity had been contemplated by him for thirty or 
thirty-live years. {Traite de Telejraphie £lectrique : par l'Abb6 Moigno, 2d edit. 8vo. 
Paris, 1852, part ii, chap. 1, p. 59.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 2G5 

Lomond, a very ingenious and inventive meclianic, who lias made an 
improvement of the jenny for spinning cotton. In electricity he has 
made a remarkable discovery. Yon write two or three words on a paper; 
he takes it with him into a room, and turns a machine inclosed in a cylin- 
drical case, at the top of which is an electrometer, — a small fine pith ball ; 
a wire connects with a similar c^dinder and electrometer in a distant 
apartment ; and his wife by remarking the corresponding motions of 
the ball, writes down the words they indicate. From which it appears 
that he has formed an alphabet of motions. As the length of the wire 
makes no difference in the eifect, a correspondence might be carried on 
at any distance." * 

1794. M. Eeiser, at Geneva, arranged a line of 36 insulated wires, 
each separately connected at the receiving-station with a small grat- 
ing of narrow tin-foil strips pasted on glass, from which a letter or 
figure had been cut, so as to represent the character by the passage of 
the electric spark over the series of narrow spaces. On a square plate 
were fastened 36 of these independent gratings, representing the 26 let- 
ters and 10 numerals. " The instant the discharge is made through the 
wire, the spark is seen simultaneously at each of the interruptions or 
breaks of the tin-foil constituting the letter, and the whole letter is 
rendered visible at once." The sparks were transmitted through the 
selected wire and its corresponding symbol from a small electrical ma- 
chine kept in operation at the sending station, t 

1795. Tiberius Cavallo, in England, experimented with electric signals 
of various kinds (explosive and otherwise) through a long and tolerably 
fine copper wire (about the fortieth of an inch in diameter) insulatefl by 
successive coatings of pitch, linen strips, woolen cloth, and oil painting. 
He/ound a Leyden jar of about one square foot, suihcieut for the re- 
quired electric spark, if the length of the wire did not exceed 200 feet. 
He remarks: "By sending a number of sparks at different inter- 
vals of time according to a settled plan, any sort of intelligence might 
be conveyed iustantaneousiy from the place in which the phial is sit- 
uated. With respect to the greatest distance to which such communi- 
cation might be extended, I can only say that I never tried the experi- 
ment with a wire of communication longer than about 250 feet ; but from 
the results of those experiments, and from the analogy of other facts, I 
am led to believe that the above-mentioned sort of communication might 
be extended to two or three miles, and probably to a much greater dis- 
tance."! 

* Travels during the years 1787, 1788, and 1789, in the Kingdom of France. By Avtlixir 
Yomip;. 2 vols. 8vo. Dublin, 179:^, vol. 1, p. 135. Of the work as repnblislied in Pink- 
ertou's Collection of Foija{/es and Travels, 4to. Loudon, 1809, vol. iv, p. 139. 

tVoigt'a Magazin, etc. 1794, vol. ix, part 1, p. 183; also Moigno's Tclegraphie 
£lcciriqtie, part ii, chap. 1, p. (il. 

tA Complete Treatise on Electricity, in 3 vols. 8vo. Loudon, 1795; vol. iii, note No, 
viii, pp. 295, 29(5. The first two volumes of this work had passed through three earlier 
editions. 



266 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

1798. D. F. Salva, iu Spain, appears to have successfully worked an 
electric telegraph through the unprecedented distance of twenty- six 
miles. "The Madrid Gazette of November 25, 1796, states that the 
Prince de la Paix, having heard that M. D. F. Salva had read to the 
Academy of Sciences a memoir upon the application of electricity to tele- 
gra.phiug, and presented at the same time an electric telegraph of his 
own invention, desired to examine it; when being delighted with the 
promptness and facility with which it worked, he presented it before the 
king and court, operating it himself. Some useful trials were made and 
published in Voigfs Magazine. Two j^ears after, tlie Infanta Don Anto- 
nio constructed a telegraph of great extent on a large scale, by which 
the young prince was informed at night of nesvs in which he was much 
interested. He also invited and entertained Salva at court. According 
to Humboldt, a telegraph of this description was established in 1798, 
from Madrid to Aranjuez, a distance of 26 miles."* 

1816. Francis Ronalds constructed at Hammersmith, England, an 
experimental telegraph line of a single wire, operated by an electrical 
machine, or small Leydeu jar. "He proved the practicability of such a 
scheme by insulating eight miles of wire on his lawn at Hammersmith. 
In this case the wire was insulated in the air by silk strings. . . . 
Mr. Eonalds fixed a circular brass plate upon the seconds arbor of a 
clock which beat dead seconds. This ]:>late was divided into twenty 
equal parts, each division being worked by a figure, a letter, and a pre- 
l^aratory sign. The figures were divided into two series of the units, 
and the letters were arranged alphabetically, omitting J, Q, v, w, x, 
and z. In front of this was fixed another brass plate (which could be 
occasionally turned round by hand), and which had an aperture that 
would just exhibit one of the figures, letters, and preparatory signs. In 
front of this plate was suspended a pith-ball electrometer from a wire 
which was insulated and which communic^ited on one side with a glass 
cylinder machine. At the farther end of the wire was an apparatus 
exactly the same as the one now described, and the clocks were ad- 
justed to as perfect synchronism as possible. Hence it is manifest that 
when tlie wire was charged by the machine at either end, the electro- 
meters at both ends diverged, and when it was discharged they collapsed 
at the same instant ; consequently if it was discharged at the moment 
when a given letter, figure, and sign on the plate appeared through 
the aperture, the same letter, figure, and sign would appear also at the 

* The EJectro-MafivcUc TeJcf/raph, by Laurence TnrnbuU, 8vo. 2(1 ed. Pliilada. 1S53, 
pp. 21, 22. Voigt's Maaazln, etc. vol. xi, part 4. The same telegraphic feat is attrib- 
uted to B<^taiieoTirt. ''Gauss makes mention of a eonuunnication irom Hnniiioldt, 
according to Avliieli Bdtanconrt, in 171)8, established a connnnnication between jMadrid 
and Araiijnez, a distance of 2G miles, by means of a wire through which a Leyden jar 
used to be discharged, which was intended to be used as a telegraphic signal." (Stnr- 
o-eon's Annals of EJcctridtii, etc. March, 18:^9, vol. iii, p. 44ri.) This is probalily a mis- 
apprehension; as Augustine B<5taucourt (more correctly Betheuconrt), a S])anis]i engi- 
neer, in 1798, devised nnd exhiluted to the National Institute an improvement in the 
mechanical semaphore. (Brewster's i?fZinZ*ur</7i Encycloiiosdia, 1830, art. "Telegraph,' 
vol. xviii, p. 535.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 267 

other clock ; so that by means of such discharges at one station, and. 
by marking down the letters, figures, and signs seen at the other, any 
required words could be spelt."* 

" He also made the trial with 525 feet of buried wire. With this view he 
dug a trench fonr feet deep, in which he laid a trough of wood two inches 
square, well lined both within and without with pitch 5 and within this 
trough w^ere i>laced thick glass tubes through which the wire ran. The 
junttiou of the glass tubes was surrounded -^dth short and wider tubes of 
glass, the ends of which were sealed uj) with soft wax." This form of 
conductor was not found to operate very satisfactorily, and the inventor 
on theoretical grounds did not think such an arrangement adapted to 
the instantaneous electrical transmission required by his system. 

Mr. Eonalds, in 1823, published a full account of his telegraph, t In 
1871, very nearly half a century later, as Sir Francis Eonalds, he pub- 
lished a new edition of this interesting work; and a review of it in 
" Nature " gives this presentation of the scheme : " Sir Francis, before 
1823, sent intelligible messages through more than eight miles of wire 
insulated and suspended in the air. His elementary signal was the di- 
vergence- of the pith-balls of a Canton's electrometer, produced by the 
communication of a statical charge to the wire. He used synchronous 
rotation of lettered dials at each end of the line, and charged the wire 
at the sending end whenever the letter to be indicated passed an open- 
ing provided in a cover ; the electrometer at the far end then diverged, 
and thus informed the receiver of the message which letter was desig- 
nated by the sender. The dials never stopped, and any slight want of 
synchronism was corrected by moving the cover." | 

This very ingenious device of sj'nchronous rotation at the opposite 
stations presents the earliest example of a dial telegraph, or of a letter 
indicator employing but a single wire. About forty years later, or in 
1855, this system was successfully applied by Mr. David E. Hughes, of 
Kentucky, to a letter-printing telegraph of remarkable rapidity and ac- 
curacy. § 

1828. " Harrison Gray Byar, an American, constructed a telegraph 
in 1827-'28, at the race-course on Long Island, and supported his wires 
by glass insulators fixed on trees and poles. By means of common elec- 
tricity acting upon litmus paper he produced a red mark. The difference 
of time between the sparks indicated different letters arranged in an ar- 

* Encydoi)a>.dia Britcuiuka, 7tli ed. 1H42, vol. viii, p. GG-2. — Stli ed. 1854, vol. viii, i). 027. 

] Descriptions of an Electrical Telefjrapli ; and some other Electrical Apparatus. By 
Francis Koualds. 8vo. Loiidou, 182:3. 

XXature. London, Nov. 23, 1871, vol. v, p. .59. 

^A second type of dial telegraph Avas invented by Prof. Charles Wheatstone in 
18o9, in whicli the dial (or index) was rotated step by step by means of successive 
impulses of the current on an electro-niagnet, -which operated a toothed escapement 
on the axis of the dial or index ; — the indicated letter or figure being stopped as long_ 
as desired. In tins case, the character was determined solely by the number of 
electric impulses transmitted. This system was in 184(i, made the basis of a highly 
original letter-ininting telegra))h, by Mr. Royal E. House, of Vermont; i)receding that 
of Mr. Hughes, as will be observed, nearly ten years. 



268 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

bitrary al])liabet, aud the paper w^as moved by the hand." * Mr. Dyar 
is described by Dr. Luther Y. Bell as " a man of the highest inventive 
skill and scieutilic attainments." His experimental line (of a single wire) 
was several miles long ; and the chemical record of the signals transmitted 
through it, was by the testimony of those who witnessed its operations, 
eminently distinct and satisfactory. The following is the account of his 
enterprise, given by the inventor himself in 1849, some twenty years after- 
ward : 

" I invented a plan of a telegraph which should be independent of day 
. or night or weather, which should extend from town to town or city to 
city, without any intermediary agency, by means of an insulated wke 
in the air, susi)ended on poles, and through which wire I intended to 
send strokes of electricity in such a manner as that the diverse distances 
of time separating the divers sparks should represent the different letters 
of the alphabet and stops between the words, etc. This absolute or this 
relative difference of time between the several sparks I intended to take 
off from an electric machine by a little mechanical contrivance regulated 
by a pendulum, and the sparks were intended to be recorded upon a 
moving or a revolving sheet of moistened litmus paper, which bj^ the forma- 
tion of nitric acid bj' the spark in the air in its passsage through the 
paper, would leave a red spot for each spark on this blue test-paper. 
. . . To carry out my invention I associated myself with a Mr. 
Brown, of Providence, who gave me certain sums of money to become 
associated with me in the invention. We employed a Mr Connel, of New 
York, to aid in getting the capital wanted to carry the wires to Phila- 
delphia. This we considered as accomplished : but before beginning upon 
the long wire, it was decided that we should try some miles of it on Long 
Island. Accordingly I obtained some fine card wire, intending to run 
it several times around the race-course on the Island. We put up this 
wire (that is, Mr. Brown and myself) at different lengths, in curves and 
straight lines, by suspending it from stake to stake and tree to tree un- 
til we concluded that our experiments justified our undertaking to carry 
it from Kew York to Philadelphia. At this moment our agent brought 
a suit or summons against me for 20,000 dollars for agencies and services, 
which I found was done to extort a concession of a share of the whole 
project." Failing in this prosecution, the uuprin(;ipled agent obtained 
a writ against the two partners on a charge of conspiracy to carry on 
secret communication between the cities! and he thus effectuallj^ put an 
end to the enterprise, without the formalitj' of a judicial trial on tliis 
novel accusation, t 

These practical illustrations of early electric telegraphy, including 
successful workings of both the dial and the chemical forms of the tele- 
graph without the use of galvanism, serve to show that the agency is by 

* Tiirubnll's Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, 8vo. Philadelphia, 1st ed. 1852, p. 6 ; 2d ed. 
1853, p. 2^. 
t Prescott's Rist Electr. Telegraph, 1860, chaj). xxi, pp. 427, 428. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. " 269 

no means the trivial and inefficient one so often represented by modern 
writers. On the contrary, but for the practical difficulty of perfect and 
constant insulation, owing to the intense self repulsion of mechanical 
electricity and the reaction and retardation from induction currents in 
]ong lines of coated wire, this method would really constitute an eco- 
nomical and satisfactory medium of distant communication. 

Steinheil in reference to this subject remarks : "All these experiments 
put it beyond a doubt that frictional electricity may be employed for 
giving signals at any distances, and that when these signals are properly 
contrived they ofler convenient means of telegraphic intercourse. Fric- 
tional electricity has besides as Gauss has already observed, the great 
advantage of not losing any of its force by increasing the length of the 
conducting wire, inasmuch as the whole of the electricity of one coating 
of the jar must traverse the entire length of the wire (be it what it may) 
to neutralize that of the other coating." * 

II. — TELEGRAPHS BY GALVANISM. 

The introduction of the galvanic battery by Yolta at the commence- 
ment of the i^resent century f led many to experiment with its peculiar 
current as a means of telegraphing. The only practicable forms of 
simple galvanic telegraphs, are those whose indications are given by 
chemical decompositions, and which thus form the class commonly known 
as the " electro-chemical " ; and as these chemical indications usually leave 
permanent markings, the class is also one of recording telegrai)hs. 

1808. Br. Samuel Thomas von Soemmering, of Munich, appears to 
have been the first to apply Volta's invention to this purpose. "As long 
ago as in 1807, Soemmering erected in the apartments of the Academy 
of Sciences at Munich a galvanic telegraph, of which he has pub- 
lished a detailed description in the Philoso])liical Transactions of Ba- 
varia. [Miinchner Denkachriften dcr Koniglichen Akademie dcr Wis- 
senscJiaften filr 1809, 1810. Math. phys. Classe, p. 401.] He em- 
ployed the energy of a i^owerful voltaic pile to bring about the 
decomposition of water by means of thirty-five gold i^ins immersed in 
an oblong glass trough." | Each of these gilt electrodes was in con- 
nection with one of the thirty-five wires forming the line, and was cov- 
ered with an inverted test-tube filled with water, resting on a snbmerged 
shelf in the oblong trough, as a gas-receiver. These small receivers 
with their inclosed gilt pins or electrodes arranged in a row, repre- 
sented 25 letters and 10 numerals. Such being the disposition at the 
receiving end, the thirty-five line wires at the transmitting end were 
each secured to a separate perforated brass plate. On connecting the 

* Sturgeon's Annals of Eleciricitij, etc. March 1839, vol. iii, p. 446. 

t Volta's description of his battery is given in a "Letter to Sir Joseph Banha," 
president of the Royal Society of Loudon. {Phil. Trans. B. S. read June 2(5, 18U0, vol. 
xc, pp. 403-4:U.) 

t Sturgeon's Annals of Elccincity, etc. Mar. 1839, voh iii, p. 447. 



270 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

respective poles of the battery with auy two of the line wires b}" means 
of two attached metallic plus held in the hands and inserted in the 
holes of their terminal plates, the current was established, and bubbles 
of hydrogen and oxygen were at once evolved in the corresponding let- 
tered tubes. A system of syllabic communication and reading was pro- 
vided, in which the hydrogen element should be first noted.* 

Very shortly after his first successful working of this telegraph, Soem- 
mering interposed in the galvanic circuit two thousand feet of insulated 
wire, wound around a glass cylinder, without impairing his decomposi- 
tions. He found no appreciable retardation in the action of the electrodes. 
"The evolution of the gas through this considerable length of wire ap- 
peared to begin as quickly as if the effect had only to traverse two feet." t 

In an " Historical account of the introduction of the galvanic and 
electro-magnetic telegraph" presented to the Imperial Academy of 
Sciences at St. Petersburg, by Dr. Ilamel, of that city, a very full and 
interesting narrative is given of Soemmering's experiments, compiled 
from original documents;! from which the following extracts are made: 

" On the 22d of July, ISOO, his apparatus was already so far advanced 
that it was fit to work. He however went on making still further im- 
provements, and it was only on the Gth of August that he considered 
the telegraph quite completed. He was much pleased with its perform- 
ance, being able to work tlirough 724 feet of wire. . . . Two days 
later, he could alread^^ telegraph through 1,000 feet, and on the 18th of 
August through as much as 2,000 feet of wire. On the 29th of August 
he exhibited the telegra[)h in action before a meeting of the Academy 
of Sciences in Munich." A year later lie first effected a satisfactory 
arrangement of premonitory alarm or attention call. "On the 23d of 
August, 1810, Soemmering succeeded in inventing a contrivance for 
sounding aii alarm, which answered perfectly well." (p. 59G.) 

"In Sei)tend)er, 1811, Soemmering sim])litied his telegraph considera- 
bly; he reduced the number of wires in his conducting cord from 35 to 
27. . . . On the 1st of February, 1812, Prince Karl Theodor, the 
second son of King Maximilian I, honored Soemmering with a visit to 
see the telegraph. On the 1th of February, 1 812, Scemmering announced 
that he was able to telegraph through 4,000 feet of wire, ami on the 15th 
of March he telegraphed even through 10,000 feet." (p. 597.) This was 
nearly two miles of wire, but wound on reels. 

This complex and inconvenient arrangement of signaling by the de- 
composition of water, would hardly seem to offer a practical method of 
telegraphy. Yet the system was earnestly prosecuted by its inventor for 

" Sclnvci,n-,i;ci's Journal fiir Chvmic und rinjs'il-, IHll, vol. ii, part '2, pp. 217-!2i;j: (from 
the Mcmoira of the " Kilii'uiUcIic Akadnnlc dcr Jl'issoisvliaffcii," at Munich, IblO.) Also, 
Folytcclniisches Central- lllalt, Juno, LSiri, Jalii-gaiig iv, b. i, pp. 4H2-484. 

t Miindnur Dciikavliriften der KonifjUclien Aladaniv dcr JVisseiischaften fiir 1812. lu thia 
expel iiueiit, the self-iuductioii of the coiiductiug coil jn'obably uicreased somewhat 
the effect. 

t Journal of the Society of Arts, Lomlou, July 22, and 29, 1859, vol. vii, No. 348, pp. 
595-599, and No. 349, pp. t)05-G10. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 271 

many years, and attracted considerable attention ; and had no simpler 
device been discovered it might possibly have won its way into use. It 
is remarkable that some seven or eight years later a Philadeli^hiauinde- 
l)endently proposed the same scheme. 

1816. Dr, John Redman Coxe, of Philadelphia, professor of chemistry 
in the University of Pennsylvania, suggested the employment of wires 
for communicating intelligence by a galvanic current, arranged either to 
decompose water in tubes, (Soemmering's plan, of which he seems to have 
been unaware,) or to decompose metallic salts.* As an untried sugges- 
tion, this has been noticed only because the latter project was afterward 
successfully developed and executed by others. 

1828. Victor Triboaillet de Saint Amand proposed to establish a gal- 
vanic telegraph line of a single wire from Paris to Brussels, the con- 
ducting wire to be varnished with shellac, wound with silk, coated with 
resin, inclosed in sections of glass tube carefully luted with a resin, the 
whole substantially wrapped and water-proofed, and finally to be buried 
some feet deep in the earth. The signaling device is somewhat obscure, 
as while a strong battery is the source of the current, the receiving in- 
strument is an electrometer. t This project, also belonging to the purely 
si)eculative class, scarcely deserves a notice. 

1813. Mr. Robert Smith, of Blackford, Scotland, devised an experi- 
mental galvano-chemical telegraph carrying out practically the sug- 
gestion offered by Dr. Coxe in 1810. A set of iron type at the receiving 
station, each connected by separate wires with a corresponding circuit- 
key at the transmitting station, was so arranged with reference to a 
clock-moved band of paper wet with a solution of ferro-cyanide of potas- 
sium, that when the current was passed through any special circuit, it 
impressed a blue letter on the band. "A paper containing an account 
of this t degraph was read before the Royal Scottish Society of Arts on 
the 27th of March, 1813; reported on by a committee, and approved 
the 12th of June following. Since that time many trials have been 
made, and various improvements in its construction have also been 
introduced by the inventor." | 

Two or three years later Mr. Smith reduced his line to a single circuit 
of two wires ; and the registering device at the receiving station con- 
sisted of a fillet or ribbon of i)lain calico wound on a roller j)laced in a 
trough tilled with a solution of ferro-cyanide of potassium containing a 
few drops of nitric acid, and unrolled by the motion of clock-work over 
a leaden c^dinder with which one of the iron wires of the line was in 
connection, while the end of the other iron wire rested on the wetted 

^Thomson's JwHo/s of PhUosophi), Feb. 1816, vol. vii. p. 162. 

\ Report of Academy of Indnstrii, Paris. Quoted from A. Vail's Electro-Maf/neUc Tele- 
graj)h, 1845, p. V.io. Also TurnbuH's Elceiro-Magnctie Telegraph, 2d ed. 1853, p. 56. 

\ Practical Afcchanic and En(jineer''s Magazine, Glasgow, Nov. 1845, vol. i, 2d series, 
l^. 33. 



272 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

calico immediately over tlie cylinder. On every completion of the cir- 
cuit at the transmitting station, a blue mark was thus imprinted on the 
moving cloth by the electrical decomposition, and the succession of 
marks of diflering lengths and intervals formed the system of signals. 
This telegraph was found to work satisfactorily through eighteen hun- 
dred yards of wire fence.* 

1846. Mr. Alexander Bain, of Edinburgh, obtained an English patent 
for a galvano-chemical telegraph, which while exhibiting considerable 
ingenuity in its mechanical devices, imitated very closely in its chemical 
record the previous system of Smith. " The chemical solution preferred 
for the preparation of the paper consists of sulphuric acid and a solution 
of prussiate of potassa.'' t 

1849. Prof. Samuel E. B. Morse, of Kew York, obtained an American 
patent for a galvano-chemical telegraph, also very similar to that of 
Smith, employing like him a single circuit, and specifying, among sev- 
eral metallic salts which might be used, solutions of iodide of potassium, 
of iodide of tin, and of acetate of lead, with nitrate of potassa. The in- 
ventor added : "I wish it to be understood that I do not confine myself 
to the use of the substances I have mentioned, but mean to comprehend 
the use of any known substance already proved to be easily decomposed 
by the electric current." | 

III. — TELEGRAPHS BY GALVANO-MAGNETISM. 

Meanwhile the rapid awakening of attention among physicists to the 
magnetic relation of the galvanic current, and the production of the gal- 
vanometer, at once indicated a new and promising method of signaling 
to a distance by galvanic agency. 

The Galvanometer. — In 1820, Hans Christian Oersted, professor of nat- 
ural philosophy at Copenhagen, announced through various European 
journals his discovery that if a straight conjunctive wire through which 
a galvanic current is passing "be placed horizontally above the mag- 
netic needle and i)arallel to it . . . the needle will be moved, and 
the end next the negative side of the battery will go westward. . . . 
If the uniting wire be placed in a horizontal plane under the magnetic 
needle all the effects are the same as when it is above the needle, only 
they are in an opposite direction." § 

Although the directive influence of a galvanic conductor on a mag- 

* Practical Mcchaiuc and Engineers' Magazine, June, 1846, vol. i, 2d series, pp. 239, 240. 

i English 2mtent of A. Baiu, Dec. 12, 1846, No. 11480. 

X American patent of S. F. B. Morse, May 1, 1849, No. 6420. 

^ Thomsou's Annals of riiilosopluj, Oct. 1820, vol. xvi, pp. 274,27.5. (Also, Journal 
de Physique, etc. 1820, vol. xci, pp. 72-76; Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 1820, vol. 
xiv, pp. 417-425; BihUotheque Unirerselle des Sciences, etc. 1820, vol. xlv, pp. 274-284; 
Annales Generales des Sciences Phi/siques, 1820, vol. v, pp. 259-264; Gilbert's Annalen 
der Physik, 1820, vol. Ixvi, pp. 29:)-;304; Scliweiggev's Journal fiir Chemie und Physik, 
1820, vol. xxix, pp. 275-281; Giornale Arcadico di Scienze, etc. 1820, vol. viii, pp. 
174-178; Brugnatelli's Giornale di Fisica, etc. 1820, pp. 335-342.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 273 

netic needle, was observed and announced b;v »^ Italian savant, Gian 
]3onienico Eomagnosi, of Trent, at the beginning of the present cen- 
tury, (shortly after the production of the galvanic battery by Volta,) 
this important phenomenon attracted no attention, and produced no re- 
sults, uutil it was republished two decades later by the Danish physicist.* 
In the same year — almost immediately after Oersted's announcement, 
Prof. Johaun S. C. Schweigger, of Halle, made a great improvement on 
his galvano-magnetic indicator (of a single wire circuit), by giving the 
insulated wire a number of turns around an elongated frame longitudi- 
nally inclosing the compass-needle, and by thus multiplying the effect of 
the galvanic circuits upon the sensibility of the needle converted it into 
a real measuring instrument, — a '' galvanometer."t 

This delicate indicator at once suggested a new mode of galvanic tele- 
graphing. In a memoir read to the '^ Royal Academy of Sciences," at 
Paris, October 2, 1820, Andre Marie Ampere, affirming " the possibility 
of deflecting a magnetic needle at a great distance from the pile, through 
a very long conducting wire," remarked : " This exj^eriment, suggested 
to me by the illustrious Laj^lace, was completely successful. . . . 
From the success of the experiment " he added, " it is feasible by means 
of as many conducting wires and magnetic needles as there are letters, 
(each letter being assigned to a separate needle,) and by help of a bat- 
tery at a distance, with its poles alternately connected with the extrem- 
ities of each conductor, to establish a kind of telegraph adapted to 
transmit over intervening obstacles whatever information may be de- 
sired to the person observing the letters of the needles. A set of keys 
near the battery, bearing corresponding letters and making connection 
by their depression, would offer a facile means of correspondence ; re- 

*As early as 1802, eighteen years before Oersted's discovery, M. Eomagnosi, a publi- 
cist and physicist of Trent, observed the detlectiou of the magnetic" needle when 
placed near a parallel conductor of the galvanic current. An account of this dis- 
covery was published in the Gaszetta cli Trcnto, August 3, 1802. See "Supplement," 
Note B. 

t " Additions to Oersted's Electro-magnetic Experiments," a memoir read at the Xatur- 
forschenden Gesellschaft at Halle, September Ifi and November 4, 18-20. An abstract of 
this paper was published in the Alh/emeine Litcratur-Zcifung of Halle, (4to,) November, 
1820, No. 296, vol. iii, col. 621-624. The full memoir ajipeared in the Joiinial filr 
Chemieund Physik, 1821, vol. xxxi, pp. 1-17; and "Additional Eemarks," etc. by Dr. 
Schweigger, in the same volume, pp. 35-41. 

A galvanometer of somewhat ditterent form, having a vertical helix and employiuo- 
an unmagnetized needle, was very shortly afterward independently devised by Johanu 
Christian Poggendortf, of Berlin; and as he preceded Schweigger in publishing an ac- 
count of it, he is sometimes regarded as the original inventor. {Jidinhnrf/h I'hlUmophi- 
cal Journal, July, 1821, vol. v, p. 113.) Schweigger designated his device' an " Electro- 
magnetic Multiplicator " ; Poggendortf designated his arrangement a " Galvano-mag- 
netic Condensator." Professor Oersted remarks, " lumicdiately after the discovery of 
electro-magnetism, M. Schweigger, professor at Halle, invented an apparatus admirably 
adapted for exhibiting by means of the uuignetic needle, the feeblest electric currents. 
M. Poggendorff, a distinguished young savant of Berlin, constructed an 
electro-magnetic multi])lier very shortly after M. Scliweigger, with which he made 
some striking experiments. M. Poggendortl's work having been cited in a book on 
electro-magnetism by the celebrated M. Ernan, (published'iujniediately after the dis- 
covery of these phenomena,) became known to several i)hilosoi>hers before that of M. 
Schweigger." (Annales dc Chimic et dc PlujaUnw, 1823, vol. xxii, pp. 358-360.) 

S. Mis. 59 18 



274 * HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

quiring only the time to touch each key at the one station, and to read 
eacli letter at the other."* 

Ingenious as this early proposal of an electro-magnetic telegraph ap- 
l^ears, it really presents essentially but the substitution of the new-found 
galvanometer for the old electrometer at the receiving station, as first 
employed by Lesage, nearly half a century previously. 

1833. The first to develop practically, Ampere's suggestion of a gal- 
vanometer telegraph, was the Russian Baron Paul Ludovitsch Schilling, 
of Cronstadt. The i)ersonal friend of Soemmering, he became from an 
early date warmly interested in the galvanic telegraph; and not long 
after Schweigger's invention of the galvanometer, he appears to have 
commenced his experiments in the direction pointed out by Ampere. 
His countryman, the venerable Dr. Hamel, of St. Petersburg, who en- 
joyed his acquaintance, gave in 1859, in his "Historical account of the 
introduction of the galvanic and electro-magnetic Telegraph," the follow- 
ing interesting particulars of Schilling's early associations and pursuits :t 

"At the time when Soemmering became a member of the Academy of 
Sciences at Munich, in 1805, there was attached to the Russian embassy 
in that cai)ital, the Baron Pavel Ludovitsch Schilling, of Cronstadt. 
About a year after the invention of the telegraiih [by the former] Schil- 
ling saw experiments performed with it. He was so forcibly struck with 
the probability of a very great usefulness of the invention that from that 
day galvanism and its applications became one of his favorite studies." 

"In the spring of 1812, Baron Schilling was endeavoring to contrive 
a conducting cord sufficiently insulated that it might convey the gal- 
vanic current not only through wet. earth, but also through long dis- 
tances of water. The war then impending between France and Russia 
made Baron Schilling desirous of finding a means by which such a con- 
ducting cord should serve for telegraphic correspondence between for- 
tified places and the field, and likewise for exploding powder mines 
across rivers. ... In the autumn of 1812, he actually exploded 
powder mines across the river Neva, near St. Petersburg. . . . 
Baron Schilling has told me that during his stay at Paris, he with his 
subaqueous conductor, several times (to the astonishment of the lookers- 
on) ignited gunpowder across the river Seine." 

"On the 29th of December, 1815, there came to pay his respects to 
Soemmering (while Baron Schilling was just with him) the well-known 
natural philosopher Johann Salomon Chistian Schweigger, then pro- 
lessor of natural i^hilosophy and chemistry at the Physico-technical In- 
stitute at Nuremberg, who was on his way to Paris and London : (in which 

* Annales de Chimie etde Physique, 1820, vol. xv, pp. 72, 73. 

] The writer states: "Letters show that the cordial friendship between Sa?mmeriug 
and Baron Schilling continued unchanged to the time of his decease in 1830." Schil- 
ling died August 7, 18:37. Dr. Hamel himself had the fortune to he personally ac- 
quainted with Oersted, Schweigger, Ampere, Arago, Soemmering, Schilling, and other 
electro-magnetic and telegraphic celebrities. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH, 275 

latter place I had afterward the pleasure of making his acquaintance.) 
. , . Baron Schilling having made at Scemmering's the acquaint- 
ance of Schweigger, of course could not foresee that one day an invention 
of this gentleman, the 'multiplier,' would enable him to make at St. 
Petersburg, the first electro-magnetic telegraph."* 

It is impossible, in the scarcity of documentary evidence, to ascer- 
tain at what date Schilling's long contemplated project of a galvan- 
ometer telegraph (designed as an improvement on the galvanic telegraph 
of his friend Soemmeriug) was first reduced to a practical or working 
form : but it was at least as early as the year 1823, when Schilling con- 
structed at St. Petersburg an electro-magnetic telegraph apparatus whose 
signals were produced by five galvanometer needles, each provided with 
its own independent galvanic circuit. Schilling was enabled to effect 
his great simplification of an original alphabet of circuits, by the inge- 
nious expedient of giving to each needle a iDositive and negative motion by 
means of reversed currents, and then of combining two or more of these 
signals. Whether this was really Schilling's first form of apparatus is 
very doubtful ; but it is at least certain that he exhibited an operative 
instrument before the Emperor Alexander in 1824, or in 1825.t 

Dr. Hamel remarks : " It was reserved for Baron Schilling at St. Peters- 
burg to make the first electro-magnetic telegraph. Having become (as 
we know) through Scemmeriug, at Munich, passionately fond of the art 
of telegraphing by means of galvanism, he now used for it the deflection 
of the needle, which he placed within the 'Diultiplier' of Schweigger 
horizontally on a light vertical axle hanging on a sillien thread, and bear- 
ing a circular disk of jiaper colored differently on each side. . . . By 
degrees he simplified the apparatus. For a time he used five needles, and 
at last he was able to signalize even with one single needle and multiplier, 
producing by a combination of movements in the two directions, all the 
signs for letters and numbers. Having known Scemmering's alarum. 
Schilling invented one for his telegraph also. His success in bringing 
his instruments to a high state of perfection would have been much 
more rapid had his time not been so much occupied with various duties, 
and particularly with the founding and directing of a large lithograi)hio 
establishment for the Russian Government. Baron Schilling's telegraph 
was an object of great curiosity at St. Petersburg ; it was frequently 
exhibited bj^ him to individuals and to parties. Already the Em])eror 
Alexander I, had beeu pleased to notice it in its earlier stage, and when 
it was reduced to great simi)licity, his Mijjesty the Emperor ISTicholas 
honored Baron Schilling on the 13th of March, 1830, with a visit at his 
lodgings in Opotchinin's house, in the Konoosheunaja, to see experiments 
performed with it through a great length of conducting wires. . . . 

" In May of the last-mentioned year (1830) Baron Schilling undertook 
a journey to China. . . . After his return from the borders of China to 

* Journal of the Socirtij of Arts, July 22, 1850, vol. vii, pp. 597, 598. 
tThe Emperor Alexander died iu 18'25. 



276 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

St. Petersburg, in March, 1832, Baron Schilling occupied himself again 
with the telegraph, and in May, 1835, he undertook a journej' to the west 
of Europe, talking his simplilied instrument with him. In the month of 
September he attended the meeting of the German physicists at Bonn 
on the Rhine, where on the 23d he exhibited his telegraph before the 
•section of natural philosophy and chemistry, over which Professor 
Georg Wilhelm Muncke, of the University of Heildelberg, presided. 
Muncke was much pleased with Schilling's instrument, and he determined 
at once to get one for exhibition at his lectures. I have lately found at 
Heidelberg . . . in a store-room, the apparatus which Professor 
Muncke got made in imitation of the one exhibited by Baron Schilling 
at Bonn." * 

The conflicting accounts of Schilling's system given at a later date 
appear to refer to instruments constructed at different periods. Thus it 
is said that in the latter part of 1832 [!] he used a " certain number of 
platinum wires insulated and united in a cord of silk, which put in action, 
by the aid of a species of key, 3G magnetic needles, each of which was 
placed vertically in the center of a multiplier. M. de Schilling was the 
first who adapted to this kind of apparatus an ingenious mechanism 
suitable for sounding an alarm, wliich when the needle was turned at 
the beginning of the correspondence, was set in play by the fall of a 
little ball of lead which the magnetic needle caused to fall. This tele- 
graph of M. de Schilling was received with approbation by the Empe- 
ror, who desired it established on a larger scale : but the death of the 
inventor j)OStponed the enterprise indefinitely." f 

It is also stated in another account, that Schilling exhibited his tele- 
graphic instruments before the Emperor Alexander. "In order to ap- 
prise the attendant before the commencement of a telegraphic dispatch, 
Scliilling set off an alarm. How much of his apparatus belongs prop- 
erly to the Baron Schilling, or whether a part of it was not an imitation 
of that of Gauss and Weber, is not for the editor to decide; but that 
Schilling had already experimented (probably with a more imperfect ap- 
paratus) before the Emperor Alexander, and subsequently before the 
Emperor Nicholas, is affirmed by the authorities adduced." The account 
describes the communications as consisting of signs devised from the 
various combmatious of the right and left deflections of the single nee- 

*Jonnial of ihe Societt/ of Ai-ts, July 29, ISoO, vol. vii, p)i. (iOO, (507. The Jip])tinitus 
above rel'errecl to, is iiotuworthy as beiiiji,- tLat seen by Mr. William Fotlierjjili Cooke 
on attemlin.t;' one of the lectures by Professor Mmicke, at Heidelbevii, March (>, 1836, 
on the electro-magnetic telegraph; and which apparatns he proceeded immediately to 
bave re])rodnced. Keturnin,i;- to l^ondon April 22, of ihe same year, Mr. Cooke, (in con- 
junction with Professor Wbeatstone,) succeeded l)y Iris energy in introducing the needle 
telegraph into England : and vhus Scliilling's great invention became transplanted from 
St. IVtersburg to Lon(h)n, witlioul either of its English introducers liaving any ideaof 
its true origin. As Dr. Hamel remarks: ''Mr. Cooke, who liad never occupied himself 
with (he study either of natural philosophy in general, or of electricity in particular, 
did not at all get further acqmiinted wilb Professor ]Muncke. He did not even acquire 
iiis name properly; he calls bim Mihicke. He had no idea that the api)aratus be bad 
seen had been contrived by Baron .Schilling in Russia." 

\ Jxcport of the "Academj- of Industry," Paris, February, 1839. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 277 

die.* It must evidently have been at a later date than 1825 when 
Schilling reduced his telegraph line to a single circuit of two wires and 
employed but a single galvanometer. Whether Schilling or Gauss was 
the original inventor of that most important improvement in galvanic 
t-elegraphy, the simplification and reduction of the line of communication 
to a single circuit cannot now perhaps be definitely determined ; t but 
that the credit belongs to Schilling seems highly jn^obable. That Schill- 
ing first invented and constructed a practical and operative electro-mag- 
netic telegraph apparatus is iilaced beyond dispute; although the his- 
torical evidences of actual date are somewhat obscure. It is remarkable 
that although Schilling's early experimental telegraph was widely ex- 
hibited, and to numbers of distinguished visitors, no contemporary pub- 
lication of its character or construction was made ; and the invention was 
unknown to Western Europe for a dozen years later.| 

Thus, in 1829, Gustav Theodor Fechner, of Leipsic, evidently quite un- 
aware of Schilling's labors — years before, wrote in a text-book on Gal- 
vanism: "There is no doubt that if the insulated wires of twenty-four 
multipliers, representing the letters of the alphabet (situated in Leipsic, 
for exami)le), were conducted underground to Dresden, where should 
be placed a battery, we would have thereby a medium of communica- 
tion probably not very exj)eusive, through which intelligence could be 
instantaneously transmitted from one city to another," § 

And in the year following, 1830, Dr. William Ritchie, at London, in a 
lecture before the Eoyal Institution on the evening of February 12, 
exhibited a working model of a telegraph provided with 26 circuits of 
wire for the several letters of the alphabet, "Mr. Eitchie concluded by ex- 
hibiting the electro-magnetic telegraph proposed by Ampere, hj means 
of which, rapid communication might be carried on between towns in 
every state of the weather. The lecturer concluded by observing that 
in the present state of the inquiry, we cannot pronounce with absolute 
certainty with regard to the success of this ingenious project." |1 

TJie Electro-Magnet. — But almost simultaneously with the birth of the 
galvanometer, this fertile agent — electricity — developed anew and no less 

* Poljjtcchnischcs Cenlml-Blatt, June, 18:58, Jahrgaiig iv. b. i,p. 4S(i. 

t Ono of the foremost of telcgrapliic inventors, and the personal friend of Ganss, 
Steiuheil himself, speaks thus uncertainly on this subject: "The experiments in- 
stituted by Schilling l)y the dcllection of a single magnetic needle, seem nnu;h better 
contrived [than Ampere's plan of an alphabet of wires, adopted by Mr. Davy and 
others]; he did not, howevcu-, succeed in surmounting the mecbanical diHicultie's that 
attend the question in this sbape . . . Ganss, and ]>n)bal>ly in imitation of him, 
Schilling . '. . made use of but a single wire running to tlie distant station and 
back." (Sturgeon's Annals of Ekctridhi, etc. March, 18:;il, vol. iii, pp. 448 and 450.) 

I In 18:^), Schilling, assisted l)y Baron Jacqniu and Professor Ettingshansen, experi- 
mented with telegraph wires (>xtended over the houses and across the streets of Vienna, 
preferring air lines to conductors laid in rhe earth. In 18:57, Scliilling ordei-ed at a. 
rope manufactory in St. PetcMsbnrg the necessary length of an insulated submarine 
cable, for the purpose of connecting telegraphically that capital with Cronstadt, 
through a portion of the Gulf of Finland; the dislanc(> between the two cities being 
twenty miles. His death which occurred August 7, 18:57, arrested the enterprise. 

^ Lehrbiich clcs Galvanismns, etc. by G. F. Fechner, 8vo. Leipzig, 1829, p. 2G9. 

II Tlie Quarterly Journal of the Roy. Inst, of Gr. Brit. Mar. 18:50, vol. xxix, p. 185. 



278 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

marvelous progeny. In the ^anie year, 1820, Dominique Francois Arago, 
of Paris, announced, "On repeating the experiments of the Danish 
physicist, I have observed that the same current will develop strongly 
in strips of iron or steel, the magnetic power. . . . The conjunctive 
wire communicates to soft iron but a momentary magnetization ; but to 
small pieces of steel it gives frequently a permanent magnetism. I have 
been able thus to completely magnetize sewing-needles."* 

This germ of a new i)ower required, as usual, the successive labors of 
more than one philosophic investigator to develop fully its caj^acities. 
To William Sturgeon, of Woolwich, England, belongs the distinguished 
honor (too little appreciated by his countrymen) of giving to the scien- 
tific toy of Arago a suitable form, and thus of first i)rodncing in 1824, the 
true electro-magnet with its intermittent control of an armature. Dis- 
pensing with the glass tube of Arago, Sturgeon constructed a horse-shoe 
bar of soft iron (after the form of the usual permanent magnet), which he 
coated with a non-conducting resinous varnish. Then wmding a copper 
wire in a loose coil directly about the limbs of the horse-shoe, on brmg- 
ing the ends of the wire in connection with the poles of a single galvanic 
pair of moderate size, he found his temporary magnet capable of sus- 
taining several i^ounds by its armature; and on breaking the circuit, 
becoming instantly powerless. 

It resulted from the correlative function of the galvanic current in 
directing transversely a x^ermanently magnetized needle (first discovered 
by Eomagnosiand Oersted), or in inducing temporary magnetism hi iron 
thus transversely placed (first discovered by Arago and Sturgeon), that 
two distinct methods of signaling were offered by this new agency, 
accordiiigly as a i^ermanent or a temporary magnet were employed. In 
the former case, the determined oscillations of the magnetic har, by 
means of intermittent currents in a surrounding coil, would form the 
indicating device ; and in the latter case, the determined oscillations of 
the armature, by means of intermittent currents in the coil surrounding 
its associated magnet, would give the indication. Hence the two types 
of electro-magnetic telegraph; the magnetic -needle system, and the 
magnetic-armature system, t 

On experimenting with the galvanometer needle, it was very soon dis- 
covered that it responded only to variations of surface action in a single 
pair of galvanic elements, and that a large number of galvanic cells (as 
in the Cruickshanks battery), having even a greater total surface of oxi- 

* Annalei< de Chimie et de Physique, 1820, vol. xv, pp. 93, 95, Arago's method of experi- 
mentatiou cousisted in ^Yilldill.£|;thc wire conuectiug tlie poles of the battery, around a 
glasw tube iu a loose helix, within which tube small pieces of iron or steel were placed. 
Sir Humphrey Davy, of England, not long afterward, also magnetized steel-needles 
by galvanism ; and even effected the result with ordinary electricity from a Leydeu-jar 
battery. (Annals of PhUosopli}!, August, 1821, vol. ii, n. s. pp. 81-88.) This was the 
gerui — though scarcely more than the germ — of the electro-magnet. For a notice of 
early anticipations of electro-magnetism, see " Supplement,"' Note C. 

t A modiiication of the latter system, by which the oscillations of an armature are 
superseded by the variable attraction between the magnetized core and its hollow 
galvanic coil, might perhaps be considered as forming a third type — that of the 
"axial" uuxgnet. This has been employed in House's printing telegraph. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 279 

dation, produced but a comparatively small declination of Scbweigger's 
needle. In fact, no multiplication of galvanic elements was successful 
in increasing the deflection of a given galvanometer. On the other hand, 
the same galvanometer was found to have its deflections greatly reduced 
with every increase in the length of the interi)osed circuit. And here 
again an increase of surface in the galvanic pair failed to overcome the 
increased resistance of a lengthened conductor. There was also an 
early limit found to the number of turns in the galvanometer coil, which 
could be efficiently employed with any given surface of oxidizable metal 
in the single galvanic element. 

In 1824, Peter Barlow, the eminent English mathematician and mag- 
netician, taking up Am lucre's suggestion, endeavored more fully to test 
its i^racticability. He has thus stated the result : "In a very early 
stage of electro-magnetic experiments, it had been suggested that an 
instantaneous telegraph might be established by means of conducting 
wires and compasses. The details of this contrivance are so obvious, 
and the principle on which it is founded so well understood, that there 
was only one question which could render the result doubtful ; and this 
was, is there any diraunition of effect by lengthening the conducting 
wire ? It has been said that the electric fluid from a common [tin-foil] 
electrical battery had been transmitted through a wii'e four miles in 
length without any sensible diminution of efl'ect, and to every appear- 
ance instantaneously ; and if this should be found to be the case with 
the galvanic circuit, then no question could be entertained of the prac- 
ticability and utility of the suggestion above adverted to. I was there- 
fore induced to mate the trial ; but I found such a sensible diminution 
with only 200 feet of wire, as at once to convince me of the impractica- 
bility of the scheme. It led me however to an inquiry as to the cause 
of this diminution and the laws by which it is governed." * 

From the rapid reduction of effect observed with increasing lengths of 
conjunctive wire under the conditions tried, Barlow (from a considerable 
series of experimental results) was led to believe that the resistance of 
the conducting wire is api^roximately proportional to the square root of 
its length, t 

Notwithstanding therefore Ampere's "completely successful" experi- 
ment " through a very long conducting wire" and Schilling's later work- 
ing of his telegraph " through a great length of wires," (the precise 
length of the circuit not being stated in either case,) the problem of the 
electro -magnetic telegraph could hardly be considered as satisfactorily 
solved for any practical purposes of communicating to great distances. 
In the deliberate judgment of one of the most eminent of English phys- 

* "• Ou the laws of electro-magnetic action." Edinlur(jh PhilosojjMcal Journal, Jan. 
1825, vol. xii, p. 105. 

tPp. 110, 111 of the JoiTrnaljnst cited. Later experiments nnder varied conditions 
have shown that Ohm's law (announced three years after Barlow's) of a simple ratio 
of resistance to length is approximately correct. 



280 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

icists in this special departmeut, careful experiment only tended to show 
" the imi)racticability of the scheme." 

It is at this point that there appears a new explorer in the electro- 
magnetic field; a field from which apparently all the laurels had been 
already gathered. Joseph Henry, elected to the professorship of mathe- 
matics and natural philosophy in the Albany Academy, of New Yorlc, in 
1826, commenced very shortly afterward his scientific investigations. 
Sturgeon, in 1824, had pointed out the proper manner of making an 
"electro -magnet," and had also greatly improved lecture-room apparatus 
for illustrating the torsional reaction between a permanent magnet and 
a galvanic circuit when either is made movable. By introducing in 
such cases a larger and more powerful magnet he had succeeded in ex- 
hibiting the usual phenomena on a larger scale with a considerable re- 
duction of the battery xDOwer.* 

Henry was enabled by his skillful experimental investigations to ex- 
hibit all the class illustrations attempted by Sturgeon, not only on a 
still larger and more conspicuous scale, with the use of feeble magnets 
(where required), but with a still further reduction of the battery power. 
And he moreover carried out the same results to other cases where an 
artificial magnet is inapplicable, as for example, in the illustration of 
Ampere's fine discovery of the mutual action of two electric currents on 
each other, or of the influence of the terrestrial magnetism on a current, 
as in Ampere's swinging galvanic ring, or the floating ring of De La 
Eive. These very striking and unexpected results were obtained by the 
simple expedient of adopting in every case where single circuits had 
previously been used, the manifold coil of fine wire which Schweigger 
had employed to increase the sensibility of the galvanometer. 

The coils employed by Henry in the various articles of apparatus thus 
improved, comprised usually about twenty turns of fine copper wire 
wound with silk to prevent metallic contact, the whole being closely 
bound together. To exhibit for instance Ampere's ingenious and deli- 
cate experiment showing the directive action of the earth as a magnet 
on a galvanic current when its conductor is free to move, (usually a small 
wire frame or ring, of a few inches in diameter, with its extremities dip- 
ping either into mercury cups or into mercury channels,) the effect was 
strikingly enhanced by Henry's method of suspending by a silk thread 
a large circular coil, 20 inches in diameter, of many wire circuits bound 
together with ribbon, — the extremities of the wire protruding at the 
lower part of the hoop, and soldered to a pair of small galvanic plates; — 
when by siinpl^^ placing atumblerof acidulated water beneath, the hoop 

* Transaciions of the Society for the cuconrar/ement of Arts, etc. 1825, vol. xliii, pp. 38-52. 
Sturgeon's battery (of a single element) consisted " of two lixed hollow concentric cyl- 
inders of thin copper, having a movable cylinder of zinc placed between them. IliS 
superficial area is only 130 square inches, and it weighs no more than I lb. 5 oz." Mr. 
Stui'geon was deservedly awarded the silver medal of the Society for the Encourage- 
ment of Arts, &c. " for his improved electro-magnetic apparatus." The same is de- 
scribed also, in the Annals of Philosophy, Nov. 1826, vol. xii, n. s. pp. 357-3'JI. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 281 

at once assumed (after a few oscillations) its equatorial position transverse 
to the magnetic meridian. Such was the character of demonstration by 
"Which the new Professor was accustomed to make visible to his classes 
the principles of electro-magnetism. And it is safe to say that in sim- 
plicity, efficiency, and conspicuous distinctness, such apparatus for the 
lecture-room was far superior to any of the kind then existing. 

The details of this early contribution to electrical science were set 
forth in a communication read by Henry before the Albany Institute 
October 10, 1827, " On some modifications of the electro-magnetic api)a- 
ratus." In this paper he remarks : 

" Mr. Sturgeon, of Woolwich, who has been perhaps the most success- 
ful in these improvements, has shown that a strong galvanic i^ower is 
not essentially necessary even to exhibit the experiments on the largest 
scale. . . . Mr. Sturgeon's suite of apparatus, though superior to any 
other as far as it goes, does not however form a complete set ; as indeed 
it is plain that his principle of strong magnets cannot be introduced 
into every article required, and particularly into those iiitended to ex- 
hibit the action of the earth's magnetism on a galvanic current, or the 
operation of two conjunctive wires on each other. To form therefore a 
set of instruments on a large scale that will illustrate all the facts be- 
longing to this science, with the least expense of galvanism, evidently 
requires some additional modification of the api^aratus, and particularly 
in those cases in which powerful magnets cannot be applied. And such 
a modification appears to me to be obviously pointed out in the con- 
struction of Professor Schweigger's galvanic 'multiplier'; the principles 
of this instrument being directly applicable to all the experiments in 
which Mr. Sturgeon's improvement fails to be useful."* 

Should any one be disposed to conclude that this simj)le extension of 
Schweigger's multiple coil was unimportant and unmeritorious, the ready 
answer occurs, that talented and skillful electricians, laboring to attain 
the result, had for six years failed to make such an extension. Kor was 
the result by any means made antecedently assured by Schweigger's 
success with the galvanometer. If Sturgeon's improvement of econo- 
mizing the battery size and consumption, by increasing the magnet 
factor (in those few cases where available), was well deserving of reward? 
surely Henry's improvement of a far greater economy, by increasing 
the circuit factor (entirely neglected by Sturgeon), deserv^ed a still higher 
applause. 

In a subsequent communication to Silliman's Journal, Henry remarks 
on the results announced in October, 1827 : " Shortly after the publica- 
tion mentioned, several other applications of the coil, besides those de- 
scribed in that paper, were made in order to increase the size of electro- 
magnetic apparatus, and to diminish the necessary galvanic power. The 
most interesting of these was its application to a development of mag- 
netism in soft iron, much more extensive than to my knowledge had been 

* Transactions of tl\e Albany Institute, vol. i, pp. 22, 23. 



282 HENEY AND THE TELEGEAPII. 

previoiisly effected by a small galvanic element." And in another later 
paper, lie repeated to tlie same effect : "After reading an account of 
the galvanometer of Schweigger, the idea occurred to me that a much 
nearer approximation to the theory of Ampere could he attained by in- 
sulating the conducting-wire itself, instead of the rod to be magnetized ; 
and by covering the whole surface of the iron with a series of coils in 
close contact." 

The electro-magnet figured and described by Sturgeon (in his commu- 
nication of ]!fovember, 1825,) consisted of a small bar or stout iron wire 
bent into a f| or horse-shoe form, havhig a copper wire wound loosely 
around it in eighteen turns, with the ends of the wire dipping into mer- 
cury-cups connected with the respective poles of a battery having 130 
square inches of activ^e surface. This was undoubtedly the most effi- 
cient electro-magnet then in existence. 

In June of 1828, Henry exhibited to the Albany Institute a small-sized 
electro-magnet closely wound with silk-covered copper wire about one- 
thirtieth of an inch in diameter. By thus insulating the conducting 
wire, instead of the magnetic bar or core, he was enabled to employ a 
compact coil in close juxtaposition from one end of the horse-shoe to the 
other, obtaining thereby a much larger number of circuits, and with 
each circuit more nearlj^ at right angles with the magnetic axis. The 
lifting power of this magnet is not stated, though it must obviously have 
been much more powerful than the one described by Sturgeon. 

In March of 1820, Henry exhibited to the Institute a somewhat larger 
magnet of the same character. "A round piece of iron about one-quar- 
ter of an inch in diameter was bent into the usual form of a horse-shoe, 
and instead of losel}' coiling around it a few feet of wire, as is usually 
described, it was tightly wound with 35 feet of wire covered with silk, 
so as to form about 400 turns ; a pair of small galvanic plates which 
could be dipped into a tumbler of diluted acid, was soldered to the ends 
of the wire, and the whole mounted on a stand. With these small plates 
the horse-shoe became much more powerfully magnetic than another of 
the same size and wound in the usual manner, by the application of a 
battery composed of 28 plates of copper and zinc each 8 inches square. " 
In this case the coil was wound upon itself in successive layers. 

To Henry, therefore, belongs the exclusive credit of having first con- 
structed the magnetic "spool" or "bobbin," that form of coil since 
universally employed for every application of electro-magnetism, of in- 
duction, or of magneto-electrics. 

In the latter part of 1829, Henry still further increased the magnetic 
power derived from a single galvanic pair of small size, by a new arrange- 
ment of the coil. " It consisted in using several strands of wire each 
covered with silk, instead of one." Employing a horse-shoe formed 
from a cylindrical bar of iron half an inch in diameter and about ten 
inches long, wound with 30 feet of tolerably fine copper wire, he found 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 283 

that Tvitli a current from only two and a half square mches of zinc, the 
magnet hekl 14 pounds.* Winding upon its arms a second wire of the 
same length (30 feet) whose ends were similarly joined to the .same gal- 
vanic pah', the magnet lifted 28 pounds. On these results he remarks : 

" These experiments conclusively proved that a great development of 
magnetism could be effected by a very small galvanic element, and also 
that the power of the coil was materially increased by multiplying the 
number of wires, without increasing the length of each. The multi- 
plication of the wires increases the power in two ways : first, by con- 
ducting a greater quantity of galvanism, and secondly, by giving it a 
more proper direction ; for since the action of a galvanic current is di- 
rectly at right angles to the axis of a magnetic needle, by using sev- 
ea"al shorter wires we can wind one on each inch of the length of the 
bar to be magnetized, so that the magnetism of each inch will be dc; 
veloped by a separate wire. In this way the action of each particular 
coil becomes directed very nearly at right angles to the axis of the bar, 
and consequently the effect is the greatest possible. This principle is 
of much greater imiDortance when large bars are used. The advan- 
tage of a greater conducting power from using several wires might in a 
less degree be obtained by substituting for them one large wire of equal 
sectional area ; but in this case the obliquity of the spiral would be much 
greater, and consequently the magnetic action less."t 

But in the following year, 1830, Henry pressed forward his researches 
to still higher results. Assisted by his friend Dr. Philip Ten-Eyck, he 
proceeded to test the power of electro-magnetic attraction on a larger 
scale. "A bar of soft iron 2 inches square and 20 inches long was bent 
into the form of a horseshoe 9 J inches high; (the sharp edges of the bar 
were first a little rounded by the hammer;) it weighed 21 pounds. A 
piece of iron from the same bar, weighing 7 pounds, was filed i)erfectly 
flat on one surface for an armature or lifter. The extremities of the 
legs of the horse-shoe were also truly ground to the surface of the arm- 
ature. Around this horse-shoe 510 feet of copper bell-wire were w^ound 
in nine coils of 60 feet each ; these coils were not continued around the 
whole length of the bar, but each strand of wire (according to the prin- 
ciple before mentioned) occupied about two inches and was coiled sev- 
eral times backward and forward o\er itself. The several ends of the 
wires were left in'ojecting, and all numbered, so that the first and the 
last end of each strand might be readily distinguished. In this man- 
ner we formed an experimental magnet on a large scale, with which 
several combinations of wire could be made by merely uniting the dif- 
ferent projecting ends. Thus if the second end of the first wire be 
soldered to the first end of the second wire, and so on through all the 
series, the whole will form a continued coil of one long wire. By solder- 

* It must not be for;>otten that at the time Avlien this experimeutal magnet was 
marie, the strongest electro-magnet in Europe was that of Sturgeon, capable of sup- 
porting 'J pounds, with 130 square inches of zinc surtace in the battery. 

tSillimau 8 Am. Journal of Science, Jan. 1831, vol. xix, p. 402. 



284 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

ing different ends, the wLole may be formed into a double coil of half 
the length, or into a triple-coil of one-third the length, &c. The horse- 
shoe was suspended in a strong rectangular wooden-frame 3 feet 9 
inches high and 20 inches wide." 

Two of the wires (one from each extremity of the legs) being joined 
together by soldering, so as to form a single circuit of 120 feet, with its 
extreme ends connected with the battery, produced a lifting-power of 
60 pounds. (Experiment 19.) The same two wires being separately con- 
nected with the same battery (forming a double circuit of 60 feet each), 
a lifting-power of 200 pounds was obtained, (Experiment 10,) or more 
than three times the power of the former case with the same wire. 
Four wires (two from each extremity of the legs) being separately con- 
nected with the battery (forming four circuits) gave a lifting-power of 
500 pounds. (Experiment 12.) Six wires (three from each leg) united in 
three pairs (forming three circuits of 180 feet each) gave a lifting-power 
of 290 pounds. (Experiment 18.) The same six wires being separately 
connected with the battery in six independent circuits, produced a lift- 
ing-power of 570 pounds, (Experiment 13,) or very nearly double that of 
the same wires in double-lengths. When all the nine wires were sepa- 
rately attached to the battery a lifting-power of 050 pounds was evoked- 
(Experiment 14.) In all these experiments " a small single battery was 
used, consisting of two concentric copper cylinders, with zinc between 
them ; the whole amount of zinc-surface exposed to the acid from both 
sides of the zinc was two-fifths of a square foot ; the battery required 
only half a pint of dilute acid for its submersion." 

" In order to ascertain the effect of a very small galvanic element on 
this large quantity of iron, a pair of plates exactly one inch square was 
attached to all the wires ; the weight lifted was 85 pounds." (Experi- 
ment 16.) For the purpose of obtaining the maximum attractive power 
of this magnet, with its nine independent coils, " a small battery formetl 
with a plate of zinc 12 inches long and 6 wide, and surrounded by cop- 
per, was substituted for the galvanic element used in the former experi- 
ments : the weight lifted in this case was 750 pounds." (Experiment 
15.)* 

Although not directly connected with the purpose of this exposition, 

* Silliraan's Am. Jour. Sci. same vol. pp. 404, 405. The only European physicist wlw 
at this period had obtained any magnetic results even approaching those eli'ected by 
Henry, was Dr. Gerard Moll (professor of natural philosophy in the University of 
Utrecht), who having- seen in England in 1828 an electro-magnet of Stm-geou's which 
supported nine pounds (the very year in which Henry had exhibited a much more 
powerful magnet before the Albany Institute), "determined to try the effect of a larger 
galvanic apparatus" ; and in 1830 remarked, " I obtained results which appear astonish- 
ing." Having formed a horse-shoe about twelve and a half iuches in height, of a round 
bar of iron two and a quarter inches in diameter, he surrounded it with about 26 feet 
of insulated ccpper wire one-eighth of an inch thick, in a tolerably close coil of 44 
turns. The weight of the whole was about 26 pounds ; and with the curniit from a 
galvanic pair of'about 11 square feet of zinc surface, the magnet sustained a weight of 
154 pounds. (Brewsrer's Edinburgh Journal of Science, Oct., 183U, vol. iii, u. s. p. •214.) 
Henry's magnet less in size and weight, lifted about live times this load, with only 
one-eleventh of Moll's battery surface. 



HEXRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 285 

it may be added here that in the following year, 1831, Henry constructed 
for the laboratory of Yale College a magnet about one foot high from a 
three inch octagonal bar of iron thirty inches long, which wrapped with 
twenty-six strands of copper wire and excited by a battery surface of 
aJjoutfive square feet, supported 2,300 pounds. Professor Silliman wrote 
on this occasioD, " He has the honor of having constructed by far the 
most powerful magnets that have ever been known ; and his last, weigh- 
ing (armature and all) but 82^ i)Ounds, sustains over a ton. It is eight 
times more powerful than any magnet hitherto known in Europe."* 
And Sturgeon (if not the real father, at least the true foster-father, of 
the electro-magnet), with a generous enthusiasm, remarked : " Professor 
Henry has been enabled to produce a magnetic force which totally eclipses 
every other in the whole annals of magnetism ; and no parallel is to be 
found since the miraculous suspension of the celebrated oriental imx)ostor 
in his iron coffin."! 

But to return to his investigations of 1830, Henry, after finding that 
the highest attractive power of the magnet was developed by his novel 
artifice of multiple coils, proceeded to exjjeriment with the simjjle sj^ool 
magnet of long continuous single coil; and his researches were rewarded 
by a new discovery, namely that though the former method of winding 
the magnet produced tlio strongest attraction, the latter arrangement 
(under special conditions) permitted the weaker attractive power to be 
exercised at a far greater distance ; that is through a much greater 
length of conducting wire. 

Employing his earlier and smaller magnet of 1829, formed of a quar- 
ter-inch rod, but wound with about 8 feet of copper wire, he tried the ef- 
fects of different battery powers, of different length of circuits, and of dif- 
ferent lengths of coil uj^on the magnet. Excited with a single pair, " com- 
l>osed of a i)iece of zinc plate 4 inches by 7, surrounded with copi)er'' 
(about 56 square inches otzinc surface), the magnet sustained four and 
a half pounds. (Experiment 4.) With about 500 feet of insulated copper 
wire (.045 of an inch in diameter) interposed between the battery and 
the magnet, its lifting-power was reduced to two ounces; (Experiment 5;) 
or about 30 times. With double this length of wire (or a little over 1,000 
feet) interposed, the lifting-power of the magnet was only half an ounce • 
(Experiment 4;) thus fully confirming the results obtained by Barlow 
with the galvanometer ; and showing that the same conditions of en- 
feebled action with increasing length of circuit applied equally to the 
magnet. With a small galvanic pair 2 inches square, acting through 
the same length of wire, (over 1,000 feet,) '• the magnetism was scarcely 
observable in the horse-shoe." (Experiment 3.) 

Employing next a trough battery of 25 pairs, having the same zinc 
surface as previously, the magnet in direct connection, (which before had 
supported four and a half pounds,) now lifted but seven ounces; not 

*Sillimaii's Am. Jour. Sci. April, 1831, vol. xx, j). 201. 
\PliilosopMcal Magazine; ajid Annals, March, 1832, vol. xi, p. 199. 



286 HENEY AND THE TELEGKAPH. 

quite lialf a poimcl. But with the 1,060 feet of copper vrire (a little more 
than one fifth of a mile) suspended several times across the large room 
of the academy, and placed in the galvanic circuit, the same magnet sus- 
tained eight ounces : (Experiment 7 :) tliat is to say, the current from the 
galvanic trough produced greater magnetic effect through this length 
of wire, than it did without it. 

"From this experiment it appears that the current from a galvanic 
trough is capable of producing greater magnetic effect on soft iron after 
traversing more than one-fifth of a mile of intervening wire than when 
it passes only through the wire surrounding the magnet. It is possible 
that the different states of the trough with respect to dryness may have 
exerted some influence on this remarkable result ; but that the effect of 
a current from a trough if not increased is but slightly diminished in 
passing through a long wire is certain." And after speculating on this 
new and at the time somewhat paradoxical result, Henry concludes : 
" But be this as it may, the fact that the magnetic action of a current 
from a trough is at least not sensibly diminished by passing through a 
long wire, is directly applicable to Mr. Barlow's project of forming an 
electro-magnetic telegraph ;* and it is also of material consequence m 
the construction of the galvanic coil. From these experiments it is 
evident that in forming the coil we may euher use one very long wire, 
or st'v^eral shorter ones, as the circumstances may require : in the first 
cas^, our galvanic combination must consist of a number of plates so as 
to give 'projectile' force; in the second, it must be formed of a single 
pair."t 

The importance of this discovery can hardly be overestimated. The 
magnetic "spool" of fine wire, of a length — tens and even hundreds of 
times that ever before employed for this purpose, — was in itself a gift to 
science, which really forms an ei)och in the history of electro-magnetism. 
It is not too much to say that almost every advancement which has been 
made in this fruitful branch of x)hysics since the time of Sturgeons happy 
improvement, from the earliest researches of Faraday downward, have 
been directly indebted to Henry's magnets. | By means of the Henry 
•'spool" the magnet almost at a bound was developed from a feeble 
childhood to a vigorous manhood. And so rapidly and generally was 
the new form introduced abroad among experimenters, few of whom had 
ever seen the papers of Henry, that probably very few indeed have been 

* Eeally Ampere's project, not Barlow's. In a. suljsequent paper Henry corrected 
this allusion l>y saying, "I called it 'Barlow's project,' when I ought to have stated 
that Mr. Barlow's investigation merely tended to disprove the possibility of a 
telegraph." 

tSilliman's Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. 1831, vol. xix, pp. 403,404. 

tBoth forms of the Henry magnet have found valuable applications in science. In 
Faraday's iirst electrical investigations, in the latter part of 1831, he acknowledged 
the merit of Henry's magnets, and in constructing his duplex helices for oliserviug 
the phenomena of induction, he adopted Henry's method of winding 12 coils of coiiper 
wire each 27 feet long, one upon the other. (Philosophical Transactiois of ilie Eoyal 
Socidii, November 24, 1831, vol. cxxii [for 18.32], pp. 12(i and 138. And Faraday's Ex- 
perimental Researches, etc. vol. i, art. 6, p. 2, and art. 57, p. 15.) 



HENRY AlSro THE TELEGRAPH. 287 

aware to whom tliey were really indebted for this familiar and powerful 
instrumentality. But the historic fact remains, that i)rior to Henry's 
experiments in 1829, no one on either hemisphere had ever thought of 
winding the limbs of an electro-magnet on the principle of the "bobbin,'' 
and not till after the publication of Henry's method in January of 1831, 
was it ever employed by any European j)hysicist.* 

But in addition to this large gift to science, Henry (as we have seen) 
has the pre-eminent claim to popular gratitude of having first practi- 
cally worked out the difiering functions of two entirely different kinds 
of electro-magnet : the one surrounded with numerous coils of no great 
length, designated by him the "quantity" magnet, the other sur- 
rounded with a continuous coil of very great length, designated by 
him the "intensity" magnet. t The former and more powerful system, 
least affected by an "intensity" battery of many pairs, was shown to 
be most responsive to a single galvanic element : the latter and feebler 
system, least influenced by a single pair, was shown to be most excited 
by a battery of numerous elements ', but at the same time was shown to 
have the singular capability (never before suspected nor imagined) of 
subtile excitation from a distant source. Here for the first time is ex- 
perimentally established the important principle that there must be a 
proportion between the aggregate internal resistance of the battery and 
the whole external resistance of the conjunctive wire or conducting 
circuit; with the very important jiractical consequence, that by com- 
bining with an "intensity" magnet of a single extended fine coil an 
" intensitj'" battery of many small pairs, its electro-motive force enables 
a very long conductor to be employed without sensil)le diminution of the 
effect.f This was a very iuq)ortant though unconscious experimental 
confirmation of the mathematical theory of Ohm, embodied in his for- 
mula expressing the relation between electric flow and electric resist- 
ance, which though propounded two or three years previously, failed 
for a long time to attract any attention from the scientific world. § 

* Heury's "spool " magnet appears to have been introduced into France by Pouillet 
in 183?. See "Snpiilement," JN'ote D. 

t"In describing tlie results of niy experiments the terms 'intensity' and 'quantity' 
magnets were introduced to avoid circumlocution, and were intended to be used merely 
in a technical seiise. By the intcnaitj/ magnet I designated a piece of soft iron so sur- 
rounded with wire that its nuignetic power could bo called into operation by an ' in- 
tensity' battery ; and by a quantifi/ magnet, a jiiece of iron so surrounded by a number 
of separate coils that its magnetism could be fully developed by a ' (inantity ' battery." 
(Smithsonian Beport for 1857, p. 10:{. ) These terms though generally discarded by recent 
writers, are still very convenient designations of the two classes of action, both in the 
battery and in the magnet. 

t Beyond a certain maximum length, there is of course a decrease of power for each 
ditferiug coil of the "intensity" magnet, proportioned to the increased resistance of 
a long conductor ; but the magnetizing efl'ect has not been found to be diminished in 
the ratio of its length. In a very long wire, the magnetizing influence (with a suit- 
al)le "intensity" battery) appears to be inversely jiroportioned to the square of the 
length of the conductor. 

$Georg Simon Ohm, professor in physics at Munich, published at Berlin, in 1827, 
his " Galvanische Kette, mathematisch bearbeitet:" and in the following year, he 
jmblished a snpplemeutaiy paper entitled " Nachtriige zu seiner mathematisohen 
Bearbeitung der galvanischen Kette ; " in Kastuer's Archie fdr (jvsammte Xaturlehre : 



288 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

K'ever let it be forgotten that he who first exalted the "qnaiitity" 
magnet of Sturgeon from a power of twenty j^ounds to a power of twenty 
hundred pounds, was the absolute creator of the " intensity " mag- 
net; that magnet which alone is able to act at a great distance from its 
exciting battery ; — that magnet which by very reason of its lower 
" quantity " is alone applicable to the uses of telegraphy. 

As Professor Daniell has concisely stated the problem: "Electro- 
magnets of the greatest power, even when the most energetic batteiies 
are employed, utterly cease to act when they are connected by consider- 
able lengths of wire with the battery."* 

Seven years after Henry's first experimental demonstration of this 
unlooked-for result, and his comi)lete establishment of the conditions 
required for magnetizing iron at great distances through very long con- 
ducting wires. Prof. Charles Wheatstone, of King's College, London, 
having found a difficulty in signaling through four miles of wii^e, was 
enabled to work out the problem for his own telegraph, by help derived 
from Henry's labors. And yet he permitted his colleague. Prof. John 
P. Daniell, of King's College, to prefix to the passage above quoted 
from the excellent treatise on " Chemical Philosophy," the remarkable 
statement : " Ingenious as Professor Wheatstone's contrivances are, they 
would have been of no avail for telegraphic purposes without the in- 
vestigation, which he teas the first to malce, of the laws of electro-magnets, 
when acted on through great lengths of wire." And this erroneous 
declaration was published long after Henry's "quantity" and " intensity" 
magnets had been employed in the experiments of European elec- 
tricians ; and years after Professor Wheatstone himself had formed the 
acquaintance of Henry, and in April, 1837, had learned from his own 
lips an account of liis elaborate investigations and successful results.! 

Whether Baron Schilling ever experimented on a sufficient length of 
circuit to encounter' the fundamental practical difficulty announced by 
Barlow in 1825 does not appear ; but that formidable obstacle to the 
axjtual extension of his enterprise, certainly existed until the year 1831, 
when Henry announced that the principles demonstrated by his re- 
searches in 1829 and 1830, were "directty applicable to the project of 
forming an electro-magnetic telegraph." And while these principles 

(8vo. Niirnbcr<5 :) 1828, vol. xiv, pp. 475-493. Fourteen years after the publication of 
the former memoir, this elaborate discussion was for the first time translated into 
English, by Mr. William Francis. ("The Galvanic Circuit investigated mathemat>- 
ically." Taylor's Scknllfic Memoirs, etc. London, 1841, vol. ii, pp. 401-506.) 

* Introduction to the Studij of Chemical rhilosophy, second c<^lition, 8vo. London, 
1843, chap, xvi, sect. 859, p. 57"(). 

\ Smithsonian Report for 1.857, pp. Ill, 112. The following pertinent extract is 
made from an excellent and appreciative memoir of the "Life and Work of Joseph 
Henry," recently read at the annual session of the American Electrical Society, at 
Chicago, HI., December 12, 1878, by one of its vice-presidents, Mr. Frank L. Poi)C : " In 
185G, referring again to these experiments, Wheatstone writes : ' With this law and ita 
applications, no persons in England, who had before occupied themselves with experi- 
ments relating to electric telegraphs, had been acquainted.' ... It Avould seem 
from the peculiar wording of Wheatst-oue's statement last quoted, that he must then 
have been aware of Henry's priority in this res'pect, and had his experiments in mind, 
at the time of writing it." (Journal of the Am. Electrical Societi/, vol. ii, pp. 135, 13(3.) 
This subject is more fully considered iu the " Sui>i)lement," Note F. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 289 

uudeiiie all subsequent applications of the intermittent magnet, they 
form indeed the indispensable basis of every form of the electro-mag- 
netic telegraph since invented. They settled satisfactorily (in Barlow's 
phrase) the "only question which could render the result doubtful"; and 
though derived from the magnet, were obviously as applicable to the 
galvanometer needle.* 

It is idle to say in disparagement of these successes, that in the 
competitive race of numerous distinguished investigators in the field, 
diligently searching into the conditions of the new-found agency, the 
same results would sooner or later have been reached by others. For 
of what discovery or invention may not the same be said? Only those 
who have sought in the twilight of uncertainty, can appreciate the vast 
economy of effort by prompt directions to the path from one who has 
gained an advance. Not for what might be, but for the actual bestowal, 
does he who first grasps a valuable truth merit the return of at least a 
grateful recognition. 

1831. As an experimental demonstration of the telegraph — now made 
possible, Joseph Henry, early in the year 1831, suspended around the 
walls of one of the upper rooms in the Albany Academy, a mile of cop- 
per bell-wire interposed in a circuit between a small Cruickshanks bat- 
tery and an "intensity" magnet. A narrow steel rod (a permanent 
magnet) pivoted to swing horizontally lilie the compass needle, was ar- 
ranged so that one end remained in contact with a limb of the soft iron 
core, while near the opposite end of the compass rod a small stationary 
office-bell was placed. At each excitation of the electro -magnet, the 
compass rod or needle was repelled from one limb (by its similar mag- 
netism) and attracted by the other limb, so that its free end tapped the 
bell. On reversing the current, the compass rod moved back to the op- 
posite limb of the electro-magnet. This simple device the Professor was 
accustomed to exhibit to his classes at the academy, during the years 
1831 and 1832, in illustration of the facility of transmitting signals to a 
distance by the prompt action of electro-magnetism, t 

This memorable experimental telegraphic arrangement involved three 
very significant and important novelties. In the first place, it was the 
first electro-magnetic telegraph employing an "intensity" magnet ca- 

* When urged by a zealous friend to secure an early patent on these valuable and 
pregnant improvements, Henry resolutely withstood every importunity, seeiuiug to 
feel that a. discoverer's position and aptitude are lowei'ed by courting self-aggrandize- 
ment from scieutific truth ; a self-deny iug generosity which characterized him through- 
out his life. Wliile such disinleresteduess cannot fail to excite our admiration, it may 
perhaps be questioned whetlier in this case it did not, from a jiraetical point of view, 
amount to an over-fastidiousness; whether such legal establisiiment of ownership, 
shielding the possessor from (be occasional depreciations of the envious, and securing 
by its more tangible remnn(U'ations tin'- leisure and the nutans for more extended re- 
searches, would not have been to science more than a comjiensatiou for the supposed 
sacriiice of dignity l)y ths ])liilosopher. Since the date of tlie American patents of 
Wheatstone and of Morse (ten years later) several Imndred patents have been granted 
in this country for ingenious improvements upon or modifications of tlie electro-mag- 
netic telegraph, all of them necessarily dependent on Henry's original invention. 

tFor the testimonials of a few surviving eye-witnesses to the practical working of 
Henry's experimental line in 1831, and 183"2, see "Supplement," Note E. 

S. Mis. 59 19 



290 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

pable of beinsc excited at very great clistauces from a suitable " intensity" 
battery. And there can be no doubt that a simihir combination of " in- 
tensity" batter}^, with a very long coil galvanometer (such as had pre- 
viously been found inoperative), was alone wanting to have rendered the 
early telegraph of Schilliug a popular and commercial success. 

In the second place, this experimental arrangement of Henry was the 
first electro-magnetic telegraph employing the armature as the signaling 
device; or employing the attractive ])0\\Gr of the intermittent magnet, as 
distinguished from the directive action of the galvanic circuit. That is 
to say, it was strictly speaking the first " magnetic telegraph." 

In the third place, it was the first acoustic electro-magnetic telegraph. 
One practical inconvenience of the "needle" system has been found to 
ibe the perfect silence of its indications ; and hence in almost every case 
Sk call-alarm has been required to insure attention to its messages. In 
this respect the intermittent magnet presents the advantage, not merely 
of a greater mechanical power from the same galvanic current, and thus 
of a better adaptation for striking a bell at a distance, but of being in 
itself an audible sounder by the mere impacts of its armature.* 

It is suggestive to consider for a moment how different would have 
been the popular estimate of Henry's labors, (and especially the practi- 
eal estimation of subsequent patentees), if the modest discoverer and in- 
ventor had been " worldly-wise " enough to secure an early patent on 
these three indisputably original and most pregnant features of teleg- 
raphy : — to contest which no rival has ever appeared.! 

In 1832, Henry was elected to the chair of natural philosophy in the 
college of New Jersey, at Princeton. In 1834, he constructed for the 
laboratory of this college an original and ingenious form of galvanic bat- 
tery, comprising eighty-eight elements, (each having an active zinc sur- 
face of one and a half square feet,) of which anj* number, from a single 
pair upward, could be brought into action ; while by means of adjustable 

* It may be iucidentally mentioued that early in 1831, after the satisfactory opera- 
tion of the first telegraphic magnet, Heury contrived the lirstElectro-magueticE-uginc, 
comprising an oscillating horizontal electro-magnetic har, just below each end of which 
■was secnred an npright permanent magnet, the two having similar poles. The polar- 
ity of the oscillating electro-magnet Avas reversed at the moment of attractive contact, 
by automatically inverting the circnit current, and thus each of its poles was alter- 
nately attracted and rejielled by its neighboring magnet. (Silliman's Am. Journal of 
Science, July, 1831, vol. xx, pp. 340-343.) Henry was therefore the original inventor 
of the automatic xiole-chaugcr or commntator, — a device having a very wide range of 
nseful a])plication. The illustrious English physicist, James P. Joule, in his "His- 
torical Sketch of the rise au<l progress of Electro-magnetic Engines for propelling 
machinery," remarks : " Tlie improved plan by Professor Heury of raising the magnetic 
action of soft iron, developed new and inexhaustible sources of force which ajtpeared 
easily and extensively available as a mechanical ageut ; and it is to the ingenious 
American philosopher, that we are indebted for the tirst form of a working model of 
an engine upou the principle of reciprocating polarity of soft iron by electro-dynamic 
agency." (Sturgeon's Annals of EJectriciiij, etc. March, 1839, vol. iii, p. 430.) 

t A quarter of a century afterward Henry could proudly say, " I have sought no pat- 
ent for inventions, and solicited no remuneration for my labors, but have freely giveu 
their results to the world; expecting only in return to enjoy the consciousness of hav- 
ing Jidded by my investigations to tlie sum of human knowledge, and to receive the 
credit to which they might justly entitle me." {Smithsonian llcport for 1857, p. 8u.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 291 

conductors, all the positive elements could be associated together, as 
also all the negative ones, so as to form virtually a single pair having loli 
square feet of zinc surface, or any smaller area desired. In this manner 
the apparatus could readily be transformed into a "quantity" battery, 
or an " intensity " battery, at i)leasure. In the same year he constructed 
for the laboratory a powerful "quantity" magnet, surpassing his Yale 
College magnet; its lifting power, with a battery not exceeding one 
cubic foot in bulk, beiug 3,500 pounds. In the following year, 1835, he 
extended wires across the front campus of the college grounds, from the 
upiier story of the library building to the philosoi^hical hall on the op- 
posite side, through which magnetic signals were occasionally sent, dis- 
tinguished by the liumber of tajis on the bell, as first exhibited by liim 
four or five years earlier in the hall of the Albany Academy. Although 
Henry had established the fact (contrary to all the antecedent expecta- 
tion of physicists) that the most powerful form of magnet — the "quan- 
tity" magnet — is not the form best adapted to distant action through an 
extended circuit, the ingenious idea occurred to him that he could easily 
combine such a system with the feebler "intensity" system, so as to 
produce powerful mechanical action at almost any required distance. It 
was simply necessary to appl^^ to the oscillating armature of the distant 
"intensitv " magnet a suitable ])rolongation so arranged as to open and 
close the short circuit of the adjoining "quantity" magnet of any a\ail- 
able power. It was with his Princeton telegraph line, and its compar- 
atively feeble magnet, that he undertook the experiment of breaking by 
the mere lift of a small wire from a mercury thimble the "quantity" cir- 
cuit of his monster magnet, and thus causing its heavy load to fall : — a 
force scarcely safe if exerted through any sensible distance. He thus 
fully illustrated the practicability of calling into action at a great 
distance a power capable of producing the most energetic mechanical 
effects.* 

1833. Ten years after the experimental telegraph of Schilling, Pro- 
fessors Carl Friedrich Gauss and Wilhelm Edward Weber constructed 
at Gottingen a galvanometer telegraph of single circuit from the Cabinet 
of ]S"atural Philosophy to the Observatory, a distance of about a mile aud 
a half. The two naked wires after the method of Weber were carried 
over the houses and steeples of Gottingen, being supported by insula- 
tors. The battery power being small, the receiving apparatus consisted 
of a "multiplier" containing a very great length of fine silvered copper 
wire; and the magnetic bar suspended by a silk thread carried on the 
axis of suspension a small mirror, whose miuute deflections were observed 
at the distance of ten or twelve feet through a telescope, t The telc- 

*Snuthso)uan Eeport for 1857, pp. 106, 112. 

tTliis appears to be oiio of the first employments of a reflecting galvanometer, an 
inatrumeut which iu the hands of Sir William Tliomson has been brought to an ex- 
treme degree of sensibility, and has rendered ocean telegraphy possible. As early as 
1826, however. Prof. Christian J. Poggendorff applied the reflector to the magnetic 
needle for accurately dcterniiuing miuute variations in its horizontal declination. 
(Pogg. Annakn clcr FIii/s. iind Chcm. 1826, vol, vii. pp. 121-130.) 



292 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

graph was first worked by a galvanic current from a battery, and after- 
ward for convenience by the secondary cnrrent from a magneto-electric 
apiiaratus; to which Ganss adapted an arrangement of commutator, 
whereby the direction of the induced current could be instantly reversed 
by a touch of the finger. The alphabet of signs was made up of differ- 
ing combinations of right and left deflections of the needle. Weber ap- 
l^lied to the signaling device a delicate apparatus for setting off a clock 
alarm.* 

1836. Prof. C. A. Steinheil, of Munich, at the request of Gauss, (who 
was absorbed in more abstract researches on magnetism,) in 1834, under- 
took to develop and improve his arrangement ; and in 1830 had construct- 
ed a similar galvanometer telegraph line between Munich and Bogen- 
hausen, a distance of about two miles, t Employing a greater power he 
arranged at the receiving station the magnetic bar or double bars of the 
galvanometer with a larger sweep, so that two bells of differing tones 
should be struck thereby ; and he thus produced an acoustic telegraph 
(five years later than Henry's), capable of audible language, and dis- 
pensing with the occasion for any call-alarm. To the adjacent ends of 
the two magnetic bars having opposite i)olarities, but oscillating within 
the same coil, he applied fountain peus or marking-points so as to make 
X)ermanent alternating dots on a fillet of paper carried under them by 
the regular movement of clock-work, in the manner long familiarly em- 
ployed in self-registering meteorological and other instruments. Al- 
thongh Dyar, on Long Island, had devised a chemical register as early 
as 1828, and had partly executed it by a successful trial, this double 
magnet of Steinheil appears to constitute the earliest operative applica- 
tion of an automatic record to the electric, or to the electro-magnetic, 
telegrai)h. Steinheil also improved somewhat on the alx)habet of Gauss, 
though adopting substantially the same system. | 

In the following year, 1837, he made another most important improve- 
ment in practical telegraphy, by the unexpected discovery that even the 
single circuit of a to and fro line could be further simplified b}^ the 
suppression and economy of one-half of its wire.§ 

* Gottingische Gelclirte Anzeigen, Aug. 9, 1834, part ii, No. 128, pp.1272, 1273. And 
Foljjteclmischcs Cenfral-BIatt, Juue, 1838, Jabrgaug iv, No. 31, pp. 487-496. 

t Accorfling to Dr. Hamel of St. Petersburg, in the early part of July, 1837, "Stein- 
heil, at Munich, had completed the connection of his house in the Lerchenstrasse with 
the building of the Academy of Sciences, and with the Royal Observatory at Bogen- 
hausen, by "means of 36,000 feet of wire for conducting the current both ways, the 
wires being suspended in the air." {Journal of Society of Arts, July 29, 1859, vol. vii, 
p. 609.) 

t Steinheil remarks : "As long as the intervals between the separate signs remain 
equal, they are to be taken together as a connected group, whether they be pauses be- 
tween the tones, or intervals between the dots marked down. A longer pause separ- 
ates these groups distinctly from each other. We are thus enable I, by approx^riately 
selected groups thus combined,to form systems representing the letters of the alpha- 
bet, or stenogra]ihic characters, and thereby to repeat and render permanent at ail 
parts of the chain whore an apparatus like that above described is inserted, any in- 
formation that we transmit. The alphabet that I have chosen represents the letters 
that occur the oftenest in German by the simplest signs." (Sturgeon's Annals of Elec- 
tricity, etc. April, 1839, vol. iii, j). 520.) 

^" In 1837 Professor Steinheil operated a telegraph line between Munich and Bogen- 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 293 

" Quite recently I made the discovery tliat tbe ground may be em- 
ployed as one-lialf of tlie connecting chain. As in the case of frictional 
electricity, water or the ground may with the galvanic current form a 
portion of the connecting wire. Owing to the low conducting power of 
these bodies compared with metals, it is necessary that at the two places 
where the metal conductor is in connection with the semi-conductor, the 
foraier should present very large surfaces of contact. Taking water for 
instance to conduct two million times worse than copper, a surface of 
water proportional to this must be brought in contact with the copi^er, 
to enable the galvanic current to meet with equal resistance in equal 
distances of water and of metal ; for instance, if the section of a copper 
wire is one-half of a square line, it will require a copper plate of 61 square 
feet of surface in order to conduct the galvanic current through the 
ground as the wire in question would conduct it : but as the thickness 
of the metal is quite immaterial in this case, it will be always within 
our reach to get the requisite surfaces of contact at no great expense. 
Not only do we by this means save half the conducting wire, but we can 
even reduse the resistance of the ground beiow what that of the s^'ire 
would be, as has been fully established by experiments made here with 
the experimental telegraph."* 

In his account of these valuable contributions to both the science and 
the art of electric telegraphy, Steinheil modestly assigns to his immedi- 
ate predecessors the credit of the most important advancements in the 
system. He says: "To Gauss and Weber is due the merit of having, in 
1833, actually constructed the first simplified galvano-magnetio telegraph. 
It was Gauss who first employed the excitement of induction [magneto- 
electricity], and who demonstated that the aj^propriate combination of a 
limited number of signs is all that is required for tlu^. transmission of 
communication, t Weber's discovery that a copper wire 7,400 feet long, 
which he had led across the houses and steeples at Gottingen, from the 
Observatory to the Cabinet of Natural Phdosophy, required no si^ecial 
insulation, was one of great importance. The principle was thereby at 
once established of bringing the galvanic telegraph to the most conven- 
ient form. In accordance with the i)rinciples we have laid down, all that 
was required in addition to this was to render the signals audible ; a task 
that ai)i^arently presented no xery particular difiiculty, inasmuch as in 
the very scheme itself a mechanical motion — namely the deflection of a 

liausen, in Germany, using iron wire conductors, and the earth for a return circuit. 
This discovery was pnhlished in 18157, in German, and translated into English by 
Julian Guggsworth, November 24, 1838." (Prescott's Hist. Elcctv. Telcfimph, 1800, chap, 
xxi, p. 405.) An account of Steinhcil's telegraph was read before; i he French Academy 
of Sciences, Sej)tember 10, 18158. (Comptes liendtis, vol. vii, pp. 590-593.) 

*Steiuheil's paper "On Telegraphic Communication:" translated from the German, 
November 24, 1838, by Julian Giiggsworth. Sturgeon's Annals of ElectricUy. etc. 
April, 1839, vol. iii, ]». 512. A full description of Steiuheil's telegraph is given in Dv. 
Julius DviWs Amoendun (J dcs Elcktrom(t(jnttismus, Berlin, 1863; 2d edition, 1873, sect, v, 
pp. 339-347. 

t These statements do not however do justice to Schilling's nuudi earlier "simpli- 
fied galvano-maguctic telegraph," with which Steinheil was very imi)erfectly ac- 
quainted. 



294 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

magnetic bar — was given. All tliat we had to do therefore was to 
contrive that this motion shonld be made available for striking bells or 
for marking indelible dots. This falls within the province of mechan- 
ics, and there are therefore more ways than one of solving the prob- 
lem. Hence the alterations that I have made in the telegraph of 
Ganss, and by which it has assumed its present form, may be said to 
be founded on my perception and improvement of its imperfections, in 
harmony with what I had previously laid down as necessary for perfect 
telegraphic communication. I by no means however look on the arrange- 
ment I have selected as complete; but as it answers the purpose I had 
in view, it may be well to abide by it till some simpler arrangement is 
contrived."* To Steinheil's lasting honor be it said, that when some 
dozen j^ears later "a simpler arrangement" of the receiving instrument 
ivas brought to his attention, he was the first to appreciate it and to 
urge upon the Bavarian Government its adoption, to the abandonment 
of a portion of his own beautiful system. An example of magnanimity, 
or more properly of intellectual and unbiased judgment, much rarer 
with inventors of practical improvements in art, than with discoverers 
of truth in science. 

These later developments of the telegraph, though in public use at 
the dates specified, not having been generally described by their authors 
immediately for publication, were from the meager notices of them found 
in the foreign journals, but little known in this country for several years 
afterward; and hence naturally arose the strong patriotic impression 
with many that the electro-magnetic telegrai)h was essentially an Amer- 
ican invention. 

About the same time that Steinheil in Munich was engaged in im- 
proving the needle telegraph, a distinguished chemical philosopher of 
London, was developing the galvanic battery; and he succeeded in 
giving that important apparatus a uniformity and continuity of action 
previously unhoped for. In the adopted forms of the Voltaic battery 
as arranged by Crnickshanks and others, the oxygen liberated by the 
active zinc surface rapidly attaclced the plate, forming a coating of oxide 
over it which soon greatly impaired its chemical and galvanic ef&ciency. 
On the other hand, the hydrogen liberated at the surface of the copper, 
remained largely adherent to it in the form of minute bubbles, thus in- 
sulating it to a corresponding extent from contact with the liquid ; while 
at the same time dissolved zinc was deposited on its exposed surfiice. 

To obviate these impediments. Professor John Frederic Daniell pro- 
vided a porous partition between the two metals, which while permitting 
the necessary conductibility from one side to the other, prevented the 
convective intermixture of the seiiarated portions of litjuid, and thus 
also allowed for the first time t"iAO different liquids to be employed for 
bathing the different metals. The liquid employed on the copper side 

* Stiu'geou's Annals of Electricity, etc. Mar. 1839, vol. iii, iij). 448, 449. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 2f'5 

was a satiirated solution of the sulphate of copper ; — crystals of the 
sulphate being suspended in the liquid, for supplying the exhaustion of 
the copper. The liquid on the zinc side was a very diluted sulphuric 
acid. With this arrangement the oxygen evolved at the zinc surface 
forms mainly a zinc oxide, which dissolved by the liquid into a sulphate 
of zinc, is prevented from passing to the copper side of the partition, 
and the hydrogen evolved at the copper surface combining at once with 
the oxygen of the copper salt, forms water, and allows the free copper 
to be deposited on its own plates : and Professor Daniell was able to 
announce in a paper read before the Eoyal Society of London, February 
11, 183G, "I have been led to the construction of a voltaic arrangement 
which furnishes a constant current of electricity for any length of time 
which may be required."* 

Although it is true that the electric telegraph may be operated by the 
old form of battery — frequently renewed, (just as a good steam-engine 
may be efficiently w^orked by an inferior and wasteful boiler,) and also 
that a uniform current w^ell adapted to the telegraph may be obtained 
from the magneto-electric machine, yet the "constant" battery has 
proved a most valuable boon in xn-omoting the practical economy and 
success of modern telegraphy. 

1837. Mr. William Fothergill Cooke and Prof. Charles Wheatstone 
obtained an English patent June 12, 1837, (No. 7390,) for a galvanometer 
or needle telegraph, very similar to the earlier one of Schilling, employ- 
ing six wires and five indicating needles. At what date Prof. Wheat- 
stone's attention was first directed to electrical signaling cannot now be 
ascertained; but in 1834 he had undertaken by means of his ingenious 
invention of the revolving mirror (capable of measuring the millionth 
of a second), to determine the velocity of ordinary electricity through 
half a mile of copper wire;t and a year or two later, through about four 
miles of the same. Early in 1836, he had contemplated a telegraph which 
with five needles, should give thirty signs. Mr. W. E. Cooke, attending 
a lecture on electro-magnetic communication by Professor Muncke, at Hei- 
delberg, March G, 183G, (as previously mentioned,) at which the telegraphic 
apparatus of Schilling was exhibited, at once "conceived the idea." In 
his " Statement of facts to the Arbitrators" in December, 1810, Mr. Cooke 
declares : "Mr. Moncke's experiment was at that time the only one upon 
the subject that I had seen or heard of. It showed that electric cur- 
rents being conveyed by wires to a distance, could be there caused to 

* Phil. Trans. Boy. Soc. 1836, vol. cxxvi,p. 107. In the "gravity battery" of Cal- 
laiid, and of Varley, the porous diaphragm is dispensed with by placing the lighter 
liquid (u diluted solution of zinc sulphate) above the heavier liquid (a saturated solu- 
tion of copper snl])hate); the separation being maintained by tlieir dilference of 
speciiic gravity. In this arrangement the copper plate rests at the bottom of the cell, 
and the zinc plate is supported at its top. 

t Philosoph. Travsac. of Boy. Soc. (read June 19, 1834), vol. cxxiv, pp. 1 83-589. In this 
paper, Wheatstone says, that his lirst ineffectual attempt to discover a velocity of 
electricity was made in 1830. "The method by which I then i)roposed to effect this 
purpos(>, Avas announced in a lecture delivered by Dr. Faraday, at the Royal Institu- 
tion, in June, 1830." (p. 583.) 



296 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

deflect magnetic needles, and thereby to give signals. It was in a word a 
hint at the application of electricity to telegraphic purposes ; but nothing 
more, for it provided no means of applying that power to practical uses. 
[!]... Within three weeks after the day on which I saw the ex- 
periment, I had made (partly at Heidelberg and partly at Frankfort) 
my first electric telegraph of the galvanometer form." * This apparatus 
comprised three indicating needles in connection with three circuits of 
six wires ; each terminus of the line being provided with both trans- 
mitting keys, and indicating galvanometers. Mr. Cooke also applied 
a call-alarm, differing from Schilling's in having an ordinary clock- 
alarm, (similar to that used by Weber several years previously,) 
checked by an armature detent which was released on the excitement 
of an electro-magnet by the current. Not being skilled in electrical 
science however, nor aware of Henry's researches, he soon found 
the difficulty of operating with a " quantity" battery his galvanometer 
coils through a long circuit ; and in February, 1837, he was introduced 
to Professor Wheatstone by Dr. P. M. Eoget. t On comparing their 
respective projects of a needle telegraph, the two concluded to combine 
their exertions in a i)artnership ; and in a little more than three mouths 
they secured a joint patent on their perfected system.| An experimental 
line between Euston Square and Camden Town Stations (a distance of 
a mile and a quarter), was worked with partial success July 25, 1837 ; 
and early in 1838, the patentees established a telegraph line between 
Paddington and West Dayton ; the distance between these two points 
being about thirteen miles. Neither of these "co-inventors" appears 
at this time to have been aware of the early needle telegrai>h of Baron 
Schilling, whose arrangement had been so closely imitated by Mr. 
Cooke, and whose later simplification and improvement he had failed 
to reach. 

As illustrative of the mistaken and inaccurate manner in which im- 
portant accounts are often transmitted by even intelligent and honest 
men, — without due investigation and information, a quotation may here 
be made from the "Award" of arbitration between the subsequent conflict- 
ing claims of Cooke and of Wheatstone, rendered 27th April, 1841, by the 
referees. Marc Isambord Brunei, the eminent engineer, and John Fred- 
erick Daniell, the eminent chemist, meteorologist, and electrician. They 
state: "In March, 183G, Mr. Cooke, while engaged in scientific pursuits 
[!], witnessed for the first time one of those well-known experiments on 
electricity [!] considered as a possible means of communicating intelli- 
gence [!], which have been tried and exhibited from time to time [!] 
during many years by various i^hilosophers ! "§ And thus, in strange 

* T/ie Electric Telegraph, etc. l>y William Fotliergill Cooke, 2 parts, 8vo. London, 
1856, 1857; part ii, "'Arbitration Papers," sects. 14, 18, pp. 14, 15. 

• t For an account of the circumstances attending and following this conference, seo 
"Supplement," Note F. 

t Messrs. Cooke & Wheatstone's English patent is dated Juno 13, 1837, No. 7390 ; and 
their American ][)atent, June 10, 1840, No. 1622. 

^ Ihe Electric Telegraph, etc. by William Fothergill Cooke, 2 parts, 8vo., London, 
1856, 1857 ; part i, p. 14 : and part ii, p. 211 ; also j). 2(55. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 297 

exaggeration of Cooke's contribution to telegraphy, not only is Scliilling's 
fine invention (of which the arbitrators had probably never heard) 
entirely overlooked, but even Professor Muncke's intelligent exposition 
of it, (by Mr. Cooke's representation — a "well-known experiment,") is 
dismissed as the recurrent exhibition "by various philosophers," — prob- 
ably as familiar in London as in Heidelberg.* 

1837. About the date of the Cooke and Wheatstone patent (or a month 
or two later in the same year), a different form of electro-magnetic tele- 
graph was being slowly developed in the city of Xew York. In the 
autumn of the year 1835, an American artist of acknowledged merit and 
of liberal education, a graduate of Yale College, about forty-five years 
of age, was apj)ointed professor of the arts of design in the University 
of the city of Kew Y^ork, then recently established.! Occupying 
rooms in the unfinished building, he commenced experimenting on an 
electro-magnetic recording telegraph, the idea of which had for several 
years been floating in his mind. An upright square frame secured to 
the edge of a table, was provided with a transverse strip or shelf about 
midway of its height, on which was arranged a small Sturgeon electro- 
magnet lying ui^on its side, with its poles directed outward from the 
side of the frame. Directly in front of this, a wooden pendulum sus- 
pended fi'om the toj) bar of the frame and having at its middle a small 
iron bar acting as an armature for the magnet, was allowed a small play 
to and from the lower part of the frame. To the lower end of the pen- 
dulum was attached a pencil projecting downward, and made adjustable 
so as to bear lightly against a strip of paper supported by a roller be- 
neath, and slowly moved along near the edge of the table by clock-work, 
after the manner usually employed in recording apparatus. A single 
cup formed the galvanic element, and the circuit involving the electro- 
magnet was closed and opened bj' means of a lever armed with a wire 
fork which dipped into two mercury thimbles connected respectively 

* Two other projects of needle telegraph on Ampere's and Schilling's plan, belong- 
ing to the latter part of 1837, require here only a passing notice. The first, that of a 
Mr. Alexander, exhibited at the Society of Arts in Edinburgh, comprised thirty trans- 
mitting keys with pins beneath, which on being depressed, closed the circuit by dip- 
ping into a transverse mercury trough, and thirty galvanouieter needles at the 
receiving station, each carrying a light paper screen, whicli just covered a painted 
letter or mark when at resit, but which by dellection, exposed the desired letter to 
view. By ingeniously employing luit a single wire lor the return jiath of each circuit, 
the inventor recpured but thirty-one wires. (Mechanic.)!' McKjaziiic, London, Nov. 
25, 1837, No. 746, vol. xxviii, pp. 1-^2, 123. ) Tlic second scheme, very similar to the 
preceding, that of a Mr. Davy, exhibited at p]xerer Hall, in London, employed but 
eight transmitting keys, each commanding tliree letters by different movements, and 
at the receiving desk twenty-four letters on ground glass, illnniinate<l by a lamp, each 
of which became visible only on the removal of a screen on the needle, placed behind 
the glass. An observer reuuirked that in the desk "there is an apertnn; about IS 
inches long and 3 or 4 inches wide, facing the eyes, perfectly dark. On this the sig- 
nals appear as lumiiu^us letters, or combinations of letters, with a neatness and rapid- 
ity almost magical." {Mcch. Mag. Feb. 3, 1838, No. 75(), vol. xxviii, \^\^. 295, 2".Ki.) 

tThis is a different instifutiou from the University of New York State, which has 
mainly a supervisory function. 



298 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

with the two poles of the cup battery. A series of types haviug on their 
upper face teeth or cogs varying in number, were set up as desired in 
the groove of a rule or comi^osing-stick, which was caused to pass under 
the free end of the circuit lever ; and in this way the oscillation of the 
said lever over the projecting teeth determined the intervals of trans- 
mission of the magnetizing current according to the combinations pre- 
viously arranged in the composing-stick. The movement of the stri^:) of 
paper beneath the pencil of the pendulum produced a continuous 
straight line so long as the j)endulum remained at rest ; but at each 
momentary attraction of its armature by the magnet, (induced by the 
completion of the galvanic circuit on the passage of a tooth under the 
circuit lever,) the play of the pendulum caused a lateral deviation of its 
pencil, which thus produced a transverse V-shaped interruijtion of the 
straight line. 

With this arrangement of apparatus the projector was enabled to 
produce signals through short circuits of wire : but he soon discovered 
to his dismay that on interposing more than a few yards of insulated 
wire, the oracle was dumb. Although the remedy for this defect (first 
discovered and demonstrated by Ilenry) had been for four or five years 
familiar to the students of science, the reading of the artist had not 
been in the direction of scientific literature ; and he had conducted his 
experiments with a surprising indifference and inattention to the exist- 
ing state of knowledge upon the subject. In this emergency he wisely 
procured the scientific assistance of a colleague. Dr. Leonard D. Gale, 
professor of chemistry in the same university, and the material and 
mechanical assistance of Mr. Alfred Vail, of the Speedwell Iron Works 
near Morristown, N. J. 

The following is the account given by Dr. Gale of the early condition 
of this experimental telegraph, and of his own connection therewith : 
" In the winter of 1830-'37, Samuel F. B. Morse, who as well as myself 
was a professor in the New York University, city of New York, came 
to my lecture-room, and said he had a machine in his lecture-room or 
studio which he wished to show me. I accompanied him to his room, 
and there saw resting on a table a single-pair galvanic battery, an elec- 
tro-magnet, an arrangement of pencil, a paper-covered roller, pinion- 
wheels, levers, &c., for making letters and figures to be used for send- 
ing and receiving words and sentences through long distances. . . . 
At this time as Morse assured me no man had seen the machine except 
his brotlier, Sidney E. Morse. . . . Morse's machine was com- 
l^lete in all its parts, and operated perfectly through a circuit of some 
forty feet, but there was not sufficient force to send messages to a dis- 
tance. At this time I was a lecturer on chemistry, and from necessity 
was acquainted with all kinds of galvanic batteries ; and knew that a 
battery of one or a few cups generates a large quantity of electricity, 
capable of producing heat, &c., but not of projecting electricity to a 
great distance ', and that to accomx^lish this a battery of many cups is 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 299 

necessary. It was tlierefore evident to me that the one large cup-bat- 
tery of Morse sliould be made into ten or fifteen smaller ones to make 
it a battery of intensity, so as to project the electric fluid. . 
Accordingly I substituted the battery of many cups for the battery of 
one cup. The remaining defect in the Morse machine, as first seen by 
me, was that the coil of wire around the poles of the electro-magnet 
consisted of but a few turns only, while, to give the greatest projectile 
power, the number of turns should be increased from tens to hundreds, 
as shown by Professor Henry, in his paper published in the American 
Journal of Science, 1831. . . . After substituting the battery of 
twenty cups for that of a single cup, we added some hundred or more 
turns to the coil of wire around the poles of the magnet, and sent a mes- 
sage through 200 feet of conductors ; then through 1,000 feet ; and then 
through ten miles of wire arranged on reels in my own lecture-room in 
the New York University, in the presence of friends. All these experi- 
ments were repeated with the original Morse machine, modified as I 
have stated, by increasing the number of battery-cups and the number 
of turns of wire around the magnet."* 

The following account by the anthor himself, of his first experiments, 
is taken from his own deposition in the "Bain" case, in February, 1851 : 
"In the year 1835, I was appointed a professor in the New York City 
University, and about the month of November of that year I occupied 
rooms in the university buildings. There I immediately commenced 
with very limited means to experiment upon my invention. My first 
instrument was made up of an old picture or canvas frame fastened to 
a table, the wheels of an old wooden clock moved by a weight to carry 
the paper forward, three wooden drums, upon one of which the paper 
was wound and passed over the other two, a wooden pendulum suspended 
to the top piece of the picture or stretching frame and vibrating across 
the papei as it passed over the center wooden drum, a pencil at the 
lower end of the pendulum in contact with the i)aper, an electro-magnet 
fastened to a shelf across the picture or stretching frame opposite to an 
armature made fast to the pendulum, a type- rule and type, for closing 
and breaking the circuit, resting on an endless band (composed of car- 
pet-binding), which passed over two wooden rollers moved by a wooden 
crank and carried forward by points projecting from the bottom of the 
rule downward into the carpet-binding, a lever with a small weight on 



* Memorial of S. F. B. Morse, 8vo. Wasliington, 1875, pp. 15-17. The practical im- 
provements iutrodnced by Professor Gale into the arrangemout devised by Professor 
Morse appeared to tlie latter so obviously mere matters of degree that be felt confi- 
dent (after they were shown) that lie would himself have effected them by simple 
trial or experimentation ; and he does not appear ever tobavii r(>alized that any scien- 
tific principle was involved in the difference. But had he iuci-cased separately either 
the number of bis galvanic elements or the number of coils upon bis magnet, be 
would equally have failed to accomplish the desired result. The chance that he would 
have combined these increments may be estimated as very low indeed, when we con- 
sider tbat much wiser and more scieutitic heads had failed entirely to attain such pur- 
pose and arrangement. 



300 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

the upper side and a tooth projecting downward at one end operated on 
by the type, and a metallic fork, also projecting downward over two mer- 
cury cups, and a short circuit of wire embracing the helices of the elec- 
tro-magnet, connected with the positive and negative poles of the bat- 
tery, and terminating in the mercury cups. . . . Early in 1S3G, I 
procured foj'ty feet of wire, and, initting it in the circuit, I found that my 
battery of one cup was not sufficient to work my instrument.* . . . 
A practical mode of communicating the impulse of one circuit to an- 
other, such as that described in my patent of 1840, was matured as 
early as the spring of 1837, and exhibited then to Professor Gale, 
my coniidential friend. Up to the autumn of 1837 my telegraphic 
apparatus existed in so rude a form that I felt reluctance to have it 
seen."t 

In substantial accord with Professor Morse's deposition is that of his 
colleague and assistant. Professor Gale, taken in a previous case, and 
dated April 1, 1818, in which it is added that " On Saturday, the 2nd 
day of September. 1837, Professor Daubeny, of the English Oxford Uni- 
versity, being on a visit to this country, was invited with a few friends 
to see the operation of the telegraph in its then rude form in the cabinet 
of the New York City University, where it then had been put up with a 
circuit of 1,700 feet of copper wire stretched back and forth in that long- 
room. This exhibition of the telegraph, although of very rude and im- 
perfectly constructed machinery, demonstrated to all present the prac- 
ticability of the invention ; and it resulted in enlisting the means, the 
skill, and the zeal of Mr. Alfred Yail."| 

The record made on the trial exhibited September 2d, appears not to 
have been entirely satisfactory, for on the following Monday (September 
4th) a still better i)erformance was effected, as announced by a letter of 
that date addressed by Professor Morse to the editor of the New York 
" Journal of Commerce," in which the writer says : " I have the gratifica- 
tion of sending you a specimen of the writing of my telegraph, the actual 
transmission of a communication made this morning, in a more complete 
manner than on Saturday, and through the distance of one-third of a 
mile.-' This specimen of telegraphic communication, with its accompa- 
nying letter, was re-produced in the "Journal of Commerce" three days 

* [Had Professor Morse tried 50 or 100 cups, lie would have found them equallj' iu- 
eufficient: a fact liere quite ignored.] 

\Dcposifion of Samuel F. B. Morse: Feb. 6, 7, and 8, 1851. In the case of "B. B. 
French and others vs. H. J. Rog<!rs and otliers." Circuit court of U. S. for E. Dist. of 
Pa. April session 1850. No. 104. "Complainant's Evidence." Ninth answer, jjp. 
1()7-1G'J. 

\ Modern Telefircipliy : a pamphlet by Professor Morse. Paris, 18()7, Appendix, p. 19. 
Tliis tirst cxperiniental exhibition, it umst be remembered, was nearly three months 
after the date of Cooke and Wheatstone's i)atent, more than a month after theu- suc- 
cessful operation thi-ough a mile and a <iuarter, and while the f]nglish inventors were 
engaged in constructing a working line from Paddington to West Dayton. Mr. A. 
Vail, a young man of line abilities, was a pupil of Dr. Gale's, and was by him intro- 
duced to Professor ISlorse. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 301 

later, and forms tLe earliest publication of the actual operation of the 
"Morse telegraph."* The dispatch is as follows: 



r 



215—3 6—2—5 8 — 

112—0 4 — 01 8 3 7 

This cipher is thus explained by the writer, reference being had to a 
dictionary suitably prepared with numbered words. "To illustrate by 
the diagram, the word 'successful' is first found in the dictionary, and 
its telegraphic number, '215,' is set up in a species of type prepared for 
the purpose; and so of the other words. The type then operate upon 
the machinery and serve to regulate the times and intervals of the pas- 
sage of electricity. Each passage of the fluid causes a pencil at the ex- 
tremity of the wire to mark the points as in the diagram. To read the 
marks, count the points at the bottom of each line. It will be perceived 
that two points come first, separated by a short interval from the next 
point. Set '2' beneath it. Then comes one point, likewise separated by 
a short interval. Set '1' beneath it. Then come five points. Set '5' 
beneath them. But the next interval in this case is a long interval; con- 
sequently the three numbers comprise the whole number '215.' So pro- 
ceed with the rest until the numbers are all set down. Then by referring 
to the telegraphic dictionary, the words corresponding to the numbers 
are found, and the communication read. Thus it will be seen that by 
means of the changes upon ten characters, all words can be transmit- 
ted."! 

In the above line or diagram representing the telegraphic dispatch, 
the symbol "A" (or inverted V), which occurs twice in the lower line, 
represents a cipher or zero ; and this character, when preceding a figure 
or group of figures, indicates that the figure or group is to be read as an 
actual number, and not as the index of a word. Counting thus the num- 
ber of V points in the above dispatch forming groups separated by a 
line ( — ),we obtain the following numbers : "215 — 36 — 2 — 58 — 112 — 01 
— 01837." And this message when translated by help of the numbered 
dictionary will read " Successful ex])eriment with telegraph September 
4 1837." 

An account of this success, published in Silliman's Journal for Octo- 
ber, added the statement: "Since the 4th of September, one thousand 
feet more of wire No. 23 have been added, malciug in all two thousand 

*NotwithstaiKling the very crude condition of this invention in Sei)tember, 1;^37, as 
compared with that of Schilling in 1830 (or probably in 18<j:5), and that of Gauss in 
1833, the fact that intelligible signals were actually exhil)ited by it at this date, fully 
:usti1ies the acceptance of this period as the 1 ime of its reduction to practical operation. 

tNew York Journal of Commerce, Thursday, September 7, 1837: (on the editorial 
page.) 



302 HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

seven hundred feet, more tlian half a mile of a reduced size of wke. The 
register still recorded accurately. Arrangements have been made for 
constructing new and accurate machinery. Professor Gale, of the IS'ew 
York City University, is engaged with Professor Morse in making some 
interesting experiments connected with this invention, and to test the 
effect of length of wire on the magnetizing influence of voltaic elec- 
tricity." * 

Mr. Vail has given the following account of his connection with the 
enterprise : " On the 2d of September, 1837, the author with several 
others witnessed the first exhibition of this electric telegraph, and soon 
after became a partner with the inventor. Immediate steps were taken 
for constructing an instrument for the purpose of exhibiting its powers 
before the members of Congress. This was done at the Speedwell Iron 
Works, Morristown, IS". J. and exhibited in operation with a circuit of 
two miles. A few days after, it was again exhibited at the University of 
the City of New York, for several days, to a large number of invited 
ladies and gentlemen." t 

About a month after this " successful experiment," (on the Gth of Octo- 
ber, 1837,) Professor Morse filed in the United States Patent Office a 
"caveat," signed October 3, stating in the petition (dated five days 
earlier) " that the machinery for a full practical display of his new inven- 
tion is not yet completed, and he therefore prays protection of his right 
till he shall have matured the machinery." The specification declares : 
" I have invented a new method of transmitting and recording intelli- 
gence by means of electro -magnetism : . . . for the purpose afore- 
said, I have invented the following apparatus, namely : First, a system 
of signs by which numbers, and consequently words and sentences, 
are signified ; second, a set of type adapted to regulate and communi- 
cate the signs, with cases for convenient keeping of the type, and rules 
in which to set up the type ; third, an apparatus called a port-rule, for 
regulating the movement of the type-rules, which rules by means of the 
type in their turn regulate the times and intervals of the passage of 
electricity; fourth, a register which records the signs permanently; fifth, 
a dictionary or vocabulary of words numbered and adapted to this sys- 
tem of telegraph ; sixth, modes of laying the conductors to preserve 
them from injury." These several parts are then more particulary de- 
scribed. "The signs are the representatives of numerals." The register 
comprises an electro-magnet actuating by its armature a lever or pen- 
dulum carrying a pencil or fountain pen, or small printing wheel, for 
marking on a strip or sheet of paper as already described. The modes 
of laying the conductors are bj'- insulating the wires with silk or cotton 
wrapping, and coating with caoutchouc or other non-conductor, and also 
by inclosing them in iron, lead, or wooden tubes. The document con- 
cludes : " What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters 

* Silliman's Am. Jour. Sci. October, 1837, vol, xxxiii, p. 187. 
tA. Vail's Electro-Magnetic Telegraj)h, 8vo. 1845, p. 154. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 303 

patent and to protect for one year by a caveat, is a method of record- 
ing permanently electrical signs wliicb by means of metallic wires or 
other good condnctors of electricity, convey intelligence between two or 
more jilaces." 

Of the above described apparatus, the two most important features 
were those numbered the first and the fourth, — the system of signs and 
the recording device ; and though neither of these presented much orig- 
inabty, the method of the former being that long established for naval 
signals, and the clock-moved fillet of the latter being essentially the ar- 
rangement long employed for self-registering instruments generally, yet 
the combination of these parts with the others undoubtedly possessed 
great practical merit ; and none the less that the several elements were 
evidently worked out indeiaendently by the inventor. It is not a little 
remarkable however, that of the specified six i)arts of this earliest in- 
vention of Professor Morse, not one enters into the established " Morse 
telegraph" of to-day. That feature regarded by the inventor as its vital 
and fundamental characteristic (the fourth), the subject of his formal 
" claim," survived the longest ; but after undergoing considerable modi- 
fication, it has for more than twenty years been neglected and aban- 
doned. 

In response to a public circular which had been issued by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, March 10, 1837, "with a view of obtaining information in re- 
gard to the propriety of establishing a system of telegraphs for the United 
States," Professor Morse addressed a communication to the honorable Sec- 
retary, dated September 27, 1837, pointing out the disadvantages of the old 
mechanical telegraphs as being " useless the greater part of the time:" 
(as in toggy weather and during the night.) He then proceeded : "Hav- 
ing invente<l an entirely new mode of telegraphic communication, which 
so far as experiments have yet been made with it, promises results of 
almost marvelous character, I beg leave to present to the department 
a brief account of its chief characteristics." After stating that at the 
time when he first conceived the thought (some five years previously) he 
had " planned a system of signs and an ai>paratus to carry it into efiect," 
he added, " although the rest of the machinery was i)lanned, yet from 
the pressure of unavoidable duties I was compelled to postpone my ex- 
periments, and was not able to test the whole plan until within a few 
weeks. The result has realized my most sanguine expectations." 

The construction of a more complete apparatus was carried on at the 
Speedwell Iron Works of the Messrs. Yail, near Morristown, while Pi'O- 
fessor Gale pursued his experiments at the ISTcw York City University.* 

Having finished his laborious task of numbering a dictionary, Octo- 
ber 24, 1837, Professor Morse gave more attention to the Vail Works.t 

* Professor Morse, writing to Mr. Alfred Vail, October 7, 1837, says : " Professor Gale's 
services will be iuvaluable to lis, aud I am glad that lie is disposed to enter into the 
matter with zeal." 

t " The dictionary is at last done. Yon cannot conceive how niueli labor there has 
been in it, bnt it is accomplished; and we can now talk or write anything by num- 
bers." Professor Morse to A. Vail, October 24, 1837. (Prime's Life of Morse, chap, 
viii, p. 326.) 



6\)i HENEY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

On his return from a visit to the works, he wrote back to Mr. Vail, on 
the loth of November, 1837, "1 arrived just in time to see the experi- 
ment Professor Gale was making with the entire ten miles, and you will 
be gratitied and agreeably surpiised when I inform you that the result 
now is that with a little addition of wire to the coils of the small mag- 
net which 1 had all along used, the power was as great apparently 
through ten as through three miles. This result has surprised us all 
(yet there is no mistake), and I conceive settles the whole matter." 

In a second communication to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated 
November 28, 1837, Professor Morse announced this encouraging suc- 
cess : " I informed you that I had succeeded in marking permanently 
and intelligibly at the distance of half a mile. Professor Gale of our uni- 
versity, and Mr. Alfred Vail, of the Speedwell Iron Works, near Mor- 
ristown, N. J. are now associated with me in the scientific and mechan- 
ical parts of the invention.* AYe have procured several miles of wire, 
and I am hai)py to announce to you that our success has thus far 
been complete. At a distance of five miles, witli a common Cruick- 
shanks' l^attery of eighty-seven plates (four by three and a half inches, 
each plate), the marking was as perfect on the register as in the first 
instance of half a mile. We have recently added five miles more 
(making in all ten miles) with the same result ; and we now have no 
doubt of its effecting a similar result at any distance." 

On the completion of the new receiving and recording instruments at 
the Speedwell Iron Works, an experimental exhibition at the place, with 
three miles of coated copper wire, extended around a large factory-room, 
was made in the presence of a few friends, on the 6th of January, 1838 ; 
and on the 11th of January another exhibition was freely opened to the 
public. A report of the trial in a Morristown Journal explains how 
"the words were put up into numbers through the dictionary; the 
numbers were set up in the telegraph type in about the same time ordi- 
narily occupied in setting up the same in a printing office ; they were 
then all passed complete by the iiort-rule ;" and being automatically 
recorded at the extreme end of the wire, " the marks or numbers were 
easily legible, and by means of the dictionary were resolved again into 
words." 

Shortly after this. Professor Morse (or his assistant, Mr. Yail) devised 
for the first time a system of alphabetic sj^mbols for his telegraph. It 
should not l)e forgotten that the vertical recording-lever of the original 
]\Iorse appararatus was so arranged that it must necessarily mark a co)i- 
thmous line, either straight or zig-zag. It was never devised for an 
"alphabet," and was incapable of an intermittent dot or dasli marking. 
The new instrument completed by Mr. Vail, and first operated on the 

* In a letter to the Hon. Frauds O. J. Smith, chairman of the Committee ou Com- 
merce, ITonse of Eoprcsentatives, dated February 15, 18;58, Professor Morse writes : 
"It is jivoper that 1 should here state that the pateut-ri,i>ht is now jointly owned in 
un(!qual shares by myself, Professor Gale, of New York City University, and Messrs. 
Alfred and George Vail." The j)atent was not actually issued till more than two years 
later. 



HEXRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 305 

6th of January, 1838, was differently organized, the recording-lever being 
for the first time arranged horizontally, and having an np and down 
movement, with an upright magnet under one end, and the moving fillet 
of paper above the other."* 

On the 24:th of January, 1838, an exhibition of the new apparatus and 
of its improved operation, was given at the New York City University, 
in the long room of the geological cabinet, through ten miles of wire 5 
one of the five -mile reels being placed in the outgoing portion of the cir- 
cuit, and the other five-mile reel on the returning line. On this occasion 
for the first time the words transmitted were entered, and recorded, in 
the new alphabet without the aid of the numbered dictionary.! The 
Kew York Journal of Commerce in noticing this performance remarked: 
" Professor Morse has recently improved on his mode of marking, by 
which he can dispense altogether with the telegraphic dictionary, using 
letters instead of numbers ; and he can transmit ten words per minute, 
which is more than double the number which can be transmitted by 
means of the dictionary."! 

The instrument thus brought to a satisfactory working condition, was 
designed to be sent to Washington for exhibition to officers of the Na- 
tional Government, with a view of obtaining a grant from Congress for 
the construction of an actual line of telegraph between two cities. Ou 
the way from Xew York, the apparatus with its reels of wire was ex- 
hibited at Philadelphia, before a committee of the Franklin Institute 
(at its hall), on the 8th of February, 1838. The committee (whose chair- 
man was Prof. Eobert M. Patterson, then Director of the United States 
Mint at Philadelphia), after a careful examination, reported : 

"The operation of the telegraph as exhibited to us was very satis- 
factory. The power given to the magnet at the register through a length 
of wire of ten miles, was abundantly sufficient for the movements re- 
quired to mark the signals. The communication of this power was in- 
stantaneous." Referring then to the probable difficulties of efficient in- 
sulation, the committee proceeded: "Mr. Morse has proposed several 
plans; the last being to cover the mres with cotton thread, then varnish 
them thickly with gum-elastic, and inclose the whole in leaden tubes. 
More practical and economical means will probably be devised ; but the 
fact is not to be concealed that any effectual plan must be very exj)en- 
sive.§ Doubts have been raised as to the distance to which the electri- 

*0u the question of the origin and invention of the " Morse- Alphabet," see "Sup- 
plement," Note G. 

tThe message sent through the av ire on this occasion (Wednesday, January 24, 
1833,) is spoken of as "the tirst sentcticethnt was ever recm-ded by the tek'graph." 
(Prime's Life of Momc, 8vo. N. Y. 1875, !>. 331.) It was the tirst employment of the 
rectilinear dot and dash symbols. 

I New York Journal of Commerce of January 29, 1838. 

§[It is to be remembered that (iauss and Weber, as also Rteiuhoil, at this date had 
in actual and successful operation telegraph lines severiil miles in length, wliose naked 
wires through the air were insniated only at their ])oints of sui)port. Although this 
important discovery of Weber had been in practical and public operation lor about tive 
years, no particular account of it seems to have been at thct time published in this 
country. ] 

S. Mis. 59 20 



306 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

city of au ordinary battery can be made efficient ; bnt your committee 
think tliat no serious difficulty is anticipated as to this point. The ex- 
periment with the wire wound in a coil may not indeed be deemed con- 
clusive. ... It maj' be proper to state that the idea of using elec- 
tricity for telegrajihic purposes has presented itself to several individu- 
als, and that it may be difficult to settle among them the question of orig- 
inality. The celebrated Gauss has a telegraph of this kind in actual 
operation, for communicating signals between the University of Got- 
tingen and his magnetic observatory in its vicinity. ... In con- 
clusion, the committee beg leave to state their high gratification with 
the exhibition of Professor Morse's telegraph, and their hope that means 
may be given to him to subject it to the test of an actual experiment 
made between stations at a considerable distance from each other." * 

About the middle of February, (1838,) Professor Morse arrived in Wash- 
ington with his instrument and his reels of wire, and exhibited the ope- 
ration of the telegrai^h to many dignitaries of the executive and legisla 
tive branches of government. A memorial was presented to Congress 
by the inventor, asking an appropriation to defray the expense of an 
experimental line between two cities ; which being referred to the Com- 
mittee on Commerce by the House of Representatives, was favorably 
reported by that committee April G, through its chairman, Hon. Francis 
O. J. Smith. " The committee agree unanimously that it is worthy to 
engross the attention and means of the Federal Government to the full 
extent that may be necessary to put the invention to the most decisive 
test that can be desirable;" and in accordance with this opinion, "the 
committee recommend an appropiiation of thirty thousand dollars, to be 
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury; and to 
this end submit herewith a bill." This bill however failed to receive 
the support of the majority, and a favorable action on this measure was 
not obtained for several years. 

Meanwhile Professor Morse had been engaged with a killful attorney 
in preparing papers with a view to obtaining a patent. The specifica- 
tion (signed April 7, 1838) includes, in addition to the several parts de- 
scribed in the earlier caveat of October 3, 1837, the recently-devised 
system of alphabetic signs, a rotary j)ort-rule for continuous action 
and a combination of circuits or electro magnetic " relays." The inven- 
tion is described as " an application of electro-magnetism in producing 
sounds and signs, or either, and also for recording permanently by the 
same means . . . any signs thus produced." " It consists of the fol- 
lowing parts : First, a circuit of electric or galvanic conductors," etc. 
" Second, a system of signs by which numerals and words represented by 
numerals, and thereby sentences of words, as well as of numerals, and let- 
ters of any extent and combination of each, are communicated." " Third, 
a set of type adapted to regulate the communication of tlie above-men- 
tioned signs." " Fourth, an apparatus called the port-rule [straight or 
* Journal of Franklin Institute, February, 18;]8, vol. xxi, u. s. pp. 106-108. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 307 

circular] whicli regulates the movement of the type." " Fifth, a signal- 
lever which breaks and connects the circuit of conductors."* " Sixth, a 
register which records permanently the signs communicated." " Sev- 
enth, a dictionary, or vocabulary of words, to which are prefixed nu- 
merals." " Eighth, modes of laying the circuit of conductors." 

After filing his application in the Patent Office, in order not to be 
forestalled in his intended efforts to obtain patents in Europe, by his 
own patent being sent and publislied abroad. Professor Morse filed a 
request that its issue might be suspended till his return. 

Although the favorable report on the Morse memorial to Congress, 
made to the House of Representatives by its committee, failed to secure 
the appropriation recommended, Mr. Francis O. J. Smith, the chairman, 
was so well satisfied of the merits of the new telegra])h, that on leaving 
Congress he at once became a partner in the enterprise, and accompanied 
Professor Morse in his departure for London, May 16, 1838. t 

In consequence of the opposition of Wheatstoue and Cooke, who had 
obtained an English i^atent June 12, 1837, Professor Morse's application 
for a patent in Great Britain was refused by the attorney-general. Sir 
John Campbell, July 12, 1838, (after the exaction of heavy fees,) on an 
unquestionable judicial quibble. The ostensible ground of rejection was 
clearly not warranted by the spirit or intent of the Engli.sh patent law, 
as the details of the patent sought, had never been published either in 
this country or abroad. | 

The success of the American inventor in France was practically no 
greater ; for although a nominal patent for that country was obtained 
on August 18, 1538, it was rendered nugatory by the ingenious legal 

*Altliongli the "signal-lever" is liere specially indicated, it dillers widely in con- 
struction, arrangement, and oiieratiou, from the modern signal-lever or transmitting 
key ; having only the function in common with it of a circuit-breaker. In his pam- 
phlet, published at Paris in 18o7, giving an account of his invention. Professor Morse 
says: ''At the time of the construction of this iirst telegraphic instrument, I had not 
conceived the idea of the present key manipulator dependent ou the skill of the opera- 
tor, but I presumed that the accuracy of the imprinting of .signs could only be secured 
hy mechanical mathematical arrangements and by automatic process." {Modern Tele- 
grapluj, etc. p. 25.) In his argument presented to Sir John Campbell, the attorney- 
general of England, July 12, 1838, he urges as an evidence of characteristic novelty, 
"These types form such an essential part of my invention, that without them the prac- 
tical utility and value of my invention is for the most part destroyed, and full one- 
half of the mechanism is disconnected from it, and is of no use in it." The Morse lever 
must not therefore be confounded with the existing finger-key. "The spring-lever 
key, as at present nsed in the Morse office, was suggested by Mr. Thomas C. Avery, of 
New York, but has received various modifications." (TurubuU's Electro- Magnetic 
Telegraph, 1852, pp. 49, 50.) 

t"\Vith this understanding a partnership was formed between Professor Morse, 
Professor Gale, Mr. Alfred Vail, and Hon. F. O. J. Smith, by the terms of which it was 
stipulated that Mr. Smith should go to Europe with Professor Morse, and secure 
patents for the telegraph in such countries as it should be practicable for him to do 
BO." (Prime's Life of Alorse, chap, viii, p. 344.) 

t Notwithstanding their illiberal interference with Morse's application in 1838, 
Messrs. William F. Cooke and Charles Wheatstone had the "self-possession" eighteen 
months later each to write a letter to Professor Morse, (dated January 17, 1840,) beg- 
ging him to join them in their efforts to obtain an American patent! As a character- 
istic illustration of official contrast, Messrs. Cooke and Wheatstone (contrary to their 
expectations), ou their own application, secured an American patent without opposi- 
tion or obstruction June 10, 1840, ten days before the issue of Morse's patent, ai>iilied 
for more than two years earlier. 



308 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

conditions, first, that to prevent forfeiture the patented invention must 
be carried into successfal operation in France within two years; and 
secondly, that all private persons, companies, or corporations, were pro- 
hibited from putting a telegraph into operation in France. Disappointed 
in various promising expectations, and discouraged by repeated failures, 
Professor Morse returned to Kew York, April 15, 1839. 

In May, 1839, he visited Princeton, for the purpose of seeing Professor 
Henry and obtaining from him the solution of certain doubts; — his col- 
league. Dr. Gale, being then absent on business. During this his first 
interview with Henry, occui^ying an afternoon and evening, he received 
from the fall and frank expositions of his host every satisfaction he de- 
sired; and he had the great encouragement of hearing from the lips of 
that cautious investigator, that he foresaw no difficulty in magnetizing 
soft iron through a wire " at the distance of a hundred miles or more."* 

The application filed by Professor Morse in the United States Patent 
Office, before he visited Europe, was allowed, and issued as a patent 
June 20, 1840. (N^o. 1647.) This patent comprised nine claims : 1, the 
combination of type, rule, lever, &c. ; 2, the recording cylinder, &c. ; 3, 
the types, signs, &c. ; 4, the making and breaking of the circuit by 
mechanism, &c. ; 5, the combination of successive circuits ; 6, the appli- 
cation of electro-magnets to several levers, &c. ; 7, the mode and process 
of recording by the use of electro-magnetism; 8, the combination and 
arrangement of electro-magnets in one or more circuits, with armatures 
for transmitting signs ; and 9, the combination of the mechanism de- 
scribed, with a dictionary of numbered words. 

The appropriation asked for from Congress, though earnestly pressed 
at successive sessions, failed to obtain the sanction of the House of 
Eepresentatives ; until after a wearisome delay of five years, a bill was 
finally carried through Congress, March 3, 1843, autborizing an expendi- 
ture of " the sum of thirty thousand dollars, ... for testing the 
capacity and usefulness of the system of electro-magnetic telegraphs 
invented by Samuel F, B. Morse, of ISTew York." 

The stations selected for connection by the new telegraph were Wash- 
ington and Baltimore, about forty miles apart. In order to form two 
complete circuits for this distance, one hundred and sixty miles of cop- 
per wire, covered with cotton, were ordered and delivered at New York 
City. Before inclosing the four lines in pipes, as contemplated, Professor 
Morse i)rudently determined to experiment on the magnetizing effect 
through this continuous length of insulated wire. The result of this 
experiment, which fully justified the expectation of Henry expressed to 
him four years before, is thus stated in a letter addressed to the Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, August 10, 1843 : 

* Prime's Life of Morse, chap, x, pp. 421, 422. Dr. Prime says of this visit, " A few- 
days after receivaug Professor Heury's kind invitation, Professor Morse went to Prince- 
ton, and passing tlie afternoon and' evening with the great philosopher, returned the 
next morniug to New York." 



HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 809 

'' The experiments alluded to were tried on Tuesday, and with per- 
fect success. I had prepared a galvanic battery of three hundred pairs, 
in order to have ample power at command ', but to my great gratifica- 
tion, I found that one hundred pairs were sufficient to produce all the 
effects I desired through the whole distance of one hundred and sixty 
miles. It may be well to observe that the hundred and sixty miles of 
wire are to be divided into four lengths of fortj" miles each, forming a four- 
fold cord from Washington to Baltimore. Two wires form a circuit ; the 
electricity therefore in producing its effects at Washington from Balti- 
more, passes from Baltimore to Washington and back again to Baltimore, 
of course travelling eighty miles to iiroduce its result. One hundred 
and sixty miles therefore gives me an actual distance of eighty miles ; 
double the distance from Washington to Baltimore. The result then of 
my exjieriments on Tuesday, is that a battery of only a hundred i^airs at 
Washington, will operate a telegraph on my plan eighty miles distant 
with certainty, and without requiring any intermediate station." 

As it was part of the original plan (as set forth in the caveat of 1837) 
to lay the conducting wires underground, Professor Morse, in 1843, de- 
vised a method of forming a lead pipe around the group of jirepared and 
insulated wires, that is of introducing the compound cord into the pipe 
in the process of its construction. He obtained a patent for this project 
October 25, 1843, (No. 3316,) claiming " the method of introducing wires 
into hollow i)ipes whilst making the same, by introducing the wires 
through a hollow mtindrel on which the pipe is made." This process 
was practically carried out, though with the extreme risk of constantly 
impairing the insulation of the wires by the ©iieration. 

Professor Gale has given the following account of the method of lay- 
ing the telegraph line and of the result. "A plow was used, with a share 
running two and a half feet deep, and carrying a coil of insulated wire 
inclosed in a coil of lead pipe which the plow deposited in the ground 
and covered as the plow progressed. Forty miles of lead pipe were made 
in New York in the autumn of 1843, and shipped to Baltimore in the end 
of November. Up to this date I had been engaged in New York inspecting 
the manufacture of the lead pipe and charging the same with the iusulated 
wire fed into the pipe by machinery while the pipe was drawn. I reached 
Baltimore in the early -pavt of December, and learned that the jjarty had 
nearly reached the Relay House. Nine miles had been laid ; on inspection 
of which, not one mile of wire was found to be sufiiciently insulated to 
carry the electric current from end to end of the reach."* 

The plan was finally abandoned early in 1844, after more than half of 

* Morse Memorial, Washington, 1875, pp. 18, 19. Steinheil, in 18157, remarked: "Nnmer- 
ous trials to insulate wires and to condnct them below the snrlace of the gronnd have 
led me to the conviction that such attempts can never answer at great distances, in- 
asmuch as our most perfect insulators are at best but very bad conductors. And since 
in a wire of very great length the surface in contact with tlie so-called insulator is 
uucommonly large when compared with the section of the metallic conductor, tluTO 
necessarily arises a gradual diminution of force." (Sturgeon's Annals of Electricity, 
etc. April^ 1839, vol.'iii, ]>. 510.) 



310 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

the appropriation bad been expended.* In Marcb, 1844, it was decided 
to put tbe wires on poles, after tbe manner successfully adopted by 
Weber at Gottiugen eleven years before. The different plans of insulat- 
ing support proposed, were submitted by Professor Morse to Henry for 
his opinion, and he decided in favor of Mr. Ezra Cornell's plan of sepa- 
rating the wires as far apart as convenient, and attaching each wire to 
an independent glass insulator, t The line was accordingly erected on 
this plan ; and by the middle or latter part of May, 1844, was completed 
from Washington to Baltimore. On the 24th of that month, the first 
formal message was transmitted through it between the two cities, and 
recorded by the electro-magnet in the dot-and-dash alphabet-! From 
this time the success of the electric telegraph in the United States was 
assured, and its extension over our broad domain was comparatively 
rapid. 

This prolonged review of the history of the "Morse telegraph" has 
been ventured upon in this connection, partly to bring out into just re- 
lation and relief one or two important points, and in part to illustrate 
the gradual i)rogress of development of the system, in the career of a 
single inventor. With that strong "subjectivity" (perhaps essential to 
the success both of the artist and of the artisan) which characterized 
him. Professor Morse always believed his invention to have been prac- 
tically fidl-fledged at its birth, or rather at its conception ; and quite 
unconscious of the slow and small advances derived from gathered ex- 
perience or external suggestion, failed seemingly to realize how com- 
pletely his earlier methods were discarded and displaced by later improve- 
ments. § 

* Professor Morse says: " It was abandoned, among other reasons, in consequence of 
ascertainiuo- that in the process of inserting the wire into the leaden tubes (which was 
at the moment of forming the tube from the lead at melting heat) the insulated cover- 
ing of the wires had become charred at various and numerous points of the line to such 
an extent that greater delay and expense would be necessary to repair the damage 
than to put the wire on posts." (Prime's Life of Morse, chap, xi, p. 478.) 

tMr. Cornell afterward distinguished himself by devoting, in 1865, half a million of 
dollars from the proiits of his telegraphic enterprises, to the founding at Ithaca, N. Y. 
of the university bearing his name. He subsequently contributed nearly as much 
more ; making his total endowment in the neighborhood of a million dollars. 

tTlie completion of the experimental telegraph authorized by act of Congress was 
thus formally announced by Professor Morse to the Secretary of the Treasury, under 
whose direction the appropriation had been placed : " Washington, June 3, 1844. Sir : 
I have the honor to report that the experimental essay authorized by the act of Con- 
gress on March :?, 1843, appropriating 30,000 dollars for testing my system of electro- 
magnetic telegraph, * and of such length and between such poiuts as shall test its 
practicability and utility,' has been made between Washington and Baltimore, a dis- 
tance of forty miles, coiinecting the Capitol in the former city with the railroad depot 
in Pratt street in tbe latter city. . . ." This was six years after the English line 
of thirteen miles had been in operation. While Lomond, in 1787, and Steinlieil, in 1837, 
had employed but a single wire for transmitting messages from either end, INIorse, in 
1844, required two circuits of four wires fof the same i)erformance ; one pair of wires for 
the outward and one pair for the inward passage. 

vS In a letter addressed to Dcmald JNIann, esq., December, 1852, Professor Morse rather 
quaintly remarks: "In elaborating the invention in its earlier iL«i:ages, many mo<lilica- 
tions of its various parts were tried, and many of IJk^. supposed improvements then 
deemed necessary to its perfection have since been fV)uud unnecessary and useless." 
{Americo.n Telegraph Magazine, December 15, 1852, vol. i, No. 3, p. 130.) 



HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 311 

Morse's ^^ first conception.^^ — After a three years' sojonm iu Europe, from 
1829 to 1832, spent priucipally in Italy, devoted exclusively to the study 
and pursuit of his art as paiuter, Mr. Morse on his homeward voyage 
from France in the ship Sully, formed the acquaintance of Dr. Charles 
T. Jackson, of Boston, a fellow- passenger. He first " conceived the idea" 
of an electric telegraph on the 19th of October, 1832, from a conversa- 
tion with Dr. Jackson on the subject ; and the suggestion impressed him 
with the surprise of a truly new conception. His first thought appears 
to have been the application of electricity or galvanism to a chemically 
recording telegraph; and this project, laid aside for that of the electro- 
magnet, was afterward revived and cherished, till in 1819, he procured a 
patent for it, as already stated. 

Professor Morse in his letter to Dr. C. T. Jackson, dated September 18, 
1837, controverting the claim of the latter to a share in the invention of 
the electric telegraph, says : " I lose no time in e^ideavoring to disabuse 
your mind of an error into which it has fallen in regard to the electro- 
magnetic telegraph. You speak of it as 'our electric telegraph,' and as 
a ' mutual discovery.' . . . I have a distinct recollection of the man- 
ner, the place, and the moment, when the thought of making an electric 
wire the means of communicating intelligence, first came into my mind. 
. . . We were conversing on the recent scientific discoveries in elec- 
tro-magnetism; . . . I then remarked, this being so, if the presence 
of electricity can be made visible iu any desired part of the circuit, I 
see no reason why intelligence might not be transmitted instantaneously 
by electricity. You gave your assent that it was possible. ... I 
asked you if there was not some mode of decomposition which could be 
turned to account. You suggested the following experiment, which we 
agreed should be tried together, if we could meet for that purpose. It 
was this: to decompose by electricity glauber salts upon the pajier' 
which was first to be colored with turmeric." The writer then argues 
that this plan not having been jointly tried, and an entirely diiferent 
device (the electromagnet) having been adopted by himself, there was no 
joint invention.* 

In his letter to Dr. C. T. Jackson, dated December 7, 1837, Professor 
Morse says : " I consulted you to ascertain if there were not some sub- 
stance easily decomposed by the simple contact of a wire in an electric 
state. It was then, and not till then, that you suggested turmeric paper 
dipped in a solution of sulphate of soda. . . . I do not charge you 
with intentional neglect; I readily allow your excuses for not trying the 
experiments; but these excuses do not alter the fact that your neglect 
retarded my invention, and compelled me after five years' delay, to con- 
sider the result of that experiment as a failure, and consequently to de- 

* Amos Kendall's Full Exposure of Dr. Charles T. Jackson^s Preicnsions, etc. First edi- 
tion, N. Y. 1850. Second edition, printed in Paris, 18(57: pp. G4, G5. Neither Professor 
Morse nor Dr. Jaclcson was aware* that the project had been su<:!^gested seventeen years 
before, by Dr. J. E. Coxe, of Phikidelphia; and that it had been successfully tried 
four or five years before, by Mr. H. G. Dyar, of New York. 



312 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

vise another mode of applying iny ajiparatus, — a mode entirely original 
with me." * 

lu a letter to INtr. Alfred Vail, not long after having formed a i^artner- 
ship with that gentleman, he wrote : '' I claim to be the original 
suggester and inventor of the electric magnetic telegraph, on the 19th 
of October, 1832, on board the packet- ship Snlly, on my voyage from 
Franco to the United States, and consequently the inventor of the first 
reall}' practicable telegraph on the electric principle." t Some ten years 
later he wrote to Professor Walker : " It is at the date, 1832, of Baron 
Schilling's invention of his needle-telegraph (since abandoned as imprac- 
ticable from various and obvious causes), that I conceived my electro- 
magnetic telegraph, and first devised an apparatus applying magnetism 
produced by electricity or the power of the electro-magnet to imprint 
characters at a distance." | And such was ever his firm conviction. 
Some twenty years later, he wrote at Paris: " If it be asked why I have 
assumed the date of the year 1832 as a standpoint, I reply, because at 
that date the idea was first conceived, and the process and means first 
developed." § 

The invention however as unfolded in his caveat of October 3, 1837, 
is sufficiently embryonic for physiological study; and though our patent 
law, on grounds of sound policy, excludes all evidence of the inception 
of a foreign competitive invention, admitting only i)erfected and fully 
published details successfully to interfere (in a question of priority) with 
the first suggestions of the American inventor, || obviously no such patri- 
otic rule is admissible in any scientific histor^^" of the progress of actual 
discovery. Interesting as the earliest gleams of a successful application 
and invention undoubtedly are, they are too little accessible to impar- 
tial investigation to claim the prerogative of a recognized chronology. 

* This letter seems very positively to exclude tlie claim to having ''conceived the 
idea" of the magnetic telegraph iu ISoi. 

tVail's Ekctro-Mofjnetic Tdctjraph, 1845, p. 154. 

t Morse's letter to Professor S<nu's C. Walker, dated Washington, January 31, 1848. 
The writer is exciisable for assuming 18:52 as the date of Barou Schilling's invention, 
(the date of his return from China,) as this is the date usually assigned in the popular 
text-hooks. Schilling's invention however so far irora being either "impracticable" 
or '"abandoned," is tiie essential basis of the telegraph now in use throughout Eng- 
land. 

§ Modern Telq/raplnj, a pamphlet by S. F. B. Morse. Paris, 18G7, p. 10. In a letter to 
Donald Mann, esq. (editor of the Telegraph Magazine), dated "Poughkeepsie, De- 
cember, 1852," Professor Morse stoutly maintained his claim to priority of practical 
development (if not of lirst conception) of an electric recording telegraph; and with 
paternal exaggeration he declared, of his tirst crude exi)erimcnt at the close of the year 
1835, "The truth is, the child was born, and breathed, and spoke, in 1835. It had 
then all the essential characteristics of the future mau." {American Telegraph Maga- 
zine. December 1.5, 18.52, vol.i, No. 3, p. 130.) Its lirst transmission of an intelligible 
message was made September 2, 1837. 

II " Whenever it appears that a patentee at the time of making his applica- 
tion for the patent believed himself to be the original and tirst inventor or dis- 
coverer of the thing patented, the same shall iu)t be held to be void on account of the 
invention or discovery, or any part thereof, having been known or used in a foreign 
country before his invention or discovery thereof, if it had not lieen patented or 
desc>-ibe(l in a i)rinted publication." (Act of Jitlij i, 1831), section 15, lievi^ed Stattttcs, 
appi ved March 2, 1877, title Ix, sec. 4923.) 



HENRY AXD THE TELEGRAPH. 313 

Whether judged by the standard of original conception, of practical 
operation, or of actual introduction into use, the Morse telegra])h must 
be assigned a position tolerably low down in the list.* More than six- 
teen years before Professor Morse's first conception of the idea, Dr. J. 
R. Coxe, professor of chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, at 
the beginning of 1816, " conceived the idea " of a practical electro-chemi- 
cal telegraph, whose signals should be permanently recorded by the de- 
composition of metallic salts ;t the precursor of Dyar's electro-chemical 
telegraph, successfully operated in 1828, (about five years before Morse's 
first conc(?ption,) — of Bain's electro-chemical telegraph, (patented De- 
cember 12, 1810,) — and of ]Morse's electro-chemical telegraph, (patented 
May 1, 1849,) a third of a century afterward. Schilling's electro-mag- 
netic telegraph developed to a "practical operation" in 1823, certainly 
before 1825, preceded that of Morse more than a dozen years. And the 
electro-magnetic telegraph of Gauss and Weber (certainly "conceived" 
before 1832) was in actual use and em])loyment more than ten years 
before the similar establishment by Professor Morse; while that of 
Steinheil, probably conceived as early, was some eight years earlier 
than his in its practical introduction into use.| 

That Professor Morse would greatly have expedited his own improve- 
ments, and have saved himself a large amount of wasted time and labor, 
if he had studied more carefully the state of the art at the commence- 
ment of his experiments in 1835, is sufficiently obvious. But his com- 
plete unconsciousness — not only of the earlier successes of others in de- 
veloping the galvanic telegraph, but of even the elementary facts of sci- 
entific history bearing on the problem, as well at the time of his original 
"conception" on board the ship Sully from the fecundating suggestion 
of Dr. Jackson, as during the years following, in which the invention 
was being slowly matured, — would be incredible on any other testimony 
than his own. In his first letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated 
September 27, 1837, he announced "having invented an entirely new 
mode of telegraphic communication." In a letter to Mr. A. Vail, some 
time afterward, he wrote: "I ought perhaps to say that the conception 
of the idea of an electric telegraph was original with me at that time, 
and I supposed that I was the first that had ever associated the two 
words together, nor was it until my invention was completed and had 
been successfully operated through ten miles, that I for the first time 

* Nearly two years before Professor Morse had met with Dr. C. T. Jackson, Henry had 
"conceived" and executed an experimental electro-magnetic telegraph, of a mile circuit. 

IThomson's Annals of Pliilosophi/, February, ISIG, vol, vii, ii. Ki:?. 

J: In a letter to his dau;;hter dated July "JG, 18:58, (written from Havre, .just on his 
arrival in France from Loudon,) Professor Morse says soin(>wliat cuiiouyly of the tele- 
grapli of Wheatstone, "he has invented his I believe without knowing that I was 
engaged in an invention to produce a similar result ; for although he dates Itack to 
IH'^2, yet as no publication of our tiiouglits was ma<le by eitliei', we are evidently in- 
dependent of each otlier." (PriuKs's Life of Morse, chap. ix. p. '.\oS.) The iioi)ular in- 
fatuation in England as to the originality and jtriority of the Cooke and Wheatstouo 
telegraph is ])robably quite equal to that jjrevalent in America as to the superior 
claims of the Morse telegraph. Wheatstone's scientific distinction or his tJtlo to en- 
during fame, fortunately does not rex^ose on his telegraph. 



314 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

leurned that tlie idea of au electric telegraph had been conceived hy 
another. " * 

Some time earlier than this, or five years after their conversations on 
ship-board, Professor Morse wrote to Dr. Jackson, (in a letter dated 
August 27, 1837, seeking his indorsement of the writer's originality in 
electrical telegraphy,) and avowed : " I claim for myself, and consequently 
for America, priority over all otlipr countries in the invention of a mode 
of communicating intelligence by electricity!" In a second letter to the 
same person, dated New York City University, September 18, 1837, 
acknowledging his correspondent's original introductory remarks on 
electricity and electro-magnetism during their homeward voyage, but 
diftering from him as to some of the consequent circumstances, he 
aijfirmed: ^'I then remarked, this being so, if the presence of electricity 
can be made \asible in any desired part of the circuit, I see no reason 
why intelligence might not be transmitted instantaneously by elec- 
tricity!" And in the same letter he contended, "The discovery is the 
original suggestion of conveying intelligence by electricity.t The inven- 
tion is devising the mode of conveying it. The discovery, so far as we 
alone are concerned, belongs to me : and if by an experiment Avhich we 
I)roposed to try together we had mutually fixed ux)on a successful mode 
of conveying intelligence, then we might with some propriety be termed 
mutual or joint inventors. But as wc have never tried any experiment 
together, nor has the one proposed to be tried by you, been adopted by 
me, I cannot see how we can be called mutual inventors. You are 
aware perhaps that the mode I have carried into effect after many and 
various experiments with the assistance of my colleague, Professor Gale, 
was never mentioned either by you or to you.f ... I have always 
said in giving any account of my telegraph, that it was on board the 
ship during a scientific conversation with you that I first conceived the 
thought of an electric telegraph. I have acknowledgments of similar 
kinds to make 'to Professor Silliman and Professor Gale, . . . and 
to the latter I am most of all indebted for substantial and effective 
aid in many of my experiments. If any one has a claim to be mutual 
inventor on the score of aid by hints, it is Professor Gale ; but he pre- 
fers no claim of the kind. " § In his third letter, dated iSTew York City 

* Vail's ElectrG-Magnetlo Tdcfjrapli, j). 154. 

t Professor Morse's couceiition of "discovery" does uot apx^ear to have been very pro- 
found. 

X [Another explicit statement that he did uot "conceive the idea" of the magnetic 
telegraph in 1832, or on board the ship Sully. ] 

§ Dr. Jackson in his reply, dated Boston, November 7, 1837, said: "This claim of 
yours is to me a matter of surprise and regret. . . . You will not I presume 
venture to maintain that you at that time knew anything about electro-magnetism 
more than what you learned from me. ... I am certainly desirous of doing you 
justice to the fullest extent, and have "always spoken of your merits as I hope I shall 
always have occasion to do. , . . Honor to whom honor is due shall be my 
motto, and I must I believe fail in this dutj^ if I should say that the first idea of au 
electro-magnetic telegrai)h was conceived by au American citizen. . . . The 'dis- 
covery' is not then to be claimed by us. I have invented a new instrument; so per- 
haps you have, for I do not yet know what your now one is^ since you say I have not 
seen it nor heard about it beyond your announcement. " 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 315 

University, December 7, 1837, Professor Morse reiterated: "Your mem- 
ory and mine are at variance in regard to the first suggestion of convey- 
ing intelligence by electricity. I claim to be the one who made it, and 
in the way which I stated in my letter to you. . . . The idea that 
I had made a brilliant discovery, that it was original in my mind, was 
the exciting cause and the perpetual stimuUis to urge me forward in 
maturing it to a result. Had I supposed at that time, that the thought 
had ever occurred to any other person, I would never have pursued it; 
and it was not till I had completed my present invention, that I was 
aware that the thought of conveying intelligence by electricity had 
occurred to scientific men some years before. . . . The single scien- 
tific fact ascertained by rranklin, that electricity can be made to travel 
any distance instantaneously, is all that I needed to know, aside from 
mathematical and mechanical science, in order to plan all I invented on 
board the ship."* 

These extracts sufliciently show the distinguished inventor's profound 
incomprehension, as well of the nature of the problem to be solved, as 
of the scientific i)rinciples involved in surmounting liis fundamental 
difficulties. That his colleague. Professor Gale, should by the mere ap- 
plication of existing knowledge and established fact, make his magnetic 
signals operative through successively increasing lengths of wire until 
ten miles were included in the circuit, appeared — if remarkable, at least 
quite natural. That any special credit should be due to any one but 
himself and his invention, in the accomplishment of such a result, ap- 
peared no less unnatural and irrational : and Dr. Gale has recorded 
" Professor Morse's great surprise" when his attention was first called to 
Henry's paper in Silliman's Journal of January, 1831, a year or two after 
his magnet and battery had been so modified in accordance therewith 
as to correlate them in " intensity." That even then the inventor under- 
stood the real import of the paper is rendered doubtful by subsequent 
developments: his surprise being ajiparently excited mainly by Henry's 
suggestion that his researches were " directly applicable to the project 
of forming an electro-magnetic telegrai^h." 

Prof. Sears 0. Walker, the eminent astronomer, in a dejiosition taken 
in a telegraph suit of " French vs. Eogers," has thus recorded his recol- 
lection of an interesting interview between Professors Henrj", Morse, and 
Gale, in January, 1818, at which he was present : " The result of the in- 
terview was conclusive to my mind that Professor Henry was the sole 
discoverer of the law on which the 'intensity' magnet depends for its 
power of sending the galvanic current through a long circuit. I was 
also led to conclude that Mr. Morse in the course of his own researches 
and experiments, before he read Professor Henry's article before alluded 
to, had encountered the same difficulty Mr. Barlow and those who preceded 
him had encountered ; that is the impossibility of forcing the galvanic 

* Full Exposure of Dr. Charles T. Jaclcson's Pretensions, etc. By Amos Kendall. 1st ed. 
1850 ; 2d ed. printed in Paris, 1837 : pp. Gl-74. 



316 HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

current tliroiigli a long telegraph line. His own personal researches bad 
not overcome this obstacle. I also learned at the same time, by the con- 
versations above stated, that he only overcame this obstacle by con- 
structing a magnet on the i>rinciple invented by Professor Henry, and 
described in his article in Silliman's Journal. His attention was directed 
to it by Dr. Gale."* 

In consequence of this friendly interview, Professor Morse, with a 
frankness creditable to the natural impulses of his character, a short 
time afterward addressed a letter to Professor Walker, from which the 
following extracts are made: 

"Washington, January 31, 1848. 

"Dear Sie : I have perused with much interest that part of your 
manuscript entitled ' Theorj^ of Morse's Electro-Magnetic Telegraph,' 
which you were so kind as to submit to my examination. The allusion 
you make to ' the helix of a soft-iron magnet i^repared after the manner 
first pointed out by Professor Henry,' gives me an opportunity of which 
I gladly avail myself, to say that I think justice has not hitherto been 
done to Professor Henry, either in Europe or this country, for the dis- 
covery of a scientific fact which in its bearing on telegraphs, whether 
of the magnetic needle or electro-magnet order, is of the greatest im- 
portance. . . . Thus was Oldened the way for fresh efforts in devising 
a practicable electric telegraph j^ and Baron Schilling, in 1832, and Pro- 
fessors Gauss and Weber, in 1833, had ample opportunity to learn of 
Henry's discovery, and avail themselves of it, before they constructed 
their needle telegraphs, t . . . To Professor Henry is unquestionably 
due the honor of the discovery of a fact in science which proves the 
practicability of exciting magnetism through a long coil or at a distance, 
either to deflect a needle or magnetize soft iron. . . . 
"With great respect, your obedient servant, 

"Samuel E. B. Morse." 

This just and honorable recognition was well calculated to reflect an 
added luster, in the minds of the intelligent, upon Professor Morse's 
unquestionable achievements. But the writer a few years later, per- 
haps embittered by the sweeping constructions placed by hostile ad- 
vocates upon the enforced statements of Henry (exacted in strongly- 
contested litigations between rival telegraph inventors or their sustain- 
ing companies), was unfortunately led in evil hour by flattering partisans 
to undo this gracious work. 

In a pamphlet essay dated Locust Grove, New York, December, 1853, 
and published in January, 1855, Professor Morse hazarded the intrepid 

* The case of French vs. Mof/ers. Respondent's evidence, p. 199. Quoted by President 
Felton: Snuihsonian Bcport for 1857, pp. 94, 95. The attention of Professor Morse was 
in reality not called to Henry's discovery by Dr. Gale, till a considerable time after it 
had been successfully aiiplied to the experimental circuits of the infant telegraph. 

t [Schilling's telegraphic experiments (involving no great length of circuit) were 
earlier than Henry's discoveries ; and the expedient of so delicate an indicator as the 
reflecting galvanometer employed by Gauss and Weber seems to show that they had 
not adapted fully the electric current to the "intensity" coil, as recommended by- 
Henry. ] 



HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 317 

statement: "First. I certainly shall sliow that I have not only mani- 
fested every disposition to give due credit to Professor Henry, but 
under the hasty impression that he deserved credit for discoveries in 
science beaiing upon the telegraph, I did actually give him a degree of 
credit not only beyond what he had received at that time from the scien- 
tific world, but a degree of credit to which subsequent research has 
l)roved him not to be entitled. Secondly. I shall show that I am not 
indebted to him for any discovery in science bearing on the telegraph ; 
and that all discoveries of principles having this bearing were made, not 
by Professor Henry, but by others, and prior to any experiments of Pro- 
fessor Henry in the science of electro-magnetism." * 

In the inevitable dilemma thus assumed by the pamphleteer, under 
the clear light of historic record, it is most charitable not to impugn the 
writer's candor. The evidences diligently gathered by him, of electric 
impulse transmitted to great distances, before the date of Henry's inves- 
tigations, certainly seem to show a surprising misconception of the phe- 
nomena and the principles of electro-magnetism. That with such mis- 
conception he should fad to appreciate an indebtedness to Henry's labors, 
is perhaps not surprising ; but that he should thus ignore the services 
and statements of his faithful friend and colleague — Professor Gale, his 
great obligations to whom had been constantly admitted, appears less 
amenable to exidanation or excuse. 

Professor Morse could say with undoubted truth, that not till after the 
successful working of his invention, had he ever heard of Henry's re- 
searches. In his letter to Professor Walker, just above quoted, in refer- 
ring to the time and the nature of his invention, he wrote : " I was utterly 
ignorant that the idea of an electric telegrai^h of any kind whatever, 
had been conceived by any other person. I took it for granted that the 
effects I desired could be produced at a distance ; and accordingly in the 
confidence of this persuasion, I devised and constructed my api>aratus 
for the pui"[Jose. I had never even heard or read of Professor Henry's 
experiments, nor did I become acquainted with them until after all my 
apparatus was constructed and in oiieration through half a mile of wire, 
at the l^ew York City University, in 1837. I then learned for the first 
time that an electric telegraph of some kind had been thought of before 
I had thought of it." In his pamphlet of January, 1855, he mentions that 
at the date of Henry's publication in Silliman's Journal, he was sojourn- 
ing in Italy. " From the autumn of the year 1829 till the autumn of the 
year 1832 I .was in Europe, principally in Italy. . . . The fact is, it 
did not come to my knowledge until five years after my return, in ISST."!" 

* A Defence against the injur ious deductions drawn from the deposition of Prof. Joseph 
Hcnrii [ill the scvPA'al telograj)!! suits]; by Samuel F. B. Morse, Jaimary 1855, p. 8. 
(See "" Supplemeut," Note H.) 

t Morse's Defence against the injurious deductions, etc. (p. 15, and foot-note). Thus 
while Morse — dreaming only of artistic fame, was assiduously cultivating his art iu 
Italy, nearly two years before he met with Dr. Jackson on the homeward ship, or be- 
fore the conception of electric signaling had dawned upon his mind, Henry had aa 
electro-magnetic circuit of a mile, with beU signal, in actual oiieration at the Albany- 
Academy. 



318 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

Professor Gale, when asked in 1856, if he wonld give a statement for 
publication, of the IMorse apparatus as originally constructed, and be- 
fore being modified by himself, i^romptly responded in a letter dated 
Washhigton, April 7, 185G : " This a])paratus was JMorse's original in- 
strument, usually kijown as the type apparatus, in which the types, set 
up in a composing-stick, were run through a circuit-breaker, and in 
which the battery was the cylinder battery, with a single pair of plates. 
The sparseness of the wires in the magnet coils, and the use of the single 
cup battery, were to me on the first look at the instrument, obvious 
marks of defect, and I accordingly suggested to the professor, without 
giving my reasons for so doing, that a battery of many pairs should be 
substituted for that of a single pair, and that the coil on each arm of the 
magnet should be increased to many hundred turns each : which experi- 
ment (if I remember aright) was made on the same day, with a battery 
and wire on hand, furnished I believe by myself: and it was found that 
while the original arrangement would only send the electric current 
through a few feet of wire, (say from fifteen to forty,) the modified ar- 
rangement would send it through as many hundred. Although I gave 
no reasons at the time to Professor Morse for the suggestions I had pro- 
posed in modifying the arrangement of the machine, I did so afterward; 
and referred in my explanations to the i)aper of Professor Henry, in the 
nineteenth volume of the American Journal of Science. ... At the 
time I gave the suggestions above named, Professor Morse was not famil- 
iar with the then existing state of the science of electro-magnetism. Had 
he been so, or had he read and appreciated the paper of Henry, the sug- 
gestions made by me would naturally have occurred to his mind, as 
they did to my own. . . . Professor IMorse expressed great surprise 
at the contents of the paper when I showed it to him, but especially 
at the remarks on Dr. Barlow's results respecting telegraphing."* 

In a letter published in the Sunday Chronicle at Washington, in 1872, 
Professor Gale (strongly vindicating the propriety of erecting a monu- 
ment to Professor Morse — not as a Discoverer but as an Inventor,) con- 
ceded that "Morse knew nothing of Henry's discovery when he invented 
his machine. Henry's discovery was published in 1831. Five or six years 
later IMorse invented his telegraphic machine, without having seen an 
account of Henry's experiments till shown to him bj' myself" t And from 
this consideration he justly exonerates him from the imputation of 
plagiarism whicli had been inconsiderately brought against the distin- 
guished inventor. In a letter addressed to Prof. E. IS". Horsford, of 
Cambridge, IMass., dated Washington, May 18, 1872, the same writer 
said: "I adapted to Morse's machine the modification which was taken 
from Henry's experiments of 1831. [Properly of 1829, and 1830.] But 
Morse, not having been accustomed to investigate scientific facts, could 
not appreciate the investigations of Henry as applicable to the tele- 

^Si)tltltiiO)uan lieport for 1857, pp. 9:^, 93. 
\Su)idai) Chronicle, Washington, March 3, 1872. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 319 

graph ; and I presume that Morse never did fully appreciate the benefit 
which his machine derived from Henry's discovery."* 

Professor Morse's real merit (and his real contribution to telegraphy) 
consists, first, in the adaptation of the armature of a Henry electro-mag- 
net to the purpose of a recording instrument, and secondly, in connec- 
tion therewith, the improvement on the Gauss and Steinheil dual-sigu 
aljihabets, (made either by himself, or his assistant, Mr. Vail,) of employ- 
ing, instead of alternating or vibratory markings, the simple "dot-and- 
dash" alphabet in a single line. Whatever may liaA^e been the indebt- 
edness of Professor Morse to Dr. Jackson for the suggestion of the first 
idea of an " electric" telegraph, it is quite clear from the incoherent 
claims of Dr. Jackson himself, that these two really important improve- 
ments were original with Morse, and were in no sense derived from 
Jackson, t 

Claims so moderate, though so meritorious, (as might be supposed) 
would scarcely satisfy the ambition of the patentee and his supporters, 
conscious of the equally meritorious exertion and enterprise by which 
through tedious ordeals of obstruction and difiiculty a great practical 
success had been achieved, and before whom — in just reward — ^i)rophetic 
visions of a grand commercial monopoly loomed in large perspective. 
And thus by ignoring and undervaluing the results accomplished by 
those earlier in the field, tbe owners of the patent exerted themselves to 
repress competing systems, and to arrogate entire invention and propri- 
etorshii) of the electro-magnetic telegraph. 

To the vast majority — suddenly dazzled by so magnificent a culmina- 
tion of invention, such claims appeared entirely legitimate ; to the studi- 
ous few — prepared to discriminate, they appeared as entirely inadmissible. 
Tbe judicial tribunals — disposed to sustain a vested right with largest and 
most liberal interpretation, yet j)ronounced in final appeal such claims 
untenable and overstated. I 

To so eminent a pioneer in telegraphy as Henry, perhaps more than 
to any other, must the overweening pretensions of the " Morse Tele- 
graph " have been obvious and untenable ; and yet with that impar- 
tialitj' of judgment — that rare independency of personal bias which so 
marvelously distinguished him, he never permitted himself to under- 
estimate Morse's true merits, nor did he abstain from defending them 
with a heartiness probitbly greater than was accorded by any of his sci- 
entific comi)eers. For Professor IMorse personally he felt a sympathetic 
regard ; which continued uninterrupted and unabated till the unfortu- 
nate epoch when he was so ungratefully assailed and so wantonly tra- 
duced. § 

* Memorial of Samuel F. B. Morse. (Meeting iu Faneuil Hall.) Boston, 1872, p. 37. 

+ These two features so impressed the candid Steiulieil, the foremost of telegraphers, 
as to lead him at once to accept them as great improvements ou his own ingenious 
method of recording, ai\d to urge at once their substitution. 

tSee "Supplement," Note I. § See "Supplement," Note J. 



320 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

^'- Relay'''' and " I'ccciving^^ circuits. — The somewhat controverted ques- 
tion as to the true origin of the rehiy system of electrical communica- 
tion has been purposely reserved for a concluding discussion. Though 
unquestionably a valuable adjunct in distant intercourse, the " relay " 
is not here treated as an essential feature of the electric telegraph, since 
land-lines of GOO miles, and by the ocean system cables of 2,000 miles, 
are easily made operative in a single stretch or circuit. 

Henry's original contrivance of a special compound circuit in 1835, 
(already noticed,) by no means precluded an equally original invention 
by Professor Morse some years later of a different arrangement of con- 
ioined circuits. Nor is it at all surprising that a combination (in itself 
sufficiently obvious) should spontaneously occur to several minds if so 
circumstanced as to feel a need for it. There is reason to believe that 
Morse, like Wheatstone, independently invented his application of the 
general idea, and probably about the same time, in the spring of 1837.* 

To do justice however to each party, it is all-important to discrimi- 
nate carefully between the actual results attained by each. Henry had 
simply the ])hilosopliic plan of employing a weak magnetic power to act 
as a distant trigger for a great magnetic power, (one therefore of short 
circuit,) — and there stop.t Wheatstone, employing a delicate arrange- 
ment of silent galvanometer needle at the distant station, felt the neces- 
sity of i)romi)tly calling attention to the visual signal by an audible 
alarm; hence this feeble i)Ower was used also as the trigger to bring 
into action a much shorter and more powerful electro-magnetic circuit, 
— but merely as a call, and there stop. Morse, requiring a stronger sig- 
naling duty (in the use of a recording lever) than the length of the 
circuit would probably permit, conceived the idea of a division of the 
circuit into several shorter ones; each successive circuit to be of the same 
Mnd as the j)recediug. He thus first produced a true "relay," and this 
too without a knowledge of anything similar haviug been previously 
exhibited by Professor Henry as a lecture-room experiment before his 
college classes. It may therefore be affirmed that Henry, feeling no 
occasion for extending a telegraphic line, had probably no idea of a 
"relay," proi)erly so called, when he first devised his combination of an 
"intensity" circuit with a "quantity" circuit; that Professor Morse, by 
Ms own declaration, had certainly no conception of a local receiving 
"quantity" magnet when subsequently he first devised his combination 
of a series of equal "intensity" circuits; and that Wheatstone had as 
little idea of either a "receiving" or a "relay" magnet when (in con- 

* It even appears (from the uufortnuate controversy between Messrs. Cooke and 
Wlieatstone as to the priority and vahie of their respective contributions) that the two 
English copartners cacli independently invented the "relay" alarum. {Profcsaor 
W heatstone' s Annwer to Mr. Cooke's pamphlet. Rexjublished in Cooke's '^Electric Tiie- 
grapli" etc. part i, p. 55, foot-note.) 

t "My object in the process described by me was to bring into operation a Large 
'quantity' magnet connected witli a 'quautitj'^' battery in a local circuit, by means of 
a small 'intensity' magnet, and an 'intensity' battery at a distance." {iSmiihsouian 
lieport for 1857, p. 112.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 321 

junction witli Cooke) lie devised a "quantity" circuit supplementary to 
his "intensity" circuit for the sole purpose of calling "attention." 

Professor Morse in his answer to the tirelfih cross-interrogatory (in his 
deposition taken February G, 7, and 8, 1851), in the case of " B. B. French 
and others vs. H. J. llogers and others," has made the following state- 
ment: "If by the question is sought the date of my invention of break- 
ing and closing one circuit by another, I answer in 1836 [ ? ]. I exhibited 
the same in operation [?] in the spring of 1837. If by the question is 
sought the date of my invention of a short circuit to be used at the ex- 
tremities of the line, I answer in May of 1844. If by the question is 
sought the date of a still greater improvement, to wit, that of placing 
short circuits on the margin (so to speak) of the main line, all of them to 
be operated simultaneously, I answer that the idea of such an improve- 
ment first 1^ resented itself to my mind in the beginning of the year 
1844.* . . . The short circuits at the extremity of the main line were 
first used on the line between Washington and Baltimore, in May, 1844." t 

These deliberate statements of Professor Morse distinguish very explic- 
itly between the "relay" of magnets for "breaking and closing one cir- 
cuit by another," and the "receiving" magnet of "a short circuit at the 
extremities of the line." And as a fact of public record, Morse patented 
the first of these devices June 20, 1840; (No. 1047;) while he did not pat- 
ent the latter device (the " receiving " magnet of a local circuit) till about 
six years later, April 11, 184C : (No. 4453.) 

On the same subject, Professor Gale has stated in his dei)osition : 
" The said Morse always expressed his confidence of success in propa- 
gating magnetic power through any distance of electric conductors which 
circumstances might render desirable. His plan was thus often ex- 
plained to me. Sup])ose (said Professor Morse) that in experimenting 
on twenty miles of wire we should find that the i)ower of magnetism is 
so feeble that it will but move a lever with certainty but a hair's breadth; 
that would be insufficient it may be to write or print, yet it would be 
sufficient to close and break another or a second circuit twenty miles 
farther ; and this second circuit could in the same manner be made to 
break and close a third circuit twenty miles farther; and so on around 
the gl<jbe." 

This is a very clear presentation of the " relay " of circuits. But with 
a slight confusion of idea Dr. Gale proceeds : " ThivS general statement 
of the means to be resorted to, now embraced in wliat is called tbc ^re- 
ceiving magnet,^ to render practical — writing or printing by telegraph 
through long distances, was shown to me more in detail early in the 
spring of the year 1837." To the same effect, nearly a quarter of a 

"[Steinbeil, in 1837 (seven years earlier), had adapted liis refjjistcrin"^ galvanometer 
" to repeat and render permanent at all imrtu of the chain where an a])parat ns like that 
above described is inserted," the infonnation transinitt(!d to the termiuns. (Sturgeon's 
Annals of Electricity, etc. April, 1839, vol. iii, p. 520.)] 

\ Depodtion of Samuel F. B. Morse, Circuit Court oftho United States for the eastern 
district of Pennsylvania, April session, 1850, No. 104, "Complainant's Evidence," pp. 
182, 183. 

S. Mis. 59 21 



322 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

century later, Dr. Gale states that "Before lines of telegraph were set 
up, it was anticipated that in long lines the ordinary current of 
electricity might not be strong enough to work the magnet at such dis- 
tance, so as to write, but would be so strong as to open and close a side 
or local circuit, as suggested by Professor Henry. This mode of using 
one electric circuit and magnet to open and close another electric circuit 
(either for extending the main circuit to greater distances or to operate 
any local circuit), although not in the machine when I first saw it, was 
discussed in an early part of 1837, before any lines had been constructed."* 

In both these accounts. Professor Gale has intidvertently (though not 
unnaturally) confounded together two entirely distinct inventions, in- 
volving different arrangements and puri)oses; — the "relay" circuit and 
magnet (of the " intensity" order), and the " receiving " circuit and mag- 
net (of the "quantity" order); although Professor Morse himself dis- 
tinctly declared he had no conception of the latter arrangement in 1837, 
having invented it " in May of 1814." 

While the first invention of the special application called the "relay" 
is thus unhesitatingly ascribed to Professor Morse, the practically much 
more important arrangement of the terminal or local short circuit " quan- 
tity " magnet for reinforcing the power of the " intensity " magnet, must 
as unhesitatingly be claimed for Henry ; and as an invention several 
years prior to that of Morse, it would by the well-known principles of 
patent-law, have generically subordinated the special application of the 
latter. Although Ilenry did not technically "perfect the invention," it 
remains none the less true that every "receiving magnet "in use through- 
out our own and other countries is but the obvious application of Hen- 
ry's exi)erimental junction of the two circuits, exhibited eleven years 
before it entered into Professor Morse's patent of April 11, 181(). 

As indicative of the relative importance of these two inventions, — the 
Henry "receiving" magnet and the Morse "relay" of circuits, it may 
be stated that on the extended lines of the " Western Union Telegraph 
Companj^," there are now 13,745 of the former in actual operation, and 
only 228 of the latter; being 60 of the Henry " receivers" for each of 
the Morse " repeaters." And in remarkable confirmation of Henry's 
early anticipations of the capacitj' of his "intensity" magnet to be 
operated under judicious conditions directly through a distance of sev- 
eral hundred miles, it is the "accomplished fact" to-day that numerous 
single circuits ranging from 500 to COO miles in length, are in actual use 
in the United States, operated by his magnet. The telegraph-line from 
New York to New Orleans, (upward of 1,500 miles,) is worked in three 
links or circuits (connected by tivo relays or repeaters) ; the last circuit, 
from Chattanooga, Tenn. to New Orleans, La. being G38 miles long, t 

* Memorial of S. F. B. Morse, Wasliington, 1875, p. 19. On the question of the date 
of Professor Morse's "Relay", sec "Supiilement," Note K. 

t These interesting facts are conimnnicatotl by the accomplished telegraphic expert, 
Mr Frank L. Pope (of the Western Union Telegraph Company), a vice-president of the 
American Electrical Society: author of "Modern Practice of the Electric Telegraph:" 



HENKY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 323 

Among examples of " magnetic " telegraphs which might properly here 
receive a passing notice, are the four following : 

1837. The so-called " mechanical " or chronometric telegraph of Mr. 
William F. Cooke, of London, comprising two synchronously revolving 
cylinders (or escapements) at the two stations, arrested simultaneously 
by a magnetic armature detent, somewhat after the general principle of 
Eonalds's synchronous dials of 1810, previously mentioned. This form 
of dial telegraph was worked by Mv. Cooke in April, 1837.* 

1837. The first letter-printing telegraph, devised by Mr. Alfred Vail, 
of New Jersey, in September, 1837, comprising a imnting- wheel pro- 
\ided Avith spring tyi)e for the letters of the alphabet, projecting radi- 
ally from its periphery, and corresponding with the teeth of an escape- 
ment wheel on the same shaft or axis, driven by ordinary clock-work, and 
regulated by a pendulum. The pendulum oscillating as a free armature 
between two electro-magnets, was arrested by one of the magnets when 
the desired letter was reached, and another electro-magnet, with lever 
armature, simultaneously drew down the spring type of the letter- wheel 
upon the fillet of paper beneath it.t This ingenious arrangement like 
the dial telegraph of Konalds, and that of Cooke (independently con- 
trived but a short time previously), required a synchronous movement 
of the clocks and their pendulums at the two stations. Eighteen years 
later, a printing telegraph on the same principle was very successfully 
worked out and operated by Mr. David E. Hughes, of Kentucky. 

1838. The electro-magnetic chemical telegraph of Mr. Edward Davy, 
of London, comprising a chemically marking or recording cylinder, op- 
erated by a clock-work escapement and the armature of an electro-mag- 
net. Eelays of circuits were also included, operated by a galvanometer 
needle.f 

1839. The dial telegraph of Prof. Charles Wheatstone, of London, 
completed by him in November, 1839, comprising an escapement and 
index operated by the step-motion of an electro- magnetic armature. In 
this arrangement, the synchronous motions and indicating positions 
on the terminal dials were effected entirely by the specific number of 
galvanic impulses given to the transmitting and receiving escapements.§ 
The principle of this transmission was in 1846, skillfully and success- 
fully applied by Mr. Royal E. House, of Vermont, to a " printing tele- 
graph." 

* "Mr. Cooke's Case," before the arbitrators. The Electric Telegraph, etc. by W. F. 
Cooke; part ii, p. 2'6. It appears that this arrantijement was devised by Mr. Cooke in 
1836. 

t The American Electro-magnetic Telegraph, by Alfred Vail, 1845, pp. 159-171. 

tTho English patent of Edward Davy, July 4, 1838, No. 7719. 

$ "Professor Wheatstone's Case," before the arbitrators, in 1840, p. 101. 



324 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

GENERAL SU3IMARY. 

From the foregoing partial history of the origiu and development of 
the electro-magnetic telegraph, it is sufQciently demonstrated that its 
successful introduction has been effected by a considerable number of 
independent contributions. The leading preparatory investigations and 
discoveiies which opened the way for the telegraph, (though with no 
such utilitarian end in view,) may be held to be : 

1st: The discovery of galvanic electricity by Galvani (1786-1790). 

2d: The galvanic or voltaic battery by Volta (1800). 

3d : The directive inlluence of the galvanic current on a magnetic 
needle by Eomagnosi (1802), and by Oersted (1820). 

4th : The galvanometer by Schweigger (1820), the parent of the needle 
system. 

5tli : The electro-magnet by Arago and Sturgeon (1820-1825), the par- 
ent of the magnet system. 

Passing these, the next most imi)ortant series of steps in the evolu- 
tion of onr present system of telegraphy, and having a more or less con- 
scious reference thereto, are : 

First, and most vital: Henry's discovery in 1829, and 1830, of the "in- 
tensity" or spool-wound magnet, and its intimate relation to the "inten- 
sity " battery ; whereby its excitation could be efl'ected to a great distance 
through a very long conducting-wire.* 

Second : Gauss's improvement in 1833, (or probably Schilling's improve- 
ment considerably earlier,) of reducing the electric conductors to a single 
circuit, by the ingenious aj^plication of a dual sign so combined as to 
produce a true alphabet, t 

Third: Weber's discovery in 1833, that the conducting wires of an 
electric telegraph could be efficiently carried through the air, without 
any insulation except at their points of support. 

Fourtli: As a valuable adjunct to telegraphy, Daniell's invention of a 
"constant" galvanic battery in 1830. 

Fifth : Steinheil's remarkable discovery in 1837, that the earth may 
form the returning half of a closed galvanic circuit, so that a shigle con- 
ducting-wire is sufQ(;ient for all telegraphic purposes. 

Sixth: Morse's adaptation of the armature of a Henry electro-magnet 
as a recording instrument in 1837,| and in connection therewith the im- 

*Subor(liiiat('(l to this important step, the use of the armature as the signaling de- 
vice and the tirst adoption of an acoustic signal might be mentioned. If Morse's 
"relay" be judged by any as of snflicient importance to rank with the more essential 
elements, then Henry's earlier and still more important device of the terminal short 
circuit magnet of "(juantity" mnst not be overlooked. 

tThe probable anticipations of this, — by Lomond in 1787, by Cavallo in 179r), and by 
Dyar in l&[>, — are here neglected, as neither sntliciently delinite, nor as perhaps prac- 
tically inllnential on the juogress of telegraphy ; though this recurrence of idea should 
certainly not be lost sight of in any history of the origins of inveutious. 

t Reptend)er of 18;j7 is fixed upon as the earliest date on ^vhich an actual register of 
intolligiltle signs was made by Professor Morse. (Now York Journal of Commerce, Sep- 
tember 7, 18:)7.) These signs were not alphahctical, but were zig-zag markings rejire- 
Bentiug numerals. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 325 

provement in 1838, on the Schilling, Gauss, and Steinheil alphabets, of 
employing instead of alternating signs (as in his tirst register), the simi^le 
" dot-and-dash " alphabet in a single line.* 

As displaying the " movement of an age," it is interesting to observe 
that these six capital steps were all effected within the fruitful period of 
a single decade. If we except the first of these — the inaugurating ad- 
vance, without Avhich no electro-magnetic telegraph would have been 
practicable,t it will iirobably be diflicult for the impartial historian to 
award to the succeeding five contributions their respective value and 
just desert. 

The earlier needle type of the electro-magnetic telegraph, as developed 
by Schilling and by Gauss, has found its special and apj^ropriate appli- 
cation in extended ocean-lines ; and indeed without such development, 
it is doubtful whether "we could have had a transatlantic telegraph. 
It is well for the exclusive i)a.rtisans of the " American system " to 
reflect that in the operation of these submarine cables there enters no 
element of Morse's instrument. The receiving and indicating mechanism 
devised by Gauss and Weber, and introduced some ten years eailier, is 
essentially that in use to-day on either shore of the Atlantic Ocean. 
The signals of the earlier invention are equal right and left deflections 
of an exceedingly delicate reflecting galvanometer ; the signals of the 
later invention are the unequal contacts of an electro-magnetic arm- 
ature. 

Many other telegraphic developments — not within the object of this 
summary, such as the various modifications of the galvanometer system, 
the ingenious arrangements of dial indicators, and above all — as most 
ingenious of all — the printing telegraphs, (originating as we have seen, 
with Alfred Vail,) present what may be called liighly organized 
varieties of the art; but varieties w^hich notwithstanding the rare 
order of inventive intelligence expended ui)on them, and the great 
value possessed by them in special applications, do not promise to 
exercise a corresponding influence upon the future of telegraphy. The 
wonders of multiplex telegraphy (the simultaneous transmission of two 
or even four or more communications in either direction over the same 
wire), and of vocal telegraphy (the transmutation and transmission of 
human speech by electric waves in the telephone), lie still more beyond 
the scope of this review. 

In conclusion, an early averment in this historic sketch, as to " the 
growth of the electric telegrai)h," may be repeated in the language of a 
later writer. " The history of the subject thus far shows us that no 
single individual can justly claim the distinction of having been the 

* Professor Morse's first use of the alphabet was made in January, 18:?S. (New York 
Journal of Commerce, January 2d, 18;i8 ; also Prime's Life of Morse, 8vo, New York, 
187.1, p. 3:51. ) On the subjeet of "Alphabetic notation " see " Supplement," Note L. 

tWheatstone himself does not apjiear to have fully realized the signitieance and value 
of Henry's researches till 18:57. The simple electro-chemical telegraph might have 
been successfully developed without the discovery of the " intensity " magnet, and 
may yet prove in practice a formidable competitor with it. 



326 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

inventor of tlie electric telegrapli. It was in fact a groicth, rather than 
an invenUon, tlie work of many brains, and of many hands." (Pres- 
cott's Electricity and the Electric Telegraph, 1877, chap, xxix, p. 420.) 

But amid the galaxy of brilliant names who prepared the success and 
organized the triumph for the execution of skillful artisans, none 
stands higher, or shines with more resplendent luster, than that of 

JOSEPH HENRY. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



NOTE A. (From p. 263.) 

THE WORTH OF ABSTRACT RESEARCH. 

The eminent natural pliilosoplier Dr. Thomas Young, has well romarkod : "No dis- 
covery however remote in its nature from the subjects of daily observation, can with 
reason be declared wholly inapplicable to the benefit of mankind. . . . Those 
who possess the genuine spirit of scientific investigation and who have tasted the pure 
satisfaction arising from an advancement in intellectual acquirements, are contented 
to proceed in their researches without inquiring at every step what they gain by their 
newly discovered lights, and to what practical purposes they are applicable. They 
receive a sufficient gratification from the enlargement of their views of the cons^tution 
of the universe, and experience in the immediate j)ursuit of knowledge that pleasure 
which others wish to obtain more circuitously by its means." * 

In a similar spirit. Oersted expressed his clear jierception in an anniversary address 
delivered in 1814, before the University of Copenhagen, that "The real laborer in 
science chooses Icnowledge as his highest aim. A love of knowledge, (which some are 
frequently obliged to place secondary to other duties,) with the man of science must 
be the occupation of his life ; he is dedicated to nourish the holy flame of wisdom 
which shall dift'use its rays amidst the rest of mankind; it is his nightly lamp which 
shall enlighten the earth." t 

And Avith no less earnestness and force, our own Henry declared : " While we rejoice 
that in our country above all others so much attention is paid to the diffusion of 
knowledge, truth compels us to say that comparatively little encouragement is given 
to its iiicrease. ... As soon as any branch of science can be brought to bear on 
the necessities, conveniences, or luxuries of life, it meets with encouragement and 
reward. Not so with the discovery of the incipient principles of science : the investi- 
gations which lead to these receive no fostering care from the government, and are 
considered by the superficial observer as trifles unworthy the attention of those who 
place the supremo good in that which immediately administers to the physical needs 
or luxuries of life. But he who loves truth for its own sake, feels that its highest 
claims are lowered and its moral influence marred by being continually siunmoned 
to the bar of immediate and palpable utility."}; 

In a plea for the endowment of abstract science, William Swainson, the naturalist, 
justly observes: "If the depth.s of science are to be fathomed, and new discoveries 
brought to light, the task can only be achieved by those whose time is at their own 
command, whose attention is not divided or distracted by avocations purely worldly, 
and whose circumstances are such as to make them free from pecuniary cares. Tal- 
ents fitting their possessors for such speculations must bo of a high order, and they 
are consecj^uently I'are : ^ yet still more rare it is to find superadded to them the gifts 
of fortune. From whom then if abstract science is to be fostered and rewarded, i3 

* Lectures on Natural Philosoplnj, lect. i, vol. i, p. 2. 

t The Soul in Nature. Bohn's Scientific Library, 1852, p. 141. 

t Smithsonian Report for 1853, p. 8. 

[\S Dr. Peter Mark Roget has well observed: ''Important discoveries in science seem 
often to arise from accident ; but on closer examination it is found that they always 
imply the exercise of profound thought. As the fertility of the soil is essential to the 
germination and growth ofthesefd which tlio Avind may have scattered on its surface, 
so it is principally from the qualities of mind in the observer that an observation de- 
rives its value and may be made eventually to expand into an important bi'anch of 
science." (^Galvanism, 8vo, London, 1832, chap, i, p. 1.)] 

327 * 



328 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

this encouragement to come ? Certainly not from the public ; for what the multitude 
cannot appreciate they cannot be expected to i-eward. If indeed the speculations of 
the philosopher can be turned into immediate advantage by the manufacturer or the 
merchant, the inventor is in a fair way of dividing profits with the applier ; but we 
are not at lu'escnt considering such cases. . . . That discoveries which event- 
ually have proved extensively applicable to commerce were never so suspected when 
their first rudiments were developed, is too notorious to be disputed ; for the discovery 
and the «2);>/(Crtf JOH of a new iirinciple require very different powers of mind. . . . 
It is a maxim of the vulgar to esteem every requirement of this sort in proportion 
to the direct benefit it confers on their own interests."* 

It is indeed too true that the proseciition of scientific truth for truth's sake only, 
is popularly held in little favor, and instead of receiving assistance, is even unblush- 
ingly decried by the would-be leaders of industrial opinion. Taking no lessons from 
the splendid triumphs of the past, which constantly assure us that the discovery of 
one age — naked and unprized, is the necessary foundation for the invention of the 
next, intelligent editors still repeat the annual cry in superior judgment on the pro- 
ceedings of leai^ned associations, " Disv)ense, gentlemen, with these barren and unin- 
teresting papers, and give us something 'practical.'" 

The average citizen, professing a patronizing admiration of "science," is able per- 
haps to appreciate the physics of machinery, and the chemistry of manufactures. 
Eager for the rewards which may be won from nature by her students, he would gladly 
be taught some new magneto-electric process for converting cellulose into bread, or 
"oleomargarine" into butter; and yet in ignorant ingratitude, would as gladly mo- 
nopolize the very thunderbolt, when Science once has forged it for the use of Art.t 

But let those incapable of conceiving a higher utility than the material, at least ex- 
ercise that prudent reason they so much vaunt, and at least endeavor to secure for 
that self-interest they so diligently pursue, the character of an enlighiened T[}o\icj. The 
unpromising preparation for a possible magnetic telegraph was quietly advanced by a 
fine succession of earnest students (little known or respected by the multitude), who 
never paused to query " the use of it," and Avho (it is safe to say) would never have 
accomplished their beneficent mission had their investigations been directly prompted 
by the inspirations of a mercenary interest. t It may be confidently proclaimed as a firm 
induction from all our past knowledge, that so intimately bound together is the entire 
framework and system of the world, that no extension of our observation of the phe- 
nomena of nature and of our insight into the laws of nature (which are the laws of 
God), is not either a direct advancement in physical power and well-being, or a neces- 
sary stepping-stone to other truths which sliall prove such. 

" Scientific researches are often supposed by the uninformed to be of little or no real 
importance, and indeed are frequently ridiculed as barren of all practical utility. But 
nothing ismore mistaken than this. The most valuable and productive of the arts of life, 
the most important and wonder-working inventions of modern times, owe their being 
and value to scientific investigations. By these have been discovered physical truths 
and laws, the intelligent ai^plication of which to practical inventions has given im- 
mense benefi ts to the world. The germs of these valuable improvements and inventions 
have been found and developed by scientific research, — the original forms of which have 
often seemed to the many to l)e as idle and useless as they were curious." $ 

*Swaiuson, On the Studi/ of Xatural History (Cabinet Cyclopaedia), part iv, chap, ii,' 
Beets. 244, *24.'>, itp. 354-357. 

t " Science has scattered her material benefits so lavishly whenever she has been in 
presence, that no small number of her followers and all the multitude liave left off 
gazing on the resplendency other countenance, in their eager scramble for her gifts." 
{Quarterly Beview, June, 1841, vol. lixviii, p. 185.) 

t Of those attempting the interrogation of nature "on account of the advantage and 
benefit to be derived from it," it may be said in Bacon's hap])y simile: " Like Atalanta, 
they leave the course to pick up the golden apple, interrupting their speed and giving 
up the victory." {Novum Organum, book i, aphorism 70, Bohu's edition, 1858, p. 407.) 

$ Report of special committee of the Board of Regents, on the distribution of the 
income of the Smithsonian fund. Smilhsonian Report for 1853, p. 86. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 329 

And to the saiae effect let us quote in conclusion .1 few of Henry's urgent utterances. 
" Every well-established truth is an addition to the sum of human power ; and though 
it may not find an immediate application to the economy of every-day life, we may 
safely commit it to the stream of time, in the coulideut anticipation that the world 
will not fail to realize its beneficial results."* 

" Unfortunately there has always been in England and in this country a tendency 
to undervalue the advantages of profound thought, and to regard with favor only 
those investigations which are immediately applicable to the wants of the present 
hour. But it should be recollected that the scientific principles which at one period 
appear of no practical value, and are far removed from popular appreciation, at another 
time in the further development of the subject, become the means of individual pros- 
perity and of national wealth. "t 

" The progress of society and the increase of the comfort and happiness of the human 
family depend as a basis on the degree of our knowledge of the laws by which Di- 
vine wisdom conducts the affairs of the universe. He has created us with rational 
souls, and endowed us with faculties to comprehend in some measure the modes in 
which the operations of nature are effected ; and just in proportion to the advance we 
make by patient and persevering study in the knowledge of those modes or laws, are 
we enabled to apply the forces of nature to our own use and to avert the dangers to 
which we are exposed from our ignorance of their varied influences. Nearly all the 
great inventions which distinguish the present century, are the results immediately 
or remotely of the application of scientific principles to practical purposes ; and in 
most cases these applications have been suggested by the student of nature, whose 
primary object was the discovery of abstract truth. The statement cannot be too 
often repeated, that each branch of knowledge is connected with every other, and 
that no light can be gained in regard to one which is not reflected upon all. Thus re- 
searches which at first sight appear the farthest removed from useful application, are 
in time found to have an important bearing on the advancement of art, and conse- 
quently on the progress of society."}: 

" The world generally has failed to recognize the importance of abstract scientific 
truths. Although these truths constitute the most important elements of modern 
civilization, since they give man power and control over the inherent forces of nature, 
and enable him to render these the obedient slaves of his will, — yet there is even at 
this time, no country (however intelligent it may appear in other respects) that has 
made adequate provision for the discovery and development of these important princi- 
ples."^ 

NOTE B. (From p. 273.) 

THE ORIGIX OF THE GALVANOMETER. 

In 1808, Johann Solomon Christian Sehweigger, professor of natural philosophy at 
Nuremberg, and afterward at Halle, published a memoir '• On the employment of the 
magnetic force for measuring the electrical." From the somewhat obscure descrip- 
tion it appears however that the instrument he had devised was simply an " electro- 
scope" for indicating the static repulsion of ordinary or mechanical electricity; the 
magnetic needle, armed at each end with a brass button, being mounted on an insu- 
lated stand or pivot, and used as a substitute for the torsion electrometer of Coulomb. || 
This arrangement therefore involved no principle of the galvanometer. 

In lail, De la Rive, in a letter to the editors of the ''Bibiiotheque BritanniquCj" 
recounting some experiments, applied the term "galvanometer" to an instrument for 

* Smithsonian Report for 1856, p. 20. 

+ Agricultural Beport of Commissioner of Patents for 1857, p. 420, 

t Smithsonian Report ftu- 1859, pp. 14, 15. 

§ Smithsonian Report for 1866, p. 16. 

11 Gehlen's Journal fiir die Chemie tmd Physik, Bvo, Berlin, 1808, vol. vii, pp. 206-208. 



330 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

mea.sni'ing the quantity of tlio galvanic current by its decomposing energy.* Dr. 
Schweigger, iu a notice of this paper, remarked that he had previously measured 
the battery force by the quantity of gases evolved from water iu a given interval, t 
These experiments likewise, have evidently no relation to the present use of the term 
"Galvanometer." 

. Nine years earlier than this however, (or six years before Schweigge-r's needle elec- 
trometer, ) the galvanic dellection of the magnetic needle had been distinctly observed 
and accurately recorded. For more than a century, repeated endeavors had been made 
to discover some relation between the magnetic and the electric attractions and repul- 
sions, or to unite them by a single law. In 1774, a prize was otfered by the Academy 
of Bavaria for the best examination of and dissertation on the question, " Is there a 
real and physical analogy between electric and magnetic forces ?" Professor J. H. Van 
Swiuden, of Fianeker, Holland, one of the successful competitors, supported the con- 
clusion that the similarities were entirely superficial, and that the two powers were 
essentially difterent in kind. On the other hand, Professors Steiclehuer and Hubnor 
contended that analogies so curious must imply a single agent, i 

But the true reaction between these agencies could not well be exhibited initil after 
1800, when Volta devised his galvanic battery ; which for the first time enabled physi- 
cists to employ a continuous electric current. Gian Domenico Eomagnosi, a native of 
Northern Italy, a celebrated publicist and author of several works on historical, legal, 
and political i)hilosophy, was led near the close of the last century to occupy himself for 
several years with scientific investigations. The electrical problem attracted his at- 
tention, and after varied experiments with the aid of the new galvanic appliance, 
his versatile activity was partly rewarded ; he being first of physical inquirers to make 
the capital discovery of the singular directive influence exerted by the galvanic cur- 
rent on a magnetic needle. This new phenomenon — of which he could not anticipate 
the importance or the consequnces, was announced iu the "Gazzdttadi Trento" of 
August 3, 1802, an Italian newspai^er published at Trent, in which city he had for 
many years resided. § If the channel of publication for a contribution to science of 
such value was unfortunate, the account was at least republished in forms better suited 
to arrest attention from the learned. 

In a work of some note and merit, entitled "Essai Tb^oretique et Experimental sur 
le Galvanisme," by Prof. Giovanni Aldini (a nephew of Galvani), quarto, published at 
Paris in 1804, the author, at page 191, alluding to the supposed magnetic influence of 
a galvanic circuit, states, ' ' This new property of galvanism has been confirmed by M. 
Eomanesi, a physicist of Trent, who has observed that galvanism produces a declina- 
tion of the magnetic needle." This work was republished shortly afterward iu two 
volumes octavo. 

In the " Bibliotheque Universelle" (Sect. Sciences ei Arts), January, 1821, (shortly 
after Oersted's announcement,) at page 75, attention is called to Aldini's Treatise on 
Galvanism, and the passage above given is quoted. The same notice and citation are 
also juiblished in Gilbert's "Annalen der Physik," 1821, vol. Ixviii, page 208. 

* BihUothcqm Britanniquc, for February, 1811, vol. xlvi. 

t "On a Galvanometer." Schweigger's Journal filr Chemie und Physik, 8vo, Niimberg, 
1811, vol. ii, part 4, pp. 424-434. 

t Notwithstanding the plausil)ility of this supposition, it remains to the present day 
Entirely unconfirmed. The conclusion of Van Swiuden was correct. The only approach 
to a closer analogy since obtained, is the remarkable fact discovered by Amjiere 
in 1820, that two insulated wires, Iree to move, through which electricity is flowing 
in the same direction, attract each other like two dissimilar magnetic poles ; and that 
they repel each other when their currents are reversed, like two similar magnetic poles. 
But the ditt'erences between tiiese forms of attraction are still so radical, as to incline 
some physicists to the opinion that the one (that of magnetism) is inherent and in- 
destructible, and the other (that of electricity) is a mei'ely kinetic or dynamic j)he- 
nomeuou : while others would regard the two as both kinetic. 

^ Eomagnosi was chief-justice at Trent, from 1791 to 1794 ; and in December of 1802, 
not long after his scientific achievement, he was made professor of law in the Uni- 
versity of Parma. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 331 

In a still more popular work on galvanism, by Prof. Joseph Izarn, entitled "Manuel 
du Galvanisme," etc. octavo, published at Paris, in 1805, in section ix, at page 120, it 
is also stated: "According to the observations of Romagndsi, a physicist of Trent, a 
magnetic needle being submitted to a galvanic current undergoes a declination." This 
work is referred to in a discussion by Mr. Latimer Clark, of Loudon.* Lastly, in the 
memoir of Romagnosi contained in the "Nouvelle Biographic G6n(Srale" (edited by 
Hojfer), vol. xlii, pages 574, 575, it is mentioned, " He discovered the deviation of the 
magnetic needle by galvanism." 

Although this pi-egnant discovery of Romagnosi appears to have been known both 
to Dr. Sojmraeriug and to Baron Schilling in 1815, yet to neither of them did it sug- 
gest any applicability to the purpose of telegraphy. Dr. Hamel, of St. Petersburg, in 
his iuterestuig account of the early history of the telegraph, informs us : " I have been 
endeavoring to find out from the papers of Sffimmeriug whether ho and Baron Schilling 
might have had a knowledge of the Italian Gian-Domenico Romagnosi's Important dis- 
covery made many years ago, that the magnetic needle deviates from its normal direc- 
tion when under the influence of the galvanic current, and of which he had published 
an account in a newspaper at Trent on the 3d of August, 1802. ... I found that 
Baron Schilling, immediately after his return to Munich in 1815, communicated to 
Soemmering the little book, ' Manuel du Galvanisme,' by Joseph Izarn, professor of 
natural philosophy at the Lyc6e Bonaparte, which was printed in Paris in 1805, and 
in which, on page 120, mention is made of Romagnosi's discovery. I have also seen a 
note from Soemmering mentioning that he had read this treatise with attention. I 
came however to the conclusion that neither to Soemmering nor to Baron Schilling, had 
any idea of a practical application of Romagnosi's observation presented itself. "t Nor 
is this at all surprising : for the similar discovery and announcement by Oersted in 1820, 
would just as little have suggested any practical method of communicating intelligence 
to a distance. And indeed had tlio experiment been attempted, it would have resulted 
in absolute failure. It needed the keen brains and active hands of a succession of j)ro- 
found investigators, — of Sehweigger, and Amiifere, and Arago, and Sturgeon, and 
Henry, — to develop fully the twofold capacity of electro-magnetism. 

To the natural inquiry why the very same aunoiincement which — made at the be- 
ginnmg of the century — fell as it were "still-born," should when again made eighteen 
years later, have sprung into so exuberant and active a vitality, the answer seems to 
be, — first, the greater care taken by Oersted, the later husbandman, to scatter the seed 
broadcast over Europe ; t and secondly, the riper condition of the intellectual soil, 
at the later Spring. Romagnosi's work would seem to have been prematurely attempt- 
ed ; while Oersted's, no more meritorious, had the good fortune to be taken up and 
fostered by still more scrutinizing coadjutors : and thus while the early sowing fell 
by the wayside or in stony places, the later sowing fell on good ground, well pre- 
pared ; and there speedily followed at the hands of a diligent band of laborers an 
abundant and most i^recious harvest. 

The question may possibly arise, could Oersted have probaldy had any intimation 
of Romagnosi's earlier cultivation of the same field ? Considering how little the lat- 
ter name is known among scientific men to-day, the question may be confidently 
answered in the negative. Dr. Hamel however has ventured the severe judgment: 
" I cannot forego stating my belief that Oersted knew of Romagnosi's discovery 
announced in 1802, which was eighteen years before the publication of his own obser- 
vations. It was mentioned in Giovanni Aldini's (the nephew of Galvani's) book. . . 
. Oersted was in Paris in 1802, and 1803, and it appears from the book of Aldini, 
that at the time he finished it, Oersted was still in communication with him ; for he 

* Journal of the Society of Arts, April 23, 1858, vol. vi, p. 356. 

\ Journal of the Society of Arts, July 29, 1859, vol. vii, j). 605. 

t "Hans Christian Oersted, at Copenhagen, had directed the attention of the scien- 
tific world much more ell'ectually than Romagnosi of Italy had done, to the fact that 
the magnetic needle defiects when a galvanic current comes near it." Dr. Hamel. 
{Jour. Soc. Arts. 1859, vol. vii, p. 606.) 



332 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

says at tlio end (page 376), he had not been able to add the information received 
from Oersted, doctor of the University at Copenhagen, about the galvanic labors of 
scientific men in that country."* 

All that is known of Oersted's simple, generous, and upright character, utterly re- 
pels any such dark suspicion: and the remarkable interval of eighteen years, which 
elapsed between the two dates of publication, negatives even the probability of pla- 
giarism. It seems only wonderful that no other experimental physicist happened to 
hit upon the observation in all those years. t 

In Sabine's treatise on the "Electric Telegraph," reference is made in a note to 
Izarn's "Manual of Galvanism" and to his statement of Romagnosi's early discovery :t 
and in the second edition (of its historical portion), published two years later, Sabine 
remarks: "The discovery of the power of a galvanic current to deflect a magnet uee- 
dle, as well as to polarize an unmagnetizcd one, was known to and described as 
early as 1805 by Professor Izarn in his 'Manuel du Galvanisme.' . . . After ex- 
plaining the way to iirepare the apparatus, which consists in i>utting a freely suspended 
magnet needle parallel and close to a straight metallic conductor through which a 
galvanic current is circulating, he describes the effects in the following words: 'Ac- 
cording to the observations of Romagn^si, a physicist of Trent, a magnetic needle, being 
submitted to a galvanic current, undergoes a declination ; and according to those of 
J. Mojon, a learned chemist of Genoa, unraagnetized needles acquire by this means a 
kind of magnetic polarity.' To Romagn^si, physicist of Trent, therefore, and not as 
is generally believed, to Oersted, physicist of Copenhagen, (who first observed in 1820 
the phenomenon of the deflection of a magnet needle by a voltaic current,) is due the 
credit of having made this important discovery."^ 

While this is undoubtedly a correct verdict, it remains none the less true that the 
rapid awakening of European physicists to the significance and importance of the 
principle of the galvanometer, was due entirely to its rediscovery and reannouucc- 
ment by Professor Hans Christian Oersted in 1820. 

NOTE C. (From p. 278.) 

ANTICIPATIOXS OF ELECTRO-MAGNETISM. 

From the Treatises on Galvanism, by G. Aldini, published in 1804, and by J. Izarn, 
published in 1805, (previously noticed,) we learn that Giuseppi Mojon, (.Joseph Moyou 
In the French,) a chemist of Genoa, on placing steel sewing-needles in connection with 
a galvanic battery observed that they became magnetic: (probably with transverse 
polarity.) The description is however very obscure. (Aldini, p. 191; Izarn, p. 120.) 

"It deserves to be remembered," says Dr. Hamel, " that from Aldini's book it was 
known that the chemist Giuseppi Mojon, at Genoa, had before 1804 observed in un- 
magnetizcd needles exposed to the galvanic current, ' a sort of polarity'. Izarn repeats 
this also in his 'Manuel du Galvanisme; ' which book was one of those that by order 
were to be placed in the library of evei'y Lyc^e in France ".|| 

Still a quarter of a century earlier, in 1777, (now a century ago,) Giovanni Baptista 
Beccaria, a distinguished Italian natural philosopher, professor of experimental science 
at Turin, and author of several works on Electricity, in the course of his experiments 

* Journal of the Society of Arts, July 29, 1859, vol. vii, p. 606. 

t " The invention all admired ; and each how he 
To be the inventor missed ; — so easy seemed 
Once found, which yet unfound, most would have thought 
Imijossible." 

(Milton's Par. Lofd, book vi.) 
X Ihe Electric Telegraph, by Robert Sabine, 8vo, London, 1867, jiart i, chap, iv, se»j. 
29, p. 22. 

§ History of the Electric Telegraph, 2d edition (in Weale's Rudimentary Treatises), 1869, 
chap, iv, sec. 27, pp. 23, 24. 

II Journal of the Society of Arts, 1859, vol. vii, j). 606. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 333 

"fonnd that a needle through which he had sent an electric shock had in consequenco 
acquired a curious species oi" polarity; for instead of turning as usual to the north and 
south, it assumed a position at right angles to this, its two ends pointing to the east 
and west."* This curious phenomenon (which if properly investigated might have 
led to the discovery of electro-magnetism) was exhibited by the action of common 
frictional or mechanical electricity: galvanism not liaviug been discovered till some 
time later. It was probably thi.s same transverse polarity that was afterward observed 
by Mojon. * 

NOTED. (From p. 287.)' 

HENUY'S spool magnet in EUI50PE. 

Amonc the physicists of Europe who repeated Henry's experiments on a similar 
scale, Claude S. M. Pouillet, professor of jjhysics at the lilcoU Poll/technique and director 
of the Conserraioire at Paris, made in 1832, a magnet capable of sustaining 900 pounds. 
At the session of the Societe Philomatique of Paris, for June 23, 1832, Pouillet gave an 
account of recent experiments made by him with an electro-magnet of large size, 
having several thousand feet of wire wound upon it. The following is the report of 
this communication published in the "Bulletin" of the Society for August of that year: 

"M. Pouillet communicated to the Society the results of experiments which he had 
just made on the magnetization of round bars of iron, (bent iu horseshoe form, and 
surrounded on the arras with iron wire of a length of several thousand feet,) by 
means of an electric current established in this iron wire. The magnetism thus ex- 
cited in a magnet one foot in height, formed of a bar of iron two and a half inches iu 
diameter, and wrapped with 4,000 feet of wire, is sufficiently strong to support a 
weight up to 900 pounds, even when the contact of the armature with the magnet is 
reduced to an edge: so that the magnetic force is in this case stronger than the molec- 
ular attraction, t Attending such magnetization, on a connection being made be- 
tween the two extremities of the conductiug wire, a spark and a strong shock are 
produced. In another experiment, two similar magnets similarly arranged, having 
been placed facing each other, and varied in distance from contact up to a separation 
of a foot, the magnetization of the one produced a magnetization of the other by in- 
duction ; so as to eifect an electric current and spark when the two extremities of the 
conductiug wire were brought very close together. In the latter case there was felt 
also a vivid shock. This shock may be communicated through a platinum wire even 
to the distance of a hundred feet."t 

The source of this ' ' intensity " magnet is as unmistakable as is that of the magneto-elec- 
tric spark obtainc<l by its means. Had the experimenter however divided his 4,000 feet 
of wire into 50 or 60 separate coils, arranging suitably his galvanic battery in "multi- 
ple arc" as a " quantity" battery, he would certainly have greatly increased the at- 
tractive force of his magnet, and rendered it comiiarable to Henry's Yale-College mag- 
net in lifting-power. 

Pouillet in the third edition of his Elements de Physique Experlmentale, published in 
1837, gives a drawing of a double " intensity " magnet arranged like Henry's in a sup- 
porting frame, of which he says: "Figures 432 and 433 represent an electro-magnet 

* P. M. Roget, Treatise on EUctro-mmjveiism, 1832, chap, i, art. 6, p. 3. (This treatise 
is included iu the "Library of Useful Knowledge," vol. ii.) 

t [Notwithstanding the considerable range of distance through which magnetism 
acts, it is not probable that the aggregate magnetic tenacity of iron iu any case 
amounts to more than a very small fraction of its cohesive tenacity.] 

X Seance of 2od June, 1832. Kouveau Bulletin des Sciences, public par la " Soci6t6 Philo- 
matique de Paris," livraison pour Aoilt, 1832, p. 127. This brief notice, republished in 
Quetelet's Correspondance Malhematique et Phi/nique de I'Observatoire de Bruxelles, 1832, 
liv. V, vol. vii, pp. 317, 318, is the only paper by Pouillet on the subject of magnetiza- 
tion by electric currents, contained in the Catalogue of the Royal Society. Presumablj 
therefore his only contribution on the subject. 



334 HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

■whicli I constructed in 1831 ; and wliicli easily siipports nearly one ton (more than a 
thousand l^Lilograrames) when submitted to the current of a strong battery of 24 pairs. 
It consists of two horse-shoes opposed to each other, formed of round bars from three 
to four inclies (8 to 10 centimetres) in diameter, and from two to two and a half feet 
(60 to 80 centimetres) in total length. The two arms of each horse-shoe are enveloped 
with about 1,100 yards (one thousand metres) of copper wire 26 thousandths of an 
inch (two-thirds of a millimetre) in thickness. The same current traverses succes- 
sively the 2, 200 yards (two thousand metres) of wire ; but the helices are so disposed as to 
bring their opposite poles together." And the author repeats that as soon as the cur- 
rent is established, the lower free magnet is attracted to the upper fixed maguet with 
such force as to lift "an enormous weight, often exceeding a thousand kilogrammes."* 

The remark just made applies equally to this example of the Henry "intensity" 
magnet, that bj- the substitution of the multiple coil and the "quantity" battery, it 
should have equalled the Henry Yale-College magnet, if not his Princeton magnet. 

There is however in this latter account, an evident error of date, which should be 
noted. The differences of detail (in every particular) between the two magnets re- 
ferred to, preclude any suggestion of the latter being an inaccurately remembered 
account of the former. The systematic excess of the latter magnet in every element 
of construction aud performance equally excludes the possibility of its having been 
devised by its author prior to his notice before the "Soci6t6 Philomatiqne" (on the 
23d of June, 1832) of his success in developing a magnetic power of 900 pounds. And 
the fact that Pouillot, in the second edition of his Elements of Experimental Physics 
published iji 1832 ("revue, corrig^e et augmentee"), makes no allusion whatever to 
such a magnet, may be taken as conclusive evidence that no such magnet (nor any 
other) was constructed by him in 1831. t 

The error of statement, in his third edition of the Elements of Physics is easily ex- 
plained as a simple inadvertence in trusting to memory for a precise date.t 

It may be accepted with tolerable certainty that Pouillet's later and larger magnet 
could not have been made earlier than the latter part of 1832. And yet this inadver- 
tent antedating by one year (wholly unimportant though it be) has been very precisely 
reproduced in the fourth edition of Pouillet's Physics, published in 1844, in the fifth 
edition published in 1847, in the sixth edition published in 1853, in the seventh edi- 
tion published in 1856, and presumably in every subsequent edition, as well as iu the 
numerous translations of this popular work. The earliest date of publication of Pou- 
illet's 900-pound magnet is August, 1832; of his second, or 2200-pouud magnet, is 1837. 

NOTEE. (From p. 289.) 
henry's early telegraphic experiments. 

The following are some of the testimonials of living eye-witnesses to the operation 
of Henry's early electro-magnetic telegraph, during the years 1831 aud 1832. 

The Hon. Alexander W. Bradford, a former pupil of the Albany Academy under 
Henry's professorship in 1831, and who left the academy in 1832, thus recalls his aca- 
demic experiences, a third of a century later : ' 'And there was another professor, whose 
life has been spared, who rose with the sun to instruct his pupil eager after knowledge; 
who giving his heart and soul to the duties of the school, had yet time for exx^loring 

* Elements de Physique Expermientalc, etc. par M. Pouillet, third edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 
Paris, 1837, liv. iii, sec. iv, chap. 5, art. 277. Vol. i, p. 572. 

\EUments de Physique Expcrimentale, etc. jiar M. Pouillet, second edition, 4 vols. 8vo. 
Paris, 1832. 

X As if to magnify this accidental error, Dr. Lardner, iu a popular text-book on the 
telegraiih, makes the off-hand statement : "In 1830, an electro-magnet of extraordinary 
power was constructed under the superintendence of M. Pouillet at Paris. 
With a current of moderate intensity the apparatus is callable of supporting a weight 
oi'Stvcral ions." (Lardner and Bright's Electric Telegraph, 12mo., London, 1867, chap, 
ii, «cc. 39, p. 22.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 335 

the deep paths of science ; who with his wires and silk thread winding miles of insu- 
lated copper in the commencement hall of the academy, patiently toiled his way to the 
demonstration of the magnetic power of the galvanic battery ; and years before the 
invention of the telegraph, j)roclaimed to America and to Europe the means of communi- 
cation by the electric liuid. I was an eye-witness to those experiments and to their 
eventual demonstration and triumph. In this commemorative festival, let us not for- 
get to honor the name of Joseph Henry." * 

On the same interesting occasion Dr. Orlatado Meads thus recounted Henry's early 
triumph: "The older students of the academy in the years 1830, 1831, and 183"^. and 
others who witnessed his experiments, which at that time excited so much interest in 
this city, will remember the long coils of wire which ran circuit upon circuit for more 
than a mile in length around one of the upper rooms iu the academy, for the ]mrpose 
of illustrating the fact that a galvanic current could be transmitted through its whole 
length so as to excite a magnet at the farther end of the line, and thus move a steel 
bar which struck a bell. This in a scientific point of view, was the demonstration and 
accomplishment of all that As^as required for the magnetic telegraph. The science of 
the telegraph was hero complete. It needed only the inventive genius of Morse to 
supjjly the admirable instrument which was to make it available for practical use. 
. . . All honor to the inventor ; but let us not forget that the click of the telegraph 
which is heard from every joint of those mystic wires which now link together every 
city, and village, and post, and camp, and station, all over this continent, is but the 
echo of that little bell which iirst sounded in that Tipper room of the academy. These 
facts are a part of the history of the academy; and it is fitting that on an occasion 
like this, so imiJortant a discovery made by one of her own sons, in her service, and 
under her own i-oof, should not be passed over in silence."! 

Professor James Hall (in the same year in which he was president of the American 
Association, at its Albany meeting) addressed a letter to Professor Henry, dated JaU' 
nary 19, 1856, reciting the following reminiscence : 

"While a student of the Rensselaer School in Troy (New York), in August, 1832, I 
visited Albany with a friend, having a letter of introduction to you from Professor 
Eaton. Our principal object was to see your electro-magnetic apparatus, of which we 
had heard much, and at the same time the library and collections of the Albany In- 
stitute. You showed us your laboratory in a lower story or basement of the building, 
and in a larger room in an upper story, some electric and galvanic apparatus, with 
various philosophical instruments. In this room and extending around the same, was 
a circuit of wire stretched along the wall, and at one terraiuatiou of this in the recess 
of a window a bell was fixed, while the other extremity Avas connected with a gal- 
vanic api^aratus. You showed us the manner iu which the bell could be made to ring 
by a current of electricity transmitted through this wire ; and you reniarked that this 
method might be adopted for giving signals by the ringing of a bell at the distance 
of many miles from the point of its connection with the galvanic apj)aratus. All the 
circumstances attending this visit to Albany are fresh iu my recollection; and during 
the past years while so much has been said respecting the iuA^ention of electric tele- 
graphs, I have often had occasion to mention the exhibition of your electric telegraph 
in the Albany Academy in 1832."}: 

On the occasion of a visit by Henry to the Albany Institute, about two years later 
than the date of the above letter. Professor Hall made public reference to the same 
vivid recollections. At a meeting of th^ Albany Institute, held Januay 13, 1858, in 
a hall of the Albany Academy building, "Professor Hall called attention to the fact, 
in connection with the visit of Professor Henry, that in 1832 he had witnessed iu this 



* "Commemorative Address," on the celebration of the semi-centennial anniversary 
of the Albany Academy, June 23, 1863. Proceedhtf/s, etc. p. 48. 

t" Historical Discourse", at semi-centennial anniversary of Albany Academy, 
June 23, 1863. Proceedings, etc. pp. 25, 26. 

t Published in the Smithsonian Report for 1857, p. 96. 



336 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

baildiiig illustrations by Profossor Hcury of liis results iu electro-magnetism. He saw 
here a wire of great length, through which Professor Henry transmitted a cnnent of 
galvanic electricity, and nuide the current to exert its power in ringing a boll at the 
extremity of the wire. This was certainly the first establishment of the iiracticability 
of the magnetic telegraph." 

" Professor Henry stated that he felt gratified at this iiublic recognition of his early 
labors and discoveries iu reference to the electric telegraph." * 

Henry's primitive electro-magnetic telegraph (as already stated) was jiroperly an 
acoustic telegraph. Morse's subsequent electro-magnetic telegraph was a recording tel- 
eoraph, and it was this feature of automatic register which was always regarded by 
its inventor as the most characteristic and important element of his invention. " It 
was soon discovered, after the i ntroduction of the Morse system of telegraph, that words 
could be read by the click of the magnet ; but paper was used upon which the arbitrary 
alphabet of dots aud lines was indented by the instruments, for all matters of business 
tip to 1852, and by many lines even later; but at the present time there is scarcely an 
ofiice of any importance in the United States where the paper is used to receive the 
record. Ten years ago the practice was almost invariable in the principal offices to 
employ an operator to read the dispatch from the long strips of paper as it came from 
the instrument ; and a copyist who stood by his side took it down. Now the system is 
entirely changed. The operator reads by the click, and copies the message himself. 
By this means the expense is lessened nearly one-half, and the risk of errors in a far 
greater ratio."t To which it may be added, that the diminished duty of the armature 
enables a single circuit to be operated through double the distance practicable with 
the Morse recorder. 

And thus it has come to pass that the Morse telegraph to-day, is (by reversion to a 
more primitive type) essentially an acoustic telegr(q)h.t So that "the click of the 
telegraph heard all over this continent," is in Dr. Meads's expressive phrase, function- 
alhj and in truth "but the echo of that little bell which first sounded in that upper 
room of the Albany Academy." 

NOTE F. (From p. 296.) 

henry's relation to the ENGLISH TELEGRAPH. 

In consequence of the repeated disagreements between the English patentees, Messra, 
Cooke and Wheatstone, (not long after their procurement of a joint patent in June, 
1837,) as to their respective .shares of originality and credit iu the invention of the 
needle telegraph, "Articles of Agreement" were drawn up ou the IGth of November, 
1840, for the submission of their grounds of claim aud of dissatisfaction, to the arbi- 
trament of two referees. Marc Isambard Brunei, on the part of Mr. Cooke, and John 
Frederick Daniell, on the part of Mr. Wheatstone. And in December of 1840, the 

* Trans, of Albany Institute, vol. iv, "Proceedings," p. 245. 

t Prescott's History of Electric Telegraph, Boston, 1860, chap, v, pp. 92-93. To the same 
effect is the statement in his later work : " In the larger telegraph offices of the United 
States and Canada, the recording instrument, or register, is entirely dispensed with, 
aud all comnumications are read by the sound made by the armature lever as it vibrates 
between the upper and lower stops." (Prescott's Electricity and the Electric Teleg^-ajyh, 
New York, 1877, chap, xxx, p. 435.) 

t Numerous patents have been granted for "sounders," having for their object the 
emphasizing or re-enforcement of the sound from the receiving key or armature 
impacts. Prescott, in his recent work, s])eaking of Thomson's ingenious and extremely 
delicate "siphon recorder," remarks: " It is somewhat curious that in the progress of 
telegraphic improvement, Morse's telegraph (the most valuable feature of which orig- 
inally was considered to be its capacity for recording communications) should have 
been modified in practice into an acoustic semaphore, while Cooke's telegraph (origi- 
nally a semai>hore) should at length have been also modified into a recording instrument." 
{Electricity and the Electric Telegraph, chap, xxxii, p. 561.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 337 

contestants presented to the Scaid arbitrators the carefully prepared statements of their 
respective "cases."* 

Mr. Cooke, in his "Statement of Facts to the Arbitrators," gave the following ac- 
conut of his telegraphic failure iu Februai'j', 1837, which was precisely that encoun- 
tered and announced by Barlow, some dozen years before : "I employed myself iu 
trying experiments upon the electro-magnet, with a view to discover at what distance 
an electric ciu-rent would excite the temporary magnetism required for moving the 
detent of the mechanism. For this purpose I adjusted above a mile of wire in the 
chambers of Mr. Lane, in Lincoln's Inn ; but the magnets and hattery heinfj ill proportioned, 
my experiments were unsatisfactory. "t The cause of failure stated, evidently repre- 
sents his acquired knowledge in 1840, not that in 1837. It was the singular fatality 
of electro-magnetism confronting every early experimenter from Barlow downward, 
that whether the number of cells in the battery were increased, or whether the length 
of wire coiled around the magnet were extended, the effect upon the magnet iu either 
case rapidly diminished after a certain short distance of circuit. Who then would 
think for a moment of compounding these enfeebling aiTangements? 

In the desperate emergency which seemed to impose an impassable barrier to his sig- 
nal device, Mr. Cooke consulted successively three among the most eminent of British 
electriciaus: Professor Faraday, Dr. Roget, and Professor Wheatstone. The following is 
the continuation of his own account, from the " case" already quoted : " In this scien- 
tific difficulty I sought the assistance of Dr. Faraday, who advised me to increase the 
number of the plates of the battery proportiouably to the length of the wires ; an. 
expedient Avhich in some degree overcame the defect of the magnet.t I also con- 
sulted Dr. Roget upon the same scientific point. . . . Dr. Roget informed me that 
Professor Wheatstone had a quantity of wire at King's College, which might assist 
me iu trying experiments upon the electro-magnet, and he advised me on that ac- 
count to submit my difficulty to him." To the same effect, in his later pamphlet pub- 
lished in March, 18oG, (more than fifteen years after ward,) he said: "This result was 
to be accomplished by means of an electro-magnet ; and it was my inability to make 
the electro-magnet act at long distances which first led me to Mr. Wheatstone." ^ 

At this point it is iiropor to turn to Professor Wheatstone's statement of the inter- 
view, in his own " case," as presented to the arbitrators at the same time, in Decem- 
ber, 1840 : 

" I believe but am not quite sure that it was on the first of March, 1837, that Mr. 
Cooke introduced himself to me. He told me that he had aijplied to Dr. Faraday and 
Dr. Roget for some information relative to a subject on which he was engaged, and 
that they had referred him to me as having the means of answering his inquiries. . . . 
Relying on my former exj)ericnce, I at once told Mr. Cooke that it wouklnot and could 
not act as a telegraph, because sufficient attractive power could not be imparted to an 
electro-magnet interposed in a long circuit ; and to convince him of the truth of this 
assertion, I invited him to King's College to see the repetition of the exiieriments ou 
which my conclusion was founded. He came, and after seeing a variety of voltaic 

* These documents, with the "award" rendered April 27, 1841, published immedi- 
ately afterward, were some years later repuldishcd by Mr. Cooke (together with sub- 
sequent controversial pamphlets between tlie parties) in two octavo volumes, under 
the common title, "The Electric Telegraph : was it invented by Professor Wheatstone ? " 
One volume, published in 1856, comprising the "Arbitration Papers" in full, is inju- 
diciously designated '• Part II." Th(i other volume, published in 1857, embi-acing 
matter of a much later date, is improjierly designated "Part I." This part coniprises 
a reprint of "Mr. Cooke's First Pamphlet," published in December, 1854; of "Mr. 
Wheatstone's AnsAver," published in January, 1856; and of "Mr. Cooke's Reply," 
l)ublished in March, 185(5. • 

t The Electric Telegraph, etc. by W. F. Cooke, part ii, sec. 4G, p. 24. 

t Faraday iu his brilliant series f)f researches commencing in September, 1831, em- 
ployed almost exclusively Henry's "quantity" magnet of numerous short coils; and 
hence naturally paid little attention to the feebler energies of Henry's "intensity" 
magnet. 

^ Work above quoted, part i, jip. 198, 199. 

S. Mis. 59 L'2 



338 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

magnets, whicli even ■vritli powerful batteries exliibited only sliglit adhesive attrac- 
tion, he expressed his disappointment."* " When I endeavored to ascertain how a 

hell might he more efficiently rung, the attractive power obtained by temporarily 
magnetizing soft iron first suggested itself to me. The experiments I made with the 
long circuit at King's College however led me to conclude that the attraction of a 
piece of iron by an electro-magnet could not be made available in circuits of very 
great length, and therefore I had no hoi)es of being able to discharge an alarum by 
this means." t 

Not a little surprising is it that three savans so distinguished, all of them familiar 
in a general way with Henry's electro-magnetic researches published more than six 
years before, should each have failed to aiiprehend, or should have forgotten, the dis- 
tinctly declared vii'tue of his ' ' intensity " magnet, t Henry, in 1829, and 18.30, had fully 
demonstrated that Avhile with a single galvanic pair a small magnet surrounded with 
a long wire showed very feeble magnetism (as compared with one of short coil), with 
a "trough" battery of many pairs it exerted a stronger attraction after the civrrent 
had passed through 1,060 feet of wire in the circuit than when the coil was directly 
connected with the battery. He had announced: " From these exiierimcnts it is evi- 
dent that in forming the coil we may either use one very long ivlre or several shorter 
ones, as the circumstances may require ; in the first case our galvanic combination 
must consist of a nmnher of plates, in the second it must be formed of a single pair." And he 
had expressly called attention to the fact that the former arrangement "is directly 
aijplicable to the project of forming an electro-magnetic telegraph." § 

Mr. Cooke continued the narrative in his "case" as follows: " On many occasions 
during the months of March and April, 1837, we tried experiments together upon the 
electro-magnet ; our object being to make it act efficiently at long distances in its 
office of removing the detent. The result of our experiments confirmed my apijrehen- 
eion that I was still without the jiower of exciting magnetism at long distances. . . 
. In this difficulty we adojjted the exjiedicnt of a secondary circuit, which was used 
for some time in connection with my alarum." || 

It is at this period that Henry made his first visit to England ; and in London he 
formed an acquaintance with Faraday, with Roget, and with Wheatstone, Avith each 
of whom he had many pleasant and familiar interviews, and for each of whom he ever 
entertained a warm personal regard. He has left the following account of his commu- 
nication with the professor last named : 

"In February, 1837, I went to Euroiie; and early in April of that year, Professor 
Wheatstone, of London, (in the course of a visit by myself to him in King's College, 
London, Avitli Professor Bache, now of the Coast Survey, ) explained to us his plans of an 
electro-magnetic telegraph ; and among other things exhibited to us his method of 
bringing into action a second galvanic circuit. This consisted in closing the second 
circuit by the deflection of a needle so placed that the two upward x>rojecting ends of 
the open circuit would be united by the contact of the end of the needle when de- 
flected ; and on opening or breaking the circnit so closed, by opening the first circuit 
and thus interrupting the current, the needle would resume its ordinary position 
under the influence of the magnetism of the earth. I informed him that I had 
devised another method of producing effects somewhat similar. This consisted in 

* [" Electro-magnets of the greatest power, even when the most energetic batteries 
are employed, utterly cease to act when they are connected by considerable lengths of 
wire with the battery." {Introduction to the Studif of Chemical Philosophy : by Prof. John 
Frederick Daniell, 2d ed. 1843, chap, xvi, sec. 859, p. 57G.)] 

t The Electric Teleyraph, etc. by W. F. Cooke, part ii, sects. 268, 272, and 299, pp. 86, 
87, and 93. 

X Faraday refers to Henry's magnets in his Experimental Eesearches, etc. (Nov. 24, 
1831), vol. i, art. 57, p. 15 ; and Roget refers to them in his excellent Treatise on Electro- 
Magnetism, 8vo. London, 1832, chap, x, sec. 161, p. 55. 

^ Silliman's American Journal of Science, January, 1831, vol. xix, p. 404. 

II The Electric Telegraph, etc. by W. F. Cooke, part ii, sec. 51, p. 27. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGKAPH. 339 

opening the circuit of my large quantity magnet at Princeton, when loaded with many 
hundred pounds weight, by attracting upward a small piece of movable wire with a 
small intensity magnet connected with a long wire circuit. When the circuit of the 
largo battery was thus broken by an action from a distance the weights Avould fall ; 
and great mechanical effect could thus be jiroduced, such as the ringing of church-bells 
at a distance of a hundred miles or more, — an illustration of which I had previously 
given to mj' class at Princeton. . . . The object of Professor Wheatstone as I un- 
derstood it, in bringing into action a second circuit, was to provide a remedy for the 
diminution of force in a long circuit. My object in the process described by me was 
to bring into operation a largo fiuautity magnet connected with a quantity battery in 
a local circuit, by means of a small intensity magnet and an intensity battery at a 
distance." * 

This important historic interchange of experiments and projects between Henry and 
Wheatstone, possesses an interest and a significance quite beyond that present in the 
contemplation of the writer. To Henry, the confidence imparted was striking only from 
the coincidence of separate inventions in the combination or conjunction of two 
circuits ; in his own case by the agency of an "intensity " magnet at a distance, in the 
other case by the agency of a galvanometer needle at a distance.! But to Wheatstone, 
how different must have been the impression aud suggestion! From the simple account 
of Henry's contrasted "intensity" and " quantity " magnets ; of his telegraphic ex- 
periment in 1831, — the magnetic tapping of a bell through more than a mile of line cop- 
per wire; of his daring faith in being able to ring heavy bells by a terminal "quan- 
tity" magnet, "af a distance of a hundred miles or more!" with what new interest and 
meaning must the earlier and neglected researches of Henry have been recalled. Who 
could doubt that with the unsolved problem of Mr. Cooke just fresh before him, with 
his active and fertile mind awakened, qttick to seize upon and develop a now idea, 
(as well illustrated in his intercourse with Mr. Cooke,) who could doubt that the pre- 
sentation above recorded (in Aiml of 1837, ) must have been to him a new sohition and 
a sudden revelation ? 

Surely some recognition of Henry's published researches was to be looked for in return 
for the unexpected but unquestionable benefit conferred. We search in vain for any 
such requital or acknowledgment. In amplifying his own " improvements" before the 
arbitrators, he says: ^^ But the most important point of allwiismy ai>plication of the the- 
ory of Ohm to telegraphic circuits, which enabled me to ascertain the bestproportions 
between the length, thickness, &c., of the multijjlying coils and the other resistances in 
the circuit, aud to determine the number and size of the elements of the battery to pro- 
duce the maximum effect. With this law and its applications, no persons who had before 
occupied themselves icith experiments relating to Electric Telegraphs had been acquainted" !t 
The "theory of Ohm" (announced in 1827), had avowedly no inlluence whatever on 
Wheatstone's researches — till after his interview with Henry, in April, 1837 ; nor was 
the "theory of Ohm" any more definitely applied, or any more implicitly confirmed, 
by the later English experimenter in 1837, than it had been by the earlier American 
experimenter in 1829, and 1830. And Professor Wheatstone's exi)licit declarations that 
in March, 1837, he found by experience that " sufficient-attractive power could not bo 



* Smithsonian Beport for 1857, pp. Ill, 112. As Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache was 
present on the occasion above mentioned, and as he was also subsequently a Regent 
of the Institittion, under whose direct sujiervision and authority the above statement 
of Henry was published by the board, it may be regarded as having his imiilicit 
corroboration. 

t Professor Wheatstone, in his "Answer" to Mr. Cooke's Pamphlet, says: "My ex- 
periments led nie to believe that the motions of a needle could be produced at dis- 
tances at which no effects of electro-magnetic attraction could be obtained." (Letter 
of October 26, 1840 ; reprint, p. 114.) 

t "Professor Wheatstone's Case." The Electric Telegraph, etc. by W. F. Cooke, part 
ii, sect. 290, p. 91. 



340 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

impartocT to an elQctro-vaagnetintf^TYtosed. in a long circuit," — that "the attraction of a 
piece of iron by an electro-magnet could not be made available in circuits of very 
great length," excludes absolutely and forever, all possibility of competitive claim to 
a discovery admittedly "the most important i)oint of all" in the practical develop- 
ment of a real telegraph; — the discovery of the "intensity" magnet. Undoubtedly re- 
quired to institute especial experiments in order to properly proportion his magnet 
and battery, Wheatstone was led by self-esteem to entirely overestimate the original- 
ity of such experiments, and correspondingly to underrate the value of Henry's in- 
structions or suggestions. 

Eecurring to his plan of a terminal secondary circuit Professor Wheatstone re-iter- 
ates in the same document: "Having convinced myself that it was hopeless to expect 
to ring an alarum by the direct action of the electric current through a circuit of 
great length on an electro-magnet as ordinarily constructed, I began to think whether 
the effect required might not be produced in an indirect manner. It occurred to me 
that the difficulty would be overcome if a short circuit in which the electro-magnet of 
the alarum and a rather powerful electro-motor should be interposed, could be com 
pleted and broken at will by some action governed by the current in the long circuit. 
. . . These methods of completing the secondary circuit have lost all their impor- 
tance and are scarcely worth contending about, since my discovery that electro-magnets 
may be so constructed as to produce the required effects by means of the direct cur- 
rent, even in very long circuits." 

Again returning to this fatal theme, he repeats (having resolved to "carry oiit his 
investigations alone" without the co-operation of Mr. Cooke), "After this resolution 
had been taken, I commenced a series of researches on the laws of electro-magnets, and 
was fortunate enough to discover the conditions {which had not hitherto been made the 
subject of philosophical inquiry) by which effects could bo produced at great distances. 
This rendered electro-magnetic attraction for the first time ap])licable in an imme- 
diate manner to telegraphic purposes." * — Notwithstanding that Henry, in 1830, 
had demonstrated — and on the first of January, 1831, had confidently announced to 
the scientific world, that his own original "intensity" magnet with a "trough" 
battery, was "directly applicable to the project of forming an electro-magnetic tele- 
graph " ! 

This redundant iteration of original discovery, this reticence as to any similar 
investigation known to have been even attempted by Henry, scarcely permits the 
charitable suggestion of " unconsciousness." That his persistent claim should have 
mivsled his colleague, Professor Daniell, into incorporating in the text of his new 
edition of the " Cheu\ical Philosophy" the following laudation, is perhaps not alto- 
gether to be wondered at: "Ingenious as Professor Wheatstone's contrivances are, 
they would have been of no avail for telegraidiic purposes without the investigation 
{which he was the first to make) of the laws of electro-magnets when acted on through 
great lengths of wire."t Were the name of Henry inserted in the italicised i)areu- 
thesis, the proijosition stated would be beyond the reach of cavil or exception. In- 
genious as Professor Wheatstone's contrivances were, they would have heen, of no avail 
for telegraphic purposes, without the investigation (which Hexry was the first 
to make) — of the laws of electro-magnets when acted on through great lengths of 
wire. 

Mr. Cooke (to whom probably even the existence of Henry was unknown) makes 
the very expressive comment on the above passage from the " Chemical Philosophy" 
of the professor at King's College : " Mr. Daniell might have added that this investi- 

*" Professor Wheatstone's Case," as above cited, sect. 30(), 314, and 333, pp. 94,96, 
and 100. 

i Introduction to the Study of Chemical Philosophy, second edition, 1843, chap, xvi, 
sect. 859, p. 576- 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 341 

gatiou had uot been commenced or thouoUt of in March, 1837!"* In this pamphlet 
controversy which occurred between the joint-patentees some fourteen yeai's after the 
memorable "award," Professor Wheatstoue in his "Answer" (of January, 185(5,) to 
Mr. Cooke's first pamphlet (of December, 1854,) somewhat more feebly re-echoes: 
" With this law and its applications no persons in England who had before occupied 
themselves with experiments relating to electric telegraphs had been acquainted. "t 

The substance of the "award" rendered by the distinguished arbitrators April 27, 
1841, in the matter of the Cooke and Wheatstone controversy, was that "Mr. Cooke 
« entitled to stand alone as the gentleman to whom this country is indebted for having 
liractically introduced and carried out the electric telegraph as a useful undertaking, 
promising to be a work of national importance: and Professor Wheatstone is ac- 
knowledged as the scientific man whose profound and successful researches have 
already pr(^a?'«i! the public to receive it as a project capable of practical applic;ition."t 
This decision — studiously non-committal as is its language, and even as interpreted 
by the extra-judicial letter of Professor Daniell, dated March 24, 1843, (two years sub- 
sequently.) cannot be regarded as sustaining the prominent thc^ory of "Professor 
Whcatstone's Case," assuming priority of suggestion or of application of the needle 
telegraph, as compared with Mr. Cooke. 

NOTE G. (From p. 305.) 

THE AUTIIOKSIIIP OF THE " MORSE ALPHABET." 

It appears from various concurring testimonies, that the new recording instrument 
constructed for Professor Morse by ]\Ir. Vail diu-iug October, November, and Decem- 
ber, 1837, was entirely of his own design, Avithout any suggestions from Professor 
Morse; and that its arrangement for discontinuous marking Avas si>eci ally contrived 
by its maker for an alphabet exclusively devised by himself; which he abstained 
from publicly claiming, owing to a delicate sense of obligation incurred by his con- 
tract with Professor Morse, to render him every assistance in perfecting the mechan- 
ical arrangements of the telegraph. § 

That Professor Morse had no conception on the 3d of October, 1837, of the form of 
instrument contemplated by Mr. Vail, is clearly shown by his autographic "caveat" 
of that date. And his letter to Mr. Vail, of October 24th, announcing the completion 
of the numbered dictionary, (in Avhich he wrote "we can now talk or write anything 
by numbers,") is equally conclusive evidence that at this later date, he was still 
unconscious of any alpha^betic improvement. 

An article in the New York Sun, by its editor, Mr. Moses S. Beach, (written in 1858,) 
under the heading "Honor to whom honor is due," makes the statement, "We will 
mention a few incidents connected with Professor Morse's own experience, which we 
have never seen in i^rint, and which lose none of their interest from the unassuming 
modesty of the parties referred to." And after alluding to the assistance furnished 

* Mr. Cooke's " Reply " to Professor Wheatstone's "Answer." ( The Electric Telegraph, 
etc. by W. F. Cooke, part i, p. 199.) Dr. John Locke, of Cincinnati, who was in Lon- 
don in the summer of 1837, on his return to this country, having informed Professor 
Morse of Wheatstone's telegraphic experiments, Professor Morse in a letter fi-om New 
York to Alfred Vail, at Speedwell, dated October 24, 1837, thus referred to the matter : 
"We have just lieard that Professor Wheatstone lias tried an experiment with his 
method, twenti/ miles, with success. We have therefore nothing to fear." (Pi-ime's 
Life of Morse, chap, viii, p. 326.) At this date Professor Gale had operated the Morse 
instrument through only" three miles of wire in the circuit. 

t The Electric Telegraph, etc., by W. F. Cooke, part i, t^. 57. 

t The Electric Telegraph, etc., by W. F. Cooke, i)art i, \^. IG: and part ii, pp. 214 and 
208. 

<5 V>y the terms of the partnership in the telegraph, Mr. Vail agreed "to devote his 
personal services and skill in constructing and bringing to perfection, as also in im- 
proving, the UKfclianical }iarts of said invention, . . . without chai'ge for such 
personal services to the other xn'oprietors, and for their common benefit." 



342 HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

the inventor in his early imperfect experiments by the Messrs. Vail, the editor con- 
tinues: "Alfred Vail entered into these experiments with his whole soul, and to him 
is Professor Morse indebted, quite as much as to his own wit, for his ultimate 
triumi:)h. He It was ivJio invented the far-famed alphabet; and he too was the inventor 
of the instrument which bears Morse's name. But whatever he did or contrived, 
went cheerfully to the great end. Alfred felt rewarded in seeing the gradual ac- 
comi^lishment of the dream."* 

In an interesting article entitled "The first week of the Telegraph," written in 
1869 for a New York monthly magazine, by Dr. William P. Vail, the following sig- 
nificant allusion to his deceased nephew, Mr. Alfred Vail, occurs: "The birth-time 
and the liirth-place of the telegraph as a recording instrument of intelligence, . . . 
the parties who wrought the rude original plan into working order and gave it effi- 
ciency, the man xclio invented the 'Morse alphabet' (so called), and to whose ingenuity, 
mechanical skill, and tireless perseverance, the clock-work of the telegraph machine 
is largely due, ... all this is well underatood, and for the most i)art is written 
down, and the record some day in the near future must find its i>lace in history, upon 
the true principle of swum cuique."i 

It is noteworthy that neither the published statement made by the editor of the 
" Sun," nor that made by Mr. Vail's uncle in the " Hours at Home," (both widely cir- 
culated, and copied into other journals during Professor Morse's life-time,) was ever 
called in question by the celebrated telegrapher. His iiainful silence under the cir- 
ciunstances is not easily defensible. 

Mr. Francis O. J. Smith, one of the partners in the original telegraph patent of 
Morse, (having had as capitalist and business manager, a one-fourth interest in the 
enterprise,) has also stated in a published letter, dated March 30, 1872, (not long be- 
fore Professor Morse's death,) that the modified horizontal lever adapted "to emboss 
the aljihabetic characters," was " neither invented nor combined in the telegraph by 
Professor Morse, but exclusively by onr associate — Mr. Alfred Vail; although for 
reasons that will be satisfactory to most minds, they were never publicly credited to 
him, but have been claimed exclusively by Professor Morse as his own invented com- 
bination."t 

Dr. Gale, the only surviving member of the original partnership, states in a recent 
letter on the subject, that he does not distinctly remember whether the changed ar- 
rangement of the lever to a horizontal jiosition in the new model constructed by Mr. 
Vail, was his exclusive invention or not. 

In a biographical sketch of Alfred Vail by Mr. Frederick Brent Eead, of Cincinnati, 
published in 187.3, the writer states without qualification : " Alfred Vail first pro- 
duced in the new instrument the first available Morse machine. He invented the first 
combination of the horizontal lever motion to actuate a pen or pencil or style, and the 
entirely new telegraphic alphabet of dots, spaces, and marks, which it necessitated; 
and he did so jirior to September, 1837, the month when the old instrument passed into 
his hands for reconstruction. . . . The new machine Avas Vail's, not Morse's. 

* New York Sun, for September 25, 18.58. Republished in the Weekly Sun, for Octo- 
ber 2, 18.58. In a recent letter on the subject, Mr. M. S. Beach, the author of the 
above, states : "I was then personally acquainted with the Vails, and a not unfrequeut 
visitor at the homestead in Morristown; besides of course having a personal ac- 
quaintance with Professor Morse, and with the telegraph managers generally. My im- 
pression is that the article was at the time apiiroved for its exact statement — never 
controverted." 

tScribner's Hours at Home, September, 1869, vol. ix, pp. 43,5, 436. In response to 
an iniiuiry as to the evidence of Mr. A. Vail's invention of the "dot-and-dash" alx)ha- 
bet, Dr. W. P. Vail, the author of the above, declares in a recent letter, "It was so 
- understood by all who were admitted to his intimacy. In a conversation with him 
shortly before his death, in 1859, he so assured me. I am not aware that Mr. Morse 
ever set up an adverse claim." 

tA pamphlet entitled ^' Ilistory Geftinf/ Eight on the invention of the American 
Electro-magnetic Telegraph," 1872, p. 21.' It does not appear that Professor Morse 
ever did explicitlj^ claim these inventions as his own. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 343 

The claim is clearly made then, that Alfred Vail in the first place invented an entirely- 
new alphabet; secondly, ho invented an entirely new machine in which was the first 
combination of the horizontal lever motion to actuate a pen or pencil or style, so ar- 
ranged as to perform the new duties required with precision, simplicity, and ra))idity ; 
and thirdly, Vail invented, several years afterward [in 1844], the new lever and 
[grooved] roller which embossed into paper the wholly simple and perfect alphabetic 
characters which ho alone originated."* 

Numerous experiments with various kinds of pencils, fountain-pens, and inked 
roulettes, having shown their inefficiency for the uniform marking of the "dot-and- 
dash" alphabet, Alfred Vail at last boldly discarded all marking devices, and em- 
ployed a blunt steel point near the end of the registering lever, playing directly ove- 
a narrow groove in the roller which supported the record-fillet of paper. In this man, 
ner the variable lines of the Vail alphabet were permanently indented in the paper 
with x^erfect facility and unerring regularity. Mr. F. B. Read in his biogi'aiihical 
sketch of Samuel F. B. Morse (in the work just quoted), after alluding to his original 
apparatus as being placed by him " in Mr.Vail's hands for an entire mechanical recon- 
struction throughout, to speak a language not only wholly unknown to the first ma- 
chine, but to perform entu'ely new functions, and to produce an entirely new system of 
signs and letters which the first by its structure was physically incapable of being made 
to speak ;" adds with regard to Mr. Vail's subsequent improvement, " His more perfect 
invention of a steel style upon a lever which could strike into the paper as it was 
drawn onward over a grooved roller and emboss ujion it the same alphabetic characters, 
was not made until 1844, about the time the first line of telegraph began to operate 
between Baltimore and Washington."! 

Simple as may appear the substitution of the dry point for the inked wheel or pen, 
its introduction effected a wonderful saving of time, of attention, and of annoyance. 
In a memorandum attached to the original model of the lever-style and grooved roller, 
Alfred Vail wrote, " I have not asserted i^ublicly my right as first and sole inventor, 
because I wished to i)reserve the jieaceful unity of the invention, and because I could 
not according to my contract with Professor Morse, have got a patent for it."1: 

Mr. Read, in the same biograiihy of Morse, after quoting his feeble and insufficient 
tribute to Vail, in his speech at the banquet given at New York on the evening of 
Decem])er 29, 1868, in honor of the "successful" inventor, (in which he said of hia 
intellectual offspring, "It found a friend in Mr. Alfred Vail, of New Jersey, who with 
his father and brother /Hrn/.s/(C(Z the means to give the child a decent tlress;") makes 
the comment, " It would have been more magnanimous if in those last days of the aged 
savant he had stated the precise facts, and given Alfred Vail the full credit to which 
he was justly entitled. He would thus have generously raised a fitting monument 
to the memory of one who had years before 'been gathered to his fathers' in the prime 
of manhood, who had with wondrous modesty and singular reticence refrained from 
claiming as of his own invention, the improved 'Morse' instrument and alphabet." § 

In again referring to this subject in his following sketch of the life of Vail, the 
author adds, " These are the quiet and subdued terms in which Professor Morse was 
content to hand his co-inventor and early friend down to posterity. He makes no 
allusion to Alfred Vail which would lead any one to susjiect that he was anything 
more than a skillful mechanic ; — that Vail had ever done anything beyond putting 
into form the concex)tion of Morse's brain. To say the least, it was an unhapxiy hold- 
ing off from a magnanimous and generous course,"|| 

*A collection of biographical notices, entitled Up the Heights of Fame and Foi-lune, 
by F. B. Read, 8vo. Cincinnati, 1873, pp. 270, 271. Thirty-four pages are devoted to an 
account of the life of Alfred Vail ; who died at Morristown, January 18, 1859. 

t f7}j the Heights of Fame and Fortune, pp. 244, 24.'S. 

t Quoted in same work : j). 291. § Same work : p. 244. 

II Same woi'k : p. 297. A friend of Mr. Vail, (unnamed,) who visited Professor 
Morse at his request during his last illness in March, 1872, is reported as stating, '* In 



344 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

At a meeting of the Directors of tLe ''Magnetic Telegraph Company" held at Phila- 
delphia on the IGth of February, 1859, for the piu'pose of giving expression to their 
feelings ou the recent death of Alfred Vail (a brother Director), Amos Kendall in 
seconding and warmly supporting the offeretl resolutions of respect and grief, is thus 
reported: "In the words of the distinguished associate and friend of both, the Hon. 
Amos Kendall, 'If justice be done, the name of Alfred Vail will forever stand associated 
with that of Samuel F. B. Morse, in the history of the invention and introduction into 
public use, of the Electro-magnetic Telegraph. . . . Mr. Vail was one of the most 
honest and scrupulously conscientious men with whom it has ever been my fortune to 
meet.'"* 

Surely it is time that Alfred Vail should receive the tardy justice of some iiublic 
acknowledgment of his very ingenious and meritorious inventions in telegraphy, and 
of grateful remembrance i^articvrlarly for his valuable contribution to the "Morse 
system" of its i)ractically most imi>ortant element. 

NOTE H. (From p. 317.) 

AN U^rWAEEAXTED AEEAIGXMEXT. 

Henry, elected December 3, 1846, to the j)Osition of " Secretary " and Director 
of the Smithsonian Institution, was for ten years engaged in a difficult but resolute 
struggle to imxiress upon its administration his own sagacious and far-sighted pol- 
icy; at that time but little ai^iireciated by the vast majority of those who wielded 
political or literary inlluence. It was during the latter portion of this critical period, 
while still almost entirely abstracted from his favorite pursuits, that he was made the 
subject of a most Avanton, unprovoked, and unlooked-for aspersion. In this ill-advised 
attack — elaborately prepared either by or for Professor Morse, more than a year before 
its wide-spread publication,! the pamphleteer not only boldly assailed the scien- 
tific reputation of the great experimental jihysicist, but ventured (for the first 
time in the latter's career) to impugn his truthfulness, in an important testimony 
given in certain telegraiih suits, some half a dozen years pre%-iously, in reluctant 
obedience to legal sunnnons. t This testimony thus exacted, of course failed to 
sustain the complainant's exorbitant claims to all possible forms of the electro-magnetic 
telegraph, and correspondingly failed to satisfy the cupidity of the actual prosecutors ; 
and in this remarkable accusation, first published in 1855, could readily be discerned 
the mercenary inspiration of interested capitalists and assignees — anxious only to 
stretch the monopoly to its extremest grasp. To Professor Morse himself, in his early 
efforts, Henry had generously rendered every encouragement and assistance ; and in 

a conversation of two hours, he several times said, ' The one thing I want to do now, is 
justice to Mr. Vail.' . . . Just four weeks from that day, he passed from earth ; 
and I have never heard that he left one word for it. Indeed, I did not expect that he 
would." To this statement, Mr. Read adds, "Here we leave Professor Morse and his 
relations to Alfred Vail. Our only purpose has been simply to bring the facts concern- 
ing this wonderful invention, to the light of day. (Same page of the work : — p. 297.) 

* Same work : p. 296. 

t Professor Morse's signature upon the last page of the Impeachment (p. 96), is 
dated December, 1853. The pamphlet was published January, 1855. 

t The Hon. S. P. Chase, while Governor of Ohio, (subsequently Chief Justice of the 
Supreme Court of the United States,) in a letter to Henry, dated Columbus, November 
26, 185G, after reciting his professional connection with the litigations of 1849, says : 
" I remember very well that you were unwilling to be involved in the controversy 
even as a Avituess, and that you onlj- submitted to be examined in compliance Avith 
the requirements of law. Not one of your statements Avas a' olunteered ; they Avere 
all called out by questions propounded either A^erbally or in writing. . . . You 
could not have refused to respond to the questions propounded Avithont subjecting 
yourself to judicial animadA'er.sion and constraint. Nothing in Avhat you testilied, or 
your manner of testifying, suggested to me the idea that you Avere animated by any 
desire to arrogate undue merit to yourself, or to detract from the just claims of Pro- 
fessor Morso." 



HENRY AXD THE TELEGRAPH. 345 

liis later siicoessea had as freely exteuded liis cougratulatious and his testimonials of 
the practical merits of his invention.* 

To descend to a personal controversy with Mr. Morse, was" utterly repugnant to 
Henry's feelings ; to permit his serious impeaclmient to stand untraversed, appeared 
scarcely less ohjectionahle. With a calm and self-respecting dignity, Plenry simply 
presented the published arraignment to the Board of Regents, for their consideration 
and action, with a communication dated March 1(5, 1857, in the following terms : 

" Gextle:\iex : In the discharge of the important and responsible duties which de- 
volve upon me as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, I have found myself exposed, 
like other men in public positions, to unprovoked attack and injurious misrepresenta- 
tion. Many instances of this it may be remembered occurred about two years ago, 
during the discussions relative to the organic jjolicy of the Institution ; but though 
very unjust, they were suffered to jiass unnoticed, and generally made I presume no 
lasting impression on the i)ublic mind. During the same controversy however there 
was one attack made upon me of such a nature, so elaborately prejjared and widely 
circulated by my opponents, that though I have not j^et publicly noticed it, I have 
fi'om the first thought it my duty not to allow it to go unanswered. I allude to an. 
article from the pen of Prof. S. F. B. Morse, the celebrated inventor of the American 
electro-magnetic telegraph. In this, not my scientific reputation merely, but my moral 
character was i)ointedly assaih^l ; indeed, nothing less was attempted than to prove 
that in the testimony which I had given in a case where I was at most but a reluctant 
witness, I had consciously and willfully deviated from the truth, and this too from 
unworthy and dishonorable motives. 

' ' Such a charge, coming from such a quarter, appeared to me then, as it appears 
now, of too grave a character and too serious a consequence to be withheld from the 
notice of the Board of Regents. I therefore presented the matter unofficially to the 
Chancellor of the Institution, Chief Justice Taney, and was advised by him to allow 
the matter to rest until the then existing excitement with respect to the organization of 
the Institution should subside ; . . . and I now embrace the first oiqiortunity of bring- 
ing the subject officially to your notice, and asking from you an investigation into the 
justic;>- of the charges alleged against me. And this I do most earnestly, with the de- 
sire that when we shall all have passed from this stage of being, no knputatiou of having 
attempted to evade in silence so grave a charge shall rest on 7ne, — nor on you, of having 
continued to devolve upon me duties of the highest responsibility, after that was known 
to some of you individually, Avhich if true should render me entirely unworthy of 
your confidence. Duty to the Board of Regents, as well as regard to my own memory, 
to my family, and to the truth of history, demands that I should lay this matter be- 
fore you, aud place in your hands the documents necessary to establish the veracity of 
my testimony so falsely impeached, and the integrity of my motives so wantonly as- 
sailed." t 

A select committee of the Board of Regents having accordingly been appointed to 
examine fnlly into the imputations referred to, and thereupon to report the conclusion 
reached, — after a carefitl consideration of all the evidence and documents accessible, 
presented through its chairman. President Felton, of Harvard University, a compre- 
hensive report, from which the following extracts are made : 

"The committee have carefully examined the documents relating to the subject, and 
especially the article to which the comnumication of Professor Henry refers. This ar- 
ticle occupies over ninety pages, aud iiurports to be 'a defense against the injurious 

* "It was my wish in every statement to render Mr. Morse full and scrupulous jus- 
tice. While I was constrained therefore to state that he had made no discoveries in 
science, I distinctly declared that he was entitled to the merit of combining and ap- 
plying the discoveries of others in the inveution of the l)est practical form of the 
magnetic telegrai)h. My testimony tended to establish the fiict that though not enti- 
tled to the exclusive use of the electro-magnet for telegraphic purposes, lie was enti- 
tled to his particular machine, register, al})habot, &c. This however did not meet 
the fall rcfjuirements of Mr. Jlorse's comprehensive claim." 

t Sinitlinoniaii Report for 1857, pp. 85, SQ. 



346 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

deductions di'aTvn from the deposition of Prof. Josepli Henry (in tlie several telegraph 
suits), with a critical review of said deposition, and an examination of Professor Hen- 
ry's alleged iliscoveries bearing upon the electro-magnetic telegraph.' The first thing 
■which strikes the reader of this article is, that its title is a misnomer. It is simply an 
assault upon Professor Henry ; an attemiit to disparage his character ; to deprive him 
of his honors as a scientific discoverer ; to impeach his credibility as a witness, and his 
integrity as a man. It is a disingenuous piece of sophistical argument, such as an un- 
scrupulous advocate might employ to pervert the truth, misrepresent the facts, and 
misinterpret the language in which the facts belonging to the other side of the case 
are stated. 

"Mr. Morse charges that the deposition of Professor Henry 'contains imputations 
against his (IMorse's) personal character,' which it does not, and assumes it as a duty ' to 
expose the utter non-reliability of Professor Henry's testimony;' that testimony being 
supported by the most competent authorities, and by the history of scientific discov- 
ery. He asserts that he 'is not indebted to him [Professor Henry] for any discovery 
in science bearing on the telegraph,' ho having himself acknowledged such indebted- 
ness in the most unequivocal manner, and the fact being independently substantiated 
by the testimony of Sears C. Walker, and the statement of Mr. Morse's own associate, 
Dr. L. D. Gale. Mr. Morse further maintains that all discoveries bearing upon the tele- 
graph were made not by Professor Henry, but by others, and ^irior to any experimenta 
of Professor Henry in the science of electro-magnetism ; contradicting in this i^roposi- 
tion the facts in the history of scientific discovery perfectly established and recognized 
throughout the scientific world. 

"The essence of the charges against Professor Henry is, that he gave false testimony 
in his deposition in the telegraph cases, and that he has claimed the credit of discov- 
eries in the sciences bearing upon the electro-magnetic telegraj)h which were made by 
previous investigators; in other words, that he has falsely claimed what does not be- 
long to him, but does belong to others. . . . Your committee do not conceive it to 
be necessary to follow Mr. Morse through all the details of his elaborate attack. For- 
tunately, a x>lain statement of a few leading facts will be sutficient to place the essen- 
tial points of the case in a clear light." . . . 

[After a review of the evidences furnished (unnecessary to be here reproduced), the 
rejiort proceeds :] 

"It thus appears, both from Mr. Morse's own admission down to 1848, and from the 
testimony of others most familiar with the facts, that Professor Henry discovered the 
law, or 'principle,' as Mr. Morse designates it, which was necessary to make the prac- 
tical working of the electro-magnetic telegraph at considerable distances possible ; that 
Mr. Morse was first informed of this discovery by Dr. Gale; that he availed himself of 
it at once, and that it never occiured to Mr. Morse to deny this fact until after 1848. 
He had steadily and fully acknowledged the merits and genius of Mr. Henry, as the 
discoverer of facts and laws in science of the highest imj)ortance in the success of his 
long-cherished invention of a magnetic telegraph. Mr. Henry was the discoverer of a 
principle, Mr. Morse was the inventor of a machine, the object of which was to record 
characters at a dist<aiice, to convey intelligence; in other words to carry into execu- 
tion the idea of an electric telegraph. But there were obstacles in the way which he 
could not overcome until he learned the discoveries of Professor Henry, and applied 
them to his machine. These facts are undeniable. They constitute a part of the his- 
tory of science and invention. They were true in 1848, they were equally true in 1855, 
when Professor Morse's article was published. . . . 

"What changed Mi*. Morse's opinion of Professor Henry, not only as a scientific in- 
vestigator, but as a man of integrity, after the admissions of his indebtedness to his 
researches, and the oft-rej)eated expressions of warm jjersonal regard ? It appears 
that Mr. Morse was involved in a number of lawsuits, growing out of contested claims 
to the right of using electricity for telegraphic purposes. The circumstances under 
which Professor Henry, as a well-known investigator in this department of physics, 
was summoned by one of the parties to testify have akeady been stated. The testi- 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 347 

mouy of Mr. Henry, while supporting the chiinis of Mr. Morse as the inventor of an 
admirable invention, denied to him the additional merit of being a discoverer of new 
facts or laws of natiu-e, and to this extent perhaps was considered unfavorable to 
some part of the claim of Mr. Morse to an exclusive right to employ the electro-magnet 
for telegraphic x>urposes. Professor Henry's deposition consists of a series of answers 
to verbal, as well as written, interrogatories propounded to him, which were not 
limited to his published writings, or the subject of electricity, but extended to investi- 
gations and discoveries in general having a bearing ui)0u the electric telegraph. He 
gave his testimony at a distance from his notes and manuscrijits, and it would not 
have been surxirising if inaccuracies had occurred in some parts of his statement; but 
all the material points in it are sustained by independent testimony, and that portion 
which relates directly to Mr. Morse agrees entirely with the statement of his own 
assistant. Dr. Gale. Had his dexiosition been objectionable, it ought to have been im- 
peached before the court ; but this was not attempted ; and the following tribute to 
Professor Henry by th<e judge, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court of the 
United States, indicates the impression made upon the court itself by all the testimony 
in the case: ' It is due to him to say that no one has contributed more to enlarge the 
knowledge of electro-magnetism, and to lay the formdations of the great inventions 
of which we are speaking, than the Professor himself.'" 

The committee, m summing up the various testimonies, justly declare of Professor 
Henry, that ''he has freely communicated information to those who have sought it 
from him, among whom has been Mr. Morse himself, as ajipears by his own acknowl- 
edgments. But he has never applied his scientific discoveries to practical ends for his 
own pecuniary benefit. It was natural therefore that he should feel a repugnance to 
taking any ^lart in the litigation between rival inventors, and it was inevitable that 
when forced to give his testimony, he should distinctly point out what was so clear in 
his own mind and is so fundamental a fact in the history of human progress, the dis- 
tinctive functions of the discoverer, and the inventor who ai^iilies discoveries to jirac- 
tical purposes in the business of life. 

" Mr. Henry has always done full justice to the invention of Mr. Morse. "\^Tiile he 
could not sanction the claim of Mr. Morse to the exclusive use of the electro-magnet, he 
has given him full credit for the mechanical contrivances adapted to the aj)plication 
of his invention. . . ; 

" Your committee come unhesitatingly to the conclusion that Mr. Morse has failed to 
Bubstantiate any one of the charges he has inade against Professor Henry, although 
the burden of proof lay ui)on him; and that all the evidence, including the unbiased 
admissions of Mr. Morse himself, is on the other side. Mr. Morse's charges not only 
remain unproved, but they are j)ositively disproved. 

"Your committee recommend the adoi^tion of the following resolutions: 

" Eesolved, That Professor Morse has not succeeded in refuting the statements of 
Professor Henry in the deposition given by the latter in 1849, that ho has not proved 
any one of the accusations against Professor Henry, and that he has not disproved any 
one of his own admissions in regard to Professor Henry's discoveries in electro- 
magnetism, and their importance to his own invention of the electro-magnetic tele- 
graph. 

'^ Resolved, That there is nothing in Professor Morse's article that diminishes in the 
least, the confidence of this Board in the integrity of Professor Henry, or in the value 
of those great discoveries which have iilaced his name among those of the most dis- 
tinguished cultivators of science, and have done so much to exalt the scientific repu- 
tation of the country. 

" Eesolved, That this report, with the resolutions, be recorded in the Proceedings of 
the Board of Regents of the Institution." 

The report was accepted, and the resolutions were unanimously adopted by the 
Board of Regents.* 

* Smithsotiian Report for 1857, pp. 88-98. 



348 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

NOTE I. (From p. 319.) 

OVEKSTATEJIEXT OF MORSE'S INVEXTION. 

It was perhaps to have been expected that the owners of the Morse patents, know- 
ing the influence which the unbiased opinions of Heniy (subpoenaed as an expert) un- 
doubtedly exercised upon the minds and decisions of the justices before whom the 
telegraph suits were brought for trial, should regard with much stronger feeling what 
seemed to them adverse in his testimony, than what was really favorable to their inter- 
ests. But that the sweeping assumptions advanced by the claimants were unwar- 
rantable, has been distinctly affirmed by the highest judicial authority. 

Justice Woodbury, presiding at the United States Circuit Court (Massachusetts), in 
his decision in 1850, in the case of " Smith vs. Downing and others," remarked of the 
successive reissues of the original Morse patent, with exjiantling claims : '' In his last 
renewal of 1848 there are introduced for the first time some changes of language, and 
some tendencies in a part of them (as well as in some of the argmnents) to make the 
claim broader, and as in the letter just quoted, to cover all applications of electro- 
magnetism, if not of electricity, to convey intelligence, or to telegraph to a distance. 
. . . As this broader claim goes far beyond what we have already seen was that 
made in the caveat and in the first specification and in the original patent, as well as 
in all the subsequent renewals ; as it conflicts with much of the language of this very 
last renewal, looking only to a new method and a mere improvement on what existed 
before ; and as he seems to disavow it in his own evidence ; and as on everything in 
the case, it is at least questionable whether he could have intended to patent anything 
except an improvement on what before existed, I do not think it just to place a broader 
construction on his language than the whole subject-matter and description and nature 
of the case seem to indicate as designed. . . . And I the more readily adopt this 
course for his own protection, as such broader view might subject his patent to be 
considered void, both for claiming too much, and for claiming also the invention of 
a mere principle. It would be claiming too much, as it would cover the application 
in every way — of electro-magnetism to telegraphs ; when this as will be seen here- 
after by the history of this subject, and as is sworn to by a large number of highly in- 
telligent experts, had been known publicly and for years before Morse's first attention 
to the subject in 1832. Indeed he himself virtually admits the truth of this in his 
testimony. Others no less than the persons cited, as well as the history of the pro- 
gress on this subject, show that several had before Morse not only made this discovery, 
but applied both electricity and electro-magnetism to the purpose of telegraphing. 
But if by his ali)habet and record, he has been successful in making an improvement 
in the use of electricity for that i)urpose, and wished to secure the new method of 
doing it, ho was at liberty in point of law to make out a patent for that new mode ; but 
for nothing more. He came into the world too late for truly claiming much as new. 
A large galaxy of discoverers on this subject had preceded him." 

To a similar purport was the language of Chief Justice Taney of the Supreme Court 
of the United States in his final decision in the case of "O'Reilly and others vs. Morse 
and others ;" which however went so far as to condemn as untenable the substance 
of the eighth claim introduced by Morse's reissued patent of 1848. The Chief Justice 
said: "It is impossible to mismiderstand the extent of this claim. He claims the ex- 
clusive right to every improvement, when the motive power is the electric or galvanic 
current, and the result is the marking or printing intelligible characters signs or let- 
ters at a distance. . . . The patent confers on him the exclusive right to use the 
means he specifies to produce the result or effect he describes, — and nothing more. 
. . . Indeed, if the eighth claim of the patentee can be maintained, there was no 
necessity for any specification further than to say that he had discovered that by 
using the motive power of electro-magnetism he could print intelligible characters at 
a distance. We presume that it will be admitted on all hands, that no patent could 
have issued on such a specification."* 

* Howard' s lleiwrts, vol. xv, pj). 112-119. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 349 

NOTE J. (From p. 310.) 
henry's appkkciation of professor morse. 

Altliongli Htiuiy (together with several other eminent physicists and electricians,) 
was summoned by the contestants of Professor Morse's patent, his testimony tended 
probably quite as much to sustain what appea.red to him the patentee's equitable 
claims, as to restrain his overshadowing pretensions. That both before and after 
these legal controversies, Henry cherished only kindly feelings toward Professor 
Morse, the following corres]iondence will sufficiently attest. 

At the close of October, 1837, Henry had learned from Professor Gale, with a natu- 
rally warm interest, of his success in operating the Morse recorder by a proper adjust- 
ment of the length of coil on his Henry magnet, and a battery of 87 cells (each hav- 
ing about 14 square inches of zinc surface), through the length of iive miles of cotton- 
•wrapped copper wire (one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter), coiled on a large reel.* 
And on the 13th of November following, he was informed of his further success in in- 
terposing a second similar reel of wire (making ten miles) in the circuit, with but 
little diminution of effect. 

In the following year, 1838, Henry, durhig his elaborate and profound researches 
on electrical ''induction" (since become classical), desired to borrow one of these tive- 
mile reels of wire, for the purpose of pressing his inquiries to their furthest extent. Pro- 
fessor Morse being then absent in Europe, his colleague Professor Gale very cheerfully 
lent the wire. On returning the borrowed wire in 1839, Henry, in acknowledgment 
of the courtesy, sent both to Professor Gale and to Professor Morse a copy of his 
memoir (read before the American Philosophical Society, November 2, 1838), " with the 
respects of the author, " 

Professor Morse, on his return, addressed a letter to Henry, dated New York, April 
24, 1839, in which he said : 

" Mv Dear Sir : On my return a few days since from Europe, I found directed to 
me, through your politeness, a copy of your valuable " Contributions," for which I beg 
you to accept my warmest thanks. . . . 

"I was glad to learn, by a letter received in Paris from Dr. Gale, that a spool of five 
miles of my wire was loaned to you, and I perceive that you have already made some 
interesting experiments with it. In the absence of Dr. Gale, who has gone South, I feel a 
great desire to consult some scientific gentleman on points of importance bearing on my 
telegraph. I should be exceedingly happy to see you, and am tempted to break away 
from my absorbing engagements hero to find you at Princeton. In case I should be able 
to visit Princeton fen- a fevr days, a week or two hence, how should I find you engaged ? 
. . . I have many questions to ask, but should be happy in your reply to this letter 
of an answer to this general one : Have you met with any facts in your experiments 
thus far that Avould lead you to think that my mode of telegraphic communication will 
prove impracticable ? . . . I think that you have pursued an qriginal course of 
experiment, and discovered facts of more value to mo than any that have been pub- 
lished abroad. I will not trouble you at this time with my questions until I know 
your engagements. Accomxjanying this is a copy of a report made by the Academy 
of Industry, of Paris, on ray Telegraph, which I beg you to accept. 
" Believe me dear sir, 

"With the highest respect, 

" Your most obedient servant, 

"Samuel F. B. Morse." 

* This coil of wire, wound on a small axis of iron, formed a solid cylinder eighteen 
inches long and thirteen inches in diameter. Professor Gale's preparation for this 
experiment was noticed in Silliman's Am. Jwirnalof »Sci'e((cc (October, 1837, a-oI. xxxiii, 
p. 187). And Professor Morse, in a letter to Mr. A. Vail, dated October 7, 1837, con- 
gratulated himself that "Professor Gale's services will bo invaluable to us, and I am 
glad that he is disposed to enter iuto the matter with zeal." 



350 HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 

To this letter Henry replied as follows : 

Princeton, May 6, 1839. 

Dear Sir : Your favor of the 24tli ultimo came to Princeton during my absence, 
wliich will account for the long delay of my answer. I am pleased to learn that you 
fully sanction the loan which I obtained from Dr. Gale of your wire; and I shall be 
happy if any of the results arc found to have a practical bearing on the electrical tele- 
graph. It will give me ranch pleasure to see you in Princeton after this week ; my en- 
gagements will not then interfere with our communications on the siibject of electric- 
ity. I am acquainted with no fact which would lead me to suppose that the project 
of the electro-magnetic telegraph is impracticable ; on the contrary, I believe that sci- 
ence is now ripe for the ai^plication, and that there are no difficulties in the way, but 
such as ingenuity and enterprise may obviate. But what form of the apparatus, or 
what application of the power, will prove best, can I believe be only determined by 
careful experiment. I can say however that so far as I am acquainted with the mi- 
nutijB of your jilan, I see no practical difficulty in the way of its application for com- 
paratively short distances ; * but if the length of the wire between the stations be 
great, I think that some other modification will bo found necessary in order to develop 
a sufficient power at the farther end of the line.t I shall however be happy to con- 
verse freely vrith you on these points when we meet. In the meantime, I remain, 

" With much respect, 

"Yours, &c., 

"Joseph Hknry." 

A short time after this. Professor Morse visited Henry at Princeton; and during this 
first personal interview in May, 1839, received satisfactory answers to various ques- 
tions presented. Among them, Henry stated that he had no reason to doubt that 
magnetism could be induced in soft iron "at the distance of a hundred miles or more 
by a single impulse or from a single battery:" (a striking expression of faith in his 
own "intensity" magnet:) also, that with a given battery, circuit, and electro-magnet 
at a distance, the inclusion of intermediate electro-magnets at way-stations would 
not sensibly reduce the magnetic i)Ower at the several points. On the subject of the 
differences between "quantity" and "intensity" magnets. Professor Morse was still 
greatly in the dark, and he asked the question, "Is it quantity or intensity which has 
most effect in inducing magnetism in soft iron ? " Honry fully explained to him that 
for producing the greatest magnetic effects, a "quantity" magnet and battery, with 
short and free circuit, were required ; but that for a long circuit (required for magnety- 
izing at a distance), an "intensity" magnet and battery were indispensable. t 

* [It must be borne in mind that this was a year and a half after the writer had been 
informed by Dr. Gale of his successful experiment through ten miles of wire. By 
"comparatively short distances," therefore, he must evidently have intended distances 
less than those separating our princijial cities.] 

t[Tlie j)ecaliar form of expression hero used, suggesting the probable occasion for 
another modification "in order to develop a sufficient power — at the farther end of tlie 
line," points directly to his own contrivance (exhibited before his classes, four years 
previously) of a supplemental "quantity" magnet and battery at the distant station. 
Henry had no doubt of being able to magnetize iron at a distance of several hundred 
miles, and hence evidently did not contemplate dividing the lino into a "relay" of 
circuits, as devised by Professor Morse. His language that a re-enforcement may be 
necessary "if the lenfjthof the wire between the stations be great," plainly shows this. 
But he anticipated that the attractive power developed would be feeble ; while he de- 
clared his confidence that there Avere no scientific "difficulties in the way." Surprise 
has been expressed that Henry did not frankly "give Professor Morse the benefit of this 
solution of the suggested difficulty, if it were then in his mind. But is not the subsequent 
reticence of Professor Morse, on the expedient of a "relay" (invented by him two 
years pi'eviously, as alleged), much more surprising ? Henry referred to the enfeeble- 
ment on a longline, as a merely " practical difficulty" easily "obviated by ingenuity."] 

t Of the communications made on the occasion of this very interesting and impor- 
tant interview, occux)ying an "afternoon and evening," we have unfortunately only 
the result furnished by Professor Morse's very meager statement. (Prime's Life of 
Morse, chap, x, i). 422.) That Henry, in explaining the differing functions of the two 



HENRY AND THE TELEGEAPH. 351 

During the long and weary interval in wlucli Professor Morse — with hope deferred — 
was unavniliugly prosecuting his memorial to Congress for assistance, Henry wrote to 
him the following encouraging and friendly letter : 

"Princeton College, Fehruary 24, 1842. 
" My Dear Sir : I am pleased to learn that you have again jietitioned Congress in 
reference to your telegraph, and I most sincerely hope you will succeed in convincing 
our representatives of the importance of the invention. In this you may perhaps 
find some difficulty; since in the minds of many, the electro-magnetic telegraj>h is 
associated with the various chimerical projects constantly itresented to the public, 
and particularly with the schemes so i>opular a year or two ago, for the application of 
electricity as a moving power in the arts. The case is however entirely different in 
regard to the electro-magnetic telegraph. Science is now fully ripe for this applica- 
tion, and I have not the least doubt, if ijroper means be aflorded, of the perfect suc- 
cess of the invention. The idea of transmitting intelligence to a distance by means 
of electrical action has been suggested by various jiersous from the time of Franklin 
to the present ; but until within the last few years, or since the imncipal discoveries 
in electro-magnetism, all attempts to reduce it to ^iractice were necessarily unsuccess- 
ful. The mere suggestion however of a scheme of this kind, is a matter for which 
little credit can be claimed, since it is one which would naturally arise in the mind 
of almost any person familiar with the phenomena of electricity ; but the bringing 
it forward at the jiroper moment, when the developments of science are able to furnish 
the means of certain success, and the devising a plan for carrying it into practical 
operation, are the grounds of a just claim to scientific reputation as well as to public 
patronage. About the same time with yourself. Professor Wheatstone, of London, 
and Dr. Stcinheil, of Germany, prox)osed jilans of the electro-magnetic telegraph ; but 
these ditter as much from yours as the nature of the common principle would well 
permit: and unless some essential improvements have lately been made in these 
European plans, I should jirefer the one invented by yourself. 

" With my best wishes for your success, I remain, with much esteem, 

' ' Yours truly, 

" Joseph Henry." 

Professor Morse's biogra^jher, in reproducing this letter, makes the comment : "This 
was the most encouraging communication Professor Morse received diu-ing the dark 
ages between 1839, and 1843." And he again notices it on a subsequent page: " In 
the summer of 1842, Professor Morse communicated to the Hon. W. W. Boardman, 
member of the House of Representatives in Congress, the encouraging letter from Pro- 
fessor Henry, of February 24, 1842."* And when on December 30, of 1842, the Hon. 
Charles G. Ferris, of New York, reported in the House of Rei^resentatives the bill au- 
thorizing the construction of the telegraiih, this justly valued testimonial of Henry, 
accompanied Professor Morse's memorial. The Hon. Fernando Wood, of New York (a 
colleague of Mr. Ferris), in reviewing the history of that enactment some thirty years 
later, (on the occasion of the memorial proceedings at the Capitol in honor of Professor 
Morse,) did not forget to remark: "With this letter [from Professor Morse] was an- 
other to him from Prof. Joseph Henry, now of the Smithsonian Institution, and then 
of Princeton College, indorsing and sustaining the application. Professor Henry was 
deemed high authority on all scientific subjects generally, and especially upon this, to 
which he had devoted much attention, being himself a successful investigator in elec- 
tro-magnetic science."+ The bill of Mr. Ferris passed the House of Representatives, 

kinds of magnets, would have unfolded the utility of the "quantity" magnet as a 
terminal re-enforcement of a long "intensity" lin(% seems highly probalde, — if not 
almost inevitable. If Professor Morse did not profit by it, or failed rightly to apj)re- 
hend it, this may be explained by his possible preoccupation with the' project of 
dividing a long lino into a succession of "relays." 

*Prime's Life of Morse, chap, x, pp. 423 and 433. 

\ Memorial of F. S. B. Morse, April 16, 1872, Washington, 1875, p. 79. 



352 HENEY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

February 23, 1843; and tbo Morse approiiriation was secured, by passing tbe Senate, 
March 3,' 1843. 

Very sbortly after tbis successful issue, Prof. James C, Fisber, wbo in tbe absence 
of Dr. Gale bad taken bis place in assisting Professor Morse, wrote to Henry explain- 
ing tbe luetbod proxiosed for insulating tbe wires and laying tbe line of conductors 
underground, and asking advice as to tbe best method of wrapxiiug. To tbis commu- 
nication Henry replied by letter dated — 

'' Princeton, April 17, 1843, 
" De4K Sir : A friend of mine in Trenton has a machine for winding wire of which 
he promised to give a descrii)tiou. I will write to you on the subject and send you a 
copy of bis answer. Tbe greatest j)ractical difficulty yon will have to contend with, 
I should think, will be the insulation of the wires. Twine is a partial conductor, and 
by making tbe surface sufficiently extended, lateral transmission will take place to 
some extent. Tbe loss however on this account can only be determined by direct 
exx^eriment with extended wire. It will jirobably increase with an increasing ratio ; 
first on account of the greater surface of contact, and secondly because electricity 
of greater tension will be required to send the current through the longer wire. In 
order to diminish tbe number of x^oints of contact, it might x^erhaps be well to wrap 
around each wire — besides its continuous covering, an extra strand of coarse twine, 
with the several turns at a distance from each other. . . ." 

When Professor Morse, in August, 1843, received IGO miles of covered copper wire, 
designed to form two indexiendent circuits, each of a double line of 40 miles in extent, 
to reach from Washington to Baltimore (one x^air for the outgoing circuit and the other 
for the return circuit), he invited Henry and others to be present at a xn-elimiuary ex- 
periment in New York City, on the 8tb of August, to test tbe capacity of electrical 
transmission. Tbis very interesting trial with so unusual a length of conductor would 
for tbo first time decide tbe correctness of Henry's opinion that magnetization could be 
effected "at the distance of a hundred miles or more by a single impulse." Tbis crit- 
ical test — ^uever before attempted, Henry was unfortunately prevented from witnessing, 
by reason of bis professional duties. Tbe experiment was eminently successful with 
a battery of 100 Grove elements; and tbe magnet was operative with even half that 
number. The following letter to Professor Morse expressed Henry's regrets at being 
compelled to miss such an ox^x^ortunity : 

''Princetox, August 22, 1?43. 

"My Dear Sir: I hope you will pardon me for not before acknowledging the receix')t 
of your kind letters of invitation to attend your galvanic exhibition. My time has 
been so much occux>ied dmlng the last three weeks vrith an extra course of lectures 
and our examination, and so little at my own disposal, that I was unable to say 
whether I could be in the city on the day you mentioned or not. I did hope however 
to get away, but the examination prevented. Dr. Torrey was also engaged, and could 
not leave. I do not know however that I could have done much in the way of orig- 
inal exx>eriments in the course of a single day. I am not rxuick in tbe x»rocess of in- 
venting experiments unless my mind is thoroughly aroused to the subject by several 
days' exclusive attention to the work, and then I am obliged to pause between each 
effort.* I have not been able since I last saw you to devise a satisfactory process for 
determining tbe velocity of galvanic electricity ; and on refiection I did not think it 
worth tbe exx^ense which would be incurred, to have a machine constructed for the 
mere rex)etition of the exx)eriments of Wheatstone. 

"I think it probable that I shall visit the city next week, as I shall be unemxiloyed 
from this time until a week from next Monday. If there is any prospect of your 

*[An indication of the logical care bestowed by Henry on bis experimental work, and 
the key to bis successes. He had little confidence in tbe x>rofit of empirical or " haxJ- 
hazard" trials.] 



HENRY AND THE TEIlEGRAPH. 353 

repeating any of your experiments previous to that time, I will be witli you on any 
day you may api)oint. 

"With much respect and esteem, 
"Yours truly, 

''Joseph Henry." 

The answer to this, or whether any further preliminary experiments were jointly 
performed on the IfiO miles of wire, does not appear. As tlie line of wires between 
Washington and Baltimore was being laid, Henry, anxious to emphasize the importance 
of keeping the separate wires at some distance apart throughout their circuit, ad- 
dressed to Professor Morse the following friendly letter on the subject: 

"Princeton, January 24, 1844. 
"My Dear Sir: I am anxious to hear from you in reference to the telegraph, and 
I have intended to write to you on the subject for a mouth past, but extra college 
duties have occupied all my thoughts and all my time since the beginning of the 
present term. During the last vacation I occupied myself as usual with my investi- 
gations in electricity, and among other results, I arrived at one which I think may 
have an important bearing on the success of the telegraph. It is tbis: while a current 
of electricity is passing through a wire, one part of the conductor is constantly plus to 
any other part which succeeds it, the difference in the degree of the electrical state 
constantly increasing as the distance of the two points is greater. The maximum 
diiference is therefore at the two ends ; and when the two extremities of long wires 
are brought into near approximation, there is a great tendency in the elecricity to cut 
across from the one to the other. This tendency is not due as has been supposed, 
merely to the great resistance of the long wire and the cross-cut offering a less resist- 
ing channel, but to the fact of the one part being j)ositive and the other negative, and 
the consequent great attraction of the electricity in the one part for the unsaturated 
matter in the other. ... On reading your letter on the subject of the telegraph 
in the newspapers, I was struck with the idea that you had probably met with the 
very difficulty my researches have led me to anticipate. If this is the case, and 
your insulation is not found sufficient, you have no cause to blame yourself, since the 
previous state of knowledge on the subject of electricity could not lead you to suspect 
such a condition of things. 

"With much respect, 

Yours truly, 

"Joseph Henry." 

The danger apprehended by Henry was realized ; and of the nine miles of quadruple 
conductors laid in the ground. Professor Gale had already discovered that the galvanic 
current could not be carried through a single mile; a result partly due to the injury 
done to the insulation of the wires at some points, in the process of enveloping them 
in a tube, and partly to the energetic induction from the "extra current" first dis- 
covered by Henry. In a couple of weeks. Professor Morse wrote to Henry as follows : 

"Baltimore, February 7, 1844. 
"My Dear Sir: You must think it strange that I have not answered your letter 
of the 24th ultimo before this ; but I have this moment received it in passing through 
this place on my way to New York, which I trust will be a sufficient apology for my 
apparent neglect. I have read your letter with much interest, and it has determined 
me to make you a visit on my return from New York, which will be the beginning of 
the week, perhaps on Tuesday mommg, the 13th instant. ... I found the diffi- 
culty which you apprehend in the insulation of my wires; but this I will explain 
when I have the pleasure of seeing you. 

" In the mean time, believe me, with sincere respect, 
"Your most obedient servant, 

"Samuel F. B. Moesk." 
S. Mis. 59 23 



354 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH 

At liis next interview with Henry on the 13tli of February, 1844, (on his waj from 
New York,) he was advised to suspend his wires through the air on poles, at a suffi- 
cient elevation to avoid injury from the recklessness of mischievous boys : as Henry 
feared that the risk of "cross-cut" on long lines, even with good insulation, was 
scarcely avoidable.* Henry also informed him that this plan had been successfully 
adopted by Gauss and Weber ten years previously. 

Professor Morse, who had thought of this method before, btit with much distrust, at 
once determined to carry it out, and early in the following month, March, made prej^a- 
rations for its execution. Two methods of suspension were suggested, the tirst plan 
(that of Mr. Vail), the gathering of the four wrapped or insulated wires together at 
their supports, requiring but a single insulator on each pole, to which Professor Morse 
was himself inclined as involving least cost ; the second plan (that of Mr. Ezra Cor- 
nell), the scattering of the wires, and the supi>orting of them apart on independent 
insulators. The following is Professor Morse's account to Mr. Cornell of a second in- 
terview and consultation with Henry on this subject, on the Ist of March, 1844, (on 
his way back to New York,) which he inadvertently confounds with his preceding 
interview two or three weeks earlier : 

"On my way to New York, where I went to order the fixtures, I stopped at Prince, 
ton, and called on my old friend Professor Henry, who inquired how I was getting 
along with my telegraph.t I explained to him the failure of the insulation in the 
pipes, and stated that I had decided to place the wires on poles in the air. He then 
inquired how I proposed to insulate the wires where they were attached to the poles. 
I showed him the model I had of Mr. Vail's plan ; and he said : ' It will not do; you 
will meet the same difficulty you had in the pipes.' I then explained to him your 
plan, which he said would answer." t And this is the method since universally 
adopted in this country. On the 24th of May following, the first message was sent 
over the completed telegraph line by Professor Morse from Washington to Baltimore, 
and immediately repeated by Mr. Vail from Baltimore back to Washington. 

The success of this new enterprise (foreseen, encouraged, and promoted, by Henry) 
having been assured, various competitors sprang up as usual, (with similar and with 
dissimilar systems,) to share in its benefits and profits ; and in a few years numerous 
litigations arose in resistance of real or supposed infringements. Notwithstanding 
the zeal and bitterness infused into these controversies by interested partisans, Henry 
never lost his interest in the success of Professor Morse's plan of telegraphing ; but 
while desirous that meritorious rival schemes (such as that of the printing telegraph, 
— tirst invented by Alfred Vail, in September, 1837, and developed by Royal E. House 
in 1846, to a practical operation) should have a fair trial, he steadily refused to he 
made a party to any such discussions; until at last ho was summoned by suhprnna to 
attend a trial at Boston, to testify to the pre-existing st^te of the art.$ In occupying 

* "Mr. Morse visited me at Princeton to consult me on the arrangement of his con- 
ductors. During this visit we conversed freely on the subject of insulation and con- 
duction of wires. I urged him to put his wires on poles." (Smithsonian Report for 
1857, pp. 112, 113. 

t [Such an inquiry would appear superfluous in view of Professor Morse's recent 
letter dated February 7. The whole coloring of the interview is inaccurate.] 

\ Prime's Life of Morse, chap. xi. pp. 479, 480. A treatise on the "Telegraph," just 
published, gives the following account of the plan adopted: "An arm thirty inches 
long, with a pin at each end, bearing a glass bureau-knob, — an insulation proposed by 
Mr. Cornell and approved by Professor Henry, was secured to the upper end of each 
pole. Around the bureau-knobs the conducting wires were wrapped." ( The Telegraph 
in America. By James D. Reid. 8vo. New York, 1879, chap, xi, p. IKi.) 

^ "A series of controversies and la-w-suits having arisen between rival claimants 
for telegraphic patents, I was repeatedly appealed to to act as expert and witness in 
such cases. This I uniforndy declined to do, not wishing to be in any manner in- 
volved in these litigations, but was finally compelled under legal process to return to 
Boston from Maine, (whither I had gone on a visit,) and to give evidence on the sub- 
ject." (Smithsonian lieport for 1857, p. 87.) 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 355 

a position so distasteful to liis sensitive and generous nature, it may well be supposed 
that however reserved and cautious his attitude, and whatever his preferences, the 
answers (necessarily conscientious) drawn from him by skillful attorneys defending 
the alleged infringements, and the coloring given to such answers in their elaborate 
arguments, would be little calculated to please the plaintiffs, — naturally intent on the 
broadest scope and com])rehen.sion of their claims. And from this time. Professor 
Morse, under the misjudging influence of interested supporters, seemed to forget that 
Henry had been among the most serviceable and unselfish of his many friends. 

In 1854 Professor Morse's patent (of fourteen years from 1840) was about expiring, 
and an application for its extension for seven years longer, according to the provis- 
ions of the law, was pending before the Hon. Charles Mason, — one of the most able, 
conscientious, and indefatigable of Patent Office Commissioners. Inclined from the 
testimony he had examined, to believe that the merits of Professor Morse's invention 
had been greatly overestimated, and that his patent from the breadth of interpreta- 
tion it had received, was acting to some extent as an obstruction to further pro- 
gress in the ai-t, he consulted with his friend. Professor Henry, as to the independent 
value of the Morse system, in view of the antecedent state of the art. Henry, with 
no other sentiment than that of impartial arbitrator, represented that Professor 
Morse, without the advantage of scientific culture, had the great merit of having 
combined and of having energetically developed and established a system of electro- 
magnetic telegraphy, in its method of signaling and of recording, the most efficient 
of contemporary methods. He referred to the needle-telegraph of his personal friend, 
Professor Wheatstone (whom he regarded as one of the most intelligent and iu'i-enious 
of modern physicists), as being in his judgment inferior practically to the Morse tele- 
graph ; and he urged that care should be taken not to let the extravagant pretensions 
of Professor Morse's would-be friends lead to the opposite error of underrating an in- 
vention which was certainly of far greater value to the community, than any remu- 
neration which had yet been reajied by its author from the short-lived monopoly. 

The application of the patentee was granted by the Commissioner ; and the patent 
was legally extended for seven years from the 19th of June, 1854. Professor Morse, 
in ignorance of this service, had at the time unfortunately written (or at least given 
his signature to) the ungracious and ungrateful assault on Henry, as a pretender in 
science, and a detractor of merit, when rising fiime excited his envy. And early the 
following year, to the injury of himself alone, had the stricture published in a pam- 
jihlet, and widely distributed. 

As a sufficient corrective of the strange misconception of his disposition and motives, 
Henry inquired of Judge Mason, if he recalled their interview on the question of ex- 
tending the Morse patent ; and the Commissioner of Patents responded in the follow- 
ing letter : 

"United States Patent Office, March 31, 1856. 

" Sir : Agreeably to your request, I now make the following statement : Some two 
years since, when an application was made for an extension of Professor Morse's pat- 
ent, I was for some time in doubt as to the propriety of making that extension. Under 
these circumstances I consulted with several persons, and among others with yourself, 
with a view particularly to ascertain the amount of invention fairly due to Professor 
Morse. The result of my inquiries was siich as to induce me to grant the extension. 
I will further say that this was in accordance with your express recommendation, and 
that I was probably more influenced by this reoonunendation, and the information I 
obtained from you, than by any other circumstance, in coming to that conclusion. 

" I am, sir, 

"Yours very respectfully, 

" Charles Mason." 
" Prof. J. Henry." 



356 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

NOTE K. (From p. 322.) 

THE DATE OP PROFESSOR MORSE'S ''RELAY." 

Although the depositions of Professor Morse, and of his principal assistant (given in 
law suits more than ten years after the event), assign from memory as the date of inven- 
tion of the "relay" the spring of 1837, all the document.ary evidence existing, points 
rather to the spring of 1838, as the date of its inception. First, we should expect at 
least a reference to this device in the article prepared.for Silliman's Journal of Spetemher, 
1837, in announcing the intention of experimenting with "a circuit of several miles." 
Secondly, we should certainly expect to find it spoken of as a saving expedient in 
the caveat of October 3, 1837, if it were at that time in the author's mind, and ho were 
desirous of protecting it. Thirdly, we should expect to find it unavoidably brought 
forAvard (at least as a suggestion) before the committee of the Franklin Institute, 
February 8, 1838, when the doubt was expressly discussed in the committee's rejjort as 
to the practicable distance to which the telegraph could be made to signal. This con- 
spiracy of silence, this conspicuous absence (in every published case) of the slightest 
hint upon the subject, although so directly promjited and invited, is difficult {ex j)ost 
facto) to account for. The earliest documentary reference now extant, to a junction 
of circuits, occurs in the application for a patent signed by Professor Morse April 7, 
1838. 

On filing this application in the Patent Office, he had requested that it might be re- 
tained in the secret archives, unacted upon, until he should have procured his foreign 
patents. He left this country for Europe with that object May l(j, 1838, and returned 
to New York April 15, 1839. For a year or more afterward he took no step toward 
procuring his patent, till he wrote the following letter to the " Hon. H. L. Ellsworth, 

Commissioner of Patents " : 

"New York, May 2, 1840. 

"Dear Sir: I have never received my patent papers from your office. I believe 
there was something to be done on my part in relation to a drawing for one of the 
duplicates, which I was prevented from accomplishing by the necessity of preparing 
suddenly for my visit to Europe with the telegraph. I have nearly completed an im- 
proved apparatus for which I intend to take out a patent, adding it to my patent 
already executed, as an improvement. . . . 

" Your old friend and classmate, 

"Samuel F. B. Morse." 

To this the Commissioner replied as follows : 

" Patent Office, May 14, 1840. 

" Sir : The sjiecifications and drawings of your alleged improvement in the mode of 
communicating signals by the application of electro-magnetism are herewith re- 
turned to you, the ex^ilanatory reference in the same not being sufficient to properly 
illustrate the invention. Some annotations pointing out the iJarts where these are 
wanting are marked in jieucil in the margin of the description. 

" Your favor of the 2d instant has been received ; in reply to which the office has to 
state that the delay attending the granting of your application has not been caused 
by any want of attention on its part. Some two years since, when your patent was 
about being issued, a request was made by you that the case might be postponed until 
you should have received letters patent from the European governments. This request 
was complied with, and as no communication has been received from you since in re- 
lation to the issuing of the patent, the case has been permitted to lie over. The pat- 
ent will be issued however immediately on the return of the papers. 

" Yours respectfully, 

"H. L. Ellsworth." 

The amended specification and a duplicate set of drawings were returned to the 
Patent Office by Professor Morse, with a letter dated New York, May 18, 1840. It was 
then discovered that the original oath of invention required by law was defective in 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 357 

omitting a specific date, the space for the day and the month having been left blank. 
The applicant having been informed of this by official letter dated May 20, 1840, a new 
affidavit, properly executed, was sent to' the Patent Office May 29, 1840, and the pat- 
ent was finally issued Juno 20, 1840. 

Whether the true date of the invention of the ''relay," by Professor Morse, be 1837, 
or 1838, is not regarded as a matter of any importance historically, as in either case, 
he is fully credited with its original conception. 

NOTE L. (From p. 325.) 

ALPHABETIC BINARY NOTATION. 

It seems proper to take some notice of the growth of that beautiful invention, the 
bi-sigual alphabet. Its origin appears to be considerably earlier than that of its con- 
gener, the binary arithmetical notation devised by Leibnitz two hundred years ago. 
An alphabetic code of signals is indeed as old as the time of the Greek historian Poly- 
bius (1.^0 years before the Christian era), who describes in the tenth book of his Gen- 
eral History a method of signaling to a distance any required dispatch by means of 
torches, — which he says was invented by Cleoseuus and Democlitus, and perfected by 
himself. In this scheme the Greek alphabet of 24 letters is distributed into five series 
or tablets, each comprising five letters: (the last space being vacant.) Then torches 
(from one to five) exposed on the left side, will indicate the group or tablet ; and sim- 
ilar torches raised on the right side, will indicate the place of the letter on the tablet.* 
This system may obviously be very easily resolved into a bi-signal alphabet. It ap- 
pears that the emperor Leo VI, (of the eastern division of the empire) about the year 
A. D. 900, in a chapter of his "Military Tactics," on naval warfare, described a plan 
somewhat similar to the above, t 

An early English example of the bi-signal alphabet is to be found in Francis Bacon's 
"Advancement of Learning," published in 1605. In this Treatise, discoursing on cryp, 
tography, he observes : "We shall here annex a cipher of our own, that we devised at 
Paris in our youth. . . . The invention is this : let all the letters of the alphabet be 
resolved into two only, by repetition and transposition; for a transiiosition of two let- 
ters through five places or different arrangements, will denote two-and-thirty differences, 
and consequently fewer or four-and-twenty, — the number of letters in our alphabet." 
(It will be remembered that at this date the letters j and u had not been differentiated 
from I and V.) Bacon then gives an example of " a bi-literal alphabet" consisting of 
the permutations of " a" and " b " through five places ; and he subjoins the comment 
that "this contrivance shows a method of expressing and signifying one's mind to any 
distance, by objects that are either visible or audible, provided the objects are capable 
of two differences, as bells, speaking-trumpets, fire-works, cannon, &c."t 

Inthe" Cyclopaedia" of Doctor Abraham Rees, published early in the present century 
(1802-1819), under the word "cipher" are presented among a variety of interesting 
alphabetic notations, exami)les of one formed by the combinations of three characters, 
and of one formed by two characters ; the latter evidently copied from Bacon. The 
compiler says: "Another mode of corresponding by cipher is striking two, or three- 
bells of various sizes." After remarking that two symbols require a larger combina- 
tion for each letter than three, and giving an example of each kind, the writer adds: 
' ' The effect will be the same, whether the writer make use of arithme tical characters, 
letters, dots, lines, mathematical diagrams, or any other sign which admits of two, or of 
three differences." Employing as an instance the figures 1 and 2, he makes use of 
five recurrences for each letter, as in the example given by Bacon, and he follows a 

* Polybius's History ; lib. x. cap. 45. Greek and Latin edition of A. F. Didot, Paris, 
8vo. 1852. pp. 474, 475. 

t"The emperor Leo VI, in his chapter on naval tactics (chap, xix), describes almost ex- 
actly Myer's army code, concluding with the remark, ' as the ancients did.' " {Johnson's 
Universal Cyclopwdia; edited by Dr. Barnard: art. "Naval Signals," vol. iii. p. 734.) 

t On the Dignity and Advancement of Learning, book vi, chap. i. — Bolm's edition, 1858, 
pp. 222, 223. 



358 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 



similar order of permutations. The two symbols — tlic single dot or period (.), and the 
double dot or colon (:), — are also employed for the same purpose. * 

In the following table are displayed several examples of bi-signal alphabets, chrono- 
logically arranged.! In the first column, the two symbols "a" and " b," and in the 
second column the two symbols "1" and "2," may stand for dots, lines, colors, bells, 
or any other distinctions of sight or sound, as indicated by Bacon and by Rees. In 
the third column is exhibited the notation of an acoustic alphabet devised by Mr. James 
Swaim, of Philadelphia, and published in 1829, in a pamphlet entitled " The Mural 
Diagraph, or the Art of Conversing though a Wall." In this scheme (sometimes 
designated the 2)rlson alphabet), the symbol "t" signifies an audible tap or knock, 
and the "s" an audible scratch, t In the next three columns, the two symbols "r" 
and "1" represent a movement of a galvanometer needle to the right and to the left. 
In the last three columns, the symbols "s" and "1" represent a short mark or dot, 
and a long mark or dash. 





I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


V. 


VI. 


VII. 


VIII. 


IX. 




Bacon. 


Eeea. 


Swaim. 


Schilling. 


Gaues & 
Weber. 


Steinheil. 


Original 
Morse. 


Later 
Morse. 


European 
Morso. 




1605. 


1809. 


1829. 





1833. 


1836. 


1838. 


1844. 


1851. 


A 


aaaaa 


mil 


t 


rl 


r 


Irl 


sss 


si 


si 


B 


aaaab 


11112 


tt 


rrr 


11 


Irrl 


ss ss 


Isss 


Isss 


C 


aaaba 


11121 


ttt 


rll 


rrr 


llr 


s ss 


ss s 


Isls 


D 


aaabb 


11122 


tttt 


rrl 


rrl 


rl 


sss 8 


Iss 


Iss 


E 


aabaa 


11211 


s 


r 


1 


1 


8 


8 


s 


F 


aabab 


11212 


ss 


rrrr 


rlr 


Irr 


s sss 


sis 


ssls 


G 


aabba 


11221 


sss 


1111 


Irr 


rrl 


ss 8 


lis 


lis 


H 


aabbb 


11222 


ssss 


rill 


111 


rrrr 


ssss 


ssss 


ssss 


I 


abaaa 


12111 


ts 


rr 


rr 


r 


si 


ss 


ss 


J 





12112 


ttts 


rrll 


. - - . 


r 


ss s 


Isls 


sill 


K 


abaab 


12122 


tt 


rrrl 


rrr 


llr 


Isl 


Isl 


Isl 


L 


ababa 


12211 


t tt 


Irrr 


llr 


rll 


r 


r 


slss 


M 


ababb 


12212 


tttt 


Irl 


Irl 


rrr 


Iss 


11 


11 


N 


abbaa 


12221 


ttttt 


Ir 


rll 


rr 


Is 


Is 


Is 





abbab 


12222 


ts 


rlr 


rl 


111 


ss 


8 8 


111 


P 


abbba 


21111 


t ss 


llrr 


rrrr 


rllr 


sssss 


sssss 


slls 


Q 


abbbb 


21112 


t sss 


lllr 








ssls 


ssls 


llsl 


R 


baaaa 


21121 


t ssss 


b-r 


rrrl 


11 


8 8 


s ss 


sis 


S 


baaab 


21122 


tts 


11 


rrlr 


llrr 


sis 


sss 


sss 


T 


baaba 


21211 


tttts 


1 


rlrr 


Ir 


lis 


1 


1 


U 


. - . _ 


21212 


ttt 


llr 


Ir 


rlr 


all 


ssl 


ssl 


V 


baabb 


21221 


tttt 


111 


rlr 


rlr 


1 


sssl 


sssl 


W 


babaa 


12121 


ttttt 


rlrl 


Irrr 


rlrl 


ssl 


sll 


sll 


X 


babab 


22212 


tt tttt 


Irlr 


. 


- - . - 


11 


slss 


Issl 


Y 


babba 


22221 


tts 


rllr 


. 


- . - . 


si 


ss ss 


IsU 


Z 


babbb 


22122 


tt ss 


rlrr 


rrll 


rrll 


sis 


sss 8 


llss 



*Rees' Cydopcedia, a^oI. viii, art. "Cipher." 

tOf two early aljdiabets for the electric telegraph, — that of Lomond in 1787, and that 
of Dyar in 1828, no records ap]>oar to exist. A plan was suggested by Henry at Al- 
bany in 1831 or 1.S32, for indicating letters on a bell bv the number of their position in 
the alphabet: "a"byl, "b" by 2, "c"by 3, &c. 'Thus the words "come back" 
would bo represented by the following taps ; 3-15-13-5 — 2-1-3-11 ; the word " electro- 
magnet," by 5-12-.5-3-20-18-15— 13-l'-7-14-.5-20. The cijiher or zero oc(^urring at the 
10th letter "j," and at the 20tli letter " t" would be indicated by a rapid rattle of the 
bell. It does not appear however that this alphabet was actually employed, unless 
perhaps experimentally. 

t The Mural Diar/raph, etc. " Through the wall they are content [ To whisper, at the 
which let no man wonder." Midsuuuner Night's DreJim, v. i. By Jamos Swaim. 16- 
mo. 24 pages. Philadel]>liia. Printed by Clark & Rascr. 1829. pj). 13, 14. The 
signs were used numerically ; and beyond "26" (the letters of the alphabet) were ap- 
plied to a numbered vocabulary. 



HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 359 

The first column iu the above tabular view, represents the scheme proposed by Bacon, 
and. designated by him "A Bi-literal Alphabet;" a scheme — as he points out, "prac- 
ticable in all things that are capable of two ditfereucos." The advantage of represent- 
ing every letter by live tokens, is that it dispenses with the necessity of spacing the 
letters from each other. 

The second column represents an alphabet shown and described in Rees' "Cyclopai- 
dia" as already referred to. In this alphabet the lirst nine letters follow exactly th* 
notation of Bacon. After the interpolated letter j, (which takes the symbol for k, ) the 
remainder of the alphabet from K to v inclusive, follows regularly the notation of 
Bacon — shifted two letters downward. The only symbols differing from Bacon's, are 
those for x, Y, and z. 

The ihird column gives the alphabet of Swaim .above mentioned. The author has 
not been successful in arranging for his letters the simplest combinations of taps and 
scratches which might have been selected; having given to N, R, T, and w, five sig- 
nals, and to X, six ; while four of his signs are sufficient to represent 30 different char- 
acters. Moreover by adopting a numeral system of designation, he has been daiven 
to the awkward and entirely unnecessary expedient of introducing spaces into letters 
in seventeen cases, or in two-thirds of the alphabet ; that is in all letters following the 
ninth letter — i. 

The fourth column gives the alphabet of Schilling, as represented in Vail's "Electro- 
Magnetic Telegraph : " ([)age 15(5. ) The date of this is uncertain ; involving as it does 
the question when Schilliug first employed a single circuit and a single galvanometer 
in his telegraphic arrangement. Whether he or Gauss and Weber first devised this 
very important simplification is equally undetermined ; though the j^resumption is iu 
favor of Schilling having been the first to introduce the bi-signal alphabet into teleg- 
i-aphy. With a judicious distribution of the simiilest signs to the most frequent let- 
ters, the average number of elementary signals need not exceed two and a half for 
every letter used, (or just one-half the number required by Bacon's alphabet,) in any 
lengthy communication. Steinheil, who was very imperfectly acquainted with Schil- 
ling's labors, appears to regard his system as imitated from that o( Gauss and Weber.* 

The fifth column gives the alphabet of Gauss and Weber, as represented in TurnbulPs 
"Electro-Magnetic Telegraph." t In this ali>habet c and K have the same symbol; 
as have also f and v. 

The sixth column gives the alphabet of Steinheil as represented in Dub's Anwetidung 
des Elelctromar/netmnus : Berlin, 1863 : (2d ed. 1873, sec. v, page 343 :) in Vail's Treatise; 
(page 182:) and in TnrnbnU's Treatise; (1853, page 97.) In this alphabet c and K 
have the same character; i and j have the same; and u and V have the same ; the 
letters Q, x, and y, being dispensed with. Steinheil remarks of its arrangement, 
"The alphabet I have chosen represents the letters that occur the oftenest in German, 
by the simplest signs " ; a plan also adopted by Schilling and by Gauss. 

The seventh column gives the original alphabet of Morse, as devised by him (or by his 
assistant — Mr. Vail) in 1838; and for the first time described in his application for a 
patent dated April 7, 1838. This is accordingly the alphabet presented in Morse's first 
patent, dated June 20, 1840. In this, he has given the same symbol to G and j ; the same 
to I and Y ; and the same to s and z. It must be borne in mind that down to the year 
1838, Professor Morse had conceived only the naval system of signals by means of 
numbered words, and the method of recording such numbers by the alternating or 
continuous zig-zag mark, equivalent to the right and left deflections of Steinheil's 
register ; j: and that not till some time in January of that year (1838), did he make the 
great advance of substituting the up and down movement of the armature recorder, 
for its transverse motion. He then for the first time made his telegraphic commuui- 

* Sturgeon's Anuals of Electricity, etc. vol. iii, pp. 448, 450. 

t Second edition, 1853, ]). (iO. 

[New York Journal of Commerce, of September 7, 1637, and of January 29, 1833. 



360 HENRY AND THE TELEGRAPH. 

cations by means of an alphabet ; and improving on bis predecessors, devised this 
alphabet in its simplest form, of a rectilinear succession of dots and lines. 

A few years later, the modification given in the cUjhth column was adopted; * being 
the code now in use in this country. This second alphabet of Morse retains but seven 
of the letters in his original alphabet; namely, e, h, k, l, n, p, and Q. The remain- 
ing symbols are changed in their application. Both of these alphabets present the 
anomaly of employing for the letter L the unique symbol, a dash of double length: a 
symbol whose combinations with dots might have been much more appropriately re- 
served for designating numerals. And they both also present the very awkward ar- 
rangement of introducing in five or six cases, a space in the middle of a letter. This 
occurred with B, c, D, F, G or j, and R, in the first alphabet, and remains with c, O, 
R, Y, and z in the later alj)habet. Whence it becomes difficult to distinguish be- 
tween c and IE, between o andEE, between Rand Ei, between Y and ii, and between z 
and SE ; and if on the other hand the intra-literal space be made too brief, c or R 
may easily be mistaken for s, o for i, and Y or z for H. 

The nintli and last column gives the alphabet adopted by the Vienna convention in 
October, 1851, for European languages; as represented in Prescott's larger treatise on 
Electricity and the Electric Telc(jrap1i, 1877: (page 480.) This alphabet avoids the obvi- 
ous blunder in Morse's notation, and presents a homogeneous system. In this code 
eleven of the Morse letters are changed: c, F, L, and R, having been taken from 
Gerke's alphabet, o, and p, from Steinheil's, and J, Q, X, Y, and z, from other sources. 
Of the 07-igiiial " Morse alphabet" only four letters are retained, viz, E, H, K, and N. 
This European or "international" alphabet is however in a few of its symbols, bet- 
ter adapted to the German than to the English language. Accordingly in the Atlantic 
cable alphabet, the two letters M (11), and o (111), have been transposed ; as in Eng- 
lish the letter o occurs nearly three times as frequently as the letter M. 

We thus perceive by what apparently small steps so simple a contrivance as an al- 
phabetic notation, (scarcely demanding the exercise of invention,) has been succes- 
sively modified and improved. But although the "Vienna" alphabet is now univer- 
sally employed elsewhere, American operators have not yet had the intelligent courage 
to incur the temporary additional labor and inconvenience of change, for the jierma- 
nent advantage of a more perfect system, t 

* Represented in Vail's Treatise, 1845, p. 27 ; in TurnbuU's Treatise, 1853, p. 73 ; in 
G. B. Prescott's Hist, of Electric Telegraph, 1860, p. 89 ; and in F. L. Pope's Modern Prac- 
tice of the Electric Telegraph, 4th ed. 1871, p. 101. 

t "It has been proposed to introduce the European alphabet in this country also ; 
but although the advantages of snch a reform would doubtless be numerous, yet it 
may perhaps be better to suffer some inconvenience from an acknowledged imperfec- 
tion, than to attempt to remedy it by introducing a change that would for a time 
cause serious annoyance to the thousands of skillful operators now in the service." 
(Prescott's Electricity and the Electric Telegraph, 1877, chap, xxx, p. 431.) 



THE EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE-" PFLU- 
GER'S ELECTROTONUS." 



By B. F. Lautenbach, M. D., Ph. D., 

First Assistant in the Laboratory of Physiology at Geneva. 



HISTORICAL RESUME. 

Eitter* observed, when he applied for a long time (i hour) a strong 
galvanic battery to a nerve, that there resulted a continual decrease in 
the movements of the finger and the arm on the silver (i e., negative) 
side of the battery. In the same parts on the zinc (positive) side he ob- 
served a continual increase in the motor effects of the current. This 
effect lasted for a short time after the exi^eriment was discontinued. 

On carefully repeating this experiment, Kitter came to the result that 
the current developed by the battery inhibited the voluntary movements 
in the arm to which the negative electrode was applied, while the mo- 
bility of the other arm, to which the positive electrode was applied, was 
increased. 

Du Bois Reymondt attributed these results to diminution and aug- 
mentation of the irritability of the nerves caused by the constant cur- 
rent ; the augmented excitability being produced by the passage of an 
ascending current, while the diminished excitability was caused by a 
descending current. 

In 1828-'30 Nobili| observed certain facts which bear more nearly 
on our present subject than those observed by either of the previous ex- 
perimenters. This investigator found that frog preparations, which 
through accident had become tetanized, grow quiet when a current in 
a special, or possibly in any, direction, was passed through the nerve. 
In exjjlauation, Nobili believed that the constant current places the 
nerve in such a state as to render impossible the receiving and conduct- 
ing of the contraction-producing cause. Nobili, at the same time, rec- 
ommended his discovery to i)hysicians for the cure of tetanus. 

Matteucci§ made some experiments on this subject, but these resulted 
in but little that was not previously known. With the exception that 
he proved that the relief afforded in tetanus by a constant current is but 

* Beitriigo zur uiilieiTm Keuntuiss des Galvanismus, etc., Jeua, 1802, B. ii. 
t Uuters. liber thierischo Electric! tiit, B. i, p. 367. 

t Analyse esp6r. et th6or. des ph6n. phys. produits par I'dlectric. sur le grenouille, 
etc., Anuales de chiuiie et phys., 1830, p. 91. 

$ Esaai sur les ph^ii. ^lectr, des animaux, Paris, 1840, 8, p. 29. 

361 



362 EFFECT OF IRKITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

transitory and that currents travelling in both directions act paretically, 
his results were but confirmatory of those obtained by Nobili. 

The first who really sj^stematically investigated this subject was 
Valentin,* This investigator applied the constant electrodes to the 
ischiadicus, just at the entrance of this nerve into the gastrocnemius, 
while the irritating electrodes were applied at the point of exit of the 
nerve from the pelvis. Valentin found that when the constant current 
was passing through the nerve the irritating current gave a weaker con- 
traction than when this was not the case, or, at times, none. This author 
also showed that the same diminution in the effect of the irritating current 
occurred when this was placed between the constant current and the 
muscle. This latter result, however, was produced in the experiments 
of Valentin only when the current was ascending, and not when a de- 
scending current was employed. 

Eckhardt confirmed the observations of Nobili and Valentin. He 
found that an electrical irritation can be made to lose its effect when 
between it and the muscle a constant current is made to pass through 
a given portion of the nerve. Not only did he find this to be true for 
electrical but also for mechanical and chemical irritants. This inhibi- 
tory eftect was manifest when the polarizing or constant current was 
made to i^ass in either an ascending or a descending direction, provided 
that this current was of a certain strength (5-6 large Daniel elements). 
This author also confirmed the statement of Valentin that when the irri- 
tation (mechanical, chemical, or electrical) is applied to the nerve above 
the point where this is being polarized the effect is no longer so constant. 

In his first paper Eckhard made the statement, which he afterwards 
withdrew, that the "paretic" effect was most constant when an ascend- 
ing polarizing current was used. 

In a second paper | Eckhard irritated by means of an induced current, 
and measured the muscular contractions thereby produced by means of 
a Helmholtz myograph. His previous observations were confirmed. 
When the constant current was applied to the nerve above the irrita- 
tion, ascending polarization only diminished the effect of the irritation, 
thus showing adiminishedexcitability of the nerve between the positive 
electrode and the muscle. When the descending current was employed 
a state of augmented excitability of the nerve was produced between the 
negative electrode and the muscle. 

Pflilger,§ whose exj)eriments and "laws" will frequently be referred 
to in this paper, was the next investigator who devoted his atttention 
to this field of research. He made use of weak currents, while the pre- 

* Lehrb. der Phys. des Menschen, B. ii, Abth. 2, p. 155. 

t Der galv. Strom als Hinderniss der Muskelzuckung. Zeitsclir. fiir rat. Med. , N. F. , 
B. iii, p. 198. 

tUeb. den Einil. des const, galv. Stromes auf die Erregbark. der motor. Nerven, 
Beitriige zur Auat. und Phys., H. 1, 1855, p. 25. 

$ Allgem. Centralzeit., 1856, Nov. 22, 1857. Unters. iiber die Phys. des Elektrotomis, 
Berlin, 1859. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 363 

ceding investigators always employed strong currents. This autlior 
found that the ascending polarizing current did not under all conditions 
produce a diminution in the excitability of the nerve. The following 
are the results of this investigator : 




P.C. I.e. 

" I. When a constant descending c\irrent is passed through the sciatic 
nerve near the gastrocnemius, and a descending irritating current is ap- 
plied immediately above this, I found the irritation to give a smaller 
contraction when the constant current was passing through the nerve 
than when this was not the case." 

Under these circumstances the muscular contractions were increased 
during the passage of the current. 

"II. The constant descending current passes through the nerve near 
the central end, a descending irritating current is applied to the nerve 
nearer the muscle. The irritations seem stronger when the constant 
current was absent." 




N. 



/ \ / \ 

I. C. P. C. 

The contractions produced by the irritation are stronger during the 
absence of the polarizing current. 

"III. The constant ascending current passes through the nerve near 
the muscle, while the irritation was made at a more central i^ortion. 
During the presence of the constant current the contractions are stronger 
than when it is absent." 

"IV. The constant ascending current is applied to the nerve near the 
plexus, w^hilethe ascending irritating current is applied nearer the muscle. 
During the presence of the constant current the contractions are less 
strong than when this is removed." 

N- — ^ — * 0. 




/ \ / \. 

I. C. P. C. 

Contractions less strong during the passage of the polarizing current. 
In conclusion Pflliger sets up the theory that the action of all irrita- 

*In these diaftTama, 'whicli are added by the author for the easier uuderatauding of 
the views of Ptiiiger, M slauds feu- the muscle, N for the nerve, and C for its central 
end ; I. C. and P. C. stand for irritating and polarizing current. The arrows give the 
direction of the current. 



364 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

tions which He to the side of the negative pole (Imthode) of a polarizing cur- 
rent is increased; while all irritations lying to the side of the positive pole 
[anode) have their action diminished. 

When, however, this author used stronger currents he obtained the 
Eckhard results. 

Pfluger repeated his irritations, alternately with and without polari- 
zation, sixty or more times a minute. This is certainly too often to ob- 
tain accurate results, as under these circumstances I have a number of 
times observed that the effects of the removal of the previous irritation 
overlap into the time of the succeeding irritation. His results were ob- 
tained on frogs taken in winter, spring, and summer, and in both varie- 
ties of the Buna esculenta, and m diseased as well as in healthy frogs. 

When this investigator nsed polarizing currents of greater strength 
he obtained the results of Valentin and Eckhard. Both the irritations 
and the polarization were made by means of the albumen electrodes 
(/. e., uon-polarizable electrodes). To obtain the weakest possible cur- 
rents which would produce muscular contractions, Pfliiger made use of 
the rheochord. In some of his experiments the irritations were made 
by an interrupted current. 

Schlflf,* though in a number of experiments he obtained results simi- 
lar to those obtained by Pfliiger, Avas the first to experimentally criticise 
the theory of this investigator. He states that an experiment which at 
first corresponded in its results to those obtained by Pfliiger, after a 
half hour gave the very opposite results. He also saw diminished ex- 
citability of the nerve produced by the constant cuirent to the side of 
negative pole (katelectrotonus), and increased excitability occur to the 
side of the positive pole (anelectrotonus). In one experiment he saw 
augmented excitability of the nerve both above and below a descending 
polarizing current and diminished excitability above and below an 
ascending polarizing current. 

Valentin, t in a later work on this subject, found, when very weak cur- 
rents were employed, an increased excitability to occur to the side of 
the negative and also to the side of the positive pole of the polarizing 
current. These experiments were made with the nerve in sitti, and con- 
sequently the non-polarizable electrodes had to be dispensed with. 

Nor was Budget more successful in his eflbrts to convince himself of 
the constancy of Pfliiger's results. This experimenter's polarizing cur- 
rent was derived from 1-2 Daniel cells. His electrodes in some experi- 
ments were of amalgamated zinc, but in other experiments platinum and 
copper electrodes were used, as with these Budge states he obtained the 
same results as with the former. To test the excitability of the nerves 
this author resorted to a solution of ordinary salt as an irritant. He 

* Lehrbuch der Nerven uud Muskelphysiologie, 1859, p. 94, 

t Valentin's paper I was never able to obtain, but was kindly informed of its con- 
tents by Professor Schiff. 

1 Virchow's Archiv., Bd. 18, p. 457. ; Bd. 28, p. 398. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 365 

found that when a sohition of salt, just strong enough to produce mus- 
cular twitchings, was aj^plied above either a descending or ascending 
polarizing current, augmented contractions always occurred during the 
passage of the latter current. When, however, the salt solution was 
strong enough to i)roduce tetanus, a polarizing current in either direction 
caused this to cease. 

In another series of experiments the irritation was made by the clos- 
ing of a constant current. When this irritating current was taken so 
weak as to produce only a trace of contraction in the muscle, the polar- 
izing current on the contrary being very strong, the augmented excita- 
bility was only produced by a descend ng irritating current, and the con- 
trary effect was produced by an ascending irritating current. When the 
polarizing current was of less strength and the irritating current stronger 
Pfliiger's results were obtained. 

Fick * used the induced current as an irritant. His results are as fol- 
lows : 

1. A descending irritating current applied to the nerve above an as- 
cending polarizing current caused marked augmentation in the muscu- 
lar contractions during the x)assage of the polarizing current. 

2. An ascending irritating current applied to the nerve above an as- 
cending polarizing current jiroduced an unimportant augmentation in 
the muscular contractions during the passage of the latter current. 

3. A descending irritating current applied to a nerve above a descend- 
ing i)olarizing current produced marked diminution in the muscular con- 
tractions during the passage of the latter current. 

4. An ascending irritating current applied to the nerve above a de- 
scending polarizing current produced not very marked diminution in 
the muscular contractions during the passage of the latter current. 

From these results Fick concludes, against Piliiger, that, with mod- 
erately strong induced currents, the exciting impulse does originate in 
the region of the negative electrode, and that, with a very strong polar- 
izing current the wiiole intrapolar portion of the nerve is put into a 
state of anelectrotonus. 

In descending katelectrotonus Munkt found the excitability of the 
nerve increased for the descending and diminished for the ascending 
irritating current, but immediately after electronizing the nerve the re- 
verse effect was obtained. In weak ascending anelectrotonus the mus- 
cular-contraction-excitiug properties of the descending irritating cur- 
rent were increased, diminished for the ascending, while the opposite 
effect was obtained when the polarizing current was stronger. In weak 
ascending kate- and anelectrotonus the excitability was increased for 
currents traveling in the same direction. By polarization with stronger 
currents the excitability was increased for irritating currents traveling 

*Beitrage zur Phys. des Elektrotouus, Vierteljahrsclir. der Ziiricher Naturforsch. 
Gesellschaft, 1866, p. 48. 

tUnters. zu alJgem. Nervenphys. Arch, fiir Aiiat. uud Pbys., 1866, p. 369. 



366 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

in eitlier direction. For the intrapolar portion of the nerve the excita- 
bility was increased for irritating currents traveling in the same direc- 
tion as the ijolarizing current, and decreased for currents traveling in 
the reverse direction, provided weak polarizing currents were employed. 
But when these currents were stronger the excitability of the nerve was 
decreased to irritating currents traveling in either direction. 

Schifif and Herzen * publish a number of characteristic experiments 
which give results also widely differing from those obtained by Pfluger. 
These authors observed that if the polarizing current excites the nerve, 
after a lapse of time the opposite effect was obtained ; and, vice versa, 
if the polarizing current '•'paretically" affected the nerve this could 
after a time be replaced by an augmentation of the excitability. 

Notwithstanding so many of the best experimenters found it impossi- 
ble to coufirm the results of Pfluger, these results are now formulated 
in the books as laws. All other investigations are simply ignored and 
those of Pfiiiger adopted, it may be, because no other investigator has 
advanced a more beautiful theory which can be made to correspond to 
what is known of the electro-motor properties of the nerves. Even 
Wundtt was convinced of the truth of Pfliiger's theory, though it ap- 
pears that the results which he obtained by no means correspond with 
those of Piiiiger, for on i^a-ges 34 and 35 of his "Untersuchungen" he 
speaks of an increased irritability between the anode and the muscle 
where an ascending current was used, which, according to Pfliiger's 
theory (it demanding a diminished irritability under these circum- 
stances), is an impossibility. 

This was the state of the subject when early in September, 1876, Pro- 
fessor Schift' drew my attention to it, since which time I have constantly 
had it under consideration. The subject was so discouraging that I fre- 
quently felt like giving it up in disgust, but, urged on by Professor 
Schiff, I continued the study, and a definite explanation of the contra- 
dictory facts was arrived at late in December, 1876. Up to that time I 
had made almost two hundred successful experiments on the subject. 
The results then arrived at were presented in a preliminary communica- 
tion in the February (1877) number of the Archives de sciences ])hys. et 
naturelles, as follows : " The difference in the effect of an irritation of a 
polarized nerve, compared to that of a nonpolarized nerve, does not solely 
depend on the circumstance that the portion irritated is to the side of the 
anode or to the side of the Jcathode, but much more on the proportion ivhich 
exists between the strengths of the irritating and polarizing currents.^'' 

This conclusion my later experiments haveabundantly confirmed, and 
in this paper it is designed not only to expose the results of these later 
exjieriments, but also to give in extenso the experiments which caused me 
to come to the foregoing conclusion. It may be thought that this is a 

* Ueber die Veriiuder. der Erregljarkeit in dem durscli scliwacbe constante Strome 
polaris. Nerven, Molescliott's Uutersuch., Bd. x, p. 432. 

tl must here express my thankfulness for the kind assistance of M. Darier in a 
number of these exiieriments. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 367 

waste of " printer's iuk/' but wlien it is recollected that the Pfliiger laws 
of electrotonns are universally adopted by electro-therapeutists, it will 
be seen that such an innovation as I propose to make in this branch of 
physiology must be substantiated by solid facts. As will be shown 
either in this work or in a paper to appear later, the facts here pre- 
sented are not only of importance in this connection, but really derive 
their greatest importance from their affording us a long-sought-for means 
of explaining the symptoms produced by certain previously occult 
changes in the central nervous system. 

THE EXPERIMENTS OF THE AUTHOR. 

The mefJiod and apparatus employed. — The irritations were made by 
means of 1-4 small Daniel elements, the strength of which was reduced so 
as to produce a minimal contraction, by means of a rheochord compris- 
ing 3,199 centimetres of silver wire. A Valentin hammer or " key," in- 
troduced to make the connection of the current, was so placed as to 
always fall from the same height. This is absolutely necessary in all 
these experiments, as the height from which the hammer falls greatly 
influences the height or strength of the contractions by affecting the 
strength of the passing current. 

The polarising current was derived from 1-2 Daniel elements, and was 
also in connection with a smaller rheochord, 58 centimetres in length. 

The electrodes employed for both i^olarization and irritation were 
Du Bois Eeymond's " Zinc-clay non-i3olarizable electrodes," which, as 
Pfliiger will no doubt concede, are less objectionable than the albumen 
electrodes which he employed. 

The frog preparations and the electrodes were brought into a moist- 
chamber, where all the irritations were made. 

The use of a myographion — especially with a weight attached, as it 
seems Pfliiger used it — had to be dispensed witli in the first series of ex- 
periments, as my object was to obtain minimal contractions, which can- 
not be obtained with a myographion as these contractions are too feeble 
to raise or move the lever of this instrument. 

The distance between the two irritating electrodes was 4—6"'"', which was 
also the distance between the polarizing poles. The distance between 
the two currents varied from 5-11™'". 

Tho, frogs employed had been in captivity but a short time and were 
largely of the temporaria variety. 

These experiments were especially guarded against the errors arising 
from the occurrence of " secondary polarisation,^^ and from umpolar excita- 
tions. 

A descending polarizing current applied to a nerve above a descending 

irritating current. 

N. 




/ \ / \ 

I. c. p. c. 



368 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Under these circumstances, if Pfliiger's theory be true, the constant 
polarizing current must always cause the irritation to produce a stronger 
muscular contraction than when it is absent. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polaiization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Remarks. 


h.m. 


1. 

1st irritations... 


Movements very slight 
do 


Movements more 

marked. 
do 


Rana temporaria. 

4 cells for polarization; 2 for 

iiTitation. 
4 cells for polarization ; 1 for 

irritation. 
Do. 




3d irritations 

4th irritations . . . 
5th irritations .. 


Movements less than 

before. 
Very slight movements 
do 


do 




do 


Do. 




do 


Do. 




do 


do 


Do. 













In this, as in following experiments, the effect of the opening of the 
irritating was not noted, while that of closing alone was observed. During 
the polarization not only were the movements more marked, but they ex- 
tended over a greater portion of the limb. It may be here remarked, 
what was forgotten when speaking of the "methods" of experimenta- 
tion, that in these exiDcriments the sciatic nerve of frogs was used. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
, periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Remarks. 


h.m. 


2. 


2 cells, rheochord : 




Rana temporaria. 




l.st irritations. .. 


2781 cent 2. 


0. 


Polarization with 2 Daniel 




2d irritations 


1214 cent 1. 


0.5 


cells. 




3d irritations . . 


1318 cent 1. 


1. 






4th irritations. .. 


1. 


1. 






5th irritations.. - 


1009 cent 1.5 


1. 






6th irritations. . . 


2. 


0.5 






3. 






Rana temporaria. 




1st irritations . . . 


2. 


2. 


Irritation (2 cells), 3109 cent. ; 
polarization, 2 cells. 




2d irritations 


1. 


3. 


Irritation (2 cells), 3053 cent. ; 
polarization, 2 cells. 




3d irritations 


L 


1. 


Irritation (2 cells), 3045 cent. ; 
polarization, 2 cells. 




4th irritations... 


1. 


1. 


Do. 




5th irritations. . . 


1.6 


3. 


Irritation (2 cells), 3003 cent. ; 
polarization, 2 cells. 




6th irritations. .. 


1. 


3. 






7th irritations... 


L 


3. 


Time of experiment, 22 min- 




4. 






utes. 
Rana temporaria. 




Ist irritations . .. 


0. 


2.5 


Polarization, 4 Daniel cells; 




2d iriitations 


0. 


2.5 


irritation, 2 cells. 




3d iriitations 


0. 


3. 






5. 






Rana temporaria. 


10 15 


1st irritations. .. 


1. 


0. 


Polarization, 4 Daniels; irri- 


24 


2d irritations 


2. 


0.5 


tation, 2 Daniels. 


42 


3d irritations 


1.5 


2. 


Polarization, 1 Daniel. 


11 01 


4th irritations... 
6. 


1.5 


2. 


Rana temporaria. 


12 04 


Ist irritations . . . 


0.5 


0. 


Polarization, 4 Daniels; irri- 


10 


2d irritations 


0.5 


0.5 


tation, 2. 


• 15 


3d irritations . . . 


0.5 


0. 




19 


4th irritations. .. 


0.5 


0. 




22 


5th irritations. .. 


0.6 


0. 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE 



369 



Time. 



Number of ox- 
periment. 



Irritation without 
p(||Krization. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Remarks. 



h. m. 

3 OG 
OS 
19 

4 09 



1st irritations. 
'Jil irritatidus.. 
;idinifatii)ns.. 
4tli iiTitatiDDs. 



1st irritations . . 

2dirrit:'.tions... 

03^ od initalioiis .. 

4t)i iiritatidus. . 

5th irritations. . 



9. 

1st iriitations . . 
2d irritations. .. 
3d irritations. .. 
4th irritations.. 
5fh irritations. . 
Cth irritations.. 
7th irritalious. . 
8tli irritations. . 
9tli irritations . 
10th iiTitations. 



10. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations. . 



11. 

1st initations . 
2d initations.. 
3d irritations. . 



13. 

1st irritations - 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations. . 
4th iiTitations 
5th irritations - 
6th irritations - 



13. 

Ist irritations . 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 



14. 

1st irritations . 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 



15. 

1st iiTitations ... 
2d irritations. . - 
lid iiTitations... 
4tli irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
6rh in irations. . 
7tli irritations. . 
8th initations. . 

S. Mis. 59- 



0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



0.2 

0.2 

2.5 

1. 

1. 



0.2 
0.2 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



4. 
4. 
4. 
0.5 



4. 

0.5 

0. 

0. 

0. 



0. 

0. 

4. 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

1. 

0.5 

1. 



4. 

0.5 

0.5 



3.5 
3.5 
3.6 
3. 

2. 
2. 



3. 

0.5 

0. 

0. 

0. 



0.5 
0.2 
0.2 
0.2 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



Rana temporaria. 
Polarization with 1 Daniel. 



Eana temywraria- 
Polarization, 1 Daniel. 
Diminished irritating cur- 
rent. 



Kana temporaria. 
Polarization, 4 Daniels. 

Polarization, 2 Daniels. 
Polarization, 3 Daniels. 



Rana temporaria. 
1. Polarization, 4 Daniels. 
0.5 



Rana temporaria. 
Polarization, 4 Daniels. 
Polarization, 3 Daniels. 



Rana esculenta. 

"Weak irritating currents. 

Do. 

Do. 
Strong irritating currents. 

Do. 

Do. 



Rana temporaria. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2458 cent. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2350 tent. 

Do. 

Do. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2127 cent. 



Rana esculenta. 

Rheochord (in-it.), 2907 cent. 

Do. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 1793 cent. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2781 cent. 

Do. 



Rana esculenta. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 3058 cent. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2562 cent. 
Rheochord (irrit.), 2249 cent. 



-24 



370 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 



Number of es- 
peiiment. 



li. m. 

11 15 
20 
23 
25 
30 
32 
39 
43 
45 
47 
47i 
48" 
49 
53 
54 
56 



10 46 
54i 
57 
58 
59 
59f, 

11 OOi 
01" 
02 
02i 
06" 
09 
10 
15 



9 45 
49 
50 
60 
10 02 
05 
07 
09 
12 
16 
20 
22 
28 
34 
40 
43 



1 32 
39 
50 



16. 

1st iiiitations . . 
2il iiritatious. .- 
3(1 initatious .. 
4 til iiritations. . 
5tli irritations. . 
6tli irritations . 
71 li irritations . 
Sth irritat'ous. . 
Sill irritations - 
lorli irritations. 
ITtli initatious 
Vl\\\ iriit;itioiis. 
i:;ili irritations. 
Kth irritations. 
15tli irritations. 
ICtli irritations. 



17. 

Ist irritations . . 
2d irritations . . . 
3(1 irritations . . 
4tli irritations . . 
5lh iriitations. . 
Ctli irritations . 
7tb irritations. . 
8tli irritations . 
9tli irritations. . 
lotli irritations, 
lllii irritatiuns- 
l::tli irritations, 
llitli irritations. 
14tli irritations. 



Irritation witbout 
polarization. 



Iiritatiou during 
polarization. ^ 



Kheocbord : 

2781 cent 0. 

2675 cent 0.5 

2675 cent 1. 5 

2458 cent 1.5 

223 cent 3. 

223 cent 3. 

223 cent 3. 

1634 cent 1.5 

2127 cent 0. 5 

2127 cent 0.5 

1413 cent 0.5 

1109 cent 0.5 

223 cent 1. 

223 cent 0. 

223 cent 0.5 

223 cent 0.5 



18. 



1st irritations . . 
2d irritations. - . 
3d irritations. .. 
4tb irritations . 
otli irritations. . 
6tli irritations. . 
7th irritations. . 
8tli irritations. . 
9tb irritations . 
101 li irritations, 
lltb iriitations. 
l"Jth irritations. 
13th irritations, 
14tli iiTitations. 
ir)tb irritations. 
lUtb irritations. 



19. 

1st irritations . 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations.. 



20. 



2 10 


1st irritations . . . 


15 


2d irritations 


19 


3d irritations 


21 


4th irritations .. 


22 


5tb irritations . . 


36 


6tli iiritations. .. 


45 


7tli irritations. .. 


47 


8th iiritations . . 


49 


Otii irritations - . 


50 


loth irritations. . 


3 Oo 


11th irritations. . 


06 


rjtb irritations.. 


14 


Kith irritations. . 


15 


14th irritations . . 


35 


15th irritations.. 



Rbeochord : 

1893 cent 1.5 

2010 cent 1.5 

223 cent 2. 

1893 cent 0. 

1713 cent 0. 

1634 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1413 cent 0. 

1308 cent 0. 

691 cent 0. 

488 cent 0. 

223 cent. 0. 

223 cent 0. 

223 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rbeo- 
chord : 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 0.5 

29.15 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

2401 cent 4. 

2728 cent 4. 

272s,-ent .... 4. 

2728 cent 0. 

223 cent 4. 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent .....% 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent 1.5 

2728 cent 1.5 



1 cell, rbcocbord : 
223 cent .. ...5. 

223 cent 0. 

223 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rbeo- 
chord ; 

3109 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3198 cent 0. 

223 cent 3. 

3198 cent 0. 

3198 cent 0. 

3198 cent 0. 

2849 cent 2. 

2295 cent 2. 

223 cent 2. 

3058 cent 0. 

3194 cent 0. 

3194 cent 0. 

223 cent 1.5 

223 cent 1. 



Eemarks. 



0. 

3.5 

2. 

1. 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

1. 

2. 

2. 

2. 

2. 

4. 

4. 

4. 

4. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. - 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 

4. 

1. 

1. 

0. 

4. 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

0. 

0.5 



Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. 
4. 
4. 
3. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
2. 
2. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
3. 
1. 



Eana temporaria. 



Kana esculenta. 



liana temporaria^ 



Eana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria.. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



Iii'itation ■without 
polarization. ' 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Ilemarks. 



21. 



1 st in-itations . 
2(1 irritations. . 
3(1 irritation.s . 
4tli irritations 



23. 



1st irritations . 
'2d iiritatioiis.. . 
3(1 irritation.s. - . 
4tli irritations . 
.5tli iiritations . 
Ctli irritations . 
7th irritations . 
8th iiTitations. . 
9th irritations. . 
loth irritations. 
11th irritations 
iL'th iiTitations. 
null irritations. 
14th irritations, 
l.'ith irritations. 
IGth irritations 
17th irritations. 
ISth irritations. 
19th iri'itutious. 
2(Jth irritations. 
21st irritations . 
22(1 iiTitations . 
23il iiTitations . 
24lh irritations- 
2rnh irritations. 
2<;th irrit;itii)US- 
27(!i irritations. 
28th irritations. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations... 
3(1 irritations.- . 
4;h irritations . 
5th irritations. . 
Gth irritations. . 
7th irritations . 
8th irritations- . 
9th irritations . 



24. 



1st irritations 
2(1 iiTitations . 
3(1 irritations . 
4th irritations 
5th irritations- 
Cth irritations 
7th irritations 
81 h irritations 



25. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations . . 
3tl irritations . . 
4th iiTitations . 
5th irritations . 
Gth iriitati(nis . 
7tli irritations . 
8th irritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
loth irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
cliord: 

3109 cent 0. 

1847 cent. 3. 

1413 cent 4. 

223 cent 5. 



Iiritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
choid : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 C(nit 0. 

3197 wut 0. 

223 cent 0. 

3109 C(-nt 0. 

1 cell 5. 

1 cell 0. 

1 cell 3. 

1 ceM 2. 

1 cell 4. 

Iccll 4. 

l."";80cent .... 4. 

2728 cent 0. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 ((nt .... 1. 

2728 cent 3. 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent 3. 

2728 cent 3. 

2849 cent 5. 

2849 cent 1. 

2849 cent 1. 

2649 cent 3. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

223 cent 5. 

1793 cent ... 4. 

1793 cent 4. 

2.3I0 cent 3. 

2510 cent 4. 

2510 cent. 2. 

2.310 cent 2.5 



Irritation, 1 cell,rhoo- 
chord: 

3100 cent 0. 

2183 cent 3. 

2183 cent 0. 

20ICceiit 2. 

liiGOceiit 3. 

l.'iGOcent 1. 

1300 cent 0.5 

IJGOfxnt 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
cliord : 
3197 cent .... 0. 

:il97c(>nt 0. 

.■!197 cent 0. 

30.58 cent 0. 

3003 cent .5. 

3003 cent ,5. 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent .... 3. 

30.J8 cent 0. 

3058 cent 0. 

2955 (;ent 2. 

2955 cent .. ..2. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. 
0. 
1. 



rolarizatiou, 4 cells: 

3. 

4. 

3. 

2. 

3. 

3. 

5. 

3. 

5. 

2. 

3. 

2. 

0. 

0. 

2. 

2. 

2. 

4. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

0. 

0.5 

0.5 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 



Polarization, 3 cells: 

0. 
0. 
4. 
2. 

o! 

0. 
0. 
0. 
1. !: 



Pohtri/ntion, 4 cells: 



0. 

0. 

0. 

1. 

3. 

1. 

0.5 

0.5 



Polarization, 3 cells: 
5. 



Eana cscnlenta. 



Rana tcmporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



372 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE 



Tinie.J 



h. m. 
57 

11 04 
07 
11 
21 



9 27 
32 
37 
41 
50 
55 

10 03 
08 
13 
16 
20 
22 
24 
27 
29 
32 
33 
35 

11 32 
33 
34 
35 
37 
38 
39 
42 
44 
50 
51 
52 
53 
53 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



13th irritations. 
14th irritations, 
loth irritations. 
lOtli iriitations- 
17th irritations. 



26. 



1st irritations 
2(1 irritations. 
3(1 irritations. 
4th irritations 
5th irritations 
6th irritations 
7th irritations 
8th irritations 
9tli irritations 
10th irritations 
11th irritations 
12tLi irritations 
13th irritations 
14th irritations 
15th irritations 
loth iiiitations 
17tli irritations 
18th irritations 
19th irritations 
20th irritations 
21st irritations 
22(1 iriitations. 
23(1 irritations 
24th irritations 
25th irritations 
2Utli irritations 
27(h irritations 
28t h i rritations 
'J'.lth irritations 
:ii)th irritations 
31st iriitations 
32(1 irritations 



Irritation without 
jiolarization. 



'^y. 



11 12 


1st irritations . . . 


15 


2il irritations 


3U 


3(1 irritations .- 


31 


4th irritations... 


32 


5th irritations... 


40 


Gth irritations... 


41 


7tli irritations . . 


40 


8tii in itations . . 


48 


Oil irritations. . . 


53 


loth irritations.. 


54 


nth irritations. . 


55 


12th iiritations.. 



58 

58 

59 1 

00 

05 1 

06 

10 

12 

27 

29 

33 

34 

40 

43 

45 

46 

47* 



28. 



1st irritations . . 
2(1 irritations .. 
3(1 irriiations. -. 
4lh irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
Gth irritati(jiis . 
7tli iiTit;iti(ms . 
8th irritations. . 
9tli irritations . 
10th irritations, 
nth irritations. 
T-'tli irritations. 
i:ith irritations. 
14tli irritations. 
15th iiritations. 
IGth irritations. 
17th irritations. 
18th irritations. 



2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cill, rhco- 
chonl : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3058 cent 1. 

3058 cent 2. 

3058 cent 0. 

3058 cent 0.5 

3058 cent 0. 5 

3058 cent 1. 

3058 cent 0. 

2955 cent 2. 

2849 cent 2. 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent 3. 

2350 cent 4. 

2350 cent 4. 

223 cent 5. 

2350 cent 4. 

2562 cent 4. 

2562 cent 4. 

2849 cent 2. 

2955 cent 0.5 

29.55 cent.. .. 0. 

2901 cent 2. 

2901 cent 3. 

3003 cent 2. 

30t3cent 3. 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent 5. 

3003 cent 5. 

3003 cent 5. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2781 cent 0. 

2675 cent 0.5 

2675 cent 0. 

2502 cent 2. 

2562 cent 1. 

30.58 cent 0. 

3003 cent 1. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 



Irritation,! cill, rleo- 
cliord : 

310J c(^nt 1. 

3109 cent 0.5 

3179 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3170 cent .... 0. 
;;i7ii (Tilt 0. 

3(.03 cent 1. 

3003 cent.. .. 2. 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0.5 

:;0u3 cent ('. 5 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 3. 

3003 cent 2. 

1160 cent 4. 

11 uO cent 4. 

341 cent 4. 

341 cent 4. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Eemarlis. 



Polarization, 3 cells: | Rana esculenta. 



5. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

4. 

4. 

3. 

4. 

4. 

4. 

0.5 

1. 

2. 

o! 

2. 

1. 

5. 

1. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

5. 

1. 

1. 

5. 

0. 

0.5 

2. 

2. 



Polarization, 3 cells: 

5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
4. 
4. 
5. 
4. 
4. 



Polarization, 4 cells. 

4. 
4. 
4. 
4. 



But 1 polarizing cell. 
4 polaiizini; cells. 
IJo. 
Do. 
Do. 



Eana esculenta. Other Ic 
of last frog. 



Rana temporaria. 



Polarization, 1 cell. 

Do. 
Polarization, 4 cells 

Do. 
Polarizati(ra, 1 eel'. 

Do. 
Polarization, 4 cells 

1)0. 

Polarization, ! ce'il. 

Do. 
Polarization, 4 cells 

iro. 
Polarization, 1 c( 11. 

Do. 
Polarization, 4 cells 

Do. 
Polarization, 1 c; 11. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



iO 











« 










Time. 


Number of ex- 


Jrrllatioii without 


Irritation during 






periment. 


liolarization. 




polarization 








h. in. 
■1 48 


19th irritation.s. . 


3003 cent..-. 


.1. 






0. 


Polarization, 1 cell. 




49 


20th irritations. . 


3003 cent 


.1.5 






3. 


Polarization, 4 cells. 




52 


21.st irritations -. 


3003 cent 


- 0.5 






4. 


Ho. 




.53 


22(1 irritations. .. 


3003 cent 


. .0. 5 






0. 


Polarization, 1 cell. 




54 


23(1 irritations. .. 


3003 cent 


.A. 






4. 


Do. 




55 


24th irritations.. 


3003 cent.... 


-A. 






4. 


Polarization, 4 cells. 




5S 


25tli initations. . 


2955 cent.... 


..0.5 






0. 


Polarization, 1 cell. 




3 00 


20tli iiritatious.. 


601 cent 


.4.5 






5. 


Polarization, 4 cells. 




V\ 


27th irritations.. 


C91 cent 


. .4. 5 






5. 


Polarization, 1 cell. 




U2 


28:h irritations.. 


2781 cent.... 


.1. 






3. 


Do. 




](j 


2yth irritations.. 


2G75 cent 


.3. 






0. 


Polarization, 4 cells. 




18 


30th irritations.. 

as. 


2075 cent 


.2. 






1. 


Polarization, 1 cell. 








Irritation, 1 coll, 


rheo- 


Polarization, 


4 


cells, 


liana temporaiia. 








chord : 




rheochord : 










11 ''9 




3197 cent 


9 












2\ 


2d irritations 


3197 cent.... 


.2. 


55 cent . 




..5. 


cell. 
Do. 




a;; 


3(1 irritations 


3176 cent 


.0. 


57 cent . . 




..3. 


Do. 




45 


4th irritations... 


3176 cent 


.0. 


53 cent.. 




..2. 


Do. 




50 


5th initations. . . 


3176 cent 


.0. 


56 cent . 




.1. 


1)0. 





55 6th irritations. 



3176 cent 0.5 



56 cent 1. 



Do. 



9 20 
9 30 
31 
38 
43 
45 
48 
49 
52 
55 
10 00 
02 
06 
07 
08 
10 
12 
13 
14 
16 
18 
19 
22 
35 
37 
40 
44 
47 
50 



58 

11 01 

04 

14 



30. 



Ist irritations. 
2d iiritatious . 
3d irritations.. 

4th irritations. 
5(h initations. 
Gth irritations. 



31. 



9 00 1st irritations. 
05 2d irritations. . 
10 3d irritations.. 



3'2. 



1st irritations . . 
2(1 irritations . . 
3d irritaf i(]ns . . 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations . 
6th irritations . 
7th irritations. . 
8th irritations. . 
9tli irritations . 
101 h irritations- 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 
13th irritations. 
14th irritations. 
15lli irritations. 
10th irritations. 
17th irritations. 
18th irritations. 
19th irritations. 
20th irritai ions. 
21st irritai ions . 
22(1 irritations. . 
23(1 irritations. . 
24th irritations. 
2."tli in itatioiis. 
2<)tli irritations. 
27tli irritations. 
28tli irritations. 
29tli irritations. 
30th irritations. 
31st irritations . 
32(1 irritations. . 
33d irritations. . 
34th irritai ion . . 
35th irritations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3013 cent 0. 

2925 cent 0. 

2925 cent 0. 

2925 cent 2. 

2875 cent 0. 

2849 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

223 cent 0.5 

223 cent 0. 

223 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3109 cent 1. 

3025 cent 2. 

3025 cent 1. 

3025 cent 0.5 

3025 cent - - 2. 

2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent 3. 

2555 cent 3. 

2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent .--. 2. 

2781 cent 4. 

2781 cent 5. 

2875 cent 3. 

2875 cent 3. 

2875 cent 1. 

2875 cent 0. 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent 3.5 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent 3.5 

2728 cent .3. 

2728 cent 0.5 

2675 cent 5. 

2700 cent 3. 

2700 cent 3. 

2700 cent 3. 

2700 cent- 3. 

2700 cent 4. 

2700 cent 2. 

2700 cent 2. 

2700 cent 2.5 

2700 cent .... 2. 

2700 cent 3. 

2700 cent 4. 



liana teniporaria. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord : 

57 cent 1. 5 

57 cent 3. 

38 cent 4. 

38 cent .5. 

48 cent 2. 

38 cent 1. 



Polarization, 4 cells, [ Eana temporaria. 
rheochord : 

10 cent 1. 

lOcent 1. 

10 cent 1. 



Pol.arization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

48 cent 1. 

30 cent 3. 

30c(!nt 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30c(-nt 5. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 3. 

30 cent 5. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 5. 

30 cent 5. 

30 cent 4. 

30 cent 3. 

30 cent 3. 

30 cent 0. 

30 cent 5. 

30 cent 4. 

30 cent 4. 

30 cent. 4.5 

49 cent 3.5 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 2. 

49 cent .5. 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 4. 

49 cent 4. 

49 cent 4. 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 3. 

49 cent 2.5 

49 cent 4. 

49 cent 4. 5 



Rana temporaria. 



374 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



h. m. 

1 20 
21 
22i 
24" 
40 
47 

2 01 
04 
08 
10 
11 
16 
18 
24 
27 
28 
30 ' 
31 
34 i 
38 I 
41 
42 I 
44 
45 
50 . 
52 i 



9 89 

40 
44 
46 



10 06 
10 
12 
14 
17 
20 
35 



33. 



1st iirit.itions . . 
2(1 irritations. . . 
3d irritations . . . 
4tli irritatioua. . 
5th irritations. . 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations. . 
8th iiritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations, 
nth irritations. 
12th irritations. 
lljth irri;ations. 
14th irritalions 
loth irritations. 
lOth irritations - 
17th irritations. 
181h irritati(ms. 
19th irritations. 
20th iiritations. 
21st irritations . 
22d irritations. - 
23il irritations. . 
24th irritations . 
25th iiTJtations 
26th irritations - 



34. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations. - 
4th irritations . 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



1st irritations 
2d irritations . 
3d irritations . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations 
6th irritations 
7th irritations. 



Remarks. 



IiTitation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2781 cent 3.5 

2901 cent 3. 

2901 cent 2.5 

2901 cent 2. 

2901 cent 2. 

2(>75 cent 2. 

2o75 cent 2. 

2675 cent 2. 

2675 cent 2. 

2675 cent 2. 

2675 cent 2.5 

2675 cent 2. 

2C75 cent 1. 

2075 cent 1 . 

2r82 cent 1. 

2562 cent 2. 

2502 cent 2. 

2562 cent 2. 

2562 cent 2. 

2016 cent 2. 

2010 cent 2. 

2010 cent .2. 

2127 ccn- ... 2. | 

2127 cent 2. ! 

2127 cent 1.5 I 

2127 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
choid : 

3169 cent 1. 

3169 cent 0.5 

3169 cent 0.5 

3189 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2781 cent 1.5 

2781 cent 0.5 

2781 cent 0.5 

2781 cent 1. 

2781 cent 0.5 

2781 cent 0.5 

1526 cent 0.5 



Kana teniporaria. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rhi'oehord ; 

4!) cent 4. 

t!) cent 4. 

1(1 <-c]it 4. 

1(1 cent 4. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 2. 

10 cent 3. 

30 cent 3. 

30 cent .3. 

30 cent 3. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 5 

30 cent 2.5 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 5 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent 2. 

30 cent. 2. 



Polarization, 1 cell, ; Rana temporaria. 
rheochord : 

10 cent .2. ' 

30 cent 1.5 

30 cent 0.5 < 



30 cent . 



Polarization, 1 cell : 

10 cent 2. 

10 cent 1:5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 i ent 1. 

30 cent.... 1. 

30 cent 0.5 

30 cent 1. 



Other les of List fro" 



In the i^receding experiments the muscular contractions caused by 
the dosing of the circuit were used to measure the excitability of the 
nerves, and are represented by the figures in columus 3 and 4. Of these 
figures 5 represents maximal and 0.5 minimal contractions. 

Out of the thirty -five exi)eriments just given, but nine (experiments 1, 
4, 7, 14, 17, 27, 29, 30, and 31) go to confirm the theory of Pflilger, while 
fourteen (experiments 2, G, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, IG, 18, 21, 22, 23, and 24) 
give results in direct opposition with it. Of the remaining twelve ex- 
periments, in two (5 and 12) an increased excitability of the nerve was 
produced by the polarizing current in one-half the irritations. lu ten 
experiments (3, 19, 20, 25, 2G, 28, 32, 33, 34, and 35) Pliiiger's result was 
usually obtained. 

From this we must conclude that Pliiiger's theory does not hold good 
as regards the effect of a descending polarizing current on the excita- 
bility of the nerves, as measured by means of the muscular coutractions 
l^rodiiced by the closing of an electric circuit. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



37i 



111 the following experiments the muscular contractions noted were 
produced by the oj^enlng of the circuit. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



36. 



1st initations . 
2(1 irritations. . 
3(1 irrit'itiona . 
4th in-itations. 
5th irritations 
Gth irritations 



37. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 initations . 
3(1 irritations . 
4th irritations. 
5th iiritations. 



3S. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations . 
3(1 irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5tli irritations . 
Cth irritations. 
7th irritations. 



39. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations. . 
3(1 irritations - . 
4th irritations. 
5th initations. 



40. 



1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations.. 
3(1 irritations.. 
4th irritations. 



41. 

1st irritations . 
2(1 irritations. . 
3(1 irritations . 
4th irritations. 



41. 

1st irritations . 
2(1 in-itations . . 
3(1 irritations . . 



43. 



1st irritations . 
2il irritations. . 
3(1 irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 



Irritation without 
pohuizatiou. 



Irritation dui'inj 
polaiization. 



Irritation, Icell, rheo- 
chord : 

2900 cent 2. 

200.) cent .... 2. 

2770 (;cut 2. 

152Ucent j. 

1308 cent 0.5 

1000 cent 0.5 



Iri'itatiou, 1 cell, rheo- 
chortl : 

3. 
3. 

3109 cent 5 

3109 cent .... 0.5 
3109 cent 0.5 



Irritation, Icell, rheo- 
chord : 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 2. 

3109 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0. 5 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0.5 



In'itation, 1 coll, rheo- 
chord : 

2G75cent 0. 

2G75cent 0. 

223 cent 1. 

223 cent 1. 

1634 cent 1. 



Irritation, Icell, rheo- 
chord : 

2458 cent 1. 

2350 cent 1.5 

2.350 cent 1.5 

2350 cent 1.5 

Irritation, 1 cell : 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 0. 

3109 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell : 



Irritation, Icell, rheo- 
cliord : 

2562 cent 1. 

2249 cent 1.5 

2249 cent .1.5 

2249 cent 1.5 

2249 cent 1.5 



Remarks. 



Bana temporaria. 



Polarization, 2 cells: 

0. 

0. 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 



Polarization, 4 cells : Kana (eiuporaria 



Polarization, 4 cells i I Haua temporaria, 



0.5 

2. 

2. 

2. 

2. 

2. 

2. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 



0. 

0.5 
0. 
0. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 



Polarization, 4 cells: 
1. 
4. 
3. 
5. 



Polarization, 3 cells : 
3. 
3. 
3. 



Eana esculenta. 



Eana temporaria. 



Itana temporaria. 



Polarization, 3 cells : Kana esculenta, 

3. 

0.5 

0.5 

0. 

0. 



376 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Eeuiarlis 


h. m. 

4 07 
09 
13 


44. 

1st irritation ... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


Irritation, IceU, 
chord : 

3189 cent 

3189 cent ... 
3189 cent 


rheo- 

-.0.5 
..0.5 
..0.5 


Polarization, 3 cells : 

3. 

2.5 

2.5 


Eana esculenta. 


5 00 
07 
09 


45. 

1st irritations . . . 
2d iriitations . - . 
3d irritations - - . 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


0.5 
0.5 
0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 

3. 

0. 

. 0. 


Kana temporal ia. 


11 03 
05 
08 
14 
15 
16 
18 
23 
28 

12 06 


46. 

1st irritations . .. 

2d iiritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations... 
5th irritations. .. 
(ith irritations. .. 
7th irritations .. 
8th irritations... 
9th irritations... 
lOthiiTitations.- 


IiTitation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
2. 
1. 
1. 
0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
5. 

0.5 
0.5 
0. 

0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 


Polarization, 2 cells. 
Polaiization, 4 cells. 


9 05 
12 

14 
15 
17 


47. 

1st irritations . . . 

2d irritations 

3<1 iriitations 

4tli irritations. .. 
5th irritations. .. 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 

1. 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Eana escnlenta. 


2 56 
59 

3 01 
43 


48. 

1st irritations . . . 

2d irritations 

3d irritations ... 
4th irritations. .. 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
1. 
0.5 


Polarization, 2 cells : 
8. 
3. 
3. 
0.5 


Eaua temporaria. 


2 09 
12 

•22 


49. 

1st irritations . . . 
2(1 irritations ... 
3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
2. 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
0.5 


Eana temporaria. 


S 00 
06 
11 


50. 

1st irritations . . . 
2d iriitations ... 
3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
1. 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0.5 
0. 
0.5 


Eana temporaria. 


8 29 
32 
34 
38 


51. 

Ist irritations . .. 
2d irritations . . 
3d irritations . .. 
4th iiritations . . . 


Irritation, 1 cell, 
chord : 

2L'3cent 

223 cent 

223 cent 

223 cent 


rheo- 

..1.5 
-.0. 
-.1.5 
-.1.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Eana esculenta. 


9 45 

47 

50 

10 00 


53. 

1st irritations . . . 

2d irritations 

3d iriitations ... 
4th irritations..- 
5tli irritations... 
Ctli irritations. .. 
7th irritations. .. 
8tli irritations. .. 
9th irritations. .. 
loth iiritations. . 
lltli initatious.- 
r2th irritations.. 
13th irrirations.- 
14th irritations.. 


In-itation, Icell, 
chord : 

2955 cent 

2955 cent 

2955 cent 

2955 cent . . 


rheo- 

-.1. 
-.1. 
.-1. 
-.0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 

0.5 

3. 

0.5 

0.5 

3. 

0.5 

3. 

4. 

0.5 

3. 

0.5 

0. 

0. 

0.5 


Eana temporaria. 
Polarization, 1 cell. 


05 
09 
12 


2401 cent.... 
2728 cent.-.. 
2728 cent 


..3. 
..3. 
..2.5 




16 

20 
22 
28 
40 
43 
54 


223 cent 

2728 cent .... 
2728 cent.... 
2728 cent.... 
2728 cent.... 
2728 cent.... 
2728 cent.... 


..4. 

- 2. 
. .2. 
..2. 
. 1.5 
..1.5 
..1.5 





EFFECJT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



377 



Time, 



h. m. 

2 10 
15 
19 
21 
22 
36 
45 
47 
49 
50 

3 05 
06 
14 
15 



2 30 

43 
52 



9 05 
10 
18 
28 
40 
45 
10 07 
09 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



53. 



Ist irritations. . 
2d irritations. .. 
3<1 irritations .. 
4tli ii'i'ital ions . . 
5tli irritations . 
OtLi irritations . 
7tLi irritations . 
8th irritations . 
9tli irritations. . 
loth irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th iriitations. 
13th irritations. 
i4th ii-ritations . 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



34. 



1st Irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations . - 



53. 

1st irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 
6th irritations. 
7th irritations. 
8th irritations . 



56. 



10 29 1st iiTitations. 
36 2d iriitations. 
41 3d irritations 
46 4th irritations. 
50 5th irritations. 
52 6th irritations 
54J 7th iriitations. . 
57i! 8th irritations . 

11 05-1 9th irritation.s . 
07 j loth irritations. 
114 11th irritations. 



11 15 
31 
46 
48 
53 
54 
55 



12tli irritations. 
13th irritations. 



57. 



Ist irritations. 
2d iriitations . 
3(1 irritations. . 
4th irritations 
5tli irritations 
6tli irritations. 
7th irritations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rh«o- 
] chord: 

I 3109 cent 1.5 

3179 cent 0. 

223 cent 3. 

3T98 cent 0. 

3198 cent 0. 

3198 cent 0. 

2849 cent 0. 

2295 cent 

223 cent 3. 

3008 cent 0. 

31B4ceut 0. 

3194 cent 0. 

223 cent 1.5 

2'.3cent .. ..1.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
choi d : 

3197 cent 3. 

3197 cent 2. 

3197 cent 2. 



Ii-ritation, 1 ceU : 

3107 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3187 cent 0. 

3187 cent 0. 

3.87 cent 0. 

1793 cent 0. 

223 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3003 cent 5. 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent 3. 

3058 cent 0. 

30.58 cent 0. 

29.^5 cent 2. 

2955 cent 2. 

29i55cent 0. 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 0.5 

2955 cent 0. 

29.')5cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 



Iri'itation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chot'd : 

2675 cent 0. 

2562 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

2955 cent- 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Eemarks. 



58. 







Irritation, 1 cell: 




2 00 


1st irritations. .. 


3179 cent 


.0. 


05 


2d irritations 


3179 cent 


.0 


06 


3d irritations 


3179 cent.... 


.0 


10 


4th irritations . . 


3003 cent 





12 


5th irritations. . . 


3003 cent.... 


.0. 


40 


Cth irritations . . 


3003 cent 


.0. 


43 


7th irritations . . 


3003 cent 


.0 


45 


8th irritations. .. 


1160 cent ... 


.0 


46 


9th irritations .. 


1160 cent.... 


.0 


46i^ 


10th irritations.. 


341 cent 


.0 


474 


llih irritations.. 


341 cent ... 


.0 


48 


12tli irritations . . 


3003 cent 


.0. 



Polarization : 

4 cells 0. 

Icell 3. 

4 cells 1. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 3. 

3. 

3. 



liana tomporaria. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 1 Eana temporaria 



Polarization, 2 cells : 
4. 
5. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
0.5 

a. 

0. 



Polarization, 3 cells 





5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 




& 




5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 




5. 


Polarization: 




4 colls 


....0. 


4 cells 


...0. 


4 cells 


...1. 


4 cells 


...1. 


4 cells 


...1. 


Icell 


.. 0.5 


IceU 


...0. 



Polarization : 

4cells 0. 

4 cells 0. 

Icell 2. 

Icell 4. 

4 cells 0. 

4 cells 0. 

Icell 4. 

Icell 0. 

4 cells 1. 

4 cells 1. 

Icell 1. 

Icell 3. 



Rana temporaria. 



liana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



liana temporaria. 



378 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time, 



h. m. 

2 49 
52 
53 
54 
55 
58 

3 00 
01 
02 
16 
18 



2 19 
21 
24 
34 
40 



Number of ex- 
peiiment. 



13th irritations. 
14tli initations. 
loth irr}»»t»oTis. 
IGth iiTitatiinis. 
17th iriit ill ions. 
18th iiTitatiiins. 
19th iiritatinus. 
20th initatiuiis. 
21st irritatious. 
22d iriitatious. . 
23d irritations . . 



59. 



1st ii-ritations. 
2d irritations . 
3d irritaticjns. . 
4tli irritations. 
5th irritations. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

2955 cent 0. 

691 cent 0. 

691 cent 0. 

2781 cent 0. 

2075 cent 1. 

2675 cent 1. 

Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3197 cent 0.5. 

3197 cent 0. 5 

3179 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 



Irritation duriaj 
polarization. 



4 cells 0. 

4cells 0. 

Icell 3. 

Icell 1. 

4 cells 0. 

Icell 2. 

4 cells 0. 

Icell 1. 

Icell 0. 

4cells 0. 

Icell 0. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord : 

3 cent 5. 

3 cent 5. 

cent 3. 

5 cent 3. 

2 cent 3. 



Eemarks. 



liana temporaria. 



In the last twenty-four experiments it will be seen that an augmented 
excitation of the nerve for the breaking of an irritating current to the 
side of the kathode of a constant current was produced, as a rule, in 
but ten experiments (38, 42, 48, 53, 55, 56, 57, 58, and 59). A diminished 
excitability of the nerve occurred under these circumstances in fourteen 
experiments (30, 37, 39, 40, 41, 43, 45, 40, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52, and 54). 

The results obtained in these fifty-nine experiments cannot be ex- 
plained by the theory which demands an increased excitability of the 
nerve to the side of the kathode of the constant or polarizing current. 

In searching for an explanation of these varying results, it occurred to 
me that the nerves and muscles on ^Yhich these experiments (as also those 
of Pliliger) were made could hardly be considered as being in a normal 
state, in spite of the precautions used. The differences in the results 
could then be explained by referring them to the changes taking place 
in a dying nerve or muscle, which changes have been so little studied. 
To determine whether or not this was the exi)lanation, a series of ex- 
periments were made on the uninjured nerve in its normal position. 
Copper electrodes were covered with wax, except at the point where 
they touch the nerve and passed underneath this structure, which was 
then experimented upon. The making of the circuit was observed in the 
following experiments : 



Time. 


Number of ex- 


Irritation without 


Irritation during 




periment. 


polarization. 


polarization. 






(iO. 












In-itation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 1 cell. 


Rana temporaria. 


h. m. 




chord : 


rheochord: 


Wlienever the nerve showed 


3 06 


1st irritations. .. 


3003 cent 0. 


10 cent 0. 


sliiiis of becomine: dry in 


10 


2d irritations 


3003 cent 0. 


55 cent 0. 


anvof tlielollowins experi- 


15 


3d iiritations ... 


2781 cent 0. 


55 cent 4. 


ments it was moi.stened 


16 


4th iiritatioDS .. 


2781 cent 0. 


10 cent 1. 


wit ha .015 solution of i)uro 


16i 


5th irritations .. 


2781 cent 0. 


55 cent 3. 


chloride ot sodium. 


20 


6th irritations. .. 


2781 cent 0. 


55 cent 0. 




32 


7th irritations. .. 


! 1739 cent 2. 


55 Cent 2. 




34 


8th irritations. .. 


1 1739 cent 2. 


55 cent.. 2. 




■•.6 


9th irritations- .. 


1739 cent 2. 


10 cent 2. 




4 00 


lutlj irritations.. 


1739 cent 2. 


50 cent 4. 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



379 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



61. 



1st irritations . 
2d iriitatioua. . 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritiitioiis. 
5th irritations. 
6th irritations. 
7th irritations. 
8th initatious. 



12 10 

. 10i| 

u 

35 
16 
17 

18 



10 40 

51) 
52 
54 



11 19 

20 
21 
22 
23 
27 
2 28 
35 
36 
37 



63. 



1st irritations 
2d irritations . 
3d irritat ions . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 
6tli irritations. 
7th iri'itations. 
8th irritations. 



64. 



1st irritations 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritatiuus.. 
4th irritations. 
5tli irritations. 
6th irritations 
7th irritations. 
8th initationa. 



6.5. 



1st irritations. 
2d irritations . 
3d irritations - 
4th irritations 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



15 


1st irritations .. 


53 


2d iriitatious . . 


54 


3d irritations 


.JO 


4th irritations. -. 


5') 


5th irritations... 


57 


6th iriitatious . . 


58 


7th irritations. . . 



66. 



Ist irritations . 
2d irritations. .. 
3d irritations .. 
4th irritations. . 
5ch irritations. . 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations.. 
8th irritations . 
9th irritations . 
10th irritations. 



Irrit^ion during 
polarization. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chovd: 

1951 cent 0. 

341 cent 3. 

1214 cent 2. 

1214 cent .... 0.5 

1214 cent 0.5 

1214 cent 0.5 

]'-'14 cent 0. 5 

2010 cent 3. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rhoo- 
chord : 

1.52Gcpnt 0. 

1009 cent 1. 

888 cent 0. 

8S8cent 1. 

888 cent 1. 

888 cent 0. 

888 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 ee/1, rlieo- 
chord: 

888 cent 0.5 

888 cent 0.5 

888 cent 0. 

888 cent .... 0. 

888 cent , 0. 5 

888 cent 1. 

888 cent 0.5 

888 cent 0. 5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rlieo- 
chord : 

2618 cent 0.5 

2618 cent 0. 

2618 cent 2. 

2562 cent 3. 

2562 cent 2.5 

2678 cent 0.5 

2678 cent 0.5 

2678 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2675 cent 0.5 

2618 cent 0. 

2618 cent 0. 

2618 cent.. 0. 



Irritation, I cell, rheo- 
chorrt: 

] 847 cent 0. 5 

1847 cent 0.5 

1847 cent 0.5 

1847 cent 0. 5 

2016 cent 0. 

2562 cent 0. 

2618 cent 0. 

2728 cent 0. 

2()18cent 0. 

.[ 2018 cent 0. 

I 



67. 







Irritation, 1 cell. 


rheo 






chord : 




3 17 


1st irritations . . 


1413 cent.... 


..0. 


20 


2d irritations.... 


1634 cent ... 


..0. 


22 


: d irritations. ... 


IG'.M cent 


..0. 



Remarks. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord : 

50 cent 0. 

10 cent 3. 

50 cent 5. 

10 cent 5. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 0. 

50 cent 0. 

49 cent 0. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheoiliord: 

40 cent 0. 

49 cent .... 0. 

49 cent 0. 

49 cent 0. 

10 cent 0. 

49 cent 0. 

10 cent 0. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheocliortl: 

10 cent 3. 

49 cent 0.5 

49 cent 2. 

10 cent 2. 

10 cent 0. 

49 cent 0. 

49 cent 0.3 

10 cent 0.3 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 
10 cent 0. 5 

54 cent 4. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 0.5 

55 cent 1. 

55 cent 0. 5 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

54 cent 0. 5 

52 cent 0. 5 

52 cent 0.5 

10 cent 1. 



Pohiri^ation, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

10 cent 1. 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 0. 

10 cent 0. 

.^5 cent 2. 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent 0.5 

55 cent 0. 5 



Polarization, i cells, 
rheochord: 

50 cent 4. 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 2. 



liana temporaria. 



Electrodes brought nearer l o 
each other. 



Rana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



Rana esculenta. 

Distance between polarizir;; 
and irritating electroi e > 
2.5 mm. 



Rana esculenta. 



Distance between electrodes 
5 mm. 



Rana esculenta. 



Rana temporaria. 

Distance between electrodes 
3 mm. 



380 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Remarks. 




6S. 


Irritation, 1 coll, rheo- 


Polarization, 4 cells, 


Rana temporaria. 


?i. 7)1. 




chord : 


rheocliord : 




10 35 


1st irritatious- -. 


1951 cent 1.5 


57 cent 1.5 




42 


I'll iiiitations 


2295 cent 0. 


57 cent 2. 




4;5 


3d initutiona 


2295 cent 1. 


57 cent 1. 




11 15 


4th irritatious. -- 


1526 cent 0. 5 


57 cent 0. 5 




16 


nth irritation.s. .. 


1526 cent 0.2 


57 cent 1. 




17 


Cith irritatious. .. 


1526 cent 0.5 


57 cent 0.5 




18 


7th irritatious. .. 


1526 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0.5 




19 


8th irritations. .. 


1526 cent 1. 


10 cent .0.5 




20 


9th irritations... 


1523 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0.5 




30 


10th irritations.. 


1526 cent 0.5 


10 cent. 0.5 




37 


11th irritatioiiH . 


1526 cent 0. 5 


10 cent 0.5 




45 


12th irritatioiKS.. 


1526 cent 0.5 


57 cent 0.5 




46 


13th irritalioiis.. 


1526 cent 0.5 


57 cent 0.5 




48 


14th irritations.. 
69. 


1526 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0.5 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo 


Polarization, 1 cell. 


Rana temporaria. 






chord : 


rhoechord : 


Distance between electrodes 


2 35 


Ist irritations. .. 


2675 cent 0. 


10 cent 0. 


8 mm. 


3 00 


2fl irritations 


26i8cent 0.5 


58 cent 1. 




03 


3d irritations . . . 


2618 cent 6. 


58 cent. 2. 





Out of tlie ten experiments made in this maniier, iu si.N: ({](), 04, 05, 00. 
07, and 09) the polarizing current produced an increased excitability, 
and failed to produce this effect in four experiments. 

In the following experiments, made after the same plan, the muscular 
contractions following the opening of the irritating current are recorded. 



h. m. 

2 15 
22 
24 
25 
35 
36 
37 
45 
47 

3 00 
03 



10 21 
45 
40 
49 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



■70. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations... 
3d irritations . . 
4th irritatious . 
5th irritatious. . 
6th irritations. . 
7tli irritations . 
8th irritatKms. . 
9tli ir itations . 
10th irritiit ons 
11th in-itations. 
12th irritations. 



71. 



15 


1st irritations... 


16 


2d irritations.. . 


17 


3d irritations... 


18 


4th iiiitations . 


19 


."ith irritations . 


20 


6th irritations. . 


30 


7th irritatious. . 


45 


8th iiTitat ions . 


46 


9th irritations . 


48 


10th irritations. 



73. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations . 
3d irritations... 
4th in-itations. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rbeo- 
cbord : 

2728 cent 1.5 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent 0. 

2728 cent 0. 

2675 cent 0. 5 

2675 cent 0.5 

2(^75 cent 0. 5 

2618 cent 0.5 

2G18cent 0. 

2618 cent 0.5 

261 8 cent 0.5 

2618 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

1526 cent 2.5 

1.526 cent 3. 

1526 cent 0.5 

1.526 cent 3. 

1526 cent 3. 

1.52(1 cent 0.5 

1526 cent 1. 

1526 cent 0.5 

1526 cent 0.5 

1526 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rlieo- 
choid : 

2675 cent 1.5 

2618 cent 0.5 

2618 cent 0.5 

1S47 cent 1. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

10 cent 2. 

ol cent 2. 

57 cent 0.5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent 1. 

58 cent 0.5 

58 cent 1. 

58 cent 0.5 

58 cent 1. 

58 cent 1. 

58 cent 2. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord : 

.57 cent 3. 

57 cent 3. 

57 cent 0. 5 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 2. 

10 cent 1.5 

57 cent 0.5 

57 cent 0.5 

57 cent 0. 5 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

15 cent 3. 

10 cent 1.5 

50 cent 1. 5 

10 cent 1. 



Remarks. 



Rana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria. 



Raaa eseulenta. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



381 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
pci'imeut. 



7i. m. 

10 50 : 5tb irritations . 

53 6th iiTitations . 

57 7tb irritations. . 

58 8tb irritations. . 
1105 9tb iiritations. . 

OC luthirritaiions. 

07 11th irritations. 



73. 



11 15 1st irritations. 

12 00 j 2d irritations.. 
00-J- 3d irritations.. 
01 i 4tb irritations. 
OIJ: 5th irritations 
07'l Cth irritations. 
08 7th irritations. 



4 15 
17 
20 
21 
22 
23 
50 



3 06 

08 



74. 



1st irritations 
2diiTitations.- 
3d irritations.. 
4th irritations 
5th iriitations . 
6th irritations. 
7th irritations 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Initaf ion during 
polarization. 



75. 



1st irritations. 

2d irritations.. 

10 j 3d iiritations.- 

15 ' 4th irritations - 

16 5th iriitations 
16-1' Otb irritations. 
20 ; 7th irritations 



1847 cent 1. 

2016ci-nt 1. 

2.)C2 cent 0. 5 

2618 cent 0.5 

2728 cent .... 0.5 

2618 cent 0.5 

2618 cent 0.5 

Irritation, 1 cell, rheo. 
cbcrd: 

1526 cent 0.5 

888 cent 2. 

888 cent- 2. 

888 cent 2. 

888 cent 2. 

888 cent .... 0.5 
888 cent 1. 

Irritation, 1 cell, rbeo- 
cbord : 

1057 cent 0. 5 

1957 cent 0. 5 

341 cent a. 

1214 cent 5. 

1214 cent 5. 

1214 cent 5. 

2016 cent 2. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3003 cent 0. 2 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0.5 

27S1 cent 2. 

2781 cent 0. 

2781 cent 0. 

2781 cent 1. 



50 cent 2. 

55 cent 2. 

55 cent 1. 

55 cent 1. 

10 cent 1. 

10 cent 1. 

55 cent 1. 5 

Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

49 cent 1. 

10 cent 3. 

40 cent 3. 

49 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

49 cent 0.2 

10 cent 0.2 

Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord : 

50 cent 1. 5 

10 cent 0.5 

10 cent .5. 

50 cent 5. 

10 cent 5. 

10 cent 5. 

49 cent 3. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord : 

10 cent 3. 

55 cent 3. 

55 cent 2. 

55 cent 3. 

10 cent 3. 

55 cent 3. 

55 cent 2. 



Remarks. 



Kana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



In four of these exiieriments the polarizing current usually produced 
an increased excitability of the nerve to the side of the negative pole ; 
while in two experiments the polarization seemed to have little or no 
influence on the efiect of the irritating current. 

A "half-saturated" solution of pure chloride of sodium was now sub- 
stituted for the irritating current and the experiment repeated in this 
manner. The solution was applied to the nerve near the muscle and 
5™'" below the point of application of the descending polarizing current. 

Experiment 7G. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Rana 
esculenta. 

Polarizing current from 1 Daniel. 

First irritations. — Salt solutiou alone ^1. Witli polarization, 3. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution alone^l. "With polarization, 
Third irritations. — Salt solution alonc^l. With polarization, 0. 
Fourth irritations. — Salt sohition alone=l. With polarization, 0. 
Fifth irritations.— Salt solution alone=:l. With polarization, 0. 
Sixth irritations. — Salt solution alone = l. With polarization, 0. 
Seventh irritations. — Salt solutiou aloue=l. With polarization, 0. 



382 EFFECT OF IKRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPEKIMENT 77. 

Polarization current from 2 Daniels. 

Eigbtli irritatious. — Salt solution alone^l. With polarization, 0. 
Ninth irritations.— Salt solntion alone = l. With polarization, 0. 
Tenth irritations. — Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 0. 
Eleventh irritations.— Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 0. 

ExPEEiiMENT 78. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemins muscle of a Eana 

esculenta. 

Polarizing current from 1 Daniel cell. 

First irritations. — Salt solution =3. With polarization, 5. 
Second irritations. — Salt solutionis. With polarization, 5. 
Third irritations. — Salt solution=3. With x)olarization, 5. 
Fourth irritations. — Salt solution =2. With polarization, 5/ 
Fifth irritations. — Salt solution =-- 2. With polarization, .5. 

Experiment 79. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 
esculenta. 

Polarization current from 4 Daniel cells. 

First irritations. — Salt solution alone =0.5. With polarization, 0. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution alone=l. With polarization, 3. 
Third irritations. — Salt solution alono=l. AVith polarization, 2. 
Fourth irritations. — Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 2. 

Experiment 80. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 

temporaria. 

Polarizing current from 4 Daniel cells. 

First irritations.— Salt solution alone = l. With polarization, 5. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 5, 
Third irritatious. — Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 5, 
Fourth irritations.— Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 5. 

ExPERiBiENT 81. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 

temporaria. 

Polarizing current from 1 Daniel cell. 

First irritations. — Salt solution alone=il.5. With polarization, 3. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution aloue^l.5. With polarization, 1.5. 
Third irritations.— Salt solution alone=1.5. With polarization, 1,5. 
After twenty minutes : 

Fourth irritations.— Salt solution alone=l. With polarization, 3. 
Fifth irritations.— Salt solution alone = 1. With polarization, 3. 
Sixth irritations. — Salt solution alone = l. With polarization, 3. 
Seventh irritations.- Salt solution alone = 0.5. With polarization, 4. 
Eighth irritations.— Salt solution alone = 0.5. With polarization, 4. 
Ninth irritations.— Salt solution alone=0.5. With polarization, 4. 
Tenth irritations. — Salt solution alone=0.5. With polarization, 4. 

Experiment 82. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 

temijoraria. 

Polarizing current from 4 Daniel cells. 

First irritations. — Salt solution alone ;= 1.5. With polarization, 2. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution alone^l.5. With polarization, 3. 
Third irritations. — Salt solution alone = 1.5. With polarization, 0. 
Fourth irritations. — Salt solution alone=1.5. With polarization^ 0. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 383 

Fifth irritations.— Salt solntiou alonc = 1.5. Witli polarization, 0.5. 
Sixth irritations. — Salt solution alone = 1.5. With iiolarization, 0.5. 

Experiment 83. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 
tem])oraria. 

Polarizing current from 4 Daniel ceJh. 

First irritations. — Salt solution alone=:2, "With polarization, "3. 
Second irritations. — Salt solntion aloue = 2. With polarization, 2. 
Third irritations. — Salt solntion alone := 2. With polarization, 2. 
Duration of experiment 13 minutes. 

Experiment 84. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 

temporaria. 

Polarizing current from 4 Daniel cells. 

First irritations. — Salt solution alone=0.5. With polarization, 0.5. 
Second irritations. — Salt solution aloue=0.5. AVith polarization, 0.8. 
Third irritations. — Salt solution alone = 0.5. With polarization, 1. 
Fourth irritations. — Salt solution alone=0.5. With polarization, 0.5. 
Fifth irriratious. — Salt solution alone = 0.5. With polarization, 1. 
Sixth irritations . — Salt solution alone =0.5. With iiolarization, 0. 

ExPEEiJiENT 85. — Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle of a Eana 
temporaria. 

Polarizing current from 4 Daniel cells. 

First iiritatious. — Salt solution alone ^3. With polarization, 4. 
Second irritations. — Salt solntion alone -= 3. With polarization, 4. 
Third irritations. — Salt solution alone = 3. With polarization, 4. 
Fourth irritations.— Salt solntion alone=3. With polarization, 3.5. . 
Fifth irritations. — Salt solution alone = 3. With polarization, 3.5. 
Sixth irritations. — Salt solntion alone ^3. With x>olarization, 3.5. 
Seventh irritations. — Salt solution alone=3. With polarization, 3. 
Eighth irritations. — Salt solution alone=0. With polarization, 2. 
Ninth irritations. — Salt solution aloue=:0. With polarization, 2.5. 
T(Mith irritations. — Salt solution alone=:0. With polarization, 2. 
Eleventh irritations. — Salt solntion alone ==0. With polarization, 2. 

This series of experiments made with chemical irritants certainly give 
us no more reason to believe in the infallibility of Pflligers "laws" than 
the preceding series. 

In finishing these series of experiments the following conclusion seems 
to be demanded hy the facts observed : When a descending polarizing 
current is applied to a nerve above a descending irritating current.^ the effect 
of the latter in exciting the nerve to produce muscular contractions is not 
necessarihj increased during the passage of the former. On the contrary, 
it often appears to be less instating during the passage of the descending 
I)olarizing current through the nerve. 

The ascending polarizing current applied to a nerve above a descending 

irrita t ing currcn t. 




N.. 



I. c. p. c. 



!84 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



The iiTitatioii being here to the side of the anode, it should, according 
to Piiiiger, i)roduce a stronger contraction during the absence than dur- 
ing the presence of the constant or polarizing current. The method of 
experimenting adopted was that described some pages back. As there, 
the first experiments were made with the closing of an electric circuit 
as an irritant. 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
polarizatiou. 



86. 

1st irritations - 
2cl irritations . . 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 



sr. 



1st irritations- . 
2d irritations. .. 
3d irritations. -. 
4tli irritations. . 
5th ivritiitious. . 
6tli irrilations. . 
7th irritations. . 
8tli irritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
lOtli irritations, 
lltli irritations. 
ll!tli irritations. 
13tli irritations. 



Irritation, 2 cells : 



SS. 



1st irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3iliiTitaiions . 
4th irritations . 



89. 



1st irritations 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations. . 
4tli irritations 
.'Jth irritations 
6th irritations. 
7th irritations. 
8th irritations . 



f>0. 

1st irritations 
2d irritati<ins . 
3d irritations . 



91. 



1st irritations 
2d iiTitations . . 



93. 

1st irritations. 
2(1 irritations. . 
3d iiiitations. . 
4tli irritations. 
5tli irritations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3703 cent 0. 5 

3703 cent 0.5 

2907 cent 0.5 

2G75cent 0. 

2781 cent 2. 

2781 cent 1.5 

1214 cent 0. 

1308 cent. 0. 

1308 cent 0. 

1308 cent 0. 

223 cent 0.5 

223 cent 0.5 

223 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
3109 cent. .....0. 

3109 cent 0. 

3109 cent 0. 

3109 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo 
chord : 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent .... 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 

.3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 tent 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 

3109 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 coll : 



Irritation, 1 coll : 



Irritation, 1 cell: 



Eemarks. 



Polarization : 

4 cells 1. 

2 cells 0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 



Polarization, 2 cells : 

0. 

1. 

1. 

0.5 

0. 

2. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 



Polarization, 2 cells: 

0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



Polarization, 2 cells: 

0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 



Polarization, 2 cells : 
3. 

0.5 
0.5 



Polarization, 2 cells: 
0. 
0. 



Polarization, 2 cells: 
0. 
3. 
3. 
3. 
0.5 



Kana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria. 



10 minutes later. 



Rana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria, 



Rana temporaria 



Rana temporaria. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



385 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Eemarks. 


A.m. 

12 04 
10 
15 


93. 

let irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1, 
1. 
1- 


Polarization, 2 cells: 
0.5 
0.5 
0.6 


Rana esculenta. 


3 08 
14 
19 

4 10 


94. 

1st irritations . . . 

2d irritations 

SdiiTitations 

4th irritations... 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1. 
1. 
1. 
L 


Polarization, 2 cells: 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0.5 


Bana temporaria. 


9 59J 

10 02 

03 

05 

07 


95. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d iri itations 

4tli irritations... 
5tli irritations... 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1. 
1. 
1. 
0. 
0. 


Polarization, 2 cells : 
0.5 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


liana esculenta. 


10 35 

37 
38 
40 
43 
44 
45 
33 

11 06 


96. 

Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations ... 
4tli iiTitations. .- 
5th irritations. .. 
6th irritations. .. 
7th in itations. .. 
8th irritations... 
9th irritations... 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


i! 


Polarization: 

4cells 0. 

2cells 0. 

0, 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0.5 

L 


Bana esculenta. 


11 10 
12 
13 

22 


97. 

Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations... 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1. 
1. 
1. 

1. 


Polarization, 4 cells: 
3. 
3. 
1. 
0.5 


Bana temporaria. 


1140 
47 
49 


98. 

Ist irritations . . . 
2d irritations ... 
3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1. 
1. 
1. 


Polarization, 4 cells: 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 


Bana temporaria. 


2 09 
10 
13 


99. 

Ist irritations... 

2dirritaiions 

3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

1. 
1. 
L 


Polarization, 4 cells : 

0. 
0. 
0. 


Bana esculenta. 

Weak irritating currents. 


2 15 

20 

23J 

25 


100. 

1st irritations . . . 

2d initations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations. .. 


Irritation, 1 cell, 
chord : 


rheo- 

1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 


Polarization, 4 cells: 

4. 
4. 
3. 
3. 


Last frog again used. 
Strong irritating currents. 


3 42 

45 
48 

4 00 


101. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations . . . 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2458 cent 1. 

2350 cent 1. 

2350 cent 1. 

2127 cent 0. 


Polarization, 2 cells : 

0.5 
0.5 
5 
3. 


Bana temporaria. 




10'^. 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells: 


Bana esculenta. 


4 17 
19 
21 
24 


Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations. .. 


2907 cent.... 

2907 cent 

1793 cent 

2781 cent.... 


..0.5 
..0.5 
..1. 
..L5 


0. 
0. 
3. 
0. 





S. Mis. 59 25 



386 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 


Irritation without 


Irritation during 


Kemarks. 


periment. 


polarization. 


polarization. 




103. 












Irritation, 1 coll, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells : 


Bana esculenta. 


h.m. 




chord : 






4 02 


Ist irritations... 


2562 cent 0. 


0. 




06 


2d irritations 


2562 cent 0. 


0. 




10 


3d irritations 


2249 cent 1. 


0. 




13 


4th iiTitations . . 


2249 cent 1. 


0.5 




16 


5th irritations. .. 


2249 cent 1. 


1. 




20 


6th irritations . . . 


2249 cent 1. 


1. 




30 


7th irritations... 


2249 cent 1. 


Q.5 




35 


8th irritations... 
104. 


2249 cent 1. 


0.5 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells: 


(Eana^scnlenta. 


5 05 


Ist irritations. .. 


2781 cent 0. 


3. 




13 


2d irritations 


2675 cent 0. 


3. 




20 


3d irritations 


24.')8cent 3. 


2. 




23 


4th irritations . . 


223 cent 1.5 


1. 




29 


5th iiTitations . . 


223 cent 1.5 


3. 




33 


6th irritations . . 


1634 cent 1. 


0.5 




35 


7ih irritations.. - 


2127 cent 1. 


0. 




36 


8th irritations... 


1634 cent 1. 


0. 


^ 


37 


9th irritations . . 


1413 cent 1. 


0.5 




37J 


10th irritations.. 


1109 cent 1. 


0.5 




39 


11th iiTitations.. 


223 cent 1. 


0.5 




43 


12th irritations.. 


223 cent 0. 


3. 




44 


13th irritations.. 


223 cent 1. 


0. 




56 


14th irritations.. 
IOj. 


223 cent 1. 


6.5 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells : 


Rana esculenta. 






chord : 






10 06 


1st irritations... 


1893 cent 1. 


0. 




14 


2d irritations 


223 cent 1. 


2.5 




17 


3d irritations ... 


2016 cent 1. 


0.5 




18 


4th irritations... 


223 cent 1. 


3. 




19 


5th irritations . . . 


1893 cent 0. 


0.5 




20 


6th irritations. .. 


1793 cent 0. 


0. 




21 


7th irritations . . . 


1634 cent 0. 


0. 




2H 


8th irritations. . . 
106. 


1526 cent 0. 


0. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
2955 cent 1. 


Polarization : 


Eana temporaria. 


10 35 


Ist irritations... 


4 cells 0. 




37 


2d irritations.... 


2955 cent 1. 


Icell 0. 




40 


3d irritations 


2955 cent 0.5 


4 cells 0. 




50 


4th iiTitations .. 


29.35 cent 0. 


0. 




53 


5th iiTitatiftns . . 


2401 cent 2. 


2. 




55 


6th irritations . . 


2728 cent 2. 


1. 




59 


7th irritations. .. 


2728 cent 1. 


0. 




11 00 


8tliin'itations. .. 


2728 cent 0. 


0. 




12 


9th irritations. .. 


2728 cent 0. 


0. 




16 


lOtli irritations.. 


223 cent 1.5 


1.5 




20 


11th irritations.. 


2728 cent 1. 


1.5 




25 


12th irritations.. 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




28 


13th irritations.. 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




34 


14th irritations. - 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




40 


15tli irritations.. 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




43 


IGth irritations.. 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




54 


17th irritations. . 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 




12 00 


18th irritations. . 
107. 


2728 cent 1. 


0.5 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells : 


Kana temporaria. 






chord : 






12 12 


Ist irritations. .. 


223 cent 3. 


3. 




19 


2d irritations 


223 cent 3. 


3. 




40 


3d irritations 

lOS. 


223 cent 3. 


3. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
3179 cent 0. 


Polarization, 1 cell : 


Rana temporaria. 


1 05 


Ist irritations... 


3. 




09 


2d irritations 


3198 cent 0. 


3. 




11 


3d irritations 


223 cent 3. 


3. 




12 


4th irritations . . . 


3198 cent 0. 


3. 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



387 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
l)eiiment. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Kemarks. 



h. m. 

1 37 5th irritations . 

39 I 6th irritations... 

40 j 7th irritations. .. 
56 I 8th irritations. .. 

2 05 J 9th irritations... 
25 10th irritations.. 



109. 



3 20 1st irritations . 

23 2(1 irritations. . 

24 ' 3d irritations. . 
27 4th irritations . . , 



110. 



3 40 1st irritations. .. 

42 2d irritations 

43 I 3d irritations 

4th irritations . . . 
5th irritations. ., 
6th invitations. .. 
7th initations. . 
8th irritations. . 

16 9th irritations.. 



111. 



4 28 1st irritations. . 
38 j 2d irritations . . . 
45 3d irritations . . . 



4th irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
Gth irritations.. 
7th iiTitations. . 
8th irritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations . 
13th irritations. 
14th irritations . 



112. 



Ist irritations. . 
2d irritations . . . 
3d irritations. .. 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations . . 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations. . 
8th irritations . . 
9th irritations . . 
10th irritations. 



113. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 
Gth irritations. 
7th irritations . 
8th irritations. 



114. 



1st irritations. 
2d Irritations. . 



2649 cent 1. 

2*05 cent 1. 

223 cent 2.5 

3194 cent 0. 

223 cent 1.5 

223 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3109 cent 0. 

1847 cent 2. 

1413 cent 2.5 

223 cent 4. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

223 cent 0. 

3109 cent 0. 

Icell. 5. 

Icell 0. 

IceU 3. 



Irritation, 1 cell: 

2. 
4. 
4. 
Eheochord : 

1580 cent 4. 

2726 cent 0. 

2728 cent 1. 

2726 cent 1. 

2728 cent 2. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1. 

2728 cent 5. 

2728 cent 4. 

2781 cent 0. 



0. 

1. 

2.5 

2.5 

0.5 

L 



Polarization, 4 cells : 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells : 


chord : 






2728 cent... 


...3. 


0. 


2728 cent... 


...4. 




2781 cent... 


...4. 


0. 


2781 cent... 


...3. 


0. 


2781 cent... 


...3. 


0. 


2781 cent... 


...3. 


0. 


2849 cent... 


...5. 


0. 


2849 cent... 


...1. 


0. 


2849 cent... 


...1. 


0. 


2849 cent... 


...3. 


0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3187 cent 0. 

223 cent 5. 

1793 cent 4. 

1793 cent 3. 

2510 cent 3. 

2510 cent 4. 

2510 cent 2. 

2510 cent 2.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3109 cent 0. 

2183 cent 3. 



0. 

0.5 

1. 



Polarization, 2 cells : 

3. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
3. 
3. 
5. 
3. 
5. 



Polarization, 2 cells : 
2. 
4. 
2. 

0. 

2. 

1. 

0. 

0. 

& 

0.6 

2. 

0.5 

0.5 

2. 



Polarization, 3 cells : 



1.5 

3. 

4. 

2. 

1.5 

0. 

0. 

0. 



Polarization, 4 cells : 

2. 
0. 



Eana esculenta. 



Sana temporaria. 



Rana temporaria. 



Sana temporaria. 



Sana temporaria. 



Sana temporaria. 



388 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



Irrifation without 
polarization. 



3fl irritations. . 
4tli irritations. 
5tli irritations. 
6th irritations . 
7th irritations . 
8th irritations . 



115. 



1st irritations.. 
2(1 irritations... 
3d irritations... 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations.. 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations.. 
8th irritations.. 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 



116. 



1st irritations.. 
2(1 irritations. . . 
3(1 irritations. .. 
4th iri'itations. . 
5th irritations. . 
6th irritations.. 
7th irritations . . 
8th irritations.. 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 



117. 



1st irritations.. 
2(liriitations... 
3(liiTitations. .. 
4th irritations.. 
5th irritations. . 
6th irritations. . 
7th iiTitations. . 
8th irritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
loth irritations. 
11th irritations. 
I'Jtli iriitations. 
13th irritations. 
14th irritations. 
15th irritations. 



118. 



1st irritations.. 
2(1 irritations... 
3d iiTitations . . . 
4th irritations . . 
5th irritations.. 
6th irritations- . 



119. 



1st irritations.. 
2(1 irritations. .. 
3d iiTitations . . . 
4th irritations . . 
5th irritations. . 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations . . 
8th irritations . . 
9th irritations.. 
lOth irritations . 
11th irritations. 



2183 cent 0. 

2016 cent 2. 

1360 cent 3. 

1360 cent 1. 

1360 cent 0.5 

1360 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo. 
choid : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent. 0. 

3058 cent 0. 

3003 cent 5. 

3003 cent 5. 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent 3. 

2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent 2. 

2955 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3197 cent 0. 

3058 cent 1. 

3058 cent 2. 

3058 cent 0. 

3058 cent 0.5 

3058 cent 0.5 

3058 cent 0.5 

30.58 cent 0. 

2955 cent 2. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2849 cent 2. 

2728 cent 4. 

2728 cent. 3. 

2350 cent 4. 

2350 cent 4. 

223 cent 5. 

2350 cent 4. 

2562 cent 4. 

2562 cent 4. 

2849 cent 2. 

2955 cent 0.5 

2901 cent 2. 

2901 cent 3. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 3. 

Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3000 cent 0.5 

3000 cent 0.5 

3000 cent 0.5 

SuOOcent 0.5 

3000 cent 2. 

3000 cent 2. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2781 cent 0. 

2675 cent 0.5 

2675 cent 0. 

2562 cent 2. 

2562 cent 1. 

3058 cent 0. 

3003 cent 1. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Eemaiks. 



Folarizatioii, 3 cells : 

5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
3. 
1. 
1. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 



Polarization, 4 cells: 



Polarization, 4 cells: 





1. 




1. 




0. 




3. 




1. 




5. 




1. 




2. 




0. 




0. 




0. 




0. 




1. 




2. 




2. 


Icell 


4. 




3. 


IceU 


0. 


4 cells 


4. 




4. 


IceU 


0. 



Polarization, 4 cells: 

5. 
5. 
5. 
5, 
5. 
5. 
5. 
4. 
4. 
4. 

e. 



Sana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



Bana temporaria. 



Hana temporaria. 



Hana temporaria. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



389 



Nnmbor of ex- 
periment. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Eemarks. 



130. 



l.st irritations. . 
2(1 irritations. .. 
3(1 in'itatious. .. 
4th irritations.. 
5th irritations.. 
ethiiTitations.. 
7th irritations. . 
8th irritations.. 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 



121. 



1st irritations.. 
2(1 irritations. .. 
3d irritations . . 
4th irritations.. 
"Sth irritations.. 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations.. 
8th irritations . . 
9th irritations.. 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations . 
13th irritations. 
14th irritations. 
15th irritations. 
16th irritations. 
17 th irritations. 



122. 



1st irritations. 
2d' irritations . . 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations . 
6th irritations . 
7th irritations. 



123. 



1st irritations. 
2(1 irritations . . 
3(1 iiTitations . 
4th irritations. 
5th iiTitations. 



124. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations . . 
3d irritations.. 



126. 



1st irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations.. 



i2r. 



1st irritfitiona . 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations . . 
4th iiTitations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3197 cent 1. 

3197 cent 0.5 

3179 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3003 cent 1. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 3. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3003 cent 2. 

1160 cent 4. 

1160 cent 4. 

341 cent 4. 

341 cent 4. 

3003 cent 1. 

3003 cent 1.5 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 0.5 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent 4. 

2950 cent 0.5 

700 cent 4.5 

700 cent 4.5 

2775 cent 1. 

2675 cent 3. 

2675 cent 2. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3197 cent 2. 

3197 cent 2. 

3176 cent 0. 

3176 cent 0. 

3176 cent 0. 

2910 cent 0.5 

2910 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3018 cent 0. 

3018 cent 0. 

3018 cent 2. 

2875 cent 0. 

2850 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

1400 cent 3. 

2125 cent 0. 

2125 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

223 cent 1. 

223 cent 0.5 

223 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3100 cent 1. 

3025 cent 2. 

3025 cent 1. 

3025 cent 0.5 



Polarization : 

4cells ...3. 

Icell 0, 

Icell 0. 

■4cells 4. 

Icell. 2. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

a 

4. 

4. 



Polarization: 

Icell 0. 

Icell 4. 

4cells 4. 

4cell3 4. 

Icell 4. 

Icell 0. 

4cell3 3. 

4cell3 2. 

Icell 0. 

Icell 4. 

4 cells 4. 

Icell 0. 

4cell3 5. 

Icell 5. 

Icell 0. 

4ceUs 0. 

IceU 0. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord: 

3 cent 5. 

3 cent 5. 

cent 3. 

5 cent 3. 

2cent 3. 

20 cent 1. 

20 cent 2. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord: 

1 cent 2. 

20 cent 3. 

20 cent 4. 

10 cent 1. 

20 cent 0.5 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

20 cent 3. 

20 cent 0. 

20 cent 0. 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord: 

lOcent 1.5 

10 cent 1. 

10 cent 1.5 



Polarization, 4 cells, 
rheochord : 

48c<'ut 1. 

30 cent 3. 

30c(>nt 2. 

30 cent 2. 



Bona, temporaria. 



B^na temporaiia. 



Kana temporaria. 
Polarization, 1 celL 



Bana temporaria. 



Bana temporaria. 



Bana temporaria. 



Bana temporarix. 



390 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Hemarks. 


h.m. 
11 22 


5th irritations... 


2950c(-nt 2. 


30 cent.. 


4. 




25 


ethiiTitations... 


2950 cent 2. 


30 cent. . 


2. 




28 


7th irritations... 


2950 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


4. 




29 


8th irritations. .. 


2950 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


. ... 3. 




32 


9th irritations. .. 


29.50 cent 2. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




34 


10th irritations. . 


2950 cent 2. 


30 cent. . 


2. 




40 


11th irritations.. 


2790 cent 4. 


30 cent.. 


5. 




42 


12th irritations.. 


2790 cent 5. 


30 cent. . 


5. 




45 


13th irritations.. 


2875 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




46 


14th irritations.. 


2875 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




48 


15th irritations. . 


2875 cent 1. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




50 


lOtli irritations.. 


287.) cent 0. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




52 


17thiiTitations.. 


2730 cent 2.5 


30 cent.. 


5. 




53 


18th irritations.. 


2730 cent 4. 


30 cent.. 


5. 




54 


19thiiTitation8.. 


2730 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


5. 




55 


20th irritations.. 


2730 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


5. 




57 


21,st irritations .. 
22(1 irritations... 


2730 cent 3. 

2730 cent 3. 


30 cent. . 


4.5 




58 


50 cent.. 


5. 




12 02 


23(1 irritations . . . 


2730 cent 1. 


50 cent. . 


5. 




15 


24th irritations.. 


2600 cent 5. 


50 cent.. 


1.5 




16 


2oth iiTitations . . 


2700 cent 3. 


50 cent.. 


5. 




20 


26th irritations . . 


2700 cent 3. 


50 cent.. 


3. 




25 


27th irritations.. 
28th irritations.. 


2700 cent 2.5 

2700 cent 2.5 




. 3.5 




27 


50<;ent.. 


3. 




30 


29th irritations.. 


2700 cent 2.5 


50 cent.. 


3. 




32 


30th irritations.. 


2700 cent 2.5 


50 cent. . 


4. 




36 


31st irritations.. 


2700 cent 2.5 


50 cent . . 


3. 




38 


32cl irritations. .. 


2700 cent 4. 


50 cent.. 


5. 




41 


3d(l irritations... 


2700 cent 2.5 


50 cent.. 


3. 




44 


34th irritations . . 
35th irritations.. 

128. 


2700 cent 2. 

2700 cent 3. 




2.5 




54 




4.5 
















Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 


4 cells. 


Sana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






2 58 


1st irritations . . . 


2295 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




59 


2d irritations 


2401 cent 2. 


30 cent. . 


2. 




3 00 


3(1 irritations 


2401 cent 3. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




01 


4th irritations.. - 


2401 cent 3. 


10 cent. . 


5. 




04 


5th irritations. .. 
6tli irritations... 


2675 cent. 2. 

2675 cent 3. 


10 cent. . 


2. 5 




05 


10 cent.. 


5. 




06 


7tli irritations... 


2781 cent 1. 


10 cent.. 


1.5 




12 


8th irritations. .. 


2781 cent 0.5 


10 cent.. 


0.5 




20 


9th irritations. .. 


2458 cent 2. 


10 cent. . 


3. 




28 


10th irritations.. 
129. 


2901 cent 0. 


30 cent. . 


1. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 


4 cells, 


Eana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






3 41 


Ist irritations ... 


2675 cent 2. 


30 cent.. 


3. 




44 


2(1 irritations 


2675 cent 1. 


30 cent.. 


1. 




45 


3(1 irritations 


2675 cent 0. 


10 cent. . 


2. 




55 


4th irritations. .. 


223 cent 2. 


10 cent.. 


2. 




56 


5tli irritations. .. 


223 cent 2.5 


40 cent.. 


3. 




58 


6th irritations. .. 
130. 


223 cent 3. 


40 cent. . 


3. 








Irritation,! cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 


4 cells. 


Kana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






1 20 


Ist irritations . . . 


2781 cent 3. 


49 cent.. 


4. 




21 


2(1 ii-ritations 


2901 cent 3. 


49 cent.. 


4. 




23 


3(1 irritations 


2901 cent 2.5 


10 cent. . 


4. 




24 


4th irritations . . . 


2901 cent 2. 


10 cent.. 


4. 




30 


5th irritations. .. 


2901 cent 3. 


10 cent.. 


3. 




34 


6th irritations. . . 
131. 


2901 cent 2. 


10 cent.. 


3. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 


4 cells. 


Eana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






9 14 


1st irritations ... 


2955 cent 4. 


38 cent.. 


4. 




16 


2(1 irritations 


3025 cent 3. 


20 cent. . 


3. 




19 


3(1 irritations 


3150 cent 0. 


20 cent.. 


0. 




24i 


4th irritations... 


3197 cent 2. 


10 cent.. 


3. 




26^ 


5th irritations . . . 


3197 cent 2. 


45 cent . . 


3. 




37 


0th irritations... 


3198 cent 1.5 


10 cent.. 


2. 




39 


7th irritations... 


3198 cent 1. 


10 cent. . 


2. 




40 


8th irritations... 


3198 cent 0.5 


30 cent.. 


1.5 




44 


9th irritations. .. 
10 th irritations.. 


3198 cent 0.5 

3189 cent 0.5 


30 cent.. 


0.5 




46 


30 cent. . 


1. 





EFFECT OF lERITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



391 



Out of the preceding forty -five experiments twenty usually gave a de- 
creased excitability of the nerve to the side of the anode of the constant 
current. In three experiments (89, 107, and 124) no effect was pro- 
duced by the polarization. In one experiment (115) in the beginning aa 
increased excitability was produced to the copper side of the constant 
current, and in another the result was inconstant. In twenty experi- 
ments, however, the irritating current usually or always produced an 
increased excitability of the nerve in the anelectrotonus portion of the 
nerve; i. e., an efiect directly opposite to that demanded by Pfliiger's 
theory. 

In the following experiments the opening instead of the closing of the 
irritating current is recorded : 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Kemarks. 


h.m. 


133. 

1st irritations. .. 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations... 
5th irritations... 


Irritation, 2 cells: 

o'.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0.5 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Bana temporaria. 




133. 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2500 cent 1.5 

2100 cent 1. 

2100 cent 1. 

2728 cent 1.5 

2728 cent. .-...1. 

1308 cent 1.5 

1000 cent L 


Polarization, 2 colls : 


Eana temporaria. 




1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations. .. 
5th irritations... 
6th irritations... 
7th irritations... 


0. 
0. 
1. 
1. 
0. 
L 
0. 






134. 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3100 cent 1. 

3100 cent 1. 

3100 cent 0. 

3100 cent 0. 


Polarization, 4 cells : 


Kana temporaria. 




Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations. .. 


0. 
3. 
3. 

a 






135. 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3100 cent 2. 

3100 cent 0.5 

3100 cent 2. 

3100 cent 1. 

3100 cent 1. 

3000 cent 1. 

3000 cent 1. 

3000 cent L 


PoHrizjition, 4 cells : 


Sana temporaria. 




1st irritations . . . 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations .. 
5th irritations. .. 
6th irritations. .. 
7th irritations... 
8th iiTitations... 


L 
1. 
1. 
1. 
1. 
1, 
1. 
1. 






136. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell: 

0. 
0. 
0. 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
2. 

1.5 
1.5 


Kana temporaria^ 




i3r. 

Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritatioua... 


Irritation, 1 cell: 

0. 

0.5 
0.5 
0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
2. 
L 
1. 

1. 


Baua temporaria. 



392 



EFFECT OF lEEITATION OF A POLAEIZED NERVE. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritation without 
l)olarization. 


Irrit.ation dnring 
polarization. 


Eemaxlifl. 


h.m. 

12 30 

45 
46 
48 
54 
59 
1 17 


138. 

Ist irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations .. 
5th irritations. .. 
ethin-itations... 
TthiiTitations... 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


0.5 

1. 

1. 

1. 

0.5 

1. 

L 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 

S: 

0. 
0. 
0. 


Kana temporaria. 


3 09 
10 
12 
14 
16 
19 


139. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations... 
5th irritations... 
6th irritations... 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 

L 

5 

0.5 

0.5 

0.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
0. 

• 0. 
0. 


Kana temporaria. 


4 56 
57 
58 
59 

5 03 
05 
06 
09 
14 
18 


140. 

1st irritations. .. 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations .. 
5th irritations... 
6th irritations .. 
7th irritations. .. 
8th irritations... 
9th irritations. .. 
10th irritations.. 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1.5 

L 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 

0.5 
1. 


Eana escnlenta. 




141. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations... 


Irritation,! cell: 


1.5 
2. 
3. 
1.5 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
1.5 
4. 
3. 
L5 


Kana temporaria. 


1 00 
05 
10 


142. 

1st irritations... 
2d irritations.... 
3d irritations.... 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
1. 


Polarisation, 4 cells : 
0.5 
0.5 
0. 


Eana temporaria. 


1 20 

24 

27 


143. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell : 


1. 
1. 
1. 


Polarization, 4 cells : 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Eana temporaria. 


1 32 
36 
39 
45 
46 
50 

2 05 
15 


144. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 

4th irritations. .. 
5th iiTitat ions. .. 
6th irritations. .. 
7th in-itations. . . 
8th irritations .. 


Irritation, 1 cell: 


0.5 

0.5 

0.5 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 


Polarization, 4 cells: 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Eana temporaria. 




145. 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 4 cells: 


Eana escnlenta. 


11 32 

40 
43 


Ist irritations. .. 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


2781 cent.... 

223 cent 

223 cent 


..1.5 
..1.5 
..1.5 


0.5 
0.5 
0.5 




11 48 

50 
54 


146. 

1st irritations... 

2d irritations 

3d irritations 


Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 1. 

2955 cent 1. 


Polarization, 1 cell: 

5. 
5. 
4. 


Eana temporaria. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



393 



Time. 


Number of ex- 
periment. 


Irritatioiv without 
polarization. 


Irritation during 
polarization. 


Eemarks. 


h.m. 










12 00 


4th irritations. .. 


2955 cent 0.5 


4. 




05 


5tli irritations. .. 


2400 cent 0.5 


3. 




07 


6tli irritations... 


2720 cent 3. 


3. 




09 


7tii irritations .. 
147. 


2720 cent 3. 


3. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
2700 cent 1. 


Polarization, 1 cell: 


Kana temporaria. 


12 22 


1st irritations... 


0.5 




26 


2d irritations 


223 cent 4. 


4. 




30 


3d irritations 


2700 cent 1. 


1. 




32 


4th irritations. .. 


2700 cent 1. 


0.5 




34 


5tli irritations. .. 


2700 cent 1. 


0.5 




38 


6th irritations... 


2700 cent 1. 


0. 




50 


7t(i irritations. .. 


2700 cent. 1. 


0. 




ae 


8th irritations. .. 


2700 cent 1. 


0. 




53 


9th irritations. .. 


2700 cent 1. 


0. 




1 00 


10th irritations... 
148. 


2700 cent 1. 


0. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 1 cell: 


Eana temporaria. 






chord : 






2 20 


1st irritations... 


3170 cent 0. 


4. 




25 


2d irritations 


3190 cent 0. 


4. 




29 


3d irritations 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




32 


4th irritations .. 


223 cent 4. 


4. 




33 


5tli irritations. .. 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




35 


6tli irritations... 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




45 


7th irritations... 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




47 


8th irritations .. 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




49 


9th irritations. .. 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




50 


10th irritations.. 


2-'3cent 4. 


4. 




3 00 


11th irritations.. 


3199 cent 0. 


4. 




01 


12th irritations.. 


3199 cent 0. 


3. 




10 


13th irritations.. 


3199 cent 0. 


3. 




11 


14th irritations.. 
149. 


223 cent 3. 


2. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 4 cells: 


Kana temporaria. 






choid : 






3 40 


1st irritations. .. 


3198 cent 3. 


0. 




42 


2d u-ritations 

150. 


3198 cent 2. 


0. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
3198 cent 0. 


Polarization, 1 cell: 


Eana temporaria. 


4 00 


1st irritations... 


1. 




04 


2d irritations 


3198 cent 0. 


3. 




10 


3d irritations 


3198 cent 0. 


4. 




15 


4th irritations. .. 


3177 cent 0. 


1. 




20 


5th irritations... 


223 cent 4. 


4. 




35 


6th irritations. .. 


3177 cent 0. 


2. 




39 


7th irritations .. 


3169 cent 0. 


2. 




41 


8th irritations . . 


31G9cent 0. 


0.5 




5 06 


9th irritations . . 
131. 


2510 cent 0. 


3. 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 3 cells: 


Eana temporaria. 






chord: 






9 15 


Ist irritations. .. 


1070 cent 3. 


2. 




20 


2d irritations 


1070 cent 1. 


0.5 




25 


3d in-itations 


1360 cent 0.5 


0.5 




35 


4th irritations... 

15a. 


1360 cent .0.5 


0.5 








Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 
3000 cent 3. 


Polarization, 3 cells: 


Eana temporaria. 


9 54 


Ist irritations... 


5. 




55 


2d irritations 


3000 cent 4. 


5. 




10 01 


3d irritations 


3000 cent 3. 


5. 


^ 


05 


4th irritations... 


3058 cent 0. 


5. 




12 


5th irritations... 


3058 cent 0. 


4. 




14 


OthiiTitations. .. 


2950 cent 2. 


4. 




18 


7tli irritations. .. 


2950 cent 2. 


4. 




25 


8th irritations... 


2950 cent 0. 


4. 




27 


9th irritations. .. 


2950 cent 0.5 


4. 




32 


10th irritations. . 


2950 cent 0. 


4. 




37 


11th irritations.. 


2950 cent 0. 


4. 





394 



EFFECT OF IREITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



153. 



1st irritations. 
2(1 irritations. . 
Sdirritatioua.. 



134. 



Ist irritations 
2(1 irritations . . 
3d irritations . . 



155. 



1st irritations . . 
2d irritations. .. 
3d iiritatiuns... 
4tli irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
6tb irritations. . 
7th irritations . . 
8tli irritations. . 
9th irritations. . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 
13th irritations. 
14th irritations. 
15th irritations. 



156. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations . . 
4tli irritations . 
5th irritations . 



157. 



Ist irritations . 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations.. 
4th irritations. 



158. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations . . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 
Cth irritations. 
7th irritations. 
8th irritations. 



159. 



1st irritations . 
2d irritations . . 
3d irritations . . 
4th irritations. 



Irritation without 
polai'issation. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 



In itation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent. .....0. 

3000 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3198 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3179 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent 1. 

3000 cent 0. 

llCOccnt 0. 

o41 cent 0. 

341 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 

3000 cent 0. 

2781 cent 0. 

2690 cent 1. 

2690 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3196 cent 0. 

3196 cent 0. 

3058 cent 0.5 

3058 cent 0.5 

3058 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2900 cent 0. 

2900 cent 0.5 

2900 cent 0.5 

2900 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

3050 cent 0.5 

3050 cent 0.5 

2900 cent 1. 

2900 cent 0.5 

2900 cent 0.5 

2675 cent 0. 

2075 cent 0. 

2675 cent 0. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3130 cent 0. 

3130 cent 0. 

3196 cent 0. 

3196 cent 0. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Polarization, 1 cell: 

1. 
1. 
2. 



Polarization, 1 cell: 



1. 
1. 
0.5 



Polarization, 1 cell : 

1. 
1. 



4. 

0. 

4. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

3. 

3. 

1. 

0.5 

0. 

0.5 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

4 cent 3. 

4 cent 3. 

4 cent 5. 

4 cent 5. 

4 cent 5. 



Polarization, 1 cell, 
rheochord: 

18 cent 0.5 

18 cent 2. 

18 cent 1. 

18 cent L 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

12 cent 0.5 

12 cent 0.5 

12 cent 1. 

30c(>nt 3. 

30 cent 1. 

30 cent 1. 

30 cent 0.5 

10 cent 3. 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

20 cent 1. 

20 cent 0.5 

10 cent ...1. 

45 cent 1. 



Bemarks. 



!Eana temporaria. 



IRana temporaria. 



Bana temporaria. 



Polarization, 4 cells. 
Polarization, 1 cell. 



Bana temporaria. 



Bana escnlenta. 



Bana temporaria. 



Bana temporaria. 



Out of these last twenty-eight experiments, in but eleven was the 
irritation less effective in jiroducing muscular contractions during the 
presence of the constant current than when the irritating current alone was 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



395 



applied to the nerve ; of the remaining experiments, in fourteen the op- 
posite result was obtained, though the manner of experimenting was 
the same as adopted in the other experiments. 

In the following experiments the nerves were irritated in their normal 
position, without having previously been injured. As in similar experi- 
ments, before described, made with the descending polarizing current, 
the non-polarizable electrodes had to be substituted by copper electrodes. 
These were covered with wax, except at the point where they touched 
the nerve. With this exception the apparatus was unchanged. In this 
series of experiments the irritation was made by the closing of a gal- 
vanic circuit. 



Time. 


Number of ex- 


Irritation without 


Irritation during 




periment. 


polarization. 


polarization. 




h. m. 


160. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells. 


Eana esculenta. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






1st irritations . . . 


2075 cent 0.5 


52 cent 0.5 






2d irritations . . . 


1847 cent 1. 


50 cent 2. 






3d irritations . . . 


1847 cent 1. 


10 cent 1. 






4th irritations. .. 


2016 cent 1. 


52 cent 1. 






5th irritations. .. 


2016 cent 1. 


52 cent 1. 






6tb irritations. .. 


2070 cent 1. 


10 cent 0.5 






7th irritations . . . 


2600 cent 0.5 


10 cent .0.5 






8th irritations... 


2728 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0. 






9th irritations... 


2618 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0.5 






10th irritations.. 


2618 cent 0.5 


55 cent 1.5 






161. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, 


Rana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord: 






Ist irritations... 


890 cent 1. 


48 cent 0.5 






2d irritations . . . 


890 cent 1. 


11 cent 1. 






3d irritations . . . 


890 cent 0.5 


11 cent 2. 






4th irritations... 


890 cent 0. 


49 cent 2. 






5th irritations. .. 


890 cent 0. 


11 cent 2. 






6th irritations... 


890 cent 0. 


10 cent 2. 






7th initations . . . 


890 cent 0.5 


10 cent 0. 






8th irritations. .. 


890 cent 1. 


49 cent 1.5 






16a. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells. 


Kana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord: 






Ist irritations... 


1500 cent 0.5 


10 cent 1. 






2d irritations . . . 


1800 cent 0.5 


56 cent 1. 






3d irritations . . . 


1800 cent 0. 


50 cent 0.5 






163. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells. 


Eana temporaria. 






chord: 


rheochord : 






let irritations. .. 


3000 cent 0. 


25 cent 0. 5 






2d irritations . . . 


3000 cent 4. 


25 cent 5. 






3d irritations . . . 


3000 cent 2. 


25 cent 2. 






4th irritations... 


1739 cent 2. 


50 cent 2. 






5th irritations. .. 


1739 cent 2. 


50 cent 2. 






6th irritations. .. 


1739 cent 2. 


10 cent 2. 






7th irritations. .. 


393 cent ?. 


40 cent 4. 






164. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, 


Eana temporaria. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






Ist irritations... 


2500 cent 2. 


52 cent 3. 






2d irritations . . . 


2500 cent 2. 


52 cent 4. 






3d irritations . .. 


2500 cent 2. 


12 cent 2. 






4th irritations... 


2100 cent 0.5 


52 cent 1. 






165. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, i 


. Eana temporaria. 






chord: 


rheochord : 






Ist irritations - . . 


1950 cent 2. 


57 cent 2. 






2d irritations . . . 


1950 cent 1.5 


57 cent 1.5 





396 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF -A. POLARIZED -NERVE. 



Time 


Number of ex- 


Irritation without 


Irritation during 


Eemarks. 


periment. 


polarization. 


polarization. 


ft. m. 


3d irritations . . . 


2675 cent. .....0.2 


57 cent 0.3 






4th irritations. .. 


2400 cent 2. 


57 cent 2. 






5th irritations... 


2400 cent 1. 


57 cent 0.5 






6th irritations... 


2300 cent 1. 


57 cent 0.5 






7tli irritations... 


2300 cent 0. 


57 cent 0.5 






8th irritations. .. 


2300 cent 1. 


67 cent 1. 






166. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, 


Eana temporaria. 






chord: 


rheochord: 






Ist irritations... 


1526 cent 0.5 


58 cent 1. 




^ 


2d irritations . . . 


490 cent 2. 


58 cent 4. 






3d irritations . . . 


490 cent 0.5 


58 cent 0.5 






4th irritations... 


1526 cent 0.5 


58 cent 1. 






5th irritations. .. 


1526 cent 0.5 


58 cent 1. 






167. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polirization, 2 cells, 


Bana escnlenta. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






1st irritations. .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






2d irrifations . .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






3d irritations . . . 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






4th irritations. .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






5th irritations. .. 


1725 cent ... 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






6th iiritatious. .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






7th irritalious. .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






8tb irritations. .. 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






9th irritations . . 


1725 cent 0.5 


16 cent 0.5 






168. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, 


Sana temporaria. 






chord: 


rheochord: 






1st irritations. .. 


2400 cent 1. 


58 cent 2. 






2d irritations . . . 


2850 cent 0. 


58 cent. 0.5 






3d irritations ... 


2850 cent 0.2 


20 cent 0.5 






4th irritations. .. 


2850 cent 0.5 


10 cent 1. 






5th irritations . . . 


2725 cent 0.5 


lOcent. 1. 


1 




6th irritations. .. 


2675 cent 0. 


10 cent .1.5 






7th irritations. .. 


2675 cent .0. 


10 cent. 1. 






8th irritations. .. 


26'8cent 0. 


58 cent 2. 






9th irritations . . 


2618 cent 0. 


58 cent 2. 






10th irritations. . 


2618 cent 0. 


58 cent 1.5 





In the following experiments the irritation produced by the opening 
of an electric circuit is recorded: 



Time. 


Number of ex- 


Irritation without 


Irritation during 


Eemarks.* 


periment. 


polarization. 


polarization. . 




169. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells, 


Kana temporaria. 


ft. m. 




chord: 


rheochord: 






1st irritations . . . 


2675 cent 1. 


10 cent 2. 






2d iri-itations 


2675 cent 2. 


10 cent 2. 






3d irritations 


2075 cent 1. 


10 cent 0.5 






4th irritations. . . 


2675 cent 0. 


10 cent 0.5 






5th irritations... 


2675 cent 0. 


10 cent 0.5 






6th invitations. .. 


2075 cent 0. 


68 cent 2. 






7th irritations . . 


2675 cent 0. 


58 cent 2. 






8th irritations- .. 


2675 cent 0. 


58 cent 2. 






170. 












Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 


Polarization, 2 cells. 


Eana esculenta. 






chord : 


rheochord : 






1st irritations. .. 


2425 cent 1. 


50 cent 3. 






2d irritations 


2728 cent 2. 


50 cent 2. 






3d irritations 


2728 cent 2. 


10 cent 2. 






4th irritations... 


2728 cent 3. 


10 cent 3. 






5th irritations. .. 


2728 cent 0.5 


10 cent 2. 






6th irritations. .. 


2728 cent 1. 


10 cent 2. 






7th irritations . . 


2728 cent 0.2 


10 cent 0.5 






8th in'itations. . . 


2728 cent 0. 


10 cent 0.2 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



397 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



171. 



Ist iiritationg. 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations.. 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations . 



172. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 



173. 



Ist irritations. . 
2d irritations... 
3d irritations... 



174. 



1st irritations. . 
2d irritations.. - 
3d irritations... 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
6th irritations. . 
7th irritations. . 
8th irritations. . 
9th irritations . 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 
13th irritations . 
14th irritations. 
15 th irritations. 



175. 



1st irritations. 
2d initations. . 
3d irritations. . 
4th irritations. 
5th irritations. 
6thiiTitations. 
7th irritations. 
8th irritations. 
9th irritations. 



176. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations.. 
4th irrilations- 
5th iiritations. 
6thin-itations. 
TthiiTitations. 



177. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations.. 
3d irritations.. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
polarization. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

488 cent 2. 

488 cent 0. 

1525 cent 2. 

1525 cent 2. 

1525 cent 2.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord: 

2DU0cont 2. 

2600 cent 2. 

2600 cent 2. 

2600 cent 1.5 

2600 cent 1. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

1645 cent 0.5 

1645 cent 0.5 

1645 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

2605 cent 0.5 

2605 cent 0.5 

2605 cent 0.5 

2605 cent 0.5 

2605 cent 0.5 

1825 cent 1. 

1825 cent 1. 

1825 cent 1. 

1825 cent 1. 

1825 cent 1. 

1825 cent 0.5 

1825 cent 0.5 

1825 cent 0.5 

1825 cent 0.5 

1825 cent 0.5 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

l.''>26cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0, 

1526 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1526 cent 0. 

1000 cent L 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

900 cent 0.5 

900 cent 1. 

900 cent 1. 

900 cent 1. 

900 cent 0.5 

900 cent 2. 

900 cent 2. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

223 cent 1.5 

223 cent 0.5 

1675 cent 1. 



Polarization, 2 ceUs, 
rheochord: 

55 cent 4. 

55 cent 3. 

55 cent 3. 

55 cent 3. 

55 cent 3. 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

23 cent 3. 

23 cent 3. 

23 cent 2.5 

23 cent 2. 

23 cent 2. 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

58 cent 0.5 

58 cent 0.5 

58 cent 0.5 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

52 cent 1. 

52 cent 1. 

52 cent 1. 

50 cent 1.5 

50 cent 1. 5 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 1. 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 2. 

50 cent 1. 

50 cent 1. 

50 cent 1. 

50 cent 1. 

55 cent 1.5 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

45 cent 1. 

45 cent 3. 

45 cent 3. 

45 cent 2. 

45 cent 2. 

45 cent 0. 5 

45 cent 0.5 

45 cent 0. 5 

45 cent 1.5 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord: 

40 cent 1.5 

40 cent 1. 

40 cent 1. 

40 cent....."...0. 

40 cent 2. 

40 cent 2. 

40 cent 3. 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord: 

10 cent 3. 

10 cent 2. 

10 cent 1. 



Xtemarks. 



Bana temporaria. 



Kana temporaria. 



Eana temporaria. 



Kana temporaria. 



Rana esculenta. 



Kana temporaria. 



Eana esculenta 



398 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Time. 



Number of ex- 
periment. 



Irritation without 
polarization. 



Irritation during 
poL'.rization. 



Remarks. 



h. m. 



178. 



Ist irritations. 
2d irritations. . 
3d irritations . . 
4(h irritations. 
5tli irritations. 
6th irritations. 



179. 



1st irritations. . 
2d irritations . . . 
3d irritations . . . 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations. . 
6th invitations.. 
7th irritations. . 
8th iiTitations. . 
9th irritations. . 
lOtli irritations. 
11th irritations. 



Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

1500 cent 5. 

1500 cent. 4. 

1500 cent 4. 

2350 cent 0.5 

2350 cent 1. 

2000 cent 2. 

Irritation, 1 cell, rheo- 
chord : 

3003 cent 4. 

3003 cent 2. 

3003 cent 1.5 

3003 cent 1. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3003 cent 0. 

3006 cent 0. 

3006 cent 0.5 

3006 cent 0.5 

2700 cent 1. 



Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord: 

58 cent 5. 

58 cent 4. 

58 cent 4. 

40 cent 1. 

45 cent 2.5 

45 cent 3. 

Polarization, 2 cells, 
rheochord : 

25 cent 5. 

25 cent 3. 

25 cent 1.5 

47 cent 3. 

52 cent 4. 

10 cent 3.5 

10 cent 1. 

55 cent 2. 5 

55 cent 2. 

10 cent 1.5 

55 cent 3. 



Kana temporaria. 



Kana temporaria. 



Of this last series of twenty experiments not one could be used as an 
illustration of Pfliiger's theory, and almost all of them gave results di- 
rectly opposite to what is demanded by this theory. In fifteen of the 
experiments the polarizing current usually produced an increased exci- 
tability of the nerves. 

Thus far one hundred and seventy-eight new experiments have been 
recorded in this paper, in but seventy-two of which was the theory of 
Pfliiger confirmed. This result convinced me that this theory could not 
be true except in a modified state. For, if true, how will the directly 
opposite results obtained in over one-half my experiments be explained. 
Yet, as in so many of my experiments an increased excitability was found 
in the katelectrotonic portion of the nerve, or a decreased excitability 
in the anelectro tonic portion, I could not but believe that a grain of 
truth was mingled with the peck of chaff which has been given us as 
orthodox truth in the books of physiology under the name of " Pfliiger's 
Laws of Electrotonus." The "grain of truth" consisted in the fact 
that this condition sometimes did occur, and it was therefore necessary 
to determine why it is not always present. 

On loolving more carefully over my experiments it occurred to me that 
the effect of irritating a polarized nerve is influenced by the strength of the 
polarizing and irritating currents. The experiments of Budge*, Munkf, 
and Schiflf and Herzenf have already shown that the strengths of the cur- 
rents did in some way influence the effect of the polarization on the 
excitability of the nerve, but no one has thought of using this fact to 
explain the varying results obtained by irritating a polarized nerve. 

For illustrations of this fact as respects the strengths of the polarizing 
currents vide experiments 9 (irritations 2, 3, and 4), 11, 26 (iriitations 
27 to 32), 28 (irritations 18 to 30), 46 (irritations 3 and 4), 52 (irritations 
1 and 2), 53 (irritations 1 to 5), 58, 118, 121, 160, &c. 



*Loc. cit. 



tLoc. cit. 



tLoc. cit. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



399 



111 illustration of the fact that the strength of the irritating current 
influences the effect of the polarizing current on the excitability of nerves 
vide experiments 12, 13, 14, 16, 22, 26, 28, 43, 127, &c. 

May not the extent of muscular contractions produced by the irrita- 
tion of a polarized nerve be largely due to the x>roportion between the 
strengths of the two currents ? 

In the first experiments made in answer to this question the irritations 
were made by means of an induction apj)aratus, the non-polarizable 
electrodes being, however, still adhered to. The polarizing current, 
whose strength was never changed, was produced by a single Leclanche 
cell. In these experiments I found that when the strength of irritation 
j)roduced a minimal contraction — no weight being attached to the myo- 
graph — both the ascending and descending polarizing current produced 
an increased irritability of the nerve to the side of the anode as well as 
to the side of the kathode. With a somewhat stronger induction cur- 
rent, or, what amounted to the same thing, by attaching a weight to the 
myograph, and then observing the minimal contractions, the results of 
Pfluger were obtained ; that the jjolarizing current produced an in- 
creased excitability of the nerve to the side of the kathode and a decreased 
excitability to the side of the anode. By still further increasing the 
strength of the irritation the results of Eckhard were obtained — a de- 
creased excitability of the nerve to the side of the kathode as well as to 
the side of the anode. 

Illustrative experiments. 





Irritation 
alone. 


Irritation dnring polarizar 
lion. 


Bcasaika. 




Kumber of experiment. 


O 

m 


1 

o 

a 
o 

o 




ISO. 

1st irritations 


cent. 

24. 
24. 
24. 
24. 
24. 

13. 

13. 

14. 

14. 

14.5 

15. 

15. 

9. 

9. 

0. 

8. 
8. 
6. 


6.5 

"c.l' 

14. 

9. 

10. 

11.9 

10.1 

11. 
0. 
0. 
0. 

9.5 
9.1 
5.5 

0. 
5.6' 


vn/m. 

Descending polarization : 


Eana ^scnlenta. 

In these experiments 0. 

represents the strongest 

sible iiTitation. 
30 minutes later. 

Eana escnlenta. 
Sana escnlenta. 






Contraction 13. 5 

Contraction 13. 5 

Contraction 17. 

Contraction 14. 

Ascending polarization : 

Contraction 13. 

Contraction 15. 

Contraction 11.4 

Contraction 11. 6 

Contraction 11. 

Contraction 3.5 

Cont Taction 8. 6 

Contraction 7.9 

Contraction 5. 5 

Contraction 0. 

Ascending polarization : 


pos- 












181. 




























Stli irritations 




10th ii'ritations . . 




182. 

lat irritations 




2d irritations 


Contraction 8. 6 




3d irritations 





400 



EFFECT OF IREITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



Illustrative experiments — Continued. 



Num'ber of experiment. 



Irritation 


alone. 


« 




"S . 


a 






G '-1 

o 3 


1 


^« 


o 


02 


o 


cent. 


mm. 


6. 




6. 


9. 


6. 


4. 


6. 


4. 


6. 




6. 


6.5 


6. 




13.5 


6.7 


13.5 




8.5 


6.5 


8.5 




8.5 


8.1 


8.5 




8.5 


14. 


8.5 




8.5 


13. 


10.5 


8.6 


10.5 




11. 


3.5 


11. 




18 


3.5 


18 




18 


3. 


18 




18.5 


2.5 


18.5 




19.5 


1.5 


19.5 




19.5 


2. 


20. 


0. 


20. 




20. 


0. 


20. 




20. 


1. 


20. 




8. 


3. 


8. 




14. 


1. 


14. 




14. 


2.5 


•14. 




14. 


2. 


14. 




10.5 


0. 


10.5 




10.5 


0. 


9.5 


1.5 


9.5 




9.5 


0. 


9.5 




9. 


0. 


9. 




9. 


0, 


6. 




4.5 


3.6 


4.5 




4.5 


3.5 


4.5 




0. 


4. 


0. 




0. 


3.5 


0. 




0. 


3.3 



Irritation during polariza- 
tion. 



Bemarka. 



4tli irritations . . 
5th irritations.. 

183. 

1st irritations . . 
2d irritations . . . 
3d irritations . . . 
4th irritations . . 
5th irritations . . 

184. 

Ist irritations , . 

2d irritations 

3d irritations... 
4th irritations.. 
5th irritations.. 
6th irrit.it ions.. 
7th irritations . . 
Sthiixitations.. 
9th irritations.. 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 
13th irritations . 
14th irritations. 
15th irritations . 
16th irritations. 
17th Irritation 3. 
18th irritations . 
19thiiritations. 
20th irritations. 
21st irritations. 
22d irritations.. 
23d irritations.. 
24th irritations. 
25th irritations . 
26th irritations. 
27th irritations. 
28th irritations. 
29th irritations. 
30th irritations. 
31st irritations . 
32d irritations. . 
33d irritations- . 
34th irritations. 
35th irritations . 
36th irritations. 

18-5. 

Ist irritations . . 
2d irritations. .. 
3d irritations. .. 
4th irritations. . 
5th irritations.. 
6th irritations.. 
7th irritations . . 
8th irritations.. 
9th irritations.. 
10th irritations. 
11th irritations. 
12th irritations. 
13th iiTitations. 
14th irritations. 
15th irritations. 
16th irritations . 
17th irritations. 
18th irritations . 
19th irritations. 
20th irritations . 



7nm. 
Contraction 10. 



Descending polarization : 



Contraction 5.9 

Contraction 5. 9 



Contraction 7.1 

Ascending polarization : 
Contraction 6. 2 



Contraction 


'e.'i' 


Contraction 


6. 


Contraction 


8.5 




Contraction 


2. 


Contraction 


5.9 


Contraction 


2.5 


Contraction 


3.5 


Contraction 


3.5 


Contraction 


2.6 




Contraction 


4.3 


Contraction 


1.5 


Contraction 


5.5 


Contraction 


2.6 


Contraction 


0.2 


Contraction 


1.8 


Contraction 

Ascending polarization 


0. 


Contraction 


6.9 


::::::;::::::;:::::::::::: 


Contraction 


6.8 


Contraction 


6.8 


Contraction 


3.6 


Contraction 


6.5 


Contraction 


3.6 


Contraction 


3.5 


Contraction 


3.5 


Contraction 


2.7 



Last preparation again nsed. 



Rana esculenta. 

10 grammes weight attached. 



Weight reduced to 2 grammes. 



Another portion of the nerve ir- 
ritated. 



"Weight increased to 10 grammes. 



Eana esculenta. 

2 grammes weight attached to 
muscle. 



Weight, 10 grammes. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



401 



Tbe next series of experiments was made with the assistance of the 
apparatns before described, with the addition of a Marey myograph to 
Avrite the strength of the contractions. The results obtained were simi- 
hir to those obtained when the irritations were made by means of the 
induced current. The supposition that the effect of a constant current 
on the excitability of the nerves can be modifled by changing- the strength 
of the irritation employed being settled in the affirmative, it seemed 
very probable that a change in the strength of the polarizing current 
could produce a similar effect. This was also found to be so in a long 
series of experiments. It was also determined that the effect of a polar- 
izing current may change after a varying period of time, so that it will 
take a stronger current (the irritation remaining the same) to cause the 
same relation to be produced between the contx.iotions from the irrita- 
tion of the non-polarized and ijolarized nerves as was produced in an 
earlier stage of the experiment. 

A few of these experiments are here given as ilbistrations. They, I 
think, will set this vexed question in nervous physiology at rest. For, 
as results from these experiments, the excitability of a polarized nerve 
can be increased or decreased at will, not only by changing the direction 
of the current, but also by changing the intensities of the currents, these 
two facts nnist in conjunction ibrm a law. 

The excitaMUty of a polarized nerve is determined by the proportion exist- 
ing heticeen the strengths of the piolarizind and irritating eurrents. With 
certain proportions of the strengths of these currents the excitahility of the 
anelectrotonic portion of the nerve is reversely influenced from that of the 
hatelectrotonic por tion. 

EXPERIMENT 186. 



Irritation alone. 



Strength of the irritation. 



1 small Daniel 



loeU 



S. Mis. 59- 



3^ 



Irritation plus polarization. 



strength of the constant 
current. 



cent. 
1 Diiniel : 

RlK'Ocbord 38 

do 38 

do 38 

do 38 

do 38 

do 33 

do 33 

do 33 

do 48 

do 48 

do 48 

do 53 

do 53 

do 53 

do 33 

do 33 

do 33 

do 33 

do 50 

, do 56 

do 06 

do 56 

] cell 

do 

do 

do 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



Remarks. 



An asce'iding polarizing 
curient applied G""" 
abovf a descending ir- 
ritating current. 



402 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



lu the above experiment the desceiidiDg irritating current was kept 
of the same strength throughout. In the beginning, while the ascend- 
ing pohirizing current was weak, it produced an increased excitability 
of the nerve. When, however, it was increased to "iheochord 53," Ptiil- 
ger's result (i c, a diminished excitability) was obtained, which became 
more marked when the polarizing current was increased to 1 cell. A 
curious i)henomenon was observed which is to be seen, to a greater or 
less degree, in all the experiments. In the beginning " rheochord 33" 
produced an increased excitability of the nerve, while thirteen irritations 
later it produced the opposite efte^ct. So it must be concluded that the 
preparation becoming older causes the effect of a polarizing current of a 
certain strength on the excitability of the nerve to change. This will 
explain the result obtained by Schiff and Herzen. These investigators 
found that while in the beginning of an experiment on the excitability 
of polarized nerves tliey might obtain certain results, 15 or 30 minutes 
later entirely different results were obtained. 

EXPERIMENT 187. 



Irritation alone. 



strength of the irritation. 



cent. 

1 Daniel 

Kheochord 691 

Kheochord 1308 

Eheochord 1214 

Kheochord 1000 

1 Dnniel 

Eluocliord 188 

IDaniel 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



2 Daniel cells . 



1 Daniel . . . 
Eheochord. 



.1009 



16.1 
8.8 
5. .5 

17.3 
5.5 

13.2 
3.8 
3.8 
3.8 
4.2 
2.1 
5.1 
1.6 

10,1 
7.2 
8.2 

18.9 

16.1 
0. 

15.5 
8.2 

12.1 

21. 

31.1 

10. 

14,9 
0, 

oo 2 

16^5 
33.5 
37. 

7.2 
12.1 
29.4 
28.6 

6.7 

6.4 

3.2 
11.1 

3.2 
29.9 
29. 

8, 

4.4 



Irritation plus polarization. 



Strength of the constant 
current. 



1 Daniel cell : 
Eheochord 



.38 



1 Daniel 

Eheochord 38 

Eheochord 33 

Eheochord 38 



Eheochord 48 

Eheochord 56 

IDaniel 

Eheochord 38 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



29.2 

28.4 

14.4 

24.3 

11. 

14.5 

3.8 

3.8 

3.8 

0. 

0, 

0. 
, 0. 

0. 

0. 

4.9 
10,2 
12,6 

8,2 
15,9 
26.2 
25.1 

8,2 

8,2 

8,2 

9,2 

7.8 
14.1 

7.5 
31. 

7.2 
10,3 
12. 1 
14.3 
14,1 
22.1 

7,6 
13,4 

8, 

3,5 

6,3 

0. 

0. 

0. 



Eemarks. 



A descending polarising 
current 8™'". above a 
descending irritating 
current, 

Eaua temporaria 



EFFECT OF IREITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 
- EXPERIMENT 187— Continued. 



403 



Irritation alone. 



Irritation plus polarization. 



Strength of tlic irritation. 



cent. 
Kheochoril 789 

Kheochord 691 

Khpochord 48S 

Kheochord 223 

Kheochord 188 

2 Daniels 

1 Daniel 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



mm. 
3.2 
2 6 
5.5 
4. 

5.1 
5. 

5.8 
2. 
10.1 
0. 
0. 
4. 

3.6 
3.6 
7.2 
4.5 
4.8 
4. 

8.7 
9.5 
3.2 
3.2 
10.1 
13.3 
7.2 
3.1 
3. 
3. 

2.5 
2.1 
2. 



Strength of the constant 
current. 



1 Dan-1 

Klieochord 53 

Kheochord 48 

Kheochord .50 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



mm.. 
8.9 
10 3 
11,8 
13.1 
8.3 
19.6 
11.2 
4.5 
11.6 
4. 

3.5 
4. 

3.4 
3.4 
4. 
4. 
4. 
4. 

3.8 
7.9 
3.2 
3.2 
3.4 
3. 

3.1 
7.4 
7.1 
7.2 
7. 

7.2 
12. 



Eemarks. 



In this experiment a descending polarizing current of a given strength 
(1 Daniel cell, "rheochord 38"), and an irritating current from 1 Daniel, 
"rbeochord 091," producexl an increased excitability of the nerve to 
the side of the kathode (Pfliiger's result.) But when the irritating 
current was reduced in strength to 1 Daniel, "rheochord 1308," the 
influence of the polarizing current on the excitability of the nerve was 
annihilated, and we had the same contraction resulting from the irrita- 
tion alone as from the irritation and polarization in conjunction. With 
the irritating current somewhat stronger (1 Daniel, "rheochord 1214," 
and "rheochord 1000"), the polarizing current absolutely paralyzed the 
effect of the irritating current. Increasing this latter current still more, 
the polarization had a varying influence on the effect of the irritation. 
When, however, the polarizing current was now decreased in strength 
(to 1 Daniel, "rheochord 5G"),the polarizing current again caused the 
nerve to become more excitable. The same effect was attained with the 
former polai'ization current ("rheochord 38") by using an irritating cur- 
rent of 1 Daniel, "rheochord 789 " or "rheochord 691." With a stronger 
irritating current the polarized nerve was less excitable than the non- 
polarized nerve. This corresponds to the result obtainedby J^obili, Mat- 
teucci, Valentin, and Eckhard, who always employed comparatively 
strong currents. Using a polarizing current of 1 Daniel, "rheochord 
48," or " rheochord 50" strength, with the irritation of 1 or 2 Daniel cells, 
the former always increased the excitability of the nerve. 



404 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPERIMENT 188. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the contrac- 
tion. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Strength of the constant 
current. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Remarks. 


cent. 
2 Daniels 
Kheochoid 1413 

1 Diniel 

Eheochord 1109 


mm. 
3.5 

10. 

12.5 
4.7 
0. 
3.1 
3.7 
4.9 
4.9 
4.9 
5. 

5.2 
5.4 
6.5 
4. 

5.4 
1.2 
1.1 
1.5 
1.1 
1.3 
1.5 
2.5 
2.1 
1.9 
2.6 
3.1 
2.5 
1.3 
2.4 
1.8 
1. 
1. 
3.5 


cent. 
1 Daniel 
Rheochord 53 

Rheochord 57 

1 Daniel 
Rheochord 6 

Rheochord 10 

3 Daniels 

2 Daniels 
1 Daniel 


mm. 
1.4 
4.8 
0. 
0. 
6. 
4. 
4. 
5. 

4.9 
4.9 
4.9 
10.2 
8.4 
7.5 
9.5 
5.0 
9.4 
1.5 
1.6 
1.6 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 

0.6 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 

4.5 
4.4 
4.7 


An ascending polarizing 
curnnt a hove a de- 
scending initating cur- 
rent. 

Descending i)olarization. 

Ascending polarization. 
Descending polarization. 
Ascending polarization. 

Descending polarization. 
Descending polarization. 



In experiment 188, with a descending irri^ting current of 2 DaniBl 
cells, " rheocliord 1413," an ascending polarizing current, Daniel, 
"rheochord 53" usually produced a decreased excitability of the nerve. 
With a descending polarizing current of the same strength the opposite 
eflect was obtained. Increasing this current to " rheochord 57," it failed 
to influence the eflect of the irritation. A polarizing current of 1 Daniel, 
"rheochord G," passing in either direction, increased the excitability of 
the nerve. With an irritating current derived from 1 Daniel, " rheochord 
1109," an ascending polarizing current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 10," 
still slightly increased the excitability. When with the same strength 
of currents the ijolarization was descending, this latter always abolished 
the effect of the irritation. The latter effect always occurred when the 
polarizing current was increased to 2 or 3 Daniels. When but 1 Daniel 
was used for the descending j)olarization, this produced increased excit- 
ability of the nerve. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 



405 





* 


EXPERIMENT 189. 






Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irritation. 


Hiislit of 
the con- 


Strength of the constant 
current. 


Height of 
the con- 


Observations. 




tractions. 


tractions. 






mm. 


cent. 
] Daniel: 


min. 




1 Daniel 


3.2 


l^heochortl 57 


5.1 


Descending polarizing 




4.8 




7.3 


current. 




4.2 




7. 


Descending irritating 




5.1 


Kheochord 48 


.''..1 


current. 




5,1 




5.1 


Rivna teniporaria. 




5.1 




5. 






9. 


Rheochord 43 


5.8 






10.1 




C. 






10.1 




4.9 






11.9 




5. 






7.1 




3.5 


Descending polarizing 




8. 




e. 1 


current. 




9.1 




6.1 






9.2 




7.3 






3. 


Rheochord 28 


3.4 






5. 




7.8 






0. 




7.2 






4. 




7.1 






1.9 




7.8 






7. 




5. 5 


Ascending polarizing 




7.1 




C.2 


current. 




7.G 




6.6 






7.6 




0. 






7. 




0. 






8.9 




1.4 






7. 




6.1 






7.2 




5.9 






7.3 


Rheochord 18 


7.3 


Descending polarizing 




6. 




6. 


current. 




6. 




6. 






6. 




C. 






6. 




6. 






7.1 




5.2 


Ascending polarizing 




5.3 




3.1 


current. 




6.2 




5. 






7. 


Rheochord 8 


5.9 






6.1 




6.1 






4.5 




0.6 






5. 




1.9 






5.1 




a. 4 






0.4 




7. 


Descending polarizing 




0. 




4.3 


current. 




0.5 




7.9 






0.3 




5.8 






3.1 


2 Daniels 


0. 






4.2 




0. 






3.1 




0. 






4.2 




0.5 


Ascending polarizing 




4.5 




0.0 


current. 




4.4 




0.5 






1.5 


Kheochord 8 


0. 






4.2 




0. 






3.1 




1.2 






0. 




3. 


Descending polarizing 




0. 




4. 


current. 




0. 




2.8 





Ill experiment 189 the descending irritating ciirrenf was kept of the 
same strength (1 Daniel ceil) throngliont the experiment. With de- 
scending polarization, 1 Daniel, " rheochord 57," the excitability of the 
nerve was increased. With 1 Daniel, "rheochord 48," the excitability 
remained unaffected. Further increasing the strength of the polarizing 
current to " rheochord 28," an increased excitability is iiro<luce(l for the 
descending current and increased for the ascending. On increasing it 
still further to " rheochord 18," the excitability of the nerve remained 
nnintlnenced by the descending constant current. A i)olarizing current 
of still greater strength diminished the excitability of the nerve. 



406 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPERIMENT No. 190. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the iiritation. 


Height of 
the con- 


1 

Strength of the constant 
cui'ient. 


Height of 
the con- 


Observations. 




tractions. 


tractions. 




cent. 


mm. 


cent. 
1 Daniel: 


m,m. 




2 Daniels 


10. 7 , Eheochoid 55 


9.8 


Ascending polarizing 




15.9 




11.7 


current. 




16 




15.4 


Descending irritating 


1 Daniel : 








current. 


Eheochoid 1261 


9. 




0. 






11.2 




0. 


Eana temporaria. 




11.8 




10.8 






11.3 




10.4 






9. 




n.i 


Descending polarizing 




8.2 




9.1 


current. 




7.5 




9.2 






10.8 Eheochord 53 


11.6 






0. 




14.1 






0. 




7.4 






0. 




6. 




Eheochorcl 1059 


10.2 
6.2 
10. 
10.1 




7.3 
G. 2 

12.1 

10. 






10.1 




7.2 


Ascending polarizing 




10.8 




7.6 


current. 




9.3 




6.1 






10.1 




1.5 






5.2 




0. 






1.4 




0. 






0.9 




0. 






5. 




8.9 


Descending polarizing 




4.1 




5.3 


current. 




0.7 




1.2 






1.9 




8.1 




Eheochord 440 


0. Eheochord 43 


1. 


Ascending polarizing 




0. 




8.8 


cuirent. 




0. 




4.4 






3.1 




8.9 






0.3 




8.1 






1. 




7.4 






2. 


Eheochord 56 


1.9 






2. 




0.9 






2. 




0. 




2 Daniels: 










Eheochoid 223 


5.4 
1.8 
1. 




1.2 

1. 

0. 




1 Daniel 


9. 

8.1 

9. I 

3. 

4.1 

3.4 


Eheochord 38 


9. 

8.1 

9. 

6.9 

7.0 

8.4 






9 1 


Eheochord 43 


5. 






10.6 




4.1 






10.2 




4. 






4. 


Eheochord 38 


7.2 






5.1 




6.1 






5.5 


Eheochord 33 


6. 






3.2 




5.1 






3.2 




5.1 




* 


3.1 




5. 






3.2 


Eheochord 23 


7.1 






2.1 




6.9 






3.9 




7. 






4.9 


Eheochord 13 


5.0 






4.7 




5.1 






4.5 




5.6 






4.1 




5.7 






4.8 


Eheochord 4 


4.8 






4.8 




4.8 






4.8 




4.8 






4.5 


1 Daniel 


6.4 






4.2 




7.5 






2.9 




4.2 






4.8 


2 Daniels 


4. 






4.8 




4.9 






3.6 




4.5 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 
EXPERIMENT No. 190— Continued. 



407 



Irritation alono. 



[ Heipht of 
Stronsth of the irritation. the eon- 
tractions. 



mm. 
4.5 
4.2 
6. 

5.1 
].5 
]..') 
2.4 
4. 
G. 1 
3.4 
4. 



Irritation'with polarization. 



Strength of the constant 
current. 



3 Daniels 

Eheochord. 
Khcoehord. 



Heisht of 
the con- 
tractions. 



mm,. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
C.9 

5^8 

3.2 

0. 

0. 

0. 



Ohservations. 



In tlie preceding experiment descending irritating currents with both 
ascending and descending pohirizing currents were used. When an as- 
cending poUiriziug current from 1 Daniel, "rheocbord 55," and irritating 
currents from 2 Daniels or 1 Daniel, "rheocbord ll'Gl," Mere used, the ef- 
fect of the irritation was diminished bj^ the polarization. With the same 
strengths of currents, but with a descending instead of an ascending po- 
larizing current, the oi>posite effect was produced. That is, under these 
circumstances there was diminished excitability in the anelectrotonic 
and increased excitability of the nerve in the katelectrotonic phase — 
riiuger's result. When, now, this irritating current was increased to 1 
Daniel, "rheoehord 1059," both the descending and ascending polarizing 
currents diminished the excitiibility of the nerve. After some minutes, 
however, with the same currents, augmented excitability occurred in the 
hatelectrotonic phase. With polarization, 1 Daniel, " rheochord •43," and 
irritation, 1 Daniel, "rheochord 440," the ascending polarizing current 
produced an increased excitability. Decreasing the strength of the polar- 
izing current to 1 Daniel, "rheochord fO," the opposite effect was pro- 
duced. With an irritating current from 1 Daniel cell, an ascending polar- 
izing current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 38," at first fails to affect the ex- 
citability of the nerve, but later increases it. With the same irritation, a 
polarizing current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 43," produces an increased 
excitability of the nerve. The irritation being the same, an ascending 
polarizing current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 4," does not in the least af- 
fect the excitability of the nerve. With a polarizing current from 1 Dan- 
iel and an irritating current of the same strength, the effect of the latter 
is increased during the presence of the former. The effect of the same 
irritating current is, however, absolutely annihilated by an ascending 
polarizing current from 3 Daniel cells. After this it was found that the 
effect of an irritation (I Daniel) was increased by an ascending polarizing 
current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 43," which earlier in the experiment 
had the opposite effect. The very opposite result was obtained with 
irritation, 1 Daniel, and polarization, 1 Daniel, " rheochord 38." 



408 EFFECT OF lERITATIOX OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPERIMENT 191. 



Irritation alone 




Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Strength of the constant 
current. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Eemarks. 




mm. 


cent. mm. 
1 D.iniel: 




1 Daniel 


7. 


Fvheocliora 56 7. 


Eaua csculeiita. Dc- 




7. 


7. 


sccndiui; irritating cur- 




7.1 


7.1 


icnt applied to tho 




7. 


7. 


nerve helow an a-scend- 




7. 


7. 


iiig polarizing current. 




5. G 


53 1.2 






4. 


1.9 






4. 


0. 






0.1 


0. 






10.2 




7. 






7.C 




2. 






9.4 




o!8 






6.9 




0. 






7.3 


48 


6.2 






6.1 




0. 






5.9 




0. 






4.5 




0. 






6.3 




0. 






0. 


43 


5.8 






0. 




5.9 






0. 




5.4 






4.8 




5. 






0. 




5.3 






0. 




5.4 






a 




1.7 






0. 




7.4 






4.2 




13.4 






3.6 


38 


13.6 






2.4 




10.3 






0. 


28 


5.2 






0. 




4.8 






0. 




5.3 






0. 


18 


1. 






0. 




0.9 






». 




1.2 






1.8 




5.2 






2.5 


8 


4.2 






3.4 




4.2 






4.2 




5. 






2.1 


4 


0. 






1.8 




0. 






3.2 




0. 






2.2 




0. 






6.4 




2.3 






1. 


18 


1.4 






3. 




4.1 






1.2 




10.1 






2. 




4.5 






3.1 


4 


3.2 






2. 




2.8 






3.1 




3.2 






4. 


1 Daniel 


0. 






1.2 




0. 






0.8 




0. 






0.5 




0. 






2.4 




0. 






4.1 


2 Daniels 


3.9 






4.1 




2.8 






7.2 




3.3 






1. 




0. 






1. 




0. 






5.4 


3 Daniels 


0. 






1.2 




0. 






1.8 


4 Daniels 


0. 






1.8 




0. 






2.7 


6 Daniels 


0. 






2.8 




0. 






0. 


1 Daniel 


5.2 






1.4 




7.3 






3.4 


Kheochortl 18 i 5.1 






2.2 


7.1 






2.4 


1 ^• 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NP^RVE. 



409 



The polarizing current used in the preceding experiment passed in an 
ascending direction, while a descending irritating current was applied 
to the nerve below it. When the former was of the strength of 1 Daniel, 
'^rheochord 50," it failed to influence the efi'ect of an irritating current 
derived from 1 Daniel cell. \Vhen, however, the strength of the former 
current was increased to "rheochord" 53 or 48, it jiroduced a diminished 
excitability of the nerve; but with "rheochord" 43, 38, 1*8, 18, or 8, the 
opposite eflect was i)roduced. With "rheochord 4" a diminished excit- 
ability was jjroduced. The same result was obtained when the polariz- 
ing current was increased to 1, 2, 3, 4, or Daniels. A polarizing cur- 
rent of 1 Daniel, "rheochord 18," again i)roduced an augmented excit- 
ability' of the nerve. 

ESPERIMEIfT 192. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation wiili 


polarization. 




Strength of the inita- 


Heisht of 
the. con- 


Strength of the eon 


stant 


Height of 
the eon- 


Remarks. 


tiou. 


tractions. 


current. 




tiactions. 






mm. 


1 D.Tuicl : 


cent. 


mm. 




1 Daniel 


5.8 


Eheocliord 


.. 3 


5.8 


Rana temporaria. A de- 




5.8 






5.8 


.seen('tiiiii irritating cu - 




5.8 






5.8 


rent i:pi)lie(I to tlie sci- 




5.8 






5.8 


atic nerve helow a de- 




5.8 






6.U 


scending polarizing 




4.4 


2 Daniel.s 




0. 


current. 




3 7 


1 Daniel: 




0. 




, 


0. 


Eheochord 


. 38 


G.2 






0. 






4.2 






3.9 






4.2 






3.5 


1 Daniel : 




5. 






4.2 


Rheochord 


-.28 1 4.4 






4. 






4.2 






0.4 






4. 






4. 






4. 






3.9 




23 


3.9 






2.2 






3.8 






3.3 






2.4 






3.4 




48 


3. 






2.8 
3. 






2.8 
3. 






5. 


Kheochord 


...18 


2.6 






1.5 






0. 






1.5 






0. 






4.2 






0. 






3. 




8 


2.4 






3.1 






1.2 






2.9 






1.4 






3.2 






2.1 






0. 






3. 






0. 






1.8 






0. 






1.5 






0. 






4. 






0. 






2.8 





In the foregoing experiment the descending irritating current was 
kept of one strength throughout the experiment. In the beginning it 
remained unaffected by a polarizing current from 1 Daniel, "rheochord 
55," but the contractions which it produced were pie%-eiite(l by a polar- 
izing current of 2 Daniels. A polarizing curreiiT of 1 Daniel, '* rheocliord 
38," increased the excitability, while still further increasing this current 
to "rheochord 8" almost annihilated the eflects of the irritation. 



410 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPEPwIME2fT 193. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polar 


zation. 




Strengr,li of the irrita- ^,'1!^'^';.^^^ 

tion. l'^*^ ^.^''^' 
tractions. 


Strength of tho constant 
curieut. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Remarks. 




turn. 


cent. 
1 Daniel: 


inm. 




1 Daniel : 


13.1 


Kheochord 56 


14.9 


Eana temporaria. A tie- 




12.6 




14.7 


scenrtins irritating 




13. 




15.9 


cui lent apiilied to tlio 




13.9 




14 1 


nerve lielnw an ascend- 




12.8 


48 


14. 


ing polarizing current. 




13.5 




13.5 






n. 




l:i. 5 






13.1 


43 


13.1 






13. 




13. 






u.' 


38 


14. 






33.4 




13.5 






13. 




12.1 






13.9 


28 


13. 9 






14. 




13. 






13.2 




11.9 






11.5 




11. 





As a general rule, in this experiment an increased excitability of the 
nerve was produced of an ascending- polarizing current of the anode to 
the side. 

EXPERIMENT 194. 



Irritation alono. 


Irrit.ition with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 


Height of 
the eon- 
tractions. 


Strength of the constant 
current. 


Height of 
the eon- 
tractions. 


Remarks. 




wm. 




mm. 




1 Daniel 


0. 


1 Daniel 


9.9 


Rana temporaria A de- 




7.4 




12.5 


seeiidiug irritating 




7. 




11.8 


I'urrc nt applied to the 
nerve below an aseend- 
in.; polariziiii;- current. 


1 Daniel 


10. 


2 Daniels 


10. 


Descending jjolarizing 




10. 




10. 


euirent. 




10. 




10. 






9.8 




9.8 




1 Daniel 


8. 


2 Daniels 


0. 


A.seending polarizing 




7.8 




0. 


current. 




9.1 




0.9 






0. 




2.4 




1 Daniel 


6.9 

6.9 

9. 

9.1 

5.6 


1 Daniel 


4.2 
.5.1 
7. I 
3. 
0. 




1 Daniel 


5.1 


1 Daniel 


.5.1 


Descending polarizing 




5.1 




.5.1 


cnrr( nt. 




5.1 




5.1 






5.1 




0. 


As ending polarizing 




5.1 




2.3 


curreu'. 




5. 




1.7 





An ascending ])olarizing current decreased the excitability of the 
nerve wli en l)<)t]i currents were of the same strength (1 JJaniel). A de- 
scending polaiizing current failed to influence the height of tlie contrac- 
tions when the irritating current was derived from 1 and the ])<)hirizing 
current from li Daniels, but an ascending [lolarizing current under tliese 
circumstances again diminished the excitability of the nerve. With 
each of the currents derived from 1 Daniel, the descending polarization 
failed to influence the height of the contractions. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 
EXPERIMENT 195. 



411 



Irritation alone. 



Strength of the 
tiou. 



Height of 
tho cou- 
tractioua. 



Irritation with polarization. 



Strength of the con- 
stant current. 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 



Remarks. 



1 Daniel : 
Rheochord. 



cent. 
.1100 



1.8 
1.8 
1.8 



1.8 

1.8 

0.2 

0. 

0. 

0.6 

0.7 

0.7 

0.4 



1 Daniel : 
Rheochord . 



cent. 
...10 



1.8 
i.8 
1.8 



Kana esculenta. A de- 
scending irritating 
current applied to tho 
nerve below an ascend- 
ing ])olariziug eiurent. 
Descending polarizing 
current. 



Ascending polarization. 



An initatiiig' current derived from 1 Daniel, " rlieocliord 1109," pro- 
duced the same etl'ect when the nerve was i)olarJzed in either direction 
with a current derived from 1 Daniel. With a current derived from 1 
Daniel, " rheochord 10," the excitability of the nerve was increased to 
the side of the kathode. In the positive i)hase of a current derived from 
1 Daniel, "rheochord lO,' the excitability of the nerve was abolished 
for an iriitatinu- current derived from 1 Daniel, " rheochord 1109." 



EXPERIMENT 196. 



iTritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 
liou. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


strength of the con- 
stant current. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Remarks. 




mm. 


ce7it. 


mm.. 




1 Daniel : 




1 Daniel: 






Hheochord 


U. 1 


Ehoochord 56 


14.1 


Rana esculenta. A de- 




14.1 




14.1 


scending irritating 




14.1 




14.1 


curr. nt heh)W a de- 




5.2 


55 


15.5 


scending constant cur- 




12.2 




19. 


rent. 




14.1 




24 3 






12.1 


56 


8. 






21.2 




10.9 






12. 




10.4 






20.9 




'10.8 






23.6 




13.8 






10.9 




10.9 






10.0 


48 


8.2 






8.1 




4.9 






8.1 




11.2 






10.4 




0. 






4.1 




0. 






9. 




0. 






8.7 


38 


9. 






1.5 




10.9 






3.6 


Rheochord 38 


9.2 






0. 




7.1 






13.0 


48 


3.2 






8.1 




7.9 






8.1 




7.0 






8.C 




6.4 




2 Daniels 


8. 

6.6 
7.8 
3.2 


48 


19.6 
12.1 
13.6 
21.0 





412 EFFECT OF lEEITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPEKIMEJfT 19(>— Continued. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 


Height of 
the eon- 
tractions. 


Strength of the con- 
stant current. 


Height of 
the con- 
traction.s. 


Eemarks. 




min. 


cent. 


tmn. 




1 Daniel 


15.2 

11. 
3.8 
2.4 
4. 


Eheochord 48 


13.1 
1.2 
0. 
0. 

0. 






0. 


28 


5.5 






2. 2 




5.3 






3. 




4.1 






0. 


1 Daniel : 


0.8 






0. 




1.1 






0. 


5Danitl8: 


1. 




1 Daniel 


5. 
5. 
5. 


Eheochord 


5. 
5. 
5. 






5. 


2 Daniels 


5. 






5. 




5. 






5. 




5. 






5. 




5. 




1 D.inicl 


0. 
4. 


1 Daniel 


4.2 
12.4 





In the preceding- experiment descending- irritating- and descending 
polarizing cnrrents were employed tlirongliont. The resnlts obtained 
were similar to those obtained in the i)revious experiments. 



EXPERIMEXT 197. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Strength of the con- 
stant current. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Eemarks. 


cent. 


mm. 


cent. 


mm. 




1 Daniel : 




1 Daniel : 






Eheochord 223 


2.5 


Eheochord 38 


6. 


Eana csculenta. A de- 




6. 




10.3 


scending irritating 


645 


2. 




0. 


current applied to the 




1.8 




0. 


nerve below an as- 




8.7 




0. 


cending polarizing cur- 




2.9 




0. 


rent. 


740 


0.8 
0. 

0.6 
0.8 




2.1 
6.1 
5.6 
5.1 




838 


•5.1 

1, 

3. 

2.2 




3.8 
1. 

2.2 
0.4 
0. 




949 


4. 

2.2 

2.1 

0.8 

0. 




5.5 
2.1 
0.2 
1.8 
3. 





EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 
EXPERIMENT 198. 



413 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strength of the irrita- 


Height of 
the con- 


Strengtli of the constant 


Heiglit of 
the con- 


Remarks. 


tion. 


tractions. 


current. 


tractions. 




cent. 


mm. 


cent. 


mm. 




2 Daniela 


5.6 


2 Daniels 


5.6 


Rana teniporaria. A A(:- 




5.6 




5 C 


.sceiidiny iiritating 




5.6 




5.6 


current applied to the 
nerve below a de- 
scemling polarizing 
current. 




9.8 




5.4 


Ascending jiolarization. 




6.5 




0. 






6.6 




4.4 






9.4 




:!. 9 




2 Daniels 


6.4 

11.0 

5.8 

6.2 


3 Daniels 


1.0 

0. 
0. 
0. 






6. 




5.5 


Dcscendingpolarization. 




9.2 




.5.4 






5.7 




0. 






5.5 




0. 






5.6 




0. 




2 Daniels 


5. 
5. 
2.3 


1 Daniel 


5. 








0. 

6.1 


Weighted muscle with 3 




2.4 




5.0 


grammes. 




2. 




5. 






5.1 




5. 


AVeight removed. 


2 Daniels 


4.5 
4.5 
4.6 
5.2 


1 Daniel 


0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Ascending polarization. 




0.5 




2. 7 


Weighted 10 grammes. 




0.7 




2.9 






0.5 


, 


2.4 




2 Daniels 


5. 

4.7 

5.1 

5. 

4.9 


3 Daniels 


1.5 

8.4 

0. 

0. 

0. 


Removed the weight. 




4.9 




0. 


Descending polarization. 




4.9 




0. 






4.9 




0. 






4.9 




0. 




2 Daniels 


2.2 
0. 


1 Daniel 


4.5 
5.1 
5. 





It will be seen in tliis experiment that, wlien on one occasion dimin- 
i.shed excitability of the nerve resulted from the applicatioii of the 
descending' i^olarizating current to the nerve attached to anon -weighted 
muscle, increased excitability was produced when the muscle was 
weighted. Again, later, when ascending* polarization produced "paresis" 
of the iierve, attaching a weight to the muscle sufficed to bring about 
the opposite result. 

Weighting the muscle^ therefore^ influences the effect of imlarization on 
the excitability of the nerve. 



414 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPERIMENT 1J9. 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polari/;ation. 




Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 


Heisht of 
the .con- 
tractions. 


Strength of the constant 
current. 


Height of 
the con- 
tractions. 


Eemarks. 


cent. 


mm. 


cent. 


mm. 




2 Daniels : 










Rheochord 2127 


0. 


1 Daniel 


8.5 


Eana temporaria. A de- 




0. 




8.5 


scending irritating cur- 


1893 


0. 




9.5 


rent above an ascend- 




0. 




8.5 


ing polarizing current. 


1413 


0. 
0. 

2.4 
0. 




9.5 
10.1 
11. 

9.6 




1009 


7.6 

10.9 
]0. 9 
14. 




7.5 

2. 

0. 

0. 

0. 




1618 


0. 
0. 
0. 




11. 5 
7. 
10. 


Descending polarization. 


2 Daniels 


10.5 
10.5 




10.5 
10.5 






11. 


2 Daniels 


7.5 






11.2 




0. 






11.6 




1.1 






10.5 




0. 






12. 




0. 






11. 




0. 


Ascending polarization. 




13.9 




0. 






9.9 




7 






9.5 




G.4 






9. 




4.2 





EXPERIMENT 200. 







1 Daniel : 






2 Daniels 


14.5 


Rlieochord 54 


14.5 


Rana temporaria. A de- 




21. 




20.6 


stendiuji irritating cur- 




20.6 




20.6 


rent below an ascend- 




11.5 


48 


12. 


ing polarizing current. 




11.8 




12. 






1-2.4 


54 


11.9 






12.8 




11.8 






11.9 




11.9 






12.4 


48 


12.4 


Descending polarization. 




12.3 




12.4 






12.4 




12.4 






12.3 




12.3 






12.1 




12.3 




2 Daniels 


11.5 
11.5 
10.9 
10.7 


3 Daniels 


0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


A.scending polarization. 




8. 




3.5 


Descending isolarization. 




8.4 




3.6 




2 Daniels 


8. 
9.9 


2 Daniels 


2.5 
8.4 




1 Daniel 


10. 

9.4 
10.2 

9.7 


3 Daniels 


0. 
0. 
0. 
2. 






12. 




0. 


Ascending polarization. 




4.5 




0. 






4. 




0. 






2. 


2 Daniels 


1. 


Descending polarization. 




9.1 




0. 






8.7 




0. 






9.1 




0. 






9. 




5.6 






10. 




0. 


Ascending polarization. 




14.2 




0. 




2 Daniels 


9. 
9. 
9. 

8.7 
8.7 




9. 
9. 
9. 

8.7 
8.7 


Descending polarization. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 
EXPERIMENT 200— Continued. 



415 



Irritation alone. 


Irritation with polarization. 




Strengtli of the irrita- 
tion. 


HciKlit of ' gtrensth of the constant 
tractions. 1 ^ «""^'^t. 


Hoisht of 
the I'on- 
tiactious. 


Eemarks. 


cent. 


mm. 

10. G 

10. G 
7.9 
8. C 

10.1 
6. 

4.2 
5.8 
3.0 


cent. 
Rheochord 6 


mm. 
9.2 
3.G 
r).4 
0. 
0. 

8.1 

8.4 

9.5 

14.2 


Ascending polarization. 
Descending polarization. 



EXPERIMENT 201. 







2 Daniels : 








1 Daniel 


9.5 


Eheochord 


55 


11. 5 


Rana temporaria. A de- 




10. 






9.5 


scending irritating cur- 




9. 






9.2 


rent applied to the 




9. 






9. 


nei vc lirlowan ascend- 




12. 






12. 


ing piilarizing current. 




8.5 






10. C 






8.5 






9. 


Descending polarization. 




8.2 






10.5 






8.2 




48 


8.2 


Ascending polarization. 




8.2 






12. 






8. 




38 


8. 






10.2 






10.1 






8. 






8. 






8. 




28 


8. 






8. 






8. 






10. 




23 


10.4 


Descending polarization. 




8. 






10.4 






8. 






10.5 






8. 






8. 






7.5 




12 


11.5 






7.5 






8.2 






0. 






11. C 






0. 






8. 






0. 






8.5 






0. 






8.1 




2 Daniels 


7. 5 

5.4 

5.2 

6 

6.2 


2 Daniels 




0. 

0. 

2.9 

3.0 

0. 


Ascending polarization. 




7. 






7. 


Descending polarization. 




7. 






7. 





EXPERIMENT 202. 



1 Daniel : 






1 Daniel: 








Kbeochord 


1739 


3.9 


Rheochord 


5 


11. 


Rana temporaria. A de- 






10. 




18 


18.5 


scendini; irritating and 






10. 




56 


22.4 


iin ascending polariz- 




1009 


8. 
8. 
9. 




8 
4 


10. 
11. 
9.5 


ing current. 




1580 


0. 




4 


8.2 






1730 


4.8 




4 


12.1 






1059 


5. 

8. 
9.1 

7.4 






9.8 

9.8 

12.3 

12.3 






1009 


11.1 




5 


17.6 




2 Daniels 




G. 5 
6.5 
2 2 
6.8 
5.9 
5.9 
5.7 


1 Daniel 

2 Daniels 




9.2 
9.2 
6.7 

13. 

13. 

11.8 

10.9 





416 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

EXPERIMENT 202— Continued. 



Irritation alone. 



Irritation with polarization. 



Strength of the irrita- 
tion. 



Height of 
the con- 
tractions, i 



Strength of the const.int 
current. 



mm. 

10.7 
8.8 
9.2 

11. 
9.5 
9.8 
4. 

3.4 
3.7 
3.5 



3 Daniels 



Height of 
the con- 
traction.s. 



mm. 
4. 

4.1 
4.1 
4.1 
4.1 
0. 

11. 

lu. ."j 

10.8 
10.8 



Eemarks. 



Descending polarization. 



EXPEPaMEXT 203. 



1 Daniel : 










Eheochord 1009 


11.3 


3 Daniels 


0. 


Rana temporaria. A de- 




10.1 




0. 


scending irritating and 




10.3 




0. 


a descending polariz- 


488 


10.4 
10.5 
10.(5 




0. 
0. 
9.3 


ing cunent. ' 




9. 




1. 


Ascending polarization. 




9.5 




0. 






8.8 




0. 






4.5 




8. 


De.scending polarization, 




6.4 




7.3 


nni.»<ilo weighted 20 




0. 




8.2 


gruTumes. 




0. 




4. 






6.5 


2 Daniels 


10.9 


"Weight removed. 




0.5 




11.7 






6.7 




10.9 






6.4 




10.9 




1 Daniel 


6.2 
5.5 
6.1 
6. 


2 Daniels 


0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 


Ascending polarization. 


2 Daniels 


4.9 


1 Daniel 


8.1 




Kheochord 1009 


11. 
11.2 
11.3 
9.8 
12.5 


- 


1.X5 
12.5 
12.8 
14.9 
19.3 






4.5 




3.1 


Muscle weighted 20 




3. 




2. 
0. 
0. 


grammes. 


• 


'6. 
2.5 








0.0 




3.5 


Weight removed. 




0.2 




2. 5 




3 D.iniel8 


4. 




ms 






9.2 


18 


19.7 


Descending polarization. 




0. 




8.5 






0. 




9. 


Ascending polarization. 




0. 




7.3 






0. 




7.6 





In this experiment, as iu " Experiment 198," weighting the mnscle 
greatly influenced the eiiect of polarization on the excitability of the 
nerve. 

I could multiply these experiments almost indefinitely, having made 
upwards of 500 of them, but these few will suffice to justify the conclu- 
sions at which I have arrived. It is true that the experiments given 
are all made with the irritation applied jieriiiherally from the polariza- 
tion, but I have made numerous experiments where this relation was 
reversed which gave the same results. These may, however, be the 
subject of a future paper. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 417 

CONCLUSIONS. 

The effect of an irritation of a polarized nerve as compared with the 
effect of the same irritation of the non-polarized nerve depends — 

1. On the proportion between the strengths of the polarizing and irri- 
tating currents. 

2. On the circumstance that the irritation is to the side of the anode 
or to the side of the kathode of the polarizing current. 

3. On the length of time that the nerve muscle preparation has been 
exposed. 

4. On the circumstance whether the muscle is weighted or not. 

In at least two proportions of the two currents Pfliiger's results can 
be obtained for an uncertain period of time. Another proportion re- 
verses this effect, and gives increased excitability to the side of the 
anode, and a diminished excitability to the side of the kathode. Other 
proportions of the two currents may give an increased or a diminished 
excitability to the side of both poles. And, lastly, we may have the 
polarization failing absolutely to influence the effect of the irritation. 

APPLICATION OF THE CONCLUSIONS. 

The results obtained in the foregoing experiments would be of interest, 
even if they had but a scientific value, but their value is much enhanced 
by what they ^omise in enlightening our views on the pathology of the 
nervous system. 

As respects disea es of the peripheral motor nerves, they open up an 
entirely new field of work. Every physician who has had even the 
least experience in electro-therapeutics must have come across cases of 
local motor affections of the nerves, producing a paralysis, which for a 
long time apparently resists all electrical treatment, when by changing 
the strength of the electrical current employed a cure is effected in a 
very short time. 

Two such cases have come under my observation. In one of these 
the attending physican had used a constant current of very great strength, 
and only aggravated the existing paralysis of the arm and forearm. I 
advised and applied, daily, a constant current derived from but two 
large Dauiel cells, and in less than a month the arm had almost com- 
pletely recovered. 

Another case occurred during my presence in Vienna. A young girl 
suffered from choreaic twitchings of the left hand. The application of 
constant currents of but slight strength to the brachial plexus increased 
tliese twitchings. When the current was increased in strength the 
twitchings ceased, and ultimately the patient was cured. 

With the sensory nerves similar phenomena can be observed. A per- 
son strikes his head (or some other portion of his body) against a hard 
object, and as a result a sensation of pain remains. Now, applying a 
constant pressure to the injured part will increase, decrease, or even 
S. Mis. 59 27 



418 EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 

abolisli the pain according to the degree of pressure. Applying the 
constant pressure to other portions of the body will oftentimes relieve 
or increase the pain. Under these circumstances the constant current 
is replaced by the pressure. 

The experiments are again of importance in explaining the varying 
symptoms following a hemorrhage into a given portion of the brain, and 
also in explaining why a lesion in the neighborhood of the corpus stria- 
tum in man should produce hemiplegia of the opposite limbs, while its 
destruction in man or any of the mammals is never followed by this 
symptom. Again, it will explain why we have sometimes paralysis and 
at other times convidsions, or in still other cases paralysis and convul- 
sions in the same person from the same brain lesion. 

The fact that cerebral-hemiijlegia had never been i^roduced in animals 
attracted my attention four years ago. Since that time I have constantly 
endeavored to produce this symptom in animals, but until recently with 
no success. 

After having found that section of the whole brain immediately above 
the corpora quadrigemina is not followed by abolition of the voluntary 
movements,* it occurred to me that perhaps Brown-Sequard's theory 
was the true one, and that the paralysis resulting from brain lesions 
was due to the irritation and not to the destruction of the nerve tubules in 
this organ. If this be so, an irritating substance injected into the brain 
in the vicinity of the corpus striatum would produce paralysis of the 
oi^posite side of the body. I tried this by injecting aqua ammonia, but 
in the first experiments injected too much, and the animals died in con- 
vulsions or coma. Later, by using an injection of l-oni, I was, in several 
dogs and cats, able to produce hemiplegia on the side opposite to that 
on which the injection was made. The animals, in attempting to walk, 
dragged their limbs as in true hemiplegia. Even in them, however, 
under unusual strong excitement, the paralyzed limbs were moved.t 
This result could not have been due to pressure on distant parts, as the 
injection of a similar quantity of water failed to produce the same 
effect. 

These experiments with ammonia were sufficient to show that hemi- 
plegia can be produced in animals by the injection of irritating sub- 
stances in the neighborhood of the corpus striatum. The same effect 

*A most interesting case is reported by Dr. Harlow (Boston Medical and Surgical 
Journal, December 13, 1848), in wliicb the portions of the brain frequently considered 
as presiding over volitional movements were destroyed by a tamping-iron being driven 
tbrougb the skull. The patient lived many years after the injury was received. No 
signs of paralysis were manifest. 

Another case is reported by Dr. Folsom (Pacific Medical and Surgical Journal, May, 
1869), where a longitudinal hemi-section of the brain, extending nearly, if not quite, 
to the base of this organ, was made by the patient falling against a circular-saw 
revolving about two thousand times a minute. The man recovered without paralysis. 

t Carpenter (Physiology, 1855, note on page 635) reports similar phenomena occur- 
ing in a man. Abercrombie (On the Brain), Wicke (Die Grossen Veits-Tanzele), and 
other authors report similar cases. 



EFFECT OF IRRITATION OF A POLARIZED NERVE. 419 

was produced when a solution of the glucoside saponin was substituted, 
for the ammonia. With these substances hemiplegia was not always 
produced, though the injection was made into the same portion of the 
brain. In some cases a sort of hemi-chorea, and in others general con- 
vulsions, were produced. 

From these experiments we must believe that hemiplegia results from 
an irritation (or i)olarization ? ) and not from the destruction of motor 
centres. How are these, the varying results following irritation of the 
same part of the brain, to be explained ? 

Ammonia or saponin applied to a nerve tubule * really acts by polar- 
izing this structure. The impulse causing the animal to make volitional 
movements comes from the periiDheral centres, and is no doubt similar 
to an irritation in its etfects on the central nerve tubules. Now, it was 
seen that in a polarized nerve the effect of the irritating current is in- 
creased or decreased as the relation between the proportions of the two 
currents is changed. A polarizing current of a certain strength applied 
to the fibres in the vicinity of the corpus striatum will diminish or totally 
"inhibit" an ordinary volitional impulse ;t but when we increase the 
strength of this irritation or impulse, as we undoubtedly do under strong 
excitement, other proportions between the two currents result, and con- 
sequently we have other effects. 

Again, under other circumstances a lesion of the same portion of the 
brain will i^roduce convulsions. Here we have the proportions between 
the sti-engths of the two currents again changed. The polarizing cur- 
rent now increases instead of decreases the effect of the irritating current. 

In conclusion, I would say that the reason why a lesion in the same 
portion of the brain at one time produces jiaralysis, at another has no 
effect, and in a third instance i^roduces convulsions (or tremors), is to 
be found in the proijortion, which exists in each individual case, between 
the current developed in the nerve tubule by the lesion and that which 
proceeds from the lierixjheral centres in the production of volitional im- 
pulses. 

* A nerve tubule uudoubtedly lias the same properties whether it be of intercentral 
or peripheral significance, 
t A hemiplegic person has the will to move the paralysed limbs, but not the power, 



RESEARCHES UPON FEVER. 



By H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D., of Philadelphia. 



The following is a brief analysis of the argument and results, so far 
as reached, of the researches upon fever, which have occupied my atten- 
tion for some years, and towards which the Smithsonian Institution has so 
liberally contributed pecuniary aid. This article, however, affords noth- 
ing more than the barest outline of the work done ; many minor points 
and discovered facts are altogether omitted, and no allusion is made 
to the work of other persons. The extended memoir awaiting publica- 
tion by the Institution will contain all necessary historical matters and 
any proper acknowledgment of jirevious investigations. It may be 
allowable here to state that, excejit in the chemical section, showing the 
agreement between my results on heat production, and studies on the 
same subject, made by calculating ingesta and egesta, no experimental 
results previously arrived at by other observers have been accepted 
without thorough repetition and verification. 

The first effort, naturally, was to determine if fever be as complex as 
it seems, or whether there be not some dominant symptom which is the 
characteristic one of the process. By artificially heating living animals 
both throughout the whole body and in local regions, such as the head, 
it was clearly shown that elevation of the bodily temperature is suflicient 
to produce all the nervous and circulatory symptoms of fever, and that 
the cooling of the heated part is capable of removing the symptoms. 
Parallel exj)eriments made upon man in simple thermic and other 
fevers gave j^arallel results to those reached in the lower animals, and 
warrant the conclusion that the dominant symptom of fever is the 
excessive bodily temperature. Fever may therefore be defined to be a 
morbid process which produces elevation of the bodily temperature. The 
question that naturally presents itself at this point is — Is the increase 
of the bodily temperature due to an increase of the amount of heat pro- 
duced, or is it caused by a failure of the body to throw off" its heat? As, 
however, the study of normal i)hysiology naturally precedes that of mor- 
bid physiology, and as our knowledge of the methods in which nature 
regulates the production and evolution of bodily heat is very scanty, 
it seemed proper before proceeding farther with the researches upon 
fever to endeavor to elucidate the laws which govern the production or 
evolution of animal heat in health. 

420 



EESEAECHES UPON FEVER. 421 

When the spinal cord of an animal is cut above the origin of the 
splanchnic nerves there is usually a great fall of the bodily temperature, 
which is in a measure proportionate to the temperature of the surround- 
ing air. If the animal be placed in a heated apartment the fall of ten*- 
perature is greatly lessened, and is sooner or later followed by a rise. 
In some animals the rise of temperature thus brought about is even 
greater than occurs in a normal animal placed in a similarly heated 
room. When the animal with a divided cord is in a cold room, death 
evidently is the result of the cold, the bodily temperature continually 
falling more and more until a point fatal to life is reached. The animal 
with a divided cord will live almost indefinitely in a room heated to 
80°, but perishes in a very short time in a room of 40°. Another series 
of phenomena connected with spinal division is that where the cord is 
divided at its junction with the pons there is a very rapid rise of the 
bodily temperature, even in a cold room, to a point far above normal. 
It is plain that these phenomena may be either due to disturbances of 
heat evolution or of heat production, and that before any explanation of 
them can be satisfactorily given this point should be settled. This has 
been done by means of a calorimeter, whose general plan of construction 
resembles that of Senator. The principle of this is the heating of a given 
weight of water in a given time. This calorimeter measures only the 
amount of heat given off by the animal, or, in other words, heat evolu- 
tion. K the animal gain in his bodily temperature during his stay in the 
calorimeter, it is plain that heat evolution is less than the heat produc- 
tion, and vice versa. 

By taking the specific heat of the animal as the proportional mean 
of the specific heat of its constituents, namely as .75, we are able to 
calculate in heat units the amount of caloric lost or gained by the body, 
and to add to or subtract from the heat evolved as may be required to 
determine the amount of heat produced. 

Employing this method it was found that immediately after section of 
the cord there is great increase of the heat evolution, if the calorimeter 
be at an ordinary temperature. On the other hand, when the hourly 
heat evolution was measured, some hours after the section, it was fouuil 
to be much less than before the operation. The first increase of the 
heat evolution was always associated with a great fall of bodily tem- 
perature ; and when the calculations were completed it was found that 
the extra heat imparted to the calorimeter during the first hour after 
,the spinal section was not equal to the amount lost by the body, or, in 
other words, that immediately after the operation there was lesseneil 
heat production. In the subsequent hours of hfe, both heat production 
and evolution are markedly lessened. The result thus obtained may \)e 
stated as follows : Section of the cord at usual temperatures is followeil 
by markedly lessened production of animal heat, continuing until death, 
and also by an immediate excessive loss of heat, which continues until 



422 EESEARCHES UPON FEVEE. 

the surplus caloric of tlie body has been yielded up, and tiien becomes 
proportionate to the diminished heat production. 

The cause of the primary increased heat evolution is probably vasomo- 
tor palsy. The interior of the body maintains its temperature by keep- 
ing a partially cooled layer between it and the external air. When the 
external cold is great, the superficial vessels are contracted, and loss of 
heat is as far as possible prevented. After section of the cord, the super- 
ficial capillaries relax and the surface temperature rises. Later on, as 
the interior heat fails, the superficies and the deep parts of the body 
alike grow cooler, and the great loss of heat is arrested. A question 
now lU'csented itself for solution, as to how far the loss of heat directly 
checks chemical movements inside of the body, and how far the lessened 
heat production after cord section is the direct result of such influence 
of the cold. This was partially solved by i)lacing the animal in a calo- 
rimeter heated to about 100° Fahr. Under these circumstances it was 
found that sometimes the heat production was maintained after the 
operation, but in other cases was markedly diminished : the causes of the 
diiference will be fully detailed in the extended memoir, but are here 
omitted. The calorimeter worked at a high temperature is not an 
instrument of precision, so that no absolute authority can be accorded 
to the experiments just spoken of. Nevertheless it will be seen that the 
i-esults accord with the fact (earlier stated) that sometimes in the heated 
chamber rise of the bodily temperature was more pronounced after than 
before section of the cord. The evidence indicates that after spinal sec- 
tion the diminished heat production is not always or even usually in chief 
part caused by loss of heat, but that the reduction of temperature may 
have some influence in lessening the activity of the chemical movements 
of the body. 

When the great rise of bodily temperature that follows immediately 
section of the cord above the governing vasomotor center in the medulla 
is called to mind, the necessity of studying as to whether this rise is 
due to disturbance of heat evolution or heat production becomes appa- 
rent. Such studies reached the result that heat production is excess- 
ively increased by section of the cord at its junction with the pons. 

An elaborate series of experiments were performed confirming the results 
l)reviously reached by other observers, that if changes in the arterial pres- 
sure can be taken as a guide, the governing vasomotor center is situated 
in the medulla oblongata. Conceding this, it would seem i^roven that 
vasomotor paralysis is the cause of the diminished heat production which 
usually follows section of the dorsal spinal cord, even when the bodily 
temperature is artificially maintained. It is plain how such palsy must 
everywhere render the circulation much less quick, more sluggish than 
normal, and this is i^robably the immediate cause of the failure of heat 
productions. The fact that sometimes, especially in very vigorous dogs, 
the production of heat was rather increased than lessened by spinal 
section, indicates that there is some influence at work antagonistic to 



RESEARCHES UPON FEVER, 423 

the clianges of the circulation, which is at times able to overcome the 
iuliueuce of these changes. This would seem to be rendered certain by 
the effects of section above the medulla, which was found to increase 
extraordinarily the production of the animal heat, the evolution not 
being notably aftected. In one or more of the experiments the animal 
lived for twenty-four hours, and at the end of that time, notwithstanding 
no food had been ingested, the rate of heat production was still notably 
above normal. Where a result of nerve section remains for twenty-four 
hours it is usually considered paralytic, and it seems to me only the 
strongest arguments could establish that the increase of heat produc- 
tion just mentioned is of other character. Three theories suggest them- 
selves as capable of accounting for the phenomena : first, that there is 
in the pons or higher up a center which inhibits chemical movements in 
the body, and that the section of the cord at the pons takes off from 
the general tissues this restraining influence ; second, that the animal 
heat is mainly made in the muscle, and that the vasomotor center of 
the muscles is situated above the medulla, so that it is paralyzed when 
the section is made between the pons and medulla ; third, that the sec- 
tion irritates the vasomotor centers and thus inflaences heat i^roductiou 
by influencing the circulation. 

The irritation theory was disproved by direct experiment, careful 
cardiometrical studies showing that the arterial pressure is not seri- 
ously affected by the oijeration, and that the circulation after the opera- 
tion preserved all its normal relations with the organism below the sec- 
tion. Again, the persistence of the increased heat production for 
twenty-four hours seems very inconsistent with the irritation theory. 
Any one who has divided a spinal cord knows that all symptoms of irri- 
tation subside usually in a few minutes after a clean section. Finally, 
in two experiments punctures were made into the region of the junction 
of the medulla and pons, just sufficient to cause irritation, and the result 
was lessening of the heat production. 

The conclusion that there is among the upper nerve-centers one which 
directly or indirectly controls the production of animal heat independ- 
ently of the vasomotor centers of the medulla was further corroborated 
by a series of experiments of a different character from any as yet 
spoken of. If a sensitive nerve be galvanized there is a fall of the bod- 
ily temperature, which has usually been attributed to changes in the 
cirdblation and respiration. By experiments, which will be reported 
fully in the memoir, this fall of temperature is shown to be independent 
of the respiration, or of any changes in the blood pressure, such as is 
produced through the governing vasomotor centers of the medulla. Fur- 
ther, when the pons is separated from the medulla by section, it is impos- 
sible to produce a decided fall of the bodil,\' temperature by galvanization 
of a sensitive nerve, although both circulation and respiration are appar- 
ently attected as in the normal animal. The only plausible explanation 
of this is that there is a nerve center above the point of section, which 



424 RESEARCHES UPON FEVER. 

influences the development of animal heat independently of the respira- 
tory or circulatory centers in the pons. It would seem, therefore, that 
we must adopt one of the first two theories as the true explanation of 
the phenomena observed. To decide which of the two is conect is not 
at present possible. We would naturally expect some distinct altera- 
tion of blood pressure to follow paralysis of the arterioles of the mus- 
cles, but the abdominal vessels are so enormous that it is possible that 
they are the dominating influence in the blood pressure. I am still 
engaged upon this subject, but what will come out of it is uncertain. 

It having been noticed by Hitzig and other experimenters that wounds 
of certain portions of the brain cortex near the sulcus cruciatus are in 
the day followed by rise of temperature upon the opposite side of the 
body, attention was directed to this region. It was first proven by 
cardiometrical experiment that such wounds do not affect the general 
circulation to an appreciable extent. Seventeen caloriinetrical experi- 
ments were there made. Five with destruction of both Hitzig's regions ; 
result, average increase of heat production 53 per cent. Seven with de- 
struction of one Hitzig region ; result, average gain of heat production 
19 per cent. Five with destruction of other portions of the cortex ; result, 
in no case increase of the heat production. Then the same region was 
irritated with salt, and the heat production was found to be lessened. 
These results certainly are very extraordinary if there be no connection 
between this cortical region and the production of animal heat. Sup- 
posing the method of investigation fauliy, the chances of nineteen suc- 
cessive experiments of different character, aU concurring in their result, 
would be very small. When it is also borne in mind that these nine- 
teen experiments are in accord with a long preceding series of com- 
plicated experiments, and that no exception has been met with, it is 
plain how small must be the chances of serious error either in the 
method or result. 

In studying the subject of fever itself, the first question investigated 
was whether the febrile elevation of temperature be due to increased 
production, or simply lessened evolution of caloric. The experiments 
were mostly made upon dogs ; each experiment lasted not less than 
three days, most of them six days; therm ometrical readings being 
made every 20 minutes by night as by day. The normal and febrile 
states were studied, both when food was administered and when it was 
withheld. The first result was to show that there are two distinct^ va- 
rieties, so to speak, of animal heat, namely, that derived from the 
stored-up materials of the body, and that derived from the food ; and 
that the second factor in the heat production is of great value, although 
it does not decidedly affect the bodily temperature. After a full meal, 
the amount of heat developed is enormous ; but it is evolved as fast as 
produced. In fever little or no food is taken, and consequently this factor 
disappears. The heat produced at the expense of the stored materials 
of the body is always excessively increased in fever, and usually more 



KESEAECHES UPOF FEVER, 425 

than compensates for the loss of the food heat. In the dog at least, how- 
ever, there are periods of high temperature in which less heat is being 
produced than after a full meal in the normal animal. It is plain that 
disturbance of the heat production is a factor of the febrile state; but 
it would seem that there is also a disturbance of the heat evolution, else 
more of the extra caloric would be gotten rid of. It has been shown 
that the diurnal rhythmic changes of temperature are usually parallel 
in health and fever; and it would seem that in regular fever there is a 
moving up of the habitual plane of heat upon which the organism is 
run. What has been made out as to the methods of heat ijroduction . 
and evolution naturally suggests, as a plausible theory of fever, that the 
febrile state is chiefly due to a loss of power of the upper centers, mus- 
culo- vasomotor, or heat inhibiting, as the case may be, and to a less 
extent of sensibility of the vasomotor centers which preside over heat 
evolution. As the result of the weakening of the npiier centers, more 
heat is developed; whilst the benumbed vasomotor centers require a 
greater degree of heat to stimulate them to throw oft' the excessive 
caloric produced. In investigating the truth of this theory, the first 
efibrt was to determine how fever is caused. Many fevers are evidently 
the result of the introduction of a poison in the blood ; but it has been 
thought that inflammatory fever is produced by irritation of peripheral 
nerve. If, however, all the nerves going to the hind leg of a dog be 
divided, and after recovery has taken place the anaesthetic limb be 
wounded, traumatic fever is developed as soon and as intensely as in 
the normal animal similarly wounded. Such fever would seem to be 
due to an absorption of a poison into the blood ; for fever is a general 
pathological process, involving the whole system, and the blood in the 
wounded animal, with divided nerves, is the one apparent channel of 
communication between the injured part and the general system. It is 
plain that a poison circulating in the blood may affect heat production, 
either by acting upon the nerve centers or by acting on the tissues of the 
body. There are certain clinical malarial phenomena which tell very 
strongly against the idea of fever being due to an action upon the uni- 
versal protoplasm. Such phenomena are the regular sequence of com- 
plicated symptoms which usually make uj) the intermittent paroxysm j 
the frequent regular interchange between this fever paroxysm and neu- 
ralgic and other nerve storms, one replacing the other; the occasional 
occurrence of local paroxysms of intermittent fever involving only or 
chiefly certain regions of the body. To aid in elucidating the matter, 
two series of experiments were performed: In the first, the ettect of 
section of the cord was studied in animals suffering from fever. The 
result was an exaggeration of the phenomena which occur after spinal 
section in the uninjured animal, heat evolution being enormously in- 
creased at first. This indicates that in fever the vasomotor nerves are 
more active in restraining heat evolution than in health. The second 
series of experiments consisted in irritating peripheral sensitive nerves 



426 RESEARCHES UPON FEVER. 

in rabbits, upon successive non-fever days, and successive pyfemic febrile 
days. These experiments were made, and in each case, the same irritation 
being employed, the fall of temperature was much less upon the febrile 
than upon the non-febrile days. This, of course, indicates that in fever 
the inhibitory heat center is less powerful or active than in health. 

In conclusion, the results reached in the research may be summed up 
as follows : 

First. Fever is a morbid nutritive process, whose characteristic is ex- 
cessive heat production. 

Second. Heat evolution is under the control of the vasomotor nerve 
centers (the dominating center being situated in the floor of the fourth 
ventricle, near the point of the calamus) ; including also in man the 
nerves which preside over the secretion of sweat. 

Third. Heat production is dominated by some higher nerve centers of 
uncertain nature. 

Fourth. That in health there is in man, and probably in every animal, 
a fixed temperature mean, and a normal diurnal variation of tempera- 
ture having a regular rhythm, which is beyond the control of all dis- 
turbing causes that do not force the organism beyond the limits^ of health. 

Fifth. That the maintenance of the normal variation is the result of 
the play between the nervous systems which control the functions of 
heat production and evolution. 

Sixth. Fever is a morbid process in which there is not only an eleva- 
tion of the bodily temperature but also an increase in the chemical move- 
ments of the stored materials, i. e., the tissues of the body; this increase 
being usually but not always much more than sufficient to compensate 
for the loss of food heat. The rise of the bodily temperature in fever is 
not solely dependent upon increased heat production. 

Seventh. In fever there is usually a daily temperature variation par- 
allel to and diftering from the normal health variation only in having a 
higher mean. 

Eighth. That vasomotor paralysis in fever is followed by an almost in- 
stantaneous sinking of temperature below normal, the fall bein g much more 
rapid and excessive than is produced by vasomotor paralysis in health. 

Ninth. The higher centers which preside over the heat function are 
not paralyzed in pyaemic fever in the rabbit, but are certainly less capa- 
ble than in health of responding promptly and powerfully to stimula- 
tion ; or in other words they are in a condition of paresis. 

Tenth. That the clinical phenomena of malarial and other fevers 
indicate that the febrile motion is of nervous origin. 

Eleventh. That in most and probably in all continued fevers the symp- 
toms are due to a poison in the blood. 

Twelfth. That fever appears to be caused by a loss of functional ac- 
tivity in the higher centers which regulate the production and evolution 
of animal heat due to the action of a blood poison upon the centers. 

Univeesity of Pennsylvania, 

Fhiladelphia, February 6, 1879. 



CONSTANTS OF NATURE. 



By Joun Le Conte, 
Of the University of California. 



iVide. Paper on "Sound" in "Lond., Ediu., Dub., Phil., Mag." 4th Series, Vol. 27, 
pp. 15, 16, 17, 18, 29 e« seg.— January, 1804.] 



ConstaBts. 



Logarithms. 



Weight of 1 litre of mercury at 
Paris, 60 metres above sea, at 0° 
C 

"Weight of 1 cubic foot (English) of 
same 

"Weight of 1 cubic inch (English) of 

same 

Do 

"Weight of 1 litre of pure, dry air at 
Paris, 60 metres above sea, at 0° 
C, pressure =760 ""» of roorcurv, 
atO°C '.. 

"Weight of same at sea-level 

"Weight of same at equator 

"Weight of sanio at latitude 45° — 

"Weight of same with 0.0004 vol- 
umes of COj at Paris, height =60" 

Do., at Paris, height = 0™ 

Do., at equator, height =0™ 

Do., at latitiule 45°, heigh t=Om. . . 

"Weight of 1 cubic foot (Engli.sh) of 
pure, dry air at Paris, height = 
eC", at 0° C, pressure = 760 ">"■ of 
mercury --. 

"Weight of 1 cubic foot of same 

"Weight of 1 cubic inch of same — 

"Weiglit of 1 cubic foot with CO2. .. 
Do 

"Weight of 1 cubic inch with CO2. . . 



13595.93 grammes 

848.7196416 pounds avoirdupois 

0.4911572 pounds avoirdupois. . 
3438.1004 grains 

1.2932227 grammes , 

1.2932',388 grammes 

1 .2893600 grammes 

1 .2927818 grammes 

1.2934963 grammes 

1.2935124 gi-ammea 

1.2890328 grammes 

1.2930553 gxammes 

0.0807288 pounds avoirdupois. . 

565.101792 grains 

0.3270265 grains 

0.0807459 pounds avoirdupois. . 

565.22137 gi'ains 

0.3270957 grains 



4.13340,89199 

2. 92876,42591 

-1.69122,05210 
3.53631,85610 



0. 11167,33192 
0. 11167,87259 
0. 11037,41927 
0. 11152.52294 

0. 11176,.51908 
0.11177,05964 
0. 11046,60703 
0. 11161,70987 



-2.90702,86584 
2. 75212,66984 

-1.51458,29603 

-2.90712,05300 
2. 75221,8.5700 

— 1. 51467,48319 



1. 2893600 



1. 32 X li 



I X (1+0. 005307746 X sin* lat. \ 
--^;p^^ ( l-"^) X (1 + 0. 005307746 X sinMat.) 



6-0. 378 X/ / 

"Weight of 1 litre of air=i+o7003CT xl ^ 760 ^ \ 

1. 2896328 I 
"Weight of 1 litre of air + C()''~i^Q,o(tiK7xt^ ' 

[Weight in grammes : « = C° ; 6 = lieight of bar in """ of mere, at 0° C : /= tension of aq. vap. in >»" of 
mere, ai 0= C: /;= height above sea-level: r = rad. of earth.] 



5^5«:-"r-^:t = 0oC:pr. = 0»76- 
Dens, air ' 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Same + C02 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Pressure of atmosphere at t = 0° 
C : bar = 0'".76 of mercury 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Height of homogeneous atmosphere 
of air, at « =00 

Do 



At P.aris, height = 60" = 10,513.2163 .... 

At Paria, height = 0™ = 10,513.085 

At equator, height = 0™ = 10,544.712 

At latitude 45°, height = 0-" = 10,516.802 

At Paris, height =60™ =10,510.992 

At Paris, heiiiht = O"" = 10,510.861 

At equator, height = 0" = 10,542.481 

At latitude 45°, height = O" = 10,514.577 

On square centim. = 1033.29068 grammes 

On sijuare centim. = 1.03329068 kilogrammes . . 
On square metre = 10332.9068 kUogiammes ... 
On square inch = 14.6963 pounds avoirdupois . 
On square foot =2116.268 pounds avoirdupois. 

= 7990. 044388 metres 

= 26214.52864 (English) feet 

427 



4. 02173, 

4. 02173, 
4. 02303, 
4. 02188, 
4.02164, 
4. 02163, 
4. 02294, 
4. 02179, 



.56007 

01940 
47272 
36905 
37291 
83235 
28496 
18212 



3. 01422,25122 
0.01422,2.5122 
4.01422.25122 
1. 16720,82426 
3. 325.57,07347 

3. 90254,91930 
4.41854,20762 



428 



CONSTANTS OF NATURE. 





Constants. 


Logarithma. 


Length of seconds' Pend. Blot's re- 
sults corrected 

Do 


At Paris. height = eO°> = 0-". 99390, 2053 .... 
At Paris, height = 0°- = 0"'.99391,4420... . 

Ateqaator, height = 0"'= 0™. 99093, 341 2 

At latitude 45°, height = 0"= 0"°.99356,3224. . .. 
At pole, height = 0"> = 0"". 99619, 3035. ... 
At London, height = 0-"= 0'".99418,3474.... 

At London, height = 0"= 3f'.26181,573 

At London, height = 0» = Sdi". 14178, 878 


-1.99734, ,35877 
1. 99734 89915 


Do 


-1. 99604|44721 
—1.99719.55080 


Do 


Do 


— 1.99834 3nOU) 


Do 


—1. 99746,65397 


Do 


0.51345,94229 
1.^264,06690 


Do , 







The value for London has been computed from Sabine's expeiiidenjs. (Phil. Trans, for 1828), cor- 
rected by Bally (Mbdu of Ast Society, voL 71. 

Linmetre3 = 0".990933412( 1 — ^-^~-j X (l-fO. 0Q5307746X sln^ lat. ) 



Velocity generated by gravity (g) 
in a mean solar second of time. . 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Do ^ 



At Paris, height = 60"^ = 

At Paris, height = 0™ = 

At latitude 0°, height = O" = 
At latitude 45°, height = O" = 
At latitude 90°, height = O"- = 
At London, height = O" = 
At London, height = 4)» = 



»>'.80942,003 
9"'.80954,210 
9^.78012,073 
9^.20607,593 
9^.83203,113 
9-".81219,755 
32". 19283,06.. 



0.99164,33331 
0. 99164,87369 

0. 99034,42175 
0.99149,52534 
0.99264,32454 
0.99170,62851 

1. 50775,91683 



^ In metres =9».78012073{ 1-^^-^) X (l 4- 0.005307746 X sin 'la*.) 



Theoretical velocity of sound (New- 
ton's formula) in dry air, at ( == 

OOC 

Do 

Experimental velocity of sound in 
dry air, at ( = 0° C : Dutch ex- 
periments corrected, byLeConte. 

Do 

By Van derKijlk 

Do 

Density of gas; air = 1. Eeg- 
nault's results corrected: 

Oxygen 

Nitrogen 

Hydrogen 

C62 



279.9602 metres per seconii 
918.5210 feet per second . . . 

332.7167 metres per second 
1091.610 feet per second . . . 
332.6724 metres per second 
109L464 feet per secoM... 

1.105612 ,, 

0.971346 

0.069269 

1..529100..^ 



2.44709,62631 
2. 9630^914fi3 



2. 52207.47 

3. 03806,76 
2.52201,67 
3. 03800,96 



0. 04360,27 
-1.98737,39 
-2.84053,89 

a l&i43,59 



LIST OF APPARATUS RELATING TO HEAT, LIGHT, ELECTRICITY, 
MAGNETISM, AND SOUND, AVAILABLE FOR SCIENTIFIC RE- 
SEARCHES INVOLVING ACCURATE MEASUREMENTS.* 



Professors Wolcott Gibes, Edwaed C. Pickering, and John 
Teowbeedge, of Harvard University, have lately corresponded with 
the leading institutions of learning, and obtained consent for the use 
of the below-mentioned instruments for purposes of research by prop- 
erly-qualified persons. 



UiTiTED States Coast and Geodetic Suevey Office, WASHma- 

TON, D. C. 

The use of this apixiratus may be had at the office, under appropriate 
reguhitions. Applications must be made to Capt. C. P. Patteeson, 
Superintendent United States Coast Survey. 

1. €omj)arators of length : 

a. Saxton's pyrometer, or mirror comparator, for end measures. 
h. Eepsold's contact-lever comparator, for end measures. 

c. Saxton's tracing and comparing machine, for line measures. 

d. Hilgard's comparator, for line and end measures for any length 
between three and forty inches. 

€. Eutherfurd's micrometer, with two screws at right angles, and circle 
of i)osition for mea.suring stellar and solar photographs. 

2. Standards of length : 

a. Standard iron meter of originol committee for establishing metric 
system (end measure). 

h. Standard British yard (line measure). 
Standard British yard (end measure). 

Eighty-four-inch scale, di\ided to tenths of inches, made by Troughton 
and comi)ared throughout by Hassler. 

c. Decimetie divided into centimetres and millimetres, compared with 
the original standard metre. 

d. Copy of toise, accurately compared. 

3. Apj)aratm for ^ceUjliing. — Balances of precision for maximum charges 
of 100, 10, and 1 kilogrammes, and 100 and 1 grammes. 

4. Standard tceights. — Standard troy and avoirdupois pounds; kilo- 
gramme in i)latinum and in brass accurately compared. 

* From the Scientific American Supplement for August, 1879, 

429 



430 scientific experimental apparatus. 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, Mass. 

Applications for use must be made to Prof. Joseph Lovering, chair- 
man of the Eumford Committee, Cambridge, Mass. 

1. Meyerstein^s spectrometer. — Aperture of collimator and telescope, 3.3 
centimetres ; magnifying power of telescope 18 times ; graduated circle 
reads by means of two micrometers to two seconds. Instrument intended 
to be used with a diagonal eye-piece for obtaining reflection at right 
angles to the reflecting surface. It is not well adapted for measuring 
indices of refraction, except by the special method for which the instru- 
ment was designed. 

2. Large holloio prism of glass, with movable glass faces, held in their 
places by springs. Angle 00°. 

3. Prof. J. Trowbridge's electro-dynamometer. — Instrument for measur- 
ing the strength of powerful electric currents such as are produced by 
dynamo-electric machines. Mean radius of fixed coils 153.3 millimetres. 
Instrument described in Proceedings of American Academy of Arts and. 
Sciences, October 9, 1878. 

4. Thomson's galvanometer, resistance 6 ohms. 

5. Micrometer-level, constructed by Alvau Clark & Sons. Telescope, 
45 centimetres focal length and 4 centimetres aperture, in Y's moved by 
vertical micrometer screw, reading to 0.3" by estimation of tenths. In- 
tended also for use with eye-piece micrometer. One division of level 
tube (0.15 cm.) =8.7". Transverse level and slow motion for rotating 
telescope in Y's. Horizontal finding circle graduated to degrees. 

6. Light micrometer-level. — Telescope 21 centimetres focal length and 
25 centimetres aperture, in Y's moved by vertical micrometer screw, read- 
ing to 1.4" by estimation of tenths. One division of level tube (0.25 
cm.) = 1.8". Horizontal finding circle graduated to degrees. 

7. Microscope-tube and accessories, specially designed for measuring 
spectrum photographs. Also a standard plate of 24ths of an inch j rulings 
on glass by Prof. William A. Eogers. 

8. A large double induction coil of the form devised by Prof. John 
Trowbridge. 

9. Apparatus for the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat. — 
Devised by Prof. Henry A. Rowland, of Johns Hopkins University, and 
now in his charge. 



Harvard University. — Eumford Cabinet, Cambridge, Mass. 

(In charge of Professor Wolcott Gibbs.) 

1. A spectrometer by Brunner Freres, of Paris. The instrument has 
a single graduated circle 10 centimetres radius, reading by two verniers 
to 5 seconds of arc, and by a micrometer eye-piece to about 2 seconds. 
The telescope and collimator have 33 centimetres focal length, and 3.4 
centimetres aiJerture. The micrometer is provided with cross and also 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 431 

with parallel spider lines, and with a separate collimating eye-piece. 
The spectrometer stands ui)on a plate of metal which can be made to 
revolve, so that measurements by repetition are practicable. The instru- 
ment is in perfect adjustment, and has everything necessary for the de- 
termination of wave lengths and of indices of refraction. In connection 
with it the Rumford cabinet possesses : 

2. Two gratings, Nos. 1 and 2, ruled on speculum metal by D. C. Chap- 
man with Mr. Rutherfurd's engine. One of these, No. 1, has 8,G48 lines 
to the inch and a ruled surface (4.3 cm. x 5.2 cm.). The other has 17,296 
lines to the inch and the same ruled surface as No. 1. They may be ad- 
justed to the spectrometer above described by plate-holders constructed 
by William Gruuow, of New York, with all necessary requirements for 
the measurement of wave lengths. 

3. A collimator, l.G metres focal length and G.5 centimetres aperture, 
mounted upon a stand and specially adax)ted to the study of the extreme 
visible red and violet ends of the si>ectrum. Object-glass by Alvan Clark 
& Sons. A quartz lens of same focal length is to be added to this in- 
strument from the workshop of Steeg & Renter, in Homburg vor der 
Hohe, as well as a telescope with quartz objective and eye-piece for 
observing the ultra-violet spectram. 

4. A porte-lumicre, by Duboscq. A Foucault's heliostat has been 
ordered, and may be expected in the course of the summer. 

5. Yierordfs apparatus for measuring the intensity of light correspond- 
ing to any part of the visible spectrum. Telescope and collimator 25 
centimetres focal length. Apertures, 2.8 centimetres and 2.1 centimetres. 
The instrument was made by Schmidt & Haensch, of Berlin, and is com- 
plete with prism and colored glasses. 

0. A direct-vision spectroscope, with two sets of 9 prisms each. Set 1 
contains 4 prisms of carbonic disulphide and 5 of crown glass. Set 2 
consists of 4 prisms of flint and 5 of crown. The length of the instrument 
is 60 centimetres. It is provided with a scale telescope, and the observ- 
ing telescope has the usual angular motion. Tliis instrument is also by 
Schmidt & Haensch. 

7. An inductoriunij by Apps, of London, giving a 4-inch spark. 

8. Three thermometers, by Baudin, of Paris, reading to .01 degree cen- 
tigrade. 

No. 1. Reading from OP to 12° centigrade. 
No. 2. Reading from 12° to 23°. 
No. 3. Reading from 23° to 35°. 

In tliese instruments the weights of the bulbs, stems, and contained 
mercury are given. 

9. Edison''s tasimeter, made by Patrick & Carter, of Philadelphia, and 
adjusted by Mr. Edison. See Afnerican Journal of Arts and Sciences^ 
3d series. Vol. XVII, p. 52. A galvanometer suited to this instrument 
will be found in the cabinet in charge of Professor Trowbridge, together 
with the requisite batteries and Wheatstone's bridge. 



432 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 

In connection with these instruments the following, belonging to the 
Rumford professor, are also available : 

1. A large spectroscope with telescope and collimator of 4.75 centimetres 
aperture and 5.5 centimetres focal length. Magnifying power from 8 to 
60 times. Object-glasses by Fitz, of New York. Six hollow prisms of 
(^rbonic disulphide — glass faces 6x8 centimetres — arranged on Mr. 
Rutherfurd's plan, so that all the prisms are constantly in the position 
of minimum deviation. The stand, observing telescope, and prisms of 
this instrument may be used in connection with the long collimator 
belonging to the Rumford cabinet. 

2. A large hollow prism, with angle of 30° — glass faces 6x8.5 centi- 
metres — for Professor Gibbs's solution of phosphorus and sulphur in car- 
bonic disulphide. See American Journal of Science and Arts, Vol. IV, p. 
6, 2d series. 

3. Two flint-gluss prisms — faces 8.5x5 centimetres — which may be 
used singly or together. Angles of 60°. 

4. Professor Gibbs^s double or compensating prism for the study of ab- 
soqjtion spectra. See American Journal of Arts and Sciences, Vol. IV, p. 8. 

5. Five gratings ruled with Mr. Rutherfurd's engine : 

No. 1. Ruled on speculum metal, 6,480 lines to the inch. Ruled sur- 
face 2.1x2.8 centimetres. Metal a little tarnished. 

No. 2. Ruled on glass and silvered, 8,640 lines to the inch ; 7,021 lines 
uiwnaruled surface 2x2.7 centimetres. Covering-plateof glass cemented 
with Canada balsam. 

No. 3. Ruled on glass for spectra by transmission, 6,480 lines to the 
inch. Ruled surface 1.7x2.7 centimetres. 

No. 4. Ruled on glass for transmission of light, 12,960 lines to the inch. 
Ruled surface 1.3x2.7 centimetres. 

No. 5. Ruled on glass and silvered; 13,321 lines on a space 19x24 
centimetres, with covering-glass cemented by Canada balsam. 

KirchhofPs, Angstrom's, and Mascart's maps of the spectrum. 

Mr. Rutherfurd's original photographs, together with the German 
lithographic reproduction of the same. 

Mr. Rutherfurd's recent photographs takeu with the diffraction si)ec- 
tmm. Thalen's map of the absorptive bands of iodine vapor. 

The thermometers by Fastr6, of Paris, carefully compared with an air 
thermometer reading from 0° to 100° C. 



Harvard University. — Department of Physics. 

(In charge of Professor John Trowbridge.) 

1. Edelmannh instrument for measuring horizontal and vertical in- 
tensity of earth's magnetism. 

The peculiarity of this instrument consists in its allowance of a long 
suspension, and in its torsion head. 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 433 

2. A standard ohm, r.nd two boxes of resistance coils running from one 
to five thousand olim?;. 

3. An induction coil made in the horseshoe form and pro^^ded with 
iron phites for armatures. The two induction coils comprise a resistance 
of 12,0U0 ohms. 

4. Galvanometer for absolute measure. — Maker: Edelmann, Munich. 
A short coil minor instrument, adapted for absolute measures by certain 
methods. Eesistance, C ohms. 

5. Thomsoii's rcjlecting galvanometers. — One of 5,880 ohms resistance — 
a differential instrument. 

One of 6 ohms resistance, adapted for heat measures. 

G. Thomson^s quadrant electrometer. — Made by White, of Glasgow. 

7. Cathetometer. — Maker: Perreaux, Paris. Eeads by vernier to 2- 
lOOths of millimetre, or by micrometer to 1-lOOth of a millimetre. Focal 
length of objective, 13 centimetres; magnifying i^ower of telescope 30 
times. 

8. Dividing engine. — Maker: Perreaux, Paris. Screw, Gl centimetres 
long. Pitch of screw, one-half of a millimetre. Micrometer reads to 
one four-hundredth of a millimetre. Instrument adapted only for grad- 
uating tubes and scales, or for comparison of graduations. 

9. Large spectroscope. — Designed by Professor J. P. Cooke, of Harvard 
University. Two trains of prisms. One of nine bisidphide of carbon 
prisms of 45°. One of nine flint-glass prisms of 45°. Graduated circle 
reading to 10 seconds, also a micrometer eye-piece. Magnifying power 
of telescope, 10 times; focal length of objective, 4G centimetres; aperture, 
5.5 centimetres. 

10. Reading telescope and scale. — On brass leveling stand. Telescope 
l^rovided with two objectives : one for short, the other for long, distances. 

Magnifying i^ower for long distances, 22 times. 

Magnifying power for short distances, 30 times. 

Focal length of the objective for long distances, 30 centimetres. 

Focal length of the objective for short distances, 23 centimetres. 

Aperture of objectives, four centimetres. 



Harvard University. — AsxRONOMicAii Observatory. 

(In charge of Professor E. C. Pickering.) 

LIST OF INSTRUMENTS NOT IN CONSTANT USE AND AVAILABLE FOR 

RESEARCH. 

1. East transit circle, by Troughton and Simms, of London. Aperture 
of telescope, 4-^ inches; focal, length, 5 feet. Described in Vol. I, pt. 1, 
of the Annals of the Observatory, p. 46. 

2. West equatorial, by Alvan Clark & Sons, of Cambridge. Aperture 
of telescope, 5^ inches ; focal length, 7^ feet. Described in Vol. VIII 
of the Annals of the Observatory, p. 31. 

S. Mis. 59 28 



434 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 

3. Portable transit instrument^ by Herbst, of Pulkowa. Aperture of 
telescope, 2f inches; focal leugth, 33 inches. Eye-piece at eud of axis. 
Described in Vol. VIII of the Annals of the Observatory, p. 28. 

4. Bowditch comet-seel-er. — Ajierture, 4 inches; focal length, 33 inches. 
Described in Vol. VIII of the Annals of the Observatory, p. 32. 

5. Telescope J by Lerebours. Aperture, 3 inches ; focal length, 50 
inches. 

6. Telescope, by Alvan Clark & Sons. Aperture, 3^ inches; focal 
leugth, 39 inches. Object-glass slightly damaged. 

7. Variation transit, by Trough ton & Simms, of London. Aperture 
of telescope. If inches ; focal length, 18 inches. 

8. Traveler's transit theodolite, No. 3527, by L. P. Casella. 

9. Sextant, by Spencer, Browning & Eust. 

10. Spectroscope, by Troughton & Simms, of London, with two prisms, 
and Professor Winlock's apparatus for recording observations, as de- 
scribed in Vol. VIII of the Annals of the Observatory, p. 33. 

11. Spectroscope, by J. Browning, of London, with one prism, and 
Professor Winlock's apparatus for recording observations. 

12. Spectroscope, by Alvan Clark & Sons, of Cambridge, witli five 
prisms and reflecting prism to send the light a second time through them. 
Dispersive power exceeding that of 22 ordinary prisms. Prisms not 
movable. Described in Vol. VIII of the Annals of the Observatory, 
p. 35. 

13. Lens of plate glass. — Focal length, about 40 feet ; aperture, 4 
inches. 

14. Lens corrected, for chemical rays. — Focal length, 32 feet 5 inches; 
aperture, 4 inches. 

15. Photometer, by Ausfeld, of Gotha, on plan of Professor Zollner. 
IG. Occultator (for computation of occultations), on plan of Eev. 

Thomas Hill. 

17. Position circle, read by verniers to minutes of arc. 

18. Thermometric chronometer, by C. Frodsham, of London, ISTo. 3,424, 
constructed so as to increase its daily rate- by 6.11" on a reduction of one 
degree Fahrenheit. 

19. Clocl^, by W. Bond & Son, of Boston, No. 312. 

20. Small chronograph, by Herbst, of Pulkowa. 

21. Portions of the magnetic apparatus described in Vol. I, part 1, of 
the Annals of the Observatory. 

(Property of Professor William A. Rogers.) 

1. Small line and circle graduating engine. This machine is designed 
for all kinds of graduations, in which the length of the line to be ruled 
does not exceed 2 inches. The errors of the screw for one-thousandth 
of an inch have been carefully investigated. It is not automatic in its 
action, and hence it is not adapted to ruling diffraction gratings. The 
circular graduations are only aj)proximate. 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 435 

2. Machine for original graduation of circles from 1-incli to 15-incli 
disk. 

3. IMachine for shaping and polishing diamonds for ma^rking on glass 
and on all kinds of metals. 

4. Microscope comparator for short lengths. 

5. Comparator for long standards of length. 

6. In x^rocess of construction at the Woltham Watch Factory: A uni- 
versal line graduation engine. This machine is designed : 

(1). To rule N^obert's bands. 

(2). To graduate both short and long standards of length. 

(3). To rule diffraction gratings in which — 

(a) Any required relation between the relative width of the lines and 
the spaces may be secured. 

(b) Errors of any required magnitude may be introduced, whether in- 
dividual or systematic, without interference with the remaining gradua- 
tions. 



Harvard University. — Medicax School PHYSioLoaiCAL Labora- 
tory. 

(In charge of Prof. H. P. Bowditch.) 

1. ThomsoTi's galvanometer, No. 26, Elliott Brothers. Eesistance at 
550 F. =5,995 B. A. units. 

2. Wiedemann'^s galvanometer, with mirror and two pairs of coils of 4,000 
and 98 turns respectively. 

3. British Association unit of resistance, No. 74, right at 15.5° C. 

4. Fendulum myograph, described by Dr. J. J. Putnam at the Ameri- 
can Academy, March, 1879. 

5. Cylinder chronograph : Baltzar, Karolinen Strasse, 14, Leijisic. 

6. Chronograph, with long roll of paper. Baltzar. Leipsic. 

7. ClocTc for making or breaking an electrical circuit once in 1, 2, 3, 4, 
5, 10, 15, 20, 30, or GO seconds, the duration of the make or break varia- 
ble from to 4 seconds. 



Stevens Institute op Technology, Hoboken, N. J. 

(For the use of this apparatus application may be made to Prof. A. M. Mayer.) 

1. Apparatus for the determination of coefficients of expansion. — Con- 
sists of the tube (invented by Professor Mayer) to hold the rod under 
measurement. This tube is so constructed that the rod up to its termi- 
nal planes is kept permanently at the temperature of melting ice, or at 
the boiling-point, or at any intermediate temperature, by passing a cur- 
rent of water or hot oil through the tube; at the same time the terminal 
Ijlanes of the rod are exposed for abutment against micrometer screws, 
«&c. The rod is supported in the tube at quarters of its length from its 



436 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 

ends, and the weiglit of tube and inclosed rod is taken oif tlie Y's of the 
apparatus by straps and spring balances. 

The measuring part of the apparatus is entirely distinct^ and at a dis- 
tance from the tube. The tube is only placed in contact with the measur- 
ing api)aratus at the moment of making the measurement. 

The measures are made by Saxton's reflecting comparator, or by mi- 
crometer screws brought up to the ends of the rod, and contact deter- 
mined by the closing of a voltaic circuit. 

Successive contacts, made by successively placing the rod (cooled to 
melting ice), give a range of measures on a rod one metre long, equal to 
about l-30,000th of an inch. Micrometer screws, pitch l-50th and 1-lOOth 
inch. 

2. Vertical comparator, with contact lever, micrometer screw, pitch 
= 1-lOOth inch. Well made, heavy cast-iron frame of T section, mounted 
on a cast-iron tripod base. 

3. Apparatus for the comparison of yard and metre (end or line meas- 
ures) by Airy's method. Massive cast-iron plate with guides, two mi- 
crometer microscopes, with apparatus for handling measures. 

4. Spectrometer. — Circle divided by Brunner of Paris, reading by ver- 
nier to 5". Telescopes: one set, one inch aperture, 10-inch focus. 
Another set : collimator, 5 feet long, and observing telescope, 18 inches 
focus. {Property of Professor Mayer.) 

5. Interferential refractometer of Arago. — Tube of one metre for holding 
gas whose index of refraction is to be measured. Collimator, six inches j 
obser^'ing telescope, three-quarters of a metre focus. 

6. Two of Sipp^s chronoscoyes. 

7. Electric clocJc, to be used in connection with inductorium and rotat- 
ing cylinder, to determine the number of vibrations of tuning-forks and 
other solid bodies. 

8. Spherometer, by Brunner, of Paris, furnished with a contact lever. 
Pitch of screw 0.5 millimeter. 

9. Full sets of resistance coils, condensers, and high and low resistance 
Thomson galvanometers. 



Massachusetts Institute of Technology. — Department of 
Physics, Boston, Mass. 

(In charge of Professor Charles R. Cross.) 

1. Cathetometer, by Staudinger. Scale graduated to millimetres ; 
length, 1,020 millimetres. Yernier reads directly to l-20th millimetre. 
Focal length of telescope is 280 millimetres. One division of level cor- 
responds to 5". 

2. Dividing engine, by Buff and Berger. The microscope is carried by 
two screws moving at right angles to each other, so as to give two co- 
ordinates. The pitch is l-20th inch, and the length of the screws, 16 
inches and 4.5 inches respectively. Circles are di\'ided into 100 parts. 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL ArPAEATUS. 437 

read by estimation to tenths. The instrument is arranged especially for 
measurement rather than for graduation. 

3. Spectrometer, by Clark. Furnished with five 60° and one 30° jjrisms, 
the latter silvered on its rear surtace. A greater or less number of prisms 
can be used at will. Face of prisms 5.7 centimetres by 7.3 centimetres. 
Focal length of telescope, 70 centimetres; diameter of object-glass 5.2 
centimetres. Diameter of circle, 43.5 centimetres, reading to 10" by 
verniers. Smaller angles are measured by spider-line micrometer. The 
same telescope serves as collimator and observing telescope, the method 
of reflection from the silvered siu'face of the glass being used. 

4. Diffraction grating, ruled by Chapman on Mr. Eutherfurd's engine. 
17,250 lines to an inch ; 30,000 spaces. Area of ruling, 4.5 centimetres 
square. 

2. Two prisms of quartz, QO'^, faces 5.5 centimetres by 4.0 centimetres. 
Also various prisms of flint glass and heavj" glass. 

Eaton's direct-vision prism of glass and carbon disulphide. Small 
direct-vision prisms of glass. 

G. Polarimeter of Professor Pickering, for sky-polarization. See Froc. 
Am. Acad., Vol. IX. 

7. Wheatstone^s bridge, by Elliott, measuring from .001 to 1,000,000 
ohms. 

8. Thomson's long-coil galvanometer. — Eesistance, 3,000 ohms. Thom- 
son's short-coil galvanometer for thermo-electrical work; resistance, 
G-10 ohm. 

9. B. A. divided metre bridge. 

10. Tangent galvanometer. — 36 coils, 26 centimetres radius. Gaugain 
tangent and sine galvanometer. Cosine galvanometer. 

11. Induction coil, by Eitchie, giving 6-inch spark. 



Colujmbia College, New York. 

(In charge of Professor O. N. Rood.) 

1. Neicman's standard barometer ; diameter of tube, 0.6 inch; reads to 
1-500 inch. 

2. GrunoixPs spectrometer. — Focal length of lenses, 14 inches ; diameter 
of circle, 9 inches ; aperture, 1.3 inches ; reads to 10 seconds. 

3. Cathetometer. — Length, 800™™; focal length of telescope, 10 inches ; 
aperture, 1.1 inches. Provided with extra object-glass for reading at 
short distances. 

4. WihVs pliotometcr, simi)le construction, diameter of circle, 6 inches. 

5. Apparatus for measuring the velocity of sound in rods of wood by 
means of longitudinal vibrations. Described in American Journal of 
Science, Vol. XVII. 

0. Magneto-electric machine, by Wallace (no motor). 
7. Ruhmkorff^s diamagnetic apparatus. 



438 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 

8. Tangent compass. — Diameter of circle, 13.5 inches. 

9. Original Siemens'' unit. 

10. Helmholtz apparatus for vocal sounds. 

11. Koenig''s phonautograph. 

12. Koenig^s cylinder for determining the vibrations of tuning-forks. 

13. JSfacJiefs large inverted microscope. 

14. Koenig^s monocJiord. 

15. Lissajou''s comparator. 

16. Comparator for the standard yard. 



Johns Hopkins University. — Physical Laboratory, Baltimore, 

Md. 

(In charge of Professor Henry A. Rowland.) 
The list does not include apparatus for demonstration. 

ACOUSTICS. 

All the ordinary apparatus by Koenig, of Paris, including Helmholtz's 
double sirens, Lissajou's vibrating microscope, Hastings's pendulum com- 
parator, «Scc. 

OPTICS. 

Meyerstein spectrometer — large model. The circle is of 16 centimetres 
radius, divided on silver to 6' and reading by two microscopes to 2". The 
probable and periodic errors of graduation have been investigated, and 
are given in the American Journal of Science^ Vol. XV., p. 270. Having 
a common axis with the large circle is a table rotating independently, 
C.5 centimetres radius, graduated on silver limb and by two verniers to 
single minutes. The massive stand has a joint by which the circle may 
be brought into a vertical plane. Aperture of telescope and collima- 
tor, 4.0 centimeters ; focal length, 34 centimetres ; powers, from 13 up- 
ward. A smaller telescope, 2.0 centimetres aperture, 18.0 centimetres 
focal length, i^ower 7, may be placed on a third support rigidly connected 
with the microscope bearers. The accessories of this instrument are : 

{a.) Two telescopes with Nicol prisms before objectives ; longer diag- 
onals of prisms, 2.0 centimetres ; length of telescopes, 20.0 centimetres ; 
power 3 ; position-angles of prisms read by circles of 3.5 centimeters 
radius to minutes of arc. 

(&.) Babinet's compensator with wedge of 3 centimetres available 
length. 

(c.) High power collimating ocular. 

{d.) Low power collimating ocular. 

(e.) Three micrometer eye-pieces. 

2. Spectrometer^ by Schmidt and Haensch. The circle has a silver 
limb 16 centimetres radius, divided to 6' and read by microscopes to 2". 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS? 439 

Table in center has a gradnation G.O centimetres radius, reading by ver- 
niers to v. Aperture of objectives of telescope and collimator, 3.9 cen- 
timetres ; focal length, 35.0 centimetres ; power, 13. The angle between 
lines of collimation of telescope and collimator may be read by small 
circle to single degrees. 

3. StemheiVs spectroscope. — The clear aperture of train, including two 
CO^ prisms, is 4.0 centimetres. Focal length of collimator and telescope, 
32.5 centimetres ; powers, 8, 12, &c. Photographic scale. 

4. Silbernia>in''s heltostaf, &g. — This instrument, by Duboscq, has two 
mirrors 18.0 centimetres by 9.0 centimetres, one silver under glass and 
the other silver. Also, porte-lumiere. 

5. Janiinh interferential rcfractometer, with tubes 100 centimetres long, 
for the study of refraction in gases, and a glass trough 20 centimetres 
long for liquids, by Duboscq. 

6. Complete apparatus for the study of phenomena of interference, by 
Duboscq. 

7. PliotograpMc apparatus. — Objective G.l centimetres aperture, and 
about 40 centimetres focal length for plates; 10x12 inches, by Steinheil. 
Dark room, collection of chemicals, and everything necessary for exj)eri- 
ments on the subject. 

8. BecquereVs phospkoroscope, by Duboscq. 

9. Polarizing apparatus, from Steeg; also from Duboscq. 

10. A])paratus for producing monochromatic light of any color. Do- 
signed by Hastings and made by Schneider. 

11. Prisms, gratings, &c. 

a. Hollow prism from Meyerstein; aperture, 0.1x5.2 centimetres. 

b. Hollow prism from Steinheil; aperture, 2.2 centimetres. 

c. Thallium glass prism from Steinheil; aperture, 4.8 centimetres. 

d. Two flint glass prisms from Steinheil; aperture, 4.7 centimetres. 

e. Crown glass prisms from Steinheil; aperture, 4.8 centimetres. 
/. Two quartz prisms from Steeg; faces, 3.4x3.0 centimetres. 

g. Iceland spar prism; faces, 2.6x2.2 centimetres, by Steeg. 

h. Two rock-salt prisms, faces, 5.0x4.0 centimetres, by Steeg. Also 
rock-salt lens. 

i. Large Nicol's prism, largest diagonal G.5 centimetres. Also a num- 
ber of smaller ones. 

j. Gratings on speculum metal, 4.3x3.9 centimetres, with 8,048 lines 
to the inch, and 4.4x4.4 centimetres, with 17,396 lines to the inch, and 
a smaller glass grating, with 8,648 lines to the inch, all by Chapman 
with Eutherfurd's engine. 

Kirchoif's, Angstrom's, and Eutherfurd's maps of the solar spectrum. 

I'. Old telescope by DoUoud. Objective about 4 inches diameter and 
6 feet focal length. 

ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM. 

The distinguishing feature of the apparatus for these subjects is its 
accuracy and the determination of the constants in absolute measure. 



440 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPAEATUS. 

12. EowlancVs absolute electrometer for potentials represented by sparks 
of about 0.1 to 1 inch. Designed on Sir William Thomson's guard -ring 
principle, and constnicted by Edelmann, of Munich. Guard-ring, 33.5 
centimetres, and can be separated about 7 centimetres, the distance 
being read by vernier to 0.01 centimetre. Movable disk, 10 centimetres 
diameter, and firmly attached to arm of a T)alance sensitive to 1 mgr. 
Balance moves only 0.01 centimetre, and means of two distances of the 
disks are taken, the one to move it to upper and the other to lower stop. 
Weights of from 1 to 5 grammes ordinarily used. Dislcs ground and 
polished to mirror surface after niclcel-plating. 

13. Boutland''s electrostatic standard condenser. — Constructed by Grunow, 
of N"ew York. One sphere within the other nicJcel-plated and ground to 
mirror surface^ with extra ball for interior. Balls, 7 and 8 inclies diam- 
eter. Hollow sphere, 10 inches diameter. Apparatus for centering. 
Eadii determined by loss of weight in water. Can be charged and dis- 
charged any number of times at rate of three per second, by means of 
hue wires which pass in momentarily from outside, and so do not change 
the capacity much. Any condenser can be comj^ared with it by means 
of an electrometer. 

14. Thomson^ quadrant electrometer^ by White, of Glasgow, with 
Thomson's key. 

15. Condenser., 1-3 microfarad, by Elliott. 

16. Commutators for high (say 1 inch si)ark) as well as low tension. 

17. Rowland's galvanometer for the absolute measurement of discharges 
of high tension. Constructed by Eowland & Schneider. Coils wound 
with paper between, and boiled in paraflQne in vacuo at 100° C, to be 
thoroughly dry. Needle shielded from electrostatic action, and deflec- 
tion read by mirror and scale. Number of coils about 11,000. Constant 
on the cm. gr. second system 19091. =G of Maxwell, as determined by 
comparison with galvanometer described in American Journal of Science, 
Vol. XV, p. 334. See No. 27, below. 

18. Boivland's absolute galvanometer for the measm^e of quick, weak 
currents. Constant, 1833.2. See American Journal of Science, Vol. XV, 
p. 334. Constant very accurately known. 1,790 turns. Can be used as 
sine galvanometer or with mirror and scale. Horizontal circle reads to 
1', but is readily estimated to 30". Telescope and bar for determining 
horizontal intensity in exact position of instrument. 

19. Eozcland's tangent galvanometer, brass circle, 50 centimetres diam- 
eter. Circle graduated to 15' and 20 centimetres diameter. From 1 to 
243 turns can be used, the constant of each set being known with great 
accuracy. INIade by Meyerstein, but altered and wound and coils meas- 
ured by Eowland. 

20. Two Thomson^s galvanometers of high and low resistance, the first 
differential with coils around both needles and set of shunts. Made by 
Elliott, of London. 

21. Tico Nobili astatic galvanometers, by Elliott, and one by Sallerou. 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 441 

22. Wiedemann galvanometer, with two sets of coils and two kinds of 
needles. Eeadiug by mirror and scale. 

23. Galvanometer with large wire for experiments on the damping 
effect of the coils on the needle, and for determining resistances in ab- 
solute measure. Designed by Eowland and made by Schneider, instru- 
ment maker at the university. 

24. Tangent galvanometer J wooden circle, with a variety of coils of known 
constant. 

25. Mirror galvanometer. 

26. Rowland's ivooden circle, 84 centimetres diameter, carefully laid up 
out of maple wood, and containing seA^eral grooves on the edge to coii- 
tiiin single wires. It is used to surround a galvanometer, when, by aid 
of the electro-dynamometer, the horizontal intensity can be measured 
at any instant. 

27. EJectro-dynamometer of form given in Maxwell's Electricity, Vol. II, 
p. 330. Outer circles about 27.5 centimetres diameter, with 240 windings 
on each side. Constant, G-, of outer coils 78.371 on cm. gm. second sys- 
tem. Inner coils about 5.5 centimetres diameter, with 03 coils in each. 
Moment of inertia of suspended coil accurately known. Constant cal- 
culated and also determined by comparison with a tangent galvanometer 
made of the circle described above. Made (partly) by Gurley, of Troy, 
and circles wound and measured by Eowland. 

28. Electro-dynamometer, Quhicke's form for weak currents. Made by 
Edelmann, of Munich. 

29. Standards of resistance, mounted so that they can be i)laced in 
water 1 and 10 ohms, by Elliott ; 10, 100, and 1,000 ohms, by Warden, 
Muirhead & Clark, of London ; also mounted in another style — 1, 10, 
and 100 Siemens, units, by Siemens & Halske, of Berlin. Also thre« 
copies of coil whose absolute resistance was determined by Eowland as 
34.719 earthquad. -^ sec. 

30. Ecsistance coils in boxes, 1 to 10,000, and 10,000 to 100,000 ohms, 
by Elliott, and 1 to 10,000 Siemens' units by Edelmann. 

31. Rowland's resistance coinparator. — Ten coils, of 10 ohms each, ar- 
ranged so that they can be joined in series or abreast, thus making 1, 
10, and 100 ohms, besides intermediate ones. Made by Schneider and 
adjusted by Eowland. 

32. Two bridges of Jenkins's form for the accurate comparison of equal 
resistances, and also a Wheatstone bridge, having wire of platinum- 
iridium alloy one metre long, by Elliott. 

33. Magneto-electric machine for 1,200 candles, by Siemens Brothers, 
London, with engine to drive it, and both Siemens's and Foucault'slamxjs. 
Also a battery of GO large bichromate cells- 

34. Ri'hml-orff coil, spark 15 or 20 centimetres, by Euhmkorflf, of Paris. 

35. Roipland''s earth inductor, with brass circle, 30 centimetres diameter, 
wound and measured by Eowland. Made by Meyerstein, of Gottingen. 



442 SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 

36. Rulimlcorff's apjparatus for diamagnetism. Made by Eulimkorff, of 
Paris. 

37. Electric clocks beating seconds from regulator. 

38. RoivlandJs standard of electro-magnetic induction. — Three coils on 
brass cylinders which can be placed accurately on toj) of each other. 
See American Journal of Science. Mutual potential of coils with unit 
current 3,775,500; 2,561,974; 2,051,320, «&c., on the cm, grm. second sys- 
tem. 

39. Telescopes^ scales^ and mirrors. — Silvered brass millimetre scale by 
Brown & Sharp. Mounted telescope by Steinheil, objective 4.0 centi- 
metres diameter, with three oculars, giving powers of 20, 40, and 80. 
Unmounted telescope by Steinheil, objective 2.7 centimetres diameter, 
and 3 oculars. 

Mounted telescope and paper scale by Meyerstein ; objective, 2.7 cen- 
timetres diameter. 

40. Thin mirrors and plain parallel glasses by Steinheil. The mirrors 
give a perfect image with the highest magnify%7ig poioer. 

Thomson^s replenisher on large scale for use with electrometer, Holtz 
and friction machines, Leyden jar batteries, Geissler tubes, «&;c. 

HEAT. 

41. BoidanWs instrument for comparing the mercurial with the air tJier- 
mometer between 0° and 100° C. Constructed by Schneider, instrument 
maker at the university. Eeadiugs seldom differ more than 0.02° or 0.03° 
C. at any one point, especially up to 40° C, and a change is contemxjlated 
which will much improve it. 

42. Boivland's instrument for comparing thermometers from 0° to about 
300° C. Constructed by Schneider. Accurate to about 0.1° C. 

43. BegnauWs air thermometer, Golaz, Paris. 

44. Jolhfs air thermometer, by Berberich, Phys. Inst. Univ. of Munich. 

45. Eegnaulfs apparatus for expansion of gases, both at constant press- 
ure and constant volume, also Eegnaulfs form of Eudberg's apparatus, 
Golaz, Paris. 

46. BegnauWs a2Jparattis for tension of vapors, mdlnding: a. The boiler; 
I). The reservoir for comi)ressed air ; c. A rotary pump for compressing 
gases ; d. Mercurial manometer. Maker, Golaz-, Paris. 

47. BegnauWs apparatus for specific heat of solids, Golaz, Paris. 

48. BegnauWs hygrometer with aspirator, Golaz, Paris. 

49. Thermometers, about 30 or 40, principally by Baudin, Paris, and 
Geissler, of Bonn. Many of these have been compared with the air 
thermometer as well as with standards by Fastre, Casella, or from Kew. 
The thermometers up to 40° C. undoubtedly represent the air thermome- 
ter more accurately than any so far constructed, and are supposed to 
agree with it to about 0.01° C. They have been compared with it eight • 
times during about one year or more. The error in calorimetric investi- 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 443 

gatious from using iiucompared thermometers ')nay amount to two per 
cent. 

50. Bowland's apparatus for determining change of specific heat of liquids 
with temi)erature. Constructed by Schneider. 

51. Dulong''s apparatus for the heat of combustion, Salleron, Paris. 

52. MellonPs apparatus for radiant energy, Salleron, Paris. 

53. Two instruments for the calibration of mercurial thermometers, one 
by Golaz and the other by Salleron. 

54. Eoicland's apparatus for determining the mechanical equivalent of 
heat, or for investigating the specific heat of liquids and their change 
with rise of temperature. 

This instrument was constnicted by the aid of funds contributed by 
the Eumford committee of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 
but the instrument will remain for the present at Baltimore. It was 
constructed by Schneider. It is run by a petroleum engine, No. 66 below. 

To be constructed soon : * 

Api)aratus for compressing gases to 1,000 atmospheres. 

Apparatus for accurately determining the form of the adiabatic curve 
of gases and vapors at any temperature up to about 100° C. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

55. Comparator, by Meyerstein, for bars 1 metre long. Microscopes 
cannot be set nearer than 10 centimetres. One division of head of 
micrometer screws is about 1-700 millimetre. 

56. Microscope comparator, designed by Eowland after Eogers's plan, 
and made by Grunow. 

57. Dividing engine, by Perreaux. Free motion about 55 centimetres. 
Screw, h, millimetre thread. Head divided into 250 i)arts. 5.1 divisions 
of head gives 1 millimetre almost exactly. Subsidiary screw at right 
angles to other one. 

58. Air pumps. — Eotary and common, by Eitchie, of Boston ; mercury, 
on Jolly's plan, by Berberich, of Munich. 

59. Rotary pump for compressmg gases to 15 atmospheres. Golaz, 
Paris. 

60. Three mercury gauges; one about 25 metres high, and measuring- 
pressures vq) to about 33 atmospheres; one movable and measuring 
pressure from 1 to 4 atmospheres ; and one measuring from to 1 atmos- 
phere. 

61. Barometer, by James Green, of New York, with very large tube. 

62. Tico cathetometers ; one by Meyerstein and the other by Salleron. 

63. Standard metres, compared at Washington. 

64. Balances and weights. — One balance weighing to 5 kilos, and accu- 
rate to about 1 mg., with weights from 5 kilos, to 1 mg. One weighing 
"to 200 grms, accurate to about 0.1 mg., with weights from 100 grs. to 1 

* Nos. 18, 24, 25, and 27, aud the silvered scale of No. 39, belong to Professor Row- 
land, but are used iu the laboratory. 



444 SCIENTIFIC EXPEEIMENTAL APPAEATUS. 

mg. These are by Schickert, of Dresden. One heavy balance weigh- 
ing to about 25 kilos, and accurate to about 0.1 grm., by Schneider. 

Standard glass kilogramme on Jolly's plan, and com^jared with Ber- 
lin standard. From Berberich, in Munich. 

The first balance mentioned is mounted on top of a case, so that 
globes for weighing gases can be suspended beneath it. 

G5. GlocJc-worlc with Foiicault's regulator for running small apparatus 
at a regular velocity. 

G6. Petroleum engine of three-horse power. It is capable of giving a 
large amount of compressed air at more than 100 pounds to the square 
inch pressure, and might be used for repeating Thomson's and Joule's 
experiments or any others on the flow of gases. 

67. Tico splierometers] large by Meyerstein, and small by Salleron. 

QS. Several extra micrometer eye-pieces. 

G9. Apparatus for researches on the fioic of liquids. — Greatest available 
head about 1.4 metres. 

Biological Laboratory. 

(In charge of Professor H. N. Martin.) 
Apparatus for exact measurements. 

1. Pendulum myographion,, modified from Fisk's; available for the 
measurement and analysis of rapid movements. The instrument con- 
sists essentially of a ijendulum carrying a glass plate at the bottom, 
swinging on friction rollers, and corrected for the latitude of Baltimore, 
so as to swing in one second. Behind the pendulum is a divided arc, 
and the amplitude of the swing can be varied from a few inches to four 
feet. In use an electro-magnet is moved along the divided circle, and 
then — the current being closed through it — the pendulum, on being 
raised, is held by it. On the other side is a catch, also movable along 
the arc. By turning a key at the side the current in the electro-magnet 
is broken, and the ijendulum swings across and is held by the catch on 
the other side. During its transit the movement to be analyzed is in- 
scribed on the glass x>late, which is previously smoked. Designed by 
A. G. Dewsmith, esq.. Trinity College, Cambridge, England. Made by 
Elliott, London. 

2. A set of three pairs of Kouig's recording tuning forks for measur- 
ing small periods of time ; giving respectively 50, 100, and 200 double 
vibrations per second. 

3. Bernstein's differential rheotome, with Helmholtz's electromotor to 
drive it. Zimmermann, Heidelberg. 

4. Two Sir William Thomson's reflecting galvanometers ; one large 
and the other small resistance. Elliott, London. 

5. Ludivig'^s hymographion ; to give uniform horizontal movement to 
an endless sheet of paper, on which vertical movements can be recorded 
and subsequently measured and analyzed. The instrument is provided 



SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS. 



445 



with an electro-magnetic clironograph. Made by Fulcher, Cambridge, 
England. 

6. Kymographion. — Modification of tbe above. Made by Warden, 
Mnirsbead & Black, London. 

7. '''■ SignaV of Deprez. Electro-magnetic chronograph, recording up 
to 250 double vibrations per second. 

8. Chronograph of Masey. Similar to above, recording to one-hun- 
dredth of a second. 

9. Spectroscope^ one prism, by Browning, London. 

10. WilcVs Polar istrohometer. — Schmidt «& Haensch, Berlin. 

11. Completely fitted microscope^ by Zeiss, Jena. With microspectro- 
scope and polarizing apparatus. 

12. Seconds clod' with electric attachment. Elliott, London. 



Condensed List of Apparatus in Smithsonian Institution. 



1 Shaw's testing machine. 
1 Gaiffe's induction coil and bat- 
tery. 
1 Varley's resistance coil. 
6 Euhmkorff's galvanometers. 

1 electrometer. 

2 Holtz electrical machines. 

3 Soleil's polariscopes. 
1 Hall's spectroscope. 
1 heliostat. 

1 telescoiDc, with rock salt objective. 



14 radiometers. 
1 lihonautograph. 

1 Koenig's chronograph. 

2 electrical intemii^ters. 

1 set Koenig's acoustical apparatus. 
1 Hough's barograph. 

1 Green's siphon barometer. 

2 Casella's sensitive hygrometers. 
1 magnesium lamj). 
Miscellaneous optical,electrical, and 

meteorological apparatus. 



ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF THE CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 



By F. A. Obee. 



The first week in December, 1876, I left New York in a small vessel 
for Martinique, situated in latitude 15° IST. The usual passage is less 
than twenty days, but, owing to unskillful navigation, our vessel was 
stranded on the Bomunda reefs, and we were detained a month for re- 
pairs, not reaching Martinique until January 25, 1877. Learning that 
the island of Dominica, 30 miles to the northward, would be likely to 
give better results than Martinique, I sailed for that island in a small 
native sloop, landing at Eoseau, the principal town, the 1st of February. 
Owing to unavoidable delays I did not reach any important collect- 
ing ground until the 1st of March, thus losing the tirst two months of 
the year in which fine weather generally i)revails. 

To properly understand the fauna of the Caribbean group, it should be 
borne in mind that, between the degrees of 12° and 18° north latitude, 
all the principal islands, excejit Antigua and Barbuda in the north, and 
Barbados away to the eastward, are volcanic, consisting mainly of high 
hills and mountains. The general resemblance strikes one forcibly as 
he sails along this chain of islands ; each one like a huge rock thrown 
ni) from the ocean depths, terminating either in a single peak or spHt 
into a succession of mountain peaks and hills. In Dominica is the high- 
est mountain south of Jamaica, in the West Indies, "Monte Diablotin," 
being above 5,000 feet in height. A slight sketch of the prevailing 
characteristics of the vegetation of this island wiU answer for all the 
volcanic islands. 

There are, as it were, three zones or belts of vegetation, viz : that of the 
coast; that of the higher hills and lower mountains; that of the mountain 
tops. The first-named contains the plantations, upon which are found but 
few birds of any kind, owing to the absence of trees. The second contains 
all that is luxuriant in tropical vegetable life, and is especially peculiar in 
being the zone in which are first found the tree ferns and the forest of 
huge trees known as the " high woods." It may be roughly estimated as 
located between 500 and 2,500 feet above sea-level. Where an opening 
occurs for the sun to penetrate, animal life will be found more abundant 
than in the lower region. This I soon ascertained, and established my- 
self in an opening in the forest where a sloping strip of land had been 
cleared of trees, about 1,500 feet above the Caribbean Sea, which it over- 
446 



ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 447 

looked at a distance of about five miles. This slope had been cleared 
by the ancestors of some half a dozen families of French colored people, 
and was planted fifty years ago with coffee trees ; but now was overgrown 
with grass and wild trees. On all sides were high hills covered with 
the almost impenetrable forest. As the only collector Avho had visite^l 
this or any other island had not visited the mountains, but had merely 
examined the shore and the easily reached cultivated valleys, I knew my 
attention would be better directed to the wilderness, and that my only 
opportunity for rare or new birds would be among the half-civilized 
people of the mountains. The results have shown the correctness of my 
plans, and have been fully shown in the several catalogues prepared by 
Mr. Lawrence, from my notes and collections. In this region I obtained 
not less than five new species and two new varieties : The Thryothorus 
rufescens, Dendrceca phmihea, Myiarchus oheri, Vircosylvia calidris var. 
domlnicana; Ckaetura dominicana, Blacicus hrunneicapillus, and, later, in 
September, the Strix fiammea var. nigrescens. As the more extended 
notes of my collections are already in manuscript for the catalogues and 
some already published, I will not refer to them here. 

In April I returned to the coast, and, having left my specimens (200 in 
number) with a friend, to be sent to the States, started again for another 
part of the island, over the mountain ridges to the Atlantic coast, among 
the Caribs. It is a two days' journey, as I had to take it on foot, and 
several rapid swollen streams had to be crossed. All my baggage was 
carried upon the heads of my mountaineer friends, of whom I had four, 
three girls and a man. At the last house before reaching Indian coun- 
try, five miles distant, I was hosi^itably entertained by the planter, who 
also secured me a comfortable hut from the natives. 

As my space is here limited, I can do no more than rapidly sketch 
what would require many pages of description. Suffice it to say, that I 
found the Caribs of to-day different from the Gharaibs of one hundred and 
fifty years ago, as described by Pere Labat. They speak a French ^mtow 
and are good Catholics, and through the influence of the French priests, 
who make them monthly visits, they have been compelled to intermarry 
with negroes to such an extent that the individuality of the Carib is 
gone. There are not more than twenty families of uncontaminated 
blood in the island. These, with a few in St. Vincent, comprise the whole 
of the remainderof the many thousands found in these islands by Colum- 
bus. A few old m en and women only can speak the ancient Carib tongue ; 
from these I obtained a good vocabulary, which, by comparing with an- 
other I secured in St. Vincent, I found to be correct. The Caribs are 
more peaceful citizens than the negro, more cleanly and intelligent, but 
not a whit more industrious or virtuous. They subsist by fishing and 
cultivating i)rovision grounds in the mountains, but very few of them 
follow the chase. I remained with them six weeks, secured many valu- 
able photographs, and many notes respecting them of value to the eth- 
nologist and lihilologist. I was prostrated by fever ui)on my return to 



448 ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 

Roseau, aud passed the jieriod of convalescence on the Caribbean coast, 
procuring, in my intervals of strength, the birds breeding in the clifls. 
It was in the Atlantic Mountains that I procured the first specimens of 
the Imperial Parrot ( Chrysotis angusta) ever sent to America. 

The 4th day of July, 1877, 1 arrived at Antigua, in latitude 17<^ north, 
and examined that island, and also Barbuda, 30 miles farther north. These 
islands are of different formation from the others of the chain, though 
owing their origin, i^erhaps, to the same cause. The rocks of the west- 
ern portion of the island, according to Davies, are of igneous character, 
denoting violent action and protrusion from beneath, akin to the vol- 
canic, but without actiTal enii^tion or explosion. Eastern rocks belong 
to the " tertiary aqueous formation, being chiefly calcareous freestone and 
limestone, containing organic remains." "In the intermediate space 
are exhibited both igneous and aqueous action ; the former in the indu- 
rated clays and siliceous cherts, forming the skirting western declivities; 
the latter in the numerous petrifactions, varieties of wood or coral, prin- 
cipally, if not entirely, siliceous." In Barbuda are many deer, wild guinea 
fowl, and horses, the result of stock introduced from England many years 
ago. 

In Antigua I found one species of owl, since declared to be new^ the 
Speotyto amaura, but few birds of any kind. In September large flocks 
of x>lover, and in October teal and duck, visit this island in large num- 
bers. Its full avv-fauna will be found in the catalogue recently prei)ared 
by Mr. Lawrence from my notes. 

In September, I sailed for St. Vincent, stopping two weeks, on my way 
south, at Dominica, to procure further specimens of the species declared 
new and rare by letter from Mr. Lawrence. I was there fortunate in 
securing the owl since identified as a local variety of Strix JIammea, with 
three eggs. Two specimens were shot, male and female. Beaching St 
Vincent in October, I early set to work, but was hindered by the rains. 
I not only searched all around the coast, but penetrated to the mount- 
ains. Here I was i)eculiarly fortunate, securing seven neic species. The 
names, as appearing in the catalogue of the birds of St. Vincent, since 
published, are as follows : Turdus nigrirostris, Myiadestes sihilanSy Thry- 
othortis musicus, Cei'thiola atrata, Certhiola saccJiarma, Leucopeza hisliopi., 
Calliste versicolor. My adventures in securing the Myiadestes sihilans 
were most interesting. I found that the only way to reach it was to camp 
upon the crest of the crater of the volcano, which I did, making my home 
in a cave for five days and nights, 3,000 feet above the sea. It rained 
continually during my stay, in my exposure to which I contracted a severe 
cold which culminated in a fever several weeks later. I had the ex- 
quisite pleasure, however, of securing there the wonderful bird named 
above, known to the natives as the "invisible souffriere bird." Barely 
a hint of the existence of this bird is contained in scientific annals, and 
that only in Goss's Birds of Jamaica, in a letter to the author of that 
work. 



ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 449 

Tlie Eev. Lansdowne Guildin^, a clergyman residing in St. Vincent at 
that i^eriod, made many umsuccessful endeavors to procure it, and it was 
an object of searcli for Hfty years. It was left for an American, however, 
to settle the doubt hovering over its identity, and to establish the fact 
that it is a sej:)arate species, and, what is of greater interest, a new one. 

The proudest moment of my life, I think, was that in which I held the 
first specimen of that bird in my hand, after two days' search and the 
use of all my arts of allurement as taught me by my Carib friends. With 
the specimens of this genus, and the related genera of Dominica ai^d 
Martinique, obtained by me, I feel assured that all doubts regarding their 
affinity may be set at rest. I secured six specimens of this bird, and at 
the same place and time the new sjiecies which they have done me the 
honor to name for my friend Nathaniel H. Bishop, the famous canoe 
voyageur. From the volcano I descended to the eastern slope, and passed 
three weeks with the Caribs there. jNIany photographs and much valua- 
ble matter relating to their traditions and language were obtained, but I 
could not secure such a series of their former implements of agriculture 
and warfare as I desired, owing to the same reason as in Dominica: the 
mountainous character of the island giving hiding-place to thousands of 
objects that in a flat country would be easily found, even after the lapse 
of centuries. 

From the Carib country I returned to the west coast in a Carib canoe. 
In December, 1877, 1 again crossed the souffriere or volcano, and took up 
my line of investigation, to complete the circuit of the island. In this 
trip I i:)rocured two species of that rare and beautiful parrot, the Chrys- 
otis guildingi. 

In February, 1878, having recovered from my fever, I explored one of 
the northern grenadines, where I found in a cave an elegantly carved 
tortoise of wood. In this trip I also shot the first specimens of the black- 
bird, afterwards obtained in Grenada, pronounced new, the Quiscalus 
Imninosus, These were lost through the wrecking of our boat. In St. 
Vincent I photographed and sketched two rocks which tradition affirmed 
were sacrificial rocks of the Caribs, containing incised figures upon them, 
fast being obliterated. A carefully drawn reproduction of this photo- 
graph will be forwarded with my detailed description. There is a larger 
rock of similar character in Guadaloupe. 

I reached Grenada, the southernmost of the volcanic chain, in latitude 
12° north, early in March, and at once proceeded to the interior of the 
mountains. There, in the high woods surrounding the famous mountain 
lake or '■^grand etang," I procured the wren, since named {tiew) Thrijotho- 
rus grenadensis, and two other birds from the coast, Quiscalus lionino- 
sus and Turd us caribccus, three new species in all. Grenada is the only 
ishmd containing the armadillo, and one of three only containing mon- 
keys. 

In the fauna of Grenada I was much disappointed; hoping to find 
many new and tropical species from Trinidad and the mainland of South. 
S. Mis. 59 29 



450 ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 

America, less than 100 miles away. Instead I found that there were 
fewer resident species than in the more northern (mountainous) islands, 
and but a hint afforded here and there of species I later found abundant in 
Tobago, and belonging to the continental fauna. This subject is spoken 
of more at length in my introduction to the Grenada catalogue. In April 
I sailed for Tobago, an island out of the route allotted me, but one con- 
taining valuable species, and the study of which, in connection with my 
previous observations in the Antilles proper, was imperatively neces- 
sary. In this islaud I brought to light many new facts regarding the 
early correspondence and discoveries of Mr. Kiik, the friend and collector 
of Sir W. Jardine, forty years ago. 

Leaving Tobago I arrived in Barbados the last of June, and at once 
proceeded to Martinique, in which island I remained seven weeks. Mar- 
tinique and Guadaloupe have both been well investigated, and I do not 
anticipate anything of value from these islands. Regarding the range of 
the '■'■Siffleur montagne,''^ or "mountain whistler," found also in Dominica, 
I consider my notes of value, and also relating to a few others. Here I 
encountered much trouble from the terrible serpent peculiar to that 
island and St. Lucia, the Craspedocephalus lanceolatus, two si>ecimens of 
which, in rum, I sent to the museum. 

In August I sailed for Guadaloupe, reaching the mountains the last 
week in that month. Here, though I do not expect there are any new 
birds among my collections, I procured some very rare ones, among 
which was the Tappeur or woodpecker — the only one found in the Car- 
ibbee Isles and not found in any other — the Picus Vhermimeri of Lesson. 
Also the Perdix croissant, a dove peculiar to this island, the Geotrygon 
mystacea. Three of this species I brought home alive to Mr. Lawrence. 
Regarding the almost mythical Biablotin, the Procellaria diabolical of 
L'hermiuier, I i:)rocured notes of interest. In Guadaloui^e, as in Marti- 
nique, there is an excellent museum called the Musee de Lliermiyiier. 
Nearly all the valuable collections of the late Dr. Lherminier were de- 
stroyed in the great fire that ravaged Point a Pitre a few years ago. 
Though the doctor discovered many new si)ecies here, some of the types 
of which he sent to France, and some of which (I think) are in the de la 
Fresnaye collection in Boston, none of his original notes are extant. I 
was told that they perished with his collections in the conflagration. 

Leaving Guadaloupe in October, 1878, I arrived in New York, after 
a tempestuous passage, to find that of all the specimens shipped to 
the museum at diflerent times, not one was lost. It will be seen that 
in ornithology alone my collections contained eighteen species and varieties 
new to science, a result that cannot fail to be considered gratifying. 
There yet remain (at this present writing, December) the collections from 
Martinique, Guadaloupe, and Tobago unexamined. 

Fortunate as I have been, I cannot but regret that the appropriations 
for finishing my search and comi)leting a work but little nu)re than half 
accomplished were not forthcoming. All my private funds and all fur- 



ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS OF CARIBBEE ISLANDS. 451 

nislied me by the lustitution were exhausted when I was obliged to re- 
turn. Auother year to study the many problems, which require time 
for their solution, would, with the information now in my possession, add 
greatly to what has already been obtained, and give to our National 
Museum the first series of types, complete, of the Birds of the Lesser 
Antilles. 



REPORT OF EXPLORATIONS IN GREENLAND. 



By L. Kumlein. 



The Florence sailed from New London harbor August 2, 1878. The 
general equipment was good, but some important items had been over- 
looked, which occasioned the scientific department much inconvenience. 

The first harbor made was at Niantilic in Cumberland Gulf, after a 
passage of forty-one days. The prevailing winds were easterly and 
light, with much fog. Off Resolution Island a heavy northeast gale 
was encountered which stove one boat and did other damage. The 
ground was covered with snow on our arrival and it looked gloomy. 
The stay in Mantilic was short; having procured some Eskimo we set 
sail for the opposite shores of the gulf, and then for the North. Ar- 
rived in Annanatook harbor (the head of Cumberland Gulf) October 7, 
1878. Arrangements were immediately made for an observatory, con- 
sisting of a canvas tent, around which a hut of snow was built. In this 
illy-lighted and poorly- warmed structure Mr. Sherman and myself spent 
oiu' time till July. 

During the winter we could procure Pagomys fcetidus at almost any 
time. This is by far the most common seal in Cumberland and the prin- 
cipal food of the Eskimo. Phoca harhata is only procured when there 
is open water, as they do not have breathing-holes in the ice. Phoca 
cristata was rare. Calloceplialus vituUnus is often taken by the Eskimo in 
the salmon fjords. Pagophilus grcenlandicus common during open water. 
Trichecus rosmarus is common around Cape Mercy and on the opposite 
shores, but now not found at the head of the gulf, though their remains 
are common. Reindeer could be procured at any time a short distance 
from the coast inland, and even on the islands in winter. Lepus glacia- 
Us is quite common in some localities, but only two were obtained at our 
winter harbor. Canus occidenfalis are met with in roving bands where 
the reindeer are the most common. Vulpes lagopus everywhere, but most 
plenty where there are numbers of hare and ptarmigan. Ursus mariti- 
mus is no rarity about Cape Mercy and the mouth of the gulf, but very 
rarely seen in the upper fjords. A single lemming was procured, and 
but two Mustela. Cetaceans of many species were common, especially 
so Delphinapterus lucas (of which a fine skeleton was jirocured), and their 
dreaded enemies Orca gladiator. An excellent series of skins, skeletons, 
and skulls of Phoca fwtida were secured; they range from a 6-inch foetus 
to the adult of 5 feet. Studies were attempted on the diseases of the 

452 



EXPLORATIONS IN GREENLAND. 453 

Eskimo dog, and good points were ascertained. While dissecting one 
of these animals I had the misfortune to cut a finger slightly, and the 
virus (°?) together with a frost-bite made me a crii)ple for two months, 
and came very near costing me the loss of my arm ; this occurring in 
my busiest season, I lostmany specimens. Eskimo women were instructed 
to skin and clean birds and mammals, which they soon learned to do very 
nicely, invai iably removing the fat with the teeth. The greatest cold was 
in January — 52o.5. From the 27th of February to March 18 the tempe- 
rature did not rise above 35°. The heaviest snow-fall was in June. Dur- 
ing the latter part of June the winds were southerly, driving the ice in a 
comi)act mass towards the head of the gulf so that it was nearly impossible 
to make any excursions away from the ship. No birds except Gorvus co- 
rax, FaJco candicans, and two species of Lagopus remain during the 
winter. The first birds to return are Lorus glaucus, often long before 
there is any open water ; they cruise up the ice-covered fjords and feed 
on the young of Phoca fcetida. As soon as the snow begins to melt 
Flectrophanes nivalis greets one with a very pretty song. Eiders, Som- 
ateria moIUsslmaj nested by thousands on the rocky islets around our 
winter harbor, and the eggs were a very welcome addition to our rations. 
Some rare eggs were procured, among them Tringa suharqiiata, Stereo- 
rarivs ])omatorhimis, and parasiticus Raliastus albiciUa. 

Some Pacific species were added to the fauna of the Atlantic seaboard, 
and some birds of N. temperate North A. were found breeding to 08° 30' 
N. Specimens were procured of PagopJiila churnea, Bnphagus sJaia Larus 
glaucescens, and leucopterus, &c. The fauna seemed to be nearly identical 
with that of north Baffln's Bay. Only forty-two species of birds were 
met with in Cumberland Sound, and of these four at least were stragglers. 
Interesting notes were procured on rare or little-known Arctic water- 
birds. 

Some fossils were procured from Lake Kennedy and some interesting 
minerals. We left much too early to secure a fair representation of the 
flora of the district, poor as it is. The same species were collected on 
the Greenland coast in 70° 30', much more luxuriant. The algoe could 
not be collected in the sjiriug on account of the ice around the shores.. 
They were abundant both in species and numbers, some of them remark- 
ably large. 

Some interesting notes on the habits, legends, &c., of the Eskimo were- 
secured with drawings ; also a good number of Eskimo drawings, which: 
are very interesting. 

Eskimo implements few, but still some very valuable forms were 
found. Great difficulty was experienced in getting the Eskimo to part 
with implements in use; even a considerable reward would not induce 
them to part with some things. The vicinity of Annanatook (our win- 
ter harbor) was a most remarkably barren place, bare granitic islands 
with steep bluff shores offering no place to collect marine life even at 
low tide. Notes of value were obtained on the distribution of mammals 



454 EXPLORATIONS IN GREENLAND. 

and birds. Fishes were rare ; we could only get two kinds in sufficient 
numbers to use as food — Cottus scorpius and Sabno solar. Other species 
were collected, but very few specimens. Did not get out of Cumberland 
Gulf till the 19th of July. We then took the pack-ice oft' Cape Mercy, 
and with strong east winds worked through 250 miles of it. Eeached 
Godhavn Harbor on the last day of July. We had expected to meet 
the government expedition here, and had fifteen Eskimo, thirty dogs, 
clothing, and a vast amount of material requisite for a Polar exjjedition. 
We waited here till the 22d of August, and then set sail to return the 
Eskimo to their native place. During our stay in Godhavn we were 
greatly aided in our researches by Governor E. Fincker and Inspector 
K. Smitz, who did all in their power to make our stay pleasant, besides 
giving us much valuable information and many specimens. The ice in 
Baffin's Bay was the heaviest ever known to the Danish traders. No 
vessels, even the large Dundee steam- whalers, were able to get out of 
the Waigal Straits, nor could the Danes get to the Upernavik settle- 
ments. While returning to Cumberland we experienced a tremendous 
southeast gale which lasted nearly four days. When it abated we found 
our ship in the mouth of Exeter Sound, on the opposite shore of Davis' 
Straits, from where we had started. 

During these four days we drifted at the mercy of the winds and waves 
among hundreds of icebergs, but received no damage to speak of. The 
Eskimo were landed and given some presents on the last of August. 
On the 12th of September we set sail for home, arriving at St. John's, 
Newfoundland, on the 2Gth, after a very stormy passage. On the 11th 
of October we sailed from St. John's. From this time till we reached 
Provincetown, Mass., we rode out six heavy gales of wind. The ship 
sprung a leak off Sable Island, and gave us much work and anxiet^\,'. Oui 
provisions also became rather short, so we were put on allowance, and 
a very small allowance at that. I must not forget to mention that 1 
used only a Remington breech -loading shot-gun, and that it did not fail 
me on a single occasion, though subjected to every kind of iU-treatmeut 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND: 

WITH SPECIAL EEFERENCE TO FOG-SIGXALING. 



By Joseph Henry. 

[From the Annual Reports of the U. S. Light-HoCtse Board.] 



PREFATOKY NOTE. 

[The series of inv^estigatious undertaken by the late Professor Henry 
in the interest of the light-house service, embracing not only observa- 
tions more than usually laborious and extended, with regard to the 
atmospheric conditions affecting tlie propagation of sound to a distance, 
but varied and elaborate experimental inquiries, as well, with reference 
to the most efficient character and form of sonorous instruments for 
fog-signaling i)urposes, commenced as far back as the year 18G5, and 
continued to the last year of his life. 

These important investigations, though in the language of an official 
report, they " have resulted in giving us a fog-signal service conceded 
to be the best in the world,"* have liitherto received so little publicity 
and attention, owing to the purely official character and channel of their 
presentation, that their collection and republication here (in advance of 
of a possible edition of Henry's collected works), appears to be called 
for in the interests of science, as well as of a just appreciation of the 
value of his prolonged researches. 

The first part, extracted from the Appendix to the LightHouse Re- 
port for 1874, comprises a preliminary statement and an account of ob- 
servations and experiments made by the author, from 1865, at New 

* Executive Document No. 94, Forty-fifth Congress, second session, Senate, p. 2. 
ThivS is a report to the Hon. Secretary of the Treasury, made since Professor Henry's 
deatli. To a similar effect, may be quoted an ofiicial statement made five years 
earlier. In 1873, Major George H. Elliot, of the Light-House Board, commissioned to 
make a tour of inspection of European light-house establishments, presented the re- 
sults of his observations abroad in a very able and elaborate report, ]>ul)lishcd by the 
Senate in 272 octavo pages, with numerous illustrations. In his preliminary report to 
the Board, dated September 17, 1873, he concludes, that while there are "many details 
of construction and administration which we can adopt with advantage," (from the 
British and French light-house systems,) "there are many in which we excel. Our 
shore fog-signals, particularly, are vastly sujierior, both in numbiT and power."' 
(Executive Document No. 54, Forty-third Congress, lirst session; Senate, p. 12.) 

455 



456 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

Haven, Conn., to 1872, at Portland, Me. The second part is a commu- 
iiication made to the "Philosophical Society of Washington" (of which 
he was the president) December 11, 1872, embracing a discnssion of 
some abnormal phenomena of sound, and is extracted from the Bulletin 
of the Society, vol. ii, appendix ix. The third part, forming the latter 
portion of the Api^endix to the Light-House Keport for 1874, comprises 
investigations extending from 1873, at Whitehead Station, off the coast 
of Maine, to 1874, at Sandy Hook, New Jersey. The fourth part, extracted 
from the Appendix to the Light-House Eeport for 1875, comprises his 
investigations for that year. And the fifth part, from the Appendix to 
the Light-House Eeport of 1877, embraces his latest observations dur- 
ing September and October of the year 1877. 

These papers necessarily are more fragmentary, and at the same time 
involve more recapitulation than would have been the case, could they 
have received the revision of their distinguished and lamented author. 
It has however been considered more just to reproduce these contribu- 
tions in this form, than to attempt either a compilation of extracts, or a 
condensation of their substance in the form of an abstract.] 

S. F. Baird. 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 



IXTEODUCTIOX.* 

Fog. 

Among the impedimeuts to navigation none perhaps are more to be 
dreaded than those which arise from fogs, and consequently the nature 
of this impediment and the means which may be devised for obviating 
it are objects of great interest to the mariner. Fogs are in all cases 
l^roduced when cold air is mingled with warm air saturated with moist- 
ure. In this case the invisible vapor of the warmer air is condensed by 
the cold into minute particles of liquid water, which, by their immense 
number and multiplicity of reflecting surfaces, obstruct the rays of light 
in the same way that a j)iece of transparent glass when pounded becomes 
almost entirely opaque and is seen by reflection as a white mass. So 
great!}' does a dense fog obstruct light, that the most intense artifi- 
cial illumination, such as that produced by the combustion of magnesium, 
by the burning of oxygen and hydrogen in contact with lime, and that 
I)roduced between the charcoal points of a powerful electrical apparatus, 
are entirely obscured at comparatively short distances. Even the light 
of the sun, which is far more intense than that of any artificial illumina- 
tion, is so diminished by a single mile of dense fog that the luminary 
itself becomes invisible. Recourse must therefore be had to some other 
means than that of light to enable the mariner to recognize his position 
on approaching the coast when the land is obscured by fog. 

The only means at present known for obviating the difficulty is that 
of employing powerful sounding instruments which may be heard at a 
sufficient distance through the fog to give timely warning of iuq^ending 
danger. Investigations therefore as to the nature of sound and its 
applications to fog-signals become an important object to those in charge 
of aids to navigation. Such investigations are of special importance in 
connection with the light-house service of the United States. The 
northeastern coast of the United States on the Atlantic, and the entire 
western coa^t on the Pacific, included in our territory, are subject, 
especially during the summer months, to dense fogs, which greatly im- 
pede navigation, as well as endanger life and property. 

The origin of the fogs on our coast is readily exi)lained by reference 
to a few simple principles of physical geography. In the Atlantic Ocean 
there exists a current of warm water proceeding from the Gulf of Mex- 
ico, between Cuba and Florida, which flows along our coast to the lati- 

* From the Report of the Light-House Boiud, for 1874. 

457 



458 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

tilde of about 35°, and then turning gradually to the eastward, crosses the 
Atlantic and impinges against the coast of Northern Europe. Through- 
out its entire course, on account of the immense capacity of water for 
heat, the tem])erature of the stream is greater than that of the ocean on 
either side. In addition to this stream, the Atlantic Ocean is traversed 
by another current of an entirely opposite character, one of cold water, 
which, coming from the arctic regions down Davis's Strait, is thrown, by 
the rotation of the earth, against our coast, passing between it and the 
Gulf-stream, and sinking under the latter as it approaches the southerij 
extremity of the United States. 

These conditions are those most favorable to the production of fogs, 
since whenever the warm air, surcharged with moisture, is blown from 
the Gulf-stream over the arctic current and mingles with the cold air 
of the latter, a precipitation of its vapor takes place in the form of fog. 
Hence, especially in summer, when the wind in the eastern part of the 
United States is in a southeasterly direction, fogs prevail. As we pro- 
ceed southerly along the coast, the fog-producing winds take a more 
easterly direction. 

A somewhat similar circulation in the Pacific Ocean produces fogs on 
the western coast of the United States. In this ocean a current of warm 
water, starting from the equatorial regions, passes along the shores of 
China and Japan, and, following the general trend of the coast, turns 
eastward and continues along our shore. The northern part of this 
current being waruier than the ocean through which it passes, tends to 
produce dense fogs in the region of the Aleutian Islands and the coast 
of Alaska. As this current descends along the American coast into 
lower latitudes it gradually loses its warmth, and soon assumes the 
character, in regard to the water through which it j^asses, of a compara- 
tively colder stream; and to this cause we would attribute the preva- 
lence of fogs on the coast of Oregon and California, which are most 
prevalent during the spring and early summer, with wind from the 
northwest and west. 

From what has been said, it is evident that the fogs in the Aleutian 
Islands occur chiefly in summer, when southwesterly winds prevail and 
mingle the moist air from the warm current with the colder air of the 
more northerly latitude. In winter, the wind being from the north 
chiefly, the moist air is driven in an opposite direction, and dense fogs 
therefore at this season do not prevail. 

In regard to the fogs on the coast of Maine, the following interesting 
facts were furnished me by the late Dr. Stimpson, formerly of the Smith- 
sonian Institution and of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, who had 
much experience as to the weather during his dredging for marine speci- 
mens of natural history in the region of Grand Manan Island, at the 
entrance of the Bay of ^und5^ 

"So shaq)ly marked," says Dr. Stimpson, "is the diiference of tem- 
perature of the warm water from the Gulf-stream and that of the polar 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 459 

current, that in sailing in some cases only a few lengths of a ship the 
temperature of the water will change from 70"^ to 50°. The fog fre- 
quently comes rolling in with the speed of a race-horse; in some cases 
while dredging, hapj^ening to turn my eyes to the south, a bank of fog 
has been seen approaching with such rapidity that there was scarcely 
time in whicli to take comi)ass-bearing of some object on shore by which 
to steer, before I would be entirely shut in, perhaps for days together." 
lie also mentions the fact that it frequently happened during a warm 
day, while a dense fog existed some distance from the shore, close in to 
the latter there would be a space entirely clear; this was probably due 
to the reflection and radiation of the heat from the land, which converted 
the watery particles into invisible vapor. 

Dr. Stimpson has also noticed another phenomenon of some interest. 
"When a dense fog, coming in regularly from the sea, reaches the land, 
it gradually rises in the atmosphere and forms a heavy, dark cloud, which 
is frequently precipitated in rain." This rising of fog is not due, accord- 
ing to the doctor, to a surface-wind from the west i^ressing under it and 
buoying it upward, since the wind at the time is from the ocean. It is 
probably due to the greater heat of the land causing an upward cur- 
rent, which, when once started, by its inertia carries the cloud up to a 
region of lower temperature, and hence the precipitation. The height 
of the fog along the coast is not usually very great, and can be frequently 
pverlooked from the mast-head. The deception as to size and distance 
of objects as seen in a fog is also a remarkable phenomenon when ob- 
served for the first time. A piece of floating wood at a little distance is 
magnified into a large object, and after much experience the doctor was 
not able to overcome the delusion. It is said that the sailors in the Bay 
of Fundy prefer of two evils a fog that remains constant in density to 
one that is variable, although the variation may be toward a greater 
degree of lightness, on account of the varying intensity producing a 
varied and erroneous impression of the size and distance of the object 
seen through it. It is also his impression that sound can be heard as 
well during fog as in clear weather, although there is a delusion even 
in this, since the source of sound, when seen, appears at a greater dis- 
tance than in a clear atmosphere, and hence the sound itself would 
appear to be magnified. 

Fogs also exist on the Mississippi, especially on the lower portion of 
the river. They are of two classes, those which result from the cooling 
of the earth, particularly during the summer in clear nights, with wind 
probably from a northerly direction, followed by a gentle, warm wind 
from the south surcharged with moisture, and the other induced by the 
water of the river, which, coming from melting snow of northern regions, 
is colder than the air in the vicinity. The air over the river being thus 
cooled below the temperature of a gentle wind from the south, the 
moisture of the latter is precipitated. This fog, which occurs in the last 
of winter, during the spring, and beginning of summer, is very dense, 



460 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

but is confined entirely to the atmosphere above the river, while the 
other class of fog exists over the laud as well. 

Fog-Signals. 

The importance of fog-signals as aids to navigation, especially on the 
northeastern portion of our coast, of which the shore is exceedingly bold 
and to the approach of which the sounding-line gives no sure indicatiou, 
has been from the first an object of special attention. 

At the beginning of the operations of the Light-House Board such 
instruments were emjiloyed for i^roducing sound as had been used in 
other countries ; these consisted of gongs, bells, guns, horns, &c. The 
bells were actuated by clock-machinery, which was wound up from time 
to time and struck at intervals of regular sequence by which their x)Osi- 
tion might be identified. The machinery, however, by which these bells 
were struck was of a rude character and exceedingly wasteful of power, 
the weight continuing to descend during the whole period of operation, 
including the successive intervals of silence. This defect was remedied 
by the invention of Mr. Stevens, who introduced an escapement arrange- 
ment, similar to that of a clock, which is kept in motion by a small 
weight, a larger one being brought into operation only during the 
instant of striking. 

Bell-buoys were also introduced at various points. These consisted 
of a bell supported on a water-tight vessel and rung by the oscillation 
of the waves, but all contrivances of this kind have been found to be 
untrustworthy, the sound which they emit is comparatively of feeble 
character, can be heard at but a small distance, and is frequently inefii- 
cient during a fog which occurs in calm weather. Besides this, auto- 
matic fog-signals are liable to be interfered with by ice in northern 
positions, and in all sections to derangement at times when no substi- 
tute can be i)ut in their place, as can be in the cases of the bells rung 
by machinery under the immediate control of keepers. A signal which 
is liable to be interrupted in its warnings is worse than no signal, since 
its absence may give confidence of safety in the midst of danger, and 
thus prevent the necessary caution which would otherwise be emi)loyed. 

Guns have been emi)loyed on the United States coast, first under the 
direction of General Bates, engineer of the twelfth district, at Point 
Bonita, San Francisco Bay, California, The gun at this station con- 
sisted of a 24-pounder, furnished by the War Department. The neces- 
sary arrangements being made, by the construction of a powder-house, 
and laying of a platform, and employment of a gunner, notice to mari- 
ners was given that after the 8th of August, 1850, a signal-gnn would 
be fired every hour and half-hour, night and day, during foggy or thick 
weather. The first year, with the exception of eighty-eight foggy days, 
omitted for want of i>owder, 1,390 rounds were fired. These consumed 
5,560 pounds of powder, at a cost of $1,487, pay of gunner and incident- 
als excluded. The following year the discharges were 1,582, or about 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 461 

one-eleventh of the number of hours and half-hours of the whole time. 
The fog-gun was found to answer a useful purjiose ; vessels by the help 
of it alone having come into the harbor during a fog at night, as well as 
in the day, that otherwise could not possiblj^ have entered. This signal 
was continued until it was superseded by a bell boat. A gun was also 
used at West Quoddy Head, near the extreme eastern part of Maine. 
It consisted of a short piece, or carronade, 5 feet long, with a bore of 5^ 
inches, charged with four pounds of blasting-powder. The i)owder was 
made up in cartridges and kept in chests in the work-house. The gun 
was only fired on foggy days, when the steamboat running between Boston 
and Saint John, New Brunswick, was approaching the light-house from 
the former place. In going in the other direction the signal was not so 
much required, because in the former case (of api^roach) the vessel had 
been for souie time out of sight of hmd, and consequently its position 
could not be so well known. The firing was commenced with the hear- 
ing of the steamer's whistle as she was approaching, and as the wind 
durin^g the fog at this place is generally from the south, the steamer 
could be heard five or six miles. The firing was continued as frequently 
as the gun could be loaded until the steamer answered by a signal of 
three puffs of its whistle. The number of discharges was from one to 
six, the latter exhausting a keg of powder valued at $8. The keeper of 
the light-house acted as gunner, without compensation other than his 
salary. The cost of powder was paid by the steamboat company. The 
report of the gun was heard from two to six miles. 

This signal has been abandoned, — because of the danger attending its 
use, — the length of the intervals between the successive explosions, — 
and the brief duration of the sound, which renders it difficult to deter- 
mine with accuracy its direction. 

The lamented General Bache, of the Light-House Board, adopted a 
very ingenious i)lan for an automatic fog-signal, which consisted in tak- 
ing advantage of a conical opening in the coast, generally designated a 
blowhole. On the apex of this hole he erected a chimney which termi- 
nated in a tube surmounted by a locomotive- whistle. By this arrange- 
ment a loud sound was produced as often as a wave entered the mouth 
of the indentation. The i)enetrating power of the sound from this 
arrangement would not be great if it depended merely on the hydro- 
static pressure of the wave, since this, under fa*'orable circumstances, 
would not be more than that of a column of water 20 fe-'t high, giving 
a pressure of about 10 pounds to the square inch. The effect however 
of the percussion might add considerably to this, though the latter 
would be confined in effect to a single instant. In regard to the prac- 
tical result from this arrangement, which was continued in operation 
for several years, it was found not to obviate the necessity of jjroduc- 
ing sounds of greater power. It is however founded on an ingenious 
idea, and may be susceptible of application in other cases. 



462 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

Experiments by Professok Alexander, in 1855. 

The Liglit-House Board was not content with the employment alone 
of the fog-sig^nals in ordinary use, but directed a series of experiments 
in order to improve this branch of its service. For this purpose the 
board employed Prof. J. H. Alexander, of Baltimore, who made a 
report on the snbject, which was published among the documents. The 
investigations of Professor Alexander related especially to the use of 
the locomotive steam- whistle as a fog-signal, and in his rejiort he details 
the results of a series of experiments in regard to the nature and adjust- 
ment of the whistle, the quantity of steam necessary to actuate it, with 
suggestions as to its general ecouoray and management. He found, 
what has since been fully shown, that the power of the sound dei)ends 
upon the pressure of the steam in the boiler, and the pitch upon the 
distance between the circular oritice through which the steam issues, 
and the edge of the bell. He appears however to be under an erro- 
neous impression that the sound is produced by the vibrations of the 
metal of the goblet or bell, while in fact this latter portion of the appa- 
ratus is a resounding cavity, which, as I have shown in subsequent 
experiments, may be constructed of wood as well as of brass, in order 
to produce the same efl'ect. Mr. Alexander also mentions the effect of 
the wind in diminishing the penetrating power of sound when in an 
adverse direction, either directly or approximately. He also recom- 
mends the adoption of an automatic pump to supply the boilers with 
water, and also to open and shut the valves at the proper intervals for 
blowing the whistle. He states that the location of a sound can be 
determined more j)recisely in the case of loud, high sounds than in that 
of feebler or lower ones. On this point I am not prepared to concur 
with him in experiments of my own. In all cases however loud sounds 
are more desirable than feebler ones, in order that they may be heard 
at a greater distance above the noise of the surf and that of the wind 
as it passes through the spars and rigging of vessels. 

The board however at this time were not prepared to adopt these 
suggestions, and an unsuccessful attempt to use a steam-boiler, rendered 
aborti\'e by the incapacity of the keeper to give it proper attendance, 
discouraged for a time efforts in this line. 

Previous to the investigations of Mr. Alexander, at the expense of the 
Light House Board, Mr. DaboU, of New London, had for several years 
been exi)erimenting on his own account with reference to a fog-signal. 
His plan consisted in employing a reed trumpet, constructed after the 
manner of a clarionet, and sounded by means of air condensed in a res- 
ervoir, the condensation being iiroduced by horsepower operating 
through suitable machinery. Although the sound of this was more pene- 
trating than that of bells, still the expense and inconvenience of the 
maintenance of a horse, together with the cost of machinery, prevented 
its adoj)tion. Mr. DaboU however after this i)resented to the board a 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 463 

modification of his invention, in which a hot-air engine of Ericsson's 
patent was substitnted as the motive power, instead of the horse; and 
the writer ot this report, as chairman of the committee on experiments 
in hehalf of the board, examined this invention and reported in favor of 
its adoption. The other members of the committee made an nnfavorable 
report, on the ground that fog-signals were of little importance, since the 
mariner should know his place by the character of his soundings in all 
places where accurate surveys had been made, or should not venture 
near the coast until the fog was dissipated. The board however estab- 
lished DaboU trumpets at different stations, which have been in constant 
use up to the present time. 



PART I.— INVESTIGATIONS FROM 18C5 TO 1872.* 
Experiments near New Haven, in 1865. 

The subject of sound, in connection with fog-signals, still continued to 
occu])y the attention of the board, and a series of investigations was 
made in October, 18G5, at the light-house near New Haven, under the 
direction of the writer of this report, in connection with Commodore, now 
Admiral, Powell, insi)ector, and Mr. Lederle, acting engineer of the third 
district. 

The principal object was to compare the sound of bells, of steam- 
Avhistles, and other instruments, and the effect of reflectors, and also the 
opeiation of different hot-air engines. For this purpose the committee 
was furnished with two small sailing-vessels. As tbese were very imper- 
fectly ai)plicable, since they could not be moved without wind, the writer 
of the report devised an in.strument denominated an "artificial ear," by 
which the relative penetrating power of different sounding bodies could 
be determined and expressed in numbers by the removal of the observer 
to a comparatively short distance from the point of origin of the sound. 
This instrument consisted of a conical horn, made of ordinary tinned 
sheet iron, the axis of which was about 4 feet in length, the diameter of 
the larger end 9 inches, and tapering gradually to 1| of an inch at the 
smaller end. The axis of this horn was bent at the smaller end in a 
gentle curve, until the plane of the section of the smaller end was at 
I'ight angles to the perpendicular section of the larger end, so that when 
the axis of the trumpet was held horizontally and the larger section 
vertically, then the section of the smaller end would be horizontal. 
Across the smaller end a thin membrane of gold beater's shiu was slightly 
stretched and secured by a thread. On this membrane fine sand was 
strewn. To protect the latter from disturbance b}^ the wind, it was sur- 
rounded by a cylinder of glass, cut from a lamp-chimney, the upper end 
of which was covered with a plate of glass; and, in the improved condi- 

* From the Report of the Light- House Board, for 1874. 



464 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

tion of the instrument, with a magnifying lens, with which to observe 
more minutely the motions of the sand. To use this instrument in com- 
XJaring the relative penetrating power of sound from diiierent sources, 
as for example from two bells, the axis being held horizontal, the mouth 
was turned toward one of the bells, and the efiect causing agitation of 
the sand, was noted. The instrument was then removed to a station a 
little further from the bell, and the effect again noted, the distance being- 
increased, step by step, until no motion in the sand could be observed 
through the lens. This distance, being measured in feet or yards, gave 
the number indicating the i)enetrating power of the instrument under 
trial. The same experiment was immediately repeated, under the same 
conditions of temperature, air, wind, &c., with the other sounding appa- 
ratus, and the relative number of yards indicating the distance, taken 
as the penetrating powers of the two instruments. It should be observed, 
in the use of this instrument, that it is intended merely to concentrate 
the rays of sound, and not to act as a resounding cavity; since in that 
case the sound, in unison with the resounding note, would produce effect 
at a greater distance than one in discord. 

The indications of this instrument were compared with the results ob- 
tained by the ear in the use of the two vessels, and in all cases were in 
exact accordance; and it was accordingly used in the following investi- 
gations, and has been found of great service in all subsequent experi- 
ments on the penetration of sound. 

The only precaution in using it is that the membrane shall not be of 
such tension as to vibrate in unison with a single sound or its octaves ; 
or, in other words, that the instrument must be so adjusted by varying 
the length of the axis or the tension of i he membrane that it shall be in 
discordance with the sounds to be measured, and only act as a condenser 
of the sonorous waves. 

The first experiments made were with regard to the influence of re- 
flectors. For this purpose a concave wooden reflector had been prepared, 
consisting of the segment of a sphere of 16 feet radius, and covered with 
plaster, exposing a surface of 64 square feet. In the focus of this, by 
means of a temporary railway, a bell or whistle could be readily intro- 
duced or withdrawn. The center of the mouth of the bell was placed in 
the horizontal axis of the reflector. This arrangement being completed, 
the sound of the bell, with and without the reflector behind it, was alter- 
nately observed. Within the distance of about 500 yards the efiect was 
evidently increased, as indicated by the motion of the sand on the mem- 
brane, but beyond this the difference was less and less perceptible, and 
at the limit of audibility the addition of the reflector appeared to us en- 
tirely imperceptible. This result was corroborated by subsequent ex- 
periments in which a whistle was heard nearly as well in the rear of a 
reflector as before it. It would appear from these results that while 
feeble sounds, at small distances, are reflected as rays of light are, waves 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 465 

of powerful sound spread laterally, and even wlien projected from the 
mouth of a trumpet, tend at a great distance to embrace the whole circle 
of the horizon. 

Upon this and all the subsequent experiments, as it will appear, the 
l^riuciple of reflection as a means of re-enforcing sound is but slightly n])- 
plicable to fog-signals. It is evident however that the effect will be some- 
what increased by augmenting the size of the reflector, and by more com- 
pletely inclosing the source of sound in a conical or pyramidal reflector. 

Another series of experiments was made to ascertain whether the pen- 
etration of the sound was greater in the direction of the axis of the bells, 
or at right angles to the axis ; or, in other words, whether the sound was 
louder in front of the mouth of a bell or of its rim. The result of this 
experiment was considered of importance, since, in one of the light- 
houses, a bell has been placed with the plane of its mouth at right angles 
to the horizon, instead of being placed, as usual, parallel to the same. 
The effect on the sound in these two positions was similar to that i)ro- 
duced by the bell with a reflector, the noise being greater at a short 
distance with the mouth toward the observer than when the rim was in 
the plane of the ear. At a distance however, the difference between 
the two sounds was imperceptible. In practice therefore it is of very 
little importance whether the axis of the bell is perpendicular or liarallel 
to the horizon. 

The flrst fog-signal examined in this series of experiments was a double 
whistle, improperly called a steam-gong, designed i)rincii)ally for a fire- 
alarm and for signals for the commencement of working-hours in large 
manufacturing establishments. It consisted of two bells of the ordinary 
steam-whistle on the same hollow axis, mouth to mouth, with a flat, hol- 
low cylinder between them, through the upper and lower surface of which 
the circular sheets of steam issue, the vibration of which produces the 
sound. In the instrument under examination, the upper bell was 20 
inches in length of axis, and 12 inches in diameter, and the lower- whistle 
was of the same diameter, with a length of axis of 14 inches. The note 
of the shorter bell was a fifth above that of the longer. This arrangement 
gave a melodious sound, unlike that of the ordinary locomotive- whistle, 
and on that account had a peculiar merit. The sound was also very 
loud, and, according to testimony, had been heard under favorable 
circumstances more than twenty miles. It however reipiired a large 
quantity of steam to give it its full effect, and the only means to obtain 
an approximate idea as to this quantity was that afforded by observing 
its action on a boiler of a woolen manufactory near Newport. It was 
hei-e blown with a pressure of at least 75 pounds. From theoretical con- 
siderations however, it might be inferred that its maximum penetrating 
power would be not greater than that of a single whistle using the same 
amount of steam, and this theoretical inference was borne out by the 
subsequent experiments of General Duane. But from the strikingly 
S. Mis. 59 — ^30 



466 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

distinctive character of its tone it lias, in our opinion, an advantage over 
a single wliistle expending an eqnal quantity of steam. 

The fact that the vibration of the metal of the bell had no practical 
effect on the penetrating power of the sound was proved quite conclu- 
sively by winding tightly around each bell, over its whole length, a thick 
cord, which would effectually stop all vibration. The penetration of the 
sound produced under this condition was the same as that with the bells 
free. It is true, the latter produces a difference in the quality of the 
tone, such as that which is observed in a brass instrument and that of 
one of wood or ivory. The inventor was not aware that the sound pro- 
duced was from the resonance of the air within the bell, and not from 
the metal of the bell itself, and had obtained a patent, not only for the 
invention of the double whistle, but also for the special comx)ound of 
metal of which it was composed. 

Another ajiparatus proposed to be used as a fog-signal was presented 
for examination by the Marine Signal Company, of Wallingford, Conn. 
It consisted of a curved tube of copper nearly in the form of the letter 
C, and was supported on an axis passing through the center of the 
figure. An ordinary bell- whistle was attached to each extremity of the 
tube, the instrument being placed in a vertical jiosition and partially 
filled with water, then made to oscillate on its center of support. By 
this means the air was drawn in at one end and forced out through the 
whistle at the other. The motion being reversed the air was drawn in 
at the end through which it had just made its exit and forced out through 
the whistle at the other. By rocking the instrument, either by hand or 
by the motion of the vessel, a continued sound could be i)roduced. The 
motive-power in the former case was muscular energy, and the experi- 
ments which were made at this time, as well as all that have been made 
subsequently, conclusively prove that the penetrating power of the 
sound for practical use as a fog-signal depends upon the intensity of the 
motive-energy employed. No instrument operated through levers and 
pumps by hand-power is sufficient for the purpose. 

One of these instruments with two 4-inch whistles gave a sound, as 
indicated by the artificial ear, the power of w^hich was about one- tenth 
of that of a steam-trumpet. It was sui)posed however that this in- 
strument would be applicable for light-ships ; and that if extended en- 
tirely across the vessel, and armed with whistles of large size, it would 
be operated by the rolling of the vessel, and thus serve to give warning 
in time of thick weather. But as it frequently happens that fog exists 
during a calm, this invention could not be relied upon to give warning 
in all cases of danger. Besides this, the ordinary roll of a ship is not 
sufficient to produce a hydrostatic pressure of more than five or six 
pounds to the square inch, which is insufficient to give an effective 
sound. It has however been proposed to increase the jjower by using 
quicksilver instead of water; but, besides the first cost of this material, 
and the constant loss by leakage and oxidation, the tendency to affect 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 467 

the bealtb of the crew is an objection to the iutroductiou of this modi- 
fication of tlie apparatns into light-ships. 

The other instruments which were subjected to trial were an ordinary 
steam-whistle and a Daboll trumpet. The bell of the whistle was 
inches in diameter, 9 inches in height, and received the sheet of steam 
through an opening of one-thirtieth of an inch in width ; was worked 
by a pressure of condensed air of from 20 to 35 pounds per square inch, 
and blown once in a minute for about five seconds. The air was con- 
densed by a Koper engine of one-horse power. The penetrating power 
of the sound was increased by an increase in the pressure of the air, 
and also the pitch. The tone however of the instrument was lowered 
by increasing the distance between the orifice through which the circular 
sheet of air issued at the lower rim of the bell or resounding' cavity. 
To prove conclusively that the bell performs the part of a mere resound- 
ing cavity, a wooden one, on a subsequent occasion, was substituted for 
that of metal without a change in the loudness or the pitch of the sound. 

The penetrating power of the whistle was compared with a Daboll 
trumpet, actuated by an Ericsson engine of about the same power ; the 
reservoir for the condensed air of each machine was furnished with (i 
pressure-gauge, and by knowing the capacity of the condensing i)umps 
and the number of strokes required to produce the pressure, the relative 
amount of power was determined. The result was that the i^enetrating 
power of the trumpet was nearly double that of the whistle, and that an 
equal effect was produced at the same distance by al)out one-fourth of 
the power expended in the case of the latter. It must be recollected 
however, that the whistle sends sonorous waves of equal intensity in 
every direction, while the greatest power of the trumpet is in the direc- 
tion of its axis. This ditference however is lessened on account of the 
spreading of the sound to which we have before alluded.* The whistle 
was blown, as we have said, with a pressure of from 20 to 35 pounds, 
while the trumpet was sounded with a pressure of from 12 to 15 jiounds. 
In the case of the whistle, the pressure in the reservoir may be indefi- 
nitely increased with an increase in the penetrating i)ower of the sound 
produced, while in the case of the trumpet a pressure greater than a 
given amount entirelj^ stops the blast by preventing the recoil of the 
vibrating tongne ; this being made of steel, in the larger instruments 
2^ inches wide and 8 inches long, would receive a j^ressure of steam, at 
only 10 pounds to the square inch, of 200 pounds, tending to press it 
into the opening and to prevent its recoil, this circumstance limits, as it 
were, the power of a trumpet of given dimensions. It is however well 
fitted to operate with a hot-air engine, and is the least expensive in fuel 
of any of the instruments now employed. The whistle is the simpler 
and easier of management, although they both require arrangement of 
machinery in order that they may be operated automatically. 

* It is worthy of uote however that in the case of a sound having primarily an axial 
direction, the subsequent lateral ditl'usion must result in enfeebling the whole sphere 
of expanding sound-waves in a more rapid ratio tliau the square of the distance. 



468 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

It is a matter of much importance to obtain a liot-air engine of suffi- 
cient power, and suitable for working fog-signals of all classes. This 
will be evident when we consider the difficulty in many cases of obtain- 
ing fresh water for producing steam, and the expense of the renewal of 
the boilers in the use of salt-water, as well as that of the loss of power 
in frequently blowing out the latter, in addition to the danger of the use 
of steam by unskillful attendants. 

The merits of the two engines however under consideration could not 
be fnlly tested by the short trial to which they were subjected during 
these experiments. The principal objection to the Ericsson engine was 
the size of the fly-wheel and the weight of the several parts of the ma- 
chine ; the Koper engine was much more compact, and api)eared to work 
with more facility, but from the greater heat imparted to the air the 
packing was liable to burn out and required to be frequently renewed. 
Although at first the impression of the committee was in favor of the 
lioper engine, yet in subsequent trials of actual practice it was found 
too difficult to be kept in order to be employed for light-house purposes, 
and its use has consequently been abandoned ; another hot-air engine 
has been emjiloyed by the board, the invention of a Mr. Wilcox, which 
has also been discontinued for a similar reason. I was assured by the 
person last named, a very ingenious mechanician, that when the several 
patents for hot-air engines expired, a much more efficient instrument 
could be devised by combining the best features of each of those now in 
use. 

For determining the relative penetrating power of these instruments, 
the use of two vessels had been obtained, with the idea of observing the 
sound simultaneously in opposite directions. 

Unfortunately however the location which had been chosen for these 
experiments was of a very unfavorable character iji regard to the em- 
])loyment of sailing-vessels and the use of the artificial ear. It was fully 
open to the ocean only in a southerly direction, navigation up the bay 
to the north being limited to three and a half miles, while on shore a 
sufficient unobstructed space could not be obtained for the proper use 
of the artificial ear. With these obstructions and the necessity of beat- 
ing against the wind, thereby constantly altering the direction of the 
vessel, exact comparisons were not possible, yet the observations made 
were sufficiently definite to warrant certain conclusions from them as to 
the relative power of the various instruments submitted to examination. 

The following is a synopsis of the observations on four different days. 
Before giving these however, it is necessary to observe tliat at each 
stroke of the piston of the hot-au' engine a loud sound was produced by 
jthe blowing off of the hot air from the cylinder, after it has done its work. 
In the following statement of results the noise thus produced is called 
the exhaust. On the first day but one set of observations was made, the 
vessel's course being nearly in the line of the axis of the trumpet. The 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 469 

order of penetrating power was as follows: 1, trumpet; 2, exlianst; 3, 
bell; these instruments being heard respectively at 5J, 3i, and 2 miles. 
The whistle was not sounded. 

The second day simultaneous observations were made from two ves- 
sels sailing- nearly in opposite directions. The results of the observations 
made on the vessel sailing in a southerly direction were very irregular. 
The trumpet was heard at 3g miles and lost at 4| miles with the wind 
slightly in favor of the sound, and heard at C^ miles with the wind some- 
what against the sound; it was heard even at 7| miles from the mast- 
head, though inaudible from the deck. In all these cases the position 
of the vessel was nearly in line with the axis of the trumpet. 

The whistle and exhaust were heard at 7^ miles with a feeble oppos- 
ing wind, and lost at C^ miles when the force of the wind became greater. 

The order of penetration in this series of observations was : 1, trumpet 
and gong; 2, whistle; 3, exhaust. 

In the case of the vessel sailing northward, its course being almost 
directly against the wind and in the rear of the trumj^et, all the sounds 
were lost at less distances than in the case of the other vessel. The 
observations showed very clearly the effect of the wind, the bell at a 
certain distance being heard indistinctly with a strong opposing wintl 
and more and more plainly as the wind died away. The trumpet was 
heard only as far as the whistle, the vessel being in the rear of It. 

The third day observations were made from the two vessels, both 
however sailing to the south. From the vessel sailing at right angles 
to the direction of the wind the order of penetration was : 1, trumpet ; 
2, whistle; 3, exhaust; 4, bell. 

In the case of the other vessel the opposing effect of the wind was 
greater, and the sounds were heard to a less distance; the order was: 
1, trumpet; 2, whistle; 3, exhaust; 4, bell; 5, rocker. 

On the fourth day two tiips were made by the same vessel in the 
course of the day, one being northward and the other southward. In 
the first case the trumpet was lost at 3J miles, the vessel being nearly 
in its rear; in the second case, the wind being almost directly opposed 
to the sound, the large bell was heard at 1^ miles, and lost at |^ of a 
mile, probably due to increase of the force of the wind ; the trumi^et was 
was lost at 3i miles. 

In all these observations, owing to the unfavorable conditions of the 
locality, and the direction of the wind, we were unable to obtain any 
satisfactory' observations on sound moving with the wind. In all cases 
the results were obtained from sounds moving nearly against the wind, 
or at right angles to it. From the results of the whole it aj^pears that 
the sound was heard farther with a light opposing wind than with a 
stronger one, and that it was heard farthest of all at right angles to the 
wind. From this latter fact, however, it should not be inferred that in 
this case sound could be heard farther at right angles to the wind than 
with the wind, but that in this direction the effect of the wind was neu- 



470 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

tralized. The results also exhibited, in a striking manner, the diverg- 
ency of sound from the axis of the trumpet, the trumjiet being heard in 
the line of its axis in front at 6 miles and behind at 3, the winti being 
nearly the same in both cases. 

All the observations were repeated on land with the artificial ear as 
far as the unfavorable condition of the surface would permit. Although 
the limit, as to distance, at which the sand might be moved was not in 
most cases observed, yet the relative degree of agitation at a given dis- 
tance established clearly which was the most powerful instrument, the 
result giving precisely the same order of penetration of the different in- 
struments as determined by direct audition. 

During this series of investigations an interesting fact was discovered, 
namely, a sound moving against the wind, inaudible to the ear on the 
deck of the schooner, was heard by ascending to the mast-head. This 
remarkable fact at first suggested the idea that sound Avas more readily 
conveyed by the upper current of air than the lower, and this apiieared 
to be in accordance with the following statement of Captain Keeney, 
who is commander of one of the light-house A^essels, and has been for a 
long time on the bauks of Newfoundland in the occupation of fishing : 
"When the fishermen in the morning hear the sound of the surf to the 
leeward, or from a point toward which the wind is blowing, they take 
this as an infallible indication that in the course of from one to five hours 
the wind will change to the opposite direction from which it is blowing at 
the time." The same statement was made to me by the intelligent keeper 
of the fog-signal at Block Island. In these cases it would appear that 
the wind had already changed direction above, and was thus transmit- 
ting the sound in an opposite dkection to that of the wind at the surface 
of the earth. 

Another remarkable fact bearing on this same point is established by 
the observations of General Duane. At Cape Elizabeth, 9 miles south- 
easterly from the general's house, at Portland, is a fog-signal consisting 
of a whistle 10 inches in diameter ; at Portland Head, about 4 miles from 
the same city, in nearly the same direction, is a DaboU trumjiet. There 
can be no doubt, says the general, that those signals can be heard much 
better during a heavy northeast snow-storm than at any other time. 
"As the wind increases in force, the sound of the nearer instrument, the 
trumpet, diminishes, but the whistle becomes more distinct ; but I have 
never known the wind to blow hard enough to prevent the sound of the 
latter from reaching this city." In this case, the sound comes to the city 
in nearly direct opposition to the course of the wind, and the exi)lanation 
which suggested itself to me was that during the continuance of the 
storm, while the wind was blowing from the northeast at the surface, 
there was a current of equal or greater intensity blowing in an opposite 
direction above, by which the sound was carried in direct opposition to 
the direction of the surface current. The existence of such an upper 
current is in accordance with the hypothesis of the character of a north- 



EESEAKCHES IN SOUND. 471 

east storm, which sometimes rages for several days at a given point on 
the coast without being felt more than a few miles in the interior, the air 
continuously flowing in below and going out above. Indeed, in such 
cases a break in the lower clouds reveals the fact of the existence above 
of a rapid current in the opposite direction. 

The full significance, however, of this idea did not reveal itself to me 
nntil in searching the bibliography of sound I found an account of the 
hypothesis of Professor Stokes in the Proceedings of the British Associa- 
tion for 1850, * in which the effect of an upper current in deflecting the 
wave of sound so as to throw it down npon the ear of the auditor, or 
directing it npward far above his head, is fully exijlained. This subject 
will be referred to in the subsequent parts of the report, in the attempt 
to explain various abnormal phenomena of sound which have been ob- 
served during the series of investigations connected with the Light- 
House Board. 

During these investigations an attempt was made to ascertain the 
velocity of the wind in an ujiper stratum as compared with that in the 
lower. The only important result however, was the fact that the veloc- 
ity of the shadow of a cloud passing over the ground was much greater 
than that of the air at the surface, the velocity of the latter being de- 
termined approximately by running a given distance with such speed 
that a small flag was at rest along the side of its pole. \Yhile this 
velocity was not i^erhaps greater than six miles per hour, that of the 
shadow of the cloud was apparently equal to that of a horse at full 
speed. 

During this and subsequent investigations, inquiries were made in 
regard to the effect of fog upon sound, it being a subject of considera- 
ble importance to ascertain whether waves of sound, like the rays of 
light, are absorbed or stifled by fog. On this point, however, observers 
disagree. At first sight, from the very striking analogy which exists in 
many respects between sound and light, the opinion largely prevails 
that sound is impeded by fog; although observers who have not been 
influenced by this analogy have, in many instances, adopted the opposite 
opinion, that sound is better heard during a fog than in clear weather. 
For instance, the Rev. Peter Ferguson, of Massachusetts, informs me 
that from his own observations, sound is conveyed farther in a fog than 
in a clear air. He fonnds this opinion on observations which he has 
made on the sound of locomotives of several railways in ])assing over 
bridges at a distance. Unfortunately, the question is a dilflcult one to 
settle, since the effect of tbe wind, in order to arrive at a true result, 
must be carefully eliminated. Captain Keeney, who has i)reviously 
been mentioned, related the following occurrence, in the first part of 
which he was led to suppose that fog had a very marked influence in 
deadening sound, thongh in a subsequent part he came to an opposite 
conclusion : He was sailing during a dense fog, with a slight wind bear- 

* Report of Britisli Association, 1856; Abstracts, p. 22. 



V 



472 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

ing him toward a liglit-vessel, tlie locality of which he expected to find 
by means of the fog-signal. He kept on his course until he thought 
himself very near the ship, without hearing the stroke of the bell. He 
then anchored for the night, and found himself next morning within a 
short distance of the light- vessel, but still heard no sound, although he 
was assured when he got to it that the bell had been ringing all night. 
He then passed on in the same direction in which he had previously 
sailed, leaving the light-vessel behind, and constantly' heard the bell for 
a distance of several miles, the density of the fog not perceptibly dimin- 
ishing. In this case it is evident that the deadening of the sound was 
not due to the fog, but, as we shall hereafter see, in all i:)robability to the 
combined action of the upper and the lower currents of air. 

On returning to Washington the writer took advantage of the occur- 
rence of a fog to make an exi^eriment as to the penetration of the sound 
of a small bell rung by clock-work, the apparatus being the part of a 
moderator-lamp intended to give warning to the keepers when the sup- 
ply of oil ceased. The result of the experiment was contrary to the sup- 
position of absorption of the sound by the fog, but the change in the 
condition of the atmosi)here as to temperature and the motion of the 
air, before the experiment could be repeated in clear weather, rendered 
the result not entirely satisfactory. 

Experiments at Sandy Hook in 18C7. 

The next series of experiments was made from October 10 to October 
18, 18G7, under the direction of the wrirer of this report, in connection 
with General Poe, engineer-secretary of the Light-House Board, Com- 
modore (now Admiral) Case, then inspector of the third light-house dis- 
district, and Mr. Lederle, acting engineer of the same district. 

The principal object of these investigations was to compare different 
instruments, and to ascertain the improvements which had been made 
in them since the date of the last investigations, especially the exami- 
nation of a new fog-signal called the siren, and the comparison of it with 
the DaboU trumpet, although other investigations were made relative to 
the general subject of sound in relation to fog-signals. The locality 
chosen was Sandy Hook, a narrow peninsula projecting northward, 
about five miles into the middle of the Lower Bay of JS^ew York, and al- 
most at right angles to its coast, having a width of about lialf a mile. 
Near the northern point on the east shore a temporary building was 
erected for the shelter of the engines and other instruments. 

The comparisons in regard to penetrating power were made by the 
use of the artificial ear, heretofore described, by carrying this off a 
ineasured distance until the sand ceased to move. This operation was 
much facilitated by previous surveys of members of the Engineer 
Corps, who had staked off a straight line parallel with the shore, and 
accurately divided it into equal distances of 100 feet. 

On account of the character of the deei) and loose sand, walking 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 473 

along this distance was exceedingly difficult, and, to obviate tliis, a car- 
riage with broad wheels, drawn by two horses, was employed. An 
awning over this vehicle protected the observer from the sun, and ena- 
bled him, without fixtigue and at his ease, to note the agitations of 
sand on the drum of the artificial ear, the mouth of which was directed 
from the rear of the carriage toward the sounding instrument. 

For these and other facilities we were indebted to General Humphreys, 
Chief of the Engineer Bureau, who gave orders to the officer in charge 
of the military works at Sandy Hook to afford us every aid in his power 
in carrying on the investigation. 

The instruments employed were — 

1st. A first-class Daboll trumpet (the patent for which — since the 
death of Mr. Daboll, is owned by Mr. James A. Eobinson,) operated by 
an Ericsson hot-air engine. It carried a steel reed 10 inches long, 2^ inches 
wide, and \ inch in thickness at the vibrating end, but increasing gradu- 
ally to an inch at the larger extremify. This was attached to a large 
vertical trumpet curved at the upi)er end into a horizontal direction and 
furnished with an automatic arrangement for producing an oscillation 
of the instrument of about G0° in the arc of the horizon. Its entire 
length, including the curvature, was 17 feet. It was 3J inches at the 
smaller end and had a ilaring mouth 38 inches in diameter. The engine 
had a cylinder 32 inches in diameter, with an air-chamber of 4J feet in 
diameter and C feet long, and was able to furnish continually a five-second 
blast every minute at a pressure of from 15 to 30 i^ounds. 

2d. A siren, originally invented by Cagniard de Latour, and well 
known to the physicist as a means of comparing sounds and measuring 
the number of vibrations m different musical notes. Under the direc- 
tion of the Light-House Board, Mr. Brown, of Xew York, had made a 
series of experiments on this instrument in reference to its adoption as 
a fog-signal, and these experiments have been eminently successful. 
The instrument as it now exists differs in two essential liarticulars 
from the original invention of Latour: 1st, it is connected with a 
trumpet in which it supplies the place of the reed in producing the agi- 
tation of the air necessary to the generation of the sound ; and 2d, the 
revolving disk, which opens and shuts the orifices producing the blasts, 
is driven not by the blast itself impinging on oblique openings, as in 
the original instrument, but by a small engine connected with the feed- 
pump of the boiler. 

The general character of the instrument may be understood from the 
following description : Suppose a drum of short axis, into one head of 
which is inserted a steam-pij^e connected with a locomotive-boiler, while 
the other end has in it a triangular orifice, through which the steam is 
at brief intervals allowed to project itself. Immediately before tliis head, 
and in close contact with it, is a revolving disk, in which are eight 
orifices. By this arrangement, at every complete revolution of the disk, 
the orifice in the head of the drum is opened and shut eight times in 



474 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

succession, thus producing a rapid series of impulses of steam against the 
air into the smaller orifice of the trumpet placed immediately in front of 
the revolving disk. These impulses are of such intensity and rapidity 
as to produce a sound unrivalled in magnitude and penetrating power 
by that of any other instrument yet devised. 

The siren was operated by an upright cylindrical tubular boiler, with 
a pressure of from 50 to 100 pounds on the square inch. For this form 
of boiler has been subsequently substituted an ordinary horizontal 
locomotive-boiler with a small engine attached for feeding it and for 
rotating the disk, the latter being effected by means of a band passing 
over pulleys of suitable relative dimensions. 

3d. A steam-whistle 8 inches in diameter. Through some misunder- 
standing a series of whistles of diiferent diameters w^as not furnished 
as was intended. 

The first experiments to be noted were those in regard to the com- 
parison of penetrating j)ower of the siren and the whistle, the fitting up 
of the Daboll trumpet not ha^ang been completed. The principal object 
of this however w^as to test again the truthfulness of the indications of 
the artificial ear in comparison with those of the natural ear. . 

An experiment was made both by means of the artificial ear on land 
and by actually going off on the ocean in a steamer until the sounds be- 
came inaudible to the natural ear. By the latter method the two sounds 
ceased to be heard at the distances of six, and twelve and a half miles, 
resi^ectively. The indications of the artifical ear gave a similar result, 
the distance at which the sand ceased to move in one case being double 
that of the other. In both cases the conditions of wind and weather 
■were apparently the same. In the case of the steamer the distance was 
estimated by noting the interval of time between the flash of steam and 
the i^erception of the sound. 

Comparison of the BaboU trumpet and the siren. — The pressure of the 
hot air in the reservoir of the hot-air eugine of the trumpet was about 
20 pounds, and that of the steam in the boiler of the siren about 75 
pounds. These pressures are however not considered of importance in 
these experiments, since the object was not so much to determine the 
relative amount of motive power employed as the amount of penetrat- 
ing power produced by these two instruments, each being one of the 
first of its class. 

1. At distance 50 the trumpet produced a decided motion of the sand, 
while the siren gave a similar result at distance 58. The two observa- 
tions being made within ten minutes of each other, it may be assumed 
that the condition of the wind was the same in the two cases, and hence 
the numbers above given may be taken as the relative penetrating power 
of the two instruments. 

2. Another series of experiments was instituted to determine whether a 
high or a low note gave the greatest penetration. For this purpose the 



EESEARCIIES IN SOUND. 475 

siren was sounded with diiferent velocities of rotation of the perforated 
disk, the pressure of steam remaining at 90 pounds per square inch. 
The effect upon the artificial ear in causing greater or less agitation of 
sand was taken as the indication of the penetrating x^ower of the difter- 
eut tones. The number of revolutions of the disk in a gi^en time was 
determined by a counting apparatus, consisting of a train of wheels and 
a series of dials showing tens, hundreds, and thousands of revolutions ; 
this was temporarily attached to the projecting end of the spindle of 
the revolving disk by pushing the projecting axis of the instrument into 
a hole in the end of the spindle. 

From the whole of this series of experiments it appeared that a revolu- 
tion which gave 400 impulses in a second was the best with the siren 
when furnished with a trumpet. On reflection however it was con- 
cluded that this result might not be entirely due to the i^itch, but in 
part to the perfect unison of that number of impulses of the siren with 
the natural tone of the trumpet. To obviate this complication, a series 
of experiments was next day made on the penetration of different pitches 
with the siren alone, the trumpet being removed. The result was as 
follows : 

The siren was sounded at five different pitches, the artificial ear be- 
ing at such a distance as to be near the limit of disturbance by the 
sound. In this condition the lowest pitch gave no motion of sand. A 
little higher, slight motion of sand. Still higher, considerable motion 
of sand ; and with a higher pitch again, no motion of sand. The best 
result obtained was with a revolution which gave 3G0 impulses in a 
second. 

3. An attempt was made to determine the most effective pitch or tone 
of the steam-whistle. It was started with what appeared to be the funda- 
mental note of the bell, which gave slight motion of sand ; a higher 
tone a better motion ; still higher, sand briskly agitated; next, several 
tones lower, no motion; higher, no motion; still higher, no motion. The 
variation in the tone was made by altering the distance between the bell 
and the orifice through which the steam was ejected. 

The result of this experiment indicated nothing of a definite charac- 
ter, other than that with a given pressure there is a maximum effect 
in^oduced when the vibrations of the sheet of air issuing from the circu- 
lar orifice are in unison with the natural vibrations from the cavity of 
the bell, a condition which can only be determined in any case by actual 
experiment. In practice, JMr. Brown was enabled to produce the best 
effect by regulating the velocity until the trumpet gave the greatest 
penetrating power, as indicated by an artificial ear of little sensibility, 
in order that it might be employed for determining the relative power 
while the observer was but a few yards from the machine. 

These experiments have been made in an apartment of less than 80 
feet in length, in which the sounding apparatus was placed at one end 



476 RESEARCHES IN SOUND, 

and the artificial ear at the other, substituting fine shot instead of sand. 

The experiments with the siren however indicate the fact that neither 
the highest nor the lowest pitch of an instrument gives the greatest pen- 
etrating power, but one of a medium character. 

Another element of importance in the construction of these instru- 
ments is the volume of sound. To illustrate this, it may be mentioned 
that a harpsichord- wire stretched between two strings of India rubber, 
when made to vibrate by means of a fiddle-bow, gives scarcely any 
appreciable sound. We attribute this to the want of quantity in the 
aerial wave; for if the same wire be stretched over a sounding-board 
having a wide area, the effect will be a comparatively loud sound, but 
of less duration, with a given impulse. It was therefore suggested that 
the width of the reed in the Daboll trumpet, the form and size of the 
holes in the disk of the siren, and the circumference of the vibrating 
sheet of air issuing from the circular orifice of the whistle, would affect 
the power of the sound. The only means of testing this suggestion is 
by using reeds of difl'erent widths, sirens with disks of different-shaped 
openings, and whistles of different diameters. In conformity with this 
view, Mr. Brown has made a series of empirical experiments with open- 
ings of different forms, which have greatly improved the operation of 
the siren, while Mr. Wilcox has experimented on several forms of reeds, 
of which the following is the result : 

The best reed obtained was 2^ inches wide, 8 inches long in the xi- 
brating part, f inch thick at the butt, and 4 inch thick at the free end. 
This sounded at a pressure of from 20 to 30 pounds. The thinner reeds 
gave a sound at a less pressure, from 5 to 10 pounds, the thicker at from 
20 to 30 pounds. A reed 8i inches long in the vibrating part, 1 inch thick 
at the butt, f inch thick at the end, and 3 inches wide, did not begin to 
sound until a pressure of 80 pounds was reached, then gave a sound of 
a dull character. Another reed of the same width, § inch thick at the 
butt, and -^,^ inch at the end, and same length, gave a sound at 75 pounds 
pressure, but still dull and of little penetrating power. These reeds 
were evidently too heavy in proportion to their elasticity. These were 
made without the addition of a trumpet, and therefore to produce the 
best result when used with a trumpet, the latter must be increased or 
diminished in length until its natural vibratioDS are in harmony with 
those of the former, as will be seen hereafter. General Duane has also 
made experiments on whistles of different diameters, of which the result 
will be given. 

Another consideration in regard to the same matter is that of the am- 
plitude of the oscillations of the tongue or steel reed in its excursion in 
producing the sound; the time of oscillation remaining the same, that 
is, the pitch, the amplitude will depend upon the elasticity of the reed, 
the ijower to sui-mount which will again depend upon the pressure of 
steam in the boiler, and hence we might infer that an increase of pies- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND, 477 

sure in the boiler witli an increase of the elasticity of the reed, every- 
thing else being the same, would produce an increase in penetrating 
power. From the general analogy of mechanical effects produced by 
motive power, we may denote the effect upon the ear by the expression 
mv'^, in which m expresses the mass or quantity of air in motion, and v 
the Telocity of the particles in vibration. 

If this be the expression for the effect upon the ear, it is evident that 
in case of a very high note the amplitude of the vibration must be so 
small that the effect would approximate that of a continued pressure 
rather than that of distinct alternations of pressure, giving a vibrating 
motion to the drum of the ear. 

4. ]S^ext, exi^erimcnts were made to determine the penetrating power in 
the case of the siren under different pressures of steam in the boiler. 
The experiments commenced with a pressure of 100 pounds. The pres- 
sure at each blast was noted by two observers, and to compare these 
pressures with the indications of the sand, the time of the blasts was 
also noted. 

The following are the results : 

Pressure. Relative distances a*" which 

the saucl ceased to inove. 

100 61 

00 60 

80 5S 

70 57 

()0 57 

50 50 

40 55 

30 53 

'20 51 

Fi-om this series of experiments, it appears that a diminution of pres- 
sure is attended with a comi)aratively small diminution in the pene- 
trating power of the siren. 

In regard to this unexpected result of greit practical importance, the 
following appears to be the explanation. It is a well-known ijrincii^le 
in aerial mechanics that the velocity of the efflux of air from an orifice 
in a reservoir does not increase with an increase of condensation, when 
the spouting is into a vacuum. This is evident when we retlect that 
the weight of density of the air moving out is increased in proi)ortion 
to the elasticity or pressure; that is, the increase in thepropeUing force 
is proportional to the increase in the weight to be moved, hence the 
velocity* must remain the same. 

In the foregoing experiments with high pressures large in proportion 
to the resistance of the air, the velocity of efllux should therefore be 
but little increased with the increase of pressure, and inasmuch as the 
velocity is the most important factor in the expression mv-, which indi- 
cates the effect on the tympanum, the penetrating power of the sound 
should be in accordance with the above experimental results. 



478 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

A similar result cannot be expected with the use of the whistle or 
the trumpet, since in the Ibrmer the stiffness of the aerial reed depends 
upon its density, which will be in proportion to the pressure in the 
boiler, and in the case of the latter no sound can be produced on^ the 
one hand unless the pressure be sufficient to overcome the resistance of 
the reed, and on the other the sound must cease when the pressure is 
so great as to prevent the recoil of the reed. 

5. An experiment was made to determine the effect of a small whistle 
inserted i-jro the side of a trumpet near the small end. The whistle 
being souiuled before and after it was placed in the trumpet, the result 
was as follows: The penetrating powers were in the ratio of 40: 51, 
•while the tone was considerably modified. From this experiment it 
appears that a whistle may be used to actuate a trumpet or to exercise 
the functions of a reed. In order however to get the best results, it 
would be necessary that the trumpet and whistle should be in unison, 
but it may be doubted however whether an increase of effect, with a 
given amount of power, would result from using such an arrangement; 
it might nevertheless be of advantage in certain cases to direct the 
sound of a locomotive in a definite direction, and to use a smaller 
whistle, especially in cities, in which the locomotive passes through long 
streets; perhai^s in this case the sound migiit be less disagreeable than 
that of the naked whistle, which sends its sound-waves laterally with 
as much force as in the direction of the motion of the engine. 

6. General Poe called attention to the sound produced by the paddle- 
wheels of a steamer in the offing at a distance estimated at four and a 
half miles. The sound was quite distinct when the ears were brought 
near the surface of the beach. 

In this connection he stated that he had heard the api)roach of a 
small steamer on the northern lakes when its hull was still below the 
horizon, and was even enabled to designate the particular vessel from 
among others by the peculiarity of the sound. 

The sound in the case of the steamer is made at the surface of the 
water, and it might be worth the trouble to try experiments as to the 
transmission of sound under this condition, and the collection of it by 
means of ear-trumpets, the mouths of which are near the water, the 
sound being conveyed through tubes to the ears of the pilot. In order 
however to determine in this case the direction of the source of sound, 
two trumpets would be necessary, one connected with each ear, since 
we judge of the direction of a sound by its simultaneous effects on the 
two auditory nerves. This suggestion, as well as many others which 
have occurred in the course of these researches, is worthy of special in- 
vestigation. 

7. A series of experiments was made to compare trumpets of different 
materials and forms having the same length and transverse areas, all 
blown at a pressure of 9| pounds. 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 
The following table gives the results : 



479 



No. 


Material of trumpet. 


Cross-sectiou. 


Relative distances at which 
the sand ceased to move. 


1 

2 
3 
4 


Wood. 
Brass. 
Cast iron. 
Wood. 


Square. 
Circular. 
Circular. 
Circular. 


13 
23 
24 
30 



From these experiments it would appear that the material or elasti- 
city of the trumpet had little or no effect on the penetrating power of 
the sound, although the shape appeared to have some effect, the pyri- 
midal trumpet, or one with square cross-section (No. 1), giving a less re- 
sult than the conical ones of the same sectional area. A comparison 
was made between a long straight trumpet and one of the same length 
curved at its upper end, which gave the same penetrating power with 
the same pressure. It is probable that a thin metallic trumpet would 
give greater lateral divergency to the sound, and also a slightly differ- 
ent tone. 

8. The effect of a hopper-formed reflector was next tried with the 
whistle, the axis of which was about 5 feet in length, the mouth C feet 
square, and the small end about 18 inches. When the whistle was 
sounded at the small end of this reflector, the distance at which the 
sand ceased to move was 51 ; the sound of the same whistle without the 
reflector ceased to move the sand at 40. The ratio of these distances 
would have been less with a more sensitive instrument at a greater dis- 
tance on account of the div^ergeucy of the rays. 

9. In order to determine the diminution of sound by departing from 
the axis of the trumpet, a series of experiments was made with a ro- 
tating trumpet, the axis of which was at first directed along the gradu- 
ated liue of observation, and subsequently deflected from that line a 
given number of degrees. The following were the results : 



Direction of the trumpet. 


Relative distance at 
which sand moved. 


Along the line 


26 


Deflected 30^ 


23 


Deflected CKP 


21 


Deflected OO^ 


18 


Deflected 120° 


13 







These results illustrate very strikingly the tendency of sound to spread 
on either side of the axis of the trumpet; had the experiments been made 
with a more sensitive instrument, and at a greater distance, the effect 



480 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

would have shown a much greater divergency. It should be observed 
however that the mouth of the trumpet in this case was 38 inches, which 
is unusually large. 

From the experiments made near New Haven, and also from those at 
this station, it appears that the actual amount of ijower to produce sound 
of a given i)enetration is absolutely less with a reed trumpet than with a 
locomotive whistle. This fact ijrobably finds its explanation in the cir- 
cumstance that in each of these instruments the loudness of the sound 
is due to the vibration of the air in the interior of the trumpet and in 
the bell of the whistle, each of these being a resounding cavity; and 
furthermore that in these cavities the air is put in a state of sustained 
vibration by the undulations of a tongue, in the one case of metal, in 
the other of air ; and furthermore it requires much more steam to set 
the air in motion by the tongue of air than by the solid tongue of steel, 
the former requiring a considerable portion of the motive power to give 
the current of which it consists the proper degree of stillness, if I may 
use the word, to produce the necessary rapidity of oscillation. But what- 
ever may be said in regard to this supposition, it is evident, in case reli- 
able hot-air engines cannot be obtained, that the Daboll trumpet may be 
operated by a steam-engine, although at an increased cost of mainte- 
nance, but this increase we think will still not be in proportion to the 
sound obtained in comparison with the whistle. 

Another question which naturally arises, but which has not yet been 
definitely settled by experment, is whether both the siren and the whis- 
tle would not, equally with the trumpet, give more efficient results when 
worked by condensed air than by steam. 

From hypothetical considerations this would appear to be the case, 
since the intensity of sound depends upon the density of the medium in 
which it is produced ; and as the steam is considerably lighter than air, 
and as the cavities of all of these instruments are largely filled with steam, 
the intensity of sound would, on this account, seem to be less than if 
filled with air. 

At the conclusion of the experiments at Sandy Hook, the siren was 
adopted as a fog-signal, in addition to the reed-trumpet and the locomo- 
tive-whistle, to be applied to the more important stations, while large 
bells were retained for points at which fog-signals were required to be 
heard at but comparatively small distances. These instruments of the 
first class being adopted, it became of importance to determine, in actual 
practice, the cost of maintenance, the best method of working them, and 
any other facts which might have a bearing on their use. 

But as investigations of this kind would require much time and pecu- 
liar advantages as to location and mechanical appliances, this matter 
was referred to General Duane, the engineer in charge of the 1st and 
2d light-house districts, who had peculiar facihties near his residence, 
at Portland, Me., in the way of workshops and other conveniences, and 
who, from his established reputation for ingenuity and practical skill 



EESEAKCIIES IN SOUND. 481 

in meclianism, was well qualified for the work. The assignment of this 
duty to General Duane by the Light-House Board was made diu-ing my 
absence in Europe, in 1870, and as my vacation in 1871 was devoted to 
light-house duty in California, I had no opportunity of conferring with 
him on the subject until after his exi^eriments were completed. His re- 
sults are therefore entirely independent of those obtained under my di- 
rection, and I give them herewith in his own words, with such com- 
ments as they may suggest and as are necessary to a i^roper elucidation 
of the subject. 



EXPERIIIENTS AT PORTLAND, ME. 1871, BY GENERAL DUANE. 

The apparatus employed consisted of the first-class siren, first-class Daboll trumpet 
and steam-whistles of various sizes. 

The ])oints to ho decided were : 

1st. The relative jjower of these machines ; i. e., the distances at which they could be 
heard under various conditions of the atmosphere. 

2d. The amount of fuel and Avater consumed by each. 

3tl. The attention and skill required in oi^erating them. 

4th. Their endurance. 

5th. Whether they are sufficiently simple in construction to permit of their being 
managed and kept in running order by the class of men usually appointed light- 
house keejiers. 

In conducting these experiments the following method was pursued : 

The signals were sounded at alternate minutes, and their sound compared at dis- 
tances of two, three, and four miles, and from different directions. On every occasion 
the quantity of fuel and water consumed per hour by each was carefully noted, and 
the condition of each machine examined, both before and after the trial,' to ascertain 
whether any of its parts had sustained injnry. 

Before giving the results of these (jxperiments some facts should be stated, which 
will explain the difficulty of determining the power of a fog-signal. 

There are six steam fog-whistles on the coast of Maine ; these have been frequently 
heard at a distance of twenty miles, and as frequently cannot be heard at the distance 
of two miles, and this with no perceptible difference in the state of the atmosphere. 

The signal is often heard at a great distance in one direction, while in another it 
will be scarcely audible at the distance of a mile. This is not the effect of wind, as 
the signal is frequently heard much farther against the wind than with it. For ex- 
ample, the whistle on Cape Elizabeth can always be distinctly heard in Portland, a 
distance of nine miles, during a heavy northeast snow-storm, the wind blowing a gale 
directly from Portland toward the whistle. 

[In this sentence, General Duane certainly does not intend to convey 
the idea that a signal is frequently heard "at a much greater distance 
against the wind than with it," since this assertion would be at variance 
with the general experience of mankind; but the word "frequently" 
applies to the whistle on Cape Elizabeth, which has been already men- 
tioned as a remarkably exceptional case, in which the sound is heard 
best against the wind during a northeast scow-storm.] 

The most perplexing difficulty, however, arises from the fact that the signal often 
appears to be surrounded by a belt, varying ni radius from one to one and a half miles, 
from which the sound appears to be entirely absent. Thus, in moving directly from 
a atatioai, the sound is audible for the distance of a mile, is then lost for about the 
same distance, after which it is again distinctly heard for a long time. This action is 
common to all eai-siguals, and has been at limes observed at all the stations, at one 
of which the signal is situated on a bare rock twenty miles from the main-land, with 
no surrounding objects to afi"ect the sound. 

All attempts to re-enforce the sound by means of reflectors have hitherto been un- 
successful. Upon a large scale, sound does not appear, on striking a surfa,ce, to be 
reflected after the ;nannor of light and heat, but to roll along it like a cloud of smoke. 
S. Mis. 59 31 



482 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

[This statement is in a measure in accordance uith results wliicli I 
have previously found in connection with investigations at the light- 
house near l^ew Haven, in which the conclusion was arrived at, that 
although rays of feeble sounds, and for a short distance, observe the 
law that the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence after 
the manner of light, yet powerful sounds tend to diverge laterally to 
such a degree as to render reflectors of comi^aratively little use.] 

In view of these circumstances, it will be obvious that it was extremely difficult to 
determine the extent of the power of the various signals under examination. 

It should be remembered that while the sound from the whistle is equally distrib- 
uted in all directions,* that from the two other signals, both of which arc i^rovided 
with trmupets, is not so distributed. 

[The difference is apparent near by, but, as we have seen before, on 
account of the tendency of sound to spread it is imperceptible at a dis- 
tance.] 

In the siren the sound is most distinct in the axis of the trumpet. 

In the Daboll trumpet it is usually strongest in a x^lane i^erx^endicular to this axis. 

[This is at variance directly with any observation I have myself made.] 

Relative poiver. — From the average of a great number of experiments the following 
result was obtained : 

The power of the first-class siren, 12" whistle, and first-class Daboll trumpet, may 
be expressed by the numbers 9, 7, 4. 

The extreme limit of sound of the siren was not ascertained. That of the 12" whistle 
is about twenty miles, and of the trumpet twelve. 

Consnmjytion of fuel and ivatcr. — The siren, when working with a pressure of 72 pounds 
of steam, consumes about 180 pounds of coal and 126 gallons of water per hour. 

The 12" whistle, with 55 pounds pressure of steam, consumes 60 pounds of coal and 
40 gallons of water per hour. 

The Daboll trumpet, with 10 pounds pressure of air in the tank, consumes about 20 
pounds of coal iier hour. 

The relative expenditure of fuel would be : siren, 9 ; whistle, 3 ; trumpet, 1. 

The siren. — Of the three machines this is the most complicated. It uses steam at a 
high pressure, and some of its parts move with very great velocity, the siren spindle 
making from 1,800 to 2,400 revolutions per minute. The boiler nuist be driven to its 
full capacity in order to furnish sufficient steam. A large quantity of steam is, ab 
intervals, suddenly drawn from the boiler, causing a tendency to foam, and to eject a 
considerable amount of water through the trumpet. 

The constant attention of the keeper is required to regulate the fire, the supply of 
water to the boiler, of oil to the journals, &c. 

In general terms, it may be stated that the siren requires more skill and attention 
in its management than either of the other signals. 

The Daboll trumpet. — As the caloric engine, which has been hitherto employed to 
ojierate this signal, requires little fuel, no water, and is jierfectly safe as regards 
danger from explosion, it would, at the first glance, appear to be the most suitable 
power that could be applied to fog-signals, and was accordingly at first exclusively 
jwlopted for this jiurpose. It was however found to be so liable to accident and so 
difficult to repair that of late years it has been almost entirely rejected. In the steam- 
boiler the furnace is surrounded by water, and it is impossible, under ordinary circum- 
stances, to heat the metal much above the temperature of the water. The furnace of 
the caloric engine is surrounded by air, and is therefore liable to be burned out if the 
tire is not properly regulated. 

The working-piston is packed with leather, and as it moves horizontally, with its 
whole weight resting on the lower side of the cylinder, the packing at its lower edge 
is soon worn out. 

If the engine is allowed to stop with the piston at the furnace-end of the cylinder, 

* The sound of the whistle is equally distributed horizontally. It is, however, 
much stronger in the plane containing the lower edge of the bell than on either side 
of this plane. Thus, if the whistle is standing upright, in the ordinary position, its 
soviud is more distinct in a horizontal plane i)assiug through the whistle than above 
or below it. 



EESEAKCHES IN SOUND. 483 

the leather is flestroyed by the heat. The repacking of a piston is a difficult and 
expensive operation, requiring more skill than can be expected among the class of 
men from whom light-house keepers are appointed. 

Another accident to which these engines are sulyect arises from a sudden check in 
the velocity of the piston, caused cither by the jamming of the leather packing or the 
introduction of dirt into the open en<l of the cylinder, in which case the momentum of 
the heavj', eccentrically-loaded lly- wheel is almost sure to break the main rocker-shalt. 

The expense of rejiairs is considerably increased by the fact that these engines are 
not now in general use, and when imjiortant rejjairs are required it is usually neces- 
sary t o send to the manufacturer. 

This signal requires much attention. The fires must be carefully regulated to avoid 
burning out the furnace, the journals thoroughly oiled, and the cylinders well sup- 
plied with tallow. 

The steam-whistle. — This machine requiring much less steam than the siren in propor- 
tion to the size of its boiler, there is not the same necessity for forcing the fire ; the 
pressure of steam required is less, and the point trom which it is drawn much higher 
above the water-level in the boiler, and there is consequently no tendency to foam. 

The machinery is simple ; the ])iston pressiu'e very light, producing but little strain 
on the different parts of the engine, which is therefore not liable to get out of order 
and requires no more attention than a common stationary engine. 

One marked advantage possessed by this signal is that should the engine become 
disabled, the whistle may still be sounded by working the valve by hand. This is not 
the case with the two others, where an accident to any part of the machinery renders 
the signal for the time useless. 

It will thus be seen that the siren is the most expensive of the fog-signals as regards 
maintenance, and that it is adapted only to such stations as are abundantly snpplied 
with water and situated in the vicinity of machine-shops where the necessary rei>airs 
can be promptly made. 

On the other hand, as it is the most powerful signal, there are certain stations where 
it should have the preference ; as, for example, Sandy Hook, which from its import- 
ance demands the best signal that can be procured, regardless of cost. Such stations 
should be provided Avith duplicate apparatus, well supx^lied with spare parts, to guard 
against any possibility of accident. 

There should be a keeper whose sole business must be to attend the signal, and who 
should have sufficient mechanical skill to make the ordinary repairs. He should 
moreover be a licensed engineer. 

There will also be required an assistant, who may be one of the light-keepers, to 
relieve him during the continuance of foggy weather. 

The steam-whistle is the simplest in construction, most easily managed and kept in 
repair, and requires the least attention of all the fog-signals. It is sufficiently power- 
ful for most localities, while its consumption of fuel and water is moderate. 

It has been found on this coast that a sufficient quantity of rain-water can be col- 
lected to supply the 12" whistle at nearly every station. This has been the case for 
the last two years at Martinicus. 

The Daboll trumpet, operated by a caloric engine, should only be employed in ex- 
ceptional cases, such as a,t stations where no water can be procured, and where, from 
the proximity of other signals, it may be necessary to vary the nature of the sound. 

The trumpet however may undoubtedly be very much improved by employing 
steam power for condensing the air. The amount of work required, which is that of 
compressing 70 cubic feet of air to an average pressure of 8 jjouuds per inch, would be 
less than two-horse power. For this ptirpose the expenditure of fuel and water would 
be moderate ; indeed, the exhaust steam could be condensed and returned to the cis- 
tern, should the supply of water be limited. 

The sii'en also is susceptible of improvement, especially as regards simplification. 

[In the foregoing remarks we tliink the general has expressed a some- 
what undue partiality for the whistle, and somewhat overestimated the 
defects of the other instruments. The trumpets, with Ericsson engine, 
have not been abandoned, except partially in the two districts under 
the direction of General Duane, to which he probably intended to con- 
fine his statement. They are still in use in the third district, where 
they are preferred by General Woodruff, who finds no difficulty in ];eep- 
ing them in repair, having employed a skilled machinist who has made 
these instruments his special study, and who, visiting them from time 
to time, makes reimirs and supj)lies new parts.] 



484 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

The intermittent action of fog-signals makes it necessary to employ a peculiar form 
of boiler. The steam used is at a high pressui-e, and drawn off at intervals ; couso- 
quently there is a tendency to foam and throw out water with the steam. To obviate 
this difficulty tiie form of boiler found by experience to be best adapted to this service 
is a horizontal tubular boiler (locomotive), with rather more than one-half of the inte- 
rior space allowed for steam-room. The steam-dome is very large, and is surmounted 
by a steam pipe 12" in diameter. Both the dome and pipe were formerly made much 
smaller, but were gradually enlarged as long as any difficulty with regard to foaming 
was noticed. The steam is dra\\Ti off at a point 10" above the water-level in the 
boiler. The main points to be observed are to have plenty of steam-room, and to draw 
the steam from a point high above the Avater-level. It will be readily perceived that 
a vertical tubular boiler is entirely unsuited to this work. 

It is essential, both as regards economy of fuel and the efQcient working of the sig- 
nal, that the boiler, including the dome and stand-pipe, should be well covered with 
some good non-conductor of heat. A material, called salamander felting, manufac- 
tured in Troy, N. Y., was used on the fog- whistle boiler at House Island during the 
winter of 1870. There resulted a saving of more than 20 per cent, of fuel over that 
consumed in the same boiler when uncovered. WTiere this material cannot be pro- 
cured, a thick layer of hair felting, covered with canvas, will be found to answer a 
good purpose. 

Various expedients have been proposed with the view of keeping the water in the 
boilers hot when the signals are not in operation, that the signal may always be ready 
to sound at a very short notice, and that the water in the boiler and pipes may be 
prevented from freezing in extremely cold weather. One of these contrivances is 
" Sutton's circulating water-heater." It consists essentially of a small, vertical, tubu- 
lar boiler, entirely filled with water, and connected with the boiler or tank which 
contains the water to be heated, by two pipes on different levels. As soon as the 
water in the heater is warmed, a circulation commences, the hot water flowing through 
the upper pipe into the boiler, and the cold through the lower pipe from the boiler to 
the heater. As the furnace in the heater is very small but little fuel is consumed, and 
nearly the entire heat produced by the combustion is utilized. 

The apparatus has been extensively employed in heating the water in tanks designed 
£pr filling the steam fire-engine boilers, when the alarm of fire is first given, and ajipears 
admirably adapted to thispurpose. If used in connection with a steam-boiler, it should 
be disconnected before steam is raised in the latter, as, from its construction, it is not 
calculated to withstand any considerable pressure. 

An arrangement, similar in principle, has been used in the first light-house district, 
consisting of a small cylinder coal-stove, of the ordinary pattern, around the interior 
of which, and above the grate, is introduced a single coil of f" pipe. This coil is 
connected with the boiler by two pipes, one entering near the bottom, the other about 
2 feet higher. It has been found that in consequence of the rapid circulation of the 
water through this coil, and the great capacity of Avater for heat, that nearly all the 
heat froTii the tire in the stove is transferred to the water in the boiler. This arrange- 
ment possesses the advantage of the f " pipe, being strong enough to stand any press- 
ure that can be used in the boiler, rendering it unnecessary to disconnect it at any time. 

Experience has, however, proved that none of these contrivances are essential. It 
is seldom that an attentive keeper cannot foresee the approach of fog or snow in time 
to have the apparatus in operation as soon as required, even when obliged to start his 
fire with cold water in the boiler. 

Keepers should be directed to watch the state of the weather carefully, and to light 
their tires at the first indication of fog or snow-storm. As soon as the water in the 
boiler is near the boiling point, should the necessity for sounding the signal have not 
yet arisen, the fire may be banked, and in this state the water may be kept hot for any 
length of time at a moderate expenditure of fuel. With proper care, no more fuel is 
required to keep the water at the requisite temperature by means of a banked fire than 
by any other method, and it is a matter of great imj)ortance to avoid complicating 
fog-signal apparatus by unnecessary appendages. 

The same plan should be adopted in extremely cold weather to prevent the water 
in the boiler from freezing. There should bo a small air-cock in the draught-pipe near 
its junction with the feed-pump, and in cold weather this should be opened when the 
jiump is not in use, in order to allow the pipe to empty itself. 

^Vhen the draught-pipe cannot be protected from the cold, and the well is at a con- 
siderable distance from the engine, the following expedient has been employed with 
success : The pipe is inclosed in an India-rubber hose of about double its diameter, 
and from time to time steam is forced through the space between the hose and draught- 
pil>e by means of a small pipe from the boiler. 

Altliough the laws governing the reflection of light and heat are undoubtedly, in a 
great measure, applicable to sound, there are yet so many disturbing influences, such as 
inflection, refraction, caused by the varying density of the atmosphere, &c., interfering 
with the reflection of the latter, that but little use can bo made of this property in 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 485 

direoting and condensing the waves of sound issning from a fog-signal. This fact may 
he ilhiatrated hy an account of some experiments made during the Last year. 

A whistle heiug sounded in the focus of a large parabolic reflector, it was very per- 
ceptible to an observer in the immediate vicinity that the sound was louder in the 
front than in the rear of the reflector. As the distance of the observer from the whistlo 
was increased this disparity rapidly diminished, and at the distance of a few hunch'ed 
yards entirely disappeared. The ?)Cff?n of sound had been dissipated and the shadow 
had vanished. The eftect of a horizontal sounding-board 10 feet square, suspended over 
the whistle to prevent the escajjo of sound in a vertical direction, was inappreciable at 
the distance of a qtiarter of a mile. 

The employment of a trumpet with the whistle was rather more successful. The 
trumpet was constructed of wood, in the form of a square pyramid ; the lower base 
being 10' Ity 10', the upper base 2' by 2', and the height 20'. The axis was horizontal 
and the whistle placed at the smaller end. By this arrangement the increased ]iower 
of the sound could be perceived at the distance of a mile, the action being similar to 
that of a speaking-trumpet. 

It is prol)able that some modification of this form of whistle may be advantageously 
employed in certain localities, but there is however a disadvantage attending the use 
of n Irumpet with fog-signals. 

The sound from a trumpet not being uniformly distributed, it is difficult to estimate 
the distance of the signal, or,.as the pilots term it, " to locate the sound." This has 
been observed in the siren and DaboU trumpet. The sound from these signals being 
stronger on one course than any other, maj^ be distinctly heard from a vessel when 
crossing the axis of the beam of sound, but as its distance from this line increases, the 
sound appears fainter and more remote, although the vessel may be approaching the 
signal. 

From an attentive observation, during three years, of the fog-signals on this coast, 
and from the reports received from captains and pilots of coasting vessels, I am con- 
vinced that in some conditions of the atmosi>here the most powerful signals will be 
at times unrehable. 

Now it frequently occurs that a signal, which under ordinary circumstances would 
be audible at the distance of fifteen miles, cannot be heard from a vessel at the dis- 
tance of a single mile. This is probably due to the reflection mentioned by Hum- 
boldt. 

The temperature of the air over the land where the fog-signal is located, being very 
different from that over the sea, the sound, in i>assing from the former to the latter, 
undergoes reflection at their surface of contact. The correctness of this view is ren- 
dered more j)robable by the fact that when the sound is thus imx)eded in the direction 
of the sea, it has been observed to bo much stronger inland. 

When a vessel approaches a signal in a fog, a difficulty is sometimes experienced in 
determining the position of the signal by the direction from which the sound appears 
to proceed, the apparent andtxue direction being entirely different. This is undoubt- 
edly due to the refraction pf sound passing through media of different density. 

Experiments and observation lead to the conclusion that these anomalies in the pen- 
etration and direction of sound from fog-signals are to be attributed mainly to the want 
of uniformity in the surrounding atmosphere, and that snow, rain, fog, and the force and 
direction of the wind, have much less influence than has generally been supposed. 

[In tlie foregoing I dififer entirely in opinion from General Duaue as 
to the cause of extinction of i^owerful sounds being due to the unequal 
density of the atmosphere. The velocity of sound is not at all affected 
by barometric i^ressure, but if the difference in pressure is caused by a 
difference in heat, or by the expansive power of vapor mingled with the 
air, a slight degree of obstruction of sounds may be observed. But this 
effect we think is entirely too minute to produce the results noted by 
General Duaue, while we shall find in the action of the currents of wind 
above and below, a true and sufficient cause.] 

The experimental whistles were of the following dimensions, viz: 2V, 3", 4", 5", G", 
10", 12", and 18" iu diameter. Those of 2^", 3'', 5", and 10" were fitted, instead 
of the ordinary bell, Avitli long cylinders, i^rovided with movable pistons, so that 
tlie effective length of the bell could bo altered at pleasure. The pitch of the 
blast was found to v.ary with the length of the bell, and the power of the whistle 
witli its diameter. The ratio of the power to the diameter was not accurately ob- 
tained, but it is proliablc that the extreme range of sound of a whistlo is proportional 
to the square root of its diameter. 



486 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

[This result, that the pitch varies with the length of the bell, is in 
conformity with well-established principles of resounding cavities; and 
that the power should increase with the extent of the aerial reed, the 
vibrations of which give motion to the resounding air within the cavity, 
is also, as we have seen, in accordance with hypothetical considerations; 
but as the density of this stream of steam, and consequently the rapid- 
ity of its vibrations, depends upon the pressure of the steam in the 
boiler, a perfect whistle should have the capabiUty of changing its di- 
mensions, not only in relation to the width of its throat, but also in 
regard to the pressure of the steam in the reservoir.] 

The j)itch giving the greatest raage appears to be at the middle of the scale of sound. 
It is certain that a good result cannot be obtained from either a very shrill or a bass 
note. This remark is applicable to all varieties of signal. 

The 10" and 12" whistles are recommended for ordinary nse. The 18" whistle is 
more powerful, but the increase of power bears too small a proportion to that of the 
expenditure of fuel to render its employment generally advisable. The best results 
were obtained by giving the whistle the following proportions : The diameter of the 
bell equaling two-thirds of its length, and the set of the bell, i. e., the vertical dis- 
tance of the lower edge above the cup, the one-thii-d to one-fourth of the diameter for 
a pressure of 50 to GO pounds of steam 

A bell, whether operated by hand or by machinery, cannot be considered an efficient 
fog-signal on the sea-coast. In calm weather it caunot be heard half the time at a 
greater distance than one mile, while in rough weather the noise of the surf will 
drown its sound to seaward altogether. 

On approaching a station I have frequently seen the bell rung violently by the 
keeper, without being able to hear the sound until I had landed. 

Nevertheless, all important stations should be ])rovided with bells, as there are occa- 
sions when they may serve a useful purpose, but it should be well understood by mari- 
nei'sthat they must not expect always to hear the Ixdls as a matter of course. 

Bells should not be omitted at stations furnished with steam fog-signals, especially 
wheu the latter are not in duplicate, and mariners should be warned that the bell will 
be sounded when the regular signal is disabled. 

It has been observed that a bell rung by hand can be heard further than when 
sounded by machinery, and many of the steamboat companies on this coast pay the 
keepers of bells rung by clock-work to ring them by hand when the boats of their 
line are expected to pass. * 

[We think the difference in the effect of ringing of bells by hand or 
by machinery is so slight as to be inapi^reciable except at a short dis- 
tance. It is true, as I have before observed, that the sound is louder 
when the mouth of the bell is directed toward the hearer than when the 
edge is so directed, but on account of the spreading of this sound the 
effect is lost in a small distance, and indeed in one light-house the bell 
is permanently placed with the axis of its mouth directed horizontally, 
and in this position, if the bell were struck interiorly with a hammer, 
which would give it a larger vibration than when struck exteriorly, I 
doubt whether any difference would be observed between the two meth- 
ods of ringing ; and if any existed it would probably be in fiivor of the 
fixed bell rung by machinery.] * 

On rivers, narrow channels, and lakes, where the difficulty from the noise of the surf 
does not exist, this species of signal may be used to advantage, as its maintenance 
requires but a small expenditure of either money or labor, and by a proper arrange- 
ment of the machinery the intervals between the strokes of the bell may be so regu- 
lated as to avoid the danger of confounding the signals, however near together. 

Althotigh a bell may be lieard better when sounded by hand than by clock-work, yet 
in thoroughfares where the signal must be kept in constant operation during the en- 
tire continuance of a fog, it would be impracticable to make use of the former method, 
and recourse must be had to machinery. 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 487 

In arranging tlie signal the bell and luacliinery mnst be placed as low as possible, 
as the sound is heard mucli more plainly on the water when the bell is near its sur- 
face, and also as the machinery, when thus situated, is steadier and more readily ac- 
cessible. 

Particulars as to the siren. — The boiler of a second-class apparatus is 12 feet long, 42 
inches in diameter, and has 300 feet heating-surface. The dome is 2 feet in diameter 
and 3 feet high. 

The cylinder of the engine is 4 inches in diameter and 6 inches stroke. The prolon- 
gation of the piston-rod forms the plunger of the feed-pump. The main shaft carries 
three pulleys, the larger driving the siren-spindle; the second, the worm and screw 
gear ; and the third, the governor. 

In the worm-gear the wheel makes two revolutions per minute, and is provided with 
a cam, which, acting on a lever, opens the valve, admitting steam through the siren- 
disks. The cam has such a length as to hold the A'alve open for about seven seconds. 
A counter-weight closes the valve as soon as the lever is released by the cam. 

The siren itself consists of a cylindrical steam-chest, closed at one end by a perfor- 
ated brass plate. The iJerforations are twelve in number, equidistant from each other, 
and arranged on the circumference of a circle, whose center is in the axis of the cyl- 
inder. The other end is closed by a cast-iron head. The heads are connected by a 
brass pipe, through which the sjiindle j)asses. 

The perforated head is covered on the exterior by a brass disk, attached to the 
spindle, having twelve rectangular notches corresponding to the apertures on the for- 
mer, and so arranged that by its revolution these ax)ertnres are simultaneously opened 
and closed. The spindle is driven by a belt from the large pulley on the main shaft. 
This shaft makes 180 revolutions per minute ; the spindle, 1,620 ; and as there are 12 
apertures in the disks, from each there will issue jets of steam at the rate of 19,440 
per minute. The sound produced by these impulses may be rendered more or less 
acute by increasing or diminishing the velocity of revolution. 

The valve and valve-seat are disks similar to those already described, having how- 
ever four openings instead of twelve. The valve revolves on the brass tube inclosing 
4he siren-spindle, and is worked by a bevel gear. The trumpet is of cast-iron. 

The DaboU trumpet. — The apparatus used in the foregoing experiments is a second- 
class trumpet, operated by an Ericsson caloric-engine. The air-pump is single-acMng. 
Its cylinder is 12" in diameter by 12" stroke. The engine makes forty strokes per min- 
ute. Tliere is a screw-thread raised on the main shaft, which, acting on a wheel, 
drives a bevel gear, giving motion to a cam-wheel. The latter makes one revolution 
in two ndnutes, and is furnished with three equidistant cams. These cams, pressing 
on the valve-lever, throw the valve open once in forty seconds, admitting the com- 
pressed air through the reed-chest into the trumpet. 

Ttie quantity of air forced into the tank should be in excess of that needed for the 
trumpet, the surplus being allowed to escape through a delicate safety-valve. This is 
necessary to i^rovide against a deficiency in case of leakage, and also to allow the 
pressure of air to be regulated to accoaumodate the reed. Each reed requiring a differ- 
ent pressure, it is necessary to alter the pressure of the valve-sj)ring whenever a reed 
is changed. 

The iirst-class trumpet differs only in size from that described. 

The caloric-engine for the lirst class has a 30" cylinder. The air-pump is IG-V' by 
15" stroke. 

The steam-ivhistle. — The boiler of this machine is that of the siren. On the forward 
part of the boiler the bed-plate of a small engine is secured by two cast-iron brackets. 
The cylinder of this engine is 4" by 9". The fly-wheel shaft carries an eccentric, 
which, acting through a rod and jiawl on a ratchet-wheel, gives the requu-ed motion 
to the cam-wheel shaft. 

The cam-wheel, which makes one revolution per minute, is provided with one or 
more cams, depending on the number of blasts to be given in a minute ; the length of 
the blast being regulated by that of the cams. 

The valve for admitting the steam into the whistle is a balance-valve, the diame- 
ters of the two disks being respectively '^\" and 2J", which difference is sufficient to 
cause the pressure of steam to close the valve tight without requiring too great a force 
to open it. The valve is worked by a stem attached to the rocker-shaft at the lower 
part of the steam -pipe. This shaft passes thi-ough a stuffing-box in the steam-pipe, 
and is provided with a collar which the pressure of the steam forces against the inte- 
rior boss on the pipe, thus making the joint steam-tight. The exterior arm en this 
rocker-shaft, as well as that on the engine, is perforated in such a manner as to allow 
the throw of the valve to be adjusted. 



488 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

lu the comments we have made on the report of General Duaue, the 
intention was not in the least to disparage the value of his results, which 
can scarcely be too highly appreciated ; but inasmuch as the true explana- 
tion of the i)henomena he has observed has an important bearing on the 
location of fog-signals and on their general ai^plicatioii as aids to naviga- 
tion, and are as well of great interest to the physicist, who values every 
addition to theoretical as well as practical knowledge, we have not only 
thought the remarks we have offered necessary, but also that special 
investigations should be made to ascertain more definitely tlie condi- 
tions under which the abnormal phenomena the general has described 
occur, and to assign, if possible, a more definite and efficient cause than 
those to which he has attributed them. 

We have, therefore, given much thought to the subject, and since the 
date of General Duane's report, have embraced every opportunity which 
occurred for making observations in regard to them. The first s^ep we 
made toward obtaining a clew to the explanation of the phenomena in 
question resulted from observations at New Haven, namely : 1st, the 
tendency of sound to spread laterally into its shadow; 2d, the fact that 
a sound is frequently borne in an opposite direction to the wind at the 
surface by an upper current ; and 3d, that a sound moving against a wind 
is heard better at a higher elevation. The first point to consider is in 
what manner the wind affects sound. That it is in some way connected 
with the distance to which sound can be heard is incontestably settled by 
general observation. At first sight, the explanation of this might seem 
to be very simple, namely, that the sound is borne on in the one direc- 
tion and retarded in the other, by the motion of the wind. But this ex- 
planation, satisfactory as it might appear, cannot be true. Sound moves 
at the rate of about 780 miles an hour, and therefore, on the above sup- 
position, a wind of 7.8 miles per hour could neither retard nor accele- 
rate its velocity more than one per cent., an amount inappreciable to 
ordinary observation ; whereas we know that a wind of the velocity we 
have mentioned is frequently accompanied with a reduction of the pene- 
trating power of sound of more than 50 per cent. 

The explanation of this phenomenon, as suggested by the hypothesis of 
Professor Stokes, is founded on the fact that in the case of a deep current 
of air the lower stratum, or that next the earth, is more retarded bj' fric- 
tion than the one immediately above, and this again than the one above it, 
and so on. The effect of this diminution of velocity as we descend toward 
the earth is, in the case of sound moving with the current, to >carry the 
upper part of the sound-waves more rapidly forward than the lower parts, 
thus causing them to incline toward the earth, or, in other words, to be 
thrown down upon the ear of the observer. When the sound is in a 
contrary direction to the current, an opposite effect is produced, — the 
upper portion of the sound-waves is more retarded than the lower, wliich 
advancing more rapidly, in consequence inclines the waves upwar<l and 
directs them above the head of the observer. To render this more clear, 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 489 

let ns recall the nature of a beam of sound, in still air, projected in 
a horizontal direction. It consists of a series of concentric waves per- 
pendicular to the direction of the beam, like the palings of a fence. 
Now, if the upper part of the waves has a slightly greater velocity 
than the lower, the beam wiU be bent downward in a manner some- 
what analogous to that of a ray of light in proceeding from a rarer to a 
denser medium. The effect of this deformation of the wave will be 
cumulative from the sound-center onward, and hence, although the ve- 
locity of the wind may have no perceptible effect on the velocity of sound, 
yet this bending of the wave being continuous throughout its entire 
course, a marked effect must be produced. 

A precisely similar effect will be the result, but perhai^s in a consid- 
erably greater degree, in case an upx^er current is moving in an opposite 
direction to the lower, when the latter is adverse to the sound, and in 
this we have a logical exjilanation of the phenomenon observed by 
General Duane, in which a fog-signal is only heard during the occurrence 
of a northeast snow-storm. Certainly this phenomenon cannot be ex- 
plained by any peculiarity of the atmosphere as to variability of density, 
or of the amount of vapor which it may contain. 

The first phenomenon of the class mentioned by General Duane, which 
I had the good fortune to witness was in company with Sir Frederick 
Arrow and Cai^tain Webb, of the Trinity House, London, in their visit 
to this country in 1872. At the distance of two or three miles fr^om an 
island in the harbor of Portland, Maine, on which a fog-signal was 
placed, the sound, which had been distinctly heard, was lost on ap- 
proaching the island for nearly a mile, and slightly regained at a less 
distance. On examining the position of the fog-signal, which was sit- 
uated on the farther side of the island from the steamer, we found it 
placed immediately in front of a large house with rismg ground in the 
rfear, which caused a sound-shadow, into which, on account of the late- 
ral divergence of the rays, the sound was projected at a distance, but 
not in the immediate vicinity of the island. In the same year I made 
an excursion in one of the light-house steamers, with Captain Selfridge, 
to an island on the coast of Maine, at which abnormal phenomena were 
said to have been observed, but on this occasion no variation of the 
sound was noted, except that which was directly attributable to the 
wind, the signal being heard much farther in one direction than in the 
opposite. 



490 RESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

PAET II.— EEMAEKS ON SOME ABNORMAL PHENOMENA OF 

SOUND.* 

The commuuicatiou which I propose to make this evening is brought 
forward at this time especially on account of the presence of Dr. Tyn- 
dall, he being connected with the light-house system of Great Britain, 
while the facts I have to state are connected with the light-house service 
of the United States, and must therefore be of interest to our distin- 
guished visitor. The facts I have to present form part of a general re- 
port to be published by the United States Light-House Board. 

The Light-House Board of the United States has from its first estab- 
lishment aimed not only to furnish our sea-coast with all the aids to 
navigation that have been suggested by the exi^erience of other couutries 
and to adopt the latest imi^rovements, but also to enrich the light-house 
service with the results of new investigations and new devices for the 
improvement of its efficiency, or, in other words, to add its share to the 
advance of a system which pertains to the wants of the highest civiliza- 
tion. 

Among the obstructions to navigation none are more serious, especially 
on the American coast, than those caused by fogs. 

Fog, as it is well known, is due to the mingling of warmer air sur- 
charged with moisture with colder air, and nowhere on the surface of 
the earth do more favorable conditions exist for producing fogs 
than on both our Atlantic and Pacific coasts. On the Atlantic the 
cold stream of water from the polar regions in its passage southward, 
on account of the rotation of the earth, passes close along our eastern 
coast from one extremity to the other, and parallel to this but opposite 
in direction, for a considerable distance is the great current of warm 
water known as the Gulf Stream. Above the latter the air is constantly 
surcharged with moisture, and consequently whenever light winds blow 
from the latter across the former, the vapor is condensed into fog, and 
since in summer along our eastern coast the southerly wind prevails, 
we have during July, August, and September, especially on the coast 
of Maine, an almost continuous prevalence of fogs so dense that distant 
vision is entirely obstructed. 

On the western coast the great current of the Pacific, after having 
been cooled in the northern regions, in its passage southward gives rise 
to cold and warm water in juxtaposition, or, in other words, a current of 
the former through the latter, and hence whenever a wind blows across 
the current of cold water, a fog is produced. 

From the foregoi-ug statement it is evident that among the aids to 
na^dgation fog-signals are almost as important as light-houses. The 
api^lication however of the science of acoustics to the former is far less 
advanced than is that of optics to the latter. Indeed, attempts have 
been made to apply lights of superior i^enetrating power, as the electric 

* Made before tlie ''Pliilosoijliical Society of Wasliington," December 11, 1872. 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 491 

and calcium lights, to supersede the imi)erfect fog-signals in use. When 
however we consider the fact that the absorptive power of a stratum of 
cloud, which is but a lighter fog, of not more than two or three miles in 
thickness, is sufficient to obscure the image of the sun, the intensity of 
the light of which is greater than that of any artificial light, it must be 
evident that optical means are insufficient for obviating the difficulty in 
question. 

The great extent of the portions of the coast of the United States 
which are subject to fogs renders the investigation of the subject of fog- 
signals one of the most imiiortant duties of the Light-House Board. 

In studying this subject it becomes a question of importance to ascer- 
tain whether waves of sound, like those of light, are absorbed or stifled 
by fog; on this point howe^^er, observers disagree. At first sight, from 
the very striking analogy which exists in many respects between light 
and sound, the opinion has largely prevailed that sound is impeded by fog. 
But those v.ho have not been influenced by tbis analogy have in some 
instances adopted the oi)posite opinion — that sound is better heard during 
a fog than in clear weather. To settle this question definitely the Light- 
House Board have directed that at two light-houses on the route from 
Boston to Saint John the fog-signals shall be sounded every day on 
which the steamboats from these ports pass the station, both in clear 
and foggy weather, the pilots on board these vessels having, for a small 
gratuity, engaged to note the actual distance of the boat when the sound 
is first heard on approaching the signal and is last heard on receding 
from it. The boats above meutioned estimate their distance vrith con- 
siderable precision by the number of revolutions of the i)addle-wheel as 
recorded by the indicator of the engine, and it is hoped by this means 
to definitely decide the point in question. We think it probable that 
fog does somewhat dimiuish the jienetrating power of sound, or in 
other words, produce an eflect analogous to that on the propagation 
of light. But when we consider the extreme minuteness of the parti- 
cles of water constituting the fog as compared with the magnitude of 
the waves of sound, the analogy does not hold except in so small a de- 
gree as to be of no practical importance, or, in other words, the exist- 
ence of a fog is a true, but, we think, a wholly insufficient cause of di- 
minution of sound, which view is borne out by the great distance at 
which our signals are heard diu-ing a dense fog. 

Another cause, w^hich without doubt is a true one, of the diminution 
of the penetrating power of soun<l is the varying density of the atmos- 
phere, from heat and moisture, in long distances. The effect of this, 
however, would apparentlj^ be to slight!}' distort the wave of sound 
leather than to obliterate it. However this may be, we think, from all 
the observations we have made, the effect is small in comparison with 
another cause, viz, that of the influence of wind. During a residence of 
several weeks at the sea-shore, the variation in intensity of the sound 



492 EESEARCHES IN SOUND, 

of the breakers at a distance of about a mile in no case apjieared to be 
coincident with the variations of an aneroid barometer or a thermome- 
ter, bnt in every instance it was affected by the direction of the wind. 

The variation in the distinctness of the sound of a distant instrument 
as depending on the direction of the wind is so marked that we are war- 
ranted in considering it the principal cause of the inefficiency in certain 
cases of the most powerful fog-signals. The effect of the wind is usu- 
ally attributed, without due consideration, to the motion of the body of 
air between the hearer and the sounding instrument ; in the case of its 
coming towards him it is supposed that the velocity of the sound is re- 
inforced by the motion of the air, and when in the opx)osite direction 
that it is retarded in an equal degree. A little reflection, however, will 
show that this cannot be the cause of the i^henomeuon in question, since 
the velocity of sound is so vastly greater than that of any ordinary 
wind that the latter can only imjiede the progress of the former by a 
very small percentage of the whole. Professor Stokes, of Cambridge 
University, England, has offered a very ingenious hypothetical explana- 
tion of wind on sound, which we think has an important practical bear- 
ing, especially in directing the line of research and subsequent ai^plica- 
tion of principles. 

His explanation rests upon the fact that during the passage of a wind 
between the observer and the sounding instrument the velocity of this 
will be more retarded at the surface of the earth on account of friction 
and other obstacles, and that the velocity of the stratum immediately 
above will be retarded by that below, and so on, the obstruction being 
lessened as we ascend through the strata. From this it follows that the 
sound wave will be deformed and the direction of its normal changed^ 
Suppose, for example, that the wind is blowing directly from the ob- 
server. In this case the retardation of the sound wave will be greater 
above than below, and the ujiper part of the wave-front will be thrown 
backwards so that the axis of the phonic ray will be deflected upwards, 
and over the head of the observer. If, on the other hand, a deep river 
of wind (so to speak) is blowing directly towards the observer, the upper 
part of the front of the wave will be inclined down and towards him, 
concentrating the sound along the surface of the earth. 

The science of acoustics in regard to the phenomena of sound as ex- 
hibited in limited spaces has been developed with signal success. The 
laws of its production, propagation, reflection, and refraction have been 
determined with much ftrecision, so that we are enabled in most cases 
to explain, predict, and control the phenomena exhibited under given 
conditions. But in case of loud sounds and those which are propagated 
to a great distance, such as are to be employed as fog-signals, consider- 
able obscurity still exists. As an illustration of this I may mention the 
frequent occurrence of apparently abnormal phenomena. General War- 
ren informs me that at the battle of Seven Pines, in June, 1862, near 
Eichmond, — General Johnston, of the Confederate army, was within three 



RESEAECHES IN SOUND. 493 

miles of the scene of action witli a force intended to attack tlie flank of 
the Northern forces, and although listening attentively for the sound of 
the commencement of the engagement, the battle, which was a severe 
one, and lasting about three hours, ended without his having heard a 
single gun. (See Johnston's report.) Another case of a similar kuid 
occiu-red to General McOlellan at the battle of Gaines' Mills, June 27, 
18G2, also near Richmond. Although a sharj) engagement was progress- 
ing within three or four miles for four* or live hours, the general and his 
staff were unaware of its occurrence, and when their attention was 
called to some feeble sound they had no idea that it was from anything 
more than a skirmish of little importance. (See Eeport of the Commit- 
tee on the Conduct of the War.) A third and perhaps still more re- 
markable instance is given in a skirmish between a part of the Second 
Corps under General Warren and a force of the enemy. In this case 
the sound of the firing was heard more distinctly at General Meade's 
headquarters than it was at the headquarters of the Second Corj^s itself, 
although the latter was about midway between the former and the point 
of conflict. Indeed the sound api^eared so near General Meade's camp 
that the mipression was made that the enemy had gotten between it and 
General Warren's command. In fact so many instances occurred of wrong 
imi)ressious as to direction and distance derived from the sound of guns 
that little rehauce came to be placed on these indications. 

In the report of a series of experiments made under the direction of 
the Light-House Board by General Duaue of the Engineer Corps is the 
following remark : " The most perplexing difficulty arises from the fact 
that the fog-signal often appears to be surrounded by a belt varying in 
radius from one to one and a half miles. Thus in moving directly from 
a station the sound is audible for the distance of a mile, is then lost for 
about the same distance, after which it is again distinctly heard for a 
long time." 

Again, in a series of experiments at which Sir Frederick Arrow and Cap- 
tain Webb, of the Trinity Board, assisted, it was found that in passing in 
the rear of the opposite side of an island in front of which a fog-signal 
was placed, the sound entirely disappeared, but by going fui'ther oft" to 
the distance of two or three miles it reappeared in full force, even with 
a large island inters^ening. Again, from the experiments made under the 
immediate direction of the present chairman of the Light-House Board, 
with the assistance of Admiral Powell and Mr. Lederle, the light- 
house engineer, and also from separate expeiiments made by General 
Duane, it appears that while a reflector, in the focus of which a steam 
whistle or ordinary bell is jflaced, reinforces the sound for a short dis- 
tance, it produces little or no effect at the distance of two or three miles, 
and, indeed, the instrument can be as well heard in still air at the dis- 
tance of four or five miles in the line of the axis of the reflector, whether 
the ear be placed before or behind it. From these results we would 
infer that the lateral divergency of sound, or its tendency to spread lat- 



494 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

erally as it passes from its source, is much greater than has been sup- 
posed from experiments on a small scale. The idea we wish to convey 
by this is that a beam of sound issuing through an orifice, although at 
first i)roceeding like a beam of light in paralled rays, soon begins to 
diverge and spread out into a cone, and at a sufficient distance may in- 
clude even the entire horizon. 

We may mention also in this connection that from the general fact 
expressed by the divergence of the rays of sound, the application of 
reflection as a means of reinforcing sound must in a considerable degree 
of necessity be a failure. 

By tlie application of the principle we have stated and the effect of 
the wind in connection with the peculiarities of the topography of a 
region and the position of the sounding body, we think that not only 
may most of the phenomena we have just mentioned be accounted for, 
but also that other abnormal eft'ects may be anticipated. 

In critically examining the position ofthe sounding body in the experi- 
ment we have mentioned, in which Sir Frederick Arrow and Captain Webb 
assisted, it was found that the signal was placed on the side of a bank 
with a large house dkectly in the rear, the roof of which tended to deflect 
the sound upwards so as to produce in the rear a shadow, but on account 
of the divergency of the beam this shadow vanished at the distance of 
a mile and a half or two miles, and at the distance of, say, three miles 
the sound of the instrument was distmctly heard. I doubt not that, on 
examination, all the cases mentioned by General Duane, with one ex- 
ception, might be referred to the same principle, the exception being 
expressed in the following remarkable statement in his report to the 
Light-House Board: "The fog-signals have frequently been beard at a 
distance of ticenty miles and as frequently cannot be heard at the distance 
of two miles, and with no perceptible difference in the state of the atmos- 
phere. The signal is often heard at a greater distance in one direction, 
while in another it will be scarcely audible at the distance of a mile. 
For example, the whistle at Cape Elizabeth can always be distinctly heard 
in Portland — a distance of nine miles — during a heavy northeast snow- 
storm, the wind blowing a gale nearly from Portland towards the whistle." 

This is so abnormal a case, and so contrary to generally received opinion, 
that I hesitated to have it published under the authority of the board 
until it could be verified and more thoroughly examined. In all the 
observcitions that have been made under my immediate supervision, the 
sound has always been heard ftirther tvith the wind than against it. It 
would appear, therefore, from all the observations that the normal effect 
of the wind is to dimhiish the sound in blowing directly against it. 

There is however a meteorological condition of the atmosphere dur- 
ing a northeast storm on our coast which api)ears to me to have a 
direct bearing on the phenomenon in question. It is this : that while a 
violent wind is blowing from the northeast into the interior ofthe country, 
a wind of equal intensity is blowing in an opposite direction at an ele- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 495 

vationof a iiiileor two. This is shown by the rai^id eastwarclly motion 
of the upper clouds as occasionally seen through breaks in the lower. 

As a further illustration of this principle I may mention that on one 
occasion (in 1855) I started, on my way to Boston from Albany, in the morn- 
ing of a clear day, with a westerly wind. The weather continued clear 
and pleasant until after passingthe Connecticut Eiver, and until within 
fifty miles of Boston. We then encountered a storm of wind and rain 
which continued until we reached the city. On inquiry I learned that 
tlie storm had commenced in Boston the evening before, and, although 
the wind had been blowing violentlj^ towards Albany for itcenty hours, 
it had not reached inwardly more than fifty miles. At this point it met 
the west wind and was turned back above in almost a parallel current. 
This is the general character of northeast storms along our coast, as 
shown by Mr. Espy, and is directly applicable to the phenomenon men- 
tioned by General Duane, and which, from the frequency with which he 
has witnessed the occui-rence, we must accept as a fact, though by no 
means a general one applicable to all stations. While a violent wind was 
blowing towards his place of observation from Cape Elizabeth, at the 
surface of the earth, a parallel current of air was flowing above with 
equal or greater velocity in the opposite direction. The effect of the 
latter would be to increase the velocity of the upper part of the wave 
of sound, and of the former to diminish it ; the result of the two being 
to incline the front of the wave of sound towards the observer, or to 
throw it down towards the earth, thus rendering the distant signal audi- 
ble under these conditions when otherwise it could not be heard. I think 
it is probable that the same principle applies in other cases to the abnor- 
mal propagation of sound. 

For the production of a sound of sufficient power to serve as a fog- 
signal, bells, gongs, &c., are too feeble except in special cases where the 
warning required is to be heard only at a small distance. After much 
experience, the Light-House Board has adopted, for first-class signals, 
instruments actuated by steam or hot-air engines, and such only as de- 
pend upon the principle of resonance, or the enforcement of sound by a 
series of recurring echoes in resounding cavities. 

Of these there are three varieties. First, the steam-whistle, of which 
the part called the bell is a resounding cavity, the sound it emits having 
no relation to the material of which it is composed ; one of the same 
form and of equal size of wood producing an effect identical with that 
from one of metal. Another variety is the fog-trumpet, which consists 
of a trumpet of wood or metal actuated by a reed like that of a clario- 
net. Tlie third variety is called the siren trumpet, which consists of a 
hollow drum, into one head of which is inserted a pipe from a steam- 
boiler, while in the other head a number of holes are pierced, which are 
alternately opened and shut by a revolving plate having an equal num- 
ber of holes through it. This drum is placed at the mouth of a large 
trumpet. The sound is produced by the series of impulses given to the 



496 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

air by the opening and sliuttiug of the orifices and consequent rushing out 
at intervals with explosive violence of the steam or condensed air. The 
instrument, as originally invented by Cagniard de Latour, of France, 
was used siniplj- in experiments in physics to determine the pitch of 
sound ; but Mr. Brown, of I^ew York, after adding a trumpet to it, and 
modifying the openings in the head of the drum and the revolving plate, 
oifered it to the Light-House Board as a fog-signal, and as such it has 
been found the most powerful ever employed. 

In ascertaining the penetrating power of different fog-signals, I have 
used with entire success an instrument of which the following is a 
description: A trumpet of ordinary tinned iron of about 3 feet in 
length, and 9 inches in diameter at the larger end, and about 1 inch at 
the smaller, is gradually bent so that the axis of the smaller part is at 
right angles to the axis of the larger end ; on the smaller end is soldered 
a cone, of which the larger end is about 2 inches in diameter. Across 
the mouth of this cone is stretched a piece of gold-beater's skin. When 
the instrument is used, the opening on the larger end is held before 
the instrmeut to be tested, the membrane being horizontal, and the mouth 
of the trumpet vertical ; over the membrane is strewed a small quantity 
of fine sand, which is defended from the agitation of the air by a cylinder 
of glass, the ui^per end of which is closed by a lens. When the instru- 
ment under examination is sounded, being sufficiently near the sand, is 
agitated ; it is then moved further off, step by stej), until the agitation 
just ceases; this distance, being measured, is taken as the relative pene- 
trating power of the sounding instrument. The same process is repeatetl 
with another sounding instrument, and the distance at which the sound 
ceases to produce an effect on the sand is taken as the measure of the 
penetrating power of this instrument, and so on. On comi3aring the re- 
sults given by this instrument with those obtained by the ear on going out 
a sufficient distance, the two are found to agree precisely in their indica- 
tions. The great advantage in using this contrivance is that the rela- 
tive penetrating power of two instruments may be obtained within a 
distance of a few hundred yards, while to compare the relative power 
of two fog-signals by the ear requii'es the aid of a steamer and a de- 
parture from the origin of sound in some cases of 15 or 20 miles. 



PAET III.— I3^ESTIGATI0:N"S DUEING 1873 A^^D 1874.* 

Observations on Sound and Fog-Si&nals, in August, 1873. 

Professor Henry, chairman, and Commander Walker, naval secretary 
of the Light-House Board, left Portland August 12th, 1873, at 3 o'clock 
p. M. in the steam-tender Myrtle, Captain Foster, for Whitehead light- 
station, at which place abnormal phenomena of sound had been observed. 

* From tile Report of the LigLit- House Board^ for 1874. 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 497 

WJiiteJwad Ughf-sfafioii m on a small island abont a mile and a half 
from the coast of ^Maine, on the western side of the entrance to Penob- 
scot Bay, and in the direct line of the coasting-steamers and other ves- 
sels from the westward bonnd into the Penobscot Bay and River. The 
light-honse and fog-signal are situated on the southeast slope of the 
island, the surface of which consists almost entirely of rock, the middle 
being at an elevation of 75 feet above the mean tide-level. 

The phenomena which had been observed at this and other stations 
along the coast consisted of great variation of intensity of sound while 
approaching and receding from the station. As an example of this we 
may state the experience of the observers on board the steamer City of. 
Richmond on one occasion, during a thick fog in the night in 1872, The 
vessel was approaching Whitehead from the southwestward, when, at a 
distance of about six miles from the station, the fog-signal, which is a 
10-inch steam-whistle, was distinctly perceived and continued to be 
heard with increasing intensity of sound until within about three miles, 
when the sound suddenly ceased to be heard, and was not perceived 
again until the vessel approached within a quarter of a mile of the sta- 
tion, although from conclusive evidence furnished by the keeper it was 
shown that the signal had been sounding during the whole time. The 
wind during this time was from the south, or approximately in an oppo- 
site direction to the sound. Another fact connected with« this occur- 
rence was that the keeper on the island distinctly heard the sound of 
the whistle of the steamer, which was commenced to be blown as soon 
as the whistle at the station ceased to be heard, in order to call the at- 
tention of the keeper to what was supposed to be a neglect of his duty 
in intermitting the operations of his signal. It should be observed in 
this case that the sound from the steamer was produced by a G-incli 
whistle, while that of the station was from an instrument of the same 
kind of 10 inches in diameter; or, in other words, a lesser sound was 
heard from the steamer, while a sound of greater volume was unheard 
in an opposite direction from the station. It is evident that this result 
could not be due to an 3^ mottled condition or want of acoustic transpar- 
ency of the atmosphere, since this would absorb the sound equally in 
both directions. The only plausible explanation of this phenomenon 
is that which refers it to the action of the wind. In the case of the 
sound from the steamer, the wind was favorable for its transmission, 
and hence it is not strange that its sound should be heard on the island 
when the sound from the other instrument could not be be heard on the 
steamer. To explain on the same principle the fact of the hearing of 
the sound at the distance of six miles, and afterward of losing it at the 
distance of three miles, we have only to suppose that in the first in- 
stance the retarding efiect of the wind was small, and tliat in the sec- 
ond it became much greater on account of a sudden increase in the rel- 
ative velocity of the current in the ui^per and lower portions. 

After malving a critical examination of the island and the position of 
S. Mis. 59 32 



498 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

the macliinery, and also in regard to any obstacle which might interfere 
with the propagation of the sonnd, the keeper was directed to put the 
instrument in operation and to continue to sound it for at least two 
hours, or until the steamer was lost sight of, which direction was com- 
plied with. In i^assing from the island, almost directly against a light 
wind, the intensity of the sound gradually diminished as a whole, with 
the increase of distance, but varied in loudness from blast to blast, 
now louder, then again more feeble, until it finally ceased at a distance 
of about fifteen miles, as estimated by the intervals between the blasts 
and the sight of the steam as seen through a spy-glass, and also from 
points on the Coast-Smvey charts. 

The result of this investigation clearly showed the power of the appa- 
ratus in i)ropagating sound under conditions not entirely favorable, 
since the wind, though light, was in opposition to the sound. 

Cape Elizahetli Light- Station, Maine, August 29, 1873. — The fog-signal 
at this place is on a prominent headland to which the course of all ves- 
sels is directed when bound from the southward into Portland Harbor. 
It is furnished with two light houses 910 feet apart and 143 feet above 
sea-level. The easterly- tower is connected with the keeper's dwelling 
by a wooden-covered way 200 feet long and about 12 feet high 5 the 
station is fui^nished with a 10-inch steam fog-whistle, placed to the 
southward of the easterly tower, at a distance of about G25 feet and 
about at right angles with the covered way ; it therefore has a back- 
ground, including the covered waj', of about 65 feet above the height of 
the whistle, which was found to reflect a perceptible echo. The whistle 
was actuated by steam at 55 pounds pressure, consuming from GO to 65 
pounds of anthracite coal per hour. The w^histle itself differs from the 
ordinary locomotive-whistle by having a projecting ledge or rim around 
the lower part through which the sheet of steam issues to strike against 
the lower edge of the bell. What effect this projecting ledge or rim may 
have is not known to the observers. This whistle is provided, (for the 
purpose of concentrating the sound in a given direction,) with a hollow 
truncated iDyramid 20 feet long, 10 feet square at the large end, and 2^ 
feet square at the small end, the axis of the pyramid being placed par- 
allel to the horizon, with the whistle at the smaller end. In order to 
ascertain the effect of this appendage to the whistle the simplest plan 
would have been to have noted the intensity of sound at various points 
on a circle of which the whistle would have been the center. This being 
impracticable on account of the intervention of the land, the observations 
were confined to points on the three arcs of a circle of about 120c>, of 
which the axis divided the space into 80° and 40° and a radius of one, 
two, and three miles. The result of these observations was that, starting 
from the axis of the trumpet on the east side, the sound grew slightly 
less loud until the prolongation of the side of the trumpet was reached, 
when it became comparatively faint and contiiiued so until the line be- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUKD. 499 

tween the whistle and observer was entirely unobstructed by the side 
of the trumpet, when the sound was apparently as loud as in the pro- 
longation of the axis itself. On the west side of the axis of the trumpet 
the sound in a like manner diminished from the axis until the prolonga- 
tion of the side of the trumpet was reached, when it became feeble 
again, slightly increased, and then gradually diminished until the lin« 
of direc.ion made an angle of about 80^ with the axis of the trumpet, 
when it ceased to be heard at a distance of about one and a half miles. 
It should bo observed, however, that at this point the line of sight of 
the observers was obstructed by the side of the trumpet and the smoke- 
stack of the boiler. The wind was light, at south-southwest, api)roxi- 
mately in direct opposition to the direction of the sound when it ceased 
to be heard. We are informed that complaints had previously been made 
by officers of steamers passing near this point that the sound was here 
inaudible previous to the introduction of this trumpet ; it would there- 
fore follow that it is of no use in increasing the effect on the western 
side of the axis and is of injury to the sound on the lines of i^rolonga- 
tion of its sides. If the sound ceased to be heard at the point mentioned, 
when the trumpet is removed the only api^areut cause of the phenome- 
non will be the prevailing direction of the wind, which, coming from the 
southwest, will be in opposition to the sound of the whistle; but in the 
case of the i^resent investigation the force of the wind was so small that 
it scarcely appeared adequate to produce the effect, and this question, 
therefore, must be left for further investigation. It may be important 
to state that in the case where the sound ceased to be heard it was re- 
gained by sailing directly toward the station about one mile, or at half 
a mile from the station. After making the foregoing observations as to 
the intensity of sound in different directions from the station, the obser- 
vations were closed by sailing directly along the axis of the trumpet 
until the sound, which gradually grew fainter as the distance increased, 
finally ceased to be heard at a distance of about nine miles. In com- 
])aring this last result with an instrument of about the same power at 
Whitehead, which gave a i)erceptible sound at a distance of fifteen 
miles, the only aj)parently variable circumstance was the velocity of the 
wind, in both cases adverse to the direction of the sound ; but in that 
of Cape Elizabeth it was of considerable more intensity. 

During the foregoing experiments, when the vessel was about a mile 
from the station, steaming directly outward, in the prolongation of the 
axis of the instrument, there was heard after each sound of the whistle 
a distinct echo from the broad, unobstructed ocean, which was attributed 
at the time, as in other cases, to reflections from the crests and hoEows 
of the waves, a similar phenomenon having since been referred to a re- 
flection from air of a different density. This observation becomes im- 
portant in regard to the solution of the question as to the abnormal 
phenomena of sound. 



500 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

Cape Ann Light- Station, Massachusetts, August 31, 1873. — This is one of 
the most important stations on the New England coast. It is furnished 
with two first-order lights, and a 12-inch steam- whistle, actuated by 60 
pounds pressure of steam. The present is the foiu?th engine which has 
been erected at this station, in consequence of the complaints either as 
to the inefficiency of the sound or its failure to be heard in certain direc- 
tions. It was at first proposed to sail entirely around the island in order 
to test the intensity of the sound in different directions, but this was 
I found impracticable on account of want of depth of water on the inland 
'side ; the observations were therefore confined to the direction in which 
complaints had been made as to the deficiency of the signal, namely, in 
a southerly direction. The result of these observations, the points of 
which included an arc of 120°, was that the sound was heard with equal 
intensity except when the direction of the station was to the northward 
and eastward of the observers ; then, in one instance, the sound became 
very indistinct, and in another was entirely lost, both at a distance of 
about two miles. In these cases the line of sight between the observers 
and the signal was interrupted, in the first by a small building, the gable- 
end of which was within 10 feet of the whistle, and in the second by the 
south light-tower, which is within 30 feet of the whistle. In this series 
of experiments, as with the last, the wind was against the sound; the 
efiect was noted by passiug over the arc several times at different dis- 
tances. The wind was from the southward and westward and very 
light, and the sound was finally lost at about six miles, and in the direc- 
tion of the obstructions. 

Boston Light- 8tativ7i, Aiigust 31, 1873. — The light-house is situated on 
a low, rocky island, on the north side of the main outer entrance to Bos- 
ton Harbor, nine miles from the city. It is furnished with three caloric 
engines, two of the second class and one of the first. The two second- 
class engines are so arranged as to act separately or together, and in the 
latter arrangement serve to duplicate the larger engine. At the time 
tlie observations were made, the larger engine was about being repaired, 
and one of the smaller engines with the double air-reservoir was used. 
The larger engine is used with 12 pounds pressure of air, which falls to 
S pounds in producing the sound. The smaller engine, with the double 
reservoir, is started with 1) pounds pressure, which falls to 8 pounds. 
This difference in the pressure of air in the two engines is caused by the 
larger ratio of the rese»'voir to the size of the reed. With a greater 
pressure than 12 pounds to the square inch in the larger engine and 9 
pounds in the smaller no sound is produced ; the reed is unable to act 
against the pressure, and, consequently, the orifice remains closed. The 
trumpet of the larger of the engines is rej^orted to have been heard 
eighteen miles at sea, which, in consideration of the results obtained at 
Wliitehead, we thought very probable. The time required, from start- 
ing fires, to get a good working-pressure, is about half an hour. The 
amount of coal consumed per hour is 17 i)Ouuds. 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 501 

There is moreover at this station a bell, operated by a Stevens clock, 
not at present nsed. It is placed on a high, wooden frame-structure, on 
which one of tlie ancient bell-striking machines was originally erected. 
The most iiroper position for the fog-signal is on the ground occupied by 
this bell-tower, but as this was not removed at the time of the erection 
of the trumpets, they were placed in such positions as to have the line 
of sound interrupted to the northeastward by the bell and light towers. 
It was therefore thought probable that this was the cause of tlie de- 
ficiency of sound in this direction. To test this the vessel was caused 
to traverse the arcs of several concentric circles, in the i^ortion of the 
horizon where the sound was most required as a signal. The first arc 
traversed was about one and one-half miles from the signal. The vessel 
on this crossed the axis where the sound was quite loud, and proceeded 
northward until the sight of the trumpet was obscured by the before- 
mentioned towers, when the sound became almost inaudible. The ves- 
sel next returned across the axis, on a circle of about three miles radius, 
with similar results ; but after crossing the axis the sound on the south- 
ern side continued to be but little diminished in intensity along an arc of 
two and a half miles, or as far as the land would allow the vessel to go. 
The vessel was next put upon an arc, of which the radius was qpe and 
a half miles, and on the south side of the axis, and sailed to the north- 
ward until the axis was reached, it was then turned and ran for the en- 
trance of the harbor, hugging the southern shore, keeping as far from the 
signal as possible. Throughout this passage the sound was clear and 
loud, sliowing very little, if any, diminution of power as the several posi- 
tions deviated more and more from the direction of the axis, until the 
vessel was at right angles with the axis, the land not permitting any 
greater distance. The vessel approached to within three-ciuarters of a 
mile of the signal and then continued still farther around, until nearly in 
the rear of it, the sound still continuing clear and loud. The vessel next 
proceeded up the harbor, nearly in the line of the axis of the trumpet 
prolonged in the rear, still continuing to hear the signal distinctly until 
the keeper, losing sight of the vessel, stopped sounding the instrument. 
These observations w^ere made nnder very favorable circumstances, it 
being nearly calm. What wind did exist was about equally favorable 
to points on either side of the axis. The inference from these observa- 
tions is, first, that small objects placed near the source of sound tend to 
diminish its intensitj'' in the direction of its interruption, and should, 
therefore, if possible, be removed, or the instrument so placed as to ob- 
viate such obstructions; and, second, that, even with the trumpet, the 
sound so diverges from the axis as to be efficient even in the rear of the 
instrument. 

Observations on Fog-Signals, August 25, 1874. 

The first of these was on board the steamer Putnam, at Little Gull 
Island, with Admiral Trenchard, insi)ector of lights of the third dis- 



502 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

trict, accompanied by Governor Ingersoll, of Connecticut, and Captain 
Upshur, U. S. K. 

At this place are two sirens, tlie one to replace the other in case of 
an accident. One of the sirens was sounded with the pressure of 50 
pounds per square inch. The wind was across the axis of the trumpet, 
and almost precisely at right angles to it. 

The steamer was headed against the wind, on a line at right angles 
to the axis of the trumpet. The sound in this case also travelled against 
the wind, which was at an estimated velocity of from 4 to 5 miles per 
hour. The distance travelled before the sound became inaudible was 
estimated, by the speed of the steamer, at 3.J miles. 

The steamer was next headed in an opposite direction and returned 
along its previous path, across the mouth of the trumpet of the siren, 
the sound gradually increasing in strength without any marked irregu- 
larity, until the siren was reached, and on leaving this, the course re- 
maining the same, the sound gradually diminished in intensity, but with 
less rapidity than before, until it was finally lost at a distance of 7^ 
miles. In the latter instance the movement of the sound was with the 
wind. The result of these observations was conformable to that gene- 
rally obtained from ijrevious observations, namely, that the sound is sel- 
dom or never heard at the same distance in difierent directions, and, more- 
over, that it is generally heard farther with the wind than against it. 

The observations of this day also illustrate the spread of the sound- 
wave on either side of the axis of the trumpet, a fact which has fre- 
quently been observed in other investigations. It may be well to men- 
tion that the siren trumpet at this locality is directed horizontally with 
its prolonged axis passing over, immediately in front of the mouth of 
the trumpet, a space of ^-ery rough ground, the surface of which is 
principally composed of bowlders, one of which, of very large size, is 
directly in front of the trumpet, and the idea occurred to me that this 
rough surface might produce some eliect on the transmission of sound 
to a distance. I observed by strewing sand upon a paper that the 
former was violently agitated when held near the surface of the large 
bowlder just mentioned, during the blast of the siren trumpet. 

At this station, during the visit of Sir Frederick Arrow, the sound 
was lost in the direction of the axis of the trumpet at a distance of two 
miles, and then again regained with distinctness at the light-vessel, a 
distance of four and one-half miles ; this was what we have denominated 
as an abnormal phenomenon, which we think was due to a slight varia- 
tion in the velocity of the lower or upper part of the current of air, but, 
unfortunately, the demand for the use of the vessel as a light-house 
tender prevented the attempt to ascertain whether the same phenomenon 
would be observed a second time and to further investigate its cause. 

The second investigations this season were September 1, 1874, with 
General Barnard, of the Light- House Board, and General Woodruff, 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 503 

eugineer of tlie tliird district. We proceeded on this occasion in the 
steamer Mistletoe to Block Island, one of the onter stations of the 
Light-House Board, fnlly exposed, without intervention of land, to the 
waves and storms of the ocean. 

On the southerly side of this island a light-house is about being erected, 
and a siren station at this locality had been established and was in full 
operation. 

There are here two sirens attached to one boiler, one to be used in case 
of an accident to the other. For the sake of experiment they are of 
slightly different qualities, one with a larger trumpet with a revolving 
disk of the old i^attern, giving a lower tone; the o-ther a smaller trumpet, 
having a revolving disk with openings allowing a much more sudden 
full blast of steam, and revolving with greater velocity so as to give a 
higher pitch. The latter is far the superior instrument, as was evident 
to us by the sound which it produced, and as had been established by 
the use of the artificial ear in the manufactory of Mr. Brown. The 
effect on the unguarded ear was scarcely endurable, and the very earth" 
around appeared to tremble during the blast. The keeper (an intelli- 
gent man who has been promoted from the station of assistant keeper 
at Beaver Tail light to this station) informed us that a fleet of fishing- 
vessels coming in distinctly heard it at a distance estimated by their 
rate of sailing at scarcely less than thirty miles ; this was on two sepa- 
rate occasions. The keeper had been dkected to note and record the 
date at which he heard the sound from other signals ; he reported that 
he had frequently heard the fog-signal at Point Judith, a distance of 
seventeen miles, and that the observer at the latter place frequently 
heard his signal; but on comparing records the two sounds had not 
been heard simultaneously by the two keepers ; when it was heard from 
one station it was not heard from the other, illustrating again the gen- 
eral rule that sound is not transmitted simultaneously with equal inten- 
sity in opposite directions. 

This occasion also furnished very favorable conditions for observing 
the remarkable x>henomenon of the ocean-echo. At the cessation of 
each blast of the trumpet, after a slight interval, a distinct and pro- 
longed echo was returned from the unobstructed ocean. It is important 
to observe, in regard to this i)henomenon, that the siren is placed near 
the edge of a perpendicular cliff, at an elevation of from 75 to 100 feet 
above the ocean, and, furthermore, that the direction of the wind formed 
an angle of about 35° with the axis of the trumpet. Xow, the loudness 
of this echo was not the greatest at the siren-house, but increased in 
intensity until a point was reached several hundred yards from the 
trumpet, approximately' more in accordance with a reflection from the 
waves. The wind was blowing from the shore with the direction of the 
sound as it went off from the trumpet, and nearly against it on the re- 
turn of the echo. I have attributed this phenomenon, which was first 
observed in 18G6 at East Quoddy Head on the coast of Maine, and since 



504 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

at various stations, at wliich the trumpet or siren lias been used, to the 
reflection of the sound from the crests and slopes of the waves, and the 
observation we have mentioned would appear to favor this hypothesis. 
In connection with this explanation, I may mention that my attention 
has been called by General Meigs, of the United States Army, tx» an 
echo from the palings of a fence, and also from a series of indentations 
across the uoder side of the arch of one of the aqueduct bridges of the 
Washington water- works. The fact that the sound was much louder at 
a point considerably distant from the trumpet was noted by one of the 
I)arty entirely unacquainted with the hypothesis. 

The keeper at this station confirmed without a leading question the 
statement of Captain Keeney, that it frequently happens that a feeble 
sound of a distant object, as the roar of the surf, can be heard against 
the direction of the wind, and that in this case it always betokens a 
change in the weather, and is, in fact, used generally by the fishermen 
as a prognostic of a change in the direction of the wind, which will, in 
the course of a few hours, invariably spring up from an opposite quar- 
ter. In such case, it is highly probable, as has been stated, that a change 
has already taken x)lace in the direction of the upper strata of the air, 
although, from theoretical considerations, we might infer that the same 
result would be produced if the wind were stationary above and moving 
with a considerable velocity in a direction opposite to the sound at the 
surface of the earth, the velocity gradually diminishing as we ascend, 
for in this case, also, the inclination of the sound waves would be down- 
ward. 

The third series of investigations, September 23, 24, 1874, was made 
in company with Captain John Davis and Major Hains, both of the 
Light-House Board, and General Woodruff, engineer of the third dis- 
trict, and Mr. Brown, patentee of the siren. For the purpose three 
light-house tenders were employed, viz: Mistletoe, Cai)tain Keeney 5 
Putnam, Captain Field; Cackis, Captain Latham. 

The place of operation chosen for the first day's series was about 1^ 
miles from the northern point of Sandy Hook. 

From the experience gained by the accumulated observations which 
had been made, it was concluded that the phenomena of sound in re- 
gard to perturbing influences could not be properly studied without 
simultaneously observing the transmission of sound in opposite direc- 
tions. It was therefore concluded to emx^loy at least two steamers in 
making the investigations. 

In regard to this point the commission was fortunate in being able to 
command the use, for a limited period, of the three tenders mentioned 
above, which happened to be at the time assembled at the light-house 
depot, Staten Island, and could be spared from their ordinary opera- 
tions for a few days without detriment to the service. It was also for- 
tunate in selecting for the scene of the investigations an unobstructed 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 505 

position in the lower bay of iSTew York, and perhaps still more fortunate 
in the season of the year when, on account of the lieat of the sun, a land 
and sea breeze, which changed its direction at a particular hour of the 
day, enabled results to be obtained bearing especially on the phenomena 
to be investigated. 

Attention was first given to the character of the several steam-whistles 
which were intended to be used as the sources of the sound during the 
series of investigations. 

These whistles, which were sounded during the whole of the observa- 
tions with 20 pounds of steam on each boiler, gave at first discordant 
sounds, and were found b}" their effect upon an artificial ear to be con- 
siderably different in penetrating power; they were then adjusted by 
increasing or diminishing the space between the bell and the lower cylin- 
der by turning a screw on the axis of the bell intended for that purpose, 
until they produced the same effect upon the sand in the membrane of 
the artificial ear; but in order to further be insured of the equality of 
the penetrating power of the several whistles, the three steamers abreast, 
forming as it were a platoon, were directed to proceed against the wind, 
sounding all the time m regular succession — the Cactus first, then, after 
an interval of a few seconds, the Mistletoe, and then the Putnam — until 
the stationary observers lost the sound of each. Thej" became inaudible 
all very nearly at the same moment. The sound of the Putnam was 
thought to be slightly less disti^pt; it was therefore chosen as a station- 
ary vessel, from which the observations of the sound of the other two 
were to be made. 

The Putnam being anchored at the point before mentioned, arrange- 
ments were made for sending off the other two vessels in opposite direc- 
tions, one with and the other against the wind, with instructions to retiu'u 
when the sound became inaudible to those on the stationary vessel, this 
to be indicated by a flag-signal. It should be mentioned that the velocity 
of the wind was ineasured from time to time during the subsequent ex- 
periments with one of Eobinson's hemispherical cup anemometers, made 
by Casella, of London. The velocity of the wind first observed by this 
instrument, just before the starting of the vessels, was 6 miles i^er hour, 
the instrument being freelj" exposed on the paddle-boxes of the steamer. 
A sensitive aneroid barometer marked 30.395 in. and continued to rise 
gradually during the day to 30.43 in. the temperature was 71° F. 

The vessels left at 11:18 a. m. the wind being from the west, Captain 
Davis taking charge of the sounding of the whistle on the Cactus, which 
proceeded east with the wind, the sound coming to the ear of the observer 
against the wind; while the sounding on the Mistletoe was in charge of 
General Woodruff", and, as the vessel steamed against the wind, the sound 
came to the observers on the stationary vessel with the wind ; the other 
members of the party remained on the Putnam, at anchor at the point 
before mentioned, off the Hook, Major Hains having charge of the sig- 
< nals. The sound of the first of the vessels was heard faiutlv at 14 min- 



506 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

iites after lcavin,2:, but not beard at IG minutes; we may tberefore assume 
tbat it became inaudible at 15 minutes. And witbin a minute of tbe 
same time, by a mistake of tbe signal, tbe otber ceased to advance, and 
commenced to come back ; tbe sound from it, bowcver, was very distinct, 
wbile at tbe same moment tbe sound from tbe otber was inaudible. On 
account of tbe mistake mentioned, tbe relative distance at wbicb tbe 
sounds from tbe two vessels migbt bave become inaudible cannot be 
accurately given; but tbe fact observed, tbat tbe sound wbicb came 
witb tbe wind was mucli more audible tban tbe otber, is in conformity 
witb tbe generally observed fact tbat sound is beard fartber witb tbe 
wind tban against it. In tbe mean time tbe velocity of tbe wind bad 
sunk to 1^ miles per bour. 

Next, tbe vessels, leaving at 11:55 A. m. cbanged positions ; tbe Cac- 
tus, under Captain Davis, steamed west, directly in tbe direction from 
wbicb tbe wind came, wbile tbe INIistletoe, under General Woodrufl", 
steamed east, directly before tbe wind. Tbe result of tbis trial was well 
marked in all respects ; tbe sound of tbe Mistletoe was lost in 9 minutes, 
wbicb, from tbe speed of tbe steamer, was estimated at about lA miles, 
wbile tbe sound of tbe Cactus was beard distinctly for 30 minutes, or 
at an estimated distance of 5 miles. Tbe wind at tbe middle of tbis 
trial bad sunk to 0.12 mile per bour, or nearly to a calm. Tbe result of 
tbis trial was somewbat abnormal, for tbougb tbe wind bad sunk nearly 
to a calm, tbe sound was still beard tbree times as far in tbe direction of 
tbe sligbt wind as against it. 

After a lai)se of an bour and a balf a tbird trial was made ; in tbe 
mean time tbe wind bad cbanged witbin two points of an exactly 
opposite direction, blowing, from tbe indications of tbe anemometer, at 
tbe rate of ten and one-balf miles per bour. 

Tbe Cactus again steamed in tbe eye of tbe wind, wbicb was now 
bowever from nearly an opposite point of tbe compass, wbile tbe otber 
vessel steamed in an opposite direction. Tbe sound of tbe Cactus was 
lost at tbe end of twenty-seven minutes, witb tbe wind, or at a distance 
of four and a balf miles. 

Tbe sound of tbe IMistletoe was lost at tbe end of tbirty minutes, or 
at a distance of live miles, moving against a brisk wind tbeu blowing. 

Tbis result was entirely unexpected and mucb surprised every member 
of tbe party, since it was confidently exj^ected tbat an increase in tbe 
intensity of tbe wind of more tban ten miles per bour, and a cbange to 
tbe opposite direction, would materially affect tbe audibility of tbe 
sound, and give a large result in favor of tbe sound, wbicb moved in 
tbe same direction witb tbe wind, but tbis was not tbe case. In tbe 
course of all tbe observations in several years in wbicb investigations 
bave been carried on under tbe direction of tbe cbairman of tbe board, 
tbis is tbe only instance in wbicb be bad beard a sound at a greater dis- 
tance against tbe wind tban witb it, altbougb, as before stated, a num- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 507 

ber of cases have been reported by otlier observers in which, under 
peculiar conditions of the weather, this phenomenon has been observed. 

To briefly recapitulate the results, we have in this case three instances, 
in succession, in which a sound was heard farther from the west than 
from the east, although in the mean time the wuid had changed to nearly 
an opposite direction. Had these results been deduced from the first 
observations made on the hitluence of wind on sound, or, in other 
words, without previous experience, the conclusion would have been 
definitely reached that something else than wind afi'ected the convey- 
ance of sound, and this conclusion would have been correct, if the sug- 
gestion had been confined to the wind at the surface ; but from previous 
observations and theoretical conclusions, the observed phenomena are 
readily accounted for by supposing that during the whole time of ob- 
servation the v.iud was blowing from the west in tlie higher part of the 
aerial cm-rent, and that the calm and opposing wind observed were con- 
fined to the region near the surface. To test this hypothesis. Major 
Haius constructed a balloon of tissue-paper, which, after being com- 
pleted, was unfortunately burned in the attempt to inflate it with heated 
air. 

The remainder of this day was devoted to observations on the sound 
of the siren at the bght-house at Sandy Uook. For this purpose the 
Cactus, under Captain Davis, was directed to steam in the eye of the 
wind, while the Mistletoe, under General Woodruff, steamed before the 
wind, and the Putnam steamed at right angles to the wind. Unfor- 
tunately, on account of the diminution of light at the closing in of the 
day, nothing could be observed. The only result obtained was that one 
of the duplicate sirens was heard more distinctly than the other, namely, 
the one with the higher note. 

Experiments September 24, 1874. — The place chosen for the observa- 
tions of this day was still farther out in the ocean, at the Sandy Hook 
light- vessel, G miles from the nearest point of land. The pressure of the 
atmosphere was a little greater than the day before, being 30.52 ; the 
temperature about the same, 72° Fahr. wind light, from a westerly 
direction, as on the previous day, with a force, as indicated by the 
anemometer, of 1,2 miles per hour. Having been provided with a num- 
ber of India-rubber toy balloons, the two vessels were sent off in opposite 
directions — the Mistletoe toward the west, against the wind, the Cactus 
toward the east, with the wind, leaving at 10:40 A. m. A change was 
also made in observing the sound. In these observations the sound was 
noted at each vessel from the other, the speed of the steamers being the 
same,; the distance between them when the Mistletoe lost the sound of 
the Cactus was two miles, while the Cactus continued to hear the ]\Iistle- 
toe's sound coming with the wind until they were four miles apart. Simul- 
taneously with this observation a balloon was let olf from the Putnam 
at the light-vessel, which, in its ascent, moved continuously obUquely 



508 RESEARCHES IN SOUND 

upward in a line slightly curving toward the horizon, in the direction of 
the wind at the surface, as far as it could he followed with the eye, in- 
dicating a wind in the same direction in the several strata through which 
it passed, but of a greater velocity in the upper strata. 

The vessels now changed places, the Cactus steaming west, the Mis- 
tletoe east, the wind having entirely ceased at the surface of the earth. 
In this case the Cactus lost the sound of the Mistletoe when the vessels 
were two miles apart, while the Mistletoe continued to hear the sound 
of the Cactus until they were three miles apart. A balloon let off as- 
cended vertically until it attained an elevation of about one thousand 
feet, when, turning east, it followed the direction of the previous one. 
The sound in this case from the east was heard three miles, while that 
from the west was heard two miles, while in the preceding observations 
the distances were as 2 to 1 ; the only changing element, as far as could 
be. observed, was that of the wind at the surface, which became less. 

Third trial, 12:45 p. m. — The wind previous to this trial had changed 
its direction 10 points or about 112^° round through the south, and as 
indicated by the anemometer at a velocity of 4.8 miles per hour. In 
this case the Cactus, going against the wind, lost the Mistletoe's sound 
coming to her against the wind when the vessels were 1 mile apart, 
while the Mistletoe heard the Cactns, the sound coming to her with the 
wind when the vessels were 1-^- miles apart. The several balloons set 
off at this time were carried by the surface wind westwardly until nearly 
lost to sight, when they were observed to turn east, following the direc- 
tion of the wind observed in the earlier observations. The results of 
the whole series of observations are extremely interesting. In all the 
experiments the difference in the audibility of the sound in different di- 
rections was very marked, and indeed it rarely ha|)pens that the sound 
is equal in two directions, although from the hypothesis adopted this 
may be possible, since, according to this hypothesis, both the upi>er and 
lower currents have an influence upon the audibility of sound in certain 
directions. From the tirst trial, the motion of the air being in the same 
direction both below and above, but probably more rapid above than 
below on account of resistance, the upper part of the sound-wave would 
move more rapidly than the lower, and the wave would be deflected 
downward, and therefore the sound, as usual, heard farther with the wind 
than against it. In the third experiment of the same day, in which the 
wind changed to an almost opposite direction, if the wind remained the 
same above, as we have reason to suppose it did from the observations 
on the balloons on the second day, the sound should be heard still 
farther in the same direction or against the wind at the surface, since, 
in this case, the sound-wave being more retarded near the surface would 
be tipped over more above and the sound thus be thrown down. 

The observations of the second day are also in conformity with the 
same hypothesis, the change in the wind being probably due to the 
heating of the land, as the day advanced, beyond the temperature of 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 509 

« 
tlie water, and tluis producing- a current from tlie latter to the former, 
while the wind observed in the moruiug from the west was the land- 
wind due to the cooling of the latter. 

In the morning the wind was blowing from the west both in the 
higher strata and at the surface of the earth, and in this condition the 
sound was heard farther with the wind than against it. 

The wind at the surface about midday gradually ceased, and shortly 
afterward sprang up from an east direction; in this condition the sound, 
with the wind at the surface, was heard at a greater distance. This is 
also in strict conformity with the theory of a change in the form of the 
sound-wave, as in the latter case the lower portion would be retarded, 
while the upper portion of the wave would be carried forward with the 
same velocity, and hence the sound would be thrown down on the ear 
of the observer. To explain the result of the third trial of the second 
day, we have only to suppose that the influence of the upper current 
was less than that of the lower. The conditions for these observations 
were unusually favorable, the weather continuing the same during the 
two days, and the change of the wind also taking place at nearly the 
same hour. 

The fact thus established is entirely incompatible with the supposition 
that the diminution in the sound is principally caused by a want of 
homogeneity in the constitution of the atmosphere, since this would 
operate to absorb sound equally in both directions. 

In May, 1873, Professor Tyndall commenced a series of investigations 
on the subject of the transmission of sound, under the auspices of the 
Trinity House, of England, in which whistles, trumpets, guns, and a 
siren were used, the last-named instrument having been lent by the 
Light-House Board of the United States to the Trinity House for the 
purpose of the experiments in question. The results of these investi- 
gations were, in most respects, similar to those which we had previously 
obtained. In regard to the efficiency of the instruments, the same order 
was determined which has been given in this report, namely, the siren, 
the trumpet, and the whistle. Professor Tyndall's opinion as to the 
efficiency of the siren may bo gathered from the following remarks. 
Speaking of the obstruction of sound in its application as a fog-signal, 
he says, "There is but one solution of this difficulty, which is to make 
the source of sound so powerful as to be able to endiu-e loss and still 
retain sufficient residue for transmission. Of all the iustrnments hitherto 
examined by us the siren comes nearest to the fulfillment of this condi- 
tion, and its establishment upon our coasts will, in my opinion, prove an 
incalculable boon to the mariner."' Professor Tyndall arrived at the 
conclusions which the information we had collected tended to establish, 
that the existence of fog, however dense, does not materially interfere 
with the propagation of sound ; and also that sound is generally heard 
farther with the wind than against it, although the variatiou of the in- 



510 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

tensity of the sound is not in all cases in proijortion to the velocity of 
the wind. The result of his investigations in regard to the pitch of sound 
was also similar to those we have given ; and, indeed, all the facts which 
he has stated are, with a single exception as to the direction of the echo, 
in strict accordance with what we have repeatedly observed. We regret 
to say, however, that we cannot subscribe to the conclusions which he 
draws from his experiments as to the cause of the retardation of sound 
that it is due to a flocculent condition of the atmosphere, caused by the 
intermingling with it of invisible aqueous vapor. 

That a flocculent condition of the atmosphere, due to the varying den- 
sity produced by the mingling of aqueous vapor, is a true cause of ob- 
struction in the transmission of sound is a fact borne out by deduction 
from the principles of wave-motion, as well as by the experiments of the 
distinguished physicist of the Eoj'al Institution of Great Britain ; but 
trom all the observations we have made on this subject we are far from 
thinking that this is the efficient cause of the phenomena under consider- 
ation. A fatal objection, we think, to the truth of the hypothesis Pro- 
fessor Tyndall has advanced is that the obstruction to the sound, what- 
ever may be its nature, is not the same in diiferent directions. We think 
we are warranted in asserting that in the cases of acoustic opacity which, 
he has described, if he had simultaneously made observations in an op- 
X)osite direction, he Avould have come to a different conclusion. That a 
flocculent condition of the atmosphere should slightly obstruct the sound 
is not difficult to conceive ; but that it should obstruct the ray in one 
direction and not in an opposite, or in a greater degree in one direction 
than in another, the stratum of air being the same in both cases, is at 
variance with any fact in nature with which we are acquainted. We 
would hesitate to speak so decidedly against the conclusions of Professor 
Tyndall, for whose clearness of conception of physical principles, skill 
in manipulation, and i)ower of logical deduction we entertain the highest 
appreciation, were the facts which were obtained in our investigations 
of a less explicit character. 

While tlie phenomena in question are incompatible with the assump- 
tion of a flocculent atmosphere as a cause, they are in strict accordance 
with the hypothesis of the refraction of the waves of sound due to a 
difference in velocity in the upper and lower portions of the currents of 
air. We do not say, however, that the transmission of sound in the 
atmosphere is fully investigated, or that the abnormal phenomena which 
are said to have been observed in connection with fog-signal stations 
have been fully explained. So far from this, we freely admit we are as 
yet in ignorance as to how the hypothesis we have adopted is applicable 
to the critical explanation of the obstruction to sound in the abnormal 
cases mentioned by General Duane. We feel, however, considerable 
confidence in its power to afford a rational explanation of these pheno- 
mena when the conditions under which they exist shall have been accu- 
rately determined. 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 511 

We are farther confirmed in our conclusion by the publication of an 
interesting i^aper in the proceedings of the Eoyal Society- by Professor 
Osborne Eeynolds, of Owens College, Manchester, intended to show that 
sound is not absorbed by the condition of the atmosphere, but refracted 
in a, manner analogous to the hypothesis which has been adopted in the 
preceding report. 

Much further investigation is required to enable us to fully under- 
stand the effects of winds on the obstruction of sound, and to determine 
the measure of the effect of variations of density in the air due to in- 
equality of heat and moisture. But such investigations can only be 
made under i^eculiar conditions of weather and favorable localities, with 
the aid of a number of steamers, and a series of observers, by whom the 
transmissibility of the air may be simultaneously observed in different 
directions. The position which we were so fortunate to obtain in our 
experiments in the lower bay of New York at the season of the prev- 
alence of land and sea breezes was exceptionally favorable for the study 
of the action of wind upon sound. It is the intention of the Light- 
House Board to continue observations in regard to this matter, an3 to 
embrace every favorable opportunity for their prosecution under new 
and varied conditions. 

Light-House Board, October, 1874. 



PAET IV.— INVESTIGATIONS IN 1875.* 
Prelijvidtary Eemarks. 

In the Appendix to the Light-House Eeport of 1874 1 gave an account 
of a series of investigations relative to fog-signals, which had been made 
at difierent times under the direction of the chairman of the committee 
on experiments. 

These investigations were not confined to the instruments for produc- 
ing sound, but included a series of observations on sound itself, in its 
application to the uses of the mariner. In the course of these investiga- 
tions the following conclusions were early arrived at : 

1st. That the rays of a beam of loud sound do not, like those of light, 
move parallel to each other from the surface of a concave reflector, but 
constantly diverge laterally on all sides; and, although at first they are 
more intense in the axis of the reflector, they finally si)read out so as to 
encompass the whole horizon, thus rendering the use of reflectors to 
enforce sound for fog-signals of little value. 

2d. That the effect of wind in increasing or diminishing sound is not 
confined to currents of air at the surface of the earth, but that those of 
higher strata are also active in varying its transmission. 

3d. That although sound is generally heard farther with the wind than 
against it, yet in some instances the reverse is remarkably the case, espec- 

* From tlie Eejiort of tlie Light-House Board, for 1875. 



512 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 



ially in one locality; in wliicli the sound is heard against a northeast, 
snow-storm more distinctly than when the wind is in an opposite direc- 
tion. This anomaly was referred to the action of an upper current in 
an opposite direction to that at .the earth, such a current being known 
to exist in the case of northeast storms on our coast. But in what man- 
ner the action of the wind increased or diminished the audibility of 
sound was a problem not solved. It could not be due, as might be 
thought at first sight, to the acceleration of the sonorous impulse by the 
addition of the velocity of the wind to that of sound, on the one hand, 
nor to the retardation of the latter by the motion of the wind, on the 
other. The inadequacy of this explanation must be evident when we 
reflect that sound moves at the rate of 750 miles an hour, and therefore 
a wind of 7^ miles an hour would only increase its velocity one per cent. ,• 
whereas the actual increase in audibility produced by a wind of this 
intensity is in some instances several hundred per cent. 

In this state of our knowledge, a suggestion of Professor Stokes, of 
Cambridge, England, which offered a plausible exi^lanation of the action 
of the wind, became known to us, and was immediately adopted as a 
working hypothesis to direct investigations. 

This suggestion, the importance of which appears to have escaped 
general recognition, is founded on the fact that the several strata into 
which a current of air may be divided do not move with the same veloc- 
ity. The lower stratum is retarded by friction against the earth and by 
the various obstacles it meets with, the one immediately above by friction 
against the lower, and so on ; hence the velocity increases from the ground 
upward — a conclusion established by abundant observation. ISTow, in 
I)erfectly still air, a sounding instrument, such as a bell, produces a series 
of concentric weaves perfectly spherical ; but in air in motion the differ- 
ence of velocity above and below disturbs the spherical form of the 
sound-wave, giving it somewhat the character of an oblique ellipsoid, 
by tending to flatten it above — to the windward, and to increase its con- 
vexity above — to the leward ; and since the direction of the sound is per- 
jiendicular to the sound-wave, against the wind it will be thrown upward 
above the head of the observer, and in the opposite direction downward 
toward the earth. A similar effect will be produced, but with some varia- 
tions and perhaps greater intensity, by a wind above, opposite to that at 
the surface of the earth. 

These propositions will be rendered plain by the following illustrations 
(Figures 1, 2, and 3), for which I am indebted to an article in the Ameri- 
can Journal of Science, by William B. Taylor. 

Fiff. 1. 




EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 



515 



In these, Figure 1 represents the effect of a favorable -^ind in depress- 
ing- the waves of sound, S being the signal-station and O the point of 
observation. The wind blowing from W to E, as the spheroidal faces 
of the sonorous waves become more pressed forward by the greater ve- 
locitj^ of the wind above, assuming it to be retarded at the surface by 
friction, and the direction of the acoustic beam being constantly normal 
to the wave-surfaces, the lines of direction of the sound will gradually 
be bent downward and reach the ear of the observer with an accumu- 
lated effect at the point O. 

Fio-. 2, 




Figure 2 represents the ordinary effect of an opposing wind blowing 
from E to W against the sound ; the wave-faces being more resisted 
above than below, assuming as before a retardation at the surface, the 
sound-beams are curved upward, and the lowest ray that would reach, 
in still air, the distant observer at O, is gradually so tilted np that it 
passes above the ear of the listener, leaving him in an acoustic shadow. 



Fiff. 3. 




mmsy;m. 



Figure 3 represents the disturbing effect of two winds, the lower in 
opposition to the sound at the surface, and the upper with it. In this 
case the principal effect will be a depression of the sound-beam, similar 
to that shown in Figure 1, but more strongly marked, as the difference 
of motion will be greater as we ascend. Attending this action, says 
Mr. Taylor, there will probably be some lagging of the lower stratum 
by reason of the surface- friction, the tendency of which will be to dis- 
tort the lower part of the sound-waves, giviug them a reverse or serpen- 
tine curvature. In this case the upper ray of sound would only have a 
single curvature, similar to that shown in Figure 1, while the lower rays 
would be represented by the lower line S O, rendering the sound less 
audible at an intermediate xioint, ^, than at the more distant station O. 
This hypothetical case of compound refraction offers a j)lausible ex- 
planation of the paradox of a nearer sound being diminished in power 
by the wind which increases the effect of a more distant one. 
S. Mis. 59 33 



514 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

In these figures and all the succeeding ones the direction of the wind 
is indicated bj^ arrows. 

The hypothesis we have adopted in connection with the fact of the 
lateral si^read of sound gives a simple explanation of various abnormal 
phenomena of sound such as has been observed in the previous investi- 
gations, and of which the following are examples : First, the audibility 
of a sound at a distance, and its inaudibility nearer the source of sound ; 
second, the inaudibility of a sound at a given distance in one direction, 
while a lesser sound is heard at the same distance in an oi^posite direc- 
tion ; third, the audibility of the sound of an instmment at one time 
at the distance of several miles, while at another time the sound of the 
same instrument cannot be heard at more than a- fifth of the same dis- 
tance ; fourth, while the sound is heard generally farther with the wind 
than against it, in some instances the reverse is the case ; fifth, the sud- 
den loss of sound in i^assing from one locality to another in the same 
vicinity, the distance from the source of the sound being the same. 

The first four of these i)henomena find a ready explanation in the 
hypothesis adopted bj^ supposing an increase or diminution in the rela- 
tive velocity of the currents of wind in the upper or lower strata of air. 
The fifth is exiDlained by the interposition of an obstacle which casts, 
as it were, a sound-shadow, disappearing at a given distance by the 
divergence of the rays on each side of the obstacle into what would be 
an optical shadow. 

Accounts of these investigations were presented from time to time to 
the Light-House Board, and to the Philosophical Society of Washington 
in 1872. Subsequently a series of investigations on the same subject 
was instituted in England by the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House, 
under the direction of their scientific adviser, the celebrated physicist. 
Dr. Tyndall. While in the latter investigations various abnormal phe- 
nomena, similar in most instances to those we have mentioned, were 
observed, they were referred by Dr. Tyndall to an entirely different 
cause, viz, to the existence of acoustic clouds, consisting of portions of 
the atmosphere in a flocculent or mottled condition, due to the unequal 
distribution of heat and moisture, which, absorbing and reflecting the 
sound, produce an atmosphere of acoustic opacity. While we do not 
deny the possible existence of such a condition of the atmosphere, we 
think it insufficient to account for all the phenomena in question, and 
believe that a more general and efllcient cause is that of the wind, in 
accordance with the hypothesis of Professor Stokes. 

We regret to differ in opinion from Dr. Tyndall, and have published 
our dissent from his views in no spirit of captious criticism or desire to 
undervalue the results he has obtained, some of which are highly im- 
portant. Our only object in our remarks and in our investigations is 
the establishment of ti'uth. 

The determination of the question as to the cause of the abnormal 
phenomena of sound we have mentioned, and the discovery of new phe 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 515 

nornena, are not mere matters of abstract scientific interest, bnt are of 
great practical iinporfcauce, involving the secnrity of life and property, 
since they include the knowledge necessary to the proper placing of 
fog-signals, and the instruction of mariners in the manner of using 
them. 

The hypothesis we have adopted, that of the change of direction of 
sound by the unequal action of the wind ujion the sound-waves, is 
founded on well-established mechanical principles, and offers a ready 
explanation of facts' otherwise inexplicable. It is also a fruitful source 
from which to deduce new consequences to be verified or disproved by 
direct experiment. It would however ill become the spirit of true 
science to assert that this hypothesis is sufiicient to explain all the facts 
which may be discovered in regard to sound in its application to fog- 
signals, or to rest satisfied with the idea that no other expression of a 
general principle is necessary. An investigati^on however to be fruit- 
ful in results, as a general rule, must be guided by ajyriori conceptions. 
Haphazard experiments and observations may lead to the discovery of 
isolated facts, but rarely to the establishment of scientific principles. 
There is danger however in the use of hypotheses, particularly by those 
inexperienced in scientific investigations, that the value of certain 
results may be overestimated, while to others is assigned less weight 
than really belongs to them. This tendency must be guarded against. 
The condition of the experiment must be faithfully narrated, and a scru- 
pulously truthful account of the results given. While we have used 
the hypothesis above mentioned in the following investigations as some- 
thing more than an antecedent probability, we have not excluded ob- 
servations which may militate against it, and we hold oui'selves ready 
to admit the application of other principles, or to modify our concep- 
tion of those we have adopted, when new facts are discovered which 
warrant such changes. But we require positive evidence, and cannot 
adopt any conclusions which we think are not based upon a logical 
correlation of facts. 

The investigations described in the following account, though sim^ole 
{u their conception, have been difQcult and laborious in their execution. 
To be of the greatest practical value they were required to be made on 
the ocean, under the conditions in which the results ai^e to be applied to 
the use of the mariner, and therefore they could only be conducted by 
means of steam-vessels of sufficient power to withstand the force of 
1 ough seas, and at times when these vessels could be spared from other 
duty. They also required a number of intelligent assistants skilled in 
observation and faithful in recording results. 

Observations in August, 1875, at Block Island. 

The party engaged in these investigations consisted of the chairman 
of the Light-House Board; General Woodruff, U. S. A., engineer third 
light-house district; Dr. James C. Welling, president of Columbian Uni- 



516 RESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

versify, Washington, D. C.5 Mr. T. Brown, of Few York, patentee of 
tlie siren; Mr. Edw. Woodruff, assistant superintendent of construction ; 
and Captain Keeney, commander of tlie liglit-liouse steamer Mistletoe. 
They arrived at Block Island on the afternoon of the 4th of August, 
1875. This place was chosen as the site of the experiments, first, on 
account of its insular position, being as it were in the i^rolongation of 
the axis of Long Island, distant fifteen miles from the most easterly 
part of the latter, and entirely exposed to the winds and waves of the 
Atlantic Ocean; and, secondly, because there are on Block Island two 
light-houses, one of which is of the first order, and connected with it are 
two fog-signals, one of them with the latest improvements. (See Fig. 4.) 

Observations in kegaed to the Aerial Echo. 

This phenomenon has been frequently observed in the researches of 
the Light-House Board, in case of powerful sounds from the siren and 
from the fog-trumi)et.* It consists of a distinct reflection of sound as if 
from a point near the horizon in the i^rolongation of the axis of the trum- 
pet. The question of the origin of this echo has an important bearing, 
according to Dr. Tyndall, on the explanation of the abnormal phenom- 
ena of sound we have mentioned. He refers it to the non-homogeneous 
condition of portions of the air, which reflect back the waves of sound 
in accordance with the analogy of the reflection of light at the common 
surface of two media of different densities. Vv^c have adopted, as a pro- 
visional hypothesis, that it is due to the reflection from the waves and 
the larger undulations of the surfjxce of the ocean, in connection with 
the divergenc}^ of beams of powerful sounds. To bring these hypotheses 
to the test of a crucial exi^eriment, arrangements were made, under the 
direction of Mr. Brown, to change the direction of the axis of one of the 
sirens from the horizontal to the vertical position. 

The first observations were made August 5, with the siren in its usual 
horizontal position, while the air was so charged with fog as to render 
the sound of the instrument necessary for the guidance of the mariner, 
the image of the sun being obscured and the land invisible from the 
sea. Under these conditions an echo was heard when the pressure of the 
steam reached 50 pounds per square inch. The reflection in this case, 
as usual, was from a point in the sea-horizon in the iirolongation of the 
axis of the trumi^et. It was not, however, heard more distinctly when 
standing near the origin of the sound than at several hundred feet on 
either side of it. The interval between the cassation of the original 
sound and the commencement of the echo was not as marked as in some 
previous observations, not being more than four or five seconds. The 

* The same pliciioinenon is mentioued by Froissart iu his-account of tlie enibarkatioii 
of tlic expedition of the French and English to the coast of Africa to assist the Genoese 
against the pirates in 1390, " It was a beautifnl sij^ht," says the chronicler, " to view 
this fleet, with the emblazoned banners of the dili'erent lords liuttering iu the wind, 
and to hear the minstrels and other mnsieiaus sounding their pipes, clari(uis, and trum- 
pets, whose sounds were xe-echoed back by the sea." (See Illustrations of Froissart 
by H. N. Humphrey, Plate IV.) 



KESEAECHES 'iN SOUND. 517 

duration of the eclio was on tlie average about eight seconds, beginning 
with the time of its first i)erception, and not with the cessation of the 
sound of the trumpet. General Woodruff and Doctor Welling both noted 
the peculiar character of the echo, which was that of a series of reflec- 
tions varying in intensity from a maximum, near the beginning, and 
gradually dying away. The wind was nearly at right angles to the axis 
ot the trumpet and also to that of the crests of the swell of the ocean, 
which was rolling in from the effects of a commotion without. The 
barometer at 12 m. indicated 30.2 inches; the dry-bulb thermometer 
73° F. the wet-bulb 70° F. indicating a remarkable degree of aqueous 
saturation. During the whole day the air in all the region around 
Block Island was undoubtedly in a homogeneous condition. 

August G. — On this day the weather was nearly the same. The fog- 
signal on the oth instant was kept in operation for the use of the mariner 
nineteen hours, and on this day it was blown twenty hours continuously. 
The barometer marked 30.20 inches ; the thermometer 70° F. ; the fog 
not as eciually distributed as on the preceding day ; the north end of the 
island, distant four miles, being distinctly visible. The wind was S. W. 
to S., making an angle of about 00° with the axis of the fog-trumpet. 
The echo continued to be heard distinctly with a sound varying in 
intensity, but was not as loud as we have heard it on certain occasions 
in x)re^'ious years. 

During this and the preceding day, workmen were employed under 
Mr. Brown in inserting a flexible India-rubber tube, two inches in diam- 
eter, between the revolving plate of the siren and the smaller end of the 
trumpet, so that it might be brought into a vertical position. This work, 
though apparently simple, was difficult in execution, since it involved 
the necessity of strong su^^ports for the cast-iron trumpet, which in itself 
weighed eight hundred pounds, and also of a union of the parts of suf- 
ficient strength to resist the pressure of the steam at fifty pounds to the 
square inch. 

August 7. — Wind from the S. S. W. Fog continued ; the workmen had 
not as yet completed the attachment. 

August 9. — Barometer 30.30 inches at 12 M. Dry -bulb thermometer 
74° F. ; wet bulb 71^.5. Wind S. S. W. Fog dense along the south 
coast, but light over all the northern portion of the island. The echo 
was heard all day, not very loudly, but distinctly. Siren still horizontal, 
the arrangement for elevating it not having been, at 10 a. m., completed. 
Experiments were made on the reciprocal sounds of the whistles from 
two steamers, the results to be given hereafter. At 5 p. m. the adjust- 
ment of the flexible tube to the smaller end of the trumpet was finished, 
which, giving an additional length to the instrument of about 5 feet, 
threw it out of unison with the sken proper. To restore this unison the 
t«peed of revolution of the perforated plate was diminished, and after this 
the trumpet, still being horizontal, was sounded. An echo similar in 



518 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

character to those which had been observed on the preceding day, and 
the earher part of the same day, was prodnced. 

August 10. — Barometer 30.10 inches. Dry bulb 74° ; wet bulb G9^ F. 
Wind W. S. W. ; atmosphere hazy. Observations first made with the 
trumpet horizontal. Echo as that of preceding days, distinct but not 
very loud, and coming principally from the portion of the horizon in the 
direction of the axis of the trumpet. The position of the trumpet was 
then changed, its axis being turned to the zenith in order to make what 
was thought might be a crucial experiment. When the trumpet was 
now sounded a much louder echo was produced than that which was 
heard with the axis of the trumpet horizontal, and it appeared to encircle 
the whole horizon ; but though special attention was directed to the point 
by all the party present, no reverberation was heard from the zenith. 
The echo appeared however to be more regular and prolonged from the 
ocean portion of the horizon than from that of the land. 

In this experiment, while there was no reflection from the zenith in 
which the sonorous impulse was strongest, there must have been 
reverberations from the surfiice of the land and the ocean. This will 
be evident when we consider the great divergency of sound by which 
sonorous waves from a vertical trumpet are thrown down to the 
plane of the horizon on every side, some of which, meeting oblique sur- 
faces, must be reflected back to the ear of the observ^er near the source 
of the sound. This inference will be more evident when it is recol- 
lected that the reflected rays of sound diverge as well as those of the 
original impulse. Hence reflection from the surface of the sea is a true 
cause of the echo, but whether it be a sufficient one may require fui'ther 
investigation. For this explanation it is not necessary that the sea 
should be covered with crested waves ; a similar effect would take place 
were the surface perfectly smooth but in the form of wide swells, which 
in places exi)osed to an open sea are scarcely ever absent. Moreover, 
the increased loudness of the echo is a fact in accordance with the same 
view. 

The observations were repeated with the same effect on succeeding 
days, until this class of experimenlfs was ended by the bursting of the 
India-rubber tube. Had a distinct echo been heard from the zenith, the 
result would have been decidedly in favor of the hypothesis of a reflec- 
tion from the air ; but as this was not the case the question still remained 
undetermined, especially since the atmosphere during these experiments 
was evidently in a homogeneous condition. We do not agree however 
in the position taken in the report of the Trinity Board, that on the 
origin of this echo depends the whole solution of the problem as to the 
efficient cause of the abnormal phenomena of sound. The ingenious ex- 
perimental illustrations of the reflection of sound from a flame or heated 
air, establish clearly the ijossibility of such reflection ; but it must be 
remembered they were made under exaggerated conditions, the atmos- 
X)here being in a state of extreme rarefaction in a limited space, and the 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 519 

sound of a feeble character, while the phenomena in nature ai-c produced 
with a comparatively small difference of temperature and with powerful 
sounds. 

Experiments at Block Island 

relative to the effect of elevation on audibility. 

For this investigation the first-order light-house at Block Island offered 
peculiar facilities. It is situated near the edge of a perpendicular bluffy 
153 feet above the sea. The tower being 52 feet above the base, gives a 
total height to the focal i^lane of the lens of 204 feet, on the level of which 
the ear of the observer could be jjlaced. 

The first and second experiments of this class were made on the 10th 
of August, with two light-house steamers, the Putnam and the Mistletoe, 
moving simultaneously in opposite directions. The barometer indicated 
30.10 inches of atmospheric pressure ; the dry-bulb thermometer indi- 
cating 74P F., and the wet-bulb 09°. The wind at the time of the ex- 
joeriments was from the west, and of a veloeitj" of seven miles per hour. 
The vessels started from the point C, Fig. 4, opposite the light-house, 
A, about one mile distant, a position as near the shore as it was con- 
sidered safe to venture. The Putnam steamed with the wind, the Mis- 
tletoe steamed against the wind, each blowing its whistle every half 
minute. The duration of the sound was noted at the top of the tower and 
at the level of the sea, Mr. Brown being the observer at the latter sta- 
tion, while the chairman of the board, with an assistant, observed at the 
former. On comparing notes, the watches having been previously set 
to the same time, it was found — 

First. That the duration of the sound on the tower, when coming 
against the wind, was nine minutes, while at the base of the cliii" it was 
heard only one minute. It was afterward found from the records on 
board of the Putnam, the sound of which came against the wind, that 
this vessel was moving, during the exi)eriment, at half-speed, and hence 
the duration of the sound on the tower should be considered as 4|^ minutes, 
and the difference in favor of audition on the tower 4 minutes instead 
of 8, as given by the first record. 

Second. That the sound of the Mistletoe, coming to the observer with 
the wind, was heard on the tower during 15 minutes, while it was heard 
at the base of the cliff during 34 minutes, the difference being 19 minutes 
in favor of hearing at the level of the sea. This result, which differs from 
that of all the other experiments of the same class, deserves special at- 
tention. 

After making the foregoing experiments of this class, and others, on 
the effect of wind on sound, to be described in the next section, the ves- 
sels were called off" for other duty, and the investigations were not re- 
sumed until August 17, when the following experiments were made : 

The third experiment. — The wind was from the E. X. E., at the rate of 



520 



EESEAKCHES IN SOUND. 



about five miles per liour at the surface, and a greater velocity at the 
height of the tower. Barometer, 30.25 ins. ; thermometer, 72°. 



Fi-. 4. 



BLOCK ISLAND 



t, S Buoy 




i^ 



■j^ 



i 






>^- 



^ O 



Scale of m ties 

i % 3 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 521 

In tills and the subsequent experiments of the same day but one 
steamer — the Mistletoe — was employed. It started at 10:30 A. m. from 
the point C, Fig. 4, at the foot of the clifl', and steamed W. S. W. along 
C B for about 12 minutes, or a distance of two miles, blowing the whistle 
every half- minute. To note the duration of the sound, Dr. Welling was 
stationed at the foot of the cliflf, at the level of the sea, while the chair- 
man of the Light-House Board, with an assistant who acted as clerk, 
was on the upper gaUery of the tower, the ears of the latter being almost 
precisely 200 feet above those of the observer at the foot of the cliff. 

The watches having been i)reviously set to the same time, on compar- 
ing results it was found that the whistle was heard at the top of the 
tower for twelve minutes and at the bottom of the cliif for five and one- 
half minutes, making the difference in favor of audition on the tower six 
and one-half minutes. In this experiment the sound came to the ob- 
servers nearly against the wind. 

The fourth experiment consisted in directing the Mistletoe to proceed 
in the opposite direction from the same point, along the line C D. It 
started at 11:5 A. m. the breeze being light at the time, and proceeded 
about two and one-half miles before the sound was lost to the observers. 
On comparing notes it was found that the sound was heard at the top 
of the tower during fifteen minutes, and at the level of the sea for eleven 
minutes, giving a difference in favor of the hearing on the top of the 
tower of four minutes. 

In the Jifth experiments the Mistletoe steamed again in the direction 
■udth the wind, the sound from its whistle coming to the ears of the ob- 
servers against the wind. Starting about 11:45 A. m. and steaming about 
two miles, the sound was heard on the tower during twelve minutes 
and at the foot of the clLS' during five and one-half minutes, making a 
difference of six and a half minutes in favor of audition on the tower. 
Previous to this experiment the wind had veered one point to the west, 
bringing the direction of the sound to the observers in less direct oppo- 
sition to the wind than in the last experiment. 

The sixth experiment. — In this case the steamer was directed to proceed 
in the opftosite direction, or against the wind, so that the sound of the 
whistle would reach the ear of the observers in the same direction as 
that of the wind. It started at 12:19 p. M. and proceeded two and one- 
sixth miles ; the whistle was heard during thirteen minutes on the top of 
the tower, and at the bottom of the cliff during precisely the same time, 
the difference between the top of the tower and the bottom of the cliff 
in this case being nothing. 

The vessel having again been called off on other duty the seventh ex- 
periment was made the 1st of September. On this day the wind was 
northeast ; the velocity at the top of tlte tower was thirteen and a^ half 
miles per hour, and at the bottom of the tower eleven miles per hour. 
The barometer indicated 30.20 inches pressure, the dry bulb 72^, and the 
wet bulb G7io 



522 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

The theoretical conditions for exhibiting the effect of height on audi- 
tion in this exi)eriment were much more favorable than any of the pre- 
ceding. First, the velocity of the wind was greater; second, the differ- 
ence between the velocities at top and bottom of the tower was well 
marked, and the direction of the wind was more favorable for direct 
opposition to the sound as it came to the ear of the observer. In this 
case General Woodruff was the observer at the bottom of the cliff, while 
the chairman of the Light-House Board and his assistant, with several 
visitors, were at the top of the tower. 

The steamer started at 10:58 A. m. and proceeded during eight minutes, 
or a mile and one-third, when the sound was lost at the top of the tower. 
In this case, though the sound was heard for eight minutes from the top 
of the tower, and the first five blasts marked on the notes as quite loud, 
it was not heard at all at the bottom of the cliff at least a hundred yards 
nearer the source of the sound. 

This result, which interested and surprised a number of intelligent 
Aasitors, who were in the tower at the time, strikingly illustrates the 
effect of elevation on the audibiUty of sound moving against the wind. 
The result was so important that it was thought advisable to imme- 
diately repeat the experiment under the same conditions. 

In the eighth experiment^ the Mistletoe was again directed to proceed 
in the direction of the wind, along the line it had previously traversed. 
It started at 11:25 A. M.^ and proceeded during six minutes, or one mile, 
when the sound was lost at the top of the tower. In this case, the first 
blast of the whistle was feebly heard at the base of the cliff, but no 
other, while thirteen blasts were heard at the top of the tower, of which 
the first six were marked as loud. 

That this remarkable effect was not produced by an acoustic cloud or 
a flocculent atmosphere is evident from the exijeriment which imme- 
diately succeeded. 

The ninth experiment. — In this trial, the Mistletoe was directed to pro- 
ceed against the wind, so that the sound of its whistle should come to 
the ears of the observers with the wind. It started at 11:48 A. ]\t., and 
proceeded during sixteen minutes, or two and two-thkds miles, when 
the sound of its whistle was lost to the observers on the toj) of the tower. 
In this case the sound of the whistle became audible at the bottom of 
the cliff as soon as the position of the vessel became such as to bring the 
sound to the observers approximately with the wind, and continued to 
be audible during fifteen minutes, or within one minute as long as the 
sound was heard at the top of the tower. 

It may be mentioned as an interesting fact, that an assistant who was 
observing the sound with General Woodruff at the foot of the cliff, when 
the sound could not be heard at the level of the sea, in the sixth experi- 
ment perceived it distinctly by ascending the side of the cliff to a height 
of twenty-five or thirty feet. 

All the conditions and results of these experiments are strikingly in 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 



523 



conformity with the theoiy of the refraction of sound which we have pre- 
viously exphiiued. 

The following recapitulation of the results of the foregoing experi- 
ments will exhibit their correspondence with the general theory : 

Sound lieard coming against the wind. 



Experiments. 



First - . . 
Third . . 
Fifth... 
Seventh 
Eighth . 



Average . 



Duration at the 
top of the tower. 



4^ minutes 

12 minutes 

12 minutes 

d minutes 

6 minutes 

42^ minutes 
8^ minutes 



Duration at the base of 
the cliff. 



■i minute 

5^ minutes 

5^ minutes 

Not heard 

First blast heard, but 
no other, 
i minute after starting. 

12 minutes. 

2.4 minutes 



Difference in favor of 
audition on the tower. 



4 minutes. 

6^ minutes, 

6| minutes. 

8 miuuies. 

5i- minutes. 



30^ minutes. 
6. 1 minutes. 



Sound lieard coining xcith the wind. 



Experiments. 


Duration at the 
toj> of the tower. 


Duration at the base of 
the cliff. 


Difference in f 
audition at base 


avor of 
of cliff. 


Second . ...... 


15 minutes 

15 minutes 

13 minutes 

16 minutes 

59 minutes 

14| minutes 


34 minutes 


19 minutes. 

— 4 minutes. 
minutes. 

— 1 minute. 




Fourth 


11 minutes 




Sixth 


13 minutes 




Ninth . . 


15 minutes. .. 






73 minutes 






14 minutes. 






18J minutes * * 




Average.. 


3^ minutes. 









From the first of the foregoing tables it appears that the elevation of 
the observer has a marked effect on the audition of sound moving against 
the wind while, from the second, with one important exception, it has 
very little, if any, effect on sound moving with the wind. Another ex- 
periment relative to the same class of phenomena was made on the 19th 
of August (see Fig. 4), the wind being S. S. W. Two observers, General 
Woodruff and Dr. Welling, starting from the bottom of the cliff" imme- 
diately below the light-house, went along the beach, the one in the direc- 
tion A /, and the other in direction A e. General Woodruff found that 
the sound of the siren was distinctly heard all the way to the break- 
water, and was so loud that it probably could have been heard for sev- 
eral miles in that direction. Dr. Welling, on the contrary, entirely lost 
the sound within a quarter of a mile of the light-house. This result is 
readily explained as a case of lateral refraction; the wind was in the 
direction traversed by General Woodruff, and contrary to that pursued 
by Dr. Welling. In the one case the wind, retarded by the surface of 



524 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

the cliff, moved with less velocity than it did farther out, and conse- 
quently the sound was thrown against the face of the cliff, and on the 
ear of the observer, and in the other thrown from it, thus leaving, as it 
were, a vacuum of sound. The effect in the case was very striking, since 
the siren was pointed toward the zenith, and the sound in still air could 
have been heard for miles in every direction. 

Investigations at Block Island 
in eegakd to the effect of wind on audibility. 

These were made by the aid of two steamers. Captain Walker, naval 
secretary of the board, having completed a series of inspections in the 
Third District, sent the steamer Putnam, under Captain Fields, to aid 
the Mistletoe in the investigations. They were commenced on the 9th 
of August, at 12 o'clock. The wind was S. S. W. with a velocity of 7^ 
miles per hour. Barometer, 30.3 inches; thermometer, dry bulb, 74P F. 
wet bulb, 71io F. 

The two steamers started from a buoy near the north end of the island, 
the one steaming against the wind, and the other with it, each blowing its 
whistle every minute. The distance travelled by each steamer was esti- 
mated by the running time, which, from previous observations, was found 
to be ten miles per hour. Each vessel was furnished with a whistle of 
the same size, of 6 inches diameter, actuated by the same pressure of 20 
pounds of steam, and which, by previous comparison, had been found to 
give sound at this pressure of the same penetrating power. The obser- 
vations on the Mistletoe were made by General Woodruff", and on the 
Putnam by Dr. Welling, each assisted by the officers of the respective 
vessels. The two steamers i^roceeded to buoy off" the north end of the 
island, in which position the wind was unobstructed by the land — a low 
beach. Indeed, the island being entirely destitute of trees, and consist- 
ing of a rolling surface, the wind had full sweep over it in every direction. 

First experiment. — The Putnam went against the wind and the Mistle- 
toe in the opposite direction. The Putnam lost the sound of the whistle 
of the Mistletoe in two minutes and stopped, but continued to blow the 
whistle. The Mistletoe continued on her course and heard the Putnam's 
whistle for twenty minutes in all. During the first two minutes both 
vessels were in motion, and therefore the space through which the sound 
was heard moving against the wind would be represented by 4, while the 
space through which the sound was heard moving with the wind would 
be represented by 20--1- 2 = (22), the ratio being 1 : 5J. 

Second experiment. — In this the Putnam went with the wind and the 
Mistletoe in the opposite direction. The Mistletoe lost the sound of the 
Putnam's whistle in two minutes. The Putnam then stopped and re- 
mained at rest, while the Mistletoe continued on her course until the 
Putnam lost sound of her whistle, twenty- six minutes later. As both 
steamers were separating during the first two minutes with equal speed, 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. ^ 525 

the distance travelled by tlie sound heard moving against the wind is 
represented hy 4, while the distance of the sound heard with the wind 
is rej^resented by 2(3 + 2=28, the ratio being 1:7. It should be men- 
tioned, however, that the notes in this experiment are defective and 
somewhat discrepant. 

Third experiment. — The Putnam went against the wind, the Mistletoe 
in the opposite direction. The Putnam lost the sound of the whistle of 
the Mistletoe in two minutes, while the Mistletoe continued to hear the 
whistle of the Putnam ten minutes longer. Owing to a misunderstand- 
ing, one of the steamers stopped for two minutes and then resumed its 
course. As both steamers were separating dimng the first two minutes 
with equal speed, the distance of the sound heard moving against the 
wind is represented by 4, while the sound heard with the wind through 
a space denoted by 2 x 10 -f 4—2=22, the ratio being 1 : bh 

Fourth experiment, — The vessels again changed directions, the Putnam 
going with the wind, and the Mistletoe in the opposite direction. The 
Mistletoe lost the sound in two uiinutes, and the Putnam nine minutes 
later. As each steamer was moving from the other at the same rate, 
the distance of the sound heard moving against the wind would be rep- 
resented by 4, while the distance of the sound moving with the wind 
would be represented by 9X2 + 4=22, the ratio bemg again 1 : oh. 

Fifth experiment. — This experiment was made August 10, by the same 
vessels and same observers, wind W. S. W., of about the same intensity 
as on previous days; barometer, 30.1 ins.; dry bulb, 74° P. wet bulb, 09°. 
The Putnam steamed against the Avind, and the Mistletoe in the opposite 
direction. The Putnam lost the sound in two minutes, and the ]Mistle- 
toe nine minutes later. The two vessels moving apart with equal veloc- 
ity, the si)ace traversed by the sound moving against the wind was rep- 
resented by 4, while that in the opposite direction was represented by 
22, viz, 9x2 + 4=22. 

Sixth experiment. — The vessels were next separated in a direction at 
right angles to the wind, when each reciprocally lost the sound of the 
other on an average of six minutes, giving a distance travelled by the 
sound, while audible, of twelve spaces. 

Seventh experiment. — The vessels were next directed along an interme- 
diate course between the direction of the wind and a line at right angles 
to it, with the following results : The Mistletoe, against the wind, lost 
the sound in about two minutes, while the Putnam heard the sound 
seven minutes longer. As in the previous case, the two vessels moving 
apart with equal velocity would in two minutes be separated bj- a space 
represented by 4, which would indicate the audibility of the sound mov- 
ing against the wind, and for the same reason the other vessel, li earing 
the sound seven minutes longer, would have the additional space repre- 
sented by 14, and adding to this four spaces, we have 18 to represent 
the audibility of the sound in the direction api)roximating that of the 
wind. 



526 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 



Tlie following table exMbits at one view tlie results of the foregoing 
experiments, wJiich relate to sound moving against tlie wind, and with, 
the ^yind, reduced to miles. 



Experiment. 


Sound with tlie wind. 


Sound against wind. 


1 


Miles. 
3.66 
4.06 
3.60 
3.66 
3.66 


Miles. 
0.66 


9, 


.^.- 




0.06 


3 




0.66 


4 




0.66 


5. 


.-» .. 




0.60 



These results are in accordance with those of all the direct observa- 
tions which had previously been made on sound in regard to wind by 
the Light-House Board, with the exception of those at Sandy Hook in 
September, 1874, as given in the last report, in which the sound was 
heard from a steamer farther against the wind than in the direction of 
the wind. This anomaly was explained by the existence of an upper 
current of air, moving in an opposite direction to that at the surface^n 
accordance with the hyiwthesis of the refraction of sound. 

It. will be observed that four of the experiments give exactly the same 
distances to represent the audibility of sound with and against the 
wind. This coincidence was not observed untU after the notes were 
collated for discussion, and, if not accidental, was due to the equal ve- 
locity of the wind and the general conditions of the atmosphere on the 
two days. 

To give a definite idea of these relations we have plotted the results 
obtained on August 10, in Fig. 5, converting the distances into miles and 
refeiTing them to a common center, and tracing through the several ex- 
tremities of the lines representing the distances a continuous line, which 
may be designated as the curve of audibility. C being the center to 
which the sounds are referred, O A represents the distance at which the 
sound was heard against the wind, and CB in tlie direction of the wind, 
while C E and D represent the distance at right angles to the wind^ 
and I" G and G the distances resijectively with and against the wind 
on an intermediate course. 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 
Fig. 5. 



527 




The curve which is presented in the foregoing figin^e may be considered 
as that which represents the normal hmit of audibility during the two 
days in which the experiments were made. The line D E divides the 
plane of the curve into two unequal portions^ D A F E. and D G B E, 
the former representing the audibility of sound moving against the 
wind, and the other the audibility of sound mo\ing with the wind. 

We can scarcely think that any other condition of the air than that 
of its motion could produce a result of this kind. It exhibits clearly the 
fact that sound is not heard as a general rule at right angles to the wind 
farther than with the wind, as has been asserted. In this case the ratio 
of the latter to the former is as 11 to 6, or nearly double. 

The investigation of the relation of wind to the penetration of sound 
was renewed in a series of subsequent exj^erimeuts, the results of which 
are to be given in a succeeding part of this report. 

It should be observed, in comjiaring Fig. 5 with the subsequent fig- 
ures representing the curve of audibility, that the arrow representing 
th& direction of the wind points in the longest direction to the figure, 
whereas in other figures the j)ointing is in the oiiposite direction. The 
difference arises from the fact that in Fig. 5 the sound is supposed to 
radiate from the center, C, while in the others the sound converges to. the 
center as a point of observation. The foregoing diagram and all that 
follow in this report were^ plotted by Mr. Edward Woodruff, assistant 
superintendent of construction of the third light-house distiict. 



528 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

Experiments at Little Gull Island, September, 1875. 

The next series of experiments made dnriug this season was at Little 
Gull Island, at the east end of Lond Island Sound. This location was 
chosen on account of its convenience of approach from the harbor of 
IsTew London, seven miles distant, at which the light-house steamers of 
the third district usually remain when not engaged in active service, 
and also because there is a light-house on the island furnished with two 
sirens of the second order, and an extent of water on every side which 
would allow the vessels used in the experiments to proceed from the 
island as a center to a considerable distance in every direction. The 
island itself is a small protuberance above the water, merely sufficient 
in area to support a raised circular platform of about 100 feet in diam- 
eter, on which the light-house and other buildings are erected. The 
following sketch (Fig G) will give an idea of the position of Gull Island 
relative to the main-land and the islands in the vicinity. 

From this it will be seen that the position was not the most favorable 
for a stable condition of the atmosiihere. As the heat of the sun in- 
creases during the first part of the day, the temperature of the land 
rises above that of the sea ; and this excess of temperature produces 
upward currents of air, disturbing the general flow of wind both at the 
surface of the sea and at an elevation above. But although the locality 
was unfavorable for obtaining results tending to exhibit the eifects of 
broad currents of wind flowing in one direction, it had the advantage 
of ottering more varied phenomena than could otherwise have been ex- 
hibited. Before commencing the experiments, directions were given to 
attach a rotating iron neck to the trumpet of one of the sirens, in order 
that it might be directed to the zenith ; while the other siren remained 
with its axis in a horizontal direction. The observers in these investi- 
gations consisted of the chairman of the board; General Woodruff, 
engineer third district; Porter Barnard, assistant superintendent of 
construction ; Captain Keeney, and other officers of the Mistletoe; with 
an assistant who acted as one of the observers and recording clerk. The 
Mistletoe was daily employed, though on two occasions the Cactus, 
anotlier of the light-house steamers, rendered assistance. 



EESEA.ECHES IN SOUND. 



520 



Fig. 6. 



J\lejr London 




n 



Plum. Id. 



Bartletfs Beef Lf.Y. 





JFisliers Id. 

Recce Roch 



(f 



:^ jAtiie GuUld. Z.H. 



Gnrd±np.r\9 J^i^ 
Islctixcl LH^s^^^ 



Little Gnll Island^ 
Scale of nviles 




S. Mis. 59 34 



530 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

OBSERVATIONS ON THE ECHO AT LITTLE GULL ISLAND. 

The first observations to be mentioned are those relating to the echo ; 
the results, however, in regard to this are not very satisfactory. The 
sirens were of the second order, and therefore the echoes produced were 
not as distinct as those from the larger instrument at Block Island. 
The echo from the horizontal trumpet was distinct, and in the prolonga- 
tion of its axis ; the interval however between the blast of the siren 
trumpet and the commencement of the echo was very brief; so short, 
indeed, that the ending of the one and the beginning of the other were 
generally difficult to distinguish. A sligh't leak in the ai)i)aratus of the 
siren produced a continuous hum, which interfered somewhat with the 
distinct appreciation of the sound of the echo. The keeper thought the 
weather was not favorable for the production of echoes. He thinks 
they are heard most distinctly during a perfect calm, which did not occur 
during the course of these investigations. 

The axis of the siren with the movable trumpet being directed to the 
zenith, strict attention was given by all the observers to any echo which 
might be produced from it; but in this case, as in that at Block Island, 
the slight echo which was heard came from all points of the horizon. 
On one occasion General Woodruff called attention to a small cloud pass- 
ing directly over the zenith, from which a few drops of rain fell upon the 
platform on which the light-house is erected. Advantage was taken of 
this occurrence to direct strong blasts of the siren toward the cloud, 
but no perceptible echo was returned. We have failed, therefore, in 
this series of investigations, to obtain any positive facts in addition to 
those already known as to the character of the echo. In regard to the 
hypothesis offered for its explanation, if we found little in its supi)ort, 
we have met with nothing to invalidate it. But whatever may be the 
cause of the phenomenon, we do not consider it an imjiortant factor in 
explanation of the results we have obtained, since it was too feeble to 
produce any effect in the way of absorbing any notable part of the 
original sound. Its importance from Dr. Tyndall's point of view is its 
apparent support of the hypothesis of a flocculeut condition of the 
atmosphere. 

OBSERVATIONS ON EFFECT OF ELEVATION ON AUDIBILITY. 

The next class of experiments at Little Gull Island had relation to 
the effect of elevation on sound. The conditions here, however, for ar- 
riving at definite results on this point were by no means as fovorable as 
those at Block Island. The height which could be commanded was only 
that of the tower of the light house, the gallery of which is 74 feet 
above the i^latform upon which the buildings are erected, and 92 feet 
above the level of the sea, much less than that at Block Island. Be- 
sides this, the variableness of the wind at the surface of the ocean and 
at heights above was not favorable for the illustration of the point in 
question. 



EESEARCnES IN SOUND. 



531 



The theoretical conditions in order that the sound may be beard with 
greater distinctness at an elevation than below are, as we have said 
before, that the wind be moving with a greater velocity in a given di- 
rection at an elevation than at the surface of the earth, and that the 
difference in the velocities may be against the sound-wave, so that its 
npper part may be more retarded than the lower. In this case the di- 
rection of a beam of sound will be curved upward, leaving as it were 
a vacuum of sound beneath. The distance of the origin of sound, how- 
ever, must not be too great relatively to the elevation of the observer; 
otherwise it will pass over his head, as well as over that of the observer 
at the surface of the earth. In most instances the sound was not con- 
tinuous, but was interrupted — heard for a time, then lost; again be- 
coming audible, it Avas heard until it fiimlly became imperceptible. 
Besides this, it was difficult to determine when the sound ceased to be 
heard, since this depended on the sensibility of the ear and the greater 
or less attention of the observer at the time of the observation. To 
obviate these difficulties as well as the unfavorable condition of too 
great a distance of the origin of sound from the observer, it was con- 
cluded to adopt as the duration of the sound the elapsed time between 
its beginning and the period when it was first lost. 

The observer on the tower was Mr. P. Barnard, while the one below 
was General Woodruff. From the records of the observations of these 
gentlemen the following tables are compiled, the first of which indicates 
the relative duration of sound on the top of the tower and at the bottom, 
the sound moving against the wind; tlie second, the same duration, the 
sound moving with the wind; and the third, the same with the sound 
at right angles to.it. 

Table 1. — Sound against the ivind. 



Date. 



1875. 

September 2 

4 

4 

4 

C 

G 

7 

S 

8 

8 

8 

Mean 



Heart! at 
top of 
tower. 



mm. sec. 



30 
30 
30 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
30 
30 
00 



Heard at 
bottom. 



mm. sec. 



00 
30 
00 
00 



2 15 

3 00 



15 
00 
45 
15 
15 



4 57 3 01 



532 



RESEAECHES IN SOUND. 



It appears from Table 1 tliat without a single exception the duration of 
the sound was greater at the top of the tower than at the bottom, al- 
though the difference in favor of the top of the tower in the several experi- 
ments is very variable. These results are in accordance with what was 

anticipated. 

Table 2. — Sound tvith the tvind. 



Date. 



September 2 
3 
4 
4 
6 
7 

Mean . 



Heard at 
top of 
tower. 



mm. sec. 

30 00 

IG 30 

21 00 

18 00 

12 30 

6 30 



17 25 



Heard at 
foot of 
tower. 



min. sec. 

30 00 

18 00 

20 30 

23 30 

12 30 

5 30 



IS 20 



In these observations the duration of the sound at the bottom and top 
are nearly the same, froih which we might infer that the elevation of 
the observer has little effect on the hearing of sound moving with the 
wind. Were it not for the result of the first experiment of this class at 
Block Island, we should not hesitate to adopt this as a general conclu- 
sion. 

Table 3 — Sound heard nearhj at right angles to the wind. 



Date. 


Heard at 
top of 

tower. 


Heard at 
foot of 
tower. 


September 2... 


min 

6 

6 
25 
16 
21 
16 
23 
19 

6 

5- 
12 

4 

9 


sec. 

00 

45 

00 

30 

00 

00 

30 

30 

30 

00 

00 

15 

30 


min 

4 
10 
23 

4 
19 
14 
16 
17 

5 

6 
12 

3 

5 


. sec. 
00 


2 


00 


2 


00 


2 . 


00 


3 


15 


3 


30 


3 


45 


4 


30 


6 . . . . 


30 


7 


45 


7 


30 


8 ' 


15 


8 


00 






Mean 


13 


12 


10 


55 







EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 



533 



From the result of this table it would appear that the sound can be 
heard moving at right angles to the wind better at an elevation that at 
the surface — a result not anticipated. 

OBSERVATIONS ON TUE EFFECT OF WIND ON SOUND. 

This series was commenced on the 2d of September. Barometer, 30.3 
inches ; thermometer, dry-bulb, 70o.5 F. wet-bulb, G7o.5. Wind at the 
surface of sea was six miles per hour, and variable ; at 3 i>. m. the ve- 
locity was eight miles at the surface. (See Fig. 7.) 



Fi". 7. 




1^^ course 




The experiments were made by means of the steamer Mistletoe, which 
proceeded from the light-house, as a center, in different directions, 
blowing the whistle every half-minute, and returning when, from a sig- 
nal, the sound was lost ; the time being noted by different observers, 
and the distance estimated by the position of the steamer in reference 
to known objects on the Coast-Survey chart, as well as by angles of 
azimuth and time of sailing. The steamer was directed to proceed, as 
indicated in Fig. 7, 1st, against the wind, so that the sound would come 
to the observers with the wiud ; 2d, at right angles to the wind ; 3d, in 
an intermediate direction between the last course and the direction of 
the wind ; 4th, approximately with the wind, so that the sound would 
come to the ears of the observers against the wind ; 5th, in an interme- 
diate direction j and, 6th, again at right angles to the wind. It was 



534 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

supposed that by this arrangement a symmetrical curve of sound would 
"be obtained ; and we tliink tbis would have been the case had the wind 
remained constant in direction. It did remain nearly the same during 
the time of describing the first, second, and third courses, and only 
slightly varied during the fourth ; but i)revious to running the fifth and 
sixth courses the wind had changed to a direction nearly at right angles 
to its first course. 

As is shown in Fig. 7, the first, second, third, and fourth courses form 
a normal curve of audition ; the fifth and sixth courses, however, give 
discordant results, being much longer than a symmetrical curve would 
indicate, showing a change in the condition of the medium from that 
which existed during the running of the other courses; this change was 
evidently that of the wind, which, veering, as we have seen, through 
an arc of a little more than OO©, brought it nearly at right angles to the 
fifth course, and approximately in the direction of the sixth course; the 
wind also increased its velocity. These changes are sufficient, without 
other considerations, to give a rational account of the phenomena ob- 
served. They both tend to increase the distance at which the sound 
would be heard. 

In these ex])eriments, as in subsequent ones, it is to be regretted that 
for want of balloons the motion of the air above could not be ascer. 
tained, as was done at Sandy Hook in Seiitember, 1874. Previous to 
sailing from the depot at Staten Island attemjjts had been made to se- 
cure 11 supply of toy balloons, but none could be found at that time in 
the city of New York. Arrangements were therefore made for procur- 
ing a reservoir of condensed hydrogen, by which India-rubber balloons 
could be inflated at the time they were wanted. Unfortunately this ap- 
l^aratus did not arrive in time to be of much avail in this series of experi. 
ments. Besides this, on account of the smalluess of the balloons, the 
ascent was too slow compared to the horizontal motion to indicate the 
direction of the wind at a considerable elevation above the points of 
observation. They were however of use in jiointing out definitely the 
direction of the wind and the changes it was undergoing. Moreover, at 
the time of leaving New York we were only able to procure one ane- 
mometer, whereas we ought to have had a number, one for the top of 
the tower, one for the bottom, and one for each vessel. 

Experiments of September 3. — Barometer, 30.02 inches ; thermometer, 
dry bulb, 72^.5 F. wet bulb, 70° ; wind from the east, but too slight to 
move the cups of the anemometer ; it soon however spang up from the 
opposite direction, in which it continued during the remainder of the 
day, attaining a velocity of five and a quarter miles per hour. 

In these experiments two light-house steamers were employed, the 
Mistletoe and Cactus, which enabled us to obtain the results in half the 
time, and thus to obviate the effect, in some degree, of any change in 
the direction of the wind. On this occasion the sound was noted at the 
light-house as it converged to a center from the whistle of each vessel, 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 
Fig. f. 



535 




536 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

and also simultaneously by each vessel as it diverged from the vertical 
siren. 

We were enabled, in this way, to produce two curves by a reverse 
process. These are plotted in Fig-. 8, and exhibit a remarkable degree 
of similarity. The corresponding parts of the two curves, being in each 
case .reversed, exhibit the fact that, through the same space in opposite 
directions, the audibility of the sound was similarly increased with the 
wind and diminished against it. The effect however of the wind in the 
experiments of this day was less marked than on any in the whole 
series, and consequently the two curves of audition more nearly ap- 
proximate circles. 

We can see in this result no other effect than that which would bo 
produced from a wind flowing with a uniform but slow velocity at the 
surface, but having a slightly increased velocity above. Had there been 
no wind, according to this view the two curves would have exhibited 
two concentric circles. 

Experiments of September 4.— Barometer, 29.85 inches, falling ; ther- 
mometer, dry bulb, 77^ F. wet bulb, 73^.25. Wind south by west, 
twelve and one-fourth miles per hour at the top of the tower and nine 
and one-fourth miles below ; variable. 

These experiments were also made with two vessels. The distances 
and dii^ections are given in Fig. 9. With the exception of the fourth 
course of the Cactus, the other courses would form nearly ^ symmetri- 
cal curve, but in this case the sound of the whistle of the Cactus was 
lost at the point a at a distance of one mile, and was afterward regained 
at the point ft, and continued audible until the steamer reached the 
point c. 

This presents one of the abnormal phenomena of sound which might 
in part be accounted for by the existence of a flocculent cloud between 
a and &, but why tl^e sound could be heard so much farther in this direc- 
tion than in the others is not easy to explain on that hypothesis. 

The line h c was described after all the lines of Fig. 9 had been com- 
pleted, and therefore the curve given in the figure correctly represents 
the boundary of the area of audition while these courses were being run, 
the point a being the termination under that condition of the fourth 
course of the Cactus. To explain the abnormal hue h c, we have only to 
suppose that a change in the velocity of the wind afterward took place, 
by which its opposition to the sound-wave was diminished ; this will ac- 
count for the greater length of the hue ; the change however did not 
reach the light-house until after the vessel had passed the point b. 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

Fig. 9. 

Caotvs 
/fj/i- course 



537 




2«ci course 



As affording- evidence in support of this hypothesis, it may he men- 
tioned that on examining the records of the Signal-Service, of which there 
is a station at ]S"ew London, seven miles north of the position at which 
these observations were made, it was found that the wind in the morn- 
ing of that day was south, in the afternoon southwest, and in the even- 
ing northwest, and that it was lU'obable, as in other cases, that the wind 
had changed above while the part of the course h c was run. 

Experiments of September 6. — Barometer, 29.93 inches ; thermometer, 
dry bulb, 74o.5 F. wet bulb, 07°; wind from northwest to southwest, 
seventeen miles per hour. The wind, though of higher velocity than on 
any other occasion, was variable. On this day the experiments were 
principally made with the Mistletoe. The Cactus, being obliged to leave 
on other duty, ran one course a distance of two-thirds of a mile before 
the sound of her whistle was lost at the light-house. She afterwards 
steamed off in the direction C h (Fig. 10), noting the sound of the siren, 
which was lost at the point &, afterward regained, and heard distinctly 
ten and one-half miles distant. 

During the passage of the first course of the Mistletoe, the wind at 
the surface and above was from southwest, the latter being indicated 



538 



EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 



by a cloud passing the zenith. During the second course the wind was 
variable, changing- its direction about OO'^, principally from the north- 
west ; while during tlie third course the wind was again from the south- 
west. The long course of the Cactus marked on the figure indicates the 
sound of the siren, from the center outward, as it was heard seven and 
one-fourth miles, then lost for an interval, and afterward heard again at 
a distance of three and one-fourth miles farther, making, in all, ten and 
one-half miles. 

Fific. 10. 




\ -».. 



^^\ 






Uxperiments of September 7. — Barometer, 30.1 inches ; thermometer, 
dry-bulb, 73° F. wet-bulb, 62° ; wind, eight miles per hour above, and 
five miles per hour below, tower. The wind was variable, as indicated 
by the letting-oif of balloons, which however did not rise to any great 
height. The direction of the wind is shown in Fig. 11 by arrows. There 
is nothing remarkable in the curve of audition of this day. It indicates, 
as usual, a greater distance toward the side on which the sound was 
moving with the wind. 

Experiments of September 8. — Barometer, 30.3 inches ; thermometer, 
dry -bulb, 71° F. wet-bulb, 64^.5; wind, west-southwest, fifteen miles 
per hour at top of tower, nine miles per honr below. Fig. 12 indicates 
the curve of audition of the vertical siren as compared with that of the 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 
FiK. 11. 



539 



yat j^in. gin. 




^>->^ 



horizontal sireu. The steamer first proceeded along the line C a nearly 
in the direction of the axis of the horizontal trnmpet. For the distance 
of the first three miles the horizontal trumpet was the louder. At the 

Fig. 12. 




point a, four miles distant, the two were distinct and very nearly equal. 
At b they were distinct, also very nearly equal, the vertical perhaps a 
little more distinct. At c very nearly equally distinct. At d the verti- 
cal sireu was decidedly more distinct just before entering the ojitical 



540 EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

sliadow of the liglit-liouse tower and the keeper's dwelling. This shadow 
coutinued to the point e, which was nearly the extent of the acoustic as 
well as of the optical shadow, since from d to e the sound was heard 
from neither instrument, and the origin of sound was too near to cause 
much diflereuce between these two shadows. From / to a, through the 
point//, the two instruments coutinued to be fully heard — the vertical 
the more distinct. The efiect of the wind in this figure is also very 
distinctly marked, the longer lines indicating the distance the sound 
was heard with the wiud, and the shorter against it. The curve of this 
figure is not traced through points at which the sound was absolutely 
lost, but at wJiich it was heard feebly and with nearly equal distinctness. 

Thus far all the facts we have observed, if not in strict conformity 
with our conception of the hypothesis of Professor Stokes, are at least 
not incompatible with it. We are now however to direct attention to 
a fact of much interest, which may not have escaped the attention of 
the reader; namely, the remarkable difterence in the area of audition 
as exhibited in the several figm^es, all drawn to the same scale. Com- 
pare, for example, the curve of Fig. 10 with the inner curve of Fig. 8. 
It might at first sight be inferred that the smalluess of the curve in 
the former case was due to a mottled condition of the atmosphere, 
which, b}' absorbing the sound, diminishes the sphere of audition ; but, 
unfortunately for this explanation, it would apjiear from the observa- 
tions made by the Cactus within the hour of obtaining the data for 
describing the curve, that the air was then in a remarkably' favorable 
condition for the transmission of sound, since it was heard ten and a 
half miles, the ordinary limit of the maximum penetrating power of the 
instrument — a siren of the second order; while on the 3d of September, 
the day on which the large curve, Fig. 8, was described, the greatest 
distance at which the sound of the same instrument could be heard was 
eight and a quarter miles. 

The only difierence in the condition of the air observed dirring the 
time of describing the curve of audition given in the figure, and the 
hearing of the sound by the Cactus for ten and a half miles, was a 
change in the direction, and perhaps in the intensity, of the wind, in the 
latter case the direction being the same as that of the course of the 
Cactus. 

Before therefore admitting any other solution of the question as to 
the cause of the difterence in the area of audition, we must inquire 
whether it is not possible to refer it to the action of the wind itself. 

The most marked difterence in the conditions which apparently af- 
fected the phenomenon on the days in question was that of the greater 
velocity of the wind, both at the surface Of the sea and at the top of the 
tower, and by comparing the several figures in regard to the wind it 
will be seen that where the condition of the air was nearest that of a 
calm the larger was the curve of audition, and the nearer the figures 
approach to a circle, of which the point of origin of sound or the point 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 541 

of perception is tlie center. From these facts we are inclined to think 
that sound is not heard as far during a time of high "wind in any direc- 
tion as it is during' a perfect cahn, and that it is lieard farthest with a 
gentle wind. This conclusion, which was not anticix)ated at the begin- 
ning of these investigations, is we think in strict conformity with the 
hypothesis adopted. In the case of sound moving against a strong 
wind, the sonorous waves being thrown up above the ears of the ob- 
server, the sphere of audition in that direction is without question 
greatly diminished; and that it should be also diminished when sound 
is moving with a strong wind having a greater velocity above than be- 
low is not ditticult to conceive. In this case the sound-wave will be so 
thrown down against the earth, and so much of it absorbed, as to weaken 
the intensity of that part which reaches the ear, while in the case of a 
feeble wind, moving faster above than below, the portion of the wave 
thrown down from above will only be suthcient to compensate for the 
smaller loss by friction, and thus the sound may be heard at a greater 
distance than in still air. But on this point, as well as others, further 
experiments are required. 

While we consider the wind as the principal agent in producing the 
abnormal phenomena of sound, we do not by any means regard it as 
the sole agent. Prof. Osborn Reynolds, of Owens College, IManchester, 
without any knowledge of what was doing in America on this subject, 
instituted a series of experiments on the eifect of wind upon sound, and 
finally adopted precisely the same hypothesis which we have used for 
generalizing the observed phenomena. He has however in a very in- 
genious and important paper, presented to the Eoyal Society in 1874, 
extended the same i^rinciple to the effect of heat in changing the form 
of the sound-wave, and has shown, both by reasoning and experiment, 
that the normal direction of the sound-wave in still air, instead of pro- 
ceeding horizontally should be turned upward, on account of the greater 
velocity of sound near the earth, due to the greater heat of the strata in 
that position than of those above. This principle, which indicates the 
existence of a true refraction of sound independent of the motion of 
the medium, is undoubtedly ai^phcable as a modifying influence to the 
phenomena we have recorded. It produces however only a slight ef- 
fect in the case we have last mentioned, since the observation on board 
the Cactus shows the condition of the air was that of little acoustic ab- 
sorption. It would nevertheless favor the hypothesis that sound in 
perfectly still air of homogeneous density could be heard farther than 
sound in a moving medium, or in one of unequal teuq^eratiu-e. This is 
also in accordance with the fact repeatedly observed in arctic regions, 
in which the sound of the human voice is heard at great distances dur- 
ing times of extreme cold. In this case, the air is of a uniform temper- 
ature above and below, but of diminished elasticity, and should, on this 
account, transmit sound with less intensity ; and yet the audibility is 
increased, which is explained by the assumption that its stillness and 



542 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

uniformity of temperature more than compensate for the dimiuislied 
elasticity. Tlie same may be said with regard to the audibility of sound 
during a fog, which usually exists during extreme stillness of the air. 

Whatever be the cause of the variation in the limit of audition as 
exhibited in the diagrams, it is less efiBcient than the ordinary action of 
the wind in producing the same phenomena. This is evident from the 
fact that while the ratio of the extreme variation in the limits of audi- 
tion in the first case is not more than 1:3, in the second it is that of 
1:5. 

Moreover, when the effect of the wind on the audition of sound iu 
relation to elevation is considered, we think we are fully warranted in 
asserting, as we did in our last report, that the wind is a more efficient 
cause of the variability of the penetration of sound than the invisible 
acoustic clouds adopted by Professor Tyndall for the explanation of the 
phenomena. 

The object of these investigations, as stated at the beginning of this 
report, was to obtain facts which might serve to establish the true theory 
of the abiiormal phenomena of sound, an object, independent of its 
scientitic interest, of much practical importance in its application to fog- 
signals. Although the observations were not as perfect as we could 
wish in many respects, from want of certain appliances, they are yet 
sufficient wje think to establish principles of much practical value. For 
example, if the mariner in api)roaching a fog-signal while the wind is 
blowing against the sound fails to perceive it on deck, he will probably 
hear it by ascending to the mast-head ; or, in case a sound from a given 
station is constantly obscured in a certain direction, while it is audible 
in adjacent directions, we may attribute it to a sound-shadow produced 
by some interposing object. If again, the obscuration of sound in a 
given direction is only observed during a wind moving against the sound, 
the cause will probably be found in a lateral refraction, due to the re- 
tardation of the current of wind against a peri^endicular wall or cliif, as 
in the 3ase observed at Block Island, August 19. The subject however 
is one of great complexity, and requires further investigation, but the 
results thus far obtained may be considered as furnishing the preliminary 
data on which to found more precise observations. These should be 
made with the aid of a number of steamers simultaneously employed, 
each furnished with anemometers and balloons for determining with more 
accuracy the direction and velocity of the wind. 

We hope to renew the investigations during next summer, and in view 
of this have directed that in the mean time the light-keepers at Block 
Island and at Point Judith shall continue to sound their sirens a certain 
length of time every JVIonday, noting the direction and velocity of the 
wind, the temperature and pressure of\he air, and the audibility of the 
sound as it comes reciprocally from each instrument. 

It is shown, from the results thus far obtained from these reciprocal 
observations, that sound is occasionally heard more distinctly against 



EESEARCHES IN SOUND. 543 

tlie wind than in a contrary direction. We think however that these 
instances are generally followed by a change in the direction of the wind 
at the snrface of the earth. 
Light-House Board, October, 1875. 



PART Y.— INVESTIGATIONS IN 1877.* 

On account of the occurrence of the Centennial Exhibition, which 
absorbed most of the time of the officers of the Light-House Board not 
devoted to ordinary light-house service, but few observations were made 
relative to sound in 187G, and an account of what were made is incor- 
porated in the following report. 

Agreeably to previous engagement, I visited Portland, Me., to make 
some investigation in regard to an abnormal phenomenon of sound, 
which was noticed in a former report. We left Portland on the after- 
noon of September 3, 1877, in the steamer Iris, which had been fitted up 
during the year under the direction of the inspector. Commander H. F. 
Picking, and was in excellent condition, and well adapted to the duty 
of a light-house tender. The party consisted of General J. C. Duane, 
engineer of the first district ; Commander H. F. Picking, inspector of 
the first district ; Mr. Edward L. Woodruff, assistant engineer of the 
third district ; Mr. Charles Edwards, assistant engineer ot the first dis- 
trict, and myself. 

We first examined one of the automatic whistling-buoys invented by 
Mr. Courtenay, of New York. This was in place and emitting sounds 
at a station called Old Anthony, oft' Cape Elizabeth, about nine miles 
from Portland. On approaching it at right angles to the direction of 
the wind, we heard it at the distance of a mile. But the sound did not 
appear loud even within a few rods. It was however of considerable 
quantity, being from a locomotive whistle of ten inches in diameter. 
The instrument is operated by the oscillation of the waves, which at 
this time were not of sufficient height to move it vertically through a 
space of more than one foot. It emitted a sound at each oscillation. 
This invention consists of a large pear-shaped buoy about twelve feet in 
diameter at the water-surface, and floats about twelve feet above the 
same jilane. In the interior of this buoy is a large tube or hollow cyl- 
inder, three feet in diameter, extending from the top through the bottom 
to a depth of about thirty feet below the latter. This tube is open at 
the bottom, but projects air-tight through the upper part of the buoy, 
and is closed with a plate having three orifices in it, two for letting in 
the air into the tube, and one between the others for letting it out to 
operate the whistle. These orifices are connected with three tubes 
which extend downward to near the level of the water, where they pass 
through a diaphragm which divides the cylinder into two parts. 

* From the Report of tlio Light-House Board for 1877. 



544 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

When the buoy rises, the water in the cylinder by its inertia retains 
its position, and a partial vacuum is formed between the head of the 
column and the diaphragm, into which the air is drawn through two of 
the tubes, and when the buoy descends, the escape through the injec- 
tion-tube being prevented by valves, it is forced out of the inner tube 
and actuates the wliistle. 

The mooring-chain, which is sixty fathoms in length, is attached to 
the cylinder at a point just below the buoy, and is secured to a large 
stone weighing about six tons. The apparatus rides peri)endicularly. 

The sound in this instrument is not i^roduced merely by the difference 
in hydrostatic pressure of the water in the two j)Ositions of the buoy, 
but by the accumulated effect of impulse generated by the motion of 
the apparatus. 

Plans have been devised, but have not yet been perfected, to condense 
the air in the buoy by the effect of repeated oscillations, until a valve 
loaded to a definite i^ressure would open automatically and allow the air 
to escape. In this way the sound from the accumulated pressure would 
be produced at intervals to a greater or less extent, and would serve to 
diversify the character of the sound so as to enable the mariner to dis- 
tinguish different locations. . The invention, as. it is, is considered a 
valuable ad<lition to tlie aids to navigation, has received the unqualified 
approbation of all navigators on this coast who are acquainted with its 
operation, and will probably be introduced in all countries where its 
merits are known. Experience has shown that it can be permanently 
moored in deep water, and that vessels can safely approach it within the 
nearest distance, and t9;ke perfect departure from it. 

The Light-House Board has adopted this buoy as one of its permanent 
aids to navigation, and will iu time introduce it at all points where its 
presence will be of importance to the navigator. In order to obtain 
reliable data as to the ox)erations of the automatic buoy, Commander 
Picking has established a series of observations at all the stations in the 
neighborhood of the buoys, giving the time of hearing it, the direction 
of the wind, and the state of the sea, from which it appears that in the 
month of January, 1877, one of these buoys was heard every day at a 
station one and one-eighth miles distant ; every day but two at one two 
and one-quarter miles distant ; fourteen times at one seven and one-half 
miles distant, and four times at one eight and one-half miles distant. 
It is heard by the pilots of the New York and Boston steamers at dis- 
tances of from one-fifth to five miles, and has been frequently heard by 
the inspector of the first light-house district at a distance of nine miles, 
and even, under the most favorable circumstances, fifteen miles. 

We sailed around the buoy and observed the difference in the intensity 
of sound in regard to the direction (tf the wind, which was at the time 
a fresh breeze of from twelve to fifteen miles per hour, from the west- 
ward, the greatest intensity being apparently at points forty-five degrees 
on either s:'de of the axis of the wind. The effect however was not 
very definitely marked, though the sound on the whole appeared to be 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 545 

greater on the semi-circumfereuce of the circle to the leeward ; but the 
velocity of the wind was so great that the noise produced by it on the 
rigging of the vessel prevented the effects from being definitely observed. 

Experiments have been made with this buoy carrying whistles of dif- 
ferent sizes, the result being that a whistle of less than ten inches diam- 
eter does not give a sound which can be heard as far as one of the latter 
size, although it appears to the ear near by equally loud. 

There is a difference between the quantity of sound and the loudness. 
Two sounds may be equally loud when heard near by, yet differ very 
nuich in regard to their being heard at a distance, the loudness depend- 
ing upon the intensity of sound or on the amplitude of vibration of the 
sounding body, while the quantity of sound depends on the extent of 
the vibrating surface. 

The size of the whistle must be limited by the quantity of air ejected 
at each oscillation of the buoy. The fact that the ten-inch whistle gives 
a sound which can be heard farther than one of eight inches appears to 
have a bearing on the question (the actuating force being the same) of 
the united effect of two sounds of the same quantity and pitch, since 
the sound fi'om several parts of the circumference of the larger whistle 
may be considered as a union of several sounds of less quantity. 

After these observations on the automatic buoy we proceeded along the 
coast to AVhite Head, at the entrance of Penobscot Bay, a distance of 
sixty miles, which we reached at about twelve o'clock at night, and cast 
anchor in Seal Harbor, near the White Head light-house. 

Our first operation next morning was the examination of an automatic 
fog-bell, invented by Mr. Close, and which has been erected by a special 
appropriation of Congress. It is very simple in conception, and would 
do good service in southern latitudes, where it would not be affected by 
the ice. It consists of an upright shaft thirty-two feet long, fastened to 
the rock beneath the water, and kept in a vertical position by a series 
of iron rods serving as braces. Around this shaft is a hollow metallic 
float, having sufficient buoyancy by the motion of the waves to elevate 
a vertical rod having at the upper end a rack gearing into a ratchet- 
wheel. By means of projecting pins on the surface of the wheel the 
hammer of the bell is elevated and the bell sounde<l at each descent of 
the float. This arrangement is the most simple and eflicieut of any of 
the kind of which we have any knowledge. 

The objection to it is its liability to be deranged by the action of ice 
and the rusting of the i)arts from exposure to the weiither. 

Our next operation at this place was the examination of the remark- 
able abnormal phenomenon, which was the principal object of our 
excursion. It has been frequentlj^ observed by the captains of the 
steamers plying between Boston and New Brunswick, and has also been 
noticed on two different occasions by officers of the light-house estab- 
lishment. The phenomenon, as reported by these authorities, consists 
S. Mis. 59 35 



546 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

in hearing- the sound distinctly on approacliing the station at the distance 
of from six to four miles, then losing it through a space of about three 
miles, and not hearing it again until withi]i about a quarter of a mile of 
the instrument, when it becomes suddenly audible in almost full jiower. 
This i)heuomenon is always noticed when the vessel is api^roaching the 
signal from the southwest, and the wind is in the same or in a southerly 
direction, and therefore opposed to the direction of the sound from the 
station, Avhich is the case during a fog. Commander Picking, having 
frequently received complaints from masters of vessels as to losing the 
sound at this i)lace, concluded to verify the facts by his own observation. 
For this purpose he embraced the oppormnity of an inspection-tour in 
July, 1877, to approach the station from the southwest during a fog. 
In his own words, he heard the sound distinctly through a space of from 
six to four miles, then lost it and could hear nothing until within a 
quarter of a mile of the station, when the blast of the whistle burst 
forth in full sound. The wind at this time was from the southward, or 
against the sound. This cessation in the hearing of the sound could 
not have been due to the failure of the instrument to emit sound, since 
its operation is automatic when once started, and in this case the fog so 
lifted on nearing the station as to admit the observation of the pufts of 
steam emitted at each blast of the whistle. 

On a previous occasion General Duane and Mr. Edwards on api3roach- 
ing the same signal from the southwest heard the sound at about six 
miles distance, then lost it, and did not again hear it until withiu about 
a quarter of a mile. The wind in this instance was also the same as that 
in the observation of Commander Picking, namely, from the southwest. 

So well established was this j^henomenou that General Duane at- 
tempted to remedy the evil by elevating the duplicate w^histle (with 
•which every station is provided) to a height twenty-two feet above the 
level of the other whistle, by placing it on the upper end of a tube. 
But this arrangement produced no beneficial effect. 

In the morning of September 4, 1877, on which we commenced our ex- 
periments, the weather was clear, the wind west-southwest, the velocity 
from ten to twelve miles, remaining nearly constant during the day. 
Our first object was to verify by direct observation the several features of 
the phenomenon, and for this purpose we steamed to the southward, or 
directly to the windward, from the station through the region in which 
the abnormal phenomena had been noticed. The i^ressure of the atmos- 
phere, as indicated by an aneroid barometer, was 28.9 inches. The tem- 
perature of the air was 67^ Fahrenheit ; that of the water at various 
points along our course was 58°, except at two i^oints where the ther- 
mometer indicated 57°, This difference was too small to have any i^er- 
ceptible effect on the density of fhe rapidly moving air which was 
passing over the surface of the water. As we increased our distance 
from the signal the sound slightly diminished in loudness until the dis- 
tance was between a quarter and half a mile, when it suddenly ceased 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 547 

to be heard, and continued inaudible through a distance of about a mile, 
when it was faintly heard and continued to increase in loudness until we 
reached the distance of four miles ; at this point it was heard with such 
clearness that the i)Osition of the station could be located with facility ; 
but on proceeding farther in the same direction it ajjpeared to diminish 
gradually except at one point, when a blast, as indicated by the steam 
issuing from the whistle, was inaudible; but on turning the vessel around 
the next blast was distinctly heard. 

As a second experiment we retraced the same line back to the station 
and observed the same phenomena in a reverse order. The sound was 
heard the loudest at a point four miles from the station ; afterward it 
diminished and then became inaudible through a space of two miles, 
and then suddenly burst forth nearly in full intensity at the distance of 
a quarter of a mile, and continued loud until the station was reached. 

As a third experiment the same line was traversed again, the only 
difference in the condition of the exj)eriment being that the whistle on 
the steamer was sounded every minute between the blasts of the signal 
at the station ; and while the observers on the vessel noted the sounds 
from- the latter, those at the station observed the sound from the former. 
The same phenomena as described in the previous experiments were 
witnessed by those on board the vessel, but on receiving the report of 
the observers at the station, it was found that no cessation of the sound 
from the steamer was observed through the whole distance traversed by 
the vessel. It should be noted that the whistle at the station is ten 
inches in diameter, actuated by a pressure of sixty pounds of steam, 
and that on board the vessel six inches in diameter with twenty-five 
pounds of steam. It appears from this remarkable result that a feeble 
sound passes freely through what has been called the region of silence 
when sent in the direction of the motion of the wind, when a louder 
sound does not jiass in the ojiposite direction. 

As a fourth experiment the vessel proceeded northward on the oppo- 
site side of the station to that before traversed, but in the prolongation 
of its previous course. The sound in this case from the signal to the 
observers on the vessel was with the wind, while that from the vessel 
to the observers at the station was against the wind. In this experi- 
ment no cessation was observed on the vessel in the hearing of the 
sound from the station ; it was heard with varying intensity to the dis- 
tance of four and a half miles, and could probably have been heard 
much farther had our progress not been interrupted by land. On return- 
ing to the station the observers there reported that after the vessel had 
left the station and was scarcely more than a hundred yards distant not 
a single blast of its whistle was heard. In this case the phenomena 
which had been observed on the southerly side of the station were 
exhibited in a reverse order on the northerly side. 

In what may be considered the fifth experiment, the vessel being at a 
distance of four miles from the station on the line traversed in the first 



548 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

two experiments, tbe sound was heard slightly. The vessel then altered 
its course so as to steam, as it were, around the signal, keeping at the 
same distance until the direction of the station fi?om the vessel was 
nearly at right angles to the direction of the wind ; at this point no 
sound was heard from the station, although it had been slightly heard 
at points along the curved line traversed in reaching the point men- 
tioned. The vessel then proceeded toward the station in a straight line, 
but no sound was heard until it approached the latter within one-fourth 
of a mile. The observers at the station however heard the sound from 
the vessel through the whole distance. 

This experiment was made to ascertain the truth of the general impres- 
sion that at this -place the sound was always heard better coming at right 
angles or across the wind than in the direction in which it was blowing. 
The experiment however was found in conformity with the general rule 
previously established, that the sound was usually heard farthest with 
the wind, less against the wind, and at an intermediate distance across 
the wind. 

The primary object of these investigations is to determine the mechan- 
ical causes to which the phenomena may be referred and from which 
new conclusions may be deduced, to be further tested by experiment, 
and such definite views obtained as may be of value in the employment 
of fog-signals for the uses of the mariner. 

For this i)urpose a number of different hypotheses may be provision- 
ally adoj)ted and each compared with the actual facts observed. 

The first hypothesis which has been suggested for the explanation of 
the phenomena in question is that they are due to some configuration of 
the land ; but on inspecting the Coast-Survey chart of this region it will 
be seen that the nearest land consists of a series of broken surfaces not 
rising above the ocean enough to reflect sound or in any way to produce 
sound-shadows in the region through which the phenomena are observed. 
This hypothesis therefore is inadmissible. 

Another hypothesis is that of what have been called invisible acoustic 
clouds or portions of atmosphere existing over the water at the region 
of silence, which might absorb or variously refract the sound. That 
such a condition of a portion of the atmosphere really exists in some 
cases is a fact which may be inferred from well-established principles of 
acoustics, as well as from experimental data. They would occur espe- 
cially in the case of dissolving clouds, which would be accompanied by 
local diminutions of temperature, and also from portions of air which 
have been abnormally heated by contact with warm earth. But, if the 
phenomena in question were produced by a cloud of this kind, its pres- 
ence ought to be indicated by transmitting through it the usual set of 
meteorological instruments. This was done in the foregoing exi)eri- 
ments, but no change was observed in the indications either of the 
thermometer or barometer. Unfortunately we had not a hygrometer in 
our possession, but this observation was less necessary, since from- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 549 

abnndant testimony it is establislied tliat tbe same plienomeua are ex- 
liibited during a dense fog, in wbicb all parts of tbe atmospbere for 
miles in extent must be in a bomogeneous condition. Furtbermore, a 
local cloud could not continue to exist in a given space for more tban an 
instant wbile a wind was blo^ying witb a velocity of from ten to twelve 
miles an bour. Again, tbis bi^-potbesis fails entirely to explain tbe fact 
tbat tbis pbenomenon is always observed at nearly tbe same place, espe- 
cially during a fog, wben tbe wind is in a soutberly direction. Finally, 
it is impossible to conceive of a cloud so arranged as a screen produc- 
ing a sound-sbadow of greater intensity on one side tban on tbe otber. 

Anotber bypotbesis is tbat of tbe refraction of sound due to tbe action 
of tbe wind. It is an inference from well-establisbed tbeory, as well as 
from direct observation, tbat tbe sound is refra^jted by tbe wind, tbat it 
tends to be tbrown u^iward wben moving against tbe wind, and down- 
ward witli tbe wind. Tbis result is attributed very properly to tbe dif- 
ferent velocities of tbe strata, tbat next tbe surface being retarded, 
tbose above being less retarded. 

Tbe upper part of tbe front of tbe wave is tbus tbrown backward, and 
tbe direction of tbe wave turned upward. In tbe case of tbe experi- 
ment soutb of tbe station, tbe wind passing over a long Hne of rougb 
sea was moving less rapidlj^ in its lower stratum tban in tbe bigber, and 
consequently tbe sound-wave was tbrown backward above, and, as it 
issued from tbe instrument, t-ended to rise above tbe bead of tbe observer, 
and at a certain distance from tbe origin of tbe sound, depending upon 
tbe difference of velocity above and below, was lost entkely to tbe ob- 
server, and a sound-sbadow was tbus j)roduced by refraction wbicb is 
closed in again by tbe lateral spread of tbe sound at a given distance. 

In tbe experiment on tbe otber side of tbe signal, tbe vessel proceed- 
ing to tbe nortb, tbe wind coming to tbe observer on tbe vessel bad to 
pass over a rougber surface tban tbat of water, and consequently tbe 
difference of velocities above and below, and tberefore tbe refraction 
would be greater, and consequently tbe sound from tbe vessel was almost 
entirel}" lost to tbe observer at tbe station, wbile tbe sound from tbe 
station was heard uninterruptedly on tbe vessel, since it was moving 
witb tbe wind. 

On examining tbe records of experiments of previous years, I find a 
number of cases recorded wbere sounds were beard at a greater dis- 
tance, wbile inaudible at a less distance, especially one in connection 
witb tbe fog-sigual at Gull Island, in 1874. In tbis case tbe sound, in 
j^assing from tbe signal, was beard distinctly at tbe distance of about 
two miles against tbe wind, tben lost for a space of about four and a 
balf, and beard again distinctly' for a tlistance of perbaps one mile. At 
tbe same station, during tbe experiments of 1875, tbe sound of the 
wbistles of tbe steamers was beard for a certiiin distance, tben ceased 
to be beard for a considerable interval, and was tben beard again. Fur- 
tbermore, tbe i)ilots of tbe steamboats from Xew York to Boston report 



550 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

tbat the automatic buoy is found to intermit its sound, being heard at 
a distance, then becoming inaudible, and heard again as the steamer 
approaches the source of sound. 

From all the facts which we have gathered on this subject, I think it 
highly x^robable that in all cases in which sound moving against the 
wind is thrown up above the head of the observer it tends to descend 
by the lateral spread of the sound-wave and to reach the earth at a dis- 
tance; the conditions however for the actual production of this effect 
are somewhat special, and will depend ui)on the amount of the initial 
refraction and the quantity of the sound-waves. Besides the lateral 
spread of the sound-wave there are two other causes sufficient, in certain 
cases, to biing a portion of the sound-waves which have been elevated 
in the air back again to the earth : the first is when an upper current 
of wind is moving in an opposite or approximately opposite direction 
to that at the surface of the earth, in which case an opposite or down- 
ward refraction would take place ; and the second is the case in which 
the siuface-wind is terminated above by strata of still air ; in this case, 
also, a reverse refraction, but of less amount, would take jjlace, which 
would tend to bring the sound-wave downward. 

We can readily imagine that an isolated island, cooled by the radia- 
tion of the heat by night, would send every morning, in all directions, 
a current of cold air from its center. In this case, the sound from a 
whistle placed in the center of the island would be inaudible in a space 
entirely surrounding it, and thus give rise to a condition mentioned by 
General Duane, in which a fog-signal aijpeared to be surrounded by a 
belt of silence. 

The next experiment was made on the morning of the 5th, on leaving 
the station. In this case we proceeded along the direction of the same 
line in which the first, second, and third experiments were made the day 
before. The wind had changed about four points to the southward. 
As in the preceding experiments, the sound was lost again at the dis- 
tance of about one-fourth of a mile, but was not distinctly regained, 
though some of the observers thought they heard it at a distance of two 
and one-half miles. 

The only x)erceptible difference in the wind on the 5th was that it was 
a little less rapid, and four points more to the southward. 

From a subsequent report of the keepers, the whistle of the vessel 
was heard continuously as far as the i^ufis of steam could be observed, 
a distance six or seven miles. In this case the sound was moving with 
the wind. These results therefore are in accordance with those pre- 
viously obtained. 

The next experiments were made at Monhegan, an island sixteen miles 
southwest of White Head. On this island there is a Daboll trumpet 
actuated by a hot-air engine. 

We departed from this station in. a westerly dkection at an angle of 



EESE ARCHES IN SOUND. 551 

45*^ to the riglit of tlie direction of the wind, and after proceeding about 
one mile, as estimated by time, we lost the sound of the signal. ATe 
then turned at right angles to our former course and proceeded toward 
the leeward, keeping about the same distance from the signal, when the 
sound was regained at a point which probably depended upon the direc- 
tion of the wind and the axis of the trumpet combined. From this point 
it was heard to a point to the leeward, and thence we retraced our 
course at about the same distance and proceeded a<jross the axis of the 
trumpet toward the wind\7ard, where the sound was again lost. The 
only definite result from this experiment was another case of the sound 
being heard farther to the leeward than to the windward. 

After this experiment we rptumed to Portland. 

An interesting fact may be mentioned in connection with this station, 
having a bearing upon the i^rotection of light-houses from lightning. 
The fog- signal is placed on a small island separated from the large island 
by a water-space of about one-eighth of a mile. General Duane, desir- 
ing to connect the light-house and fog-signal by an electrical communi- 
cation, susi)ended a wire between the two points and attempted to form 
a ground connection by depositing a plate of metal in the ground on 
each island, but to his surjjrise, though the arrangements were made by 
a skilled telegrapher, no signal would pass. The two islands being- 
composed of rock and the soil limited in thickness, the conduction was 
imperfect, and it was only by plunging the plate of metal into the water 
on each side of the space between the two islands that a signal could 
be transmitted. 

No further experiments on sound were made during this excursion, 
because the vessel could no longer be spared from more pressing light- 
house duty in the way of inspection and the stated supply of mat<3rials 
to the stations. 

On my return to New York, accompanied by Mr.NWoodrufP, I took the 
route by the Western Railway to the Hudson Eiver at Troj'. This line 
was chosen in order to make some investigations relative to any pecu- 
liarities of sound which might be observed in the Hoosac tunnel, through 
which the railroad passes. For this purpose we spent a day at East 
Windsor, a village situated near the west end of the tunnel, and were 
very cordially received by the engineers in charge. 

The tunnel is four and three-quarters miles in length, twenty-four feet 
wide, and twenty feet high to the crown of the arclu It ascends slightly 
from either end to a i)oint near the center, where there is a veutUating- 
shaft 1,028 feet high extending to the outer air above. In winter, when 
the external temperature is less than thgit within the tunnel, there is a 
constant current from each end toward the center, and in the summer, 
when the temperatures are reversed, there is a current out of the tunnel 
at either end, except when the external wind is suflBciently strong, es- 
pecially from the west, to reverse the direction of the cuiTent from one 



552 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

half and direct the streain entirely out of the other entrance. At the 
time of our visit, there was a gentle current flowing out of both ends. 

The oidy peculiarity of sound which had been observed, as stated by 
the engineers, was that it was greatly stilled at the time by the smoke 
with which the air was tilled immediately after the j)assage of a loco- 
motive. So great was this in some cases that accidents were imminent 
to the workmen, who are constantly occupied in the tunnel in lining the 
crown of the arch with brick, by the sudden appearance of a locomo- 
tive, the approach of which had not been heard. 

That the audibility of sound should be diminished by smoke was so 
contrary' to previous conceptions on the subject, since sound is not prac- 
tically interrupted by fog, snow, rain, or Jiail, that I was induced to 
attribute the efi'ects which had been observed to another cause, and to 
regard the phenomenon as due to an exaggerated flocculent condition 
of the air in the tunnel ; adopting in this instance the hyi^othesis ad- 
vanced by Dr. Tyndall, and so well illustrated by his ingenious ex- 
periments. The eliect which would be produced in the condition of 
the air in the tunnel by the passage of a locomotive is indicated by 
the appearance of the emitted steam extending behind the smoke- 
stack of a locomotive in rapid j)rogress before the observer at a dis- 
tance. This consists of a long stream composed of a series of globu- 
lar masses produced by the successive puffs of steam which are emitted 
at equal intervals. Allowing the diameter of the di'iving-wheels to be 
five feet, then since four pufis are made at each revolution of the wheels, 
a puff of hot steam would be given out at every four feet travelled by 
the engine, and these puffs mingling with the air at the ordinary tem- 
])erature would produce an exaggerated flocculent condition. On our 
expressing a desire to witness the effect upon sound of the passage of a 
locomotive through the tunnel, Mr. A. W. Locke, one of the engineers 
who had charge of the western section, politely offered us the means of 
experimenting on this point, and also of passing leisurely through the 
tunnel on a hand-car. 

To observe the effect of a locomotive on the sound we took advantage 
of the entrance of a freight train, impelled by two engines, the extra 
one being necessary to drive the load up the inclined plane to the mid- 
dle of the tunnel, where it was detached and returned along the same 
line, while the train was drawn the remaining distance along the eastern 
decline by a single engine. In order to make the experiment with re- 
gard to sound tlie time was accurately noted during which the noise of 
the entering engines could be distinctly heard, which would give aj)- 
])roximately the distance the sound travelled through the flocculent at- 
mosphere produced by the locomotive before becoming inaudible, and 
again the time was noted from th^ first hearing of the returning engine 
until it reached the end of the tunnel. In the mean time the current of 
air blowing through the tunnel had removed a considerable portion, at 
least, of the flocculent atmosphere, so that the seund in this case came 



RESEAECHES IN SOUND. 553 

tlirong:li an atmosphere of comparative nniformitj' of temi)eratiire, or 
one mucli less llocculent than the other ; the result was that the dura- 
tion of sound in the first case was about a mmute, while in the second 
it was ui^ward of two minutes. The darkness in the tunnel, on acc^iunt 
of the smoke, was so profound immediately after the passage of a loco- 
motive, that with two large torches, charged with mineral oil, the sides 
of the tunnel at a distance of six feet could scarcely be observed ; while 
in the other half of the tunnel, where no smoke existed, the eastern 
opening could be observed like a star in the distance of upward of two 
miles. It was therefore not surprising that the stifling of the sound 
which was observed should be referred to the smoke as a palpable cause, 
find that the more efl&cient one of the varying density or flocculent con- 
dition should be disregarded. 

The method of determining by experiment the question as to which of 
these causes was the efficient one did not occur to me until we had left 
the tunnel, and then the simple expedient suggested itself to me, for the 
purijose of repeating the experiment, that instead of locomotives charged 
with wood, two locomotives charged with charcoal or coke — which emit 
no smoke, but only transparent gases princii)ally carbonic acid — should 
ho. used in an experiment similar to the one just described. This ex- 
l)eriment Mr. Locke has kindly promised to perform as soon as a con- 
venient opportunity shall occur. 

The opportunity was embraced while at the mouth of tlie tunnel to 
make some observations which might have a bearing ux>on the phenom- 
ena of the aerial echo. For this purj^ose, advantage was taken of a 
large tool-chest, which happened to be place d about twenty or thirty 
feet within the western mouth of the tunnel. By slamming down vio- 
lently the cover of this chest, a lond sound of an explosive character 
was produced, from which a prolonged echo was returned from the in- 
terior of the tunnel. This echo was slightly intermittent, suddenly in- 
creasing in loudness at intervals for a moment, and again resuming its 
uniform intensity. This effect was attributed to projecting pieces of 
rock in that x>artofthe tunnel which had not been lined with brick. 
An echo was however evidently returned from that portion of which 
the sides were not i^rojecting, which I wwdd consider an effect of the 
same cause which produces the aerial echo. 

Aerial Echoes. 

During the year 1877, (as also in 187G,) series of exiDeriments were 
made on the aerial echo, in which I was assisted — in the first series by 
General Woodruff, engineer of tlie third light-house district, — and in the 
second series by Edward Woodruff", assistant engineer of tlie same dis- 
trict. These experiments were made principally at Block Island, but 
also at Little Gull Island. Especial attention has been given to this 
phenomenon, which consists in a distinct echo from the verge of the 
horizon in the direction of the x>rolongation of the axis of the trumi^et 



554 EESEAECHES IN SOUND. 

of the siren, because tlic study of it has been considered to offer tlie 
easiest access to the solution of the question as to the cause of all the 
abnormal i:>hcnomena of sound, and also because it is in itself an object 
of much scientific interest. 

In my iDrevious notice of this phenomenon, in the report of the light- 
house board for 1874, 1 suggested that it might be due to the reflection 
from the crests of the waves of the ocean ; but as the phenomenon has 
been observed during all conditions of the surface of the water, this ex- 
planation is not tenable. 

Another hypothesis has been suggested, that it is due to a flocculent 
condition of the atmosphere, or to an acoustic invisible cloud, of a 
density in diflerent parts differing from that of the general atmosphere 
at the time. To test this hypothesis experimentally, the large trumpet 
of the siren was gradually elevated from its usual horizontal position to 
a vertical one. In conception, this experiment appears very simple, but 
on account of the great weight of the trumpet, it required the labor of 
several men for two days to complete the arrangements necessary to the 
desired end. The trumpet, in its vertical position, was sounded at in- 
tervals for two days, but in no instance was an echo heard from the 
zenith, but one was in every case i)roduced from the entire horizon. 
The echo appeared to be somewhat louder from the land portion of the 
circle of the horizon than from that of the water. On restoring the 
trumpet to its horizontal position, the echo gradually increased on the 
side of the water, until the horizontal position was reached, when the 
echo, as usual, ax)i)eared to proceed from an angle of about twenty de- 
grees of the horizon, the middle of which was in the prolongation of 
the axis of the trumx^et. A similar experiment was made with one of 
the trumijets of the two sirens at Little Gull Island. In this case the 
trumjiet was sounded in a vertical position every day for a week with 
the same result. On one occasion it hajipened that a small cloud passed 
directly over the island on which the light-house is erected, and threw 
down on it a few drops of rain. At the moment of tlie passage of this 
cloud the trumpet was sounded, but no echo was produced. 

From these experiments it is evident that the phenomenon is in some 
way connected with the plane of the horizon, and that during the contin- 
uance of the experiment of sounding the trumpets while directed toward 
the zenith no acoustic cloud capable of producing reflection of sound ex- 
isted in the atmosphere above them. 

Another method of investigating this phenomenon occurred to me, 
which consisted in observing the effects produced on the ears of the ob- 
server by approaching the origin of the echo. For this i^urpose, during 
the sounding of the usual intervalpf twenty seconds of the large trumpet 
at Block Island, observations were made from a steamer which proceeded 
from the station into the region of the echo and in the line of the pro- 
longation of the axis of the trumpet, with the following results : 

1. As the steamer advanced, and the distance from the trumi^et was 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 555 

increased, the loudness of the echo diminished, contrary to the effect of 
an echo from, a i^lane surface, since in the latter case the echo would 
have increased in loudness as the reflecting surface was approached, 
because the whole distance travelled by the sound-wave to and from the 
reflector would have been lessened. The efiect however is in accord- 
ance with the supposition that the echo is a multiple sound, the several 
l)arts of which proceed from different jjoints at different distances of the 
space in front of the trumpet, and that as the steamer advances toward 
the verge of the horizon, it leaves behind it a number of the i)oiuts from 
which the louder ones proceed, and thus the eflfect ujjon the ear is dimin- 
ished as the distance from the trumpet is increased. 

2. The duration of the echo was manifestly increased, in one instance, 
from five seconds, as heard at the mouth of the ti'umijet, to twenty 
seconds. 

This would also indicate that the echo is a multiple reaction of vary- 
ing intensities from difl'erent points, and that at the i^lace of the steamer 
the fainter ones from a greater distance would be heard, which would 
be inaudible near the trumpet. 

3. The arc of the horizon from which the echo appeared to come was 
also increased in some cases to more than three times that subtended by 
the echo at the place of the trumpet. This fact again indicates that the 
echo consists of multijde sounds from various points at or near the sur- 
face of the sea, the angle which the aggregate of these points subtend 
necessarily becoming greater as the steamer advances. 

But perhaps the most imi)ortant facts in regard to the echo are those 
derived from the series of observations on the subject, made by Mr. 
Henry W. Clark, the intelligent keeper of the principal light-house sta- 
tion on Block Island, and by Joseph Whaley, keeper of the Point Judith 
light-house. Mr. Clark was furnished with a time-marker to observe the 
diu'ation of the echo, and both were directed to sound the trumpets every 
Monday morning for half an hour, noting the temi)erature, the height of 
the barometer, the state of the weather as to clearness or fog, the direc- 
tion and intensity of the wind, and the surface of the ocean. 

From the observations made at these two points, for more than two 
years at one station and over a year at the other, the echo may be con- 
sidered as produced constantly under all conditions of weather, even 
during dense fogs, since at Block Island it was heard lOG times out of 
113, and at Point Judith 50 times out of 57, and on the occasions when 
it was not heard the wind was blowing a gale, making a noise sulhciently 
intense to drown the sound of the echo. These results appear to be 
sufficient to disprove the hypothesis that the phenomenon is produced 
by an acoustic cloud accidentally situated in the prolongation of the axis 
of the trumpet. It must be due to something more permanent in its 
effects than that from a portion of air differing from that of the general 
atmosphere in temi^erature or density, since such a condition cannot 
exist in a dense fog embracing all the region of the locality of the phe- 



556 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

noinenon. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive liow tlie results can be pro- 
duced, even in a single instance, from a liocculent portion of atmosphere 
in the prolongation of the axis of the trumpet, since a series of patches 
of clouds of diiferent temperature and densities would tend to absorb or 
stifle by repeated reflections a sound coming from their interior rather 
than to transmit it to the ear of the observer. 

The question, therefore, remains to be answered : what is the cause 
of the aerial echo ? As I have stated, it must in some way be connected 
with the plane of the horizon. The only explanation which suggests 
itself to me at present is that the spread of the sound which fills the 
whole atmosphere from the zenith to the horizon with sound-waves 
may continue their curvilinear direction until they strike the surface 
of the water at such an angle and direction as to be reflected back to 
the ear of the observer. In this case the echo would be heard from a 
perfectly flat surface of water, and as different sound-rays would reach 
the water at different distances and from different azimuths, they would 
produce the prolonged character of the echo and its angular extent along 
the horizon. 

While we do not advance this hypothesis as a final solution of the 
question, we shall provisionally adopt it as a means of suggesting further 
experiments in regard to this perplexing question at another season. 

Geneeal Conclusions. 

From all the experiments which have been made by the Light-House 
Board in regard to the transmission of sound in free air and those de- 
rived from other observations which can be fully relied upon, the follow- 
ing conclusions may be considered established, subject however to such 
further modification and extension as subsequent investigation may 
seem to indicate: 

1. The audibility of sound at a distance (the state of the atmosphere 
being constant) depends upon the character of the sound. The distance 
through which a sound may be heard is governed by the pitch, the loud- 
ness, and the quantity of sound. The pitch or frequency of the impulses 
in a given time must not be too high, otherwise the amplitude of vibra- 
tion will be too small to allow a sufficient quantity of air to.be put into 
motion ; neither must the pitch be too low, for in this case the motion of 
the atoms of air in the sound-wave will not be sufficiently rapid to con- 
vey the impulse to a great distance. Again, the greater the loudness 
of the sound, which depends upon the amplitude of the vibrations of the 
sounding-body, the greater will be the distiince at which it will be heard. 
And finally, the greater the quantity of sound, which depends upon the 
magnitude of the vibrating surface, the greater will be the distance to 
which it is audibly transmitted. • These results are derived from observa- 
tions on the siren, the reed-trumpet, and the automatic buoy. The effect 
of quantity of sound is shown in the fact that in sounding different in- 



RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 557 

struments at the same time, it was fouud tliat two sounds apparently of 
the same loudness were heard at very dilierent distances. 

2. The audibility of sound depends upon the state of the atmosphere. 
A condition most favorable to the transmission of soimd is that of per- 
fect stillness and uniform density and tcmj)erature throughout. This 
is shown by the observations of Parry and other Arctic explorers ; al- 
though in this case an efficient and co-operating cause is doubtless the 
downward refraction of sound due to the gTcater coldness of the lower 
strata of air, as first pointed out by Professor Eeynolds. Air however is 
seldom in a state of uniform density, but is pervaded by local currents, 
due to contact with i^ortions of the earth unequally heated, and from 
the refractions and reflections to which the sound-wave is subjected in 
its passage through such a medium it is broken up and lost to the ear 
at a less distance. 

3. But the most efficient cause of the loss of audibility is the direct 
effi?ct produced by the wind. As a general rule, a sound is heard far- 
ther when moving with the wind than when moving against it. This 
effect, which is in conformity with ordinary observation, is not due to an 
increase of velocity of the sound-wave in one direction and a diminution in 
the other by the motion of the wind except in an imperceptible degree; for 
since sound moves at the rate of about seven hundred and fifty miles an 
hour, a wind of seven miles and a half an hour could increase or dimin- 
ish the velocity of the sound-wave only one per cent, while the effect ob- 
served is in some cases several hundred per cent. It is however due to 
a change in its direction. Sound moving with the wind is refracted or 
thrown down toward the earth 5 while moving against the wind it is 
refracted upward and passes over the head of the observer, so as to be 
heard at a tlistance at an elevation of several hundred feet when in- 
audible at the surface of the earth. 

4. Although, as a general rule, the sound is heard farther when mov- 
ing with the wind than when moving against it, yet in some instances 
the sound is heard farthest against the wind; but this phenomenon is 
shown to be due to a dominant upper wind, blowing at the time in an 
opposite direction to that at the surface of the earth. These winds are 
not imaginary productions invented to explain the phenomena, but 
actual existences, established by observation, as in the case of the 
experiments made at Sandy Hook, in 1874, by means of balloons, and 
from the actual motion of the air in the case of northeast storms, as 
observed at stations on the coast of Maine. 

o. Although sound issuing from the mouth of a trumpet is at first con- 
centrated in a given direction, yet it tends to spread so rapidly that at 
the distance of three or four miles it fills the whole space of air inclosed 
within the circuit of the horizon, and is heard behind the trumpet nearly 
as well as at an equal distance in front of its mouth. This fact i)reeludes 
the use of concave reflectors as a means of increasing the intensity of 
sound in a given direction ; for although at first they do give an increase 



558 RESEARCHES IN SOUND. 

of sound in the direction of the axis, it is only for a comiDaratively short 
! distance. 

6. It has been established, contrary to what has formerly been thought 
to be the case, that neither fog, snow, hail, nor rain, materially interferes 
with the transmission of loud sounds. The siren has been heard at a 
greater distance during the prevalence of a dense and widely-extended 
fog than dimng any other condition of the atmosphere. This may 
however be attributed to the uniform density and stillness of the air at 
the time. 

7. In some cases sound-shadows are i^roduced by projecting portions 
of land or by buildings situated near the origin of the sound, but 
these shadows are closed in by the spread of the sound-waves, and thus 
exhibit the phenomenon of sound being heard at a distance and after- 
wards lost on a nearer approach to the station. 

8. It frequently happens on a vessel leaving a station, that the sound 
is suddenly lost at a point in its course, and after remaining inaudible some 
time, is heard again at a greater distance, and is then gradually lost as 
the distance is fartlier increased. This phenomenon is only observed 
when the sound is moving against the wind, and is therefore attributed 
to the upward refraction of the sound-wave, which passes over the head 
of the observer and continues an upward course until it nearly reaches 
the upper surface of the current of wind, when the refraction will be re- 
versed and the sound sent downward to the earth ; or the elfect may be 
considered as due to a sound-shadow produced by refraction, which is 
gradually closed in at a distance by the lateral spread of the sound- 
wave near the earth, on either side, in a direction which is not affected 
by the upward refraction. Another explanation may be found in the 
probable circumstance of the lower sheet of sound-beams being actually 
refracted into a serpentine or undulating course, as suggested in the 
Appendix to the Eeport of the Light-House Board for 1875. {See page 
513.) Such a serpentine course would result from successive layers of 
unequal velocity in an opposing wind ; as being retarded at and near 
the surface of the earth, attaining its maximum velocity at a height of 
a few hundred feet, and then being again retarded at greater elevations, 
by the friction of upper counter currents or stationary air. In some 
cases the phenomenon is due to one or the other of these causes, and in 
other cases to all combined. That it is not due to the obstructing or 
screening eft'ects of an abnormal condition of the atmosphere is shown 
by the fact that a sound transmitted in an opposite direction, through 
what is called the region of silence, passes without obstruction. It is 
probable from all the observations, that in all cases of refraction of a 
sound moving against the wind it tends again to descend to the earth 
by the natural si)read of the soujid. 

9. The existence of a remarkable i)henomenon has been established, 
which is exhibited in all states of the atmosphere during rain, snow, and 
dense fog, to which has been given the name of aerial echo. It consists 



KESEARCHES IN SOUND. 559 

of a distinct echo, apparently from a spa^e near tbe horizon of fifteen or 
twenty degrees in azinuith, directly in the prolongation of the axis of 
the trnmpet. The londness of this echo depends upon the loudness and 
quantity of the original sound, and therefore it is produced with the 
greatest distinctness by the siren. It cannot be due to the accidental 
l^osition of a flocculent portion of atmosphere, nor to the direct reflection 
from the crests of the waves, as was at first supposed, since it is always 
he^ird except when the wind is blowing a hurricane. 

As a provisional explanation, the hyjiothesis has been adopted thst 
in the natural spread of the waves of sound, some of the rays must take 
such a curvilinear course as to strike the surface of the water in an 
opi)osite direction and thus be reflected back to the station or location 
of the origin of the sound. 

Light-House Board, October^ 1877. 



CONTENTS OF THE REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR 1878. 



Page. 

Kesolutioij by Congress to print report 2 

Letter of Secretary transmitting report 3 

Eegents of the Institution ^ 

Executive Committee - ^ 

Members ex-officio ^ 

Officers and assistants - " 

Report of the Secretary '' 

Finance ^^ 

Building 1^ 

Publications - 1^ 

Contributions to Knowledge 13 

Miscellaneous Collections 1^ 

Bulletins of the National Museum 20 

Proceedings of the National Museum - 22 

Reports of the United States Fish Commission 22 

Annual report 23 

Anthropology 2.> 

Meteorology 25 

Researches • • "^^ 

Laboratory "o 

Telegraiihic announcement of astronomical discoveries 29 

Correspondence - ~^ 

Exchanges '^■^ 

Library. 3d 

National Museum 39 

Anthropology 44 

Mammals 47 

Birds 48 

Reptiles 49 

Fishes '^^ 

Invertebrates ^1 

Mineralogy ^^4 

Scientific investigation of collection 55 

Distribution of collections 55 

Gallery of art ^5 

United States Fish Commission 56 

Halifax Commission . CO 

Statistics of sea fisheries "1 

Miscellaneous "■- 

S. Mis. 59 36 561 



562 CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary G5 

Government explonitious and surveys 65 

United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 

Prof. r. V. Hayden in charge 65 

United States Geographical Surveys West of the 100th Meridian, Lieut. 

George M. Wheeler in charge 77 

Geographical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region, 

by Prof. J. W. PoweU 79 

Entries in the record-hooks of the United States National Museum 82 

Distribution of dujdicate specimens 82 

Additions to the collections of the United States National Museum 83 

International Exhibition 1876 113 

Certificate of award 113 

Statistics of exchanges 113 

Boxes sent abroad 113 

Packages received from Europe 114 

Agents for transmission and distribution 123 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 

and the National Museum 125 

Report of the Executi\':e Committee 126 

Condition of funds 126 

Receipts 127 

Expenditures - 127 

Hamilton bequest - 127 

Building 127 

General expenses 128 

Publications, researches, &c 128 

Repayments - 128 

Estimates - 129 

Estimated receipts 129 

Estimated appropriations 129 

National Museum 130 

Receipts 130 

Expenditures 130 

Summary 131 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents 133 

Biographical memoir of Joseph Henry, by Prof. Asa Gray 143 

GENERAL APPENDIX 178 

Condorcet: a Biography, by M. Arago 180 

Louis Agassiz : a Biographical Notice, by Ernest Favre 236 

Henry and the Telegraph, by William B. Taylor 262 

The Effect of Irritation of a Polarized Nerve — " PflUger's Electrotonus," by 

B. F. Lautenbach, M. D., Ph. D 361 

Researches upon Fever, by H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D 420 

Constants of Nature, by John Leconte 427 

List of apparatus relating to heat, light, electricity, magnetism, and sound, 

available for scientific researches involving accurate measurements 429 

Ornithological Exploration of the Caribbee Islands, by F. A. Ober 446 

Report of Explorations in Greenland, by L. Kumlien 452 

Researches in Sound, with special reference to Fog-Signaling, by Joseph 

Henry • 455 



CONTENTS. 563 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 

Researches in sound, by Joseph Henry : 

Fig. 1. Diagram, Action of the wind in depressing waves of sound 512 

Fig. 2. Diagram, Action of the wind blowing against sound 513 

Fig. 3. Diagram, Disturbing effect of two winds 513 

Fig. 4. Diagram, Block Island 520 

Fig. 5. Curve representing normal limit of audibility 527 

Fig. 6. Diagram, Little Gulf Island and vicinity 529 

Fig. 7. Diagram, Effect of wind on sound 533 

Fig. 8. Diagram, Effect of wind on sound 535 

Fig. 9. Diagram, Effect of wind on sound 537 

Fig. 10. Diagram, Effect of wind on sound 538 

Fig. 11. Diagram, Effect of AVlnd on sound 539 

Fig.. 12i' Diagram, Effect of wind on sounds ... 539 



INDEX. 



Abbe, Prof, Cleveland, examination by, of work by Smithsonian Institution 

on meteorology 26 

Act of Congress to appoint an acting secretary 125 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 125, 130 

Agassiz, Louis, a biograjjhical notice, by Ernest Favre 23G 

Agencies for exchanges 33 

Agents of the Institution 123 

Agricultural Department, transfer of articles to 51, 52 

assistance in prosecution of meteorology 26 

Alaska, collections from , 53 

AUen, J. A., collaborator 55 

Alston, E. D., collaborator 55 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, apparatus at 430 

American Express Company, acknowledgments due 25 

Analyses made by the Smithsonian Institution 28, 32 

Anderson, E. J., collection of fishes 51 

Anthropology 23 

collections in 44 

Apparatus available for scientific researches 429 

Appleton, Messrs., «fc Co., acknowledgment due 15 

Appropriations by Congress 130 

by Smithsonian Institution for Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr 27 

Arago, M., biography of Condorcet by 180 

Archaeological circular 24 

subjects, correspondence relative to 31 

Arctic America, collections from 53 

Armory building, ai)propriation by Congress for 130 

collections stored in 40,41 

Assistants of the Museum 6 

Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic announcement of 29 

work of the Wheeler survey 77 

Atkins, Charles G., collection of fishes 50 

Baird, Prof. S. F., elected Secretary of the Institution 10, 135, 137 

appointed to make arrangements for funeral of Professor 

Henry 134 

director of lustitution 5,6 

letter to Congress transmitting Report 3 

presented financial statement 137 

report to Board of Regents 7 

Bancroft, George, resignation of 11, 125, 136 

Barometer reductions 27 

Bassett, Thomas, collection of fishes 50 

Batrachia, check-list of, by Edward D. Cope 21 

Baumhauer, E. H. von 33 

565 



566 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bean, Dr. T. H 59 

assistant, ichthyology 6 

collaborator 55 

collection presented by 47 

Beardslee, Capt. L. A 59 

Biddle, Henry J., collection presented by 47 

Bill before Congress for a new Museum building 42 

Biographical memoir of Joseph Henry, by Prof. Asa Gray 143 

notice of Louis Agassiz 236 

Biography of Condorcet , 180 

Birds, collections of 48,49 

of Northwestern Mexico 21 

of the Colorado Valley 76 

Bishop, Nathaniel H 49,449 

Blackford, E. G., collection of fishes 50,51 

Board of Eegeuts, changes in 11 

journal of proceedings 133 

meetings of 133,134,137,139 

vacancies filled 125 

Botanical index 18 

Bowditch, Prof. F. P 435 

Brachiopoda, index to, by W. H. Dall 21 

Brady, William, collection presented by 47 

Brayton, Alembert W 21,22 

Brodnax, Dr. Benjamin H., collection presented by 47 

Brown, Solomon G., clerk, transportation 6 

Bryant, Dr. Henry, collections by ^ 49 

Building, expenses . 127 

repairs 12 

Capehart, Dr 57 

Caribbee Islands, ornithological exploration of, by F. A. Ober 446 

Caribs, account of, by Ober 447 

Carp, culture of 57,58 

Casey, Col. Thomas L., United States Engineers 131 

Casts, coloring of plaster 49 

Centennial exhibit 40, 41 

Certificate of award to Thomas Donaldson 113 

Chemical analyses 28, 31 

Chester, Capt. H. C 59,60 

Chinese Government, donation by 41 

Circular respecting death of Professor Henry 136 

respectiag election of Professor Baird 137 

relative to exchanges 34 

Clark, F. A., survey 75 

Clark, Frank N 58,60 

Clark, Prof. Henry J., paper on lucemaria 13 

Clark, Samuel P., assistance by 13,21 

Clarke, J. H., astronomer 77 

Clymer, Hon. H., acts of, as Regent 133,134,135,137,139,141,142 

Coast Sirrvey Oifice, scientific apparatus at 429 

Coffiu, Professor. Winds of the globe 26 

Collections, additions to 83 

of anthropology 44 

birds 48,49 

fishes 50,51 



INDEX. 667 

Page. 

Collections of invertebrates 51 

mammals 47,48 

fossiliferous rock 52 

shells 52 

reptiles 50 

marine algae 53 

marine invertebrates 51 

marine mollusca 51 

increase of 41,82 

character of. 41 

scientific investigation 55 

distribution of 5o, 82 

Collins, Captain, acknowledgments due 48 

Columbia College, New York, apparatus at 437 

Comets discovered 29 

Commission Beige d'Echanges intemationaux 33 

Commission Fran^aise des Echanges intemationaux 33 

Committee to examine meteorological work of Institution 2G 

Condoicet, biography of, by M. Arago 180 

Congress, acts and resolutions of, relative to the Smithsonian Institution. .125, 130, 131 

ordered printing of report 2 

Contributions to Knowledge 12, 13 

United States National Museum 40 

Cope, Edward D. , check-list of North American batrachia 21 

collaborator 55 

Copp^e, Dr. H., acts of, as Eegent 137,140 

Correspondence, account of 29, 30, 31 

Cones, Dr.Elliott 21,55 

birds of the Colorado Valley 77 

Cox, HomS.S 138 

Craw-fishes, circular relative to 15 

Crittenden, A. B., collection presented by 46 

Cross, Prof. Charles E 436 

Cushing, F. H., assistant, ethnology 6 

examined soapstone quarries 45,46 

Dall, William H- , 21 

collaborator 55 

index to Brachiopoda 21 

memoir by .- 14 

visit to Europe 62 

Dana, James D., resigned as Kegent 125 

Dana, Richard Henry 60 

Davies, Louis H 60 

De la Batut, Mons. Henri, relics of Smithson from 63 

visiting-card of — 63 

seal of family of 63 

Delfosse, Mr. Mairrice 60 

Dickinson, Henry James, portrait of, procured by Smithsonian Institution.. . 63 

Diebitsch, Hermann, clerk foreign exchanges 6 

Diptera, list of, by Osten Sacken 16 

Distribution of collections 55 

Domestic exchange 114 

Donaldson, Thomas, minerals procured by 54 

Centennial award to 113 



568 INDEX. 

Page. 

Donaldson, Thomas, visit -to Trance 63 

Smitbson relics procured by - 63 

Donations by foreign governnients 40 

to library --• 36 

United States National Museum.. 24 

Doutre, Josepb .-. 60 

Dug#s, Professor 54 

Duke of Northumberland, portrait of, procured by Smithsonian Institution.. 63 

Earll, R. E 59,60 

Eccles, James, services rendered by 72 

Edwards, Viual, duties of 62 

Edwards, V. N., collection of fishes - - 50 

Election of Secretary 135 

Electric bells introduced 11 

Electricity, apparatus for 429 

Elliot, D.G., memoir by 14 

Encke's comet - 29 

Endlich, Dr. F. M 6,21,55 

Entomological Commission 53 

Eskimos, notes on - 453 

Estimated receipts and appropriations 129 

Evans, W.W 47,54 

Exchange agents 123 

Exchanges, account of 32,33,34, 12S 

international bureaus 33 

statistics of -.--. 34, 113 

Executive committee of the Board of Eegeuts 5, 126 

Expenditures of Institution in 1878 - 127 

National Museum 130, 131 

Explorations and surveys 65 

Dr. Haydeu 65 

Lieut. George M. Wheeler 77 

Prof. J. W. Powell 79 

in Greenland. 452 

ornithological, of the Caribbee Islands 446 

Fargo, James C, acknowledgments due to 25 

Farlow, Dr. William G 59 

Farr, Frank, collection of fishes 51 

Favre, Ernest, biographical notice of Louis Agassiz 236 

Fencker, Governor, assistance rendered by . 454 

Ferguson, T. B 57,58 

Ferrar, P., discovered comet 29 

Ferrel, William, member of committee on Smithsonian meteorology 26 

Fever, researches ou, by Dr. H. C. Wood 27,420 

Finances, statement of 11, 12 

Finsch, Dr. O 54 

collection of fishes 51 

Fire-proof building for the National Museum 142 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building, estimate for .- 131 

Fish Commission, United States 42, 50, 51, .52, 56, 58 

reports of 22, 56, 57 

Fishes, collections of 50,51 

Flint, Dr. Earl 54 

Foreman, Edward, assistant, ethnology - 6 



INDEX. 569 

Page. 

Fossiliferous rocks,' collection of 52 

Funds, statement of 126 

Galbraith, Mr., collection presented by 47 

Gallery of Art 55 

Galody, Mr., collections by 49 

Gait, Alexander T 60 

Gannett, Mr., topograpliical party of 72,73 

Garfield, Hon. James A., acts of, as Regent 133,134,135,137,138,139 

Geological work of the Wbeeler Survey 78 

Hayden Survey 60 

Gere, J. E., collection presented by 46 

Gibbs, Prof.Wolcott 429,430 

Gilbert, C. K 79 

Gill, Theodore 21,55 

Glaciers 65,75 

Goode, G. Brown 51,54,55,59 

animal resources of the United States 21 

collection of fishes 50 

curator of the Museum 6 

fishes of the Bermudas 21 

history of the menhaden 62 

Government bureaus of exchange 33 

publications, exchange of 35,36 

Gray, Dr. Asa, acts of, as Regent 134,135,137,138,139,140 

biographical memoir of Joseph Henry, by 143 

Greenland, explorations in 452 

Griffin, Maggie E., clerk, distribution of publications 6 

Griffith, William, collection of fishes 51 

Gross's birds of Jamaica 448 

Guilding, Rev. Lansdowne 449 

Gundlach, Dr. J., collections by 49 

Gunn, Donald 63 

Habel, Dr. S., memoir by 14 

Hagen, Dr. H 21 

Halifax Commission 60 

statistics of sea fisheries 61 

Hamilton fund 12,126,127,129 

Hamlin, Hon.H., acts of, as Regent - 133,134,135,137,138 

resolution by 10 

Hardenberg, Mr i. 54 

Harvard University, apparatus at 430 

Hayden, Dr., account of geological survey 65 

Hayes, Rutherford B., presiding officer of Institution and member ex-officio.. 5 

Heat, apparatus for 429 

Henry, Professor, director of the Institution 7 

biographical memoir of, by Asa Gray 143 

biography of, to be prepared 9 

circular respecting death of 10 

last illness and death 9 

action of Board of Regents respecting 134, 136, 138 

funeral of 9 

memorial services 9 

obsequies of 133 

portrait of 56 



570 INDEX. 

Page. 

Henry, Professor, prepared a prograrome of organization 9 

promoted meteorology 25 

researclies in sound 455 

rescarclies in connection with tlie telegraph 262 

Henry, M. A., translations by 180,236 

Henry, Mrs. Professor, thanks of, to Board of Eegents 137 

Henshaw, H. W. , collections by 47 

naturalist 79 

Hering, Dr. C.J 54 

collections by 50 

Herron, Joseph, janitor 6 

Hesscl, Kudolph 23 

Hill, Mr 131 

History of the Institution 19,20 

Holmes, W. H., geologist 66,73 

House-rent allowed by Regents to Secretary 139, 142 

Ichthyology, North American, contribution to, by David S. Jordan 21 

International exchanges 33 

Invertebrate paleontology 76 

Invertebrates, collections of 51 

Investigations in natural history 55 

Iron from Sweden 54 

Irritation of a polarized nerve, effect of, by Lautenbach 361 

Jackson, Mr., photographer 72,75 

James, Dr. Frank L., collection presented by 47 

Japanese Government, donation by 41 

Johns Hopkins University, apparatus at 438 

biological laboratory, apparatus at 444 

Jordan, David S., contributions to North American ichthyology 21,22 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Eegents 133 

Kellogg, E. H 60 

Kidder, J. H. , M. D. , natural history of Kerguelen Island 21 

Kollmann, Professor, collection presented by 47 

Kiunlien, L., collections by 24,43,44,47,51,53 

report of explorations in Greenland 452 

Laboratory 28 

Latimer, George, collections by 49 

Lautenbach, Dr. B. F., effect of irritations of a polarized nerve 361 

Lawrence, George N., collaborator 21,55 

Le Clear, Mr., portrait of Joseph Henry, by 56 

Leech, Daniel, clerk, correspondence 6 

Leslie, James C, collection of fishes 50 

Lesquereux, Leo, monograph on Tertiary flora 76 

Library of Institution 36 

list of the principal works received by 36 

Light, apparatus for 429 

Lindall, Dr. Joshua 54 

List of foreign institutions in correspondence with Smithsonian Listitutiou . . 16, 35 

Locust, report on 77 

Lovering, Prof. Joseph 430 

Lucernaria, by Prof. Henry J. Clark; continued by Prof. A. E. Verrill 13 

Maclean, Eev. Dr. John, acts of as Regent 134,135,137,140,141 

Magnetism, apparatus for 429 

Mammals, collections of 47,48 

in National Museum 47 



INDEX. 671 

Page. 

March, W. T., collections by - 49 

Marine invertebrates 51 

molliisca, collections in 51 

Martin, Prof. H. N 444 

Mason, Prof. O. T., circular relative to American archaeology 15 

collects archjEological material 24 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology 436 

Mayer, Prof. A. M 435 

McCosh, Rev. Dr 138,141 

McFarlane, R. R., collections by 25 

McGuire, J. D., relative to soapstone quarry 46 

McKinley, Hon. William 64 

Meek, F. B.. 71 

Members ex-o^eto - 5 

Memorial service of Professor Henry 134, 138, 139,141 

Menhaden, history of, by Goode 68 

Merrill, Dr. James C, collections by 42 

Meteorological collaborators, services rendered by 25, 26 

system, transfer to Signal-Office 8 

subjects, correspondence relative to 32 

Meteorology, Smithsonian system 25 

committee appointed on 26 

scientific discussions 8 

Milner, J. W 57,60 

Miscellaneous Collections 13, 15 

Mobius, Professor, collections by 52 

Moore, Mr 53 

collection of fishes 50 

Morse, Prof. E. T 54 

collection presented by 47 

Mushback, J. E., investigations 67,73,74 

National Museum — 39 

assistants of 6 

bulletins 20,21 

donations to 24 

proceedings of 22 

anthropology 44,46 

appropriations by Congress for 130 

bill before Congress for a new building 42 

birds 48 

Centennial exhibit 40,41 

collections 41,83 

distribution of collections 55, 82 

donations by foreign y;overnment3 40 

expenditures 130 

fire-proof building for 142 

fishes 41,50,82 

invertebrates 51 

relation to Smithsonian Institution 39 

proposition for a new building 42 

receipts 130 

reptiles 49 

Natural History Museum, Paris, collection of fishes 51 

of the Hawaiian and Fanning Islands, by Thomas H. Streets, 

M.D 21 



572 INDEX. 

Page. 

Natural History of Kerguelen Island, by Dr. J. H. Kidder 21 

Nelson, E. W., collections by 24,43,44,48,51,53 

Nerve, polarized, effect of irritation of, by A. Lautenbach. 361 

Newcomb, R. L., collections by 48 

Newton, Alfred, collections by 49 

Nicholson, Prof. H. AUeyne, invertebrate palaeontology 76 

Ober, F. A., collections by 43,48,49,54 

ornithological exploration of the Caribbee Islands 446 

OflQcers of the Institution 6 

Ornithological exploration of the Caribbee Islands „ 446 

Osten-Sacken, Baron R., list of diptera 16,21 

Palseontology, work in, by Dr. White , 71 

Palmer, Joseph, taxidermist 6 

plaster casts by 49 

Parker, Hon. Peter, acts of, as Regent 133, 134, 135, 137, 139, 140, 142 

report of executive committee 132 

remarks of, on Professor Henry 140 

Patterson, Capt. C. P 429 

Peale, Dr. A. C, investigations by 67,73,74 

Perry, N. W., mineralogist 75 

Peters, Dr. C. H. F., observed comet 29 

Photography of Hayden Survey 75 

Physical subjects, correspondence relative to 31 

Pickering, Prof. Edward C 429,433 

Planets discovered , 29 

Plaster casts of reptiles, &c 49 

Poey, Prof. F 50,54 

Porter, Dr., U. S. A 53 

collection of fishes 50 

Porter, President Noah, acts of, as Regent 134, 135, 137, 139, 140 

apponted Regent 125 

Portrait of Henry James Dickinson C3 

Hugh Percy, Duke of Northumberland 63 

Professor Henry 56 

Powell, Prof. J. W., account of survey of 79 

Powel, Samuel, collection of fishes 50 

Proceedings, journal of, of the Board of Regents 133 

Publications, account of 12 

Annual Reports 13, 23 

Botanical Index 18 

Bulletins of the National Museum « 20 

Circular on craw-fishes - 15 

Circular relative to American archaeology 15 

Circular relative to living reptiles 15 

Contributions to Knowledge 12, 13 

Dall, W. H., memoir by 14 

Elliot, D. G., memoir by 14 

expenses of 128 

Habel, D. S., memoir by 14 

Rhees, William J., history of the Institution, by 19 

Osten-Sacken, list of diptera 16, 17 

Publications, list of foreign correspondents 16 

lucernaria, by Prof, flenry J. Clark 13 

continued by Prof. A. E. Verrill 13 



INDEX. 573 

Pago. 

Publications, Miscellaneous Collections 13,15 

Haydeu Survey 75 

Wheeler Survey 79 

Proceedings National Museum , 22 

Keport of United States Fish Commission 22 

Scientific writings of Smithson.. . 19 

Kain tables 26,27 

Eandle, Professor, collection presented by -17 

Eathbun, Richard 59 

collections by 51,53 

Eau, Charles, assistant, archaeology 6 

investigations 24 

Eegentsof the Institution 5, 125 

Eent of house allowed Secretary 139, 142 

Eepayments to Smithsonian account 128 

Reports, Annual 13,23 

Reptiles, circular relative to 15 

in National Museum 49 

Researches under auspices of Smithsonian Institution 27 

in sound, by Joseph Henry 455 

scientific apparatus available for 429 

Resolutions by Congress to print report , 2 

of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 125 

to lill vacancy in the Board of Regents 125 

by Board of Regents 133, 134, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142 

Reynolds, Elmer R. , articles of soapstone found by 45 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk 5,6 

prepared and edited history of the lustituti on 19 

edited scientific writings of Smithson 19 

Richard, J. H., coloring of plaster casts by 49 

Ridg way, Robert, assistant, ornithology 6, 55 

Riley, Prof. C. W., collaborator 55 

Robert College of Constantinople, collections by 49 

Rogers, Prof. William A., apparatus of 434 

Rood, Prof. O. N 437 

Rowland, Prof. Henry A 438 

Rumford Cabinet. {See Harvard University.) 

Russell, J. C, geological examination 78 

Saftbrd, Prof. T. F., astronomer 77 

Salviu, Osbcrt, collaborator 55 

Sargent, Hon. Aaron A. , acts of, as Regent 133, 134, 137, 139 

collections by 52 

Sargent, Professor*, contributions by 53 

Schott, Charles A., member of committee on meteorology 26 

meteorological works 26 

Scientific researches, apparatus available for 429 

Scientific writings of Smithson, publication of 19 

Sclater, Dr. P. L., collaborator 55 

Sciulder, Prof. S. H 53 

Sculptures of Cosumalwhuapa, memoir by Dr. S. Habel on 14 

Sea fisheries, statistics of 61 

Seal, of de la Batut family, copy of 63 

Secretary of Institution, house rent allowance to 139, 143 

Sennett, George B., collections by 48 

Shells, collection of 53 



574 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sherman, General W. T., acts of, as Regent 133,134,136,137,138,140,142 

appointed Regent 11, 125 

member of executive committee 5, 132 

Shindler, A. Z., coloring of plaster-casts by 49 

Siam, King of, donation by. Centennial exhibit 41 

Smillie, T. W., photographer 6 

Smith, S. J 21 

Smith, Sanderson 59 

collections by 51, 52 

Smithson, James, bequest of 12, 126 

inventory of personal effects of, received 63 

paper in handwriting of, received 63 

Smitz, K., assistance rendered by 454 

Soapstone quarries 44,45,46 

Solar eclipses, discussion of 28 

Sound, apparatus for 429 

researches in, by Joseph Henry 455 

St. John, O., geologist 67,75 

St. Petersburg Botanic Garden, collection from 53 

Starbuck, Capt. Alexander 23, 61 

whale-fishery 62 

Statistics of exchanges 34, 113 

sea-fisheries 61 

Steams, Silas, collection of fishes 50 

Stephens, Hon. Alexander H., Regent 5 

Stevens Institute of Technology 435 

Stevenson, Prof. J. J., geological examination .- 78 

Stone, Livingston 53 

Assistant United States Fish Commissioner. 57 

collection of fishes 50 

Streets, Thomas H., M. D., natural history of the Hawaiian and Fanning 

Islands 21 

Sumichrast, Francis. E., collected birds 21 

Sunderland, Rev. Dr. Byron 138,141 

Swan, James G., collection of fishes 51,53 

Swift, Lewis, discovered comet 29 

Swift, Thomas, collections by 49 

Taylor, William B., Henry and the telegraph 262 

Tebbutt, Mr., found Encke's comet 29 

Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries 29 

Telephones introduced 11 

Temperature tables 26 

Temple's periodic comet 29 

Thomson, S. R 60 

Todd, D. P., researches 28 

Topographical work of Wheeler Survey 78 

Hay den Survey 73 

Trescott, William H 60 

Trochilidse, memoir, by D. G. Elliot 14 

Trowbridge, Prof. John 429,432 

Turner, Jane A., clerk, library 6 

Uhler, P. R., circular relative to craw-fishes 15 

Ulke, Henry, portrait of Professor Henry, by 56 

Upham, Warren J 59 

collections by 51,52 



INDEX. 575 

Page. 

Van Dyck, W. T., collections by 49 

Vasey, Dr. George, collaborator 55 

Verrill, Prof. A. E 21,59 

collections by 51,52 

revised paper on Lucernaria 13 

Virginia bonds 12,126,127,129 

Waite, Chief Justice, acts of, as Regent 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 139 

Wasson, John 54 

Watson, Prof. Sereno, botanical index by 18 

Weatherbe, R. L 60 

Wcsleyan University, collection of fishes 50 

Whale-fishery 62 

Wheeler, Lieut. George M., collections made by 43,47 

account of survey by 77 

Wheeler, O. D 79,80 

Wheeler, Hon. W. A., acts of, as Regent 137,138 

Vice-President, Regent 5 

Whitcher, W. F 60 

Whiteway, W. V 60 

White, Prof. Charles A., collaborator -. 55 

invertebrate paleontology, by 76 

paleontologist 71,72 

Wiggin, John B. , steatite specimens presented by 44 

Williamson, Hon. Mr 54 

Wilson, A. D., triangulation by 72,75 

Winds of the globe 26 

Winnecke, Mr., found Temple's comet 29 

Withers, Hon. R. E., acts of, as Regent .- 133,134,135,137,138,139 

Wood, jr.. Dr. H. C, appropriation to, for study of fever 27 

on fever 420 

Wright, Charles, collections by 49 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, collaborator 55 

Young, Clarence B., clerk, accounts 6 

Zeledon, J 54 

collections by 43,48 

Zoological collections of the Wheeler Survey 79 

Zoological Society of Philadelpia, coUectionis from 48 



