■#r,?^ 



2=»~ .■;:■- 









^C 



r#?^ 




\«»< 



/" 



ANNU-AL llEPOET 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



THE YE^A^R 1881. 



TTASniXGTO^": 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
188 3. 



Ik thk Senate of the United States, 

June 20, 1882. 
The following resolution was agreed to by the Seuate May 16, 1882, and concurred 
in by the House of Representatives June 20, 1882: 

licsolved hy the Senate (the House of Ilepresentatives concurrinr/), That fifteen thousand 
live hundred and sixty copies of the Report of the Smithsonian lustitntion for the 
year 1881 be printed; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use 
of the Senate, six thousand and sixty copies for the use of the House of Representa- 
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Attest : 

Francis E. Shober, 

Acting Secretary. 




LETTER 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



AC COM PAN YING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Instiiution for the year 

1881. 



May 16, 1882.— Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, March 1, 1882. 
Gentlemen: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor 
to submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year 1881. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencee, F. Baied, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. David Davis, 

President of the United States Senate, and 
Hon. J. Warren Keifer, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

ni 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1881. 



SUBJECTS 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 
1882. 

2. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the oi)erations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1881, with the statistics of 
collections, exchanges, &c. 

3. Eeport of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1881, and the estimates for 1882. 

4. General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu - 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the j)romotiou of knowledge. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress iii 

Genera] subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution viii 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents ii 

Members ex-oflficio of the "Establishment," and Regents of the Institution.. . xv 

Officers and assistants of the Institution, and of the National Museum xvi 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

Introductory 1 

The President's Inaugural Reception, March 4, 1881 1 

Death of General Garfield, September 19, 1881 3 

New Regents of the Institution 4 

Services of Hon. Hannibal Hamlin 5 

Meetings of the Members of the ''Establishment " 5 

and of the Board of Regents 6 

The Henry Statue - 6 

Finances 7 

Condition of the fund, January, 1882 8 

Buildings 9 

Smithsonian building 9 

National Museum building 10 

Armory building 12 

Laboratory of Natural History 12 

Routine work of the Institution 13 

Administration 13 

Correspondence 13 

The Laboratory 14 

Researches and Explorations 15 

Publications 24 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 25 

Twenty-third volume 25 

Rain-fall tables 26 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections : 26 

Twentieth volume 27 

Twenty-first volnme 27 

Check-list of Smithsonian publications 27 

Bulletins of the National Museum 27 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27 

Smithsonian Aninuil Report 28 

Conreuts of Report for 1880 28 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Keport of the Secretary — Contiuvied. 

Astrouomical announcements by telegraph 28 

ExcLauges - - 30 

International exclianges 30 

Government exchanges 32 

Distribution 34 

Distribution of publications 34 

Distribution of specimens 34 

Library 34 

Additions for the year 35 

National Museu.m 35 

Increase of the Museum 35 

Medicinal collections 3(> 

Special contributions 37 

Bureau of Ethnology 38 

Co-operation with other Establishments 40 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company 40 

Corcoran Gallery of Art 41 

Treasury Department 41 

Coast and Geodetic Survey 42 

Light-House Board 42 

Miscellaneous 43 

Necrology 43 

International Exhibitions, &e. 44 

Congress of Americanists 45 

Geographical Congress 45 

External relations of the Smithsonian Institution 45 

United States Fish Commission 4G 

General objects and results 46 

Fish hatching 49 

Fish distribution 50 

Fisheries census 51 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 54 

Report on the oiieratious of Exchanges for 1881 55 

1. Foreign Exchanges 57 

Centers of Distribution 58 

Shipping Agents of the Institution 59 

Receipt and distribution of Exchanges 59 

Amount t ransmitted abroad in 1881 02 

2. Domestic Exchanges 63 

Receipt and distribution in 1881 (14 

3. Exchange of Government documents 71 

List of Government documents distributed in 1881 74 

Report of Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 18S1 81 

Periods in the history of the Museum 81 

Plan of organization 89 

Museum Library 95 

Work of the Preparators 96 

Details of administration 97 

Publications of the Museum 98 

Departments of the Curators 99 

Appendix A. List of oflicers of the Museum for 1^81 Ill 

Appendix B. Bibliography of Museum work for 1881 Ill 

Appendix C. List of contributors to the Museum for 1881 131 

Report of the Chemist 161 



CONTENTS. VII 

Pas->. 

Rkpout of the Executive Committee for the year 1881 KiT 

Condition of the funds January 1, iyS2 Iij7 

Receipts for the year lijT 

Expenditures for the year 1G8 

Estimates for the year 1882 li lO 

National Museum appropriations by Congress Id',) 

Appropriations for Ethnology, and for Exchanges 171 

Eepout of the National Museuivi Building Commission for 1881 173 

Report of the Architects of the National Museum building for 1881 177 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 

and National Museum \-'l 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I. — Record of recent scientific progress 189 

Introduction, by S. F. Baird 180 

Astronomy, by E. S. Holden 11)1 

Meteorology, etc., by Cleveland Abbe ••J31 

Physics, by G. F. Barker '3'^'^ 

Chemistry, by G. F. Barker MSI 

Botany, by W. G. Farlow ?,9l 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 409 

Anthropology, by O. T. Mason 499 

II. — Miscellaneous papers 537 

Miscellaneous papers relating to Anthropology b'27 

Ab8tra.cts from Anthropological correspondence G81 

Tuckahoe or Indian bread, by J. Howard Gore 687 

History of the Smithsonian system of Exchanges, by George H. Boehmer. 703 

Index to the volume 811 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organiziug act approved August 10, 1846, Eevised Statutes, 
title Ixxiii, section 5580, " Tlie business of the Institution shall be con- 
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Eegents, named the 
Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice- 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States, [and the Governor of 
the District of Columbia,] three members of the Senate, and three mem- 
bers of the House of Eepresentatives, together with six other persons, 
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of them of the same State." 



REGENTS FOB TEE YEAR 1881. 

Term expires. 

The Vice-President : 

William A. Wheeler Mar. 4, 1881 

Chester A. Arthur (became President) Sept. 19, 1881 

David Davis (pro tem.) Mar. 4, 1883 

The Chief Justice, Morrisox R. Waite. 

United States Senators : 

George F. Hoar (fiom Feb. 21,1881) Mar. 4,1883 

Nathaniel P. Hill (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 4,1885 

SajiuelB. Maxey (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 4,1887 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

Hiester Clymer Dec. 28,1881 

James A. Garfield Dec. 28, 1881 

Joseph E. Johnston Deo. 28, 1881 

Citizens of Washington : 

Peter Parker (appointed in 1868) Dec. 19,1885 

William T. Sherman (appointed in 1871 ) Mar. 25, 1885 

Citizens of a State: 

John Maclean, of New Jersey (appointed in 1868) Dec. 19,1885 

Asa Gray, of Massachusetts (appointed in 1874) -Dec. 19, 1885 

Henry CoppIiie, of Pennsylvania (appointed in 1874) Dec. 19,1885 

Noah Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878) Jan. 26,1884 

Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Regenta, 

VIII 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, January 18, 1882. 

The annual meeting of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution was held this day at 10 o'clock a. m., in the Regent's room. 

Present : The Chancellor — Chief Justice Waite, Hon. Geo. F. Hoar, 
Hon. N. P. Hill, Hon. S. B. Maxey, Hon. N. C. Deering, Hon. E. B. 
Taylor, Hon. S. S. Cox, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, I)r. 
Asa Gray, Dr. Henry Copp^e, General Wm. T. Sherman, Dr. Noah Por- 
ter, and the Secretary, Prof. S. F. Baird. 

The Chancellor made the following announcement relative to the ap- 
pointment of members of the Board : 

On the 21st of February, 1881, the Vice-President (Mr. Wheeler) 
appointed Hon. G. F, Hoar, as Regent, vice Hon. H. Hamlin, resigned. 

On the 19th of May, 1881, the Vice-President (Mr. Arthur) ap- 
pointed Hon. S.B. Maxey, of Texas, and Hon. K P. Hill, of Colorado, 
Regents, vice Hon. R. E. Withers and Hon. K. Booth, whose terms had 
expired. 

On the 9th of January, 1882, the Speaker of the House (Mr. Keifer) 
appointed as Eegents for the term of the 47th Congress, Hon. K. C. 
Deering, of Iowa, Hon. E. B. Taylor, of Ohio, and Hon. S. S. Cox, of 
i^ew York. 

The Chancellor called the attention of the Board to the death of Presi- 
dent Garfield, ex officio presiding officer of the Institution, and for 
many years one of its Regents. 

On motion of Dr. Gray it was — 

Resolved^ That the Chancellor be requested to enter upon the record 
an expression of the sense of the great loss which the Institution havS 
sustained by the death of one of its most devoted and distinguished 
administrators. 

In compliance with the foregoing resolution, the Chancellor presented 
the following memorial notice : 

General Garfield first took his seat in Congress at the end of the 
year 18G3. He was then but thirty-six years old. 

At the beginning of his second term he was appointed a member of 
this Board by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and was 
present at the meeting of February 3, 18G6. He continued to hold the 

IX 



X JOUENAL OF THE BOARD. 

same position until 1875, when another was appointed in his place. He 
appeared again, however, in 1877, and we were never afterwards de- 
prived of his counsels until he was elected President of the United 
States, which made him ex officio the presiding officer of the Smithso- 
nian Institution. 

From the beginning his i)resence here was felt. He was eminently 
fitted for such a trust. 

He was himself a scholar, and the " increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men" always gave him the greatest pleasure. 

At every meeting of the Board during his successive terms when he 
could be present, his name appears among tlie active and thoughtful 
members. He manifested his appreciation of the place he filled by 
always doing what it was his privilege to do, and doing it well. When 
on former occasions the Board has given expression to its feelings upon 
the death of a member his words of heartfelt sympathy have often been 
heard. The records show that he knew and appreciated the great and 
good qualities of Chief Justice Chase, and that he fully realized the 
debt science owed to Agassiz. But the crowning act of all was when, 
out of the fullness of his heart, at the memorial services in the hall of 
the House of Eepresentatives, he made those who heard him feel how 
great the life of Professor Henry had been. 

It is not for us to say he ought to have been spared longer. Few 
men seemed to possess greater power for good. He died as he lived, an 
lionor to human nature. 

The Secretary presented an exhibit of the finances of the Institution, 
showing the condition of the permanent fund, the receipts and expend- 
itures for the year 1881. 

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the Executive Comiuittee, 
which was read. 

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 18SL be ac- 
cepted. 

Resolved, That the income for the year 1882 be appropriated for the 
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex- 
pended by the* Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to 
the approval of the Executive Committee. 

General Sherman presented the report of the National Museum Build- 
ing Commission for 1881, with the report of the architects, which were 
read. 

On motion of Dr. Coppee, it was — 

Resolved, That the report be accepted and the Commission be dis- 
charged, with the thanks of the Board for the able and satisfactory man- 
ner in which it had discharged its duties. 

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was — 

Resolved, That, in accordance with the recommendation of the National 
Museum Building Commission, the thanks of the Board of Eegents of 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XI 

the Smithsonian Institution are hereby tendered to General M. C. 
Meigs, Quartermaster- General United States Army, for his hipihly val- 
ued services as consulting engineer of the National Museum Building 
Commission, in connection with the duty with which the Commission 
was charged by the Board in the construction of a fire-proof building 
for the United States National Museum. 

Dr. Gray presented the following report of the Special Committee to 
prepare the Henry Memorial Volume : 

To the Board op Eegents : 

Gentlemen : The Special Committee of the Board of Eegents ap- 
pointed to prepare for publication a volume of suitable notices and ad- 
dresses commemorative of the late Professor Henry, have the honor to 
present the following report : 

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held January 17, 1879, it was — 

" Besolved, That a special committee of thyee be appointed, of which 
the Secretary of the Institution shall be one, to prepare a memorial of 
Professor Henry, to include in a separate volume of the Smithsonian 
series such biographies and notices of the late Secretary of the Institution 
as may be considered by them worthy of preservation and publication ;'^ 
whereupon the Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird 
as the committee. 

On the 6th of February, 1879, a concurrent resolution was adopted 
by Congress to print 15,000 copies of the Memorial Exercises in honor 
of Professor Henry, held in the hall of the House of Representatives on 
the 16th of January, 1879, in a memorial volume, together with such 
articles as may be furnished by the Board of Eegents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, 7,000 copies of which were for the use of the House 
of Representatives, 3,000 copies for the use of the Senate, and 5,000 
copies lor the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

These two proceedings thus covered substantially the same ground. 

In accordance with its instructions your committee has prepared a 
memorial volume, prefaced with a brief account of the proceedings in 
Congress relative to a public commemoration by services in the hall of 
the House of Representatives, and consisting of three parts, viz : 

Part 1. The Obsequies of Joseph Henry and the proceedings con- 
nected therewith. 

Part 2. The Memorial Exercises and Addresses at the Capitol, on the 
evening of January 10, 1879. 

Part 3. A collection of proceedings by, and addresses before, some of 
the principal societies in this country with which Professor Henry had 
been connected. 

An appendix of four pages contains an account of the proceedings in 
Congress ordering the erection of a bronze statue of the distinguished 
subject of our memorial. 

The whole forms an octavo volunio of 532 pages, which has been pub- 
lished as vol. 21 of the Sinillisouian Miscellaneous Collections. 



XII JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

This work has also been published by Congress in a royal-octavo 
volume, and has been widely distributed during the present year. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

ASA GEAY, 
Chairman of the Committee. 

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was — 

Resolved, That the report be accepted, and the thanks of the Board 
tendered to the Committee for the satisfactory manner in which the duty 
devolved upon them had been discharged. 

General Sherman, from the Executive Committee, presented the fol- 
lowing report : 

To the Board of Eegents : 

Gentlemen : The Executive Committee, having had its attention 
called by the Secretary to the combustible nature and insecure condi- 
tion of the eastern portion of the Smithsonian building, together with 
its want of adaptability to the purposes of the Institution, has decided 
to recommend that measures be taken to substitute fire-proof materials 
for the present wood and plaster partitions of the apartments. 

Messrs. Cluss & Schultze, architects, have presented plans for this 
purpose, which, without materially changing the general architecture 
of the building, will i^rovide largely increased accommodations for the 
offices and working rooms, the storage of publications, exchange depart- 
ment, &c. 

The Committee, therefore, after due consideration of the subject, 
recommends to the Board of Eegents the adoption of the following 
resolution : 

Resolved,, That the Secretary and Executive Committee present to 
Congress plans and estimates for rendering the east wing of the Smith- 
sonian building fire-proof, to request an appropriation therefor, and, if 
the means are furnished, to proceed with the work. 

PETEE PAEKEE. 
JOHX MACLEAN. 
WILLIAi\r T. SHEEMAN. 

The resolution was unanimously adopted. 

The Secretary called attention to the approaching annual meeting of 
the ISTational Academy of Sciences, and requested instructions as to 
granting the use of a hall in the new museum for its sessions and those 
of similar scientific bodies. 

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was — 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to provide, in the building 
of the Jfatioual Museum, such accommodation as the ^S^ational Academy 
of Sciences may need at its meetings in Washington, and which may 
be afforded without inconvenience to the establishment ; also, that the 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XIII 

Secretary, under the sanction of the Executive Committee, may extend 
similar liospitality to other organizations or meetings of cognate char- 
acter and importance. 

General Sherman, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented 
the following report : 

To the Board of Eegents : 

Gentlemen: The Board, at its last meeting, January, 1881, antici- 
pating that the statue of Professor Henry, by Mr. Story, might be re- 
ceived during its recess, ordered that the site for the statue should be 
selected by the Executive Committee. 

The artist has informed the Secretary of the Institution that the 
statue will be finished in January or February, and has requested him 
to order the pedestal according to a design he has furnished himself. 
This is to consist of a die of Eed Beach granite, finely polished, 
octagonal in shape, 4 feet diameter, 4 feet high, the whole height of 
pedestal, with cap and bases of gray Quincy granite, to be 7 feet 3 inches. 

A contract has been made with the Quincy Granite Polishing Works, 
at Quincy, Mass., to furnish this i^edestal on the Smithsonian grounds 
within three mouths, for $982. 

At a full meeting of the Committee on Monday, January 10, 1882, 
after inspection of a plan of the Smithsonian grounds, and a visit to 
each of the sites that had been suggested as appropriate for the purpose, 
it was decided to make the following recommendations to the Board: 

The Committee is inclined to select the triangular plot to the north- 
west of the Smithsonian building, the statue to face toward the south. 
It is deemed advisable, however, to submit this suggestion, together with 
a plan of the Smithsonian grounds, to the artist, Mr. Story, and to await 
his opinion before making a final selection of the site. 

The Committee recommends that the words "Joseph Henry" be 
placed in raispd block letters on the front of the die, and on the reverse 
" First Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1846 — 1878," and noth- 
ing else whatever. 

In respect to the site and inscription the Committee desires that the 
Board should assume the responsibility of the decision. 

The Committee further recommends that the ChanceUorof the Institu- 
tion be requested to perform the ceremony of unveiling the statue with 
appropriate remarks, and that an address be delivered on the occasion 
by Hon. Hiester Clymer. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

PETER PARKER. 
JOHN MACLEAN. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN. 

Upon a full consideration of the subject, the Regents expressed their 
approval of the site preferred by the Executive Committee, and, on 
motion of Dr. Coppee, it was — 



XIV JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 

Resolved^ That the Executive Committee have full power as to the 
site and position of the statue. 

In regard to the inscription, after consideration, it was, on motion of 
Dr. Maclean, unanimously — 

JResolved, That the inscription on the pedestal of the statue consist 
of the name "Joseph Henry." 

After consideration of the subject of the ceremonies to be observed 
at the unveiling of the statue, on motion of Dr. Porter, it was — 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to take such 
action in regard to the erection of the statue as it may think best. 

The Secretary presented the annual report of the operations of the 
Institution for the year 1881. 

On motion of Dr. Copp^e, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be referred to the Execu- 
tive Committee, with authority to transmit it to Congress. 

On motion, the Board then adjourned sine die. 



THE SMITITSONIAX INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE "ESTABLISHMENT."* 

(Jamuiry 1, 1882.) 



CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States. 
DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief .J usi ice of the United States. 
FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State. 
CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Tre.isnry. 
ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM H. HUNT, Secretary of the Navy. 
TIMOTHY O. HOWE, Postina.ster-GeneraL 
SAMUEL J. KIRKWOOD, Secr(>tary of th<- Interior. 
BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General. 
EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents. 



EEGEXTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(.January 1, 18*2.) 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, 

President of the Board. 
DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate. 
GEORGE F. HOAR, member of the Senate of the United States. 
NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
SAJIUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States. 
NATHANIEL C. DEERING, member of the House of Representatives. 
EZRA B. TAYLOR, member of the House of Representatives. 
SAMUEL S. COX, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOHN ilACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY C0PP£E, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. 
Peteu Parker. John Macleax. William T. Siiermax. 

*Tbe year 1381 has been an exceptional one in the number of changes oc- 
«iin*ing in the ''Establishment." The President of tlic United States from January 
], 1881, to March 4, was Rutuereord B. Hayes; from March 4 to September 19, 
James A. Gareielu, and from September 19 to December 31, Chester A. Arthur. 
The Vice-Presidents were similarly William A. Wheeler, Chester A. Arthur, and. 
3)avii> Davis. The members of the Cabinet in like manner were all changed during 
the year. 

XV 



OFFICEKS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1882. 



SI\[ ri HSONI AN INSTIT UTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD. 

S(cret(irii, Dinctor of the Iitnitlutlon. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 
DANIEL LEECH, •rorrexponiUng Cleric. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Director. 

(}. BROWN (}00lJE, Adultitaiit IJireclor, Curator, Dtpartmext of Art and Industri/. 
WM. II. DAAAj, Honorary Curator. Department of Coneholof/;/. 
ROBERT RIDGWAY, Curator, Department of Ornithologi/. 
CHARLES RAU, Curator, Department of Arehivologn. 
TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator, Department of Ichihi/olof/i/. 
HENRY C. YARROW, Honorurij Curator, Department of Herpetology. 
CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator, Department of Dicertebrafe Paleontology. 
GEORGE W. HAWES, Curator, Department of Geology. 
JAMES M.YlAi^T, Honorary Curator, Department of Materia Medica. 
RICHARD RATHBUN, Curator, Department Marine Liverteiratea. 
EDW. FOREMAN, Assistant, Department of Ethnography. 
FRED. W. TRUE, Curator, Department of Mammals, and Librarian. 
FRED. W. TAYLOR, Chemist. 
GEO. P. MERRILL, Aid, Department of Mineralogy. 
WM. S. YYLk'TY.^, Aid, Department of Mineralogy. 
XVI 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1881. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I have the houor to present herewith a report of tlio 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1881. 

As heretofore, in addition to matters pertaining strictly to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, I give an account of the operations of the National 
Museum and of the Bureau of Ethnology, which l)y Congress have been 
l)laced under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, as also of 
those of the United States Fish Commission, of which your secretary is 
the chief officer. 

THP] SMITHSOmAN INSTITUTION 

INTRODUCTORY. 

The operations of the Smithsonian Institution, in their various sub- 
divisions, have been conducted during the year with the usual success, 
and, I trust, to the satisfaction of all interested. 

While, as will be seen, the scale and magnitude of the work accom- 
plished have in many cases been greatly increased in comparison with 
the work of previous years, at the same time, by a more thorough or- 
ganization and the increasing efficiency of assistants by long experi- 
ence, the expenditures have not been augmented. Indeed, in no 
])revious year of the history of the Institution have the funds shown a 
better condition at the close of the calendar year. 

The work of the department of exchanges has never been so large, 
while the explorations and researches that have been prosecuted have 
been of very great interest and importance. 

The new organization of the National Museum has been successfully 
established, and it is now in satisfactory working ord(>r. The Ethno- 
logical Bureau, under the charge of Major Powell, has accomplished a 
great deal towards the solution of interesting problems connected with 
the science of anthropology, and the labors of the Fish Commission have 
largely increased in extent as well as in economical importance. 

The rresiclcnfs Inaugural Reception^ March 4, 1881. — The anticipation 
of the completion of the new building of the National Museum by the 4th 
S. Mis. 100.^ 1 



2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of March, iSSl, naturally suggested the idea of using it for the inaugural 
reception of the incoming President, and a formal application was 
made to your honorable body for the privilege. At a meeting called in 
December, 1880, to consider this subject, it was decided to grant the 
use of the building for the purpose in question, with the distinct pro- 
viso, however, that this was not to establish a precedent for its use l^or 
similar purposes hereafter. At the time the building was substautially 
completed and unoccupied by the Institution for its intended purposes. 
All that remained to fit it for the object desired by the couimittee of 
citizens was the construction of floors in the four main halls and in the 
rotunda, and the special fittings and embellishments required for the re- 
ception. While the other Uoors were to be of wood, these were to be 
laid in concrete, and the work was deferred until the building could be 
cleared of its scaffolding and other obstructions. 

Considerable dissatisfaction, however, was expressed at the idea of 
using concrete for the great floor, and it was decided to refer the matter 
to Congress, with a view of obtaining, if possible, an appropriation to 
meet the additional cost of marble and encaustic tiles. As such an 
appropriation could not be obtained in time for service in connection 
with the reception, it was determined by the citizens' committee to lay 
a strong, although temporary^ floor in these five rooms, so that the 
entire ground level of the building could be available. One of the 
seventeen rooms, containing at the time plaster casts of fishes, was 
boarded up and reserved. The remainder of the building, without any 
restriction, was given uj) to the committee, in accordance with the 
direction of the Board of Eegents. 

The Institution made such permanent fittings in the building as were 
contemplated in the plan, namely, the introduction of electrical wires 
for the purpose of working time- and watch-clocks, telephones, tele- 
graphs, signals, etc. ; the completion of the fitting up of the reception 
and retiring ro©ms for gentlemen and ladies, etc. ; while the citizens' 
committee, on its part, in addition to the layingof the temporary floors, 
erected about ten thousand bins for the reception of hats, coats, and 
wraps for the visitors, and introduced some three thousand gas-burners, 
supplied by pipes of suitable size. 

The decorations prepared by the committee consisted of a colossal 
statue of Liberty, erected in the rotunda, a series of emblematical and 
allegorical shields, monograms of the President and Vice-President, and 
miles of festooning suspended from the roof. 

The reception, which, of course, took place on the night of the 4th 
of March, Avas a great success, being attended by about seven thousand 
persons. The occasion was extremely brilliant. Two powerful elec- 
tric lights were suspended in the rotundii, and several were erected 
outside, whore they were supplemented by a large number of calcium 
lights, idaced in ditt'erent parts of the grounds. 

As there was no room in the building for supplying refreshments, s> 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 6 

temporary edifice was erected, the entrance to which was made through 
the eastern doorway. 

In the anticipation of a possible failure of the receipts to meet the 
outlays, the committee asked and obtained permission to give a prome- 
nade concert on the following night, which was also largely attended, 
and the results of the two evenings were entirely satisfactory, enougli 
money having been taken in to pay all expenses, and to relieve a num- 
ber of persons from their responsibility who had guaranteed the nec- 
essary funds for the occasion. 

Numerous applications were received from various organizations, 
civil and military, for the use of the room during the inauguration 
week, but, in accordance Avith the instructions of the board, these were 
refused. 

Death of General Garfield. — In the last report (for 1880) was men- 
tioned as one of the most noteworthy events of the year the elevation 
of an honored Eegent of the Institution, General James A. Garfleld, 
to the highest position in our National Government. Little, indeed, 
could it then be anticipated that an administration soon to be inaug- 
urated with more than the usual tokens of good will and general satis- 
faction would, within six months, be suddenly closed under peculiarly 
grievous circumstances. In the present report Ave have the painful 
task of recording the death of the President by a murder most atro- 
cious and unprovoked. Mortally wounded by the bullet of an assassin 
on the 2d of July, 1881, he lingered through suffering borne with he- 
roic fortitude for two and a half months, breathing his last on the 19th 
of September. 

Eminent for his abilities as a scholar, an orator, and a statesman, 
distinguished by his dignified and gracious bearing no less than by his 
prudence and solid judgment, he found time to give a large share of hfls 
attention to the meetings and consultations of the Regents, and he 
always proved a warm friend to this Institution and an earnest cham- 
pion for the advancement of its highest interests. Thoroughly con- 
versant with the history of the early struggle of opinion in framing the 
plan for its operations, he was in full accord with its established 
methods for the promotion of original research. In his eloquent trib- 
ute to the memory of Professor Henry, in the Capitol of the Nation, 
on the occasion of the memorial services held therein on the Gth of 
January, 1879, he held this language : 

" Smithson did not trammel the bequest with conditions. In 
nine words he set forth its object — 'for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men.' He asked and believed that America would 
interpret his wisli aright, and with the liberal wisdom of science. . . . 

•' For ten years Congress wrestled with those nine words of Smithson 
and could not handle them. Some political philosojjliers of that])eriod 
held that we had no constitutional authority to accei)t the gift at all. 



4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and proposed to send it back to England. Every conceivable proposi- 
tion ^Yas made. The colleges clutched at it ; the libraries wanted it; 
the publication societies desired to scatter it. The fortunate settlement 
of the question was this : after ten years of wrangling, Congress was 
wise enough to acknowledge its own ignorance, and authorized a body 
of men to find some one who knew how to settle it. And tbese men 
were wise enough to choose your great comrade to undertake the task. 
Sacrificing his brilliant prospects as a discoverer, he undertook the diffi- 
cult work. He drafted a paper in which he offered an interpretation of 
the will of Smithson, mapped out a plan which would meet the de- 
mands of science, and submitted it to the sufirage of the republic of 
scientific scholars. After due deliberation it received the almost unan- 
imous approval of the scientific world. With faith and sturdy perse- 
verence he adhered to the plan, and steadily resisted all attemi^ts to 
overthrow it. In the thirty-two years during which he administered 
the great trust, he never swerved from his first purpose : and he suc- 
ceeded at last in realizing the ideas with which he set out." 

By virtue of his office as President of the United States, General 
Garfield still maintained his connection with the Institution, being by 
law the presiding officer of the ''Establishment," and amidtbe exact- 
ing occupations of his station, he evinced his continued interest in its 
affairs by i^romptly attending a called meeting, and visiting officially 
the Institution, on the 4th of last May. His loss deserves, therefore, 
from us (apart from its national aspects) a special expression of pro- 
found regret, and his memory a special tribute of affectionate gratitude 
and respect. 

New Regents of the Institution. — By a very remarkable conjuncture of 
circumstances the terms of service of the entire body of Congressional 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution exi^ired at the close of the 
Forty-sixth Congress, leaving three to be appointed from the Senate 
and three from the House of Eepresentatives. The resignation, how- 
ever, of Hon. Hannibal Hamlin a short time before the fourth of 
March permitted the president of the Senate to select a successor in 
the person of Hon. George E. Hoar, who was thus the sole Congres- 
sional Regent of the Eorty-seventh Congress on its commencement, 
March 4, 1881. Subsequently, however, Vice-President Arthur ap- 
l)ointed Hon. N. P. Hill, of Colorado, and Hon. S. B. Maxey, of Texas, 
thus completing the number of Senate members of the board. 

In the law establishing the Smithsonian Institution provision was 
made for the appointment of a new Senate Regent every second year, 
so that at the close of each Congress there would be two members hold- 
ing over. Owing to the failure on the part of the appointing power to 
bear this provision in mind, as vacancies occurred Senators have been 
appointed other than those whose terms were to extend for a full six- 
year period. In making the recent api:>ointments the attention of the 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

presidout of the Senate was called to this circumstance, and he so ar- 
ranged his selections as to I'lilhll the original provision, so that of the 
present Senate Eegeuts the terms of service will be — six years for the 
Hon. S. B. Maxey, four for the Hon. N. P. Hill, and two for the Hon. 
George F. Hoar; subject, of course, to renomination by the president of 
the Senate if they should be reelected to the Senate at the end of their 
respective terms. 

At the time of writing this rei)ort no appointment of Regents from 
the House of Representatives had been made by the Speaker. 

Services of Son. IT. Hamlin. — The Smithsonian Institution owes a 
very great debt of gratitude to the Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, one of the 
retiring Regents, for advice and assistance rendered during his twenty 
years' period of service as a member of the board, representing more 
than half the entire history of the Institution. Many important meas- 
ures of legislation by Congress, deeply affecting its interest and that of 
the scientific enterprises in its charge, have been initiated by him and 
largely consummated through his efforts. The thanks of the Institution 
are also due to the other retiring members for their attention to its in- 
terests. 

MEETINGS OP THE ESTABLISHMENT AND OF THE REGENTS. 

Meeting of the Members of the Establishment. — By the first section of 
the act of Congress organizing the Institution, the President and Vice- 
President of the United States, the members of the Cabinet, the Chief 
Justice of the Supreme Court, and the Commissioner of Patents, 
" during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, and 
such other persons as they may elect honorary members," are " consti- 
tuted an establishment by the name of the Smithsonian Institution." 
And by the eighth section of the said act " the members and honorary 
members of the said Institution may hold stated and special meet- 
ings for the supervision of the affairs of said Institution and the advice 
and instruction of the Board of Regents, to be called in the manner 
provided for in the by-laws of said Institution." . 

By the third section of the said act " the business of the said Insti- 
tution shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re- 
gents, by the name of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be 
composed" as specified therein, two of the members of the establish- 
ment (to wit, the Vice-President and the Chief Justice) being also named 
as regents. The distinguished officers of the government thus desig- 
nated as members of the establishment constitute in effect a board 
of visitors, invested with the general oversight of affairs and the func- 
tion of suggesting to the regents such lines of action as to them may 
seem called for ; and endeavors have been made to secure the annual 
attendance of this body, incompliance with the objects indicated in the 
organic law. Although a certain day has been specified for the meet- 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ing of the members, and for the presentation to their consideration 
of the general condition of the Institution, it has usually been found 
difiicult to secure their attendance. The pressure of their responsible 
public duties and the fact that the deliberations and proceedings of the 
board of visiting members are merely advisory have conspired to pre- 
vent them from making any special efforts at meeting together for 
consultation; and, especially, as from the high character and qualifica- 
tions of the regents any specific action with regard to matters of admin- 
istration has heretofore been considered as unnecessary, comparatively 
little interest in such meetings could be felt by them. Accordingly, 
although the President is always duly notified in time of the date of the 
proposed meeting, he has seldom thought it necessary to take any ac- 
tion thereon. In the report of the Institution for the year 1879 a state- 
ment was given of the meetings of the members of the establishment 
held since the organization of the Institution, showing that the whole 
number during that period had amounted to but nine. 

In the case of the incoming administration, however, President Gar- 
field, our lamented coadjutor, called a meeting of the members of the 
establishment for the 4th of May, 1881 ; but the only ones in attend- 
ance on that day were the President of the board himself and Secretary 
Lincoln, of the War Department. To them was explained the general 
condition of the affairs of the Institution, and a personalinspection was 
made by them of the building and of the collections. 

Meeting of the Board of Begents. — Eeference was made in the last report 
to the special meeting of the board held on the 8th of December, 1880, 
for the purpose of considering an application by the citizens' commit- 
tee for the use of the National Museum building on the fourth of March 
following, for the purpose of the inaugural reception of the incoming 
President. 

The regular annual meeting of the Regents took place on the 19th of 
January, 1881, and its early occurrence in the year, as usual, rendered 
it possible to include an account of its proceedings in the last report, for 
1880. 

THE HENRY STATUE. 

It will be remembered that an appropriation of $15,000 was made by 
Congress on the 1st of June, 1880, for the erection in the grounds of 
tlie Smithsonian Institution of a statue in bronze of Professor Henry, 
to be executed by Mr. W. W. Story, of Eome, Italy, and that a pro- 
visional contract was made with Mr. Story and approved by the Board 
on the 8th of December, 1880, by which it was stipulated that the 
work was to be paid for in four equal installments — the first on the 
completion of the design ; the second on the completion of the model 
in clay; the third on the completion of the statue in bronze, and 
the fourth and last on the erection of the statue in the Smithsonian 
grounds. In pursuance of this contract, on the receipt of formal 



REPORT OF THR SECRETARY. 7 

notice from tiie American minister at Eome, the Hon. George P. Marshy 
that tbe sculptor liad completed the design for the statue, th« first in- 
stallment of $.j,7oO was paid to him on the 2Gth of February, 18S1. 
On receivin<>- the certificate of Mr. Marsh that the model in clay had 
Ix^en finished, the second installment of $3,750 was paid to the 8culi)tor 
on the 8th of June, 1881. As we are informed by Mr. Story that the 
bronze castin^;' from this model will very soon be made, the third install- 
ment of $3,750 will be due early in 1882. It is thought that the bronze 
statue will be at once shipped, and i)robably received in Washington 
during the month of March of this year. 

In compliance with Mr. Story's request a number of photographs 
were sent to him to be used in preparing the model of this statue; 
also, a cast of the face and a bust, executed by Mr. Clark Mills 5 and, 
finally, an academic gown belonging to Dr. Maclean, of rrinceton, 
similar to the one used by Professor Henry when a member of the 
faculty of Priccetou College. 

As the law of Congress provides that the pedestal of the statue shall 
be furnished by Mr. Story, at his request estimates for executing the de- 
sign by him were invited from various manufacturers in the United 
States. As might have been expected, these varied considerably in 
amount; but the proposals were all duly submitted to Mr. Story, who 
selected the offer of the Maine Eed Granite Company, which has been 
assi\med by the Quincy Granite Polishing Works. They offer a ped- 
estal according to Mr. Story's plan, the die to be of Eed Beach gran- 
ite and the remainder of Quincy gray granite ; the die to be i^olished, 
the remainder fine-axed; the whole, securely boxed and delivered in 
Washington, for $982. 

An imi)ortant point, namely, that of the precise location of the statue 
iu the Smithsonian grounds yet remains to be considered. I would re- 
spectfully suggest that the spot be designated at as early a date as pos- 
sible; also that provision be made for appropriate ceremonies con- 
nected with thejnauguration of the statue. 

FINANCES. 

General condition. — The condition of the finances of the Smithsonian 
Institution at the end of the year 1881, is entirely satisftictory. All 
liabilities have been paid, and a larger balance than usual remains, with 
which to conmence the work of the calendar year 1882. The reason of 
this surplus is due to several causes, and, among others, to the reduc- 
tion of the expenses of the system of exchanges, consequent upon the 
appropriation by Congress, of three thousand dollars, for that purpose, 
of which one-half has been collected. Several specific appropriations 
have also been made by Congress to meet the share of expenses of i)ar- 
ticular departments of the Government, especially of the Engineer IJu- 
reau of the W^ar Department and of the ISTaval Observatory. On this 
account, although the magnitude of the work is much greater than that 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

iu auy previous year, and the expenses correspondingly increased, yet 
the entire cost to the Institution has been only $7,407.84:. A consider- 
able amount of printing, also, which might have been chargeable to the 
Smithsonian fund, has been carried on at the expense of the printing- 
fund of the National Museum. 

The appropriations for the year by Congress, for the National Mu- 
seum have been liberal, and the results of the expenditure entirely sat- 
isfactory, as I trust will be shown in considering this charge of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Virginia bonds. — At the meeting of the Board of Regents, January 
19, 1881, the Executive Committee was authorized, at its discretion, to 
dispose of the Virginia securities owned by the Institution and deposit 
the proceeds in the Treasury of the United States as a part of the per- 
manent fund. 

The Executive Committee, after the adjournment of the board, took 
this subject into consideration, and, after consultation with Mr. Geo. 
W. Kiggs and others qualified to give an opinion on the matter, decided 
that the time was opportune for the disposal of the Virginia securities, 
and directed their sale accordingly. The following is a statement of the 
results of this sale : 

$58,700.00 ijar value in Virginia consolidated bonds, sold at 

an average of about 79 per cent., yielded $1G, 417 87 

$29,375.07 Virginia deferred certificates, at ISf per cent 4, 039 08 

$50.13 Virginia consolidated scrip, at 15f per cent 58 03 



50,514 98 



The Executive Committee deposited this amount in the Treasury of 
the United States, adding to it from the sale of the coupons of Virginia 
bonds due 1st Jaunary, 1881, $985.02, so as to make the whole sum, 
$51,500, to be added to the permanent Smithson fund, which was thus 
increased to $703,000, and on which C per cent, interest will be paid 
perpetually. 

The fluctuations of the stock market, the anticipations of loss from 
improper legislation and other causes, have thus been removed from 
the anxieties of the managers of the Institution, the funds are now se- 
cure in one investment, and that as enduring as the nation itself. 

Condition of the fund January^ 1882. 

The amount received as the bequest of James Smithson, 
deposited in the Treasury of the United States, in ac- 
cordance with the acts of Congress of August 10, 184C, 
and February 8, 1867 $515, 169 GO 

Resichiary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund by act 
of Congress, February 8, 1867 26, 21 63 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

Addition to the fund from savings, etc., by act of Con- 
gress, February 8, 18G7 $108, G20 37 

Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Pennsylvania, 1874 1, 000 00 

Addition to the fund by bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of 

New York, 1880 500 00 

Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia 

bonds, 1881 51, 500 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 

United States, bearing interest at G per cent $703, 000 00 

The bequest of $1,000 from James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa. (1874), 
and of $500 from Simeon Habel, of New York (1880), have been men- 
tioned in previous reports. 

In this connection, it is desirable again to refer to the fact that per- 
sons intending to leave bequests, or to make donations for the promo- 
tion of science, can do nothing promising greater security for their 
money, or a more faithful administration of the trust, than to follow 
the examples here cited. 

The domain of science is large, its fields of research numerous, and 
the methods and appliances for successful investigation exceedingly 
varied. This Institution, with its present equipment, has inaugurated, 
or prosecuted, or directly fostered original advances in almost every 
deimrtment of physical and biological inquiry. Hence, with its exist- 
ing facilities and approved experience, it is in a condition to apply most 
completely and economically any material aid delegated to it, either to 
purposes of general or special promotion of human knowledge, with 
but little, if any, expenditure in the necessary apparatus of organiza- 
tion and direction. 

Any one, therefore, meditating a moderate bequest (say of a few 
thousand dollars), and feeling an interest in the advancement of any 
l)articular branch of science, could probably obtain in no other way so 
unabated a devotion of the means to the specific purpose, or so large 
a return of benefit to future students, and therefore of imblic credit to 
the grantor, as by selecting the Smithsonian Institution for his repre- 
sentative and curator. 

BUILDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

The Smithsonian Building.— During the year many important chauges 
have been made within the Smithsonianbuilding, which, though involv- 
ing a comparatively slight expense, have greatly improved the conven- 
ience and adaptation of several apartments for the necessary work 
transacted. Most of the earthen and brick floors of the basement have 
been replaced by a pavement of concrete, as have also some of the por- 
tions previously covered with boards, which furnished a harbor for 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ' 

rats. These floors, together with the walls and ceiliugs,liaYe beetl 
whitewashed, adding greatly to the purity of the air, and increasing 
materially the amount of light. Bins have been erected, in which have 
been stored a large number of the stereotype plates of Smithsonian 
and Fish Commission reports, and of the bulletins and proceedings of 
the Kationial Museum, rendering them more readily accessible when- 
ever new issues of either of these works or of any portions thereof may 
be required. 

The most important alteration has been made in the arrangement of 
the basement rooms of the eastern end of the building, which have 
been fitted up with more special reference to the conditions required by 
the increasing amount and comi)lexlty of the transportation operations 
connected with the business of exchanges. These rooms number seven 
in all, arranged at present in the following order : General reception 
and delivery; temporary storage; unpacking; assorting; packing; 
private storage, and storage of duplicates. On the first floor, or main 
story of the west connecting range, in connection with the introduction 
of new cases, the ceilings and walls have been j)ainted of a brighter tint, 
so as to both increase the amount of light and improve the general 
effect. 

At no distant time some expensive work of renovation will be re- 
quired upon the ceiling of the great hall in the second story of the 
main building, as in some places the plaster appears in danger of fall- 
ing off and injuring the cases and specimens ou exhibition below. 

Complaint has occasionally been made for some years past of the in- 
sufficient heating of the main building, and especially of the large up- 
per story known as the ethnological hall, in very cold weather. Dur- 
ing the past year the radiators have been rearranged and some addi- 
tional ones introduced, so that it is hoped there will be no cause of 
dissatisfaction in this respect in the future. 

Rational Museum Building. — This building may now be considered as 
completed and ready for its final occupation by the various depart- 
ments which have been assigned to it. An appropriation of $20,000 
was made by Congress for covering the four halls with marble tiling 
and the rotunda with encaustic tiling. The introduction of a fountain 
basin, 20 feet in diameter, in the rotunda, greatly reduced the amount of 
tiling to be done, and added much to the general effect. It is proposed 
to have a small fountain jet in this basin, and to have various orna- 
mental plants growing in it, forming a pleasing prospect in looking 
across the long extent of over 300 feet from one main entrance to 
another. 

The only remaining unfinished floor has been covered with boards, 
like the others of its class. 

The ceilings of a part of the building, after they had dried, were 
found to be insecure, owing to the lack of sufiicient bond. As the 



REPOliT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

plaster was falling in patches from time to time, and greatly endanger- 
ing life and property in the Museum, it was deemed best to adopt the 
heroic treatment of taking it all down and calcimining the exposed sur- 
face. This occupied the greater part of the summer, yiid created a 
vast amount of dust and of refuse matter, to be taken away. This has 
HOW been cleared up, and the rooms restored to their ijrevious condi- 
tion. 

It has always been considered desirable to have a supplementary 
ceiling or skin to the main ceiling, inclosing au air-space between the 
two, for the purpose of preventing the escape of heat in winter and its 
access during the summer, and au experimental trial was made by put- 
ting up one section of corrugated iron. This has been found to produce 
a very agreeable effect, and will probably tend, so far as it goes, to 
remedy the disadvantage referred to. It would be desirable, if the 
money could be obtained, to complete this work over the entire build- 
ing, as the hot weather of the last summer j^roved to be extremely try- 
ing inside of the building. Tbe introduction of some additional venti- 
lators considerably relieved this difficulty. 

lu certain cotton mills in New England the experiment has been made 
of moistening the air by means of a system of aspirators, for the 
l^urpose of improving the facilities of cotton spinning. While accom- 
plishing this object, it has been found that the reduction of tempera- 
ture iu hot weather amounted to 8° or 10° in some cases, while at the 
same time the air was rendered very much more agreeable as well 
as more wholesome at all times. An offer has been made by the pat- 
entee to appl}^ his apparatus to the National Museum at a cost of about 
$7,000, he guaranteeing that a reduction of from six to eight degrees 
of temperature shall be accomplished during the hot season of the year. 
This will be a question for determination in the future. 

During the very cold weather of the winter of 1880, '81, it was found 
that the northeastern pavilion occupied by the ethnological and geologi- 
cal bureau was insufficiently heated, this portion of the building being 
most distant from the furnaces. A supplementary steam furnace was 
therefore introduced into this division. 

Thefltting and furnishing of the ]^hotographic laboratory in the south- 
eastern building has been completed, and it is now thoroughly adapted 
to its purposes. The operations of the Institution require a great deal 
of i)hotographic work, which is now carried on in this building. 

The fitting up of the chemical department in the southeastern divis- 
ion has been completed during the year. The laboratory is now fully 
equipped aud able to perform any chemical work required. The chem- 
ists have been constantly employed in solving problems committed to 
them, and a great deal of excellent work has been i)erforraed. 

A special assay laboratory has been fitted up with the necessary ap- 
l^aratus. 

Proper connections have been made in and between all the buildings 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

for* improved telephonic service, and at the present time about thirty 
telephones are in use, all centering in and intercommunicating through 
a switch board in the north tower of the Museum. This arrangement 
is independent of the city oflice, and by a proper disposition of the 
watchmen, is available at all hours of the day and night. Its utility 
is demonstrated every day in facilitating the work of the Institution 
and in reducing the number of messengers, watchmen, &c., necessary 
to carry on the various operations. 

The room in which the telephone exchange is situated is also the 
center or headquarters of the remaining electrical service, consisting of 
a tower clock working 18 electric dials in the two buildings, a watch- 
men's clock for regulating the rounds of the watchmen and inspectors, 
a burglar alarm connection with all the doors and windows of the build- 
ing, call bells and signals everywhere, as well as the telephone service 
itself. Indeed it is believed that in no building in the world, with the 
exception, perhaps, of the Grand Opera House in Paris, is there so per- 
fect and complete application of electricity to practical purposes. 

A series of tunnels permeates the floors of the building in every di- 
rection, and in these are stretched the various wires, some 200 in num- 
ber, by means of which any electrical service can be maintained. It is 
proposed, at an early day, to introduce the electric light into the pho- 
tographic laboratory for use in cloudy days or at night, and also for 
purposes of illumination when required. 

The Armory Building. — This edifice, situated at the corner of Sixth 
street and South B, has for some years been assigned by Congress for 
the use of the National Museum and of the Fish Commission, and with- 
out its facilities of storage, it would be difficult to carry on the work of 
these two departments. It has been until recently filled with the ob- 
jects presented to the United States at the International Exhibition of 
1876. Most of these, however, have been transferred to the new Mu- 
seum, where they have been either set up or are waiting their oppor- 
tunity. The vacancy, however, has been filled by the use of the build- 
ing for the temporary storage of the immense collection of mineralogy 
and ethnology made by the United States Geological Survey and the 
Ethnological Bureau, and also by the storage therein of the movable 
property of the United States Eish Commission. It is proposed to fit 
up a part of this building for fish culture and to use it for hatching 
shad, salmon, and other fish on a large scale. 

Laboratory of Natural History. — This building, situated at the south- 
west of the Smithsonian building, and originally erected for the purpose 
of facilitating the preparation of the material of the International Ex- 
hibition of 187G, continues to be of great utility in the functions of the 
Institution. It is used partly as a stable and carriage-house, and partly 
as quarters for the practical operations of the Museum, such as the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

preparation of vskeletons, the mouutinj? of mammals and birds, the 
preparationofi^laster and papier-macb(S casts, the pain ting" of the.se casts, 
and for general i^hotography . The transfer of one division of the work 
of photography to its now quarters at the southeastern corner of the 
new Museum buildinghas permitted the assignment of the rooms vacated 
to the photographic department of the United States Geological Sur- 
vey, and they have been fitted up for the purpose of preparing the pho- 
tographic prints of collections of western sceuery, Indian life and por- 
traiture, and other interesting objects. These it is i^roposed to insert in 
the windows of the new Museum, in which there are nearly 1,000 open- 
ings available for this purpose, thus adding very greatly to the attrac- 
tions of the building. A window has been fitted up experimentally in 
this manner, and has attracted much attention. 

In addition to the work done to the buildings themselves, greatly im- 
proved drainage of the new Museum building has been eftected. The 
drain-pipes and sewers originally available for the puri)ose have been 
found insuflicient for the drainage of 2J acres of roof during heavy 
rains, and an appropriation was made by Congress to remedy this de- 
fect. New drain-pipes have accordingly been laid from the northwest 
corner of the building along the west, south, and east sides, empty- 
ing into a large drain and carried directly through the Smithsonian 
grounds to the great sewer on North B street. Since its completion no 
difficulty has been experienced in the matter referred to, and it is 
thought there will be no further trouble. 

An appropriation Avas made by Congress for the construction of a 
concrete foot-way along the north side of the building, from Seventh to 
Twelfth streets. This has added greatly to the fiicility of reaching the 
building. The repaving of South B street, fronting on the grounds 
of the Institution and the Museum, replacing the wornout wooden pave- 
ment, has also added much to the convenience of approach. 

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Administration. — The executive details of current operations present 
nothing of sufficient importance to be specially noticed, the organiza- 
tion and personnel of previous years having continued in successful 
operation, and the internal affairs of the Institution having been satis- 
factorily conducted. 

Correspondence. — With the increase of work in the various depart- 
ments of active operations prosecuted by the Institution, tliere is neces- 
sarily a corresponding increase in the general correspondence. It is 
unnecessary to enter into any detailed description of the diflerent 
classes of correspondence which constitute the in-iucipal work in this 
branch of current operations, as this has been sufficiently indicated in 
previous reports. A view of its extent will appear from the general 
result that the number of letters received, acted upon, filed, indexed, 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and botiiul uinouuts to somewliat more than G,000, making about 15,000 
pages. The official letters written amount to about 7,000 pages. The 
corresi)ondence relating to the affiiirs of the ISlational Museum has been 
not much less in amount. 

THE LABORATORY. 

One of the provisions specially designated in the fifth section of the 
act of 184-6, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, was that of a 
chemical laboratory, in which scientific research could be prosecuted. 
During the entire period of the history of the Institution this require- 
ment has been borne in mind, and at no time has the Institution been 
without some kind of arrangements for chemical and physical investiga- 
tion. The great drawback, however, has been the lack of suitable 
rooms in which the work could be prosecuted without encroaching too 
much on the other branches, and endangering the safety of the build- 
ing. 

Advantage was taken in the erection of the new Museum to provide 
suitable accommodations for a chemical laboratory, and I have now the 
pleasure of reporting that such an establishment is in successful opera- 
tion, and is believed to bo fully equal in its equipment and facilities to 
any other in the United States. A large room, about thirty feet square, 
has been fitted up with tables for analytical work, with conveniences 
for heating, filtering, blow-pipe work, &c. Attached to this is a room 
13 feet square, in which are kept the balances and more delicate glass 
work. A second adjacent room furnishes an ofiice for the chemist in 
charge. Next to this is an assay laboratory room, 30 feet square, hav- 
ing a stone floor and furnished with muffles, sand baths, water-distilling 
apparatus, &c. 

The work done in the laboratory consists mainly in the examination 
of the chemical composition of the various undetermined minerals in 
the National Museum, and in the prosecution of chemical investigations 
in behalf of the diiferent departments of the government. Eequests 
for such service are always complied with as far as possible. Among 
such subjects of examination may fee mentioned a i^rocess for preparing 
wood for naval purposes, so as to protect it against decomposition and 
the attacks of insects, presented to the Navy Department. At the 
request of the department. Dr. Taylor, the chemist of the Institution, 
was detailed for service with the board, embracing in addition Dr. J. 
M. Flint, of the Navy, as chairman, and Dr. Mew, of the Army Medical 
Museum, to thoroughly investigate the subject. Their report has been 
made and presented to the Navy Department for its consideration. 

In addition to this Mork specimens (most frequently of mineral sub- 
stances) are continually received by the Institution from private sources 
in all parts of th^e country — in number averaging i^robably some half a 
dozen a day — with the request for an analysis and report of constituents. 
As these require merely a general or qualitative determination, they do 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

not consume a great part of the chemist's time. The work of making 
precise ([uantitativo assays is much more tedious and laborious, and is 
undertaken only in the service of the public interests. 

Tlie chemist's report, which is given in the appendix, presents some 
account of tlie arrangements made in fitting up the new laboratory in 
the Museum building, as already referred to. 

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS. 

In the promotion of original research it has always been the policy of 
the Institution to so employ its limited means as to effect what appeared 
to be the most promising return in the increase of knowledge, with but 
little consideration whether such efforts should be made independently 
or in concert with other agencies. Eeserving for a separate notice some 
of the jiriucipal operations undertaken during the year, in co-operation 
with other institutions, reference will here be made to the researches 
and explorations of which the Institution has borne alone the burden 
and responsibility. Of these one of the most important was that of 
Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, CaL, who, at our suggestion, visited Guad- 
alupe and Cerros Islands on ^le coast of Lower California, as well 
as certain portions of the main land. His collections of birds, fishes, 
plants, &c., have been submitted to examination, and include many in- 
teresting objects. This gentleman returned home in the summer, and 
started again to his chosen field of labor in December, proceeding di- 
rect to La Paz, on the Gulf of Lower California, w^here he expected to 
remain till spring, and then to visit Cape Saint Lucas, aregion made 
memorable by the labors of Mr. John Xantus. 

Mr. Xantus, in his exi)lorations twenty years ago, collected numbers 
of new species, the types of which have been lost by deterioration, and 
it is considered especially advisable to secure fresh specimens of these 
and of any additional species that may be procurable. 

During the summer, Mr. James Bell, of the Land Office, stationed in 
Florida, has utilized his spare moments in continuing the explorations 
referred to in the report for 1880. His contributions have consisted es- 
pecially in living reptiles for the modeling department of the National 
Museum. Xumbers of birds, Indian relics, &c., have also been furnished 
by him. 

Mr. S. T. Walker, also working in West Florida, but farther north 
than Mr. Bell, has made numerous contributions of interest from the 
Indian mounds and graves, thereby greatly extending our knowledge 
of the archceology of Western Florida. 

Among the most interesting and important explorations of the year 
in Florida is tliatof ]\[r. J. F. LaBaron, who discovered a ricli deposit of 
fossil bones, which are now in the ha.nds of Professor Leidy for exami- 
nation and determination. Among these it is believed there are several 
new species of nuunmals and reptiles. 

Prof. O. P. Hay, of Irvingtou, Ind., with the co-operation of the 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Smithsonian Institution, has continued his series of investigations into 
the ichthyology of the Mississippi Valley, collecting many rare and new 
species of fish, a series of whicli has been transmitted to the Institu- 
tion. 

Dr. R. Ellsworth Call, of Des Moines, has also made similar explora- 
tions relating more specially to fresh water shells. 

Hon. John G. Henderson, of Winchester, 111., has continued and com- 
pleted certain explorations in the mounds of that State it the expense 
of the Smithsonian Institution. Some very valuable and interesting 
objects have rewarded his search. 

Mr. B. F. Norris, Superintendent of the National Yellowstone Park, 
has brought to the Institution a large collection of the natural objects 
of the park, among them a fumarole of a small geyser, which it is pro- 
])Osed to utilize for the purpose of a fountain in the rotunda of the 
museum. 

Prof. 0. H. Gilbert, who was associated with Professor Jordan in the 
exploration of the ichthyology of the Pacific coast of America (as men- 
tioned in the Report for 1880), remained for some time at Panama, con- 
tinuing his gatherings, and then returned to his residence at. Blooming- 
ton, Ind. The results of his work and that of Professor Jordan have 
been published from time to time in the proceedings of the National 
Museum. Mr. Gilbert will probably return to Central America before 
long, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, to continue and 
complete his work. 

Mr. H. H. Rusby, of Franklin, N. J., has completed during the year 
his researches into the botany of New Mexico, in which, he has been en- 
gaged for several years past. The Institutio:i was able to obtain for 
him important facilities in the way of transportation of his collections, 
and has secured thereby a series of his specimens. 

During a recent visit to Mexico of Mr. S. B. Evans, of Ottumwa, 111., 
iu the interest of archaeology, the Institution was able to render him 
assistance by a letter of introduction to its correspondents in that coun- 
try. Mr. Evans has brought back quite an amount of interesting in- 
formation, especially relating to his discovery of a new so-called sacri- 
ficial stone. 

Mr. F. A. Ober, in the course of a visit to Mexico during the past 
winter, obtained some copper axes and some interesting birds. 

A large amount of exploration has been prosecuted by correspondents 
of the Smithsonian in the West Indies and South America ; among these 
may be mentioned the work of Dr. H. A. Alford Nicholls, of Dominica, 
an English physician of much eminence in his profession, and distin- 
guished as a naturalist, who furnished several new species of birds and 
a first installment of a large collection of fishes. Dr. Nicholls proposes 
to prepare a work on the ichthyology of Dominica, to be published by 
the Smithsonian, and to send specimens to Washington for identifica- 
tion. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

A similar arriiiigeincnfc to that made with Ur. Nicliolls lias been en- 
tered into with Mr. IMnsgrave, of Jamaica, his object being to extend 
and complete the work npou the natural history of Jau)aica commenced 
many years ago bj" Mr. Gosse. A large collection of fishes already sent 
in has been under investigation by Mr. Goode and Dr. Bean. Valuable 
contributions have also been received from Hon. Edward Newton, of tlie 
colonial government of Jamaica. 

Mr. L. Guesde, of Guadaloux)e, has undertaken to furnish to tlie Insti- 
tution, for publication, a series of drawings illustrating the archaeology 
of that island. He has accordingly transmitted a large number of de- 
scriptions and figures of many curious objects, of which Professor Mason 
has charge in editing them for the report. He has also furnished a num- 
ber of specimens o f reptiles and fishes illustrating the natural history 
of the island. 

Mr. "Wells, of Antigua, has aided the Smithsonian Institution by send- 
ing birds, fishes, and ethnological objects. Hi» labors, and those of 
other valued correspondents in the West Indies were secured to the 
Institution by Mr. Frederick A. Ober in the course of tours of service in 
the West Indies. This co-operation of resident naturalists in the West 
Indies has been especially interesting to the Smithsonian Institution, 
as there still remain many important problems in relation to that region. 

The work of Mr. P. Pigyelmes}', at Demerara, for several years has con- 
tributed much to the ethnology and natural history of the colony. Similar 
■work has been done by Dr. C. Heriug, at Surinam. No special research 
has been carried on in other parts of the Old World, with the exception 
of that connected with the " Palos," Captain Green, commander, referred 
to further on. 

In the report for 1879, at p. 45, mention was made of the co-operation 
of the Smithsonian Institution with the Navy Department and Mr. James 
Gordon Bennett in the preparation for natural history work, on board 
the '' Jeannette." At the request of Mr. Bennett the Institution secured 
the services of Mr. Eaymond L. Newcomb, an experienced naturalist and 
taxidermist, of Salem, Mass., and prepared for him a complete outfit, 
principally at the expense of Mr. Bennett. When the vessel touched at 
St. Michaels, in 1879, some interesting specimens had already been 
gathered by Mr. Newcomb, and the expectation of interesting results 
in the future was, of course, very reasonabl^^ entertained. AVe now have 
the information that the steamer was crushed in the ice, and that the offi- 
cers and crew betook themselves in three boats to the mainland. Infor- 
mation has been received from two of these boats ; one with Engineer ]\Iel- 
ville in charge, and including Mr. Newcomb in the party. Of the third 
nothing has yet been heard. It is probable that any collections made 
by the steamer have been lost in the w reck ; but there is no doubt tlrat 
Mr. Newcomb, on his return, will be able to furnish interesting informa- 
tion, either from notes preserved, or from personal recollection. 

During the early part of 1881 , in response to an urgent public senti- 
S. Mis. 109 2 



18 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mont, Congress made an appropriation for the purchase of a whaling 
steamer, the "Helen and Mary," then at San Franeisco, and to fit it out 
for the purpose of engaging in the search for the "Jeannette." A board 
of naval officers was formed to select a j)lan for search and prepare the 
necessary instructions. Of this board Admiral John Eodgers was presi- 
dent, and in commemoration of his services in that respect, and also 
of his having been the only American naval officer who had previously 
nmde an official exploration in the arctic region to be visited, the name 
of the vessel was changed to that of the " Eodgers," and Lieutenant 
Berry placed in command. Although extended investigations in natu- 
ral and physical science were not contemplated by the board, yet, with 
a i^roper spirit of inquiry, Lieutenant Berry asked for suggestions as to 
what could be done in the line of natural history, and they were furnished 
by the Smithsonian Institution with much pleasure, together with some 
apparatus, alcohol, &c., necessary in connection with the cai)ture and 
preservation of spectmens. 

The " Eodgers" made a complete exploration of the mysterious Wran- 
gel Land, and entered into winter quarters on the shores of Siberia, ex- 
pecting in the spring to resume its search for the "Jeannette." J twill, 
however, be made acquainted with the fate of the "Jeannette" in time 
to prevent any waste of effort, and the vessel, it is understood, will re- 
turn at once to the United States. 

No report has yet been made as to any scientific results obtained by 
the expedition. 

For some years past Commander F. M. Green, of the l^avy, has been 
engaged, under the direction of the Bureau of aSTavigation, in making 
a determination of the longitudes of various points in the Atlantic 
Ocean, and adjacent thereto, the Avork being mainly done by means of 
the numerous submarine and land telegraphs. In the spring of 1881 
Commander Green was ordered to continue his work in the Pacific 
Ocean, and the steamer "Palos," then in the Chinese and Japanese 
seas, was placed in readiness for his use. Commander Green invited 
the co-operation of the Smithsohian Institution in making his work 
productive of results in the department of natural history as well as in 
that of physical science; and Dr. F. C. Dale v>as detailed as a surgeon, 
and a gentleman well and favorably known lor his attainments as a nat- 
uralist. He took with him as an assistant Mr. P. L. Jouj", for a long 
time in the employ of the National Museum, and accomplished in the 
preservation of objects of natural history. The party proceeded by 
land to San Francisco, and thence by steamer to Yolaihama, the com- 
mander there meeting the vessel and entering upon his work. Very 
valuable collections were made, first in Japan, and secondly at Shanghai, 
in China. The portion of the expedition that was sent to Vladivostock 
also obtained some interesting collections. Through their instrumen- 
tality, also, the government authorities in Tokio and the Natural His- 
tory Museum at Shanghai contributed quite largely to the collections, 



EEEORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

with the understanding tliat some sx)ecifled exchanges were to be re- 
turned by the National Museum. Six cases of birds, mammals, alco- 
holic specimens, &c., have already been received from Dr. Dale, and 
several others are now on the way. It is quite probable that the results 
of this expedition will rank favorably with those procured by any na- 
tion from the same region. 

While connected with the expedition under Commander Lull, U. S. 
N., for determining the character and best route of a canal from ocean 
to ocean through Nicaragua, Dr. J. F. Bransford made some interest- 
ing collections in natural history, ethnology, and archsieology, which 
were presented by him to the Smithsonian Institution. Additional in- 
formation being required in regard to this route, Dr. Bransford was 
twice sent out to again review the ground and to investigate more par- 
ticularly certain obscure points. In both cases he asked and obtained 
suggestions from the Smithsonian Institution as to collateral researches, 
and made some extremely important gatherings of specimens for the 
National Museum. The results, so far as the archaeology of Nicaragu;i 
is concerned have lately been published by the Institution in a well ilus- 
trated quarto memoir. 

Dr. Bransford was recently again detailed by the Navy Department 
to revisit Central America, for the purpose of making some determina- 
tions as to the natural conditions and commercial relations of certain im- 
X)ortant drugs largely used in medicine at the present time ; and was 
directed also to apply his i)revious experience as an archaeologist to the 
solution of some problems of the science, especially in Guatemala, Costa 
Rica, and Honduras. He accordingly left Washington in December 
last on his mission, proceeding directly to Aspinwall and Panama. His 
route will take him first to Guatemala, thence across to Coban, and then 
returning by the Gulf of Nicoya. One of the problems submitted to 
Dr. Bransford is thediscoveryof the precise locality whence the material 
for the many jade and jadeite ornaments, found in various parts of 
America, has been derived. Such objects are among the choicest and 
most highly prized of American antiquarian collections, while the mines 
whence the raw material has been derived are entirely unknown. It has 
been suggested that the material must have been brought in the rough 
from China or Australia, although there is no good evidence to i)rove 
such a conclusion. 

Should Dr. Bransford find the locality of this mineral it will contrib- 
ute towards solving one of the most interesting problems of the day. 

The co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution and that of the 
United States Signal Office of the War Department in prosecuting re- 
searches into the physical condition of \ arious portions of North Amer- 
ica, which has been adverted to in previous reports, continues in a very 
satisfactory manner. Tliis relationship was first established by the 
iransfer to the Signal Office of the entire system of meteorological re- 
search initiated and for nearly a quarter of a century prosecuted by 



20 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the Smithsonian Institution. Since then all the material and problems 
connected with meteorology have been transferred to the Signal Office, 
which on its part has not failed to extend its aid to the Institution in 
connection with branches of science other than those constituting more 
particularly its functions. Many important results, both in zoology and 
ethnologj^, accomplished by the Institution in relation to Northern, North- 
eastern, and even Arctic America, have been attained in connection 
with General Myer, and afterwards his successor, General William B. 
Hazen. In establishing meteorological stations in different parts of 
Arctic America, the Smithsonian Institution has been invited to nomi- 
nate observers, who, while competent to the duties of the Signal Office, 
may, if convenient, be able to make collections of objects in natural 
history and ethnology. In pursuance of this co-operation, a number of 
years ago Mr. Lucien M. Turner was selected and stationed first at 
Saint Michael's and then along the chain of the Aleutian Islands. Mr. 
Nelson succeeded him at Saint Michael's, and continued his work. 

Under instruction of the Treasury Department, through Mr. E. W. 
Clarke, chief of the Bureau of the Ee venue Marine, Captain Hooper, in 
command of the revenue cutter " Corwin," visited the arctic coast, both 
in the interest of the revenue service and for the purpose of obtain- 
ing information in regard to the " Jeannette." He was instructed to 
take Mr. Nelson to Saint Michael's, and give him an opportunity of 
visiting Saint Lawrence Island, the special object being to allow the 
collecting of the remains of the Esquimaux who to the number of sev- 
eral hundred perished there by starvation. Mr. Nelson was accord- 
ingly taken on board, and obtained on the island, in addition to a very 
fine collection of implements, utensils, dresses, &c., a large number of 
crania, filling an important deficiency in the Museum. The vessel then 
proceeded to various points on the Siberian coast, and subsequently 
made the first known landing on Wrangell Land, that mysterious re- 
gion which had been the special object of investigation on the part of 
the " Jeannette." 

On the island a magnificent polar bear, killed by the party, was 
brought back by Mr. Nelson, and is now duly exhibited in the National 
Museum. 

The thanks of the Institution are due not only to the Treasury De- 
partment but also to Captain Hooper for his kind co-operation in Mr. 
Kelson's work, by rendering all possible facihties. 

Mr. Lucien M. Turner, who, under orders from the signal service 
of the United States Army, to make meteorological observations in 
Alaska, arrived at Unalashka Island May 10, 1874, succeeded dur- 
ing the five days he remained there in collecting several species of 
birds. He reached Saint Michael's, Alaska, May 25, commencing his 
meteorological work June 26, and during the leisure permitted by close 
attention to his official duties, continued his collections of natural his- 
tory specimens from the locaUty, until July 1), 1877, when at his request 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

lie was granted leave to retiTru to Washington. In March, 1878, Mr. 
Turner again proceeded to Alaska, under orders from the signal serv- 
ice, to establish meteorological stations at Saint Paul's Island, Attn 
Island, Atkha Island, Belkovsky on the peninsula of Aliaska, and at 
;N"ushagak on Bristol Bay. During the year he visited, through the 
kindness of the Alaska Commercial Company, the stations at Kuskokvim 
Elver, Ugashik, Tugiuk, Nushagak, Port Moller, Akootan, and Saa- 
nak Island, spending the winter at Iliulink, on Unalashka Island. 
He passed the summer of 1879, at Atkha Island, collecting many nat- 
ural history specimens : spent the winter at Unalashka Island; and in 
June, 1880, went to Attu Island, remaining there till May, 1881. 

During the leisure hours at his disposition he collected for the Na- 
tional Museum one hundred and sixty species of birds — some of which 
were for the first time ascertained to occur within our limits, thirty 
species of fish, several species of mammals, nearly thirteen thousand 
specimens of insects, a good series of the land and marine shells, 
several thousand specimens of plants — embracing over two hundred 
species; and paid especial attention to collecting a complete series 
of implements and other articles of ethnological and archaeological 
character embracing over three thousand specimens, some of which 
were for the first time obtained. Much attention was given to the 
study of linguistics of the TJnaleet and Malemut Orarians, Nulato, Ing- 
alet, and TJnalashkan Aleuts. The vocabularies are comprehensive, con- 
taining not only a list of words, but much of etymologic value, stories, 
history, and other valuable information concerning these people, of whom 
little was previously known. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson, also under orders from the signal service, as a 
meteorological observer in Alaska, was authorized by co-operative ar- 
rangement between that bureau and the Institution, to i)rosecute inves- 
tigations during his intervals of official leisure, for the advancement of 
scientific knowledge. He reached the Aleutian Islands in May, 1877, 
and for about a month availed himself of the opportunity of making 
collections in Unalashka of bird skins and of fishes. He also procured 
ethnological specimens, both recent and from the ancii^nt village sites, 
of which considerable numbers are found along the shore. Visiting Sa- 
nak Island (to the eastward of Unalashka,) he made various interesting 
notes on the life and habits of the sea-otter, this curious animal being 
particularly abundant in this locality. Leaving in June, 1877, for Saint 
Michael's, iSTorton Sound, Mr. Nelson occupied his spare time for a year 
in making collections of mammals, birds, fishes, and insects. The field 
among the Eskimo of this region was also very rich in ethnological ma- 
terial and observations. Most friendly and valuable assistance in these 
researches was rendered by the agents of the Alaska Commercial Com- 
pany, and by the fur traders connected with it. 

During the winter of 1878-'70, Mr. Nelson made a dog-sledge journey 
of over a thousand miles in the country between the Lower Yukon and 



22 REPORT OV THE SECRETAR-i-. 

the Kuskoqiiin Elvers, securing over three thousand ethnological speci- 
mens, of which a considerable portion consisted of articles of carved 
walrus ivory. Much information was also noted regarding the topog- 
raphy of the country, as well as about its people and productions. 

In May and June, 1879, the mouths of the Yukon were visited to 
study the habits of the breeding water-fowl, and a fine series of the 
skins and eggs of the emjieror goose were obtained. The following 
winter, from February 9th to April 3, 1880, was occupied in a reconnais- 
sance of the coast region, from Saint Michael's north to Sledge Island 
near Bering's Straits. 

A large series of ethnologica was secured, besides copious notes upon 
the people and their language. November 16, 1880, to January 19, 1881, 
was occupied in a sledge journey into the interior, beyond the coast belt 
occupied by the Eskimo, into the country of the Ingaliks or Indians. As 
on the previous journeys, a large series of ethnologica and field-notes 
were secured. 

June 25, 1881, through the courtesy of Mr. E. W. Clarke, chief of 
the Revenue Marine Bureau, the revenue steamer " Corwin" was per- 
mitted to take Mr. Nelson on board, at Saint Michael's, to accompany her 
during her cruise in the Arctic, in the course of which he visited Saint 
Lawrence Island, in Bering's Sea, where about eight hundred Eskimo 
lierished in a famine two winters before. From this sad mortuary nearly 
one hundred crania were secured, besides many implements. 

The remainder of the season was spent in cruising along the Alaskan 
coast as far north as Point Barrow, and along the Siberian coast from 
Plover Bay, Bering's Sea to]S"orth Cape in the Arctic. Visiting and ex- 
ploring Herald Island, and a part of Wrangell Island, the " Corwin " re- 
turned by the Aleutian Islands to San Francisco, arriving there October 
20, 1881. 

In summing up the direct results of Mr. Nelson's work in the north, 
the unbroken series of about 12,000 meteorological observations must 
be mentioned first, since to obtain these was the primary object of his 
residence there. In addition to these there were obtained about 9,000 
ethnological specimens, 2,100 bird skins, 500 mammal skins and skulls, 
400 fishes, and various other specimens, besides vocabularies of seven 
or eight Eskimo dialects, with accompanying linguistic notes and a 
large amount of manuscript material ujion all the branches in which 
collections were made. Over 100 photographs of the people and other 
scenes were secured during the last year of his residence in the north. 
The necessary expenses attending this work, outside those appertaining 
strictly to the meteorological work, were met by an allowance from the 
Institution, where the specimens are stored at present awaiting the 
elaboration of the reports. 

During the year 1881 three additional stations were established by 
the Signal Office — one at Nushigak, on Bristol Bay, in charge of C. 
L. McKay } one at Uaalashka, in charge of F. L. Ajjplegate, and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

the tbird at Sitka, in cbarge of Mr. Jobu J. McLean. Some very in- 
teresting arcbjpological collections bave already been received from 
Mr. McLean, and otbers are expected from tbe otlier gentlemen men- 
tioned. All were provided by tbe Smitbsonian Institution with ap- 
paratus and material for collecting and i)reserving specimens and tlio 
means of procuring goods for making excbanges with tbe natives. 

Of tbe localities mentioned Bristol Bay is tlie one least known to 
naturalists and promising tbe largest returns. 

In the system of international meteorological research, decided upon at 
a convention held a year or two ago, it was desired that the United States 
should establish a station at Point Barrow, tbe northernmost point of 
Continental America and in Greenland, and both these measures were 
carried out by the signal service during tbe past year, and a specific 
approi^riation was made by Congress for tbe iiurchase of a vessel at 
Newfoundland, at which point the Franklin Bay party, under Lieuten- 
ant Greely, embarked on board tbe whaling steamer " Proteus," a 
vessel admirably adapted for its purpose, which had been previously 
selected by Capt. H. C. Chester, an employ^ of the TJ. S. Fish Com- 
mission. The vessel made a brief but successful voyage, landing 
its party without any impediment and returning — after but a short ab- 
sence, to Newfoundland. It is expected that this vessel will be sent 
np during the coming summer to carry additional supplies and bring 
back the reports'and collections. 

No special detail of a naturalist was made for this expedition, as 
Dr. Pavy, of the Howgate expedition of 1880, was expected to join it, 
and did so in Greenland. 

A second international station — that at Point Barrow — was also es- 
tablished by the Signal Ofiice during the year, and was placed in charge 
of Lieutenant Ray, an experienced army officer, and provided with 
suitable apparatus. At the request of General Hazen, the Smithsonian 
Institution nominated Professors Murdock of Madison, Wis., and 
Smith of the Westfield Normal School, both experienced naturalists 
and (;ollectors, as observers. They were ordered to Washington to un- 
dergo a training for physical research, especially as to more detailed 
observations in meteorology, terrestrial magnetism, and astronomy. 
The party proceeded from San Francisco by a schooner, cbartei-ed for 
the purpose, and reached their destination without any untoward event. 
It is expected that the advices of next summer will report them as com- 
fortably established and in the successful prosecution of their work. A 
part of the expense of this party is borne by the Coast and Geodetic 
Survey. 

For some years one of the most valued coadjutors of the National 
Museum has been Capt. Charles Bendire, of tbe First Cavalry, a distin- 
guished officer of tbe service and a competent naturalist and observer. 
Keference has already been made to his services in 1880, in visiting the 
interior of Oregon and Washington Territory for the purpose of solving 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

some nusettled problems in regard to tlie salmonidas of the coast. His 
observations proved entirely sufficient for the purpose of informing ns 
of the character of the trout of Wallowa Lake, which turns out to be not 
a peculiar species of the lake, as was supposed, but an anadromous sal- 
mon found along the entire coast of Washington Territory and elsewhere, 
and characterized during the breeding season by a peculiar red color. 

Captain Bendire having again offered his services to the Institution, 
he was authorized by the War Department to visit certain regions, es- 
pecially that of the valley of John Day River. With a grant of money 
from the United States Geological Survey for necessary and incidental 
exiienses. Captain Bendire made his expedition, and sent in a large 
number of packages of well-selected specimens, which will shortlj' be- 
come the subject of investigation. Some collections of fishes and other 
objects in alcohol were also gathered and forwarded by Captain Ben- 
dire. 

Private Charles Euby, of the Army, while at Fort Laramie, exer- 
cised his skill as a taxidermist in collecting specimens of the wild ani- 
mals of the country and sending them to the Smithsonian Institution. 
An arrangement was made by which he was transferred to a region 
better adapted to his work, near Fort Shaw, in Montana. Here he has 
continned his co-operation, and has furnished a large number of skins 
of larger mammals, a number of which havebeen mounted and introduced 
in the National Museum. 

The usual co-operation of the medical branch of the Army in the 
matter of exploration has also been continued, many medical officers 
having forwarded collections of greater or less magnitude, among these 
are included a number of contributions of living reptiles to the Institu- 
tion, for the purpose of being cast in plaster and placed in the appro- 
priate gallery of the Museum. 

Mention should not be omitted of the service rendered by officers of 
the Army in New Mexico and Arizona, as stated in the report of Mr. 
Stevenson, of his explorations in Arizona. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

It may not be deemed superfluous to repeat frequently, for the infor- 
mation of those who may not have ready access to previous volumes 
of the annual rei)ort, that the publications nnide directly or indirectly 
by the Institution (always regarded as the most important of its agen- 
cies for the " increase and diffusion of knowledge among men"), are dis- 
tributed into three series. The first series comprises the "Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge," published in quarto size, and designed 
to embrace only the discussions of original investigations, constituting 
new additions to knowledge. This series now numbers twenty-three 
volumes, averaging about GOO pages. The second series comprises the 
"Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections," published in octavo size, and 
including, in addition to other original memoirs, the bulletins and pro- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

ceedings of the National Museum, special reports on particular sub- 
jects of biological or jihysical research, tabular compilations of classifi- 
cation, naturul constants, and such other miscellaneous information as 
is deemed of value to the scientific worker or student. Tliis series num- 
bers twenty-one volumes, averaging about 800 pages each. The third 
series comprises the Annual Eeports of the Eegents, presented to and 
published by Congress. Accompanying the report proper (giving the 
statistical and financial summaries required by law) interesting records 
of particular advances and discoveries, or of the progress of science 
generally, have been presented in a general appendix, making the 
volume much sought after. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. — Of the quarto class of pub- 
lications the following memoirs have been collected and published during 
the past year, as volume XXIII of the "Contributions to Knowledge," 
forming a volume of 767 pages, illustrated by 155 wood-cuts and IG 
plates : 

1. Introduction, contents, &c., IG images. 

2. Lucernarise and their allies; a memoir on the anatomy and i)hysi- 
ology of Haliclystus Auricula and other Lucernarians, with a discus- 
sion of their relations to other Acaleph», to Beroids, and Polypi. P>y 
Henry James Clark, B. S., A. B. (Published April, 1878.) 4to, 1,38 pp., 
4 wood-cuts and 11 plates, containing 145 figures. As stated in the 
report for 1878, the lamented author died while his work was passing 
through the press. 

3. On the geology of Lower Louisiana and the salt deposit on Petite 
Anse Island. By Eugene W. Hilgard, Ph. D., professor of chemistry 
in the University of Mississippi. (Published June, 1872.) 4to, 38 pp., 
C wood-cuts. 

4. On the internal structure of the earth, considered as aftecting the 
phenomena of precession and nutation ; supplementary to an article 
under the above head in Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, vol. 
XIX., No. 240, being the third of the problems of rotary motion. By 
J. G. Barnard, U. S. Army. (Published August, 1877.) 4to, 20 pp., 
4 wood-cuts. This memoir is a continuation of the mathematical dis- 
cussion of an important problem of gyratory motion, published in 1872, 
resulting in a modification of the conclusion formerly arrived at by t^he 
author, and at the same time controverting the celebrated memoir of 
Mr. Hopkins, which had been supposed to demonstrate that the terres- 
trial gyration known as the "precession of the equinoxes" is incom- 
patible with a molten or lluid interior to our globe. The question of 
the internal fluidity of our earth thus appears to be now left (as for- 
merly) to be settled by purely geological evidences. 

5. A Classification and Synopsis of the Trochilidce. By Daniel Gi- 
raud Elliott, E. E. S. E. (Published March, 1879.) 4to, 289 pi>., 127 
wood-cuts. This work comprises a full descrii)tion of every known spo- 



^6 REPORT Of the gECRtitARY. 

cies of bummiug-bird. In many cases tbe bead, wing, and tail of tbo 
bird are flgnred by wood-cuts inserted adjacent to tbe descriptive text. 
6. Fever. A Study in Morbid and Normal Pbysiology. By H. C. 
Wood, A. M., M. D. (Publisbed October, 1880.) 4to, 2G6 pp., IG wood- 
cuts and 5 plates, containing 17 figures. Tbis memoir was more partic- 
ularly described in tbe annual report for 1880. 

Antiquities of Nicaragua. — Of separate memoirs publisbed during tbe 
year tbe first is Arcbseological Eesearcbes in Nicaragua, by J. F. Brans- 
ford, M. D. (Publisbed January 1881) 4to, 100 pp., 202 wood-cuts and 
2 plates, containing 40 figures. Tbis uiemoir gives an account of a large 
number of interesting relics of tbe aboriginal inbabitants of Nicaragua, 
disinterred by Dr. Bransford bimself during visits to tbat place in 187G 
and in 1877. Tbe fiue collection of ancient Auierican burial-urns, pottery, 
and otber objects tbus obtained, amounting to about 800 articles, bas 
been deposited in tbe National Museum. Of tbese not more tban about 
sixty were acquired by gift or purcbase, tbe remainder bavingbeen dug 
out from tbeir original deposit by Dr. Bransford, or under bis imme- 
diate direction. More tban a bundred of tbe larger urns were found to 
contain buman boues. 

Rain-fall Tables. — Anotber publication of tbe past year is. Tables and 
Results of tbe precipitation in rain and snow in tbe United States au<l 
at some stations in adjacent parts of Nortb America and in Central and 
Souib America, collected by tbe Smitbsonian Institution and discussed 
under tbe direction of Josepb Henry and Silencer F. Baird, secretaries. 
By Charles A. Scbott. Second edition. (Publisbed May, 1881.) 4to, 
2G0 pp., 8 wood-cuts, 5 plates, and 5 maps or cbarts, exbibiting by 
isobyetal curves tbe mean rain-fall for eacb of tbe four seasons and for 
tbe year. Tbe first edition of tbis work was publisbed by tbe Institu- 
tion in Marcb, 1872, giving a tabulation of observations to tbe close of 
18GG. As a considerable amount of material bas been subsequently ac- 
cumulated, it was tbougbt but just to bave tbis additional information 
iucorporated in a new and tborougbly revised edition of tbe tables. 
Tbe work of arrangement and discussion was committed to tbe same 
editor, Mr. Cbarles A. Scbott, assisted by Mr. E. H. Courtenay,and tbe 
new tables include observations made from tbe beginning of 18G7 to 
tbe end of 1874, and in some cases to tbe end of 187G. Tbis extension 
bas resulted in increasing tbe size of tbe original work bj' about 100 
Images. It is believed tbat tbis compilation will prove a valuable con- 
tribution to tbe study of American meteorology and climatology. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — Two volumes of tbe octavo 
series bave been publisbed during tbe year, forming volume XX and 
volume XXI of tbe " Miscellaneous Collections." 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Voluiae XX consists of the following parts : 

1. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. I, 
March, 1871, to June, 1874, 8vo., 218 pp., 3 wood-cuts. 

2. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. II, 
October, 1874, to November 2, 1878, Svo., 452 pp.,0 wood-cuts and 4 
plates. 

3. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. Ill, 
i^ovcmber 9, 1878, to June 19, 1880, 8vo., 109 pp., 7 wood-cuts. 

Volume XXI contains the following memoirs : 

1. James Smithsou and his Bequest. Bj"^ William J. Ehees, 1880, 
Svo. 76 pp., 9 plates. 

2. The Scientific Writings of James Smithson. Edited by William J. 
Rhees, 1879, 8vo., 166 pp., 32 wood-cuts and 1 plate. 

3. A Memorial of Joseph Henry, 1880, 8vo., 532 pp., and 1 plate. This 
latter work comprises, 1st., an account of the obsequies, with funeral 
sermon, &c. ; 2d the memorial addresses and services at the National 
Capitol, by direction of Congress; and, 3d, as an appendix, selected 
proceedings of and addresses before learned societies with which Pro- 
fessor Henry had been more intimately connected. 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — This series of octavo publications, 
illustrating the zoological and ethnological collections in the United 
States National Museum, has been authorized, as heretofore stated, by 
the Department of the Interior, and the expenses of printing a first 
issue of the same are sustained by that department. The stereotype 
plates are subsequently emplo^^ed in making up volumes of the '' Miscel- 
laneous Collections." During the year Bulletin No. 21 has been pub- 
lished, comprising a carefully prepared digest revising the " Nomen- 
clature of North American Birds, chiefly contained in the United States 
National Museum," by Eobert Eidgway, 1881, 8vo., 94 pp. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — In continuation of the system- 
atic descrii^tion of new species received by the National IMuseum, and 
other papers of interest to the naturalist, collected under the title of 
<' Proceedings," a volume has been published during the year, comi)ris- 
ing valuable papers by Tarleton H. Bean, S. T. Cattie, F. M. Endlich, 
Samuel Garman, Charles H. Gilbert, Theodore Gill, G. Brown Goode, 
O. P. Hay, Angelo Heilprin, David S. Jordan, George N. Lawrence, W. 
N. Lockington, Ptichard Rathbun, Eobert Eidgway, John A. Eyder, 
Eosa Smith, S. I. Smith, James G. Swan, A. E. Verrill, and Charles A. 
White. This completes volume III of Proceedings of the United States 
National Museum. 1881, 8vo., 594 pp. 

Checlc-list of Smithsonian Publications. — During the latter part of the 
year a new and revised edition of the list of publications of the Institu- 
tion was printed, forming No. 487 of the Miscellaneous Collections. (De- 
cember, 1881), 8vo., 22 pp. 



28 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Smithsonian Annual Report. — The official report of the Board of Re- 
geuts for the year 1880 was presented to Congress January 19, 1881, 
and an edition of 15,560 copies was ordered to be printed. This in- 
cluded the usual reports of the Secretary, of the Executive Committee, 
of the Board of Regents, and of the National Museum Building Com- 
mission, together with the Journal of proceedings of the Board of Re- 
gents. The " General Appendix" to the report, made up subsequently, 
comprised, first, a record of recent scientific progress, which is regarded 
as a valuable feature of the annual, and one desirable to be perma- 
nently maintained. The various subjects were assigned to different col- 
laborators as follows : Introduction, by the Secretary ; recent progress in 
Astronomy, by Prof. E. S. Holden ; in Geology and Mineralogy, by 
Dr. George W. Hawes ; in Physics and Chemistry, by Prof. George P. 
Barker ; in Botany, by Prof. William G. Farlow ; in Zoology, by Dr. Theo- 
dore Gill; in Anthropology, by Prof. Otis T. Mason. The remainder of 
the General Appendix was occupied, secondly', with a bibliography of 
Anthropology, by Prof. O. T. Mason ; abstracts of Anthropological cor- 
respondence of the Institution ; a report on the Luray cavern; a dis- 
cussion of Professor Snell's barometric observations, by Prof. F. H. 
Loud ; an account of investigations relative to illuminating materials, 
by Joseph Henry (reprinted from the United States Light-House Report 
for 1875) ; a synopsis of the scientific writings of Sir William Herschel, 
by Prof. Edward S. Holden and Charles S. Hastings ; and, lastly, re- 
ports giving an account of the principal astronomical observatories of 
the world. 

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH. 

An important function of the Institution, initiated by my predecessor 
in 1873, and since carried out with great regularity, as exhibited in the 
annual reports for nearly a decade past, comprises the transatlantic in- 
terchange by telegraph of important astronomical discoveries requiring 
immediate attention from numerous or widely separated observers. 
These astronomical announcements through the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion have been of great value in the promotion of science, and liavo 
been highly appreciated. 

The announcements of astronomical discoveries made during- the past 
year are as follows : 

List of minor planets discovered in 1881. 



No. 


Niuiio. 


Diitc. 


Discoverers. 


Discover- 
er's No. 


Observatory. 


9'^0 




Feb. 23. 


Palisa 


29tli. 


Pol a 











REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



29 



It is noteworthy that last year is the first ouc since 1859 in wliich 
more thau one planetoid has not been discovered. The animal numbers 
recorded during the last twenty-five years are as follows : 



1857 9 

1858 5 

18i)9 1 

1860 5 

1861 10 

30 




1877 11 

1878 12 

1879 20 

1880 8 

1881 1 

52 



It thus appears that the quinquennial average of discoveries, so far 
from decreasing, has for the past twenty years steadily and notably in- 
creased, giving BO indication, therefore, of an iuimediate or early ex- 
haustion of material. This is due, partly, to the closer scrutiny given 
to this field by astronomers, partly to the increased number of ob- 
servers, and partly to improvements in their instruments and in their 
systematic methods of observation. 

This remarkable group of planetoidal or meteoroidal bodies forms a 
tolerably wide zone or ring between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, 
separating the four interior and smaller planets (including our earth) 
from the four exterior and much larger planets. It has been estimated 
by Leverrier and others, from the motion of Mars (the amount of dis- 
placement of the apsides, due to the amount of counteraction of the 
solar gravitation by the external attraction), that the entire mass of 
this ring of meteors cannot much exceed a fourth of that of our earth. 
In no great time, therefore, the discovery of new members of this group 
must become more and more rare. The smallest thus far observed do 
not probably exceed 20 or 30 miles in diameter, and the number which 
will remain forever unseen, by even the highest powers of the telescope, 
may very many times surpass the number ever made visible. 

List of comets observed in 1881. 



No. 



I 

II 
III 
IV 

V 

VI 

VII 

VIII 



Name. 



Faye's comet. 



Encke's comet . . . 



Date. 


May 


1 


May 


21 


July 


10 


Aufr. 


27 


Sept. 


20 


Oct. 


4 


Nov. 


16 



Discoverer. 



Swift 

Tebbiitt 

ScbcBberlo 

Commou 

E. E. Bernard 

Deiiniug 

Swift 



Observatory. 



Rochester, N. Y. 
Windsor, New South Wales. 
Ann Arbor, Miih. 
Ealing, England. 
Nashville, Tonn. 
Bristol, England. 
Rochester, N. Y. 



The generous co-operation of the large telegraph companies, embrac- 
ing those both of the transatlantic cable and of the widely ramified 
land lines, cannot be too often or too warmly acknowledged. The lib- 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

eral spirit with which these scientific messages are dispatched across 
the world, without charge to the Institution, is a most gratifying tribute 
of sympathy and confidence on the one hand, and a conspicuous ilhis- 
tration of enlightened appreciation of the character of iuformation thus 
diffused on the other. 

The European ceuters to which our telegrams of American discoveries 
are gratuitously distributed are the National Observatories of Green- 
wich in England, Paris in France, Berlin in Germany, Vienna in Aus- 
tria, and Pulkova in Eussia. The telegraphic announcements of foreign 
discoveries are gratuitously distributed to nineteen of the leading es- 
tablishments in the United States, as well as to some of the daily papers 
and to the Associated Press generally. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANaES. 

No one of the various operations carried on by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution is of more importance in the advaucement of scieiice than that 
of the international exchange of i)ublications between the governments 
and their bureaus, departments, the learned Institutions, and scientific 
men of the two worlds. Notwithstanding the increase of the govern- 
mental international system, in which quite a number of nations have 
joined, the work of the Smithsonian Institution still continues to be of 
pre-eminent magnitude and importance. Originally initiated for the 
purpose of distributing the publications of the Smithsonian Institution 
to libraries, societies, and learned men abroad, and to receive returns 
for the same, it was gradually extended so as to take within its sphere 
all the establishments in the New World requiring a similar service. In- 
deed, by its system of agencies in various portions of the world to which 
packages were sent for transmission to destination, and where returns 
were gathered and forwarded to Washington, it maintained an arrange- 
ment of its own, entirely independent of any other organization. 

If there has been any diminution of efliciency in the system of official 
exchanges during the last few years since the establishment of inter- 
national bureaus by various national governments, owing to the absence 
of direct responsibility to the Institution which its service of paid agents 
secures, it is hoped and believed that as the routine becomes better un- 
derstood and appreciated all requirements will soon be satisfactorily 
met. 

Within a year or two by the reorganization of the service and an in- 
crease in its force, the department of exchanges of the Institution, now 
in charge of Mr. George H. Boehmer, has become very efficient, and 
to his report, herewith appended, I refer for more minute details. 

It may be proper to remark that while the number of foreign ad- 
dresses in communication with the Smithsonian Institution in 1850 
amounted to 173, at the close of 1881 it forms an aggregate of 2,908, 
divided as follows : 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

Africa, 30. 

Ameriea, cxcluBivc of the United States, 135, 

Asia, 68. 

Australasia, 82. 

Europe, 2,578. 

Polynesia, &c., 9. 

A detailed list of the parties in the United States sending and receiv- 
ing the packages embraced in these transmissions will also be found 
in the Api^endix. 

The expenses of the service for the year, in consequence of an ap- 
])ropriation bj"^ Congress, have been reduced from $9,996.05 in 1880, to 
$7,467.81 in 1881. 

It is very desirable that the entire cost of this system of exchange, 
so far as the actual expenses are concerned, should be defrayed by the 
government. So far as establishments other than the Smithsonian In- 
stitution are concerned, there is every reason why the government 
should pay the cost, and the propriety is still greater in reference to the 
exchanges of the Institution itself, since all the returns obtained are 
inmiediately transferred to the Library of Congress, of which they con- 
stitute a very important part. 

The acquisition of many works, of great scientific and economical 
value, unpurchasable by money, is accomplished, first, by expenditures 
of the Institution for printing its publications, and then by their trans- 
mission through the system of exchange to various parts of the world, 
and the receipt of returns for the same. 

The cost of the system of Smithsonian exchanges would be some 
thousands of dollars greater than is actually the case but for the con- 
tinued liberality of the various steamship lines between the United 
States and other parts of the world. A list of these lines and of the 
general agencies through which transmissions are made is given in the 
Appendix. 

Among the imjiortant additions made to this list during the past year, 
special mention should be made of the Eed Star Line, of which Messrs. 
Peter Wright & Sous, of Philadelphia, are the agents. This line has 
carried a large number of packages between New York and Antwerp 
without charge. The Hamburg American Packet Company has also 
extended its privileges so as to cover a much larger range of material 
than heretofore. 

For some years past there have been serious difiiculties in the trans- 
mission of the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution to Cuba, owing 
to onerous custom-house regulations, and an arrangement was finally 
made through the minister of Spain, Sefior Don Felipe Mendez de Vigo, 
by which all our i^ackages were to be addressed to the governor-general 
of Cuba and transferred by him, with the accompanyiug invoice, to 
Prof. Felipe Poey, of the University of Havana, by whom thoy are dis- 
tributed. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The total number of boxes required to coutiiiu tlie transmissious for 
the year amounted to 407, of a gross bulk of more than 2,000 cubic fet^t, 
and a gross weight of over 100,000 pounds. 

Government Exclianges. — In addition to the regular routine work of 
the exchange referred to above, the Institution has for several years 
past prosecuted, under Congressional enactment, an exchange of the 
publications of the United States Government for those of other nations, 
the transactions being exclusively between the Government of the United 
States and those of other countries. For this purpose fifty sets of all 
publications made at the expense of the United States, whether by or- 
der of Congress or by a department, are turned over to the Library of 
Congress for transmission to the Smithsonian Institution, and these are 
distributed to such nations as give corresponding publications in return. 
As the amount of material printed by the United States amounts to 
from 12 to IG cubic feet every year, the aggregate transmissions arc 
very important, and year by year the returns come in in an increasing 
proportion. The whole transaction is intended for the benefit of the 
Library of Congress, so as to secure the of&cial publications of other 
nations, most of which can only be obtained by this system of exchange. 

There is a curious feature connected with this distribution of public 
documents, namely, with the exception of two sets which, are reserved 
by the Library of Congress for its use, there is no provision by which 
any American library can obtain anything like so complete a series of 
the official publications as are sent by the Institution to foreign govern- 
ments connected with the Exchange. It seems very desirable that in- 
stead of reserving fifty sets only of each government i)ublication, there 
should be at least one set reserved for the leading library of each State, 
or, at any rate, for that of the State and Territorial legislatures. 

Eeference has been made in previous reports to the establishment of 
a governmental system of international exchanges corresponding to 
that of tlie Smithsonian Institution. i?o important addition to the 
number of governments mentioned as concerned, has been made during 
the year 1881, although its extension to all the principal countries is 
much, to be desired. 

While the Smithsonian Institution has been named as the official 
agent in this business, its labors would be greatly facilitated if it could 
communicate directly with corresponding bureaus of other nations, the 
work, too, would be prosecuted much more satisfactorily. The govern- 
ments of Kussia and Italy, although not giving a formal adhesion to 
the system of the Smithsonian Institution, yet in the year 1881 estab- 
lished bureaus for the practical management of international exchange. 

By the exchange convention of Paris in 1875, it was provided that 
each party sending should deliver its transmissions free of expense, in 
the office of the other; but the stipulation, so far as the transoceanic 
relationships of the United States were concerned, was extremely un- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

satisfactory, on account of the great number of changes required be- 
tween Washington and the foreign capitals. The Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, therefore, endeavored, so far as its own business was concerned, to 
secure a modification of the i)ropositiou. It is a very simple thing for 
charges from one point to follow the goods and be paid for in a lump 
on receipt, while it is extremely difficult to know beforehand, or to 
prepay expenses not yet estimated or assessed. The modification pro- 
posed by the Smithsonian Institution was that each i)arty should select 
its most convenient seaport for receipt and delivery and pay exi^enses 
to that x^oint, or even to the port designated by the other ; the remaining 
charges to be met by the recipient. The acceptance of this modifica- 
tion by the governments of Russia and Italy was delayed, but ultimately 
the matter was settled by making Hamburg the point of exchange 
with Russia, and New York with Italy, the Institution paying only the 
expenses to and from these two points. 

For some years the exchanges of its publications made by the De- 
partment of Agriculture with foreign institutions have been inter- 
mitted, and a \ery important source of increase of its library thereby 
interrupted. Commissioner Loring, since his accession to the charge 
of the department, has expressed his desire to resume the exchange, 
and has made arrangements to carry it on upon a suitable scale. 

Reference has been made to the action of Congress in making an ap- 
propriation for meeting, in part at least, the expense to the Institution 
of the system of international exchanges. A letter was addressed, on 
the 23d of October, 1880, to Hon. William M. Evarts, Secretary of State, 
calling attention to the cost to the Institution of continuing a work for 
the United States Government not properly chargeable to the Smithson 
fund. In a letter, of which a copy is given in the appendix, Mr. Evarts 
expressed his appreciation of the plea, and announced his intention of 
asking Congress for relief. An estimate of $7,000 was sent in by him 
for this purpose, but the sum of $3,000 only was granted. This, how- 
ever, as stated, has been a very material help, and it is hoped that a 
larger allowance will be made for the present fiscal year, an estimate 
for which has been presented. 

As this work is prosecuted for the benefit of the country at large, and 
especially for that of the various bureaus of the United States Govern- 
ment, there is no reason why the actual expense should be a charge 
upon the income of the Smithsonian Institution, which has so many 
other calls upon it. Whatever sum can be saved in one direction can 
always be usefully applied in another in the interest of science and of 
general education. 

A history of the exchange system since its origin has been prepared 
by IMr. G. H. Boehmer, and is presented in the appendix to this report, 
together with a portion of the official correspondence between this In- 
stitution and the department relative to the project of international ex- 
change initiated by the Geographical Congress held in Paris in 1875, 
S. Mis. 100 3 



34 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and since carried out by the concurrence of most of the European 
nations. 

DISTRIBUTION. 

Closely connected with the department of exchanges is that of the 
distribution by the Smithsonian Institution of books and specimens on 
its own account and that of the National Museum. As has already been 
shown, the entire system of International Exchanges of the Institution 
began in the desire to find a convenient method of distributing its own 
publications to libraries and- societies and a provision for the receipt of 
returns. On getting the machinery of distribution fairly at work it was 
found sufficiently comprehensive to serve other establishments in the 
United States, and little by little it grew to its present magnitude. 

Distribution of Books. — The distribution by the Institution on its own 
part consists mainly of copies of the Annual Eeports of the Eegents of 
the Institution to Congress, and the various publications included in the 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge and the Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions, both in their separate form and as aggregated in volumes. More 
recently the Proceedings and Bulletins of the National Museum have 
been added to the number of volumes to be sent out. The distribution 
through the United States, however, by a law of Congress is now made 
under a frank of the Smithsonian Institution, which also covers the Do- 
minion of Canada. That to foreign countries is made either by mail or 
by the various agencies of transportation. 

As in previous j^ears, the oceanic shipments are made almost entirely 
without expense, as explained more fully in another part of the report. 

The Pennsylvania Eailroad and its dependencies and the Baltimore 
and Ohio Eoad have continued to make imj)ortant reductions in their 
rates of charges to Baltimore, Phihidelphia, and New York. 

Distribution of Specimens. — The distribution of specimens, either in 
the way of exchanges for other articles or as donations to the museums 
of colleges, academies, &c., has continued during the year on a very 
large scale. The details of this will be found under the head of the op- 
erations of the Museum. 

LIBRARY. 

As in most other branches of Smithsonian operations, the accessions 
to the library show a continued increase, the numbers of books and 
other publications received during the year as compared with those of 
the three preceding years being indicated in the accomijanying table. 
This does not include the special contributions to the working library 
of the National Museum, which have not been fully catalogued, but 
will be reported upon hereafter. 

As is well known to the Board, the books received bj* the Smithsonian 
Institution, either by way of exchange or donation, are transferred to 
the Library of Congress, in which they constitute a very conspicuous 
feature, representing as they do an extensive series of transactions and 
memoirs of societies and scientific and technical publications. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



35 



Statement of the iooks, maps, and charts received hi/ the Smithsonian Institution and trans- 
ferred to the Library of Congress. 



Quarto or larger. 




Octavo ( 


jr smaller. 




Total. 


Vols. 


Parts. 


Pamph's. 


Vols. 


Parts. 


Pamph's. 


Charts. 


1878 403 

1879 ' 440 

1880 ; 337 

1881 ; 762 


2,620 
2, 612 
2,603 
3,914 


463 860 
591 1,509 
477 806 
468 1,105 


2, 356 
3,240 
2,577 
3,591 


1,953 

1,628 
1,618 
1,931 


74 
183 
152 

■ 188 


8,729 
10, 203 

8, 570 
11,959 



As part of the statistical work of the United States Census, a com- 
plete file of all the newspapers published in the United States during 
the census year of 1880 was collected, the total amounting to some five 
thousand titles. The authorities of the Census Department offered 
these to the Smithsonian Institution if it could find proper accommoda- 
tions for the same. As, however, the library of the Institution has 
long since been merged in that of Congress, and as the expense of bind- 
ing alone would have been extremely onerous, the suggestion was made 
that the whole be offered to Mr. Spofford. 

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Tlie organization of the National Museum may now be regarded as 
practically completed, and the arrangement of a large portion of its 
valuable material for instructive display at least provisionally eflfeoted. 
A very full report of the scientific objects aimed at and of results so 
far accomplished in this important branch of the public service has been 
prepared by Mr. G. Brown Goode, the assistant director in charge, and 
will be found in the appendix. 

Eeference was made in the reports for 1876 and 1877 to the enormous 
amount of material presented to the United States by exhibitors at the 
Philadelphia Centennial, and to the number of car-loads transferred to 
Washington. Since the completion of the National Museum the greater 
jiortion of these specimens have been removed from the Armory and 
subjected to a provisional arrangement, precedent to their final assign- 
ment to the cases. 

The minerals and ores were unpacked under the direction of Dr. 
nawes, in charge, and the reserve series picked out and held in readi- 
ness for further action. The duplicates have all been proi)erly assorted, 
and to some extent distributed. This work however, cannot be satis- 
factorily carried out until the coming year. 

The purely metallurgical specimens have also been classified ; but are 
still, for the most part, in their boxes, awaiting the api)ointment of a 
specialist for that department. 

Increase of the Museum. — It has been reported to the board that at 
the close of the International Exhibition a company was organized in 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Philadelphia for the purjiose of continuing the display for an indefiuite 
period. The great main building, covering 18 acres, was purchased 
at a very low price, and from among the Original* exhibits many were 
either purchased by the company or presented, or deposited by the pro- 
prietors. Numerous additions were also made, in certain specified di- 
rections, the object being to have a display of industries, for commer- 
cial purposes, and also for the general education and instruction of the 
community. 

The anticii^ations of the projectors of this exhibition were not realized, 
the distance of the building from the city and the length of time nec- 
essary to visit it, and the satiety of the i)ublic in regard to such dis- 
plays caused the number of visitors to fall far below what was necessary 
to meet the exj)enses, and after struggling vainly against the inevitable, 
the exhibition was given up and the building sold. The owners of 
jjroperty therein were notified to remove it at the earliest possible mo- 
ment. 

As there was much in this exhibition that fell entirely within the 
plan of the industrial department of the National Museum, Mr. Thomas 
Donaldson was requested to act as an agent for soliciting contributions, 
which he did with such success that, by far the greater part of what 
was really valuable and important, was obtained by him as a free gift 
from the proprietors. Several months were spent, with a proper cori)s 
of assistants, in taking down and packing the exhibits for transporta- 
tion, and the entire mass is now stored in a temporary warehouse, await- 
ing *Rn appropriation by Congress for transfer and installation. 

A detailed list of these donations will be appended to this report. 
Their money value is estimated at not less than $150,000. In addition 
to the collections actually obtained, many others are promised, and are 
now, for the most part, in process of preparation. 

Medicinal Collections. — As indicated in previous reports, a full collec- 
tion of the materia medica of the world has been projected as one of 
the exhibits of the National Museum. In addition to the large amount 
of material of this character obtained at the International Exhibition 
of 1876, the Institution received the promise of aid by Messrs Schief- 
feliu & Co., of New York, a very prominent firm, connected with the 
•drug trade. The firm sent a representative to the International Phar- 
maceutical Convention, held in London during the past summer, with 
special reference to obtaining certain obscure and unusual substances 
that could not otherwise be secured. Many hundreds of varieties of 
great rarity resulted from this mission. As especially related to the 
medical department of the Navy, Surgeon-General Wales detailed Dr. 
J. M. Flint, assistant surgeon, U. S. N., to take charge of this division 
of the Museum, and he is now engaged in cataloguing and labeling the 
specimens as they are received. 

In order to obtain the necessary information on this subject, the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

Smithsonan Insititution, through the courtesy of the State Department, 
has issued circuhirs to the foreign representatives of the United States, 
asking lirst, whether there is a national pharmacopceia in the country 
to which accredited, and second, requesting that copies if published be 
sent to the Institution. Eesponses have very generally been received, 
and a very complete collection of liliarmacopoeias is at present in Doctor 
Flint's possession, from which to prepare the list referred to. 

Special Contributions. — The explorations of the United States Fish 
Commission have added greatly to the material at the command of the 
Smithsonian Institution, both for research and distribution. The many 
new and rare species of fishes collected by the commission constitute 
a very important advance in our knowledge of the deep seas. Besides 
enriching the National Museum, the large mass of duplicate specimens 
will enable the Institution to continue its distribution of labeled suites 
of species to a large number of educational establishments in the 
country. 

Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havana, furnishes a supply of living reptiles for 
the use of the modelers, and also rare fishes, types of many new species 
described by himself. 

Mr. Livingston Stone has furnished large important collections of 
fossils as well as of recent animals, from the United States Fish hatch- 
ery, on the McCloud River, California, a region of very great ethnolog- 
ical and zoological interest. 

Hon. John M. Langston, United States minister to Hayti, has con- 
tributed some valuable collections of the corals of the islands, quite a 
number of which were new to the collection. 

Mr. C. C. Leslie, an extensive fish dealer of Charleston, S. C, lias con- 
tinued his collections in the line of ichthyology from the shores of his 
State. 

Mr. Silas Stearns, a fish dealer in Pensacola, has also added mate- 
rially to the very large number of fishes of the Gulf of Mexico, previ- 
ously presented by him. To Mr. Stearns we are indebted for quite a 
number of entirely new species, which have been or will be described in 
the i>rocedings of the National Museum. 

In addition to the collections of fishes and marine invertebrates by 
the main parties of the United States Fish Commission, Col. M. Mc- 
Donald, in charge of the station for hatching Spanish mackerel at 
Cherrystone, in Chesapeake Bay, made a large collection, embracing 
many rarities. 

In the earlier volumes of the reports of the Institution frequent men- 
tion is made of contributions to the National Museum by Mr. R. Mac- 
Farlane, of the Hudson Bay service, while stationed at Fort Yucon, 
Fort Anderson, and elsewhere ; and even to the present time the early 
collections of Mr. MacFarlane stand pre-eminent. To him is due more 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tha,ii to any single person, the knowledge wliicli we have of the natu- 
ral history and ethnology of the arctic circle of North America. 

Since Mr. MacFarlaue's change of station to an interior jiost he has 
been prevented from malting many additions to his series ; but during 
the year 1881 we were gratified at the receipt of a number of skins of 
rare mammals, &c., contributions by him, and showing the persistency 
of his interest in the ]S'ational Museum. 

Dr. James Moran, of the Medical Department of the Army, who fur- 
nished collections in previous years, has also supplied several rare forms 
of i)ottery and other aboriginal remains from Arizona. 

Miss Eosa Smith has continued her contributions of tishes from San 
Diego, Cal. supplementing to some extent the work prosecuted there 
in 1880 by Prof. D. S. Jordan, as referred to in the preceding portion 
of this report. 

Mr. James G. Swan, of Port Townsend, Wash. Terr., whose contri- 
butions to the ethnology and general natural history of Puget Sound, 
have been noticed in almost every report for twenty years, has not inter- 
mitted his exertions during 1881. Numerous collections of objects of 
Indian manufacture, of fishes, &c., have been received from him with a 
large amount of si^ecial information on the fisheries of Puget Sound. 

Mr. Jose Zeledon, of San Jos6, Costa Pica, to whose services as a 
skilled ornithologist and collector reference has frequently been made, 
has added to his many contributions by supplying some extremely rare 
and possibly new species of birds of Costa Pica. 

ETHNOLOGICAL BUEEATJ. 

The Ethnological Bureau, established by Congress for prosecuting 
researches among the Indian tribes of North America, with the view of 
securing to ethnological science available records of races destined 
ultimately to disappear, is continuing its interesting and important work, 
under the able directorship of Major Powell, with marked and gratify- 
ing success. The most important of these operations during the past 
year consists of the work of Mr. F. H. Cushing, and that of Mr. James 
Stevenson. Mr. Cushing has been a resident of the village of Zuui for 
several years past, carrying his researches into the domestic habits, re- 
ligious rites and ceremonies, and other features of the condition of the 
Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, and he has obtained a vast body of 
original information upon these subjects, which will, in time, be pub- 
lished. He has made very large collections in ethnology, those ob- 
tained in the caves of New Mexico being especially noteworthy. A 
peculiarity in the religious observances of the Pueblo Indians consists 
in their hiding away a memento of important ceremonials, in caves ac- 
cessible with great difficulty, and only visited on such occasions. The 
accumulations in these caves date back mauj^ years, and the specimens 
gathered, illustrating the changes in methods and chronological peculi- 
arities, are very interesting. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

Similar collections have been received through Mr. Metcalfe from a 
cave near Silver City, I^. Mex., showing- a similarity of treatment of 
the subject over a wide extent of the country. 

At the last session of Congress the sum of $5,000 was especially re- 
served, by enactment, from the appropriation for ethnological researches 
to be exx^ended in continuing investigations into aboriginal mounds, and 
several gentlemen were assigned to this business. The most important 
contributions under this arrangement have been made by Dr. Edward 
Palmer, who has spent several months in Tennessee, and subsequently 
in Arkansas. A large number of boxes have been received from him, 
containing some extremely rare and even unique objects. 

Dr. AV. De Hass was assigned to a certain region in West Virginia 
and adjacent portions of Eastern Ohio. This work has been prosecuted 
during the summer, but as yet no collections have been received. 

Mr. W. J. Taylor, of Nashville, Tenn., has furnished a number of speci- 
mens similar in character to those of Mr. Palmer. 

Mr. S. T. Walker has also procured some mound relics from Florida. 
His collections are all very interesting, as showing some i^eculiarities in 
the contents of prehistoric mounds ani^ graves in that State as compared 
with those of Tennessee and Arkansas. 

Ethnological and archaeological explorations, heretofore conducted by 
the Bureau of Ethnology in the Northwest, under the direction of Pro- 
fessor Powell, were continued over contiguous areas to those examined 
the two previous years. The vast quantities of valuable material, both 
ancient and modern, possessed by the Pueblo tribes made it important 
that the work of collecting should be carried on extensively, in order to 
secure as much as possible, before they were carried away by visitors 
and speculators, who are now, since the railroads make that region ac- 
cessible, visiting that country frequently. A party was equipped and 
l)laced in charge of Mr. James Stevenson to prosecute the work among 
the Indians of the Province of Tusegan, known as the Seven Moquis, 
and also to secure an additional collection from the Pueblos of Zuiii, 
The party proceeded to each of these localities, from which large and 
varied collections were made, consisting of everything pertaining to 
the religious and domestic life of these tribes. The collections from Mo- 
qui are unique and valuable, consisting of a large number of ancient 
earthenware vessels and stone implements. Among the formerare some 
very handsome vases elaborately decorated with unknown designs, and 
of new forms in structure from any hitherto found. The tribes from 
whom they were obtained had no knowledge of their origin, but they 
were in all probability made by the people who resided in a village of 
considerable dimensions, about twelve miles east of Moqui, called by 
the Xavajos Tallyhogan or singing houses. An examination of this 
village, which is now in ruins, revealed immense quantities of fragments 
of pottery, on all of which were designs and figures, similar to those on 
the ancient vessels just referred to, which were obtained from the Mo- 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

quis. The amount of material secured from Moqui was quite large, 
aggregating about 12,000 pounds. A map of great accuracy was made 
of the seven villages, and will accompany the report of the Bureau to 
show the relative positions of the villages of this province. 

The collections from ZuQi were large and important, amounting in 
weight to 21,000 pounds. 

Mr. Mendeleff, with several assistants, completed a survey of ZuGi for 
the purpose of constructing a model of the village on a scale of five feet 
to the inch. This model was completed during the present winter, and 
is now on exhibition in the National Museum. The area covered by 
Zuni is 1,200 by 600 feet, not including the goat and sheep corrals and 
gardens, which occupy a much larger area. The model, however, will 
illustrate all those features. The preparation of this model (which in- 
cludes several thousand details) by Mr. Mendeleff required much labor 
and skill. It is prepared in papier-mache, and presents the true colors 
of the village as well as all the details. 

During the season, Mr. J. K. Hillers, the accomplished and skillful 
photographer of the survey, in addition to the geographical and geo- 
logical illustrations made by him, secured a large number of finely exe- 
cuted photographic views of all the Moqui villages and of Zuni, as well 
as of many ruins in the region surrounding them, among which are many 
character sketches of the people, interiors of their houses, eagle pens, cor- 
rals, portraits of men, women, and children, also many views of the people 
while in the attitude of baking pottery, drying meat, dancing, &c. The 
work was not comi^leted ; it is therefore contemplated to make further 
and more exhaustive researches in these regions in the future. 

Some years ago the Smithsonian Institution had two Indians, one 
named Tichkematse, a Cheyenne, and the other Geo. Tsaroft", a native 
of the Aleutian Islands, in charge of the ethnological hall. The pres- 
ence of these Indians in the room attracted much attention, especially 
as they were able to explain intelligently the functions of many of the 
implements and other objects from a personal acquaintance with their 
use. As stated in the last report, Tsaroff died of consumption in 1880, 
and Tichkematse returned to his tribe in the Indian Territory, where 
he exercised, in the interest of the Smithsonian Institution, his abilities 
as a taxidermist. During the past season, at the request of Mr. F. H. 
Gushing, he was ordered to Zuiii, and rendered very important service 
as an assistant in making ethnological collections under the direction 
of Mr. Gushing and of Mr. James Stevenson. 

CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company. — Among the earliest establishments 
to co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution in its work of exploration 
and exchange was the Pacific Mail Stearashii) Company ; and during the 
past year the Institution has been indebted to the president and officers 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

for important courtesies. Capt. John M. Dow, the resident agent of the 
company at Panama, has continued to be of the utmost service to the 
Institution, not only in transmitting valuable collections, but also in 
taking charge of packages of books and specimens to and from the Insti- 
tution. At his suggestion the president of the company has kindly of- 
fered the facilities of the line to any explorer we may wish to send to 
investigate the natural history, and especially the ichthyology, of Cen- 
tral America. Arrangements will be made in the coming year to take 
advantage of this desirable offer. 

Corcoran Gallery of Art. — One of the departments of the Smithsonian 
Institution, as designated by the act of incorporation, was the mainten- 
ance of a gallery of art. On the establishment of the Corcoran Art 
Gallery, with ample funds for the acquisition of paintings, engravings, 
and statuary, and suitable accommodations for their display, the 
BegentSj under the authority vested in them by Congress, authorized 
the transfer to that establishment of the collections of the art gallery j 
and at present there is but little of importance in the Smithsonian 
building, especially since the delivery to the Library of Congress of 
<he valuable collection of engravings purchased some years ago by 
the Institution from the Hon. George P. Marsh, at present United 
States minister to Italy. The Institution, however, still retains the 
series of busts in plaster and marble of eminent historical personages 
Df both the Old and the New World. 

Most of the objects in the art department were derived from the col- 
lections of the National Institute for the Promotion of Science, an 
organization which, after twenty years' existence, expired by limitation 
of charter, in accordance with which its property, in specimens, books, 
(fee, was turned over to the Smithsonian Institution. Among the 
paintings transferred was a full-length portrait of General Washington, 
paiuted by the late Mr. Charles W. Peale. By authority of a law 
of Congress this was sent to the International Exhibition of 1876 in 
Philadelphia, and arranged with the other art collections. It was 
subsequently transferred to the halls of the Academy of Fine Arts in 
Philadelphia, It was, however, reclaimed by the Institution during 
the past year, and placed in the Corcoran Art Gallery, where it now 
remains. The ownership of this picture is claimed by Mr. Titian R. 
Peale, a son of Mr. Charles W. Peale, its painter, and his claim for 
compensation is now before Congress. 

Treasury Department. — Revenue Marine. — Reference has already 
been made to the co-operation of the Treasury Department in the scien- 
tific work of the Institution, in instructing Captain Ilooper to take Mr. 
Nelson on board the " Corwin " for the special purpose of making an 
investigation of the ethnological peculiarities of the natives of St. 
Lawrence Island. In many other cases the revenue marine has ren- 
dered essential assistance to science by its co-operation. Many valuable 



42 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

specimens have been received from the officers, especially from Oapt. 
C. M. Scammon, Captain Hodgden, Captain White, Capt. J. G. Baker, 
Captain Howard, and numerous others. Indeed, there is scarcely an 
annual list of contributions to the National Museum that does not em- 
brace a donation of greater or less magnitude from that office, and the 
archives of the Smithsonian Institution have further been enriched by 
valuable communications on natural history and ethnological subjects. 

As another example of co-operation, mention may be made of the help 
extended by the Institution to the two Doctors Kraus, gentlemen sent 
to America in the early part of the year 1881 by the Geographical 
Society of Bremen for the purpose of carrying on ethnological and bio- 
logical researches on the Asiatic shores of Behrings Straits. Com- 
mended to the Institution by Dr. Lindeman, and others, letters of in- 
troduction were furnished to persons in San Francisco, and a permit 
was obtained from the Secretary of the Treasury authorizing the ship- 
ment of ammunition and supplies for making natural history collections. 
The Smithsonian Institution also furnished a quantity of alcohol for the 
I)reservation of fishes and marine invertebrates. 

These gentlemen embarked on a schooner at San Francisco, and were 
last heard from at St. Lawrence Bay in Siberia. At that time they had 
secured quite a number of specimens, and were prosecuting their re- 
searches among the Tschuches. 

The Coast and Geodetic Survey, also a bureau of the Treasury Depart- 
ment, has continued its favors in authorizing the officers in charge of 
shore parties or of hydrographic work to utilize any convenient oppor- 
tunity at their command in collecting specimens for the National Mu- 
seum. Very valuable collections were made during the year bj'- Com- 
mander Nichols, in charge of the Coast Survey steamer " Hassler.'' 
These embraced fishes and reptiles from ^lazatlan and elsewhere, along 
the coast of Lower California, from Upper California, and from Alaska. 
Quite a number of new species of fishes have already been described 
from this collection. 

In previous years many contributions were made by Lieut. Wm. P. 
Trowbridge, Mr. Wm. H. Dall, and others of the Coast Survey, which 
are among the most important accessions to the National Museum. 

In this connection it should not be forgotten that the recent explora- 
tions by Mr. Alexander Agassiz, in connection with the physical and 
natural history of the South Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, have been 
made under the direct patronage of thet]!oast Survey, and that the first 
series of all collections, embracing many new and rare species, are, by 
law, the property of the National Museum. 

The Light-House Board of the Treasury Department has also contin- 
ued its aid. This has been extended more particularly in the way of 
instructions to keepers of light-houses and light-ships to make observa- 
tions in regard to the temperature of the air and of the water and of the 
occurrence of the phenomena of migrations of marine animals. With 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

the'help of thermometers furnished by the Fish Commission or the Signal 
Office, a valuable body of material has been obtained, throwing impor- 
tant light on the movements of fish in relation to their physical sur- 
roundings. 

NECROLOGY. 

During the year 1881 1 have to report the loss by death of two among 
the employes of the Smithsonian Institution; one of these, Mr. John 
H. KiCHARD, which took place at Philadelphia on the 18th of March ; 
the other, Miss Maggie Connor, at Washington, on the 20th of ISToveni- 
ber. Mr. Richard was a Frenchman by birth, but a resident for many 
years of this country, and for a long time occupied a prominent position 
amongnatural history draughtsmen. Originally employed by Professor 
Holbrook in the preparation of the jjlates of his great works on the 
rei)tiles and fishes of South Carolina, he entered the service of the 
Smithsonian Institution nearly thirty years ago, and was employed for 
many years in making illustrations of reptiles and fishes for the re- 
ports of the Pacific Railroad, the Mexican Boundary, the Wilkes Ex- 
ploring expeditions, &c. Resigning his position, he for some years en- 
gaged in business in Philadelphia as a colorist, still doing more or less 
work for the Institution. Subsequently he resumed his old situation, 
and for seven or eight years he has been principally employed in paint- 
ing casts in i^laster and papier-mache of American fishes and cetaceans, 
the white work having been done under the direction of Mr. Joseph 
Palmer. The excellence of these representations has been universally 
commended, especially as exhibited to the general jniblic at the Inter- 
natioDal Exhibition in Philadeliihia and the Fishery Exhibition in Ber- 
lin. The death of ]\Ir. Richard leaves a gap among the capable natural- 
history artists of this country. 

Another death among the employes of the Smithsonian Institution 
was that of Miss Maggie Connor, who died of consumption on the 
20th day of November. Her father was one of the earliest employes of 
the Institution and died in its service, and Miss Connor has been for 
many years connected with the record department of the Museum. 

It is, perhaps, proper to mention also the death of Mr. George W. 
Riggs, on the 25tli day of August, a gentleman who, although not at 
the time immediately associated with the Institution, had long been its 
financial agent, and who has rendered many very important services in 
connection with his profession as a banker. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

For many years Mr. Townend Glover, both before and during his con- 
nection with the Department of Agriculture, was engaged in preparing 
and in engravingon copper, in time outside of that due to the department, 
a series of illustrations of the economical entomology of the United 
States, until failing health and the almost entire loss of eyesight pre- 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

rented his further action. He had, however, engraved many hundreds 
of plates, illustrating the life history of the insects most prominent as 
beneficial or injurious to the farmer. Professor Glover published a por- 
tion only of this work, printing at his own expense the text and illus- 
trations. He has been desirous of obtaining help from the government 
to issue the complete work, but so far has been unable to secure the 
necessary appropriation, although the subject has been warmly recom- 
mended by several of the committees on agriculture. Finding it neces- 
sary to remove to Baltimore, he has deposited all his plates in fi.re-proof 
apartments of the Institution, subject to further action. It is very de- 
sirable, in the interest of the farmer and horticulturist, that tliis work 
should be published at .an early date, and the immense mass of practi- 
cal information made available. 

It has been the custom of the Smithsonian Institution to give to 
eminent American men of science letters to its foreign correspondents, 
commending them to any of6cial attentions that may be convenient, 
and requesting for them the privileges of libraries and museums. Dur- 
ing the year 1881 such letters were given to Dr. J. S. Billings of the 
Medical Department of the x\rmy, a member of the National Board of 
Health, who visited Europe on official business connected with the 
latter establishment, and to Dr. Durgiu, President of Hillsdale College, 
Michigan. 

INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS, ETC. 

Eeference was made in the report for 1880 to the part taken by the 
National Museum and the United States Fish Commission in the Inter- 
national Fishery Exhibition, held at Berlin in the spring of 1880. The 
collections sent to Berlin haA^e all been returned and restored to their 
places. The reports of this exhibition by various foreign countries have 
been received, and all unite in referring to the disjilay made by the 
National Museum and Fish Commission as being by far the best and 
most instructive of all, this being corroborated by the receipt of the 
highest awards. The grand prize, a silver gilt vase of beautiful design 
aud of great cost, was made personally to your Secretary as head of the 
United States Fish Commission, and an act of Congress was passed 
authorizing him to receive it free of the duty, which alone would have 
amounted to about one thousand dollars. He has presented it to the 
National Museum, of which it will doubtless constitute an attractive 
object. 

A second exhibition in which the Smithsonian took part was that of 
the International Electrical Convention, held in Paris in August, 1881. 

A series of the publications of the iDstitution, relating to electricity, 
was transmitted and placed in charge of the American commissioner, 
Hon. George Walker. The appreciation by the jury of the services of 
Pofessor Henry to electrical science by his discoveries and of the Institu- 
tion by its publications was shown by the grant of one of the highest 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

awards, namely, the Diploma of Honor. The American representatives 
at the exhibition were Mr. Walker, commissioner-general, Prof. George 
F. Barker, commissioner expert, &c. 

The occasion of the International Electrical Congress in Paris during 
the past summer was embraced by the French Government for bringing 
together a commission in relation to the forthcoming transit of Yenus, 
and, at the request of the State Department for a nomination of an 
American known to be in Paris, the name of Prof. G. F. Barker was 
suggested by the Institution as a suitable representative ou the part of 
the United States. Althougli not an astronomer, Professor Barker is 
well known as a most accomplished physicist, and able to take part in 
any general discussion of matters and systeiu of co-operation. 

International Congress of Americanists. — An international association 
devoted to recovering data in regard to the early history of the Amer- 
icas has for many years held its sessions annually in the different capi- 
tals of Europe, that for 1881 being held at Madrid, under the special 
patronage of His Majesty King Alfonso. The Smithsonian Institution 
was in\ated to take an interest in this association by collecting sub- 
scriptions and issuing tickets of membership. The proceedings of the 
meeting have not yet been published. It has been suggested that an 
invitation be extended by the President of the United States to have 
one of the forthcoming meetings of the association held in this country, 
and that the hospitalities of the nation be extended by an appropriation 
by Congress for the expenses of oceanic travel. This matter will prob- 
ably come up for the consideration of the government at the proper 
time. 

International Geographical Congress. — Another international conven- 
tion which took place during the summer was that of the Geographi- 
cal Congress at Venice. The publications of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and of the United States Fish Commission, as far as they bear ui)on 
geographical explorations and discovery, were presented, and the 
United States was ably represented by Capt. George M. Wheeler, 
United States Engineers, a gentleman well known for the magnitude 
and importance of his explorations under the War Department. 

EXTERNAL RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONLA.N INSTITUTION. 

The Smithsonian Institution occupies a somewhat peculiar jiositiou 
in its general relationships. Provided by the liberality of a foreigner 
with funds for carrying out its own special work, and charged by the 
government with additional duties, for which means are provided by Con- 
gress, it has reliLtious on the one side to private or special establish- 
ments, and ou the other to those of the home and foreign governments. 



46 KEIORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In its purely Smithsonian operations, it may be designated as exercis- 
ing all the functions of a great society, such as the Royal Society of 
London, the academies of St. Petersburg, Berlin, Vienna, &c., with- 
out any members, the work being done by a purely official bureau. In 
one relationship or another it publishes results ; it superintends a great 
museum and library and gallery of art ; it maintains a laboratory ; it 
conducts a system of international exchanges, in which its associates 
are directly in communication with bureaus of foreign governments. 
For the United States Government it supervises the iSTational Museum 
and the international system of exchanges. It also acts in a measure 
as a scientific adviser of the government in receiving questions for so- 
lution, making chemical and other investigations of material, nominat- 
ing experts or agents, in connection with scientific work, &c., its fa- 
cilities being always at the command of either Congress or the depart- 
ments. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

ITS GENERAL OBJECTS AND RESULTS. 

My api)ointmenT, at the commencement of its operations in 1871, to 
the charge of the United States Fish Commission, has rendered it ex- 
pedient to give some account of its operations year by year in the an- 
nual report of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Although commencing in the year mentioned on a very small scale, 
the demands of the public and the will of Congress have caused a no- 
table extension each year, until at the present time the commission con- 
stitutes a very important factor in the operations of the government, 
fairly comparable, so far as the food problem is concerned, with the 
Department of Agriculture. 

The two branches into which the work of the Commission is divided, 
namely, that of the investigation of the condition of the fishing and 
the fisheries, and the propagation of food fishes, have been explained 
heretofore, and with especial fullness, in the report of the Institution 
for 1880, so as to render it unnecessary to go into the same detail at 
the present time. 

For the pur^iose of continuing the investigations into the condition 
of the fisheries. Wood's Holl — the locality where the first work of the 
Commission was begun in 1871, and continued in 1875 — was selected. 
This i)oint of the coast offers exceptional advantages as a center of in- 
vestigation, mainly owing to the conveniences placed at the service of 
the Commission by the Light-House Board, in the form of a suitable 
building for a laboratory and store-room, and wharfage for the small 
boats. The waters in the vicinity are also exceptional in their purity 
and in the abundance of animal life; and the point itself is central^ 
permitting ready departure to any desired localiity. 

As in 1880, the " Fish Hawk," the hatching steamer of the Coramis- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

sion, was used for the off-shore researches and in her complete equip- 
ment of apparatus answered every demand. Tlie vessel was still in 
command of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, an accomplished naval officer, who 
was not only competent to take charge of the vessel in all matters of de- 
tail, but by his thorough knowledge of mechanical appliances, and his 
inventive i^owers, was able to devise many very important imi)rove- 
ments in the machinery necessary for carrying on the work. 

The officers and crew of the vessel were supjdied, as before, by the 
Navy Department, in accordance with the law of Congress. The only 
change in the detail of officers was the replacing of Engineer Boggs 
by Engineer Bailey. 

Fuller reference will be made in another part of this report to the 
work of the "Fish Hawk" in connection with the hatching of food 
tishes. The vessel was first employed in this capacity in Albemarle 
Sound, and afterward in the Susquehanna River, two of the stations for 
the propagation of shad. She afterward proceeded to Chesapeake Bay 
and engaged in experiments looking towards the artificial jiropagation 
of the Spanish mackerel. 

During the two previous seasons of occupation of the Wood's Holl 
station by the Fish Commission a very thorough investigation was made 
of the inshore localities, the whole of Vineyard Sound, Buzzard's Bay, 
and other adjacent portions having been thoroughly explored in the 
"■ Blue Light" and other smaller vessels ; it was therefore determined to 
continue the work commenced at Newport in 1880 along the eastern edge 
of the continental plateau representing the hundred-fathom line. This 
plateau, as has been explained in previous reports, extends along the 
Atlantic coast of the United States to a distance, for the most part, of 
from 75 to tOO miles, being however considerably narrower off Cape 
Hatteras. The depth of water increases very gradually to one hundred 
fathoms, not much faster in most cases than one fathom to the mile, 
affording a level almost equal to that of a western prairie. On reach- 
ing the limit, however, the descent is very abrupt, sometimes amount- 
ing to 1,000 fathoms, or considerably over a mile, in a few miles. Along 
the edge of this precipice animal life occurs in vast profusion, both as to 
the number of individuals and of species, thus furnishing a very inter- 
esting field of research in the matter of general natural history, as well 
as in regard to the occurrence and distribution of valuable food fishes. 

The first cruise of the " Fish Hawk" to this ground in 1881 was made 
on the 15th July, followed by others at intervals of about once a week 
through the summer. As the " Fish Hawk " had been built for inshore 
work, and not with reference to standing rough weather outside, it was, 
of course, necessary to watch carefully the ox)portunity of slipping out 
under favorable ausi)ices, the dredge and trawl not being capable of 
being used to advantage in a rough sea. 

Very valuable service was rendered by the Signal Office in Washing- 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ington in this couuection by furnishiug information as to expected 
storms in advance of their publication in the daily newspapers. The 
vessel usually started out in the afternoon of one day and reached the 
desired ground by daylight of the following morning ; then, after spend- 
ing the day in dredging, returned the next night, reaching its berth the 
following morning, or usually after an absence of from thirty-six to 
forty eight hours. 

The work in the laboratory at Wood's HoU commenced on the 8th 
July and continued until the middle of September. I remained until 
the 4th October, after which I returned to Washington. 

As in previous years, Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, had charge 
of the collections and researches into the invertebrates, assisted spec- 
ially by Mr. Eichard Eathbuu, Mr. Sanderson Smith, Mr. B. F. Koons, 
and Mr. E. A. Andrews. Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bowdoin College, Maine, 
as a volunteer, rendered essential aid. 

The fishes were in charge of Dr. T. H. Bean, of the National Museum, 
assisted by Mr. Peter Parker, of Washington. 

The results of the season's work were very satisfactory. 

The locality of the tile fish ground — the new food fish discovered 
within the last few years, and referred to in a previous report — was re- 
visited, and numerous specimens obtained for the purpose of testing 
their eatable qualities. Other species of rare fishes — quite a number 
new to science — were secured. Very large collections of invertebrates 
were made, including many of great rarity, as well as a number of 
undescribed species, while abundant material was obtained in all de- 
partments for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution to colleges 
and academies throughout the country, and for exchange with foreign 
museums. 

The " Fish Hawk " made some interesting deep-sea collections on her 
return to AVashington, where she arrived in the early part of October. 
Her services were again called into requisition in the celebration of the 
capture of Yorktown, having been tendered to and accepted by tlie 
Secretary of War for his special service and that of his stafi:". 

As usual at the summer stations of the Commission, there were numer- 
ous visitors*at Wood's Holl during the summer, among them several 
naturalists, who desired to make special investigations in their respec- 
tive branches. 

The fact that the entire coast of the eastern United States from tbe 
Bay of Fundy to Long Island Sound has now been thoroughly explored 
by the Fish Commission, and the geographical distribution of the various 
species of marine animals ascertained, renders it desirable to fix per- 
manently upon a station where the necessary appliances for storage of 
material for fitting out the exploring vessels can be kept, and where in- 
vestigation of the animal life can be i)rosecuted to the best advantage, 
and also from which easy access can be had to any part of the North 
Atlantic Ocean. Believing that all these requirements are met at 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

Wood's Holl, and finding that the accommodations so liberally furnished 
by the Light-House Board would not be sufficient for the enlarging scale 
of work, I was able to make provisional arrangements during the sum- 
mer looking towards the erection of a station in the Wood's Holl great 
harbor. 

The great harbor of Wood's Holl, although somewhat obstructed by 
rocks, is yet capable of being made, at moderate expense, one of the 
most important of those on the coast, being the only one between New- 
port and Provincetown in which vessels of large draught can enter and 
be secure against storms from any quarter. There are several shoal- 
water harbors within the district mentioned, which are, however, 
tisually untenable during storms from a particular direction. A vessel, 
however, once in Wood's Holl harbor is perfectly safe from any danger 
from storm. 

One of the obstructions to the practical use of the harbor for this 
purpose is a reef running out to a considerable distance from the north 
side. Upon this vessels are liable to be wrecked, and the idea of hav- 
ing this obstacle removed has frequently been entertained b^^ persons 
interested. The expense, however, would be very great, and it was 
found to be much cheaper to mark the reef by a pier built over it, and 
in so doing protect the only vulnerable part of the inner harbor from 
the swell coming from the south, thus assuring entire security to ves- 
sels behind it. As this work, besides being greatly in the interest of 
commerce, promised to meet all the requirements as a wharf for the ves- 
sels of the United States Fish Commission, it was determined to ob- 
ain, if possible, the adjacent land for the purpose of erecting the neces-t 
sary buildings, and as it is practically very difficult to secure an appro- 
priation from Congress to buy laud, several parties agreed to furnish 
the funds necessary to purchase this land and present it to the United 
States. A provisional agreement was therefore made with the proprie- 
tors to sell the adjacent shore in the event of an appropriation being 
made by Congress for the engineering work. 

In connection with the pier it is proposed to construct basins for the 
reception of fish, in which they can be penned until their eggs are ripe 
enough to be removed and treated artificially. I trust that I may be 
able in the report for 1883 to chronicle the successful accomplishment 
of these various measures and the actual working of the station. 

The second branch of the work of the Fish Commission — that of the 
hatching of fish — has been carried on during the year with increasing 
and eminent success. 

The first division of the work to be mentioned is that relating to the 
carp, a food fish, the best varieties of which were first introduced into 
the United States by the United States Fish Commission, and have 
been distributed very extensively to all parts of the country during the 
year. The principal station ot production is in the ponds in the vicinity 
of the Washington Monument, in Washington City, and from them many 
S. Mis. lO'J 4 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

thousands have been sent out through all parts of the United States, 
this work being done either by shipments in passenger trains under the 
direction of messengers, or by car loads. Much apprehension of loss 
was excited by tbe ice gorge of the Long Bridge, at Washington, on the 
12th February, 1881, by which the waters of the Potomac were backed 
up so as to completely flood the carp ponds. Fortunately, however, the 
grounding of the floating ice on the exterior limits of the ponds seemed 
to have the effect of preventing the fish from escaping ; at least, careful 
examinations induced the belief that no considerable number had been 
lost. 

The collecting of the eggs of the shad, and the hatching out and 
distribution of the young fish, were also carried on throughout the year 
on a very large scale. The three principal stations were Albemarle Sound, 
the Poiomac Kiver, and the Susquehanna. The "Fish Hawk" was 
first dispatched to Avoca, Albemarle Sound, passing through the Chesa- 
peake and Albemarle Canal, for the purpose, arriving the end of March. 
The steamer " Lookout," in charge of Lieutenant Wood, was also dis- 
patched to Albemarle Sound in March, and the two vessels were engaged 
for several weeks in the operation of hatching shad ; after which work 
was transferred to the Potomac Eiver. By the courtesy of the Navy 
Department and the authority of the commandant of the navy-yard, 
the principal station was made in the boat-house of the yard, to which 
the eggs were brought by the '' Lookout " from (he seine-hauling localities 
down the river. The " Fish Hawk" was engaged also for a time on the 
Potomac in similar work. Battery Island, on the Susquehanna, was also 
utilized in a like connection, and many eggs hatched out both there and 
on the " Fish Hawk", which was for the greater part of the time anchored 
some miles distant, in the northeast run. The shad thus obtained were 
sent into almost every State of the Union, and very greatly to the 
satisfaction of the inhabitants. The total number distributed amounted 
to many milliotus. 

As in previous years, the obtaining and distributing of eggs of the 
California salmon were also carried on on a very large scale at the 
station on McCloud Eiver in California. Many millions of eggs were 
distributed throughout all parts of the United States, and a number 
sent to foreign countries in response to official requests to that effect. 
As usual, several millions of the young fish were hatched and planted 
in the Sacramento Eiver for the purpose of keeping up tbe supi)ly. The 
hatching station itself had been destroyed by flood during the previous 
winter, but a special appropriation having been made by Congress for 
rebuilding it, the money was received in time to make the station avail- 
able for this purpose. 

The collecting of eggs of the Atlantic salmon was continued, as here- 
tofore, at the station near Bucksport, on Penobscot Bay, in Maine, and 
the eggs obtained were distributed, for the most part, to State fish com- 
missioners, to be hatched out and i)lanted at their discretion. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

The work connected with the land-locked salmon was continued at 
Grand Lake Stream, and many eggs secured. 

The multiplication of white fish constituted, for the first time, an im- 
portant branch of the labors of the Commission. For this purpose a 
sto.tion was established at Northville, Mich., under the charge of Mr. 
Frank N. Clarlv, who obtained the eggs required in the Detroit JEliver, 
L;i ke Erie, and Lake Huron. Some 18,000,000 of eggs were secured and 
distributed, and nearly all were returned to the waters from which they 
f were originally taken. Some were sent to various smaller lakes, and a 
few to localities in Europe. 

The species of fish enumerated above represent the most important 
objects of attention and action of the Commission, although some work 
has been done in connection with the multiplication of the California 
trout, the brook trout, the striped bass, the Si)anish mackerel, and the 
oyster. Full details in regard to all these points will be found in the 
report of the United States Fish Commission. 

Before closing this subject brief reference may be made to an impor- 
tant improvement in the method of distributing the young fish on the 
part of the Commission. Heretofore this has been done by messengers 
in charge of a certain number of cans containing young fish, and travel- 
ing in baggage cars or express trains. Although the railroads have 
almost uniformly been extremely courteous and liberal in their co-opera- 
tion with the Commission, allowing, without extra charge, the trans- 
l)ortation of as many as from twelve to sixteen large cans of fish, yet 
that mode of distribution was found inadequate to the requirements, 
and the experiment was accordingly tried of fitting up a car as a re- 
frigerator, in which a much larger supply offish could be carried and 
kept at a uniform temperature sufficiently low to prevent injury to 
the fish by the summer's heat. Accordingly, by authority of Mr. 
Isaac Hinckley, president of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Bal- 
timore Railroad Company, one of the baggage cars of the company 
was altered to a refrigerator car of the Ridgway patent under the di- 
rection of the patentee. This has been tested and found to answer 
an admirable purpose by the delivery of the young fish at the most 
remote points practically without any loss. 

FISHERIES CENSUS. 

In my report for 1880 I present^ed in considerable detail ;in account 
of the arrangement made with General Francis A. Walker, Superin- 
tendent of the Census, by which the investigation of the fisheries of 
the United States was undertaken as the joint enterjjriseof the United 
States Fish Commission and Census Bureau. This investigation was 
to be made as complete as possible, statistically, historically, and with 
regard to the methods employed at the present time in the fishery indus- 
tries. The preparation of a statistical and historical report upon the fiish- 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

eries, to form one of the series to be presented by the Superinteudeut of 
the Census as the result of his investigations in 1880, has been the main 
object of the work ; but in connection with this statistical work, extensive 
investigation into the methods of the fisheries, into the distribution of 
the fishing grounds, and the natural history of useful aquatic animals, has 
been, and is being, carried on. The direction of tliis investigation from 
the start has been confided to Mr. G. Brown Goode, who was appointed 
agent of the Census Ofl&ce, and has been carrying on the work in addi- 
tion to the performance of his duties in connection with the National 
Museum. 

The work began on July 1, 1879, and the final report, it is hoped^ 
will be ready for publication as early as February, 1882. The scheme 
of investigation and the methods of inquiry are described at length on 
pages 78, 79 of my report for 1880, and in this place it seems neces- 
sary only to mention under the head of each district the names of the 
persons employed and the dates during which the investigation was 
carried on. The districts and departments, twenty-fonr in number, 
have been covered as follows : 

I. Coast of Maine east of Portland, by E. E. Earll and Capt. J. W. 
Collins, from August 1 to October, 1879, and from July 29 to October 
20, 1880. 

II. Portland to Plymouth (except Cape Ann) and eastern side of 
Buzzard's Bay, by W. A. Wilcox, from September 2, 1879, to March 1, 
1881. 

III. Cape Ann, by A. Howard Clark, from September, 1879, to No- 
vember, 1880. 

IV. Cape Cod, by F. W. True, from July, 1879, to October, 1879, and 
during September and October of 1880. 

V. Provincetown, by Capt. N. E. Atwood, from August, 1879, to 
August, 1880. 

VI. Ehode Island and Connecticut, west to the Connecticut Eiver, 
by Ludwig Kumlien, from August 16 to October 16, 1880. 

VII. Long Island and north shore of Long Island Sound and west 
to Sandy Hook, by Fred. Mather, from August 1, 1879, to July, 1881. 

VIII. New York City, by Baruet Phillips, from January, 1880, to 
July, 1881. 

IX. Coast of New Jersey, by E, E. Earll, during December, 1880. 

X. Philadelphia, by C.W. Smiley and W. V. Cox, during November, 
1880. 

XI. Coast of Delaware, by Capt. J. W. Collins, during December, 
1880. 

XII. Baltimore and the oyster industry of Maryland, by E. H. Ed- 
munds, at various interv'als during 1880. 

XIII. Atlantic coast of Southern States, by E. E. Earll, from Janu- 
- ary to July, 1880. 

XIV. Gulf coast, by Silas Stearns, from August, 1879, to July, 1880. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

XV. Coast of California, Oregon, and Washington Territory, by Prof. 
D. S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert, from January, 1880, to January, 1881. 

XVI. Puget Sound, by James G. Swan, from January, 1880, to Jan- 
uary, 1881. 

XVII. Alaska seal fisheries, by Dr. T. H. Bean, from June to Octo- 
ber, 1880. 

XVIII. Great Lakes fishery, by Ludwig Kumlien, from August, 1879, 
to August, 1880, 

XIX. Eiver fisheries of Maine, by C. G. Atkins, during 1880. 

XX. The shad and alewife fisheries, by Col. Marshall McDonald, from 
October, 1879, to July, 1881. 

XXI. Ovster fisheries, by Ernest Ingersoll, from September, 1879, to 
July, 1881. 

XXII. Lobster and crab fisheries, by Eichard Eathbun, from Jan- 
uary, 1880, to July, 1881. 

XXIII. Turtle and terrapin fisheries, by 'F. W. True, from October, 
1880, to July, 1881. 

XXIV. The seal, sea elephant, and whale fisheries, by A. Howard 
Clark, from Xovember, 1880, to February, 1881. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

SPEXCEE F. BAIED, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 



CONTAINING 



1. Report on the Operations of Exchanges for 1681. By Geokge H. Boehmer. 

2. Report of the Assistant Director of the 11. S. National Museum: G. Brown Goode. 

3. Report of the Chemist: F. W. Tayxor. 



54 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 
By George H. Boehmer. 

The iucrease in the number of "foreign correspondents" of the Insti- 
tution since the publication of the last printed list, corrected to Jan- 
uary, 1878, together with nnraerous changes in organizations, has ren- 
dered necessary the preparation of a new edition of the pamphlet list 
Dionght down to the end of the past year. This has involved the dis- 
tribution of a circular of formal inquiries to each of our correspondents, 
and considerable labor in the compilation of the information obtained 
from the replies. The new " List of foreign correspondents," corrected 
to January, 1882, has been carefully transcribed, and is now in the hands 
of the printer. The original replies received have been arranged and 
l)ound in volumes, so as to be readily accessible for reference at any time. 

In addition to this list, card catalogues have been prepared, showing 
at a glance, besides the name of each institution, the date of its estab- 
lishment, and the total number of volumes in its library, how many ot 
these are Smithsonian publications, and designating the number of vol- 
umes of the various series, and in this catalogue it is intended to enter 
the Smithsonian publications to be sent successively to the establish- 
ment. 

Another card catalogue has been commenced, in which it is intended 
to show : 

1. The date of receipt of packages for any society, designating the 
name of the sender and the contents of the parcels, if possible, and for 
this purpose it is earnestly requested that all packages to be forwarded 
through the Smithsonian Institution should have the name of the 
sender and the contents ])lainly marked on the wrapper. 

2. The date of transuiittal, giving the number of the respective in- 
voice and of the box containing the parcel ; and 

3. The date of acknowledgment by tlie consignee. 

This will necessarily increase the labor of the working force, but it 
is hoped will promote the efl&ciency of the system also, and facilitate 
by this series of checks the tracing of any miscarried parcel. 



56 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



The Smithsonian Institution, through its international exchange, is at 
present in correspondence with 2,908 societies, located as follows : 



Algeria 9 

Azores 1 

Cape Colonies 6 

Egypt 8 

Liberia - 

Madeira 1 

Malta 1 

Mauritius 5 

!Mozambique 1 

St. Helena 2 



British America ; 

Canada 23 

Manitoba 1 

New Brunswick 3 

New tbundlaud 1 

Nova Scotia 5 

Central America : 

Costa Kica 1 

Guatemala 2 



Mexico : 
Mexico . 



West Indies : 

Baliamas 1 

Baibadoes , 1 

Cuba '^ 

Guadeloupe 1 

Jamaica 1 

Trinidad 1 

Turli's Island 1 

South America : 

Arg(;ntine KepnbUc 17 

Bolivia 1 

Brazil 10 

British Guiana '^ 

Chili 12 

Columbia 3 

Dutch Guiana 2 

Ecuador 1 

Paraguay 1 

Peru 4 

Uruguay 5 

Venezuela 3 



36 



China 8 

India *.- 39 

Japan 8 

Java 7 

Philippine Islands 3 

Strait Settlements 3 

AUSTRALASIA. 

New South Wales 15 

Queensland 4 

South Australia 8 

Tasmania 7 

New Zealand 27 

Victoria . 20 

West Australia 1 

EUItOPE. 

Austria-Hungary 172 

Belgium 115 

Bulgaria 1 

Denmark 32 

France 489 

Germany 580 

England 369 

Ireland 42 

Scotland 47 

Wales 5 

Greece 31 

Iceland ; 13 

Italy 221 

Netherlands 81 

Norway 33 

Portugal 38 

Eussia 172 

Servia 1 

Spain..... 29 

Sweden 28 

Switzerland 83 

Turkey 16 

POLYNKSIA. 



Sandwich Islands 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Miscellaneous 



Total 2,908 



RECAPITULATION. 



Africa 

America : 

British America.. 
Central America. 

Mexico 

West Indies 

South America. . . 



Asia 68 

Australasia 82 

Europe 2,578 

Polynesia 2 

Miscellaneous 7 

Total 2,908 



Comparative table of foreign institutions in correspondence icith the Smith- 
sonian Institution during the last ten years : 



1872 1,985 

1873 2,145 

1874 2,140 

1875 2,207 

1876 2,275 



1877 2,330 

1878 2,333 

1879 2,481 

1880 2, 602 

1881 2,908 



In the Smithsonian system two distinct branches are represented, 
namely, the "Foreign Exchange'' and the "Domestic Exchange," to 
which may be added the "Government Exchange.'- 



report on the operations of exchanges. 57 

1. — Foreign Exchange. 

The " ForeigQ Exchange " consists iu the collecting, registering, and 
sending, in regular transmissions to agents appointed either by the various 
gov^ernments or paid by tbe Smithsonian Institution, of its own publica- 
tions, those of the various government departments, scientific establish- 
ments and individuals of this country, while the " Domestic Exchange" 
represents donations made by corresponding establishments and indi» 
viduals abroad in return ior contributions from this country. 

The Smithsonian Institution, in this system, ofltering to correspond- 
ents a safe and gratuitous channel of iutercomnumication, has to in- 
sist upon the strict adherence to certain rules adopted principally in 
view of the free admission, into all parts of the world, of boxes and 
packages bearing its official stamp. 

These conditions being well known to the " Home Correspondents," 
the following circular is in course of preparation, and will be distributed 
to all correspondents abroad on occasion of the next transmission of the 
annual report, which will take place iu the earlier part of the coming 
year. 

Rules adopted relative to scientific and literarij exchanges. 

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution from foreign 
countries to be confined exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and 
other printed matter sent as donations or exchanges, and not to include 
those procured by purchase. The Institution and its agents will not 
receive for any address api)aratus and instruments, philosophical, med- 
ical, etc., including microscopes, whether purchased or presented, nor 
specimens of natural history, except where especial permission from 
the Institution has been obtained. 

2'. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each sending 
to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of 
transmission. 

3. Packages to be legibly addressed and to be indorsed with the name 
of the sender and their contents. 

4. Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely pasted or 
tied with strong twine — never sealed with wax. 

5. No package to a single address to exceed one-half of one cubic 
foot in bulk. 

6. To have no inclosures of letters. 

7. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents free 
of expense. 

8. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned 
by the party addressed. 

9. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly statetl on or 
in the jjackage. 

10. Unless these conditions are complied with the parcels cannot be 
forwarded bv the Institution. 



58 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Centers of distribution. 

In order to facilitate the scieutific and literary intercourse between 
the various countries, the bureaus, societies, and individuals enumerated 
in the following table have been autliorized to accept exchanges for 
transmission to this country, and to distribute in their respective coun- 
tries the se'ndings made through the Smithsonian Institution. 



Countrv. 



Argentine Republic. 
Austria-Hungary — 

Bavaiia 

Bolgiuiu 

Brazil 



British America- 
British Guiaua .- 

Canada 

Do 

Cape Colonies . . 

Chili 

China 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Denmark .- . 

Dutch Guian i . . . 

East Indies 

Ecuador 

Egypt -.-. 

Einlaud , 

Prance 



Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Iceland 

Italy 

Japan 

Liberia 

Mexico 

Ketherlands. . . . .. 

Xetherlandsh Indie. 

!New Caledonia 

!New South Wales . 

Xew Zealand 

Norway 

Philippine Islands. . 

Polynesia 

Portuaal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 



Saxon V 

St. Helena 

South Australia 

Spain 

Strait Settlements 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Trinidad 

Tuik's Island 

United St^'ites of Colombia 

Venezuela 

Victoria , 

Wiirtfemberg 



City. 



Buenos Aires. 



Brussels 

Rio Janeiro. 



Georgetown 

Montreal 

Ottawa 



Santiago 

Shanghai 

San Jos6 

Havana 

Copenhagen . 
Surinam 



Quito . 
Cairo . 



Paris. 



Leipsic 

London 

Athens 

Guatemala 

Port-au-Prince. . . 

Reykjavik 

Rome 

Tokio 

Monrovia 

Mexico 

Hailem 



Sydney 

Wellington 
Christiania. , 

Manila , 

Honolulu 

Lisbon 



Brisbane 

St. Petersburg — 



Adelaide. 
Madrid . . 



Stockholm 

Berne 

Hobarton 

Port of Spain. 
GrimdTurk .. 

Medellin 

Caracas 

Melbourne 



Agency. 



Museo Publico. 
Same as Germany. 

Do. 
Commission Beige d'l5change Internationaux. 
Commissao Central Brazileira de Permuta^aoes In- 

tornacionaes. 
Same as Canada. 
Obseivatory. 
McGUl College. 
Geological Survey of Canada. 
Same as Great Britain. 
Universidad do Chili. 
United States Cousul-Creneral. 
Universidad. 
R. Universidad. 

Kong. Dauske Videnskaberaes .Selskab. 
Koloniaale Bibliothcek. 
Same as Great Britain. 
Observatorio. 
Institut figyptien. 

F. A. Broclihaus. Leipsig. Germany. 
Commission l''raD9aisedes ^changes Internationaux. 

(Ministere de I'instruction publique et des beaux 

arts. ) 
Dr. Felix Fliigel (49 Sidonien strasse). 
William Wesley (28 E.ssex stieet, Strand). 
Biblioth^que Nationale. 
Sociedad Economica de amigos del Paris. 
Secretaiie de I'fitat des Relations Exterieuies. 
Island Stiptisbokasain. 
Biblioteca Nacionale Vittore Ernauuele. 
Minister of Foreign Atfairs. 
Liberia College. 
El Museo Nacionale. 

Bureau Scientifique Central Kenlandais. 
Same as Netherlands. 
Same as Gieat Britain. 
Royal Society of New South Wales. 
Colonial Museum. 

Kong. Norske Frederiks Universitet. 
Royal Economical Society. 
Royal Hawaiian Agricaltuial Society. 
Escola Polytechnica. 
Same as Germany. 

Government Meteorological Obstrvato y. 
Commission Russo des Exchanges luternp.tionaux. 

(Bibliothfeque Imperiale Publique.) 
Same as Germany. 
Same as Great Biitain. 
Astronomical Observatory. 
Real Academia de Ciencias. 
Same as Great Britain. 
Kong. Svenska Vetenskap.s Akademie.n. 
Eidgenossenscho Bundes Canzlei. 
Royal Society, Tasmania. 
Scientific A.ssociatiou. 
Pnblic Library. 
University of Antiocuiia. 
Dr. A. Ei"nst. 
Public Library. 
Same as (Jermany. 



Agents of transmission. 

In the shipment of Smithsonian exchanges the same liberality in 
granting free freights has been shown as in previous years, the follow- 
ing named transportation companies deserving especial acknowledgment: 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 59 

Anchor Stearasliip Company, Compa^nieG(5n^raleTransatlantique, Cun- 
ard Stearasliip Company, Ilainbnrg-Anieric.au Packet Conii)aiiy, Iiniian 
Steamship Company, Merchants' J^ine of iSteamers, Netherlands-Ameii- 
can Steam Navigation Company, New York and Brazil Steamship Com- 
I)any, New York and Mexico Steamship Company, North German Lluyd 
Steamship Company, Pacilic iMail Steamship Company, l*acihc Steam 
Navigation Company, Pan ami^Eaihoad Company, lied Star Line, Steam- 
ship Lines for Brazil, Texas, Fkirida, and Nassau, N. P., Wliite Cross 
Line of steamers of Antwerj), 

The transmission of the Smithsonian exchanges has been effected 
through the following- named parties. 



Country. 



Sbipping agents. 



Antigua j Thomas Dcunison, Xow York. 

Argentine Republic | Consul Carlos Cananza, Kew York. 

Belgium i lied Star Line, Peter Wright and Sons, New York; White Cross 

Line, Funeh, Ed.vc & Co., New York. 

Brazil i Charles Mackall, viee-consul, Baltimore. 

Chile Consnl-General C. do Castro, Xew York. 

Costa Rica I Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Xew York. 

Cuba j Hipolito do Friarte, cousulgeneial I'or Spain, Xow York. 

Denmark I Henrik Braem, consul-general, New York. 

Ecuador i Frnncis Spies, consul, New York. 

Egypt ; S. L. Merchant & Co. , New York. 

France ' < "ompai.'uie Generale Transatlantique, L. de Btibian. New York. 

Germany ! North German Lloyd, Oelrichs & Co., New York, and Schumacher Sz. 

Co., Baltimore. 
Great Britain Cnnard Stiamship Companv, Vernon Brown & Co., New York ; North 

i Genuau Llovd. Schumacher Ji, Co., Baltimore. 

Greece • Consul D. H. Botassi, New York. 

Guatemala I Consul Jacob Baez, New York. 

Hayti Atlas Steamship Comp;iny , Pim, Eorwood fc Co., New York. 

Italy M. RafVo, consul-general. New York. 

Japan i Consul-Gener.Tl Samro Takalci, New York. 

Mexico ' Consiil-General Juau N. Navarro, New York. 

Netherlands Netherlands- American Sttara Navigation Company, H. Cazeaus, 

New York. 

New South Wales I R. W. Cameion & Co., New York. 

New Zealand ' R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Norway I Consul-Geneial Christian Bors, New York. 

Portugal ' Con.sul-General Gustav Amaink, New York. 

Queensland I North German Lloyd, Schumacher & Co., B.altimore ; transfer madu 

I at Queensland depai'tment, Loudon, England. 
Russia I Hamburg- American P.icket Company, Kuuhardt & Co., New York; 

I transl'er madeby consul-general of Russia, Hambuig. 

South Australia I R. W. Cameron & Co.. New" York. 

Spain ' Consul-General Hipolito ("e Uriarte, New York. 

Sweden ! Gonsul-Genoral Christian Bors, Now York. 

Switzerland North Gemian Lloyd. Schumacher &, Co. Baltimore ; transfer niadd 

I by Consul-General vou Heyniann, in Bremen. 

Turkey Turkisli Embassy, Washington, D. C. 

Tasmania • Noilh German Lloyd, Schumacher & Co., Baltimore; transfer ma-de 

' bv Crown agentsfor the colonies, London, England. 

Venezuela ! Dallct, Boulton & Co.. New York. 

Vict oria R. W. Cameron &. Co. , New York. 

West Indies Pacific Mail Steamshii> Company, New York. 

1 ^ 

1. Receipt and distribution of exchanges. 

At no time in the history of the Smithsonian Institution, even during- 
the Centennial Exhibition of the United States, in Philadel])hia, in 1870, 
and in the year following, has the increase in the receipt and distribu- 
tion of the Smithsonian exchanges been so marked as in the ])ast year. 
In 1877, when largo presentations of documents were made in return for 
the many donations made by the various nations, through their represen- 
tatives, and collections of books forwarded at the request of the respec- 



GO 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



tiv** commissioners, the increase over the year 1876 amounted to 25 per 
cent The present year, however, presents results far superior to any 
on / '.cord, and these will be exhibited in the following tables : 

I. — Receipts for foreign transmission. 



1.— From government de- 

PAliXJlENTS. 

Agricultnral Department . . . 

Enreau of Military Justice.. 

Bureau of Statistics 

Coast Survey 

Commissary-General of Sub- 
sistence 

Comptroller of Currency 

Engineer Bureau 

Entomological Commission.. 

Eish Commission 

Geological Survey (Eocky 
Mountain region) 

Interior Dci>artmont 

National Museum 

Naval Observatory 

Ordnance Office 

Quartermaster-General 

Kevenne Marine 

Signal Office 

Sn^rgeon-General's Office 

Surgeon-General (Marine 
Hospitiil) 

Treasury Department 



2.— From scientific societies 
and e3tablishments. 

Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences, Philadelphia 

Academy of Sciences, New 
York 

Academy of Sciences, Saint 
Louis 

American Association for the 
Advancement of Science.. 

American Entomological So- 
ciety, Philadelphia 

American Journal of Arts 
and Sciences, New Haven . 

American Journal of Mathe- 
matics, Baltimore 

American Pharmaceutical 
Association. Philadelphia. 

American Philosophical So- 
ciety, Philadelphia 

Board of Public Charities, 
Philadelphia 

American Academy of Arts 
and Sciences, Boston 

Boston Society of Natural 
History 

Brown Librarv, Providence, 
R. I 

Buffalo (New York) Society 
of Natural Sciences 

Canadian Journal 

Columbia College, New York. 

Essex Institute, Salem, Mass 

Geological Survey, Harris- 
bnrg, Penn 

Harvard College 

Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore .". . 



Number 
of pack- 
ages. 



325 
1 
3 

18 

1 
900 
8(iC 

1 



Weight. 



Pounds. 

1,789 

2 

47 

85 

1 

645 

4, 999 

4 

76 



54 


270 


173 


768 


49 


4, 3.53 


,(i79 


7, 216 


3 


77 


4 


25 


50 


25 


120 


2,206 


8 


95 



25 
195 



4,326 1 22,903 



229 


667 


419 


245 


1 


10 


137 


580 


17 


32 


192 


72 


1 


1 


39 


91 


701 


950 


26 


55 


588 


077 


312 


1,869 


2 


31 


no 

48 
139 

294 


22 

14 

195 

340 


29 
1 


457 
9 



Marietta (Ohio) College 

Museo Nacinnal, Mexico 

Nederlandish Legation, 
Washington 

Nova Scotian Society of Nat^ 
Ural Sciences, Halifa.x 

Peabody Institute, Baltimore 

Pennsylvania Historical So- 
ciety, PhUadolphia 

Public School Library, Saint 
Louis 

Secretary of State, Lansing, 
Mich 

Silk Association 

Slate Library, Albany, N. Y. 



3.— Feom individuals. 



Number 
of pack- 
ages. 



Abbe, Prof. C 

Baird, Prof. S. E 

Bell, A 

Bessel.'*, Emil 

Biuuev, W. G 

Ellis,J.B 

Euthoffer, Mr 

Ferguson, Major F. B 

Gill, Dr. T 

Goode, Prof. G. Brown ... 

Gray, Dr. Asa 

Greene, E. L 

Hall, Prof. James 

Harkness, Prof. William. 

Hawes, Dr. George W 

Hayden, Dr. F. V 

Hessel, Dr. Eudolph 

HoLlen, Prof. E. S 

HougTh, F. B 

Jacksou, James 

Jakerman & Carver 

King, Prof. C 

Knight, Dr. E. H 

Lee, Dr. William 

Lesquerenx, Prof. Leo 

I Mallery, Col. Garrick 

Mallet, J. Edmond 

Marnock, G. W 

Morong, Thomas 

Nipher, F. E 

Palmer, Joseph 

Phillip.s, Henry 

Eau, Dr. Charles 

Ehces, William J 

Smith, Prof. J. H. 

Solberg, Mr 

Steven.son, James 

Stockwell. J.N 

Sullivan, George N. 

Thomas, Prof. C 

Walker, S. T 

Watson, Prof. Sereno 

Whitfield, E. P 

Williams, N. E 



4. — Smithsonian Institution. 
Total 



"Weight. 



34 



C, 816 



38 




50, 155 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

II. — Receipts for domestic transmission. 



61 



Number of 
boxes. 



Number of 
parcels, j 



"Weight. 



From Australia 

Lelsiuni 

Brazil 

East Indies 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

For Library of Congress. 

nolland 

Italy 

Portugal 

Norway 

Kussiii 

Smithsonian Institution 

Switzerland 



2 
5 

*«l 
1 

14 
34 
23 
15 
o 

2 
1 
2 

4 



Total. 



32 

213 

87 

14 

1,027 

2,542 

1,3G9 



87 

58 

1 

151 

258 

1,937 

114 



7,890 



Pounds. 

50 

1,760 

980 

100 

3,243 

8,178 

6,808 

2, 855 

340 

410 

31 

405 

780 

7,101 

250 



33,291 



III. — Receipts for government exchanges. 

From tho Public Printer : 300 sets, of 50 copies each, of the public 
documeuts printed by order of Congress Copies, lJ),OO0. 

EEC APITULATION. 



Weighe. 



n, 



For foreign transmission : 

1. From government departments 

2. From scientific societies 

3. From individuals. 

4. From Smithsonian Institution. 
For domestic transmission 

Total 



Pounds. 




22, 903 

6,81(J 

2,937 

17, 499 

33,291 



83,446 



Transmission of exchanges. 

The transmission of exchanges is ordinarily in direct proportion to 
the receipts. The year 1880, however, made, in a measure, an excep- 
tion to this general rule, owing partly to a reorganization of the depart- 
ment and partly to an unusual augmentation of the receipts during the 
latter portion of the year, thus requiriug an extra efibrt during the year 
1881 not to fall behind in the transmission. This end has been attained, 
and the result now presented is favorable in every respect. All former 
accumulations have been worked off*, and by giving immediate attention 
to the constantly incoming material nothing has been allowed to accu- 
mulate, and thus the working force in this department is fully prepared 
to transmit i^romptly any exchanges immediately upon receipt. 



€2 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



The munbcr of boxes transmitted during the year amounted to 407, 
and compare with the transmission of former years as follows : 





Number of 
boxes. 


Bulk in cubic 
feet. 


Weight in 
pounds. 


1872 


179 
196 
131 
208 
323 
397 
309 
311 
208 
407 


954 
1,476 

933 
1,503 
2,261 
2,779 
2,160 
2,177 
1,976 
2, 800 


26, 850 


1873 


44, 23G 


1874 


27, 990 


1875 


45, :i(J0 


187o • 


80, 750 


1877 - 


99, 250 


1878 


69, 220 


1879 


69, 975 


1880 


60, 300 


1881 . 


100, 750 







The 407 boxes sent during the year 1881 were distributed as follows: 



Country. 



Argentine Republic. 

Brazil . . 

Canada 

ChQe 

Cuba 

Ecuador 

Guatemala 

Hay ti 

Mexico 

Nicaragua 

Venezuela 



Total. 



China 

East Indies. (luclnded in England.) 
Jap.au 

Java. (Included in Holland.) 



Total. 



Algiers. (Included in France.) 

Cape Colonics. (Included in England.) 



AUSTRALIA. 



New South Wales. 

Now Zealand 

Queensland 

South Aufitralia. . . 

Tasmania , 

Victoria 



Total. 



18 



12 



* In all cases tho number of boxes given in this report inclndes the boxes sent under 
the system of Government documents exchanged to the various governments specified 
an the special report appended, and the transmissions to Canada which will be found 
■specilied in the detailed report on domestic exchanges. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



63 



Countrv. 



Austria (Smithsonian Eschaugos iucluiled in Gm-iuiiiiy i 
Bavaria (Smithsonian Exchaui^ert iui'luded iuCjorinauy) . . 

Belixiiuu 

Deinnark 

Fi'aDco 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 



Italy , 

^Netherlands 

^Norway , 

rortugiil 

Prussia (Smithsonian Exchanges included in Germany) 

Russia 

Saxonj- (Smithsonian Exchanges included iu Germany) 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Wurtemberg (Smithsonian Exchanges iucluiled r.i Germany). 




Total 226 I 



20 



a . 

y o 



.2 8 



RECAPITULATIOX. 



America.. 

Asia 

Australia. 
Europe — 



29 

5 

4 

226 



Total. ! 264 



18 
2 
12 
1 I 66 



53 

9 

23 

322 



98 I 407 



2. — Domestic Exchanges. 

The receipt of exchanges for domestic transmission has been stated as 
being 7,890 packages. These, together with the accumuhition from the 
year 1880, amonnted to 8.433 i)a<'kages, which have all been worked 
oft", not one package remaining in the office at the expiration of the year. 

The total nnmber of i)ackages transmitted compares with former 
years as follows : 





1872. 


1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


Total addresses of institu- 
tions 

Totfil addresses of individ- 


300 
287 


463 
220 


402 
288 


329 
281 


316 
328 


392 
374 


292 
370 


444 
341 


385 
560 


600 
454 






Total number of parcels to 

institutions 

Total iiumber of parcels to 


3, 69i 
941 


3,876 
906 


3.221 
1,105 


3,019 
1,042 


3,705 
1,148 


3,868 
1,094 


4,C59 
1,233 


5,786 
1,185 


4,021 
1,506 


7,086 
1,347 






Total number of parcels ; 


4,635 


4 782 


4,326 


4,661 


4,853 


4,962 


5,292 


6,971 


5, 587 


8.433 



64 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



xiud were distributed to societies into tbe various States and Terri- 
tories of the United States and of British America as follows : 



states and Territories. 



Alabama 

Arkari'sas 

California 

Colorado 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia 

Geoigia 

DUnois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Mississippi 

Missouri 



Socie- 
ties. 



Par- 
cels. 



1 
9 

148 

2 

322 

1 

2,379 

10 

209 

27 

135 

17 

11 



15 


53 


15 


84 


72 


1,039 


15 


01 


7 


28 


2 


2 


17 


224 



States and Territories. 



Nebraska 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina 

Ohio 

Oregon 

Pennsylvania '. . 

Rhode Island 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Utah 

Vermont 

Virginia 

"Washington Territory . 

West Virginia 

Wisconsin 

British America 



Total 



Socie- 


Par- 


ties. 


cels. 


2 


2 


6 


14 


11 


41 


85 


797 


4 


4 


37 


149 


3 


S 


17 


747 


9 


21 


7 


24 


8 


8 


2 


3 


1 


1 


7 


49 


10 


10 


1 


1 


3 


3 


11 


157 


54 


235 



600 



List of consignees. 




ALABAMA. 

Tuscaloosa : 
Geologic:il Survey of Alabama 



ARKANSAS. 

Fayetteville : 
Industrial University 

Holly Grove : 
Litfrary Institution 

Judsonia : 
Judson University 

Little Rock : 

Governor of Arkansas 

Literary Institution 



CALIPOUNIA. 

Berkeley : 
University of California 

Marvsvillc : 
Mary sville Library 

Oakland : 
University of California 

Sacramento : 

Free Library. , 

Society of Agriculture and Horticulture 
State Library 

San Francisco: 

Academy of Sciences 

Agricultural and Horticultural. Society 

Biblioth^qne de la Ligne 

Corporation of the city 

Library 

Lick Observatory 

Mechanics' Institute 

Mercantile Library 

Odd Fellows' Library 

Saint Ignatius College 

State Geological Survey 

State Horticultural Society 



119 
2 
1 
1 
1 



CALIFOKNIA— Continued. 



Santa Clara : 
Santa Clara College. 



Denver: 
Governor Gilpin. 
State Library 



CONNECTICUT. 

BridgepoTt : 
Bridgeport Library and Reading-Kooms 

Hartford : 

American Philological Society 

State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 

Theological institution of Connecticut'. 

Trinity College 

Middlitown : 
Wesleyan Uni vor sity 

New Britain : 
State Normal School 

New Haven : 

American Journal of Science, etc 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Science 

Sheiiiold Scientific School 

Tale College 

Young Men's Institute 

Watei'bivry : 
Bronson Library 



DELAWARE. 



Wilmington : 
Wilmington Institute . 



1 

148 



108 
38 
139 
6 
19 
2 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. G5 

List of consignees — Coutinued, 



Kecipients. 



DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

■Washington : 

Agricultural Department 

American Medical Association 

Anthropological Society 

Army Medical Museum 

Belgian Leu<ition 

Board of llcalth 

Bureau of Education 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Bureau of Medicine and Snrgory 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Statistics 

Census Oliice 

Coast Survey 

Columbian University 

Commissioners of District of Columhia 

Commissioner of Indian Affairs 

Engineer Bureau 

Entomological Commission 

General Land Oflice 

Geological Survey 

Georgetown College 

Georgetown Observatory 

Hydrographic Office ^. 

Index Me' licus 9. 

Interior Department 

Library of Congress 

Lir;lit-house Board 

Minister of China 

Mint Bureau 

National Academy of Sciences 

National Museum 

Nautical Almanac 

Naval Observatory 

Navy Department 

Ordnance Bureau 

Patent Oflice 

Philosophical Society 

Provost Marshal General 

Signal Office 

Smithsonian Institution 

State Department 

Sargeon-General 

Surgeon-General, Marine Hospitals 

Treasury Department 

"War Department 



GEORGIA. 

Athens : 
University of Georgia 

Atlanta : 
Agricultural Department and State Agri 

cultural Society 

City Library 

Cave Spring : 
Institute for the Deaf and Dumb 

Macon : 
Public Library and Historical Society 

Savannah : 
Historical Society 



ILLINOIS. 

Abingdon : 
Abingdon (College 

Bloomiugton : 

Bloomington Library 

"Wesleyan University 

CaVbondale : 
Southern Illinois Normal University 

Champaign : 
Industiiial University 

('hicago : 

Academy of Sciences 

Astronomical Observatory 

S. Mis. 109 5 



Pack- 
ages. 



129 

81 

3 

6 

2 

5 

34 

3 

2 

9 

28 

17 

66 

3 

1 

6 

15 

2 

3 

144 

3 

3 

19 

3 

30 

106 

1 

14 

7 

175 

30 

19 

113 

10 

7 

70 

27 

2 

56 

822 

35 

297 

10 

12 

29 



2,379 



Recipients. 



157 
3 



ILLINOIS — Continued. 

Dearborn Observatory 

Historical Society 

Illinois Staata Zeitunp 

Museum of Natural History 

Public Library 

Theological Seminary 

Evanston : 
Northwestern University 

Galesbnrg : 

Knox College 

Lombard University 

Jacksonvillo : 

Deaf and Dumb Institute 

Dlinois College 

Lebanon : 
McKendreo College 

Alonmouth : 

Monmouth College 

Warren County Library 

Normal : 
Museum of Natural History , 

Ottawa : 
Ottawa Academy of Natural Sciences 

Peoria : 
Mercantile Library ■. 

Kantoul: 
Kantoul Literary Society , 

Rock Island : 
Public Library , 

Springfield: 

Geological Survey of Illinois 

Library Association 

St. .Joseph's College 

State Library 

Wcsttield: 
Westfield College 

Wheaton : 
"Wheaton College 



INDIANA. 

Bloomington : 
Univcrslt v of Indiana . . . 

CrawfordsviUe : 
Wabash College 

Fort Wayne : 
Concordia College , 

Greencaatle : 
Asbury University 

Hanover : 
Hanover College 

Indianapolis: 

Academy of Science - 

Geological Survey of Indiana 

Public Library 

State Library 

Moron : 
Union Christian College 

New Albany : 
Society of Natural History.., 

Notre Dame: 
University of Notre Dame 

St. Moinard : 
St. Meiuard College 

Terra Haute : 
State Normal School 



IOWA 

Ames: 
Iowa Agricultural College. 

Davenport : 

Acatloiny of Sciences 

Griswold College 

Des Moines : 

Governor of Iowa L... 

State Library 



Pack- 
ages. 



Q6 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

List of consignees — Continued. 



Eecipients. 



IOWA — Continned. 

Dn'bnqne : 
Iowa Institute of Science and Arts. . . 

Fairfleld : 
Jefferson County Library Association 

Grinnell: 
Iowa College 

Indianola : 
Simpson Centennial College 

Iowa City : 

Geolocical Survey of Iowa 

Iowa State University 

Iowa Weather Service 

Keokuk : 
Library Association 

Mount Vernon : 
Cornell College 

Oskalonsa : 
Oskaloosa College 



KANSAS. 

Lawrence : 
Univcrsitv of Kansas 

Topeka : 

Academy of Science 

Historical Society 

State Library . . . '. 

Washburn College 



KENTUCKY. 

Danville : 
Centre College 

Columbia: 
Christian College 

Farmdnlo : 
Kentucky Military Institute 

Frankfort : 
Geological Survey of Kentucky 

Louisville : 
Corporation of the City 



LOUISIANA. 

Baton Eouge : 
State ITniversity 

Grand Coteau : 
St. Charles College 

New Orloana": 

Academy of Science 

Athen6o Louisianaise 

Bibliothtique do la ville 

Corporation of the City 

New Orleans Deutsche Zeitung 
Uniyersi ty of Louisiana 



MAINE. 

Augusta : 

Coramissiouor of Fisheries 

Natural History and Geological Society 

State Board of Agriculture 

State Library . . . .' 

Bangor : 
Mechanics' Association Pablic Library. 

Brunswick : 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society /. 

Hebron : 
Hebron Academy 

Lewiston : 
Manufacturers and Mechanics' Association 

Orono : 
State Agricultural and Mechanical College 

Portland : 
Athenaeum and Public Library 



Pack- 
ages. 



1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
23 
13 

1 

1 

1 

135 



Eecipients. 



49 



MAINE— Continued. 

Maine Historical Society 

Society of Natural History . . . 

Saco : 
Tork Institute 

Watervillo : 
Colby University 



MARYLAND. 

Annapolis : 

St. John's College 

United States Naval Academy. 

Baltimore : 
American Journal of Mathematics 

Baltimore Deutsche Zeitung 

Corporation of the city 

Historical vSocioty 

Johns Hopkins University 

Alaryland Academy of Sciences ... 

Maryland Institute 

Mercantile Lilirai-y Association ... 

Peabody Institute ...'^ 

St. Mary's Seminary 

State Normal School 

Saint James : 
College of St. James 

Woodstock : 
Woodstock College , 



MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst : 

Agricultural College 

Amherst College 

Andovor : " 
Theological Seminary 

Boston : 

Academy of Arts and Sciences 

American Board of Foreign Missions. - . 

American Gynecdlogical Society 

American Stafistical Association 

American Unitarian Association 

Appalachian Mountain Club 

AtuenfBum 

Board of Agriculture 

Board of Education 

Board of State Charities 

Boston College ■ . 

Boston Hospitiil Library 

Boston Mcfiie:<l and Surgical Journal .. 

Boston Public Library 

Boston Society of Natural HLstory 

Bowditch Library " 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts 

Corporation of the city 

Institute of Technology 

Massachusetts Historical Society 

Massachusetts State Library 

New England Historic and Genealogical 

Society 

Science Observer 

State Board of Health 

Brookline : 
Public Library 

Cambridge : 

Anderson School, etc 

Entomological Club 

Harvard College 

Herbarium of Harvard College 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 

Observatory of Havard College 

Peabody Museum 

"Psyclie" 



Pack- 
ages. 



176 
1 
1 

14 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 

i 
1 
1 

18 
21 
281 
1 
1 
1 
6 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 
List of consignees — Continued. 



C7 



Recipients. 



MASSACHUSETTS — Continued. 

College Hill: 
Tuft's ColleKo 

Concord : 
Public Library 

Gloucester : 
Sawyer Fi-ee Library 

llaverhill : 
Public Library 

Hingham : 
Public Library 

Jamaica Plains: 
Bussey Institute 

Lancaster : 
Lancaster Town Library 

Lawrence : 
Public Library 

Leicester : 
Public Free Library 

Lowell : 
Mechanic Association 

Lynn: 
Public Library 

Xuntutket : 
AtbeniL'uni , 

Nowburyport: 
Public Library 

Newton Centre : 
Theoloj^ical Institute 

Nortbampton : 
Public Library 

Quincy : 
Public Library 

Salem : 
American Association for the Advance 

ment of Science 

AthenaBum 

Essex Institnto'. 

P.eabody A cad: inj' 

Suvi'iii JLidley: 
Mount Uiilyoke Female Seminary 

Springfield : 
City Library 

Taunton : 
Public Library 

Wateitown: 
Free Public Library 

Wellesley : 
"Wellesley College 

Williamstown : 
Williams College 

Wobnrn : 
Public Library 

Worcester : 

American Antiquarian Society 

Free Insritute of Industry 

Public Library ' 

Society of Natural History 



Pack- 



MICniGAN. 

Adrian : 
Adrian College 

Ann Arbor : 
Geolog'cal Survey of Michigan 

Observatory 

University of Michigan 

Cold water: 
Michigan Library Association. 

Detroit: 

Public Library 

State A gricultural Society 

Hillsdale : 
Hillsda.l(< College 

Kalamazoo : 
Kalamazoo College 



73 
1 

es 

121 



1,039 



Eecipients. 



MICHIGAN— Continued. 

Lansing : 

Ajrricnltnral College 

Stat e Hoard of Health 

State Library 

Marquette : 
Geological Survey 

Olivet : 
Olivet College 

Port Huron : 
Ladies' Library Association... 



MLNXESOTA. 

Duluth : 
Free Public Library 

Minneapolis : 
A cademy of Natural Sciences 

Geological Survey 

Universitv of Minnesota 

Saint t'aul : 

Chamber of Commerce 

Historical Society 

Library Association 



Mississipri. 

Daleville : 
Cooper Institute 

Oxford : 
University of Mississippi. . 



NEBRASKA. 
1 Lincoln : 

Stiite Library 

Peru : 
State Normal School 



MISSOUUI. 

Fayette : 
Central College 

Glasgow : 
Observatory 

Jotferson City : 

Governor of the State 

State Board of Agriculture 

Liberty : 
"William Jewell College Library 

Rolla : 
Geological Survey of Missouri... 

Saint Louis : 

Academy of Sciences 

Botanical Garden 

Corporation of the city 

Mercantile Library . ' 

Mi.s.s lui i Hi.storical Society 

Pen body Academy .' 

I'ublic Schi>()l Library 

Sainfi Louis University 

"Washington University 

"Westlicbe Post '. 

"Warrensburgh : 
State Normal School 



XEnv nAMrsiiiiiE. 

Concord : 

Historical Society 

State Liljrary ". 

Hanover : 

Dartmouth College 

Dartmouth College Observatory. 



G8 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

List of consignees — Continncd. 



Kecipients. 



NEW HAMPSHIUE— Continued. 



Mancliester : 
City Library 

Portsmouth : 
Athenffium 



NEW JEKSEY. 

Hoboken : 
Stevens Institute of Technology. 

Newark : 
Historical Society 

New Brunswick : 
Geological Survey of New Jersey 
KutfCPi's College 

Newton : 
Newton Library Association 

Princeton : 

College of New Jersey 

Green's School of Science , 

Obaeryatory 

Theolopical Seminary 

Kauway : 
Library Association 

Tienton: 
State Library 



NEW YORK. 

Albany : 

Adirondack Survey 

Albany Institute 

Commissioners State Park 

Dudley Ob.'?ervatory 

New ^Tork Medical Society 

Secretary of State 

State Agricultural Society 

State Cabinet 

State Librafy 

State Normal School 

Eegents State Universities 

"Alfred Centre : 
Alfred University 

AnnandaJe: 
St. Stephen's College 

Auburn : 
Agricultural and Mechanics' College 

Bath: 
Library Association ,.... 

Brooklyn : 

Baker Collegiate Institute 

Brooklyn Library 

Entomological Society 

Long Island Historical Society 

Buffalo : 

Buffalo Practical School 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. . 

Grosvenor Free Library 

North American Entomologist 

Toung Men's Library 

Canton : 
Saint Lawrence University 

Clinton : 

Hamilton College 

Litchfield Observatory 

Corning: 
Corning Liorary 

Elmira : 
Toung Men's Christian Association . 

Fordham : 
St. John'.s College 

Geneva: 
Hobart College 

Hamilton : 
Madison University 



Pack- 
ages. 



Kecipients. 



NEW TOUK— Continued. 

Hornellsville : 
Library Association 

Ithaca: 
Cornell University 

New York City: 
American and Foreign Bible Society. . 

American Chemical Society 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geograpliical Society 

American Iii.stituto 

American Medical Journal 

Americ 11 Museum of Natural Histoiy 

Astor Library' 

College of the city 

College of Pharmacy. 

Columbia College 

Cooper Union 

DiTiggists' Circular 

Engineering and Mining Journal 

Ooneaoloijical Society 

Historical Society 

Journal of rhemistry 

Lenox Library 

iledlcal Library and Journal Association 

Medical Recorder 

Mercantile Library 

Military Service Institute 

Natural History Society 

New York Academy of Medicine 

New York Academy of Sciences 

New York Bclletristisches Journal ... 

New York Society Librai-y 

New York Times 

New York Tribune 

Observatory 

School of Atines 

Scientiflo .\ merican 

Union Theological Seminary 

University of the city 

United States Sanitary Ciimmission . . 

Poughkeepaio : 

Society of Natural Sciences 

Vassar College 

Rochester : 
Univer.sity 

Schenectady : 
Union College 

Syracuse : 

Central Library 

University 

Troy : 

Female .Seminary 

Rensselaer Polytechnic Inatitute 

Young Men's Association 

"VV'est Point : 
United States Military Academy 



NOKTH CAUOLIWA. 

Lenoir : 
Davenport Female College. . . 

Raleigh : 
State Library 

Trinity : 
Trinity College , 

Warrenton: 
Female Collegiate Institute. . 



OHIO. 

Ashtabula : 
Anthropological Society. 

Athens : 
Ohio University 



Pack- 



1 

9 

6 

132 

16 

17 

16 

29 

1 

1 

2 

1 
1 
3 



1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 
2 

153 
1 
2 
9 
1 
15 
15 
1 
2 



REPORT OX THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. GO 

List of consignees — Continued. 



Recipients. 



OHIO — Continued. 

Cincinnati: 

Cincinnati University.. 

Cincinnati Volksblatt 

Cincinnati Volkszeitring 

Mcicanfilo Library 

Mussey Medical library 

Observatory 

Tublic Library 

Society of Natural History 

Cleveland : 

Case Library 

Kirtland Society of Natural Sciences 
Public Scbool Library 

Columbus : 

Geolofrical Suivey of Ohio 

State Board of Ajrriculturo 

State Horticultural Society 

State Library 

State University 

Dayton: 
Public Library 

Delaware': 
"Wesleyan University 

Fremont : 
Burcbard Library 

Gambler: 
Kenyon College 

Granville : 
Denison University 

Hiram : 
Hiram College 

Hudson : 
■Western Reserve CoUege 

Lebanon : 
Mechanics' Institute 

Marietta : 
Marietta College 

Oberlin : 
Oberlin College 

Painesville : 
Lake Erie Female Seminary 

Springfield: 
Public Library 

Tiffin: 
Heidelberg College 

Toledo : 
Public Library - 

Urbana: 
Central Ohio Scientific Association.. 
Urbana University 

WesterviUe : 
Otterbein University 

Wooster : 
"Wooster University 

Yellow Springs : 
Antiocb College 



OREGON. 

Forest Grove : 
Pacific University 

Portland : 
Library Association 

Saiem : 
State Library 



PENNSTLVAXIA. 

Allegheny : 
Observatory 

Easton : 
Institute of Mining Engineers 
Lafayette College 



Pack- 
ages. 



2 
1 
1 

2 
1 

30 
6 

17 

1 
1 
1 

3 
41 
13 

4 

T 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

3 
1 

1 

1 

1 

149 



Recipients. 



PENNSYLVANIA — Continued. 

Gettysburg : 

Pennsylvania College 

Theological Seminary 

Harrisburg : 

Geological Survey 

Stat« Library 

Haverford : 
Haverlbrd College 

Lewisburg : 
University of Lewisburg 

Mansiield : 
State Normal School 

MeadviUe : 
Theological Seminary 

Media : 
Delaware County Institute of Science. . . 

New "Wilmington : 
"Westminister CoUege 

Philadelphia : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

Ameiican Entomological Society 

American Journal ofConchology 

American Naturalist 

American Pharmaceutical Association.. 

American Philosophical Society 

Apprentices' Library 

Athenaeum 

Board of Public Education 

Board of Public Health 

Board of Tiado 

Central High School 

College of Pharmacy 

Corporation of the City 

Evening Bulletin 

Franklin Institute 

Geological Snivey 

German Society 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania 

Library Association of Friends 

Library Company 

Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory 

of Girard College 

Medical Times 

Mercantile Library Company 

Naturalists' Leisure Hour 

Numismatic and Archaeological Society.. 

Philadelphia Hospital 

PresbiV-t-crian Board of Publication 

University of Pennsylvania 

"Wagner Free Institute 

Zoological Society 

Pittsburg : 
Mercantile Library 

Strathmore : 
Strathmore College 

South Bethlehem : 
Lehigh University 

West Grove : 
East Pennsylvania Experimental Farm. 



EHODE ISLAND. 

Newport : 
Redwood Library 

Providence : 
Athena?um 

Brown University 

Historical Society 

Normal School.. 

Public Library 

Register of Births, etc 

"Woon socket : 
Harris Institute Library 



Pack- 
ages. 



70 EEPOET ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

List of consignees — Continued. 



Eecipients. 



60UTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston : 

"ElKot Society 

Library Society 

State Medical College 

Columbia: 

State Library 

State ITui versity 

Due West : 
Erskine College 

Green wicb : 
Furman University 



TENNESSEE. 

Columbia : 
Athenijoum 

Hiawassee : 
Hiawasseo College 

Jackson : 
Southern Baptist University 

Maryville: 
Maryvilie College 

ireniphis : 
Christian Brothers' College.. 

Nashville : 

School for the Blind 

University of NashviUe 

Vanderbilt University 



Austin : 
Public Library . . . 

Chapol Kill : 
Soule University . 



Salt Lake City : 
University of Deserot. 



VEKMONT. 

Castleton : 
Orleans County Society of Natural Sciences 

Burlington : 

Fletcher Free Public Library 

University of Vermont 

Derby : 
Society of Natural Sciences 

Montpelier : 

nistorical Society of Vermont 

State Library 

Saint Johnsbury : 
Athenaeum 



VIRGINIA. 

Blacksburg : 
Agricultural and Mechanical College 

Charlottesville : 
University of Virginia 

Lexington : 

Virginia Military Institute 

Washington and Lee University 

New Market : 
Polytechnic Institnte 

'Richmond : 

Medical Society 

Eichmond College 

State Library 

Virginia Historical Society 

Salem : 
Eoanoke College 



Pack- 
ages. 



Eecipients. 



WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

Seattle : 
Territorial University 



WEST VIRGINIA : 

Flomington : 
West Virginia College 

ShopherdHtown : 
Shepherd College 

wheeling : * 
Natural History Society 



WISCONSIN : 

Appleton : 
Lawrence University 

Beloit: 
Geological Survey of Wisconsin... 

Janesville : 
Wisconsin Institute for Educatiu 
Blind 

Madison : 
Historical Society of Wisconsin . . . 
Stato Agricultural Society of Wisconsin 

Washburn Observatory 

Wisconsin Academy of Sciences 

Milwaukee : 

Milwaukee Seebote 

Naturhistorischer Verein... 

Public Library 

Eacine: 
Eacine College 



the 



BRITISH AMERICA. 

Chicoutini, Canada: 
Canadian Naturalist 

Ooburg, Canada: 
Victoria University 

Guelph, Canada: 
Ontario School of A gricnlture 

Halifax, Nova Scotia: 

Dalhousie College 

Department of Mines 

Legislative Library 

Nova Scotia Institute of Natural Sciences 

Hamilton, Canada : 
Scientific Association 

Kingston, Canada: 

Botanical Society of Canada 

Queen's College 

Montreal, Canada : 
Canadian Medical and Surgical Journal 

Canadian Medical Eecord 

Department of Public Instruction 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Historical Society 

L'Union Medical de Canada 

McGiU College 

Medical Association of Canada 

Natural History Society 

SocitJte d' A griculture 

Societ6 d'HLstoire Naturelle 

Ottawa, Canatla: 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

Department of Agriculture 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Legislative Library 



Pack- 
ages. 



157 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

List of consignees. — Contiuiied. 



71 



Kecipienta. 



BRITISH AMEKICA— Coutinued. 

Quebec, Canada: 

Geographical Society 

Historical aud Natural History Society 

Laval University 

Le Naturalist Canadien 

Literary and Historical Society 

Literary and Philosophical Society 

parliaiueutary Library 

Roj-al Acadoiuy of Sciences 

Frederictoii, New Brunswick: 
University of Now Brunswick 

St. Johns, New Brunswick : 
Lejiislative Library 

St. Johns, Newfoundland : - 
Geological Survey of Newfoundland... 

Toronto, Canada 

Canadian Institute 

Canadian Journal of Medicine 

Educational Department 

Entomological Society 



Pack- 
ages. 



Secipients. 



BRITISH AMERICA — Continued. 

Library of the House of the Assembly 

Literary and Historical Society 

Magnetic Observatory 

Moteorologica) Office; 

Military Institute 

Public Library 

School of Practical Science 

Toronto Globe 

Trinity College 

University -. - 

University College Library 

Windsor, Nova Scotia : 
University of King's College , — 

Winnipeg, Manitoba : 
St. John's College 

Wolfvillo, Nova Scotia : 
Acadia College 



Pack- 
ages. 



1 
1 
1 

7 
1 
5 

1 
1 
1 
1 

7 

1 
1 

1 
235 



General recapitulation. 
RECEIPTS. 





Boxes. 


Parcels. 


Books. 






14, 161 
7,890 






Ill 






15, 550 










Total '. 


111 


22, 051 


15, 050 







TRANSMISSIONS. 



I. To establishments abroad 

n. To home institutions and individuals . 
III. To foreign governments 



Total 



309 
"'98 



8,433 



15, 550 



15, 550 



3. — Exchange of government docuihents. 

In 18G8 Congress passed a resolution establishing a system of gov- 
ernment exchanges under the charge of the Librarian of Congress, who 
invited the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution by placing the 
management of this system in the hands of the Secretary. 

A large quantity of public documents having accumulated at the In- 
stitution, it became necessary, in October, 1874, to address a circular to 
a number of governments, explaining the object of such a sj^stem of 
exchanges and inviting their co-operation. 

The governments to whom this proj)osition was made were those of: 
Argentine Kepublic, Austria-IIungary, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, Den- 
mark, France, German Empire, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii,Italy, 
Hayti, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Portugal, Pus.sia, Salvador, 
Spain, Sweden and Norway, Turkey, United States of Colombia, and 
Venezuela. 



72 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



In accordance with the instructions received by the Institution in 
response, the following distribution of documents was made in 1875 : 



Turkey . 
Piance . . 
Portugal 
Sweden . 
Brazil . . . 



Cases, 



Argentine Eepublic 

Belgium 

Chile 

Mexico 



Cases. 



These governments have successively been supplied with the continua- 
tions, and at present, full sets of fifteen boxes have been delivered to the 
following named governments or their official agents, as specified in 
the following table : 

Govei'nvients in exchange with the United States Government. 



Governments. 


Establishments designated for the reception of government exchanges. 


Argentine Confederation.. 


Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Aires. 
Konigliche Bililiothek, Munich. 
Biblioth6quo Eoyal, Brussels. 


Belgium 








Canada 


Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 
Legislative Library, Toronto. 


Do 


Chili 


Denmark 


Koninklicko Bihliotlieket, Copenhagen. 
Government and departments, Paris. 
Keichstag Bibliothek, Berlin. 


Fiance 




Great Biitain 




Biblioth^que Nationale, Athens. 


Hayti 


Italy 


Bibliotheque J^azionale Vittorio Emannele, Kome. 


Japan 


Mexico 




JtCetherlands 


Library of the States General, The Hague. 
Parliamentary Library, Sydney. 
Parliamentary Library, WelUxigton. 
Foreign Oftice, Christiania. 


New South Wales 


New Zealand 




Port n gal 


Prussia 




Queensland 




Russia 


Government, St. Petersburg. 


Saxony 


South Anstralia 




Spain 




Sweden 




Switzerland 




Tasmania 


Parliamentary Library, Hobarton. 
Government, Constantinople. 
University Library, Caracas. 


Turkey 


Venezuela 


Victoria 


Wiirtemberg 


Konigliche Bitliothek, Stuttgart. 





EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGIjS. 
Shipping agents of government exchange. 



73 



Country. 



Agent. 



Argentine Confederation 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Bueuos Aires 

Canada : 

Ottawa 

Toronto 

Chili 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Italy 

Japan . . ._ 

Mexico .'. 

Netherlands 

New South "Wales 

Now Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Kussia ' 

Saxony 

SouthAustralia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

"Venezuela 

Victoria 

"Wiirtemberg 



Carlos Carranza, consul general, New York. 

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher &. Co., Baltimore. 

AVhite Cross Line, 'Funch.Edye & Co., and Red Star Line, P. "Wright & 

Sons, New York. 
Charles Mackall, vice-consul, Baltimore. 
Carlos Carranza, consul-general New York. 

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 
Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 

C. DoCastro, consul-general, New York. 
Henrick Braem, consul-general, Now York. 

Compagnio G6n6rale Transatlantiquo, L. de B6bian, New York. 
Nortn Gorman Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 
North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 

D. "W. Botassi, consul-general, New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company, Pim, Forwood &. Co., New York. 

M. Raffo, consul-general, New Yoik. 

Samro Takaki, consul-general, New York. 

Juan N. Navarro, consul-general. New York. 

R. C. Burlage, consul-general, New York. 

R. "W. Cameron & Co., New "fork. 

R. W. Cameron &. Co., New York. 

Christian Bors, consul-general. New York. 

Gustav Amsink, consul-general. New York. 

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 

Ham burg- American Packet Company, Kunhardt &. Co., New York. 

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher &. Co., Baltimore. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Hipolito de TJriarte, consul-general. New York. 

Christian Bors, consul-geneial. New York. 

Nbrth German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 

North German Llovd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 

Turkish Legation, Washington, D. C. 

G. de Garmendia, consul-general, New York. 

R. "W. Cameron &• Co., New York. 

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. 



74 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



LIST OF GOVEENMENT DOCUMENTS AND OTHER OFFICIAL PUBLICA- 
TIONS DISTRIBUTED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO FOREIGN 
GOVERNMENTS DURING THE YEAR 1881. 

Agricultural Department. 

Apportionment under the Tenth Census. 8vo. Paper. 
Special reports for 1880, Nos. 24-27, 29, 30. 8vo. Paper. 
Special reports for 1881, Nos. 31-33, 35-39. 8vo. Paper. 

Board of Health. 

Bulletin, vol. 2. ifos. 1-52 and index. 4vo. Paper. 
Supplements, Nos. 5-14. 4vo. Paper. 
Bulletin, vol. 3. !N^os. 1-15. 4vo. Paper. 

Centennial exhibition. 

Report of the commission, 9 vols. 8vo. Cloth. 

United States Congress. 

Executive documents : 

Third session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 

First session Forty-sixth Congress. Nos. 1-11. 8vo. Sheep. 

Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 3, 9, IG, 17, 23, 25, 26. 
8vo. Sheep. 
Congressional Eecord : 

Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vol. 10 and index. 4vo. Half 
Eussia. 

Third session Forty -sixth Congress. 4vo. Half Eussia. 
Congressional Directory : 

Third session Forty-sixth Congress, first and second editions. 8vo. 
Paper. 

First session Forty-seventh Congress. 8vo. Paper. 
Memorial addresses : 

Zachariah Chandler. 8vo. Cloth. 

Beverly B. Douglass. 8vo. Cloth. 

Julian Hartridge. 8vo. Cloth. 

Gustave Schleicher. 8vo. Cloth. 

Alpheus S. Williams. 8vo. Cloth. 
• Alfred M. Lay. 8vo. Cloth. 

Eush Clark. 8vo. Cloth. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 75 

House of Eepresentatives : 

Coustitutional Manual, second session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. 

Half Eussia. 
House documents, third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. x. 8vo. 
Sheep. 
House miscellaneous : 

Third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. 3. 8vo. Sheep. 
First session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 2-5. 8vo. Sheep. 
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 1, 2, 3, 5. 8vo. Sheep. 
House journals, second session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 
House reports : 

Third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. 1. 8vo. Sheep. 
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vol. 6. 8vo. Sheep. 
United States Senate : 

A compilation of questions of order and decisions thereon. 8vo. 

Paper. 
Constitution of the United States with the amendments thereto. 

8vo. Paper. 
Senate documents : 

Third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. 4. 8vo. Sheep. 
First session Forty-sixth Congress, No. 37. 8vo. Sheep. 
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 2, 4. 8vo. Sheep. 
Senate journal: 

Second session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 
Third session Forty -sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 
Senate miscellaneous : 

Second session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 
Third session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 
Senate reports : 

Third session Fortj^-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 

First and second sessions Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep. 

Court of Claims. 

Cases decided in the Court of Claims at the December term, 1879, vol. 
15. 8vo. Paper. 

Department of the Interior. 

Catalogue of the library of the Interior Department. 4to. Papex. 

Register of the department, August, 1880. 8vo. Paper. 

Supplement to the catalogue of the library, November 8, 1879. 8vo. 

Paper. 
Bureau of Education: 

Circulars of informatiou. 8vo. Paper : 
lustruction in chemistry and physics. 
The spelling reform. 



76 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Bureau of Education — Continued. 

Eelation of education to industry. 

Proceedings National Education Association. 

Education and crime. 

Library aids. 

The discipline of the school. 

Education in China and Siam. 

Educational tours in France. 

Industrial education in Europe. 
General Land OflSce : 

Survey of public lands and private land claims. 8vo. Paper. 

Instructions to Surveyors General. 8vo. Paper. 

Circulars : 

" How to obtain title to public lands." 8vo. Paper. 
<' Deposits on account of surveys." Svo. Paper. 
Eules of practice, approved December 20, 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
Board of Indian Commissioners : 

Twelfth annual report for the year 1880. Svo. Paper. 
OfiSce of Indian Affairs : 

Instruction to Indian agents, revised October 1, 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
United States Geological Survey of the Territories : 

Bulletin, vol. vi, Nos. 1 and 2. Svo. Paper. 

Bulletin, vol. v, No. 4. Svo. Paper. 

Miscellaneous publication, No. 12, North American Pinnipeds. Svo. 
Paper. 
United States Entomological Commission : 

Bulletin No. 6. Svo. Paper. 

Second report on the Eocky Mountain locust. Svo. Paper. 
United States Patent Office : 

Decisions of the Commissioner for 1879. Svo. Paper. 

Decisions of the Commissioner for 1880. Svo. Paper. 

Statutes and rules relating to the registration of trade-marks and 
labels. Svo. Paper. 

Patent laws, February, 1881, Svo. Paper. 

Eules of practice, revised September 1, 1880. Svo. Paper. 
United States National Museum : 

Proceedings of the National Museum, vol. 3. Svo. Paper. 

Bulletins Nos. 17 and 21. Svo. Paper. 
United States Pension Office: 

General Instructions to Special Examiners. Svo. Paper. 
United States Surveys of the Eocky Mountain Eegions : 

Geology of the Black Hills of Dakota, 4 vols., and atlas. 

Geology of the High Plateau of Utah, 4 vols., and atlas. 
Yellowstone National Park : 

Annual report of the superintendent for 1880. Svo. Paper. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 77 

Department of Justice. 
Attorney-General : 

Official Opinions of the Attorney-General of the United States, 
vols. XV and xvi. Svo. Paper and sheep. 

Navy Department. 

Eegister of the Officers of the Navy, Marine Corps, etc. : 
June 1, 1880. Svo. Paper. 
January, 1881. 
July, 1881. 
Circular No. 13. 4to. Paper. * 

Bureau of Constrnction and Eepair : 

Allowances established under the bureau, 1881. 4to. Paper. 
Bureau of Equipment : 

Allowances established under the bureau, 1880. 4to. Paper. 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery : 

Information and Gnidatice, Jeanette Expedition. Svo. Paper. 
Keport on Yellow Fever in the TJ. S. S. Plymouth. Svo. Paper. 
Naval Academy : 

Annual Register, 1880-'81. Svo. Paper. 
Catalogue of Specimens added to the Cabinet. Svo. Paper. 
Bureau of Navigation, Hydrographic Office : 

American Practical Navigator. Svo. Sheep. 

Arctic Azimuth Tables. Svo. Paper. 

Charts and Plans published and withdrawn, March 31, 1881. Svo. 

Paper. 
Charts and Plans published and withdrawn, June 30, 1881. Svo. 

Paper. 
Hydrographic Notices for 1880 and 1881, and Index for 1881. Svo. 

Paper. 
Lists of Lights : 

Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific Coasts of the United States. Svo. 

Paper. 
Coast of Africa. Svo. Paper. 

East and West Coasts of North and South America. Svo. Pai>er. 
South Coasts of Asia and Africa. Svo. Paper. 
New Lights, United States and South America. Svo. Paper. 
Notices to Mariners for 1880 and 1881. Svo. Paper. 
Sailing Directions for Kattegat Sound, etc. Svo. Paper. 
Nautical Almanac Office : 

Astronomical papers i^repared for the use of Nautical Almanac. 

4to. Paper. 
American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac : 

1882. Svo. Paper. 

1883. Svo. Paper. 

1884. Svo. Paper. 

Gauss' method of computing secular perturbations, etc. Svo. Paper. 



78 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Bureau of Steam Engineering : 

Experiments on relative merits of screw propellers. 8vo. Paper. 
Eeport on the Herreshof system of Motive Machinery. 8vo. Paper. 
Eeport on the Machinery of the " Anthracite." 8vo. Paper. 
Eeport on the Standard Gauge for Bolts, Nuts, and Screw-threads. 
Svo. Paper. 

Fost- Office Department. 

List of Post-oflBces of the United States, February 1, 1881. 
Bulletin, City Post-Offlce, Washington, D. C, 1881. 8vo. Paper. 

Smithsonian Institution. 
Bureau of Ethnology : 

Collection of Gesture Signs. 4to. Paper. 
Study of Mortuary Customs. 4to. Paper. 

Department of State. 

Commercial Eelations of the United States : 

No. 2, November, 1880. Svo. Paper. 

No. 3, January, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 4, February, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 5, March, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 6, April, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 7, May, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 8, June, 1881, and index. Svo. Paper. 

No. 9, July, 1881. Svo. Paper. 

No. 10, August, 1881. Svo. Paper. 
Eegister of the Department of State, December, 1880. Svo. Paper. 
Result of Investigation " American Pork." Svo. Paper. 
Eegulations for the use of the Consular Service. Svo. Paper. 

Treasury Department, 

United States Coast Survey : 

Atlantic Coast Pilot, Boston to New York. Svo. Paper. 
Deep-sea Soundings and Dredgings on Board the United States 

Coast Survey Steamer Blake. 4to. Paper. 
Methods and Eesult« ; general properties of the equations of steady 

motion. 4to. Paper. 
Tide Tables : 

For the Atlantic Coast, 1881. Svo. Paper. 
For the Atlantic Coast, 1882. Svo. Paper. 
For the Pacific Coast, 1881. Svo. Paper. 
For the Pacific Coast, 1882. Svo. Paper. 
Light-House Board : 

Annual report for the year 1880. Svo. Paper. 
Laws and regulations relating to the Light-House Establishment 
of the United States. Svo. Paper. 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 79 

Bureau of Statistics : 

Merchant Vessels of the United States. 8vo. Paper. 
Classification of imports entered for consumption in the United 

States, July 1, 1881. 8vo. Paper. 
Quarterly reports relative to the imports, exports, immigration, 
and navigation of the United States, Nos. 2 and 3. 8vo. Paper. 
Summary statements of the imports and exports of the United 
States, Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, for 1880-'81, and No. 1, for 1881-"82. 
4to. Paper. 
Life-Saving Service; 

Annual report for the year ending June 30, 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
Bureau of the Mint : 

General instructions and regulations in relation to the transaction 
of business at the mints and assay offices of the United States. 
8vo. Paper. 
Internal Revenue Office : 

Internal Eevenue Laws. 8vo. Paper. 
Inspector- General of Steam Vessels : 

Annual report to the Secretary of the Treasury for the year ending 
June 30, 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
Marine Hospital Service : 

Annual report of the Supervising Surgeon-General for the fiscal 
year 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
Board of Supervising Inspectors of Steam Vessels : 

Proceedings of special meeting of the board. May, 1880. 8vo. 

Paper. 
Proceedings of the twenty-ninth annual meeting of the board, 
January, 1881. 8vo. Paper. 

War Department. 

Official Army Eegister, January, 1881. 8vo. Paper. 

Kotes illustrating the military geography of the United States. 

8vo. Paper. 
Articles of War governing the armies of the United States. 8vo. 

Paper. 
The AVar of the Rebellion : A compilation of the official records 

of the Union and Confederate armies. Series 1, vols. 1 and 2. 

Svo. Cloth and paper. 
Adjutant-General's Office : 

General orders for the year 1880 (in part). Svo. Paper. 

General orders for the year 1881 (in part). Svo. Paper. 

Orders (general courts-martial) for the year 1880 (in part). Svo. 

Paper. 
Orders (general courts-martial) for the year 1881 (in part). Svo. 

Paper. 



80 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Engineer Bureau : 

Catalogue of the library of the Engineer Department. 8 vo . Paper. 
Decrease of water. Translation of a lecture. 8vo, Paper. 
Geological exploration of the forty-fifth parallel. (C. King), vol. 

vii. Odontothornitea. 4to. Cloth. 
Improvement of the Danube at Vienna. Translation of lectures. 

8vo. Paper. 
Lists of reports and maps of the United States geographical sur- 
veys west of the one hundredth meridian. (Capt. George M. 
Wheeler in charge.) 8vo. Paper. 
List of maps etc., sent to the Geographical Congress at Venice. 

8vo. Paper. 
Notes on the Pointe de Grave, Gironde Eiver, France. 8vo. Paper. 
The water jet as an aid to engineering. 8vo. Paper. 
Judge- Advocate-General : 

Digest of Opinions with notes. 8vo. Paper. 
United States Military Academy : 

Annual Eeport for the year 1880. 8vo. Paper. 
Blasting or military mining. 8vo. Paper. 
Military Eailroads : 

Orders issued during the years 1861-1866. 8vo. Paper. 
Quartermaster- General : 

Transportation of troops over the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 
Eailroads in 1875-'76, 8vo. Paper. 
United States Signal OfQce : 

Daily bulletin of the weather reports : 
July 18, 1877. 4to. Paper. 
August, 1877. 4to. Paper. 
September, 1877. 4to. Paper. 
Eains and dry winds. 8vo. Paper. 
Surgeon-General's Office : 

Index catalogue of the library of the Sui'geon-General's Office, vols. 
1 and 2. 4to. Cloth. 



EEPOET OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED 
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, FOR THE YEAR 1881. 

Prof. SrENCER F. Baird, 

Director United States National Museum : 

Sir: In compliance with your instructions, I submit a report upon 
tlie present condition of the National Museum, and upon the work ac- 
complished in its various departments during the year 1881. 

On the 1st of July, letters of appointment were issued by jou to all 
the officers and employees of the Museum, and at this time I was assigned 
to duty as executive officer of the Museum and curator of the depart- 
ment of arts and industries. The new building was not, however, ready 
for occupation until October, and the work of the year must bo regarded 
as having been almost entirely of a preliminary nature. Owing to the 
fact that the work of reorganization was begun so late in the year, and 
that the curators of several departments did not enter upon their duties 
until autumn, it has been found impossible to j) resent a special report 
from each department. It is respectfully suggested that in future the 
report of the assistant director shall relate to the work of the adminis- 
trative department and other matters directly under his supervision, 
and that the operations of the departments be reiJorted by the several 
directors in charge. 

Very respectfully, 
G. Brown Goode, 

Assistant Director, 

March 1, 1882. 



Periods in the history of the Museum. — The history of the National Mu- 
seum may be divided into three periods : First, that from the foundation 
of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during which time specimens 
were collected purely and solely to serve as materials for research, no 
special eflbrts being made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize 
them except as a foundation for scientific descrii)tion and theory. Sec- 
ond, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of 
the "National Cabinet of Curiosities," to 187G. During this period the 
Museum became a place of deposit for scientific material, wliicli had 
already been studied, this material, so far as convenient, being exhib- 
ited to the public, and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa- 
tional purpose. Third, the present period, beginning in the year 1S7<», 
in whicli interval the Museum has entered upon a career of active work, 
in gathering collections and exhibiting them on account of their educa- 
tional value. 

In the lirst period, the main object of the Museum was scientific re- 
S. Mis. 100 G ^^ 



82 KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM 

search; in tlie second, the establishment became a museum of record 
as well as of research; while in the third j^eriod is growing up the 
idea of public education. As soon as the material already- within the 
walls of the Museum can be displayed in accol-dauce with the plan 
already perfected, the National Museum of the United States will have 
commenced to fulfill all the demands which are likely ever to be made 
upon it. 

Mufteums for Record, for Research, and for Education. — These three, 
co-oi)erative and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to the de- 
velopment of any comprehensive and philosophically organized museum. 
Materials are gathered together that they may serve as a basis for 
scientific thought. Objects, which have served as a foundation for sci- 
entific study, or which, from tlieir historical significance, are treasured 
up and preserved from destruction that they may serve purjioses of 
record, permanent land-marks of the progress of the world in thought, 
in culture, or in industrial achievement; not only are they records of 
what has been done in the past, but they constitute the most valuable 
of all materials for future study. The museum of record, then, is not 
only an accessory to the museum of research, but an adjunct which 
accomplishes similar and fully equal results in the same direction. 

The contents of the museum of research and the museum of record, 
if no other objects are sought but those already mentioned, might with- 
out impropriety be stored away in vaults and cabinets, inaccessible to 
any except the specialist. To give them their highest value, however, 
they should be arranged in such a manner that hundreds of thousands 
of people should profit by their examination instead of a very limited 
number, and that they should afford a means of culture and instruction 
to every person, young or old, who may have opjjortunity to visit the 
place in which they are preserved. 

Tlie Museum of Record is, in part, a necessary result of the museum 
of research, but its ultimate origin can without doubt be recognized at 
a very much earlier period in the treasure-houses of monarchs, such as 
are found recorded in the histories of very early days. The treasure- 
house of King Ahasuerus was one of the earliest museums, and the pal- 
ace of Ptolemy at Alexandria was a prototype of the modern museum 
of art and industry. With the growth of republican ideas, treasures of 
this description have became national museums — as in the case of the 
museums of Saxony, Bavaria, Italy, France, and other European na- 
tions — which are in the main made up of materials which in former 
days were kept within the walls of palaces and were inaccessible to tlie 
public. Ecclesiastical edifices, too, have always been depositories for 
works of art and curious manufacture. The temples of Athens, Ephesus, 
and Delphi were art-museums, and so are many European churches of 
today. With the growth of liberal government, more liberal and comi^re- 
hensive ideas as to the use and value of such materials have sprung 
upj and they are now recognized to be the property of the people of the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 83 

nation. Private individuals have often devoted themselves to the ac- 
cumulation of collections which, cither by desig'u or in obedience to a 
natural law recognized and sometimes expedited by museuui oflieers, 
have found a resting-place in public halls. The Ashmoleau Museum 
at Oxford was the result of Sir John Tradescaufs life-long toil. 

The JFuscum of Eescarch seems to have originated within the last three 
or four centuries, and, perhaps, to have been one of the results of the 
promulgation of the inductive philosophy. The collections gathered by 
Linmeus, those of Sir Ilans Sloane, which formed the nucleus of the 
British Musemn, and of Bulfon, Cuvier, and their collaborators, as a 
beginning of the Natural Histor^^ Museum of Paris, were among the 
earliest of this class. 

The Educational jruscum is of much more recent origin, and may be 
considered as one of the outgrowths of the modern industrial exhibition. 
The World's Fair of London in 1851, the first of a long series of inter- 
national exhibitions, was utilized by the Government of Great Britain as 
a starting-point for a number of national and educational museums, the 
most perfect which have as j'et been organized, and the subsequent 
World's Fairs have been utilized in a similar manner, so that nearly' 
every civilized country now has museums of this description. 

The systematic exhibition of the products of the earth and the achieve- 
ments of human industry for the instruction of visitors, the improve- 
ment of the public taste, and the fostering of arts of design had not 
been attempted, probably scarcely thought of, thirty-two years ago. 

The gradual deterioration of industrial exhibitions and World's Fairs, 
the predominance of purely commercial features in those which have 
been attempted of late years, the growing diiJiculty in securing the at- 
tendance of exhibitors would seem to indicate that their period of 
greatest usefulness is in the past. 

The present demand is for something better, more systematic, more 
definitely instructive in its aims — something which shall alford the same 
long vistas into the palaces of nature and art, and at the same time pro- 
vide guide-marks to explain their meaning. 

Effects of the Centennial Exhibition o/lS7G. — One of the results of the 
Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876 is that it made plain to the people of 
the United States the educational importance of a great industrial 
museum. It suggested to the observant the thought that if so much 
that is inspiring and instructive could be imparted by a collection of 
objects gathered together chiefly with commercial ends in view on the 
part of the exhibitors, necessarily somewhat unsystematicall}' arranged, 
and with little effort toward labeling in an instructive numner, an im- 
mense field was open for educating the public by gathering together a 
selected series of similar objects, which could be so classified and ex- 
plained by means of labels and guide-books that they should impart a 
consistent and systematic idea of the resources of the world and of 
human achievement. 



84 EEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The United States lias, as yet, no comprehensive educational museum, 
although there are several museums of limited scope, which have suc- 
cessfully carried out the educational idea in the arrangement of their 
materials; for instance, the Boston Museum of Art, the Metropolitan 
Museum of Artin New York, the PennsylvaniaMuseumof Industrial Art, 
the Peabody Museum of Archteology in Cambridge, the Peabody Museum 
of Yale College, and the Boston Society of Natural History. 

The same remark applies with equal force to the museums of Europe. 
There are certain institutions, like the Museum of Practical Geology, 
the museums of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, the museums at Bethnal 
Green and South Kensington, in London, the Museum of Industrial Art 
at Berlin, the Ethnological Museum at Leipsic, the National Museum 
of Germany at Nuremburg, the Bavarian National Museum at Munich, 
and others, which have admirably carried out a single idea, or a limited 
number of ideas, and which are marvelously rich in material and ar- 
ranged in a manner full of suggestiveness. It may safelj" be said, how- 
ever, that all the museums of antliropology, economy, and industrial art 
now in existence are, either by design or chance, limited in their scope- 

The museum is yet to be organized which shall show, arranged ac- 
cording to one consistent plan, the resources of the earth and the results 
of human activity in every direction. This has not yet been done, even 
for a single country. 

There can be little question that the National Museum of the United 
States can be made, in the course of a few years, the most comprehen- 
sive and instructive museum in the world. While it may not be i)os- 
sible to gather together such treasures of art and industry as are in the 
possession of the government museums of Europe, it is not unreasonable 
to hope that examples of every kind of object known to man may bt 
acquired, and that this museum may be able, by means of a thorough 
classification, and as a result of the absence of the enormous masses of 
duplicates, which are sure to incumber any old museum, to illustrate 
the history of human culture better than has ever before been done. 

The educational museum being, as has been already remarked, of com- 
paratively recent origin, and the eiforts of thoughtful men in times past 
having been chiefly directed toward the building up of museums of re- 
search, it is not at all strange that natural-history museums should be so 
common, while nuiseums illustrating the history of mankind are so 
rare. The importance of the natural history museum from the stand- 
points of science and industry can scarcely be overrated. A museum 
of culture must, however, be admitted to possess equal importance to 
the philosopher and to be of greater value for the education of the pub- 
lic at large. 

The majority of visitors to any museum go thither in search of amuse- 
ment, or from a mere idle curiosity. Many have no desire to gain in- 
struction, and most of those, if actuated by such a desire, fail to accom- 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 85 

plisli their object by a visit to tbe ordinary museum. TLiis is due, iu part, 
to the fact that so much duplicate material is exhibited that the really 
iustructive objects are lost to view ; iu i)art, to the fact that the objects 
iu but few museums are labeled in a really iustructive manner, and priu- 
cipally to tlie fact that the objects exhibited are uot of the kind best 
adapted to the needs of the museum- visiting public. The visitors carry 
awaj' only a general impression of rooms full of glass cases containing 
animals, minerals, or " curiosities," gathered b^' travelers among unciv- 
ilized races. Professor Iluxley has defined a museum as " a consulta- 
tive library' of objects"; and this definition, true enough iu itself as a 
descrii)tiou of the best ideal museums, unfortunately is too true a de- 
scription of all. Most museums are as useless and little instructive as 
are our libraries of consultation to the great masses of our i^eople, who 
know uot how to use them. The educational museum should be more 
like a popular enc^'clopedia than like a library* full of learned tomes. 
The museum of research, since it is intended chiefly for investigators, 
should be the consultative library. 

To obviate these difficulties many stejis must be taken which are not 
usual in museums. By far the most important of these is in the direc- 
tion of thorough labelling. 

An efficient educational museum, from one i)oint of view, may be 
described as a collection of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well- 
selected specimen. 

There is a certain peril in the attempt to build up a museum u^jon this 
basis. Museums which exhibit only such objects as are iu themselves 
beautiful or marvellous cannot fail to be attractive, no matter how poorly 
the objects are arranged and labelled. 

When, however, the objects depend for their interest uj)on the ex- 
I)lanations or the labels, and upon the manner in which they are jjlaced, 
relatively to each other, a responsibility a hundred-fold greater is en- 
tailed upon the curators. The materials of such a museum may be com- 
pared to piles of brick, stone, lumber, and architectural ornaments, which 
by themselves possess little apparent interest, but which may by thought 
and labor be combined into an imi^osing and useful edifice. 

Frinciples to be follorced. — Certain cardinal iirincijiles may be an- 
nounced which should be considered in the arrangement of every pub- 
lic museum : (I) every article exhibited should illustrate an idea, and 
no two objects should be shown which illustrate the same idea in ii 
similar manner; (II) the idea which any object is intended to ilhistrate 
should be explained upon its label in such a manner that any intelli- 
gent visitor, without previous special knowledge of the subject, may be 
able to learn (a) why the object is shown, and {b) what lesson it is iu- 
teuded to teach; (III) the objects should be so carefully classified that 
their relations to each other may be recognized by the visitor, so that, 
taken together, they suggest certain general conclusions; in the forma- 
tion of these conclusions he should be aided by certain general or col- 



86 EEFORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

leiitive labels which relate to aud describe groups of objects in a manner 
similar to that in which the individual labels describe separate articles ; 
(IV) the labels individual and collective, should be supplemented by 
guide-books and manuals for special departments, which shall contain 
all the information given upon the labels arranged systematically, and 
which shall be illustrated by engravings of the more important objects. 

Industrial museums, as a rule, exhibit only those articles which are 
designed and constructed in the most sumptuous manner — the armor of 
kings and knights, the furniture of palaces, the most artistic of metal 
work, stone work, aud wood work. The ethnological museums, on the 
other hand, admit only the implements and costumes of savage and 
partially civilized races. Between the two there is a great chasm to be 
tilled. Is it not as important to preserve in museums the more humble 
aud simple objects which illustrate the domestic economy and customs 
of the masses of the people of civilized nations, as to search for similar 
objects in distant lands, or to treasure up only the objects which, on 
account of their cost, are seen and used only by the most wccdthy aud 
luxurious classes in the civilized community! A museum which at- 
temi^tsto show the evolution of civilization, should preserve the simplest 
products, the every-day costumes, together with the tools and appliances 
which have been in common use by civilized man in the present and 
past centuries. 

Such objects have at least as much claim to careful preservation as 
similar objects gathered in distant lands ; for, although the latter are 
at present more interesting on account of their strangeness, a century 
hence they will be far less interesting than the objects which are in 
common use in our own country at the present day. 

It has long been one of the standard instructions given to persons 
charged with collecting specimens for the Smithsonian Institution, that, 
in whatever locality they may be, they shall collect the more diligently 
those things which are most common, paying but very little attention 
to objects which may there be very rare, since these same objects are 
sure to be common in some other locality, where they can be obtained 
with greater ease. A similar practice should be followed in gathering 
objects for an industrial museum. American ethnologists have done 
well in devoting their energy to gathering the manufactures of the 
North American Indian, for the jiroducts of their race would otherwise 
have been, for the most part, lost to mankind. At the same time, much 
that is of equal or greater importance belonging to our own ancestors 
has been allowed to go to destruction; and we have but few illustratious 
of the costumes and customs of the two preceding centuries of Ameri- 
can history, except such as are preserved in books and pictures. 

To supply the place of objects too large to be placed in a musuem, too 
evanescent to have been i)reserved, or which, on account of their rarity 
or neglect in preserving them at the time when they could have beeu 
obtained, are necessarily lacking in the collections, it is essential that 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 87 

museums should assume the administration of great quantities of mate- 
rial sncli as is usually cousiijued to the library or to the ])i<;tnre-gallcry. 
Otherwise, deficiencies iu groups of objects, which sliould ilhistrate by 
their collective meaning a general idea, will nuich impair their value. 
Pictures and diagrams shouhl be freely used as temporary or permanent 
substitutes for specimens which maybe lacking, and also to supplement 
and explain the descriptive labels. In many sections it may be impossi- 
ble to exhibit anything but pictures. It is needless to point out the 
difference in the iutluence of a series of plates, like those, for instance, 
in Audsloy and Bowes, " Keramic Art in Japan," the publications of the 
Arundel Society, or iu Watson's work on "The People of India," dis- 
played in a public museum, where they are seen daily by thousands of 
visitors, or hidden except from the initiated few in a librarj', where they 
are accessible practically to students only with abundance of time and 
training in the use of books. 

Much of the material usually shown iu art galleries and art museums, 
such as is ordinarily used to illustrate the history of art, or is preserved 
on account of its artistic suggestions, may be disj^layed in a much more 
instructive manner in a musuem without in the least lessening its value 
to the artist or designer. Portraits, pictures of buildings, of costumes, 
of geological features in scenery, of ceremonies, and of social customs 
may be arranged and administered just as if they were specimens. It 
is even desirable to exhibit in the cases with the si)ecimens books re- 
lating to their historj^; for it is useful to familiarize the jjublic with the 
appearance of their bindings and types. For instance, a collection of 
the standard works on numismatics, shown in a case adjoining a collec- 
tion of coins, would have a decided educational value, giving to the 
l)ublic information which they would otherwise have to seek from the 
curators, if indeed it would appear to them worth while to take the 
trouble to seek such information, or they should succeed in overcoming 
the natural hesitation to become questioners. In addition, mnch might 
be accomplished by having standard works, relating to the special 
departments of the museum, placed in convenient i>laces in the exhibition 
halls, and, if necessary, fastened to desks iu such a manner that they 
could not be removed, while easily accessible to any person who might 
wish to become informed upon special topics relating to objects being 
examined. 

The International Exhibition of 187G was the beginning of a new pe- 
riod of activity for the National Museum. Before 187G no money had 
been expended in the increase of the collections. In 1875, liowever, 
Congress voted certain sums, to be expended under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution, for the illustration of the animal and mineral 
resources of the United States ; under the direction of the Fish Commis- 
sion, for the display of the fishery resources of -the country ; and under 



88 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

the direction of the Indian Bureau and the Smithsonian, for the illustra- 
tion of the ethnology of the aborigines of North America. At this time a 
great quantity of valuable material was obtained which, in connection with 
material borrowed from the National Museum, served to carry out very 
thoroughly the desire of Congress in making the appropriation. At the 
same time the Museum became possessed of a large portion of the indus- 
trial exhibits of some thirty foreign governments which participated in 
the exhibition of 187G, and since that time very important additions and 
contributions have been received from private exhibitors, American and 
foreign, of materials shown by them in the same exhibition, and in the 
so-called permanent exhibition, which was its temporary successor. 

The new building, which was put up expressly for the reception of 
these collections, has proved to be so well adapted for the reception of 
a great industrial Museum, that many manufacturers and commercial 
houses have been induced to contribute materials for its expansion, and 
there is every prospect that the Museum will develop into one of the 
most perfect and comprehensive of its class. 

This Museum being by law the only legal depository for all objects 
of art, and of all objects of natural history, and of all geological and 
ethnological specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong, to the United 
States, or gathered by any branch of the public service, and being by 
law and by inheritance the successor of the National Cabinet of Curiosities 
and of the National Institution, the only similar establishments which 
have ever existed in the United States, and having, after a quarter of a 
century, been sustained by annual appropriations from Congress, would 
seem to be entitled to the hearty support of the government in its eflorts 
to gain an honorable place among the National Museums of the world, 
and, if possible, to surpass them in completeness and attractiveness. 

It is hoped that in the future the j)ublic spirit of many citizens of the 
United States will lead to the deposit in the National Museum of many 
of the extensive private collections now so rapidly increasing through- 
out the country in number and extent. 

It should be the aim of the officers of the Museum to encourage such 
deposits, by using the most thorough and painstaking methods in in- 
stalling and caring for the specimens under their charge. 

Mr. Bamet PhiUips, discussing in the New York Times the future 
prospects of the Museum, writes: 

'' It does not, of course, behoove a great national enterprise of the 
character I have tried to tlescribe to play the part of a solicitor, nor can 
it go from collector to collector and beg for contributious for its cases. 
Still, without directly asking such an enlightened mass of people as our 
own, it counts a great deal on i)rivate support. It believes that there 
are many people in this country — men of means, of intelligence — who, 
if they understood what is the aim of this Museum — that of national 
education — would gladly send to it their collections; or, knowing what 
particular class of objects the institution was desirous of securing, would 
come forward spontaneously and give it their aid." 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 89 

Plan of organization. — Tlie chief requisite to success in the devclop- 
meut of a great museum is a perfect plan of organization and a philo- 
sophical system of chissification. Much thought has been devoted to 
these subjects by the officers of the Museum, esi^ecially during the past 
two years. Many of the i^rincipal museums of Europe liavc been 
studied by mo, personal visits having been made, their catalogues and 
publications minutely compared, and correspondence carried on with 
their officers. It is hoped that the plans which have been developed as 
the result of thlfbe labors, may include the best features of similar plans 
hitherto proposed. 

The general idea of the new classification is that the collections 
should form a museum of anthropology, the word "anthropology "being 
applied in it most comprehensive sense. It should exhibit the physical 
characteristics, the history, the manners, past and present, of all peoples, 
civilized and savage, and should illustrate human culture and industry 
in all their phases; the earth, its physical structure audits products, is 
to be exhibited with si)ecial reference to its adaptation for use by man 
and its resources for his future needs. The so-called natural history 
collections — that is to say, the collections in pure zoology, geology, and 
botany, — should be grouped in separate series, which, though arranged 
on another plan, shall illustrate and supplement the collections in indus- 
trial and economic natural history. 

The classification i)roposed should provide a place for every object in. 
existence which it is possible to describe, or which may be designated 
by a name. When the object itself cannot be obtained, its place should 
be supplied by a model, picture, or diagram. 

The following plan of classification is proposed for provisional usej 
the experience of future years will doubtless make it wise to introduce 
into it numerous changes. Whatever may be its faults, it is believed 
that anj" object which may come into the possession of the Museum 
may by its means be at once assigned to a jilace in which it may cou- 
sistently remain. 

Oidy the principal divisions of the classification are now presented, 
a more detailed exposition being reserved for the next report. 

OUTLINE OF A SCHEME OF MUSEUM CLASSIFICATION. 

Divisions. Classes. 

I. Mankind 1- 3 

n. The Earth as Man's Abode 4-10 

III. Katural Resources 11-15 

IV. The Exploitative Industries 10-20 

V. The Elaborative Industries 21-33 

YI. Ultimate Troducts and their Utilization 39-47 

VII. Social Relations of Mankind 4S-54 

VIU. Intellectual Occupations of Mankind o5-G4 



90 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

ANALYSIS. 
I. — Mankind. — {Anthro])ology.) 

1. Man as a zoological unit Somatology and psychology. 

2. Man, grouped in peoples or races . {a) Races of men, physical char- 

acters; ih) linguistic characters; (c) art and industrial charac- 
ters; {d) ethuogeny; (e) geographical distribution of races; 
(/) history, prehistoric and recent, &c. 

3. Man, in individual manifestations Representntive men: Bi- 

ography. 
II. — The earth as man^s abode. — [Hexiology.) 

4. The earth, in the solar system Cosmology. 

5. The earth's structure Geology. 

6. The features of the earth's surface. . .Physiography. 

7. The atmosphere and its i)heuomena. Meteorology. 

8. Effects of man upon the earth's sur- Man and nature. 

face, and of climate, physical 
features, &c., on man. 

9. Apportionment and nomenclature Geography. 

of the earth's surface. 

10. Exploration of the earth Voyages and trarels. 

III. — Natural resources. — {Force and matter.) 

11. Force in its manifestations Physics, mechanics, and 

physiology. 

12. The elements and their combina- Chemical collections. 

tions. 

13. Inorganic matter Mineralogical collections. 

14. The vegetable kingdom Botanical collections. 

15. The animal kingdom Zoological collections. 

rV. — The exploitative industries. — [Exploitative technology.) 

Primary, 

16. Exploitation of inorganic materials. .Mining and quarrying. 

17. Exploitation of vegetable i^roducts Lumbering and field-glean- 

of spontaneous growth. iug. 

18. Capture of animals Hunting, fishing, &c. 

Secondary. 

19. Culture of plants Agriculture, horticulture, 

and forestry. 

20. Culture of animals: domestic ani- Pecudiculture. 

mals and their uses. 

V. — The elahorative industries. — {Ekiborative technology.) 

21. Preparation of food-stuffs, narcotics, &c. 

22. Distillation, manufacture of j)erfumeries, &c. 



EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DISECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 91 

V. — The cldhorative industries — Continued. 

23. Oils, fatii, soaps, and waxes; their preparation and use. 

24. Gums, resins, glues, and cements. 

25. Pigments and dyes ; painting, staining, polishing, bleaching, &c. 
2G. The chemical manufactures and their jjroducts. 

27. Feathers, hair, bristles, and their use. 

28. Furs and leathers; tanning and currying. 

29. Fibers, cordage, textile fabrics, needlework, basket-work. 

30. Paper and its manufticture ; book-making; stationery. 

31. Hard and flexible organic tissues and their use. 

32. Woods, and their wood-working industries. 

33. Stones, and the stone-working industries; masonry. 

34. Metals, metallurgy, and the metal industries. 

35. Glass and enamel and their fabrication. 
3G. Pottery, and the ceramic industry*. 

37. Tools, machinery, and motors, their manufacture and use. 

38. Construction, architecture, and civil engineering. 

YI. — Ultimate products and their utilization. 

39. Foods and drinks : preparation, cookery, &c. 

40. Karcotics and masticatories ; pipes, &c. 

41. Dress, and personal adornment. 

42. Buildings, villages, and cities. 

43. Furniture, house interiors, domestic economy, &c. 

44. Heating and illumination. 

45. Medicine, surgery, pharmacology, hygiene, &c. 

46. Public comfort, recreation, protection, and rescue. 

47. Transportation by land and water: appliances and accessories. 

Til — Social relations ofmanhind. — {Sociology and its accessories.) 

48. The vocations of men. 

49. Communication of ideas and their record: wi'iting and printing, 

telegraphy, signals, «S:c. 

50. Trade and commerce. 

51. Societies and federations, social, beneficial, religious, and i)olit- 

ical. 

52. Government and law. 

53. War (including armor and weapons). 

54. Festivals, ceremonies, usages, memorials, «S:c. 

YIII. — Intellectual occupations ofmanTcind. — {Art, science, and philosophy.) 

oij. Games and amusements. 

56. Music and musical instruments. 

57. The drama and the stage. 

58. The pictorial, plastic, and decorative arts. 

59. Literature (from the intellectual standpoint only). 
GO. Folk lore, traditions, and superstitions. 



92 EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DIKECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

VIII. — Intellectual occupations — Contiuued. 

CI. Science: (Eesearcli and record.) Scientific instruments. 

C2. Pliilosopli3', religious, metapliysical, and cosmical. 

03. Education and reform; Bchools, museums, libraries, &c. 

C4. Climaxes of human acliievement. 
L Man. — In tlie first diviBion man is exhibited as the central idea 
of the whole system; (1) in a general way: his anatomical structure 
and iihysiological functions are graphically shown ; (2) as divided into 
races; the physical, the linguistic, and industrial characteristics of 
each race and their geographical distribution and history are takeu 
up; and, thirdly, man is shown in his individual manifestation by au 
exhibition of ijortraits and statues of the representative men of all 
countries and ages. 

II. The Earth. — In the second an exhibition is made of the earth 
considered as man's abode. Viewing the earth as a member of the 
solar system, the principles of astronomy are illustrated ; then are shown 
the structure of the earth, its geological history, its climate, and other 
features by means of which it is especially adapted for human occupa- 
tion ; and finally the changes which have been produced on the earth's 
surface by the agencj' of man and the whole subject of geograph}-. 

III. Natural resources. — In the third section are to be shown the re- 
sources of the earth in the form of minerals, plants, and animals, and 
its laws and manner of utilisation. 

IV. Exploitative industry. — In the fourth section are to be shown the 
methods and results of the industries of exploitation ; such as quarry- 
ing, mining, hunting, fishing, agriculture, aud the rearing of domesti- 
cated animals. 

V. The Elahorative industries. — In the fifth section are to be included 
the constructive industries and arts and their products : the prepara- 
tion and working of stone, brick, pottery, tiles, metal, glass, wood, 
textile fabrics, leathers, furs, paper, glues and cements, paints, dyes and 
varnishes, chemical materials, tools and utensils, food products, the 
graphic arts, architecture, engineering, &c. ; and the final products of 
these arts and industries in their ijrimary condition and prepared for 
final utilization, as in the case of costume, edifices, furniture and domestic 
economy, vehicles of transportation, &c. 

VI. Physical condition of man. — In the sixth section are to be illus- 
trated those subjects which relate especially to the physical condition 
of man : heating and illumination, furniture, home customs, domestic 
economy, buildings, villages and cities, foods, dress, medicine, surgery , 
l)harmacology, sanitary science and public health, gymnastics aud 
physical cultui^e, hospitals, and remedial asylums. 

VII. — Social relations. — In the seventh section are to be shown the ap- 
pliances and methods made use of by man in his social relations ; the com- 
munication of ideas by writing, telegraphic signal, mails, «&c., domestic 
aud social customs and observations, societies and representative organ- 
izations, trade and commerce, government and law, ceremonial and war. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 93 

VIII. — Intellectual occupation of man. — In the eightli section are to 
be shown objects ilhistrating the intellectual and moral condition of 
man : superstitions, crime and error, benevolent enterprises and reforma- 
tory institutions, religious organizations and systems, museums, sports, 
the pictorial and plastic arts, music and musical instruments, the drama, 
folk-lore, literature, science, philosophy, education and educational insti- 
tutions, and the most perfect results of human achievement in every 
direction of activity. 

Tossihilities of expanding the above plan. — The above statement of 
the plan of classifieation, on account of its brevity, fails to give a very 
definite idea of the comprehensiveness of the scheme. In each division 
of the subject, plans have been devised for showing not only the 
present condition of the achievement, but the steps by which man has 
arrived at the present condition in every direction in which human 
activity has been exerted — a graphic history of the development of 
human culture and civilization. 

E g., Expansion of culture of animals. — As an illustration of the 
manner in which each section of this classification may be expanded, 
reference may be made to two or three divisions. Under the head of 
culture of domestic animals, for instance, would be shown the methods 
emi)loyed in the culture of sponges, of oysters, of leeches, of bees, of the 
cochineal insect, of silkworms, of maggots for bird food, of crawfish, crabs 
and lobsters; of fish, of poultry, of singing and ornamental birds, of 
fleece-bearing animals, of meat and milk producing animals, of beasts of 
burden, hunting animals, of pets, and the subjects of aquaria, menag- 
eries, and zoological gardens. In connection with these would be ex- 
hibited a collection of all the animals which have been domesticated by 
man in any part of the world, some eighty or ninety species altogether, 
and in the case of the more prominent species — for instance, the dog — 
characteristic illustrations of each breed or race. 

E. g., Expansion of transportation. — In the division of transportation 
would be shown all that related to modes of movement, roads, tramways, 
canals, railroads, lines of ocean and river navigation, with the acces- 
sories of tunnels, bridges, toll-gates, sign-posts, buoys, light-houses, &c., 
and vehicles of transportation, from the skate, stilt, snow-shoe, veloci- 
l)cde, and sledge, to the railroad-car, the steamer, and the balloon. 

E. </., Expansion of graphic arts. — Under the head of the graphic 
arts would be shown, in addition to illustrations of all the various 
methods of engraving upon stone, wood, and metal, of painting and 
photography, a collection illustratjng the art of writing and printing 
from its inception — from the stilus and papyrus — tlirough the pen and 
pencil to the type-writer, electric pen, the hektograph, and tlie whole 
subject of book-making, printing with engraved types and blocks, with 
movable types, wood-cuts, metal plates, and lithographic stone, the 
details of book-making, i>roof-reading, and book-sizes of books, «S;c. 

E. g., Expansion of ceremonies. — Under the head of ceremonies, the 



94 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

exercises of religious rites, and social ceremonies, would be isbown 
ecclesiastical uteusils, &c., monuments of all kinds, badges of office, 
flags and banners, beraldic emblems, and regalia, medals, &c. 

Each of the sixty -four principal sections provided for in the classifica- 
tion is expanded in an equally comprehensive maimer. 

Experiments in methods of arrangement. — Much has been done during 
the year in studying and exiierimenting, for the purpose of ascertaining 
how to present to the public in the most effective manner the specimens 
to be shown in the Museum ; the main objects in view being, (1) to 
enable the visitors to make their examinations with the least possible 
fatigue of eye and limb ; (2) to label the objects in the most concise and 
instructive manner, and (3) to make the Museum as a whole as beautiful 
and attractive as possible. 

The new building more than meets all expectations. The illumination 
is perfect, the amount of space available for exhibition purposes is un- 
doubtedly the maximum for a building of the size, and the disposition 
of the exhibition halls in a single level directly upon the surface of the 
earth, proves to be of great importance both to visitors and to those 
who have in hand the work of arranging the collections. Over two 
hundred exhibition cases have been constructed, many of which embody 
ideas which have never before been used in museum administration ; 
these, however, must be seen to be appreciated. The cases are all of 
mahogany, finished in the natural color, and have been constructed in 
accordance with artistic plans furnished by Mr. W. Bruce Gray. Their 
chief recommendations are the following : (1) the building consisting 
practically of a single large hall; the cases are so constructed as to form 
partitions dividing the hall into seventeen halls of lesser extent; (2) the 
cases are all of one length, 8 feet 8 inches, which is the architectural 
unit of the Museum building, or are of such lengths that, combined 
together, they always conform to this unit, so that they are interchange- 
able ; (3) the construction is such that, wath very slight expenditure of 
labor, any one of them full of specimens can be transported from one 
part of the building to another, thus allowing great freedom in the 
matter of rearranging the museum; (4) all the smaller specimens are 
mounted in groups upon small tablets or in glass-covered boxes of uni- 
form size, which can be handled with great facility and which afford 
great security to the specimens, and diminish immensely the labor of 
properly caring for them; (5) the objects are displayed against back- 
grounds which at the same time afford the greatest ease to the eye 
of the visitor and the greatest relief and effectiveness to the object dis- 
played; (G) the objects being shown singly against a suitable background, 
and at the same time brought as close as possible to the glass front of 
the case, the sense of confusion, so often experienced in museums, is 
entirely avoided ; (7) the labels are printed in large, heavy-face type and 
upon i)aper of soft tints, which are much less wearisome to the eyo 
than the ordinary labels in black and white. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 95 

Aid from other Museums. — Many important suggestions liavc been re- 
ceived from tbe management of the South Kensington IMuseum, undoubt- 
edly the most perfect and artistically arranged museum in the world, 
the director of which has with great courtesy furnished a complete set 
of samples of mounting materials and labels and plans of all the exhi- 
bition cases. 

Similar aid has been furnished by Dr. Giinther, keeper of the zoologi- 
cal department of the British IMuseum, and by architectural counselor 
Tiede, v>-\\o has supplied plans of the Zoological Museum at Berlin, of 
which he is the architect, as well as of other museums in Europe. Ex- 
periments have been made with the idea of building the exhibition cases 
of iron, and of finishing the wooden cases in ebony color, but the cases 
of mahogany, polished in the natural color of the wood with a " rubbed 
hard-oil finish," seem to be at once the most beautiful and the most con- 
venient. 

Only a limited number of cases of each pattern have been constructed, 
and the work has been given to nine different manufacturing firms in 
Washington, Baltimore, and Philadelphia. The experience which has 
been gained by the experiments of the past year Avill enable the officers 
of the Museum to proceed understandingly and rapidly with the work 
of completing the installation of the new building with cases. There 
are now on hand in the two buildings about GOO exhibition cases. Many 
of these will, however, require to be replaced in the future. 

One of the exhibition halls in the old Smithsonian building has been 
refitted with cases, and has been experimentally decorated from a de- 
sign gratuitously furnished by W. B. Gray, the work being done by the 
well-known firm of John Gibson & Co., of Philadelphia, at exceptionally 
low rates. 

Museum Library. — The increased activity in investigation, as well as 
the needs of the curators in their work of recording the history of the 
collections under their charge, has made it necessary to establish a 
working library in connection with the Museum, it being found impos- 
sible to depend upon the old method of drawing books from the Con- 
gressional Library. A small number of works has been reclaimed from 
the Smithsonian deposit in the Congressional Library, but the Museum 
Library is, for the most part, made up of a very valuable collection of 
standard zoological and industrial works and bound pam])hlets, com- 
posing the private library of Professor Baird, which he has given to the 
Museum. 

In response to a special circular, many of the museums and scientific 
societies of Europe and America have contributed sets of their publica- 
tions. The library now contains 5,450 volumes and 4,750 pamjihlets, 
bound and unbound, in all a number of 10,200.* 

Books of reference, periodicals, and works of general interest are kept 

* Estimate based on running count. 



06 EEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

in the general library in the northwest corner of the Museum building, 
while those works relating to special departments are, for the conven- 
ience of workers, placed in sectional libraries in the apartments of the 
several curators. The library system has been under the charge of Mr. 
Frederick W. True, who has already completed a card catalogue of 
the books. 

Woric of the Preparators. — The work of the various preparators con- 
nected with the IVIuseum has increased in efficiency during the year. 
Mr. Palmer, the chief modeller, has developed several new features in 
Lis work, one of the most imjiortant of which is the making in plaster 
the casts of animals, such as, on account of the shortness of their hair, 
cannot be successfully set up by the taxidermist. Experiments on dogs 
of different breeds and a leopard have been successful. A cast of a 
high-bred pointer is especially remarkable, on account of the faithful 
manner in which all of the marks of its hereditary iierfections are shown, 
and on account of the life-like manner in which it is represented in the 
act of pointing. The largest animal cast, which has yet been made, is 
that of a fin-back whale, over 30 feet in length, one side of which ex- 
hibits the whale in the attitude of swimming, while upon the other, in 
the concavity of the inner outline of the half cast, is to be placed the 
articulated skeleton of the animal. 

The artists, Messrs. Shindler and Hendley, have made many imi)rove- 
ments in painting the casts of reptiles, fish, and stone implements, it 
being now possible to produce counterfeits of implements which cannot 
be distinguished from the originals, except by the test of the knife. In 
February of this year Mr. John H. Richard, the veteran zoological 
draughtsman, for several years in the employ of the ]\Iuseum, died, at an 
advanced age. Among many important works illustrated wholly or in 
part by him were Holbrook's "Ichthyology of South Carolina," and 
"North American Herpetology." 

Mr. Marshall, who has been employed entirely in mounting birds, 
manifests increased skill. 

A number of mammals and skeletons have been mounted at the estab- 
lishment of n. A. Ward, in Eochester, I:^. Y., usually with very satisfac- 
tory results. 

The photographic gallery in the new building has been fitted up with 
the purpose of making it one of the most complete establishments for 
scientific photography. 

A temporary force of stone cutters and polishers has been employed 
in dressing the collection of building-stones gathered in connection with 
the tenth census by Dr. Hawes, and 1,322 cubes have been finished. 

Mr. George P. Merrill has been engaged in lapidary work in the same 
connection, and the microscopic slides of building-stones which he has 
prepared are considered to be as good as the best. 

Detailed statements are on file showing the work accomplished by the 
several i)reparators. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 97 

Details of administration.— Mnch thought has been devoted during 
the year to the reorganization of the force of experts and workmen em- 
ployed in the Museum, and with the beginning of the present tiscal year 
several of the principal assistants of the Museujn were commissioned 
as curators, and were formally assigned to the charge of special depart- 
ments. 

A schedule has been drawn up by which the employes of the Museum 
are classified in a number of groups, each grade having certain responsi- 
bilities and a fixed salary attached to it. Hereafter, changes of salary 
can only be effected by a change of grade; and one source of dissatis- 
faction among the employ6s of the Museum in the past will by this 
arraugement be avoided. In several instances specialists have volun- 
teered to perform the duty of curators without pay, for the sake of the 
opportunities of study which they would thus acquire, and have been 
appointed honorary curators. 

Another task which has been accomplished is the formulation of the 
usages and unwritten laws of the establishment in systematic form. So 
long as the number of employ<Ss was small, this was, perhaps, unneces- 
sary ; but it has been of late found essential to have printed in acces- 
sible form a "plan of organization," which should define the duties of 
officers and employes in each grade, and should explain for their benefit 
the many forms of administration routine, the observance of which is 
so necessary for the eJficiency of the Museum work. 

One of the results of this new "plan of organization" has been the 
comi^lete rearrangement of the offices and workrooms, in which specimens 
are received, unpacked, and from which they are distributed to the 
different departments, and of the storage-rooms and preparators' work- 
shops. 

Another result has been the establishment of the office of registrar, 
this officer being responsible for all matters relatiug to the reception and 
sending out of packages, the management of the storage-rooms, and the 
record and acknowledgment of accessions, the i^acking and unpacking 
of boxes. 

The force of mechanics, watchmen, engineers and firemen, laborers, 
messengers, and cleaners has been reorganized, and is under the imme- 
diate direction of Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of the building, 
under whose efficient management a high degree of efficiency and dis- 
cipline has been attained. 

Employes in this division have been required to assume a uniform 
cap of blue cloth, with the words "U. S. National JMuseum," and, in 
the case of the suiierintendent and master-mechanics, with the names 
of their offices in gold letters upon the front. This plan has proved prac- 
tically a success, being a convenience to visitors and insuriug better disci- 
pline. Complete reports of work accomplished in the departments of la- 
bor and service, in the engineers' and electricians' divisions are on file. 

The electric service of the Museum has been much extended and im- 
S. Mis. 109 7 



98 EEPOET OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

proved. The telephones, now in every department, afford opportunities 
of commnnication through the central office, which is in operation night 
and day. Wires have been carried from the central office to the resi- 
dences of the Director and some of his principal assistants. 

The public-comfort rooms for ladies and men, in the southeast pavil- 
ion of the new building, have been open since the time of the inaugura- 
tion ball in March, 1881. 

The visitors' book for 1880 shows 24,000 entries. These are believed 
to represent at least 150,000 visitors, it being a matter of observation 
that only about 10 per cent, of the visitors enter their names. A regis- 
tering-machine is now in use, by which a careful record of the number 
of visitors is kept. 

Plans for the better arrangement and preservation of the archives of 
the Museum have been perfected j and a large room in the northwest 
j)avilion has been set apart as an archive-room. Here it is intended to 
concentrate all the papers illustrating the history of the Museum. In 
adjoining rooms will be stored the duplicate printed labels and samples 
of apparatus and other materials used in the Museum. 

A job printing press, with an assortment of type, for printing labels 
and circulars, has been j)urchased during the year, with the view of sav- 
ing time and affording opportunities for experimenting in the prepara- 
tion of exhibition labels, which has hitherto been imi^racticable. All 
considerable jobs of j)rinting are, however, as heretofore, done at the 
Government Printing Office. 

Publications. — There has been much activity during the year in the 
direction of scientific investigation, and a considerable number of books 
and pai3ers have been published by the officers, a list of which publica- 
tions will be found in the bibliographical appendix, together with a list 
of papers, relating to the government collections, published by others 
than officers of the Museum. A number of important memoirs are in 
preparation — some of them already in the press — which cannot be in- 
cluded in the bibliography of 1881, but are referred to in a second sup- 
plement containing announcements of works in preparation. 

In accordance with a rule of the Museum recently announced, officers 
of the Museum, or others, intending to use Museum material in the 
preparation of memoirs are required to file with the Director of the 
Museum a statement of their intention. This step has been found 
necessary in order to avoid collisions of interests. 

It is intended at an early date to complete the Bibliographical His- 
tory of the Museum — a work commenced some years ago by the present 
Director. This will form an exhaustive index to all that has been 
written concerning the government collection. 

A bibliography of the publications of Prof. S. F. Baird, now in press, 
will serve as a first installment to this work, and in this connection is 
particularly appropriate, since he was really the first to begin the proper 
utilization of the material of the Museum. 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



99 



The Biological Society of Washington has since October 1 held its 
monthly meetings in the archive room of the Museum. The average 
attendance at these meetings has been about 40 ; and many papers of 
importance have been presented, a considerable portion of which related 
to collections in the Museum. 

It is intended to fit up one of the smaller ranges in the new building 
with chairs, in order that it may be used for meetings of this and sim- 
ilar societies, and for use as a lecture-room at such times in the future 
as it may be found desirable to have public lectures given in connection 
with the work of the Museum. 

A table, prepared by Dr. Bean, showing the number of entries in the 
record books for the years 1880 and 1881 is presented below, and Appen- 
dix D a detailed alphabetical list of contributors to the Museum. 



Table showing the nitmier of entries in the record iooks of the United States National 
Museum at the close of the years 1880 and 1881, respectively. 



Class. 



1880. 



1881. 



Increase 

1881. 



Mammals 

Birds 

Keptiles and ampMbians . 

Fishes 

Skeletons and skulls 

Eggs 

Crustaceans 

Annelids 

Mollusks 

Radiates 

Sponges and protozoans . 

Invertebrate fossils 

Minerals 

Buildi ng-stones , 

Ethnological specimens.. 



13, 264 
81, 329 
10, 517 
26, 947 
16. 367 
18, 189 

2,514 

100 

33, 169 

3,345 



9,750 
20, 450 



13, 360 
85, 673 
12, 490 
29, 586 
16, 610 
18, 417 

3,678 

100 

33, 281 

4,703 

700 

11, 478 

21, 552 

2,932 
51, 410 



97 
4,345 
1,974 
2, 639 
244 
229 
1,105 



113 
1,359 

700 
1.729 
1,103 
2,932 
5,841 



Total increase, so far as entered in catalogue, 1881, 24,470. 

The principal operations in the Museum during the year may perhaps 
best be described by a reference to what has been accomplished in each 
special department of work. 

ART AND INDUSTRY. 

In the department of art and industry there has been considerable ac- 
tivity, although the want of suitable exhibition cases has rendered it 
impossible to show many of its results to the public. The great mass of 
material acquired at the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition (which ma- 
terial has since been stored in the Ai-mory building) has now been brought 
to the Museum and stored in two of the central courts. The collections 
of naval models and musical instruments and a portion of the Chinese 
collection have been put in order and are ready for exhibition. 

Materia Medica. — The materia medica collections have been assorted 
and catalogued by Dr. J. M. Flint, surgeon, U. S. N., who has been 
detailed by the Surgeon-General of the Navy to superintend the work 
of building uj) this department of the Museum. During the year most 
of the drugs and medicines have been arranged, and the catalogue 



100 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

sbows 1,574 entries. Many of these are specimens of Chinese medi- 
cines and the remainder are the first installment of the gift of Messrs. 
W. H. Schieffelin & Co., of JISTew York City, who have volunteered to 
furnish to the Museum a complete collection of the drugs now in use in 
the United States and Europe. 

A very complete collection of the official pharmacopoeias of all na- 
tions has been gathered, and Dr. Flint has undertaken the work of 
compiling from these, for use in the arrangement of the collections, a 
list of all the articles of the materia medica of the world and the author- 
ized i)reparations of each. 

Foods. — A considerable amount of work has been done ui)on the col- 
lection of foods by Prof. J. Howard Gore, who reports that there are now 
in the Museum 951 specimens belonging to this department, 225 from 
China, 51G from the Indians of North America, and 210 preparations of 
marine foods, gathered in connection with the fisheries exhibit. 

Messrs. H. K. & F. B. Thurber & Co., of New York City, have under- 
taken to prepare for the Museum, without charge, a full exhibition of 
the food-substances handled in the grocery trade of the United States, 
which will form an excellent nucleus for tliis department. There have 
been received from the various manufactories of canned fishery prod- 
ucts sample cans showing all the brands of canned fish put up in the 
United States during the census year — an important addition to the 
fishery collection. 

It would be premature to attempt to state the extent and nature of 
the collections in this department. Through the exertions of Mr. Thomas 
Donaldson, a large number of the most important of the exhibits which 
were retained at the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition in the so-called 
Permanent Exhibition of Philadelphia have been given to the National 
Museum and are now stored in Philadelphia, there to be retained until 
the Museum is ready for their reception. An enumeration of these arti- 
cles win be more appropriate in the report for the year 1882. 

Aid of Manufacturing and Commercial Firms. — Important contribu- 
tions have been promised by several manufacturing and commercial 
houses, prominent among which are a full exhibition of i^aints, varnishes, 
and pigments, by Messrs. F. W. Devoe & Co., of New York; of chemical 
products, by Powers, Weightman & Co., of Philadelphia; of perfumes 
and essential oils, by Young, Ladd & Coffin, of New York City; of the 
appliances and operations of dentistry, by the S. S. White Manufac- 
turing Company, of Philadelphia, and others of less extent but of equal 
interest. 

Accessions of the year. — Among the important contributions received 
during the year may be mentioned a large series of cotton fabrics, illus- 
trating the condition of that branch of the textile industry of the United 
States during the census year, sent by the various mills at the request of 
Mr. Edward Atkinson, special agent of the Tenth Census ; a collection of 
the ornamental woods of Japan, a hundred in number, consisting of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 101 

panels of polished wood, upon which are painted accurate delineations 
of the leaves, flower, and fruit of the trees from which they are derived, 
and framed in sections of the bark of the same tree, given by the Uni- 
versity of Tokio 5 a collection illustrating fully the ice industry, given by 
the Knickerbocker Ice Company ; a whale-boat with all its apparatus, 
given by J. H. Bartlett & Sons, of New Bedford, Mass. ; a collection of 
30 working models of schooners, illustrating the history of the fishing 
schooner of New England from the beginning of the present century, 
obtained by Mr. A. Howard Clark from the ship-builders of Cape Ann, 
Mass.; an exhibit illustrating the process of making kid gloves, show- 
ing each stage from the natural skin to the completed glove, the gift of 
Eugene Krebbs, Eegensburg, Germany ; a series of samples of the native 
cottons of Japan, from the Japanese Government ; an illustration of 
the process of overlaying and wood-cut printing, given by Mr. Theodore L. 
De Vinue, of New York ; and a collective exhibit of brushes, showing all 
the applications of hair and bristles manufactured, from Miles Bros. & 
Co., of New York. 

AROH^OLOGT: CHARLES RAU. 

The installation of the collections in the archaeological department, 
under the direction of Dr. Charles Eau, is further advanced than in any 
other department of the Museum. The bulk of specimens is now so 
great that there is not room for their proper exhibition in the apartment 
assigned to them, and the removal to the new building of the ethno- 
graphic and industrial materials now exhibited in the archaeological hall 
will afford opportunity for a much better presentation of the relics of 
prehistoric man. Dr. Eau reports 1,432 entries in his record books 
during the last half of the year,* and all important objects have been 
mounted and placed in the exhibition cases. It is estimated that there 
are now 20,536 specimens mounted, labeled, and arranged in the exhi- 
bition series. 

Among the most important accessions to this department are twelve 
boxes, containing 195 specimens, obtained by Hon. J. G. Henderson in 
the mounds near Naples, 111. 5 a fine series of 130 specimens of Dan- 
ish stone implements, the gift of the Koyal Museum of Copenhagen, 
Denmark; 52 specimens, the result of mound exploration in Sauk County, 
Wisconsin, by Mr. Stephen Bowers; 161 specimens of stone implements 
from Carroll County, Tennessee, by Mr. James M. Null; 99 specimens 
of Indian remains and implements, collected by Mr. S. T. Walker on the 
southern shore of Choctawhatchee Bay, Florida; 154 specimens of imple- 
ments from Mrs. S. S. Haldeman, Pennsylvania; collections made by 
Dr. Edw. Palmer in Tennessee and adjoining States, and two drilled 

* The archaeological specimens prior to July 1, 1881, were entered in the general 
ethnological catalogues, aud the entries for the entire year are included in the 5,841 
entries given for ethnology in general. 



102 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OP NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

ceremonial objects of great value, acquired by purchase from Mr. D. 
W. Harris, of Louisiana. 

ETHNOGRAPHY. 

Dr. Edward Foreman has been constantly employed since June 1 in 
cataloguing the ethnographic material. The most important accession 
of the year consists of forty-four boxes obtained by Col. James Steven- 
son from the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest, the contents of Which 
have been placed on exhibition in temporary cases in the northeast range* 
of the new building. 

Among other important collections are those made by Messrs. Lucien 
M. Turner and E. W. Nelson, Signal- Service observers in Alaska; a con- 
siderable collection of objects obtained by Commander L. A. Bear.dslee, 
IT. S. N., the most of which were devices made by the Shamans of the 
Northwest coast, including a series of curiously carved and painted 
rattles, a wand similarly decorated, a' wooden spoon, «&c., all of them 
bearing superstitious figures and employed by the medicine men in the 
use of witchcraft and in expelling disease ; a few Indian implements 
obtained by C. J. Hering from Surinam, and a collection of 34 masks 
from Japan, used by the actors in the mediaeval lyric drama of that 
country, known as '-No," and obtained through the First Manufactur- 
ing and Trading Company of Tokio. 

During the year. General Horace Capron deposited a valuable collec- 
tion of Japanese materials, obtained by him while in the service of that 
government. 

MAMjMALS: FREDERICK W. TRUE. 



In the department of mammals there have been fifty-five accession 
lots and 97 entries in the catalogue. Little has been done with the 
exhibition series during the year, an early removal of the collections to 
the new building being contemplated. Cases for their reception are now 
in progress of construction. Mr. True, acting curator of the department, 
reports the following census of mounted mammals : 



Monkeys and lemurs 24 

Cats 20 

Dogs and hyenas 31 

Weasels, otters, &c 125 

Bears, raccoons, &c 9 

Pinnipeds 30 

Oxen and sheep 14 

Deer 9 

Hogs 4 

Ehinoceros 1 

Tapirs 2 



Bats 8 

Moles 17 

Eodents 300 

Edentates 30 

Marsupials and raonotremes . . 56 

Casts: Monkeys 2 

Seals 2 

Elk 1 

Porpoises 10 

Total 695 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1 0,^ 

Among the most important additions have been a collection of skins 
of Arctic mammals, sent by Mr. R. McFarlane, of Hudson's Bay Com- 
pany, from Athabasca ; a collection of mammals from Surinam, sent by 
Mr. C. J. Hering, of Paramaribo ; skins of antelope and deer, sent by 
Mr. Charles Euby, of the United States Army, at Fort Laramie, Wyo. ; 
skins of polar bear, white whale, and three species of seal, including 
one male and two young of the very rare saddle-back seal, Histriophoca 
equestris, brought by E. W. Nelson, Signal-Service observer at Saint 
Michael's, Alaska ; a specimen of manitee, in the flesh, from the Amazon 
Eiver, by E. G. Blackford, of New York, and a mounted skeleton of the 
celebrated race-horse Henry Clay, the progenitor of the American race 
of trotting horses, given by Hon. Erastus Corning, of Albany, and Mr. 
Henry O. Jewett, of Buffalo. Mr. P. T. Barnum has sent a specimen in 
the flesh of a leopard, which has been cast; and, in response to special 
request for specimens of thorough-bred dogs, to be used in forming a 
collection of casts of the races of domestic dogs. Dr. T. Berwick Legar6, 
of Camden, S. C, has given a pointer dog of the best blood; and Miss 
Anna W. Kelly, of Havre de Grace, Md., an Italian greyhound. From 
the United States Fish Commission and its correspondents have been 
obtained seven specimens of porpoises in the flesh, all of which have 
been cast, and which afford extremely valuable material for settling 
certain undecided questions concerning the cetacea of the Atlantic. The 
progress of the work upon the cast of the fin-back whale has been 
alluded to in connection with the work of the preparators. , 

BIRDS: ROBERT RIDGWAY. 

In the department of birds there have been seventy-four accession 
lots. Under the direction of Mr. Eobert Ridgway there has been much 
activity in this department in reorganizing the exhibition series of speci- 
mens and in eliminating duplicates from the storage series. There have 
been 4,345 entries in the catalogue. The removal of the mammals and 
skeletons to the new building will give an opportunity for a much more 
satisfactory exhibition of the ornithological collections. 

The most important addition has been Mr.Eidgway's private collection 
of American birds, containing 2,302 specimens of 778 species, especially 
important because the specimens have been selected in the field to illus- 
trate variations of color and form due to age, sex, and geographical 
location. 

In addition to numerous small collections, others of special interest 
have been received of the birds of INIexico and Yucatan, from A. Bou- 
card, of Paris; of Surinam, from 0. J. Hering, of Paramaribo ; of Gre- 
nada, from J. G. Wells, of Saint Andrews ; of Guatemala, from L. Guesde; 
of Dominica, from Dr. H. A. Nichols; of Costa Eica, from J. C. Zeledon; 
of Japan, from Dr. .¥ C. Dale, U. S. N.; of Florida, from Messrs. J. BeU 
and S. T. Walker; of Wyoming, from Charles Euby; of Indiana, from 
Mr. Eidgway ; and of Illinois, from Mr. L. JM. Turner. 



104 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATION A.L MUSEUM. 
Mr. Eidgway gives the following census of the bird collection : 

Eeserve series : 

Mounted specimens 7, 000 

Skins 40,000 

Total reserve . . 47, 000 

Duplicates 8, 000 

Total 55, 000 

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS: HENRY C. YARROW. 

The department of herpetology, under the direction of Dr. H. C. Yar- 
row, has received much attention, and the work of separating the reserve 
series, for exhibition and study, from the duplicates has been nearly 
completed. The collection has been put in excellent order, in fresh al- 
cohol, and provided throughout with tags of block-tin. The large col- 
lections of exotic and domestic reptiles which have for many years been 
under the custody of Prof. E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia, have been 
reclaimed and properly distributed. There have been, during the 
year, seventy-five accession lots received, and 1,974 entries upon the 
catalogues. Messrs. Walker, Bell, and Wittfield have collected exten- 
sively in Florida ; Mr. Eidgway, in Indiana ; Mr. S. W. Marnark, in 
Texas; and Mr. Henry L. Barker, in South Carolina. The exotic rep- 
tiles have been received from C. J. Hering; Professor Dug^s, of Mex- 
ico; Mr. L. Guesde, of Guadaloupe; Dr. Wilford Nelson, British con- 
sul at Panama ; Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havanna, Cuba ; and Mr. Fig- 
yelmesy, United States consul at Demerara. A considerable percent- 
age erf the reptiles has been received alive, and there has been oppor- 
tunity to add largely to the collection of casts. The collection of tur- 
tles has been overhauled, and has been arranged by Messrs. Frederick 
W. True and Kewton P. Scudder. 

A census of the collections of reptiles gives the following result : 

Number of species North America reptiles represented* 361 

Number of specimens (lots) in reserve 3, 340 

Number of exotic specimens (lots) 1, 765 

Number of species added to reserve in 1881 67 

Number of specimens added to reserve in 1881 239 

Number of lots overhauled in 1881 3, 053 

Number of living specimens received 127 

Number of living specimens on hand 35 

The collection of casts numbers 82, 61 being of snakes, 11 of lizards, 
3 of crocodiles, and 7 of batrachians. 

** Forty-three species lacking. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 105 

Many of the turtles have been sent to the carp ponds of the Fish 
Commission, -where a large proportion of all species of American tes- 
tudinates may now be seen living. The reserve collection of turtles, 
according to Messrs. F. W. True and N. P. Scudder, who have had it 
in charge, now includes 5G8 specimens, of which 400 are in alcohol, 38 
are casts, and 40 are skeletons. 

FISHES: TARLETON H. BEAN. 

In the department of ichthyology, under the direction of Dr. T. H. 
Bean, there has been much activity, but, owing to the immense bulk of 
the collections, the limited storage-space, and the entire absence of ac- 
commodation for the exhibition of the reserve series, the work has 
been mnch retarded. The fitting up of the west range of the Smith- 
sonian building for the reception of alcoholic vertebrates — a work now 
nearly comxileted — will enable the curator of this department to revolu- 
tionize its arrangement during the coming year. It is impossible at 
present to make any estimate whatever of the extent of these collec- 
tions. There have been during the year 125 accession lots and 2,639 
entries on the catalogues. The most important additions to the collec- 
tions resulted from the labor of the United States Fish Commission, 
whose recent explorations in the deeper waters along the coast have 
resulted in the discovery of numerous important forms of deep-sea fish. 
The collections made by Prof. D. S. Jordan on the coast of CaUforuia, 
and by Dr. T. H. Bean in Alaska, are also very extensive and full of in- 
terest. The former were overhauled by Prof. D. S. Jordan and his 
assistant, Mr. Charles L. McKay, during a visit to the Museum in Feb- 
ruary; and, after the reserve series had been taken out, 70 sets of du- 
plicates, containing in all about 15,000 specimens, were made up. These 
have since been distributed to the principal museums of the world, 
giving to the National Museum large credits upon which to draw in 
future for duplicate natural-history material in the possession of those 
establishments. 

Important collections were also received from Mr. C. H. Gilbert, who 
during the winter of 1881 made extensive explorations on the Pacific 
coast of Central America and the Isthmus of Panama. 

Important lots have also been received from Mr. James G. Swan, 
collected by him in the vicinity of Puget Sound ; from Lieut. H. E. 
Nichols, in Alaska ; from Mr. C. C. Leslie, in Charleston, S. C. ; from 
Capt. Charles Bendire, U. S. A., in Washington Territory ; from Josiah 
Skinner, in the vicinity of Wetumpka, Ala ; from Vinal N. Edwards, 
Wood's noil, Mass. ; from Col. Marshall McDonald, in the Chesapeake 
Bay; from Mr. E. G. Blackford, of Fulton Market, New York City; 
from Prof. S. A. Forbes, in the waters of Illinois; from Miss Eosa Smith, 
in San Diego, Cal. ; from Andrea Larco, of Santa Barbara ; from Dr. J. W. 
Velie, of the Chicago Academy of Sciences; from S. T. Walker and Silas 
Stearns, in Florida ; from Livingston Stone, in California ; from Walter 



106 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Hayden, at Moose Factory, Hudson's Bay territory ; and from Dr. O. P. 
Hay, in the Mississippi Eiver. Exotic fishes have been received from F. 
Busse, of Giestemiinde, Germany; from Dr. H. A. Mchols, of Dominica; 
from the Public Museum of Kingston, Jamaica ; from the Auckland Mu- 
seum of New Zealand; from Prof. Alfred Dug^s, of Guanajuato, Mexico; 
and from Frederick M. Wallem, of Bergen. Charles Scribner's Sons, of 
Kew York, have presented a copy of the sumptuous work published by 
them on the " Game Fishes of North America:" — the text by G. Brown 
Goode, the plates by J. A. Kilbourne. 

INSECTS : CHARLES V. RILEY. 

The department of entomology is one which has, for excellent reasons, 
been very little cultivated in the National Museum, although in previ- 
ous years the Smithsonian published many extensive works on insects, 
and paid much attention to gathering material for investigation. 

The subject of entomology is divided by students into so many 
branches, each of which is occupied by a small number of specialists, and 
it being deemed of first importance to have the materials which are col- 
lected carefully studied and reported upon, the collections, as received, 
have been distributed in lots to the eight or ten entomologists who 
have been serving as collaborators of the Museum, and the material 
not thus disposed of has been turned over to the entomologists of the 
Department of Agriculture. The necessity of a department of system- 
atic and economic entomology has, however, been always recognized, 
and on the occasion of the present reorganization steps have been taken 
to establish such a department. Prof. C. Y. Riley, the entomologist 
of the Department of Agriculture, has been appointed honorary curator, 
and has deposited his own private collection of insects, with the idea of 
using it as a nucleus for the development of a collection fitting the 
dignity af a national 'museum. 

The collection deposited by Professor Eiley, as stated in the circular, 
comprises some 30,000 species and upward of 150,000 specimens of all 
orders, and is contained in some 300 double-folding boxes, in large book 
form, and in two cabinets containing 80 glass drawers, the specimens 
being all in admirable condition and classified, so far as determined. 
The collection is especially valuable for the large amount of material it 
contains, representing and illustrating the life-habits of insects and 
everything relating to their transformation and economy. 

In addition to the collection proper, Professor Eiley has also furnished 
a large amount of miscroscopic material mounted on slides, and illus- 
trative of more minute forms of insect life and their structure, together 
with much paraphernalia, such as drying and relaxing boxes, spreading- 
boards, collecting-materials, «&c., which will i^rove most useful in the 
work of the department. Finally, he has also added that portion of 
his pamphlet-case library relating to the subject of entomology, and 
consisting of 134 cases and upward of 1,000 pamjihlets. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 107 

Three . large walnut cases, containing entomological material, both 
dry and in alchohol, have been transferred, with the consent of Com- 
missioner Loring, from the Department of Agriculture. This material 
represents the accumulation of many years from different government 
exploring expeditions, though most of it has passed through the hands 
of specialists and is not in very good condition. 

Specialists in entomology will be encouraged to deposit their types 
by the promise of painstaking custody, and particular attention will be 
paid in the future to the development of this department. There have 
been received during the year fifty-three accession lots, the most inter- 
esting of which, perhaps, were collections of butterflies from Africa and 
Brazil, presented by Paymaster Albert W. Bacon, U. S. N., and a series 
of plaster casts of the dwellings of Texas ants, obtained from the Acad- 
emy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. 

CONCHOLOGY: WILLIAM H. BALL. 

The department of conchology, under the care of Mr. W. H. Dall, 
honorary curator, has been in a quiescent state during the year, owing 
to the fact that the ofBcer in charge has been occupied in other duties. 
The removal of the invertebrate fossils to the other building will, by 
affording more room in the conchological laboratory, give better oppor- 
tunities for work in the future. Eighteen accession lots have been 
received in the Museum, chief among which are a collection from the 
Pacific coast by Mr. Henry Hemphill, of San Diego, Cal. ; and a collec- 
tion from Italy, received from Eev. Eugene Vetromile, of Machias, Me. 
Extensive additions have been made to this department in the course 
of the dredging operations of the United States Fish Commission. This 
material, with that of previous years, is still in the hands of Prof. A. E. 
Verrill, at New Haven, where it is being worked up under his direc- 
tion. 

Among other important collections, which will be made available to 
students as soon as cases can be provided, is that recently deposited 
by Mr. W. G. Binney, containing the types of his voluminous writings 
upon the land and fresh- water shells of North America; and the collec- 
tion of North American Unionidce, labeled for the Museum by Dr. James 
Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y. 

MARINE INVERTEBRATES: RICHARD RATHBUN. 

The dei)artment of marine invertebrates, under the direction of Mr. 
Eichard Eathbnn, has been enriched by thirty-one accession lots. As 
in the case of the conchological department, the principal additions have 
been made by the United States Fish Commission, which have not yet 
been forwarded from New Haven. There has been great activity in this 
department, as is indicated by the report of its curator. 

Thi ee thousand three hundred and thirty-four entries have been made 



108 KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

in the record books; 1,358 radiates ; 1,164 crustaceans; 700 sponges and 
protazoa; and 112 mollusks. 

All the materials in storage have been examined and have received 
what 'care was necessary. Much work has been accomplished in the 
way of duplicate material for distribution, it being estimated that over 
a million specimens, representing one hundred and fifty sj^ecies, are now 
ready to be distributed in this manner. 

"One of the most important achievements made in this department 
in 1881," reports the curator, " has been the proper mounting for museum 
display of nearly all the reserve specimens of corals and sponges now 
possessed by the Museum." This work has been performed by Mr. E. 
H. Hawley in the most perfect manner, and he has also just finished 
mounting a series of the larger and more prominent New England echi- 
noderms; the larger share of the stony corals mounted and some of the 
Gorgonian corals are types colfected by the United States Exploring 
Expedition, labeled by Prof. J. D. Dana, and some recently examined 
and relabeled by Prof. A. E. Verrill. 

The coral collection is one of great value and beauty, and represents 
many faunal regions. All of the species of corals known from the fish- 
ing-banks of eastern North America are represented in it. 

The mounted collection of sponges contains specimens of all the 
species and of most of the varieties of commercial sponges from Florida, 
the Bahamas, and the Mediterranean, labeled by Prof. A. Hyatt of the 
Boston Society of Natural History. In addition are many specimens 
collected by the United States Exploring Expedition, and from other 
sources. 

The total number of specimens mounted is 1,031 ; 700 of which are 
corals; 225, sponges; and 106, echinoderms. 

The corals which have been thus mounted are believed to be more 
artistically and tastefully exhibited than any similar collection in any 
other museum in the world. 

The west hall of the Smithsonian Building is now being fitted up for 
the reception of this collection; the minerals and ceramic specimens, 
hitherto there displayed, being in process of removal to the new build- 
ing. The special collection of the cephalopod crustaceans made by Mr. 
Eathbun, as material for a special investigation now in progress in his 
laboratory, is one of the finest in the world, filling over seven hundred 
bottles. Among the most interesting accessions, in addition to those 
gathered by the Fish Commission, are a number of small lots obtained 
by the Gloucester fishermen on the off-shore banks, a fine collection of 
invertebrates from the vicinity of Cherrystone, Virginia, gathered by 
Col. Marshall McDonald of the Fish Commission; a choice suit of corals 
from Hayti, the gift of Prof. J. M. Langston, consul-general, at Port au 
Prince; collections of marine invertebrates gathered by Messrs. Nelson 
and Turner, and from Japan by Dr. F. C. Dale, U. S. N., and Mr. P. 
L. Jouy, attached to the U. S. steamer Palos. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 109 

There have been fifty-seven accessions of i)aleontological specunens. 
Except in the department of invertebrate paleontology, under the di- 
rection of Dr. 0. A. White, curator, there has been little attention paid 
during the year to work upon the collections of fossils. 

FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES : C. A. WHITE. 

The collections in invertebrate paleontology have received consider- 
able attention from Dr. White, who has, however, been absent for a 
great part of the year, occupied in work for tlie Geological Survey and 
as a member of the artesian wells commission, under the direction of 
the Commissioner of Agriculture. Material progress has, however, 
been made in the final arrangement of the tertiary and cretaceous fossils, 
valuable from having been so thoroughly reported upon by the late 
Prof. r. B. Meek. Among the most important accessions to this collec- 
tion have been the first series of duplicates from the Hall collection of 
fossils, the gift of the American Museum of Natural History, of Kew 
York City, a collection of cretaceous and Laramie fossils, gathered in 
Colorado by Dr. White, and a large collection of European tertiary 
and cretaceous fossils from M. J. J. M. De Morgan, of Paris. 

FOSSIL BOTANY: LESTER F. WARD. 

Prof. L. F. Ward, fossil botanist of the Geological Survey, has been 
appointed honorary curator of the department of fossil botany; but, 
at the beginning of the present calendar year, he had not entered upon 
active duties. The extensive collection of fossil-plants gathered in 
past years by the government exploring expeditions aud geological 
surveys, and which has for many years been in the custody of Prof. Leo 
Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio, one of the finest collections of fossil- 
plants in the world, having been re-arranged and labeled by Professor 
Lesquereux, has been placed in the final custody of the museum. Cases 
have been prepared for its reception, and during the present year it 
will be arranged for the use of students. The collection of fossil verte- 
brates, filling hundreds of boxes, is still in the storage-rooms. No steps 
have yet been taken to provide for their rearrangement. 

PLANTS: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

In accordance with an arrangement made many years ago with the 
Department of Agriculture, all botanical specimens received by the 
National Museum are placed in the custody of the botanist of that es- 
tablishment, and the very extensive herbaria of the Museum are on de- 
posit in the Agricultural Buildings, under the charge of Dr. Geo. A. 
Vasey. 

Fourteen accession lots of plants have been received during the year. 



110 KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

A portion of these are living water plants, and have been assigned to 
the superintendent of the government carp-ponds, under whose charge 
the Fish Commission has developed an extensive plantation of water- 
lilies and other interesting aquatic species. 

MINERALOGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY : GEORGE W. HAWES. 

In the department of mineralogy, under the direction of Dr. G. W. 
Hawes, there has been great activity during the year. The mineralog- 
ical and metallurgical materials, collected in all parts of the country for 
the Centennial Exhibition, and presented by foreign governments at its 
close, and which for five years past have occupied the two lower stories 
of the armory building, have all been unpacked and assorted, and the 
greater portion of them removed to the new building. Many of the most 
bulky and interesting blocks of minerals and ores have been iilaced on 
exhibition on a concrete pavement outside of and along the west main 
hall of the new building. Dr. Hawes, in connection with an investiga- 
tion upon the building-stones of the United States, which he is carrying 
on in behalf of the Tenth Census, has gathered specimens of stone from 
every quarry in the United States; and a force of fifteen men, in part 
detailed from the Census Office, has been occupied all the year in pre- 
paring them for study and exhibition. The blocks, which are, for the 
most part, received by mail in a rough condition,' have been dressed and 
polished in four-inch cubes. These cubes, when finished, show upon 
different sides the appearance of the stone when polished, ax-ham- 
mered, bush-hammered, rough-faced, drafted, and rough. 

Up to the 1st of January, 1881, there have been forwarded by special 
agents of the census, or by other persons upon their solicitations, 3,030 
specimens of building-stones, representing nearly every quarry of im- 
portance in the United States. Of this number 1,277 have been dressed 
in the manner just referred to. The Museum had already in its posses- 
sion 535 dressed specimens, many of them in blocks a foot square, or 
larger,, and beautifully polished, showing the products of many of the 
principal American quarries, and those of several foreign countries. 

Numerous analyses of building- stones by the chemical and specific 
gravity methods have been made by Messrs. F. p. Dewey and F. W. 
Taylor. 

Since the 1st of June, Mr. Geo. P. Merrill has prepared 1,550 micro- 
scopic slides of building-stones, to be used in connection with the inves- 
tigation. 

In addition to the building-stones received, there have also been fifty- 
seven accession lots, among the most important of which are a mag- 
nificient collection of stalactites and stalagmites from the Luray Caverns, 
the gift of the Shenandoah Valley Eailroad Company, and an extensive 
series of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park, including the 
top of a geyser with seventeen openings, obtained by Col. P. W. Norris,. 
superintendent of the park. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. Ill 



APPENDIX A.— LIST OF OFFICERS, JANUARY 1, 1882.* 



SPENCER F. BAIRD Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and Director. 

G. BROWN GOODE Assistant Director ; Curator, Dep't of Art and Industry. 

WILLIAM H. DALL Honorary Curator, Department of Conchology. 

ROBERT RIDGWAY Curator, Department of Ornithology. 

CHARLES RAU Curator, Department of Archwology. 

TARLETON H. BEAN Curator, DepH Ichthyology, and Editor of Proceedings. 

HENRY C. YARROW Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology . 

CHARLES A. WHITE Curator, Department of Invertebrate Paleontology. 

GEORGE W. HAWES Curator, Department of Geology. 

JAMES M. FLINT Honorary Curator, Department of Materia Medica. 

RICHARD RATHBUN Assistant Curator, in charge Dep't of Marine Invertebratea. 

EDWARD FOREMAN Assistant, Department of Ethnography. 

FREDERICK W. TRUE Librarian; acting Curator, Department of Mammala. 

FREDERICK W. TAYLOR .. C/imisf. 

GEORGE P. MERRILL Aid, Department of Mineralogy. 

WILLIAM S. YE ATES Aid, Department of Mineralogy. 



APPENDIX B.-BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MUSEUM WORK FOR 

1881. 



I.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Bean, Tarleton H. Descriptions of new species of fishes ( Uranidea 
marginata, Potamocottns Bendirei) and of Myctophum crenulare J. & G. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 26-29.) 

Notes on some fishes from Hudson's Bay. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 127-129.) 

Descriptions of new fishes from Alaska and Siberia. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 144-159.) 

Identifications of McCloud River, California, fishes, referred 

to in a paper based on a letter of J. B. Campbell. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1881, i, p. 46.) 

Directions for collecting and preserving fish. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 235-238.) 

A preliminary catalogue of the fishes of Alaska and adjacent 



waters. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 239-272.) 



' The names in each grade are arranged in the order of seniority. 



112 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bean, Tarleton H. Movements of young ale wives {Pomolobus sp.) in 
Colorado Eiver, Texas. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1881, i, pp. 69, 70.) 

Notes on a shipment by the United States Fish Commission of 

California salmon {Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Tanner's Creek, Indi- 
ana, in 1876. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1, pp. 204, 205.) , 

Account of a shijjment by the United States Fish Commission 

of California salmon-fry ( Oncor/t?/?ic/ms cJiouicha) to Southern Lou- 
isiana, with a note on some collections made at Tickfaw. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, pp. 205, 206.) 

A contribution to the biography of the commercial cod of Alaska. 

(Forest and Stream, April 28, 1881, pp. 250-252; also in Trans. Amer. Fish 
Cult. Association, 1881, pp. 16-34.) 

• List of deep-water fishes, etc. See under Yeeeill, Notice of 

the remarkable Marine Fauna of New England. 

(Am. Jour. Sci. Oct., 1881, vol. xxii, pp. 295-297.) 

See also under Goode and Bean. 



Dall, William H, The Chukchis and their neighbors in the north- 
eastern extremity of Siberia. 

(Proc. Royal Geogr. Soc. London, iii, pp. 568-570.) 

Hydrologie des Bering-meeres uud der benachbarten Gewasser. 

(Petermann's Geogr., Mittheilungen, 1881, pp. 361-380.) 

Table of currents in Northern Pacific and map of Bering Strait 

and vicinity. 

Hydrologie des Bering-Meeres und der benachbarten Gewasser 

(Petermann's Geogr., Mittheilungen, 1881, pp. 443^48.) 

American work in the department of recent MoUusca during 

the year 1880. 

(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1881, xv, pp. 704-718. Separate; without 
cover or title page.) 

On the so-called Chukchi and Namollo people of Eastern Siberia. 

(Amer. Naturalist, November, 1881, xv, pp. 857-868. Separate; notrepaged 
without cover.) 

Intelligence in a snail. 

(Amer. Naturalist, December, 1881, xv, pp. 976-977. Separate; without 
cover.) 

Some recent observations on Molluscs. 

(Bull. Phil. Soc, Washington, 1880, vol. iii, pp. 75, 76.) 

Ex. report. Coast Survey. 

(Amer. Jour. Sci. February, 1881, xxi, pp. 104-111.) Separate, with follow- 
ing title : 
From the American Journal of Science, vol. xxi, February, 1881. 

Notes on Alaska and the vicinity of Bering Strait. By W. H. 

Dall, assistant in charge of schooner Yukon, employed on the 
coast of Alaska; with a map. Extract from a report to C. P. Patter- 
son, Superintendent Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

(8^0., pp. 104-111.) 



REPOET OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 113 

Dall, W. H. Brief account of cruise in the Arctic, with account of 
land ice in Kotzebue Sound, and abstract of current observations 
in Bering Strait. 

Alaska forschungen im Sommer, 1880. 

(Petermann's Geogr. Mittheilungen, 1881, Heft., ii, pp. 46^47.) 

Bulletin of the Museum of Comi^arative Zoology, at Harvard 

College, vol. ix, 'No. 2. Eeports on the results of dredging under 
the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico and in 
the Carribbean Sea, 1877-'79, by the United States Coast Survey 
steamer Blake," Lieutenant-Commander C D. Sigsbee, TJ. S. N., 
and Commander J. E. Bartlett, U. S. N., commanding. 

Preliminary report on the Mollusca. By W. H. Dall. (Pub- 



lished by permission of Carlile P. Patterson, Supterintendent United 
States Coast and Geodetic Survey.) Cambridge: Printed for the 
Museum. July-December, 1881. 8 vo., pp. 33-144. 

Published in signatures, from July to December, 1881, pp. 33-48, July 12 ; 
pp. 49-64, August 12; pp. G5-80, August 25; pp. 81-96, September 2G; pp. 97- 
112, October 31 ; pp. 113-128, November 26 ; pp. 128-144, December 5. 

GooDE, G. Brown. (1879-'61.)— Game Pishes of the United States, by 
S. A. Kilbourne ; text by G. Brown Goode. New York. Published 
by Charles Scribner's Sons, 1879. Folio, pp. [4G]. 20 plates and 
map. Published in ten parts, each with two plates, lithographed in 
color, and four pages folio of text. 

Part I. — The Atlantic salmon. [Plate.J The Eastern red-speckled 
trout. [Plate.] [December, 1878.] 

Part II. — The large-mouthed black bass. [Plate and two cuts.] The 
Spanish mackerel. [Plate and three cuts.] 

Part III. — The striped bass or rockfish. [Plate and two cuts.] The 
red snapper. [Plate.] 

Part IV.— The bluefish. [Plate.] The yellow perch. [Plate.] 

Part V. — The mackerel. [Plate and one cut.] The squeteague, or 
veakflsh. [Plate and one cut.] 

Part VI. — The sea bass, or Southern blackfish. [Plate.] The pom- 
panose. [Plate and three cuts.] 

Part VII.— The sheepshead. [Plate.] The king-fish. [Plate.] 

Part VIII.— The lake or salmon trout. [Plate.] The bonito. [Plate 
and cut.] 

Part IX. — The grayling. [Plate and cut.] The red fish, or Southern 
bass. [Plate.] 

Part X. — The quinnat, or California salmon. [Plate.] The muskel- 
lunge. [Plate.J List of game fishes. Map showing geographical dis- 
tribution of game fishes. 
S. Mis. 109 8 



114 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

GooDE, G. Brown. Descriptions of seven new species of fishes* from 
deep soundings on the Southern New England coast, with diag- 
noses of two undescribed genera of Flounders, and a genus related 
to Merlucius. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, iii,pp. 337-351.) 

Enumerates 16 species never before seen soutli of Cape Cod. 

Fishes from the deep water on the south coast of New England, 

obtained by the United States Fish Commission in the summer of 
1880. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1830, iii, pp. 467-485.) 

Enumerates 51 species known to occur outside of the hundred fathom curve 
along the southern coast of New England. 

The frigate Mackerel, Auxis Rochei, on the New England Coast. 

(Proc. U. S.N.M., 1880, iii, pp. 532-5.) 

N'otacanfhus ijliasganoriis, a new species of Notacanthidae from 

the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 535-537.) 

Epochs in the history of fish culture. [A paper read before the 

American Fish Cultural Association.] 

{Forest and Stream, xvi, pp. 311, 332, and353. 
(Trans. Amer, Fish Cultural Association, 1881.) 

Preliminary statistical report on the fisheries of California, 

Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. 

(Census Bulletin, No. 176, pp. 6. Washington, Government Printing Office. 
June, 1881.) 

The Saibling or Bavarian char. 

(Forest and Stream, February 17, 1881). 

Note on article by Capt. E. T. Deblois on the origin of the Men- 
haden industry. 

(Bull. U.S. F. C, i, p. 46.) 

Fishermen of America. 

(New York Daily Tribune, June 2S, 1881.) 

Notes on the life-history of the eel, chiefly derived from a study 

of recent European authorities. 

(Bull., U. S. F. C, i, pp. 71-124. Proc. American Fish Cultural Associa- 
tion, 1881, pp. 81-123.) 

The carangoid fishes of the United States^ pompanoes, crevall6s, 



amber-fish, &c. 

(BuU. U. S. F. C, 1881, i, pp. 30-43.) 

GooDE, G. Brown, and Tarleton H. Bean. — Description of a new 
species of fish, Apogon imndionis, from the deep water off the mouth 
of Chesapeake Bay. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1881, iv, pp. 160-161.) 

* The following are the new genera: Monolene, p. 338; Thyris, p. 344 ; Hypsicometes, 
p. 347. The following are the new siiccies : Monolene 8essiUcauda,Y>.'62Q; Citharichthys 
arcfi/ro«s, p. 341 ; Citharichthys unicornis,]). 342; Thyris pellucidus, p. 344; Macrurus . 
carminatus, p. 346; Hypsicometes gobioides, p. 348: Peristedium miniatum, p. 349. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 115 

Hawes, George W. — The Albany granite, New Hampshire, and its 
contact phenomena. 

(Amer. Jouru. Sci. and Arts, Jan., 1881, xxi, p. 21,) 

On liquid carbon dioxide in smoky quartz. 

(Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, March, 1882, xxi, pp. 203-9, 13 figs.) 

On the mineralogical comi)osition of the normal mesozoic dia- 
base upon the Atlantic border. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., iv, pp. 129-137.) 

On the determination of feldspar in thin sections of rocks. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 134-6.) 

JouY, Pierre Louis. — Description of a new species of Squalius (Squalus 
alicicej, from Utah Lake. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 19.) 

See also below, under D. S. Jordan. 

Rau, Charles. — Aboriginal stone drilling. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, pp. 536-542, Illustrated.) 
Relating to the method employed in drilling stone by the American aborig- 
ines. 

Department of the Interior. U. S. Geograjihical and Geological 

Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region, J. W. Powell in charge. 
Observations on Cup-shaped and other Lapidarian Sculptures in 
the Old World and in America, by Charles Eau. [From '' Con- 
tributions to North American Ethnology," vol. v.] Washington : 
Government Printing Office. 1881. 4to, pp. 102, 61 illustrations 
on 35 plates. 

RiDGWAY, Robert. — Nomenclature of North American Birds, chiefly 
contained in the United States National Museum. 

(Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. No, 21. Washington : Government Printing Office, 
1881, 8vo,, pp, 94,) 

The great need of a new catalogue of North American birds, which prompted 
the i)ublication of this list, is explained in the opening paragraph of the in- 
troduction, as follows : 

Since the publication, in 1859, of the last Smithsonian catalogue of North 
American birds, so many important changes have been made in the nomen- 
clature of the species, and so numerous have been the additions to the fauna, 
that the wants of ornithologists require a new list which shall bring the sub- 
ject up to date, 

Swainson's Warbler {Reloncca sivainsoni) in Texas. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1881, vol. vi, p. 54.) 

The range of this species was previously confined to Northern Florida and 
the adjacent portions of Georgia, Alabama, and South Carolina, with some- 
what doubtful records in Cuba and Southwestern Indiana. Its occurrence in 
Navarro County, Texas, was communicated to the author by Mr, J, Douglas 
Ogilby, a correspondent of the National Museum, 

On a Duck new to the North American Fauna. 

(Proc, U, S. N, M., 1881, iv, pp. 22-24.) 

Based upon a specimen of FuUgula rufina (Pall.) (No. 61957) in the U. S. 
National Museum, obtained in Fulton Market, New York, and presumably shot 
on Long Island Sound. 



IIG REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiDGWAY, Egbert. — On Amazilia yucatanensis (Cabot) and A. cer^in- 
iventris, Gould. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 25,26.) 

A recent authority on the Humming-birds having united the above-named 
species, and the editors of "The Ibis" having suggested that an actual com- 
parison of the two " would, be satisfactory," the type specimen of the former 
■was borrowed for the purpose fi-oni its collector and owner, Dr. Samiiel Cabot, 
jr., of Boston, From this actual comparison of the two, the author was en- 
abled to establish their distinctness from each another. 

r— A Hawk new to the United Statep. 

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 14, 1881, vol. xvi, p. 206.) 
Announcement of the capture o£ B'Uteo fuUginosus, Scl., in Florida. 

Southern Eangeof the Eaven on the Atlantic Coast of the United 

States. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vi, p. 118.) 

The southern limit of the Raven along the Atlantic sea-board, as previously 
recorded, was the coast of New Jersey; but the known range of the species 
was considerably extended by the observations of the author, who, while en- 
gaged in an exploration under the auspices of the National Museum, found it 
, to be not uncommienon the islands near Cape Charles, Virginia. 

An unaccountable migration of the Eed-headed Woodpecker. 

(Bull. Nutt. Oru. Club, April, 1881, vi, pp. 120-122.) 

In the autumn of 1879, this species (Melanerjjes erythrocephalus), which 
is ordinarily, and especially in winter, the most abundant of the Wood- 
peckers in Southern Illinois, made a general migration, and did not reappear 
nntil the following spring. The cause of this disappearance was not apparent, 
since every other species of the family (six in niimber) were normally abund- 
ant. 

The Caspian Tern in California. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vi, 124.) 

A notice of two specimens of Sterna (or Sylochelidon) caspia from California, 
in, the collection of the National Museum, being the first record of this species 
from the Pacific coast of America. 

A Eevised Catalogue of the Birds Ascertained to Occur in 

Illinois. 

(Bull. Illinois State Laboratory of Nat. Hist., May, 1881, No. 4, pp. 163-208.) 
This catatogue (of 341 species) is based very largely upon collections made 
by the author at Mt. Carmel and in the vicinity of Olney, Illinois, and de- 
posited in the U. S. National Museum. 

A critical Eeview of the Genus Centurus, Swainspn. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 93-119.) 

On a Tropical American Hawk to be added to the North Anaeri- 



cap Fauna 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Oct. 1881, vi, pp. 207-214.) 
Based upon two specimens, in the collection of the National Museum, of 
Buleo hraclnjnrus Vieill. from Palatka, Florida (G. A. Bordman), and. B.fuUgi- 
noaus Scl. fi'om Oyster Bay, Florida (W. S. Crawford). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSETTM. 117 

EiDGWAY, R. — List of Si^ecies of Middle and South American Birds not 
contained in the Uliited States National Museum. [Corrected to 
July, 1881.] 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. iv, pp. 165-203.) 

A list of all the known species of tropical American birds not represented 
in the national collection, with authorities and habitats, prepared for dis- 
tribution to public museums and collectors. 

List of Special Desiderata among ISTorth American Birds. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., vol. iv, pp. 207-223.) 

Prepared for the use of correspondents of the National Museum and those 
wishing to make exchanges. The list includes all deficiencies in the way of 
desirable species, special plumages, «fec., wanted to render the national col- 
lection more complete. 

EiLEY, Charles V. — * Silk-culture in the United States. Condensed 
account of the silkworm and how to inaugurate a new source of 
wealth. 

(Western Farmers' Almanac, 1881, pp. 35-39, Fig. 14.) 

Larval habits of bee-flies [Bomhyludce). 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb., 1881, xv, pp. 143-145, Fig. 1-3.) 

Sysioeclius areas parasitic on Caloptcnus spretus, Bombylius major (of Europe) 

on Andrena labialis. LarviB and pupaj of the two species compared ; larva, 

pupa, and imago of S. oreaa figured. 

Safe Remedies for Cabbage Worms and Potato Beetles. Ex- 
periments with Pyrethrum. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, pp. 145-147.) 

Details of numerous expe|Pffents, made under direction of the author, by 
A. J. Cook and W. R. Hubbert, proviug the efficacy of pyrethrum powder in 
the destruction of those and other insects. 

The food of fishes. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, v, xv, pp. 147-148.) 

Notice of S. A. Forbes's "The food of fishes," and "On the food of young 
fishes." 

Insect enemies of the rice plant. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, pp. 148-149.) 

Identifies Chalepus trachypygus feeding on roots of the rice plant, and- con- 
jectures that other mentioned enemies of rice may be Spalacopsis suffusa and 
Centrinus conchinus. Rice plant in India injured by Cecidomijia oryza. 

The "YeUow-FeverFly." 

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, p. 150.) 

Rev. of H. A. Hagen'sThe "Yellow-Fever Fly" (Psyche, Sep., 1880,) records 
occurrence of swarms of Sciara in the imago state. 

The United States Entomological Commission [C. V. JRiley, A. 

S. Packard, jr., Cyrus Thomas], (Department of the Interior). Second 
report for the year 1878 and 1879 relating to the Rocky Mountain 
locust and the western cricket, and treating of the best means of 
subduing the locust in its i^ermanent breeding grounds, with a view 
of preventing its migrations into the more fertile portions of the 
trans-Mississippi country, in pursuance of appropriations made by 
Congress for this purpose ; — with maps and illustrations. Wash., 

• This list has been kindly preiiared by Mr. B. Pickman Mann. 



118 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Rii.EY, Charles V. — Continued. 

1880 [March, 1881], 18 + 322 + 80, p. 17 pi., each plate with one leaf 
explanation, map 1, in 6 pts., map 2-4, 9 fig. 

Extract from chap. 13, by Riley, entitled ''Larval habits of bee-flies." 
(Ainer. Naturalist, June, 1881, v. xv, pj). 438-447, pi. 6.) Germ. Iw. of part of p. 
260, entitled "i^jicawtoujiteto aus Eiern zuerziehen". {Entom. Nachr., Aug. 
1881.) 

Separate of chap. 13, author's ed. , by Eiley, with half t. p. cover and half 
t. p., entitled " The Rocky Mountain locust." Further facts about the nat- 
ural enemies of locusts [Wash.], 1880. -f p. 259-271, -pi. 16, with one leaf expl. 
of pi. 

Sei>arte of chap. 14, author's ed., by Eiley, with half t. p. cover and half t. 
p., entitled "The Rocky Mountain locust. Permanent courses for the gov- 
erdment to adopt to lessen or avert locust injury." [Wash.] 1880. -i- p. 271- 
322 ; map 1, in 6 parts. 

Notes on the grape Phylloxera and on laws to prevent its intro- 
duction. 

(Amer. Naturalist, March, 1881, xv, pp. 238-241.) 

Summary of life history of Phylloxera vastatrix. Proper precautions to be 
adopted against the introduction of the pest into uninfected countries. 

Hibernation of the Cotton Worm moth ; ease with which 

mistakes are made. 

(Amer. Naturalist, March. 1881, XV, pp. 244-245, Figs. 1-3.) 

Imago of Leucania unipuneta mistaken for that of Aletia argillacea, in Texas; 

distinctive characteristics of the two species; figures imagos of both species 

and ovipositor of the former. 

— General Index and sujiplement to the nine Eei)orts on the 

insects of Missouri. 

(U. S. Entomological Commission, Bulletin No. 6, Wash., 24 March, 1881, 
t. p. cover, pp. 1-178.) 

Introduction, pp. 5-7. Tables of contents of the reports, pp. 9-45. Cor- 
rections of errata, pp. 46-51. Notes and additions of the most important 
facts ascertained about insects treated in the reports [with later or more cor- 
rect nomenclature], pp. 52-63. Descriptions of new species and varieties [re- 
printed from the reports with notes and corrections], pp. 64-90. List of de- 
Bcriptions of adolescent states [referring to previously published descrix^tious 
of the same when any exist], pp. 91-95. List of descriptions of adolescent 
states [referring to previously published descriptions of the same when any 
exist], pp. 91-95. List of descriptions, mostly amplified, of species not new, 
pp. 96-97. List of illustrations [arranged in serial order, designating those 
not original], pp. 98-118. Classified list of illustrations [in systematic order], 
pp. 119-123. General index, pp. 125-166. Index to plants and food-plants, 
pp. 167-177. Errata [in this work], p. 178. 

Notes on North American Microgasters, with description of new 

species. 

(Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, iv, No. 2, pp. 295-315 ; il.) 

Separate [St. Louis], 6 April, 1881, i t. p. cover + 20 p., 23 x 16, il. Habits 
and characteristics of the grouj) ; three genera distinguished ; formations of 
cocoons (il.); describes two new species of Microplitis and ten of Apavteles ; 
also several forms of Apanteles congregatus and larva of A. aletice; figarea 
imago of J. aletice and several cocoon masses; habits of the species; reference 
list of the (23) described N. A. species. 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OP NATIONAL MUSEUM. 119 

EiLEY, Charles Y. — Ou some iuteractions of organisms. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April 1881, xv, p. 323,324.) 

Abstract of and comments on S. A. Forbes's " On some interactions of or- 
ganisms" (Bull. 111. State laboratory of Nat. History, No. 3). 

Legislation to control insects injurious to vegetation. 

(Farmers' Review, Jan. 20, 1881. Reprint Amer. Naturalist, April, 1881, xv, 
pp. 322-323. Indiana Farmer, April 15, 1881.) 

Agricultural advancement in the United States. Eeprint, 

entitled "Agricultural advancement in the United States." Ad- 
dress at the organization of the American Agricultural Association, 
December, 1879. 

(Journ. Amer. Agric. Assoc, April, 1881, i, pp. 47-r)4.) 

Account of the measures adopted by the governments of England, Ger- 
many, and France for the promotion of agriculture ; criticism of the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture and suggestions for its reorganization ; how the 
present association can do its work best. 

The Periodical Cicada, alias " Seventeen-year Locust." 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp., 479-482, Fig. 1.) 

A new species of oak Coccid, mistaken for a gall. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, p. 482.) 

Description of Kermrs galliformis, n. sp., occurring on Quercus palustris in 
the southern and central U. S. ; the Coccid often infested by a parasitic Lexi- 
idopter, Euclemensia iasseitella. 

The " Water-weevil" of the rice plant. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 482-483.) 

Reasons for presuming that the " maggot " of rice-fields is the larva of Lis- 
8orhoptru8 simplex; habits and seasons of appearance. 

The impregnated egg of Phylloxera vastatrix. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 18S1, xv, pp. 483-484.) 

Establishment of the author's prediction, made in 1875, that the impreg- 
nated egg of Phylloxera vasiati-ix would be found to hatch in the same season 
in which it was laid. 

Works on North American Micro-lepidoptera. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 484-486.) 

Review of Lord Walsingham's [T. de Grey's] "Illustrations of typical 
specimens of Lepidoptera heterocera . . . pt. 4," and of his "Pterophoridce 
of California and Oregon ; " discussion of the new genera erected therein. 

Moths mistaken for Aletia. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, i)p. 486-487.) 

Scale insect on raspberry. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, p. 487.) 

Specific value of Apartura alicia, Edw. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, i>, 487.) 

The caterpillar nuisance. How to suppress it. 

(Evening Star [Washington, D. C], 24th June, 1881. Amor. Naturalist, 
Sept., 1881, XV, pp. 747-748, fig.) 



120 KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY, Charles Y. — Plant-feeding habits of predaceous beetles. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1881, xv, pp. 325-327.) 

Brings together various testimonies to prove tliat certain Carabidas and Coc- 
cinellidce feed upon vegetal matter, referring to published articles on the sub- 
ject. 

Notes on Papilio philenor. 

(Amer. Naturalist, April 1881, xv, pp. 327-329, Fig. 1-3.) 
Describes egg and newly-hatched larva ; figures imago, larva, and i)upa ; 
notes on distribution and food-plant (Arisiolochia.) 

Larval habits of Bee-flies. 

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 438-447, pi. 6.) 

Extract from chap. 13 of 2d rept. U. S. Eutom. Commission. Parasitism of 
larvse of Triodites mns and Systoechus areas on eggs of CamnuJa pellucida ; review 
of previous kuowledgeof the larval history of Bomhyliidw, with references to the 
several accounts of observations ; description of larva) and pupiB of T. mus 
and S. oreas, and figures of these and of the imagos. 

Additional notes on the Army worm, Leucania nnipuncta. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc, Advanc. Sci. for 1881,xxix, j). 640.) 

Revision of views set forth in op. cit. for 187G, 1877, v. 25, pt. 2, p. 279 : num- 
ber of annual generations two to several, according to latitude ; both larva 
and imago hibernate, probably pupa also ; the insects may occur in destruc- 
tive numbers from natural increase or from immigration ; they breed natur- 
ally in all old, neglected fields; dry seasons favorable to the increase of the 
insects in the following year. 

Some recent practical results of the cotton worm inquiry by 

the U. S. Entomological Commission. 

(ProQ. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., 1881, xxix, i>. 642.) 

Statement of principles established i^ the natural history of Aletia argilJa- 
cea, which have a practical bearing ; the best poisons for the insects are Paris 
green, London purple, pyrethrum, and oils ; methods of applying these poi- 
sons. 

The hitherto unknown life-habits of two genera of bee-flies, 

bombyliidae. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advance. Sci., 1881, xxix, pt. 2, p. 649.) 

Lepidopterological notes. 

(Papilio, July, 1881, i, pp. 106-110.) 

From advance sheets of Bulletin 6, U. S. Entom. Commission. Synonymical 
and Inological notes, with references to literature concerning Pliisia hrassicw, 
Gortyna nitela, Arwmis xylina, rempelia grossularice, Penthiua vitivorana, En- 
demis hotrana, EuryptycliiasalUjneana, Hedya scudderiana, Ancliylopera fragarke., 
Tortrix Cinderella and T. malivorana and T. vacciniivorana, J'eras oxycoccana, 
Octa comjyta and Tinea pustulella and Deiopeia aiirea-Oeta punctella ; describes 
eggs of Teras oxycoccana and Octa punctella. 

The Periodical Cicada, alias " Seventeen-year Locust." 

(Farmers' Beview, June 16, 1881.) 

Statement of localities in which Cicada septemdecim Linn will occur ia 18S1, 
and also of those in a thirteen-year race {trcdecim Riley) will appear. 



REE.ORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 121 

Riley, Charles V. — Locusts and Locusts. A letter from Professor 0. 
V. Riley. The Lead of the Uuited States Eutomological Commis- 
sion explains the difference between the periodical Cicada and the 
true Locust : thirteen- and seventeen-year broods : no especial cause 
for alarm this year. 

(New York Tribune, June 22, 1881.) 

Popular confusion of insects having very different habits under the term 
'* locust." Comparative account of Cicada septemdecim with Caloptenus spretus. 
No cause for the alarm as to true locust depredations. Recommendation of a 
system of observations and warnings by the Government. 

The Rocky Mountain Locust, alias Western Grasshopper. 

(American Agriculturist, July, 1881, vol. xl, p. 283, 284, fig. 1-G.) 

Popular condensed statement of habits and remedies for Caloptenua spretus. 

A remarkable case of retarded development. 

(Scientific American, Aug. 20, 1881.) 

Preservation of eggs of Caloptenus spretus unhatched for more than four 
years by their burial in a cool, moist and almost air-tight place, at Manhat- 
tan, Kansas, 187C-1>81 ; influence of temperature on acceleration and retar- 
dation of development. 

The Rocky Mountain Locust, alias Western Grasshopper. 

(Ame*. Agriculturist, July, 1881, Fig. 1-6.) 

Dimorphism in Cynipidx. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, p. 566.) 

Claim of priority in proof of dimorphism in Cynipidce in N. A. ; reference to 
previous views of Walsh and Bassett ; extract from H. Adler's "tlber den 
Generationswechsel der Eichen-Gallwespen" (Zeitschr. fiir wiss. Zool., Feb., 
1881, Bd. 35, p. 151 — ), comprising a list of the* 19 specimens in which the 
occurrence of dimorphic forms has been proven. 

Blepharoceridw. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xy-, p. 567-568.) 

Account of various investigations into the natural history of Blepharoceridoe ; 
description of the larvae and pupaj. 

The cultivation of Pyrethrum and manufacture of the pow- 
der. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, Sept., and Oct., 1881, pp. 569-572; pp. 744-746; and 
pp. 817-819.) 

Covering of egg-puncture mistaken for Dorthesia. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, p. 574.) 

In the collection of Asa Fitch the white and ribbed waxy material cover- 
ing the egg-punctures of Enehophi/Uum hinotatwm are labeled as Dorthesia 
vihirni and D. celastri. It is doubtful whether any such species were de- 
scribed by Fitch. 

Supposed Army-worm in ]!»J'ew York and other Eastern States. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Jtily, 1881, xv, pp. 574-577.) 

Ravages of Xe2)helodes violans and Crambus vuh/irageJhis, in Now Jersey, 
Long Island, and Northern New York — natural history, vernacular name, and 
detailed description of larva of the former species. 



122 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY, Charles Y. — Classification of the mites. 

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, pp. 577-578.) 

Abstract of letter from Dr. G. Haller, in whicli he states that Acarina 
have three pairs of maxillae, a true labium with palpi, two pairs of abdomi- 
nal and [two pairs of] cephalothoracic legs ; he does not consider that they 
belong to the Arachnida, but believes they are much more nearly allied to 
the Crustacea, and must form a fifth class of Arthropoda, equivalent to Crus- 
tacea, Myriapoda, Arachnida, and Mexapoda. 

Further notes on the pollination of Yucca and on Pronuha and 

Frodoxus. 

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advanc. Sci., 1881, xxix, pt. 2, pp. 617-639, Fig. 1-16.) 

Separate. (Furthernotes [etc.]) 

[Salem, July, 1881,] pp. 1-23, Fig. 1-16.) 

Recapitulation of observed facts concerning Pronuha yuccaaella and its con- 
nection with the pollination of Yucca; describes and figures the generic and 
specific characters of Pronuha, P. yuccasella, P. maculata n. sp., Prodoxus, P. 
decipiens, P. intei-medms n. sp., P. marginatus n. sp., P. cinereua u. sp., P. cenea- 
cens n. sp., Hyponomeuta, H. maUneUa, H. multipunctella; establishes and char- 
acterizes the new family Prodoxidos (Tineina) for Pronuha and Prodoxus; dis- 
cusses the structure of the ovipositor in lepidoptera, and the habits and func- 
tions of Pronuha yuccasella and Prodoxus decipiens; proposes to restrict the 
prior trivial name quinquepunctella [proposed for a Yponomeuia'\ to that form 
of Prodoxus decipiens which it proves to be, and cites the trivial name jjara- 
doxica [used without description] as a synonym of P. decipiens. 

The periodical Cicada. 

(Amer. Agriculturist, Aug., 1881, Fig. 1-5.) 

• Blepharoceridce. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 748.) 

Records the discovery, by J. Q. Adams, of pupse and imagos of Blepharo- 
ceridce at AVatertown, N. Y. 

Eemarkable case of retarded development. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 748-749.) 

Eggs of Caloptenus spretus, buried about 25 cm. underground, remained un- 
hatched and alive for four and one-half years, at Manhattan, Kansas, and 
hatched upon being exhumed. 

The Hessian fly. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 750.) 

Report of extensive damage done by Cecidomyia destructor in Illinois and 
Missouri; abundance of this insect in the "Western [prairie] States. 

The genuine Army- worm in the West. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 750.) 

A new imported enemy to clover. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 750-751.) 

Trifolium injured by Phytonomus punctatus at Barrington, N. Y., in July, 1881. 

Another enemy of the rice plant. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 751.) 

Oryza saliva gxe-Ailj injured in Georgia, in the summer of 1881, by the larva 
of Laphygma frugiperda. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUSI. 123 

EiLEY, Charles V. — Lepidopterological notes. 

(Aiiier. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 751-752.) 

Notes on xEgeria acerni, Hyphantria textor, Callimorpha fulvicosta, Samia Co- 
lumbia, Callosamia atigulifera, Celaina renige7'a and Prodenia autumnalis. 

Notes on Hydrophilus triangularis. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp, 814-817, Fig. 1-2.) 
Notes ou the life-history of if. triangularis : figures eggs, egg-cases, larva, 
pupa, and imago. 

Migration of plant-lice from one i^lant to another. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp. 819-820.) 
Review and indorsement of Lichtensteiu's views. 



— The Chinch Bug. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp. 820-821.) 

Notice of Thomas's predictions, and of the occurrence of Blissua leucopterua 
on rice and "sand oats." 

— The Permanent Subsection of Entomology at the recent meet- 
ing of the A. A. A. S. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov. and Dec, 1881 : xv, pp. 909-912 ; and pp. 1008-1011.) 

— The new imported clover enemy. 

Habits of Phytonomus punciatus, and of other species of the genua. 
(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, pp. 912-914.) 

— Cramhus vulgivagellus. (Description of its eggs.) 
(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, pp. 914-915.) 

— [Address delivered 4 Nov., 1881, at the cotton convention held 
in Atlanta, Ga., 2 Nov., 1881.J (U. S. Department of Agriculture.) 
Address of Hon. Geo. B, Loring, Commissioner of Agriculture, and 
other i^roceedings of the cotton convention [etc.J, Wash., 1881, pp. 
19-35. 

Beneficial and injurious influence of insects ; methods of counteracting in- 
jurious insects ; ravages and natural history of and search for means against 
Aletia argillaeea ; improved methods and contrivances for the application of 
poisons to plants ; discussion ou the address. 

— Larval habits of iSphenophori that attack corn. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, pp. 915-916.) 

Mentions several species of Sjjhenophorus injurious to maize plants in dif- 
ferent parts of the United States ; habits and ravages of S. 7-obustus. 

— Effect of drought on the Hessian fly. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, p. 91G.) 

Hot and dry weather dries up and kills Cecidomyia destructor and its parasites. 

— Eetarded Development in Insects. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1881, xv, pp. 1007-1008.) 

Eggs of Caloptenua vprctua retained their vitality four and one-half years 
under abnormal environment, and then hatched on exposure to normal en- 
vironment; speculations on the cause of the phenomena of retardation of 
development. 



124 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY Charles V. — Another herbivorous Ground-beetle. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1881, xv,p. 1011.) 

Anisodactylus cortfusus injuring strawberry plants in California. 

A disastrous sheep parasite. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1881, xv, p. 1011.) 

Trichodecteis ovis doing great injury to flocks of sheep in Illinoia. 

Eesistauce of grape-^ines to Phylloxera in sandy soil. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1881, xv, pp. 1012-1013.) 

Locusts in the West in 1881. 

(Amer. Naturalist, Dec, 1881, xv, p. 1013.) 

The Chinch Bug. 

(Amer. Agriculturist, November, 1881, vol. xl, p. 476, fig. 1-3; ibid., Decem- 
ber, 1881, vol. xl, p. 515, fig. 1-4.) 

Destructive powers, food-plants, characters, habits, natural history, meteor- 
ological conditions affecting, natural enemies of, and means of coping with 
Blissus leucopierus, Say. Describes as enemies Anthocoris insidiosus, Harpactor 
cinctiis, and Nysius destructor; also some false or bogus chinch bugs. Lays 
stress on value of irrigation. 

Peach Tree Bark-borer. Important note from Professor C. V. 



Riley. 

(Rural New Yorker, Dec. 24, 1881.) 

Account of injuries to peach trees of a beetle, Phloiotribus Hminaris, Harr. 

Shufeldt, R. W., M. D. — The Claw on the Index Finger of the Ca- 
thartidae. 

(Amer. Naturalist, November, 1881, xv.pp. 906-908.) 

An important osteological paper based upon material in the collection of 
the National Museum. 

On the Ossicle of the Antibranchium as found in some of the 



North American Falconidae. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club., Oct., 1881, vol. vi, pp. 197-203.) 
An important osteological paper based chiefly on material coatained in 
the Rational Museum collection. 

Ward, Lester F. — Evolution of the Chemical Elements. 

(Popular Science Monthly, February, 1880, pp. 526-539.) 

A discussion of the theory of defveloj)ment as applied to the elements and 

consideration of the facts recently revealed by spectrum analysis seeming to 

favor the theory. 
Previously read before the Philosophical Society of Washingten. 

Incomplete Adaptation as illustrated by the History of Sex in 

Plants. 

(Amer. Naturalist, February, 1881, pp. 89-95.) 

Read before the Biological Section of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science at Boston August 27, 1880. 

The paper shows that there exist, in nearly all departments of the vege- 
table kingdom, successive degrees to which the i^rocess of sexual diliereutia- 
tion has attained, and that in many cases there are obvious indications that 
this process is still going on. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 125 

Ward, Lester F. — Pre-Social Man. 

(Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, 
for the years ending January 20, 1880, and January 18, 1881, pp. G8-71, being 
the abstract of a paper read before the Society April 20, 1880.) 

The anatomical characters distinguishing the human form from that of the 
most highly developed anthropoids are enumerated, and the several physical 
causes considered which seem to have been most potent in securing their de- 
velopment. 

Savage and Civilized Orthoepy. 

(Loc. cit., pp. 106-111 being the abstract of a paper read before the Society 
December 21, 1880.) 

This paper consisted, principally, of remarks and strictures on the first 
chapter of the Introduction to the Study of Indian Languages, by J. TV. Powell, 
Ph. D., Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, which treats of the pronuncia- 
tion of Indian and other languages. 

Politico-Social Functions. 

(Penn. Monthly, May, pp. 321-336. Read before the Anthropological So- 
ciety of Washington March 15, 1881.) 

The right, power, and duty of society to regulate its own operations are 
argued, and the progress which has taken place toward this end in various 
countries is reviewed. 

Field and Closet Notes on the Flora of Washington and 



Vicinity. 

(Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, 1881, vol. iv, pp. 64- 
119. Read before the Society January 22, 1881.) 

The paper embraces, among other sub-titles, a Comparison of Flora of 1830, 
with that of 1880; a description of the Localities of Special Interest to the Bot- 
anist; a consideration of the Flotvei-ing-time of Plants ; a Statistical View of the 
Flora as compared with other floras; an enumeration of the most Abundant 
Species; a statement of the most approved Classification Adopted by botanists; 
remarks on Common Names, and a Summary by Orders and larger groups of the 
number of genera and species found growing in the vicinity of Washington. 

White, Charles A., on certain Cretaceous fossils from Arkansas and 
Colorado. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 13&-139. 1 pi.) 



II.— PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. S. A.— Noles on Salmonidae of the Up- 
per Columbia. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 81-87.) 

Brewster, William. — Notes on some Birds from Arizona and New 
Mexico, with a description of a supposed new Whip-poor-will. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 65-73.) 
Antrostomus vociferus arizonce, var. nov. (p. 69), is based partly on the ex- 
amination of specimens contained in the collection of the National Mi seum. 



126 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
Brewster, William. — Critical notes on a Petrel new to North America. 

(BulL Niitt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 91-97.) 

A specimen of an QSstrelata captured alive in a plowed field at Mount Mor- 
ris, Livingston County, New York, was identified by Mr. Brewster by com- 
parison with the type specimen in the National Museum, as CE. gularis 
(Peale). 

On the affinities of certain Polioptilse, with a description of a 

new species. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 101-107.) 
Based largely on specimens in the collection of the National Museum, 
among which are the types of P. californica Brewst., sp. nov. (p. 103). 

Collins, Capt. J. W. — Gill-nets in the cod fishery : A description of 
the I^orwegian cod nets, with directions for their use, and a history 
of their introduction into the United States. 
(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1881, vol. i, pp. 1-17, 12 pi.) 

Endlich, F. M. — An analysis of water destructive to fish in the Gulf of 
Mexico. 

(Proc.U. S. N. M., iv, p. 124.) 
Farlow, W. G. — Eeport on the contents of two bottles of water from 
the Gulf of Mexico ; forwarded by the Smithsonian Institution. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 234.) 

Garman, Samuel. — Synopsis and descriptions of the American BMno- 
hatidce. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 516-523.) 

Gill, Theodore. — Note on the Latiloid genera. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1881, iv, pp. 162-164.) 

Glazier, W. C. W., Assistant Surgeon, M. H. S. — On the destruc- 
tion of fish by polluted waters in the Gulf of Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 126-127.) 

GuRNEY, John Henry. — Note on Onychotes grueberi, Eidgway. 

(The Ibis (London), July, 1881, 4th ser., vol. v, pp. 396-398, pi. xii.) 

This article and the fine plate accompanying it is based on the two type 

specimens in the U. S. National Museum collection, the only examples of the 

species known to exist. 

Harger, Oscar. — Eeport on the Marine Isopoda, of New England, 
and adjacent waters. 

(Rept. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, part vi, pp. 297-462, plates i-xiii). 

"The following paper includes the species of Isopoda at jjresent known to 
inhabit the coast of New England and the adjacent region, as far as Nova 
Scotia on the north and New Jersey on the south." This is a very complete 
account of all the New England Isopods known up to the date of publication, 
full descriptions being given of all the families, genera, and species, and de- 
tailed figures of all the species. Fourteen families, 34 genera, and 46 species 
are described ; of these one genus and one species (Syscetuis ivfelix) are new. 
An account of the geographical distribution of the species described is given, 
followed by a table illustrating their geographical and balthymetrical range 
in detail, and a list of the authorities quoted. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 127 
Hay, O. p. — On a collection of fishes from eastern Mississippi. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 488-515.) 

The followiug new species are described : Ammocrypta gelida, Hadropterus 
spiUmavi, Nanoatoma elcgans, Pcccilichthys artesioe, P. saxafilis, VaiUantia chJoro- 
8oma, Microperca procUaris, Alhurnops taurocephalus, Alburnops longirosiris, Hen^ 
itremia maculata, Luxilus chickasavensis, Ojysopoeodus (n. g.) eniilia;, Minnilus 
punctulattis, Minnilus ruhy'ijnnnis, Minnilus bellus. 

Henshaw, H. W. — On Podiceps occidentalis and P. clarMi. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Oct., 1881, vi, pp. 214-218). 

A critical comparison of the above-named forms, based chiefly on speci- 
mens in the collection of the National Museum. 

Ingersoll, Ernest. — On tbe fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 74-80.) 

Johnson, S. H. — Notes on the mortality among fishes of the Gulf of 
Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 205.) 

Jordan, Daved S. — Description of a new species of Caranx [Caranx 
Beani), from Beaufort, North Carolina. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 486-488.) 

Jordan, David S., and Charles H. Gilbert. — Description of a new 
species of N'emichthi/s (NemicMhys avocetta), from Puget Sound. 
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 409-410.) 

Description of a new species of Faralepis {Paralepis coruscans)^ 

from the Straits of Juan de Fuca. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 411-413.) 

List of the fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States, with a 

table showing the distribution of the species. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 452-458.) 

On the generic relations of Belone exilis Girard. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, p. 459.) 

Notes on a collection of fishes from Utah Lake. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 459-465. 

Description of a new species of ''Eock Fish" {Sebastichthys 

chrysomelas) from the coast of California. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 465-466.) 

Notes on the fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 29-70, Apr. 13-30, 1831.) 

Description of Sehastichthys mystimis. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 70-72.) 

Description of a new species of PtycliocMlus {PtychocMlus Ear- 



fordi) from Sacramento Eiver. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 72-73.) 

Note on Raia inornata. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 73-74.) 



128 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Jordan, David S., and Pierre L. Jouy. Check list of duplicates 
of fishes from the Pacific coast of North America, distributed by 
the Smithsonian Institution in behalf the United States National 
Museum, 1881. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv., pp. 1-18.) 

Lawrence, George N. — Description of a new subspecies of Loxigilla 
from the island of St. Christopher, West Indies. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 204.) 

Loxigilla portoricensis var. grandis, types in collection of tlie National Mu- 
seum. 

LocKiNGTON, W. N. — Description of a new species of {Prionotm ste- 
phmiophrys) from the coast of California. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, ill, pp. 529-532.) 

Description of a new genus and species of Cottidce. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 141-144.) — {CMtonotus megacephalus.) 

McKay, Charles L. — A review of the genera of the family Centrar- 
chidce, with a description of one new species. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 87-93.) 

MooRE, M. A. — Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 125-126.) 

PoRTER,^ Joseph T., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. — On the destruc- 
tion of fish by poisonous water in the Gulf of Mexico. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv., pp. 121-123.) 

Eyder, J. A. — Preliminary notice of the more important scientific re- 
sults obtained from a study of the embryology of fishes. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, pp. 22-23.) 

Notes on the development, spinning habits, and structure of the 

four-spined stickleback. 

(BuU. U. S. F.C., i, pp. 24-29.) 

Development of the Spanish mackerel [Cyhium maculatum). 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, pp. 135-173, 4 pi.) 

On the retardation of the development of the ova of the shad, 

{Alosa sapidissima), with observations on the egg-fungus and bac- 
teria. '■ 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, pp. 17:7-190.) 

A contribution to the development and morphology of the Lo- 



phobranchiates — [Hippocampus antiquorum, the sea horse). 
(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, pp. 191-199, 1 pi.) 

ScLATER, P. L. — Remarks on the recently described parrots of the 
genus Chrysotis. 

(The Ibis [London], July, 1881, 4tli eer., v, pp. 411-414.) 
Based in part ujion National Museum Specimens. 



KEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. * 129 

Shoemaker, George. — Abundance of the Ilermit Thrush in Winter 
near Washington, D. C. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 113, 114.) 
A specimen of the above-named species was obtained January 1, tbo mer- 
cury registering — 14°, and is now in the National Museum collection. The 
species was quite common during the coldest weather of the severe winter of 

1880-'81. 

Smith, Eosa. — Description of a new gobioid fish {Othonops eos), from 
San Diego, California. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 19-21.) 

Synonym of Tijphlogohius californiensis Steind. — See Proc, iv, 140. 

Description of a new species of Oobiesox {Gohiesox rJiessodon), 

from San Diego, California. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 140-141.) 

Smith, S. I. — Preliminary notice of the Crustacea dredged, in G4 to 
325 fathoms, off the"*south coast of New England by the United 
States Fish Commission in 1880. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 413-452.) 

An enumeration of the principal Crustacea obtained by the United States 
Fish Commission, in 1880, from the inner edge of the Gulf Stream slope, 
south of Newport, R. I., with notes on the previously-known species and de- 
scriptions of one new genus and fourteen new species. Four additional 
species are mentioned as new without descriptions. The total number of 
species recorded is 50. The paper closes with a table showing the geo- 
graphical and bathymetrical range of the species. 

Stone, LivmasTON. — Mortality of McCloud Eiver Salmon in 1881. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, i, p. 134.) 

Verrill, a. E. — The Cephalopods of the Northeastern Coast of America. 
Part II. The Smaller Ceplmlopods, including the " Squids " and 
Octopi, with other allied forms. 

(Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and Sci., 1881, vol. v, pp. 259-424, phites 2G-5G.) 
This "is a monographic revision, with descriptions and figures of all the 
species. A considerable amount of anatomical work is also introduced. 
Most of the species had previously been noticed in dill'erent articles in the 
American Journal of Science. Among those not x^reviously described are 
Chiroteidhislacerlosa, BracMoteuihis Btaiiii, gen. et. sp. nov., liossia megap.era. 
A new genus (Stoloteuthis) has also been established for Sepiola Iciicop- 
tera V." • 

New England Annelida. Part i. Historical sketch, with an- 
notated lists of the species hitherto recoixled. 

(Trans. Conn. Acad., 1881, vol. iv, pp. 285-324.) 

" In connection with the annotation, a considerable number of changes in 
nomenclature are introduced, and a few new genera are established." 

Eecent pajiers on the marine invertebrata of the Atlantic coast 



of North America : 

(Am. Journ. Sci., Nov., 1881, vol. xxii.) A list with brief notes. 
S. Mis. 109 9 



130 EEPOET OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Verrill, a. E,— Notice of Eecent Additions to the Marine Inverte- 
brata of the northeastern coast of America, with descriptions of 
. new genera and species and critical remarks on others. Part 
II. — MoUnsca, with notes on Annelida, Echinodermata, etc., col 
lected by the United States Fish Commission. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 356-405.) 

Part III. — Catalogue of Mollusca recently added to the Fauna 
of Southern New England. 

(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 405-409.) 

Part II of this report begins with an account of the dredgings made by the 
U. S. Fish Commission, sonth of Newport, R. I., in 1880, and a list of the 
deep-water stations one hundred and forty species of Mollusca are recorded, 
of which one genua and 22 species are new ; 96 additional species are stated 
to be new additions to the North American marine fauna, including 25 species 
recently described from the collections of 1880. Two new s]jecies of annelids 
are also described. Part iii is a table illustrating the geographical and ba- 
thymetrical distribution of 130 species of ]\R)llusca, recently added to the 
fauna of Southern New England, mainly through the dredgings of the U. S. 
Fish Commission of 1880. 

Notice of the remarkable Marine Fauna occupying the outer 

banks off the Southern coast of New England. 

Brief Contributions to Zoology from the museum of Yale College. No. 
xlviii.) 

(Am. Journ. Sci., Oct., 1881, vol. xxii, pp. 282-303.) 

A general account of the dredging operations of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion, during the summer of 1881. A list of the deep-water stations south of 
Martha's Vineyard, with temperature observations, is given, and also a list 
of the deep-water fishes, so far as determined up to date of publication, by 
Dr. T. H. Bean. A list of the Cephalopods obtained from deep water is in- 
cluded, and five new species of Gasteropods and Lamellibranchs are de- 
scribed. 

Reports on the Results of Dredging, under the supervision of 



Alexander Agassi z, by the United States Coast Survey steamer 
" Blake." Report on the Cephalopods, and on some additional 
species dredged by the United States .Fish Commission steamer 
" Fish Hawk," during the season of 1880. 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, 1881, viii. pp. 99-166. 8 plates.) 

Wilson, Edmund B. — Report on the Pycnogonida of New England 
and Adjacent Waters. 

(Rep't U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, part vi, pp. 463-506, plates i-vii.) 
" An account of our present knowledge of the species of Pycnogonida, known 
to occur upon the coasts of New England and Nova Scotia, comprising de- 
scriptions and figures of all the forms, and an account of their geographical 
and bathymetrical distribution." A synopsis of the genera is given. Nine 
genera and fifteen species are described, two species (Achelia scabra and 
Nymphon macrum) being new. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 131 



APPENDIX C— LIST OF CONTEIBUTORS TO THE MUSEUM 

IN 1881. 

Academy of Natural Sciences^ Philadelphia, Pa. (See Philadelphia.) 

Adams, J. C. A "water-worn pebble of Trenton limestone, containing 
tlie fossil Beceptaculites occidentalis ; from Wisconsin. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Adams, J. Q. Living salamander {Amhlysfoma punctatum) and eggs 

of horned toad {Phrynosoma ?) ; from New York. 

Allen, Charles. Seventy-six specimens of Pennsylvania building stones 
and slates. 

Albert, J. C, Paoli, Ind. Eleven specimens of Indiana building 
•stones. 

Allen, Charles A. Box of birds' skins {Colaptes, Zonoirichia, etc.) ; from 
California. 

Allen, Ecv. J. Stone pipe, tube, and ring ; from New York. (Lent for 
casting.) 

Alice Gold and Silver Mining Company, Montana. Specimens of gold 
and sih'er bearing Galena and Rhodochrosite, etc 

Allcoclc, 8. & Co., Rcdditeh, England. Three snoods with patent covers 
for protection of hooks. 

Allison, Hon. W. Specimen of coal ; from Iowa. (Sent for examina- 
tion.) 

American Uncaustic Tiling Company, New TorJc. Fourteen sami)les of 
floor tiles. 

American Museum of Natural History, Neio YorJc. (See New Yorl:) 

Anderson, Capt. Charles, scJwoner Alice G. Wonson. Two bottles of al- 
coholic specimens of fishes. 

Anglo-American Pacldng Company, Astoria., Oregon. Two samples of 
cans and labels used in the packing of salmon. 

Anthropological Society, Washington, D. C. (See Washington, D. C.) 

Ash, Charles E. {through Samuel Albro). Forty-five i^eurls taken from 
a single oyster found in Providence Bay. 

Asliburner, Charles. Twenty-one specimens of Pennsylvania building 
stones. 

Aspinicall d: Son, New York. Samples of floor tiling. 

Astoria Paclcing Company, Astoria, Oregon. Samples of cans and labels 
used in the packing of salmon. 

Atkins, Hon. J. B. C. Specimens of coal and ore; from Tennessee. 
(Sent for examination.) 

Atlcinson, Hon. Edward. A large number of samples of manufactured 
cotton from various mills in the United States. 



132 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 

Aticood, IT. E. Five microscopic slides of tlie water of Hemlock Lake, 
New YorTf . 

Ancldand, (N. Z.) Museum. A keg of alcoliolic specimens of New Zealand 
fishes [Kathetostoma, AcanihocUnus, Latris^ Zeus, Pag'rus, Rkomhosolea, 
etc.) 

Austin Flagstone Company, Warren, Ohio. Two specimens of Ohio build- 
ing-stones 

Australian Museum (Sydney, New South Wales). A collection of Aus- 
tralian, mammals (fifteen species), fishes (sixty-seven species), reptiles 
(twelve species), and echinoderms (five species). 

Babbitt, F. E. Specimens of chipi^ed quartz; from Minnesota. 

Babcocli, Master C. El Starfish and shell of king-crab ; from Cape 
Henry, Va. 

Bahcoc'k, Dr. S. E. A small collection of Indian relics — pipes, arrow- 
heads, axes, etc. ; from South Carolina. 

Bacon, A. W., Paymaster, U. S. Navy. A collection of butterflies from 
Central and Western Africa and Brazil. 

Badollet & Co., Astoria, Oregon. Samples of cans and labels used in 
packing salmon. 

Bahne, William. Specimens of lamprey eels from the Susquehanna 
Eiver, and foot of mink taken from trap ; from Pennsylvania. 

Bailey, George K. Two specimens of Maryland buildiug:stones. 

Baird. Prof. S. F. Cake of " Turtle Oil" soap, E. Low & Son, makers, 
London, England. 

Baker, G. C. Specimens of fossils, minerals, and arrow-heads ; from 
Missouri. 

Balcer, Marcus, Assistant, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Skull 
of walrus with tusks ; from Plover Bay, Eastern Siberia. 

Balcer, Thomas E. Specimen of Tuchihoe ; from Arkansas. 

Balcer, W. C. Specimen of Melanura; from Michigan. 

Bahhi'in, Miles C. {through John B. Wiggins). A collection of fossil 
shells ; from Tioga County, New York. 

Bangs, F. D. A specimen of fresh-water sheepshead {Haploidonotus 
grunniens) sold as "German carii " in markets of Waterbury, Conn. 

Barler, Henry L.' Specimens of living snakes, terrapins, mud-eels, 
aniphiumas, etc. ; from South Carolina. 

BarJcer, William P. Human skull and jaw-bones and fragments of pot- 
tery ; from mound in Alabama. 

Barlcley, W. F. Samples of coke and coal ; from Connellsville, Pa. 

Barney, George and P. J., Sioanton, Vt. Five samj)les of marble floor- 
tiling. 

Barnum, Ron. P. T. A specimen of leopard, in flesh. 

Bartleit, J. H., and Sons, Neiv Bedford, Mass. A whaleboat and fittings 

as ready for service at sea. (Purchased ?) 
Baumeister, H., Portland, Me. Samples of cans and labels used in pack- 
ing herring, etc. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 133 

Beach, H. Arrow-poiut ; from Wisconsin. Also eight copper imple- 
ments lent for casting. 

Bean, George. Two flax-hackles, one pair andirons, sickles, and one 
lard-oil lamp ; from Pennsylvania. 

Bean, Dr. T. H. Spear-heads and Venetian bead ; from Pennsylvania ; 
and a ijolishing stone fi-om Santa Clara, N. Mex. 

'Beardslec, Lester A., Captain TJ. S. ^avy. A collection of Indian imple- 
ments and ornaments, specimens of shell (Chiton) used as food, and a 
bird skin {Colaptes hyhridus)} from Alaska. 

Beehe, Williain S. Indian stone tigure-pipe. (Lent for casting.) 

Belding, L. Eight packages of collections of J3irds' skins, nests, and 
eggs, mammal skins, invertebrates, and Indian implements; from Cali- 
fornia. 

Belding Brothers, New YorTc, N. Y. A series of manufactured spool silks 
and twist, being exhibit made at Centennial Exhibition of 187G. 

Bell, Hon. James. Fifteen packages of Indian implements, pottery, and 
mound remains, birds' skins and eggs, living snakes, plants, etc. ; from 
Florida. 

Bell, Dr. Robert, Geological Survey of Canada. A specimen of Darter 
(Cottus) ; from Lake Sui)erior, and specimens of frogs and lishes, from 
York, Hudson's Bay Territory. 

Belt, Dr. A. M. Two specimens of Maryland building- stones. 

Bence, John A. Photograph of fossil tooth weighing 13J pounds; 
found in Putnam County, Indiana. 

Bendire, Charles, Captain, U. 8. Army. Seventeen boxes of fossils and 
general natural history collections (mammals, birds, fishes, reptiles, 
etc.) ; from Washington Territory. 

Bessels, Dr. Emil. A Lapland pipe and case, a box of European land 
shells, skeleton of bat ( Vespertilio murinus) and seven Egyptian flint 
knives, and a skeleton of bat {Vespertilio mnrimis). 

Jietz, A. L. Two specimens of Missouri building-stones. 

Bicldey, Dr. B. F. {through Dr. DeHaas). A supposed syphilitic skull, 
obtained from mound at Alexandersville, Ohio. 

Blacliford, Eugene G., New York. A large number of specimens of fishes 
{Alosa, Carpiodes, Salmo, Ocyurus, Decapterus, Tautoga, etc.), lobsters, 
from various parts of the United States, a specimen of Manatee from 
the Amazon Eiver, and a box of living lizards and frogs from Liver- 
pool, England. 

Boardman, George A. Specimen of flounder {Lophopsetta maculata) and 
birds' skins {Buteo, Tringoides); from Florida. 

Boehmcr, George H. Specimens of owl {Scops), moles {Scalops), and of 
living snakes ; from Maryland. 

Boucard, A. A collection of Mexican and Yucatan birds. 

Bowers, Bev. Stephen. A box of mound relics ; from Wisconsin. 
Boyd, C. H., Assistant, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. — Scale 
from supposed fossil walrus-tusk found at xVddison Point, Me. 



134 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bradford, GersJion {tlirongli Gapt. C. P. Patterson, Superintendent, United 
States Coast and Geodetic Survey). A box and barrel of oysters and 
specimens of bottom of Chesapeake Bay. 

Bradley, William, Washinf/ton, D. C. Samples of marble floor-tiles. 

BradoUt & Co., Astoria, Greg. Samples of cans and labels used in the 
packing of salmon, 

Brady, Edward. Specimens of mammals {Grnithorhynchus) and a bird- 
skin ; from New South Wales. 

Bransford, John F., Parsed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Navy. Two bricks 
taken from the " Great Wall of China." 

Briand, Gapt. Auguste {Jthrough E. H. Hawley). A box of stone imple- 
ments ; from France. 

Briggs Bean. Two specimens of Ohio building stones. 

Broadhead, Prof. G. G. Specimens of galena and sphalerite; from the 
Einstein mine, Madison County, Missouri. 

Broadhead, Prof. G. G. A large collection of building stones from the 
States of Arkansas, Kansas, and Missouri. 

Brools, W. B., Ghief Engineer, U. S. Navy. Swords, bullet-pouch, 
powder-charge, and wooden canteen, taken from the Coreans in 1871 
by United States forces under Admiral John Rodgers, U. S. Navy. 

BrooJcs, Br. W.K.,John^RopMns University, Baltimore. Alcoholic speci- 
mens of Benilla ; from Beaufort, N. C. 

Brown, D. A. Specimens of minerals. (For examination). 

Brown, Dr. J. J. Five species of land shells ; from the Gonave Islands. 

Brudon, Jacob. A small box of shells ; from Michigan. 

Britssels, Belgium, lioyal Museum of Natural History. Four boxes of 
general natural history specimens. 

Bryan, Rev. G. B. Specimens of insects, shells, etc. ; from Virginia. 

Bryce, T. T., Hampton, Va. Samples of cans used for pickling oysters 
and crabs. 

Bucklin, W. E. [through E. G. Blaclrford). A dried specimen of fish 
{Boleosoma Olmstedi). 

Burdiclx, T. W. A specimen of fossil conglomerate ; from Iowa. 

Burnham and Morrill, Portland, Me. Samples of cans and labels used 
for packing fish, etc. 

Bilsse, F. Specimens of fishes {Trigla, Soka, Trachurops, Tylosurus, 
Scomber, etc.); from Germany. 

Butler, Hon. A. P. Specimen of rock-fish {Roccus lineatus) ; from the 
Congares River, South Carolina. 

Bynum, J. G. Specimen of flexible sandstone ; from North Carolina. 

Bye, E. Mortimer. Eight si^ecimens of Maryland building-stones. 

Oalder, D. B. Two specimens of Ohio building-stones. 

California State 31 ining Bureau, San Francisco, Cal. Casts of Indian stone 
l>estle8 and image; from California and Arizona. 

Calvin, S. Box of paleozoic fossils (sixty-three species) ; from Iowa. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 135 

Cambria Iron Company, PhiladelpMa, Pa. Photograph of Cambria Iron 
Works. 

Camp, W. B. Box of Indian relics; from 'S&vf York. (For casting.) 

Campbell, Charles D. Natural formation of stone; from Ohio. 

Carll, John F. Two specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones. 

Carson, N. Ii. Specimens of infusorial earth; from California. (For ex- 
amination.) 

Carson, Br. W. B. Indian stone ax ; from Ohio. 

Carvar, Joseph H. Spe^iimens of salt herring; from Havre de Grace, 
Md. 

Case, Thomas S. {through Prof. 0. T. J\rason). Fragment of cement; 
from an old aqueduct at Pecos, N. Mex. 

CateJl, Dr. B. Specimen of black sand; from Washington Territory. 
(For examination.) 

Catlin Collection. A large buffalo skin, tent and poles, and skull of 
Flathead Indian. 

Caton, Judge J. D. Bones of deer (C. acapulcensis) and skull of seven- 
teen-months-old deer showing no hom-cores. 

Chambers, Alexander, Lieutenant- Colonel, U. S. Army. Tooth of fossil 
elephant {Elephas primigenius) ; from Indian Territory. 

Chase, A. W. Two boxes of fragmentary pottery taken from Aztec 
houses four feet below the surface, near Contention City, Ariz. » 

Chase, C. H. Two casts of stone implements; from Indiana. 

Chase, Walter G. Specimen of massive quartz; from Massachusetts. 

Cheshire, William W. Three arrow-heads; from Indiana; and cast of 
" paint cup" ; from Wisconsin. 

Chester, H. C. Box of crabs {CalUnectes hastatus); from St. Jerome's 
Creek, Md. 

alley, C. W. Two specimens of Vermont building-stones. 

City Drug tStore, Nevada, Ohio. Specimen of mole cricket [Gryllotalpa 
borealis). (For examination.) 

Clapp, A. F. A living specimen of " map tortoise" {Malacoclemmys gc- 
ographicus) ; from Pennsylvania. 

Clark, A. Hoicard. Specimen of bat. Also specimen of embryo por- 
poise ; from George's Banks. 

Clarl-, Edward, Architect U. S. Capitol. A series of dressed blocks of 
stone used in the construction of the Capitol and other public build- 
ings in Washington, D. C. 

Clark, Fllis, jr. Specimens of fossil shells {Bulimus, Unio, etc.); from 
Texas. 

Clark, Frank N. Specimens of white-fish eggs and living mud-dogs, 
{Menobranchus lateralis); from Michigan. 

Clark, M. A large stone pipe taken from an Indian cemetery in De- 
catur County, Tennessee. 

Clark, 0. Specimen of slag. (For examination.) 

Clarke, Samuel F. Specimens of Amphioxus ; from Virginia. 



136 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OP NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Clements, Liitlier M. Specimens of quartz and chalcedony 5 from Kew 
Mexico. 

Codle, H. K. Seven specimens, five species of birds. 

Cocheco Manufacturing Company, Dover, N. H. Sami)les of printed 
cottons. 

Cocke, Thomas & Co. A specimen of soap-stone ; from iN'ortli Car- 
olina. 

Coe, Cornelius B. Eat taken from under floor of Treasury Department 
while making repairs. 

CoTce, Hon. Eichard. Specimen of bronze; from Texas. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Cole, P. L. Two specimens of Ohio building-stones. 

Coleman, E. C. Specimen of mineral ; from Wisconsin. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Collier, David C. Botanical specimens ; from Colorado. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Collins, J. W. Model of mackerel-pocket used by Gloucester fisher- 
men, a bottle of fishes and crustaceans from the Grand Banks, and 
as encysted fish-hook taken from flesh of halibut. 

Collins, W. R. Specimens of birds' {Ardea, etc.) skins and eggs; from 
Michigan. 

Colton, H. E. Forty-five specimens of building-stones; from the States 
of Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and Tennessee. 

Commagere, A. Y. Various relics of the Polaris expedition. 

Conway, John W. {through J. Stevenson.) Five boxes of Indian orna- 
ments, imj^lements, etc. ; from New Mexico. 

Conover, A. D., Chicago, Illinois. A large collection of building-stones 
from the States of Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin. 

Cook, Prof. George H. A large collection of building-stones and slates; 
from the States of New York and New Jersey. 

Copenhagen, Denmark, Royal Museum of Northern Antiquities. Two boxes 
of antiquities from Denmark. 

Corning, Erastus, and H. A. Jeicctt. jNIounted skeleton of " Old Henry 
Clay," the progenitor of the Clay stock of racing horses. 

Corson, B. B. Fourteen boxes of specimens (stalactites, etc.); from 
Luray Cave, Va. 

Cory, C. B. Five specimens of birds ; from Massachusetts. 

Cotell, Dr. B. Specimen of magnetic sand ; from W^ashington Territory. 

Cones, Elliott, Surgeon, U. S. Army. A small box of bones of small mam- 
mals and fragments of pottery; from Clitf House on Beaver Creek, 
Arizona. 

Cowdrey & Co., Boston, Mass. Samples of cans and labels used in the 
packing of fish, etc. 

Coicley, S. W. Ninespecimensof arrow and spear heads; from Connec- 
ticut and Ohio. 



Cox, — . Two large specimens of East Indian shells, said to be from 

Cbincba Islands. 

Craig, W. H. Specimens of silver ore; from Silver Cliff, Colo. (For 
examination.) 

CrandaU, W. B. Stem of fossil, crinoid ; from Collinsville, 111. 

Crawford, A. W. Specimen of insects ; from California. 

Craicford, C. Specimen of granite ; from Dakota Territor.y. 

Crittenden, A. E. Three trawl- rollers used bj' the Gloucester fishermen. 

Croppie, Henry. Two living turtles {Chelopus iasculptus) ; from New 
York. 

Cushing, Franic H. A Zuni " sacred blanket 5 " from Fort Wingate, 
N. Mex. 

Cutting PacJcing Company, San Francisco, Cal. Samples of cans and 
labels used in packing fish, etc. 

Dale, F. C, Passed Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. Navy. Two boxes of birds' 
skins and one box of alcoholic collections ; from Jajjan. 

Ball, W. H., Assistant United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Tusk of 
mammoth ; from ice cliffs in Kotzebue Sound, 150 miles eastward 
from Bering Straits. 

Dairy mple. Dr. F. A. Specimens of TucJiahoe. 

Daniel tfc Boyd, St. Johns, N. B. Specimen of Xew Brunswick build- 
ing-stone. 

Davenport, George G. Two small living alligators (A. mississippiensis) ; 
from Florida. 

Davis, Henry. Specimens of wasp and hornets' nests and four arrow- 
points ; from Iowa. 

Davis, Hon. H. G. A large number of specimens of minerals ; from 
West Virginia. (For examination.) 

Davis, Jahez. A large specimen of quahog clam ; from Massachusetts. 

Daickins, W. Boyd. Eemains of bear and man taken from the hytena 
dens of Creswell crags and sinli in the limestone at Windy Knoll, 
Derbyshii^e, England. 

Dempsey, Thomas. Specimens of shad ; from St. John's River, Florida. 

D''Tnvellier, E. V. Eighteen specimens of Pennsylvania buildiug-stones. 

Denham, W. H. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Missouri. 

Dennett, John, Lieutenant Revenue Marine Service. Insect from wood 
taken on board vessel at Mobile, Ala. 

Derby, Orville A. (See Rio Janeiro, Brazil.) 

DeVinnc, Theodore L., Neic Yorl; Duplicate set of cards illustrative of 
the process of overlaying in wood-cut printing. 

Devlin & Co., Astoria, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in pack- 
ing " Columbia liiver fresh salmon." 

Dexter, Newton. Specimen of very small lobster ; from Newport, R. I. 

Dibble, Henry, Chicago, III. Samples of encaustic floor tiling. 

Dill:, Fred. M. Bird skin ; from Colorado. 

Dobbyn, John F. A living albino rat j from Washington, D. C. 



j 38 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dodge, R. I., Colonel, U. S. A. Bead work cradles, bow, quiver and 
arrow, glass water-jar, double-headed tom-tom used by the Ute and 
south Cheyenne Indians. 

Dodge, TV. W., & Co., San Francisco, Cal, A kit of Alaskan codfish and 
half barrel of salmon bellies. 

Doron, Thomas S. Specimens of owls; from Alabama. 

Dorset], Rev. J. 0. {through Dr. ^V. J. Hoffman). Trappings of saddle 
belonging to ''Big Bear," a chief of the Pouca Indians. 

Douglass, A. E. Eight ceremonial weapons found in a mound in Volu- 
sia County, Florida, and three flat flint drills. (Lent for casting.) 

Dover, Thomas. Specimen of cloth taken from a mound in Butler County, 
Ohio, and a stone pipe from Miami County, Ohio. (Lent for casting.) 

Doiv, John M., Captain Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Specimens of 
living plants, and a collection of fossils, stone cilts, and 3 strings of 
green stone beads, etc. ; from Central America. 

Doivell, John H. Specimen of eel and flat-fish ; from the Potomac 
Eiver. 

Downey, Hon. S. W. Samples of suli)hate of soda and water; from 
Wyoming. (Sent for examination.) 

Downman, R. H. Alcoholic specimen of deformed chick-turkey, from 
Warreuton, Va. 

Dufief, Lewis B. A small living alligator ; from Florida. 

Duges, Dr. Don Alfredo. Various contributions of shells {Unio, Arion, 
Mytilus, etc.)', mammals {Dasypiis, Geomys, Cariacus)', fishes {Clinos- 
toma, Hudsonius, Carangus, etc.) ; reptiles {Crocodilus), etc.; from vari- 
ous i^arts of Mexico. 

Dumont, W. B. Two specimens of New York building stones. 

Dunbar'' s Sons, G. W., New Orleans, La, Samples of cans and labels used 
for packing fish, etc. ; also alcoholic specimens of shrimps, crabs, and 
crawfish ; from the Mississijipi River. 

Eagle Preserved Fish Company, Portland, Me. Samples of cans and 
labels used in packing fish, etc. 

Eagle and Phoenix Manufacturing Company, Columbus, Ga. Samples of 
manufactured cotton. 

Eagleson and De Veau, New York, N. Y. Samples of Vermont marble 
tiling. 

Eastport Pacldng Company, Eastport, Me. Samples of cans and labels 
used in the packing of fish, etc. 

Ebaugh, Daniel. Specimens ofquartzite and chlorite schist; from Mary- 
land. (For examination.) 

Eddy, Irving L. Picture-frame made from lava ; from Tamarack Lake. 

Edwards, Franlc A., Lieutenant U. S. A. Buckskin "official" coat of 
the Columbia River (Washington Territory) Indians. 

Edwards, Thomas W. Two specimens of Virginia building stones. 

Edwards, Vinal N. Eight boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes and 
marine invertebrat<js taken in Vineyard Sound and vicinity. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 139 

Elscn^ Gufttave. Box of fossils aucl alcoholic specimens of natural his- 
tory 5 from California. 

Emerson, J. H. Six pens made from quills of Ryalmcecia artlfcx taken 
oft' Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 

Evans, Gideon L. Fragments of stone relics ; from Iowa. 

Evcrnucn, B. W. Four mortars and five pestles of stone ; from Santa 
Saula, Cal. 

Fa{ian, Daniel. Specimen of stalagmite marble ; from Virginia. 

Famiee, Conrad. Fresh specimen of black bass {Micropterus salmoidcs)', 
from Four Mile Run, Va. 

Febiger, G. L., U. S. A. Two catlinite pipes from Dakota, and a pipe 
from mound near Springfield, Ohio. 

Ferguson, T. B. Specimen of shark [Lamma cornuhica) ; from off New- 
port, E. 1., and a green turtle from Chesapeake Bay. 

Fifth Avenue Hotel, Neic Yorl: Core of artesian well. 

Figyehnesy, Philip, United States Consul at Demerara. A box of Indian 
relics and two specimens of iguana (J. tuberculata) ; from Demerara. 

Fillette, St. Jullen. A collection of Indian relics from North and South 
Carolinas, and minerals from Utah, California, and New York. 

Finch, C. Two specimens of building stones ; from Ohio. 

Fisher, A. F. Human skull occupied by birds' nest ; from New York. 

Fisher, A. L. & Co., New York, Sample specimen of museum jars. 

Fisher, W. J. Can of alcoholic specimens of natural history ; from 
Alaska. 

Fletcher, J. A. A " Fletcher " whale rocket gun and bomb. (Pur- 
chased. ) 

Forbes, Br. S. A. {through S. T. Wall-er). Indian stone images ; from 
mounds in Florida. 

" Forest and Stream " PuhUshing Company, Neio Yorlc. A series of jihoto- 
engravings of noted sporting dogs. 

Forney, A. J., jr. Young red fox ( Vulpes fulvus) ; from Charles County, 
Maryland. 

Foster, J. B. Stone pipe made from soapstone found at Chula, Va. 

Foster, William. A large collection of building stones ; from the States 
of California, Colorado, Nevada, Utah, and Wyoming. 

Eraser, Charles A. Tank of alcoholic specimens collected by the late 
Professor Gabb, in the West Indies. 

Frierson, J. W. S. Six specimens of Tennessee building stones. 

Fritsch, E., New YorJc. Samples of marble and slate tiles. 

Fuller, Andrew. Specimens of rocks (Calcite, Lemonite, ect). (For ex- 
amination.) 

Galvar Bros., New Yorl: Samples of ferruginous clay. 

Gannon cfc Flannery, Washington, D. C. Sami^les of floor-tiling. 

Garetson, C. L. Vial of water which fell during storm at Salem, Iowa, 
supposed to contain living animals. 

Gamier, Dr. John H. Specimen of Amhlystoma ; from Outario. 



140 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

GatscJiet, Albert 8. Box of Indian stone implements ; from South Caro- 
lina. 

Gattinger, A. Forty-eight specimens of Tennessee slates and building 
stones. 

Geclce, August. Large stone maul and fragments of crania ; from In- 
dian grave in Dakota. 

Gesner, William. Box of fresh-water shells 5 from the Catawba River, 
Alabama. 

Giblioney, William. Box of stalactites ; from cave in Wythe County, Vir- 
ginia. 

Gibbs, George J. Eggs of lizard, box of bird's eggs, and deposit from 
salt pond ; from Turk's Island, British West Indies. 

Gilbert, Charles H. Eleven boxes of fishes, fish products, etc ; from 
California and Mazatlan. 

Glasgow, Mo., Museum of Pritchett Institute. Three casts of Indian 
relics ; from Missouri. 

GlazaweU, Br. Giles L. Specimens of minerals and rocks ; from South 
Carolina. 

Gooding, JDr. W. W. Specimen of snowy owl ; from the Arctic Ocean ; 
and a specimen of eagle {Aquila canadensis). 

Goode, F. C. Specimens of katydid's eggs ; from Florida. 

Goodman, Mrs. E. T. Mineral dust; from Virginia. (For examination.) 

Goodrich, H. Mineral substance which fell during thunder shower at 
McLeansboro, 111., on April 11, 1881. 

Goodwin, W. H. Specimens of kaolinite ; from Nelson County, Vir- 
ginia. 

Gordon^ Thomas il., {through A. K. Worthen.) Specimen of iron pyrites ; 
from Virginia. 

Gorringe, H. H., Lieutenant Commander U. 8. Navy. Three specimens 
of building stones (granite, limestone, and syenite), taken from the 
Egyptian obelisk. 

Gregg, A. Six specimens of Texas building stones. 

Grant, Charles C. Small box of fossil plants. 

Greene, G. C. Box of Indian implements ; from Oregon. 

Griffin, F. N. Two arrow-heads ; from Sussex County, Virginia. 

Grigsby, C. 8. Spear and arrow-heads, leaf-shaped implements, celts, 
etc. ; from Tennessee. 

Grosvenor, Dale Compayiy, Providence, B. I. A collection of samples manu- 
factured cotton goods. 

Gucsde, L. A collection of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, (Liophis 
Dromiciis, Anolis, Platydactylus, Iguana, etc.), and four birds' skins 
[Ceryle, Gallinula, Fielica); from Guadeloupe, West Indies. 

Habersham, W. Hugh. Scales of fish [Promicrops guasa); from Bruns- 
wiclc, Ga. 

Haldeman, Mrs. 8. 8. Two boxes of Indian relics, duplicates from the 
collection of the late Prof. Haldeman. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSETTM. 141 

Rail, E. S. Specimen of black bass, ■weighing five pounds, taken at the 
Great Falls, Potomac Eiver. 

Hall, WiUiam E. Three specimens of Montana building stones. 

Hamlin, WiUiam. Two specimens of the diver {Colymhus torquatus). 

Eamlin, Dr. A. G. Specimens of tin ore, etc.; from Maine. 

Ranis, Renry 0. Two casts of stone implements ; from California. 

Rare, Dr. J>. R. Beech knot, 18 inches in diameter ; from Ilighland 
County, Ohio. 

Rarris, D. M. Two stone relics ; from Louisiana. 

Rarrison, Dr. George B. Specimen of chicken-hawk (AcGipiter Gooperi.) 

Raslins, G. R. Two specimens of fish {Ryodon) ; from Wisconsin. 

Raich, General, U. S. Army. Three specimens of ore (Galena and 
Chrysocolla and Chalcocite) ; from ISTew Mexico. (For examination.) 

Ravre 2Iuseum, Ravre, France. A palaeolithic flint hatchet ; from 
France. 

Raices, Dr. George W. Specimen of granite (core of diamond drill);- 
from i!^ew York ; a specimen of soapstone from North Carolina, and 
five specimens of marble (Verte Campon, Leptanto, Lisbon, Mosaic, 
Egyptian). 

Raw ley, E. R. A living grass snake [GyclopMs vernalis) ; from Arling- 
ton, Va. 

Ravcley, G. A. Bronze ornament ; from Gautemala. 

Ray, Dr. 0. P. Can of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from the Missis- 
sippi River. 

Raydcn, Waltoti. Jar of alcoholic specimens of fishes {Uranidea, Stizo- 
stedium, Percopsis, Acipenser), mole {Gondylura), and mussel (Unio); 
from Hudson's Bay Territory. 

Rayes, W. I. Living salamander (Amblystoma) and specimens of in- 
sects ; from JS'orth Carolina. 

Rcgman, S. Box of minerals ; from Tennessee. (For examination.) 

Remphill, Renry. A fine collection of Pacific coast mollusca. 

Rempliill, J. G. Branch of oak, showing deposit of locusts' eggs. 

Renderson, Ron. J. G. Twelve boxes of Indian relics taken from mounds 
near Xaples, Illinois. 

Rendriclis, G. Dix. Box of Indian relics ; from Preble County, Ohio. 

Renlde, Amhrose L. Indian stone pipe and copper beads ; from Fairfax 
County, Virginia. 

Benlde, Dr. 8. P. G. Cylindrical stone tube ; from mound in Rocking- 
ham County, Virginia; also pipe of chlorite, from Shenandoah County, 
Virginia. 

Rcnshaw, R. W. Specimen of albino squirrel. (Purchased in Washing- 
ton market.) 

Rereford, Dr. T. P. Arrow-point ; from IMissouri. 

Rcring, Dr. G. J. Nine packages of specimens of mammals, birds, 
shells, and insects, also fan used for blowing fire, and press for press- 
ing the cassava roots for making into bread ; from Surinam, South 
America. 



142 EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Hessel, Rudolph. Specimen of pied-bill grebe {Podilymhus podiceps) and 
of young California salmon. 

Hetton, Bryant A. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Sicks, George H. Stone celt 5 from Michigan, 

Hill, James O., Supervising Architect United States Treasury Depart- 
ment. Specimens of building-stones ; from New Brunswick, Canada, 
and the States of Maine, Maryland, isTebraska, New Jersey, Ehode 
Island, and Texas. 

Hinckley, Isaac. Four specimens of swans (Olor columhianus); from 
North Carolina. 

Hitchcock, C H. A large collection of building-stones and slates ; from 
the States of Massachusetts, New York, New Hampshire, and Ver- 
mont. 

Hodges, H. C, Lieutenant-Colonel, JJ. S. Army. Walking-stick made of 
wood from Washington Territory and with handle of deer horn. 

* Holmes, W. H. Three pieces of jasper fi?om Yellowstone National 
Park, and arrow-heads, stone axes, etc., from the District of Colum- 
bia. 

Holuh, Dr. JEmil. Box of minerals and fossils 5 from Africa. 

Hooper, C. L., Captain U. S. Revenue Marine Steamer " Corwin." Box of 
Indian implements, skull of x)olar bear, human crania, etc. j from the 
Alaska Islands. 

Hopkins, L. H, Three oyster knives. 

Horan, Henry. Living ring-necked snake {Diadophis punctatus) ; from 
the District of Columbia. 

Houghtmi, J. H. Samples of minerals ; from Georgia. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Hoicard, J. W. Alcoholic specimen of alligator {A. mississppiensis). 

Hoicell, J. C, Bear-Admiral, U. S. Navy. A carved marble tombstone ; 
from plains of ancient Troy. 

Hufschmidt, B. Two specimens of building-stones ; from Iowa. 

Hughlett, Thomas. Specimen of mud minnow {Umbra pygma^a)-, from 
Easton, Md. 

Huddleston, D. O. Specimens of minerals ; from West Virginia. 

Huddleston, George. Samples of manufactured soap-stone and jar of 
I>owder ; from Bethesda, Md. 

Hume, George W., Astoria, Greg. Samples of cans and labels used in 
packing fish. 

Hume, Thomas L. Two si>ecimens of mole {Condylura cristata) and an 
embryo calf (?) (hairy placenta ?). 

Hunt, Dr. J. G. Microscopic slide of cloth. 

Huntington, D. L., U. S. Army. Two specimens of spiders ; from Da- 
kota Territory. 

Huntington, J. H. A collection of building stones and slates j from the 
States of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. 

Huysman, Theodore. Ax of Lydian stone j from United States of Co- 
lombia. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 143 

Illinois State Library of Natural History^ Normal., III. Eiglity-six spe- 
cies of Illinois fishes (in alcohol). 

Illinois State Historical Library [through A. K. Worthen). Specimens of 
coal measure fosils ; from Illinois. 

IngersoUj Ernest. Eight boxes of shells, Spanisli and Indian pottery ; 
from Florida : and samples of oyster-knives and hammer. 

Ipsicich Mills, Ipswich, 3Iass. Samples of hosiery. 

Irgans, Jorgcn. Box of Norwegian fishing tackle. 

Jaclson, E. E. Bottle of larvce of insect ; from South Carolina. 

JacJcson, W. W. Small box of quartz crystals, from Herkimer County, 
New York. 

Jaffords, L. O. Specimens of land and fresh- water shells ; from Min- 
nesota. 

Japan, Government of {through Japanese Legation, Washington). A 
series of samples of cotton, from the raw product to the manufact- 
ured goods. 

Javens, Q. Specimen of malformed catfish ; {Amiurus albidiis) ; from 
the Potomac River. 

Jeffords, E. A. Two boxes of alligator and turtle eggs, birds eggs, 
etc. ; from Florida. 

Jernigan, Silas. Indian stone celt; from Florida. 

Jesuits^ College, Neiv Orleans, La. Box of rocks, minerals, and fossils; 
from Louisiana. 

Jcwett, James C. Specimen of phosphate of iron and black sand. 

Johnson, Dr. H. N. Small box of " Lucky stones" and petrified grain; 
from Wisconsin. 

Johnston, F. B. Catlenite carving of human skull ; from Cami)bell 
, County, Kentucky. 

Johnston, George. Specimens of potato bugs with parasites ; from Elk- 
ton, Md. 

Johnston tfc Young. Specimens of lobster shells, crabs, starfish, etc. 

Jones, Elliott. Stone chippings aud fragmentary i)ottery ; from Ari- 
zona. 

Jones, R. L. & Co., Leltu. Pa. Twelve specimens of Maryland slat*. 

Jones, Winslotc. Cans. 

Jordan, Prof. D. S. A large collection of fishes from Utah and Cali- 
fornia, many of them new to science ; also two tooth-picks, one ear- 
spoon aud brush made by the California Chinese from seal bristles 
and silver. 

Jony, P. L. Specimens of mole and squirrel, from Virginia ; and liv- 
ing specimens of Amblystoma, frogs, etc., from Oakland, Cal. 

Jnlicn, Dr. A. A. Specimen of building-stone ; from France. i 

Kane, Dennis. Specimen of liematite; from New York. 

Kane, John J., Assistant Surgeon., U. S. Army. Specimens of galena; 
from New Mexico. 



144 KNPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Keep, Captain {through Ron. James Bell). Stone mortar and pestle ; from 

a mound near Orange Lake, Florida. 
Kelly, Miss Anna W. {through Franlc L. Donnelly). Specimen of Italian 

greyliound (in flesli). 
Kelly, F. G. Specimens of insects {Blplax ruhicunda) ; from Dakota 

Territory. 
Kelly, L. L. Three specimens of building-stones ; from Iowa. 
Kelly, Thomas. A collection of building-stones ; from Ohio, Pennsyl. 

vania, and West Virginia. 
Kelly, W. W. Two specimens of building-stones ; from Vermont. 
Kendall, J. B. Specimen of barnacle goose 5 from Jamaica Bay, Long 

Island. 
Keyley, W. 8. Specimen of iron pyrites ; from Missouri. 
Kinney, Hon. 0. P. {through John B. Wiggins). Indian stone pipe; from 

New York. 
Kite, J. Allan, steamer '^ Fish HawJc.''^ Tank of alcoholic marine speci- 
mens and a living specimen of loon {Golymbus glacialis), also two 

eagles ; from Avoca, N. C. ; also a tank and 11 bottles of alcoholic 

specimens of fishes, taken by the steamer "Fish Hawk." 
Kniclcerhocl:er Ice Company, Fhiladelphia, Pa. A wagon and models of 

all apparatus used in handling ice. 
Kniclxerhoclcer Millis. Bulbous plant, and teeth of shark, and phosphate 

rock ; from Florida. 
Knoivles, G. A. Two specimens of bnilding-stones ; from Iowa. 
Korte, Ron. Renry L. Specimen of fish; from Ohio. 
Krebs, F. Eugene, Begensburg, Germany. Framed exhibit showing the 

various processes in the manufacture of kid gloves, from the natural 

skin to the complete glove. 
Kreslcen, R. Acosta. Alcoholic specimen of bird; from Ohio. 
Laidlow, James, & Co., Portland, Greg. Samples of cans and labels 

used in the packing of salmon. 
Lambert, N. Four specimens of building-stones ; from Washington 

Territory and Oregon. 
Latnborn, Bobert R. Three Indian relics ; from near the sacred city of 

Testihuacan, Mexico. 
Lancaster Mills, Clinton, Mass. Samples of manufactured cotton goods. 
Laney, Renry. Alcoholic specimen of jumping mouse {Zapus hud- 

sonius) ; from Maryland. 
Langhorne, Maurice. Specimens of bat guano and of bark ; from San 

Domingo, West Indies. 
Langston, Prof. J. M., United States Consul- General atRayti. Two boxes 

of fine corals, shells, etc. ; from Hayti. 
Lanmian, Charles, Japanese Legation. Specimen of Japanese cuttle-fish. 
Larco, Andrea, {through Prof . D. S.Jordan). Tank of alcoholic speci- 
mens of fishes of California. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 145 

Latham, M. R. Specimens of minerals; from Virginia. ^ 

LatJcin, Joseph. Three boxes of Indian relics, fossils, minerals, etc.; 
from Georgia. 

Laicrence & Co., Boston, Mass. Samples of printed cotton shirting; 
from Cocheco Mills. 

Leach, J. P. Specimen of duck ; from Illinois. 

Lealin, George A. Six specimens of Maryland building-stones. 

Le Baron, J. Francis. One barrel two boxes of fossils, shells, etc.; 
from Florida. 

Lee, Joseph. Two specimens of Texas building-stones. 

Leeper, TV. H. Four specimens of Oregon building-stones. 

Legare, J. Bericiclc. Living dog, pointer. 

Legare, W. W. Specimen of locust ; from South Carolina. 

Lehman, A. E. Two specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones. 

Leppelman, L. Two pierced stone tablets, clay pipe, and flint; from 
Ohio. 

Leslie, C. G. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from Charleston, 
S. C, markets. 

Leslie, James C. Living garter snake (Eutania sirtalis) ; from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Leicis, Prof. H. G. Specimen of mineral (Philadelphiaite). 

Leicis, 3Irs. P. Af. Two boxes of fossils, birds' skins, and i)lants ; from 
Missouri. 

Lindsley, H. W. Eighty specimens of building-stones ; from Connecti- 
cut and ]S"ew York. 

Livingston, Br. I. A. Specimens of shale and bituminous schists; 
from Arkansas. 

Long, Br. 0. M. Walrus tusk and skull, from the Arctic Ocean ; and 
jaw of shark, bill of sawfish, and can of alcoholic specimens of 
marine life ; from Panama Bay. 

Lord, H. & G. W., Boston, Mass. Sample of cod gill-net. 

Lord, W. Blair. Six large specimens of native garnets and Indian 
iron spear-head and halibut hook ; from Alaska. 

Love, W. L. Specimen of insect; from !N^orth Carolina. 

Lucas, J. B. Skull, Indian shell carvings, etc. ; from mound in Fair- 
fax County, Virginia. 

Luther, S. M. Specimens of minerals and fragments of Indian pottery; 
from Ohio. 

Lyon, John. Skin of deer {Cervns virginianns) ; from "West Virginia. 

McAdams, William, jr. Five casts of Indian pipe, one copper imple- 
ment, and specimens of shells and minerals ; from mounds in Illinois. 

McBride,-R. W. Box of Indian relics ; from Indiana. (Lent for cast- 
ing.) 

McBurney, George, and Son. LiWng alligator. {A. Mississippiensis.) 

McCurdy, Alexander. Five fishing knives, and galvanized iron swivel, 
used on trawl buoys by Gloucester fishermen. 
S. Mis. 109—10 



146 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

McBaniel, Joseph. Specimen of mineral ; from Tennessee. 

McDonald^ Marshall. Six boxes of specimens of fislies, reptiles, marine 
invertebrates, insects, etc.; from the Potomac Eiver and Chesapeake 
Bay ; also an Indian stone ax ; from Virginia. 

McElwaln, Robert. One box of fossils and one box of fresh- water shells ; 
from Pennsylvania. 

McEimi, J. B. Limbs of oak tree, with deposit of locusts' eggs -, from 
Tennessee. 

Macey & Co., Nashville, Tenn. Eureka minnow trap. 

McFarlane, R. Skins of Arctic hare, marmot, mink, beaver, etc. ; from 
Fort Athabasca, Hudson's Bay Territory. 

Macfcelij, R., Commissary-General of Subsistence, U. S. Army. Speci- 
mens of insects taken from bacon, at Whipple Barracks, Arizona. 

Maine Red Granite Company, Calais, Me. Two specimens of Maine build- 
ing-stones. 

McGee, ^Y. J. A large collection of Iowa building-stones. 

McGraham, John T. A button of metallic iron and piece of slag. 

Machey, George W. Two specimens of Pennsylvania slate. 

Machiey, C. E. A specimen of decomposed mica schist and one of 
hornblende ; from New York. (For examination.) 

McLean, John J. Three boxes of Indian implements, ornaments, carv- 
ings, etc. ; from Alaska. 

McMcnamin & Co., Hampton, Ya. Samples of cans and labels used in 
packing fish, oysters, etc. 

McNeil, James. Box of Indian relics ; from Tennessee. 

Madsen, Peter {through Prof. D. S. Jordan). Two cans of alcoholic 
specimens of fishes {Catostoimts fecund us) ; from Utah. 

Maine Red Gratiite Company, Calais, Me. Specimens of granite; from 
lied Beach, Me. 

Mallett, Dr. J. W. Two boxes of minerals (Microlite, graphite, barcen- 
ite, etc.) ; from Virginia, Nevada, Mexico, and India. 

Maltby, C. 8., Baltimore', Md. Five samples of cans used in the pack- 
ing of oysters. 

Manderson, A. Kine specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones. 

Manderson, A. Specimen of sandstone; from New Jersey. 

Mandeville, W. Specimens of quartz ; from Pennsylvania. 

Mangum, G. W. Indian stone relic ; from Fannin County, Georgia. 

Mann, C. E. Two birds' skins {Perissoglossa tigrina and Dendrceca hlacTi- 
burniw) ; from Illinois. 

Mansfield, I. E. Eight barrels of fossil coal plants ; from Beaver County, 
Pennsylvania. 

Marnocl; G. W. Specimens of reptiles {Eumeces, Eutocnia, a^nd Lytho- 
dytes) ; from Texas. 

Marsh, Prof. 0. C. Cast of bones of fossil bird {Hesperornis regalis, 
Marsh). 

Marsh, Philip. Box of arrow and spear heads and a box of birds' eggs; 
from Illinois, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 147 

JirarsJiall, Edicard. Specimen of miueral dust; from Korth Carolina. 
(For examination.) 

Marsilliot, M. G,, United States Revenue Steamer Corwin. Specimen of 
ores 5 from Alaska. 

Martin, If. L. Specimen of bug; from Illinois. 

Martin, S. J. Two boxes of alcoholic specimens of fislies, crabs, etc., 
obtained by fisliing vessels sailing from Gloucester, Mass. 

MaHon, Prof. Otis T. Si)ecimen of quartz geode ; from near Keokuk, Iowa. 

Massachusetts Cotton Mill, Loicell, Mass. Samples of cotton cloth. 

2latlier, Fred. Alcoholic specimen of fish; from the Saint Lawrence 
Eiver; also, living box-tortoise, marked "Yankee, 1802"; from 
Virginia. 

21atheics, W., Assistant Surgeon,, U. 8. Army. Box of mineral substance 
used by Navajo Indians for blea«ching silver and as a mordant in 
dyeing. 

Mathews, William H. C. Samplesof saline soda; from Mono Lake, Cal- 
ifornia. 

Mattoni, C. Six glass tnbes for watering plants. 

Mayo, I. C, Gloucester, Mass. Five samples of "Champion" row-locks. 

Medler, Lyman G. {throngh JoJin B. ^Yiggins). Fragments of fossil tusk 
of mastodon ; from Tioga County, New York. 

Meigs, General M. C. Specimens of Minnesota granite used by tlie 
Union Pacific Eailroad in the construction of the railroad bridge at 
Bismarck, Dakota. Samples of building-stones; from the quarries on 
the military reservation at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas ; specimen of 
pine wood, showing ^strength of the timbej" when rested at ends and 
weight placed in the center ; also, specimen of Indian oolite ; from 
the Ute Indian reservation. 

Merchant, Capi. George W. "Purse" ring, such as were used on seines 
in 1854. 

Merrill, l}r. J. C, U. S. A. Eggs of snow bunting {Junco annectens); 
from Montana. 

Meyers, P. H. Specimens of mica schist and pyrite ; from Maryland. 

Micliigan Wire Shovel Co., Niles, Mich. Wire scoop, for removing fish 
from nets. 

Miles Brothers & Co., Neic Yorl: Series of manufactured bristles, etc., 
exliibit^d at International Exhibition of 187C, Philadelphia. 

Miller, L. M. Two fresh specimens of fish {Amia calva); from Geneva, 
New York. 

Miller, M. A. Box of minerals and Indian arrow-heads ; from Vir- 
ginia. 

Miller & Goates, Wew Yorlc. Samples of floor tiling. 

Miller, Joseph. Specimens of minerals; from Arizona. 

Mills, A. Two si^eciinens of building-stones from Scotland and one 
from Germany. 



148 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRlICTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Miltlmore, Capt. A. U., TJ. 8. A. Specimen of petrified mesquite wood 
and fossil tooth ; from Texas. 

Missouri Fish Commission, Saint Louis, Mo. Specimens of skip-jack 
{Clupea clirysochloris) ; from Lexington, Mo. 

Moore, Thomas {through G. F, Sawyer). Shark's jaw ; from Loggerhead 
Key, Florida. 

Moore, Br. {through Hon. S. B. Maxey). Samples of water; from Eureka 
Springs, Arkansas. 

Moran, George H., Surgeon, U. S. A. Four boxes of Indian stone imple- 
ments, etc. (arrow-heads, shell ornaments, ollas with barial remains, 
etc.) ; from Fort Thomas, Ariz., and North Carolina. 

Morgan, B. Box of Indian relics; from Iowa. (Lent for casting.) 

Morgan, Edward. Indian stone ax; from '' Soa^istone Hill", District 
Columbia. 

Morgan, Jaques J. M. de. Collection of about a thousand specimens 
of European Tertiary and Cretaceous fossils. 

Morgan, Joseph {through Senator W. B. Allison). Specimen of mineral; 
from Iowa. (For examination.) 

Morgan, Leonard. Specimen of fossil ; from Washington, D. C. 

Morgan, Thomas. Two small boxes of shells ; from New Jersey. 

Morris, L. S., & Son, Warsaic, N. Y. Two specimens of building stones; 
from iNew York. 

Morton, Eush K. Specimen of tree-toad {Hyla versicolor) ; from Ches- 
ter County, Pennsylvania. 

Mott, F. J. Specimen of siderite ; from Colorado. 

Munroe, Prof. Gharles E., U. S. Naval Academy. Seventeen specimens 
of Maryland building-stones. 

Mutli & Ec7:ardt. Two living fishes {Macropodns sp.) ; from Ohio. 

Myers, P. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Maryland. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Myers, John. Specimen of mineral ; from Tennessee. 

Needham, George F. Three hawks and one owl ; from Maryland and 
District of Columbia. 

Nehrling, H. Three specimens of birds' nests {Milvulus, Chondestes, 
Cyanospiza) ; from Texas. 

Nelson, E. W., U. S. Signal Service. Thirty-six boxes and three barrels 
of specimens of general natural history, two lidaokas, two sleighs, 
and models of canoes and paddles ; from Alaska. 

Nelson, Br. Wilfred, British Consul, Panama. Alcoholic specimen of 
snake ; from forest in Ecuador. 

New Britain Knitting Cojnpany, New Britain, Conn. Samjiles of knitted 
goods, underwear, etc. 

Neio Orleans, La., Jesuifs College. Box of rocks, minerals,* and fossils; 
from Louisiana. 

Newsome, Bavid. Samples of calcareous tufa ; from Pierce County, 
Washington Territory. 



EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 149 

JS^ew Yorl; ¥. Y., Aiyi'erican Museum of Natural History. Seventeen boxes 
of the duplicate fossils of the James Hall collection. (First series.) 

Kichols, Dr. II. A. A. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes and a small 
box of birds' skins, from Dominica ; also one fish-pot, from Antigua. 

NicholSj Henry H., Lieutenant-Commander, U. 8. Coast and Geodetic Sur- 
rey steamer Hassler. A collection in alcohol of specimens of fishes, 
from Alaska ; and a bottle of sea soundings, from Menzie's Bay, Dis- 
covery Passage, British Columbia. 

Nixon, J. S. Worm cell with worm ; from Pennsylvania. 

Noon, Lul-e. Two specimens of New York building-stones* 

Non-is, P. W., Superintendent of YeUoicstone National Farlc. Crate of 
mammal skins ( Ursus, Cariacus, Cervus, and Ovis) and forty-seven 
boxes of minerals, rocks, natural formations, etc. ; from the Yellow- 
stone National Park. 

Norton, E. H. {throuyh Senator F. M. CocJcrell). Bottle of water ; from 
Missouri. (For examination). 

CBeirne, Col. James E. Specimen of fish [Trichiurus lejiturus); from 
Long Island. 

Oher, F. A. Two copper axes ; from Mexico, and two boxes of general 
natural history collections, from Kit's Island, etc., New Mexico. 

Oliver, John. Three specimens of Missouri building stones. 

Oliver, John A. Living snake (Tropidoiiottis); from the Potomac Eiver, 
Washington, D. C. 

Oram, F. F. Samj^le of Titaniferous sand from the gold region of Ean- 
dolph County, Alabama. 

Orcutt, Franlc P. Nest of Canada jay (Perisoreus canadensis) ', from 
Maine. 

Oregon State Commission, Permanent Exhihition Building, Pliiladelphia, 
Pa. Exhibit made at Philadelphia, consisting of mounted specimens 
of birds and mammals, and agricultural products. 

Orfon, Edward. A large collection of building-stones; from Indiana, 
Kentucky, and Ohio. 

Orvis, Charles F., Manchester, Vt. Six artificial flies for fishing. 

Owens, Charles S. A collection of old books, coins, badges, etc., also 
specimens of arrow-heads. 

Owsley, Dr. J. B. Indian stone pick and cone ; from Ohio. (Lent for 
casting.) 

Paclcard, B. L. Box of fossiliferous rocks ; from the Indian Territory. 

Page, Peter. Specimen of red- throated diver {Colymbus septentrionalis)', 
from West Virginia. 

Page, W. F. Living water-snake {Tropidonotus sipedon) ; from Gun- 
ston's, Ya. 

Palmer, Dr. E. Two boxes of mound relics; from Arkansas; and two 
boxes of general ethuologica ; from Tennessee. 

Palmer, Miss Z. Two specimens of building-stones ; from Ohio. 

Palmer, William. Specimen of snakes {Trojpidonotns); from Virginia. 



150 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Paris, France. IMnsenm of Katiiral History. Box of alcoholic speci- 
mens of natural history. 

PatricJc, Jason. Two specimens of building-stones ; from Tennessee. 

Philadelphia, Pa., Academy of Natural Sciences. Plaster casts of ants' 
nests. (Purchased). 

Phillips, Barnet. Box of samples of the " Ogeeche lime." 

Peelor, Pavid. Fossil coal-print; from Pennsylvania. 

Pierson, A. B. Specimen of birtl ; from 'New Jersey. 

Pilling, George P., Philadelphia, Pa. Four silver-plated " Patent Cow- 
Milkers." 

Pinhham, Joseph. Two specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Piatt tt Co., Baltimcrre, Md. Two samples of cans used in packing oys- 
ters. 

Pocasset Manufacturing Company, Fall River, Mass. Samples of manu- 
factured cottons. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Living boa-constrictor and box of insects ; from 
Cuba. 

Polleys, Hon. W. H., United States Consul, Barbados, West Indies. Spe- 
cimens of shell celts and infusorial earths ; from Barbados. 

PollocTc, John S. Indian arrow-head ; from Hamilton County, Ohio. 

Porter, William H. Specimen of butterfly. 

Portland PacTcing Company, Portland, Me. Samples of cans used in pack- 
ing fish, etc. 

Powell, Hon. Samuel. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes, etc. ; from 
Newport, R. I. 

Powell, S. W. Specimens of worms infesting meadows at Madison, 
N. Y. 

Power, A. H. A large, fresh specimen of salmon; from the Merrimac 
Eiver, N. H. 

Poivers & Weightman, manufacturing chemists, Philadelphia, Pa. Seven 
boxes of chemical products and manufactures. 

Prentiss, J. C. Specimen of " bog ore"; from near Eavenna, Ohio. 

Price, James. Two specimens of building-stones from Tennessee. 

Prince, Pavid. Specimen of mineral; from Kew Jersey. 

Prince, S. F., d) Co., South Dorset, Tt. Two specimens of Vermont build- 
ing-stones. 

Printz, Lorenzo. Copper plates and disks; found in Fairfax County, 
Virginia. 

Pf(lle)\i Clarence. Sixteen specimens of Kansas building-stones. 

Pyhas, B. Fossil ; from Alabama. 

Quiclc, Edgar B. Specimens of young moles [Blarina drevicauda)', from 
Indiana. 

Quinn, James, Portland, Oreg. Three samples of cans used in the jjack- 
ing of Columbia River salmon. 

Bamsey, If. A. Specimens of plants ; from Xorth Carolina. (For identi- 
fication). 



- 

I 



EEPORT OP- ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OP NATIONAL MUSEUM. 151 

Banchfuss, C. IT., Jr. Small box of pentramites ; li'om Illinois. 

Bares, B. W. {through Mr. Ecldiardt). Eggs of carp (dead) and speci- 
mens of male eels; from Germany. 

Bau, Dr. Charles. An Indian nut-stone juid an animal-sliaped clay- 
figure (modern); made by the Tesuque Indians, of New Mexico. 

Bea, G. JV. Tin-type pictures of ball (weighing ten pounds) taken from 
storaacli of cow; from Indiana. 

Bees, Bichard. Nineteen specimens of slate; from Maryland. 

Beid, George W. Specimens of soapstone vessels, grooved axes, etc. ; 
from Vii'ginia ; and a carved human face in chloride ; from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Bidgicay, Audubon W. Two specimens of bats; from Washington, 
D. C. 

Bidgway, Bohert. A large collection of skins of American birds (nearly 
800 species and 2,500 specimens) and six boxes of specimens of snakes, 
turtles, and other reptiles, and a box of Indian relics (arrow-heads, 
pestles, mortars, etc.); from Indiana. 

Biggs, Thomas D. Specimens of rocks ; from Montgomery County, Md. 
(For examination.) 

Biley, T. E., U. 8. A. A small collection of plants; from Idaho. 

Bio Janeiro, Brazil, Museo Kacionale {through Prof. Orrille A. Derby). 
Two boxes of fossils; from Brazil. 

Boherts, W. F. A living specimen of Phrynosoma; from Kew Mexico. 

Bobinson, G., Jr. Two specimens of snakes {Diadophis punctatus) j from 
Washington, D. C. 

Bogan, James ^V. A specimen each of ant {Mulilla coccinea) and fossil; 
from Tennessee. 

Bogan, B. 21. Specimen of bug; from Tennessee. (For examination.) 

Bogers, D. M. {through Hon. J. G. Glements). Specimen of ore; from 
Georgia. (For examination.) 

Boose, W. 8. Specimen, in flesh, of peacock. 

Boss, George W. Two specimens of Tennessee building-stones. 

Boulef, F. Stone knife and bird and boat-shaiDcd implements ; from 
New York. (Lent for casting.) 

Bowe, M. G., & Go., Fairhaven, Gonn. An oyster hammer, knife and 
opener. 

Buby, Charles, U. 8. A. Skins and skulls of wild cat, swift, antelopes, 
deer, coyotes ; antlers, lower jaw, and skin of elk; three specimens 
of ambeystomas, a box of birds' skins, nests, and eggs, and bottle 
of micaceous sand ; from Wyoming. 

Bunyan, J. C. Specimens of minerals; from Washington Territory. 

Busby, Henry R. Twelve boxes of plants, box of fragmentary pottery, 
bones, etc., and pair of sandals from cave, stone ax, an Indian carved 
stick, and specimens of birds' skins ; from New Mexico. 

Buth, John A. Box of Indian stone implements; from Bucks County, 
Pennsylvania. 



152 KEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Salshury, H. 8. Six specimens of fossils (casts) ; from Wisconsin. 

Sampson, F. A. Fifty-four specimens of cretaceous fossils ; from Texas. 
(For identification.) 

San Francisco CaL, State, ^Mining Bureau. Cast of Indian stone liook ; 
from California. 

SanJcey, B. A. Specimens of pyrrliotite ; from Colorado. (For exami- 
nation.) 

Schieffelin, W. II. & Co., New YorJc. A large collection of native and 
manufactured chemical products. 

Schneclc, Dr. J. Four living specimens, of i\xTt\e^- {Aspidonectes and 
MalacocJemmys) ; from Illinois. 

Scatchler t£- Glhhs, San Francisco, Col. Samples of cans and labels used 
in the packing of Columbia Eiver salmon. 

Schooner Northern Eagle {through S. J. Martin). Fresh specimen of 
sturgeon ; from Ipswich Bay, Massachusetts. 

Scott, Dr. J. M. Specimen of bat {Atalapha cinereus) ; from Virginia. 

Scrihier^s, Charles, Sons, New YorJc. The " Game Fishes of North 
America," by G. Brown Goode and S. A. Kilbourne. (Illustrated 
with colored plates.) 

SclkirJc, J. R. Specimens of menhaden {Brevoortia patronus)', from 
Texas. 

Serrent, Samuel S. Box of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Seve, Edward, consul of Belgium, Philadelphia, Pa. Specimen of green 
coifee ; from Yungas Valley, Bolivia. 

Severance, ^Y. N. Section of larch (Tamarack) with fire-scar 5 26 feet 
below surface, at Olivia, Minn. 

Shaler, Prof. N. S. A large collection of building stones and slates; 
from Maine, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. 

Shaw, James. Human skeleton taken from mound near Savanna, Illi- 
nois. 

Sheldon, Prof. D. S. Specimens of parasites taken from the gills and 
intestines of sturgeon, and two living serpents ; from Iowa. 

Shenandoah Valley Railroad Company, Luray, Va. Four specimens of 
marble ; from Luraj^, Va. 

Shepard, Prof. Charles JJ. Ten specimens of minerals; from various 
localities. 

Shepard, Prof C. TJ. Specimen of i^agodite; from Georgia. 

Shcpard, N. B. Specimen of hematite ore ; from Buckingham Countj^, 
Virginia. 

Sherman, General IF. T. Shield, flag, and crape used to drape the 
catafalque of President Garfield, at Cleveland, Ohio, September 2^, 
1881. 

Sherwood, G. P. Three specimens of New Brunswick, Canada, build- 
ing stones. 

Shields, George 0. {through Dr. J. W. Velic). Three small herring (Ar- 
gyrosomus) taken from stomach of pike caught in Long Lake, Wis- 
consin. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 153 

Shindlcr, A. Zeno. Alcoholic si)eciinen of liorued toad {Phnjnosoma 
cornutum). 

SJioe}na1cer, George. Four liviug; snakes (Tropidonotus sipcdon) ; a bottle 
of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, and a collection of birds' nests and 
eggs ; from the District of Columbia. 

Shvfeldt, Dr. E. ^Y., U. S. A. Box of insects from Fort Laramie, Wyo- 
ming; alcoholic specimen of serpent, from the Isthmus of Darien; 
four eggs of tortoise {Cistndo cJausa) from Connecticut, and a col- 
lection of 34 species of bird's eggs. 

Silver LaJce Company^ Wellington Bros. & Co., agents, Boston, Mass. 
Twenty-nine samples of cordage. 

SimmonSy Br. C. A. Five specimens of building stones ; from Florida. 

Simpso7i, Friench. Box of fossil bones ; from Colorado County, Texas. 

Sisson, H. & Son, Baltimore, Md. Specimen of building- stones; from 
France. 

Skinner, Josiali. Four jars of alcoholic specimens of fishes {Bofysoma, 
Stizostedium, Hyodon, Glupea, Catostomus,'&c.) ', from Alabama. 

Small, G. W. Specimen of flesh of i)or])oise; from Proviucetown, 
Mass. ' 

Smith, A. W. A living specimen of milk snake {OpMholus doUatus)) 
from Maryland. 

Smith, C our Hand A. Four specimens of rocks; from Prince William 
County, Virginia. 

Smith, George P. Cocoon of moth. 

Smith, Prof. Hamilton L. Box of microscopic slides of infusoria. 

Smith, Horace J. Samples of dried abolone meat; from Santa Bar- 
bara, Cal. 

Smith, John P. Box of stone implements, &c. ; from IMaryland. 

Smith, 2Iiss Rosa. A collection of fishes ; from San Diego, Cal. 

Smith, S. W. Box of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. (For examina- 
tion.) 

Smocl; J. C. Ninety specimens of building stones from New York and 
New Jersey. 

Smythc, George. Two boxes of coal ; from the coal measures of Illi- 
nois. 

Snoic, A. L. Specimen of clay impregnated with calcite; from Ten- 
nessee. (For examination.) 

Snoicden, Fred. Two specimens of flying squirrels {Seiuropterus volu- 
cella) ; from Virginia. 

Snyder, E. S. Thirteen specimens of building stones ; from Wc^st Vir- 
ginia. 

Sperr, F. W. Fifty specimens of building stones ; from Massachusetts, 
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, and one from France. 

Spcrry, E. A. Specimen of orthoclase, actinolite, &c. ; from Colorado. 
(For examination.) 

Spray, S. J. Specimen each of skunk and bird ; from Colorado. 



154 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Spring, E. C. Three specimens of ores ; from Virginia. (For examina- 
tion.) 
Sprinfjficld Soapstone Company, Springfield, Mass. Two specimens of 

soapstone ; from Vermont. 
Stanley, Senry 0. A specimen of young land-locked salmon; from tlie 

Androscoggin Eiver, Maine. 
Stearns, Silas. Three specimens of apparatus' used in tho Eed Snapper 
fishery, of Florida, and a bottle of colored sea water ; from Pensacola 
Bay. 
Steele, J. G. Specimens of polished stone ; from Lexington, Va. 

Stevenson, James. Five specimens of building stones ; from Kew Mex- 
ico. See, also, Washington, Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
Ethnology. 

Steivart,J. T. Stone ax; from 

Stewart, C. A. Specimen of bat; from Washington, D. C. 

Steicart, M., & Co., Milwanlcee, Wis. {through E. G. Blael<ford). Speci- 
men of white-fish, [Coregonus clupeiformis), weighing, when dressed. 
Hi lbs. ; from Lake Michigan. 

Stilwell, G. 3L. Specimen of salmon ; from the Penobscot Eiver, Maine. 

Stone, Livingston. Three boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes, from 
the McCloud river, Cal. ; specimens of snakes and lizards, box of ge- 
ological specimens, box of birds' nests and eggs, three boxes of fossils, 
skin of young bear, and teeth and bones from Bear Cave ; all from 
California. 

Stuffleheam, J. G. Specimens of pyrites ; from Madison County, Arkan- 
sas. (For examination.) 

St2iart, W. E. Specimens of young shad {Cliipea sapidlssima) ; from the 
Potomac Eiver. 

Sturtcvant & Cole., Bethel, Vt. Two specimens of building stones ; from 
Vermont. 

Swan, Judge J. G. Two boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes (Oncor- 
hynchus, Sehastichthys, Hippoglossus, Salmo, etc.) ; from Washington 
Territory, and specimens of salted fish ('^Beshowe"); from Victoria. 

Taylor, E. L. Specimen of hybrid fowl; from Virginia. 

Taylor, Thomas. Three fossils ; Marjland and North Carolina. 

Taylor, William J. Six living terrapins and a box of mound remains ; 
from Georgia. 

Tennessee Cotton Factory, Nashville, Tenn. Sami)les of cotton cloth. 

Tennessee Eiver Marble Company, Knoxville, Tenn. Two specimens of 
building stones ; from Tennessee. 

Texas, Legislature of, Austin, Tex. Thirty specimens of building stones; 
from Texas. 

Thews, Willi ani. Two specimens of building stones ; from Idaho. 

Thomas, A. D. Indian stone image (broken) ; from Hancock County, 
Illinois. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 155 

Tliompson, Professor. Silicified lower jaw of bison ; from Yeta Pass, Col- 
orado. 

Thompson^ Capt. William {through J. W. Collins). Piece of sword-fisk 
snout, broken off in fishing schooner ; from Gloucester, IMass. 

Thomson^ JolmH. Siiecimens of ore ; from Kew Mexico. (For examin- 
ation.) 

Thomson, VT. J. B. Specimens of embryonic centipede; from Texas. 

Thurber, H. K. & F. B., & Co., Few YorJc, JV. Y. Samples of labels and 
cans used in packing fish, oysters, etc. 

TicJtJccmatse (Indian). Indian head-dress and shield of the Cheyenne 
Indians. 

Todd, Prof. J. E. Collection of Carboniferous fossils ; from Iowa and 
Nebraska. 

Tolcio, Japan, University of {through Pcahodi/ Museum, Cambridge, Mass:) 

Box of fragmentary Japanese pottery. 
Toner, Br. J. 21. Piece of roofing and tiling taken from excavated 

Roman villa at Morton, near Brading, Isle of Wight. 
Tongue, George E. Small box of birds' eggs ; from Warrenton, Va. 
Toicn, Matthew, Great Inagua, W. I. Three eggs of Flaniiugo. 
Toicnsend, T. B. Specimen of Ohio building stone. 
Trowbridge, S. E. Box of Indian imi^lements (lent for inspection) and 

box of fossils ', from Missouri. 
TnunbuU, Eli. Specimens of rocks; from Huron County, Ohio. (For 

examination.) 
Truzevant, George 8. Specimens of fossils from the phosphate beds of 

South Carolina. 
Tufts, James W. Specimen each of Italian and Xew York marble. 
Turner, Lucien M., Signal Service, U. S. A. Six boxes of general, natural 

history and ethnological specimens, from Alaska ; and two boxes of 

birds' skins, and a tank of alcohoUc specimens of fishes, etc. ; from 

Illinois. 
Underwood, William, <£? Co., Boston, ^fass. Samples of cans, packages, 

and labels used in the packing of fish, etc. 
United States Stamping Company, Xew York. Box of samples of stamped 

tin-ware. 
Valentine, G. Box of minerals ; from Great Bend, Pa. 
Yannoij, J. C. Specimen of minerals (Smithsonite, Limonite, Siliceous 

sinter, etc.) ; from Yirginia. (For examination.) 
Yanoy, Elijah. Specimen of ore ; from Tennessee. (For examination.) 
Yelie, Dr. J. W. Collection of fishes, in alcohol ; from Florida. 
YermiUion, John. Specimen of malformed sweet potato ; from Yirginia. 
Yery, Samuel W., Lieutenant, U. S. N. A cassock or water-proof coat, 

made of the skin of the hair-seal at ^Nain, Labrador, a mission station 

of the Moravian Brotherhood. 
Yetromitc, Kev. Eugene. Specimens of Icalian shells. 
Wachmuth, Charles. Nino specimens of building stones ; from Iowa. 



156 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Wade, Lieut E. C, JJ. 8. Revenue Ilarine Steamer Iloccosin, Two fossil 

shark's teeth and pieces of fossil vertebras. 
Wagner, Eenry. Specimen of moth ; from Washington, D. C. 
Walke, E. R. Specimen of shad, weighing- seven pounds, and specimens 

of lamprey eels {Petromyzon marinus) ; from Albemarle Sound. 
Waller, S. T. Twelve packages, containing specimens of general nat- 
ural history (reptiles, mammals, fishes, birds, insects, etc.), Indian 
implements, mound remains, etc. ; from Florida. , 
Wallace, John. A mounted specimen of rail {Porzana Carolina). 
Wallem, Frederick M. Two alcoholic specimens of trout, with parasites; 

from Norway. 
Ware, James. Four Indian stone relics ; from Indiana. 
Warner, J. IS. Box of fossils and Indian implements ; from Tennessee. 
Warner, W. B., d) Co., Pldladelphia, Pa. Bottle containing specimens of 

Irglervin. 
Washington, D. (J. : 
Anthropological Society. Box of arrow-heads, spear-points, etc. 
Department of State. (See under names of United States Consuls^ 

Philip Figyelmesy and W. H. Polleys.) 
Treasury Department : 
Revenue Marine Division. (See under names of Gapt. C. L. Hooper, 

Lieut. John Dennett, M. G. Marsilliot, and E. C. Wade.) 
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, Prof. J. E. Rilgard, Super- 
intendent. (See under names of Lieut. Commander Ecnry E. 
Nichols, Marcus Baker, C. R. Boyd, Gershon Bradford, and W. R. 
Dall.J 
War Department : 
Medical Department. (See under names of Doctors Elliott Coues, G. 
W. Matthcics, R. W. Shufeldt, R. C. Yarroic, and Timothy E. Wil- 
cox, and Rospital Steicard Charles Ruhy.) 
Pay Department. (See under name of Col. George L. Fchigcr.) 
Quartermaster's Department. (See under name of General M. C. Meigs.) 
Signal Service, U. S. A. A collection of alcoholic specimens of 
fishes, crabs, star-fishes, etc. ; fi-om Greenland. (Sent by Dr. 
Pavy to Capt. H. W. Howgate.) Also skin of bear ; from Arctic 
America. (See also under names of Sergeants E. W. Xelson and 
L. M. Turner. 
Subsistence Department. (See under name of General Robert Mac- 

feely.) 
United States Army. (See under names of Generals W. T. Sherman, 
and Ratch, Colonels Dodge and Hodges, Captains Charles Btnd- 
ire, A. E. Miltimore, D. L. Huntington. 

Navy Department : 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. (See under names of Doctors John 
F. Bransford, F. C. Dale. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 157 

yaiu/ Department — Continued. 

Bureau of Navigation {Commoclore W. D. Whiting, Chief of Bu- 
reau). Specimens of ocean bottom taken by U. S. >S. Banger, Com- 
mander J. W. Phillips, commanding, between San 13iego, Cal., 
and latitude 34° N., longitude 137° W. 
Bureau of Brovisions and Clothing. (See under names of Prt?/)«rt.<?/er 
A. W. Bacon, U. 8. iV. Seeundernamesof Capt. L.A. Beardslec, 
Commander H. K. Gorringe, Lieut. Commander Henry E. Nichols 
Lieut. Samuel W. Very, and Master A. E. Bahcoclc.) 
Bureau of Stcatu Engineering. (See under name of Chief Engineer 

W. B. Brooks). 
United States Naval Academy. (See under name of Brof. Charles E. 

Munroe.) 
United States Naval Observatory. Manuscript of Capt. Charles F. 
Hall relating to his voyages and exi^lorations in Arctic America. 
Interior Department : 
Bureau of Ethnology [J. W. Powell, Director). Fifty-five packages 
of general collections of ethnology from Pueblo villages in ISTew 
Mexico, collected by James Stevenson, F. H. Cushing, H. J. Bid- 
die, and others. (See also under names of B. L. Baclard and 
James Stevenson.) 
United States Fish Commission. {Prof, Spencer F. Baird, Commis- 
sioner.) Ninety-two boxes of general marine and other collections 
obtained by the steamers Fish Hawk and Lookout and assistants 
along the Atlantic sea-board. (See also under names of H. C. 
Chester, A. H. Clarh, J. W. Collins, T. H. Bean, George G. Daven- 
port, V. N. Edicards, Charles E. Gilbert, Ernest Ingersoll, D. S. 
Jordan, J. A. Kite, M. McDonald, S. J. Martin, W. F. Bage, L. 
Stone, Thomas Taylor, E. H. ^yall:e, and W. A. Wilcox.) 
United States Geological Survey {J. W. Poicell, Director). Twenty- 
seven boxes of fossils collected by Prof. L. F. Ward in Colorado. 
Waters, Bierre. Two bones from drum-fish {Haploidonotus grunniens) '^ 

from Washington. 
Weaver & Corderoy. Box of clay, slate, and stone pipe; from In- 
diana. 
Wellington Brothers & Co., Boston, Mass. Box of samples of cordage. 
Wells, J. E. Specimen of insect {GryUotalpa horealis) ; from Ohio. (For 

examination.) 
Wells, J. G. Three boxes of birds' skins; from Grenada, West Indies. 
West, John, Wesfport, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in i)aek- 

ing Columbia River salmon. 
West, John. Weapon of bill-fish taken from the bottom of the brig 

'■'■ Meteor'''' of Alexandria, while on a voyage to Brazil in 187G. 
Wharto7i, Joseph. Specimen of pure tin ; from Corueto, State of Du- 
rango, Mexico. 



158 EEPOET OP ASSISTANT.^ DIEECTOE OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Wheeler, Charles Le Roy. Specimen of oolitic flint, and a fresli speci- 
men of gravid porpoise {Phocccna lineata) found on beach at Cape 
May, N. J. 

Vtliite^ Br. C. A. Block of Indian iiipe-clay, from S. W. Minnesota; a 
box of fossils, from Colorado; the type of Zygorohus Whitei; a small 
box of arrow-points, and a specimen of Triassic sandstone (core of 
diamond drill) ; from Colorado. 

White, G. W. A string of beads from the burial ground of the Waco 
(Texas) Indians. 

White, G. W. {through Hon. S. D. Money.) Specimen of ore from Missis- 
sippi. (For examination.) ' 

Vi'hite, Dr. J. A. About 500 arrow i^oints from Oregon. (Purchased.) 

Whitfield, R. P. Box of fossils; from the Black Hills, Dakota. 

Wiggins, John B. Eight boxes of Indian stone relics, mound remains, 
&c., from Kew York and Virginia, and specimens of an insect {Tremcx 
columhic), destructive to maple trees, at Waverly, N. Y. 

Wilcox, Joseph. Four specimens of arrow-heads; from Hernando 
County, Florida. 

Wilcox, Br. Timothy E., U. S. A. Specimens of unios from Boise Eiver, 
Idaho, and a skin of [Lanius horealis) ; from Idaho. 

Wilcox, W. A. Three specimeus of cusk {Brosmius hrosme), from 
Boston markets, and a tumor taken from a salted cod-fish. 

WilJcesharre, Pa., Natural History and Geological Society of. Speci- 
mens of black muck. 

Willdnson, E., Jr. A collection of marine shells ; from Lower Cali- 
fornia. (For examination). 

WilHams, J. F. A small quartz crystal ; from mountains, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Williams, J. M. Deformed lobster claw ; from Ellsworth, Me. 

Williamson, W. A. four vials, containing specimens of young sponges, 
fishes, insects, and worms, and two boxes of insects and shells ; from 
Canada. 

Willson, W. L., Philadelphia, Pa. Samples of encaustic floor tiles. 

Willson^ J. H. Two specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. (For ex- 
amination.) 

Wingate, J. B. Living-horned toad (Phrynosoma) ; from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Wincliell, TV. H. A large collection of specimens of building stones 
and slates; from Dakota and Minnesota. 

Winthrop, L. A, Pharyngeal bone of fresh-watfer drum {Haploidonotus 
grunniens) ; from Minnesota. 

Wittfield, William. A box, containing alcoholic specimens of reptiles, 
fishes, insects, and shells ; from Florida. 

Wolff, J. E. A large collection of specimens of building stones from 
Maine, Massachusetts, and Ehode Island. 



EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 159 

♦ 

Woodmarij Dr. H. T, Indian figure (frog) ])ipe (purchased) and a pipe 
of black stone and a partially drilled banner stone ; from Indiana. 

'SVooster, A. F. Box of birds' eggs ; from Connecticut. 

^Vorth^ 8. G. Four specimens of land-locked salmon ; from North Caro- 
lina. 

Wright, Abel C. Five specimens of fishes ; from Georgia. 

Wright, B. H. Box of fossils ; from New York. 

Wright, James. Two specimens of building stones ; from Tennessee. 

Wright, L. A, A living centipede and horned-frog; from Texas. 

Wyn7i, Rev. L. B. Small box of minerals ; fromVirgiuia. (For exami- 
nation.) 

Yarroio, Dr. II. C. Seven alcoholic specimens of reptiles {Opheosaurus^ 
Cyclophis, Alligator, etc.) ; from Fort Macon, N. C. 

Yarroic, John. Two bottles of alcoholic specimens of insects. 

Yeates, \V. 8. Specimens of fossil sharks' teeth ; from North Carolina. 

Zeledon, Jose G. A small collection of birds' skins ; from Costa Eica. 

Vnlcnotcn. Box of building stones ; specimen of haddock ; specimen of 
fisli ; from Canada. Box of minerals ; from New Hampshire. Liv- 
ing snake [Diadophis punctntus) ; from the District of Columbia. 
Specimen of butterfly ; samples of '^ dried " cider and milk. 



4 



EEPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 

Fred. W. Taylor. 

The chemist was occupied duriug the first part of the year in making 
a partial catalogue and in overhauling that part of the collection of 
minerals and rocks at that time stored in the Smithsonian building, and 
in making some partial disposal of the duplicates, packing them in sets 
for distribution and arranging them so that they could be found. 

Preparations for the removal to new quarters and plans for a new lab- 
oratory soon however consumed all the available time, and later he was 
engaged in the removal of the laboratory from the Smithsonian build- 
ing to that of the National Museum. Unfortunately, this occurred about 
the middle of Februarj^, when every one was busily occupied in making 
preparations for the coming inauguration and the festivities which fol- 
lowed this event. Much time was lost, and it was not until April fol- 
lowing that the laboratory was ready for work. Perhaps a brief descrip- 
tion of rho present quarters, with their location and equipment, would 
not be out of place. 

The new laboratory is located in the southwest corner of the new 
Museum building, in what is called the Southwest Pavilion, and occupies 
the entire second floor of the same. The rooms on the second floor are 
four in number — the laboratory proper, 25 feet square ; the balance room, 
12 by 16 feet, and the office, a small room, similar in size to the balance 
room ; the fourth room is in what is called the annex, on the same floor, 
and has been fitted up as an assay room. 

The laboratory. A, is a large well-lighted room, and, as already stated, 
25 feet square. It is fitted with two wall desks, a and &, placed against 
the south and west halls. These desks are of white pine throughout, 3 
feet high and 2 feet wide, divided below into drawers and lockers. 
Above is placed the usual rack for re-agents, and above that a case fill- 
ing the space above to the ceiling. The north wall is occupied by a 
long wall case, c, divided into three compartments, and used for chem- 
icals and apparatus ; the east wall is occupied by a similar case, </, and 
the acid or fume chamber, e. 

The south wall desk has two large sinks, ss, one at each end ; and in the 
southwest corner are placed two Bunsen pumps. These are connected 
with the desks, and so arranged that each desk has three points of con- 
nection. East of the laboratory we have the balance room, B; this 
room has been very handsomely fitted up with wall cases of black wal- 
nut, occupying the west and north walls. These cases fill the entire 
space from floor to ceiling, the lower part being divided into drawers. 
All choice apparatus, platinum, graduated glassware, and extra glass- 
ware is kept in this room. 

The balances are five in number — a large analytical, carrying one kilo- 
gramme; one medium size analytical, to carry two hundred graiiunes; 
S. Mis. 109 11 161 



162 



REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 




REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 1G3 

one of Becker's small prescriptiou balances, to carry oue hundred 
grammes and turn with one milligramme (this balance is exceedingly 
handy for proximate weighings, fluxes, &c.)', one pulp scale, for weigh- 
ing out assay charges, with a set of Chandler's assay ton weights ; and 
one assay balance for buttons, showing one one-hundreth of a milli- 
gramme. All of the balances are Becker & Son's make. In addition 
to the above, the laboratory also possesses one Jolly's balance, for 
specific gravity determination. 

North of the laboratory, and separated from it by a hall-waj', is the 
assay room, D. The permanent fittings here are, first, one small Hibb's 
furnace, «, with a 4 by 10 inch muffle; a large Battersea muffle furnace, 
b, with a 6 by 14 inch muffle, and a crucible furnace, c. 

In addition to the assay furnace, the room also contains the ajjparatus 
for furnishing distilled water and a large sand bath, d. It is the desire 
of the chemist and the intention of the Director of the Museum to add 
to the equipment some form of crusher, probably one of Blake's excel- 
lent laboratory crushers, and if possible some kind of a grinding ma- 
chine ; these will if possible be driven b}' steam jiower, supplied from 
the engine-room. 

On the third floor is a large room the full size of the pavilion, as it 
is called, about 37 feet square, at present used only as a storage room. 
It is the intention of the Director to fit up this room as a qualitative 
laboratory. The work of the Institution consists at present largely in 
the qualitative examination and determination of minerals and ores, 
received from almost every part of the United States, and often wrongly 
named, if named at all, by the collectors. It is often very inconvenient 
to carry on work of that kind in a room where quantitative work is in 
progress, and this room, when fitted up, might also be used as a labor- 
atory for special research. 

It will be seen that with one or two exceptions the laboratory is pretty 
well fitted up and equipped for two chemists; the supply of glass and 
porcelain ware is amply sufficient; one of the exceptions is in the plati- 
num ware and another in the lack of another analytical balance. There 
are however two reasons for this defect ; one the lack of any definite 
appropriation for fitting up a laboratory, and, second, the fact that the 
Superintendent of the Tenth Census has signified his intention to de- 
posit the platinum ware and balances of the Ne\\'port laboratory in the 
Museum, to be used in any work connected with the Census, as the only 
work done besides the routine work of the Institution is done in connec- 
tion with the Census of the building stones of the United States. This 
seems eminently proper, and this addition will supply all the existing 
deficiencies, giving the laboratory an especially large and valuable sup- 
ply of platinum ware. The only fault that can be found with the pres- 
ent quarters is the insufficiency of means for proper ventilation ; the 
fume chamber is not large enough, and the flue used is hardly large 
enough to exhaust it properly. Unfortunately, this is a case that is hard 



1G4 REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 

to remedy. The ceiliDg is perhaps a little low, but if the ventilation was 
better that would matter but little. 

In regard to the work done little can be said ; it is of so varied a nature 
that hardly any two analyses can be connected to draw any conclusions 
from or establish any facts. 

When'the collections of the Museum are fully identified and arranged 
there will be time for scientific work and investigation: subjects are 
abundant, and as a repository for the Geological Survey, the Depart- 
mentof the Interior, &c., the Museum must some day possess the largest 
and most complete collection of the minerals, ores, and rocks of America, 
and of the world, that has ever been collected together in any one 
museum. 

The work done for the Institution by the chemist has been the identi- 
fication of numerous specimens sent in from different localities, analyses 
and assays of various ores, iron, gold, silver, &c., which have been under- 
taken whenever it was thought they might aid in developing the min- 
eral resources of the country. The chemist has received specimens of 
;:!>kl and silver ores for examination, some showing the precious metals, 
i tliers devoid of even a trace; one interestiag specimen was received, 
said to be from New Mexico ; the specimen was arsenical pyrite ; the piece 
was completely tilled with small nuggets of gold from the size of a pin 
point up to the size of an ordinary pin head ; the nuggets were not pure 
gold, but alloyed with a little silver ; the assay gave a value of nearly 
thirty thousand dollars to the ton. 

In iron ores the same variation has been found, some few being of 
value, while others have been worthless ; copper ores, most as carbonate, 
with some little native copper, have not been wanting. Lead, in the form 
of galena, has also been received, generally as silver ore, though most 
of it has proved of little value except as a source of lead. Tin ore has 
also been received, though unfortunately the specimens contained no 
tin ; one interesting specimen of this kind presented to the chemist with 
the assurance that it contained eight per cent, of tin consisted of a mass 
of small crystals of tourmaline. 

Among the analyses made may be mentioned one of a sample of water 
from the Eureka Springs, Arkansas. The sample was shipped and re- 
ceived during very warm weather, and was entirely devoid of any con- 
tained gases. The analysis shows only the comparatively small quantity 
of solid constituents contained in the water — 8.81 grains to the gallon of 
23 L cubic inches. 

Among the few specimens of interest received may be mentioned three 
small samples from the excavation for a new court-house at Scranton, 
Pa., one of the peat, one of the black muck, and another of the jelly 
like substance so well described by Professor Lewis, of the Academy of 
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, under the title of "A jelly-like sub- 
stance resembling Dopplerite." The samples received by the chemist 
contained 87 per cent, of water, 6.86 of volatile matter, 3^52 of fixed car- 
bon, and 2.47 ash. 



REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 165 

The chemist is now engaged iu making analyses of a number of sam- 
ples of the galvanized iron wire used by the Signal Bureau of the War 
Department. It is impossible to say anything in regard to these analy- 
ses without going into details that would be of little interest in this part 
of the report. The object is believed to be to aid an attempt to establish 
some relation between the chemical composition of the wire and its 
l^ower of conduction. 

The laboratory work done by the chemist has been iu answer to letters 
referred to him by the Secretary, as follows : Twenty-six assays, involv- 
ing twenty-nine determinations; thirty-one ' quantitative analyses, in- 
volving one hundred and seventy-four determinations, and thirty-two 
qualitative reports, identifying seventy-nine specimens ; also a report on 
the specific gravity of a number of specimens of Jadeite from South 
America; he has also i)repared answers to numerous letters received by 
the Institution in reference to chemical sulyects. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 
1881. 

The Executive Committee of the Board of Eegents of the Smithso- 
nian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to 
the funds of the Institution, the ax>propriations by Congress for the 
National Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures 
for both the Institution and the Museum for 1881, and the estimates for 
the year 1882: 

Condition of the funds January 1, 1882. 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States in accordance with the act of Congress of August 

10,1840 $515,109 00 

Eesiduary legacy of Smithson added to the fund by act 

of Congress, February 8, 1807 20, 210 03 

Additions to the fund, from savings, &c., by act of Con- 
gress, February 8, 1807 108, 020 37 

Bequest of James Hamilton, of Pennsylvania, 1874 1, 000 00 

Bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York, 1880 500 00 

Proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds, 1881 51, 500 00 



Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interestat per cent. per annum. $703, 000 00 



Statement of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1881. 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest for the year 1881, from the United 

States '. $41, 735 54 

Sale of Virginia bonds and deferred certificates 50,514 98 

Sale of Virginia coui>ons due January 1, 1881. 1,032 20 

Balance cash on hand January 1, 1881 20, 934 52 

Total receipts 114, 817 30 

167 



168 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

EXPENBITURES. 

For building : 

Repairs and improvements $538 63 

Furniture and fixtures 572 07 

$1, 110 70 

General expenses : 

Meetings of the board $237 00 

Lighting the building 55 40 

Heating the building 996 75 

Postage and telegraph 43 01 

Stationery 962 86 

Incidentals, freight, hauling, ice, 

blanks, &c 1, 027 97 

Books and periodicals 1, 979 26 

Salaries and labor 13, 266 50 



Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian contributions. 4, 577 44 

Miscellaneous collections 3, 170 03 

Annual reports . . - 2, 223 59 

Explorations 943 43 



18,568 75 



10, 914 49 
Literary and scientific exchanges . 7, 467 84 



38,061 78 



Cash deposited with the Treasurer of the United 
States to the credit of the Smithson fund, 
being proceeds of sale of the Virginia bonds 
($50,514.98) and part of coupons ($985.02), by 
virtue of act of Congress, approved February 

8, 1867 51,500 00 

Total expended 89, 561 78 






I 



Leaving balance on hand January 1, 1882 25, 255 52 

VIRGINIA BONDS. 

At the meeting of the Board of Eegents, 19th of January, 1881, the 
Executive Committee was authorized to dispose of the Virginia securi- 
ties owned by the Institution, and to deposit the proceeds in the Treas- 
ury of the United States as an addition to the permanent fund. 

The committee having duly considered the subject, decided to make 
the sale, which was effected through the agency of Messrs. Eiggs & Co., 
bankers, with the following result : 
$58, 700 00 par value, of Virginia consolidated bonds (sold 

at an average of about 79 per cent.) $46, 417 87 

29, 375 07 par value of Virginia deferred certificates, sold 

at about 13f per cent 4,039 08 

50 13 par value of Virginia scrip, at 115f 58 03 



88, 125 20 Total 50, 514 98 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 169 

It is gratifying to state that the amount realized by the sale of the 
Virginia securities was $3,514.98 more than their estimated value in our 
last annual rei^ort. 

The coupons due on the Virginia bonds January 1, 1881, were sold 
by Messrs. Riggs & Co. January 31, 1881, as follows: 

$1, 461 Virginia coupons, at 93 J, less one-half per cent $1, 353 26 

300 Virginia couiwns, at 93J, less one-half per cent 279 00 



1, 761 Total 1, 632 26 

Of this the committee used $985.02 to add to the proceeds of the sale 
of the Virginia bonds, to make the even sum of $51,500, to increase the 
l^ermanent fund, as before stated, leaving the balance of $647.24 for 
current expenses. 

ESTIMATES FOR 1882. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution proi)er 
for the year 1882, and of the expenditures required for carrying on its 
operations during the same period. 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest on the permanent Smithson fund, receivable July 
1, 1882, and January 1, 1883 $42, 180 00 

EXPENDITURES. 

For building and repairs $1, 500 00 

For general expenses, heating, lighting, &c., 

including salaries 19, 000 00 

For j)ublications and researches 12, 000 00 

F©r exchanges 7, 000 00 

For contingencies 2, 680 00 

Total $42, 180 00 

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1881, for dis- 
bursement under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution : 

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIOXS. 

*' For preservation and care of the collections of the sur- 
veying and exploring expeditions of the government and 
for expense of heating, lighting, telephonic, and elec- 
trical service for the new Museum building." (Act March 
3, 1881 ) $61, 000 00 



170 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

" For transfer to, and arrangement in, the new National 
Museum building, of the collections of the United States 
surveying and exploring expeditions, and of the speci- 
mens presented to the United States at the International 
Exhibition of 187G." (Deficiency act, March 3, 1881) .. $10,000 00 

Total amount appropriated 71, 000 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited 38, 117 81 

Balance available January 1, 1882 32, 882 19 



ARMORY BUILDING. 



" For watching, care, and storage of duplicate government col- 
lections, and of property of the United States Fish Com- 
mission." (Act March 3, 1881) $2,500 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited 1, 441 87 

Balance available January 1, 1882 1, 058 13 



FURNITURE AND FIXTURES. 

" For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for the exhibi- 
tion of the collections of geology, mineralogy, natural his- 
tory, ethnology, and technology belonging to the United 
States." (Act March 3, 1881) $60, 000 OO 

Exj^ended as per vouchers audited 34, 380 94 

Balance available January 1, 1882 25, 619 06- 



FIRE-PROOF BUILDING, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

" For flooring of marble and encaustic tiles in the large halls 
of the National Museum Building." (Act February 9, 1881). $26,000 00 

" For additional amount required for running the relieving 
sewer of the KaMonal Museum building into the north B 
street sewer instead of into the Seventh street sewer." (Act 
March 3, 1881) 900 00 

Total amount appropriated 26, 900 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited 21, 582 35 

Balance available January 1, 1882 5, 317 65- 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 171 

XOUTH AMEKICAX ETIIXOLOGY. 

" For coutinuiiig ethnological researches among the North 
American Indians, under the direction of the secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, $25,000, of which$5,000 are to 
be expended in continuing archreological investigations • 
relating to mound-builders and prehistoric mounds." (Act 
March 3, 1881) $25, 000 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited IG, 450 10 

Balance available January 1, 1882 8, 510 90 



INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 



" For the expense of exchanging literary and scientific pro- 
ductions with all nations by the Smithsonian Institution." 
Act March 3, 1881) $3, 000 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited 1, 500 00 

Balance available January 1, 1882 1, 500 00 



POLARIS REPORT. 

Balance available January 1, 1881 $6, 183 GG 

Expended 2, 585 91 

Balance available January 1, 1882 3, 597 75 

CONCLUSION. 

The Executive Committee has examined 730 vouchers for payments 
made from the Smithson income during the year 1881, and 1,976 
vouchers for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the 
National Museum, making a total of 2,70G vouchers. All these bear 
the approval of the Secretary of the Institution and a certificate that 
the materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the 
Institution or of the Museum. 

The Committee has examined the account books of the National Mu- 
seum, and find the balances unexpended as before stated, viz : Preser- 
vation of collections, $32,882.19 ,• armory building, $1,058.13; furniture 
and fixtures, $25,G19.0G; international exchanges, $1,500, to correspond 
with the certificates of the disbursing clerk of the Department of the 
Interior; and the balances for fire-proof building. National Museum, 
$5.317.05 ; Polaris report, $3,597.75, to correspond with the certificates 
of the disbursing clerk of the Treasury Department. 

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and journals 
have likewise been examined and found to be correct. 



172 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The balance to the credit of the Institution propei-, on the 1st of 
January, 1882, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, 
available for the current operations of the Institution, is 825,255.52. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

PETER PAEKEE, 
JOHN MACLEAN, 
W. T. SHEEMAN, 

Executive Committee. 
Washington, D. C, January 16, 1882. 

Dr. Maclean's examination of the expenditures and vouchers was 
limited to those of the Smithsonian Institution proper. 



REPORT OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING COMMISSION 

FOR 1881. 



Office of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C, January 2, 1882. 
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : By resolution of the Board of Regents of January 17 
1879, the Executive Committee of the Board and the Secretary of the 
Institution was authorized to "act for and in the name of the Board of 
Eegents in carrying into effect the provision of any act of Congress that 
might be passed providing for the erection of a building for the National 
Museum," the care and administration of which establishment is en- 
trusted to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The anticipated provision having been made on the 3d of March, 1879, 
by a Congressional appropriation of $250,000 " for a fire-proof building 
for the use of the National Museum, to be erected under the direction of 
the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution," in pursuance of authority 
vested in them by your Board, the Executive Committee and the Secre- 
tary, after organizing on the 7th of March, 1879, under the title of Na- 
tional Museum Building Commission, proceeded to adopt such measures 
as in their opinion appeared best calculated to realize, with the least 
possible delay, the intention of Congress. 

At the session of the Board in January, 1880, the Commission had the 
honor to present to you a report of the operations connected with the 
construction of the new building from their inauguration to the close of 
1879; and again, early in January, 1881, a similar report of progress 
during 1880 was submitted. These documents were resiiectively accom- 
panied by reports of the superintending architects, which, while giving 
a technical and descriptive record of the plan, design, and construction 
of the building, presented accurately detailed exhibits of expenditures- 
Having thus laid before you a record of operations of construction to 
the close of 1880, it only remains for the Commission to call the atten- 
tion of the Board to those of the year just closed. 

At the beginning of this period the balance to the credit of the appro- 
priation was $5,050.33, of which, however, $1,000 was a specific appro- 
priation for the construction of a sewer to relieve the building from water, 
which, on account of the inadequacy of the Seventh street sewer during 
extraordinary rains, would flood the cellars. It being ascertained sub- 
sequently, however, that this amount was insufficient, an additional $900 
was voted by Congress to be applied to sewer purposes. With the appro- 

173 



174 REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. i 

priation thus increased, tlie work was promptly begun and successfully 
carried to completion under the direction of the engineer of the District 
of Columbia, Lieutenant Hoxie, who is entitled to the thanks of the 
Board for this service. 

Early in the year an appropriation of $26,000 was granted to defray 
the expense of a tile floor for the naves and rotunda, and on its becom- 
ing available, plans for the work were prepared by the architects, from 
which a selection was made by the Commission and copies sent to various 
parties, with a request for proposals for executing the same. A number 
of proposals were received and opened on the 16th of April, the succes- 
ful bidders being Mr. Emil Fritsch, of New York, for the marble tiles, 
and the United States Encaustic Tile Company, of Indianapolis, for the 
encaustic tiles for the rotunda. Both» these x)arties have faithfully ful- 
filled their contracts ; and with wood flooring on the halls that remained 
unfinished at the close of 1880, the two and a quarter acres of interior 
ground space of the building now presents a smooth and durable walk- 
ing surface. In addition, the north front platform has been floored in 
a neat pattern of marble tiles, the inner vestibi^les of the four main 
entrances in encaustic tiles, and the outer vestibules laid in cement. 

Owing to its insecure condition, the plaster covering was, during the 
summer, removed from all ceilings of the low, flat roofs. These, it will 
be remembered, consist of gratings of wood fastened between the iron 
girders and filled with mortar composed of plaster of Paris and ashes, 
a form of ceiling suggested by the consulting engineer. General 
Meigs. The surface exposed by removal of the plaster has been calci- 
miued in subdued tints. In one of the outer halls thus treated a sup- 
plementary corrugated iron ceiling has been put in place, which, with 
the ceiling of gratings above, incloses an air space, serving to prevent 
the scape of heat in winter and renders the building cooler than formerly 
in summer. 

In this connection it may be proper to state that the patentee of an 
apparatus for moistening air by means of a system of aspirators, where- 
by it is claimed that in hot weather a reduction of temperature of eight 
or ten degrees can be accomplished, and that the air is rendered more 
wholesome at all times, has offered to apply his invention to the new 
building for $7,000. This apparatus is in use in certain cotton mills in 
New England for the purpose of improving the facilities of cotton spin- 
ning ; but the question of its employment for the Museum is, of course, 
one for determination in the future. 

An octagonal fountain basin, of twenty feet diameter, composed of 
a rim of molded polished granite and cement floor, has been erected in 
the rotunda. This, while a pleasing feature in an aesthetic point of 
view, materially lessened the expense for encaustic tiling by reducing the 
sijace to be floored. 

The radiators remaining unfinished at the close of last year are no^v 
all bronzed and the steam-pipes covered with asbestos. The heating 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 175 

apparatus continues to operate satisfactorily, bpth as regards the work- 
ing of the various parts of the machinery and in an economical con- 
sumption of fuel. The severe winter of 1880-81 subjected the ap- 
paratus to a test more trying than will be likely to occur again in many 
years. 

For fuller information, however, in regard to operations of construc- 
tion, as well as for details of expenditures, the Board is respectfully re- 
ferred, as in previous reports of the Commission, to an appended state- 
ment of the superintending architects. 

Although not directly connected with operations of construction, it 
is deemed not out of place to mention here that the use of the new build- 
ing was granted for the reception ceremonies attending the inaugura- 
tion of President Garfield on the evening of the 4th of March last, in 
view of the event being of a national character, and of the fact that the 
President-elect had been a Eegent of the Smithsonian Institution for 
many years. No expense was incurred by the Museum in connection 
with this occupation. 

Since the last meeting of the Board, the United States Geological Sur- 
vey and the Bureau of Ethnology have been accommodated with quar- 
ters in the northeast pavilion, while space has also been freely provided 
for a large clerical force detailed by General Walker in connection with 
working up the fisheries statistics for the census report. 

During the year the Commission has met as often as was deemed neces- 
sary. General M. C. Meigs, the consulting engineer, besides attending 
these meetings, has continued his visits to the building and given close 
and critical attention to the many features of its construction. For 
these and other valuable services he has rendered the Commission it is 
respectfully suggested that suitable acknowledgment be made by the 
Board of Regents. 

It is very gratifying to the Commission to be able to state that the 
conscientious attention paid by the architects to the work the}" have 
had in hand in connection with the construction of the new edifice is 
in keeping with their professional reputation; also, that the attaches 
of the Commission generally have faithfully discharged every duty im- 
posed upon them; and that while more than eight hundred vouchers, 
in duplicate, have been presented to the United States Treasury for 
l^ayment, not a single one has been returned or otherwise questioned 
by the accounting officers. 

In closing this its third annual report, the National Museum Build- 
ing Commission congratulates the Eegents that the new building for 
the National Museum is so far completed as to be ready for occupancy ; 
and in now asking the Board to take charge of the edifice, the Commis- 
sion begs to refer to the important fact that, while a building is pre- 
sented equal in every respect to what was anticipated in case provision 
should be made for additional quarters for the national collections in- 
trusted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution, instead of incurring 



176 REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 

a deficiency, the fund Ijas beeu so managed as to have to its credit at 
the present moment an available balance of some thousands of dollars. 
Having fulfilled the duties with which it was charged by your resolu- 
tion of January 17, 1879, the Commission would respectfully ask to be 
discharged, and to be authorized to turn over to the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution the building itself, and to the United States 
Treasury whatever balance of money may remain after liquidating the 
last liability on account of the construction of the edifice. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

W. T. SHERMAN, 
PETER PARKER, 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
National Museum Building Commission. 



I 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM 
BUILDING FOR 1881. 



Washington, D. C, January 1, 1882. 
To General W. T. Sherman, 

Chairman National Museum Building Commission : 

Sir : We have the honor to submit a report on the completion of vari- 
ous improvements in the National Museum Building, under the appro- 
priations available for the purpose since January 1, 1881, the date of 
our last report. 

To facilitate the carrying of steam to the great distances required for 
heating the offices at the four comers of the building, the steam mains 
were covered with thick layers of hair felt, protected by asbestos, as far 
as the funds would permit, and a favorable result was obtained. 

The main halls were floored with white-veined, red, black, and gray 
marble tiles, laid in chaste patterns. The marble tiling was surrounded 
by a frieze of dark-blue Pennsylvania slate of sufficient thickness to^ 
bridge the ducts containing the steam-pipes, wires, &c. ; and around 
the frieze a border of parti-colored Portland cement pavement was ex- 
tended. 

This tiling covers about half an acre, and was obtained after public 
advertisement from the lowest bidder, Mr. E. Fritsch, of New York, who 
completed it satisfactorily about the middle of September. 

An octagonal fountain, with sides of molded and polished granite,, 
and floor of Portland cement, was constructed and finished in the early 
part of August. The floor of the rotunda around the fountain was laid 
with encaustic tile, according to our designs. 

Proposals for these tiles were invited from all the manufacturers in 
this line in the country, as well as from the leading importers. The 
United States Encaustic Tile Company, of Indianapolis, Ind., was 
awarded the work as the lowest bidder, and completed it quite satis- 
factorily about the 1st of October. It is a creditable specimen of a 
branch of industry now being successfully introduced in the country. 

The four square halls were floored with best Georgia yellow pine,, 
laid upon a concrete base, since this material was preferred for special; 
reasons. 

S. Mis. 109 12 177 



178 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

The spacious platform in front of the northern main entrance waslaitl 
with a floor of ornamental marble tile. 

A sewer has been constructed through the Smithsonian grounds, di- 
rectly to the main sewer along North B street, and the building is now 
disconnected from the overcharged branch sewers of the city. 

All the plumbing fixtures necessary or proper to be introduced in the 
building for safety, for the accommodation of visitors, as well as officials, 
such as fire-plugs, sinks, wash-basins, water-closets, and urinals, were 
provided for and constructed during the season in strict accordance with 
the present requirements of sanitary science. 

A large number (thirty-two) of the sash-windows in the lanterns of 
the main and square halls have been made movable in sections by sim- 
ple mechanism worked from the floors of the halls. This improvement 
has proved to be a valuable agent for summer ventilation during the hot 
spells peculiar to our climate. | 

Several partitions of fire-proof concrete material have been con- ^ 
structed in the two eastern corner pavilions for the better accommoda- 
tion of the service. 

An important improvement has been introduced in one of the outside 
halls by the construction and hanging of a comely iron ceiling under- 
neath, and parted by an air space, from the roof. The double ceiling 
has added materially to the sanitary advantages of the building, and it 
is highly desirable to have it extended over the whole building. 

The slates of the roofs are hung to iron purlines, and are plastered 
on their under side with a heavy coat of mortar. During rapid changes 
of the temperature, moisture arising from the process of condensation of 
aerial vapor appears occasionally on this plastered surface which forms 
the ceiling of the principal halls ; this will be obviated by the hung iron 
ceiling with air space between it and the plastered slates. i| 

The roofs and ceilings of the lower halls are formed by sheet metal 
laid upon fire-proofed gratings, which are again plastered on the under 
side. The adherence of the j)lasterer's mortar to the greasy fire-proof j 
composition has proved to be insufficient, and it fell in a number of 
patches. The whole surface so covered, aggregating about 3,600 square 
yards, and costing about $720, was hence removed, and the proposed 
iron ceilings will incidentally serve to hide the unsightly surface of the 
exposed gratings. 

The action of the rapid changes of the temperature during our sum- 
mer months, in causing expansion and contraction of building material 
disposed in great lengths throughout this extensive structure, has occa- 
sionally^ baffled the provided safeguards. It has been carefully watched, 
and small imperfections have been remedied wherever and as soon as 
they appeared. With comparatively little more attention they will be 
completely under control. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 179 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT. 

The available funds were : 

Balance from former appropriations in hands of the dis- 
bursing agent on January 1, 1881 $5, 050 33 

Appropropriation by Congress for tile-floors, &c 26, 000 00 

Additional appropriation for sewer to North B street . . . 900 00 



31, 950 33 
SCHEDULE ACCOUNT OF EXPENDITURES TO JANUARY 1, 1882. 

Heating apparatus : 

For steam-fitters' work and material $3, 418 18 

For non-conducting lining around steam- 
pipes 732 85 

$4, 151 03 

Floors : 

A. — Marble-slate tiling of four main halls : 

Tile and labor of laying 8,756 63 

Cement 1, 257 45 

Sand 152 25 

Miscellaneous labor 53 33 

Wall borders of ornamental cement work 1 , 014 05 

B. — Floor of rotunda : 

Fountain 957 12 

Encaustic tiling (outstanding, $1,934.29). 

C. — Tiled platform in front of main entrance. . . 595 10 

D. — Floors of four square halls 2, 081 53 

E. — Cement pavements outside of building 268 77 

15, 136 23 

Fire-proof partitions : 

Construction 280 40 

Plastering 59 00 

339 40 

Ventilation : 

Movable sash in lanterns of main and square halls 531 20 

Iron ceilings : 

One iron ceiling over southwest outer hall 962 10 

Sewer : 

Cost of main sewer through Smithsonian grounds 1, 437 17 

Miscellaneous : 

Decorations 80 00 

Additional step-railings 662 18 

Improvements to roofs, down-spouts, galvanized-irou 
work, finishings of plastering .'. . . 949 51 



180 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

Miscellaneous — Continued. 

Printing, advertising, and photographing $213 86 

Clerk hire and notary fees 345 00 

Construction and superintendence 1 , 750 00 

Balance in hands of disbursing agent on December 31, 

1881 .' 5, 392 05 



31, 950 33 



The balance in hand will suffice to pay up all outstanding liabilities. 
We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants, 

CLUSS & SCHULZE, 

Supervising Architects. 



i 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

In contimtation from previous reports. 



Chap. 179. An act extending the privilege of the Library of Congress to the Eogenta 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Be it enacted, &c., That the Joint Committee of both Houses of Con- 
gress on the Library, be authorized to extend the use of the books in the 
Library of Congress to the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, resi- 
dent in Washington, on the same conditions and restrictions as mem- 
bers of Congress are allowed to use the Library, 

Approved March 3, 1875. 

(Stat, vol. 18, sec. 512 ; Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 195.) 



Chap. 103. An act establishing post-roads, and for other purposes. 

Be it enacted, &c. : 

Sec. 5. That it shall be lawful to transmit through the mail, free of 
postage, any letters, packages, or other matters relating exclusively to 
the business of the Government of the United States : Provided, That 
every such letter or package, to entitle it to pass free, shall bear over 
the words " Official business " an endorsement showing also the name 
of the department, and, if from a bureau or office, the names of the de- 
partment and bureau or office, as the case may be, whence transmitted. 
And if any person shall make use of any such official envelope to avoid 
the j)ayment of postage on his private letter, package, or other matter 
in the mail, the person so oftending shall be deemed guilty of a misde- 
meanor, and subject to a fine of three hundred dollars, to be prosecuted 
in any court of competent jurisdiction. 

Sec. 6. That for the purpose of carrying this act into effect, it shall 
be the duty of each of the executive departments of the United States 
to provide for itself and its subordinat-e offices, the necessary envelopes ; 
and, in addition to the endorsement designating the department in which 
they are to be used, the i)enalty lor the unlawful use of these envelopes 
shall be stated thereon. 

Approved March 3, 1877. 

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 288.) 

[Extended to the Smithsonian Institution by act of March 3, 1879, as 

follows:] 

181 



182 ACTS AND EESOLUTIONS OF UOJGKESS. 

Chap. 180. An act making appropriations for the service of the Post-Office Depart- 
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, and for other purposes. 

Be it enacted, &c., . . . the provisions of said fifth and sixth 
sections are hereby likewise extended and made applicable to allofttcial 
mail matter sent from the Smithsonian Institution. 

Approved March 3, 1879. 

(Eevised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 458.) 



Joint Eesolution [No. 22] providing for the distribution and sale of the new edition 
of the Eevised Statutes of the United States. 

Resolved, &c.. That the . . . copies of the new edition of the first 
volume of the Eevised Statutes of the United States ... be dis- 
posed of by the Secretary of State as follows : ... to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, two copies. ... 

Approved May 22, 1878. 

(Eevised Statutes, supplement, vol 1, page 387.) 



Chap. 182. An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the govern- 
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, and for other purposes. 

Sect. 1, Par. 12. That all the archives, records, and materials relating 
to the Indians of North America, collected by the Geographical and Geo- 
logical Survey of the Eocky Mountain region, shall be turned over to the 
Smithsonian Institution, that the work may be completed and prepared 
for i)ublication under its direction : Provided, That it shall meet the ap- 
proval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Approved March 3, 1879. 

(Eevised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 461.; 



I 



Joint Eesolution [No. 11] concerning an international fishery exhibition to be held 
in Berlin, Germany, in April, eighteen hundred and eighty. 

Whereas all civilized nations take part in the International Fishery 
Exhibition to be held in the city of Berlin, Germany, in April, eighteen 
hundred and eighty, it is deemed both right and expedient that the 
prominent and efi'ective action of the United States in the line of the 
artificial propagation of fish and the stocking of depleted fishing waters 
shoidd be conspicuously and well exhibited on the occasion : Therefore, 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled. That to enable the United States Com- 
missioner of Fish and Fisheries to exhibit in Berlin, in April, eighteen 
hundred and eighty, a fair and full collection of the different specimens 
of American food fishes, casts thereof, models of, and implements, and 
so forth, used in the prosecution of American fisheries, the sum of twenty 
thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of any moneys not other- 
wise appropriated in the Treasury of the United States, or so much 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 1 80 

thereof as may be necessary for the purpose, to be immediately availa- 
ble on the passage of this resolution, to be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of State. 

Sec. 2. That the CJuited States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
be, and is hereby, autliorized to represent the United States, either in 
person or by a deputy to be appointed by the President of the United 
States ; and that, at his discretion, he may use any portion of the col- 
lections at present forming i^art of the National Museum in making up 
the proposed exhibition by the United States. 

Sec. 3. That the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
be, and is hereby, instructed to present to Congress, through the De- 
partment of State, a report upon the Berlin exhibition, showing the 
recent progress and present condition of the fisheries and of fish-culture 
in foreign countries. 

Approved February 16, 1880. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 301). 



Chap. 73. An act making appropriations for the naval service for the fiscal year end- 
ing June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-one, and for other purposes. 

Naval Observatory. — For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for 
freight on Observatory publications for eighteen hundred and eighty, to 
be shipped in eighteen hundred and eighty, two hundred and thirty-six 
dollars and twenty -five cents. 

Approved May 3, 1880. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 84.) 



For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for freight on Observa- 
tory publications for eighteen hundred and eighty-one, to be shipped to 
foreign countries in eighteen hundred and eighty-one, two hundred and 
thirty-six dollars and twenty-five cents. 

Approved May 3, 1880. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 84.) 



Chap. 42. An act making an appropriation for the flooring of the National Museum. 

Be it enacted, cfcc. That the sum of twenty-six thousand dollars, or so 
much thereof as may be necessary, be, and the same hereby is, appro- 
priated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
to place a flooring of marble and encaustic tiles in the large halls of the 
National Museum building, to be expended according to plans and under 
the direction of tbe building commission of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution under whose supervision the museum has been 
constructed. 

Approved February 9, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 324.) 



184 ACTS AND EESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

Joint resolution [No. 12] antliorizing tlie Public Printer to print reports of the 
United States Fish Commissioner upon new discoveries in regard to fish culture. 

Resolved, &c., That tlie Public Printer be, and he hereby is, instructed 
to print and stereotype, from time to time, the regular number of nine- 
teen hundred copies of any matter furnished him by the United States 
4Jommissioner of Fish and Fisheries relative to new observations, disco\«- 
eries, and applications connected with fish culture and the fisheries, to 
be capable of being distributed in parts, and the whole to form an annual 
-volume or bulletin not exceeding five hundred pages. The edition of 
said annual work shall consist of five thousand copies, of which two 
thousand five hundred shall be for the use of the House of Eepresenta- 
itives, one thousand for the use of the Senate, and one thousand five 
Jiundred for the use of the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries. 

Approved February 14, 1881. 

^{Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 617.) 



Chap, 65. An act to provide for remitting the duties on the object of art awarded 
by the Berlin International Fishery Commission to Professor Spencer F. Baird. 

Be it enacted, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby 
is, directed to remit the customs duties chargeable upon the object of 
art given by His Majesty the German Emperor and King of Prussia to 
the Berlin International Fishery Exhibition, and by it awarded as the 
^rst grand prize of honor to Professor Spencer F. Baird, at the exhibition 
lield in the city of Berlin, Prussia, in the month of June, eighteen hun- 
dred and eighty. 

Approved February 21, 18gl. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 608.) 



Chap. 73. An act making appropriations for the naval service for the fiscal year end- 
ing June 30, 1881, and for other purposes. 

N^aval Observatory. — For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for 
freight on Observatory publications to be shipped to foreign countries 
during the fiscal year eighteen hundred and eighty-two, three hundred 
and thirty-six dollars and twenty-five cents. 

Approved February 23, 1881. 

.(Statutes, vol. 21, page 333.) 



Chap. 132. An act making appropriations to supply deficiencies in the appropriations 
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, and for prior years, and for those certified 
as due by the accounting officers of the Treasury in accordance with section four 
of the act of June 14, 1878, and heretofore paid from permanent appropriatiorts, 
and for other purposes. 

For additional amount required for running the relieving sewer of 
the National Museum building into the North B street sewer instead 
of into the Seventh street sewer, nine hundred dollars. 
Approved March 3, 1881. 
(Statutes, vol. 21, page 418.) 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 185 

(Same act.) 

For expense of transfer to and arrangement in the new National 
Museum building of the collections of the United States surveying and 
exploring expeditions, and of the si)ecimens presented to the United 
States at the international exhibition of eighteen hundred and seventy- 
six, ten thousand dollars, being for the service of the current fiscal year. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 418.) 



Chap. 133. An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the govern- 
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882, and for other purposes. 

For the expense of exchanging literary and scientific productions 
with all nations by the Smithsonian Institution, three thousand dollars. 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution. — For preservation 
and care of the collections of the surveying and exploring expeditions 
of the government, fifty-five thousand dollars. 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, Armory 'building. — 
For expense of watching, care, and storage of duplicate government 
collections, and of property of the United States Fish Commission, two 
thousand five hundred dollars. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol 21, page 452.) 



(Same act.) 

North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. — For the purpose 
of continuing ethnological researches among the North American In- 
dians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, twenty-five thousand dollars; five thousand dollars of which 
shall be expended in continuing archaeological investigations relating to 
mound-builders and prehistoric mounds, and be available immediately. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 443.) 



(Same act.) 

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum. — For cases, furniture, and 
fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of geology, min- 
eralogy, natural history, ethnology, and technology, belonging to the 
United States, sixty thousand dollars. 

Heating and lighting National Museum. — For expense of heating, light- 
ing, telephonic and electrical service for the new museum building, six 
thousand dollars. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 449.) 



18G ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

(Same act.) 

Buildings and Grounds in and around Washington and the Executive 
Mansion. — For asphaltum footwalks through Smithsonian grounds from 
Seventh to Twelfth streets, one thousand five hundred dollars. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 444.) 



(Same act.) 

Miscellaneous objects under War Department. — For transportation of 
reports and maps to foreign countries through the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, five hundred dollars. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 447.) 



Joint Resolution [No. 26] authorizing tlie Secretary of the Treasury to furnish 
States, for the use of agricultural colleges, one set of standard weights and meas- 
ures, and for other purposes. 

Resolved^ <£•<?., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, 
directed to cause a complete set of all the weights and measures adopted 
as standards to be d.elivered to the governor of each State in the Union, 
for the use of agricultural colleges in the States, respectively, which 
have received a grant of lands from the United States, and also one set 
of the same for the use of the Smithsonian Institution : Provided^ That 
the cost of each set shall not exceed two hundred dollars, and a sum 
sufficient to carry out the provisions of this resolution is hereby appro- 
priated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated. 

Approved March 3, 1881. 

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 521.) 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1881. 



187 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the " Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
188 



I 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1881. 



INTEODUCTIOK 

While it has been a i)romiuent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date in its history to enrich 
the annual report required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus- 
tratiug the more remarkable and important developments in physical 
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of 
ihe operations of the Institution, this purpose had not been carried out 
on any very systematic plan. Believing however that an annual report 
or summary of the recent advances made in the leading departments 
of scientific inquiry would supply a want very generally felt, and would 
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of 1880, by competent 
collaborators, a series of abstracts showing concisely the prominent 
features of recent scieutiflc progress in astronomy, geology, physics, 
chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and anthropology. 

The subjects of terrestrial physics and meteorology (which should i^rop- 
erly have succeeded the survey of geology) were unfortunately omitted, in 
consequence of the inability of the writer selected for these departments 
to obtain sufficient leisure from other pressing duties to prepare a suit- 
able abstract in time. This omission has been partially supplied in the 
record for the present year by including a meteorological retrospect for 
the years 1879 and 1880. 

The subjects of geology and mineralogy, which were referred to ]\Ir. 
George W. Hawes, of the i^^ational Museum (who had acceptably pre- 
pared this summary for the record of 1880), have been delayed this year 
by the prolonged and much-regretted illness of Mr. Hawes; and it has 
been found impossible to obtain in time a substitute in this department. 

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor- 
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render 
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department 
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to 
briug up such deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports. 

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced 
by an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such 
branches as geography, microscopy, &c., but also of the more practical 
topics of agricultural and horticultural economy, engineering, and tecli- 

189 



190 RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1881. 

nology in general; but the space required for such larger digest seems 
scarcely available in the present channel. The scientific resum6, which 
in 1880 occupied 260 pages, has this year extended to 330 pages. An 
efficient condensation of this matter seems scarcely practicable. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual pro- 
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of the 
specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied ; and very many 
items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. While 
the student in a special field of knowledge may occasionally receive hints 
that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to consult for 
fuller information the original journals and special periodicals from 
which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled. 

The contemplated plan of devoting some 250 pages of the annual 
report to such a compilation is not designed to preclude the introduc- 
tion into the "General Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs 
or discussions that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Baird. 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 



By Prof. Edward S. Holden, 
Director of the Washburn Observatory, Wisconsin. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The record of astronomical progress for 1881 must necessarily be a 
very condensed summary. It is to be remembered that this review is 
not primarily intended for astronomers, but is specialy addressed to 
the correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. For bibliographic 
information the reader is referred to Darboux et Houel's Bulletin 
des Sciences Mathematiques et Astronomiques (monthly, Paris), to Nature 
(weekly, London), to IScience (weekly, New York), to Copernicus^ 
(monthly, Dublin), to the Observatory^ (monthly, London), and to other 
standard journals. Free use has been made of reviews by writers in 
these and other periodicals. 

NEBULA AND CLUSTERS. 

PJiotographs of nebulw. — M. J. Janssen calls attention to the effect of 
short and long exposures upon the negatives which are obtained. Pho- 
tographs of the same nebula will not agree unless the same conditions 
of exposure are narrowly observed. In proof of this the photographs 
of the solar corona taken at Siam in the eclipse of 1875 are referred to : 
The nebulosity, so to speak, of the corona gave different impressions 
upon sensitive plates which were exposed during times expressed by 
the numbers 1, 2, 4, 8 ; and it must be inferred that the changes in the 
height of the corona are to be attributed to the times of exposure, in- 
stead of to actual variations in the extent of the phenomena. M. Jans- 
sen proposes to take the photograph of the image of a star, or nebula, 
a little out of focus. In this case the photograph is a little circle of 
sensibly uniform opacity, and one can compare the opacity of the pho. 
tographs of different stars, and connect the degrees of opacity with the 
I)hotometric i^ower. — Comptes Ixendus. 

The Publications of the Washburn Observatory No. 1 contain a list 
of 23 new nebulae, mostly faint. 

Cluster measurements. — H. C. Russell, director of the observa4;ory of 
Sydney, has made a micrometric examination of the cluster h. 3276= 
G. C. 2144, which gives the positions (and magnitudes) of 144 stars. 
One of these is an interesting red star. The pai)er is accompanied Dy a 
map of the cluster made by Mr. Russell, himself, by a process whict he 
describes as extremely easy for any one to execute. 



192 ASTRONOMY. 

FIXED STARS. 

Catalogue of stars. — "Catalogue of 12,441 stars for the epocli 1880, 
from observations made at the Eoyal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, 
during the years 1871 to 1879. Edward James Stone, M. A., F. E. S., 
etc. (London, 1881, XXXII, and 5G5, 4to)." This catalogue, published 
by the Admiralty, is founded on observations made at the Cape Obser- 
vatory between January, 1871, and April, 1879. The observatory dur- 
ing the whole period was steadily directed to the object in view, the 
formation of a catalogue of well- distributed stellar zero-points for those 
portions of the heavens which are beyond the reach of northern obser. 
vatories. But a considerable number of stars, north of 25° Decl., were 
also observed at the Cape, and the results have been included in the 
present catalogue as a check upon the existence of any systematic 
errors in the work. Lacaille's well -distributed 9,76G stars were adapted 
as the basis of the working hst, but as some stars of the sixth and 
many of the seventh magnitude, in Brisbane's Catalogue of 7,385 stars, 
had not been observed by Lacaille, the greater part of these were also 
included in the working list. A large stereographic projection of the 
southern hemisphere was also prepared, on which were projected the 
places of all the stars previously observed, and whenever lacunse ap- 
peared within the limits of X. P. D. 115^ to 180°, efforts were made to 
fill them up by observing stars of rather a lower magnitude than the 
seventh of Lacaille's scale. A reduced copy of this projection accom- 
panies the catalogue. Generally each star was observed three times. 

The right ascensions of the stars observed for the determination of 
the errors of the Transit-clock have been taken from the Greenwich 
Standard Lists for the different years. The Eight Ascensions of Polar 
Stars were taken from Mr. Stone's ijaper on "The mean places of eight 
close Southern Polar Stars, 1860 to 1900." The refractions used are 
those of the Tabulae Begiomontanse diminished in the proportion of 
0.9988: 1, but the use of Bessel's tables unaltered would not change the 
results of the Catalogue by 0".2. As a ijroof of the satisfactory charac- 
ter of the adopted refractions, a comparison is given between the results 
of the Catalogue and the places of the Nautical Almanac for 1880. As 
might be expected from the use of the same fundamental system, there 
is a close agreement between the Greenwich and Cape Eight Ascensions, 
but the perfectly independent determinations of X. P. D. are also in very 
good accordance. Arranging the corrections required by the Xautcial 
Almanac X. P. D.'s in groups of 6 hours of E. A. and ap])lyiug the gen- 
eral mean correction — 0".81 to them all, the following corrections re- 
main: 

Qh_Qh 6»^ — 12»i 121^ — 18^ 18h — 24'' 

-0".24 — 0".ll +0".39 +0".0G 

The changes in these corrections are systematic, and it appears that 
the complete reversal of the seasons at the northern and southern observ- 
atories is not quite accurately allowed for in the refraction tables. In 



ASTRONOMY. 103 

notes at the end of the catalogue are given the larger proper motions 
resulting from a comparison of the Catalogue for 1880 with the " Cape 
Catalogue for 1840," and Taylor's " Subsidiary Catalogue for 1850." In 
the catalogue the mean time of observation is given for all the stars, 
but in forming the mean positions the proper motion has only been 
applied in the comparatively few cases where the proper motion is 
given in the body of the catalogue. The latter contains, in separate 
columns, references to Piazzi, Brisbane, Fallows, Johnson, Henderson, 
Taylor, Cape 1810, Cape 18G0, and Melbourne 1870, and in foot-notes 
other references, as also corrections to previous catalogues, and remarks 
.about duplicity, false positions, etc. Lacaille's numbers are given in the 
second column next to the current number of the catalogue. The con- 
stellations occupy the third column ; Lacaille's system of nomenclature 
is used with the modifications proposed by Sir J. Herschel. The im- 
portance of this great work can hardly be overestimated. Valuable as 
the two previously published Cape Catalogues and Melbourne Catalogue 
for 1870 are, they cannot compare with it either as regards extent or 
completeness, and when it is remembered how uncertain the foundation 
is on which Lacaille's zones rest, and how poor and unreliable the Bris- 
bane Catalogue is, it will be conceded by everybody that Mr. Stone's 
Catalogue will be an inestimable treasure for future generations, the 
value of which will contiinie to increase. As remarked by its author, 
the catalogue may also render good assistance in investigations on 
special stars occurring in Lacaille's and Brisbane's Catalogues, or even 
in completely new re-reductions of the observations on which these cata- 
logues are founded. 

"Catalogue of 1008 Standard Clock and Zodiacal Stars, prepared 
under the direction of Simon Newcomb" (papers prepared for the use of 
the American Ephemeris, No. 4, 1C2 pp., 4to). This catalogue was pre- 
pared for the purpose of obtaining standard jiositions of reference stars for 
use in the lunar and planetary theories, especially in the reduction of the 
older occultations. It contains all the standard stars of the Ephemeris 
(except most of those added for field work), and all stars to the sixth mag- 
nitude inclusive, which can be occulted by the moon, together with stars 
below the sixth magnitude observed by Bradley. The author was able to 
use Auwers' reduction of Bradley. The declinations of the catalogue are 
reduced to Mr. Boss' system, which was only modified so far as to sub- 
stitute Auwers' reduction of Bradley for that of Bcssel. In the case of 
stars within 80'^ of t^ae pole, the right ascensions were not independently 
investigated, but were taken from Dr. Gould's Catalogue (second edition), 
while the declinations are those of Mr. Boss. The catalogue gives, in 
the case of the stars observed by Bradley, the positions and other data 
for the two epochs 1755 and 1850, while in the case of fundamental time- 
stars the positions are also given for 1,900. Stars between 10^ and 30c> 
from the pole have data-given for the epochs 1755, 1800, 1850, and 1900, 
and stars still nearer the i)ole also for 1825 and 1875. The precessions 
S. Mis. 109 13 



194 ASTRONOMY. 

and secular variations for each epoch are independently computed. 
Formuhie for finding the place of a star for any epoch between 1750 and 
1900 from the data in the catalogue by Taylor's theorem add to the gen- 
eral usefulness of Professor INewcomb's work, which will no doubt be 
extensively employed by astronomers who have to reduce lunar or i)lau- 
etary observations made during the last and the present century. 

Dr. Gould has printed his second volume (Cordoba observations of 
1872), except the introduction. It contains the places of 400 stars for 
the catalogue, and also 128 zones of the zone observations, comprising 
over 13,000 stars. All the observations made at Cordoba are now fully 
reduced and they make a grand showing : 
121, 000 observations for the catalogue of 35,000 stars. 
14, 000 observations of fundamental stars. 
105, 000 observations for the zones. 



I 



240, 000 observations in all. 

Of these about half (including all the zones) were made by Dr. Gould 
personally. The total number of stars will be somewhere in the neigh- 
borhood of 80,000 in the zones, and 30,000 to 35,000 stars in the cata- 
logue. 

The work is all ready for the printer w]) to the end of 1875, but much 
remains to be done to put it in final shape from 1875 to 1880. The print- 
ing is an extremely flow process in Buenos Ayres, and the meteorolog- 
ical volumes (2 of which have appeared) are sources of delay. 

Among recent catalogues of stars may be cited that published by 
Professor Eespighi in vol. VIII of the Atti dclla E. Accademia dei Lincei. 
It contains the mean declinations for 1875 of 1,463 stars between the 
parallels of 20° and Q4P north, deduced from observations with the me- 
ridian circle of the Royal Observatory of*Campidoglio in the years 1875, 
1876, and 1877. 

The separate publication of the Berlin list of 539 stars will cease 
with 1881, and a selection from this list will apijear in the Berliner 
Jahrbuch. 

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in I^o. 1 of the Publications of the 
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor 
by Mr. Schaeberle, the reductions at Madison by Mr. Comstock, under 
the direction of Professor Watson. 

Each star was observed three times on the average, and tiie probable 
errors in R. A. and Dec. of the concluded positions are : 

±0^ 040 sec 8 and 

rtO". 55 respectively. 

The zones of the Astronomische Gesellschaft from 80° to —2^ are now 
nearly finished. Kasan (80-75), Dorpat (75-70), Christiania (70-65), 
Gotha (65-55), Harvard College (55-50), Bonn (50-40), have all finished 
the observations, and the reductions are nearly done. Lund (40-35) 
will finish observing in 1881. Leyden (35-30) will soon publish the 



ASTRONOMY. 195 

final results. Cambridge, England (30-25), is well advanced in reduc- 
tion. Berlin has two zones; 25-20 is in progress, 20-15 is finished. 
Leipzig also has two zones; 15-10 is finished, and 10-5 is in progress. 
Albany (5-1) is far advanced. Mcolajeff (1 to —2) is well under way. 

Parallax of stars. — Professor Ball, Eoyal Astronomer for Ireland, 
found for the parallax of CI Cygni, as deduced from measures of 61 A 
Cygni and a small star n. f., 

+0". 4C54±0."0497. 

A second series has been completed in which 01 B Cygni and the 
small star n. f. were used. Difierences of declinations were measured 
in both cases. The last result is — 

-f0."4676±0."032L 

That is, the agreement is exact, and Struve's value for the parallax of 
this system is confirmed rather than Bessel's. 

The search for objects having curious spectra, which has been car- 
ried on for some months at the Harvard College Observatory, has led 
to the discovery of another singular star by Prof. E.-C. Pickering. The 
spectrum consists jirincipally of bright bands, one in the blue being 
especially marked. Only four objects of this kind have heretofore been 
known, one of these having been discovered likewise at Cambridge, 
Mass., last August. This same method of search, which originated 
last summer at the Harvard College Observatory, has been adojjted at 
the observatory of the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, and Dr. Cope- 
land has already shown that a curious double nebula is gaseous. It 
will also be introduced in the Eoyal Observatory at the Cape of Good 
Hope, and there aijplied to extreme southern objects. 

Variable Stars. — "Photometric Measurements of the Variable Stars 
/? Persei and DM. 81° 25. By Edward C. Pickering, Arthur Searle, 
and O. C. Wendell," (Proc. Amer. Acad., Vol. XVI, 28 pp.). The pho- 
tometer used at Harvard College Observatory for the observation of 
these two variables consists of a double-image prism placed between 
the object glass and the eyepiece of a small telescope, which ha« a 
Nicdl prism in front of the eye-piece. By this instrument two ad- 
jacent stars may be compared with great accuracy, as the two images 
of each will be formed by the double-image prism, and their relative 
brightness may be varied by turning the Nicol. Each image in turu 
will disappear when the Nicol is turned 90°, and there will consequently 
always be four positions in which tlie brighter image of the fainter 
star will be precisely equal to the fainter image of the brighter star. 
i? Persei was compared with the fifth magnitude star w Persei 90' dis-. 
tant. The two images were formed by two Eochon prisms which pro- 
duced a separation of about 100', so that they had to be placed very 
near the object glass of the telescope in order that the images of the two 



196 ASTRONOMY. 

stars should be near together. The focal length of the telescope is 
about seventeeu feet, aud its available aperture is limited by the size 
of the prisms to about an inch. Observatious were made on thirteen 
nights, from September 29, 1880, to January 1, 1881. Three settings of 
each of the four positions of the Nicol constituted a set; the total num- 
ber of sets was 230. Seven minima were observed, and the probable 
' error of a single minimum is 3.8 minutes, while Schmidt gives the 
probable error of a minimum observed by Argelander equal to G min- 
utes, aud of those of Schonfeld 4.6 minutes. A comparison is made 
between the light curves found by Schonfeld, and at Harvard College 
Observatory, and the photometric and naked-eye methods are found to 
agree closely. For the observation of Ceraski's variable star -fSl^ 
ISTo. 25, the photometer was attaclied to the 15 inch refractor, on account 
of the faintness of the star. Two hundred and seventy-three sets of 
measures were made, and five minima were observed. The average 
probable error of a minimum is 1.3 minute, or about one-third of that 
of /3 Persei, which was to be expected since the rate of variation of the 
stars is about as three to one. Some interesting theoretical conclusions 
are drawn from the.resulting light curve. For about an hour and a half 
the light remains sensibly constant at 0.110, or about one-ninth of its full 
intensity. This interval is over one-third of that during which the ligljt 
is increasing or diminishing. If the variation in light is admitted to 
be-due to a dark eclipsing satellite, the diameter of the latter must be 
v'l— 0.110 = 0.943 of that of the star, in order to sufficiently reduce 
the light. A somewhat smaller diameter is possible, if we admit that 
the star, like our Sun, is darker near the edges than in the center. But 
the difference cannot be great, or it would show itself in other ways. 
The longest period of uniform minimum light would occur if the satel- 
lite produced a central annular eclipse. In this case if the motion was 
uniform, the duration of the minimum light would equal only one-ninth 
of that of increase or decrease. The effect of curvature or ellipticity 
of the path would not greatly affect this conclusion. A very great ellip- 
ticity is not admissible, or at the periastron the satellite would strike 
the star. We are, therefore, obliged to admit that the star is entirely 
covered by the satellite, and that the light during the minimum is either 
due to some proj)er light of the satellite, or is to be explained by admit- 
ting that the satellite consists of a cloud of meteors so scattered that 
about one-ninth of the light of the star can pass through the central 
jiortions. 

On September 13, 1881, a red star was noticed at the Harvard College 
Observatory in E. A. IG^ 31™.5, Dec. + 72° 32'. From the similarity 
of its spectrum to that of several known variable stars, it was presumed 
•to be variable; and the suspicion was confirmed, both by its absence 
from the catalogues and by subsequent observation, which showed that 
its brightness was increasing. 



ASTRONOMY. 197 

Star charts, etc. — The series of ecliptic charts, by Dr. Peters, was 
begun about ISGO, aud lias been continued and enlarged up to the pres- 
ent time, and this work is still going on. It is intended to make a 
series of charts, each of which shall include all the stars visible with 
the 13-inch refractor of the Litchfield Observatory, in a certain region, 
with their positions for 1800.0. As these charts are now about to be 
published by Dr. Peters, some account of them may not be unwelcome. 

Instruments and methods employed. — The observations are all made 
with the 13-inch refractor (made by Spencer). In the focus of this eye- 
piece is a mica scale, divided into 100 parts, 50 on each side of Zero. 
Each part is about 9".8, and for the more imi:)ortant stars half parts (or 
decimals of a part) are read, so that their positions are known within 
5", a quantity which corresponds on the scale of the charts to less than 
inch 0.001, and hence to about the smallest quantity that can be conve- 
niently plotted. 

On paper sheets about 17 x 14 inches are the lithographed blank 
forms. Each map contains 20™ in Eight Ascension, aud 5° in Declina- 
tion ; I"* additional in R. A. is added on each side (to i)reserve the star 
configurations) as well as 10' in Dec. on each side. 

Each map thus contains 22™ in E. A. and 5° 20' in Dec, 2™ aud 20' 
of which are in common with four other contiguous maps. 

One degree on these is 2.336 inches or 

]o = 2.330 inches. 
1' =0.039 inches. 
1" = 0.0007 inches. 

The process of constructing such a chart is briefly as follows : 

1. Having decided on the limits of the chart, all available catalogues 
are consulted, and all stars within the limits of the i^roposed chart are 
reduced to 1800.0, and entered in the chart in pencil and afterwards in 
ink, keeping to Argelander's scale of magnitudes. 

2. Zones are then observed with the chronograph and mica scale. 
The transits are observed over only one wire. 

These zones are about 15' wide in declination and as long in R. A. as 
convenient, say 20™. Sometimes a zone 00™ long is observed in order 
to obtain euough standard or determining stars. The right ascensions 
are read to 0^1, the declinations to h parts (4".9). 

3. These observations are then reduced accurately to 1800.0, aud the 
stars are pricked in with a needle-point through a ruled piece of oiled 
paper. 

4. With the telescope (dark field) these star-positions are examined 
aud a memorandum of the magnitude of each star is made. On the 
next morning these zone stars are marked in ink according to the pencil 
memoranda. As the catalogue stars are practically in Argelander's 
scale of magnitudes, the whole of the catalogue and zone stars are 
given on one scale. 

5. Many examinations and revisions with the telescox)e (dark field) 



198 



ASTRONOMY. 



are made, and faint stars are put in by their configurations with tlie 
otlier stars. In the course of these revisions asteroids are frequently 
found, as although the charts are not primarily intended for this pur- 
pose they are eminently suited to it. 

Tbis is shown by the fact that Dr. Peters has himself discovered 
no less than 40 asteroids before any other observer, and several more 
have been independently discovered by him. 

The charts already Jinished comprise the space as given below : 













Tabli 


^ A. 




EIGHT ASCENSION. 


DECLINATION. 




h. 


m. 




h. 


m. 




O " o 


From 





20 


to 





40 


From 


+ 9 to +10 


From 


1 





to 


1 


20 


From 


+ 10 to +15 


From 


1 





to 


1 


20 


From 


+ 5 to — 1 


From 


1 


20 


to 


1 


40 


From 


+ 12 to +15 


From 


1 


20 


to 


1 


40 


Frotti 


+ to + 5 


From 


2 


20 


to 


2 


40 


From 


+ 17 to +18 


From 


3 





to 


3 


20 


From 


+15 to +20 


From 


9 


40 


to 


10 





From 


+ 9 to +10 


From 


10 





to 


10 


20 


From 


+ 10 to +15 


From 


10 


20 


to 


10 


40 


From 


+ 12 to +15 


From 


10 


40 


to 


11 





From 


+ 10 to +15 


From 


11 


to 


11 


20 


From 


to - 5 


From 


11 


20 


to 


11 


40 


From 


to - 5 


From 


11 


40 


to 


12 





From 


- 2 to - 5 


From 


n 


40 


to 


12 





From 


+ 4 to +10 


From 12 





to 


12 


20 


From 


- 5 to +10 


From 


13 


20 


to 


13 


40 


From 


- 5 to - 7 


From 


13 


40 


to 


14 





From 


-10 to -15 


From 


14 





to 


14 


10 


From 


-10 to -15 


From 


15 


20 


to 


IG 





From 


—20 to —22 


From 


19 





to 


19 


20 


From 


-22 to -23 


From 


19 





to 


19 


20 


From 


-25 to -27 


From 


20 


40 


to 


21 





From 


-25 to -28 


From 21 





to 


21 


20 


From 


-20 to -25 


From 


21 


20 


to 


22 





From 


-10 to -20 


From 


22 





to 


22 


20 


From 


-15 to - 5 


From 


22 


20 to 


22 


40 


From 


- 5 to -10 


From 


23 


to 23 40 


From 


to + 3 


From 


22 


40 


to 


24 





From- 


- 4 to - 6 



I 



Quite as many more charts are either ''begun "(with the catalogue stars 
laid down) or have the zones completed, needing only comparison with 
the sky. 

Some idea of the amount of this work may be had from the fact that 



ASTRONOMY. 199 

already about 64:,000 zone stars have been observed and mapi^ed. 
Quite as many more of the fainter stars are needed to comj)lete the 
maps, and perhaps half of these are now mapped. We possess several 
series of ecliptic charts, more or less complete. These are : 

1st. Charts by Hind, on which the smallest star is about 11 mag. 

2d. Charts by Chacornac, minimum visibile, 13 mag. 

3d. Charts published by the Paris Observ^atory, in continuation of 
Chacornac's, minimum visibile, 13 mag. 

The smallest stars laid down on Dr. Peters' charts are 14.8 mag. 

The charts of Chacornac and those of the Paris Observatory are 
extremely useful, but by no means so complete as those of Dr. Peters; 
and, in general, they do not cover the same place in the heavens. No. 
31 of the Paris charts, however, occupies the same ground as one of 
Dr. Peters' charts. On May 17, 1878, I comjiared the Paris chart 
No. 31 with the sky, and at the same time I compared Dr. Peters' 
chart of the same region; and on the following day the two maps 
were compared together. 

The Paris chart No. 31 contains 1,554 stars, and extends from 10'' 0°^ 
to 10'' 21'" E. A., and from +8° 45' to + 14° 0' d; the Hamilton Col- 
lege chart, covering nearly the same ground, extends from lO'' 0"' to 
10" 20"' E. A., and from + 10° to 15° in <J, The number of stars laid 
down on the space common to both (from lO'' 0™ to lO'' 16™, and from 
+ 10° to +I40) is, according to the Paris chart, 1,010 stars; according 
to Dr. Peters' chart, 1,511 stars ; or almost exactly one-half more in the 
latter. 

I found more than thirty cases where the stars of the Paris chart 
were either much too large or too small, or where thej^ occupied places 
where no stars now are. In all these cases the Hamilton College chart 
was correct. 

Errors in position I naturally could not verify in the time at my dis- 
posal, but by considering the allineations of the stars as seen in the sky 
and by comparing these with the data of the Paris chart, I found the 
latter frequently iucorrect, not always by small amounts. 

The configurations of the group of smaller stars are quite wrong in 
very many cases, even where all the stars are given; and very many 
stars are missing of a magnitude superior to the smallest included on the 
chart. 

In particular, the following stars laid down on the Paris chart do not 
exist in the heavens : 
E. A. lOi* 



10 



3m 


52«; 


(J + 130 


17'.5 


10 


40 


13 


39 


17 


18 


13 


30.5 


18 


4 


12 


59 


5 


40 


; 12 


4.0 


5 


42 


11 


54 


12 


39; 


+ 11 


IG.O 



Large double; only one of 
which exists. 



200 ASTRONOMY. 

The following stars (among others) are too small in the Paris chart: 



E. A. 10^ 16°^ 0« 

8 11 

10 22 

10 12 

18 25 

18 29 

10 18 39 



8 + 120 lO'.O 

12 42 .5 

12 42 .0 

12 23 .5 

12 56 .5 

12 51 .5 

+ 12 50 .2 



The following stars (among many others) are too large in the Paris 
chart : 

E. A. lO'^ lO'" 13«; +130 27'.5. Paris G°', reallv O-" 

10 2 30 ; + 11 24 .0. Paris 8™, really 9-10 ™, 
and many others. 

The configurations of the Paris chart are often quite wrong ; perhaps 
the worst cases are at 

E. A. 10^^ 4'^ 30»-60«; (5+10O 15'-25'. 
10 14 ; +11 30-45. 

In every one of these cases the Hamilton College chart was correct; 
and after a careful examination of nearly every star on this latter chart 
I found only one case in which the chart seemed to me in the least 
erroneous. One faint star seemed to me about 1™ too bright. 

This chart was not only an accurate map of the stars, it was also a 
picture of them, and a configuration of stars in the sky would at oncej 
catch the eye on the maj), and vice versa. It need hardly be said tha 
this is not true of any other series of charts existing, not even of the maps 
of Argelander's Burclimiisterung. 

The exj^lanation is not far to seek, and lies in the perpetual revision to 
which the Hamilton College charts have been subjected. It is only 
fair to say that this excellence would appear somewhat less striking if 
the charts were used in connection with a telescope different from that 
by means of which they were constructed. They would, in any case, 
remain the most admirable series now existing ; and they would be of 
great value and would save much time and labor. For instance, in 
the observation of asteroids with the transit- circle of the Naval Observa- 
tory, much time is now wasted in finding the asteroid with the 9-inch 
equatorial. This amounts, in some cases, almost to a new discovery. If 
these maps were available at the Naval Observatory^, this labor would be 
materially lightened. Astronomers are to be congratulated that Dr. 
Peters has decided to publish these beautiful charts. 

Schoenfeld's Durchmustenmg of all stars to the tenth magnitude, in- 
clusive, from —2° to —23° of declination, is very nearly finished ; 
350,000 observations have been made, and the map of Hour XIII has 
been finished. It contains 4,233 stars. It is probable that the whole 
work will be finished by 1883. 

For the convenience of those who are using star charts, the following 



i 
1 



ASTEONOMY. 



201 



index to Chacornac's charts (including the later Paris charts) is pre- 
sented : 



Ny. 


E. A. 


Declination. 


!No. 


E. A. 


Declination. 




h. m. 


h. m. 


/ 


/ 




h. m. 


h. m. 


o / 


' 


1 


(1 to 


20 


+ 1 to 


— 4 15 


32 


10 20 to 


10 40 


+ 45 


o +12 


la 





20 


+ 1 


+ 6 15 , 


34 


11 


11 20 


+ 2 45 


+ 80 


2 


20 


40 


— 1 45 


+ 3 30 i 


35 


11 20 


11 40 


+ 30 


+ 5 45 


2 bis 


20 


40 


+ 3 30 


+ 8-15 


36 


11 40 


12 


— 1 30 


+ 3 45 


3 


40 


60 


+ 15 


+ 5 30 


39 


13 


13 20 


—10 30 


— 5 15 


3« 


40 


1 


+ 6 30 


+ 10 45 


41 


13 20 


13 40 


—12 


— 6 45 


4 


1 


1 20 


-+ 4 45 


+ 10 


43a 


14 


14 20 


—10 30 


— 5 15 


5 


1 20 


1 40 


+ 70 


+ 12 15 


46 


15 


15 20 


-20 30 


—15 15 


C 


1 40 


2 


+ 90 


+14 15 


49 


16 


16 20 


—23 45 


—18 30 


7 


2 


2 20 


+ 10 30 


+ 15 45 


50 


10 20 


16 40 


—24 30 


—19 15 


9 


2 40 


3 


+ 14 


+ 19 15 


51 . 


16 40 


17 


—25 


—19 45 


13 


4 


4 20 


+ 18 45 


+ 24 


52 


17 


17 20 


—25 30 


—20 15 


15 


4 40 


5 


+ 20 


+ 25 15 


00 


19 40 


20 


—23 45 


—18 30 


22 


7 


7 20 


+ 20 


+ 25 15 


61 


20 


20 20 


—22 45 


—17 30 


26 


8 20 


8 40 


+ 10 15 


+ 21 30 


62 


20 20 


20 40 


—21 30 


—16 15 


27 


8 40 


9 


+ lf> 


+ 20 15 


63 


20 40 


21 


—20 15 


-15 


28 


9 


9 20 


+ 13 45 


+ 19 


64 


21 


21 20 


—22 


—16 45 


29 


9 20 


9 40 


+ 12 15 


+ 17 :^0 


64a 


21 


21 20 


—16 45 


-11 30 


29a 


9 20 


9 40 


• + 70 


+ 12 15 


70 


23 


23 20 


— 8 


— 2 45 


30 


9 40 


10 


+ 10 30 


+ 15 45 


71 


23 20 


23 40 


— 5 45 


— 30 


31 


10 


10 20 


+ 8 45 


+ 14 


72- 


23 40 


24 


— 3 45 


+ 1 30 



DOUBLE STARS. 

The long series of measures of double stars, made at Washington from 
1875 to 1880, by Professor Hall, has been published separately. Pro- 
fessor Hall has made a complete series of observations of a selected list of 
doubles, selected by Dr. Struve and himself for comparison, and besides 
has investigated the angles and sides of a triangle and a quadrilateral 
of stars as measured and computed. The results of these measures are 
excellent. The double stars measured are very numerous, and are nearly 
all of interesting stars. A discussion of a two years' series of measures 
on the trapezium of Orion is given separately, adjusted by least squares. 

The star C Cancri is triple and has been well observed. Dr. Seeliger, 
of Leipzig, has investigated the orbits of the three stars. A, B, C, in a 
memoir, of which he has given a synopsis in the Sltzungsberichte of the 
Vienna Academy for May, 1881. Without giving details, we may state 
his principal results. He first finds an orbit for B about A, and this 
orbit satisfies the observations very well without taking into account 
the star C at all. This may arise from one of two things : either the in- 
fluence of C is veritably small, or the perturbations by C occur in such 
a way as to compensate in their effects on the elements of the orbit of 
B and A. Dr. Seeliger has shown that the latter is the case. For the 
mass of C we can (arbitrarily) assume large values without destroying 
the agreement between observation and computation, and iurtlier, he 
has shown that a large value must be assigned to the mass of 0. This 
lias been shown in different and indei)endent ways. The mass of C is 
larger tban 2.4 times the sum of the masses of A and B. 

The orbit of C is next investigated, and a suggestion of Dr. Otto 
Struve's that moves round a dark body near it, is found to be highly 
probable. The final result of his discussion of this question is that it is 



202 ASTRONOMY. | 

probable tliat C moves round a star wbicli belongs to tbis system, bu* 
wbicb is not one of tbe tbree known, A, B, C. 

During- tbe first part of 1881, Mr. S. W. Burnbam was resident at tbe 
Wasbburn Observatory at Madison, by tbe invitation of Governor Wasb- 
burn. During tbe period April 23 to September 30, 1881, be discovered 88 
new double stars, several of great difficulty, and measured no less tbau 
1G2 double stars (eacb on tbree nigbts) selected from bis MS. Catalogue 
of Double Stars. In tbe zone observations at tbis observatory during 
tbe same period, 60 more double stars were found. Mr. Jedrzejewicz, 
of Plonsk, bas publisbed during tbe year a continuation of bis double 
star measures, wbicb appear to be remarkably consistent among tbem- 
selves. He bas measured a great many of tbe neglected pairs of 
Struve, eacb star on tbree or more nigbts. 

Tbe observations are given in tbe Astronomisclie Nachrichten, Nos. 
2324-2107. 

Companion of Sirius : — An orbit of tbe companion of Sirins, based on 
measures, bas been computed by Professor Colbert, of Cbicago. 

Tbe elements give tbe period as 49.G years. Tbe position for 1881.2 
is p=45o.6, s = 9".9; for 1882.2, p = 43o.l, s=9".5. For 1890.2 tbe 
position is p = 322^.2, s = 2".2, and at tbat date Sirius will be about 
tbe most difficult known double. Tbis is about tbe minimum, accord- 
ing to Professor Colbert. 

THE SOLAR SYSTEM. 

By far tbe most important papers wbicb bave appeared during tbe 
year are tbose of Mr. George Darwin on tidal friction in connection 
witb tbe bistory of tbe solar system.* Tbis paper forms one of a series 
on tbe subject of tidal friction, wbicb bas been read from time to time 
before tbe Koyal Society. An abstract of one of tbese was given in tbis 
report for 1880. Tbe first part of tbis paper contains tbe investigation 
of tbe cbanges produced by tidal friction in tbe system formed by a 
planet witb any number of satellites revolving about it in circular orbits. 
As tbe results cannot be conveniently stated witbout tbe aid of matbe- 
matical notation, tbey are bere passed over. 

The previous papers treated of tbe efiects wbicb tidal friction must 
bave bad on tbe motions of the eartb and moon, on tbe supposition tbat 
time enough has elapsed for this cause to have its full effect. It then 
appeared that we are thus able to co-ordinate together tbe various ele- 
ments of the motions of these two bodies in a manner too remarkable 
to be tbe product of chance. 

The second part of tbe paper contains a discussion of tbe part which 
the same agency may have played in the evolution of the solar system 
as a whole and of its several parts. 

*Ati accouut of a paper entitled "On the tidal friction of a planet attended by sev- 
eral satellites, and on the evolntion of the solar system, by G. H. Darwin, F. R. S., 
read before the Royal Society on January 20, 1881." 



ASTRONOMY. 203 

It is first proposed that the rate of expansion of the planetary orbits, 
due to the reaction of the frictional tides raised hy the planets in the 
Qun, must be very slow compared with that due to the reaction of the 
tides raised by the sun in the planets. Thus it would be much more 
nearly correct to treat the sun as a rigid body, and to suppose the 
l)lanets alone to be subject to frictional tides than the converse. It did 
not, however, seem exi^edient to attempt to give any numerical solution 
of the problem thus suggested, which should api^ly to the solar system 
as a whole. The effect of tidal friction is to convert the rotational 
momentum of the tidally-disturbed body into orbital momentum of the 
tide-raising body. Hence, a numerical evaluation of the angular mo- 
mentum of the various parts of the solar system will atiord the means 
of forming some idea of the amount of change in the orbits of the sev- 
eral planets and satellites which have been produced by tidal friction. 
Such an evaluation is accordingly made in this paper, with as much 
accuracy as the data permit. 

From the numerical values so found, it is concluded that the orbits 
of the planets round the sun can hardly have undergone a sensible 
enlargement from the effects of tidal friction, since those bodies first 
attained a separate existence. 

Turning to the several subsystems it appears that althougli it is pos- 
sible that the orbits of the satellites of Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn about 
their planets may have been considerably enlarged, yet it is certainly 
not possible to trace the satellites back to an origin almost in contact 
with the present surfaces of their j^lanets, in the same manner as was 
done for the case of the moon in the j)revious iiapers. 

The numerical values above referred to exhibit so marked a contrast 
between the case of the earth with the moon, and that of the other 
planets with their satellites, that it might, a priori, be concluded as prob- 
able that the modes of evolution have differed considerably. The con- 
clusion above stated concerning the satellites of the other planets can- 
not therefore be regarded as unfavorable to the acceptance of the views 
maintained in the previous papers. It must, however, be supposed that 
some imi^ortant cause of change, other than tidal friction, has been con- 
ceived in the evolution of the solar system and the planetary subsys- 
tems. According to the nebular hypothesis of Laplace, that cause has 
been the condensation of the heavenly bodies. Accepting that hypoth- 
esis the author then proceeds to consider the manner in w^hich contrac- 
tion and tidal friction are likely to have Avorked together. 

A numerical comparison shows tliat notwithstanding the greater age 
which the nebular theory assigns to the exterior planets, yet the effects 
of solar tidal friction in reducing planetary rotation must, in all proba- 
bility, be considerably less for the remote than for the nearer planets. 
It is, however, remarkable tliat the number expressive of the rate of 
retardation of the Martian rotation by solar tidal friction is nearly the 
same as the similar number for the earth, notwithstanding the greater 



204 ASTEONOMY. 

distance of Mars from tbe sun. This result is worthy of notice in con- 
nection with the fact that the inner satellite of Mars revolves with a 
periodic time much shorter than that of the planets' rotation ; for (as 
suggested in a previous paper) solar tidal friction will have been com- 
petent to reduce the planetary rotation without directly affecting the 
satellites' orbital motion. 

It is, then, shown to be probable that solar tidal friction was a more 
important cause of change when the planets were less condensed than 
it is at present. Thus we are not to accept the present rate of action of 
solar tidal friction as indicating that which has been held true in all 
past time. 

It is ■also shown that if a planetary mass generates a large satellite, 
the planetary rotation is reduced after the change more rapidly than 
before ; nevertheless the genesis of such a satellite is preservative of tlie 
moment of momentum, which is internal to the planetary subsystem. 
This conclusion is illustrated by the comparatively slow rotation of the 
earth, and by the large amount of angular momentum residing in the 
system of moon and earth. 

An examination of the manner in which the difference of distances, 
of the various planets from the sun will have affected the action of tidal 
friction, leads to a cause for the observed distribution of satellites in the 
solar system. 

According to the nebular hypothesis a planetary mass contracts, an<J 
rotates quicker as it contracts. The rapidity of its revolution causes 
its form to become unstable, or perhaps, as seems more probable, an 
equatorial belt gradually detaches itself; it is immaterial which of these 
really takes place. In either case the separation of that part of the 
mass which before the change had the greatest angular momentum per- 
mits the central portion to resume a planetary shape. The contraction 
and increase of rotation proceed continually until another portion is de- 
tached, and so on. There thus recur at intervals a series of epochs of 
instability or abnormal change. Now, tidal friction must diminish the 
rate of increase of rotation due to contraction, and therefore if tidal fric- 
tion and contraction are at work together the epochs of instability must 
recur more rarely than if contraction acted alone. If the tidal retarda- 
tion is sufiicieutly great, the increase of rotation dne to contraction will 
be so far counteracted as never to permit an epoch of instability to occur. 
The rate of solar tidal friction decreases rapidly as we recede from the 
r^un, and therefore these considerations accord with w^hat we observe 
in the solar system. For Mercury and Venus have no satellites, and 
there is a progressive increase in the number of satellites as we recede 
from the sun. 

Whether this be the true cause of the observed distribution of satel- 
lites amongst the planets or not, it is remarkable that the same cause 
also affords an exi)lanation of that difference between the tellurian sys- 
tem and the other planets with their satellites which has permitted tidal 



ASTRONOMY. 205 

frictiou to be the principal agent of change with the former, but not 
with the hitter. 

In the case of the contracting terrestrial mass we may suppose that 
there was for a long time nearly a balance between the retardation due 
to solar tidal friction and the acceleration due to contraction, and that 
it was not until the planetary mass had contracted to nearly its present 
dimensions that an epoch of instability could occur. If the contraction 
of the planetary mass be almost completed before the genesis of the 
satellite, tidal friction, due jointly to the satellite and the sun, will there- 
after be the great cause of change in the system, and thus the hypothe- 
sis that it is the sole cause of change will give an approximately ac- 
curate explanation 'of the motion of the planet and satellite at any sub- 
sequent time. It is shown in the previous papers of this series that 
this condition is fulfilled with the earth and moon. 

The paper ends with a short recapitulation of those facts in the solar 
system which are susceptible of explanation by the theory of the ac- 
tivity of tidal friction. This series of investigations affords no grounds 
for the rejection pf the nebular hypothesis, but while it presents evi- 
dence in favor of the main outlines of that theory it introduces modifi- 
cations of considerable importance. 

Tidal friction is a cause of change of which Laplace's theory took no 
account, and although the« activity of that cause is to be regarded as 
mainly belonging to a later period than the events predicated by the 
nebular hypothesis, yet its influence has been of great and in one in- 
stance of even jiaramount importance iii determining the present con- 
dition of the planets and their satellites. 

THE SUN. 

The publication of Professor Young's book on the sun (International 
Scientific Series), in 18S1, is important, as it is undoubtedly the au- 
thority on the subject, and supplements the work of Secchi, and pre- 
sents, beside, more philosophical and extended views. 

The first chapters deal with the dimensions and distance of the sun, 
with the means and apparatus for studying its surface, with the i)he- 
nomena of sun spots, their periodicity, etc. 5 with the phenomena of 
solar ecliiises, the corona, etc. Perhaps the two most important chap- 
ters are those relating to the sun's light and heat, and the different 
theories relating to the constitution of the sun. The theory of Dr. 
Hastings, spoken of in the last report of the Smithsonian Institution, 
receives a discussion to which we must refer. In an appendix. Pro- 
fessor Langley gives an account of his observations with the bolometer, 
and the conclusions he has derived from them. To test these conclu- 
sions still further, Professor Langley undertook an expedition to the 
western ])art of the United States, which is anticipated by CHbbon, in 
chapter 43 of the "Decline and Fall of the Koman Empire," in the follow- 
ing words: " Their calculations may perhaps be verified by the astron- 
omers of some future capital in the Siberian or American, wilderness.'' 



206 ASTRONOMY. 

Professor Laiigley's expedition started in July, 1881, and took uj) a 
station on Mount Whitney, in tlie Sierras, where observations were 
made to determine the amount of solar heat received by the earth. 
This was the main object of the expedition. Several minor researches 
of interest were also prosecuted ; among others, an attempt was made 
to see the sun's corona and Vulcan. It is too soon as yet to speak of 
the results of the expedition, which have not been published. 

Statistics of the sun. — The following statistics of the sun, comprising 
facts which can be stated in numbers, are selected from Professor 
Young's work, "The Sun": 

Solar parallax (equatorial horizontal), 8.80" ± 0.02". 

Mean distance of the sun from the earth, 92,885,000 miles, 149,480,000 
kilometres. 

Variation of the distance of the sun from the earth between January 
and June, 3,100,000 miles, 4,950,000 kilometres. 

Linear value of 1" on the sun's surface, 450.3 miles, 724.7 kilometres. 

Mean angular semi-diameter of the sun, 16' 02.0" ± 1.0". 

Sun's linear diameter, 860,400 miles, 1,394,300 kilometres. (This may, 
perhaps, be variable to the extent of several hundred miles.) 

Eatio of the sun's di ameter to the earth's, 109.3. 

Surface of the sun compared with the earth, 11,940. 

Volume, or cubic contents, of the sun compared with the earth, 
1,305,000. 

Mass, or quantity of matter, of the sun compared with the earth, 
330,000 ± 3,000. 

Mean density of the sun compared with the earth, 0.253. 

Mean density of the sun compared with water, 1.406. 

Force of gravity on the sun's surface compared with that on the 
earth, 27.6. 

Distance a body would fall in one second, 444.4 feet, 135.5 meters. 

Inclination of the sun's axis to the eclij)tic, 7° 15'. 

Longitude of its ascending node, 74°. 

Date when the sun is at node, June 4-5. 

Mean time of the sun's rotation (Carrington), 25.38 days. 

Time of rotation of the sun's equator, 25 days. 

Time of rotation at latitude, 20°, 25.75 days. 

Time of rotation at latitude, 30°, 26.5 days. 

Time of rotation at latitude, 45°, 27.5 days. 

(These last four numbers are somewhat doubtful, the formulae of va- 
rious authorities giving results differing by several hours in some cases.) 

Linear velocity of the sun's rotation at his equator, 2.261 miles per 
second, 2.028 kilometers per second. 

Total quantity of sunlight, 6,300,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 can- 
dles. 

Intensity of the sunlight at the surface of the sun, 190,000 times that 
of a candle flame, 5,300 times that of a metal in a Bessemer converter, 
146 times that of a calcium light, 3.4 times that of an electric arc. 



ASTRONOMY. 207 

Brio-btness of a point on the sun's limb compared witli that of a i)oiut 
near the center of the disk, 25 per cent. 

Heat received per minute from the sun upon a square metre, per- 
pendicularly exposed to the solar radiation at the upper surface of the 
earth's atmosphere (the solar constant), 25 calories. 

Heat radiation at the surface of the sun, per square metre per minute, 
1,117,000 calories. 

Thickness of a shell of ice which would be melted from the surface of 
the sun per minute, 48^ feet, or 14| meters. 

Mechanical equivalent of the solar radiation at the sun's surface, con- 
tinuously acting, 109,000 horse-power i)er square metre; 10,000 (nearly) 
per square foot. 

Effective temperature of the solar surface (according to Eosetti), about 
10,0000 Cent., or 18,000° Fahr. 

SOLAR PARALLAX. 

IVIr. David Gill, Her Majesty's astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, 
has just issued, as a reprint from the forty-sixth volume of the " Memoirs 
of the Eoyal Astronomical Society," his definitive paper on the deter- 
mination of the solar parallax from observations of Mars at Ascension 
in 1877. We think it no exaggeration to style it the most imijortant 
separate determination of this constant which has ever been made. 
In Mrs. Gill's charming little book, "Six Month's in Ascension: An Un- 
scientific Account of a Scientific Expedition," the incidents and details 
of a somewhat arduous undertaking, now become historic, were fully 
described. The expenses of the expedition were defrayed by vote of 
the Council of the Eoyal Astronomical Society in the first instance, 
and later from the Government Grant Fund of the Eoyal Society. The 
observations at Ascension were made with the heliometer owned by 
Lord Lindsay (now the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres), in accordance 
with what astronomers call "the method of the diurnal parallax," or 
"east-and-west method." While much of the detail of reduction of the 
work is presented in Mr. Gill's admirable volume, a vast deal has been 
omitted in the printing — in full accord with the more advanced and 
advancing notions on this subject. The original note-books and manu- 
scripts are deposited with the society, where they may, and should, be 
referred to, if the re-examination of the work is ever undertaken, or 
any doubtful point arises. The final result of Mr. Gill's investigation 
is 8".78, with a probable error of 0".012 — which gives, for the mean 
distance of the earth from the sun, 93,080,000 miles. Most astronomers 
will have little doubt that this value of the solar parallax is too small; 
nevertheless, the more important of the recent researches on this sub- 
ject show this value to be a close approximation to the truth. 

]\L Faye has just communicated to the French Academy a pai)er on 
the actual state of our knov>'ledge of the sun's parallax. 

He considers that there is no other scientific constant, the determina- 



208 ASTRON-OMY. 

tiou of wliicli depends ou au equal number of results completely inde- 
pendent of one another, and obtained by methods so totally different, 
and subdivides the various values assigned for the sun's mean jjarallax 
as follows : 
Geometrical methods, 8".82: 

8".So by Mars (Cassini's method), Newcorab. 

8' .79 by Venus, 17G9 (Halley's method), Powalky., 

8".81 by Venus, 1874 (Halley's method), Tupman. 

8".S7 by Flora (Galle's method), Galle. 

8". 79 by Juno (Galle's method), Lindsay. 
Mechanical methods, 8".83: 

8".81 by the lunar inequality (Laplace's method), Kewcomb. 

8". 85 by the monthly equation of the earth, Leverrier. 

8".83 by the perturbations of Venus and Mars, Leverrier. 
Physical methods, 8".81 : 

8". 799 velocity of light (Fizeau's method), Cornu. 

8".813 velocity of light (Foucault's method), Michelson. 
After explaining the value of the different results, M. Faye gives hi& 
preference to the physical result, and arrives at these conclusions : 

1. That the method of the physicists is superior to all others, and 
ought to be substituted. 

2. That the value of solar parallax, 8".813 (by physical methods), is 
now determined to about y^ of a second. 

3. That the seven astronomical methods of procedure converge more 
and more toward that value, and tend to confirm it without equalling 
it in precision. 

In other words, M. Faye believes that the true distance of the sun is 
that found recently by Mr. Michelson. 

Professor Eastman has published "A Value of the Solar Parallax from 
Meridian Observations of Mars at the Opposition in 1877." In 1876 a 
circular letter was x>repared at the ]S"aval Observatory and distributed 
to astronomers, asking their cooperation in making meridian observa- 
tions of Mars in 1877. A programme of observing was proposed by- 
Professor Eastman, based on that suggested by Dr. Winuecke in 1863, 
and a list of comparison stars was selected. The iirogramme was strictly 
followed at Washington, at Sydney, and partly at Leyden. At Mel- 
bourne, the Cape of Good Hope, and Cambridge, Mass., the programme 
was not followed ; and from San Fernando and Kremsmunster observa- 
tions were received either unreduced or unexplained. Professor East- 
man has not reduced the San Fernando observations and makes no use 
of those at Kremsmunster. The observations of Mars when less than 
four comparison stars were used on any nighty are also rejected. Upon 
the remainder, the discussion is made. 

The probable error of a single declination of 31ars was found to be — 

At Washington ± 0".452 

At Melbourne ± 0".552 

At Leyden ± 0".311 



ASTRONOMY. 209 

The probable error of a single declination of a comparison star was 
found to be — 

At Washington ± 0".aU-^ 

At Melbourne rb 0".341> 

AtLeyden ± 0".2o5 

It may be said in passing that the precision of the Leyden results is 
undoubtedly due to the method of observation (two observers taking 
l)art in it), and also to the thorough way in which the constants of the 
Leyden circle were investigated by Kayser. The reduced observations 
are compared two and two for determinations of the parallax : 

Washington and Melbourne; tt = 8".97 ± 0".03. 

Washington and Sydney ; - = 8".88 ± 0".0o. 

Washington and Cape of Good Hope ; - = 8".90 ± 0".07. 

Melbourne and Leyden ; - = 8".97 ± 0".03- 

Melbourne and Cambridge; - = 9'MJ: -Jo 0".0o. 

In all, these include 70 determinations, and give for the value of -, 
8".980 ± 0".017. Professor Eastman rejects the Cambridge observations 
and also certain separate observations; the result from 60 determinations 
is - = 8".953 ± 0".019, which is adopted. 

Professor Eastman says "the method of determining the solar par- 
allax from meridian observations of MarSj has never had a fair trial. 
The principal obsJ;acle to be overcome is the desire of each observatory 
to co-operate in its own way, if at all, thereby wasting its own work 
and rendering good observations at other stations useless," and he 
urges "that at the next favorable opposition of Mars, astronomers may 
rise above all jealousies and prejudices, and unite upon some plan to 
give this method one fair trial before it is condemned." The results of 
Professor Eastman's discussion, and of that of Dr. Winnecke, in 18G2, 
are in so good agreement that the method certainly deserves, and un- 
doubtedly will obtain, another trial. 

The next favorable opposition will occur in 1892, and this interval 
will give all "jealousies" a chance to cool. Mr. Gill has suggested ii 
reason why the results from Mars observations differ systematically 
from those by other methods, which is considered by Professor Eastman, 
on p. 43 of his memoir, and it certainly seems that the experiments of 
Professor Eastman (which are still in progress) invalidate the proposed 
explanation. This is a point upon which further light is much needed. 

Transit of Vemts, 1874. — The United States Transit of Venus Commis- 
sion published a volume containing the chief results of measurements 
of the photographs of the transit of Venus parties sent out by the 
United States in 1874. No definitive result for the parallax was given, as 
some elements for the determination of the final value were still wanting. 
Professor Tod;l, director of the Amherst College Observatory, has dis- 
cussed these observations as they stand, and has obtained values for 
the solar parallax which are probably very near tlie final values. From 
S. Mis. 109 14 



210 ASTRONOMY. 

the photographs at the followiug uortheru stations, Wladiwastok (13), 
Nagasaki (45), Peking (2G), and from those at southern stations, Ker- 
guelen (S), Hobartown (37), Campbelltown (32), Queenstown (45), 
Chatham Island (7), Mr. Todd finds the solar parallax from measured an- 
gles of position on the photographs of the Sun and Venus, n= 8".873 i 
0".0G0; from measured distances, 7r = 8".88S± 0".040; and finally, hav- 
ing regard to the weights, 7r= 8".883± 0".034. 

Velocity of light. — An experimeDtal determination of the velocity of 
white and colored light formed the subject of a memoir, the joint pro- 
duction of Dr. J. Young and Prof. G. Forbes, read before the Eoyal 
Society, London, lately. The official summary states that the method 
employed was that of Fizeau, but instead of using one distant reflector 
and observing the total eclipse of the reflected ray by a toothed revolv- 
ing wheel, two reflectors nearly in the same line with the observing tel- 
'Cscope and one a quarter of a mile behind the other were used, and the 
rays were viewed when brought to equal brightness by means of the 
r adjustment ©f the speed of the wheel. The general result was that the 
■velocity of the light of an electric lamp is 187,200 miles per second. 
Conui found that of the light of a petroleum lamp to be 186,700 miles 
,per second, and Michelson that of the sun to be 180,500 miles i)er sec- 
ond. The higher number of Young and Forbes is possibly due to the 
bluer light of electricity, for further experiments made with colored 
lights and the spectrum tended to jjrove that the blue light probably 
travels faster by 1 per cent, than the red light. The experiments were 
made at Wemyss Bay, Scotland. 

The results of Forbes and Young have, we believe, not been accepted 
as yet by physicists. From theoretical considerations. Lord Eayleigh 
and Mr. Michelson, among others, have shown the improbability of 
these figures for the velocity of light of different colors. 

Transit of Venus December 6, 1882. — In view of the fact that many of 
the readers of this report will have an opportunity to observe the next 
transit of Venus we present the instructions issued by the International 
Conference for the observation of the transit of Venus of 1862. 

''-Article 1. It is desirable, from a theoretical stand-point, that the 
telescope used should be of as large aperture as possible. In practice, 
the difficulty of transportation on the one hand, and the necessity of 
observers at different stations having similar instruments, limits the 
apertures to from 0.12 meter to 0.15 meter (about 4.J to inches.) 

In all cases the objectives should be as perfect as possible. Observ- 
ers should give an exact description of the quality and defects of the 
objecti ve, as also the eye-jiiece employed. Towards this end they should 
determine : 

1. The form of the image of a star in focus, as also the image of the 
same star at a point before and after coming into focus. 

2. The separating power of the objective for double stars. 



ASTRONOMY. 211 

It will be useful to kuow, also, if the telescope is able to show the solar 
gninulrttioDS ou any favorable opportunity, and also the degree of 
visibility of these granulations during the transit. 

Art. 2. It will be weU to employ a reflecting prism, or a polariscopic 
eye-piece, to diminish the heat and consequent danger to the observer's 
eyes. 

If it be decided to use a silvered objective, a method which offers the 
great aJVantage of eliminating all the obscure heat rays and doing 
away with errors from distortion arising from heating of the interior of 
the tube, the excess of light may be absorbed by a neutral tint glass 
composed of two glasses of similar thickness, one being colored and the 
other colorless. 

Art. 3. The eye-pieces should be positive, achromatic, and of a i^ower 
of 150. The observations of contacts should be made in a field suffi- 
ciently clear to show, plainly projected on the solar disc, two wires sej)- 
a rated by a distance of 1". 

Means should be employed to remove as far as possible the effects of 
atmospheric dispersion. 

The setting-point of the reticule should be previously ascertained on 
the stars, or by means of a collimator focused to stars. 

In cases of observation by projection, corresponding means should be 
in ployed. 

Art. 4. The times corresponding to internal contacts may be defined 
as follows: 

Ingress: The moment when an evident and, at the same time, per- 
sistent discontinuity in the illumination of the apparent limb of the sun 
jointng the point of contact with Venus disappears. 

Egress : The moment of the first appearance of an evident and, at 
the same time, persistent discontinuity in the illumination of the solar 
limb joining the point of contact. 

If the limb of two stars coming into geometrical contact, without ob- 
scuration or deformation of the interposed thread of light, the instant 
previously defined is that of contact. 

If there be produced a black drop or ligament, well defined and as 
dark as the body of the planet, the precedingly defined instants are: 
for ingress, that of definite rupture; and for egress, that of the first ap- 
parition of the ligament. 

Between these two extreme cases, other appearances may bo pro- 
duced when the instants of contact may be noted as follows : 

If, the limbs remaining without deformation, there is produced an ob- 
scuration of the luminous thread, without the shadow, however, being 
as dark as the body of the .planet, the observer notes the instant of 
geometrical contact. The moment of the formation or disappearance 
of tills shadow should also be noted. 

If the shadow is aim ost or becomes quite as dark as the planet, the 



212 ASTRONOMY. 

precedingly defined iustant is that when this equality ceases or is es- 
tablished. 

The observer should also note whether there is produced on the 
luminous thread any fringes or any other distinct phenomena, and 
should note the moment of their appearance and disapj^earance. 

Tt is generally desirable to note the time of occurrence of any distinct 
phenomena about the time of contact. ISTevertheless it is a grave mis- 
take, and one that should be guarded against, to multiply the noting of 
times near the occurrence of a contact. 

The time of appearance of phenomena of a distinct character should 
be mentioned only in such a manner as to be readily separated from 
other phenomena observed about contact. 

It will be useful in all cases that the observer should illustrate his 
notes with a drawing made immediately after each complete observa- 
tion of contact, in order to show more clearly the interpretation which 
he attaches to his description of the phenomena. 

Art. 5. As the limb of Venus falls internally on the solar disc during 
internal contact, as has been noted in Article 4, the observer should 
indicate as closely as possible whether the moment when the limbs 
of Venus and the sun, apparently coinciding, seem to be lengthened 
out. 

This observation, though rough, is still desirable as a check to the 
principal noted phase. 

Art C. Notwithstanding the fact that observations of external con- 
tacts are subject to considerable uncertainty, the conference recom- 
mends that they be observed either by direct vision or by means of the 
spectroscope, and that the point on the solar disc, where the first con- 
tact takes i)lace, be determined in an appropriate manner." Gomptes 
Mendus, October, 1881. 

The Austrian Government will be petitioned to grant a subvention 
towards equipping an expedition to take part in the observation of the 
next transit of Venus, on 6th of December, 1882, as the next opportu- 
nity of thus measuring the distance of the earth from the sun will not 
occur till the year 2004. The Bermudas are recommended as the most 
suitable observation station. 

Transit of Mercury, November 7, 1881. — A noteworthy fact in relation 
to this transit is the expedition of Mr. C. H. Eockwell to the Sandwich 
Islands for the purpose of observing it. Only two contacts could be 
seen in the United States, and so Mr. Eockwell left his observatory at 
Tarrytown and arrived at Honolulu on November 4. On November 7 
he observed all four contacts and a number of diiferences of R. A. of the 
sun and INIercury, and on the 8th sailed for the United States. 

The only other American observation of which we know was made at 
the new Lick observatory by Prof. E. S. Holdcn and Mr. S. W. Burn- 
ham, who observed the first and second contacts. 

The transit was well observed in Australia. 



ASTKOXOMY. 213 

COMETS. 

The followiug- is a list ol" the comets of the year ISSl in the order of 
their discovery : 

Ooinet A Swift Eochester, X. Y. 

Comet B Tebbutt South Africa. 

Comet C Schaeberle Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Comet D Encke's (Periodic and expected.; 

( omet E . . .• Barnard ... Nashville, Teun. 

( 'omet F Brooks Phelps, Is". Y. 

I'omet G . . . . Swift Eochester, N. Y. 

Comet A was found May 1 in Andromeda. It was a faint object, 
and, moving- rapidly southeast, was soon lost in the morning twilight, 
and was not seen in the southern hemisphere. 

Comet B was the brightest since the memorable one of 1861. Its 
l)ath was nearly due north, and by its proximity to the sun was soon 
rendered invisible from any part of the world. It passed the sun at 
noon on June 19, and was first seen in the northern hemisphere on the 
morning of June 22, its tail only then being visible. The next morning 
it became an object of general observation. Its subsequent career is 
too well remembered to need a description here. Its orbit is probably 
elliptical, having a period of about 3,000 years. From a similarity of 
elements it was at first thought to be the comet of 1807. 

Comet C was first seen on the morning of July 18, somewhat singu- 
larly, in almost the same place where comet B had so suddenly ap- 
peared after having been lost sight of in the southern hemisphere. 
Like B it had two tails. Its elements are unlike those of any comet 
heretofore observed. 

Comet D (Eucke's), which has a period of only about 3-i% years, has 
just paid us the twenty-ninth visit since it was first detected in 178G. 

Comet E was discovered on August 18 by Mr. E. E. Barnard. It 
moves in a jiarabolic orbit. 

Comet F was first detected on the morning of October 4 by Mr. W. E. 
Brooks, and on the next morning by Mr. W. F. Denning, of Bristol, 
England, who immediately announced it, which Mr. Brooks for two 
days failed to do, as clouds prevented him from determining whether 
it were a comet or a nebula. It is, notwithstanding that it was visible 
only through the telescope, by far the most important one of the year. 
It is a periodic comet of the short period of eight years. It is, there- 
fore, and probably for years has been, a permanent member of our 
system. 

Comet G, discovered by Swift on the evening of Kovember 16, is of 
fair size, though faint, and, like A, E, and F, without a tail. Its ele- 
ments are somewhat like those of comet A, 1792. 

Comet B Avas successfully photographed by several astronomers — 
notably by Prof. Henry Draper and Dr. Huggins — a feat never before 



214 ASTROXOMY. 

accomplished. Several small stars were showu ou the uegative, sliiuiug 
through the tail, though their light passed through probably 100,000 
miles of cometic matter. This shows the exceeding transparency of 
these bodies. 

Comet B, 1881.— An important note on the photographic spectrum of 
comet 1>, 1S81, has been sent to the Koyal Society, London, by Dr. 
Huggins. After subjecting the plate to an exposure of one hour with 
the nucleus of the comet acting through one-half of the slit of the 
apparatus (see for process "Philosophical Transactions of 1880," page 
769), the open half was closed, the shutter withdrawn from the other 
half and the instrument then directed to Arcturus for 15 minutes. The 
result was a very distinct spectrum of the comet, together with the 
spectrum of the star. The spectrum of the comet consists of a pair of 
bright lines in the ultra-violet region and a continuous spectrum which 
can be traced from about F to some distance beyond H. The obvious 
inference he makes from the position and measurement, in wave lengths, 
of the lines is that part of the light of comets emanates from them- 
selves, and that part of their light is simply reflected sunlight. Further, 
the spectrum would go to prove the presence of carbon in the substance 
of comets, possibly in combination with hydrogen. Another photo- 
graph was taken on June 25, when the plate was exposed for an hour 
and a half, but it was so faint that the Fraunhofer lines could not be 
seen in the continuous spectrum, although they were clearly observ- 
able in the former photograi)h. But the two bright lines were very 
distinct. Subsequently, on July 9, he found the wave lengths of the 
two bright lines to be 3,883 and 3,870, and discovered that the less re- 
frangible threw a Mnt luminosity beyond the second line. He saw. 
too, the groups of lines between G and h usually associated with the 
carbon compounds. His wave length for the less refrangible end of 
the spectrum is 4,230. Nitrogen would seem, also, to be present in the 
comet, besides carbon and hydrogen. Dr. Huggins concludes: •' It is 
of importance to mention the strong intensity in the photograph of the 
lines 3,883 and 3,870, as compared with the continuous spectrum, and 
the faiut, bright group beginning at 4,230. At this part of the spectrum, 
therefore, the light emitted by the cometary matter exceeded by many 
times the reflected solar light. 

This bright comet was also successfully photographed by Dr. Henry 
Draper in New York. The tail is 8° long on the picture, the exposure of 
the negative plate having been three hours. Spectroscopic observa- 
tions of the nucleus showed a continuous spectrum, with no absori)tion 
lines (due to the coma) visible. The tail^ also, gave a continuous spec- 
trum without lines. The coma gave a banded spectrum, showing it to 
be gaseous. 

This object has yielded unparalleled opportunity for research on tli*: 
physical constitution of comets. It has been abundantly photographed 
by Draper and Common, and a series of drawings has been made by 



ASTRONOMY. 215 

Holden. A thorough optical examination of the comet's spectrum lias 
been niade bj' Young, Harkness, and Pickering. The spectrum has 
been photographed by Draper and Huggins. The light of difterent 
parts of the comet lias been i>hotometrically determined by Pickering, 
the results being expressed in stellar magnitudes on Pogson's logarith- 
mic scale, showing the comet to be of the seventh magnitude very near 
the nucleus, and the tail, at 49 from the nucleus, to be of the 11.0 
magnitude. And, lastly, the polarization of the comet's light has been 
observed by Wright, establishing the fact that the light emitted by the 
tail is polarized rather strongly in a plane passing through the sun's 
place, the percentages indicating that reflected sunlight constitutes the 
greater part of the light of the tail. 

Professor Stone and his assistant, of the observatory at Cincinnati, 
saw this comet "separate before their eyes, forming a double comet." 
It is well known that Biela's comet did separate, but no observer actu- 
ally saw the process, which, it is safe to say, must have been very 
gradual. 

The observations of Professor Stone were doubted by Mr. Rock at 
the Kaval Observatory at Washington, who was observing the comet 
at the same time, and the question was unsettled for the time. 

It has since appeared that Mr. Wendell, of Harvard College Ob- 
servatory, saw the nucleus double on one occasion, and at the Wash- 
burn Observatory the nucleus was seen double on several nights, by 
Professor Holden and Mr. Burnham, and on one night a perfectly satis- 
factory measure of the two parts was made by Mr. Burnham. 

From a note furnished to the Harvard College Library Bulletin, by 
tbe observatory, the following is extracted: 

"Much attention has been paid to cometary astronomy during the 
past summer at the observatory by Messrs. S. C. Chandler, jr., and O. 
C. Wendell. Orbits and ephemerides for four of the comets of the year 
have been computed within a few days of their discovery in the north- 
ern hemisphere, and circulated among astronomers by means of the 
telegraphic cipher devised by Messrs. Chandler and Eitchie. These 
results were largely derived from the observations of position made at 
the observatory. Professor Pickering has made many photometric 
observations of the brighter comets of the year. 

"The spectrum of Comet B (the great comet which appeared towards 
the end of June) was shown by European observations to contain tive 
bands, three of which are familiar in cometary spectra, while the other 
two seemed new. It appears probable that these two are identical with 
two of the three bands found last winter, at the observatory, in the 
])eculiar si)ectrum of a star in Canis Major, LI. 13,412, the third band 
being apparently due to hydrogen. An interesting analogy between 
the spectra of comets and stars is greatly strengthened by this observa- 
tion, since the three familiar bands of cometary spectra Avere previously 
taken to agree witb the bands seen in tbe spectra of a small class of 
stais, designated by Secchi as stars of the fourth type." 



216 ASTRONOMY. 

Comet of 1861. — The orbit of the great comet of 1861 has been thor- 
oughly investigated by Herr Kreutz of Bonn, from 1,150 observations, 
which extend over nearly a year. During this period the comet trav- 
ersed an arc of 155^ of its orbit. Dr. Seeling had previously published 
an orbit (an ellipse of four hundred and nineteen years), with which 
the observations were compared. Thirty-one normal places (1861, May 
28; 1862, April 23) were formed. Planetary perturbations were com- 
puted for the whole interval, and the efiects of Venus, Earth, Jupiter, 
and Saturn were alone sensible. The perihelion passage was, 1861, 
June, 11.54 Berlin mean time, and the period comes out 409.40 ± 0.37 
years. 

The small probable error of the period is noteworthy. Herr Kreutz 
is continuing his researches on this comet. 

Faye's Periodic Comet — The British Eoyal Astronomical Society, at 
its recent annual meeting, presented its gold medal to Prof. Axel 
JVloller, director of the Observatory at Lund, in Sweden, for his investi- 
gations on the motion of Faye's comet. Professor Moller's researches 
commenced in 1860, soon after attention had been directed to this 
comet by the offer of a prize for the accurate determination of its orbit 
by the Society of Natural Sciences of Dantzic, and they have been con- 
tinued to the present time, the comet's track at each of the three subse- 
quent returns in 1865-'66, 1873, and 1880-'81 having been predicted 
with a precision which has excited in no small degree the admiration of 
astronomers; indeed, at the reappearance in 1873, M. Stephan's first 
observation at the Observatory of Marseilles showed that the error of 
predicted place was less than six seconds of arc, and after the last 
revolution, when the perturbations from the action of the planets were 
greater than in any previous revolution since the comet was first 
detected by M. Faye, in 1843, the agreement between observation and 
calculation was still very close. One important result of these investi- 
gations has been a striking confirmation, from the motion of Faye's 
comet, of the value for the mass of Jupiter deduced, by Bessel, from the 
elongations of the satellites, the two values according within the limits 
of their probable errors. 

In January, 1881, Mr. H. H. Warner, of Eochester, N. Y., founder of 
the Warner Observatory, announced a prize of $200 in gold to any 
American or Canadian who, during the year, should discover a telescopic 
unexpected comet. When comet B, or the great comet, was discovered, 
eflbrt was made to ascertain who first saw it, and had a conclusion been 
possible among the thousands of claimants, a special prize would have 
been given. As none could be reached, Mr. Warner determined to give 
a special prize of $200 for the best essay on "Comets, their Composi- 
tion, Purpose, and Eftect on the Earth.'- One hundred and twenty-five 
essays were sent in to Director Swift, of the Warner Observatory, and 
after a careful review, the judges — Prof. Elias Colbert of Chicago, 111., 
Prof. H. A. Xewton of Yale College, New Haven, Conn., and Prof. H. 



ASTRONOMY. 217 

'^l. Parkliurst of Kew York City — unanimously awarded the prize to the 
essay signed "Hipparchus III," by Prof. Lewis Boss, director of the 
Dudley Observatory, of Albany, X. Y. The text of this essay has been 
published by the Rochester Astronomical Society. 

Although the following extract is u6t of direct scientific interest, it is 
not without value as showing the official view of comets in China. It 
is dated July 4, 1881, at Peking : 

'• (1) A decree. For several days past a comet has been visible in the 
northwest, which We reverently take to be a warning indication from 
Heaven and accept with feelings of the deepest and most respectful awe. 
At the present time there are difficulties of many kinds to contend against, 
and the people are not at ease. It only remains for Ourselves and Our 
Ministers mutually to aid each other in the maintenance of an attitude 
of reverential watchfulness, cultivating a spirit of virtue, and examin- 
ing Our shortcomings in the hope of invoking blessings and harmonious 
iuHuences from Heaven, and securing comfort to the black-haired race. 
Do all ye Ministers at Our Court then, each and all strive to be diligent 
in the exercise of your respective functions, and with all your might put 
away from you the habits of perfunctoriness so long indulged in, assist- 
ing Us with true sincerity of heart, and uniting in a common effort to 
rescue your country from her difficulties. All provincial high authori- 
ties must positively attempt to compass this object by genuine endeavour, 
and set to work in earnest to bring about reforms, seeking out the 
afflicted and the sorrowful in the villages and hamlets, and ministering 
to their comfort with their whole heart. Then it may be that as each 
day goes by perfection may be more nearly attained. Let them thus en- 
deavour to second Oar earnest feeling of reverential awe and Our wish, 
by the cultivation of virtue and habits of introspection, to acknowledge 
this sign from Heaven by deeds and not mere empty words." 

The August shooting-siars. — Over a hundred systems of meteors, which 
are so disturbed by the passage of the earth near them on its way around 
the sun that ''shooting-stars" are drawn from them into the earth's at- 
mosphere, where they are heated to visibility, are now known to astron- 
omers. Most of these systems arc unimportant because of their small 
size or comparatively great distance; and of the rest, only those which 
send us the August and November meteors are of particular interest, 
although those of the latter part of April, the early part of December, 
and the middle of July have been pointed out as noteworthy. It is a 
common theory of '• shooting-stars" that they are the broken remnants 
of comets whose orbits once crossed or came near to that of the earth, 
but it is perhaps a mistake to hold that they are such debris, since all 
that is known of them touching this matter is that they often follow in 
the trains of comets as attendants. This is true of some well-known 
systems, but it has never been shown that every system of meteors thus 
follows in tlie Avake of comets or that every comet is attended by shoot- 
ing stars, Of these bodies two interestiug theories were proposed in 



218 ASTRONOMY. 

1879 — one by Dr. Ball, the astronomer royal for Ireland, and the other 
byM. Stanislas Meiinier, of whom a commission of the Paris Academy 
said that he was justified in concluding "that all these masses once be- 
longed to a considerable globe like the earth, having true geological 
epochs, and that later it was decomposed into separate fragments under 
the action of causes difficult to define exactly, but which we have more 
than once seen in operation in the heavens themselves." Dr. Ball's the- 
ory is founded on the arguments which induced Tschermak to believe 
that he had proved meteorites to have no connection with shooting-stars, 
but to have their origin in volcanic eruptions in other planets so small 
that projectiles from them would not be driven back by the force of 
gravity. On the smallness of such planets Dr. Ball lays no stress, and 
indeed he first considered whether or not our meteorites may not come 
from the sun, rejecting this theory, however, on the ground that such 
solid rock masses as occasionally fiUl could hardly exist in such a bod^' 
as the central source of heat. The sun failing, Dr. Ball turns to the 
moon, which also he rejects as a possible source, since, although it once 
might have thrown out meteoric masses, they would either fall at once 
to the earth or back upon the moon, or missing the earth would continues 
to travel round it, and probably in the course of centuries return to their 
original source. We must then assume that in her present cold state 
our satellite is continually throwing out bodies from active volcanoes — 
a supposition which no selenographer will entertain for a moment. For 
very good physical reasons Dr. Ball rej'ects also the different planets as 
sources of aerolites, and 'holds that they have had their origin on the 
earth itself, which, though in its present geological state it has no power 
to expel bodies with so great a velocity as his theory requires, yet was 
certainly once possessed of volcanoes which might have performed the 
work of throwing out matter with velocity enough to carry them beyond 
terrestrial influence and send them in orbits of their own around the 
sun, crossing at each revolution the point at which they were shot from 
the earth's orbit. If this be true, showers of meteors should occur when- 
ever the earth chanced to reach a point where a meteoric track crossed 
hers, and the aerolites would come back to their source. 

At about the same time when Dr. Ball was elaborating this theory 
astronomers were following the researches of Daubr^e, which seemed to 
indicate a likeness in jjhysical characteristics between meteorites and 
the lower rock strata of the earth. M. Meunier, Avho was a pupil of 
Daubree, found that this analogy had not to do alone with mineralogi- 
cal constitution, but " extended to the relation which these cosmical 
materials disseminated in space present when compared among them- 
selves as we compare the constituent rocks of our globe." His conclu- 
sion, as given above, was that the meteorites, therefore, came from a 
''considerable globe like the earth," having geological epochs analogous 
to ours, but now broken up and disseminated through space, as at some 
time our own globe may be. Xotwithstanding the way in which this 



ASTRONOMY. 21!) 

latter theory was received by the Academy, it seems to be inadmissible 
when the dynamics of the present solar system and the doctrine of 
probabilities are called into play. On the other hand, if in the place of 
rhe "considerable globe like the earth" Ave substitute, with Dv. r>all, 
the earth itself, with its past certainties of enormous volcanic energy, 
then the theory may have some plausibility. 

PLANETS. 

YuLCAiv' (!) — Dr. Swift, of Eochester, has announced his intention 
of going to Africa to observe the total eclipse of the sun on May 10. 
188L*. His special object is to look for the two intramercurial planet* 
wbich appeared in the field of his telescope at Denver during the eclipse 
of 1879. 

The Eaimh, geodesy, etc. — In the volume of the Comptes Rendus for 
1880 of the International Geodetic Association for the measures of de- 
grees in Europe, there is a remarkable map which shows at one glance 
the triangulation of Europe. To be fully appreciated, the original 
work must be consulted. 

The origin of the English mile. — At a recent meeting of the French 
Academy of Science, a paper on a question of ancient metrology and 
the origin of the English mile was read by M. Faye. He inquires into 
the cause of the error, long current, of supposing the mile equivalent 
in length to a terrestrial arc of one minute. The mile has been prob- 
ably deduced from Ptolemy's measure, and the error of one-sixth seems 
to arise from the English geographers having supposed that Ptolemy 
used tlie Greek foot, which Eratosthenes used 400 years before, whereas 
he used the Phileterian foot, which is about 0.36™, the earlier one bein-g 
0.27™. Eratosthenes counted 700 stadia to a degree; Ptolemy only 
about 500. 

The evaluation of Ptolemy, M. Faye concludes, is merely a sort ot 
conversion of the excellent measure of Eratosthenes into units of 
another epoch and different length. It must have lost, thus, a little 
of its first precision ; but, as presented by Ptolemy, the English geog- 
raphers had good reason to take it as base of an evalution of the arc 
of one degree, and to offer it to nautical men of their country. Only, 
and here is the mistake, they believed that the great Greek astronomer 
used the Greek foot. This is one hundredth and a half more than the 
English foot. If the English geographers of the sixteenth century 
forced this evalution but a little and carried it to five hundredths, they 
would have found 030 English feet to the stadium, which they believed 
to have 600 Greek feet, and these 030 feet, or these 210 yards, multi- 
plied by 500, would have given them 105,000 yards for the degree, and 
exactly 1,700 yards to the mile. Tire English mile then has probably 
been deduced from the measure of Ptolemy; its error of one-sixth is 
due simply to confounding the Greek foot with the Phileterian foot. 

Hence the mile of l.GOU meters long passed as equivalent in length 



220 



ASTRONOMY. 



to a terrestrial arc of one minute — the degree containing sixty of these 
miles— when in reality it contains G9.5, the error being about one-sixth. 
This error delayed for many years the discovery of universal attraction. 
The first time the idea that the attraction of the earth retaining the 
moon in its orbit is the same thing as gravity, presented itself to New- 
ton, he failed in the verification, because he then employed the mile in 
calculating the earth's radius. He thought he must renounce the idea, 
and he only returned to it when he became acquainted much later with 
the measurement of a degree executed by Picard, of France. 

The Moon. — M. Janssen has succeeded in j)hotographing the lumiere 
c-endree or "earthshine" on the moon when three days old. In the 
photograph the "continents" were to be distinguished clearly from the 
*'seas." 

Asteroids. — From the Berliner Jahrhuch for 1883 the following is 
extracted : 

Column I contains the numbers of the minor planets in the order of 
discovery. Column II contains the mean magnitudes of the corre- 
sponding planets, and column III contains the means of the magni- 
tudes of these planets at the times of their discovery. This table is a 
summary of a more extended one where these quantities are given for 
each asteroid separately. 



I. 


n. 


ru. 


I. 


11. 


m. 


1-4 


7.65 


7.32 


101-110 


11.35 


10.73 


5-10 


8.47 


8.52 


111-120 


11.05 


11.12 


11-20 


9.50 


9.34 


121-130 


10.95 


11.00 


21-30 


10.09 


9.74 


131-140 


11.26 


11.17 


31-40 


10.96 


10. »1 


141-150 


11.66 


11.71 


41-50 


10.68 


10.27 


151-160 


12. 42 


12.17 


51-60 


10.93 


30.52 


161-170 


11.83 


11.44 


61-70 


11.02 


10.84 


171-180 


11.67 


11.13 


71-80 


11.21 


10. 72 


181-190 


11.59 


11.20 


81-90 


11.38 


10.64 


191-200 


11.31 


11.30 


91-100 


11.58 


11.15 









From this table it follows that the discoveries have, on the average, 
taken place in those parts of the orbits nearer the perihelion than the 
aphelion, and moreover that the later discovered planets are not spe- 
viallv fiiinter than those since No. 100. 



List of asteroids discovered in 1881. 



Number. 


Kame. 


Date of 
discovery. 


Discovered by— 


Discoverer's 
number. 


220 




Feb. 23, 1881... 


Palisa 


29 











This is possibly 108 Hecuba. 

Jupiter. — The annual report of the Chicago Astronomical Society, for 
1880-'81, makes an interesting and valuable exhibit of Professor Hough's 
work for the year iiast. He has reached the conclusion which it would 



ASTRONOMY. 221 

seem natural for science to reach, namely, that drawings are only valu- 
able when made by strict micrometrical measurements, aud, indeed, that 
drawiugs on anj' other basis are misleading. He overlooks the fact how- 
ever that a single central transit of the spot over a wire is several times 
more accurate than a micrometer measurement taken when the spot i- 
Dot central. Jupiter presents such a variety of phenomena on his disk 
at different times that it has been the fashion to suppose that his sur- 
face is subject to sudden and rapid changes. The observations of the 
professor do not confirm this beUef. "On the contrary," he says, "all 
minor changes in the markings or spots have been slow and gradual, 
such as might be produced by measurable mechanical forces. In fact, 
the principal features have been permanent, no material change being 
detected by micrometer measurement." 

From 1,379 micrometer measurements on the great red spot, on the 
equatorial belt, the equatorial white spots, and the polar spots, a variety 
of interesting data are presented. Computed from observation of the 
red spot in 1879 tha rotation period of Jupiter is 9^. 55™. 34*., or 8 sec- 
onds greater than the previously accepted value. In 1880 this value 
was 9^\ 55™. 35.2^ Computed by the polar spots the rotation period 
is 9^. 55"*. 35.1^ The computation from the equatorial white spots 
shows that these spots are in motion on the surface of the planet, the 
drift being- about 270 miles per hour in the direction of the planet's 
rotation, or, in other words, that they made a complete revolution arouud 
the planet in about forty-two days. 

Professor Hough regards the red spot as fixed. The equatorial belts 
he also seems to regard as fixed. The generally-accepted theory is that 
this planet is enveloped in a dense atmosphere; that the belts are a solid 
portion of the planet, and that the minor spots are clouds floating in 
the atmosphere. Professor Ilough suggests an hj pothesis, namely : 
that "the stirface of the planet is covered with a liquid semi-incandes- 
cent mass ; that the belts, the great red spot, and other markings are 
composed of matter at a lower temperature. The egg-shaped polar 
white spots are openings in the semi-fluid crust." This hyi)othesis, he 
thinks, would account for the slow and gradual changes, which do not 
seem reasonable on the simple atmosi)heric theory. 

The great red spot on Jupiter's disk has for two or three years been 
attracting the attention of astronomers, and has been the subject of 
almost endless observations. Dr. Jedrzejewicz has published some in- 
ferences from his observations for ascertaining the time of rotation of 
the eastern extremity of the spot, made at his private observatory at 
Plonsk, during the winter of 1880-'81. The instrument employed is a 
refractor, six-inches aperture, with powers 225 to 300. In December 
he measured the length of the spot 9".S, and considers that his own 
observations, compared with those of Professor Schmidt at Athens, 
indicate that the length of the spot remained unchanged during the 
winter. On this assumx)tion he finds for the time of rotation 9''. oo'^. 



'222 ASTRONOMY. 

oJ:.4:14^, by 174 rotations between I^Tovember 25, 1880, and February 
5, 1881. Professor Schmidt, from 1,021 rotations between July 23, 
1879, and September 17, 1880, obtained the value d^. 55"». 34:.422^ for 
the middle of the spot. In 1862, by observations on a spot which he says 
was much darker, and with a more favorable object for the purpose 
than the spots observed by Airy and Madler in 1834:-'3o, and which was 
not much larger than the shadow of the third satellite, he had found 
for the time of rotation 9^^. 55™. 25.684«. 

From seven years' observation of the surface of Jupiter, Herr Bre- 
dichin concludes that the inequalities in the angular velocity of the 
diflerent figures seen on the planet may possibly be explained by as- 
suming (1) that in the neighborhood of the equator there is a solid, ele- 
vated zone, which, however, does not rise beyond the limits of the 
atmosphere, and (2) that the crust of the southern hemisphere trans- 
mits more internal heat into the atmosjjhere than that of the northern, 
and this affects the direction of currents of gases and vapors passing 
from one hemisphere to the other. The phenomena observed in that 
part of the crust which appears through the vaporous layer as a red 
spot prove, he says, the considerably deeper position of this spot as 
compared with the equatorial zone, and the preponderating heat devel- 
opment on the southern part of Jupiter. Herr Bredichin gives the dis- 
tances of the southern and northern borders of the elevated equatorial 
zone from the equator, for the years 1874 to 1880, and he finds that the 
equatorial zone must be steeper to the south, while it has a more gentle 
fall to the north, so that here it is varying, and covered more or less 
with clouds and vapors. The highest strip of this zone seems to be 2'' 
from the equator, on the north. 

The French Academy of Sciences, on the 14th of March, again pro- 
posed the Damoiscau prize of 10,000 francs for a memoir deemed most 
competent " to review the theory of the satellites of Jupiter, to discuss 
the observations, and to deduce the constants which it contains, and par- 
ticularly that which furnishes a direct determination of the velocity of 
light; and, lastly, to construct special tables for each satellite." Strange 
to say, in this age of keen astronomical research, this prize, when pro- 
posed in 1869, 1872, 1876, 1877, and 1879, met with no response. 

Saturn. — Dr. W. Meyer, of Geneva, has employed the new Geneva 
(10-inch) equatorial in measures on the system of Saturn^ which are to 
be continued. His first year's results show that the ball of Saturn is 
eccentrically situated as regards the boundary of the outer ring. He 
makes the diameter of the whole ring system 40".47; width of ring A 
(the outer ring), 3" ; width of rings A and B together, on the west 
side, 7".18 — on the east, 6".97 ; width of ring C (dusky ring), west side, 
2".24 — east side, 2".91; equatorial diameter, 17".42; polar diameter, 
16".20; compression, 1-^-14.5. These results are reduced to the dis- 
tance 9.5389. While it seems to require farther proof that the ring 
system is eccentrically situated with respect to the ball, there is a cer- 



ASTEONOMY. 223 

tain amount of evidence in its favor in past observations, as those of 
W. Struve and others. The writer has made a series of such obser- 
vations for three years on the width of the dusky rings, and finds ring 
C wider on the east side than on the west side by about 0".3. Mr. 
Mayer's result is 0".5. Otto Struve found (185G) 0".2. While there is 
a strong probability that such minute difl'erences as these result from 
real errors in the measures themselves, there is enough i^robability of a 
difference to make the measures worth a complete discussion. 

OBSERVATORIES. 

The Imperial University of St. Petersburg has founded an observa- 
tory and placed it under the charge of Dr. Glasenapp. The equipment 
consists of two refractors, by Merz, of C and 4 inches aperture respect- 
ively, of portable and field instruments, and of an astronomical clock 
by Wiren. The director asks for an exchange of publications with 
other observatories. 

A popular observatory has been established at the Palace of the Tro- 
cadero, Paris. Founded by M. Leon Jaubert, it has just been opened 
to the people, and many hundred free tickets have been applied for and 
received. Each ticket admits its owner to the observatory between 1 
and 4 o'clock in the afternoon, and from 8.30 to 11 o'clock at night. It 
allows him to attend the practical school of astronomy, the demonstra- 
tions on instruments, the literary, the scientific conferences, and the 
popular laboratories of general physics. 

A new observatory is being built by Columbia College, New York 
City. It is to be used in connection with the scientific department to 
instruct engineering students in the use of the portable instruments 
and equatorial. It is placed in charge of Prof. J. K. Rees, a graduate 
of the coUege. Proposals are being considered for building a 20-foot 
dome. According to the Annuaire of Brussels Observatory, for 1881, 
there are at present 118 public astronomical observatories in full ac- 
tivity, viz, 84 in Europe, 2 in Asia, 2 in Africa, 3 in Oceanica, and 27 
in the two Americas. The United States alone have 19, Mexico has 2, 
Brazil, Chili, Columbia, Ecuador, the Argentine Ecpublic, and New 
Britain 1 each. In Europe, Prussia is the state which has most public 
observatories; it has 29; next come England and Russia, which have, 
respectively, 14 and 12; then Italy, which has 9, Austria 8, France 6, 
Switzerland 4, Sweden 3, Holland, Norway, Spain, and Portugal, 2 each; 
lastly, Belgium, Greece, and Denmark. The oldest observatory in oper- 
ation at present is that of Ley den, founded in 1G32. In America, since 
1870, six observatories of the best construction and most perfect equip- 
ment have been established. 

An observatory is to be erected at Hong Kong, at a cost of about 
$34,000, for the purpose of dropping a time-ball for the shipping and for 
carrying on magnetic and meteorological observations. From the offi- 
cial papers we notice that a decided impulse to this motion has been 



224 ASTRONOMY. 

given by the presence at Hong Kong of the United States surveying 
ship Polos, with Commanders Green and Davis, U. S. X., who are 
determining longitudes by telegraph throughout the China seas. 

The Etna Observatory. — The building is partially completed, and siir- 
niounted by its revolving dome for the protection of the great Merz 
equatorial of 35 centimeters aperture. The observatory will not be 
ready to be opened until 1882. Great difficulties have to be surmounted 
in the building ; all the materials have to be conveyed 3,000 meters above 
the level of the sea, and the season when work is possible is only three 
months out of the year. The mounting of the equatorial is finishetl, 
and the construction of the meteorological apparatus is going on. 

Tabor College, in Southwestern Iowa, has just received a fine telescope, 
the joint gift of theEev. Mark Hopkins, D. B., ex-i)resident of Williams 
College, and the Eev. C. V. Spear, i)rincipal of Maplewood Seminary, 
Pittsfield, Mass. 

Prof. C. A. Young has lately determined the position of the observa- 
tory of the scientific school of Princeton College. The longitude was 
determined by telegraphic exchange with Washington. It is 9™ 34^.538 i 
0^021 (7 nights). The latitude observations were in 5 series. The re- 
sults were: 

I. + 40O 20' 57".791 i 0",U8 
II. 57 .763 ±0 .116 

III. 57 .815 iO .067 

IV. 57 .771 iO .173 
V. 57 .775 ±0 .088 

Series 1 is 82 observatious on niue nights of 28 stars, with a transit 
by Kahler used as a zenith telescope. This telescope has a brolen tube. 

II is 59 observations of 49 pairs on two nights, with same instrument. 

III is 114 observations of 49 i)airs on three nights. 

IV is 33 observations of 29 pairs on two nights, with a Fauth transit 
used as a zenith telescope. 

V is a series of 37 prime vertical observations from 11 stars. 

The final value of the latitude has a probable error of i 0".044, 
something less than 4 feet on the surface of the earth. These numbers 
are worth quoting, as showing the accordant results which careful ob- 
servers can obtain with small instruments. 

INSTKTJMENTS. 

A refractor of 21 inches. — A short time ago the largest refractor in 
the world was successfully completed by Mr. Grubb, of Dublin, who has 
just had conferred upon him by the university of that city the honorary 
degree of master of engineering. This instrument has a steel tube 3^ 
feet in diameter at the center, tapering toward each end, of course. In 
length this tube is 33.5 feet, and the aperture is 27 inches. At first it 
was thought that the disks could be finished in a year by M. Feil, of 



ASTRONOMY. ' 225 

Paris, but it took him foui years to produce perfect one§, anc. the diffi- 
culty he experienced was the main cause of the delay of the work. 
Although the entire moviU;^ parts weigh seven tons, through counter- 
I)oises and other expedients they can be operated at will by one man very 
easily. The circles are carefully and minutely divided, and the observer, 
while sitting in his chair, can read any of them by means of a little tel- 
escope attached to the side of the tube of the main telescope. A single 
gas lamp, hung by gimbals at the end of the declination axis, serves to 
light up each vernier and circle that may be required to be read. The 
castings of which the frame is formed are about ten tons in weight. The 
clock-work is controlled by Mr. Grubb's frictional governor and his new 
electric control apparatus. There are two right ascension circles, each 
2 feet in diameter, one of which can be read from the eye end of the 
telescope and the other from the ground floor. The declination circle is 
5 feet in diameter, and is read from the eye end of the telescope. This 
tine refractor is already placed in the magnificent observatory of Vienna, 

Mr. Gnibb has reprinted from Engineering his interesting papers on 
the manufacture of this telescope. We shall look with interest for an 
account of its actual performance. 

The observatory of Williams College has mounted its new 5-inch 
Eepsold meridian circle, and Professor Safford intends, we believe, to 
prosecute his zone observations which were unfortunately interrupted 
by his leaving Chicago. 

This instrument is similar to those of Bonn, Brussels, and Strassburg 
in design, and is of the same size as those made or ordered for the ob- 
servatories of Tokio, Wilhelmshafen, and Madison. 

Mr. Burnham has lately invented a lamp for illuminating, the webs 
of a filar micrometer through the end of the box, which is perfectly sat- 
isfactory in all respects. The first apparatus was made at the Wash- 
burn Observatory in Madison, and is described in its Publications ISTo. 1. 
The second was made by Alvan Clark & Sons for the new 12-inch tele- 
scope of the Lick Observatory. They are prepared to supply them to fit 
any micrometer. 

The practical importance of this device is very great as it saves time 
and trouble, and by a steady and satisfactory illumination of the 
threads conduces to accurate bisections. Either oil or gas can be used 
in these lamps. 

A refractor of 30 inches. — The flint glass for the 30-inch refractor for 
llussia has been finished by Alvan Clark & Sons within the year 1881, 
and we learn that the crown disk has been received from Fell and is 
found to be satisfactory so far as can now be known. Two attempts 
were made before the final successful casting. M. Feil will now pro- 
ceed to the 36-inch disks for the Lick Observatory. 

The Washington refractor of 26 inches. — An investigation of the ob- 
jective and of two filar micrometers of the 26-iuch Clark telescope of tho 
Naval Observator3^ forms Ai^pendix I of the Washington Observations 
S. Mis. 1C9 15 



226 ASTRONOMY. 

for 1877. The work was done by Professor Holden during 1876 and 1877. 
The exact dimensions of the objective were measured and the radii of 
curvature computed so that they are known within yfo of an inch. The 
indices of refraction could not be determined as the makers did not pre- 
serve any fragments of the glass. The focal length was measured and 
computed with assumed indices, and these agree to about 0.05 inch. 
The periodic and progressive errors of the screws were determined by 
means of a dividing engine and found to be practically zero. The two 
screws were made by the Messrs. Clark. The lengths of 1 revolution 
are— Screw I, 0.018775 ± 0.000902 inch ; screw II, 0.0187G3 i 0.000001 
inch, at 32° F. 

The values of these revolutions in arc have been determined in five 
different ways. 

A refractor of 36 indies for the Lick Observatory. — The trustees of the 
Lick Observatory have finally closed the contract for the optical part of 
their great telescope. There has been considerable doubt whether a 
refractor or an enormous reflector would be selected, but the decision 
is in favor of the former. The object glass is to be 3 feet in diameter, 
and the Olarks of Cambridge, Mass., are to make it for $50,000. The 
mounting for the instrument is not yet provided for. It will i^robably 
be about three years before the telescope is finished. If the instrument 
proves successful, it will be the most efficient ever pointed at the heav- 
ens. Its power will exceed that of the Pulkova glass by 44 per cent., 
and it will be almost twice as powerful as the great telescope at Wash- 
ington, which at present is the best of its kind. — San Francisco Scien- 
tific Press. 

A novel way of comparing clocks, distant from the standard clock, 
has been introduced at the Washburn Observatory, where it has been 
applied to a tower-clock, some 2,000 feet distant. 

A single telegraph wire was led on poles from the observatory to the 
clock, with a ground connection at each end. In the circuit at the clock 
an ordinary microphone (Blake-transmitter) was i>ut through a four- 
XJointed switch at the observatory; the telephone can be thrown into 
the clock circuit, and a battery (usuaUy of one or two standard Daniell's 
cells) is also brought into circuit. 

When this is done the beats of the clock (every 2 seconds) can be dis- 
tinctly heard. If the means of identifying the beginning of each min- 
ute are at hand, accurate comparisons between the tower-clock (error 
and rate unknown) and any of the observatory clocks can be made. 

This has been accomplished in a very simple way as follows : On the 
wheel which moves the second hand (which revolves in one minute), a 
brass disk about 2 inches in diameter, which revolves with it, has been 
put. Kear the outer edge of this disk is a steel pin. Six seconds before 
the beginning of each miuute this pin picks up the short end of a lever, 
some 5 inches long, and raises the hammer end during 6 seconds. 
Exactly at 60 seconds the piu releases the hammer, which falls through 



ASTRONOMY. 227 

about one-lialf of an inch upon a small bell. This sound is distinctly 
heard through the telephone, and fixes the beginning of each minute. 
The minute is never doubtful, and consequently we have all the elements 
for rating this clock. 

UNIFORM STANDARD TIME. 

For some time past the American Meteorological Society has been 
engaged in the consideration of a uniform standard time, a matter of 
some moment from a popular and from a scientific standpoint. 

A circular has lately been published by the society, which calls public 
attention to the great advantage of a more thorough uniformity of accu- 
rate time to the business community, as well as to the scientific world. 

As at present arranged there is great uncertainty and confusion. Lo- 
cal time, in the astronomical meaning of the term, varies with every 
change of meridian. This cannot be conveniently retained by the trav- 
eling public or by railroad and telegraph companies. The result is 
that the most convenient meridian is adopted by each such transpor- 
tation company. 

Consequently over seventy such standard meridians are now in use 
by railroad and other companies throughout the United'States and Can- 
ada. The larger towns and cities frequently adopt their own special 
local times, and the smaller ones adopt the railroad times most conven- 
ient to them. There are thus now in ordinary use at least one hundred 
local times or meridians, many of them differing but a few minutes from 
each other. 

It is suggested, therefore, that the community at large unite upon a 
division of this continent into a few sections, and that throughout each 
such division all transportation and telegraph companies, all town 
clocks and clock-makers shall be kept in agreement with one standard 
meridian. Five such different standards would be established for the 
whole continent ; a central meridian would be adopted in the Mis- 
sissippi Valley, exactly ninety degrees or six hours west of Greenwich, 
and proceed to the east or west by steps of one hour each, as shown in 
the schedule" given below. The meridian of five hours would be called 
"Atlantic time," that of six hours "Valley time," and the meridian of 
seven hours would be the standard " Mountain time " for the entire 
region of the Eocky Mountains, while "Pacific time," eight hours slower 
than that of Greenwich, would goTern the time-keepers of the Pacific 
States. 



228 



ASTRONOMY. 



Proposed scliedule of standard times. 



Geographical section. 



-s^ 



■- ® H 

O IH 



T3 t. 



o^. 



U3 



Standard time slower or faster ttan 
true "local times." 



Designation of 

proposed 
standard time. 



Newfoundland . . . 
New Brunswick . 

Nova Scotia 

Canada 



Maiue to Florida 

OMo to Alabama 
Lower Lakes 



Mississippi Valley. 
Missouri VaUey . . . 

Upper Lakes 

Texas 



Kooky Mountain region . . . 



Pacific States 

British Columbia . 



66 



105 
120 



h. m. s. 
4 0V 



6 

7 

8 



29 minutes slower than St. Johns, N. F 
24 minutes faster than St. Johns, N. B 

14 minutes faster than Halifax, N. S. . 

15 miuutce.4lower than Quebec 

18 minutes faster than Toronto 

16 minutes slower than Boston 

3 minutes slower than New York 

8 minutes faster than ■Washington . . . 

19 minutes faster than Charleston . . . 
45 minutes faster than Montgomery . 
14 minutes taster than Buflalo 

30 minutes faster than Detroit 

38 minuter faster than Cincinnati 

minutes faster than New Orleans . . 

1 minute faster than Saint Louis 

12 minutes faster than Saint Paul 

18 minntes faster than Kansas City. . 

19 minivtes faster than Galveston 

10 minutes slower than Chicago 

minutes faster than Denver 

28 minutf 8 faster than Salt Lake City 
12 minutt's slower than San Diego 

10 minut»'8 faster than San Francisco 

11 minutes f;ister than Olympia 

12 minutes fiister than Victoria 



> Eastern time. 



> Atlantic time. 



> Valley time. 



> Mountain tune. 



■ Pacific time. 



The evils spoken of undoubtedly exist, and eventually the number of 
local times in use on railroads and elsewhere must be reduced in the 
interest of every person who uses accurate time. This is not the place 
to discuss what changes would be best suited to meet the wants in the 
case, and the editor cannot here set forth in full his reasons for believ- 
ing that this plaR of the American Metrological Society will not be 
adopted by the people of the United Stiites in general, who in the end 
will have what is most convenient to themselves. Nor can the grounds 
of selection of different standards of time (for in a country so large as 
the United States, there must be more than one standard time) be set 
forth here. It may suffice to quote the recent action of the State of 
Connecticut, which has adopted by law the time of the meridian of the 
City Hall in New York as its standard, and which obliges railways, 
etc., to conform to it. In the same way it seems to be wise for the West- 
ern States of Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, to unite upon Chicago 
time as their standard, instead of taking the time of 6 hours from 
Greenwich. In this way every user of time will be supplied* with the 
time he requires most often, and the growth of local standard times 
will be on a solid basis of use, and not a forced one of an artificial sys- 
tem. 

The following note with regard to time-balls in the United States is 
of interest in connection with the subject of standard time. 

The first time-ball established i«i the United States was dropped from 
the dome of the National Observatory at Washington, D. C, in 1855. 



ASTRONOMY. 229 

It is still dropped in Washington near noon, and has long furnished the 
standard time for the city and the departments of the Government. 

In !N^ew York City a time-ball was established in 1877, dropped by an 
electric signal sent from the Naval Observatory at Washington. It 
was erected on the plans of Prof. E. S. Holden, and is maintained by 
the Western Union Telegraph Company, and is dropped from a staff on 
the tower of their building on Broadway. 

At 11.55 the ball is hoisted half way up the staff on the tower. At 
11.58 it is hoisted to its highest point, when it is about 250 feet above 
the street, and can be seen by the shipping at the New York and Brook- 
lyn docks, and vessels in the bay, and from suitable positions is visible 
to a large portion of the citizens of New York, Brooklyn, Hoboken and 
Jersey City. 

A time-ball at Boston, Mass., is dropped at noon of the latitude of 
that city by means of the noon signal from the standard clock of the 
Harvard College Observatory. It is placed in the large building of the 
Equitable Life Assurance Company, and was put up and maintained 
by that company at a cost of some $1,200. The ball itself in this case 
is of copper and 'weighs 250 pounds. 

A time-ball has lately been established from the plans of Dr. L. Waldo 
at "Hartford, Conn., dropped by the Winchester Observatory of Yale 
College. 

At St. Louis, Mo., another has been recently established. 

At Kansas City another is dropped as a part of the time service of 
the Morrison Observatory under the direction of Professor Pritchett, at 
the expense of the city, and is highly commended. When raised the 
ball is lifted about 140 feet above the street, and is generally visible to 
the citizens of all parts of the city. 

The ball itself is about three feet in diameter, made of a wire skeleton 
frame, covered with canvas, and painted black. To give it weight so as 
to drop with the needed celerity it is loaded inside with lead. It has a 
drop of about twenty five feet and falls on a set of steel springs. 

The manner of dropping these balls is extremely simple, and consists 
of withdrawing a steel pin by means of a magnet touched at the exact 
moment desired by the operator, whereupon the ball falls instantly. 

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

The admirable Catalogue g6n6rale of Messrs. Houzeau and Lancaster is 
being issued in parts, and it is certain to prove of great use. 

The second part of the Catalogus Lihrorum of the Pulkova Observa- 
tory has been received in America (printed in 1880). It is edited by 
Lindemann. This volume is on the same excellent plan as its prede- 
cessor, and its arrangement renders it priceless to the student of the 
history of astronomy. Tlie growth of this unrivalled library may be 
exhibited by the following figures: 

In 1845 there were 4,150 volumes, CO maps, 3,109 dissertations. 



230 



ASTRONOMY 



In 1858 there were 7,625 volumes, 143 maps, 14,634 dissertations. 

In 1880 there were 11,077 volumes, 168 maps, 23,208 dissertations. 

A comparison of this collection with the bibliography of Lalande 
(using the resources of Paris) is given below. Column 1 shows the 
date of publication of the books; 2 shows the number of volumes at 
Pulkova not known to Lalande, and 3 shows the number of volumes 
mentioned by Lalande which are not at Pulkova : 





I. 


11. 


1472-1500 


30 

126 
203 
191 
561 


109 
216 
433 
538 
444 


1501-1550 

1551-1600 


1601-1650 


1651-1700 





The Astronomische Nachrichten, the copyright of wbich is involved in 
the Schleswig-Holstein question, has been remodelled and will in future 
be published under the editorship of Dr. Krueger, the director of the 
observatory at Kiel, in co-operation with the president of the German 
Astronomical Society, of which association it will be a recognized organ. 
The new arrangement can produce nothing but good results, some of 
which are already evident. 

A copy of the treatise of Copernicus, "De Hypothesibus Motuum 
Coelestium," in a more perfect shape than any hitherto known, has been 
discovered at Stockholm Observatory, stitched into a copy of his "De 
Eevolutionibus Orbium Coelestium" which originally belonged to He- 
velius. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



By Cleveland Abbe. 



INTEODUCTORY NOTE. 

The compilation of this record for 1879-1881 having been undertaken 
at a late date, the time available for its preparation has been too short 
to allow of consulting the original scattered memoirs; it will therefore 
be found that the following pages consist almost exclusively of abstracts 
from those invaluable periodicals, the "Zeitschrift fUr Meteorologie," 
edited by Hann, at Vienna, and "Nature," edited by Lockyer, at Lon- 
don. It is hoped that but little of importance has been omitted, and 
that this record will bring to the notice of the American reader much 
that might otherwise have been overlooked. 

I. — ^INSTITUTIONS AND INDIYTDUALS. 

Prof. H. W. Dove died on the 4th of April, 1879, at Berlin, and in 
him meteorology lost its most distinguished representative. Dove was 
born, October 6, 1803, at Liegnitz, and was made professor extraordi- 
nary at the University of Berlin in 1828 and became a member of the 
Academy of Sciences' in 1845. Optics, electricity, and meteorology, but 
especially the latter, have alike profited by his activity. In 1846 the 
Prussian meteorological system was established through his efforts. 
He was not only an investigator, but a teacher of rare talent, and a 
lecturer who possessed in a high degree a talent of rivetting the atten- 
tion of his audience. His public lectures at the university and his 
addresses before the Berlin Polytechnic Association were attended by 
hundreds of admirers. In whatever relates to the grand generaliza- 
tions that may be deduced from meteorological observations, Dove has 
very properly been styled the "father of meteorology." {Z. 0. O. M.,* 
p. 193, XIV.) 

Professor Dr. Johann von Lamont, director of the observatory at 
Munich, died on the 6th of August, 1879. He was born September 13, 
1805, in the extreme north of Scotland. Kemoved to iiegensburg, Ger- 
many, in 1817, and in 1827 to Munich. In 1828 he became assistant at 
the Royal Observatory at Bogenhausen, and, in 1833, on the death of 
Soldner, became the director. His numerous observations and investi- 

•The initials Z. 0. G. ilf., conatantly used, designate the Zeitschrift Oesterreichiachen 

Gesellschaft fur Meteorologie. 

-> •' ^ 231 



232 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

gations in the field of astronomy, terrestrial magnetism, and meteor- 
ology have made liim one of the most prominent scientists of Germany. 
In terrestrial magnetism his name stands beside Gauss. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIV, p. 374.) 

Karl Fritsch, vice-director of the Austrian K. K. Central Institute 
for Meteorology and Terrestrial Magnetism, died 1880, December 2G, in 
his sixty-eighth year. He was essentially the founder of the Austrian 
Meteorological Association. From an excellent autobiographical sketch 
we quote the following items: 

Born in Prague August 16, 1812, he states "that even in my youth 
I felt an irresistible tendency towards independence in all my conclu- 
sions. Neither the severity of my father nor the love of my mother 
was able to conquer my youthful willfulness." 

His first definite impetus in the direction of the study of nature dated 
from the year 1827, as he began to interest himself in the meteor- 
ological observations made at the observatory of the University at 
Prague, and published daily in the " Prager Zeitung," and which were 
preserved by him. "From that time (November IS, 1827) was I body 
and soul a meteorologist." In the years 1831 and 1832 he began to make 
independent meteorological observations, and in part constructed the 
necessary instruments. Gradually every spare moment was given to 
this work and every other occupation "driven to the rear." 

The contest between his love for astronomy, " the queen of all sciences," 
and meteorology, "the youngest of her sisters," was decided, as all the 
world knows, in favor of the latter. 

In 1839 he became an assistant to K. I^reil in the new Magnetic and 
Meteorological Observatory at Prague, and the eleven jxars following, 
1810 to 1850, show the extent and intensity of activity with which he 
devoted himself to that work. His first independent publication was 
presented at the end of the year of 1841 to the Bohemian Scientific 
Association, and bore the title "On the Simultaneity of Meteor Showers, 
especially the November Showers, with the Low Barometric Pressures." 

The remaining forty years of his life afford a real illustration of suc- 
cessful devotion to the advancement of a favorite science, and in every 
application of meteorology to the ])ractical affairs of life his skillful 
hand has been seen and the influence of his earnest life has been felt. 
After a tedious illness, on the 26th Of December, 1879, he departed this 
life, "but for many years his memory will not be forgotten." {Z. 0. G. 
3L, XV, 1880, p. 105-119.) 

On the 29th of February, 1880, at Eniden, Prof. Dr. M. A. F. Prestel 
died suddenly of heart disease. He was born at Gottingen in 1809, 
October 27, and his extensive series of observations and independent 
studies upon the climate of Emden have made his name everywhere 
familiar. 

Ludwig Lose, one of the most industrious meteorological observers, 
died suddenly on November 0, 1880, in Crefeld. A record of twenty-one 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 233 

years of observation, nine times a day, testifies to his perseverance; 
during- this time he and others have published numerous j^enerahzations 
based upon these observations. He was born November 20, 1811, in 
Hanover. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 100.) 

Karl AA^eyprecht, born in Hesse-Darmstadt, 1838, died March 29, 1881. 
Havings entered the Austrian navy, he, in the summer of 1872, undertook 
the conduct of the Austro-Hungarian Polar expedition, and since 1875 
devoted himself to the establishment of the scientific and meteorological 
and magnetic investigation of the circum-polar regions which is now be- 
ing executed by the International Polar Commission. His early death 
unfortunately prevented his realizing the success of the work he had so 
well planned and i)romoted. 

Prof. E. H. Sainte Claire de Ville, born March 11, 1818, at Saint 
Thomas, in the West Indies, died July 1, 1881, at Paris. He filled the 
chair of Professor of Chemistry at the Ecole Xormale of Paris since 
1851, and has, during this long interval, distinguished himself in all 
branches of chemistry. He held an imiiortant position in connection 
with the reorganization of Fi'ench meteorology after the death of Le- 
verrier. 

Prof. J. C. Maxwell, of Cambridge, England, born June 13, 1831, died 

• November 5, 1879. Although known especially by his contributions to 
molecular jihysics, yet meteorologists have reason to remember his 
"Treatise on heat," and especially the last iiaper published by him on 
the ''Theory of the wet-bulb thermometer." 

Dr. C. C. Bruhns, born November 22, 1830, at Holst^in, died July 
25, 1881, at Leipzic, where he was the director of observatory of the 
university. Although devoted to astronomy, like several other astrono- 
mers, and perhaps especially through his interest in the subject of 
atmospheric refraction, he felt. the necessity of a better understanding 
of the subject of meteorology, and accordingly Germany owes to him 
the organization of its first system of ofiicial uniform meteorological 
observations, namely, that of the state of Saxonj-, whose activity began 

• in 1803. To him is also due the suggestion and calling of the interna- 
tional conference at Leipzic, 1872. The amiability and benevolence of 
his character endeared him to all with whom he had to do. {Z. 0. G. 
31., XVI, 1881, p. 489.) 

The second International Congress of Meteorologists was held at 
Kome, April 14 to 22, 1879. All European States, including France 
and Greece, were therein represented ; the United States representative, 
the late General A. J. Myer, unfortunately arrived too late. A perma- 
nent international committee was appointed who should continue in 
power until the next congress, which will probably meet in 1883 or 1884. 

The Permanent International Committee of Meteorologists, estab- 
lished in accordance with the decision of the congress at Kome, held 
its first annual meeting on the 9th of May, 1880, at Berne, Switzerland. 
It will be the province of the committee by correspondence to execute 



234 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

the various works authorized by the congress and to stimulate every 
movement that looks toward greater uniformity in instruments, reports, 
reductions, &c. 

The International Polar Conference held its sittings in St. Petersburg 
August 1, 1881, and definitely settled upon a programme to be adopted 
in the international scheme for the exploration of the magnetic and me- 
teorological phenomena of the Polar regions. The general schedule rec- 
ommended at Berne was confirmed at St. Petersburg and the important 
details definitely agreed upon. Observations will begin in the autumn 
of 1882, and the following stations are assured : (1) Point Barrow, (2) 
Lady Franklin Bay, will be occupied by the United States. (3) A place 
on. the west coast of Greenland will be occupied by Denmark, either 
Upernavik orGodthaab. (4) Jan Mayen, or the island of Grimsey near 
Iceland, to be occupied by Austria. (5) The stations of Bosekop, near 
Alten, Norway, will be occupied by the Norwegian Government. (6) 
Mossel Bay, on Spitzbergen, will be occupied by the Swedish Govern- 
ment. (7) The mouth of the Lena and Nova Zembla will be occupied 
at one or more points by the Bussian Government. (8) Canada will 
probably occupy Fort Simpson. France will occupy some island off Cape 
Horn, and Germany will occupy the island of South Georgia. 

The observations will begin at all these stations at least as early as 
the first of August, 1882, and will be continued for at least one whole 
year. The stations occupied by the United States were, however, al- 
already occupied in the summer of 1881, and will continue for three 
years. It is hoped that most of the others will also be continued at least 
as long as this. The observations will refer principally to magnetism and 
meteorology, aril other matters being considered secondary. The regular 
observations will be made hourly according to such system of time as 
maybe desirable; but the magnetic observations that are made on term 
days, which days will always be the first and fifteenth of each month, 
shall be conducted according to Gottingen time. 

The meteorological observations are to be conducted as nearly as pos- 
sible on a uniform system and with instruments of uniform accuracy, 
the minutest details for which are given in the regulations of the con- 
ference. 

The magnetic work will consist of both absolute and differential 
observations. The absolute measures will give the declination and incli- 
nation within one minute of arc, and are to be accompanied by special 
magnetic study of the neighborhood, for the purpose of detecting local 
irregularities. 

The differential observations will also refer to all three elements of 
terrestrial magnetism, and it is desirable that each station should have 
two complete sets of instruments. The variation instruments will be 
furnished with the smallest possible needles. Observations will be made 
hourly, except on term days, when they will be made every five minutes; 
on such term days, moreover, during one hour complete observations will 
be made every twenty seconds. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 235 

Especial attention will be given to observations of the anrora, wliich 
will be recorded hourly. The astronomical observations will be confined 
entirely to the determination of the latitude and longitude and local 
time. 

Among the subjects suggested by the commission are hydrographic 
investigations, the altitude of auroras, atmospheric electricity, the twi- 
light, the collection of samples of air for chemical analysis. 

The observations will all be reduced and published on a uniform plan. 
All observatories throughout the world, especially those where mag- 
netic observations are made, are earnestly invited to continue their 
work during the next two years, and the electricians of telegraph com- 
panies are urged to consider the great importance of accurately observ- 
ing the e^rth currents on telegraph lines. 

The methods of computation and reduction of the meteorological ob- 
servations will be adopted in conformity with the meteorological con- 
gresses held at Vienna and Rome. Summaries of the observations will 
be sent as soon as possible after the return of each expedition to the 
President of the International Polar Commission, through whom they 
will be rapidly published. The collected observations will also be pub- 
lished in full after they have been properly reduced, to which purpose 
the Polar Commission will, after the return of the expeditions, meet 
together for a further consideration of the subject. In this publication 
the metric system and centigrade temperature will be adopted. The 
commission recommends the publication of an occasional report or jour- 
nal of proceedings. 

The present membership of the Polar Commission is as follows: For 
Denmark, Captain Hoffmeyer; for Russia, Professors Lenz and Wild, 
and Lieutenant Jiirgens ; for France, Professor Mascart ; for Norway, 
Professor Mohn ; for Holland, Dr. Snellen ; for Sweden, Dr. Wykauder ; 
for Austria, Count Wilczek and Lieutenant Wohlgemuth ; for the 
United States, General Hazenand Professor Hilgard; for Canada, Prof. 
Charles Carpmael; for Germany, Dr. Neumayer; for England, Mr. R. 
H. Scott 5 for Finland, Professors IS^ordenskiold and Lemstrom. 

The first annual volume of the observations of the meteorological 
observations in Bavaria, under the conduct of Bezold and Lang, was 
published in 1880. It gives convenient tables for the reduction of obser- 
vations to sea-level, and a study of the thunder storms in Bavaria, dur- 
ing 1879. Owing to the great number of thunder-storm observers it 
has become possible to demonstrate a feature that has frequently been 
suspected elsewhere, viz, that such storms occasionally break out simul- 
taneously over a long expanse of country. The details of observation 
for forty-nine years at Beyrout are also published. {Z. 0. G. M., vol. 
XV, 1880, p. 334.) 

The Meteorological Commission of the Natural History Society of 
Switzerland, which is represented by R. Wolf and R. Billwiller, an- 
nounces that if possible a meteorological station will be maintained at 



236 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

the summit of Santas-Gipfel, at an altitude of about 10,000 feet. {Z. 
0. G. ilf., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 329.) 

Tlie central committee of the Germano-Austrian Alpine Association, 
animated by the desire to further the study of Ali)ine meteorology, has 
established a self- registering aneroid barometer, as constructed by Gold- 
schmidt (to whom Hottinger now succeeds), upon the summit of Schaff- 
berg. This establishment was persoually attended to by Kostlivy; 
and the observations are supervised by Grommer, the proprietor of the 
Schaffberg hotel. The publication of the first two months' hourly 
records at this point has given Hann occasion to collect together what 
little is known upon the whole subject of barometric pressure at high 
stations. The need of further observations in Europe and America is 
strongly urged by him. He says there can be no doubt that the modi- 
fications that we see entering into the diurnal variation of pressure, as 
we ascend higher and higher on isolated mountain peaks, is produced, 
in the first place, by the diurnal change of the mean temperature of the 
column of air between the top of the mountain and the base; and, in 
the second place, also, by the change from ascending day-winds to 
descending night winds, such as we observe everywhere in mountain 
regions. Both these causes have a tendency to raise the pressure at 
high stations up to the moment of the maximum temperature, and to 
lower it at the time of minimum temperature. Herein lies the reason for 
the lateness of the morning maximum, the enfeebling of the afternoon 
minimum, and the development of the morning minimum until it has 
become the principal minimum of the day. But the magnitude of this 
influence is, at least in our latitude, as variable as is the temperature 
of the air and the prevailing wind. A formula for the diminution of 
daily range with the altitude is therefore a somewhat fruitless labor. 
(Z. 0. a. Jf., XIV, p. 177.) 

The organization of a special meteorological service for the Kingdom 
of Bavaria has been accomplished by the establishment of a central 
station, fifteen or more second-class, and nineteen or more third-class 
stations, all of which are under the general supervision of Prof. W. 
Von Bezold. The observers are generally the professors of mathe- 
matics and sciences at the schools and universities of the kingdom. A 
general commission of members of the Eoyal Academy of Sciences acts 
as the adviser of the Bavarian Government in these matters. [Z. 0. 
G. 3L, XrV, p. 173.) 

The first conference of the International Meteorological Committee, 
as appointed at Eome, was held at Berne in August, 1880 ; the follow- 
ing is an abstract of the results: It was recommended that a careful 
comparison be made between the normal instruments of each land and 
those to be used by other neighboring nations. The moment of inter- 
national simultaneous observations was changed in accordance with the 
request of the chief signal oflicer. The international polar observations 
were emphatically approved of. C. Koppen's proposed improvement in 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 237 

the method of recording raiufall was agreed upon, and will be submitted 
to the national weather bureaus. The committee expressed the hope 
that telegraphic connection with the islands of the Atlantic Ocean would 
soon become practicable on account of its great importance for the 
weather service in Europe. 

Captain Hoflmeyer's proposal that all central meteorological institutes 
should regularly publish the mean values of the more important climatic 
elements was urged upon the general attention. Dr. Hellman's propo- 
sition to compile a catalogue of works on meteorology was referred to a 
committee, with power to act in case others would co-operate. 

The subject of international tables for the reduction of observations 
was referred to Messrs. Mascart and Wild to prepare a plan for the com- 
putation and arrangement of the tables. (Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, 
p. 398.) 

According to the conclusion of the First Italian Meteorological Con- 
gress at Turin, September, 1880, the earlier Alp and Appenine meteor- 
ological correspondence and the Italian Meteorological Association unite 
together in a new general association under the presidency of the King 
of Italy, and the meteorological journal carried on by Eagona at Modena 
is now merged with that of the Italian Association. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. 
XVI, 1881, p. 90.) 

The first two volumes of the Archives of the Deutsche Seewarte have 
been ])ublished in the years 1880, 1881, respectively, and give for the 
first time a connected view of the extensive field covered by the ener- 
getic operations of that institution, which in the number of its stations 
ranks next to the United States Signal Of&ce, in its scientific work vies 
with the Central Physical Observatory at St. Petersburg, and in its 
marine work surpasses the meteorological office at London. Beside the 
complete description of the Seewarte and details as to the work carried 
on in the separate divisions, these volumes also contain valuable memoirs 
by Sprung, Koppen, Eumker, etc. 

Attention is paid equally to observations and predictions of the 
weather on land, observations and generalizations relative to ocean 
meteorology, physical, and mathematical studies, terrestrial magnet- 
ism, the investigation of the errors of sextants, chronomet^irs, and 
other instruments used by navigators, and bibUography of meteorology. 
The assistants in charge of the separate divisions, namely, Messrs. 
Koppen, Sprung, Van Bebber, and Rumker, are already well known 
by the original works they have published. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, 
p^lll.) 

In Italy considerable progress has been made toward unification of 
interests on the one hand by the concentration of government work in 
one bureau, having its headquarters at the Observatory of the Collegio 
Eomano, under Prof. P. Tacchini, and on the other hand by the union 
of the independent individual organizations into one Italian Meteoro- 
logical Association, having its secretary and business center in Turin 



238 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

(13 Via La Grange), but its scientific president (Prof. P. F. Denza) at 
the Carl Albert Observatory, Moncalieri. 

The publications of the previous government bureau and of the ear- 
lier association have also been combined in some respects, and those of 
the central office now appear in magnificent royal folios, of which the 
first volume is that for 1879. (Anuali dell' ufficio centrale di Meteoro- 
logia Italiaua, Serie II, Vol. 1, 1879, Koma, 1880.) The office has 69 first- 
class stations, aud maintains a daily bulletin of telegraphic reports, and 
a ten-day summary of data of interest to at»riculture. The annals con- 
tain numerous memoirs by Chistoni, Cantoni, Tacchini, &c., the detailed 
observations at 49 stations, and the astronomical work done at the Ob- 
servatory Collegio Komano by Tacchini and Millesovich. 

In France the Bureau Centrale de Meteorologie has assumed the pub- 
lication of observations made at all the French stations ; a similar step 
was taken in the United States when the Army Signal Office, in 1874, 
assumed charge of the voluntary as well as the enlisted observers. 
Therefore the annuaire of the Meteorological Society of France, begin- 
ning with its twenty-eighth year, 1880, appears in a somewhat modified 
form, containing only monthly summaries of its eleven stations, and 
devoting much more space to original memoirs and to reviews of other . 
publications relating to meteorology. 

At the suggestion of H. C. Eussell, an Intercolonial Meteorological 
Conference M^as held at the Sydney Observatory, N. S. W., November 
11 to 14, 1879, to consider propositions for improving the system of 
weather signals, and securing more united action in regard to weather 
telegrams. At this conference numerous propositions, seventy-four in 
all, were adopted relative to all the colonies of Australasia, as well 
as to the subject of different stations, uniform methods, apparatus, and 
times, mountain stations, priority of weather reports, telegraph cipher 
codes, &c. 

The second Inter-colonial Congress was held at the Melbourne Obser- 
vatory April 21 to 27, 1881. The various colonial government meteor- 
ologists reported upon the many i)oints in which progress had been 
made during the previous eighteen months. Dr. Hector stated that in 
New Zealand, in 1867, he had urged the importance of this work, and 
that the unscientific work of the weather-forecasting department, which 
had been carried on since 1874 by Captain Edwin, had now, since June, 
1881, been superseded by the weather charts and daily predictions for 
each of five districts by the government meteorologists. His outly- 
ing stations had been extended to the Feejee Islands and to Chat- 
ham. Messrs. Eussell, of Sydney, and Todd, of Adelaide, and Ellery, of 
Melbourne, reported upon improv^ements in the daily maps and bulletins, 
on new high stations, and other improvements. The discussion then 
turned on methods of exposing thermometers, the measure of evapora- 
tion, the reliability of anemometers, (Ellery has established one of 
Hagemann's vacuum anemometers, and Eussell has used a jjortable 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 23d 

baud form of Eobiusou's anemometers) black bulb or radiation thermom 
eters. The adoption of isobaric curves was agreed on, as also the stand- 
ard base maps on Mercator's projection, as also a system by means of 
which to eftect the reduction of all the instruments to uniform systems 
of standards. It is thus seen that the southern hemisphere, by means 
of the extensive system of weather observations in Cape Colony, Aus- 
tralasia, Argentine Confederation, and Chili, is, relatively speaking, as 
well provided for on the land as the northern hemisphere was a few 
years ago; and the jjrincipal extension now needed is the securing of 
observations from the smaller islands and the increase of observations 
on ships. 

The Central Meteorological Institute in Zurich, that has for years 
been supported by the general Swiss association of scientists, was, by 
decree of December, 1880, constituted a permanent official national 
institute, and will bear the title " Central Swiss Meteorological Insti- 
tution." It is intrusted with all official meteorological work, including 
observations, investigations, predictions, &c., and is governed by a 
commission organized under the department of the interior, and of 
which the principal members are Profs. R. Wolf, of Zurich; E. Plan- 
tamour, of Geneva; S. A. Forel, of Morges; E. Forster, of Berne; E. 
Hagenbach, of Basel; H. Weber, of Zurich; and Coaz, chief forester 
at Berne. Prof. R. Billweller is confirmed as director of the institute. 
{Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 248.) 

The death of Brig. Gen. Albert J. Myer, which occurred at Buffalo 
on August 24, 1880, and the subsequent appointment of Maj. Gen. Wil- 
liam B. Hazen as Chief Signal Officer, has been a most important event 
in the history of meteorology in the United States. The Signal Corps 
of the Army owes its inception and establishment to General Myer, and 
since the meteorological duties were imi^osed ujion it, in 1870, " has had 
its growth in the generous support of the American people, and year 
by year an increased confidence has been shown in the usefulness of its 
work." The spirit that has been infused into the service by the acces- 
sion of General Hazen is shown by the following quotation from his 
first annual report : " The weather service of the United States has 
been without a rival in the practical advantages derived from its labors, 
but the day has now come when it should take its stand among the fore- 
most in the scientific study and investigation of the higher branches 
of theoretical meteorology, and it is upon such investigations intelli- 
gently pursued that the hoped-for greater benefits must mainly rest. 
I have endeavored to bring this service into active sympathy and co-ope- 
ration with the ablest scientific intellects of the country." 

Among the numerous novelties briefly enumerated by General Hazen 
in his report for the year ending June 30, 1881, are: raising the standard 
of t\iQ persomiel of the corps; the weather forecasts for several days; 
the organization of special service for the benefit of the cotton interests 
and the fruit interests ; the preparation of new instructions, tables, instru- 



240 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

ments, &c. ; the executing of studies in atmospheric absorption by Lang- 
ley on Mount Whitney ; the offering of prizes for essays on meteorology ; 
the establishment of stations for investigating meteorology in Arctic 
America, &c. 

Tho attempt to render weather maps and meteorological observations 
useful to the agricultural community has been fairly made in Saxony 
by the erection of the special meteorological station in Magdeburg. 
This is a massive tower 34 meters high, at the intersection of two streets. 
In the basement is a room where the temperature changes are slight, 
and here are kept the normal barometer, the barograph, &c. The ther- 
mometer and anemometers are on the topmost story, and the working 
rooms of the corps on the intermediate floors. Near by, on an appropriate 
grass lawn, are the standard thermometers for air and earth tempera- 
ture, and the evaporimeter, rain-gauge, &c. All of this is the property 
of the Magdeburg Zeitung, and is in charge of Dr. Assmann. 

The daily bulletins and predictions are made up at noon, and an 
edition of 500 copies sent out at 1 p. m. These are also republished 
in the evening edition of the Zeitung. I^fumerous special reports for 
local stations are made up at 12.30 p. m., and also a telegraph bulletin oi 
predictions that is distributed, gratuitously and daily by the Magdeburg 
i-ailroad to all its stations, and a bulletin for public use. {Z. 0. G. ili., 
XVI, 1881, p. 381.) 

In Italy, much interest is expressed in the establishment of physical 
and astronomical observatories at high altitudes. Tacchini has inter- 
ested himself in the establishment of a very complete observatory at 
Casa Degli Inglesi on Mount Etna. At the close of 1881 the building 
had been completed, but the apparatus and obser\ ers not yet secured. 
A less extensive observatory is in the course of construction on Monte 
Cimone (altitude 2,233^"), and the erection of one on Gran Sasso d'ltalia 
is contemplated. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, 469.) 

The Annual Eeport of the London Meteorological Council for the 
year ending March, 1880, shows the number of reporting stations to be 
as follows: Class I, 9; II, 5; III, 37; IV, 22. 

The number of veriflcations of daily predictions is stated as follows : 

Verified. Failed. 

Storm warnings • 50 21 

General weather jjredictions 28 & 

Special hay-harvest predictions 48 9 

Among the special investigations and reports now on hand are the 
following: (a) A third volume of the Meteorology of Arctic Regions; 
(6) Observations at Kewonthe influence of altitude on the thermometer; 
(c) The observations of Cambell's sunshine recorder: {d) Studies and 
comparisons of various hygrometers; (e) Photography of clouds; (/) 
Observations in balloons ; (g) The sluggishness of the marine barometer; 
(h) The application of Thompson's harmonic analysis to the computation 
of periodical series. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 493.) 



metp:orology and allied subjects. 241 

T. C. Mendenhall (now of Colftmbus, Oliio) has prepared a memoir 
upon the meteorology of Tokio for the year 1877, which has been pub- 
hshed by the University of Tokio. It would seem meteorological obser- 
vations are also made and published by the Sapporo Agricultural 
College under the supervision of William Wheeler, professor of math- 
ematics, and also made at the Imperial College of Engineering, where 
they have been in charge of Professors Ayrton, Perry, and Dyer, suc- 
cessively. Besides all these the Japanese meteorological office pub- 
lishes an official series. The admirable work of Professor Mendenhall 
will probably be continued by his successor. Prof. H. M. Paul (formerly 
of the Naval Observatory, Washington), and it is hoped may serve 
as a model for the numerous other meteorologists and observers of 
Japan. 

It seems specially desirable that some observing stations should be 
established in the northern portion of the Japanese Empire. (Later in- 
formation is at hand to the eflect that a Japanese storm signal office 
has been established by the government in charge of the well-known 
German observer, Dr. E. Knipping.) 

n. — GENERAL TREATISES, BIBLIOGRAPHY, ETC. 

A second edition of Mohn, Grundziige cler Meteorologie^ was published in 
Berlin, 1879. Besides numerous improvements in the charts and tables, 
this work is especially distinguished by the incorporation therein of 
the recent progress in dynamical meteorology. 

Dr. A. Eitter has published (Hanover, 1879) a work embracing the 
results of studies hitherto published in Poggendoff's Annalen^ and 
dealing with many problems relative to the atmosphere of the earth, 
the sun, and other planets. The full title is, Anwendungen der mecJian- 
isclien Wdrmetheorie auf l:osmologische FroMeme. iSechs Ahhandlungen 
iiher die Constitution gasformiger WeWciJrper, Hanover, 1879. {Z. 0. G. 
HL, XV, 1880, p. 150.) 

The subject of a bibliography for meteorology was reported on in the 
congress at Kome by Dr. G. Hellmanu, who interests himself exceedingly 
in this subject, and who certainly ex^jresses the views of all in saying 
that the necessity for such a work is felt on all sides, and that its publica- 
tion would truly be an important step in the progress of science. Some 
preparation had already been made towards realizing this idea, especially 
by Reuss, Poggendorff', Struve and others. The propositions made by 
Hellmann to the Meteorological Congress were commended to the favor- 
able action of the international committee, whose action, however, has 
been delayed by the want of funds. General Hazen has secured for 
the United States Army Signal Office the extensive card-catalogues 
compiled by Symons, of Loudon, and Abbe, in Washington, and proposes 
soon to publish these as a small but welcome contribution toward the 
exhaustive bibliography which is so much desired. Meanwhile the 
S. Mis. 109 IG 



242 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

second volume of the catalogue of tlie observatory at Poulkova, and the 
admirable bibliography of astronomy by Lancaster, have been published, 
and contain much meteorology. A third volume of Poggendorft's great 
work and a catalogue of Dove's library are also in course of prepara- 
tion. {Z. 0. G. j\L, XIV, 1879, p. 97.) 

Eubensou has published a Swedish "handbook of nautical meteor- 
ology," which contains also data and considerations that are novel and 
of interest to meteorologists, although the work is generally intended 
for use in the Swedish navy and merchant marine. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 
1881, p. 455.) 

J. C. Houzeau and A. Lancaster have published a general treatise on 
meteorology (324 images octavo) that fairly represents the elements of 
this science so far as they can be understood without the help of 
mathematical symbols. The special chapter on weather charts and 
weather and storm predictions and the utilization of meteorological ob- 
servations will attract attention. 

Among the new periodicals devoted to meteorology, we note "Ciel et 
Terre," publishe<l bimonthly, beginning March, 1880, under the editorial 
direction of an active corps at Brussels, among whom we notice Lan- 
caster, Houzeau, Hooreman, von Eysselberghe. 

Blanford's annual report on the meteorology of India for 1878 and 
1879 (Calcutta, 1880 and 1881, respectively) has been received. The 
temperature tables are given for about 125 stations, the rainfall for 
about 400. The Madras Presidency continues to sustain an independ- 
ent meteorological office, while the other provinces have come into union 
with the central office at Calcutta, an arrangement that promises many 
advantages so long as the latter is under the present able management. 

The Eoyal Meteorological Institute of Prussia, under the direction of 
Dr. G. Eellmann as successor of Dove, has published in the "Ergebnisse" 
for 1880 the result of observations at 130 stations. Special details are 
given for the high stations, viz : Schneekoppe 1,599™, Brocken 1,142™, and 
the corresponding base stations at altitudes 348™ and 222™, respectively. 
The summaries for each station are given in the form recommended by 
the International Congress of Meteorologists. {Z. 0. G. 31., XVI, 1881, 
p. 528.) 

The Central IMeteorological Bureau of France has published its An- 
nales for 1878 and 1879 in magnificent quarto volumes, four of which, 
it would seem, are expected to appear each year. For 1878 we have as 
follows : 

I. — Study of thunder storms in France by Fron, followed by Ed. Bec- 
querel's observations of earth temperatures, Angot's tables of reduction 
to sea-level, and some minor memoirs by Hildebrandsen and Eollin. 

Vol. II contains the daily observations at French and Algerian sta- 
tions ; these are arranged on a scheme adopted by the International Me- 
teorological. Commission. This is followed by a valuable review by An got, 
month by month, of the climatology of 1878. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 243 

III. — This volume is entirely devoted to the rainfall in France, and 
gives the results of daily observations of 1,0G9 stations in France, to- 
gether with summaries by seasons and the year. 

IV. — This volume contains two memoirs on general meteorology by 
Leon Teisserence de Bort, on the distribution of temperature and pres- 
sure daring January and July. 

For 1879 we have as follows : I. — Studies upon the thunder storms of 
France for 1878 by Fron, in continuation of the series of memoirs on 
this subject which he has published annually for many years past. This 
is followed by shorter memoirs by Edward and Henry Becquerel and 
Kaulan (results of rainfall observations at 200 stations in France). The 
method of reducing barometric observations to sea-level used at the 
French stations is explained with tables by A. An got, to whom it is due. 
Angot assumes the temperature of the bottom of the air column to be 
that of the observed or upper station, plus one degree Centigrade for 
each 180 meters of altitude. The volume concludes with a biographical 
notice of Le Verrier. 

The Annals for 1879, Part IV, " M^teorologie G^n^rale," contains 
(1)M. de Taste's general theory of atmospheric circulation; (L') Teisser- 
ence de Bort's study upon the atmospheric circulation on the continents. 
{Z. 0. G. 3L, XVI, p. 485-488.) 

The Annuaire of the Meteorological Society of France, Vol. XXVIII, 
for 1880, contains among memoirs the following of general interest : 
C. Eitter, Provisional Theory of Aqueous Meteors, accompanied by ex- 
cellent representations of various forms of clouds ; Renou, Compensa- 
tion of Aneroid Barometers; Angot, Xew Tables for Barometric Hypsom- 
etry ; Louvet and Carrd, Rainfall in the Department of I'Orient. {Z. 0. 
G. M., XVI, p. 494 and 526.) 

The London Meteorological Office has published part 2, Contribution 
to the Meteorology of the Arctic Regions. This volume contains the 
original journal of observations of ten vessels that have visited the 
region in Arctic North. America between 45° and 120° west longi- 
tude and 00° to 80° north latitude. These are in detail as follows: 
Sir John Ross, October, 1829, to May, 1832; Sir G. Back, August, 1836, 
to July, 1837; Sir T. Austin, September, 1850, to August, 1851; Capt. 
W. Penny, September, 1850, to August, 1851 ; Sir Edward Belcher, Sep- 
tember, 1852, to August, 1854 ; Sir F. C. McClintock, 1857, to July, 1859. 
Special attention has been given by Strachan to the careful investi- 
gation into accuracy of thermometers, and the working up of the records 
of temperature, pressure, and wind. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 483.) 

Hirth has collected all that is known relative to the etymology and 
history of the word "typhoon." Among his references is given a trans- 
lation from the Chinese annals of tlie island of Formosa, which was 
first published in 1694. According to this work "typhoon" is equiva- 
lent to "t'ai-fung"; "fung" Isold Chinese for wind ; "t'ai^' is a word 
from the language of the earlier inhabitants of Formosa. 



244 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



The old chronicle says "the winds that blow on the Sea of Fgrmosa are 
very different from those of other seas. A very strong wind is called 
'ku'; such a wind of greater violence is called t'ai. The 'kii' rises 
and falls suddenly, while the t'ai blows continually day and night. 
Storms that blow from February to May are 'ku'5 those that blow 
from June to September are called ' t'ai.' In October the north wiud 
begins. 

" When one speaks of a wind that blows from every direction of the 
compass it is called 't'ai.' We know no 't'ai,' no matter how severe, 
that does not follow the rule of blowing from all directions. If, for 
example, it blows from the north, then from the north it will turn to the 
east, and from east to south, and from south to west." {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 
1881, p. 431.) 

Hildebrandsson has published a summary of the observations made 
on the coast of Siberia by ISTordenskiold during the Yega expedition 
from North Cape to Yokohama. The following table gives some of his 
results : 



Months. 


Tempera- 
lui«. 


Pressure. 


Prevailing 
winds. 


Cloudi- 
ness. 




-25. 06 
-25. 09 
-21. 65 
-18. 93 

- 6.79 

- O.GO 
+ 2. 68 


mm. 
7.".2. 79 
707. 99 
759. 28 
750. 72 
759. 74 
756. 37 


North. 

K.2TVV. 

N. 

N.iq^W. 

N. NW. 

N.NW. 

s. sw. 


6.0 


February 


5.6 
5.1 




6.4 




8.5 




7.0 


July 


7.5 




















- 5.20 
-16. 58 
-22. 80 


757. 83 
753. 81 
760. 87 


M-.NW. 
N.NW. 
N. 


8.6 




8,4 




7.0 







As opposed to the prevailing WW. wind the observations of clouds 
show that a steady SE. current prevailed overhead. {Z. 0. G. M., XY, 
pp. 369-378.) 

ni.— METHODS, APPARATUS, &C. 

Sohncke has made an investigation into the gradual change in the 
correction for instrumental error of barometers, especially those of the 
meteorological stations in the principality of Baden. These station 
barometers are all mercurial-cistern barometers, manufactured by Her- 
mann & Pfister, and were all originally compared with the central barom- 
eter at Carlsruhe by means of a portable barometer made by Fortin. In 
1874, a new tube, apparently in perfect condition, was introduced into 
the barometer at Carlsruhe, on account of an accident to the original 
tube, which had preserved its condition satisfactorily during the pre- 
ceding six years. 

The new barometer tube, in the course of the first three years after its 
introduction, experienced a large change, as is shown by two entirely 
independent methods: namely, first, by the direct comparison with the 
portable barometer, and second, by its comparison with all the station 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



245 



barometers in Baden. The following* table gives the difterence (Carls- 
nihe minus portable) as the result of comj^arisous with the portable 
barometer : 



Date. 



Marcli, 1874. 
April, 1874.. 
AuKust, 1874 
April, 1875.. 
May, 1875... 
August, 1875 



Difference. 



mm. 
+0.54 
+0.50 
+0.40 
+0.00 
—0.04 
—0.10 



Date. 



March, 1876. 
May, 1876 . . 
August, 1870 
March, 1877 . 
Mav, 1877 . . . 
July, 1877 . . . 



Difference. 



m,m. 

—0.00 
—0.13 

—0. :;o 

—0.20 
—0. 10 
—0.20 



It follows from the above figures that the difference between the two 
barometers had in the course of three years changed by 0.74'"™, and 
several considerations go to show that this change has been of the na- 
ture of a gradual sinking of the mercury within the new tube of the 
Carlsruhe. During the years 1870 to 1876, a number of inspecting 
tours had afforded an opportunity of comparing the Carlsruhe barome- 
ter with the barometers at the other stations. These comparisons show 
that the Carlsruhe barometer changed but little in respect to the others 
until 1874, after which date there was a general change in the same 
direction in their relative standings, the amount of which agrees closely 
with that previously determined. Sohncke very properly concludes that 
minute quantities of air and vapor must have escaped upwards into the 
vacuum chamber of the Carlsruhe barometer, and as this instrument 
is apparently not in any way inferior to the standards generally used 
in Europe, it was reasonable to conclude that similar defects occur in 
other barometers. {Z. O. G. M., 1879, Vol. XIV, p. 141.) 

Schreiber has elaborated the ideas contained in the so-called balance 
barometer, and has constructed a self-registering apparatus for both 
pressure and temperature, which, after many months' testing, has been 
purchased for the use of the German Seewarte, at Hamburg. The in- 
strument consists of three parts: 1. The barometer on whose theory and 
corrections the elaborate investigations by Schreiber, in 187G, are already 
well known. 2. The thermometer for the temperature of the instru- 
ment, which is constructed like the barometer. 3. The thermometer for 
the temperature of the air, which consists of a copper vessel, holding 
5 liters, which is placed outside the apparatus, and is connected with 
the self-registering portion by means of a small lead tube, which latter 
enters into a balance manometer within the case with the barometer. 
The movements of the manometer are recorded in a manner precisely 
simultaneous with the other two instruments. {Z. 0. G. If., Vol. XIV, 
1870, p. 480.) 

Schreiber has also devised methods by which the balance manometer 
can be applied to the registration of a variety of phenomena; and even 
to the integTation of the registered curves. [Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XIV, 
1879, p. 487.) 



246 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Hellmann having stated that in his opinion "the attempt recently 
made to establish an international meteorology must be regarded as a 
failure, since the prime and most elementary condition of uniformity as 
regards hours of observation has been neglected," Hanu very justly 
replies that the only object one can imagine likely to be attained by 
uniformity in the hours of observation on local time is either du-ectly 
comparable mean values for the various meteorological elements, or else 
a convenience in tracing the differences in the diurnal changes of these 
elements for various localities. But the study of actual observations 
will speedily convince one that three daily observations will not give the 
necessary data for coraijaring the peculiarities of climate in various 
latitudes and altitudes, and continents and coasts. According as we 
lay greater stress upon the pressure, the temperature, clouds, moisture, 
winds, &c., we must choose different hours of observation. And it is 
therefore necessary that in every land hourly observations should be 
made, if we hope to attain tlie objects that Hellmann seems to have in 
view. We are of the opinion that the present system of international 
observations in Europe is a very useful one, and marks a great progress 
in comparison with the condition of things before the Vienna Congress 
of 1873. One can imagine better things still, but we "must not allow 
the better to be the enemy of the good." {Z. 0. G. M., Yol. XIV, p. 2C3.) 

Dr. Galle, director of the observatory at Breslau, in deducing the an- 
nual temperature curve for that observatory, from daily means based 
on eighty-five years of observation, has adopted the following method, 
which is shorter and more rational than that of Bloxam. If for a series 
of consecutive days .... n — 2, n — 1, n, n-\-l, and w+ 2, we have 
the mean observed temperatures ta—z, *n— i? ^n? &c., and we desire more 
accurate determination of the temperature ta of the middle one of these 
days ; then it is plain that if the mean daily temperatures are uniformly 
increasing or decreasing, the true temperature ta will be given by the 
formula : 

and a value t^ comparatively free from small errors of observation by tak- 
ing the mean of five such values. But if the observed daily mean tem- 
peratures should not have uniform weights in forming the desired mean, 
because the temperature during these days has not changed uniformly, 
then the observations must be combined according to the methods de- 
fined by the law of probabilities, and this method is particularly con- 
venient of application when we attempt to combine together seven 
consecutive daily means. Thus if for brevity a = fn_3, l) = tj^_i, g = t^ + 2j 
we then have either one of the following formulae: 

1. <^=-jL(3c + 4(Z + 3e) 

2. ta = ^{b + 3c+4:d+3e-^f) 

3. <a=4V(«+4& + 9c+12d + 9e+4/+5f) 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 247 

The computation, however, may be more simjily arranged if for each 
day we make the combination : 

4. -jL(&4-2c+4d + 2c+/) 

and call the new means thus found for each successive day cii, &i, Ci, &c. 
We have then to combine these new means according to the following 
formula : 

5. fn=Hci + 2(7i + ei) 

The to, thus computed will be the same as given by equation No. 3, 
and the whole process is reduced to a simple system of summing and 
halving. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV., p. 380.) 

Pernet, who is now in charge of the International Bureau of Weights 
and Measures, at Sevres, in a memoir on the determination of the fiducial 
points of the mercurial normal thermometer.s, and tlie determination of 
temperatures to the hundredth of a degree centigrade, says : Carefully 
calibrated thermometers, bandied in various manners, do not agree with 
each other even in the interval between freezing and boiling ijoint of 
water. The differences, under some circumstances, amount to several 
tenths of a degree, and are therefore much greater than the errors of ob- 
servation. They depend in part upon the irregular expansion of glass, but 
still more upon the fact that the bulb of the thermometer after being 
warmed does not immediately return to its original volume, although it 
may do so in the course of time, and in consequence of this a temporary 
lowering of the freezing point is produced. Since this depression of the 
freezing point appears thus far to be subject to no law, we are pre- 
vented from attempting to make different thermometers agree among 
themselves. 

This is very much to be lamented, for if it were possible for us to deduce 
from the observations of various thermometers according to a general 
method of computation temperatures agreeing with each other, then 
would every doubt as to the correctness of the measurements of temper- 
atures be removed. He gives the following methods for determining 
the fiducial points and for the computations of the corrections depend- 
ing thereon. 

First. Determination of the freezing point: Fresh fallen snow is the 
best material; the snow must be thawing throughout its whole mass, 
must be clean and pure. The next best substitute is fine shavings of 
natural ice; artificial can only rarely be used. The thermometer and 
scale must be covered up to above the freezing point with snow or ice. 
The determination must take place in a cool room, and the ice must not 
press upon the thin glass of the bulb, else otherwise a sensible error 
will be produced. In general, the ice point is lower in the vertical posi- 
tion of the thermometer than in the horizonal position; it is therefore 
well to determine both ice points. 

Second. The determination of the boiling point: This requires the use 



248 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

of pure distilled water, in tlie absence of wMcli melted snow or raiu- 
;vater may be used; the thermometer is to be x>laced in a re(;eptacle, so 
arranged that the reading of thermometers may be taken when the 
whole is surrounded by an atmosphere of steam; and the tension of the 
vai:>orthus surrounding must be very accurately known; for thermome- 
ters whose ice point shows a strong depression after heating, the boiling- 
point also shows a small depression up to one-tenth of a degree. In 
order to be sure, it is necessary that the boihng-poiut determinations 
should be repeated from time to time with the freezing-point determina- 
tion between, until the maximum depression of the ice point has become 
constant, when the boiling point will also become constant. In case the 
I^lace of observation is changed, it is necessary to introduce a correction 
for the variation of gravity. The International Committee of Weights 
and Measures have recently determined to adopt as the unit of pressure 
that of a weight of a column of mercury of normal density, temperature 
0°, and height of 7G0 standard millimeters at the latitude of 45°, and at 
the level of the sea. 

Pernet proposes, in connection with this, to call the temperature of 
boiling water corresponding to this normal pressure, 100'^ C. (equal 
2120 F.), and thus also to obtain a uniform unit for the measurements of 
temperature, instead of accepting as the unit of absolute pressure two 
diiferent mercurial columns in the laboratories at Kew, London, and 
Paris. Every warming of the thermometer brings a new change in the 
freezing and boiling points. The maximum depression which is attained 
after many years of quiet and maiij' days in ice can be expressed by the 
following formula: 

«- 1002 

where d is the maximum depression for given temperature (^), D the 
maximum depression for 100° C, both computed for thermometers that 
have remained a long time in the ice. In general the thermometeis 
made of French glass show smaller depression than those made of Bo- 
hemian glass. {Z. 0. G. M., Xiy, 1879, p. 134.) 

Thiesen remarks that the method of calibration of thermometers 
taught by Professor Neumann has considerable advantages over that 
of Bessel. Let 0, 1, 2 .... ?i be points equally distant from each 
other on the thermometer scale whose corrections are to be directly 
determined, (the so-called principal points,) and let A o, A i, ... A, > be 
the corrections for these points. Let the corrections of the intervals 
between the principal i^oints, the so-called principal intervals, be '?i, 
t>2 . . . . '9n7 so that in general '9; = Ai — A^. The mercurial threads 
to be used for calibration should now be so chosen that they as ac- 
curately as possible include a whole number of principal intervals. If 
now the upper end of such a thread be in neighborhood of a principal 
y)oiut *', then will the lower end be opposite a principal point l\ The 
volume of such a thread can be expressed by/i.^; its apx)arent length in 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 249 

the given location — that is to say, the dififereuce in the readings of tlie 
upper and lower ends — can be indicated by (*, Jc). If, now, we neglect 
the corrections of the short intervals that lie between tbe ends of the 
thread and the principal points between i, Jc, then we have the rela- 
tioD /i.k equals Ai — A k -\- {i, Jc). If we now shove the thread so 
that its ends come in the neighborhood of other principal points, then 
we have new equations in which the left-hand side is the same, but on 
the right-hand side in place oft Jcwe have successively i—1, Jc—1 ; t— 3, 
1c— 2. If, now, we subtract each equation from the ones followiug it, then 
we have a new series of equations that may be represented by '9i— '9t = 
(/— 1, Jc—1.) — (i, Jc). The sum of all the left-hand side of this equation 
must disappear. {Z. 0. G. 21., XIV, p. 426.) 

Pernet has investigated a method of computing the variations of freez- 
ing points of thermometers. He says that the case often occurs that no 
ice is conveniently at hand for the determination of the freezing point 
before and after the measurement has been made of some high tem- 
perature; but even then oue can determine the variation of the freezing 
point with a degree of accuracy that is generally sufficient, provided 
that we know the freezing point as affected by the change from zero to 
100° centigrade, and the temporary freezing point — that is to say, the 
freezing point corrected for the depression depending on the time — 
that is to say, on the exposure of the thermometer for a long time to the 
temperature of the room, and which depression is nsuallj' proportional 
to the time. This last condition is generally' fulfilled for thermometers 
that are more than six mouths old, or even in a shorter time if the ther- 
mometer has been slowly cooled down after its determination of the 
boiling point. Let r be the reading of the thermometer corrected for 
the caliber and the value of the degrees; let c be the temporary de- 
pression of the freezing point and •/ be the maximum depression of the 
freezing point for the range from zero to 100° C; then, after a long 
warming at the temperature r, we have the true temjjerature given by 
the following formula : 

1002 



^ — ' ^+ TtU\2 



If, now, we pass directly from these comparisons to such as are made at 
steadily increasing temperatures tj t2 without allowing the thermome- 
ter to cool down in the mean time, then this formula holds good for the 
higher temperatures, and we simply substitute rj, t2, «&c., for r. But this 
formula does not hold good if between two series of observations the ther- 
mometer has ever been exposed to low temperatures. In this case a new 
temporary freezing point Ci must be used as the starting point. {Z. 0. 
G. M., Vol. XIV, p. 206.) 

Winstanley has given his radiograph a form convenient for continu- 
ous self records. The instrument consists essentially of au air ther- 
mometer, having its bulbs bright and black, respectively. The tube 
connecting these is bent around a brass circle, so that the bulbs or res- 



250 METEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

ervoirs are quite near together and exposed to the radiation of the sun 
and sky. The counterpoise is so attached to the brass circle that the 
latter comes to rest in an initial position, and anj^ disturbance from this 
position is shown by the motion of an index. The lower half of the cir- 
cular glass tube is filled with mercury, and the differential expansion of 
the air in the two bulbs, by altering the position of this mercurial col- 
umn, causes the entire apparatus to rotate around the axis of the circle. 
{Z. O. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 493.) 

Pictet and Cel6rier have constructed a form of thermo dynamometer 
which can be used as a very sensitive self-recording thermometer. The 
thermometric substance adopted in this instrument consists of a saturated 
vapor of some volatile liquid, which substance varies according to the 
temperature that is to be measured. Thus, for a range of — 40 C. to 
+25 C, pure anhydrous-sulphuric acid ; for the range +25 C. to +90 C, 
sulphuric ether; for the range +90 C.to +200 C, distilled water. These 
fluids are introduced into an inclosed space, L; the vapors press upon 
the mercury in the manometer at M; and the tension of the vapor is 
shown by the height of the mercurial column MM. The tension of the 
vapor depends upon the temperature of the mixture of fluid and vapor, 
as shown by the following equation : 

loo- ,,nt f"P'\ ^'+{o-^ ) (t'-t) 431x1.293 0-27 4 jt'-t) 
*• "'^^-^p J- 10333 (274+ «') (274+*) 

In this equation P and P' are the vapor tensions corresponding to the 
two temperatures t and t', of which t is the temperature to be measured 
and t' an arbitrary constant temperature; c is the specific heat of the 
fluid, and 1c the specific heat of its vapor; 8 is the variable density of 
the vapor; gfr is the coefficient of the expansion of gases; 10333 is the 
pressure on a square meter of a column of mercury 760 millimeters high ; 
431 is the most probable value of the mechanical equivalent of feet as 
deduced by Pictet from Eegnault's data. 

In the apparatus constructed by these authors for the observatory of 
the city of Geueva, the ordinary range of temjjerature, — 20 0. to +40 
C, is represented by a motion of the mercurial column of more than 4 
meters, which is represented upon the graphic paper record by the mo- 
tion of about one-half a meter. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 248.) 

The hygrometer designed by Edelmanu, and constructed at his phys- 
ical mechanical institute at Munich, depends upon the principle that 
when a given space is filled with moist air, and the vapor is absorbed 
therefrom without altering the volume, then the pressure diminishes by 
quantity equal to the tension of the vapor contained in the air. The 
principal portion of Edelmann's ai)paratus consists of a horizontal cylin- 
der, closed at both ends with corks, through which pass tubes for the 
entrance of the air outside, and which also connect with the manometer. 
The method of making a measurement is as follows: 

First, make the entire apparatus clean and dry; second, j^lace the 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 251 

air-box in its metallic case and insert within it tlie two glass tnbes con- 
nected with the drying apparatus and the manometer, respectively. By 
suction the air within the chamber is withdrawn and replaced by fresh 
air from the place of observation. After reading the barometer, the air 
within the chamber is dried hy sulphuric acid, after which the baromet- 
ric pressure within the chamber is again determined. The results of 
this simple and convenient apparatus are absolutely correct and reli- 
able, as has been shown by many series of experiments, and as also 
appears from the entire arrangement of the apparatus and the principle 
adopted in it. This apparatus serves for independent, accurate hygro- 
metric observations, and the verification of the results given by psy- 
chrometers and other less reliable instruments. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, 
1879, p. 56.) 

The patent hygrometer by Professor Kliukerfues has been studied by 
Dr. Mlittrich. This instrument consists of two hygroscopic threads, or 
hairs, a thermometer to determine the temperature of the air, and a 
disk for determining the dew-point. Miittrich finds that large errors 
in the relative humidity occur during various portions of the same day, 
and the instrument does not correspond to the requirements of meteor- 
ology. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 170.) 

Rudorlf has made a comparative study of the methods of determining 
the aqueous vapor present in the atmosphere. The Schwackhofer ap- 
paratus, on account of its high price and complication, seems to be less 
desirable than that devised by Edelmann, in which from a given quan- 
tity of air the aqueous vapor is absorbed by sulphuric acid, and the 
dimiuution of atmospheric pressure is measured by meaus of a manometer. 
But a still simpler apparatus is that devised by Eudorff himself. In 
this a given quantity of air is inclosed in a given chamber ; the aqueous 
vapor is then absorbed from the air, and consequently the pressure in 
the chamber is tUminished. This change in pressure can now be coun- 
teracted bj^ the gradual addition of sulphuric acid until the original 
pressure is reproduced, and the absorbed aqueous vapor is thus re- 
placed by an equal amount of sulphuric acid, which volume can, of 
course, be easily measured. The apparatus allows of the determination 
of the volume of weight of the aqueous vapor to within 1 per cent. {Z. 
0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 1G8.) 

Dines has studied the experimental investigation of the rainfall as 
observed on various corners of a square tower. Gauges were placed at 
the 'KE., SW., i^ W., and SE. corners. He concludes that the ratio of total 
rainfalls on the tower and on the earth dei)ends on the direction and 
strength of the wind. In calms the differences are scarcely sensible. For 
a given wind direction the rainfall varies with each position on the tower. 
The locations which lie on the side next to the wind receive less rain, 
those on the opposite side receive more rain than if on the surface of the 
earth. The excess of one side balances the deficit of the other, but 
whether the mean of both is equal to the true rainfall is not decided. 
(Z. 0. G. M.J XIV, p. 450.) 



252 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Eiegler,in «a discourse before the Austrian Meteorological Association, 
lias urged the wider introduction of Piche's evaporimeter. The neces- 
sity of some form of this instrument has been widely felt, but none of 
the many devices have given satisfaction, or have been considered as 
much better than local experiments. The comparison and study of these 
instruments (especially that of Piche) have been especially undertaken 
by Dr. Loreuz. The apparatus is made by Baudin and Tonnelot, in 
Paris, and its prominent feature is a long glass tube, about one cen- 
timeter in diameter, which is closed above, and hangs from a hook, 
while the lower end is oi)en and ground off to a plane surface. On this 
glass tube a scale is etcaed. The tube being filled with water, and the 
lower end closed by a thin piece of filter paper, in which, if necessary, 
fine needle holes have been pricked, the instrument is hung up in an 
exposed place, and the amount of the continual evaporation of water 
from the paper surface is easily determined by reading from the scale 
etched on the tube. 

The inventor originally assumed that the evaporation from the wet- 
paper surface is the same as from the free surface of water. But this 
is not strictly true; and the relation between the indications of any 
Piche instrument and a normal evaporimeter must bi^ determiued by 
comparative readings; especially does the small size of the tube allow 
the water therein to become easily heated, so that these instruments in 
general have a much larger evaporation than the normal or standard, 
which consists of a large cylinder of water established in a shady spot, 
and so sunk within a still larger mass of water that the inner vessel 
retains a uniform temi^erature. 

Eiegler states that his experiments have shown the necessity, on the 
one hand, of accurate observation of the temi^erature of the surface of 
large areas of water ; and further, that we must relinquish our attempt to 
keep the water in our evaporimeter exposed under so-called natural 
conditions, for we cannot possibly define what those conditions are. 

Not only is the Piche evaporator affected too easily by an excess of 
temperature, but it is also liable to be troubled by atmospheric electric- 
ity, and is, of course, utterly useless when the temperature falls below 
freezing. These disadvantages partially counteract the great advantage 
of simplicity of construction, and accuracy of its readings; and it is to 
be hoped that, at least during the warmer portion of the year, this cheap 
and simple instrument may be widely introduced. — {Z. 0. G. M., XIY, 
p. 370.) 

The brief description given in 1878 of Nipher's modification of the 
rain gauge has been supplemented hy the publication in full of his orig- 
inal paper read before the American Association for the Advancement 
of Science. Already in 1861 Jevons had clearly explained that any re- 
sistance experienced by a current of air forces the latter to flow over the 
sides and surface of the obstacle with increased velocity; consequently 
the drops of rain that in the absence of this disturbance would have 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 253 

fallen into tlie rain-gauge are diverted from their paths, and some of 
them fall to the leeward. Jevons concluded that measurements of rain- 
fall made with gauges that are high above the ground, and exposed to 
the wind, are entirely useless. The observations made by the rainfall 
committee of the British Association, as communicated in their report 
in 1870, confirmed Jevons's explanation. They found that the greatest 
rainfall was measured in gauges that were so sunken within pits in the 
earth that the mouth of the receiv^er was on a level with the earth's sur- 
face, and entirely protected from violent wind currents, and their recom- 
mendation of the so-called pit-gauge has generally been considered our 
best knowledge on the subject. But another form for the gauge was 
suggested bj' Jevons in 1801, in which the mouth of the receiver is sur- 
rounded by a large horizontal metallic disk. This form has been modi- 
tied by Messrs. Kipher and Woodward, by the introduction of cells, and 
finally simj^lified into a simple upright tube, surrounded by a protecting 
screen in the general shape of a filter, whose broad lip protects the 
mouth of the receiver from gusts of ^nd. Two rain-gauges, one with- 
out and the other with the protecting lips, were exposed side by side 
during a summer and spring, and the unprotected gauge collected 3 per 
cent, less than the protected one. In the experiments of the British 
Association an unprotected gauge, in a similar position, collected five 
l)er cent, less than the pit-gauge. Again, sixteen gauges with protect- 
ing lips were placed in various locations on the roof of the university 
building in Saint Louis, a hundred feet above the earth. 

The result of these experiments is to show that the so-called correction, 
for the altitude of the rain-gauge reduces to nothing when the gauge is 
properly j)rotected against the wind, and that under this condition the 
rain gauge may be safely established at any altitude whatever. {Z. 0. 
G. i¥., XIV, p. 250.) 

Koppen has attempted to apply the results of Dohrandt's investiga- 
tions into the accuracy of the Eobinson anemometer to the reduction of 
the observations made at the stations of the German Manne Observa- 
tory. According to Dohrandt the true velocity (w) of the wind can be 
derived from the velocity {a) of the centers of the hemispherical cups 
of the Eobinson anemometer by the formula tr=K+B a, where K and 
B are constants peculiar to each instrument. In the absence of any 
special determination, K may be assumed equal to 1.0 meter per second, 
which is the mean of the values determined -by Dohrandt for the ane- 
mometers and auemograiihs investigated by him. 

The constant B, which, according to Eobinson, should be fqual to 3.0, 
can be more accurately' computed by Dohrandt's empirical formula 

"R2 T?* 

B =3.0133-53.7367 ^^^ + 1033.81 ^^ 

r 7'^ 

where E is the radius of the hemispherical cups and r the distance of 
the centers of the cups from the axis of rotation, both expressed in 



254 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



meters. For the anemographs furnished to the German stations the 
computed value of B is 2.396, whence their formula for computation of 
true wind velocity is w=1.0-\-2.S96x(i. This formula has been abun- 
dantly verified by comparison between the anemometer at the Seewarte 
and the small normal anemometer in the possession of Professor Eeck- 
nagel. We can, therefore, assume that the wind velocities (w), com- 
puted for the German stations under the ordinary assumption that B=3, 
must be reduced to true wind velocities (tc^) by the formula «;^=1.0-f 0.8 ?<;. 
This relation may also be expressed by the following table : 

Velocity Corrected 

by German anemometers, true wind velocity. 



0.5 

1.0 

2.0 

3.0 

4.0 

5.0 

10.0 

15.0 

20.0 

25.0 

30.0 



1.4 

1.8 

2.6 

3.4 

4.2 

5.0 

9.0 

13.0 

17.0 

21.0 

25.0 



The comparison between the estimates of force made by the German 
observers and the anemometric velocity recorded at the same stations 
has been made by Dr. Sprung for about a thousand observations at 
each of four stations, and the anemometric velocities can be converted 
into true velocities by the preceding formula, as in the second and third 
columns of the following table; and if we treat in a similar way the ob- 
servations that were made in England and discussed by R, H. Scott, we 
have the values given in the fourth and fifth columns of the table: 



Four German stations. 


Three English stations. 


Estimated 


Anemometric 


Corrected 


Anemometric 


Corrected 


Beanfort scale. 


velocity. 


velocity. 


velocity. 


velocity. 





1.10 


1.9 


2.2 


2.1 


1 


2.12 


2.7 


3.3 


2.9 


2 


3.72 


4.0 


4.9 


4.2 


3 


5.48 


5.4 


6.4 


5.3 


4 


7.25 


6.8 


8.2 


6.9 


5 


9.01 


8.2 


10.5 


8.7 


6 


10.99 


9.8 


13.0 


10.7 


7 


12.15 


10.7 


15.5 


12.7 


8 


14.26 


12.4 


17.7 


14.5 


9 


17.42 


14.9 


19.3 


15.7 

1 



The mean of the English and German observations' is represented 
with considerable accuracy by the following formula, where m indi- 
cates the scale number of the Beaufort scale : 



iv=lM -f 1.12 X w + 0.045 X n^ 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



255 



The observers at Russian stations rarely estimate the wind velocity, 
but observe the angles of deviation of Wild's tablet anemometer, which 
are converted into the Beaufort scale before being telegraphed. They 
may therefore be converted into true velocities by means of Dolirandt's 
investigation of the normal tablet anemometer at St. Petersburg, and 
the scale of velocities adopted by E. H. Scott, as shown in the following 
table: 



Meters per second 


Scale EUTOber 


Corresponding cor- 
rected Beaufort's 


by Wild's tablet 


of the Russian 


anemometer. 


telegi-anis. 


scale number. 


1.5 








3.5 


1 


1.5 


6.0 


2 


3.5 


8.0 


3 


5.0 


10.0 


4 


6.0 


12.5 


5 


7.5 


15.0 


6 


9.0 


18.0 


7 


? 


21.5 


8 


1 


25.0 


9 


? 



{Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 304.) 

The construction of lightning-rods, and the statistics of injurj' by 
lightning, have been discussed by Eichard Anderson, who states that in 
England one-half or two-thirds of public buildings are without light- 
ning rods, and that of private buildings, not five in a hundred are pro- 
vided with them. The injury annually done by lightning is very great, 
as also the number of lives lost through its means. We are within 
bounds when we estimate that in England and Wales there are on the 
average as many deaths from lightning as there are in Prussia, for 
which we have accurate data, and the sum total for all three countries 
amounts to one hundred and fifty persons. The reason of this loss of 
life lies not only in the omission to erect lightning-rods, but from the 
poor character of those which are often put up, and also in the neglect to 
carry out a system of inspection in order to insure that the rod continues 
to be still in good working order. Thus it seems incredible, but it is a 
fact, that the royal castle at Windsor is almost entirely without light- 
ning-rods, and in some portions is provided with those too small to be of 
any use. Many come to the erroneous conclusion that lightning-rods 
are of no use, but this is due to their improper construction and insuffi- 
ciency of numbers. As regards their inspection, it would seem remark- 
able that every part of a large building is annually repaired, painted, 
&c., while a lightning-rod, when once established, is never looked after, 
and yet its efiiciency can be injured at any moment lo such an extent 
that it may become a source of danger rather than a safeguard to the 
building. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. Go, 1870.) 

Dr. Paul Schreiber, whose improvements in the self-recording balance 
barometer are above noticed, states that he has been able in the instru- 
ment established at the Deutsche Seewarte to reduce the uncertainty 
of the record (due principally to frictional resistances) to 0,2°"° j but, 



256 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

desirous of making the instrument fully respond to the demands of the 
present state of barometry, he jiroposes a new form which will, he 
thinks, be more entirely free from errors depending on time and cir- 
cumstances. He proposes to substitute some form of hydrostatic flota- 
tion for the balance beam, baving found that a remarkable constancy 
attends the measurements of bodies floating in mercury, while the fric- 
tion is reduced to an inappreciable quantity. 

The device for registration (namely, a pencil or point pressed against 
a sheet of paper continuously, or at regular intervals, by clockwork) 
offers still some difBculty, which, however, can, we suggest, probably 
be removed by introducing the features of Thompson's electric i)en, as 
used with the Atlantic cable. Schreiber suggests photography, and 
also glass plates covered with lamp-black, as a means of recording the 
observations. He gives a comi)lete mathematical exposition of the 
theory of the corrections to this new form of instrument and shows that 
all constants and all sources of error can be determined in the instru- 
ment itself, thus making it an independent standard and not an interpo- 
lation barometer. Where the influence of temperature is large, it can 
easily be computed. {Z. 0. G. 3L, XVI, 1881, p. 407.). 

Kohlrausch has suggested some improvement in his method of mak- 
ing absolute measures of the intensity of terrestrial magnetism by 
the galvanic method; in its latest form he overcomes the difficulties 
due to the large dimensions of the instrument, the necessity of knowing 
the curvature of the surface of the coil of wire, the determination of its 
moment of inertia, and the accurate determination of the time. The full 
description of his methods will be found in the "jSTachrichten" of the 
Scientific Association of Gottingen, June, 1881. His method commends 
itself especially in that observations of magnetic variation and the du- 
ration of the vibrations are unnecessary; it will probably be adopted 
by several of the observers on the international stations for Polar re- 
search. {Z. 0. O. 3f., XVI, p. 473, 1881.) 

Sworikin has made an excellent study as to the reliability of the psy- 
chrometer constant (A) and the eflect of the velocity of the wind. He 
has used the Alluard dew-i)oint apparatus and the Schwack hofer 
volumetric hygrometer as his standards of comparison. Belli, Eeg- 
nault, and Chistoni had all shown that a regular gentle current of air is 
essential to accuracy. Sworiken concludes: (1.) That the best value of 
the constants give the following formula : 

X = f— 0.000725 (t-f) B. 

(2.) That the same formula applies for /' below as -well as above freez- 
ing, contrary to the theories of August and Eegnault. (3.) For wind 
velocities of 1.5 to 2.0°^ per second (3 to 4 miles per hour) the best results 
are obtained (4) that the computed tensions of vapor are accurate to 
within 0.1"'°^. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, 434.) 

Dr. M. Thiesen has x)ublished, among the metronomical contributions 



METEOROLOGY AXD ALLIED SUBJECTS. 257 

of the imperial German commission on standards of measure, an exhaust- 
ive memoir on the comparison of mercurial thermometers. In his last 
chapter he gives a collection of his results that may well form the basis 
of a reformation in every meteorological service that has not already 
attended to this important subject. He gives formulae for computing the 
changes in zero point of a thermometer depending on time and on the 
exposure to high or low temperatures. The requirements of a good ther- 
mometer are given by him in great detail; among them we note an item 
frequently overlooked, namely, the importance of selecting the proper 
kind of glass ; it having been shown that thermometers of the same gla«s 
behave similarly in respect to the reduction to absolute temperatures or 
the air-thermometer, and also similarly in respect to the changes with 
time and temperature. Especially happy would it be if there could be 
introduced glass such as that used in the construction of one thermome- 
ter investigated by Dr. Thiesen, which during the past fifty years has 
experienced no sensible change in its fiducial points, and whose tempo- 
rary variations with temperature are but one-fourth of those experienced 
by other thermometers, and whose corrections to reduce to the air-ther- 
mometer are remarkably small. The effect of changes in external pres- 
sure (as in a liquid bath, or with a varying barometer) is appreciable and 
is therefore not to be neglected. Dr. Thiesen for the first time separates 
the error of graduation of the scale from the error due to the lack of uni- 
formity of the tube as found by calibration. 

He adopts as the temperature of 100° C. that which is now coming to 
be recognized by the meteorologists and physicists — namely, the tem 
perature of saturate pure aqueous vapor under a pressure of a column of 
mercury 760™" high at zero C, in latitude 45'=', and at the sea level; 
thereby relinquishing the objectionable adoption by meteorologists of 
Eegnault's laboratory as the normal locality. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, 
p. 290.) 

T. n. Stevenson has observed the effects on the velocity of the wind 
of nearness to the earth's surface, by establishing an anemometer on a 
staff fifty feet high. He finds the increase with altitude very regular 
between 15 and 50 or more feet and represents the velocity by the or- 
dinates of a parabolic curve, the abscissas of which are the heights 
reckoned from an horizontal axis 72 feet below the surface of the earth. 
It follows that all anemometers ought to be at a uniform height and not 
less than 20 feet above the ground. 

From the known velocity [v.) at a known height {h.) we can approxi- 
mately compute the velocity (Y.) at any other height (H.) by the formulie. 



Y = v 



h -f 72 



where, however, li. must be more than 15 feet and H not much more 
tban 50 feet, {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 310.) 
Voller, in the proceedings of the Scientific Society of Hamburg- Al- 
S. Mis. 109 17 



258 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

tona, describes an improvement upon Edelmann's absorption hygrome- 
ter and gives tlie formula for computation of the tension of vai^or, as 
well as observations showing the accuracy' of the apparatus. {Z. 0. 
0. M., XVI, 1881, p. 319.) 

M. de Lepinay has made a further study of the effect of wind velocity 
upon the whirling psychrometers (thermometre a froude). He finds that 
for pressure of 758™"", and temperature from 7° to 20° C,'the formula 

/'—/= 0.525 (f — (/) 

very close!}' represents the vapor tensions observed with the dew-point 
apparatus. {Z. 0. O. M., XVI, 1881, 217.) 

Hottinger & Co., of Zurich, have adapted a self-register to a Weile- 
mann or Goldschmid aneroid, and the apparatus has now been tried 
with great success at a number of European stations. An automatic 
compensation for its own temperature is introduced and the whole 
mechanism is of the simplest possible construction ; it goes for ten days 
without attention. In comparison with other forms of registering bar- 
ometer, it will be found that the present one is more easily transported 
and established in its place. The wooden base is replaced with a metal 
one with adjusting foot-screws; the five vacuum-boxes are, as before, 
supported vertically one above the other, but they are now held in this 
position by a strong spring that prevents accidental changes due to the 
slight shocks received in transportation. The scientific value of the rec- 
ords of three of Hottinger's barograi)hs has been studied by A. Wolfer, 
assistant at the observatory in Zurich, who subjected them to large 
changes in temperature and pressure, and upon comparing their records 
with simultaneous readings {h^) of the mercurial barometer found the 
following results, where t is the temperature and x the arc through which 
the pencil moves and whose versed sine is the quantity measured on the 
record sheet. 

f [x.) is the computed reduction for the curvature of the arc, and is 
nearly the same for all instruments, and may be tiiken from a table, 
such as the following. 

X fix) 

— 20 — 0. 15"°i 



-f20 -0.15 

The formula for barometer Xo. 11 is &« = O.OO-" — 0.995 x + 0.1 (+ — 
60° F.) 4-/(j:'). The probable error of one reading of the mercurial 
barometer was i 0.1"^™ ; and that of the corrected barograph reading, 
was no greater. 

For barometer Xo. 12 the corresponding formula was almost identi- 
cally the same, and the probable error of a single reading was i 0.15'"'". 

Xo. 13 was studied most minutely and the values of the constants de- 
termined for all x)ressures and temperatures, thus providing for its being 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 259 

used at elevated stations; the co-eflBcieut of a? varied from —1.199 at 
ISO'""' to —0,920 at 400'"'". (Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 273.) 

Pernter has given excellent rales as to the use of the aneroid, and 
urges that observers be not misled by these elaborate inquiries into con- 
sidering the aneroid as an independent instrument, but that it must re- 
tain its place as a means of interpolation only and that the mercurial 
must be used daily as a check ; the instrument is always received after 
the degrees of low or high pressure have been marked upon it. {Z. 0. 
G. ]\L, XVI, 1881, p. 273.) 

Hottinger & Co. have also constructed a self-recording thermometer 
and hygrometer that, as well as their barometer, commend themselves 
on account of their simplicity, accuracy, and convenience. There are 
three examj^les of the apparatus being investigated at the Zurich Ob- 
servatory ; through a small range of temperature and moisture it gave 
the following results : 

One degree of tem]ierature is represented in the records by 2.38"™, 
3.2""", l.C'""\ respectively. 

The mean discordance of the corrected records was rt 0.12°, i 0.14°, 
± 0.18O C, respectively. 

For the hygrograph the mean errors for the percentages of relative 
humidity were ± 1.2, i 1.7, ± l.C, respectively. {Z. 0. G. il/., XVI, 1881 
p. 283.) 

Colding has endeavored to ascertain the true velocity of the wind by 
careful observation of the i^aths of definite masses of smoke issuing 
from tall chimneys. For Copenhagen during 1878 and 1879, he finds 
the average velocity 5.5™ per second ; the anemometer records at neigh- 
boring coast stations of the Deutsche Seewarte give 5.1™ and 5.5"". 

Observers in favorable localities would do well to supplement their 
own records by this class of observations, it being well known that the 
wind force and direction at a few hundred feet altitude is very different 
from that at the ordinarj- level of observers and anemometers. {Z. 0. G. 
il/., XVI, 1881, p. 270.)^ 

Maxwell has published in the article "Diffusion" in the ninth edition 
of the "Encyclopjedia Britannica" an original demonstration of a for- 
mula for the wet-bulb thermometer based on the assumption that the 
surrounding air is quiet and that the dissipation of heat and vapor 
takes place wholly by processes of radiation, conduction and dift'usion ; 
whereas, August and Eeguault based their forraulai on the assumption 
that the principal agency is convection due to air-currents. Maxwell 
is led to the following formula: 

^« =P^ - L^ \ D+4;rC^SD 1 ^^^ " ^'^ 

where p^ is the desired tension of vapor in an atmosphere whose tem- 
perature is So, and j^^i is the tension corresponding to the temperature di 
of the wet-bulb. P is the prevailing barometric pressure, and the other 



260 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

symbols are constants relating to the thermometers, the specific heat, &c. 
In its general form, therefore, this formula agrees nearly with that of 
Apjohn which was based upon an imperfect convection theory. Max- 
well's theory gives us a clear view of the significance of the numerical 
co-efficients. In reproducing Maxwell's theory above mentioned, Hanu 
takes occasion to publish the views of Prof. J. Stefan, as partially 
given by the latter in 1873, in his "Versuche uber die Verdampfung," 
and now more fully communicated by him. Stefan's theory is similar 
to that of Maxwell, but his numerical constants are more carefullv 
determined especially by means of his own extensive researcbes into 
the laws of conduction, radiation, evaporation, and diffusion. He finds 

5 or -^- 
D D 

0.000087 6 for glass, to 0.000097 d for tvater. {Z. 0. G. i)/., XYI, page 

177, 1881.) 

Chistoni has published two memoirs upon the modifications of Eeg- 

nault's formula for wet-bulb thermometer that have been proposed by 

Belli and others. The form at first examined by Belli himself is as 

follows : 

f_f'-{a B-?>)_ (ft B-&) {t-i') ■ 

f—f c-a^ 

but the formulae and constants of Eegnaalt and August equally with 
this fail to perfectly represent the exact amount of aqueous vapor ; and 
finally, in his second dissertation, Ghistoni concludes that the following 
modification of the formulae of Belli 



the ^ or -^ in the above equation to be equal to 1 ; R varies from 



f_ f'-m{t-t'){B-f') 
l+|(t-t'){B-/') 



gives it quite as accurate as can be desired. {Z. 0. G. 3L, 1881, XVI, 
p. 82.) 

Jordan has described a new glycerine barometer, which is therefore 
sensitive in proportion to the diflerence between the densities of glyce- 
rine and aniline. One such barometer is now in the observatory at Kew, 
another is established in the museum for practical geology at Jermyn 
street, a third is in South Kensington, and a fourth is in the ofidce of 
the London Times. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 26;) 

Sprung has described and elaborated a theory of a self-recording bal- 
ance barometer, in which a weight supported by a chain replaces the 
bent-lever arm of Wilds's and otlier forms of this apx)aratus. Ordinarily 
the barometer tube or its cistern moves up and down in order to register 
the variations of its pressure, but in the present instrument this move- 
ment is replaced by that of an auxiliary mechanical arrangement entirely 
independent of the physical apparatus. As manufactured by Fuess, this 
barometer of Dr. Sprung is said to give excelleut results. {Z. O. G. JII., 
Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 1.) 



METEOROLOGY XTsD ALLIED SUBJECTS. 261 

Dr. "Wagoner lias devised an apparatus for recording certain features 
of oartliquake shocks, namely: The time, the greatest horizontal motion, 
both amount and direction. B^mng the first three months of its work- 
ing, it recorded eleven earthquakes at Tokio, Japan, and this expe- 
rience would seem to demonstrate the practical value of the appaj-atus. 
The horizontal movement of a point on the earth's surface is about 
O'^^.OS (5^ inch) in the case of earthquakes that are scarcely per- 
ceptible; but is O^'^.S (-3^ inch) for earthquakes ot moderate intensity. 
[Z. 0. G. ilf., p. 102, Vol. XV.) 

IV. — CHEMICAX, AND rHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Jolly has investigated the variability of the chemical constitution of 
the atmosphere by two methods, both by the balance and eudiometer. 
His published measures were made from 1875 to 1877, and give the fol- 
lowing results: The percentage of oxygen computed for the extreme 
cases was 20.9G5 at the maximum, and 20.477 for the minimum, or a 
variabOity of -^ of one per cent. The polar current, if it continues for 
a season, brings a higher percentage of oxygen, and the equatorial cur- 
rent a lower percentage. The eudiometric method was used as a check 
upon these results, and gave a maximum of 21.01 per cent, and a mini- 
mum of 20.53 per cent. The proposition as to the constancy of the con- 
stitution of the air is therefore untenable; and Eegnault suspected 
rightly when he declared it deceptive to so accept the air as a unit for 
the specific gravity of gases. . 

The important question now arises. What are the variations in the con- 
stitution of the air, and what their causes ? Jolly believes that the smaller 
percentage of oxygen in the equatorial current arises from the fact that 
in the tropics and subtropics, in spite of the greater vegetation, the ox- 
idation exceeds the reduction, while in the Polar regions the contrary 
is the case. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, 1879, p. 228.) 

Soret has communicated some preliminary results from an incomplete 
investigation into the law of radiation at high temperatures, which inves- 
tigation had as its object to show how far in such cases the Diilong-Petit 
law deviates from the truth. A platinum wire, measuring 0.31 mil- 
limeters in diameter and 385 millimeters long, is, by means of an electro- 
dynamic machine, heated to the melting point. This machine is driven 
by a hydraulic motor whose normal strength is 4 horse-power, or a work- 
ing force of 18,000 kilogrammeters. This work is equivak'ut to an in- 
crease of temperature of 42.3 calories. If, now, we assume that the whole 
work in the electric current is converted into heat which is applied to 
the heating of the i>latiuum wire, then the latter can in one minute 
receive not more than 42.3 calories. 

But on the trial the platinum wire melted in a few seconds and broke 
into pieces — the study of which showel that the wire was melted through- 
out its whole length. Therefore the "5\~ire had attained the temperature 
of melting platinum in every part, which temperature must have been 



262 RIETEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

at least 1,700° C. The superficial area of the wire at this temperature 
must have been 385 square millimeters, for which we will use 300 iu 
order to take account of the cooling at both its ends. If, now, we com- 
pute the quantity of heat iu calories radiated from this surface at this 
temperature, according to the law of Dulong-Petit, assuming the radi- 
ating power of polished platinum to be 0.00:3 according to La Provostaye 
and Desaius, then we find for the whole surface 145.023 calories, whereas, 
according to the computation of the electro-motive force, it was im- 
possible that more than 42.3 calories could have been delivered. The 
difference is enormous and is equally so iu other cases. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XIV, p. 229.) 

Soret has investigated the absorption of heat by the earth's atmos- 
phere, and the following review of his measures is given by Pictet. 
The apparatus used by Soret is very similar to that subsequently used 
by Violle in his investigations upon similar subjects. Moreover, 
Violle selected the dynamic method and Soret the static method of ob- 
servation. Soret finds that the variable absorption that our atmosphere 
exerts upon the solar rays appears to be a consequence of the variation 
iu the quantity of aqueous vapor, as well as the variable quantity of 
dust, smoke, &c. All observations show plainly the influence of aqueous 
vapor upon the absorption of the rays of heat, and other things being- 
equal the absorption is greater in i)roportion as the quantity of aqueous 
vapor is greater. Thus : 

(a) In winter, when the air is drier, the radiation is notably more in- 
tense than in summer for an equal altitude of the sun. [Violle differs 
from Soret iu this item, but Secchi agrees with the item.] 

(b) If we group the observations made with equal altitudes of the 
sun, according to the degrees of humidity at the time of observation, 
■we find the intensity of radiation greater the di ier the air is. 

(c) Frequently a greater intensity of radiation is shown with dry air 
than when with moister air the atmosphere is undeniably much purer 
and more transparent. 

(d) The maxima of the intensities of the radiation correspond ordina- 
rily, especially in summer, to exceptionally cold and dry days — lor in- 
stance, during or immediately after prevailing strong north winds. 

The absorbing influence of suspended solid particles of organic and 
inorganic matter is undoubted. This influence is felt over all the rays, 
especially, however, over the most refractive. 

The absorbing power of the aqueous vapor is felt especially by the less 
refractive rays. The annual maxima occur most frequently early in 
spring, for in this time of year all the more favorable circumstances are 
united — a considerable solar altitude, dry air, and a small quantity of 
dust i^articles. 

The radiation is more intense for considerable altitudes than near 
the horizon. The maximum of the day occurs a little before midday for 
the high altitudes, while for lower altitAides it occurs somewhat after 
midday. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECIS. 



2G3 



For equal thicknesses of the atmosphere penetrated by the rays the 
radiation on liigh ii^untains is more intense than on the i)lains, con- 
trary to what Forbes had deduced by his own observations ; hence, it 
follows that the lower stratum of air acts with greater absorbing power 
than the upper stratum, as is also explained by the greater mass of 
aqueous vapors, as well as by the greater accumulation of dust in the 
lower portions of the atmosphere. (Z. 0. O. 3L, XIV, p. 312.) 

Eeiset, as the mean of a number of observations during the years 
1872-'79, comes to the conclusion that the air of the free atmosphere 
contains on the average 0.02942 of one per cent, of volume of carbonic 
acid gas. The extreme variations of his measures do not exceed 0.03. 
{Z. 0. 6. M., XIV, p. 452.) 

Hasselbarth and Fittbogen, from observations in 1874 and 1875, con- 
clude the following to be the volume of carbonic acid gas in the air : 



January 3. 26 

February 3. 22 

March . .' 3. 41 

April 3. 43 

May 3. 30 

June 3.31 



July 3. 31 

August 3. 40 

September 3.41 

October 3. 34 

November 3. 43 

December 3. 25 



The largest variations in the quantity of carbonic acid are apparently 
due to the variations of the wind. An increase in the wind is followed 
by a diminution of the carbonic acid. Eain usually causes a depression, 
but after thunder storm an increase in the quantity is usually noticed. 
{Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 452.) 

Schultze has observed the same property in Eostack, and the follow- 
ing table shows the means of his observations : 



January 2. 90 

February 2. 90 

March 2. 99 

April 2.97 

May 2. 94 

June 2. 92 



July 2. 90 

August 2. 88 

September 2.90 

October 2. 95 

November 2. SO 

December 2. 84 



Year 



2.91 



{Z. 0. O. il/., XIV, p. 453.) 
J. L. Schonn states that, having obtained a very i)erfect i)rism from 
Hilger, in London, he examined water and other substances with refer- 
ence to their transmission of heat. The proportion in which the ultra- 
violet solar rays are absorbed by the va[)or of water in the atmosphere 
cannot be preliminarily stated, because the ratio of the intensity of the 
sun's light of that special kind to the light of the electric spark is un- 
known, but it is still plain that the absorption of the ultra-violet is 
(caused by the aqueous vapor. The behavior of ice is entirely ditlerent 
from that of fluid water; with the thickest blocks of ice (six or eight 



264 



IklETEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



inches) the extremest ultra-violet cadmium line is still visible. {Z. 0. 
G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 57.) ^ 

Marie-Davy has published a study upon the carbonic 'acid gas con- 
tained in the atmosphere as observed at Montsouris, 187G to 1879. The 
annual means are as follows : 



Years. 


Carbonic acid 
gas. 


Clearness of 
the sky. 


1876 


25.9 
27. G 
31.6 
35.4 


0.63 
0.58 
0.55 
0.50 


1877 


1878 


1879 





It is evident from this that of all the meteoroloi?ical elements the 
clearness of the sky is one that has a direct connection with the quan- 
tity of CO2, and that the ratio is such that the greater quantity of OO2 
coincides with the least clearness. 

Again, by comparison with the winds, it is found that the southwest 
bring a greater, but the northerly a smaller, quantity of CO^. Since 
now the clearness cannot be directly influenced by the i)reseuce of 
CO2, and since CO2 is perfectly diaphanous, like dry air, therefore 
Marie-Davy concludes that from the quantity of CO2 we have a means 
of predicting the clearness — that is to say, the weather — for a long time 
ahead. {Z. 0. G. M., XV, 1881, p. 135.) 

Cornu has shown, from his investigation into the limit of the ultra- 
violet portion of the spectrum at difl'erent altitudes (/t) above the horizon, 
that the limit of visibility of the photograpl^ic spectrum, as defined by 
the length (A) of the last wave on the photographic plate, is connected 
with the altitude ot the sun by the formula 

log sin h = inX -f n 

where m and n are two constants. For a station whose altitude above 
sea-level is z this formula becomes 

log sin li = m U -{• ~) + n 

where g is a constant whose value is approximately 8G8.2. If, now, the 
absorbing power of the atmosphere is due to any substance distributed 
in the atmosphere according to an unknown function of the altitude, 
then Cornu shows that theoreticall}- the law of absorption must be a 

logarithmic function of the form: m_ =log Z— log c. 



If, now, we sub- 



stitute in this formula the value of m = — 0.018882, and 5 = 808.21, we 
obtain 5; = 17761 x log c — log/. Xow the hj'psometric formuhi is : z = 
18336 log bo— log b, whence it follows that the mass of the absorbing sub- 
stance is at any given altitude proportioned to the height of the barometer, 
and therefore has a constant ratio to the mass of the atmosphere itself. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 265 

Tliis result j^oints directly to the aqueous vapor as the principal ab- 
sorbin,u- substance, for tbe diminution of temperature of aqueous vapor 
with tbe altitude is expressed bj- Hann's formula : 

0=6500 (log/o— log/) 
ft 
We can then conclude that the aqueous vapor is not the principal 

absorbing substance for the ultra-violet rays, for, if we compute a,])proxi- 

mately from the co-eflficients above given, we Hud the value of g for the 

absorption of the air g = 890.3, a value which coincides so closely with 

that derived from observations (868.2), that it proves the air to be the 

absorbing substance and not the vapor of water. {Z. 0. G. M., Voh XV, 

1880, p. 444 ) 

Mr. E. Z. Moss has examined the air of the arctic regions microscopi- 
cally, and shows that although its dust contains organic cells, yet there 
is every i)robability that these are not such as can give rise to mold, 
putrefaction, and disease. He finds the amount of carbonic-acid gas 
in the atmos]:)here of the arctic regions for three chemical determina- 
tions to be 0.0042, 0.0483, and 0.0536, the average being 0.0553, which 
is decidedly greater than in the lower latitudes. The amount of moist- 
ure in the air was also determined by him by weighing. He found, for 
instance, for a temperature — 54.8° F. and a pressure of 29.75 inches, 118.2 
liters of air contained only 0.053 grams of water. {Z. 0. G. .1/., Vol. XV, 
1880, p. 492.) 

Puisseux has found the following relative numbers for the actinometric 
effect of solar rays as observed at different altitudes in the Alps with 
the Arago-Davy conjugate thermometers: 



Altitude. 


Actiuic effect. 


meter. 






1.00 


830 






1.09 


2110 






1.19 


2828- 






1.17 


3251 






1.76 


3380 






1.78 




{Z. 


0. 


G. J/., XVI, 1881, p. 536.) 



IMunter and Aubin have devised a new method of determining the 
quantity of carbonic- acid gas in the air, and have made a series of reg- 
ular observations in Paris and its neighborhood. They find the volume 
to be from 2.88 to 4.22 i)arts of gas in 10,000 of air. The maxima occur 
with cloudy sky and quiet weather; the minima occur with clear sky 
and windy weather; the absolute maxima occurred durinf heavy snows 
and dense fogs. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 54.) 

Armstrong has investigated the diurnal variations and the quantity 
of carbonic-acid gas contained in the atmosphere from 27 mid-day and 
29 mid-night observations, he finds during the day 2.9603 volumes of 
carbonic-acid gas, but dariug the night 3.299 volumes in 10,000 volumes 



266 METEOROLOGY AND, ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

of air, or an excess of 0.34 volumes duriug the night. This result agrees 
with the observations of Trouchot, Schulze and others, and is accredited 
to the influence of vegetation which absorbs carbonic-acid gas during 
the day time. {Z. 0. O. 3L, XVI, 1881, p. 154.) 

Schloaing has investjgated the action of the ocean water as an ab- 
sorber and regulator of the carbonic acid gas in the atmosphere. He 
shows that pure water in contact with the mineral carbonates, and an at- 
mosphere containing COz dissolves a certain quantity of bicarbonate 
which increases with the tension of the CO2 in the atmosphere accord- 
ing to a mathematical law. The same is true of sea-water in which 
neutral alkalies and salt are contained; but a condition of equilibrium 
as to this chemical action is never attained, owing to the movement of 
currents and winds — only a tendency towards such is going on. When 
the air contains only a little of COz the sea gives up some and it de- 
posits neutral carbonates; when the air contains too much of CO2 the 
sea absorbs and forms bicarbonates. Thus the ocean acts as a regulator, 
and so much the better, inasmuch as a slight calculation shows that it 
contains about ten times as much CO2 as the entire atmosphere, which 
latter may be said to be controlled by it. {Z. 0. G. 31., XYI, 1881, 
p. 155.) 

Lecher and Pemter have contributed somewhat to the question of 
the absor])tion of dark-heat rays by gases a.nd vapors. Since the first 
investigations of Tyndall, who maintained that aqueous vapor exerted a 
powerful absorbing influence upon rays of heat, the tendency has been 
to diminish the estimated amount of this absorption. Thus, for in- 
stance, the results of the observations by Violle on Mont Blanc give 
IG per cent, as the sum total by air and moisture combined when a beam 
of sunlight passes through 2,428 meters of air of uniform temperature 
and pressure, or an absorption of 0.007 of 1 per cent, for a thickness of 
one meter of air. But Tyndall's measure gave for pure dry air a greater 
absorption than this, so that nothing could be left to be attributed to 
the action of aqueous vapor. If, however, we assume that pure air has 
no absorption, and that all that was observed in the atmosphere is the 
result of aqueous vapor alone, even then the figure given by Tyndall — 
namely, from 4 to C per cent, for a thickness of something more than 
one meter — must be considered as extraordinarily great. The experi- 
ments of Tyndall were made with heat rays of a temperature of 270^ C 
The researches of Stefan and Jacques show that Tyndall's figures must 
be multiplied by one-sixth in order to make them applicable to radia- 
tion from the sun, for one meter of atmosphere should absorb 0.102 of 
1 per cent. o#the heat rays studied by Tyndall, instead of the 4 or G per 
cent, actually observed by him. The explanation of this great dilier- 
ence as now usually accepted is that first given by Magnus — namely, 
that condensing vapor adhered to the sides of the apparatus. The in- 
vestigations of Lecher and Peruter entirely agree with this explanation 
and seem to establish the fact that aqueous vapor proper has no more 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 267 

effect in absorbing rays of heat than has pure dry air. {Z. 0. G. M., 
Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 37.) 

The question of the absoq^tion of the sohir heat by atmospheric aque- 
ous vai)or has been further supplemented by the studies of Lecher into 
the absorption of carbonic-acid gas; he finds that a column 1.05"' long 
at ordinary pressures and temperatures absorbs 13 per cent, of the heat 
that reaches the earth's surface when the sun is at its maximum height. 
(For Vienna this is about 70° above the sun's horizon.) Th's absorp- 
tion of the solar rays diminishes very rapidly as the sun sinks toward 
the horizon, whence it follows that the CO2. in the atmosphere itself 
absorbs the radiation in proportion to the length of the path of the ray, 
and that the total CO2. in the atmosphere (which is equivalent to a layer 
2.4™ thick at ordinary pressures and temperatures), is sufficient to ex- 
plain the whole absorption of solar heat, which is about 2G per cent, as 
shown by Pouillet, or 40 per cent, according to Forbes. {Z. 0. G. JT., 
XVI, 1881, p. 271.) 

V. — SOLAR RADIATION AND TERRESTRIAL TEMPERATURE. 

In some remarks on the theory of the general atmospheric circula- 
tion Hann says the area of the earth's STirface between the equator and 
30^ latitude is as great as the entire remaining portion of the hemi- 
sphere up to the pole (2,308 thousand square miles against 2,323 thou- 
sand). The surface of the zone between the tropics and the 45th parallel 
is still considerably greater than that of the entire area from 45^ to the 
pole (1,427 thousaud square miles against 1,384 thousand). The area 
of the zone from 30 to 40 degrees alone is greater than the entire cir- 
cumi^olar region from the pole to GO^ latitude (G61 thousand square 
miles against G25 thousand). That is to say, that when, for instance, 
the region from 30^ to the equator receives in one year an excess of heat 
of several degrees, this will bring about the outflow overhead of a mass 
of air that is sufficient to uniformly cover the region from 30° to the 
pole. 

If the air in the zone from the tro]>ics to the 45th parallel is abnormally 
warmed, then this can have an influence upon tlie temperature and the 
weather of the entire portion of the hemisphere lying north thereof up to 
the Pole, for the upper currents have only this way to flow off, because the 
gradient in the upper regions prescribes this path. If, therefore, we ob- 
serve an uncommonly high barometric pressure over Europe and the con- 
tiguous pori ions of the Atlantic Ocean for a long time continuously, then 
the cause thereof is probably to be found in a previous excess of heat 
communicated in lower latitudes far beyond the limits of the synoi)tio 
chart. Observations of atmospheric pressure at high altitudes of the 
subtropic and tropical zones will i^robably give us important conclu- 
sions as to the cause of the variable intensity of the upper currents. It 
is just as important to know the distribution of atmos])heri(! pressure in 
the upper regions of the air as to know the distribution on the surface of 



268 



METEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



the earth ; indeed still more important, since the latter is genernllj' con- 
ditioned ui)on the former. My present object will be attained if it gives 
occasion to the more careful study of the changes in the weather and 
the anomalies in our zone as compared with the temperature conditions 
of the lower latitudes. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV., 1879, p. 40.) 

The total intensity of daylight has been investigated by Stelling, who 
has applied Roscoe's photochemical method of observation, depending 
on the law that the darkening upon chloride of silver paper is in pro- 
portion to the product of the intensity of the light and the duration of the 
exposure. We take the following abstract from a review of his work 
by Pernter. Stelling's method of determining a scale for measuring 
the amount of the discoloration consisted in simplj^ exposing various 
pieces of prepared paper to the influence of the action of daylight during 
periods of time whose duration was very accurately determined. 

The comparison of liis own results with those of Bunsen and Eoscoe 
was accomplished by means of a sheet of normal black that Stelling 
received from Eoscoe himself. The coincidence of the normal black with 
the scale adopted by Stelling was at the point 158, and this })oint was 
determined weekly during the entire series of observations in order to 
allow for any change that might take i)lace in the position of the nor- 
mal point. In this work freshly prepared slips of paper were always 
employed, in view of the fact that Eoscoe had shown that in nearly all 
cases an irregular bleaching of the prepared papers took place during 
six or eight weeks, but that after this time the black tint remained un- 
changed for many months. Stelling finds that the dryness and the age 
have little influence, but the method of silvering is imi)ortaut, and that 
the sih^ering must be done immediately after the filtration. Stelling's 
practical application of his results to meteorology relate esi)ecially to the 
question, '• What influence has the cloudiness ui)on the total intensity 
of daylight?" To this end he first determines the intensity upon clear 
days, or those on which the cloudiness does not exceed 5 per cent. The 
observed normal intensity is indicated by the following table of obser- 
vations at St. Petersburg : 



1874. Intensity. 

November 3 0. 041 

November 18 0. 038 

December 31 0.027 

1875. 

January 24 0. 038 

February 13 0. 082 

March 5 0.113 



1875. Intensity. 

March 16., 0.100 

April 4 0.201 

May 2 0.204 

May 19 0.359 

June 1 0. 440 

June 21 0. 352 

July IG 0.300 

Julv29 0.257 



The condition of the sky is divided by him into three portions, namely : 
first, as partially cloudy; second, sufficiently cloudy to hide the sun; 
third, comx^letely covered, uniform gray sky. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



2G9 



In the first condition, for a, cloudiness of from .1 to .7, Stelling con- 
cludes that such partial cloudiness exercises no perceptible influence 
upon the intensity. For the second condition, the sky .9 cloudy or 
less, he finds that the obscuration of the sun always brings a lowering 
of the intensity, which on the average amounts to 30 per cent. 

For the third condition, the heavens completely covered with the 
uniform gray tint, he finds that this condition lowers the intensity of 
the sunlight, on the average, to less than one-half. In general, all these 
measures of the effect of cloudiness depend on an unknown factor, 
namely, the thickness and density of the clouds themselves. In gen- 
eral, the minima occur when fog or rain is associated with the horizontal 
stratus clouds. 

The following table shows the monthly maxima and minima: 



Monthly maxima. 


Monthly minima. 


Date. 


Observed 
intensity. 


Normal 
intensity. 


Date. 


Observed 
intensity. 


Normal 
intensity. 


Nov. 28,1874 
Dec. 3, 1874 
Jan. 5, 1875 
Fob. 2, 1875 
Mar. 28, 1875 
Apr. 13, 1875 
May 28,1875 
June 15, 1875 
July 30,1875 
• 


0.003 
0.007 
0.011 
0.018 
0.056 
0. 065 
0. 044 
0.042 
0.049 


0.035 
0.033 
0. 029 
0.060 
0. 182 
0.220 
0.390 
0.375 
0. 260 


Nov. 2,1874 
Dec. 15,1874 
Jan. 31,1875 
Feb. 28,1875 
Mar. 10,1875 
Apr. 28, 1875 
May 22, 1875 
June 1, 1875 
July 24,1875 


0.072 
0. 034 
0.060 
0.136 
0.189 
0. 2.M 
0. 427 
0.446 
0.315 


0.040 
0.030 
0.060 
0.102 
0.160 
0.153 
0. 355 
0.412 
0.275 



This table of maxima shows that only in two months did the maxi- 
mum occur on days with perfectly clear sky ; in all other cases the sky 
was more or less cloudy and in December completely covered. In the 
cloudy season Stelling frequently observed similar cases in which high 
intensities occurred during cloudy weather, a i)henomenon which still 
awaits future explanation. The following table shows the mean 
intensity of the light for each month at St. Petersburg, so far as the 
observations extend : 



1874. Monthly mean. 

November 0. 035 

December 0. 017 

1875. 

January 0. 027 

February 0. 0G4 



1875. Monthly mean. 

March 0. 120 

April 0. 103 

May 0.277 

June 0. 292 

July 0. 227 



It is evident that the photochemical and the photometric methods 
must be combined with the thermometric in order to attain a complete 
determination of the absorption in the earth's atmosphere. {Z. 0. G. 
il/., 1879, XIV, p. 48.) 

The memoir of Wiener on the distribution of the solar radiation over 
the earth's surface, which was published by him in 187G in Carlsruhe, 



270 JIETEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

lias been republished, with some modificatious, iu the Zeitschrift of the 
Anstriau Meteorological Society'.- In some respects the author has 
carried his computations further than was done by Meech in his well- 
known essay on the relative intensity of the heat and light of the sun. 

The following table gives the ratio of * or the relative intensity of 

solar radiation at the outer surface of the atmosphere for the entire 
year. 

Relative I Relative 

Latitude. intensity. Latitude. iiitensitv. 



0. 30532 

10 30112 

20 28858 

30 2GS32 

40 24122 



50 0.20876 

CO 173G8 

70 144G4 

80 13096 

90 12672 



The relative intensity of the solar radiation is the same for corre- 
sponding seasons in the north and south hemisphere ; it is a maximum 
for the whole year at the equator and a minimum at the pole; it is a 
maximum for the summer season at latitude + 24°; it is a maximum in 
the spring and autumn at the equator; during the summer season it is 
greater at the poles than at any other point on the earth's surface. {Z. 
0. G. 3L, XIV, 1879, pp. 113 to 130.) 

Wild has published a general review of our knowledge of the subject 
of earth temperature in connection with his publication of the observti- 
tions at St. Petersburg and Nukuss. He detects some of the errors 
and fallacies that have hitherto been persistently ditfused in the text- 
books on meteorology and physical geograph3\ The observations of 
earth tempera.tures made at Nukuss by Dohrandt were for depths of 
4.0, 2.8, 1.6, 0.8, 0.4 meters, and the readings were made daily at 7 a. 
m., 1 and 9 j). m. Besides these a series of hourly readings was made at 
depths 0.00, 0.05, 0.10, and 0.20 meters under the surface of the earth. 
This latter series is the only complete one that we possess at the present 
time for the determination of the diurnal period in the temperature of 
the earth. 

Observations of the temperature of the air were taken at the same 
time. With regard to the daily period at Nukuss. it is fouisd that the 
mean daily maximum of earth temperature at the surface is nearly al- 
ways equal to that of the atmosphere; but the maxima are much greater 
in the earth than in the atmosphere, so that the daily amplitude is 2^ 
times greater at the earth's surface than in the air. During the three 
summer months the mean temperature of the earth's surface was 55^.2 
C. The time of occurrence of the minimum of the surface tempera- 
ture coincides nearly always with sunrise. Warm and dry soil is a 
worse conductor of heat than the cold damp soil. The influence of tem- 
perature and humidity upon the conducting power of the earth was 
shown in several ways, and is one of the remarkable results attained by 



1 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 271 

Professor Wild. He also shows that both observations and theory con- 
cur in proving that the ordinary law 

log A ^> = A — B X p 

(where A p expresses amplitude of any periodical oscillation at the 
depth p under the surface and A and B are two constants) has no appli- 
cation to the upper surface of the earth or to the daily oscillations, but 
is an approximate altitude formula only for greater depths. He gives the 
most accurate combinations of hours for observations of temperature at 
the earth's surface and the corrections for the ordinary hours of observa- 
tion, 7 a. ra. and 2 and 9 p. m. After a thorough discussion of the obser- 
vations made elsewhere through the globe, Wild shows the incorrectness 
of Boussingaulfs conclusion that in the neighborhood of the Equator, 
under a protecting roof, the annual and the daily variations in temper- 
ature within the earth disappear at a depth of less than 0.5 meter. 

Even with an annual change in temperature of only l^.o C, and 
with the largest value of B at Nukuss, the depth p at which the oscil- 
lation of temperature is only 0.1 of a degree is about five meters; at 
Trevandrum the depth is 9.G meters. 

In general we may say that the stratum of earth whose temperature 
sensibly vtiries in the course of the year is in various places rarely less 
than G meters and rarely greater than 33 meters. In general. Wild 
concludes that the condition of the outer surface of the earth with re- 
spect to temperature can be well presented by means of the well-known 
sine formula of Bessel. If, now, the periodical changes in the tempera- 
ture at the surface jienetrate to the lower depths, then, according to the 
theory of Poisson, there should be a gradual diminution in the ampli- 
tude and change of phase of the movement of all the periodical terms; 
but the attempt to represent observations by the strict theory of Pois- 
son is so unsatisfactory as to render the theory but of little use when 
it is applied to changes of short period, such as a day or a year, while 
the longer periods such as 13 or 18 years are fairly represented. 

The second thermal constant of the earth, namely, its conductibility, 
can at present not be satisfactorily determined, but the constant ratio 
between conductibility and capacity for heat is determined with con- 
siderable accuracy. {Z. 0. G. ill., XIV, p. 272.) 

Pernter gives a comparison of the methods of measuring the chem- 
ical intensity of the light. These methods, so far as they have j'et been 
proposed, are as follows: 

First. Bunsen and Eoscoe's chlorine and hydrogen photometer. 

Second. Bunsen and Roscoe's photographic actinometer, wliich meas- 
ures the chemical intensity by the blackening of chloride of silver paper. 

Third. Marchand's photantitypimeter. (This awkward name is given 
by Marchand himself, based on the Greek a>rtru-:a.) The principle of 
his apparatus consists in the determination of the quantity of carbonic 
acid eliminated from a mixture of chloride of iron and oxalic acid 
exposed to the influence of light. 



272 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Fourth. Vogel's chemical photometer. This was especially designed 
for the use of the photographer, and requires considerable further study 
before it can be used for accurate scientific i)urposes. The measure- 
ments are based essentially upon the action of light upon sensitive 
chrome i^aper. 

Fifth. Draper's tithonometer. This was the first attempt to measure 
the chemical intensity of light, and its principle is similar to that of 
Bunsen and Eoscoe's "chlorhydrogen, but it could not yield accurate 
results. 

Sixth. Becquerel's electro-chemical actinometer. This consists of a 
jar of water, in which two silver plates are immersed, which are cov- 
ered with equally thick layers of violet silver chloride. A conductiug 
wire connects them, and a delicate electric galvanometer is introduced 
into the current. If these plates are exposed to the light the needle of 
the galvanometer shows the existence of an electric current. After a 
careful discussion of the relative merits of these methods Pernter shows 
that the total chemical intensity can, in no case, be measured absolutely, 
so long as the apparatus takes account of only one portion of the spec- 
trum, since it is now known that all the rays of the spectrum have chem- 
ical effects, j)rovided they fall upon the proper substances. Keeping this 
in view, as well as on account of its convenience, Pernter maintains that 
the photographic actinometer is the least objectionable instrument, and 
has, in fact, a great advantage over the others, in that no absorbing 
glass or other substance intervenes between the source of light and the 
sensitive paper. He earnestly recommends, therefore, that for future 
observations in meteorology, when the object is to determine the rela- 
tive intensity of the sunlight at given moments, the photographic 
actinometer be employed, as the chemical preparations are easy to make, 
the maniijulations are soon acquired, the observations require but a very 
short time, and the apparatus is so portable as to be available on 
scientific exijeditions. On the other hand, if the object is to determine 
the sum total of the action of sunlight during the day or other interval, 
then the photantitypimeter of Marchand has the advantage, in case the 
preparation of chloride of iron is intrusted to skillful hands. {Z. 0. G. 
M., XIV, p. 254.) 

Having given this general review of the methods adopted by investi- 
gators, Pernter details theresults attained hitherto in the photo-chemical 
measurement of sunlight. Bunsen and Koscoe, with their chlorhydro- 
gen photometer, found that the chemical intensity of diffuse daylight 
(H) is represented by the following formula : 

H = 2.776 + 80.849 cos <p - 45.996 cos V 

But for the chemical intensity (J) of the direct sunlight falling per- 
pendicularly upon the sensitive plate, they found an exponential form- 
ula which, multiplied by cos ^, gives the intensity (S) upon a horizontal 
area at the surface of the earth, and which is approximately as follows : 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 273 

S = 31.99 COS V + ^7.6 COS V - 248.7 cos V 

In this formula (p is the zenith distance of the sun, and the constants 
themselves refer to a unit of light, of which each corresponds to the 
development of 0.111 units of hydrochloric acid per minute per square 
centimeter. 

The sum total H-f S represents the chemical intensity of all the day- 
light which falls upon a horizontal element of the earth's surface, and 
this, according to Eadau, can be fairly well represented by the formula : 

H + S = 3.1 + 0.635 X 7^ + 0.05775 h^ - 0.00048 )i^ 

where 7^ represents the altitude of the sun, or 90° — f. These results 
of Bun sen and Roscoe may be compared with measures made by means 
of photantitypimeter of Marchand, which instrument is especially 
designed to give the normal changes of the chemical intensity of the 
total daylight. Unfortunately the observations made by Marchand at 
Fdcamp, on the coast of France, 49° 45' north latitude, suffered from 
the frequency of cloud and haze. But they show that the maximum at 
Fecamp occurred decidedly after midday, and that between 10 a. m. 
and noon the chemical intensity experienced a decided diminution, while 
the symmetry of the morning and afternoon observations is such that 
the chemical intensity is decidedly greater in the afternoon than the 
morning. In all these respects, therefore, Marchand's results are op- 
posed to those given by Bunsen and Roscoe. But the differences may 
be due, among other things, to the local peculiarities of stations. If 
now we compare Bunsen and Eoscoe's results with those obtained by 
means of the photographic actinometer, we find (1) that the latter show 
the normal chemical intensity of total daylight to be a function of the 
altitude of the sun, and represented by the equation J,, = Jo + «/*• 
(2) The maximum occurs at midday and the same intensity prevails 
for the same altitude before and after noon. (3) The constants in the 
equation just given change for every locality and for the same locality 
every day. These constants are functions of atmospheric moistiu-e and 
whatever affects the clearness of the air. 

These are now to be compared with those deduced from observations 
made by Eoscoe and Thorpe, in August, 1865, near Lisbon, Portugal. 
During fifteen days of normal clearness their observations show that 
the normal intensity at Lisbon during the course of the day can be fairly 
represented by an equation whose form is J^ = Jo -f «/i, but the after- 
noon shows a sensible diminution of the chemical intensity at about 2 
p. m. ; were it not for this break at 2 p. m. it would be of the same form 
as tor the morning, having, however, very different constants. 

Observations were also made by Eoscoe, in December, 1870, at Cat- 
ania in Spain, but embraced only three complete days. From these it 
results that the maximum of chemical intensity occurs at about 11 a. m. 
S. :\ris. 109 18 



274 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



At noon and during the afternoon notable diminutions of the chemical 
intensities occur j so for equal solar altitudes the intensity before noon 
is greater than in the afternoon. 

From all these observations it follows that the diurnal change in 
chemical intensity is as complicated a function of the solar altitude as 
is the change in atmospheric moisture, transparency, &c. 

It is almost certain that the intensib^ is directly and principally de- 
pendent upon the variation of the hygrometric condition. 

EJiowing the normal daily curve of chemical intensity we easily com- 
pute the annual curve, and the variation with latitude. In this respect 
Pernter compares the observations of Bunsen and Roscoe, Marchand, 
who observed daily for four years, and those at Kew and Greenwich, 
and Southern Europe, and finally Par4, in Brazil. The following table 
gives a series of relative numbers as observed by Marchand : 



Months. 



1869. 


1870. 


1871. 


1872. 


Mean. 


1.17 


2.37 


1.71 


2.11 


L84 


2.3<j 


3.86 


4.19 


5. .52 


3.98 


1.67 


4.21 


10.10 


9.76 


6.44 


7.82 


19.01 


14.19 


15.36 


14.09 


12.27 


20.90 


21. 42 


17. 85 


18.11 


21.51 


22.33 


17.05 


23.27 


21.04 


21.43 


19.43 


21. 67 


23.23 


21.49 


17.75 


19.83 


20.74 


17.41 


18.93 


13.82 


16.82 


11.75 


12.21 


13.60 


6.46 


7.88 


a.2d 


17.19 


6.90 


2.35 


3.35 


3.13 


2.78 


2.90 


1.09 


1.70 


L58 


1.99 


1.74 


a 19 


11.79 


1L15 


11.56 


' ID. 93 



January--^ 
Febmary . 

March 

April . 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September , 
October ... 
November. 
December. 



Annual mean. 



We now come to the question of the ratio of the intensities of the diffuse 
daylight and the direct sunlight. The results of observation by Bunsen 
and Eoscoe on the separate values of these intensities are expressed in 
the equations for H and S above given, and according to which the 
following table is computed : 



Altitude. 


H. 


S. 





3.1 


0.0 


10 


15.1 


0.5 


20 


27.7 


0.5 


80 


31.7 


80.1 


40 


36.1 


66.0 


50 


38.1 


82.2 


60 


89.1 


105. «• 


70 


89.6 


123.3 


80 


89.7 


134.6 


00 


39.7 


138.4 



From this table we see in a striking manner that up to an altitude of 
1(P the chemical intensity of direct sunlight is inappreciable, a result 
that is abundantly confirmed by more recent observations, and yet 
direct photometric measures of the ratio between the intensities H and 



aiETEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 275 

S sliow tliat even at zero degrees altitude the optical iutensitj of 
direct sunlight is much greater than the optical intensity of diffuse 
light. It does not follow from this that the chemical iut<'nsities have 
no relation to the optical, for the chemically active rays are almost en- 
tirely absorbed in the atmosphere when the sun is low ; aad we must 
conclude that the optical and chemical intensities of the snnlight vary 
differently with the solar altitude. Again, this table shows us that up 
to a considerable altitude, say 31°, the chemical intensity of diffuse day- 
light is greater than that of direct sunlight. This result is confirmed 
by the observations of the photographic actinometer. We here per- 
ceive another beneficial influence of our atmosphere similar to that 
experienced in the case of heat and light. 

In northern regions where the altitude of the sun never exceeds about 
30°, the chemical intensity of the direct sunlight will have too feeble an 
effect; and the effect of diffused light compensates for this. Thus at St. 
Petersburg at the time of equinoxes the chemical intensity of diffuse 
daylight is twice as great as that of direct sunlight, and at Melville 
Island it is ten times as great. 

The preceding data give us the means of computing approxiDiately 
the total amount of absorption that must take place in the atmosphere 
of the earth, and it results that an intensity of 35.3 units at the outer 
surface of the atmosphere becomes 20.0 at the earth's surface. This im- 
mense absorption is surprising and is unequally di\ided between the 
various portions of the spectrum. The chemical end loses about one- 
third; and the warm rays of the spectrum lose about thre«-fourths of 
their original intensity. 

The influence of the cloudiness is in every respect the most disturb- 
ing. This has been studied by Stelling, who concludes that the influence 
of a partial cloudiness is now to raise and then to lower the absorjition. 
Second, the influence of partial cloudiness, if the sun is behind clouds, is 
almost always without exception a depression, and on the average about 
30 per cent. Third, the influence of a completely covered uniform gray 
sky is still more depressing; it lowers the normal intensity on the 
average by more than one-half. (Z. 0. G. M., XIV, pp. 401 to 426.) 

In an essay on the ripening of ftniits, Levy investigates the manner 
in which the insolation affects the development of the plants. It is evi- 
dent that wo must not only from agricultural reasons, but also in the 
general interest of the science in the future, lay more stress on the inso- 
lation observations ; but whether the Arago-Davy instrument is to be 
adopted as sufiicieutly safe cannot be decided here. It must be decided 
first of all what rays of the solar spectrum produce these chemical effects, 
and in case these are not the brightest, then this actinometer does not 
measure the heat they send ; but it does serve excellently as a photo- 
chemical method. (Z. 0. G. ilf.. Vol. XV, 1880, p. 30.) 

Whipple has discussed the measurements of relative durations of sun- 



276 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



sliine as recorded by means of the Campbell sunsbine recorder at Green, 
wicb and Ke^. Inasmuch as Kew is west while Greenwich is south- 
east of the principal portion of London, the records show especially the 
local influence of the smoke and dust of the city. Thus the mean daily 
duration of sunshine for each direction of the wind is shown by the fol- 
io win ar table : 



Wind. 


Green-nich. 


Kovr. 


N 


2.5 
2.9 
5.7 
3.6 
2.6 
3.8 
3.8 
2.0 
3.0 


3.5 
3.3 
4.6 
2.3 
2.8 
4.1 
4.8 
3.0 
3.0 


NE 


E 


SE 


S 


sw 


W" 


NW 

Variable 



{Z. 0. G. 3L, XY, 18S0, p. 101.) 



Eoth, in a study upon the distribution of solar radiation and the 
possibility of a difference in the temperature of the northern and south- 
ern hemispheres in consequence of the position of the earth in space, 
has from the elements of the planetary systems deduced the absolute 
values of the quantities of heat received by the whole planetary sphere 
or by a given portion of surface, while the planet moves about the sun 
according to Kepler's laws. The angle of incidence from the sun 
remaining invariable while the radius of the orbit describes a certain 
angle. Let W be the quantity of heat ; S the quantity of heat which 
the same surface would receive in the same time from the sun at the 
the unit's distance; A the attractive force of the sun at the unit's dis- 
tance ; p the perimeter of the orbit ; cpo and ^i, the first and last value of 
the true anomaly ; then we have 

■^ A p 

{Z. 0. G. M., Vol. Xy, 1880, p. 322.) 
Supan has sought to introduce a new distribution of the earth's surface 
according to the relative temperatures. In order to define these tem- 
peratures with all definiteness, he seeks a new construction of the 
isotherms based on the temperature determinations at present available. 
His new annual isotherms are a valuable contribution. {Z. 0. G. M., 
Vol. XV, 1880, p. 324.) 

Prof. O. Martins, of Montpellier, who was appointed director of the 
botanical gardens of that place in 1851, immediately began a new series 
of meteorological observations in continuation of those that have been 
made there ever since 1705. The botanical garden is about 8^^ from the 
ocean, and about 58™ above the sea, in latitude 43° 37'. The following 
table gives the temperature of the air as observed at an altitude of 1 J™ 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



277 



above the soil, and 29™ above the sea, and also the temperature of the 
spring water : 



Month. 


Mean tem- 
perature 
of air. 


Mean tem- 
perature 
of spring 
■water. 




Degrees 0. 

5.0 

4.9 

5.9 

8.8 
13.1 
16.7 
20.3 
23.0 
22.0 
18.8 
14.1 

8.5 


Degrees 0. 
12.8 
11.5 
11.2 
11.4 
11.8 
12.12 
12.8 
13.7 
14.0 
14.0 
13.1 
13.5 


January 


March 








July 












'" 


12.8 





For the temperature of the earth we must refer to the original memoir 
published by the Academy of Sciences, Montpellier, Vol. IX. In winter 
and spring the plateaus of the Avennes, which rise to an altitude of 
2,500 feet, are covered with snow, and the northwest mistral precipi- 
tates itself with great force from these down upon the warm lowlands 
to the southward. At this time the atmosphere at Montpellier is very 
dry, and of wonderful clearness. This fators the radiation at night, and 
the insolation by daytime thereby increasing the magnitude of the daily 
variations of temperature. The mistral occurs most frequently in the 
spring-time, and these beautiful days are known as the " cavalier." In 
the summer-time the ijlateaus are greatly warmed up, and the mistral 
loses its force and frequency. In the autumn the temperature is most 
uniform, and the mistral least frequent. The intensity of the mistral has 
a well-marked diurnal period; it increases as the sun approaches the 
meridian in proportion as the sea-shore is warmed up. It ceases during 
the night-time to begin again about 9 a. m. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 
1860, p. 455.) 

Mahlen has studied the observations of temperature of 118 years at 
St., Petersburg, being nearly the whole of the interval 1743 to 1S7^'. 
Among his results we find the following: The coldest day of the normal 
year was January 24 ; temperature, — 9.7° ; the warmest day was July 
23, 4-70.9°; the mean temperature of the year is -|-3.72o, which is the 
same as the mean temperature of April 23 and October 21. The vari- 
ability of the daily temperature is such that in winter 2,300 years, but 
in August 380 years, of observation would be required to obtain daily 
means, whose probable error is ± 0.1° 0. The mean departure of daily 
means from the annual average is greatest for January 20 (0.23° C) ; the 
least is for August 28 (2.13° C). The greatest absolute variation for 
any one day is from +5.2° on January 4, 1771, to —37.4° January 4, 
1814. The coldest January occurred in 1814, and the warmest in 1806. 
The coldest July occurred in 1878, and the warmest in 1757. The c<Dldest 



278 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

year (1.150) was 1819 ; the warmest (6.250) was 1826. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 
1881, p. 492.) 

Dr. F. M. Stai>ff, geologist of the St. Gotliard railroad, has discussed 
the observations of the temperature of the earth made by Forman in the 
Comstock lode, Nevada. He finds that below 1,G00 feet the rate of in- 
crease of temperature begins to diminish, and that, as we cannot safely 
extrapolate, therefore no conclusion can be drawn as to temperatures at 
greater depths in the earth than about 2,000 feet. As the result of year, 
of experience in measuring temperatures of stone, Stapff estimates that 
it would be impossible by direct observation to decide the question 
whether or no temperatures increase in the interior of the earth. 

The delicacy of the temperature changes, the unavoidable disturbances 
from the drill, and the irregularities due to streams of water are only 
to be overcome by persistent study of the various sources of error. 

In the second communication Stapff gives a new formula, and shows 
that the computed temperatures of the air at the surface, as observed 
for twelve years, agrees with that computed trom the observed tem- 
peratures within the mines. {Z. 0. G. if., XVI, 1881, pp. 414 and 518.) 

Buys Ballot has published (Archives Neulandaises, Tome XV) an 
exhaustive memoir on the annual periodicity and variability of temper- 
ature of Europe. By combining three days into one triad and tliree 
such triads into a series of nine days' means, he studies the perturba- 
tions in the regular annual temperature curves. By subtracting the 
means of two triads ten days apart and dividing by 10 he obtains the 
average rate of change of temperature for all i^ortions of the year, and 
the average of these ten-day changes at seventeen places, for which long- 
series of observations are available, gives him an expression for the 
normal average periodicity of temperature in Europe, independent of 
local disturbances, which latter can then be determined. In reference 
to the variability of temperature. Buys Ballot attempts to properly rep- 
resent, first, the daily variation; second, the uncertainty of the temper- 
ature of any day of the month or year; third, the magnitude of inequal- 
ities of long periods. Very interesting are his tables showing the ten- 
dency of tlie weather to repeat itself in successive months ; thus, if the 
tendency to repetition is a mere matter of chance, then the chance that 
out of 374 months six successive months should have the same charac- 
ter, namely, warmer or colder, then the average would be 3^, as given 
in the second column of the following table, whereas the observed 
number. of such months is 36, as given in the third column: 



Successive montlis. 


Probability. 


Observed. 


2 


187 


211 


3 


'^94 


128 


4 


47 


81 


5 


23 


52 


6 


12 


36 


7 


6 


25 


8 


3 


17 



METEOKOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



279 



Successive montlis. 


Probability. 


Observed 


9 


2 


11 


10 


1 


9 


11 





7 


12 





6 


13 





3 


U 





2 


15 





1 



{Z. 0. G. M., XYI, 1881, p. 404.) 

A. Miittrich lias published and discussed the observations of earth 
temperatures at the Prussian forest stations. The bi-hourly observa- 
tions for fourteen days at the central station give a means of reducing 
regular observations at 8 a. m., 1 and 2 p. m. to normal means. , The 
following table shows the temperatures in the oi>en fields and in shady 
forests in (C.) degrees: 



Location. 


Fields. 


Foresta. 


Min. 


Mas. 


Eange. 


Min. 


■M"a,T. 


Range. 


Air 


12.40 
15.08 
17.20 
16.55 
15.75 


°C. 

22. C8 
22. 00 
22. 98 
18.15 
15.02 


°C. 
10.28 
11.52 
5.78 
1.60 
1.17 


oC. 

13.00 

14.23 

14.90 

14.73 

13.15 


OC. 

21.80 
20.90 
17.43 
15.61 
13.22 


OC. 

8.80 
6. 07 
2.53 
0.88 
0.07 


Depth, 0.02" .... 
Depth, 0. 15 .... 
Depth, 0.30 .... 
Depth, 0. 60 .... 



{Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 268.) 
Wild has completed the great work on temperature in Russia, of 
which the first volume in 1878. He has corrected and discussed all im- 
portant temperature records relating to the Russian Empire, and the 
magnificent charts showing monthly isotherms and isoabnormals for 
Europe and Asia make a profound impression upon the reader. In the 
construction of these charts the various series are reduced to a nearly 
uniform series of normal years. Reductions to sea-level are also intro- 
duced, based upon the following table, which is derived especially from 
observations in the Caucasus : 

Eate of temperature diminution for each 100 meters of ascent. 



Month. Rate. 

December 0. 25 C. 

January 0. 36 

February 0. 43 

March 0.48 

April 0.56 

]\Iay 0. 58 

June 0.61 



Month. Rate. 

July 0.69 C. 

August -. 0.60 

September 0. 53 

October 0.46 

iSTovember 0. 21 

Year 0. 47 

{Z. 0. G. M^ XVI, p. 217.) 



280 



METEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



Dr. Augustin has published an elaborate study upon the self-recorded 
temperatures at Prague during the interval 1840 to 1877. Tlie MIott 
ing extract shows the direct influence of iusolfttion and of cloudiness : 



Month. 



Deo 

Jan 

Feb 

Mar . . . . 
Apr . . . . 

May 

Juno 

July 

Aug . . . . 
Sept.... 

Oct 

Nov . . . . 
Year 



846 wholly clear days. 



02 



— 5.7 

— 8.5 

— 5.4 
+ 2.7 

9.4 

15.8 

19.6 

22.0 

21.5 

16.6 

9.2 

0.0 

8.1 



^■S 



5.2 
5.6 
7.2 
9.5 
12.5 
12.3 
11.5 
11.9 
12.2 
12.0 
10.8 
5.9 
0.5 



II 



h.m. 
7 10 a. m. 
7 20 
7 20 
6 10 
C 
5 50 
5 
5 30 

5 50 

6 10 

6 25 

7 10 
C 25 



-=> a 



h.m. 

2 30 p. m. 
2 40 
2 50 

2 57 

3 15 
3 9 
3 15 
3 35 
3 20 
3 5 
2 40 
2 30 
2 59 



2, 279 cloudy days. 



a 2 



+ 0.3 

— 1.1 

+ 0. c 

3.2 

7.5 

11.9 

15.0 

10. 5 

10.9 

13. 2 

8.9 

3.5 

8.0 



1.2 
1.4 

2.3 
3.0 
4.0 
4.1 
4.0 
4.4 
3.7 
3.7 
3.1 
1.9 
3.1 



•f a 



h. m. 
7 a.m. 
6 30 
6 5 
6 5 
5 50 
5 40 
4 40 

4 50 

5 40 

6 
5 50 
23 
5 53 



h. m. 
2 p. m. 
2 
2 15 
2 15 
2 20 
2 40 
2 30 
2 50 
2 40 
2 30 
2 10 
2 30 
2 23 



{Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 168.) 
O. Jesse, of Steglitz, has investigated the diurnal variations of tem- 
perature on clear days at Hamburg. His results are based upon the 
records of the self-registering thermometer for three years at the Deutsch 
Seewarte. He selected only very clear days and those on which the 
temperature at the end of a twenty-four hour period agreed within one 
degree centigrade of that of the beginning, hoping thereby to deduce a 
simple relation between temperature and the altitude of the sun. The 
months October, November, and December were too cloudy to afford 
any proper data. His resulting equation gives the departure (w) for 
any hour (x) from the mean temperature of any day of the year on which 
the sun's altitude above the horizon at noon is Jt, and it reads as follows : 

^w={5o. 4 sin h) sin X— (lo.83) cos X 

* 4_ (00.70 sin h — 0.49 cos h) sin 2X. 

+ (10.28 sin h — 1.61 cos h) cos 2X. 

The departure of the computed from the observed values shows traces 
of periodicity that are as yet unexplained. {Z. 0. G. M., 1881, XVI, 
p. 96.) 

Billwiller, of Zurich, has studied the vertical distribution of tempera- 
ture in the atmosphere within areas of high barometer and relatively 
clear weather. He shows that the so-called anomaly, by reason of which 
the air sometimes grows warmer as we ascend, or, more properly, th-e 
layers of cold air lie quietly below the warm air, is due to terrestrial 
radiation, and is a characteristic of areas of high pressure; also, that 
this condition occurs in summer as well as winter, and tends to main- 
tain the permanence of "high areas" in proportion to the increasing 
length of the night-time relative to the day-time j also, that the areas 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



281 



of barometric maxima are reinforced when over the laud as compared 
with the sea. He traces the nightly flow of cool air down mountaiu 
slopes aud its accumulation in valleys, its warming by comi)ressiou and 
by formation of dew, its cooling by radiation, and its. contraction by 
cx)oling, and deduces the resulting influence of all this upon the diurnal 
fluctuations of barometric pressure. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 94.) 
Supan, in an extensive memoir on the annual variations of heat on the 
earth's surface, says: In general the annual variation increases from the 
equator towards the poles, and from the coast line towards the interior. 
If we determine the mean annual variability for the different latitudes, 
we find the following values : 

Latitude. Annual variability. 
TOO j^. 35.6 

60O N. 31.1 

50 :N^. 25.4 

40' N. 19.2 

30 :N'. 12.4 

20 N. 8.4 

1.0 3.7 

.0 1.3 

10° S. 2.9 

20O S. 6.0 

30O 8.1 

40O 8.8 

{Z. O. G. M., Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 38.) 
Pernter has studied the distribution of sunshine as recorded since 
April, 1880, by means of the sunshine-recorder invented by Campbell, 
and consisting of a glass lens, by means of which the concentrated sun's 
rays fall upon and burn into a pai)er strip. On account of the import- 
ance of a better knowledge of the duration of sunshine, it is to be hoped 
that similar cheai) and simple registers shall bo kept at numerous sta- 
tions throughout the world. The following table shows the diurnal 
variability : 



Months. 


Morning. 


Afternoon. 


Daily mean. 


April 

May 

June 

July 

Aug 

Sept 


2.14 
2.41 
3.69 
5.29 
3.53 
2.88 


2.74 
2.51 
3.75 
5.11 
3.64 
3.16 


4.88 
4.92 
7.41 
10.40 
7.17 
6.04 



{Z. 0. G. If., Vol. XVI, 1881, p. 9.) 



VI. — MOISTUEB, CLOUDS, RAIN, ETC. 

The connection between rainfalls and solar spots has been further 
elucidated by Meldrum, who has computed new values of the averages 
in order to meet the objections that have been raised against this pre- 



282 



METEOKOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



vious work. The following table gives bis figures for the rainfall at 
Madras. The first column gives the year of the solar-spot cycle. The 
second column gives Wolfs relative numbers for the spots averaged 
for the same yeiirs as the rainfall. The third column gives the mean 
observed rainfall for several corresponding years of sun-spot cycles. 
The fourth column gives the same means, after combining three of 
these values in one, in order to diminish the irregularities : 



Tear of solar 
spot cycle. 


Wolfs 
relative Hum- 


Rainfall, 
Madras, 1811 


bers. 


to 1877. 


1 
2 




35.3 

51.4 45.3 


- 34 


3 


— 23 


43.4 48.3 


4 





55. 3 51. 3 


5 


+ 28 


51.2 51.2 


6 


+ 43 


47.3 48.2 


7 


• + 34 


46.9 48.7 


8 


+ 17 


53.7 50.4 


9 





47.3 51.5 


10 


— 14 


58.0 50.7 


U 


— 24 


39.5 45.2 


12 


- 26 


44.6 42.1 


13 




39.7 





There seem to be two maxima and minima in the rainfall at Madras, 
the minima coincidiug with the minima and maxima of the sun spots. 
The result to which Meldrum has arrived at Madras shows how much 
depends upon the method according to wliich the years are grouped. 
Like Dr. Hunter, he himself had previously found a decided maximum 
of rainfall at the time of the maximum of spots. Meldrum shows fur- 
ther thait in the case of Edinburgh we obtain very different results when 
we group the years as Dr. Hunter has done — that in fact we obtain a 
minimum' of rainfall in the fifth or maximum year of sun spots. 

If in general the rainfall is above the mean in the years of sun-spot 
maxima, and below the mean in the years of minima, then we must 



have the following equation: 



S-s R- 



where large S is the mean 



«/_S r'-iV 

value of sun-spot frequency for the whole period under investigation, 
small s is the mean for the period during which the sun-spot frequency 
is below the mean; small s' is the value for the period where the sun- 
spot frequency is above the mean ; E, r, r' the corresponding annual 
rainfalls for those years for which S, s, s' hold good. That the frequency 
of sun spots has a simjile ratio to the rainfall is now evident from the 
fact that the above equation apparently holds good approximately for 
fifty-four stations in Great Britain, and thirty-four in America for the 
interval 1824 to 1867. During this interval the rainfall was in excess 
when the spots were in excess, and deficient when the spots were de- 
ficient. The excess was .90 of an inch in England and 1.13 inches in 
America ; and the deficiencies were .75 inches in England and .94 in 
America. (Z. 0. G. M., 1879, Vol. XIV. p. 22.) 

S. A. Hill has ijublished the result of a short discussion as to the 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



283 



position and physical cause of the existence of a zone of maximum rain- 
fall in the Northwestern Himalayas. 

The existence of such a zone was already known to General Strachey 
in 1849, but with the help of a large number of observations Hill is able 
to show that the relative quantity of rain (R) falling at the high and 
low stations is very closely represented by the formula 

" E = l + 1.92h-0.40i,2 + 0.02 1,3 

in which fe is the relative altitude of the upper stations above the plain. 
Hie differential of this formula gives the equation for the determination 
of the value of li corresponding to the maximum relative rainfall, which 
position is easily found to be )i = 3,1G0 feet relative to the lower stations 
or 4,100 feet above the sea-level. As regards the cause of this excessive 
rainfall at a definite and moderate altitude, Hill adopts the explanation 
suggested by General Strachey. The variation in the tension of vapor 
(p)j up to an altitude of 1,200 feet, is closely represented by the formula 

in which a and /9 are certain constants that must be determined from 
observations. 

Dr. Hann has shown that the tension of vapor can be closely repre- 
sented \>j the barometric formula 

logp = logpo-^- 

where the constant c has about a value of 6,500. According to each of 
the formulae the measure of the diminution of tension of vapor is greater 
in proportion as the altitude is less. If once the temperature sinks to 

the dew-point the quotient -,^ is a measure of the quantity of the pre- 

cipitation, and we must therefore expect that the rain is heaviest in that 
zone where on the average a mass of air ascending from the lower 
plains reaches the point of saturation with aqueous vapor. This zone 
can be determined with sufl&cient accuracy for the region studied by 
Mr. Hill, if we seek the altitude at which the temperature during the 
rainy season is equal to that of the dew-point at Eoorkee. A computa- 
tion of this kind is made by Mr. Hill for three months, with the following- 
results: 



Month. 




Altitude. 



Jnly 

Aujust ... 
September 



Feet. 
:!, 141 
2,710 
3,099 



The mean altitude at which the rainfall may be expected to be great, 
est lies, according to this theory, about 3,000 feet above the lower i)lain- 



284 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

The complete agreement between tliis result and tliat computed by the 
empirical formula above given is a good joroof of tlie accuracy of tlie 
latter up to altitudes of ten or eleven thousand feet, and it will be inter- 
esting to make a similar study for the Alps and other mountainous 
countries. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 105.) 

Jamin has undertaken to elucidate the formation of dew, and to re- 
move the difliculty experienced by some in acknowledging that it is pos- 
sible to have a cooling of the leaves of plants down to 8 or 10 degrees 
below the temperature of the surrounding air. In the formation of dew, 
radiation and evaporation are the two factors to be considered. For 
the radiation we have the law of Dulong and Petit, for bodies which 
are surrounded by air, which is as follows : 

Since the surrounding inclosure is the celestial space itself, whose 
power of emission is certainly very near zero, therefore the term ma^ is 
negligible. 

In consequence of the radiation of bodies, which is represented by 
ma^+^, the temperature lowers; the lost heat is replaced by that of the 
air coming in contact with the surface, as is expressed by the term 
^ipcfi.233^ The air becomes cooler, falls to the earth, and in consequence 
of the radiation is continually being cooled still lower. Gradually the 
lower cold stratum of air abstracts heat from the upper stratum, which 
is still warm, so that the cooling process takes place from below and 
upwards. 

The above describes the effect of radiation only as it occurs when the 
sky is perfectly free from clouds; when the heavens are beclouded this 
constitutes an enveloping surface, that can be considered as being of 
the same temperature with that of the radiating surface of the earth. 
In this case the first two terms of the above equation disappear, and a 
thermometer cannot then indicate anything but the temperature of the 
air. 

The evaporation co-operates with radiation, and is always active on 
the moist surface of plants ; this effect is represented by the same law 
as that which expresses the action of the psychrometer. 

Every moist body, in consequence of evaporation, assumes a lower 
temijerature ; the process in general is analogous to that of radiation. 
The body cools down and absorbs heat from the surrounding air so long 
as the evaporation continues. But while the process of radiation has 
almost no limit, the process of ev.aporation has one which is attained 
Yvhen the surrounding cooled air has reached the limit of saturation; 
from this point on the cooling through evaporation ceases. Any forma- 
tion of dew, due to a further cooling, occurs in consequence of the radi- 
ation, so that the evaporation contributes thereto only as preparatory, 
by stimulating the cooling process which the radiation itself brings 
about; the formation of dew itself then is only a further consequence of 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



285 



the radiation. Ab soon as dew begins to form this condensation now 
acts in a direction contrary to that of the previous evaporation ; by this 
condensation the latent heat of the aqueous vapor is set free, and so 
delays the further process of cooling through radiation. 

This superposition of the two processes can be best investigated if 
we endeavor to observe them separately. Take three thermometers — 
the first having a metallic polished spherical bulb, the second a dry 
blackened spherical bulb, the third a wet or moistened blackened spher- 
ical bulb. Then the first thermometer, if it is protected from the heat 
radiated from the earth, and also protected by a roof, will give simply 
the temperature of the air, since the radiating power of its own surface 
can be taken as zero; the second thermometer, if allowed to radiate 
freely into the sky, 'will give simply the efiect of radiation; the third 
thermometer, also radiating freely to the sky, will give the total effect 
of radiation and evaporation together. Such investigations, according 
to, Jamin, show that the cooling due to evaporation is almost always 
equal to that due to radiation, and sometimes exceeds it ; therefore, in 
the explanation of the forming of dew it is certainly not to be neglected. 
The following example of observed temperatures, before and after the 
formatien of dew, sets the whole process forth more clearly : 



Time. 


Temperature 
of the air. 


Differences 
for throe 
minutes. 


h. m. 
3 13 
3 16 
3- 19 
3 22 
3 25 
3 28 
3 31 


Degrees 0. 
11.00 
9.60 
8.55 
7.65 
7.30 
7.00 
6.68 




1.40 
1.05 
0.00 
*0.35 
0.30 
0.32 



' Dew point, 7.05. 



{Z. 0. O. 3L, XIV, p. 324.) 



In a short article on the climate of central equatorial parts of the 
Pacific Ocean, Woeikof collects together a few notes relative to obser- 
vations made on small guano islands near the equator. He especially 
calls attention to the small rainfall recorded for these islands, and 
suggests that durable rain gauges be constructed of such pattern that 
they can be permanently left on such small uninhabited islands, and 
from time to time be visited in order to keep the record of the rainfall. 
He expresses the hope that navigators of the Navy or merchant marine 
may find opportunity to carry out his suggestion. {Z. 0. 0. M., XV, 18S0, 
p. 120.) 

In a note on crystallized forms of hail, Merrian states that among the 
various views that have been expressed as to the origin of these forms, 
it seems to him probable that repeated melting and freezing of layers 
of water plays an important part. We can assume that at first a kernel 



286 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

is formed from a collection of radiating snow crystals, and that then 
on falling thi^ougli a cloud, which is itself constructed of watery vesi- 
cles, at a temperature below freezing, the kernel is concentrically cov- 
ered with ice, which at first is crystallized, and by its further growth 
assumes its regular crystalline forms. A rotation of the hail storm 
about any one axis will give it a symmetrical form. {Z. 0. G. M.^ XV, 
1880, p. 133.) 

Dr. Hildebrandsson has endeavored to introduce further intelligent 
conformity among the observers of clouds, and to better illustrate the 
classification adopted by himself at Upsala has published a volume of 
photographs of clouds in which scA'en plates are devoted to cirro- 
stratus and nimbus, and five are devoted to ciiro- cumulus and strato- 
cumulus, and four to the cumulus and cumulo-stratus. The photo- 
graphs are by Osti. In general Hildebrandsson adheres to Howard's 
terminology. (Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, p. 242.) 

Haun has investigated the annual period of rainfall in Austria- 
Hungary, making use of all observations available up to the year 1878. 
These observations refer to 181 stations, of which 146 furnished series 
of ten years or more in length. The principal question and most im- 
portant one to be investigated was, how far the annual distribution of 
rain at the neighboring stations agreed or differed among themselves. 
To this end each monthly rainfall was converted into a percentage of the 
annual rainfall, and the results arranged into thirty-four groui)s, repre- 
senting as many localities. Among the generalizations thus brought to 
light is the fact that on either side of the Donau there exists a decided 
tendency to a double maximum of the rainfall in June and August 
respectively, while in other portions of the empire the maximum oc- 
curs either in June or October. [Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 249.) 

Mr. Dines has made some observations in regard to the size of the 
water particles or drops in dense fogs. The magnitude of these particles 
is not uniform even in the same fog, but varies between 0.000G2 inch and 
0.005 inch ; but these larger particles are only observed in very dense 
fog and at a time when the rain itself is falling. {Z. 0. G. If., Vol. XV, 
1880, p. 375.) 

Koppen and Sprung have investigated the distribution of rain over 
the Atlantic Ocean, as it results from the observations made on the ves- 
sels of the German marine during the years 1868 to 1872, and recorded 
in 178 journals selected from a large mass of records. They state that 
at all seasons of the year we find on the Atlantic Ocean three large 
regions especially rich in rainfall, viz, the equatorial and the two extra- 
tropical, and between these lie two regions of scanty rainfall, which are 
the two zones of trade winds, but in these latter the deficiency of rain 
is only a relative quantity, and it is only in special regions, especially 
in the eastern half of the ocean, that these become regions of no rain- 
fall. In general, even in the trade- wind regions, from 20 to 30 per cent, 
of the days have showers of rain, and the frequency of the rain is, there- 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 28 T 

fore, not less than it is in Southern Europe during the rainiest half of 
the year, and is, therefore, not at all to be compared with the drought of 
the great continental deserts. These regions of small and great rainfall 
vary their position and their extent in the course of the year. During 
our northern summers the equatorial rainy region and the two adjacent 
regions of light rainfall have a position ten or fifteen degrees more to the 
north, and the northern extra-tropical rain-belt has a much smaller exten- 
sion than during our winter season. The equatorial rain-belt coincides 
with the belt of calms, and corresponding to this it lies during March 
between 4P north and 4^ south latitude 5 but during July it lies between 
C° north and 12^ north. The position at which the rain-belt is found at 
the close of our winter is occupied in midsummer by the belt of least 
rainfall in the region of southeast trades. The position of the calm-belt 
in summer is occupied in the beginning of spring by the belt of least 
rain lying in the region of the northeast trades. The region beyond 
the northern limits of the Tropic of Capricorn, where rain falls on more 
than half the days of the year, is confined in the summer time to a small 
space in the center of the ocean between 42^ and 60*^ north, while in 
winter time it extends from the neighborhood of the Tropic of Capri- 
corn to beyond Iceland. The southern limit of the extra-tropical re- 
gion of slight rainfall, on the other hand, experiences smaller annual 
variations, and extends in general in the spring time and autumn 
farthest towards the equator, while, on the other hand, in the southern 
hemisphere it retreats the farthest southward. By these variations in 
location and extent of the rain region a very different distribution of the 
rain with respect to the seasons of the year is brought about in the 
various portions of the ocean. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 475.) 

Hann has investigated the rainfall of Austro-Hungary and attempted 
the solution of several questions hitherto slightly touched upon, bas- 
ing his studies upon monthly means for twenty years or more at ten 
stations. Some of his results may be expressed as follows : The mean 
departure of the rainfall for any month from the average rainftill for the 
whole period is called the mean variability ; it increases with the mag- 
nitude of the rainfall itself, so that in general places of greatest rainfall 
have the greatest variability. From the mean variability of four stations 
he computes the probable error of the mean of ten years as ± of 2 milli- 
meters, whence it would require 840 years to reduce the probable error 
to one millimeter, whence we see the absurdity of giving the monthly 
sums of rainfall to tenths of milimeters. If we exijress the mean de- 
partures in percentages of the total rainfall, we find the average varia- 
bility for Austro-Hungary to be 40 or 50 per cent, of the total value, 
and it requires from sixty to seventy years of observations to obtain a 
monthly mean of rainfall whose probable error is 6 per cent, of its whole 
value. The above demonstrates clearly how uncertain are the rainfaUs 
deduced from observations for ten years or less, and how easily erron- 



288 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

eons conclusions may be deduced from such sbort periods. By ex- 
pressing the annual rainfall for each station as a percentage of the 
average of a long series, Haun studies the simultaneous distribution ©f 
relative rainfalls and the probability of wet or dry years. {Z. 0. G. If., 
XVI, p. 339.) 

Wojeikof has collated the records of heights of water recorded on 
gauges in American fresh-water lakes, the Great Bait Lake, the Sea of 
Ladoga, the Caspian Sea, &c. He finds that in all cases the epoch of 
maximum water was in the beginning of the decennium 1860-1870, but 
the minimum of 1872-73, is not so uniform ; the Caspian Sea he denom- 
inates the greatest rain gauge and evaporimeter of the globe. {Z. 0. 
G. 3L, XVI, 1881, p. 288.) 

Max Moller, of Flensburg, communicates the results of careful obser- 
vations of the cirrus-clouds. He finds that when a barometric minimum 
is moving from west to east, the well developed cirri on the eastern edge 
of the cloud-bank have a principal striation from west to east and a 
combing-out — namely, a cross-striation toward the north j while in the 
rear of the cloud-bank with a clearing sky the principal striation runs 
from north to south and the comb-teeth point to the east. Such de- 
pressions throw out towards the west only a plume of cirri whose north- 
ern edge is bounded by a region of high barometric pressure, and in 
such cases the area of low pressure shows only a slight tendency tx) 
change of location. The absolute motion of the cirri is directed by the 
upper winds there prevailing, the striation on the other hand is con- 
trolled by the motion of the various strata of air relative to each other. 
The variable angle between the direction of the upper wind and the 
striae of the cirri will probably give some conclusions as to the course 
of the isobars in the upper strata of air. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 246.) 

Professor Winkelmann has attempted a solution of the question how 
large a geographical district should be included in a given special pre- 
diction as to the occurrence of rain. He considers the question from a 
purely statistical view, and proposes to determine for any given region 
how often rain occurs at one station without occurring generally af all 
stations, and how far we may go from one station without coming to 
those whose rainy weather does generally not occur simultaneously with 
that at the starting point. On applying his formulae and methods to 
ten years of record at ten stations in Wurtemberg, he finds that on the 
average for any one of these stations the weather is the same as that pre- 
vailing at the other stations on eighty-five days out of one hundred, the 
extreme values being .87 in 1871 and .82 in 1867. Thus one prediction 
for the whole re^on will, on the average, sufilce to secure 85 per cent, 
of verifications ; the division into two smaller districts will raise this 
percentage to 87 per cent. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 236.) 

Blanford has published the meteorological observations made by Dr. 
J. Scully in Western Thibet, in 1876, during "Shaw's Mission." These 
observations afford an excellent check upon the applicability of Haun's 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



289 



formula (Zeitschrift Bd. IX, 1874, page 198,) for the distribution of 
moisture, and its excellent argument is shown by the following table: 



Altitude. 


Vapor tension. 




Observed. 


Computed. 


Meters. 
1340 
1770 
2630 
3420 
4900 


Millimeters. 
9.7 
7.2 
6.5 
4.9 
2.8 


sTs 

6.1 
4.7 
2.8 



{Z. 0. 0. M., XVI, 1881, p. 170.) 

Stelling has published an elaborate memoir on the annual periodicity 
of evaporation at Eussian stations. The observations forming the basis 
of his work have been uniformly made with Wild's "Weighing Evapori- 
meter," and the installation of these instruments at the various stations 
have been carried out with great uniformity ; moreover, the stations 
represent a very great variety of climates and the records extend through 
periods of three to seven years, beginning with 1872. Among the gen- 
eral results we notice that the annual minimum everywhere occurs with 
the minimum temperature of January ; the maximum depends, however, 
upon the Continental location, with its resulting winds, as well as upon 
temperature. The relation between evaporation and rainfall is perhaps 
best seen by comparison between observations at St. Petersburg and 
Taschkent, while the variations due to slight variations in the immedi- 
ate surroundings can be seen by comparing Pavlosk with St. Peters- 
burg, twelve miles distant, or the stations at the observatory and in 
the city of Taschkent, as shown in the following table : 



station. 



Tears. 



Evapora- 
tion. 



Mean tem- 
perature. 



Mean relative 


Mean 


humidity. 


wind. 


Per cent. 




83 


4.9 


86 


3.6 


54 


2.5 


65 


0.7 



Total 
rain. 



Petersburg 

Pavlosk 

Taschkent observatory 
Taschkent City 



187»-79 
1878-79 
1878 
1878 



280 

188 

1,416 

667 



4°. 4 
30.8 
140.8 
13°. 1 



603 
654 
409 
393 



{Z. 0. O. M., 1881, p. 119.) 

R6nou has made some important studies upon the cloudiness in 
Europe. By combining his own observations with those of others, he 
finds the daily curve of cloudiness for Paris; then from a general sur- 
vey of diurnal periodicity he finds a minimum at 10 or 11 p. m., and 
a maximum at 1 or 2 p. m. in Paris, with a second maximum in the early 
morning hours, this latter being particularly well marked in the United 
States. The annual curve for Paris shows a maximum in December, 
and two minima in April and September, respectively ; but this curve 
S. Mis. 109 19 



'290 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



for Pekin is directly opposed to that for Western Europe ; similarly 
the annual curve for Sitka is directly opposed to that for Norway. A 
chart of the world, showing lines of equal annual cloudiness (isonephelic) 
is given by Eenan, and although only a first approximation to the truth, 
yet it seems to justify the statement that for the whole earth the 
average cloudiness is not much above 50 per cent., possibly as high as 
55 per cent. {Z. 0. 0. 31., XVI, 1881, p. 102.) 

Schiaparelli has comj)uted the annual diurnal period of moisture from 
observations made during thirty years at the observatory at Milan. 
He finds the variation of relative humidity is, as in nearly every other 
place, the converse of that of the temperature, as is shown by the follow- 
ing table: 



Month. 



So. 



Relative humidity. 



Range. 



Mean. 



December. 
January .. 
Tebruary . 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August . . . 
September 
October . . . 
November 
Tear 



+0.7 

-0.5 

+0.6 

3.1 

6.7 

10.6 

13.8 

15.7 

15.6 

13.4 

9.3 

4.4 

7.8 



4.8 
4.4 
4.8 
3.7 
7.3 
9.5 
11.8 
13.3 
13.2 
11.5 
8.8 
6.3 
8.5 



7.7 
7.4 
15.7 
20.8 
23.9 
25.1 
25.6 
26.1 
26.0 
25.2 
18.7 
13.5 



87.5 
86.7 
80.4 
72.7 
68.8 
67.9 
65.3 
62.4 
65.0 
72.7 
79.9 
84.6 
74.5 



{Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 417.) 

VII. — MOVEMENTS OF THE ATMOSPHERE, WINDS, ETC. 

Woeikof, the author of the concluding chapter of Professor CofiBn's 
"Winds of the Globe," has given a review of his results with some 
modifications, from which we extract the following table relative to winds 
in Greenland: 



stations. 



Prevailing -winds. 



Summer. 



Winter. 



Polaris Bay House 

Port Foulke 

TJpemavik 

Godthaab J"acobhaven 
Sabine Island 



>rE. and SW. 
NE. and SW. 
N. andSW... 
E. andSW... 
N. and S 



NE. and E. 

NE. 

N. and E. 

E. 

N. 



He concludes that we can assume with great probability that in win- 
ter a very strong current of air from Northern Greenland blows along 



METEOROLOGY AXD ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



291 



tlie east coast of the island towards tlie cyclone in tlie neighborhood of 
Iceland. The following similar tables relate to the middle latitudes of 
North America : 



stations. 



Prevailing 'winds. 



Summer. 



Winter. 



Saint Paul's Island, Alaska 

Southern Alaska 

Washington Territory , 

Oregon 

California 

Arizona 

New Mexico 

Utah 

Eastern Eocky Mountain slope . 

Florida 

Bahamas 

Alabama , 

Mississippi, Louisiana , 



SE. to SW. 
SW. to flW. 
SW. to NW. 

S. and W. 

SE. and S. 
S. 

S. and W. 

SE. and S. 
SE. and SW. 

E. and SE. 
SE. 

SE. to SW. 



s. 

N.toE. 

E. and SE. 

SE. and SW. 

S. and SE. 

N. 

W. and NE. 

SW. and W. and N. 

N. and NW. 

NW.. N., and NE. 

N. and NE. 

NW. and N. 

N., NE., and W. 



As showing how little the trade winds control throughout the year, 
we have but to study the mean annual wind direction with their re- 
sultants ; thus even in the Northern Bahamas, where the ratio is most 
nearly such as would belong to the trade wind, we find that the resultant 
wind for the year is north 87° east, while at Florida Keys it is north- 
76° east. {Z. 0. G. ilf., XIV., 1879, pp. 1 to 18.) 

Hann summarizes the results of observations by Kersten, Seward, 
and others, in regard to the climate of Zanzibar. He says atmos 
pheric currents in Zanzibar deserve a special consideration, since the 
seasonal change in the winds is here the basis of all weather phenomena. 
The northeast monsoon (that in 1864 began to be perceptible some 
weeks after the passage of the sun southward through the equator, but 
attained its full force after the middle of December, when the sun had 
reached its extreme southern position) brings higher temperature, 
lower pressure, and higher moisture. 

The opposite features characterize the southwest monsoon, which 
commences shortly after the second passage of the sun through the zenith, 
and at first is accompanied by calms, but from the end of March onward 
foY three months continues almost uninterruptedly to blow as a fresh 
breeze. In July and August, however, the southwest wind fails again 
for some weeks, diminishing to a light breeze, and even occasionally for 
a few hours shifts again to a weak northerly wind ; in October the 
southwest again blows with less strength, interrupted by many calms, 
which by November always get the upper hand, and by the end of the 
month give way to the northeast monsoon. Thus the southwest mon- 
soon prevails for seven months ; two months are changeable, namely, 
March and November, and only three months from the middle of Decem- 
ber to the middle of March belong to the northeast monsoon. {Z. 0. 0. 
M., 1879, XIV, pp. 22 to 24.) 



292 



METEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



The results of the observations of tlie wind made on the last arctic ex- 
pedition of Captain Hall have been discussed by Weihrauch. These data 
are very valuable to the meteorologist on account of the high latitude 
the large number of hourly observations, and the actual measurement of 
the wind velocity instead of the ordinary estimates of wind force. The 
distressing misfortune that befell Dr. Bessels in the employment of a 
chief computer who proved to be wholly untrustworthy is already 
known to meteorologists, and rendered it necessary that Weihrauch 
should undertake the labor of an entire repetition of the computations, 
some of the results of which are given in the following table : 

Anemometric means for Polaris Bay. 



Month. 


Number 
of days. 


Mean resulting 

velocity, miles 

per hour. 


Moan resulting 
direction. 


Sept., 1871 
Oct., 1871 
Nov., 1871 
Dec, 1871 
Jan., 1872 
Feb., 1872 
Mar., 1872 
Apr., 1872 
May, 1872 
June. 1872 
July, 1872 
.Aug., 1872 




1.01 
8.75 
6.78 
3.90 
5.47 
7.37 
8.71 
2.09 
3.65 
0. 6C 
1.53 
0.62 


/ 
S. 49 31 W. 
N. 33 21 E. 

N. .54 18 E. 
N. 64 13 E. 
N. 58 48 E. 
N. 51 30 E. 
N. 51 4 E. 
N. 70 54 E. 
N. 49 13 E. 
N. 35 7 E. 
N. 2 5 E. 
S. 71 21 W. 




18 
29 
30 
29 
26 
30 
31 
27 
23 
31 



Anemometric means for Polaris House. 



Nov., 1872 


30 


6.03 


N. 36 38 E. 


Dec, 1872 


31 


12.15 


N. 43 37 E. 


Jan., 1873 


31 


2.32 


N. 74 56 E. 


Feb., 1873 


28 


8.61 


N. 47 13 E. 


Mar., 1873 


31 


3.20 


N. 56 24 E. 


Apr., 1873 


30 


3.72 


N. 67 53 E. 


May, 1873 


31 


3.50 


N. 51 19 E. 



The existence of a diurnal period in the velocity is very plainly 
shown by the observations at Polaris Bay, but less plainly by the ob- 
servations at Polaris House, and Weihrauch remarks that there is a 
great similarity between the diurnal period at Polaris Bay and at 
Dorpat, Kussia. The diurnal period iu the wind direction is not plainly 
shown for either of Captain Hall's two stations, which result is explained 
by the fact that the observations are only recorded to the nearest eight 
principal directions. {Z. 0. G. ili., Vol. XIV, p. 170.) 

Koppen has reviewed the important memoir published by Hann in 
1879 on the diurnal periodicity of the wind as to velocity and direction. 
With regard to the force of the wind, it is shown that whatever may be 
the direction there is a diurnal periodicity in the force, such that— for 
example, at Vienna — the times of maximum and minimum are as shown 
in the following table : 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 
Maximum and minimum wind velocity at Vienna. 



293 





Maxima. 


Minima. 


Wind direction. 


Time. 


Velocity in 
kilometers 
per hour. 


Time. 


Velocity in 
kilometers 
per hour. 


N 


1 to 2 p. m. 
5 to 6 p. m. 
1 to 2 p. m. 
1 to 2 p. m. 
3 to 4 p. m. 
11 a. m. to noon. 
1 to 2 p. m. 
1 to 2 p. m. 


19.8 
12.5 
10.3 
15.6 
18.6 
15.8 
35.2 
27.4 


5 to 6 a> m. 
5 to 6 a. m. 
5 to 6 a. m. 
5 to 6 a. m. 
5 to 6 a. m. 
3 to 4 a. m. 
7 to 8 p. m. 
1 to 2 a. m. 


12.1 


NE .. .. 


6.1 


E 


4.9 


SE 


8.2 


S 


7.5 


SW 


7.0 


w 


27.8 


NW 


21.5 







This increase in wind velocity up to a maximum in the warmest part 
of the day is apparently coufiued to the lowest stratum of air and is to be 
attributed to the descent of rapidly-moving upper currents of air replac- 
ing that which is continually ascending from the heated surface of the 
earth. The only other plausible hyi^othesis would seem to be that the 
upper currents have a variable influence upon the lower strata, depend- 
ing upon the variation of what is known as the internal friction of gases. 
The coefiBcient of this friction increases with the temperature, whence it 
might seem that stronger winds would be experienced at midday at sea- 
level than during the night-time, but coefflcient (55) of friction, for the 
temperature t is, according to O. E. Meyer, equal to (l+0.0025^)i;o, 
where tjo is the coefficient at 0° C. 

It is, however, believed that the diurnal variation of the temperature 
of the air at considerable altitudes is too slight to sensibly effect this 
coefficient. Kopi)en, therefore, considers that the greater part of the 
diurnal variation and wind force must be attributed to the descent of 
rapidly moving upper currents of air. This result is confirmed by the 
study of the relation of wind pressure and barometric gra'dient, and also 
by the study of the daily and annual variation in humidity. Koppeu says, 
since the atmospheric pressure is influenced by the warming of the lower 
strata of air in the same direction as by the humidity, we can say that 
the greater the difference of air temperatures in a vertical direction the 
less is the difference in absolute humiditj^, barometric pressure, and 
total horizontal movement, so that in the early afternoon hours, as far 
as these elements are concerned, the inhabitants of the low plains 
may be said to, in a certain sense, be transferred into an atmosphere 
that belongs to a higher level, while the dwellers on the mountain tops 
are on the other hand transferred to a lower level. The reason why the 
trade-winds, and probably all winds, show on the open sea nothing or a 
very little of the midday maximum is explained by considering that 
the vertical circulation of air, as well as the increase of wind velocity 
with the altitude, is much less than over the land. {Z. 0. 0. M., XIX, 
p. 348.) 

Hann has, in a few words, set clearly forth the slight differences of 



294 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

opinion that at present exist relative to the use of the term ascending 
current. Saussure first employed the term " courant ascendant^^'' which 
Hann would restrict to the column of air ascending from mountains at 
midday, and he doubts whether a similar general ascending current 
ever developed itself over extensive horizontal areas of warm earth. 
That many meteorologists have described the daily ascent of the lower 
strata of air as going on continuously and not as a local interchange be- 
tween ascending currents on the one side and descending on the other, is 
evident to all, especially when we consider how many have fruitlessly 
endeavored to explain the afternoon barometric minimum as the result 
of the ascending current. 

Hann finds a strong argument against the invariable existence of an 
afternoon ascending current in the fact that frequently at Vienna, as 
elsewhere, absolutely cloudless afternoons occur, even when the dew- 
point at the earth's surface is so high that an ascent of a few thousand 
feet must produce cumulus clouds. The cumulus clouds that frequently 
occur at very great altitudes are seldom due to currents ascending from 
the immediate neighborhood of the observer, but to a rising and falling 
or wave-like movement in the upper current itself. At these altitudes 
the air is very near its dew-point, wherefore a very slight ascent would 
give rise to formation of clouds. The direct interchange of air between 
the upper and lower strata of the atmosphere seems not to extend to 
very great altitudes in the atmosphere. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 352.) 

Kox)pen has published an extensive essay on boen, or wind gusts and . 
thunder storms, which is reprinted with additions in the Journal of the 
Austrian Meteorological Association. He concludes by inclining to the 
belief that the gusts of wind preceding showers of rain are brought 
down by the friction and resistance of the falling drops. In this view, 
however, we believe that he was long since anticipated by Prof. Joseph 
Henry. In regard to the gusts accompanying the b6en when no rain 
falls, he thinks that this consists of air brought down from the upper 
regions by its greater density, but still retaining the great horizontal 
velocity that prevails aloft. 

The indications of the self-recording barometer show that every gust 
of wind is accompanied by a corresponding disturbance of the barome- 
tric pressure, and the table quoted by him furnishes many illustrations 
of this. These disturbances are additional to those caused by the 
action of the wind on the doors and chimneys of the room in which the 
barometer is placed, and relate to the motion and density of the air in 
the neighborhood of the observer. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, pp. 457 to 478.) 

Sprung remarks that the law according to which bodies moving hori- 
zontally are deviated to the right or to the left by the influence of the 
rotation of the earth, notwithstanding its importance for meteorology, 
appears to be still very little known. " In the course of my investiga- 
tions it appeared clear to me that the reason why the theory of Hadley 
and Dove as to the influence of the earth's rotation on the wind is at the 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 295 

l^resent time applied to the explanation of the cyclonic movement of 
the air consists especially in its great perspicuity, but also equally in 
the difficulty of making a true law of deviation generally evident to read- 
ers slightly acquainted with mathematics. It appears to me, however, 
as though this difficulty could be overcome, and as though the correct 
expression for the deviating force of rotation could be deduced in a 
simple manner intelligible to all." Sprung then proceeds to consider the 
case of a plain disk rotating with an angular velocity w, which is a 
case precisely parallel to the condition of affairs on the earth's surface 
in the neighborhood of the Xorth Pole. If the relative or absolute orbit 
of any body jjasses through the center of rotation of the disk, then, in 
the absence of all exterior forces, the body moves relatively to the earth 
in an Archimedean spiral, in such a manner that its relative angular 
velocity is equal to that of the disk itself, and perpetually moving 
further and further from the center. 

This, therefore, is the inertia curve projected upon a rotating plane 
disk. It is now evident that every relative movement on the disk that 
differs from that of the inertia curve is also a departure from the absolute 
rectilinear movement, and can therefore not take place except under the 
influence of some exterior force. If, now, such exterior force be decom- 
posed into components that are perpendicular and ijarallel to its orbit, 
the study of the combined effects of these components and the cen- 
trifugal force shows that on a i^arabolic surface rotating with the angular 

velocity w the inertia curve is a circle whose radius is ^o =— -— de- 

scribed with a constant relative velocity (v) which is entirely inde- 
pendent of the distance from the center of rotation of the surface. 
For movements upon the actual surface of the earth we have p = 

— - — —. — , The uniform motion in a straight line, or those forms of 
2 to sin cp 

motion which, in absolute space, are the only ones that can exist in con- 
sequence of the inertia, requires, on the rotating surface of the earth, the 
action of an outer pressure from right to left capable of producing an ac- 
celeration at the equator, whose value is expressed by 2 v ta sin <p. 

Sprungj by geometrical construction, makes it evident that under 
otherwise similar circumstances in regard to the geographical latitude, 
the velocity and ftiction, 1st, the cyclonal curvature of the wind orbit is 
accompanied by a stronger gradient and greater angular deviation <p 
than is the anti-cycloual curvature. 2d. For the same curvature of the 
wind orbit and for equal velocity and increasing coefficient of friction 
increases the gradient, but diminishes the angular deviation (p. 3d. For 
equal curvature of the wind orbit, and equal coefficient of friction, and 
equal velocity, both gradient and angle of deviation increase with the 
approach to the equator, as was shown by Guldberg and Mohii. {Z. 0. 
. 0. M., Vol. XV, 1880, pp. 1 to 21.) 



296 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



Woeikof , gives a summary of our knowledge of the winds on the 
Atlantic Ocean, in which, among other things, he gives the following 
table showing the mean limits of the northern border of the region of 
the northeast trade winds. Thus on 45th meridian west, from April to 
June, the average latitude of the northern limit of the northeast trade 
winds is 27°. 





Meridian. 


Season. 




o 

§ 


1 





o 


1 


CO 


1 


^ 


^ 


o 




N. 
26JO 
28° 
27° 
26° 


N. 
25° 
24JO 
27° 
24° 


N. 
23i° 
23° 
26JO 
22JO 


N. 
23° 
25° 
26° 
22° 


N. 
24io 
27° 
26io 
22J° 


26° 

58° 

274° 

24i° 


26i° 

28° 

27J° 

25i° 


25io 
28° 
28i° 
25J° 


N. 
25J° 
28JO 
31° 
26J° 


284° 
32° 
31i° 
29° 


30° 




33° 




324° 
31° 


October -December 



{Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 124.) 

In reference to the winds of the valley of the Upper Engadin in 
Switzerland, Professor Billwiller, in a review of the recently crowned 
essay of Dr. Ludwig, says, "After I had made an accurate review of the 
continuous records of the meteorological stations, and, by direct ques- 
tionings of reliable persons, had found the fact confirmed that really on 
warm, clear summer and autumn days, about midday, there regularly 
prevailed a local wind flowing downwards in the direction of the river from 
Maloja Pass to beyond the Scaufs, which attained its greatest intensity 
in the warmer hours of afternoon, and toward evening again died away, 
I attempted to find an explanation for this phenomenon, which ap- 
parently stands in contradiction to the theory of the mountain and val- 
ley winds." The exj)lanation of this phenomenon depends essentially 
upon the topograi^hical peculiarities. The meteorological conditions of 
the Ober-Engadin are entirely the same as those of an inclosed valley. 
The temperature variations are much greater than those of the lower 
land beneath it, by reason of the dry, pure, thin air. The insolation in 
snmmer produces an ascent of the air on the flanks of the valley that 
is followed by a diminution in the i^ressure and density of the air im- 
mediately above the lowest portions of the long, narrow valley of the 
Inn, and which demands a compensation. Since now active ascending 
currents are moving along the southern base of the Alps, nothing is 
more natural than to assume that the deficiency in density in the base 
of the valley of the Ober-Engadin should find its compensation by 
drawing upon the cooler and somewhat denser air on the other side 
but at the same level in the valley of the Maloja. — [Z. 0. G. 3L, Vol. 
XV, 1880, p. 297.) 

O. T. Sherman has published the result of observations made by him- 
self, in balloons, on the height and strength of land and sea breezes. 
The observations were made at Coney Island, near New York, at the 
expense of Capt. H. W. Howgate, and at the request of Professor Abbe, 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



29" 



who also furnished most of the instructions. These observations were 
taken every five minutes with barometer, thermometer, anemometer, 
&c. It is demonstrated, by meaus of these observations, that the re- 
turn current of air is comparatively thin and feeble, and also that the 
sea wind, like the land wind, has only a feeble power. {Z. 0. G. M., XV, 
p. 448.) 

Professor Airy has published the results of the reduction of the pho- 
tographic records of pressure and temperature at Gl'eenwich since 1849. 
The annual wind ''roses" for these two elements are as follows: 



[Direction of wind. Pressure. 


Temperature. 


K 0.9 

NE 3.8 

E 2.5 

SE t 0.9 

S 1 —3.3 

SW , —2.2 

W 1 -1.1 

NW 1 —0.4 


7.7 

8.3 

9.1 

10.2 

11.1 

11.2 

10.4 

8.6 



The monthly means, including those of earth temperatures, are shown 
in the following table. The air temperatures refer to the years 1849 to 
1868, for the first part of the table; but for the sake of comparison with 
the earth temperatures they have, in the second part of the table, been 
recomputed for the years 1847 to 1873, and are given in degrees cent. : 





Temperatnrea for 1849-68. 


Tomperatnres for 1847-73. 


Month. 


h 
< 


.1 






1 

<o 

1- 

a 


1 

a 


December 


4.9 
3.7 
4.3 
5.3 
8.6 
11.7 
15.4 
17.0 
16.6 
14.2 
10.6 
5.9 
9.8 


3.0 

1.9 

1.9 

2.3 

4.7 

7.4 

10.8 

12.1 

12.5 

10.8 

8.3 

4.1 

6.7 


—3.6 

—3.3 

-2.2 

+ 0.4 

2.1 

2.2 

2.7 

2.4 

2.4 

1.6 

0.0 

-2.6 

+0.2 


4.7 


9.2 


,1^ 




3.6 
4.3 
5.3 
8.4 
11.6 
14.8 
16.9 
16. 4 
14.0 
10.3 
5.9 
9.7 


7.7 
7.1 
7. 1 


10 9 




10.5 




in 1 




8. 1 ' 9-7 


Mtiy 


9.9 


9.4 


T ■^ 


12.3 
14.3 
15.4 
1.5. 1 
13.6 
11.3 
10.9 


9.4 


July 


9.6 




10.1 




10.6 




11.0 




11.2 




10.3 











{Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV., 1880, p. 405.) 

Professor Finger, of Vienna, has published a second memoir on the in- 
fluence of the earth's rotation upon the winds. As several of liis funda- 
mental assumptions differ from those introduced by Ferrel, his results 
differ correspondingly. He concludes that the gradient in the hori- 
zontal direction perpendicular to the respective wind direction is entirely 
independent of the friction and other resistances to the motion of the air; 
and, again, that the influence of the ascending vertical movement is to 
depress the barometric pressure for south winds and raise it for north 



298 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



winds. [This influence seems to relate to matters of minor importance as 
compared with those to which Professor Ferrel has confined his atten- 
tion.] {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 532.) 

Dr. A. Sprung gives an elucidation of the theoretical considerations 
explanatory of his conclusion that the daily period in wind force is a 
necessary consequence of a daily period in wind direction and velocity. 
He finds for a period of cloudless weather in Magdeburg the following 
mean velocities recdrded by the meteorograph of Dr. Assmann. 



Magdeburg records. 


Hamburg records. 


Hour. 


Wind 
direction. 


Wind 

velocity. 


Hour. 


Wind 
direction. 


Wind 
velocity. 


8- 9 a. m 




N. 80. 6 E. 
86.0 
85.8 
87.2 
87.5 
90.8 
87.1 
87.3 
85.7 
82.7 
82.3 
75.6 
72.5 
70.7 


Meterspertec. 
5.1 

5.8 • 
6.2 
6.3 
6.3 
6.5 
6.6 
6.3 
6.4 
5.5 
4.8 
4.6 
4.9 
.5.1 


0- 2 a, m 




N. 63. 2 E. 
59.7 
66.5 
78.9 
80.8 
78.8 


Meters per SM. 
4.6 




2- 4 a. m 


4.3 


10-11 a. m 


4- 6 a.m 


4.2 


11 12 m 


6- 8 a. m 


4.8 


12- 1pm 


8-10 a..m 


5.6 


1 2 p m . 


10-12 m 


6.7 


2 3 p. Ill 


12- 2 p. m 


80.8 


6.8 


3- 4 p. m 


2- 4 p. m 


76.2 
66.2 
70.9 
62.9 
62.4 


6.8 




4- 6 p. m 


6.3 




6- 8 p. m 


5.1 


ft- 7 p m ... 


8-10 p.m 


5.0 


7- 8 p.m 


10 midnight. 


5.0 


8- 9 p. m 




9-10 p. m 









These show a wind force increasing as the wind veers toward the 
east in the morning, and diminishing in the afternoon as the wind backs 
to NE. A general summary, based on records from 18 stations in Europe 
and Asia, shows that the number of plus or minus revolutions of the 
wind-vane is as follows : 

Morning, -\- 4185 - 2617 
Afternoon, + 2885 - 3267 

whence the Dove law of winds is not confirmed for the afternoon inter- 
val 1 p. m. to 9 p. m., but is perfectly so inthemorning hours. The " Espy- 
Koppen" theory of the diurnal variation of the strength of the wind re- 
quires that no such period should exist at considerable altitudes above 
the earth, and this is confirmed by the observations taken on Schaffberg 
and Pic-du-Midi. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 424.) 

Sprung has continued his theoretical investigations on the wind by 
adding a few empirical results as to the relation between the force of 
the wind, the gradient, and their diurnal periodicity. Expressing the 
wind force (S) on the Beaufort (0 to 12) scale, and the gradient in milli- 
meters of the barometer for 111 kilometers (or millimeters for degiee 
of latitude), he finds in general : 

Gradient = 0.5 + 0.212 8 + 0.019 8\ 

For the same gradient the wind force is greater for north and east 
winds than for south and west winds, also greater in summer than in 
winter. The diurnal variation in wind force during clear days is much 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



299 



greater thau duriug cloudy days. The range for the former is, in the 
summer season, twice that for the latter. For clear days the range of 
wind force is remarkably great, while the gradient remains unchanged, 
a condition that requires the introduction of an explanation in the 
manner suggested by Koppen {Z. 0. G. If., XIV, pp. 333-34:9.) At sea 
the diurnal range, as deduced for marine records, shows nothing of all 
this remarkable increase of wind force at 2 p. m. Finally, Sprung com- 
pares the anemometer records at 4 stations with the corresi^onding esti- 
mates on the Beaufort scale, and deduces the following formula : 

Velocity in meters per second = 0.360 + 1.691 x Beaufort scale of force. 
{Z. 0. G. Jf., XVI, 1881, p. 356.) 

The above work by Sprung has been followed by a similar study by 
Eev. W. Clement Ley, who has discussed the observations at Stony- 
hurst and Kew, and who concludes that if we could have isobars for the 
level of the cirrus clouds, we would there find above the deepest cyclone 
only a slight secondary depression circulating around a portion of the 
great polar depression. He submits the question "Cannot the fact that 
a given gradient for east winds obtains only in the lower atmosphere, 
while a similar gradient for west winds holds good for the whole atmos- 
phere, be brought into connection through known laws of mechanics with 
the fact of the greater force of the east over the west winds at the earth's 
surface?" [Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 535.) 

Supan, professor of geography in the University of Czernowitz, has 
published a valuable work, entitled " Statistik der unteren Luftstro- 
mungen," in which he has utilized the great collection of data published 
in Coflin's '"Winds of the Globe" (Washington, 1876), and almost as 
much more collated by himself. Supan has, in fact, endeavored to util- 
ize only the longer series of observations, and he confines himself to 
annual percentages of the frequency of the winds, omitting the calms, 
which are not given with sufficient accuracy and uniformity by the vari- 
ous observers. Only about thirty pages of the whole volume are occu- 
pied with general analysis and conclusions. 

In elucidating the mutual relations of wind and pressure, Supan cal- 
culates the pressure for January over the X. Atlantic Ocean at various 
altitudes and degrees of latitude. Adopting observed pressures at sea- 
level and Glaishers' rate of diminution of temj^erature with altitude, 
Supan obtains the pressures in the following table: 



Lat. 




Pressures. 






Differences of pressure. 


Altitudes in meters. 


Altitudes in meters. 


0. 


2,000 


4,000 


6,000 


8,000 


0. 


2,000 


4,000 


6,000 


8,000 


o 
80 
60 
30 



755 

744 
766 
758 


572 
576 
601 
600 


428 
441 
467 
469 


316 
334 
360 
365 


232 
251 
275 

282 


- 3 
-14 

-f 8 



-28 

-24 

+ 1 




-41 

-28 

- 2 




-49 

-31 

- 5 




1 

-50 

-31 

- 7 





300 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Whence it appears that at 3000™ a uniform downward gradient pre- 
vails from the equator to the pole, and that this gradient is stronger the 
higher we ascend above that level. {Z. 0. O. 2L, XVI, 1881, p. 402.) 

A. Richter has studied the relations of the upper cirrus cloud move- 
ment to the distribution of pressure and temperature at the earth's sur- 
face, basing his studies upon the cloud observations of the years 1878- 
1S80 at Ebersdorf, and the daily weather charts of the Deutsche See- 
warte. He finds for the average of the three years that the upper clouds 
move towards the azimuth S. 85° W. ; the angle by which the movement 
of the cirrus differs from the barometric gradient averages 88°, and that 
by which it differs from the corresponding temperature gradient is 75°. 
The changes in these average results depending upon the seasons the 
direction of the Avind, excessive gradients, &c., are also investigated 
somewhat. {Z. 0. G. M., XYI, 1881, p. 37C.) 

L. Teisserenc de Bort, in a study upon atmospheric circulation in the 
Iberian peninsula, says: "The simultaneous observations, day by day, 
assume greater importance, but this new mode of research cannot wholly 
replace studies by the method of averages in many of the problems that 
meteorology ofiers us. Averages are, in fact, a powerful means of 
bringing out the dominant character of phenomena, and they are aplica- 
ble to the discussion of daily charts as well as to the so-called statisti- 
cal researches. These latter do not show the accidental variations, but 
they put in relief certain influences that play an important part because 
of their continuous action, and that are too feeble to clearly stand forth 
in the portrayal of the general condition that obtains at any moment. 
{Z. 0. G. .¥., XVI, 1881, p. 265.) 

r. Chambers has discussed with much ability the record for 1873,' 74, 
'75 of the anemograph, at Kurrachee, in a memoir of some length. (Z. 
0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 172.) 

Ragona has published a memoir on the diurnal and annual variations 
in the direction of the winds, basing his studies upon the hourly read- 
ings from the self-register of the observatory at Modena. He finds four 
daily maxima and four minima in the velocity of the wind during Jan- 
uary, February, October, and December, three maxima and minima 
during March, June, July, and August, September, and Xovember, and 
two maxima and minima during April and May. The connection be- 
tween diurnal periodicity in velocity and direction is so close that he 
then finds almost a perfect parallelism in these two data. As to the an- 
nual periodicity he finds for each wind direction two maxima and two 
minima of frequency; he also finds Dove's law of rotation of the winds 
confirmed for Modena. (Z. 0. G. 2L, XVI, 1881, p. 125.) 

VIII. — BAROMETRIC PRESSURE. 
IX. — STORMS. 

Koppen, in a review of the extensive work of Toynbee on the " Meteor- 
ology of the Xorth Atlantic during August 1873," gives a study of the 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



301 



relation between isobars and winds during the great hurricane that 
marked this month. The angle between the wind and isobar in each 
quadrant of the hurricane is as follows, on the average of three maps : 



Quadrant. 


1 Number of 
Anglo i/'. observa- 
1 tions. 


NE 

SE 

SW 

NW 

Total.. 


48° 
64° 
70° 
60° 


25 
11 
41 
31 


61° 108 



At different distances from the storm-center the angle varied as fol- 
lows: 



Distance 




Number of 


in nautical 


Angle 1^. 


observa- 


miles. 




tions. 


100 


47° 


7 


200 


57° 


17 


300 


62° 


18 


400 


58° 


32 


500 


65° 


12 


600 


66° 


7 


700 


75° 


12 


800 


75° 


3 



Since these relate to the region beyond the maximum of wind force 
they can, according to Guldberg and Mohn, be considered as approxi- 
mations to the normals values of the angle of deviation, and in their 
notation the average values for the three maps are as follows; 



Date. 


^ 


Number 
of observa- 
tions. 


August 24, 10' p. m 




61 
59 
64 


37 
40 
31 


25, 6" a. m 


25,0''43-p.m 



This angle is, therefore, nearly the same on the Atlantic Ocean, and 
in latitude 42°, as it is in Denmark and Great Britain. By the formula 
given by Guldberg and Mohn we can now compute the coefficient of 
friction and derive the value A;=0.00005409. With this we may compare 
the value Jc = 0.00007265, computed by Hoffmyer, for Denmark, latitude 
56°, from the deviation angle a = 59°, and we iind it higher than would 
have been expected from the ocean (Guldberg and Mohn assume for the 
open sea Tc = 0.00004). The value 7; = 0.00002582, computed by Clement 
Ley for tp = 77° for five British coast stations is apparently much too 
small. {Z. 0. G. M., XY, 1880, p. 201.) 

Friesenhof concludes from the study of the paths of storm centers 
that the most important factor in determining both the velocity and 
direction of the progression is the unequal evaporation in the different 



302 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

quadrants — the greater the inequality the faster the movement. In the 
North Atlantic Ocean this evaporation is largely dependent upon the 
presence of open water or a covering of ice, whence he is led to con- 
clude that the storm paths of this region may be classified in two 
periods. The first is that of the frozen East Polar Sea, with floating 
ice in the West Polar Sea, which period is marked by great frequency of 
depressions over the Atlantic and their movement southward into the 
interior of Eussia. The second period is that of the frozen West Polar 
Sea, with less ice in the East Polar Sea, which period is marked by 
fewer Atlantic cyclones, which all pass from the Gulf Stream into the 
East Polar Sea. There is no regularity in the duration of these periods, 
although there is some appearance as if the first belonged to the winter 
and the second to the summer season. {Z. 0. G. 3L, XV, 1880, p. 217.) 

J. Elliott has published an elaborate report of the Madras cyclone. 
May, 1877, in which he contributes much to the knowledge of the circum- 
stances attending the inception of the cyclones of the Bay of Bengal. 
He says that it is doubtful whether there is in all cases a single calm 
center which continues unbroken during the continuance of the cyclonic 
disturbance in its more intense form and the path of which marks the 
line of advance of the cyclone. It is quite probable that, with the inter- 
mittent actions of the winds, one of the commonest features of cyclones 
being rapid variations in their intensity, which give rise to the well known 
phenomena of squalls, there may be a continuous disappearance of one 
storm center and the formation of another in its neighborhood. 

The only entirely new and adequate factor in the meteorological con- 
ditions present during the origin and existence of this cyclone was rain- 
fall; the cyclone gradually developed after the rainfall, and its intensity, 
bears the most direct and marked relation to the intensity of the rainfall. 
It followed the line of heavy rainfiill throughout its existence. 

The energy of the latent heat given out produces an ascensional or 
expansional movement in the atmospheric condensing region, and this 
disturbance is followed by an attempt towards equilibrium, which in 
this case is the converging motion of the lower atmospheric strata to 
the area of rainfall. {Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 308.) 

Eagona has published a work on the general movement of the at- 
mosphere, and the prediction of the weather in especial reference to 
Italy. He states that the barometric depressions approaching Italy from 
the northwest and south jiass around the peninsula rather than over it. 
About the same number of depressions approach from all directions. 
{Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 452.) 

Dr. Van Bebber has strdied the daily and monthly course of the 
barometric minima in Europe, 1876-1880, and endeavored to contribute 
toward bridging over the gap between climatological studies based on 
monthly and annual means, and those based on daily weather maps. 
In studying the statistical distribution of minima, he constructs a map, 
showing the average number of minima passing through each square of 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



303 



5° latitude and 10° longitude. [In tlie statistical atlas published by the 
Unites States Census Ofiflce in 1876 may be found a similar chart for 
each one degree square for the United States.] 

Van Bebber finds, however, that the irregularities in contiguous 
years are such as to show that five years is by far not enough to estab- 
lish the normal distribution of storm-centers. 

The following table shows the annual means for each zone, corrected 
so as to reduce to a uniform area with the zone of 50° latitude : 



Latitude. 


Annual number. 


Means. 


o 
40-45 N. 
45-50 N. 

50-55 N. 

55-CON. 
60-70 N. 


18.0 

11.6 
C 18. 8 continental. ? 
{ 13. oceanic. ) 
C 19. 8 continental. ) 
) 23. 4 oceanic. > 

20.0 


18.0 
11.6 

15.9 

21.1 
20.0 



In reference to the paths pursued by the minima, Van Bebber finds 
the routes most frequented to be as follows : 

(A) Passing through Northwestern Ireland; then along the coast of 
Norway into the Arctic Circle; thence dividing and passing on either (1) 
northward until swallowed up in the ocean, or (2) to the White Sea, or 
(3) southeast to the interior of Eussia. 

(B) Passing near Great Britain ; thence either directly over the North 
Sea, Southern Scandinavia, central and southern Baltic Sea to Finland 
and the Baltic provinces of Eussia. 

(C) Passing southwest of Great Britain, southeastward over France 
to the Mediterranean. 

In general, the minima seem to prefer the coast; mountains do not 
apparently attract them. (Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 418.) 

Einiker has studied the mass of data collected by the forestry com- 
mission of Aargau, Switzerland, relative to the occurrence of hail. He 
finds an intimate connection between the frequency and severity of hail 
storms and the distribution of forests, cleared land, &c. ; the more forests, 
so much the less hail. {Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 1881, p. 525.) 

Lancaster, of Brussels, has discussed the observations of thunder 
storms in Belgium during 1878. He finds the trend of the paths of the 
43 storms distributed as follows: Toward the SW., 25; S., 8; SE., 4; 
W., 4; NW., 1 ; NE., 1. The hourly velocity of progress averages 5 kil. 

On the average of 45 years, 1833 to 1878, the annual distribution of 
days with thunder is as follows : 



Nnmber of storms. 

January 12 

February 10 

March 27 

April 45 

May 108 

June 143 



Number of storms. 

July 158 

August. 159 

September 68 

October 21 

November 6 

December 4 



304 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

The diurnal periodicity is as follows : 

Interval. No. of Btorms. 

Midnight to 2 a. m 27 

2 a. m. to 4 a. m 26 

4 a. m. to 6 a. m 15 

6 a. m. to 8 a. m , IG 

8 a. m. to 10 a. m 18 

10 a. m. to noon 57 

Noon to 2 p. m 115 

2 p. m. to 4 p. m 143 

4 p. m. to 6 p. m 173 

6 p. m. to 8 p. m 141 

8 p. m. to 10 X). m 75 

10 p. m. to midnight 37 

{Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XVI, pp. 369-372.) 

Schiaparelli and Frisian! have prepared a study of the observations 
of thunder storms made in Upper Italy during 1877. The latter liuds 
that the greater part of the storms occur when a barometric maximum 
is present on the Atlantic coasts of France and England, and pressure 
is high on the north side of the Alps; a smaller proportion of the storms 
occur when the maximum barometer is over Northern Africa; very few 
occur when the maximum is over Upper Italy, and only when clear 
warm days prevail. None occur when the weather is perfectly clear, 
Avith uniform high pressure, or when the minimum pressure is due west 
or the temperature too low. No encouragement is found as to the proba- 
bility of our being able to predict local thunder storms. {Z. 0. G. ilf., 
XVI, 1881, p. 300.) 

The distribution of thunder storms in Ziirich during the past ninety 
years has been studied by the scientific society in that city, the summary 
of which is given by Hann. The daily records for this period sbow 1,734 
thunder storms with thunder and lightning, 217 lightning without 
thunder, and 368 hail storms, of which 116 are included in the above 
1,734. The annual distribution of these storms by ten-day periods show 
two maxima of 155 each, viz, the 11th to 20th of June, and 10th to 19th 
of August. {Z. 0. G. .¥., Vol. XVI, p. 349.) 

X. — ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AURORAS, ETC. 

H. Fritz has published a very complete summary of the present state 
of our knowledge of the aurora {Bas PolarlicJit, Leipzig, 1881). We 
quote the following: 

(1) The region of greatest frequency is in the neighborhood of the 
Arctic Circles, touching North Cape and Point Barrow, and at its 
southernmost passing through Northern Labrador. This generalization 
was first published by him in 1867, but in the present work is revised 
by the help of his great catalogue of auroras, published in 1873. 

The relative frequency of auroras for stations nearest the zone of 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



305 



maximum frequency is shown in the following table, where the fourth 
column (B) contains the total number of auroras observed at the given 
stations during the years for which we have the record, the fifth column 
(E) gives the number of auroras recorded in Fritz's catalogue as having 
been observed in Central Europe during the same years, and the last 
column (M) gives the mean relative frequency of visibility of the aurora 
for the respective places for the interval from 1700 to 1872, as computed 
by the formula 

B 



M=28 



B 



Station. 



Lati- 
tude. 



Longi- 
tude. 



Makerstoun 

Dunae 

Christiania 

Upsala 

Enare 

Ericknaess 

Sand wick Manse 

Drontbcim 

Talvig 

Kaafjord 

Kilduin 

Nova Zembla 

Do 

Werschene Kolymsk . . . . 

Nyachne Kolymsk 

Iceland 

Do 

Baerentz Island 

Spitzbergen 

Do 

Franz Josef Land ... 

Saint Lawrence, N. T 

SoniPierville, N. Y 

tJtica, N.T 

Sauk City 

Toronto, Canada West . . 

Depauville, N. Y 

]|"rnnklin. Me 

St. Martin 

Albion Mines 

Quebec 

Matawagomingen 

Michpocoton 

Moose Factory 

Fort Albany 

Martin's Falls 

■Cumberland House 

Fort Goorgo 

Fort Chipewyan, &c 

Pelly aud Lewis 

Fort Simp.son 

Frances Lakes 

Fort Hope 

Fort Reliance 

Fort Knteipriso 

Fort Nomiann 

Fort Franklin 

Yukon 

Pe.la paver 

For t (Confidence 

Kotzelme Sound 

I'elix and Sheriff Harbor 

Point Harrow 

Fort Canada 

Lancaster Sound 

Winter Harbor 

Itodthaab 



.56 N. 
56 N. 
60 N. 

60 ^T. 
69 N. 
63 N. 
59TSr. 
63 N. 
TON. 
TON. 
69 N. 
T3N. 
T3N. 
66 N. 
69 N. 
85 N. 
65 N. 
T5N. 
T9N. 
80 N. 
T8N. 
43 N. 
43 N. 
43 N. I 

43 N. I 

44 N. ! 

44 N. I 

45 N. I 

46 N. 
46 N. 
4T N. 
4TN.? 
48 N. 

51 N. I 

52 N. i 
52 N. I 
54 N. j 
54 N. I 
59 N. 

61 N. ! 

62 N. I 

62 N. 

63 N. 
68 N. 

64 N. 1 

65 N. 

65 N. I 

66 N. 
6TN. t 
6TN. I 
TON. 
TON. 
TIN. 
T2N. I 
T4N. 
T5N. 
64 N. 



3E. 

2E. 
HE. 
18 E. 
?4E. 

22 E. 
3 E. 

HE. 

23 E. 

24 E. 
33 E. 
54 E. 
53 E. 

151 E. 
161 E. 

20 W. 

20 W. 

20 E. 

15 E. 

16 E. 
60 E. 
TIW". 



B. 



T5W. 



TOW. 
T6W. 
TOW. 
T4W. 

Ti W.' 
80W.?i 
85 W. 
81 W. 



102 W. 
123 W. 
lUW. 



121 W. 
129 W. 
131 W. 
109 W. 
113 W. 
12.5 W. 
123W. 
147 W. 
1.14 W. 
118W. 
163 W. 

92 W. 
150 W. 

94 W. 

81 W. 
Ill W. 

52 W. 



184 

238 

965 

1,150 

358 

53T 

405 

86 

23 

111 

53 

51 

16 

30 

65 

149 

300 

18 

4 

100 

249 

308 

1T8 

1T4 

323 

1,242 

212 

61 

403 

63 

229 

40 

T9 

294 

61 

T9 

46 

5T 

182 

129 

253 

66 

39 

200 

148 

32 

49 

24 

201 

198 

32 

25 

256 

89 

9 

2T 

481 



19T 

166 

L149 

1,359 

469 

712 

292 

13 

6 

20 

35 

61 

10 

41 

5 

81 

211 

13 

2 

86 

164 

322 

165 

211 

406 

949 

479 

40 

358 

165 

322 

45 

84 

121 

57 

40 

10 

58 

35 

154 

148 

19 

18 

11 

3 

18 

11 

20 

238 

93 

8 

51 

78 

28 

3 

10 

133 



Even if the periodicity of the phenomena has a partial influence upon 
ats magnitude and frequency, still it must, beyond all doubt, be that 
S. Mis. 100 20 



306 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

north of the line of greatest frequeDcy toward the Pole the frequency 
and magnitude of the aurora diminishes more rapidly than toward the 
Equator, although for no place in that zone is the aurora entirely in- 
visible, as is the case in lower latitudes. 

(2) With regard to the direction in which auroras are seen, after dis- 
cussing a large number of observations, the author finds that the lines 
of greatest frequency and neutral directions are, in all probability, sub- 
ject to periodical changes in frequency and extent, whereby they soon 
come nearer the Pole and again depart from it, as, in fact, could have 
already been suspected from the different altitudes and positions of the 
observed segments, arcs, &c. 

(3) As regards the distribution of auroras in space, the author con- 
cludes that the great part of the auroras has no great extension, or the 
phenomenon is produced by conditions which are very local in their 
nature. 

(4) In regard to the altitude of the aurora above the earth's surface, 
the author states he can make no advance on the conclusions previously 
formulated by others. The altitudes above the earth's surface at whiclt 
polar lights develop are very various, and the altitudes of these regions, 
at least for the lower limit, diminish with the latitudes. 

(5) The extent of the aurora and the duration vary within wide limits. 
The greatest extent in latitude has been from 29° south up to 82<=' 
north, and the greatest in longitude has been about 280^. The greatest 
duration has, apparently, been from August 28 to September 7 [1859]. 

(6) With regard to diurnal period, he finds that the aurora attains 
only one maximum and one minimum; the former is usually about 10 
p. m., the jirincipal exception being at Point Barrow, where the maxi- 
mum would appear to be at 3 or 4 p. m. 

(7) In regard to the annual period, nearly all the series of observa- 
tions show two maxima and minima. 

(8) In regard to the eleven year and the secular periods, it would 
appear that the periodicity of the aurora can be determined more accu- 
rately in proportion as we know the perodicity of the sun spots. 

(9) The following table shows the comparison between ajiparent sun 
spots and auroras, so far as both of these data can be gathered from im- 
perfect records : 

Dates of maxima and minima of ohserred number of auroras. 



Maxi 


ma. 


Minima. 


1707.2 


1804.5 


1712.1 


1810.8 


1719.7 


1818.5 


1723.5 


1822.2 


1730.5 


1829.9 


1734.6 


1834.1 


1739.8 


1840.2 


1744.1 


1843.8 


1748.8 


1850.1 


1755.4 


1856.3 


1760.9 


1860.6 


1766.1 


1865.6 


1772.8 


1870.9 


1775.2 




1778.0 




1783.4 




1788.3 




1799.9 





METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 307 

(10) The mean length of the period from one maximum br minimum 
to the next is as follows : 

Years. 

For the minima, 1712 to 1865 10. 96 

For the maxima, 1707 to 1870 10. 91 

Average 10 .94 

(11) With regard to the secular period, Fritz computes as follows : 



From 208 B. C. to 1848 . . . 
From 397 A. D. to: 848.. 
From 503 A. D. to 1848.. 
From 807 A. D. to 1848.. 
From 1401 A. D. to 1848. 



Periods. 


Duration. 


37 


55.6 


26 


55.8 


24 


•56.0 


19 


54.8 


8 


55.9 



From the above he deduces the mean length of the secular period as 
55.6 years, or exactly five eleven-year periods of 11.12 years each. 

He suggests that in the present relation between auroras and terres- 
trial magnetism a portion of the periodical variability may be due to 
the displacement of the existing distribution of terrestrial magnetism, 
and be therefore to a large degree apparent. 

(12) In reference to the connection between auroras and the disturb- 
ances of terrestrial magnetism, he concludes that auroras and magnetic 
perturbations frequently occur simultaneously or follow each other 
closely; that, however, the perturbations that coincide with aiiroras 
are not observed at all magnetic stations, and that probably auroras 
occur without being announced by perturbations in terrestrial mag- 
netism. In most cases the aurora precedes the stronger deviations of 
the needle. 

(13) Again, in reference to the daily magnetic periods, he finds that 
the 10 p. m. maximum of auroras entirely corresponds with daily mini- 
mum of declinations, which latter, like the maximum of auroras, comes 
later with increase of latitude, and that, moreover, it agrees with the 
minimum of inclination or with the maximum of the intensity for any 
one single place, for instance, St. Petersburg, or with the secondary 
maximum of inchnation of other places, such as Toronto, Hobarton, &c., 
and the maxima of auroras only agree with the secondary maxima of 
the disturbances. Herein it is established that the connection between 
the changes in the terrestrial magnetism and the aurora is indirect, 
and at present the appearances are that both these phenomena are in- 
tiuenced by a common cause, or perhaps are due to it. 

(14) With reference to connection with annual periods of terrestrial 
magnetism Fritz says that the relations are more intimate ; thus, the 
daily variation of declination, as observed at Munich, Hobarton, Floe- 
berg Beach, show annual changes in their amplitude coinciding with the 
changes in frequency of auroras. 



308 METEOROL'^GY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS 

(15) With reference to the relation between auroras and sun spots, the 
author sums up the present state of our knowledge as follows : The 
maxima of the sun spots accurately or very closely agree with the 
quadratures of the planets Jupiter and Saturn. The differences are 
smallest in those periods in which the spotted surface is greatest upon 
the sun, when the auroras are the most frequent and most beautifully 
developed, as in the years 1638, 1648, 1718, 1727, 1738, 1837, 1848. ^he 
two longest periods (1660 to 1675 and 1789 to 1804) correspond to the 
times of quadratures (1668 and 1797), for which times, according to the 
previous observations, correspond no maxima. From these quadratures 
of Jupiter and Saturn, Fritz computes again the greater aurora period as 
55.56 years. 

(16) The eighth chapter deals with the relation between the aurora 
and the electricity of the atmosphere and the earth. The electric nature 
of the aurora is in general sufficiently well acknowledged, and some de- 
tail of aurora phenomena can be reproduced in the electrical experiments 
of our physical laboratories, but a satisfactory general theory as to the 
exact explanation of the auroral phenomena has not yet been accom- 
plished. 'No evidence of the existence of free electricity in the air was 
observed in delicate experiments in the Arctic regions, made by Parry, 
1819 to 1825, Fisher 1824, Franklin 1825 to 1827, McClintock 1857 to 
1859, Bessels 187^, Nares 1875. But traces of electrical phenomena are 
claimed to have been observed by Wyjkander at Spitzbergen, 1872 and 
1873, and by Hjaltalin, in Iceland, and by Canton, in London. The 
diurnal periodicity of atmospheric electricity, the annual periodicity, 
and the secular periodicity have all been the subject of observation by 
Schubler, Quetelet, Everett, Wisliczenus; but no definite relation be- 
tween auroras and electricity can be deduced from these observations. 
The relation between frequency of thunder storms and auroras has been 
maintained by some; but the result announced by Von Bezold, namely, 
that the maximum of auroras occurs at the time of the minimum of 
thunder storms is directly controverted by Fritz, whose studies cover a 
longer period and a larger number of stations, and demonstrate that 
there is no definite relation between the two phenomena. On the other 
hand, the relation between thunder storms and sun spots seems to be 
more definite : at least Fritz finds that the maxima and minima of 
thunder storms do not correspond to the maxima and minima of sun 
spots. 

A further connection apparently exists between auroras and the dis- 
turbances that are experienced on telegraph lines due to the so-called 
earth currents. This phenomenon was first observed, 1848, by Matteuci 
on the telegraph line between Pisa and Florence during the aurora of Oc- 
tober 17, 1848; this phenomenon was also widely observed in Europe and 
America during the great aurora that lasted from August 28 to September 
2, 1859; other dates of equal or greater disturbance were 1869, May 13; 
1870, April 5 and October 24 and 25; 1872, February 4; the observa- 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 309 

tious during this latter were among the most extensive ever taken. In 
general the disturbances are the greatest on telegraph lines that inter- 
Kcct the meridians; but decided exceptions to this rule are sometimes 
i-ecorded. 

Again, in general the optical phenomena follow after the disturbances 
experienced on the telegraph lines, and the latter die away rapidly after 
the maximum of the optical display, but sometimes the earth currents 
disappear with the hrst appearance of the optical phenomena. It is 
jwobable that a thorough investigation of this subject would be advan- 
tageous both for science and the telegraph companies. 

As to the explanation of the origin of earth currents, Kuhn in 1861 
believed that it is to be sought for in the earth and not the atmosphere. 
Balfour Stewart endeavors to prove that the auroras are secondary 
currents due to small, suddeu changes in the terrestrial magnetism. 
Heury found evidences of atmospheric electricity when snow-fall occurs 
at one station while the heavens are clear at the other stations. 

(17) As to the relation between the aurora and the weather, numerous 
attempts have been made to deduce some connection between the aurora 
and the general atmosphere. After giving the belief current among the 
natives of Arctic regions as recorded by explorers during the past hun- 
dred years, Fritz gives in detail some of the results of more careful study. 
Thus, Dalton finds the aurora to be a i)recursor of clear, fine weather 
iu England. He also found a slight evidence in favor of the conclusion 
that the barometer would rise on the day after the aurora. Hansteen, 
from his long series of observations at Christiania, found that a lower 
temperature almost invariably follows an aurora, at least throughout 
Sweden, while throughout the north of Siberia the natives maintain 
that storms of wind and rain accompany tlie aurora. Collecting these 
and other generalizations together in tabular form one sees at a glance 
that the apparent connection between the aurora and weather is a local 
accident peculiar to the individual place under examination, and that 
we are justified iu denying the existence of any influence of the aurora 
upon the weather, but upon the other hand the influence of the weather 
upon the aurora is not thereby denied. The relation between the 
aurora and the temperature of the air cannot be satisfactorily proven 
with the observations at present available. The aurora does not occur 
at the time of the lowest temperature of the day, nor does it directly 
follow the annual temperature changes that, according to Koppen, closely 
correspond to the sun spots. 

(18) The relation between aurora and barometric pressure seems to ad- 
mit of more exact description. Thus, an examination of twenty-three sta- 
tions gives the diurnal maximum of auroras at 10 p. m., and the barometer 
maximum at 10 hours and 20 minutes p. m. Again, the annual periods 
of the barometer and aurora are so related that the minimum i)ressure 
corresponds to the maximum of auroras. As regards the secular period- 
icity of the barometer and the aurora, Hornstein, from an examination 



310 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS, 

of the records since 1763, finds the values of the annual variations of 
barometric pressure at Prague, Milan, Vienna, and Munich, are satisfac- 
torily presented by the assumption that the longer period in these varia 
tions agrees with the longer period of the auroras, and these phenomena 
attain their maxima and minima at the same time ; on the other hand, 
F. Chambers, from the barometer records at Bombay, arrives at the 
opposite result, namely, that the maxima of auroras correspond with the 
minima of barometers ; but the discrepancy between these results may 
be only apparent when once we are able to properly ai^preciate the facts 
deduced by Forssman (Upsala, 1873), who arrived at the following re- 
sults : 

(a) Definite variations in barometric pressure are observed during 
strong magnetic disturbances or auroras that extend beyond their 
appropriate zones. 

(&) The barometer variations have opposite signs in different portions 
of Euroi)e, and probably also America. 

(c) The limit between the regions of oj^posite signs is determined, at 
least in Europe, by a line that begins north of Scotland and passes 
southeastward through the Black Sea. 

{d) During the presence of auroras and magnetic disturbances the 
barometer rises, or is at its maximum, in the region northeast of this 
line, and sinks, or is at a minimum, in a region southwest of this line. 

(e) In the southwestern region the barometer is either rising or fall 
ing according as the magnetic horizontal component is very large or 
small ; the opposite is probably true in the northeastern portion. 

If Forssman's conclusions are confirmed by future investigations, 
then it will appear that the relation between auroras and the weather 
is far more complicated than has been hitherto assumed. 

(19) The relation between aurora and polar bands has long been believed 
to be quite definite. These relations show themselves not only in the fre- 
quent simultaneous ai^pearances of the two phenomena, but also in the 
frequent auroral form of the clouds known as polar bands, which, indeed, 
allow one to conclude the action of the polar force within them simply 
by reason of their peculiar arrangement as parallel streaks and regu- 
larly broken or stratified groups. There is here an undeniable relation, 
either direct or indirect. Among the numerous relations recorded by 
various observers quoted by Fritz, we cite the following: Humboldt ob- 
served that the vanishing-point of the polar bands moves gradually from 
east to west. Cramer states that the auroras change themselves into 
clouds, the whole heavens being covered with clouds if the phenomena 
lasts for a sufficiently long time. At Upsala, February 4, 1874, a ring 
of green color was observed around the moon during a fine aurora. 
From the observations at Bossekop, Bravais deduced the mean direction 
of the cirro-cumuli E. 28^.3 N., while for the auroral arcs it was E. 
210.6 ]!T. Stevenson, at Dunse, in Scotland, found the annual fre- 
quency of cirrus clouds to run parallel with the frequency of the auro- 
ras. Winnecke, from observations at Poulkova, concludes that the cirrus 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



311 



must uiuloubtedly be considered as the carrier or agent of the aurora 
phenomena. Weber and Kleiu and others give other data to show 
the connection between the aurora and cirrus, such as, that the times of 
greatest frequency of auroras and sun spots are also the times of great- 
est frequency of the polar bands. 

There is also intimate connection between halos and other optical 
phenomena and the cirrus. Observations of this character have been 
discussed by Sophus Tromholt, of Norway, who finds for lirortheastern 
Europe the following results : 



Year. 


Solar 
halos, &c. 


, Auroras. 


1857 


7 


2 • 


1858 


15 


5 


1859 


27 


13 


1860 


24 


7 


1861 


20 


11 


1863 


16 


9 t 


1863 


19 


4 


1864 


9 


4 


1865 


42 


18 


1866 


29 


' 13 


1867 


18 


17 


1868 


18 


5 


1869 


24 


17 


1870 


28 


22 


1871 


47 


! 22 


1872 


32 


! 18 


1873 


36 


i 15 



The parallelism bet\veen every form of atmospheric phenomena and 
the record of solar spots shows the connection to be a real one, although 
the rationale of the connection is not yet made clear. 

Further elaboration of this study shows that similar parallelisms 
connect the sun spots with the rainfall, the heights of rivers, volcanic 
eruptions, earthquakes, and numerous other phenomena. 

(20) The tenth chapter deals with the influence of the moon upon the 
aurora. Scarcely a single terrestrial phenomenon, but what the attempt 
has been made to connect it with the moon; and this is equally true of 
the auroras. Thus Cotte, in 1780, seemed to show that there was an 
excess of auroras when the moon is south of the equator as compared 
with the time when she was north of the equator. Ualton, in 1834, 
found the time of the greatest frequency of auroras to be at the time 
of the changes of the moon. Richardson and Franklin, in the northern 
part of British America, observed that the auroras were distributed 
less frequently in the interval between the first quarter and full moon, 
as compared with the latter half of the moon's orbit, in the ratio of 38 
to 125. Broun, at Makerstoun, found the maximum frequency of 
auroras to occur between the 18th and 22d day of the moon's age. 
Fritz, himself, has investigated the distribution of over two thousand 
auroras occurring between 1812 and 1860; he finds the influence of the 
moon on the aurora to be very slight, and that the evidence thereof is 
obscured by the effect of the relative brightness of the earth as illu- 
minated by the moon. Hoslen, 1784, made a nineteen-year series of 



312 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

observations that were used by Eitter, who, in 1803, announced his 
conclusion that the frequency and magnitude of aurora stands in an 
intimate connection with the eighteen-andt wo- third year period of 
nutation, and such that the maximum of auroras coincides with the 
mean inclination of the ecliptic. The agreement of Bitter's results with 
observations is frequently very remarkable, but on several occasions of 
maximum frequency his conclusion differs wholly from observation, and 
at present we look to the sun, rather than to the moon, as the origin of 
these disturbances. The great aurora period of fifty-five years is equal 
to three times the nutation period, 18.6 years, whereby an apparent 
further connection is made out. 

(21) The optical phenomena of the aurora are described in Chapter 
11. After speaking of the elementary matters known to all observers^ 
Fritz concludes that the general result of previous studies has been to 
show that the frequency of the colors exhibited by auroras diminishes 
in proportion as the color is farther removed from the brightest part of 
the spectrum; the order of frequency being white, yellow, red, green, 
blue, and violet. In the auroral beams the most frequent arrangements 
of colors are as follows : 

Upper color Green. Green. Orange. Purjile. 

Lower color Yellow. Red. Violet. Blue. 

When a beam moves horizontally, its advancing side is red. The 
direction of an auroral beam seems to coincide nearly with that of the 
freely suspended magnetic needle; but considerable departures from 
this rule seems to be noticed; thus, in 1848, Kowalski, at Obdorsk, ob- 
served the beams crossing each other and passing over the zenith with- 
out forming a corona. The formation of a crown or corona is an optical 
phenomenon due to perspective. The dark segments and dark beams 
depend on the condition of the atmosphere, and are not entirely due to 
contrast with the bright portions of the aurora. 

(22) The brightness of the aurora occasionally surpasses that of the full 
moon, or of the atmosphere illuminated by the moon ; but of its intrinsic 
brightness as compared with moonlight, or the electric discharge in 
vacuo we can know nothing until we can locate the distance of the 
aurora from the observer. More important than the determinations 
of the intensity of the light are the investigations in reference to the 
peculiarities of the light, since from such studies we must hope to make 
further progress in our knowledge of the nature of the aurora. The first 
publication in reference to the spectrum of the aurora dates from 1868^ 
when Angstrom announced to the scientific association at Upsala his 
discovery that the aurora light is monochromatic, consisting of one 
bright line, whose place in the spectrum is near the calcium line, and 
which has a wave length of 5567. Angstrom further announced that 
spectroscopic observations of the zodiacal light had shown him that the 
same line was prominent therein, and as this line is not known to be 
produced by the combustion of any terrestrial substance, it seems legiti- 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 'dl3> 

mate to conclude an intimate connection between tbc aurora and zodiacal 
light. Similar observations have been made by Otto Struve, Wiulock^ 
Fliigel, Ellery, Lindsay, Barker, Vogel, Browning, and others, who have 
been able with more perfect apparatus to increase the number of auroral 
lines aad bands up to fifteen or twenty, all of them, however, much fainter 
than Augstrom's line, which is usually spoken of distinctively as the 
aurora line. Angstrom has suggested a theory according to which 
the apparent spectrum of the aurora consists of two different spectra 
superposed, one of monochromatic yellow light peculiar to the aurora^ 
the second, identical with the spectrum of the light at the negative pole 
of a platinum electrode immersed in dry air rarefied to a pressure of 
only a few millimeters. Some observations upon the spectrum of the 
solar corona have led to the suggestion that the auroral light is nearly 
identical with that of the corona ; but observations on this point are 
contradictory, and the conclusion is not generally accepted. 

(153) The spectra of the November meteors, as observed by Browning,, 
lias considerable similarity with that of the aurora, as also has the spec- 
trum of the lightning, from all of which it is rational to suspect that the 
atmosphere of the earth has an important part in determining the char- 
acteristics of the spectrum of the aurora as well as in the formation of 
the aurora itself; but all definite conclusions as to the origin and nature 
of the aurora must be withheld for the present. 

(24) In the twelfth chapter Fritz exposes the present state of our 
knowledge as to the much debated question of the noise accompanying 
the aurora. The opposite views held by so many i>romineiit observers 
are carefully weighed by him with the following conclusion : "This showtj 
satisfactorily how great a part of the noises heard during the auroras 
depend upon self-deception ; especially do the cases in which the noise 
and the light ought to appear simultaneously prove how very mislead- 
ing the appearances are. If such observations are not the result of 
deception, then the noise should spread through the upiier regions of 
the atmosphere, and distribute itself in the higher latitudes." 

To substantiate his hypothesis he constructed an aurora apparatus; 
but in this at the two Poles he produced very different phenomena cor- 
responding to electricity of opposite signs, so that if his apparatus cor- 
responded to nature the northern and southern auroras ought to present 
very different appearances, which, however, is not the case. His appa- 
ratus therefore only imitates the outward appearance of the auroral 
rays, which can be made to vary in the most striking and brilliant 
manner by the increase or decrease of the vacuum employe<l in the 
apparatus, or by the introduction of various gases or vapors. 

The hypothesis of George Fisher, London, 1834, has becni widely 
adopted, according to which the aurora is an electric discharge between 
strongly electrified masses of ice or snow crystals, formed in the neigh- 
borhood of extensive fields of ice or snow, where the aqueous vapor is 
being most rapidly condensed ; but we must still consider it an open ques- 



314 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

tion whether any noise is developed in connection with the aurora. It 
is remarkable that in the Southern Hemisphere no one has ever noticed 
or recorded the least suspicion of noise during an exhibition of the 
aurora australis. 

(25) Although a definite conclusion as to the precise nature of the 
aurora is not yet attainable, yet it is worth while to review the numerous 
hypotheses that have been suggested. We select a few from the very 
complete review given by Fritz. The hypothesis of an electric discharge 
dates from the memoir by Canton, London, 1753, and is presented in a 
form corresponding to our present knowledge of the electricity by De 
la Eive, 18G5, according to whom positive electricity flows from the 
equator toward either Pole accompanying thunder storms. But a sim 
ilar difficulty seems to beset both these explanations, in that no one c«u 
explain why the two kinds of electricity are not followed by a state of 
equilibrium immediately after the discharge has taken place. 

Mayer, the founder of the mechanical theory of heat, has sought to 
explain the origin of atmospheric electricity as due i^rincipally to the 
friction between the ocean and the trade-winds of the tropical regions, 
a hypothesis that is partially supported by the observations of Secchi 
and others, according to whom the north and south winds have definite 
influences upon the position of the magnetic needle. Muncke and 
]\roser have between them elaborated a therm o-electro-maguetic hypoth- 
esis, according to which, under the influence of the sun's heat, the 
rotating earth must be an electro-magnet. If the earth becomes mag- 
netic then, in consequence of its perpetual rotation, the iron contained 
within the earth's crust will become permanently magnetic, and the 
magnetic variations, partly periodical and partly appearing as pertur- 
bations, are fairly explained. The i^eriodical changes would be caused 
by the periodical changes in the relative positions of the earth, the 
moon, and the sun, and the variations in the radiation of heat from , 
the sun's surface, while the extraordinary and irregular disturbances 
in terrestrial magnetism would be due to the disturbances and changes 
occurring on the sun's surface, similar to the changes perpetually occur- 
ring in the earth's atmosphere. The origin of the electricity to which 
the auroral light is attributable is explained by F. Mohr as due to the 
friction of currents of air flowing over each other in different directions, 
and the greater frequency of appearances in high latitudes depends on 
the dryness of the air. This view is also sustained by Prestel. For 
the great aurora of February 4, 1872, Mohr computes the total 
amount of air in motion, and finds an average over the whole of Europe 
of over one thousand million pounds of air in movement for each Eng- 
lish mile square, so that the aurora is only an extremely small effect^ of 
an immense force. But if we attempt to extend the Mohr-Prestel 
theory to the observations at Spitzbergen and Franz- Josef Land, then 
the results appear quite different. 

Balfour Stew..;t considers the aurora as a secondary electric current 
due to small but sudden changes in the earth's magnetism, produced 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 315 

by unknown causes. In 1869 Silberman remarks, "All the phenonxMia 
appear as if the aurora of 1859 and 1869 were simply thunder storms, 
that discharged themselves not in lightnings but in steady streams 
towards the upper region of the atmosphere. It appears that when 
the globules of aqueous vapor in the lower strata of air are strongly 
charged with electricity, and are for any reason carried towards the 
upper region these globules crystalize in small ascending prisms, and 
that their electricity, by reason of its steady flow from these ice-needles, 
becomes visible as the auroral light. In this way the apparent ascen- 
sion of the auroral beams is explained." 

Many of the advocates of the electrical hypothesis seek for the origin 
of the electricity either in the earth or«the ocean. But a decision there- 
upon is still in the distant future. Sirks, in 1873, seems to have been 
the first to attribute the electric currents upon the earth to the direct 
influence of the sun, which is the source of all forces upon this earth 
as well as the other planets. Baumhauer, in 1844, suggested the 
meteor-dust theory. According to this the higher regions of the 
atmosphere are full of the dust particles from innumerable meteors 
which become incandescent as they flow toward the magnetic poles. 
Similar views are maintained by Foster, Schmidt, and others. If, now, 
we compare the epochs at which the various theories and hypotheses 
have arisen, we recognize at once that with every step of progress in 
physics, astronomy, and chemistry, fresh impetus is given to the search 
for the explanation of the phenomena. The meteorite theory could only 
be developed lately, namely, since the doubt has been dissii)ated which 
has for a long time existed as to the cosmic origin of the falling masses, 
and since the meteor shower of 1833 has made us familiar with the regu- 
lar recurrent ^ISrovember stream. Even now we have but just recognized 
that planetary space is full of large and small bodies which enter into 
the sphere of attraction of the earth and become visible as meteoric 
stones. (Fritz, Das Polarlicht, Leipzig, 1881.) 

The diurnal change in magnetic declination at Greenwich has been 
deduced by Karlinski from the annual observations published by the 
Greenwich Observatory, as based on the photographic registers. The 
I)riucipal maximum occurs between 1 and 2 p. m., and the general diur- 
nal change is t>hown by the following table : 



Hour. 


Departuic. 


Hour. 


Departure. 


Hour. 


Departure. 


6 a. m. 


- 2'. 3.3 


2 p. m. 


4- 5'. 88 


10 p. m. 


- 2'. 03 


7 a. m. 


- 2'. 78 


3 p. m. 


-f 4'. 47 


11 p. ni. 


- 2'. 13 


8 a. m. 


- 3'. 03 


4 J), m. 


+ 2'. 78 


Midnight. 


-2'. 08 


9 a. m. 


2'. 28 


5 p. m. 


+ 1'. 30 


1 a. ra. 


- 1'. 85 


10 a. m. 


- 0'. 03 


6 p. m. 


+ 0'. 18 


2 a. m. 


— 1'. 70 


11 a. m. 


+ 2'. 90 


7 p. m. 


-0'..59, 


3 a. m. 


— 1'. 68 


Noon. 


+ 5'. 25 


8 p. m. 


- V. 18 


4 a. m. 


- 1. 73 


1 p. m. 


+ 6'. 23 


9 p. m. 


— V. 71 


5 a. m. 


- 2'. 00 



iZ. 0. G. 3f., 1879, XVI, p. 60.' 



310 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Nahrwold has investigated the conditions under which the atmos- 
phere can assume a charge of electricity. He used an apparatus con- 
sisting essentially of the following : A metal cylinder in which the air 
to be investigated can be entirely closed and removed from the influence 
of exterior electrified bodies. Through an aperture in the upper cover 
of the cylinder a filter filled with quicksilver is inserted, which is con- 
nected by a wire with the quadrant electrometer. If the air in the 
cylinder is electrified, and we allow the mercury to flow, the needle of 
the electrometer shows a deviation. The mercury acts like Thomson's 
water-dropping apparatus. The cover of the cylinder has one other 
opening through which can be successively introduced two different 
arrangements for electrifying the included air : first, a needle with a 
fine point that can be pushed in and out of a platinum tube; second, a 
thin, short platinum wire soldered between two copper wires: in the 
experiments these copper wires are connected with the battery so that 
the transmitted current brings the platinum wire to incandescence. 

If the cylinder is filled at the window with fresh air, the electrometer 
put in position, the needle shoved forward, and we allow the scarcely 
visible spark from a feebly-charged Ley den jar to jump to the wire con- 
nected outside the cylinder with the needle, and then set the dropping 
apparatus at work, there is observed a sensible deviation of the elec- 
trometer. If the experiment is repeated with the intention of attaining 
a stronger charge, we, on the contrary, observe now a feebler deviation. 
This diminishes continually so long as we retain the same mass of air 
in the apparatus, and not only when it is electrified but also when it is 
allowed to stand quietly. We must seek the cause of this phenomenon 
in the behavior of the particles of dust. So long as the dust is circu- 
lating within the metal cylinder it rapidly carries away the electricity 
collected at the point of the needle; but if the dust has settled (and this 
is very much retarded by the electrification), then is the air freed of dust 
not in the condition under the given circumstances to take uj) a charge. 
If by means of a feather we stir up the dust from the sides of the cyl- 
inder, then the first subsequent experiment shows again a large devia- 
tion; if, on the other hand, we hold every particle of dust that touches 
the sides of the cylinder firmly there, to which end Nahrwold covers the 
interior of the cylinder with glycerine, then the further experiments 
show that the dropping apparatus takes almost no further charge. 

Instead of the needle point, the incandescent platinum wire is now 
employed to give a charge to the included air. The battery that serves to 
excite the electric current requires no further consideration in this case; 
it, together with the conducting wire, is isolated, and the platinum wire 
within the cylinder can be charged from any source of static electricity. 
The air now takes up the electricity even if it is entirely free from dust 
The air heated by contact with the glowing platinum wire becomes a 
good conductor of electricity ; it flows away cooling down, but still re- 
taining its charge, while other portions of the air within the cylinder 
become heated and charged with electricity by the platinum wire. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 317 

That this process depends principally upon the temperature to which 
^he air is heated is evident from the fact that when the wire is of a dark 
red incandescence no transfer of electricity takes place; it is with the 
bright red glow that the air first begins to be charged. Nahrwold 
further concludes that the charge cannot be increased indefinitely, but 
approaches a maximum limit. He also observed a diflference in the be- 
havior of the air with respect to the two forms of electricity — it takes 
a positive charge easier than a negative one. 

When two crowns, composed of thirty-four knittiug needles, were 
placed upon the base of the apparatus by which the electricity could be 
conducted to the earth, it appeared that these points hastened the dis- 
€harge of electricity, or the loss of the original charge only when the 
air was filled with dust, which further proves that tbe so-called influence 
of such points is largely dependent upon the dust contained in the air. 

From a few experiments which gave a strong negative charge to the 
iiir after stirring up the dust on the floor of the room, Nahrwold con- 
cludes that the dust becomes electrified by friction, and he concludes 
his memoir as follows: "If the electricity of the dust depends, even 
only in part, upon friction, and is therefore at least in part independent 
of the distribution of atmospheric electricity properly so called, then in 
observations of atmospheric electricity this must be considered as in mo.st 
cases a not unimportant source of error and must necessarily be avoided. 
In this condition, most difficult to fulfill, we see a new obstacle in the way 
of attaining a clear idea as to the electrical processes in our atmosphere, 
and we find ourselves no nearer the attainment of the object of our labors 
through the results of the present investigation. 

"The method here employed is, however, certainly the least unsafe. 
The observations here given are in their meteorological aspects scarcely 
more than preliminary trials for a far more important investigation, 
which will ultimately lead us nearer to the object in view. 

"Those conditions that most probably exercise an important influence 
on the electrical condition of our atmosphere must be realized on a small 
scale, and I hope ere long to be in the condition to again prosecute this 
work in this direction." {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, 1879, p. 72.) 

Weyprecht, in the Denkschri/ten of the Vienna Academy (Vol. 
XXXV), gives the results of his aurora observations. He classifies 
the optical appearances, first, as arcs; second, as streamers; third, as 
rays; fourth, as corona; fifth, as haze. To these forms there is also to 
be added a dark, narrow, low standing arc of light, whose center coin- 
cides nearly with the magnetic meridian, and which he calls the dark 
segment. The movements of the auroral light are classified as follows: 
first, waves; second, flashes. As to the height of the aurora Weyprecht 
concludes that even in the arctic regions this is very variable, but 
much lower than in our latitudes. The appearance of the aurora is as 
though its light were dependent on that from some other matter. Xo 
connection can be made out between the aurora and the subsequent 
weather, neither can any noise be heard attending the aurora; a slight 



318 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



cloudiness appears to favor the development of certain auroras. As to 
the connection between the magnetic perturbations and the aurora, the 
observations show that perturbations of the needle may take place 
without the auroral display, and vice verm, the aurora without pertur- 
bations of the needle. Those forms of aurora that present irregular 
outlines, no rays, and no perceptible motions, are seldom accompanied 
by perturbations: on the other hand those auroras that appear to have 
a small altitude, and to be very near to us, having definite outlines, 
rapid movements, and well-marked radial structure, set the needle in 
rapid movement. {Z. 0. 6. ill., XIY, 1879, p. 190.) 

P. F. Denza has given the following laws relating to atmospheric elec 
tricity, based on twelve years' observations — six times daily — at Mon- 
calieri: Regular variations. — He says the daily variations show them- 
selves clearly in the winter and summer, having two maxima after 
sunset and sunrise. The yearly variations attain their maxima at the 
end of February, the minima in September. The annual means show 
no connection with sun spots or magnetic changes. Irregular varia 
tions. — Thunder storms affect the tension very much. Eain and snow 
increase the electricity. Dense fog and haze, cloudiness, etc., increase 
the intensity very slightly. The least electricity is shown during clear 
or very clear sky, and especially when it is also very warm. Southerly 
winds, especially southeast, increase the electricity; but during strong 
winds the indications of the electrometer are uncertain. During these 
twelve years, out of a hundred cases of rain and snow, fifty give nega-^ 
tive and fifty positive electricity; the same ratio holds good for thun- 
der storms and hail, whether they pass over the observer or ])ass by 
at a distance. Negative electricity occasionally is observed before and 
after a thunder storm, and also more rarely before and after a rain or 
snow. When the sky is clear or completely covered, electricity is always 
positive, and negative electricity occurs only under dissimilar condi- 
tions — such as distant storms, clouds, auroras, etc. An electrometer 
being also placed on St. Bernard, at an altitude of 2,160 meters, the com- 
parison with observations at Moncalieri'(altitude 259 meters) shows- 
that under normal conditions the electric tension increases with the alti- 
tude. The following table gives the mean results of observations at 
Moncalieri : 



Hourly means. 



6a. m. 
9a.m. 
Noon. 
3 p. m 
6p.m 
9p. m 



Moan. 



14.86 
16.38 
13.67 
13.58 
16.42 
15.65 

15.09 



Monthly means. 



Annual means. 



January I 18. 

February 1 20. 2 

March..' 1 16.1 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August - 

September 

October 

November 

December 



Mean I 15.09 




I I _. ^ _J 

Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XIV, 1879, p. 484. 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



31i> 



IVIascart has i»ublislied the cfiscussion of the observations of atmos- 
jiherie electricity, recorded every two aud a half minutes consecutively^ 
since February, 1879, by means of the water-dropping ai)paratus aud 
the electrometer of Sir William Thomson, as combined in the apparatus- 
manufactured by Charpentier. The prevalence of the negative elec- 
tricity in the rain clouds, followed by very strong positive electricity 
after the raiu, appear to be important facts, as prominent in Paris as- 
they are also kuown to be in England and Italy. 

The average diurnal periodicity expressed in arbitrary units is showA 
by the following table: 













t 










Months. 




s 


s 


g 






^ 


S 


1 




« 


to 


C5 


r^ 


n 


o 


OS 


March 


24.7 


19.2 


19.1 


13.6 


14.5 


14.9 


21.2 


27.1 


24. T 


April 


24.0 


23.7 


24.0 


16 


17.0 


13.3 


28.5 


26.0 


24.0- 


Mav 


24.5 


23.3 
25.5 


26.0 
25.4 


20.7 
17.6 


13.8 
14.6 


15.4 
12.0 


15.4 
18.4 


24.5 
25.0 


24.5 


June 


1 26.7 


26.7 


Jnlv 


33.3 


34.5 


33.7 


28.8 


26.7 


23.6 


29.3 


36.1 


33.? 




26. 6 


25.2 


25.6 


19.3 


17.3 


1.5.8 


20.5 


27.7 


26 C- 










i 26.6 


25.2 


24. C 


15.0 


12.7 


9.8 


13.2 


20. 9 


26 G> 




i 





The minimum at 3 p. m., aud maximum at 9 p. m., as here shown, are- 
quite at variance with observations of Quetelet, Denza, and Everett, 
the reasons for which remain to be investigated. (Z. 0. G. M., XV^ 
1880, p. 136.) 

Sophus Tromholt, of Norway, has published the first results of the 
work undertaken by him with reference to auroras, which is nothing 
less than a general formation of a system of aurora observations for 
the whole of Korway, Sweden, and Denmark. The material accumu- 
lated in the first witnter alone is so great that valuable results may be 
drawn from it. In the first place, it ajipears that there is scarcely an 
evening that one or more stations did not report auroras, although the 
observations occur during the years of auroral minimum; hence the 
author concludes that the afirora is a very local phenomenon and takes 
place at a very small altitude above the earth's surface. The table that 
shows the cases in which auroras are observed at auxiliary stations,, 
without being observed at the central station, Bergen, affords the most 
striking proof of the local character of the phenomenon. The follow- 
ing table shows the relative frequency of auroras for the respective 
zones of latitude : 



Zones. 


1 Freqnency. 




71 to 68 lat . 
68 to 65 lat . 
65 to 62 lat . 
62 to 59 lat . 
59 to 55 lat . 


100 
30.6 

' 18.2 
1 12.6 
f 7.6 



320 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



A further consideration confirms the conclusion that the aurora is a 
% ery local matter, viz, that in the whole region of 71<^ to 55^ only three 
nights occur on which the aurora was observed simultaneously every 
where, and is even still doubtful in these three cases, whether the same 
iiuroia was observed everywhere. (Z. 0. G. M., Vol. XV, 1880, p. 480.) 

W. Ellis has investigated the relation between terrestrial magnetism 
and solar-spot frequency, using the Greenwich observations, 1840-1847, 
and the Greenwich photographic records by the Brooks apparatus, 
1848-1877, and, comparing these with Wolf's sun-spot numbers, the in- 
timate relation of these phenomena is more clearly shown than ever 
before. This is illustrated in the accompanying table, which gives the 
dates of the epochs of maximum and minimum declination and hori 
zontal force : 



Epoch 


g 

(0 




Horizontal 
force. 


r 




1844.7 
1848. 1 
1857. 2 
1860.6 
1867. 5 
1870. 8 


1842. 9 
1849. 
1855. 1 
1860.2 
1867.6 
1870. 9 


1843.5 




1848,1 




ia)6. 6 




I860. 1 




1867. 2 




1870. 6 







On the average, the magnetic epochs follow the sun spots at an inter 
val of 0.27 a year. The durations of the four periods are neanly iden- 
tical for both sun spots and magnetic phenomena. 

The occasional sudden outbursts of magnetic and sun-si)ot energy 
occur and continue nearly simultaneously. (Z. 0. G. /¥., XVI, 1881, 
p. 489.) 

Lemstrom has developed a theory as to the origin of terrestrial mag- 
netism based on the electric theories of Edlund, and confirms it some- 
what by actual experiments. The assumption that the earth consists 
of a glowing hot interior, surrounded by a cooler layer 50 or 60 kilo- 
meters thick, leads to the conclusion that the magnetic forces must re- 
side entirely in this outer layer, since glowing hot bodies cannot be 
magnetized. I^bw, geological data show that the whole exterior shell 
must contain about 2 per cent, of iron, or equivalent to a layer of mag- 
netic substance 1 kilometer thick. This layer may be considered as 
constituting a hollow sphere at a distance of 30 kilometers below the 
earth's surface, and must, under the influence of a given force, exhibit 
a magnetic moment, the same as if it were a solid sphere. Since, now, 
the earth is revolving in a space full of ether, it must become magnet- 
ized the same as if it were itself at rest, but the ether turning in an 
opposite direction. This rotation must give rise, according to Edluud's 
theory of electricity, to an infinite number of elementary-induced cur- 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



321 



rents, and Lemstrom deduces for the whole magnetic moment (M), iu 
the direction of the axis of the earth, 

M = f -2 [r - hy 11 J 

where ii is the magnetic moment of a unit's mass, J is the inductive 
action of a unit of current, r radius of the earth, h the distance of the 
magnetic stratum from the limits of the atmosphere. This explanation 
agrees entirely with the formula of Gauss, and the discussion of it ex- 
plains equally the average position of the magnetic action and its secu- 
lar annual and daily variations. It is also in conformity with the acci- 
dental phenomena of magnetic storms and auroras. [Z. 0. G. M., XVI, 
1881, p. 108.) 

Denza has determined the law of diurnal variations of atmospheric 
electricity at Moncalieri, and by means of hourly observations on 215 
days, distributed through the years 1871 and 1878. The following tables 
give his resulting averages (a) for the 215 days or a whole year, and {b) 
for the days on which no irregular disturbances took place. The anal- 
ogy between this diurnal i>eriod and that of atmospheric pressure is 
similar to that pointed out by Neumayer. {Z. 0. G. ill., XVI, p. 88.) 



Hour. 


1871-1878. 1 


Hour. 


1871-1878. 


a 


b 


a 


6" 


6a.m 

7 a. m 

8 a. m 

9 a. m 

10 a. m 

11 a. m 

Koon 

1 p. m 

2p.m 

3p. m 

4 p. m 

5 p. m 


20.6 
20.2 
20.8 
20.3 
19.8 
19.1 
17.5 
15.8 
14.8 
14.6 
15.5 
15.5 


18.2 
18.7 
19.4 
19.6 
19.2 
17.2 
16.2 
1.5.4 
14.1 
14.0 
14.3 
15.0 


6 p. m 

7 p. m 

8 p. m 

9 p. m 

10 p. m 

11 p. m ... 
Midnight . 

1 a. m 

2 a. m 

3 a. m 

4 a. m 

5 a. m 


19.5 
19.2 
•19.4 
20.5 
19.1 
18.1 
17.4 
16.2 
16.1 
17.3 
16.3 
10.9 


17.7 
17.8 
18.5 
19.1 
18.0 
15.9 
16.9 
16.0 
14.9 
15.7 
15.4 
16.1 



Warren De La Rue and H. W. Miiller have arrived at some interesting 
conclusions in reference to the altitude of the aurora. They find experi- 
mentally that the least pressure under which the aurora has been seen 
in their experiments, is 0.38°^"", corresponding to an elevation of 37 or 38 
miles. The following table collects the results of their observations: 



Barometric | ^'^^^^^0 
pressure, j ^§^^ 


Eadius of 
visibility. 


Remarks. 


1x10-8 

55 X 10-6 

0. 379 
0.800 
1.000 

1. 500 
3.000 

20. 060 

62.000 

118. 700 


24 

81.5 

37.7 

34.0 

32.9 

30.9 

27.4 

17.4 

12.4 

11. C 


1061 
800 
585 
.555 
546 
.529 
499 . 
403 
336 
324 


No discharffo observed at this dejnreo of tenuity. 
Tho disclKarge was feelilo and weak. 
Maxiinmii of brightijess. 
Feehh- color, 
lloddish tint. 

Do. 
Carmine. 

Do. 

Do. 
Full red and carmine. 



S. MiA J£)9 21 



322 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

Tliey bare also adopted the opinion that the aurora may exist at the 
height of only a few thousand feet. [Z. 0. G. M., XV, 1880, p. 415.) 

Dr. A. Wijkander, of Lund, Sweden, in a discourse at Stockholm be- 
fore the Scandinavian Association of "Naturalists, reviews the progress 
of our knowledge during the past twenty years, in reference to the mag- 
netic phenomena of the Arctic zone. 

Lefroy, in 1855, showed that at Lake Athabasca and Fort Simpson, 
the easterlj^ perturbations of the needle during the morning and the 
westerly perturbations of the evening are the largest, whereas the oppo- 
site is the case at Toronto and southern stations ; Sabine subsequently 
found the same results for Point Barrow and Toronto, Canada. 

Wijkander, as the result of the observations of the Swedish Station at 
Spitzbergen, concludes that, as a general rule, the belt where the auroras 
are most frequent is the limit between the regions where the maximum 
of easterly perturbations in declination in the morning and that of the 
westerly perturbations in the evening occnr together, and the region 
where these maxima occur in the evening and morning respectively. 

Concerning the annual variations of the perturbations, very little is 
as yet known. It would, however, appear that the easterly perturba- 
tions predominate. The perturbations of the horizontal intensity afford 
little basis for general conclusion on account of their scantiness at Lake 
Athabasca and Fort Simpson. If we compare the perturbations of 
declination and horizontal intensity among themselves, we notice that 
the time of their greatest number and magnitude alternate, a circum- 
stance to which Wyprecht has also called attention. According to 
Wijkander, there is evidence thi^t the total intensity is subject not only 
to a diurnal change, but also frequently to greater perturbations. {Z. 
0. G. M., XV, 1880, p. 305.) 

XI. — OPTICAL PHENOMENA. 

Schmidt gives an account of a double horizontal rainbow. This was 
seen on a beautiful, cloudless day, before the morning mist had entirely 
disappeared, and was apparently formed near the surface of the water 
in a small lake near Pilseu. The bow had the apparent form of hyper- 
bola or parabola, whose axes were determined by the vertical plane 
passing through the observer and the sun. The apices of these hyper- 
bolas were turned toward the observer, and the apex of the inner curve 
was about 12 meters from him and 4 meters below the eye, and at the 
level of the water of the lake, while the apex of the outer curve was 
beneath the land. The rainbow colors were all clearly seen. The 
exi)lanation of this phenomenon depends upon the observed fact that 
the ordinary rainbow can be considered as a complete circle, if we as- 
sume that the aqueous particles are observed from a close proximity* 
In the present case, therefore, we have observed the lower part of such 
a circular rainbow, which, being projected upon the horizontal water 
suiface, appears as a hyperbola. {Z. 0. G. AL, XIV, 1879, p. 20.) 



METEOEOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 323 

Soret has attempted an explauation of a fact frequently observed, 
that the diffuse daylight is polarized even in those strata of air that 
are in the shade. In the valleys of the Alps many opportunities occur 
for observing this, and the maximum polarization occurs when the line 
of sight is at right angles to the direction of the sun's rays. Soret's 
exi)lanatiou is about as follows: 

The masses of air that lie in the shade are illuminated by the difluse 
light of the upper strata upon which the sun's rays shine directly. It 
can now be proven that the sum of the vibrations reaching a given 
point fi-om the various portions of the celestial hemisphere must pro- 
duce effects equal to those produced by one ray reaching this point 
directly from the sun, and a second ray at right angles to the first and 
polarized in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the. first. The 
effect of the direct sunlight differs, therefore, from the sum of the effects 
of the diffuse light only in this, that in the latter case the polarization 
is not so complete. {Z. 0. G. M., 1879, XIV, p. 106.) 

Montigny has discussed the question of the twinkling of the stars as 
measured by the number of the changes of color in a given interval of 
time. The observations made by him during six hundred evenings 
show that the dependence upon the rainfall is most prominent; but the 
influence of other meteorological conditions is well defined ; thus, when 
the temperature rises the twinkling diminishes in intensity, and the colors 
lose much of their clearness, especially in summer. In the winter, 
however, in the cold, dry weather, the twinkling is stronger and the 
colors more brilliant. The presence of moisture, &c., appears to be of 
very much less importance. Next after the temperatore, however, will 
be placed the quantity of moisture. {Z. 0. O. M., XIV, p. 219.) 

Hartl has published elaborate study of the observations on terres- 
trial refraction. Bodega Head, first discussed by Schott in the Coast 
Survey Keport in 1876. He attempts to deduce some addition to our 
knowledge of the law of diminution of temperature with altitude. He 
finally applies Professor Jordan's refraction formula (Astron. Xach., 
vol. 88), which allows of clearly perceiving the effect of the assumed law 
diminution of temperature ; he attributes the irregularities of refraction 
to the temperature changes due to radiation from the soil, and urges the 
execution of numerous measures of refraction for the better determina- 
tion of the rate of temperature diminution by the application of Jor- 
don's formula. {Z. 0. G. i/., XV, 1881, p. 140.) 

Dr. Hamberg, of Stockholm, has studied the apparent transparency 
of the atmosphere in Upsala, with especial reference to the occurrence 
of remarkably clear nights and days, when frosts occur injurious to 
vegetation. From daily observations, from 1 874 to 1877, ot the visibility 
of objects distant eight or ten miles in the horizon, he deduces the follow- 



324 



METEOKOLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



ing figures, showing the average visibility estimated on an arbitrary 
scale, in which = unusually clear, and 5 = densest fog or haze; 



Montha. 


A T-„T.o o o Total number Total number 

^Jhruf^ of observed 1 of observed 
visibility. ^^^^, . g^^g_ 


January 

February . . . 

March 

April 

MTay 

June 

July 

August 

September . . 

October 

November . . 
December .. 


2.3 
2.4 
2.0 
1.6 
2.1 
2.6 
2.6 
2.2 

11 

2.6 
2.9 


12 

7 

19 

23 

9 

8 
8 
6 
12 
4 
3 


1 
32 
19 
20 

6 

3 

6 
11 

5 
21 
26 
29 
25 



On the average, Dr. Hamberg finds that the greatest clearness occurs 
with winds between N. and W., and the greatest obscurity with winds 
between S. and W. ; these cases, of course, correspond to positions of 
the barometric minima, respectively, northeast and northwest of Upsala. 
A comparison of these observations witli the relative humidity of the 
air shows that in general transparency diminishes with an increase of 
moisture, and especially is this the case during the colder weather. A 
direct dependence upon cloudiness is not evident, and the author con- 
cludes that the i)artial condensation of the aqueous vapor in the atmos- 
phere and the presence of dust or smoke are the fundamental causes of 
the variations in transparency. Of the origin of the material compos- 
ing the day fog nothing definite is known. As a means of foretelling 
rainy weather the transparency of the air is frequently appealed to. 
Hamberg finds that the quantity of rainfall increases directly as the 
transparency diminishes. {Z. 0. G. il/., XYI, 1881, p. 457.) 

XII. — MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS. 

(a) Periodicities. — S. A. Hill has investigated a decennial period in the 
annual variation of temperature and pressure in India. He states that 
the heat of the summer of 1878, especially during the first twenty-one 
days of June, was so great in Northern India that nothing like it had 
ever before been experienced. This excessive summer heat was pre- 
ceded and followed by winters of unusual cold. He has therefore col- 
lected all available observations bearing upon the question of a possible 
periodicity in temperature and pressure. The temperature ai)i)eai's to 
follow the variations in the sun spots. He finds that at Calcutta the 
greatest variations in pressure occurred in the years 1845, 1857, 1806, 
and 187G, and the least variations in the years 1840, 1847, 1801, 1872, 
and 1874, and these dates are only slightly modified if we take the means 
of groups of three years each. The above dates agree closely with the 
minima and maxima of the sun spots. An exi)lanation of this coinci- 
dence may be about as follows : The general distribution of winds on 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 325 

the earth's surface depends ui^ou the rate of diiuiuution of temperatui^e 
from the equator to the poles, and the distribution of pressure depends 
upon the intensity of the atmospheric currents. If, therefore, the solar 
radiation varies with the sun's spots, there must be a i)arallel variation 
in terrestrial temperatures ^nd pressures. {Z. 0. O. Jf., XIV, p. 302.) 

Blanford has investigated the question of a compensation between 
India and Kussia in the variations of mean atmospheric pressure during 
one sun-spot cycle. Already in 1877 Eliot had called attention to the 
fact that, through the whole year, the pressure over India had been 
above the average, and that this condition extended to such distant 
regions as New South Wales and Victoria, Blanford having found that 
an excess of pressure also prevailed over the greater part of Asia, and 
also of the Indian Ocean. By comparison of the records from 1847 to 
1862, Blanford now finds that throughout the whole of the Indo-Malayan 
region an oscillation of the barometric pressure existed, coinciding nearly 
with the sun-spot cycle. The greatest atmospheric ijressure coincides, or 
immediately follows, the epoch of minimum frequency of sun spots, and 
the minimum pressure corresponds with the sun-spot maximum ; or, 
considering the result of Koppen's investigation, the highest pressure 
agrees closely with the epoch of greatest mean temperature of the air. 
On this point he says: "In reference to the nature of the physical 
causes that bring about this oscillation in the pressure of the air between 
the Indo-Malayan region and the x)lains of Eussia, and conforming to 
the sun-spot cycle, our knowledge is still much too incomplete to 
attempt a satisfactory analysis." {Z. 0. G. M., XV, 1880, p. 158.) 

In the remarks on the above by Dr. J. Hann, he suggests that with- 
out more special deduction it is still quite clear that the period of in- 
creased energy in the solar radiation will also be a period of increased 
energy in the general currents of the earth's atmosphere. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XV, 1880, p. 161.) 

Balfour Stewart in some remarks on long variations of rainfall, says: 
The currents in the earth's atmosphere are regulated by two considera- 
tions, of which one is a constant while the other is variable. The con- 
stant element is the time of rotation of the earth round its axis, while 
the possibly variable one is the intensity of the solar radiation. If, 
then, it is also true that we have not only a long period of variation in 
the intensity but also in the distribution of terrestrial atmospheric cur- 
rents, and if we consider the great intiuence of local peculiarities upon 
rainfall it would be too much to expect that the annual irregularities 
shall everywhere attain their maxima and minima at the same time. It 
is perfectly possible that some places may have maximum whiie others 
have a minimum, and still others have a double instead of a simple 
period. We are, therefore, not yet in a position to determine experi- 
mentally the long i^eriods of rainfall for the whole earth, since wo only 
have as yet a few selected stations. The diversity of results obtained, 
by Meldrum, Kawson, and others is in accordance with the above 



32G 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



views. Stewart then attempts to deduce some results from observations 
in Europe by means of the method of indeterminate periods proposed 
by Dr. Dodgson and himself. He finds that there is in three stations 
out of four evidence of a nine-year period, and a still stronger evidence 
of a twelve-year period, and makes some comparisons between the cor- 
responding ten and twelve year periods in the daily amplitude of the 
magnetic needle. {Z. 0. 0. M., XV, 1880, p. 228.) 

Fritz has i^ursued his further studies into the variations and height of 
the water of the river Nile, and l*as added to his study of the records 
of the Nilometer of the island of Ehodes, near Cairo, for the years 1825 
to 1872, a further study of the records for the barrages for the years 
1849 to 1878. The differences between the record at Cairo and the bar- 
rages are quite sensible, amounting in extreme cases to 0.71 meter. The 
extreme height of the river occurs on the dates shown in the following 
table : 



Barrages. 


Island of Khodcs. 


Sun spots. 


Minimnm. 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Maximum. 








1828 
1841 
1849 
1861 
1870 










1835 
1S45 
1857 
1866 








1852 
1861 
1872 




1848 
1860 
1871 


1857 
1866 


1856 
1867 



Few rivers vary their regimen so regularly as the Nile, and the entire 
periodical change reminds one forcibly of the interpretation of the 
dreams, and the provisions against hunger and famine, that are attrib- 
uted to Joseph, the son of Jacob. {Z. 0. G. M., XV, 1880, p. 302.) 

In a fourth contribution to the subject of secular variatious in the 
weather, Koppen reviews a mass of data relating to the severe winters 
of Europe during the past thousand years. He finds that regular laws 
of periodicity, although they frequently a])pear to obtain for several 
periods or centuries, yet eventually disappear and are replaced by 
others. It is, therefore, impossible to base any predictions upon such 
empirical periods, and he concludes that although he may have contrib- 
butcd somewhat to our knowledge of the subject, yet his best result will 
be the removal of any popular illusions in reference to this subject, and 
the prevention of others from wasting time and labor. {Z. 0. G. M., 
XVI, p. 194.) 

On the subject of the connection between barometric pressure and 
sun-spot phenomena several contributions have been made. F. Cham- 
bers has shown (1st) that similar non-periodic variations in pressure 
occur throughout India and China, the epochs of maxima and minima 
of pressure correspond to the minima and maxima, respectively, of sun 
spots but fall behind these latter at intervals of six to thirty months, de- 
pending on the longitude of the station, the western stations occurring 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. -327 

earlier than the eastern; he also shows (2d) that extensive famines in 
India accompany or directly follow a maxima of pressure. 

Balfour Stewart concludes that the sun's heat is most effective dur- 
ing a maximum of sun spots. Mr. Eaton has collected barometric 
records for a hundred years at London, and Archibald has shown that 
these give some little evidence of the same sun spot periodicity as in 
India, namely, a maximum of spots corresponding to a minimum of pres- 
sure. The reverse holds good for St. Petersburg. • [Z. 0. 0. M., XVI, 
1881, p. 158.) 

Koppeu has continued his classical researches on secular perfods in 
the weather, by extending his studies of annual mean temperatures to 
cover all recent data, for the years 1841 to 1875, published since the 
publication of his previous memoir. The resulting curves as given by 
Koppen show the mean temperature for the north temperate, the tropi- 
cal, and south temi^erate zones, as well as the curve of sun-spot fre- 
quency, and lead to the following remarks : The curve for the southern 
hemisphere shows both a general agreement with the spot curve, and 
also a series of special systematic discrepancies. If we were not, accord- 
ing to our experience in the northern hemisphere, to entertain a decided 
mistrust of generalizations based on only three sun spot periods, then 
we might also detect a decided law in these discrepancies in the southern 
hemisphere. We see, namely, that while the sun-spots increase the 
temperature, curves in all the three zones describe the double wave 
in the years 1843 to 1856, the first valley in this double wave, but in 
the two following periods the second vaUeys, all preceding the S])ot 
minimum by from two to four years, give in each case the absolute 
minima of temperature. In the northern hemisphere the remarkable 
agreement of the curves for temperature and spots from 1820 to 1840 is 
gradually disturbed, and after 1852 entirely disappears, although the 
temperatures from 1867 to 1869 give indications of a return of earlier 
laws. The gradual rise of the temperature in the northern hemisphere 
for 1875 to 1878 is again in good agreement with the simultaneous di- 
minution of the number of spots, but the succeeding abnormally cold 
year in Europe forces vividly upon the attention the care that must 
be exercised when one \7ould use for purposes of prediction an ap- 
parent law whose rationale is as yet not understood, and to which is 
subject to mysterious, and therefore wholly unexpected, disturbances. 
{Z. 0. 0. If., XVI, 1881, p. 149.) 

Blanford, in some further remarks on sun-spot cycles, states that out 
of the investigations of Gautier, Stone, Koppen, and others, it results 
that the variation of temperature at tropical stations during the sun- 
spot cycles is such that the highest temperatures occur nearly always 
with the minimum of spots. The intensity of the solar radiation accord- 
ing to the results obtained by Baxendall, and those obtained by me 
from ten Stations in India, attains its maximum simultaneously with 
the spot maximum. The variations of atmospheric pressure at stations 



328 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

in the Indo Malayan, region as it is now first presented to us, is snch 
that in those regions, where the effect of the sun is most direct, the 
lowest atmospheric pressure coincides with the maximum of sun-spots. 
{Z. 0. G. ill., XV, p. 394.) 

Hildebrandson has called attention to a valuable collection of data 
on the variability of climate published by Ehrenheim in 1823, wliich 
gives the years of severe winters for the past twelve hundred years, 
and adds considerable to the data already collected by Koppen. [Z. 0. 
G. 71/., XV, p. 345.) 

(b) Hi/psometry. — The new hypsometric formula of Dr. Guido Grassi 
and its application to the reduction of barometric observations to sea 
level, or to the barometric computation of altitudes, forms a memoir 
published by the meteorological office at Rome. 

Professor Grassi has studied those formulae in which the temperature 
being observed at one station some hypothesis is uecessarj^ in order to 
approximate to the mean temperature of the column of air, and con- 
cludes that the unsatisfactory results given by the formulae are due to 
errors in the hypothesis on which they are based. His new formula, 
which contains not onl}" the temperature and pressure of the upper 
station, but also the moisture for both upper and lower stations, reads as 
follows : 

"1 — I W. & + ! 

in which a represents the desired height above the sea, h the baromet- 
ric pressure at the station, &othe barometric pressure at sea level, t the 
absolute temperature at the upper station, C the correction for gravity, 

^•=58.6588, m=^ ( j^ + j Wherein /o and / are the force of vapor in 

millimeters at the u]iper station and sea levels, and/o can be computed 
by Hann's formula : 

For reductions to sea level, Grassi transforms this formula iu the fol- 
lowing : 

^"= ^^ +-w{ i-8»05 ^ + -u"K.^-s'^' ) h^ r 

The comparison between this formula and those given Euhlmann 
and Saint-Robert shows that Ruhlmann's gives results nearer the truth 
if we deal with annual means ; but Grassi's formula shows somewhat 
less of the annual periodicity. [Z. 0. G. M., XIV, 1879, p. 31.) 

Dr. Jordan has deduced an empirical and new barometric formula 
for use with a barometer established at some intermediate station. lie 
first represents the temperature for an extensive net- work of stations 
by a formula in which altitude and latitude occur as linear functions, 
and from which the average rate of diminution of temperature with 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



329 



altitude can be determined. Thus for Southwestern Germany the mean 
annual temperatures from ISGO to 1878 give a diminution for each hun- 
dred meters of altitude, as shown in the following table: 





1 
Diminution of 


Altitndo. 


temperature 




per 100 leet. 


Meters. 


o 


100 


0.9 


200 


0.9 


300 


0.8 


400 


0.7 


500 


0.7 


600 


O.G 


700 


0.5 


800 


0.5 


900 


0.4 


], 000 


0.4 



lie then gives the constants in an empirical formula for the same 
portion of Europe, and finds the following : « 

h = 18517 (log 762.56 - log Bo) (1 + 0.003665^) 

and shows, by means of this, that the altitude may be computed with a 
probable error of plus or minus 3 meters. {Z. 0. G. M., XV, 1880, 
p. 106.) 

H. Feld and C. A. Vogler have put into convenient form for the com- 
l)ntation of barometric altitudes at the latitude of 50°, the hypsometric 
fornmla of Ruhlmann. By introducing a graphic process they have re- 
duced the time very materially, but with slight expense of accuracy. 
{Z. 0. G. ilf., XVI, 1881, p. 85.) 

(c) Biological Relations. — Oettingen has investigated some points in 
the connection between meteorology and botany that are worthy the 
attention of other meteorologists. The principal previous workers in 
this field have been Boussingault, De Candolle, Gasparin, and Linsser, 
whose results are reviewed by Von Oettingen. 

Boussingault maintained that any particular phase of development (.r), 
such as the time of budding, ripening, &c., should be considered as a 
function of /, the mean temperature, during the interval of time, 2", that 
has elapsed since an assumed starting i)oint, and «, r, id, &c., which 
represent other climatic elements. 

De Candolle and Gasparin showed that x should be a function not of 

f, but of /— .9, where s represents a minimum temperature limit, below 

which the development «f the plant makes no progress whatever. 

tz 
Linsser showed that a; is a function oiyyrr/ and it, i\ w, where T Z is 

a constaut, having a different value for each plant and each locality. 

Oettingen finally proceeds to investigate the dependence of blossom- 
ing upon temperature for fifty-five plants, for which he had accurate 
observation at Dorpat. The general conclusions to which the author is 
led are as follows: 

1. Certain values of the epochs of budding can be deduced with pre- 



330 METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 

cision for various phases of many species of plants, so that the present 
method of investigation can be safely recommended. 

2. Very improbable values of this epoch are recognized at once by 
large limits of error; only such normal data as correspond to the small- 
est probable errors have a claim upon our acceptance. 

3. In the deduction of normal data the computations lead to nearly 
the same value for the dates of budding for all the fifty- five plants. Dif- 
ferences of two or three days occurred only when few observations were 
at hand. 

4. Even in the case of fragmentary but longer series of observations, 
Oettingen's method of computation can be applied, and it is immaterial 
whether the phase under consideration occurs in the extreme coldest or 
warmest portion of the year. 

5. The computation of a mean date from a sexies of observations af- 
fords opportunity for determining the variability in time or the probable 
error of the average date. 

6. The probable error of the total sums of heat, as deduced from 
observations of many years, must depend upon the variability of the 
weather. 

7. The present method of investigating the conditions of budding can 
perhaps be checked by exiDeriments upon certain species that will de- 
velop in water at different temperatures. {Z. 0. G. M., XIY, p. 326.) 

In a further review of Yon Oettingen's work on this subject Karl 
Fritsch states that in 1857 he first compared all the formulae that were 
then known with the best observations available in the development of 
the growth of plants and showed that the Boussingault formula has 
the greatest probability although it was intended especially for annuals. 
In 1861 he extended this work to a computation of the constants for 
1,889 different species of plants, for which ten consecutive years of ob- 
servation were available, the result of which showed that his method of 
computing his thermal constants must be very near the truth. New 
formulcTB were, however, proposed by Tomaschek in 1862, and by Kabsch 
in 1863, Hoffman in 1865, Ziegler in 1867. 

In 1867 and 1869 Linsser attempted a further elaboration of the sub- 
ject, which, however, was not brought to a satisfactory end at the time 
of his death. Krassan in 1868 and Koppen in 1870 spoke against the 
general principle of the temperature summations ; but the important 
work of Oettingen brings us back to the firm conclusion that the law of 
a constant quantity of heat is necessary to a given stage of develop- 
ment has a high degree of probability, and his method of determining 
the base temperature from which the sums are to be counted seems to 
be the best at present available. {Z. 0. G. M., XIV, p. 376.) 

Hoffmann, of Giessen, has published additional confirmation of his 
method of determining "thermal-constants" for plants. He sums up 
the daily maxima of a thermometer exposed to the full sunlight from 
January 1, the time of the minimum of plant activity up to the date of 



METEOROLOGY AND ALLIED SUBJECTS. 



331 



the occurrence of the respective botanical phases. He finds the obser- 
vations of plants that blossom in early sprinjjf very irregularly affected 
by early frosts, but gives the following table for plants that flourish in 
summer and autumn. Three thermometers have been used exposed 
under very similar circumstances — Kos. I and II, during 1880, No. Ill, 
during the earlier period, 186G to 18G9. 
The results seem very closely comparable among themselves. 



PlaDt. 



Date of first 
blossom, 
1880. 



Thermal constant for the years. 



I.— 1880. II.— 1880. m.— 1866-'69 



Acaculas raacrostachya. . . 

Catalpa syiinj^aifolia 

Linosyris^ vulgaris 

Mirabilis Jalapa 

Plnmbafro ouiopaia 

Pulicaria dyseuterica 

Valoradia plurabaginoidea 

Vites vinifera 

Lilium candidum 

Aster AmeUus 



vn,2i 

VII, 23 

VIII, 14 

VII, 31 

X,5 

VII, 25 

IX, 2 

VI, 22 

VI, 29 

VIII. 14 



3,504 
3,557 
4,091 
3,776 
5,495 
3,618 
4,767 
2,697 
2, 872 
4,091 



3,191 
3,229 
3,753 
3,441 
5,954 
3,292 
4,352 
2,603 
2,603 
3.753 



3,353 
3,318 
4,033 
3, t43 
5,318 
5,381 
.5, 177 
2,606 
2,710 
3,930 



Hoffman finds evidence that this law also holds good for plants pro- 
tected in greenhouses, and further, that the mean temperatures in the 
shade cannot have such a connection with the development of the plant 
as have those shown by the insolation thermometer. {Z. 0. G. j\L, XVI, 
1881, pp. 331-334.) 

{(1) Meteors. — Br. J. H. L. Flogel communicates observations by him- 
self on particles of iron dust found in snow, and gives a summary ot 
previous researches on this subject, beginning with Ehrenberg in 1849. 

The first snowfall examined by Flogel gave in the purest melted snow 
water nine forms of diatoms, confervas, spores, alive or apparently alive; 
fourteen forms of pollen or other parts of animals and plants ; and five 
forms of mineral substances. The subsequent snowfall, however, be- 
side these forms of dust, invariably gave iron, and the total amount of 
the latter was in one case about ? 3ooooooo of the volume of fresh- 
fallen snow. 

Flogel admits that- the cosmic origin of this iron dust (and Grone- 
man's theory of the dependence of auroras upon its presence) is very 
plausible, but that it still needs to be proven to be of local terrestrial 
origin, and be specially confined to certain regions of the globe. The 
question will probably be best settled by investigating the presence of 
nickel, as, if present, it would argue irresistibly for the cosmic origin of 
this iron dust. {Z. 0. G. ilL, XVI, 1881, p. 321.) 



PHYSICS. 



By George F. Barker, 
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GENEKAX,. 



The progress of physical science during the year 188 1 has been marked, 
especially in the department of electricity. But so intimate are the 
relations which connect together the various branches of physics that 
this advance has required corresponding activity in all the other de- 
partments. 

Stas, as rapporteur, on behalf of Broch, St. Claire Deville and him- 
self, appointed by the International Committee of Weights and Measures 
a sub-commission on the preparation of an X-rule in ijlatinum -iridium, 
has given a detailed account of the preparation of this rule by Matthey, 
the eminent metallurgist, to whom they had confided the work. The 
platinum was i^repared by precipitation from the chloride, two speci- 
mens, each of 35 kilograms, being obtained and analyzed simultaneously 
by Deville in Paris and Stas in Brussels. Specimen A gave 99.892 
platinum, 0.0G5 rhodium, and 0.029 iridium 5 specimen B 99.890 plati- 
num, 0.070 rhodium, and 0.023 iridium. A previous alloy was used to 
yield the iridium, special care being taken to exclude metals other than 
platinum. Onaualysis it gave : iridium, 91.100 ; platinum, 8.180 ; rhodium, 
0.122; ruthenium, 0.120, and iron 0.012. For the alloy, 18,015.05 grams 
of platinum, sample A, was mixed with the iridium in such proportion 
that 100,000 parts of the mixture should contain 1,025 parts of pure irid- 
ium ; the extra 25 parts being added to supply loss in working. The 
liuely-divided metals were sifted thoroughly together, the powder com- 
pressed and fused in a lime crucible. The cylinder thus obtained, which 
was 10 centimeters in diameter and 7.5 centimeters high, was forged at 
a white heat into a bar and rolled beiween polished rolls. It was then 
cut into small pieces, kept in fused hydro-potassium sulphate in a plati- 
num vessel for 3 hours, washed with boiling water and witli boiling 
hydrogen chloride. These operations were repeated three times. Be- 
fore the final forging three samples for analysis were taken from difi'er- 
eut parts of the ingot. The bar, which was 45 millimeters on a side, 
was again put under the hammer and forged into a cylinder at one end, 42 
millimeters in diameter and 128 centimeters long. This was cut off and 

333 



334 PHYSICS. 

turned into a true cylinder 40 millimeters in diameter, and cut into three 
equal parts. The rest of the bar was again drawn down under the ham- 
mer till it was 25.5 millimeters on a side and 103 centimeters long, an 
operation lasting 14 hours. It was now put on a planing-machine 
and planed into the form of an X iu section, this labor requiring 28 
days, from six in the morning to 10 at night. The bar, which before 
planing had a weight of 15,500 grams, weighed only 3,584 grams after- 
ward. On examining the three specimens cut from the ingot, their 
specific gravities were found to be 21.530, 21.536, 21.538, at 19°, or 21.535 
as a mean ; that of the pieces cut from the ends of the two rectangular 
rules being 21.523. The turned cylinders were then submitted, in steel 
molds, to blows of a hammer, each blow equivalent to a pressure of- 
110,000 kilograms. The first cylinder received 10 blows, and had a den ; 
sity of 21.554 ; the second received 20 blows, and its density was 21.5528; 
the third received 30, and was 21.5531 ; the mean of the three being 
21.553, with a probable error of ± 0.002. The chips removed by the 
planer were 21.538 before and 21.548 after melting. On analysis, after 
purification, the chips from the planer gave Devjlle: iridium, 10.1500; 
iron, 0.035; ruthenium, 0.017; rhoduim, 0.038; platinum, 89.75. The turn- 
ings gave: iridium, 10.151; iron, 0.032. In 100 parts of the alloy there 
were then 10.1444 parts of iridium, or l,018of iridium to9,000of platinum ; 
a value considerably within the tolerance allowed to Matthey . Collateral 
experiments showed the impracticability of drawing the bar through a 
templet of steel, since t-he quantity of iron in the alloy was thus trebled. 
Finally, the possibility of making separate masses of this alloy uniform 
in composition and density' was satisfactorily established, the iridium 
in a third specimen difiering from that in the second and first by only 
0.0003. The bar now goes to MM. Bruner, for the purpose of having 
the meter lines transferred to it from the standard meter of the govern- 
ment. {Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1881, Y, xxii, 120.) 

Sire has described an apparatus, which he calls a devioscope, for 
ascertaining directly the relation which exists between the angular ac- 
locity of the earth and that of a horizon around the vertical of any i^lace 
whatever. In the well-known pendulum experiment of Foucault, the 
apparent rotation of the plane of oscillation of the pendulum is propor- 
tional to the sine of the latitude of the place of observation, in con- 
sequence of the tendency of this plane to remain always parallel to 
itself. The apparatus in question consists of a^ fixed globe suppoi'ted 
on a vertical steel axis carried on an iron tripod. From this support 
just below the sphere a semicircular arm, articulated in the center, rises 
to carry a system of three wheels, the diameter of each being exactly 
the same as that of the sphere. Two of these wheels are toothed and 
work into each other. One of them moves on an axis i:)arallel, when 
the semicircle is in its normal position, to the axis of the sphere. The 
upper part of this axis carries a model of the plane of oscillation. The 
second wheel is fastened to an axle sup])orted on an arm always at right 



PHYSICS. 335 

angles to the semicircular arm, the third wheel being- at the other ex- 
tremity of this axle, and rolling on the sphere. A graduated circle on 
the axis, about which the semicircular arm moves, enables it to be ad- 
justed for any latitude. Normally the pendulum-axis is in the prolonga- 
tion of the sphere-axis. On turning the sphere the third wheel rolls 
round its equator, rotating the plane of oscillation of the pendulum in 
the same time as the sphere rotates, but in the inverse direction. Turn- 
ing the semicircular arm 90° the axis of oscillation passes through the 
equator and the wheel rests on the pole of the sphere ; hence, when the 
latter rotates, the plane of oscillation does not change. In intermedi- 
ate positions the change of plane is proportional to the sine of the lati- 
tude, and the rapidity of the change may be read off on a graduated 
circle placed beneath the jiendulum model. {J. Phys., September, 1881, 
X, 401.) 

G. H. and H. Darwin communicated to the York meeting of the 
British Association, on behalf of a committee appointed for the meas- 
urement of the lunar disturbance of gravity, the results of their experi- 
ments thus far made. In 1879 Sir William Thomson had erected at Glas- 
gow an apparatus consisting of a solid lead cylinder suspended by a 
fine brass wire five feet long from the cross-beam of the stone supports 
used for pendulum exi)eriments. From the bottom of the weight a rod 
projected, to which was fastened a single fiber, of silk attached to the 
edge of a small mirror. A second fiber, also attached to the same point 
of the mirror, was fastened to a supi)ort near the rod, so that the mirror 
was supported by a bitilar suspension, such that a minute motion of 
the pendulum would cause considerably rotation of the mirror. A lamp 
and slit were arranged for the readings. But the spot of light was 
found to be in incessant movement, so irregular that the mean position 
could not be fixed within 6 inches. The authors, after seeing this ar- 
rangement, constructed, in 1880, at Cambridge, a modification of it. The 
pendulum, suspended by the two wires, was hung in aliquid, and an ap- 
paratus was attached to it for giving it a known but very minute dis- 
placement. Thej' found that it was subject tp a diurnal oscillation, being 
farthest north at j). m. and larthest south at a. m. It was so sen- 
sitive that it showed distinctly the slight pressure on tbe stone gallows 
exerted by tlio finger. Water poured on the ground tilted the whole 
structure over, and minute changes of temj)erature j^roduced marked 
effects. One foot of displacement of the spot corresponded to one second 
of arc in the direction of the plumb-line. In 1881 a new instrument was 
made, in which a copper tube formed at the same time the support for 
the pendulum and the envelop for containing the liquid. The whole 
was immersed in a large mass of water, and the observations were taken 
from outside of the room by means of a telescope. The diurnal changes 
and the slow change were observed in the present case, and also periods 
of several days in which the pendulum was in a state of continual agi- 



336 PHYSICS. 

tation, apparently iudepeudeut of any external meteorological condi- 
tion. The apparatus, while quite insensible to local tremors, was ex- 
traordinarily sensitive to steady forces. A person standing in the room 
IG feet distant, and then 17 feet, the difference in the yielding of the 
floor and the consequent tilting toward the point of pressure of the 
stone basement, was plainly apparent. An alteration of the plumb- 
line by 0.01 second was distinctly measurable. The authors draw from 
these results some important practical conclusions. They suggest 
greater precautious to protect the piers of transit instruments from 
changes of temperature, and to provide for the drainage of the sod 
round their bases. The effect of the weight of the observer's body should 
be guarded against. {Nature, November 3, 1881, xxv, 20,) 

Eespighi has finished his experiments to determine the intensity of 
gravity at the observatory of Campidoglio. He used a pendulum com- 
posed of a ball of lead 9i kilograms in weight, supported by a steel 
wire 0.6 millimeter in diameter. Five different lengths were used, vary- 
ing from 7.9 to 5.16 meters. These pendulums proved independeitt of 
the earth's rotation, and showed Foucault's phenomenon perfectly. At 
each oscillation the point attached to the pendulum dipped in mercury, 
thus making an electric contact which was recorded on a chronograph. 
The data obtained have not yet been fully reduced. {Nature, May 19, 
1881, xxiv, 67.) 

Mendenhall has determined the value of gravity upon the summit of 
Fujiyama in Japan, using a Kater's pendulum, from which one of the 
knife-edges, the "tail-pieces," and allot the unnecessary parts were re- 
moved, and an adjustable slide-piece fixed on the piece projecting above 
the knife-edge. A Negus break-circuit chronometer, a chronograph, 
and a i)ortable transit instrument were also used. After the necessary 
corrections, the value of gravity on the summit of the mountain w^as found 
to be 9.7886. In Tokio it had been previously determined as 9.7984. 
From these values, taken in connection with certain data concerning 
the mountain, Mendenhall has sought to calculate the mean density of 
the earth. The result obtained, assuming the density of the mountain 
to be 2.12, gives 5.77 for the earth's density. As this is slightly above 
Baily's value, 5.67, the author reverses his calculation, and assuming 
this value, calculates the density of the mountain, and finds it to be 
onl}' 2.08; thus suggesting deficiency in its attraction. {Am. J. Sci., 
February, 1881, xxi, 99.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. Of solids. 

Stevenson has presented to the Eoyal Society a paper on the influ- 
ence of stress and strain on the action of physical forces. He finds 
that (1) after a wire has suffered permanent extension the temi)orary 
elongation produced by a load diminishes as the interval between the 



PHYSICS. 337 

time of this extension and that of ai)plyinj>- tlie load becomes greater; 

(2) this increase of elasticity is ])roportioualIy greater for large loads; 

(3) it takes place eqnally whether the wh'e be loaded or unloaded in the 
interval; (4) its rate of increase varies with different metals; (,">) the 
elasticity can be increased by loading and unloading several times; (0) 
a departure from Hooke's law always attends recent permanent exten- 
sion and; (7) this departure is diminished, notably in iron, by allowing 
the wire to rest for some time either loaded or unloaded. The intluence 
of electricity and of magnetism on the torsional rigidity of metals was 
examined, and the results showed (1) that in the case of copper and 
iron the torsional rigiditj^ is temporarilj' decreased by the passage of a 
strong current; (2) that of iron is temi)orarily diminished by a high 
magnetizing force; and (3) these effects are independent of temperature 
changes. {Mature, May 19, 1881, xxiv, 70.) 

Anderson has presented to a committee of the Institution of Mechan- 
ical Engineers a report on the hardening and tempering of steel, in which, 
after discussing the theories already proposed to account for the phe- 
nomena, he proposes a new one, suggested by Edison's experiments on 
platinum wire. It is a generally accepted fact that ordinary steel con- 
tains a certain quantity of occluded gases, hydrogen, nitrogen, and car- 
bonous oxide. The new theory supposes that by the application of 
heat, these gases are expelled through minute Assures, wbich open in 
the steel as the fissures opened in Edison's platinum wire. Sudden 
cooling prevents their reabsorption, and perhaps assists, too, in the 
expulsion. By the loss of these gases the metal becomes harder and 
denser than before. If, now, the metal be exj)anded by gentle heating, 
the fissures open and reabsorption begins ; the various changes which 
the surface undergoes, as shown by the color-changes, being exponents 
of the reabsorption i^rocess. Experiments are to be made by the com- 
mittee to test the validity of this ingenious theory. [Nature, May 5, 
1881, xxiv, 21.) 

Ewiug has devised a simple ibrm of speed-governor for continuous 
motion. At the end of the vertical axis whose speed is to be controlled, 
is a cross-bar carrying bell-cranks at its ends. The two vertical sides 
of these carry balls united at top by a spring. The horizontal portions 
carry paddles, dii>ping into an annular trough of glycerin. When the 
speed is increased the balls separate, and the paddles being immersed 
deeper in the glycerin; the velocity is diminished. {Nature, March 17, 
1881, xxiii, 473.) 

Holtz has determined the modulus of elasticity of the carbon rods 
made by Carr6 and used for the electric light. The acoustic method 
was used, the rods being held in the middle and vibrated longitudinally 
by rubbing with a resined cloth. On the average the modulus was 
found to be about the same as that of lead; though in the thinner rods 
the density is greater, and so the modulus is higher. Heat developed 

by the fricti®n raises the tone. ( Wiedcmami's Annalcn, 1881, i, .) 

S. Mis. 109 22 



338 PHYSICS. 

Kidder, under Cross's direction, has determined the modulus of elas- 
ticity and the mopulus of rupture of white spruce wood {abies alba). 
The pieces were about 1^ inches square and 4 feet long. The modu- 
lus of elasticity was found to be from 1,000,000 pounds to 1,700,000 
pounds, depending on the length of time the load was applied, and the 
modulus of rupture 11,000 pounds. {Proc. Am. Acad., February, 1881, 
285.) 

Do la Bastie has communicated to the French Academy some results 
obtained by Thomasset, showing the resistance to flexure of his hard- 
ened glass. Two series of results are given. The first, including 32 
tests, shows (1) that the elasticity is more than doubled by hardening; (2) 
that single glass hardened has 2.5 times the resistance of ordinary 
double glass, and (3) that semi-double hardened glass is 3.1 times more 
resistant than ordinary double glass. The second shows that (1) the 
flexure of ordinary glass is inappreciable, while the hardened glass 
bends under the strain; (2) that hardened glass polished, varying in 
thickness from C millimeters to 13 millimeters, had 3.07 times the resist- 
ance of ordinary plate of the same thickness, and (3) that unpolished 
hardened glass resists 5.33 times better than unhardened glass. {Ann. 
Chim. Phys., June, 1881, V, xxiii, 286.) 

C. O. Thompson has investigated the apparent lubricating action of salt 
as used in wire-drawing, and reaches the conclusion that it is a physical 
rather than a chemical one, a continuous, adhesive, transparent coating 
of salt appearing on the wire as it emerges from the draw-plate. The 
intense pressure to which the wire and the salt are subjected and the 
high temperature caused by this pressure (a temperature at least as 
high as the fusing i^oint of tin, 237° C.) cause the particles of salt to run 
together and to form a complete plastic coherent sheath around the wire. 
This result the author compares to regelation, a theory tested and 
proved by submitting salt on the end of a steel cylinder a half inch in 
diameter to a pressure of 192,000 pounds. During the first experiment a 
thin, transparent sheet of salt gushed from the side. After the second 
a transparent, coherent wafer of salt was obtained, through which the 
mark of a No. 4 Faber pencil could be read distinctly. {Proc. Inst. 
Min. Eng., February, 1881, ix, 299.) 

Spring has submitted various substances to pressures ui> to 10,000 
atmospheres, and finds that many weld completely and become crys- 
talline. Thus bismuth becomes crystalline under a pressure of 6,000 
atmospheres, and zinc of 5,000 at a temperature of 130° 0. Octohedral 
sulphur welds easily at 3,000 atmospheres, and becomes crystalline ; 
prismatic and soft sulphur rapidly becoming octohedral. Manganese 
dioxide, at 5,000 atmospheres, gives a black mass having the crystalline 
texture of x)yrolusite. Zinc sulphide takes a saccharoid structure like 
sphalerite, and lead sulphide, at 6,000 atmosi)heres, resembles galenite. 
A mixture of copper filings and sulphur becomes crystallized sulphide. 



PHYSICS. 339 

Crystalline salts weld with remarkable facility, giving compact, trans- 
parent masses. Coal at 0,000 atmospheres forms a solid brilliant block, 
easily molded. Wax at 700 atmospheres liows like water. ParafQn 
requires 2,000 atmospheres. Gum arable is plastic at 5,000 atmospheres, 
and sealing-wax shows this e£fect still more markedly. [Ann. Chim. 
Phys., February, 1881, V, xxii, 170.) 

2. Of liquids. 

Bjerknes exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition an ingenious 
set of apparatus for showing the fundamental phenomena of electricity 
and magnetism by the analogous ones of hydrodynamics. The fact that 
a vibrating body attracts light objects near it has long been known, 
and the explanation that the air is rarefied by the agitation, the press- 
ure is greater at a distance, and the light stationary body is pressed 
toward the vibrating one, was given in 1867 by Sir William Thomson. 
By means of two small pumps pulses of compression or rarefaction may 
be produced in drums or spheres of elastic material immersed in water, 
or these maybe caused themselves to vibrate. If two drums are used, 
and both contract and expand together, there is attraction, while if one 
contracts and the other expands there is repulsion. But if two spheres 
be made to oscillate so that they move in the same direction at the 
same time, then there is repulsion between them. If they move in 
opposite directions there is attraction. The author considers the water 
in his trough as the analogue of Faraday's medium, and the results 
which he has obtained with his apparatus are very striking. {J. Phys., 
December, 1881, x, 509; Nature, August 18, 1881, xxiv, 360.) 

Volkmann has pointed out that in the determination of the specific 
gravity of heavy liquids, as mercury, by means of the pycnometer, an 
error is introduced by the deformation of the bottle by the pressure 
within. In the case of a bottle provided with a capillary tube divided 
equally, he found that on filling it with mercury the toj) of the column 
stood at 68.1 divisions when the whole was immersed in mercury to the 
same level ; but on removing it the column fell to 65.4. Taking the 
precaution to eliminate this source of error, a new determination of the 
value of the density of mercury gave the number 13.5953zt .0001. [Na- 
ture, July 28, 1881, xxiv, 294.) 

Plateau has communicated to the Belgian Academy some interesting 
experiments with liquid films. A piece of fine iron wire is bent so as 
to represent in outline a sixpctaled flower; it is then dipped for a mo- 
ment in nitric acid and washed, and then dipped in glyceric solution 
and idaced under a bell-jar, and near a window. A pretty play of bright 
colors is observed, which continues for hours. To prove the contraction 
of such a film when it breaks, a bubble 11 centimeters in diameter is 
blown with glyceric liquid b^' tobacco smoke and placed on a ring. If 



340 PHYSICS. 

the top be broken wheu it becomes blue the mass of smoke is shot ver- 
tically upward and then spreads out horizontally. {N'ature, October 20, 
1881, xxiv, 593.) 

Oberbeck has experimented to ascertain the truth of the distinction 
made by Plateau between the surface viscosity and the internal vis- 
cosity of liquids. He finds that with distilled water the resistance in- 
creases suddenly, and to quite considerable extent, whenever the uj^per 
edge of the plate comes into the free surface, and ho does not doubt 
that this is due to increased friction in the surface layer. In pure water 
this increase of resistance was C0.9 per cent., and in salt solutions from 
54.1 to 75.1 per cent. In alcohol there was a decrease of 11.9, in oil of 
turpentine 12.6, and carbon disulphide of 2G.3 per cent. ( Wiedemami's 
Annalen, 1880, II, xi, 034.) 

De Eomilly has contrived a very effective form of centrifugal pump, 
by which, even by hand, water may be raised to a height of 150 meters. 
Several forms of it are figured in his paper, and an ingenious applica- 
tion of the same principle is made use of to keep the pivots oiled. {J. 
Phys., July, 1881, x, 303.) 

3. Of gases. 

Crookes has presented a paper to theEoyal Society on the viscosity 
of gases at high exhaustions. Maxwell had come to the theoretical 
conclusion, in 1859, that the coefficient of friction or the viscosity of a 
gas should be indei^endent of its density ; and this conclusion he sub- 
sequently found to be true experimentally for pressures between 30 
inches and 0.5 inch, the coeflBcient of friction in air being practically 
constant. Crookes has sought to extend these experiments by testing 
the question at much higher exhaustions than had before been used. 
His apparatus consisted of a globe with a long neck within which was 
a light i^late of mica suspended by a fine fiber of glass. By means of 
a mirror on the fiber the oscillations of the plate could be read with the 
usual lamp-stand and scale. He finds that the logarithmic decrement 
of the oscillation is sensibly the same until the pressure reaches 3 milli- 
meters, when there is a rapid and marked change in its value, continu- 
ing to the highest exhaustion obtained, 0.02 M, or one fifty millionth of 
an atmosphere. The author regards this as additional jiroof of the 
existence of the fourth or ultra-gaseous state of matter. {Phil. Trans., 
February, 1881, Part II, p. 387.) 

Sprengel has pointed out the fact that in his paper published in the 
Journal of the Chemical Society in January, 1865, he distinctly de- 
scribed the Avater-air pump. He sent a copy of this paper to Bunsen, 
who, three years later, printed his paper on the washing of precipitates, 
in which the water-pump was described. He alludes to the matter 
thus : " I employ a water-air pump constructed of glass on the princi- 
ple of Sprengel's mercury-air pump." From this statement the name 



PHYSICS. 341 

Bunseu pump has originated ; erroneously as it appears to Sprengel 
bimsell^ {Nature, May I'J, 1881, xxiv, 53.) 

Rood has continued his investigations on the mercury pump, and has 
further perfected it, so that he has now obtained vacua of -ir§-oiroooxro 
of an atmosphere. The form of pump used is Sprengel's, with consider- 
able modification in its details, not intelligible without the figures which 
accompany the pajjer. The v acua were measured with the McLeod 
gauge, specially modified for the purpose. The greatest care was taken 
in annealing all the glass, and during action the pump was warmed with 
a Bunsen burner. The leakage was so small that in a year it would 
amount to only 2.877 cubic millimeters under the normal air pressure 
{Am. J. Set., August, 1881, iii, 90.) 

Angot has described a new and simple registering barometer, con- 
structed by Eichard freres. Six or eight holosteric barometer-boxes, 
so attached that their changes are added, serve to measure the varying 
air pressure. The npper box acts on the short arm of a lever, the long 
arm of which inakes the record on a revolving cylinder. The arms of 
the lever are adjusted so that the motion of the end of the longer cor- 
responds exactly to the variation of the mercurial barometer. On the 
cylinder is a sheet of paper properly divided. The rotation is effected 
by clock-work, so that the cylinder revolves once in seven days. A i^en 
containing glycerin ink, being attached to the lever-arm, inscribes the 
curve on the paper. A metallic thermometer, recording similarly, has 
also been constructed, and a hygrometer is projected. {J. Phi/s., August, 
1881, X, 3G3.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Cross has observed that under certain circumstances sound is emitted 
from a Crookes tube in action. Using the tube in which a piece of liluti- 
num is heated by the impact of the molecules shot out from the con- 
cave negative pole, a clear and quite musical note was heard. It was 
at first supposed to be due to the circuit-breaker j but it did not coin- 
cide with this in pitch, and changes in the rapidity of vibration of the 
latter did not affect the note. The effect seemed to be produced by 
the vibration of the sheet platinum in its own period under the influ- 
ence 6f the molecular blows. The sound resembled somewhat the i)at- 
tering of rain against a window-pane, but it was higher in pitch and 
more musical. The reversing of the current changed entirely its char- 
acter. The sound was heard also in the mean free-path tube, best 
when the middh^ plate was positive, and in a tube containing calcium 
sulphide lor i)hosphorescence. {Proc. Am. Acad., Xovember, 1881; 
Nature, May 12, 1881, xxiv, 45.) 

Cook has proposed the name sonorescence for the phenomena of the 
conversion of intermittent light into sound, discovered by Graham 
Bell. Obviously this was suggested by the analogy of the word with 
fluorescence, given by Stokes to the change of ultra-violet ravs into 



342 PHYSICS. 

luminous ones, and calorescence, applied by Tyndall to the conversion 
of ultra-red rays into luminous ones — the term calcescence having been 
previously proposed by Akin. The word sonorescence, however, to 
make the analogy exact, should be taken to signify the conversion of 
sound into luminous rays, and not the reverse effect, for which it is pro- 
posed. {Natw-e, May 19, 1881, xxiv.) 

Martini has determined the velocity of sound in chlorine gas by 
means of a resonant column: A glass tube 0.4 meter long and 2 centi- 
meters diameter, fixed vertically, communicated below by means of a 
rubber tube, with a second vertical tube adjustable in height, the bead 
contaiuiug sulphuric acid. When this second tube was raised or low- 
ered the length of the column of gas could be varied so as to reinforce 
a certain fixed tone. The first tube being graduated, the length of the 
column was easily found, and a simple calculation gave the velocity. 
After verifying the method with carbon dioxide, and hyi^onitrous oxide, 
the author found 206.4 meters as the velocity of sound in chlorine at 
zero. '{Nature, 61, May 19, 1881, xxiv.) 

Eobinson has described an experiment which he claims as proof that 
a sound wave can be polarized. An L-shaped tube 1 inch in diame- 
ter and 3 inches in length, made of tin, had a portion of the joint re- 
moved and a piece of membrane, making equal angles with the two 
branches, i)ut in its jDlace. This angle was obtained from the optical 
principle that the tangent of the polarizing angle is equal to the ratio 
of the velocities in the two media; in the present case, to the ratio 
1420 : 1125, the velocities in coal gas and air respectively. A series 
of these bent tubes were connected together so that by turning them 
round each other the membranes could be placed either all parallel to 
each other or all perpendicular. At the two ends were membranes clos- 
ing the tubes. After filling the tube with coal gas, it was found that 
no effect could be obtained with sound itself. A pulse was therefore 
produced by the fall of a ball suspended by a thread against the end 
membrane, the recei^tion of the pulse being recorded by the motion of 
a similar ball at the other end. In one series of eighty experiments the 
mean detiection when the tubes were jjarallel was 0.47, and when per- 
pendicular 5.43, a difference of 16.1 i)er cent. Ko difierence was observed 
when the tube was filled with air. Concediug this result to be actual, 
it would seem more probable that it is due to some mechanical iJecul- 
iarity of the apparatus rather than to the jjolarization of a longitudinal 
wave. But the more sweeping conclusion of the author, that all vibra- 
tions in extended media are longitudinal, and become transversal when 
polarization takes place, cannot at all be conceded on the basis of the 
experiments which he has made. {J. Frank. Inst., March, 1881, III, 
Ixxxi, 201; Am. J. Sci., June, 1881, III, xxi, 501.) 

Eeuleaux has recorded a singular case of the production of sound by 
natural causes, observed while hunting in the lioderbacherthal, near 



PHYSICS. 343 

the highest part of the Ehine province. The ground is gently undulat- 
ing and densely wooded. The valley, spacious on the eastern side, 
narrows rapidly at one part to a sort of pass, through which, for about 
a kilometer, the Roderbach flows westward. A southwest wind was 
blowing, and Reuleaux, coming along the hillside from the east, 
heard what appeared to be the strokes of a fine, deep-toned bell, in 
rapid succession. There was no such bell in the neighborhood, and 
some other sounds heard soon afterward satisfied him that the effects 
were of natural origin. Tones were heard growing in force to a maxi- 
mum, then dying away ; they were like those of organ-pipes at first, 
but their "clang" came to resemble that of a harp or violin. At the 
mouth of the pass, whence the sounds seemed to radiate, there was a 
strange agitation in the air and mixtures of sounds, some of which 
abruptly stopped. Reuleaux supposes bodies of air in vortical motioji 
to have been carried along from the pass, and the sound to have been 
due to conflict between the outer and the inner air at the mouth of such 
tronibes, producing oscillations. There was a marked difference of tern' 
perature between the higher and the lower parts of the valley, and this 
is regarded as an important factor in the case; the cold air above press- 
ing on the warm below and closing the pass to a sort of tube. The 
wind seemed to be active only in the lower parts. {Froc. Nat. Hist. 8oc. 
Rlieinl. & Westphal; Nature, October, 1881, xxiv, 592.) 

Kohlrausch has investigated the production of sounds by a limited 
number of vibrations. A strip of wood 3 meters long had one end 
fastened to the ceiling, the other carrying a weight of G kilograms, the 
whole forming a pendulum. A metallic arc, whose center was the point 
of suspension, was attached below, pierced with equidistant holes, in 
which teeth are solidly fixed. Beneath this a card is fixed carried by a 
piece of wood. When raised it is struck by the teeth in i^assing, thus 
producing a series of impulses varying in time with the distance of the 
teeth and the velocity of the pendulum, but in number determined by 
the number of teeth. The velocity of the pendulum was measured by 
a chronoscoi^e. The pitch of the sound was fixed by a monocord, the 
bridge being placed at first so that the sound of the cord was evidently 
more acute, then more grave, than that of the pendulum. The inverse 
ratio of the two lengths of the cord measures the characteristic interval 
of height for the sound considered, i. e., the diflerence of height which 
permits two sounds near to one another to be distinguished. The au- 
thor's results approximately verify Belmholtz's theory of audition. A 
sound can be distinguished from another which makes two vibrations, 
more or less, if the interval of the two sounds is not smaller than ff. 
Sixteen vibrations were found to be sufficient to determine the pitch of 
a sound. The method, however, does not claim great delicacy. ( Wied. 
Ann., 1880, x, 1; J. Fhys., May, 1881, x, 213.) 

Montigny has studied the efle(;t of liquids upon the vibration of bells, 
the liquids being either within or without them. He finds that (1) the 



344 PHYSICS. 

sound was lowered in pitch, (2) it was more decided the more dense the 
liquid, (3) it was much more marked when the bell was wholly immersed 
in the liquid than when the liquid was simply contained in the bell, and 
(4) in both cases acute sounds were less lowered than grave ones. 
The lowering of the sound was more decided with water than with al- 
coliol and ether. {Nature, January 20, 1881, xxiii, 278.) 

Ellis has presented a paper to the Eoyal Society on the influence of 
temperature on the musical pitch of harmonium reeds, giving the results 
of experiments on the harmonium reeds of Appunn's treble tonometer 
at South Kensington Museum, at temperatures differing by from 20° to 
20O F. These experiments make it probable that the pitch of such reeds 
is affected by temperature to twice the extent of tuning-forks and in the 
same direction ; that is, they are flattened by heat and sharpened by 
cold about one vibration in 10,000 per second for each degree Fahrenheit. 
{Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 379.) 

Eoig and Torres have substituted for the metallic diaphragm of the 
phonograph a mica plate quite free at the border and supported at the 
center by an axis of caoutchouc fixed to a small spring. Besides the 
short style for indenting the tinfoil, this axis carries a piece of metal 
which supports a second style perpendicular to the first, the vibrations 
of which are inscribed on a smoked cylinder. By clockwork the same 
angular velocity is imparted to both cylinders, so that while the short 
style makes its usual marks on the tin foil the long one produces a larger 
tracing on the smoked surface. In these traces the authors have suc- 
ceeded in recognizing the vowels, some consonants, and even some syl- 
lables, but they have not been able to read entire phrases. {Nature, 
February, 1881, xxiii, 373.) 

Koenig has studied the beats and beat-tones of harmonic ii^tervals, 
and concludes against the view of Helmholtz, that these are due to har- 
monic tones of the lower primary sounding with the higher. He has 
produced the phenomena by means of a " wave siren," consisting of a 
rotating disk or cylinder, the border of which is cut so as to represent 
with great accuracy the curve produced by the combination of two sim- 
ple tones. "When a blast of air is directed against this serrated edge 
through a slit, an air motion is produced quite like that produced by 
the two tones sounded together, and in which the beats and beat-tones 
are heard. When the border is a simple harmonic curve and the slit at 
right angles to it, a simple tone only is heard ; but if this slit is slanted 
a. little a ''clang" is at once develoj)ed with strong overtones. On 
Helmholtz's supposition, the beat-tone obtained with two simple tones, 
the slits being at right angles, should be less distinct than when the 
overtones are brought out by slanting the slits ; whereas in point of 
l^ct the precise reverse of this is the case. ( Wied. Ann., 1881, II, xii, 
335; Nature, April, 1881, xxiii, CIG, August, 1881, xxiv, 358.) 

Koenig has described a simple and very efficient lecture apparatus 



PHYSICS. 345 

for producing- beat-tones. It consists of two glass rods or tubes of dif- 
ferent lengths clamped vertically at tbeir centers to a jointed frame. 
By means of an elastic band their lower ends are pressed against the 
periphery of a wheel covered with cloth and dipping into water. The 
longitudinal vibration produ(;ed when the wheel is turned is strong and 
the beat-tones are very distinct. {Wied. Ann., 1881, II, xii, 350.) 

Maschke has devised a simple form of apparatus for showing the 
nodal points in tubes. A wooden graduated scale has a groove along 
its upper surface, on which is placed a glass tube. At one end a small 
steel rod is supported which enters the tube and carries at its extrem- 
ity a ring covered with a membrane. Against this hangs a small ball 
of shellac, suspended by a silk fiber from the upper edge of the ring. 
If the air within the tube be vibrated by any suitable means, as by a 
tuning fork, the ball is thrown into vibration, if placed at a loop, but 
remains at rest when at a node. The effects may be projected on a 
screen. {Wied. Ann., 1881, II, xiii, 204.) 

Koenig has also contrived a method for exploring the interior of organ- 
inpes while in action without interfering with their operation. The 
I)ipe used has a front of plate glass, graduated, and a longitudinal slit 
at the back. It is jilaced horizontally in a trough so that the slit and 
half of the back are below the surface of the water which it contains. A 
thin brass tube bent twice at right angles is supported so that one end 
enters the slit to about the middle of the jjipe. It can be slid along the 
pipe, and is connected by a rubber tube either with the ear or a mono- 
metric flame capsule. When the inner end of the tube passes a ventral 
segment in the i^ipe a sudden weakening of the sound is noticed, and 
then a sudden strengthening. In this way the position of the nodes and 
segments can be exactly ascertained. The results are not in exact ac- 
cord with theory. ( Wied. Ann., 1881, II, xiii, 569.) 

Lovering has discovered a paper communicated to the American 
Academy by Nathaniel Bowditch in 1815, in which he investigates the 
figures made by a double pendulum which compounded two vibrations 
at right angles with one another. The text is illustrated by several 
plates of figures, which prove clearly the anticipation of the figures given 
by Lissajons in 1857. The ratios investigated were unison, octave, 
twelfth, and the double octave. {Proc. Am. Acad., .) 

Crova has described an apparatus for recording Lissajous's curves 
mechanically. It consists of a pendulum of wire with a heavy weight 
suspended from the ceiling and carrying a brush dipped in ink. Be- 
neath this is a curved table attached to the toj) of a second pendulum 
formed of a rod, vibrating on knife-edges in a plane at right angles to 
the first, and carrying an adjustable weight below. The ai)i>aratus used 
by Crova has an upper i)endulum 0.7 meters long vibrating in 2.0 seconds, 
and the figures are inscribed in a square 0.25 meter on a side. By burn- 
ing a thread which holds the up])er pendulum at any particular i)hase, 
the resultant curve is described on the paper covering the curved table. 
{J. Phys., May, 1881, x, 211.) 



346 PHYSICS. 

Corva has also suggested the use of a magnet brought near to the 
forks, giving Lissajous's figures by projection, for the purpose of varying 
at will the differences of phase. He uses Mercadier's diapasons mounted 
on Duboscq's universal support. To vary the period of one of these 
he employs a supplementarj' electromagnet placed between the arms of 
the fork, and adjustable by a screw in a plane perpendicular to that of 
the branches. {J. Phys., June, 1881, x, 253.) 

Koenig has devised an ingenious apparatus for determining with great 
precision the vibrations of a normal fork. A clock-work movement of 
great nicety so acts ou a fork making 128 vibrations as to keep it in 
vibration, while at the same time the fork acts as the escapement of the 
clock. By comparison with a chronometer the rate of the clock, and 
hence the error of the fork, is ascertained. If, for example, the error of 
the clock is i 1 second per hour, then the error of the fork is ± aViru? or 
0.0355. One of the arms of the fork carries a microscope and the other 
a steel mirror as counterweight. In this way the movement of the fork 
can be compared with that of any other vibrating body, by the optical 
method. The apparatus is regulated for 20° C, and the variation from 19° 
to 20"^ causes a change of 0.0143 vibration. Within a range of 5° to 30° 
the mean variation per degree centigrade is 0.059 to 0.054 vibration. 
Koenig's C3 fork makes at 20° 512.3548 vibrations, and at 2G.2o 512 
vibrations. The normal French fork, correct at 15°, varies 0.0972 vibra- 
tion per degree centigrade. The normal fork of the conservatory makes 
870.9 vibrations at 15"^, and is correct at 870 vibrations at 27.2°. ( Wied. 
Ann, 1880, ix, 394; J. Phys., May 1881, x, 214.) 

HEAT. 

1. Thermometry and production of heat. 

Russell has given a detailed account of the method of Neumann for 
calibrating thermometers, which, he says, has very considerable advan- 
tfiges over the methods in common use, and which combines the great- 
est simplicity, elegance, and exactness. The columns measured should 
be as nearly as possible equal in length to a whole number of intervals 
between the points for which the corrections are required, t. e., for 
every ten degrees the required columns must be about 10, 20, 30 degrees, 
etc. The columns obtained are to be measured with their lower ends 
near all the points for which corrections are required. The method of 
detaching a suitable column and the details of the method ofcalibrntion 
are given at length in Eussell's paper. {Am. J. Sci., May, 1881, III, 
xxi, 373.) 

Pernet has examined thermometers to ascertain whether the distance 
between the boiling point and the freezing point remains constant at 
all different stages of secular alteration in volume of the bulbs. He 
finds that it does remain constant, provided the freezing point is deter- 
mined immediately after the boiling point. On the other hand, if the 



PHYSICS. 347 

boiliug point be determined, and a long interval elapses before the zero 
is determined, there is considerable error. If a thermometer is in any 
particular molecular state, its reading will probably be in error, the 
amount of which may be ascertained by placing it in ice and observing 
the error of the zero reading. In order that a thermometer should 
read correctly at any particular temperature, it should* bo exposed for a 
considerable time to the temperature for which exact measure is desired 
or else for a few minutes to a slightly higher temperature. {J. Phys., 
December, 1S81, x, 520; Nature, July 28, 1881, xxiv, 294.) 

Tait has made an elaborate investigation of the errors caused by 
pressure in the deep-sea thermometers of the Challenger expedition. 
They were all registering thermometers of the Six pattern, the large 
bulb being protected by an exterior shell of glass strong enough to re- 
sist the i)ressure of at least 5,000 fathoms of sea water, or about six tons 
weight per square inch, and filled with alcohol. The correction assigned 
to them by Captain Davis, of the admiralty, was half a degree Fahren- 
heit for every mile of depth. The first result reached was that this 
correction needed was not due directly to the pressure, but probably to 
the increased temperature produced by the compression. Calculation 
showed that the interual capacity of a glass tube with thick walls is re- 
duced by about one-thousandth i)art for each ton weight of pressure. 
Hence if such a tube be partly filled with mercury with an index above 
it, the index should be displaced by one-thousandth of the length of the 
column of mercury for each ton weight of pressure applied to the out- 
side of the tube. On testing the question with a thermometer tube, the 
mercury column being a meter long, the index was found to be displaced 
a millimeter for each ton of pressure. The apparatus employed for pro- 
ducing the pressures under which the tests were made, of 11 or 12 tons 
per square inch, is described, but the final results have not yet appeared. 
{Nature, November, 1881, xxv, 90.) 

Waldo has examined with care three standard thermometers con- 
structed for him at the Kew observatory. He concludes that between 
0° and 100° C, the errors of these thermometers depending on the cali- 
bration, are practically insensible. Direct examination of every degree 
to detect accidental errors of graduation, requiring about 2,300 separate 
micrometer readings, shows that no sensible accidental errors have been 
introduced into the graduations of these standards. The corrections re- 
quired at the freezing and the boiling point.'? were found to be, as a max- 
imum, -i-0.38 at the freezing and -f-0.22 at the boiling point of a Fah- 
renheit degree. {Am. J. Set., iii, xxi, 57, 1881.) Waldo has also sug- 
gested two slight changes in the construction of the Kew standard 
thermometers. As now made the capillary space is continued above 
the calibrating chamber. As this causes serious inconvenience from 
the lodgment of mercury in it, which is dislodged with great difficulty, 
the suggestion is that the bulb extend to the end of the cavity. Since 
it is often desirable to hang these thermometers up, it is convenient to 



348 PHYSICS. 

have the upper extremity of the tube turned into a ring with its plane 
parallel to the enameling* in the tube. It is desirable further to have 
the kind of glass and the date of filling engraved on the tube. {Nature, 
June, 1881, xxiv, 100.) 

Marey has contrived a new continuous registering thermometer for 
recording the temperature of the bodj'. It consists of a closed brass 
tube containing oil and communicating with a Bourdon manometer. 
Any change of temperature by altering the internal pressure makes the 
curve of the manometer increase or decrease, thus registering the change 
by means of an index on a revolving cylinder. The tliermometric bulb 
may be at a distance from the recording apparatus, the two being con- 
nected by a tube of annealed copper. Two such bulbs may be employed 
and applied to dilierent parts of the body, exterior or interior. {Nature, 
July 28, 1881, xxiv, 294.) 

Brown has devised a modification of the mercurial thermometer by 
which temperatures may be electrically registered at a distance. It 
was invented for the purpose of ascertaining the temperature of kilns 
for drying malt, and works well in i3ractice. An ordinary thermometer 
9 inches long with a large bulb and wide stem has platinum wires in- 
serted through the walls of the stem every three degrees from 120° to 
171° v., their outer ends being connected with binding screws. The bore 
of the tube above the mercury contains glycerin. Another wire of pla- 
tinum passes through the bulb and communicates with the mercury. Its 
outer end is attached to a binding post by which connection is made 
with one pole of a Leclanche battery of two cells, the other pole being- 
grounded. Near the thermometer is placed a transmitter consisting of 
an ebonite ring through which platinum wires pass at equal distances, 
their upper ends flush with the surface. An arm revolving by clock- 
work, and started by an electro-magnet, touches each of these wires in 
succession. As they are severally connected with the thermometer wires 
the circuit is closed by those wires with which the mercury is in con- 
tact, and a signal is sent down the line, with which the moving arm is 
connected, and which may be of any length. By closing the cii-cuit of 
a second line wire, the electro-magnet starts the clock-work, and the 
traversing arm completes the circuit through a bell as many times as 
there are Avires immersed in the mercury. This number multiplied by 
three and the sum added to 120° gives the temperature. {Nature, 
March, 1881, xxiii, 464.) 

Langley has given the following calcidation: A sunbeam one square 
centimeter in section is found in the clear sky of the Allegheny Mount- 
ains to bring to the earth in one minute enough heat to warm one gram 
of water by 1° C. It would, therefore, if concentrated upon a film of 
water one five-hundredth of a millimeter thick, one millimeter wide, 
and ten millimeters long, raise it 83i^o in one second, provided all the 
heat could be maintained. And since the specific heat of platinum is 



PHYSICS. 349 

only 0.0032, a strip of platinum of the same dimensions would, on a simi- 
lar supposition, be wanned in one second to 2,603° C, a temperature suf- 
ficient to melt it. {Proc. Am. Acad., January, 1881, xvi, 342 ; Nature, 
July, 1881, xxiv, 294.) 

Siemens, in a lecture at Glasgow, has considered the question of gas 
and electricity as heating agents. The object which he set before him- 
self was to prove that, for all ordinary i)urposes of heating and melting, 
gaseous fuel should be resorted to, for the double reason of producing 
the utmost economy, and of doing away with the bugbear of the pres- 
ent day, the smoke nuisance; but that for the attainment of extreme de- 
grees of heat the electric arc possesses advantages unrivaled by any 
other source of heat. In support of the economy of gaseous fuel, he 
found that under the boiler of the steam-engine only 1,282 units of heat 
were obtained from one pound of coal, instead of 10,500, and in the melt- 
ing of steel only 1,800 heat units are obtained from 2.5 pounds of coke, 
instead of 32,625 units, the actual value. In domestic use the waste is 
even greater, but it is not possible to determine it exactly. This waste 
led him to devise his smokeless grate, in which a fire of coke is fed with 
coal-gas. His oflice was perfectly warmed by the consumption of 02 
cubic feet of gas, and 22 jjounds of coke per day of nine hours, at a cost 
of 47 pence. The use of gas for heating is greatly to be encouraged. 
The electric furnace for melting steel was exhibited, and eight pounds 
of files were melted and poured into an ingot before the audience. A 
current of 70 amperes, produced by an expenditure of 7-horse power, 
and which would give a light of 12,000 candles, sufiiced to raise an 8- 
iuch crucible to a white heat in fifteen minutes, and in a second fifteen 
minutes to fuse four pounds of steel. {Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 
327,351.) 

Terquem has studied the constitution of the Bunsen flame, and has 
suggested some modifications in the form of the lamp. The ordinary 
flame has a hollow cone in the center, so that its heating effect is much 
reduced. If more air be admitted for the purpose of remedying this 
defect, the flame becomes solid, but very unsteady, and soon strikes down 
within the tube. The author has succeeded (1) in making the flame less 
unsteady, (2) in mixing with the gas the maximum quantity of air that 
the gas requires, without lighting below, and (3) in obtaining tliis re- 
sult with tubes of all diameters up to 4 centimeters, whatever be the 
pressure of the gas. These objects arc obtained: 1st, by dividing the 
opening whence the gas issues into several sectors, by two or more ver- 
tical partitions fixed on the sides and ])assinginto the tube; and, 2d, by 
placing in the center of the tube a small plate or a ball which thus makes 
the orifice annular. The flame is thus made solid throughout, is very 
hot, and the tube can be rai.sed ibr a decimeter above the gas-jet without 
having the flame strike down through it. {J. Phys., March, 1881, x, 119.) 



350 PHYSICS. 

Eowland lias presented a memoir to the American Academy ou tlie 
mechanical equivalent of heat, with subsidiary researches on the mercury 
thermometer as compared with the air thermometer, and on the varia- 
tion of the specific heat of water. By means of an apparatus contrived 
for the purpose, the various mercury thermometers to be afterward 
employed were compared with each other and with the air thermometer. 
The nature of the glass was fouud to have a sensible influence on the 
graduation of the mercury thermometer, and the difterences between 
the mercury and the air thermometers, even between 0° and 100°, are 
by no means negligible, being some tenths of a degree in the vicinity 
of 45°. For determining the mechanical equivalent of heat. Joule's 
method, revolving paddles in water, was employed. A vertical axis 
carrying the paddles was driven, by a petroleum motor, the vanes them- 
selves moving in a water calorimeter. The work done by the friction 
was measured by the thermometer; that expended by the product of 
the number of rotations into the moment of the couple necessary to 
prevent the freely suspended calorimeter from turning on its axis. The 
number of rotations was recorded on the chronograph; and upon the 
same paper an electric contact recorded the instant when the mercury 
column reached a given division of the scale. After suitable reductions 
and corrections, Rowland finds that the mechanical equivalent of heat 
is a function of the temperature, being 429.8 at 5°, 427.4 at 15°, 426.4 
at 20°, 425.G at 30°, and 425.8 at 30°. This result the author ascribes to 
a diminution of the capacity of water for heat, the specific heat diminish- 
ing as the temperature increases. {Proc. Am. Acad., 1879, p. 75 ; J. Phys., 
January, 1881, x, 82.) 

2. Expansion and change of state. 

De Lucchi has determined the expausion-coefiicient of sodium from 
the density obtained in petroleum at various temperatures. The sodium 
was cast into a cylinder under naphtlia, and before solidification a fine 
iron wire was inserted in it, by which it was suspended to the balance. 
The coefficient of expansion of the petroleum oil used having been deter- 
mined with great care, that of the sodium was obtained by weighing 
it first in the cold liquid and then in the same liquid at the required 
temperature. From the data thus given the relative and absolute 
coefficients were readily calculated. The mean coefficient between 0° 
and 90° was found to be 0.0002367. The absolute coefficient increases 
rapidly with the temperature, being 0.00014178 at 0°, 0.00016570 at 20°, 
0.0001*9580 at 40°, 0.00025160 at 00°, and 0.00036390 at 80°. Near the 
fusing poiutthe increase is more rapid. [J. Phys., January, 1881, x, 4L.) 

Comstock has called attention to a variation in the length of a zinc 
bar at the same temperature. The United States Lake Survey pos- 
sesses a meter made by Eepsold, composed of a bar of steel and one of zinc 
so arranged as to form a metallic thermometer. It has also a base- 
measuring apparatus by the same maker, containing cast-iron tubes four 



PHYSICS. 351 

meters long, and having in its interior a bar of steel and one of zinc, 
also forming a thermometer. Irregularities in the results of comparisons 
of two bars in the same tube led to an examination of the question 
whether a zinc bar has always the same length at a given temperature. 
The comparisons were made with great care, and every precaution taken 
to avoid error. The results showed that the zinc bar of the standard 
meter, heated for 20 hours or more to a temperature of 70° F., and then 
allowed to cool to its original temperature, 36° F., has a certain length; 
that if it is then cooled for 20 hours to a temperature of — 3° F., and 
afterward is allowed to return gradually to its original temperature of 
36° F., it has a certain other length; and that these lengths at the 
same temperature may differ by 15 microns (thousandths of a millimeter). 
The four-meter zinc bar heated from 41° to 75° F., and then cooled to 
43° F., was increased in length about 29 microns, or 7 microns per 
meter for a change of 30° F. {Am. J. Sci., Ill, July, 1881, xxii, 26.) 

Miss Walton has studied, in the Massachusetts Institute of Technol- 
ogy, the phenomena of liquefaction and cold produced by the mutual 
reaction of solid substances. With reference to liquefaction, the follow- 
ing conclusions are drawn: (1) as a rule one of the substances should 
behydrated; (2) moistening sometimes take place when salts arc mixed 
with acids, or with bases, and when acids and bases are mixed, as well 
as salts; (3) as with liquids, if metathesis can result, it will take place 
with liquefaction ; (4) if an insoluble compound is formed on mixing two 
salts, a mixture of two others, like the new ones formed, will not in gen- 
eral be attended with liquefaction; (5) if no insoluble compound is formed 
metathesis is partial, and it is often indifferent whether two salts be 
mixed or their products of interchange ; (0) the rule in liquids in regard 
to weak and strong acids and bases seems to prevail with solids also; 
(7) when oxidation or reduction can take place there is possibility of 
liquefaction. On the production of cold the author accepts Ordway's 
view, that the liquefaction of salt by ice is due to the diffusion which 
goes on between them, analogous to that between liquids. The mixtures 
were made in a calorimeter, and the results showed that the minimum 
temperature is not independent of the initial temperature, and that, 
moreover, this minimum varies with the proportions taken. The lowest 
temperature was given by mixing equivalent weights of manganous 
nitrate and sodium carbonate at — 2° C, the temperature falling to 
—26° C. {Am. J. Sci., September, 1881, III, xxii, 206.) 

Hagenbach has experimented on the rupturing effects of the freezing 
of water. During the severe cold at Bale on the nights of the 10th and 
11th December, 1879, and the 20th and 2lst January, 1880, he filled 
artillery shells with water and observed the phenomena which took 
place. The shells were burst, and the ice, afforded free passage, showed 
a filamentary structure, like suddenly congealed jets of water. The 
water, suffused within the shell, was cooled to a low temperature without 



352 PHYSICS. 

solidifying ; so that, after rupture of the shell, the congelation took 
place. The curious appearances of the jets are figured in the memoir. 
{Bib. Univ., 1880, III, iii, 531; J. Phys., April, 1881, x, 181.) 

The paradoxical experiment of " hot ice" described by Carnellcy has 
been repeated by many observers in various ways. Lodge has discussed 
the matter on general principles, conceding that the ice itself may be 
hot, a proposition in which he thinks there is nothing contradictory to 
our present knowledge of the properties of matter. Carnelley himself 
has published an additional paper, with figures, in which he says: •'! 
have had thin plates of ice attached by their edge at right angles to the 
stem of a paper-scale theraiometer for a considerable time without being 
detached or melting, notwithstanding the temperature was so high that 
the paper scale at that portion of the stem to which the ice clung was 
charred. In another instance I have had a thin circular piece of ice 
attached to the otherwise bare bulb of the thermometer, and though this 
piece was very thin, and no more than about 2 millimeters in diameter, 
it took fully one minute or more to volatilize, notwithstanding the ther- 
mometer indicated a mean temperature of 70° C, and the surrounding 
tube was very hot. If the ice were not capable of being heated above 
its melting point, a ijiece as small as that referred to would, I think, 
under these circumstances have fused or volatilized almost instantane- 
ously." Herschel has contrived a remarkably simple apparatus for show- 
ing the phenomena. A 30-ounce flask of heavy glass was tightly closed 
by a rubber cork through which passed a tube three-eighths inch bore 
and 2 feet long, bent into the shape of an S, and the extremity drawn 
into a nearly cai^illary neck. This neck was connected hy a rubber 
tube with with a similar flask, to which was attached an exhaust pump, 
and which was immersed in cold water. Fifteen ounces of water were 
then boiled in the flask thus exhausted, and when only 3 ounces re- 
mained the small end of the tube was sealed. The U-part of the tube 
was put in a freezing mixture till a sleeve of ice was formed eight inches 
long. Then the flask was similarly treated, and the tube was heated 
first in a water-bath, then by the naked flame. He says : "The whole 
tube was heated violently, without for some time appearing to have the 
least effect upon the white crust v»athin, notwithstanding the tube was 
too hot to be touched." De la Eiviere and Van Hasselt have repeated 
the experiments carefully, with the aid of accurate thermometers. They 
find the ice itself is generally at — 7° C, though when the heating is verj- 
strong it may rise to 0°. They found that the result could easily be 
obtained with naphthalene. Hannay has constructed an apparatus, 
from ordinary laboratory materials, with which he has examined the ])he- 
uomena very critically. He performed the crucial experiment of ])lacing 
a bulb containing frozen water and open to the air, inside the mass of 
ice within the exhausted tube. The ice within the bulb did not melt 
even when the tube round the ice in vacuo was raised to the i)oint of 
softening. The results of McLeod, Lothar Meyer, Boutlerow, Peters- 



PHYSICS. 353 

sou, aud Youug are to the same purpose. {Nature, 1881 , xxiii, 264, 288, 
341, 383, 504 ; xxiv, 4, 28, 77, 113, 1G7, 239 ; Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., April, 
1881, xiv, 718.) 

Chaudler Eoberts aud Wrightsou have determined the deusity of 
melted bismuth by means of the oncosimeter, an instrument devised by 
the latter gentleman. It is composed of a ball of the metal whose den- 
sity in the melted state is to be studied, or of a metal less fusible. It is 
suspended at the extremity of a spring and is completely immersed in 
the fused metal. The difference, either positive or negative, between its 
weight and the upward pressure when in the liquid is measured by the 
lengthening or shortening of the spring, and is registered by a lever on 
a rotating cylinder. The value of this difference at the moment of im- 
mersion, before the ball has had time to heat, gives data for the calcu- 
lation of the specific gravity of the liquid, that of the ball having been 
determined. The authors find for the specific gravity of melted bismuth 
10.055, that of solid bismuth being 9.82; for iron in fusion 6.84; in the 
pasty state 6.33; and cold 6.95. {Phil. Mag., April, 1881, V. xi, 295.) 

Nies and Winkelmann have investigated the volume changes of vari- 
ous metals in solidifying. Of eight metals examined, six, viz, tin, zinc, 
bismuth, antimony, iron, and copper, were proved to undergo expansion 
in passing from the liquid to the solid state. For three of the metals 
approximate values for the amount of this expansion were obtained. 
Tin showed an expansion of 0.7 per cent., zinc 0.2, and bismuth 3. Two 
metals, lead and cadmium, gave doubtful results. The authors have 
reason to believe that they also expand in solidifying. If this be so, 
the rule would api)ear to be a general one for the metals. {Nature, April, 
1881, xxiii, 616.) 

Fornioni has described an evaporimeter with constant level. It con- 
sists of an oblong wooden case with a brass spiral descending into it 
from a micrometric screw. The spiral, carries at its lower end a small 
glass vessel, which acts as feeder. A glass siphon extends outward 
horizontally from the feeder and has at its outer end a small cup in 
which the evaporation takes place. As the water evaporates in the cup 
the feeder is lightened and rises by the action of the spiral, thus keep- 
ing the level constant. A fiue layer of oil in the feeder prevents evapo- 
ration from its water-surface. There are guides to control the vertical 
movements of the feeder, which moreover are indicated by means of a 
weighted thread affecting an external index on a disk. The gradua- 
tion of the instrument is expressed in millimeters of the height of water 
in the evaporating vessel. {Nature, August, 1881, xxiv, 387.) 

Van der Mensbrugghe has calculated that if evaporation subdivides 
the liquid of seas into spherules of, say, yowo millimeter in diameter, 
each kilogram of water presents a collection of spherules whose total 
potential energy is equivalent to 450 kilogram-meters, i. e., more than 
a million times that of a sphere of compact water also weighing a kilo- 
S. Mis. 100 23 



354 PHYSICS. 

gram. The poteutial energy of liquid surfaces plays thus au imijor- 
tant part in the great cycle-operations of nature, of which the author 
gives some instances. {Nature, January, 1881, xxiii, 278.) 

WUllner and Grotrian have made observations which seem to prove 
that the specific volume of vapors is independent of the size of the space 
in which it is determined. The}^ confirm Herwig's result, that vapors 
always undergo precipitation before reaching the so-called maximum 
tension. Moreover, the tension at which condensation begins is found 
to have a relation to the maximum tension which depends on the nature 
of the liquid but is nearly independent of the temperature. Experi- 
ments to find the degree to which vapors must be compressed to give the 
maximum tension showed that there is no maximum tension in the sense 
hitherto accepted; but that the tension of saturated vapors, even when 
in contact with an excess of liquid, is perceptibly increased by compres- 
sion. {Wied. Ann., 1880, II, xi, 545; Nature, February, 1881 xxiii, 307.) 

Wright has contrived a simple and convenient form of apparatus for 
the distillation of mercury in vacuo, which is an improvement upon 
those of Weinhold and Weber for the same purpose. A straight piece 
of heavy glass tube, 5 or 6 millimeters interior diameter and rather more 
than 70 centimeters long, is enlarged at one end to an oval bulb 85 mil- 
limeters diameter and 120 millimeters long. To the upper end of this a 
tube 15 millimeters interior diameter is joined, first rising 25 millimeters, 
then inclined towards the bulb 130 millimeters, then sloping from the 
bulb for 300 millimeters, and finally joined to a straight vertical tube 1 
millimeter in diameter and 90 centimeters long. At the junction is a 
lateral tube for connecting with the air-pump. The metal to be dis- 
tilled is placed in a cistern beneath the 7G-'centimeter tube; the appara- 
tus is exhausted, by means of a Sprengel pump, until the mercury from 
the cistern reaches the bulb. Then the tube to the pumj) is sealed and 
heat applied to tlie bulb very gradually. The vapor soon passes the 
bend at the top and condenses beyond it, running down into the 90- 
centimeter tube. At the bottom this tube is bent upward, a small bulb 
is blown on it, and it is then bent horizontally. As the mercury falls in 
the tube it maintains the exhaustion, the tube acting like a Sprengel 
pump. The distillation is rapid, from 400 to 450 grams per hour being 
easily obtained pure in this manner. (Am. J. ScL, December, 1881, III, 
xxii, 479.) 

3. Conduction and radiation. 

Christiansen has employed the following simple method for some ex- 
periments on heat conduction which he has made : Three round copper 
plates were placed one above another and separated by small pieces of 
glass. Into each plate a hole was bored radially, into which a ther- 
mometer was inserted. The lowest plate rested on a brass vessel, 
through which cold water is conducted. On the top plate rests a brass 
vessel, through which warm water circulates. Through holes in the 



PHYSICS. 6bo 

two upper plates, liaving cop])er stoppers, the intervals between the 
plates maybe filled with fluid. Air was first used, and the author 
proved that its conductivity for heat increases with the temperature. 
The ratio of the conductivity of air to that of liquids was studied, the 
liquid being placed in the lower space. Experiments were also made 
with dry and wet plate glass and also with marble. The author i)oints 
out the applicability of his apparatus to measure resistances, the po- 
tential being measured instead of temperature. [Nature, October, 1881, 
xxiv, 593.) 

Crookes has made a series of experiments on the conduction of heat 
in highly rarefied air. An accurate thermometer with a pretty open 
scale was inclosed in a 1 J-inch glass globe, the bulb of the thermometer 
being in the center and the stem being inclosed in the tube leading 
from the globe to the pump. The globe was brought to a uniform tem- 
perature in a vessel of water at 25"^ and was then suddenly j^lunged 
into a large vessel of water at 65°. The number of seconds required 
for the thermometer to rise from 25° to 50° was recorded. At 700 mil- 
limeters pressure, 121 seconds was required ; at 1 millimeter, 150 sec- 
onds; at 620 M (millionths of an atmosphere), 102 seconds ; at 117 M, 
183 seconds ; at 59 M, 203 seconds ; at 23 M, 227 seconds ; at 12 M, 252 
seconds ; at 5 M, 322 seconds ; and at 2 M, 412 seconds. Hence there is 
not only a notable diminution in the rate at which heat is conveyed across 
the space in the bulb, but the reduction of pressure from 5 M to 2 jVI 
produces twice as much retardation in the rate as is obtained by the 
whole exhaustion from 700 millimeters to 1 millimeter. The author 
thinks, therefore, that in such vacua as exist in planetary space the loss 
of heat would be exceedingly slow. {Nature, January, 1881, 234, xxiii.) 

Langley has devised an apparatus for the detection and measurement 
of radiant heat, which is a thousand times more sensitive than the ther- 
mopile, and which is capable of indicating a change in temperature of 
^ 0^0 of a degree centigrade. He calls it an actinic balance or bo- 
lometer. It consists of two disks of ebonite, 30 millimeters diameter and 
3 millimeters thick, each with a concentric opening in the center 8 milli- 
meters square. On the face of each disk strip9«of iron a little less than 
0.5 millimeter wide and about 0.004 millimeter thick cross the opening 
like a grating, those on one disk coming opposite the intervals in the 
other. These twenty-nine strips, of which fifteen are on one disk and 
fourteen on the other, are arranged in two sets, fifteen in one and 
fourteen in the other. The first set, eight on one disk and seven on the 
other, are placed centrally ; the second set is divided, one-half being on 
each side of the other set. The strips in each set are all connected 
together in series so that an electric current would traverse them suc- 
cessively. The two disks are fastened together and placed in a hollow 
cylinder of ebonite, lined with copper, and provided with suitable dia- 
phragms. Each of the sets of strips is made one side of a Wheatstone's 



356 PHYSICS. 

bridge, aud the current from one or more Daniell cells is sent througii 
them. When the two currents are equal the needle of the galvanometer 
is unatfected. But when radiant energy falls on one of the systems 
of strips and not on the other, the current passing through the first is 
diminished by the increased resistance of the metal due to the rise in its 
temperature. As the second remains unaltered, the needle is deflected. 
Moreover, owing to the thinness of the strips, they take up and part with 
their heat far more promptly than the thermopile, thus giving a much 
greater rapidity of working. Eesults are given showing the extreme 
sensitiveness and reliability of the instrument. For the first time it 
has been possible to make actual measures of the distribution of heat 
in the diffraction spectrum. This was done by Langley with the bolom- 
eter, using a Eutherford plate of 681 lines to the millimeter, ruled on 
speculum metal. The spectrum was 20 centimeters long and 8 milli- 
meters wide, so that the balance received nearly homogenous rays. 
The extremely" minute amount of heat received was found sufficient to 
give a galvanometer deflection of some hundred divisions ; and this 
where thermopiles have failed to detect anything. The deflections ob- 
served for different wave-lengths were: for ;/=.00035. a=12', y=.O0O4:, 
a=55; y=.0005, a=207 ', y=.0006, a=2AQ; ^=.0007, ar= 198 ;>=.0008, 
a=l2d', y=xmd, a=80; y=.0010, a=58; y^.OOll, a=4.1. The max- 
imum deflection for heat, then 246, corresponds to a wavelength of .0000, 
that of D being .00059, giving the conclusion that the heat maximum in a 
normal spectrum is not in the ultra-red, as has been supposed, but is in 
orange, near I), the heat and light curves agreeing very closely. The 
value of the instrument is obvious. {Am. J. Sci., March, 1881, III, xxi, 
187; Proc. Am. Acad., January, 1881, xvi, 342; iVafJire, November, 1881, 
XXV, 14.) 

Puluj has devised an ingenious experiment to prove that radiant 
matter consists of particles separated from the electrode by the elec- 
trical action. The cathode of a vacuum tube was covered with chalk. 
It exhibits phosphorescence of an orange-yellow color, while in a short 
time the wall of the tube becomes covered by a very delicate layer of 
chalk without losing its clearness and transparency. The deposit phos- 
phoresces like chalk, and has led to the suggestion which he makes, 
that the phosphorescence of a yellow color observed on metallic ca- 
thodes is caused by the phosphorescence of the oxides covering the 
metal. {Mature, March, 1881, xxiii, 442.) 

The photophone and its results, discovered by Graham Bell and 
Tainter (see report for 1880), have awakened a very general interest. 
Kayleigh has given a discussion of the question whether the unelectrical 
sounds produced by the simple impact of intermittent radiation upon 
thin plates of various substances can be accounted for by the heat pro- 
duced. He finds that if a plate of iron 6 centimeters in diameter be 
exposed to an intermittent beam of sunhght at 250 vibrations per sec- 



PHYSICS. 



oi) 



ondj the displacement at its center would be five-millionths of a centi- 
meter. Since he found sound audible whose amplitude was less than 
half this value, he coucludes that at present there is no reason for dis- 
carding the obvious explanation that the sounds in question are due to 
the bending of the plates under unequal heating. {N'atnre^ January, 
1881, xxiii, 274.) 

Jamieson has devised a simple form of selenium cell, made of a i)iece 
of plate glass or a glass tube, an inch in diameter and 3 inches long, 
upon which are wound two parallel strands of No. 25 wire. Vitreous 
selenium is melted into the spaces between the wires, and then annealed 
in the usual way. One of these cells had a resistance of 5,740 ohms in 
the dark and 3,450 in the light. An annular cell, placed outside the 
tube of a swinging flame, transmitted its note perfectly to the tele- 
phone, and, by placing a flat cell before the gas-flame of a Koenig man- 
ometric capsule, and talking into the tube on the outer sound of the 
membrane, conversation could be carried on. {NaHtre, Februarj', 1881, 
xxiii, 354.) 

S. P. Thomi^son has suggested to the London Physical Society the use 
of a conical instead of a parabolic reflector for the photophone. From 
Adams's law, that the change in the resistance of selenium is directly as 
the square root of the illuminating power, he finds that the change in 
resistance of a cell will vary proportionally to its linear dimensions; 
hence, selenium cells should be as large as possible, and the light should 
be distributed over them uniformly. His cell was constructed of a slate 
cylinder with a double screw-thread wound with wire and filled ^vdth 
selenium. {PJnl Mag., April 1881, V, xi, 286 ; Nature, February, 1881, 
xxiii, 331.) 

Tomlinson has found that a stick of annealed selenium gave twice the 
deflection when coated with shellac varnish that it did when in its nat- 
ural state. [Nature, March, 1881, xxiii, 457.) 

Tyndall has presented to the Koyal Society a paper on the action of 
an intermittent beam of radiant heat upon gaseous matter, giving the 
results of the use of the photophonic method to test the absorptive ac- 
tion of aqueous vapor for heat — a subject long in controversy. The ex- 
perimeuts were made by couvergiug the intermittent beam to a focus 
within a flask containing the vapor to be examined. Sulphuric ether, 
formic ether, and acetic ether gave loud musical tones, while those from 
chloroform and carbon disulphide were barely perceptible, corroborating 
his previous experiments. The power of amylene, ethyl and methyl 
iodides, and benzene vapors to produce musical tones appeared to be 
accurately expressed by their ability to absorb radiant heat. Gases 
gave the same result. Turning now to water, a small quantity was 
heated in a flask to a point near boiling; in the intermittent beam it 
gave a powerful musical sound, even when no haze was present. Cool- 
ing to 10° 0. did not prevent the sound from being loud, and even ordi- 
nary air cooled in a freezing mixture for a quarter of an hour gave 



358 PHYSICS. 

distinct soimds. In carefully dried air only the feeblest sound was 
heard, but a puff of breath instantly restored its power to absorb. 
Many beautiful and striking experiments are described in the paper. 
{ProG. Roy. Soc, January 13, 1881, xxxi, 307 ; Nature, February, 1881, 
xxiii, 374.) 

Mercadier has studied photophone phenomena with great ability, 
and has given the name radiophony to the general subject. In the first 
part of his memoir he describes his apparatus, and, from the results ob- 
tained with it, concludes : (1) that radiophony does not appear to be an 
effect produced by the mass of the receiving plate vibrating transversely 
as a whole like an ordinary vibrating plate; (2) that the nature of the 
molecules of the receiver and their mode of aggregation does not appear 
to play a predominant part in the production of sounds ; (3) that the 
radiophonic phenomena seem to result principally from an action exerted 
at the surface of the receiver ; (4) that radiophonic sounds result from 
the direct action of the radiations upon the receiver ; and (5) the radio- 
phonic effects are produced principally by red and ultra-red rays; that 
is to say, by rays which consist of long waves.* In the second part of 
Ma paper Mercadier gives the experimental evidence that the substance 
in which the vibration is produced is the layer of air in contact with the 
walls of the receivers. Tne receiver used is a glass tube, oi)en or not, at 
one end, and the other connected by a tube of rubber with a small 
acoustic cornet. Within the tube is a semi-cylinder of some flexible 
material, paper, mica, copper, zinc, iDlatinum, aluminum, etc., smoked 
on both sides. Since the sound is the same, whatever the material, the 
conclusion is obvious that it is the air condensed by the lampblack 
which vibrates. He says : The layer of air condensed on the walls of 
the receiver, especially when they are smoked or covered with a sub- 
stance highly absorbent for heat, is alternately heated and cooled by 
the intermittent radiations. From this, periodical and regular dilatations 
and condensations take place and communicate a vibratory motion to 
the neighboring gaseous layers, which, moreover, may themselves also 
vibrate directly under the same influence. If a long tube of glass be 
taken, furnished with a piston at the end of a rod, a piece of smoked 
mica be placed in it^ and the other end be connected with a cornet, then 
whenever an intermittent beam falls on the mica a sound is heard, which 
may be made a maximum by moving the piston. Further motion shows 
a second and a third maximum, thus discovering the nodes in the vi- 
brating air column. This apparatus the author calls a thermophone. 
The tube receiver, closed at the lower end, is excellent for experiments 
upon gases and vapors, in which, however, the author was anticipated 
by Tyndall. In the third paper the means which Mercadier used for 
the production of singing and speech are described. This was presented 
to the French Academy the same day that Bell read his memoir on the 
same subject to the National Academy. {J. Phys., February, April, 
June, 1881, x, 53, 147, 234; Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 360.) 



PHYSICS. • 359 

Preoce has made some experiments on the conversion of sonorous 
vibrations into radiant energy. The conchision to which he came was 
that the disk itself did not vibrate at all, but that the effect is essen- 
tially due to the expansion and contraction of the air contained in the 
air space behind the disk, the sonorous effects being materially assisted 
by coating the sides of the containing vessel with a highly absorbent 
substance, such as the carbon deposited by burning camphor. {Proc. 
Roy. Soc, March, 1881, xxxi, 50G; Mature, March, 1881, xxiii, 496.) 

In a second memoir, which was presented to the National Academy 
of Sciences April 2 1, 1881, Graham Bell has given an account of the fur- 
ther researches made by Tainter and himself on the production of sound 
by radiant energy. While in Paris, in the fall of 1880, a new form of 
the experiment occurred to Bell which would enable him to test the 
question whether sonorousness under the influence of intermittent light 
is not a property common to all matter. Preliminary experiments were 
made, and were so promising that they were communicated to the French 
Academy on the 11th of October. On the 2d of November he wrote to 
Tainter, in Washington, as follows: "Place the substance to be experi- 
mented with in a glass test-tube; connect a rubber tube with the mouth 
of the test-tube, placing the other end of the pipe to the ear ; then focus 
the intermittent beam on the substance in the tube." In January, on 
returning to Washington, Bell found that Tainter had made the experi- 
ments on a large number of substances, and had found that cotton- 
wool, worsted, silk, and fibrous materials generally jiroduced much 
louder sounds than hard, rigid bodies like crystals or than diaphragms. 
Black worsted giving so good a result, he desired to try black cotton- 
wool; but having none at hand he made some by mixing some lamp- 
black with the cotton. The effect was so marked that he tried lamp- 
black alone, with entire success. It was the loudest material yet used, 
and was immediatelj" utilized in the construction of an articulating 
photophone in place of the selenium receiver. The transmitter as well 
as the receiver had a diaphragm 5 centimeters in diameter, and the 
distance between the two was 40 meters. No heliostat or condensing 
mirror was used; and words spoken into the transmitter in a low tone 
of voice were readily audible in the lampblacked receiver. With refer- 
ence to Preece's experiments. Bell maintains that the disks themselves 
vibrate, as a loud sound is heard from a Blake transmitter when the 
intermittent beam is focused on its disk. An ingenious experiment 
devised by Tainter seemed to confirm this beyond dispute. Experiments 
with liquids and with gases are recorded ; and two receivers where lamp- 
black is used in place of selenium are described. Valuable methods and 
results are given on the measurement of the sonorous eftects produced 
by different substances, and also upon the nature of the rays that produce 
them. Bell adopts Mercadier's name, radiophone, and has studied the 
spectrum to determine the active rays. The instrument eraplojTd he 
calls a spectrophoue, and the results obtained with it are given in a 



360 PHYSICS. 

series of spectra by which the substances used can be identified, thus 
forming a true acoustic spectrum analysis. {Am. J. Sci., June, 1881^ 
III, xxi, 463; G. B., xcii, 1206; Phil 3Iag., June, 1881, V, xi, 510; Xa- 
ture, May, 1881, xxiv, 42.) 

In a third paper, Graham Bell has described a modification of Wheat- 
fecone's microphone, and pointed out its applicability to radiophonic re- 
searches. Preece's failure to detect the vibration of the diaphragm was 
due to the fact that he used a Hughes form of the instrument, in which 
the points of support are too far from the center where the maximum 
vibration exists. In 1827, Wheatstone invented a microphone, consist- 
ing of a metallic diaphragm, to the middle of which a stiff wire was 
rigidly attached. By inclosing this ina case somewhat like that of a 
telephone, the wire projecting through the end of the handle and a 
tube for hearing being fitted to the opposite end, the surface of the 
radiophonic diaphragm may be explored. When it rested on the center 
of this diaphragm a clear musical note was heard, showing that the 
diaphragm itself vibrated. [Am. J. Set., August, 1881, III, xxii, 87.) 

Ayrton and Perry, observing the facility with which the invisible 
rays which affected the selenium in Bell's photophone passed through 
ebonite, concluded that these rays would be refracted by an ebonite 
prism. This conjecture they were able to confirm exj)erimentally. 
Moreover, by suitably arranging the apparatus, the prism having a re- 
fracting angle of 27°.6, they succeeded in measuring the index of re- 
fraction for these rays, which they found to be 1.7. This result accords 
with that obtained by Jellett from the polarizing angle, 1.611, and with 
that obtained when the light is very intense, so that the red rays can 
be faintly seen, 1.66. {Phil. Mag., Sept., 1881, V, xii, 196; Nature, 1881, 
xxiii, 519; J. Phys., November, 1881, x, 507.) 

4. Specific heat. 

Mallet has described a simple form of calorimeter for determining 
the specific heat of solids and liquids with small quantities of material. 
It consists of a cylinder of vulcanite 105 millimeters long and 64 milli- 
meters inside diameter, 1.5 millimeters thick, closed at the ends by 
round plates of the same material screwed on. Within this is an inner 
cylinder, also of vulcanite, 22 millimeters in interior diameter, passing 
closely through a hole in one of the end caps and screwing into the 
other. The space between the two is filled with vulcanite shavings. 
Both ends of the inner tube are closed by corks, through one of which 
passes the stem of a mercurial thermometer, graduated to tenths. A 
diaphragm with a hole 7 millimeters in diameter in its center is fixed 
in the inner tube 47 millimeters from one end, and carries three plati- 
num wires so bent as to hold a small ijlatinum cylinder firmly. This 
cylinder, intended to contain the substance for experiment, is 28.5 mil- 
limeters long by 12.5 millimeters diameter, weighing with its cover 
grams. The outer cylinder is mounted on trunnions and supported ou 



PHYSICS. 3G1 

a wooden frame. A weighed quantity of pure mercury — generally 220 
grams — is placed in the inner cylinder. By moving the whole around 
on its trunnions, this mercury may be poured from one part of the 
inner cylinder to the other, and the temperature thus equalized. The 
substance whose specific heat is to be determined is placed in the plati- 
num cylinder, which is then heated in a special apparatus to the tem- 
perature of boiling water, transferred rapidly to the calorimeter, and 
this moved on its trunnions until the temperature ceases to rise. The 
highest point being noted, the specific heat is easily calculated. The 
various precautions necessary, and the methods for determining the 
constants of the instrument, are given in the paper. {Am. Chetn. <7., 
February, 1881, ii, 361.) 

Wiillner has examined critically the formulas in use for calculating 
specific heats, especially that portion of these formulas which involve the 
corrections. He finds that the inexactness of the ordinary formula arises 
from the fact that it does not take account of the condition that during 
cooling the calorimeter value is increased by the product of the weight 
and specific heat of the substance, and that the (jhange in the magni- 
tude of the radiating surface is neglected. He has calculated the specific 
heat of water by the new formula now derived, and finds that the equa- 
tion fc=l-f0.000425f represents this constant at IP. {Wied. Ann., 1880, 
II, X, 284.) 

Pfaundler has published a criticism on this paper, in which he points 
out certain errors of experiment and assumption. The process of Reg- 
nault, as modified by Berthelot, is the most exact known, and is free from 
aU objection. In this the variation of temperature during the cooling 
of the body is measured at regular intervals; then the calorimeter con- 
taining the substance is brought back to the initial temperature and 
made to pass through all the temperatures observed in the first experi- 
ment, and the loss of heat is measured. ( Wied. Ann., 1880, II, xi, 237 ; 
J. Phys., January, 1881, x, 43, 47. See also Berthelot, J. Phys., Febru- 
ary, 1881, X, 79.) 

Latschinoft" has modified the lecture experiment proposed by Tyndali 
for showing the inequality of the specific heats of solids. Since the den- 
sities of the materials are not the same, the surfaces of various spheres 
of the same weight are not equal, and an error is introduced. This the 
author obviates by employing hollow spheres of the same weight and 
the same diameter. In place of a plate of wax, the author places the 
heated spheres on the surface of a transparent jelly of gelatin, and notes 
their unequal penetration. (J. Pkys.-Chrm. Soc. Eusse, xii, 131 ; J. Phys., 
September, 1881, x, 418.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Production and velocity. 

Michelson has made a research to test the truth of Fresnel's theory, 
that the ether which is inclosed in optical media partakes of the motion 



362 PHYSICS. 

of these media to an extent depending upon their indices of refraction. 
The principle of the experimental method is simple : If a ray of liglit 
coming from a direction parallel with the earth's motion in space be made 
to interfere with a second ray coming from a direction 90° from this, 
the former ray will have traveled 0.04 of a wave-length farther or less 
far than the latter, according as the direction of its motion coincides with 
or is opposed to the motion of the earth. Now, upon rotating the two 
rays 90° in their own plane, the second one will now have a longer path 
by 0.04 wavelength, making a total change in the position of the inter- 
ference bands of 0.08 wave-length, a quality easily measurable. The 
apparatus used is described and illustrated in the memoir. The results 
go to show that there is no displacement of the interference bands, thus 
contradicting the hypothesis of a stationary ether, a'hd disproving the 
explanation of aberration hitherto generally accepted. [Am. Jour. Sci., 
August, 1881, III, xxii, 120.) 

J. J. Thomson has given an ingenious explanation of the green phos- 
phorescence observed in Crooke's tubes. It appears on the inner surfaces 
of the exhausted glass tubes whenever they are exposed to the so-called 
molecular bombardment of particles projected from the negative elec- 
trode. Thomson points out, first, that as predicted by Maxwell, and 
verified by Eowland, a moving electrified particle acts as a current of 
electricity and possesses an (electro-magnetic) vector-potential. Now, 
where such an electrified particle strikes a glass surface and rebounds, 
its change of velocity is accompauie<l by a change of vector-potential, 
and the glass against which it impinges and rebounds will be subjected 
to rapid changes in electromotive force. But by Maxwell's theory of 
light this is precisely what happens when a ray of light falls on it; and, 
therefore, it phosphoresces as it would under the impact of an actual ray 
of light. {Nature May 19, 1881, xxiv, 66,.) 

Treve has shown the curious fact that apparently, when light from 
a natural or artificial source is admitted through a slit, more light 
passes when the slit is horizontal than when it is vertical. Photographs 
were taken behind slits in various positions to prove that the phenom- 
enon is not an illusion of the eye. {Nature, April, 1881, xxiii, 616.) 

Young and Forbes have employed Fizeau's toothed-wheel method to 
determine the velocity of light. Instead of a.single reflector at a dis- 
tance, two were used, one a quarter of a mile behind the other. Two 
rays were also used, which were observed when equally bright, a point 
reached by adjusting the speeds of the toothed wheels. The general 
result reached was that the velocity of the light of an electric lamp is 
187,273 miles per second in vacuo. Noticing one day that one of the 
stars looked reddish, the other bluish, the former increasing in intensity 
with the speed of the wheel, the latter decreasing, the authors concluded 
that the blue rays must move faster than the red ones, and instituted 
direct experiments to test the question. As a mean of 37 determina- 



PHYSICS. 3G3 

tions they conclude that blue travels faster than red by 1.8 per cent, of 
the whole velocity. Since their result for the mean velocity is greater 
than that of Cornu or Michelson^ Forbes draws the conclusion that it is 
because the electric light is blue, and blue travels faster than red. 
(Proc. Roy. Soc, May, 1881 ; Nature, June, July, 1881, xxiv, 135, 303.) 

Kayleigh has discussed the above results, raising the question whether 
the velocity determined by the toothed wheel is really the group-velocity 
or the wave- velocity as the above authors have supposed it to be, since 
they give the difference between blue and red. He concludes that the 
group-velocity is whatthe method determines. The accordance between 
the i)hysical and astronomical methods seems to show that there can be 
no such difference in. the velocities of the extreme rays as 1.8 per cent. 
{Nature, xVugust, 1881, xxiv, 382.) 

Michelson has published a note in which he gives his opinion that if 
the velocity of the red and blue rays differed by as much as one-tenth 
of one per cent, the image of the slit in his experiments would not have 
been white, but would have been spread out into a spectrum. He calcu- 
lates that, as the total displacement in his experiments was 133 milli- 
meters, a difference of velocity of 1.8 per cent, between the blue and 
red rays would have given a spectrum 2.4 millimeters in length. Xo 
such spectrum was observed. (iV^ffliitre, September, 1881, xxiv, 460.) 

Cornu has described several forms of i)hotometric and spectrometric 
apparatus, which he has used in his researches. They all are founded 
upon a property of lenses discovered and utilized by Bouguer ; i. e., that 
the focal image, as to form, is independent of the size and shape of the 
aperture of the lens, and as to intensity is proportional to the surface of 
this aperture. One form of the apparatus he calls a micro-photometer 
and another form a spectro-photometer. {J. Pliys., May, 1881, x, 189.) 

2. Reflection and refraction. 

Jacob has suggested a modified form of scale for use with reflecting 
instruments generally. The graduated paper scale is trimmed off along 
the lower edge of the divisions, and placed on a plate of glass, finely 
ground, below the paper. The reflected image is received on the back of 
the glass, and the coincidence of the center wire with the scale divisions 
may be observed more accurately than by the common method. The 
lamp and slit are placed on one side, and the beam reflected to the 
galvanometer mirror by a right-angled prism. {Nature, April, 1881, 
xxiii, 527.) 

Bertin has published an extended memoir upon magic mirrors. After 
an introduction describing these mirrors, he gives a history of their im- 
portation into Europe and of the experiments made with them; then 
follows the theories proposed to account for their action, the experiments 
of Govi confirming Person's theory, the artificial production of these 
mirrors by himself and Duboscq, and some exceptional effects which 
have been observed. {Ann. Ghim. PJnjs., April, 1881, V, xxii, 472.) 



364 PHYSICS. 

Laurent Las succeeded in ijroducing artificially magic mirrors of sil- 
vered glass. Two kinds have been made; one made magic hy compress- 
ing air behind it or by curving it in a frame, the characters being engraved 
on it; and another, of any form whatever, heated in a particular way^ 
by means of a metallic stamp having the characters upon it. If the 
layer of silver is thin, the characters are bright if the silver is on the 
side opposite to the screen, but are dark if the silvered side is toward 
the screen. {J. Phys., November, 18S1, x, 474.) 

Klein has observed a complete change in the optical image of boracite 
by heating it. The boundary lines of the optical fields prove variable 
with temperature, and often wholly disappear, perhaps reappearing in 
quite different places. He concludes that this mineral does not owe its 
origin to a twin-like formation of parts of lower symmetry, but is regu- 
lar, and produces simple individuals; and the optical properties, appar- 
ently in sharp contradiction to this, are really duo to tensions produced 
in growth. These divide the crystal into parts of different tension of 
which the stronger sometimes suppress the weaker for certain tempera- 
tures and positions of the crystal. Analcime shows similar properties. 
{Nature, June, 1881, xxiv, 112.) 

Cassani has devised a neat optical illusion produced with mirrors. 
An observer stands opposite a concave mirror supported at a slight 
slant, at a distance greater than the radius of curvature, and receiving 
no other light than that reflected from his face, which is illuminated by 
a dark lantern. A small plane mirror is placed in a position nearer the 
concave mirror than the observer and sloping in the opposite direction, 
concealed from his view. On looking obliquely upward the observer 
seems to see a plane mirror larger than the other, with his direct image 
in it. The illusion is more complete if the mirror has an ornamented 
frame. {Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 372.) 

Montigny has proposed a method for measuring the index of refi'ac- 
tion of liquids, founded ui^on the apparent displacement which the image 
of a body immersed in a transparent liquid undergoes when the light- 
rays reaching the eye issue oblique to the horizontal surface of the 

liquid. {Bull. Acad. Blelege, II, xviii, ; J. Phys., January, 1881, 

X, 50.) 

Hurion has suggested an apparatus for simplifying the method of 
determining indices of refraction by means of Talbot's fringes, proposed 
by Mascart. Its object is to vary the level of liquid in one of two com- 
partments, so as to displace the fringes by a known value. The displace- 
ment and change of thickness being known, the index is easily calcu- 
lated. {J. Phys., April, 1881, x, 154.) 

Damien has measured the index of refraction of water when in a state 
of surfusion, by the ordinary method, with the prism. The three hydro- 
gen lines were measured. From the figures obtained he concludes that 



PHYSICS. 365 

the index of refraction of water continues to increase below zero, though 
the density diminishes. {J. Phys., May, 1881, x, 198.) 

• Long has determined the indices of refraction of eighteen compound 
ethers of the 0nH2uO2 series, at various temperatures, from 18° to 25° 
€. As a mean, the increase of the index for 1° G. is .00045. From the 

results, he calculates the specific refractive energy — ^ — and the mole- 
cular refractive energy M f -^^^^ \ Comparing together the opti- 
cal constants of the butyrates and isobutyrates, it is found that they are 
lower in every case in the iso-comi^ounds than the normals. The change 
in molecular refraction for CH2 is found to be, as a mean, 7.69. From 
this the atomic refraction of oxygen is obtained, 5.77. {Am. J. Sci., 
April, 1881, III, xxi, 279.) 

Dufet has studied the variation which takes j)lace in the indices of 
refraction of gypsum with temperature, and finds that the three princi- 
pal indices diminish as the temperature increases by quantities relatively 
considerable, but very unequal, compared with each other. {J. Phys., 
December, 1881, x, 513.) 

Gladstone has communicated to the Eoyal Society a paper on the re- 
fraction equivalents'of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen in organic 
compounds. The refraction equivalent of carbon, when each of its four 
bonds is satisfied by some other element, does not exceed 5 ; when one 
bond is satisfied by carbon and the others by other elements, the value 
is 5; when three bonds are satisfied by carbon, as in benzene, the value 
is CO or 6.1 ; and, finally, when all four of its bonds are satisfied by car- 
bon atoms having the value 6, the carbon atom has its highest equiva- 
lent, 8.8. Hydrogen has only one refraction equivalent, 1.3. Oxygen 
has two — 3.4 where it is doubly united to a single atom, but 2.8 where it 
joins two other atoms. ISTitrogen also has two values, 4.1 in the cyan- 
ides, and 5.1 in organic bases and amides. {Nature, February, 1881, 
xxiii, 379.) 

Crova has made a study of the aberrations produced by prisms, and. 
of their influence upon spectroscopic observations. In the first portion 
he discusses the conditions necessary to obtain a pure spectrum with a 
minimum of curvature in its lines. He recommends : 1st, a short slit 
and short prism ; and, 2d, a collimator of small diameter and of long 
focus to increase the sharpness of the lines, and a telescope also of long 
focus to increase the magnification. The second part considers the cy- 
lindrical aberration of prisms, and the third the influence of the elhptical 
polarization introduced by reflecting prisms, and its correction. {Ann. 
Chhn. Phys., April, 1881, V, xxii, 513.) 

Anderson has contrived an apparatus called a prismatic optometer, 
the object of which is to find experimentally the amount of prismatic 
power and the distance of the center of the lenses which are required 
in any individual case to so bend the pencils of rays coming to the eyes 



366 PHYSICS. 

that they appear to diverge from a point corresponding to the new focal 
distance of the eyes provided with the spectacles. (Nature^ October, 
1881, xxiv, C18.) 

Gariel has described a lens of variable focus contrived by Dr. Cusco, 
for illustrating accommodation in the eye by a variation of the curvature 
of the crystalline lens. A metallic drum has its ends closed by plates of 
glass uniform in thickness. A rubber tube communicates with the in- 
terior at one end and has an elastic bag at the other. The whole being 
filled with water, jiositive or negative pressure produces at will a convex 
or a concave lens. {J. Phys., February, 1881, x, 76.) 

Orova has suggested the use of a pair of lenses one i)lano-concave and 
the other plano-convex, of the same focus, placed in the path of the rays 
aud separable from each other by a rack-work, for the purpose of varying 
the magnitude of an image on the screen, when the distance between 
this and the lantern is fixed. {J. Fhys., April, 1881, x, 158.) 

Pickering, in a paper read before the American Academy, has sug- 
gested the mounting of a large telescope horizontally, at right angles to 
the meridian, with a plane reflector inclined 45° to its axis, in front of 
it. He discusses the possibility of this arrangement, and points out the 
large number of advantages it would have in sweeping for new objects, in 
obtaining measures of position, in spectroscopy, and in photometry. 
{Proc. Am. Acad., April, 1881, p. 364.) 

3. Dispersion and color. 

ThoUon has investigated mathematically the passage of light through 
a prism, and deduces from his equations the proposition that for every 
prism there is an angle of minimum resolving i)ower. Further examina- 
tion shows that for a certain incidence there will be a minimum of reso- 
lution, i. e., an incidence at which the lines are least well defined, and that 
at another incidence there will be a minimum of dispersion; these two 
incidences being symmetrically related to the angle of incidence corre- 
sponding to minimum deviation. A means of verifying these conclu- 
sions experimentally is given. {Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 397.) 

Lippich has examined the question whether it is more advantageous 
to increase the dispersion or to increase the magnifying power of the 
telescopes of a spectroscope. He concludes that it is better to increase 
the dispersion only when the number of prisms does not exceed four or 
five. His spectroscope of two flint prisms, the light passing twice 
through them, with a telescope magnifying from 50 to 70 times, excels 
another instrument having 28 flint prisms, with a telescope magnifying 
10 times. (Ar/i. J. Sci., November, 1881, III, xxii, 397.) 

Mendenhall has determined the coefQcient of expansion of one of 
Rutherfurd's speculum metal gratings by means of spectrum measure- 
ments. The grating was ruled with 8648 lines to the inch, and the wave- 
length of the line measiu-ed was 5913, an iron line. The range of tern- 



PHYSICS. 367 

peraturc varied from 5° to 16° C, and the result of twenty measurerQeuts 
gave for the differeuce in the auj;le of deviation 5.06" ±0.13. From 
this the value 0.0000202 was obtained as the coefficient of expansion of 
the grating. {Am. J. ScL, March, 1881, III, xxi, 230.) 

Crookes has communicated a paper to the lioyal Society on discon- 
tinuous phosphorescent spectra in high vacua, iu which he gives the 
results of spectroscopic examination of the light from substances which 
have been made to emit light in the highly exhausted space with- 
in his tubes. Precii)itated pure alumina phosphoresces of a rich crimson, 
which gives the same spectrum as that given by ruby, containing a 
brilliant and sharp red line of wave-length G89. 5 millionths of a milli- 
meter. The same effect is produced hy sunlight. Ignited aluminum 
acetate gave a green, corundum a pink, sapphire alternate red and green 
bands, spinel red, spodumeue golden yellow, glucina blue, zircouia pale 
bluish-green, erbia, yellowish, magnesia pink, barium hydrate orange- 
yellow, strontium hydrate deep-blue, lime orange-yellow, calcite straw- 
yellow, diamond pale yellowish- green. Certain anomalous results ob- 
tained in this way lead the author to believe that he has here to deal 
with several new elements. {Nature, May, 1881, xxiv, 89.) 

Liveing and Dewar have continued their researches upon the reversal 
of the lines of metallic vapors, and have now given their results upon 
iron, titanium, chromium, and aluminum. Of iron lines 136 were reversed, 
29 titanium lines, 16 chromium lines, and 2 of aluminum. Most if, not 
all of the strong lines of the three metals first named may be reversed 
by proper management of the atmosphere and supply of metal in the 
crucible Fragments of magnesium dropped into the crucible aid the 
reversal. In this way the reversal of the strong iron Unes about the 
solar lines L and M, four- strong lines below IST, the line O, all the strong 
lines from S? to [J, inclusive, and two strong groups still more refrangi- 
ble, was accomplished. {Nature, June, 1881, xxiv, 206.) 

Huggins has photographed the spectrum of the hydrogen flame burn- 
ing in air. Though so feeble, yet its spectrum shows a group of lines 
in the ultra-violet, limited on the more refrangible side by a pair of 
stong lines of wave-length 3062 and 3008, and on the less refrangible 
two less strong lines of wave length 3080 and 3090. Beyond this the 
spectrum continues by nearly equidistant pairs of lines, among which 
are two of w^ave-length 3167 and 3171, up to wave-length 3290. This 
entire group the author regards as due to the vapor of water. It is 
equally observed when the flame is surrounded with oxygen or air. {Ann. 
Chim. Phys., July, 1881, V, xxiii, 372 ; Proc. Hoy. Sue, 1880, xxx, 576 ; J. 
Fhys., February, 1881, x, 84.) 

Liveing and Dewar have confirmed the above supposition of Huggins. 
The spectrum is not only obtained when hydrogen and hydrocarbons 
are burned in oxygen, but also when non-hydrogenous gases are burned,^ 
if they are moist. On drying the gases carefully this spectrum disap- 
pears. {Proc. Roy. Soc, xxx, 580 j J. Phys., February, 1881, x, 85.) 



368 PHYSICS. 

The same authors have published their investigations on the spectrum 
of magnesium and magnesium-hydrogen previously observed by them. 
{Nature J June, 1881, xxiv, 118.) 

Fievez has investigated the magnesium lines in the spectrum of the 
sun, with a view to ascertain to what their variation is due. The con- 
clusion is that the unequal reversal of the magnesium lines is caused by 
a difference in the intensity of the lines themselves, and not by any 
particular condition of the metal. (Aww. Chim. Phys., July, 1881, Y, 
xxiii, 3G6.) 

Huntington has examined the spectrum of arsenic, using to produce 
it a Pliicker tube, having one of its electrodes hollow and containing the 
arsenic. The wave-lepgths were determined from Angstrom's scale by 
comi)aring the lines with those of the sun, hydrogen, lithium, sodium, 
thallium, and strontium spectra. Twenty-three lines were thus com- 
pared, the bright and characteristic ones having wave-lengths of 6023, 
6013, 5813, 5653, 5563, 5498, 5340 (the thallium line), 5103, 4623, and 4593. 
{Am. J. ScL, September, 1881, V, xxii, 214.) 

Hartley has published a paper on the relation between the molecular 
structure of carbon compounds and their absorption spectra. The evi- 
dence obtnined is in favor of the view that the selective absorption ex- 
hibited by aromatic compounds depends on the vibrations of the car- 
bon atoms within the molecule, but that those atomic vibrations are 
dependent upon the nature of the molecular vibrations themselves, and 
are probably to be regarded as harmonics of these fundamental vibra- 
tions. {J. Chem. Soc, April, 1881, xxxix, 153.) 

J. W. Draper has obtained what he calls a phosphorograph of the 
solar spectrum, and has compared it with a photograph of the same 
spectrum, as illustrating the antagonistic action of rays of higher as 
compared with those of lower refrangibility. A photograph taken on 
silver iodide,, in i^resence of a weak extraneous light, shows three re- 
gions: (1) a blackened one extending from the boundary of the blue 
and green to a little beyond the violet; (2) a region in the other direc- 
tion to the inferior theoretical limit of the spectrum where the action of 
the daylight has been altogether arrested; and (3) a similar protected 
region beyond the violet. In a phosphorograph, taken on luminous 
paint, there is annexed to the shining region a region of blackness, 
broken below the red by a luminous lectangle arising from the coales- 
cence of the bands a, /?, y, discovered by the author in 1842. If, now, 
a gelatin sensitive plate be laid on the shining blue phosphorescent 
surface, it is powerfully affected, and the constituent lines of the infra- 
red bright rectangle are instantly recognized in the gelatin plate. The 
paper deals also with the extinction of phosphorescence by red light 
and with the infra-red bands in the sun-spectrum. (Am. J. ScL, March 
1881, V, xxi, 171.) 

Coruu has studied the effect of atmospheric absorption upon the ultra- 



PHYSICS. 369 

violet spectrum by means of observations made at different altitudes. 
He concludes that if the absorption of the ultra-violet rays was due ex- 
clusively to the action of the vapor of water distributed with the altitude 
according to the law which experiment indicates, the increase of visibil- 
ity of the ultra-violet solar spectrum would be a unit (millionth of a 
millimeter) on the scale of wave-lengths for every increase of 286.9 
meters. Direct observation having given three times this value, that 
is, a unit for 868.2 meters of ascent, the theory must be rejected that 
vapor of water is the exclusive cause of the absorption of the ultra-violet 
rays. {J. Plii/s., January, 1881, x, 5.) 

Eayleigh has communicated to the British Association some experi- 
ments which he has made on color, i^rincipally physiological. After the 
construction of a new instrument for the examination of compound colors, 
he discovered an interesting peculiarity of color-vision entirely distinct 
from color-blindness. The red and green mixture, which to his eyes 
and to those of most people matches perfectly the homogeneous yellow 
orf the line D, appeared to his three brothers-in-law hopelessly too red, 
almost as red as sealing-wax. The proportion of red had to be greatly 
diminished to suit their eyes, until to normal sight the color was a fair 
green with scarcely' any approach to yellow. [Nature, No^'ember, 1881, 
XXV, 64.) 

Dubois has suggested an experiment complementary to that of throw- 
ing a green image and a red one on a screen, superposed for the purpose 
of making white. He takes a j)iece of red glass and a similar piece 
of green, pure and well-selected colors. These are placed together 
in a frame so that one overlaps the other by one -half its length. There 
are then four quadrants : one white, where there is nothing, one red 
one green, and the fourth black, where the overlapping occurs. {J. 
Fhys., October, 1881, x, 448.) 

Lecher, using a thermo-electric apparatus in connection with a pyr- 
heliometer, has arrived at the conclusion that the amount of carbonic 
acid which has been proved to exist in the air is sufficient to cause the 
absorption which has generally been attributed to aqueous vapor alone. 
He believes his method is preferable to the ordinary chemical ones for 
determining the amount of this gas in the air. {Wied. Ann., 1881; II, 
xii, 466; Am. J. Sci., May, 1881, III, xxi, 401.) 

4. Interference and polarization. 

Lommel has described some simple experiments in interference, which 
avoid the objections made to the mirrors of Fresnel. The surface of a 
plane black mirror is covered with India ink, with the exception of two 
bands 6 millimeters wide, and 15 millimeters apart. If a solar beam 
from a slit falls on the mirror at an incidence of 85° to 88°, the image 
received on the screen is channeled with interference bands. The same 
result may be obtained, of course, with two rectangular mirrors a centi- 
S. Mis. 109 24 



370 PHYSICS. 

meter wide, if they are placed exactly in the same plane; but the ad- 
justment is difficult. If, however, there is placed behind the narrow- 
black mirror a second silvered mirror perpendicular to the first one, 
then the phenomena appear, the image of the first in the silver mirror 
answering for a second black mirror. By covering the surface of a 
black mirror with lines of India ink, the spaces being equal in width to 
the lines, beautiful grating spectra are obtained by a suitable incidence. 
{Carl Rep., xvi, 454; J. Phys., March, 1881, x, 129.) 

Fuchs has described anew interference photometer, in which no polar- 
ization of the rays at right angles is required. It consists simply of two 
similar isoceles glass prisms joined by their basal surfaces, which inclose 
an air-layer variable in thickness by pressure. A diaphragm reaches 
out in i^rolongation of the surface of junction. The observer looks 
obliquely toward this surface, and sees one illuminated surfiice directly 
through the double prism, the other by reflection at the air layer. One 
source of light is fixed and the other is displaced till the interference 
bands disappear. ( Wicd. Ann., II, xi, 4G5 ; J. Fhys., March, 1881, x, 127 ; 
Nature, January, 1881, xxiii, 278.) 

C. S. Peirce has communicated a note on the width of the rulings on the 
closest-ruled diflfraction-plates made on Mr. Eutherfurd's engine. He 
finds that these plates have a mean width of ruling varying in different 
specimens from G8078 to 68082 lines to the decimeter, at 70° F. A line 
in the solar spectrum has been selected for the measurement of wave- 
length whose minimum deviation with one of the above plates in the 
spectrum of the second order is 45° 01' 50". The author suggests this 
line as a standard of reference, since it is possible to deduce from the 
minimum deviation of this line j)roduced by a given plate the mean width 
of the rulings on it; and consequently the wave-length of any other 
line whose deviation has been measured with it. Peirce finds the wave- 

o 

length of this line to be 5024825 ; Angstrom gives it 562336. {Nature, 
July, 1881, xxiv, 262.) 

Cornu has constructed a polarizing prism made of a single film of Ice- 
land spar, fixed with Canada balsam between two flint-glass x)risms. 
The polarization is far from perfect, however, and the field is very nar- 
row, so that the instrument, though of interest from a theoretical point 
of view, is of little or no practical value. {Nature, September, 1881, 
xxiv, 504.) 

Glan has devised a new i)olarizing prism, in which the total reflection 
takes place on air, as in the Foucault jirism ; but the face of the i^rism 
is perpendicular to the incident beam and the axis of the spar is parallel 
to the diagonal section between the two halves of the prism. To trans- 
mit a luminous beam of section unity the length required in the new 
prism is 1.141, that of the Foucault being 1.228, and that of the JSicol 
3.281. The maximum angle of the polarized bundle is 7° 56' ; hence the 
rays must be made parallel by a collimator. {Carl. Bep., xvi, 570; J. 
Fhys., April, 1881, x, 175.) 



PHYSICS. 371 

Lommel has described a new polarizing apparatus, in which two plates 
of magnesium platinocyanide, cut perpendicularly to the optic axis, are 
used as polarizer and analyzer, as in the tourmaline pincettes. In the 
tourmaline, however, the ordinary ray is the one that is absorbed, while 
here it is the extraordinary ray; hence the tourmaline is cut parallel to 
the optic axis and the platiuocyanide perpeudicular to it. The new ap- 
paratus transmits abluelight, which, when the angleof incidence exceeds 
2<^, is perfectly polarized iu the plane of incidence. ( Wied. Ann., 1881, 
II, xiii, 347; Mature, July, 1881, xxiv, 291.) 

Bertin has improved the tourmaliue pincette by applying to it a part 
of the lenses of a polarizing microscope. The ordinary instrument can 
be used with onl}^ a limited number of crystals, by reason of the small- 
ness of its field ; but the new one shows well the fringes only 2 milli- 
meters in diameter and ^ millimeter in thickness. All uniaxial crystals 
give fringes in it, and biaxial crystals can be observed when, as in the 
case of calamine, their axes are 75° 20' apart. {J. Phys., March, 1881, 
X, 116.) 

Whitwell has described a simple polarization experiment. If a plate 
of ice be broken off and held between the sky and a pool of water its 
reflected image will show color. The incident rays should come from 
the sky, about 90° from the sun, and reflection should take place at the 
polarizing angle for water. {Nature, January, 1881, xxiii, 2G8.) 

Sorrensen has also observed some polarization x^henomena with ice 
and water. The ice on a window i)ane had melted and the water formed 
a pool at the bottom, in which various bright and beautiful colors ap- 
peared. On examination they proved to be the grotesque images of the 
frost-flowers on the pane reflected iu the water. The daylight itself 
was strongly polarized, which was attributed to the presence of a light 
mist of ice particles reflecting the sunlight. The temperature of the 
external air was about 12°. (Nature, March, 1881, xxiii, 442.) 

Henri Becquerel has investigated elaborately the rotatory polariza- 
tion of gases. He concludes (1) that the plane of polarization is rotated 
in gases under magnetic influence; (2) that the rotation is inversely as 
the square of the wave-length of the light used ; (3) that the rotatory 
power can be compared to liquid carbon disnlphide, and so to other 
liquids and gases, and (4) that oxygen shows anomalies, connected 
probably with its magnetic properties. {Ann. Chim. Phys., November, 
1880, V. xxi, 289; Am. J. ScL, February, 1881, III, xxi, 139.) 

Becquerel has since extended the above results, and now shows that 
even the earth's magnetism is strong enough to rotate the polarized ray. 
He finds that- the rays D traversing horizontally a column of carbon 
disulphide one meter long undergo at the temperature 0° C, and at 
Paris, a magnetic rotation of 0.8G97'. (C. B., September, 1881, xciii, p. 
4-Sl; Am. J. ScL, December, 1881, III, xxii, 484.) 



372 PHYSICS. 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

Eowland lias pnblislied a series of important papers on the general 
equations of electro-magnetic action with application to a new theory of 
magnetic attractions, and to tlie theory of the magnetic rotation of the 
plane of polarization of light, in which is contained the mathematical con- 
sideration of that action of magnetism on electric currents recently dis- 
covered by Mr. Hall, proving that if Maxwell's theory of light be true, the 
new action will explain the magnetic rotation of theiilane of polarization. 
The new theory of magnetism supposes the magnetic field to consist of 
a perfect fluid whose velocity at any point is represented in magnitude 
and direction by the magnetic vector-potential at the point. The vortex 
lines in this fluid are the lines of magnetic induction, and the velocity 
of angular rotation is proportional to the magnitude of the magnetic 
force. As 4 tz tim es the electric current is related to magnetic induction in 
the same way as magnetic induction to the vector-potential, Eowland 
considers that an electric current consists, as it were, of vortices of vor- 
tices ; i. c, that certain irregular distribution of the vortices constitutes 
currents. {Am. J. Math., ii, 334 j iii, 89. See also Mature, June, 1881, 
xxiv, 204.) 

Trowbridge has made experiments to determine the effect of great 
cold upon the magnetism of steel, showing that very low temjieratures 
exercise a far greater influence on the magnetic condition than has 
hitherto been noticed. Wiedemann has stated that a steel bar magnet- 
ized at 6^" or 8° C, lost only 4 per cent, on being cooled to — 25^5 but the 
author finds that a bar magnetized at 20° G. loses at — 00° CO per cent, of 
its magnetism. {Am. J. Sci., April, 1881, III, xxi, 31G.) 

Pictet has examined a number of steels with reference to their mag- 
netic power. He finds that this quality depends on the prelseuce of car- 
bon and on their state of aggregation. One of the two steels giving the 
best results had ^ of a per cent, of carbon; while samples having l.J to 
1^ were inferior. German steel made for springs, though of poor quality, 
made a good magnet. It had little homogenity, and consisted of an in- 
timate mixture of iron and iron cemented with a small jiroportion of 
carbon. {Nature, September, 1881, xix, 521.) 

Sir William Thomson has tahen advantage of the fact that the mag- 
netism of steel changes with the temperature becoming weaker when 
warmed and recovering its strength on cooling, to construct what he 
calls a thermo-magnetic thermoscope. Two thin wires of hard steel, 
each one centimeter long, arranged so as to form a nearly astatic couple, 
place themselves at right angles to the magnetic meridian. Two other 
magnets of twice the size, placed one on each side of the astatic couple, 
act as deflectors. They are laid in a line nearly along the meridian, with 
their similar poles facing each other, and about two centimeters apart. 



PHYSICS. 373 

Wlien the temperature of either of these deflectors changes, the little 
astatic pair turns through an angle, which, when small, is directly 
proportional to the temperature-diflerence. The deflections are read 
by a mirror and lampstand, as usual. {Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 
372.) 

2. Electromotors. 

Thomsen has experimented to determine whether the total quantity 
of heat which comes from the chemical reaction in a batterj' witli two 
liquids corresponds wholly or only in part to the total heat set free in the 
circuit. The quantities of heat evolved in the chemical reactions in the 
Daniell cell he had previously determined to be 50130 heat-units. He 
now finds that the total quantity of heat evolved in the circuit during 
the decomposition of one equivalent of copper sulphate is 50292 units, a 
difference of only 0.3 per cent. For other batteries the results were the 
same whenever the surface of the negative electrode was not changed 
by the electrolysis. He concludes, therefore, that the whole of the 
chemical energy is employed in the production of electricity. ( Wied. 
Ann., II, xi, 246; J. Phys., November, 1881, x. 502; Am. J. 8ci., January, 
1881, III, xxi, 74.) 

Kalischer has confirmed the observations of Adams and Day, that 
light may in certain cases set up in selenium cells a photo-electromo- 
tive force, the cell thus becoming its own battery. {Nature, October, 
1881, xxiv, 593.) 

Eeynier has proposed a new form of battery, in which the zinc is im- 
mersed in a solution of sodium hydrate and the copper in a solution of 
copper sulphate. The resistance of the battery is lessened: 1st, by 
adding to the solutions suitable neutral salts; and, 2d, by placing the 
zinc with its solution in a porous cup made of parchment paper without 
seams. The electromotive force of the battery varies from 1.3 to 1.5 
volts, and the resistance of a cell 2 decimeters high and of a cai^acity 
of 3 liters is 0.075 ohm. {J. Phys., April, 1881, x, 160.) 

The polarization of solids in contact with liquids has received a large 
share of attention. Helmholtz has published a paper on the currents 
produced by the motion of electrodes of polarized i)latiuum. ( Wied. 
Ann. xi, 737; J. Phys., July, 1881, x, 320.) Bloudlot has made an ex- 
perimental research on the capacity of voltaic polarization. {J. Phys., 
July, August, 1881, x, 277, 333.) Bartoli has sought to determine the 
electromotive force of polarization produced by the passage of a known 
current in a given electrolyte with given electrodes during a very 
short time. {II Kuovo Cimento, III, vii, 234; J. Phys., May, 1881, x. 
218.) 

This phenomenon of polarization has culminated in the production of 
storage batteries, or accumulators, as they are termed. Sir William Thom- 
son has made several communications concerning one of these, devised 
by C. Faure, of Paris. It is essentially a Plante battery ; but in place 



374 PHYSICS. 

of forming tUe lead oxide upon tlie surface of the lead plates themselves, 
as Plante has done, the two plates are covered with a layer of red lead 
held in place by a wrapping of felt. Eeynier liad said that one of these 
cells weighing 75 kilograms could store up sufficient energy to yield a 
horse-power of work for an hour. Thomson found the box of electricity 
brought to him at Glasgow from Paris by Major Seaver, occupying 72 
hours in the trip, to contain in the space of one cubic foot a million foot- 
pounds of energy, thus confirming Reynier's statement. Accumulators 
weighing three-quarters of a ton will work for six hours from one charge, 
doing work all this time at the rate of one horse-power, with an econ- 
omy of 90 per cent. {Nature, May-September, 1881, xxiv, G8, 105, 137, 
156, 433, 491.) 

Sutton has described a new electrical storage-battery, in which he uses 
a sheet of lead amalgamated and a sheet of thin copper a little shorter. 
The two sheets are perforated with a number of holes, and then rolled 
in a spiral separated by rubber bands. The plates are immersed in a 
solution of copper sulphate, the lead plate being made the positive elec- 
trode of a suitable source of electricity. The oxygen set free on the 
lead plate produces peroxide there, the hydrogen reduces the sulphate 
and deposits copper on the copper plate, the liquid becoming colorless. 
During the discharge of the battery these actions are reversed. A cell 4 
inches deep and 4 inches in diameter heated one inch of No. 28 iron wire 
to bright redness for over two hours. {Nature, December, 1881,xxv, 198.) 

Sir William Thomson read a paper at the York meeting of the Brit- 
ish Association upon the proper iiroportions of resistance in the working 
coils, the electro-magnets, and the external circuits of dynamo-electric 
machines. In this paper he shows that in such a machine giving a 
continuous current the equation E= ^/B, E' holds ; in which E is the re- 
sistance of the external circuit and R E' are the resistances of the field- 
magnets and the revolving bobbins. If r represent the ratio of the 

total work to the lost work, and e= the formular — l+2Ve results. 

Xv 

The dynamo considered in these calculations has its field maintained by 
a shunt circuit. {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, 52C; C E., September, 
1881, p. 474; Am. J. Set., December, 1881, xxii, 484.) 

The Pacinnotti electro-magnetic machine, constructed in 18G0 and de- 
scribed in 1864, has become interesting since the invention by Gramme 
of his ring armature. This machine was exhibited at the electrical ex- 
hibition in Paris, and the article from the Italian journal, in which it first 
appeared, has been republished in several of the electrical journals. {11 
Nuovo Cimcnto, June, 1864, xix, 378 ; VElectricien, November, 1881, ii, 127 ; 
J. Phys., November, 1881, x, 461.) Another machine with a ring arma- 
ture was exhibited in the Holland section as having been made by Elias 
in 1842. But beside the ring armature in six sections, and the commu- 
tator in six pieces, there is no correspondence between tliis and the 
Gramme machine, the connections being made quite differently. {VElec- 
tricicn, November, 1881, ii, 125.) 



PHYSICS. 375 

3. Electrical measurements. 

Stoletow, in a communication to the French Physical Society, has 
described au apparatus for determining the ratio of the electrostatic to 
the electromagnetic unit of quantity. It consists of an absolute con- 
denser, consisting of two metal disks accurately plane, the upi)er fur- 
nished with a guard-ring. By means of three microscopes, the distance 
between the plates can be accurately measured. This condenser is 
charged by a battery, and the discharge current is compared with the 
constant current jDroduced by the same battery in a circuit of known 
resistance. In order not to require too large a battery, a series of dis- 
charges of known number per second is passed throughthe galvanom- 
eter by means of a commutator, thus producing the eft'ect of a con- 
stant current and requiring only one Daniell cell. The first results with 
the apparatus were satisfactory. (J. Pliys., November, 1881, x, 4G8.) 

Eayleigh and Schuster have emi^loyed the original apparatus used 
by the British Association Committee, for the purpose of redetermining 
the value of the ohm in absolute measure. Thej' have obtained the value 
0.9893 earth-quadrants per second, that obtained by Eowland being 
0.9911. {Proc. Boy. Soc, xcii, 101, 141; Am. J. Scl, December, 1881, III, 
xxi, 484.) 

Fleming has devised a new form of resistance coil, constructed with 
a view to avoid the leakage due to condensed moisture on the paraffin 
insulating the electrodes, and at the same time to facilitate equalization 
of temperature. The wire is wound bare, each layer being separated 
from tbe others by strips of ebonite notched to receive the turns, and 
the whole is inclosed in a brass box screwed together. [Katiire, June, 
1881, xxiv, 183.) 

Kohlrausch has simplified the apparatus required for his method of 
measuring resistance, by means of alternating currents. The currents 
are now produced by an induction coil; and, in place of au electro- 
dynamometer, the telephone may be used. For liquids, large electrodes 
of platinized silver are employed. (Wied. Ann., II, xi, G53; J. Fhys., 
April, 1881, X, 173.) 

Fleming has described a new form of resistance balance, adapted for 
comparing standard coils, and used by him for measuring coils made of 
wires of difl'erent alloys. A platinum iridium wire 3^3 inch diameter, 39 
inches long, and of a total resistance of 0.0512 ohm, is let into the face 
of a horizontal disk of ebonite, but not flush with the surface ; so that 
a knife-edge of the same metal carried on an arm moving about the cen- 
ter of the disk may be put in contact with it. The edge of the disk is 
graduated into 1,000 parts, and by a vernier on the alidade 0.1 of a 
division can be measured. This api)aratus is used in a AVheatstone's 
bridge, two of the other resistances being auxiliary coils of nearly the 
same resistance each. The two coils to be compared are connected, each 
with one of the two poles of tlie battery, and each with one of the two 
ends of the circular Avire. The galvanometer wire connects the x>oint of 



376 PHYSICS. 

union of the first two coils with tlie axis which carries the alidade. This 
arm is so placed that the galvanometer is at zero, and the reading is 
noted. The two coils are then reversed in position, and a second reading 
taken. The difference is the difference in their resistance. Were it not 
for changes of temperature, measurements could be made to the yqoVo o 
of an ohm. {Phil. Mag., V, ix, 109 ; J. Phys., March, 1881, x, 135.) 

Glazebrook has called attention to an error which results when small 
resistances are measured by the Wheatstone's bridge, due to thermo- 
electric forces which have their seat at the point of contact of the cop- 
per and the platinum of the apparatus. The result is that the resist- 
ances found seem to depend on the resistance of the battery. They are 
eliminated by reversing the battery current. [Phil. Mag., April, 1881, 
V, xi, 291; J. Phys., November, 1881, x, 500.) 

Minchin has given an account to the London Physical Society of his 
new sine electrometer. It consists of two metal plates, in one of which 
is an aperture nearly closed by a metal trap-door, suspended from the 
plate by two fine platinum wires, and when the plates stand vertical, 
resting against fine stops. These plates are connected to the poles of 
the cell to be measured, and tilted out of the vertical till the attraction 
of the whole plate on the suspended trap or shutter is just balanced by 
the weight of the latter. Then the electromotive force is proportional 
to the sine of the angle of displacement. [Nature, May, 1881, xxiv, 95.) 

Mascart has modified the quadrant electrometer of Thomson, reducing 
materially its size, and adapting it to the ])urpose of meteorological regis- 
tration by means of photography. The quadrants are kept charged by 
a few cells of water-battery, and the water-dropping collector, used to 
obtain the atmospheric j^otential, is in communication with the needle, 
the case being connected with earth. The same photographic devices 
have been emi^loyed to record magnetic variations, the horizontal force 
beiiig given by a bifilar magnetometer, the vertical force by a magnetic 
balance, and the declination by a declinometer, all the tracings being 
obtained upon a single sheet of paper. ('/. Phys. June, 1881, x, 229.) 

Bailie has employed the torsion balance to measure electromotive 
forces, and has obtained results agreeing well with those made by other 
methods. {Ann. Ghim. Phys., June, 1881, Y, xxiii, 2G9.) 

Pellat has studied the discharge of a condenser by means of a tele- 
phone. With reference to the current necessary to give an audible 
sound in the telephone, he says: "Experiment has shown me that the 
energy corresponding to a calory, that is, to the amount set free by a 
gram of water cooled 1<^ C, transformed into electricity and sent through 
the telephone, will produce a continuous and clearly perceptible sound 
for ten thousand years!" {J. Phys., August, 1881, x, 358.) 

Edison has contrived several forms of an instrument for measuring 
electrical currents, which he calls a " webermeter." In the form to be 



PHYSICS. 377 

used in registering- tlie current for domesticligLting, there are two cells 
througli which a shunted portion of the current Hows, in one several 
times that in the other. In these cells are plates of coi)per immersed 
in sulphate of copper solution. These are weighed every month, and 
from the increase in weight the quantity of the current which has passed 
through the cell is given. This, multi[»lied by the shuut, gives the 
total current in the house for the time. In the second and more deli- 
cate form two copi^er plates are suspended in an electrolytic cell con- 
taining copper sulphate from the arms of a balance. The apparatus is 
placed in a shunted circuit, say, of xoVo' ^J the action of the current 
copper is dissolved off one plate and deposited on the other. The heavier 
one falls to a certain point, then automatically reverses the current. 
The other side now becomes heavier and goes down, and the current is 
again reversed. The beam thus oscillates, and its oscillations are reg- 
istered on a dial. By properly adjusting its parts each tip may be 
made to correspond with a definite quantity of current. By combining 
the delicacy of the mirror method with a delicately constructed weber- 
meter, Edison has been able to measure in one minute a current so 
slight thr.t it would deposit only ten milligrams of copper in the course 
of a century. {Cat. Gen. Off., Paris Exh., 1G2; Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, 
291.) 

Bra'ckett has described a new form of galvanometer for powerful cur- 
rents, based on the tangent-galvanometer principle. Two rings of cop. 
per or brass are turned so that the one passes within the other. They 
are then both cut on one side, the smaller placed within the larger, one 
of the ends of each united firmly by a metal plate, and pieces of vulcanite 
put between the rings to make them concentric. The other ends of the 
rings and the united ends are attached to three binding-screws. The 
iuslrument may be used as an ordinary-tangent galvanometer with 
either of the rings, or, by combining, them it may act differentially on 
the needle, owing to the different distances of the rings. The instru- 
ment works well in practice. {Am. J. Sci., May, 1881, III, xxi, 395.) 

4. Electric sparJc and light. 

Deprez has applied to the induction coils made by Carpentier a new 
form of interrupter, designed by himself. From his study of the action 
of the coil he concluded (1) that the current should be broken as soon as the 
maximum magnetism is attained in the core; and (2) that it should be 
re-established as soon as possible thereafter. {J. Phys., August, 1881, 
X, 3G0.) 

Bottomley has described some curious experiments with vacuum tubes. 
The tubes are exhausted very completely and sealed up without elec- 
trodes. If one end of a long tube like this be api)lied to tiie prime 
conductor of an ordinary frictional machine, the other end being held 
in the hand, the tube becomes charged as a double Leyden jar, the end 
next to the machine being positive without and negative within; while 



378 PHYSICS. 

the otlier end is positive inside and negative without. The charges are 
very high and the glass is frequently perforated. If discharge is effected 
by alternate contact of the ends beautiful luminous effects are seen in the 
tubes. {Nature, January, 1881, xxiii, 218.) 

Preece hao discussed the relation which exists between the length of 
a lightning conductor and the space which it protects. He assumes the 
data of De la Eue and Miiller, that to produce a spark one centimeter 
long in air requires a difference of potential of 40,000 volts, and concludes 
that a lightning-rod protects a conical space whose height is the length 
of the rod whose base is a circle having its radius equal to the height 
of the rod, and whose side is the side of a circle whose radius is equal to 
the height of the rod. {PMl. Mag., Dec. 1880, V, x, 427 ; Am. J. ScL, 
February, 1881, III, xxi, 141.) 

Leconte has observed that these conditions laid down by Preece are 
to be regarded as minimum conditions, because the use of iiointed con- 
ductors would certainly increase very considerably the area protected. 
{Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 38G.) 

Jamin has examined the counter-electromotive force developed in the 
arc. This electromotive force is equal to 20 or 25 volts ; so that the prin- 
cipal work of maintaining the arc appears to be spent in overcoming this 
opposing force, and is not occasioned by the resistance of the arc itself, 
which is small. This forms the difificulty of maintaining many arc-lights 
in the same circuit with batteries, continuous current machines or ac- 
cumulators; but with alternate current machines with a certain speed, 
this counter-electromotive force reaches a minimum. It appears to be 
due to the difference of temperature between the carbons, and as this 
difference disappears when alternate currents are used, the inverse elec- 
tro-motive force is diminished. (0. E., May, 1881, xcii, 1021; Am. J. 
Sci:, July, 1881, III, xxii, 74.) 

Nipher has shown that the statement by Preece, that the quantity of 
heat evolved in each of the electric lamps contained in the same circuit 
varies as the inverse ratio of the square of the number of lamps, is true 
only in the special case which he considers. If the lamps be arranged 
in parallel circuits, each circuit containing a certain number of lamps, 
the total quantity of heat produced in the lamps is independent of the 
number of lamps, the quantity of heat in each lamp varying inversely 
as their number. {J. Phys., February, 1881, x, 94.) 

Avenarius has patented a method of subdividing the electric light, 
founded on the insertion of a polarizer in a secondary circuit connected 
with each electric lamp. This polarizer consists of several voltameters 
connected together. The current from the machine divides at the lamp ; 
one part goes through it, while the other goes through the polarizer. 
The intensity of the light in the lamps ujay be varied by inserting re- 
sistance in the i)olarizers, and by increasing the number. The Individ- 



PHYSICS. 6 ( y 

ual lamps are iiidcpeudeut of each other, aud lamps of different systems 
may be used simultaneously. {Nature, February, 1881, xxiii, 373.) 

Sir William Thomson communicated to the British Association at 
York the results of measurements made by himself and by Bottomley 
upon the illuminating power of incandescent vacuum lamps. The 
lamps used were of the Swan pattern, and the current was furnished 
by Faure secondary batteries. The electromotive force at the termi- 
nals of the lamp was determined by a galvanometer of very high resist- 
ance; the current strength by one of low resistance; and the candle- 
power by comparing the shadows of a pencil cast by the lamp and by a 
standard candle on a sheet of white paper. With 26 cells the electro- 
motive force was 5G.9 volts, the current 1.21 webers, and the candles ll.G; 
thus giving 6.SS kilogram-meters per second for the work done in the 
lamp, or 0.093 horse-power. This would give 125 candles per horse- 
power of current. At 25 candles the economy rose to 194 candles per 
horse-power; at 38 to 22-4 candles per horse-power; at 55 to 294 can- 
dles; at 82 to 349; at 102 to 382; at 117 (another lamp) to 316; at 189 
to 440. Lamp No. 1 gave at GO candles an economy of 295 ; No. 2, at 68 
caudles, one of 234; and No. 3, also at G8, one of 219 candles per horse- 
l)ower. {Xature^ SeiJtember, 1881, xxiv, 490.) 



CHEMISTRY. 



By George F. Barker, 
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GENERAL AND PHYSICAL. 

Williamson, in an address before the Chemical and Physical Society 
of University College, London, discussed what he called an error in the 
commonly received theory of chemistry. There is a division of opinion 
on the question of variable equivalence; by one class of chemists nitro- 
gen in ammonium chloride being considered quinquivalent, and by 
another ammonium chloride being regarded as molecular: i. e., the 
force uniting the compound together, according to the former, is atomic 
or chemical; according to the latter, it is i)hysical. The author thought 
we had no grounds for assuming a diflerence between chemical and 
physical force. Kekule's theory, that an atom had only one valence, 
was no longer tenable; nor, in his opinion, was the view that the valence 
varied within narrow limits. He knew of no limitation to atomic value. 
Contrary to what is often asserted, that the valence of an element was 
independent of the nature of the elements with which it is combined, 
we know that the character of these atoms materially affects the result. 
Thus, gold, which afone could combine with no more than three chlorine 
atoms, can take up an additional one if an atom of sodium be supplied 
at the same time. The atomic value of an element depends upon the 
nature of the combining atoms, and uijon the temperature also. {Nature, 
IS'ovember, 1881, xxv, 21.) 

Perkin has obtained two series of compounds in his researches on 
coumarine, differing in i^roperties, but generally convertible the one into 
the other by the action of the heat. He thinks that the ordinary theorj' 
of isomerism, according to which this phenomenon is traceable to the 
occupation of different relative iiositions by the atoms in two molecules, 
fails to exi)laiu the cases of isomerism now described by him. Jle favors 
the view that the atoms in the molecules of any pair of the newly- 
described compounds occupy the same relative positions, but are at 
different absolute distances from each other. It should be remem- 
bered, however, that the present theory of isomerism is a])plicable only 
to gaseous molecules; the molecular phenomenon of liquid and solid 
bodies are too complex to find as yet any general explanation. Perkiu's 

381 



382 CHEMISTKY. 

new compounds seem to belong to the rapidly increasing class of ''phys- 
ical isomers," i. e., liquid or solid bodies whose chemical properties are 
to be traced to the binding together of molecular groups, the individual 
members of which occupy relatively difi'erent positions, the groups them- 
selves acting as chemical units. The molecular volumes of metamers 
do not favor the hypothesis proposed by Perkin. {J. Chem. Soc, August, 
1881, xxxix, 409; Nature, October, 1881, xxiv, 542.) 

The rate at which chemical changes progress has been studied by 
Kayander. He used magnesium plates about 2,000 square millimeters in 
surface, immersed in various acids, the solutions containing 0.01 of the 
molecular weight in grams in the liter of water. As to the influence 
of time, he concludes that the reaction begins at the very moment the 
I»late is immersed, the same action taking place when two acids are 
mixed. The influence of temperature is precisely that exercised by it 
on the diminution of the internal friction of the particles of the liquid 
against each other. It does not seem to influence at all the chemical prop- 
erties of the reacting bodies. His figures show that the velocity of the 
reaction is inversely proportional to the internal friction of the medium. 
{yature, June 1881, xxiv, 112.) 

Berthelot has stated that the chemical change which occurs wheii an 
acid soluble in water acts on a soluble base or salt, or vice versa, or when 
two soluble salts mutually react, is completed in a time not ai)i)reciably 
greater than is required for completely mixing the two solutions. {Xa- 
ture, February, 1881, xxiii, 373.) 

Thorpe has called attention to some cases of chemical reaction taking 
place between solids. Thus, when perfectly dry j)otassium iodide and 
mercuric chloride, or lead nitrate, or silver nitrate and potassium chro- 
mate are rubbed together in a mortar, the characteristic color of the re- 
action appears. {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, 467.) 

Dewar has discussed the question of the alleged decomposition of the 
elements in a paper read at York. He concludes thus: "The supposi- 
tion that the diflferent elements may be resolved into simple constituents 
and even into a single substance, had long been a favorite speculation 
Avith chemists; but however probable that hypothesis may appear ajyri- 
ori, it must be acknowledged that the facts derived from the most pow- 
erful method of analytical investigation yet devised give it but scanty 
support." {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, 468.) 

Strecker has found that for chlorine, bromine, and iodine in the gas- 
eous state, the ratio of the kinetic energy of the i)rogressive n)otion 
of the molecules to the total energy is different from that observed with 
other diatomic gases. These bodies seem therefore to form a group by 
themselves, their molecules seeming to have a different reciprocal ac- 
tion. The author doubts the validity of the suppositions of both Max- 
well and Boltzmann as to the nature of the mobility of the atoms in the 
gaseous molecule. ( Wied. Ann., 1881, II, xiii, 202.) 

Thomsen has sought to throw some light on the molecular structure 



CHEMISTRY. 



383 



of hydrocarbons from thermo-cliemical investigations. For tlie fatty 
series the structure generally adopted is regarded as correct. But in 
the aromatic series, he concludes against the constitution as expressed 
by Kekule's formula, and says : "The six carbon atoms of benzene are 
niiited to each other by nine single bonds; and the previous assumption 
of a structure of benzene with three single and three double bonds, is 
not supported by experiment. {Ber. Befl. Chem. Ges., January, 1881, 
xiii, 1321, 1388, 1806; Am. J. Sci. February, 1881, III, xxi, 87.) 

Thomsen has endeavored to show that the molecular rotation {i. e., 
the i^roduct of the rotatory power by the molecular weight divided by 
100,) is for many classes of bodies a simple multiple of a constant num- 
ber. This constant for a large class of bodies is 0.95 ; this multiplied 
by 4 gives 3.8, the constant for the family of alcohols, and by 9 gives 
8.05 the amide family constant. {Ber. Berl. Clicm. Ges,, January, 1881, 
xiii, 2168, 2264, 2266, 2269.) 

Briihl has advanced the hypothesis that the molecular refraction of 
isomeric carbon compounds is constant only when they contain singly- 
linked carbon atoms, and hence variations in this constant must be due 
to variations in the manner of linking. Janowsky, however, has main- 
tained that slight differences are always noticeable between the mo- 
lecular refractions of isomeric compounds where the grouping of the 
carbon atoms and not the linking is the cause of the isomerism. {Ber. 
Berl. Chem. Ges., January, 1881, xiii, 1520, 2415; Nature, February, 1881, 
xxiii, 374.) 

INORGANIC. 

Yalente has shown the replacement of iodine by chlorine in a strik- 
ing form for a lecture experiment, as follows : A jar of 500 cubic centi- 
meters capacity is filled with dry hydrogen iodide gas, and another of 
250 cubic centimeters capacity with dry chlorine, the larger jar being 
I)laced above the other, with a glass plate between them. On with- 
drawing the i:)late decomposition occurs with a flash of rose-colored 
flame, and iodine is deposited. {Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, 293.) 

Allary and Pellieux have proposed to evaporate to dryness the mother 
liquors used for the preparation of iodine, to roast, to extract with cold 
water and again evaporate, to extract the residue with alcohol, to distill 
oft" the alcohol, to add potassium carbonate, to pass carbon dioxide gas 
through the solution, and to crystallize out pure potassium iodide. {Bull. 
Soc. Chim., II, xxxiv, 627; Am. J. Sci., February, 1881, III, xxi, 136.) 

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have observed that when oxygen is con- 
verted into ozone by the silent discharge, a low temperature greatly 
augments the yield. Thus at 760 millimeters a temperature of — 23° gave 
0.214 by weight of ozone, and at 180 millimeters pressure 0.181. Mixed 
with four vols, of nitrogen at this temperature, the ozone was increased 
to 0.216, and to 0.240 when two vols. X. were present. On cooling the 
ozone by methyl-chloride, and compressing it in a Cailletet's apparatus, 
an azure-blue color api)eared in the tube, becoming indigo-blue at sev- 



384 ^ CHEMISTRY. 

era! atmospheres; cooling to SS^* tlie color became three or four times 
darker. Indeed a tube a meter long, lilled with the ozonized oxygen at 
the ordinary pressure, showed a sky-blue color when looked through at 
a white surface. By adding carbon dioxide, and then compressing, a 
blue liquid layer was obtained not differing in shade from the gas above 
it. Moreover, on compressing the products of the silent discharge upon 
carbon dioxide, the blue color/leveloped and the excess of CO2 liquified 
and became blue. {Bull. Soc. Chim., January, 188, III, xxxv, 2; Am. 
J. ScL, March, 1881, III, xxi, 233.) 

Claesson has shown that when ferric chloride is added to a solution 
of a sulphhydrate a deep red color is produced, varying from red-brown 
to red-violet. {Ber. Berl Chem. Ges., March, 1881, xiv, 411.) 

Bernthsen has examined the composition of sodium hyposulphite. 
By converting it into sulphate by means of iodine, determining both the 
iodine used and the sulphuric acid formed, it appeared that each sul- 
phur atom in the hyposulphite required three atoms of iodine to convert 
it into sulphuric acid. The state of oxidation in this acid is therefore 
represented by the formula S2O3. From the estimation of the ratio 
of bases present, there api:)eared to be one of base to one of sulphur. 
While the simplest formula would be NaS02, the author thinks the 
dibasic character of the sulphur acids requires a doubling of the for- 
mula, H2S2O4. {Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., March, 1881, xiv, 438.) 

Johnson has observed the direct synthesis of ammonia by passing a 
mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen gases over hot spongy platinum, to 
the extent of 24 milligrams per hour in one experiment. But if tlie 
nitrogen before mixing with the hydrogen be passed through a red-hot 
tube, the formation of ammonia is entirely arrested. This the author 
thinks is proof that nitrogen exists in an active and inactive state, the 
latter produced from the former by heat. {J. Chem. 80c., March, 1881, 
xxxix, 128.) 

Warington has confirmed a statement made by Schfinbein that ni- 
trite of ammonium is produced whenever water is evaporated. Since 
no nitrous acid was produced when the evaiioration was conducted in 
close vessels, the air must be the source of the contamination. A liter 
of water evaporated over a gas-jet gave ^V milligram of nitrogen, while 
a second liter evaj^orated by steam gave only ^-^ milligram; hence the 
combustion of the gas produced nitrous acid ; but on exposing a third 
liter of water to the air for the time required for the evaporation of the 
second, the nitrous acid reaction was obtained. For ordinary purposes 
water may then be evaporated in a steam bath, but for extremelj^ accu- 
rate work the evaporation must be done in close vessels. The test used 
was the naphthylamine test proposed by Griess, which is delicate enough 
to show one part of nitrogen as nitrous acid in one thousand million 
parts of water. {J. Chem. Soc, May, 1881, xxxix, 229.) 

Kraut has experimented to settle the question whether nitric acid will 
ignite ordinary combustibles. A wooden box filled with straw, saw- 



CHEMISTRY. 385 

dust, hay, or shavings has 25 to 100 c. c. of nitric acid of 1.5 specific 
gravity phiced in the center. Vapors become visible in a minute or 
two, a thick white smoke appears, and then the odor of burning mate* 
rial is i)erceptible. In five or six minutes the box is opened and is ibuud 
filled with a burning mass which bursts into tlame on access of air. [Ber. 
Berl. Cliem. Ges., February, 1881, xiv, 301.) 

Berthelot has observed that when the silent discharge acts on a mix- 
ture of oxygen and nitrogen tetroxide, the gas becomes decolorized ; but 
that on ceasing the discharge, slow decomposition took place, reproduc- 
ing the orange vapor. Since exposure to a freezing mixture produced 
no crystals, it was not nitric oxide N2O5. Moreover, the spectroscope gave 
characteristic absorption bands. Hence the author supposes it to be 
pernitric oxide. {Ann. Chwi. Phys., March, 1881, V, xxii, 431.) 

Jones and Taylor have described a colorless gas with a characteristic 
and extremely disagreeable odor, producing nausea and headache, which 
they have obtained by the action of hydrogen-chloride upon magnesium- 
boride. The gas is slightly soluble iu water, burns with a splendid 
green flame, producing boric oxide, deposits boron in a heated tube 
through which it is passed, or on a porcelain plate held in its flame, 
gives a black precipitate in a solution of silver nitrate, and gives on 
analysis numbers contirm,ing the formula BH3. It is therefore boron 
hydride. {J. Chem. Soc, May, 1881, xxxix, 213.) 

Chappuis has confirmed earlier suggestions that the luminosity of 
phosphorus is due to ozone. In pure oxygen at 15°, under atmospheric 
pressure, phosphorus is not luminous in the dark, but a bubble of ozone 
admitted produces the luminosity at once, though only momentarily. 
Two cylinders, one containing air the other pure oxygen, were inserted 
over potassium iodide and starch solution. A fragment of phosphorus 
was i^laced in each jar. The luminosity appeared in the first and the 
hquid became blue, but neither jihenomenon appeared in the second. 
Whenever the phosphorescence appeared »zone was present; when 
ozone was absent there was no luminosity. Again, those bodies which 
prevent the luminosity of phosphorus, such as turpentine, for example, 
are precisely those which destroy ozone or are destroyed by it. The 
author regards the ijroduction of the luminosity of phosphorus in oxygen 
as one of the most delicate of the reactions of ozone. {Bull. Soc. Chim., 
April, 1881, II, xxxv, 419.) 

A new variety of coal, said to be the richest in carbon of any mem- 
ber of the coal series yet discovered, has been found near Scheunga, on 
the westetn shores of Lake Onega. It contains 91 per cent, of carbon, 
7 to 8 per cent, of water, and 1 per cent, of ash. It is extremely hard 
and dense, has an adamantine luster, is a good conductor of electricity, 
and has a high specific heat, 0.1922. Though the carbon is as high as in 
the Ceylon graphite, it is not a graphite, since its behavior with potas- 
sium chlorate and nitric acid is that of an amorphous coal. {Nature, 
June, 1881, xxiv, 204.) 
S. Mis. 109 25 



386 ■ CHEMISTKY. 

The detection of small quantities of carbouous oxide may be effected 
in a room, for example, by drawing tbe air over i)owdered glass mois- 
tened with diluted blood, shaking the blood wiih a drop of ammonium 
suli^hite, and examiniag by the spectroscope. Strips of pai)er moistened 
with a solution of 0.2 gram palladium chloride in 100 cubic centimeters 
water may be used to detect this gas. If the dried slips are hung in a 
flask on a wire of platinum, the flask containing a little water, and corked, 
black, shining deposit of metallic i)alladiuiu appears on the paper in a 
few minutes, if five parts of carbonous oxide be present. If 'only one 
l)art be present, from 2 to 4 Lours are required. If only half a part, 
from 12 to 24 hours. {Nature, June, 1881, xxiv, 112.) 

Hawes has examined the liquid contained in the cavities of the smoky 
quartz from Branch ville, Conn. This quartz is so full of cavities con- 
taining condensed gas that a report like the explosion of a percussion 
cap takes place when a fragment is knocked off with a small hammer. 
When heated it decrepitates with such violence that bits fly whistling 
through the air to a distance of twenty feet. The cavities contained 
water, liquid carbon dioxide, and its gas, as was proved by the disap- 
pearance of the liquid at 31° C, the critical point for CO2. Moreover, 1 he 
cavities were large enough and sufficiently numerous to enable an anal- 
ysis of their contents to be made by Wright, who found the gaseous 
contents to consist of CO2 98.33, N 1.67, and H2S, SO2, Hgl^, F and CI 
traces. The water present was in general 09.02 per cent, of the entire 
inclosure approximately. Hawes accounts for the rapid motion observed 
in some of their cavities by the alternations of evaporation and conden- 
sation produced by minnte changes of temperature. {Am. J. ScL, March, 
1881, III, xxi, 203, 209.) 

Monnier has presented to the Physical Society of Geneva an ingen- 
ious apparatus, called an automatic methanometer, or fire-damp indica- 
tor, designed for nse in mines. The 'fire-damp in presence of air in ex- 
cess is decomposed in a glass vessel by an incandescent platinum wire, 
and the change of volume producd acts directly on a mercury manom- 
eter with platinum contacts. Every hour or half hour the air of the 
mine is forced into the burner by a bellows, automatically. The result 
of the test is registered, also automatically, in the central office. {Nature, 
June, 1881, xxiv, 112.) 

C. W. Siemens has read a paper before the Birmingham meeting of 
the British Association of gas managers on the use of gas for heating 
and lighting purposes, in which he maintained the need of improved 
processes in the manufacture of gas, so as to produce a gas of higher 
illuminating power, and of improved burners, giving a higher temperature 
of combustion, and therefore more light. He also advocated a separate 
supply system of gas for heating purposes. {Nature, June. 1881, xxiv, 
153.) 

Eemscu has shown that w^hen a mixture of iron by hydrogen, potas- 
sium-sodium tartrate and metallic sodium is heated in a combustion 



CHEMISTRY. 387 

tube, and nitrogen passed over tlie mixture, a cyanide is formed, which, 
treated in the usual way, gives the Prussian blue reaction. In general 
he states that when iron b}^ hydrogen and certain non-nitrogenous or- 
ganic substances arc heated with metallic sodium in an atmosphere of 
nitrogen, a cyanide is readily formed. [Am. Chcm. J., May, 1881, iii, 
134.) 

Allary has proposed a simple and effective mode of purifying carbon 
disulphide, which consists in covering it with a layer of water, adding 
concentrated solution of potassium permanganate and agitating; re- 
peating the operation so long as the color is discharged. After wash- 
ing, it is freed from water and filtered, distillation not being necessary. 
It should be kept in the dark. {Bull. Soc. Chim., May, 1881, II, xxxv, 
491.) 

Schiitzenburger and Colsen have described several new comj)ounds of 
silicon. When crystalline silicon is strongly heated in a current of 
carbon dioxide the compound (SiCO)^ is produced. When nitrogen is 
passed over a hot mixture of silicon and carbon (81202^);^ is formed. 
These bodies the authors regard as the oxide and the nitride respect- 
ively of the radical carbo-silicon (Si2C2)s. Silicon nitrate (Sig Ns)^ is also 
described. {Nature, October, 1881, xxiv, 542.) 

Huntington has apj^lied the method of Cooke in the determination of 
the atomic weight of antimony to the metal cadmium. From the first 
series of experiments, the atomic weight 112.31 was obtained as a mean, 
and from the second 112.32. (Awi. J. Sci., August, 1881, III, xxii, 148.) 

Mallet has redetermined with great care the atomic weight of alu- 
minum. His paper, published in full by the Royal Society, is an admirable 
example of a thorough scientific research. Three methods were em- 
ployed: 1st, the'ignition of pnre ammonia alum ; 2d, the precipitation of 
aluminum bromide by silver; and, 3d, the evolution of hydrogen by the 
action of aluminum upon sodium hydrate. The greatest care "was taken 
in obtaining pure materials and \)nYe reagents ; all the operations were 
conducted with special regard to the elimination of error, and all reduc- 
tions were made to vacuo. The results were : 1st method, series A, gave 
27.040±.0073 as a mean of 5 experiments; series B, 27.09Gi.0054, also 
a mean of 5. 2d method, series A, 27.034±.0049; series B, 27.023± 
.0052; series C, 27.018±.0069; A and from 3 experiments, and B from 
5. 3d method, series A, 27.005±.0033, G experiments; series B, 26.990 
i.004G. As a mean of the whole, the atomic weight is 27.032 ±.0045. 
But if 1 B be excluded, al=27.019zt.0030. Of the 18 elements whose 
atomic weights have been carefully determined, ten approach to whole 
numbers within less than a tenth of a unit. {Phil. Trans., 1880, p. 1003; 
Am. J. 8ci., April, 1881, III, xxi, 321.) 

Bibart has investigated the conditions under which iron becomes 
passive. As a resulc he concludes that the passivity of iron is not due 
to a layer of an insoluble subnitrate, still less to a layer of nitrogen di- 
oxide, as has been supposed; but it is produced by anj- cause which 



388 CHEMISTRY. 

tends to oxidize the iron and destroyed by any cause which tends to 
deoxidize it. At the outset the passivity appears to be due to the sim- 
ple layer of oxygen which is condensed on its surface; but gradually a 
layer of oxide forms and the passive condition is more permauent. (•/. 
Fhys., May, 1881, x, 201; Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, 249.) 

Seubert has redetermined with great care the atomic weight of phit. 
inum. The chloride prepared from the pure metal was precipitated by 
the chlorides both of potassium and of ammonium, four difierent pro- 
cesses being followed. The products were then analyzed. The results 
by the platinum determinations were 194.68405, 194.03928, 194.06507, 
195.03374; by chlorine estimation, 195.33013 for the ammonium salt, 
and for the potassium 194.39190, 194.49368, 194.63088, or 194.62003. 
After making the necessary corrections and reduction to vacuo the 
value becomes 194.34050. {Lieh. Ann., February, 1881, ccvii, 1.) 

ORGANIC. 

Lunge and Steinkauler have obtained a new hydro-carbon from the 
stems and twigs of S'equoia gigantea Torr. On distilling the needles 
with water, agitating the distillate with ether, removing the excess of 
ether, and distilling, a solid substance was obtained, soluble in alcohol, 
ether, benzine, and chloroform, less readily in naphtha, and in glacial 
acetic acid only on heating. By covering its solution in this acid with 
water the gradual solution of the acid caused the new body to separate 
in small crystal plates, which fused at 105°, were white with a bluish 
fluorescence, and possessed the penetrating odor of the Sequoia in a 
high degree. It boiled between 290° and 300°, and, on analysis, it 
afforded the formula O13H10. The authors give it the name sequoiene. 
{Ber. Berl. Chem. Gcs., September, 1880, xiii, 1656; Am. J. ScL, Jan- 
uary, 1881, III, xxi, 68.) 

Michaelis and SchuUe have succeeded in the preparation of a body 
of analogous constitution to azo-benzene, but in which arsenic takes the 
place of nitrogen. The new comi)ound is produced by acting with re- 
ducing agents, preferably phosphorous acid, upon an alcoholic solution 
of phenyl-arsenous oxide, CeHgAsO. Before the temperature has reached 
the boiling-point of the alcohol, the whole liquid solidifies to a mass of 
crystals, which, when drained and dried over sulphuric acid, are pure. 
Its formula is C6H5As=AsC6H5, corresponding to azo-benzene C6H5X= 
NCeHs, and phospho-benzene CeHsP^PCells. Naphthyl-arsenous oxide 
treated in the same way gives an analogous arseno-naphthalene C10H7AS 
=AsC,on7. [Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., April, 1881, xiv., 912.) 

Bechamp has studied the production of chloroform by the action of 
calcium hypochlorite upon alcohol in the ordinary way. From his ex- 
periments he concludes that the first action of the hypochlorite is an 
oxidizing one, oxidizing the alcohol to aldehyde. Then the second 
action produces from the aldehyde chloral and calcium hydrate; and, 
finally, under the action of the lime, the chloral breaks up into calcium 



CHEMISTRY. 389 

formate a ud chloroform. After the chloroform has all distilled off the 
mixture swells up and evolves oxygen. (Ann. Chim. Phys., March, 1881, 
V, xxii, 347.) 

Miiutz has stated, as a result of his investigations, that all natural 
waters, whether rain, river, snow, or sea water, contain traces of alco- 
hol. He describes his method of applying the iodoform test for alcohol, 
whereby one part can be detected in a million parts of water. {Nature, 
April, 1881, xxiii, G16.) 

Kiliani has made an elaborate study of inulin, the starch of the 
artichoke. It appears to stand in very intimate chemical relations 
with levulose, probably the anhydride of it. It passes into levulose 
simply by warming for some time the water in which it is contained. 
It is distinguished from levulose by the fact that the latter reduces the 
copper test and ferments, while the former does neither. Dextrose, 
when oxidized, yields comi^ounds having six atoms of carbon, while 
levulose affords bodies containing less carbon. This the author ac- 
counts for by supposing dextrose to be the aldehyde of mannite, and 
levulose its ketone. (LicJ). Aim., ccv, 145 ; Am. J. ScL, February, 1881, 
III, xxi, 138.) 

Musculus, in conjunction with Meyer, has succeeded in reconverting 
dextrose back into dextrin. Twenty grams pure dextrose were treated 
with thirty of concentrated sulphuric acid in small portions, 800 parts 
of alcohol were added, the soluuon filtered and allowed to stand 8 days. 
The abundant precipitate, when washed and dried, weighed ten grams, 
and was a white amorphus powder. It proved to be the alcoholate of 
dextrin, and on preparing the hydrate it possessed all the physical, 
chemical, and organoleptic properties of a dextrin. {Bull. Soc. GMm.j 
April, 1881, II, XXXV, 3G8.) 

Scheibler has studied the new derivative of glucose discovered by 
Peligot, and called saccharin, and Avhich has the formula Ci2H220n. It 
was prepared by boiling the solid starch sugar of commerce with dilute 
milk of lime so long as lime salts separate. The liquid is freed from 
lime, filtered, evaporated to a sirup, and allowed to crystallize. It expels 
CO2 from CaCOs to form calcium saccharinate; but on removing the 
lime, the saccharinic acid splits into saccharin and water. Saccharin 
is dextro-rotatory, while its salts are Isevo-rotatory. {Ber. Berl. Chem. 
Ges., December, 1880, xiii, 2212.) 

Eoscoe, in a lecture in the Eoyal Institution on Baeyer's synthesis of 
indigo-blue, has stated that in 1879 the value of the indigo imported 
into Great Britain was two million pounds sterling, the total production 
of the world being twice that sum in value. The artificial paste which 
yields indigo-blue on reduction, and which contains 25 per cent, dry 
acid, is furnished at G shillings per pound. Though the price of the 
artificial cannot yet equal that of natural indigo, yet it has advantages 
which more than counterbalance this difference in i^rice. {Nature, July, 
1881, xxiv, 227.) 



390 CHEMISTRY. 

Grimaux has succeeded in producing the alkaloid codeine, by tHe 
action of methyl iodide in presence of sodium upon an alcoholic solution 
of morphine. Its properties are identical with those of the natural 
codeine. If ethyl iodide be used in place of the methyl compound, a ne vt^ 
alkaloid, a homologue of codeine is produced. The author proposes 
the term codeines for the class, codomethyline, codethyline, etc., for the 
individual members of it. {G. B., May, 1881, xcii, 1140, 1228.) 



BOTANY. 



By Prof. William G. Farlow. 



During the year 1881 there has been great activity in the depart- 
ment of vegetable physiology, arising from the appearance of Darwin's 
Poicer of Movement in Plants, which, although announced in 1880, was 
not in reality known to the botanical public until 1881, but which has 
since its appearance been the subject of numerous important communi- 
cations and discussions; from the discussions on the nature and action 
of chlorophyl excited by the publication of Pringsheim's researches on 
chlorophyl; and from the discussions of Schimper, Naegeli, and Meyer 
on the mode of growth and formation of starch grains, of Pfeffer, Boehm, 
and others on the cause of the movement of water in plants, and other 
questions of primary importance in the economy of plants. 

Publications on vegetable anatomy, except so far as it relates to the 
structure of the vegetable cell itself, have not been very numerous. In 
cryptogams there may be said to have existed a mania for the forma- 
tion of systems of classification. The paper of De Bary on 8aprolegniew 
and Peronosporece, and the papers of Brefeld, figure among the more 
important works on the development of fungi, while descriptive works 
on both algse and fungi have been numerous and important. On the 
higher cryptogams and phaenogams the works published have been less 
numerous and of less magnitude than usual, although several notable 
contributions have been made. In this country considerable activity 
has been shown, and the proportion of original observations made con- 
cerning cross-fertilization and other physiological and etiological ques- 
tions seems fortunately to be increasing. 

VEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 

Decidedly the most important work to be credited to this year, al- 
though, as before said, it in reality appeared at the end of 1880, is Dar- 
win's admirable work on the Poicer of Movement in Plants, with regard 
to which a detailed account is unnecessary in this connection, inasmuch 
as the work is so generally and popularly known. Accepting the phe- 
nomenon of circumnutation as a fact, nothing could apparently be more 
satisfactory than the explanation given of the action of the difterent 
parts of the embryo in germination, and of the motions of leaves and 
other parts of plants. When, however, the question is asked, what is 
the cause of circumnutation, it will be noticed that all vegetable physi- 

391 



392 BOTANY. 

ologists do not agree with Darwin. The latter regards epinasty, hypo- 
nasty, geotropismus, heliotropismus as modifications of circumnutation, 
which is caused by an increase of the turgescence of the cells of one 
side of an organ. In opposition to this view is an important paper by 
Professor Wiesner, of Vienna, on Das Bewegumjsvermogen der Pflanzen^ 
who concludes that "circumnutation is not itself the cause, but a deriv- 
ative; the separate forms of nutation, on the other hand, heliotropis- 
mus, geotropismus, &c., are the primary piienomena. The single force 
to which these forms of motion are to be referred is growth itself." 
Francis Darwin, in a paper in the Botanische Zeitung on Circumnutation 
in a Unicellular Organ, applies the method adopted in the study of the 
motions of flowering plants to a fungus, Phycomijces nitens, whose mo- 
tions he thinks are in all probability to be attributed to circumnutation. 
The action of gravity on the longitudinal growth of plants has been 
studied by F. Schwarz, who comes to the conclusion that gravity has 
no influence on longitudinal growth when it acts in the direction of the 
longer axis of plant organs. 

The detailed account of Pringsheim's researches on chlorophyl, with 
regard to which he made several communications to the Berlin Acad- 
emy in the years 1879-'81, and to which reference has already been made 
in the Eeport on the Progress of Botany for 1879, was published in full 
in Pringsheim's Jahrbiicher for the present year, under the title Ueher 
Lichtwirlmng und GhloropUyllf unction in dcr Pflanzc. It is an elaborate 
paper, illustrated by IG plates, and gives a full account of the experi- 
meats made with his special microscopic apparatus. The views of 
Pringsheim with regard to the chlorophyl grains acting as shields of 
the protoplasm against too strong light, and his view that hypochlorin 
is the direct product of the transformation of chlorophyl is not accepted 
by Pfefler in his Vegetable Physiology, to which reference is made below, 
nor by Wiesner, who in the main agrees with Pfeffer. In a short but 
important paper, Dr. K. Brandt states that the chlorophyllaceous bodies 
found in some animals, as Spongilla and Hydra, are in reality not organs 
of the animals themselves, but entophytic algse, which evolve oxygen, 
upon which the animals live. 

In his Physiology, Pfeffer refers to Boehm's view with regard to the 
movement of water in plants, which he criticises unfavorably, and in 
reply to this appeared a communication by Boehm in the Botanische 
Zeitung, in which he supports his original view that the movement is 
brought about by suction and not by imbibition, as believed by most phy- 
siologists of the present day, nor, as was formerly supposed, by capillarity. 
In the Proceedings of the Berlin Academy is a paper by Schwendener 
on Climhing Plants, in which he treats of the effect of geotroj)ism, the 
grasping of the support in consequence of the formation of spirals by 
nutation, &c. The Jenaische Zeitschrift contains an article by Stahl 
on So-called Compass-plants. In addition to Silphium laciniatnm, the 
well-known compass-iilant, he found that Lactuca scariola, and to some 



BOTANY. • 393 

extent Lactuca saligna, Aplopappus rtihiginosiis, CliondriUa jiincea, and 
probably other plants, also place their leaves in a meridional position. 
The cause of this he attributes to the unusually great sensitiveness of 
the leaves of the species named to the action of light. 

The subject of i)lant respiration hds been studied by Borodin, who 
maiutains more strongly than ever his opinion that the energy of the 
respiration in leafy shoots under constant external conditions is a func- 
tion of the carbohydrous material which is present in the plant. Dr. 
Th. W. Engelmann, in a paper in the Botauische Zeitung, describes a 
new melhod for the investigation of the exlyilation of oxygen by plants 
and animals. He makes use of the bacteria, which commonly produce 
putrefaction. Their motions cease when the supply of oxygen is shut 
off, and revive when it is renewed, and by watching their motions one 
can tell whether oxygen is being evolved by plants or animals near 
them. 

In the Botanische Zeitung for 1880, Schimper gave an account of the 
origin of starch-grains, and this was followed in 1881 by a paper on 
GroictU of Starch grains, in which the author expresses the view that 
starch-grains are crystalloid substances, and he opposes strongly the 
view of Naegeli that they increase by intussusception. In reply Naegeli 
published an article in the same journal, uiiholding his original view 
against Schimper. Arthur Meyer, in an article which also appeared in 
the Botanische Zeitung, -on the Structure of Starch- grains, takes the 
ground that Naegeli's theory of intussusception has not been disproved 
by Schimper's observations, although he agrees that Schimper's hypoth- 
esis, that starch-grains are si)hferocrystalloids of a carbohydrate, affords 
the simi^lest explanation of the formation of the layers. 

The crystalloids found in marine algse are described in Pringsheim's 
Jahrbiicher by Klein. The paper is followed by one on the Crystalloids 
in the Niiclei of Phigidcida and XJtrictdaria. Zacharias has two papers 
in the Botanische Zeitung; one on the Chemical Constitution of the 
Nucleus, and the other on Spermatozoids. The main part of the nucleus 
of vegetable cells consists of nuclein, which is also found in what Stras- 
burger calls the nuclear i)late formed during cell division. In the 
second pa])er Zacharias states that as far as their chemical composition 
is concerned the spiral bands of the spermatozoids of plants resemble 
the bodies of the spermatozoa of animals, while the cilia resemble the 
tails of the latter. Furthermore the spiral bands, as is shown by their 
containing nuclein, originate in the nuclei of the mother cells, while the 
cilia arise from the cell-plasma. Tae Untersuchungen of the Gottiu- 
gen laboratory contain papers by Eeinke and Kodewald entitled Studien 
iiber Protoplasma. The first gives detailed analyses of the protoplasm 
of MthaUum septicum. The other papers relate more particularly to the 
assimilation and metastasis occurring in cells. According to Prof. F. 
Schmitz, in an article on Formation and Groicth of the Cell-membranes of 
Plants, the cell walls are formed by centripetal apposition, and not by 



394 BOTANY. 

intussusception, and he gives as an illustration the pollen grains of 
Cobcea scandens, where the spiny outer wall is formed earlier than the 
inner wall. Karl Eichter shows that the cell walls of fungi are formed 
of cellulose proper, rather than of what is called fungus cellulose, since 
on treating with potash they give the reactions of cellulose. Yesque, in 
the Annales des Sciences, gives an account of some i^eculiar cellulose 
formations. 

An important paper by Schwendener on the Structure and Mechanism 
of Stomata was published in the Proceedings of the Berlin Academy, in 
which the hinge-like action of the closing cells dependent on the posi- 
tion of the thickenings of their walls in certain positions was explained. 
Pringsheim's Jahrbiicher contains two elaborately illustrated anatomical 
liapers ; one by Ambronn on the Development and Mechanical Properties of 
CoUenchyma, and one by Haberlandt on the Comparative Anatomy of the 
\ssimilating Portion of Plants ; also a paper by "Westermaier on the In- 
tensity of Growth of the Scheitel-cell and its Earliest Divisions, to which 
there is a reply by Goebel in the Botanische Zeitung. The Annales 
des Sciences for the present year is almost wholly devoted to articles 
relating to vegetable anatomy, several of which are copiously illustrated, 
the principal papers being those of Olivier on rAp^jariel tegumentaire des 
racineSj of Gerard on le Passage de la racine a la tige, and of Guignard on 
Emhryogenie vegetale comparee. 

The Journal of Botany contains a paper, by Vines, on the History of 
the Scorpioid Cyme, and by Dickson on the Morphology of the Pitcher 
of Cephalotus follicularis, in which he differs from Hooker in regarding 
the pitchers as formed from the upper part of the leaves rather than as 
special structures developed on the prolonged midribs. There is also 
a paper, by Eichler, on the pitchers of Cephalotus follicularis in the 
Jahrbuch of the Eoyal Botanic Garden of Berlin. 

The vegetative organs of Monotropa hypopitys have been studied by 
Kamienski, who found no hanstoria, and concluded that the plant is not 
a parasite, but a saprophyte, and he states that a mycelium is always 
found in the ground about the Monotropa roots, and that the nourish- 
ment of the roots may, perhaps, deijend on the action of the mycelium on 
plants around. In a paper on the Weibliche Bliithen der Coniferen, 
Eichler states his belief that the ovule of Coniferoe, or, as it may be 
called, macrosporangium, like the corresponding organ in the higher 
cryptogams, is of the nature x)f an emergence, and may arise either 
from a leaf or an axis. 

An important work, by Hermann Mueller, on the relations of plants 
to insects, is Alpenhlumen, ihre Befruchtung durch Insekten nnd ihre An- 
passungen an dieselben. The work is divided into four parts, of which 
the second and third are especially valuable to botanists, as they con- 
tain detailed, and in many cases illustrated, accounts of the arrange- 
ments for cross-fertilization in a large number of species. Fertilization 
in Rhexia virginica is described and figured in the Torrey Bulletin, by 



BOTANY. 395 

W. H. Leggett. William Trelease has, iu the same journal, two papers 
on Fertilization of Hcropliiilaria and Perforation of Floicers. Trelease has 
also two papers in the American Naturalist on Fertilization of Calamintha 
Nepeta and on the Fertilization of Salvia splenclens by Birds. Dr. W. P. 
Wilson, in the Tubingen Laboratory, has made a study of the Caune of the 
Excretion of Water on the Surface of N'ectaries, and finds that it is caused 
by osmosis, and not by pressure from within the cells, as is shown by the 
experiment of thoroughly drying the surface of nectaries with filter 
paper, when the flow of nectar ceases until the surface is again touched 
with some substance which favors an osmotic flow. The foliar Nectar 
Glands of Populus are described and figured by Trelease, in the Botanical 
Gazette for November, where he makes some suggestive remarks on the 
origin of such glands and their relative frequency in living and fossil 
species of poplar. 

Some important text-books relating to vegetable anatomy and physi- 
ology have appeared during the year. The most important is the 
Pfianzenphysiologie of Professor PfefPer, of Tubingen, of which two parts 
have appeared, covering respectively 383 and 484: pages, and illustrated 
by a small number of wood-cuts. The first part relates to the subject of 
Stoffwechsel and the second to Kraftwechsel. The Elemente der Anatomie 
und Physiologie der Pflanzen of Professor Wiesner, of Vienna, is a vol- 
ume of 272 pages, with numerous good wood-cuts, and embodies the 
substance of his class lectures on these subjects, and other botanical 
subjects will be treated in subsequent volumes. Strasburger's Zellbil- 
dung und Zelltheilung has reached a third edition, in which is embodied 
the latest results of the very numerous investigations made with regard 
to the cell structure in the last few years. The German translation by 
Dr. Carl Miiller from the Danish of Botanische MiJcrochemie, by Dr. V. 
A. Poulsen, places that convenient little book within the reach of 
botanical teachers. 

BACTERIA. 

* 

A very large number of papers has appeared on bacteria and their 
relation to disease, most of which have treated the subject from a medical 
point of view, and only an unusually small number has been devoted 
to the botanical aspects of the subject. The two largest and most com- 
plete publications are Aetiologie der Infectionslranlheiten, with special 
reference to the fungus theory, an octavo volume of over four hundred 
pages and several charts, comprising 15 papers read before the Medi- 
cal Society of Munich in 1880. The other work, Mittheilungen aus dcni 
Tiaiserlichen Gesundheitsamte, published in Berlin under the direction of 
Dr. Struch, is a quarto volume of 400 pages, with 14 lithographic 
plates, and contains 14 articles relating to the action of pathogenic 
organisms, means of disinfection, «S:c. As a rule, the physicians of 
Munich are adherents of Naegcli, who regards the different so-called 
pathogenic forms not as distinct species, but rather as modifications of 
the same species, or of a few distinct species which produce different 



396 BOTANY. 

changes according to the different conditions under whicli they are 
I^laced, and which may, by uataral or artificial means, be transformed 
one into another. The Berlin school, on the other hand,- deny that the 
different organisms are modifications of a few common forms brought 
about by changes in external conditions, but maintain that they are 
permanent forms capable of perpetuating themselves indefinitely 
without undergoing any change, either iu their morphological structure 
or their pathological action. There is no way at present of reconciling 
these two widely different views, for each side accuses the other of lack 
of care iu conducting experiments and inoculations. In the Munich 
volume Bollinger gives a historical account of the diseases caused by 
fungi in lower and higher animals; Bezold, a paper on Otomycosis, 
in which he expresses the view that in the case of Aspergillus and simi- 
lar fungi the spores make their way into the ear, and produce an 
inflammation, although in some of the cases recorded a growth of the 
fungus was not noticed until oil had been applied to the ear. The 
aetiology of diphtheria is discussed in two papers by Oertel and Ranke, 
followed by a discussion, in which several medical men took part. The 
principal point at issue was whether there exists a disease with mem- 
branous exudation in the throat which is not of a diphtheritic nature. 
In the present connection it is only necessary to state that it seemed 
to be admitted by both sides that the bacterial forms found are the 
same in all cases, and not to be distinguished from those found also in 
healthy i^ersons. In the same volume are two articles by Buchuer on 
the Action of Bacteria in Living Bodies and on the Conditions of Diffu- 
sion of Fungi in the Air. In the first-named paper he refers to the 
experiments previously made by himself on the interchangeability of 
Bacillus anthracis and B. subtilis, and states that the fatal result of 
pathogenic organisms is not so much owing to their poisonous action 
on the whole system as on special organs or parts of the body. In the 
second paper he remarks that when in fluids bacteria are not readily 
transported through the air, but when the substance in which they 
are contained is dry it is likely to become reduced to dust or small 
fragments, and in this form the bacteria are taken up by the air and 
absorbed by animals. In a paper on the JEtiology of Abdominal Typhus, 
Port states that the disease is caused by emanations from the soil, and 
is propagated by particles in the air, and not by drinking water. 

In the Berlin Mittheilungen, Koch has a paper on the mode of study- 
ing pathogenic organisms. His method is to make use of solid or semi- 
solid substances rather than fluids in his cultures, as in the latter the 
different kinds of bacteria which make their appearance are mixed 
together in utter confusion, while when cultivated on substances like 
potato or carrot, for instance, the different forms grow in masses iu dis- 
tinct spots which can be easily seen, and the different forms obtained 
nearly or quite pure. His favorite substance for inire cultures is gela- 
tine combined with various nutritive fluids, depending on the partic- 



BOTANY. 397 

ular species to be studied. The article is illustrated with numerous 
micro-photographs. In his paper on the Etiology of Splenic Fever, 
Koch attacks the views of Pasteur and other French writers, as well as 
those of Buchner, with regard to the specific identity of Bacillus an- 
thracis and B. subtilis, and denies that earth-worms have the influence 
in spreading the disease which was attributed to them by Pasteur. He 
distinguishes between splenic fever and malignant oedema, which ho 
thinks have been confounded by Pasteur, and maintains that the Bacilli 
which produce the two diseases are distinct, and he even hints that 
there are probably other diseases of a similar nature which will also be 
shown to be producetl by distinct forms of Bacillus. In his paper on 
Progressive Virulence and Acquired Adaptability in Septicoimia, Gaflfky 
affirms the constancy of pathogenic organisms and controverts the views 
of Gramitz in Virchow's Archiv, on the Theory of protective inocula- 
tion, who there states that not only bacterial forms but even harmless 
molds may, by changing the temperature and in other ways, be con- 
verted into dangerous organisms. With the exception of a paper by 
Loffler, on the Immunity Question, most of the remaining articles in the 
Mittheiluugen relate to means of disinfection, which is best accomp- 
lished by the use of steam, which destroys the spores of bacteria more 
quickly than hot water, sulphurous acid, or other disinfectants. In the 
Medizinische Wochenschrift is a short paper by Huber, Experimentelle 
Studien ilher Milzhrand, in which, among other facts, he states that the 
Bacilli of splenic fever do not pass through the placenta of the mother 
to the foetus. In the Zeitschrift fllr klinische Medizin is a paper by 
Nothnagel on the lower vegetable organisms found in the intestinal dis- 
charges of man, in which he mentions the occurrence of a form resem- 
bling Clostridium hutyricum Prazmowski, which is turned blue by iodine. 
Dr. G. M. Sternberg, at the meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., at Cin- 
ciannti, read a jiaper on Bacterial Organisms found on exposed Mucous 
Surfaces and in the Alimentary Canal of Healthy Individuals, giving the 
mode of examination and the results of observations made at the Johns 
Hopkins University. 

The work done by French writers on bacteria has related principally 
to the means of diminishing the virulence of the poison in different dis- 
eases and to inoculation in splenic fever and chicken cholera. At the 
International Medical Congress, in London, Pasteur delivered an ad- 
dress in which he summed up the result of his researches concerning 
inoculation in chicken cholera and splenic fever. The Comptes Eendus 
contain numerous original communications by Pasteur, Chaveau, Cham- 
berland, Eaux, and others. In a communication on the duration of life 
of germs, Pasteur, in connection with Chamberland and Kaux, found 
that guinea pigs died of splenic fever when inoculated with particles 
of soil taken from fields where infected animals had been buried twelve 
years previous. Furthermore, sheep which were allowed to resort to 
the same fields, on which, however, as no grass was growing, they 



398 BOTANY. 

could not feed, also died of splenic fever. The same observers in a 
paper on the attenuation of virus and its return to virulence give the 
results of their researches on the means of reducing the virulence of 
the microbes, more especially those of chicken cholera and splenic fever. 
The microbe of the first-named disease does not produce spores when 
made to grow in a decoction of chicken flesh exposed to the air, and 
it was possible by successive cultures to produce a microbe which be- 
came gradually less and less virulent, and at length quite inert when 
iujected into fowls. The nearly inert solutions when injected into fowls 
enable them to resist violent attacks of chicken cholera when exposed 
to the disease. The bacilli of splenic fever, however, when cultivated 
in fluids exposed to the air generally produce spores which retain for 
an indefinite period the virulence of the disease. When, however, the 
temperature is kept as low as 16° 0. or above 40° O.-the filaments of 
the bacillus grow without producing spores, and by successive cultures 
under these conditions Pasteur obtained an inert fluid for inoculation 
in splenic fever. In a later paper in the Comptes Eendus the results 
of inoculations in splenic fever made at Pouilly le Fort, near Melun, 
are given, and the results show that the animals inoculated did not 
contract the fever when exposed, while non-inoculated animals did. 
Chaveau, also in Comptes Eendus, gives his results with regard to in- 
oculation in splenic fever, which was followed by exemption from the 
disease; but his injecting fluid he obtains in a different way from Pas- 
teur, making use of fluids in which only a minute number of bacilli are 
found, and he believes that the virulence depends on the amount of ba- 
cillus present. 

In Nuovi studi sulla natura della malaria Cuboni and Marchiafava 
confirm the views of Tommasi-Crudelli, that the disease is caused by a 
Bacillus, and state that during the fever only free spores are found in 
the blood, while during the chill there is a large mass of Bacilli to be 
seen. In the Proc. Phil. Acad, is a preliminary notice by Dr. H. C. 
Wood, and in the Bulletin of the National Board of Health, No. 17, is a 
detailed account by Drs. Wood and Formad on the cause of diphtheria. 
They find microcci in the membrane of diphtheria which are not to be 
distinguished from those found in pseudo-membranous trachitis, arising 
from various causes, but on the whole are inclined to admit the 
agency of the microcci, at least to a certain extent, in causing diph- 
theria. In a paper by Dr. Sternberg on a Fatal Form of Septicmmia^ 
in the rabbit, produced by the subcutaneous injection of humausaliva, 
he states that he has demonstrated by repeated experiments that his 
saliva in doses of 1.25 c. c. to 1.75 c. c. injected into the subcutaneous 
tissue of a rabbit infallibly produces death, which he thinks is owing to 
the presence of a Micrococcus which closely resembles, if it is not iden- 
tical with, Micrococcus septicus Cohn. The Eeport of the Department 
of Agriculture for 1880 contains several elaborate illustrated papers on 
diseases of domestic animals, with accounts and figures of the organ- 



BOTANY. 399 

isms found in the different organs, ^iz : Swine Plague and Foicl Cholera^ 
by Dr. D. E. Salmon ; on Swine Plar/ue, by Dr. James Law, and a sec- 
ond i)aper on tlio same subject by Dr. H. J. Detmers ; on Contagious 
Pleuropneumonia, by Dr. C. P. Lyman ; and on Texas Cattle Fever, by 
Dr. Detmers. The existence in man of a disease similar to that pro- 
duced in cattle by the fungus known as Actinomyces hovis Las recently 
been made known in a paper by Ponfick, entitled Die AMinomylcose des 
Menschcn, and by Jobne, in a paper bearing a similar title. The dis- 
ease usually attacks at first the region of the mouth with secondary 
internal manifestations. The fungus which occurs in man closelj" re- 
sembles that found in cattle, but its botanical relation to other fungi 
is very obscure, and cultures artificially made failed to throw any light 
on the subject. 

Under the present heading should be mentioned an account, by Dr. 
Swann M. Burnett, of a fungus Otomyces purpureus found in the human 
ear, published in the Archives of Otology; and an account, by Ercolani, 
of a disease of horses' hoofs, caused by a fungus Achorion Iceratophagus 
described and figured in the Eevue Mycologique. 

DISEASES OF PLANTS. 

Very little has been published in 1881 relating directly to diseases of 
plants, although frequent reference has been made to such diseases in 
papers treating of fungi and bacteria. The handbook, by Frank, Bie 
KranTilieiten der PJianzen, published in 1880-'81, a semi-popular work, 
gives a thorough and intelligible account of the diseases of vegetable ori- 
gin, with a shorter account of some of insect origin. H. Marshall Ward, 
who was sent by the British Government to Ceylon to study the coffee 
disease, Hemileia vastatrix, has succeeded in finding nearly the com- 
plete development of that fungus, which he classes with the Uredinece 
as he has found teleutospores which belong to that order. The agri- 
cultural and smaller botanical journals are filled with descriptions, gen- 
erally of a popular character, of the diseases of the vine, especially of 
Peronospora xiticola. Investigation Avith regard to the spreading and 
means of checking the Peronospora have b(ien conducted by Prillieux 
in France, and Garovaglio in Italy. The former reports the spreading 
of the disease to Algiers, where it occurs with great violence early in 
the summer, attacking not only the leaves but the grapes themselves. 
As far as the injury done to the French vineyards is concerned, Pril- 
lieux does not think that the harm is very great except in unusually 
wet jears, although he says that in the region of Bordeaux the Perono- 
spora makes its appearance sometimes as early as the last of May or 
first of June. He does not agree with Garovaglio as to the value of 
the application of lime as a preventive. In a i)aper read at the Italian 
Cryptogamic Society, Passeriui described four species of fungi which 
attack tobacco, Phyllosiicta tabaci, Ascochyta nicotina:, Epicocciim purpu- 
rascens, and Macrosporium commune. In a pai)er called 2[al ncro della 



400 ' BOTANY. 

vite, Cugini figures different forms of Phoma and Sphwropsis which occur 
on the vine. Prillieux has a note in the Comptes Eendus on the root- 
rot of the vine caused by Rosleria hypogcea, and Le Monnier gives the 
result of his observations on the disease in the Bulletin of the Nat- 
ural History Society of Nancy. Prillieux, who examined the disease of 
hyacinths in France, which is supposed to be the same as what is called 
in Germany "ringel kranheit," considers that the disease is caused by 
insects and not by molds, as was believed by Sorauer. In the Amer- 
ican Naturalist are papers bj^ Prof. T. J. Burrill and W. K. Bigley. 
The former, in his article on Bacteria as a Cause of Disease in Plants, gives 
an account of his studies of the pear blight which, he thinks, is caused 
by a form of bacterium and which can be transferred by inoculation to 
healthy trees. The "yellows" of peaches is caused by a similar bac- 
terium, as are also diseases of the Lombardy poplar and the aspeu. 
The paper of Mr. Higley is entitled the Microscopic and General Charac- 
ters of the Peach Tree affected with the Yellows, which he attributes not to 
bacteria, but to some higher form of fungus of which he found the my- 
celium. 

THALLOPHYTES. 

The paper of De Bary, Zur SystematiJc der Thallophyten, published 
in the Botanische Zeitung for January, makes a change in the disposi- 
tion of the members of this difficult group of cryptogams, and his views 
on the subject are again expressed later in the year in his Untersuchungen 
iiher die Peronosporeen, &c. The four principal divisions, Garposporew, 
OogamcB, Isogamce, and Agamce, correspond in general to the four divis- 
ions of Sachs, but the arrangement of the orders under them is different, 
and, to illustrate his views of the connection of the order, De Bary gives a 
somewhat complicated table in which, under the four main divisions men- 
tioned above, are several vertical columns in which the orders are arranged 
so as to show their relation to one another and the higher cryptogams. 
The chlorophyllaceous algce form the base which passes through the 
Oedogoniece and Coleochcvte to the Bryophyta and Pteridophyta, while the 
Floridew and Fungi on one hand, and the Phaophycew on the other, form 
aberrant groups. The Botanische Zeitung for August contains another 
classification of Thallophytes by Gobi. He proposes to substitute the 
name Glwophytce for Thallophytes, owing to the gelatinous nature of 
the cells in this group, and gives a table in which De Bary's four main 
divisions are represented as segments of concentric circles, and the 
orders, taken somewhat comprehensively, to be sure, are represented by 
radial hues. In the Gioruale Botanico, Caruel also proposes a new 
system of the vegetable kingdom in which the arrangement of the 
Thallophytes is new. In this connection may be mentioned the work of 
Saporta and Marion, Involution des cryptogames, which, although prop- 
erly coming under the department of paleontology, contains a summary of 
what is known of the development of living Thallophytes. 

Algce. — Number four of the monographs, to illustrate the flora and 



BOTANY. 401 

fauna of the Bay of Naples, appeared in 1881, and includes the genus 
CoraUina, by Graf Solms-Laubach. It is a small folio of Gl pages, with 
3 lithographic plates. It begins with an enumeration of the Coral- 
Unece of Naples, Avhich is followed by an account of the development 
of the fruit in the genus CoraUina^ and remarks on Ampliiroa, Melohcsia^ 
I/ithopJiyUum, iuid Lithothamnion. In the proceedings of the Zoological 
Station at Naples is a paper, by Berthold, on the Sexual Reproduction 
of the Pha^osporccE Proper. In Ectocarpus siliculosus he found that some of 
the zoospores came to rest earlier than others. These were the females, 
around which the males collected in considerable numbers, until one of 
the latter became fused with the female, which was then surrounded by 
a cell-wall, and germinated. In the Botanische Zeitung is a paper by 
Klebs, Beitrage zur Kenntniss niedercr Algeu formerly in which a number 
of new endophytic algte are described, including three new genera, 
UndospJiccra, Phyllohium, and Scotinosphccra. In Iledwigia, Wolhiy gives 
an account of the algse of Helgoland. Of papers on Desmids may be 
be mentioned Nordstedt's De Algis nonnuUis, prcccipue DesmidciSj inter 
Utricularias Musei Lugduno-Batavi, in which he describes species from 
Senegal, Venezuela, the Cape of Good Hope and Java, and Archer's 
New Zealand Desmids in Grevillea. The Encyklopiidie der Naturwis:sen- 
schaften contains a general account of algce by Falkenberg, entitled 
Die Algen im iceitesten Sinne, a paper of 143 pages, with numerous wood- 
cuts. 

Of publications relating to alg?e of the United States should be men- 
tioned Farlow's Marine Alga; of New England and Adjacent Coast, which 
forms a part of the Eeport of United States Fish Commission for 1879, 
comprising an account of all the marine species known to occur in that 
region, with the exception of the diatoms. The paper is accompanied 
by plates showing the microscopic structure of the different genera. 
The Sea Mosses, by Kev. A. B. Hervey, gives popular descriptions of the 
more striking sea- weeds of the United States, with colored illustrations, 
besides an introduction on the general structure of algae. The Torrey 
Bulletin contains two papers by Wolle on American Fresh -Water Alga;, 
with a plate of new American Desmids, and a note on Laminaricc hy Far- 
low. Mr. C. M. Vorce gives, in the Proceedings of the American Society 
of Microscopists, two plates with notes representing the forms of micro- 
scopic vegetable and animal life observed in the water of Lake Erie. 
The fourth lasciculus oiAlgcc Am. Bor., by Farlow, Anderson, and Eaton, 
was issued in June, 1881, and contains i)rinci pally species of Floridecc. 

The diatoms collected on oysters at Ningpo and Nimrod Sound, China, 
is the subject of an illustrated paper by P. Petit in the memoirs of the 
Cherbourg society. Cleve gives descriptions and i)lates of diatoms 
from Honolulu, the Galapagos Islands, Port Jackson, and the Mediter- 
ranean in a ])aper entitled On some new and little known Diatoms in the 
proceedings of the Swedish lioyal Academy. The genus Grammaiopliora, 
in connection with plates 53 and 53 B of Van Heurck's Synopsis of 
S. Mis, 109 2G 



402 BOTANY. 

Belgian Diatoms, is tlie subject of a paper by .Grnnow in the Botanisches 
Centralblatt. The subject of Fineness of Striation as a Specific Charac- 
ter of Diatoms is discussed in. the Am. Monthly Micros. Journal by 
Prof. H. L. Smith, in which he takes strong ground against the views 
of Castracane, and regrets that so many new species are founded on the 
variable distinctions of striation. In the same journal, Dr. G. M. Stern- 
berg states that he is able to confirm the views of Wallich, that the 
motions of diatoms are produced by delicate filaments projecting from 
the valves. Of Yan Heurck's Sr/nojms des Diatomces de Belgique, part 
3, plates 31-53, iucludiug the Pseudo-EhapMdew, appeared during the 
year, and parts 17-18 of Schmidt's Atlas der Diatomaceenkundc. The first 
part of Habirshaw's Catalogue of the Diatojuacew also appeared this year. 

Lichens. — The first i)art of Minks' Syynholw licheno-mi/cologica^, which 
the author stylos a contributiou to the knowledge of the boundaries 
between lichens and fungi, appeared towards the end of 1881, and a 
continuation is jiromised. lie gives a catalogue of a large number of 
recognized fungi, many of which arc common species, in which he de- 
clares that lie has fi)und microgonidia, and hence concludes that they 
are not fuugi, but lichens. In the introduction he advances some decid- 
edly novel views on the formation of asci and spores. In the Giornale 
Botanico, jMattirolo gives the results of his study of the genus Cora, of 
which be recognizes two species, making a new genus, Rhipidonema of 
Cora ligulata. The genus Cora, which has by some been considered to 
belong to fungi and by others to lichens, has fruit resembling the Auri- 
cularini, but has also gonidia, and for this reason Mattirolo creates the 
new division of lichens, which he calls Hymenoliclienes to include the two 
genera above named. 

The descriptive notices of lichens which appeared during the year were 
principally continuations of i)eriodical communications. In the Torrey 
Bulletin, Willey calls attention to a new North American lichen, Ompha- 
lodium Ilottentottum var. Arizonicnm Tuck, and he has also a note on 
Similarity between the Lichen Flora of Africa and South America. Flora 
contains a continuation of Nylander's Addenda nova ad Lichenographiam 
Furopeam iiU(].Mne\\ev''s Lichcnol()gischc Beitriige,the\i\sto1iwh\chiw,\ades 
species from nearly all parts of the world. Mueller also describes a 
lumiber of Swiss lichens, especially from the Valais, in the Bull. Soc. 
Murithienne du Valais. The Lichenologische Fragmente of Arnold have 
been continued in several numbers in Flora. Contributions to British 
lichens have been made by Crombie in Grevillea in two articles. Ob- 
servations on Parmelia oUvacea and its British Allies, and New British 
Lichens. In Franco the third las(!icle of Boumegu^re's Lichenes GalKci 
exsiccati has ai)iieared, and in Italy there has been published Anacrise 
dei licheni delta Valesia by Baglietto and Carestia, and two papers by 
Jatta in the Giornale Botanico, on some lichens in the herbarium of De 
Isotaris. In Flora, Fries has a note on the lichens of Ehrart. Contri- 
butions to the lichen flora of Lapland have been made by Wainio. 



BOTANY. 



403 



Fungi.— Tv^o important papers by De Bary relating to Pcronosporece 
are Untersuchungen iiher die Peronosporeen imd SaproJegnieen^ and Zur 
Kenntnlss der Peronosporeen. The first-named paper forms the fourth 
series of De Bary and Woroniu's Beitrdge zur MorpJioIogie und Physio, 
logie der Pike, and inchidea 145 quarto pages, with 6 lithographic 
plates. It is devoted especially to the consideration of the reproductive 
process in the two orders named above as illustrated by the genera 
Pgthium, Phytophtliora^ Saprolegnia, and Achlya. In the case of the 
Saprolegniece, De Bary thinks that in forms where oogonia are found with- 
out male pollinodia they must be considered as representing a distinct 
apogamous species, and not as temporary variations of bisexual species. 
At the end is a chapter on the basis of a natural classification of fungi. 
The second paper of De Barj-'s, which appeared in the Botanische Zeitung, 
takes up more in detail than in the previously-named paper the develop- 
ment of certain species of Pyf/»'j/?7i and Phytophthora^ which, according to 
De Bary, have a much wider diffusion and inhabit a greater variety of host 
])laats than has been sui)posed. The fourth part of Brefeld's Botanische 
Untersuelinngen iibcr Schimmelpihe includ<.'S 11 articles on different 
mycological subjects, in the last of which, the Comparative Morphology 
o/Fungij he gives his views on classification, and adopts the view which 
is beginning to prevail in some quarters that the larger and, as they 
have been supposed, more highly developed forms of fungi are in reality 
degenerate non-sexual forms descended from sexual ancestors. The 
other papers relate to the mode of making microscopic cultures the de- 
velopment of different species of Mttoorini, Ascoinycetes, &c. In his Bei- 
trag zur Biologie der Mncorineen, Wortmann shows that the bending of 
the sporaugial stalks and mycelium is not dependent on a force called 
somatotropismus by Van Tieghem, but on the varying amounts of 
moisture in the substratum. The Relationship of JEcidium Berberidis 
to Puccinia Grayninis is discussed by C. B. Plowright, in Grevillea, 
of December, 1881, where he gives the results of a number of cult- 
ures made with the object of determining whether there is a genetic 
connection between the forms mentioned, and he considers that his 
experiments do not show in a conclusive way that there is any such 
connection. In the contributions from the Carlsberg Laboratory, Co- 
jjeuhagen, Hansen has a paper on the Physiologic et morphologic des fir- 
mcnts alcooliqiies, the principal species studied being Saccharomyces api- 
culatm. The fungus abounds on small fruits, as cherries, gooseberries, 
«S:c., in summer, and falls or is washed to the ground in autumn, where 
it remains tlirough the winter enduring considerable cold without injury. 
It produces alcoholic fermentation, but only to a small extent. 

Descriptive works on fungi have been very numerous in 1881. Re- 
lating to this country we may mention, in the Torrey Bulletin, papers 
by Ellis on Xerc Species of North American Fungi, principally from New 
Jersey, and New Ascomycetous Fungi; Ellis and Harkness on Neio Species 
of American Fungi; Peck on Tico Neic Species of Fungi, with a plate of 



404 BOTANY. 

AsGomycetella quercina ; and Gerard on Some Fungi from Kew Mexico. 
lu the Botanical Gazette are New Species of Fungi, by Peck, and New 
Species of Maryland Fungi, by Miss Banning; and in Grevillea Calif or- 
7iian Fungi and Fungi on Eucalyptus, by Cooke and Harkness; and New 
Jersey Fungi, by Cooke and Ellis. The Gymnosporangia of the United 
States, by Farlow, which appeared as one of the papers in the volume 
of Anniversary Memoirs of the Boston Natural History Society, gives 
descriptions and figures of the American species, and observations on 
the genetic connection between the genera Gymnosporanglum and 
■ Bcesfelia, the writer not finding that Oersted's view as to the counection 
of certain species was confirmed by observations in this country. Sup- 
plementary to this paper is a Note on Oymnosporangia in the Torrey 
Bulletin. The sixth and seventh centuries of Ellis's North American 
Fungi appeared this year. 

Species of fungi new to Great Britain were published in Grevillea by 
Cooke, Plowright, and Philips, and by Berkeley and Broome, in the 
Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist. A new illustratpd work by Cooke, called 
Illustrations of British Fungi, to include plates of Hymcnomyceies, has 
appeared, and will be continued in parts. Oudemans has issued a Re- 
vision des champignons trouves . . . dans les PaysBas. Hedwigia con- 
tains a number of mycological papers: Einige ncue Pyrenomycetcn, in 
which Niessl describes some species sent to him for examination by 
Eabenhorst shortly before his death, and notes on Microthelia and Didy- 
mospha^ria by the same author, who does not agree with Rehm in uniting 
the genera; and three papers by Winter, Fungi Helvetici Novi, Pcziza; 
Sauterianm, and notes on Discomycetes. A list of works relating to 
Italian fungi is given in Michelia by Saccardo and Penzig. The Atti 
della Soe. Critt. Ital. contains an addition to the Mycologia Venota, by 
Spegazzini, and the Giomale Botanico, a continuation of the Funghi Par- 
mensi, by Passerini. Fungi Trldentini contains colored plates by J. 
Bresadola. Fungi of Finland have been described by Karsten in 
Hedwigia, and the same writer gives an enumeration of Finnish Poly- 
porei, Auricularini, Hydnei, and Clavariei in the Eevue Mycologique, 
where he forms a considerable number of genera out of older ones. 
Gillet has issued a supplement to his Champignons de la France, con- 
taining plates of Hymenomycetes. The Revue Mycologique contains a 
number of papers on French fungi, among them continuations of Fungi 
Gallici, by Roumegu^re ; an account of species collected in the Vosges 
by Quelet and others; and of species from the department of the Saone 
and Loire, by Lucand and Gillot. The Revue also contains an account 
of some Algerian species by Saccardo, under the title Fungi Algerienses 
Trabutiani. The new edition of Rabenhorst's Kryptogamen Flora, of 
which the fungi are written by Winter, is an important work, of which 
several parts have been issued, including Schizomycetes, Saccharomycetes, 
Ustilaginece Uredinece, and Tremellini. Fungi from Australia have been 
described in the Journal of the Linnean Society by Berkeley, and in 



BOTANY. 405 

Grevillea by Cooke. Kalclibrenner has continued his account of Cape 
fungi, Fungi Macoicaniani, in GreA'illea, and in the Memoirs of the Ilun- 
garian Academy he has published an ilhistxatcd monograph, PhaUoidei 
novi vel minus cogniti. The fungi of the late ^Mlle. Libert form the sub- 
ject of two papers; one by Cooke and Philips in Gre\illea, which in- 
cludes DiscomyceUs, and the other by Eoumegu^re and Saccardo in the 
Eevue Mycologique, including, principally, Pyrenomycctes and Fungi 
imperfecti. Several decades of dried fungi, from Buenos Ay res and 
Brazil, have been issued by Spegazzini, under the name of Hongas sud- 
americanos. The Mycotheca universalis and other European series of 
dried fungi has been continued in several centuries. 

Characew. — In the Memoirs of the University of Lund, Nordstedt de- 
scribes the CMracece of New Zealand collected by Dr. S. Berggren, who 
found double the number of species previously known to exist in that 
region. J. Mueller, in the Bull. Soc. Bot. of Geneva, describes the Char- 
acew growing near that city. The occurrence of Ch^ra obtusa Desv. in 
Britain is recorded by Henrj^ and James Groves, who also have Notes on 
British Characew in the Journal of Botany. A fasciculus of American 
Characew has been issued by Dr. T. F. Allen, of Xew York. 

AECHEGONIATA. 

Muscinew. — In this department of botany there have appeared a 
number of descriptive works, but very few relating to development. Of 
the latter the most important is Leitgeb's Untersuchungen ilber die 
Lehermoose^ which is continued in a fourth volume treating of the Mar- 
cJiantiaccw, with general remarks on Sepati^w, illustrated with eleven 
plates. He gives his observations especially oh the organs of repro- 
duction and discusses the arrangement of the genera, which he places 
in three tribes: Bicciew, Corsinicw, Mareltanticie. He defines four tj^ies 
of sporogonium in liverworts, but recognizes only three in mosses. 
Leitgeb also has a paper on the position of the fruit-sack in some of the 
Jungermanniw in the Proceedings of the Vienna Academy. Klein records 
the occurrence of buds on the inflorescence stalks of Marchantia. In 
Flora, Jack gives descriptions of the European species of Radula. The 
Hepaticw collexjted in Tasmania and j^ew Zealand by Beccari have been 
described by Hampe and Geheeb in the Revue Bryologique. In the way 
of exsiccatae we would notice the appearance of the eleventh and twelfth 
decades of Massalongo's Hepaticw Italiw Tenetw. 

On the subject of mosses we have to notice in Great Britain the ap- 
pearance of a reprint of the London Catalogue ofBrifi.sh Mosses and Hepa- 
ticw under the direction of the Botanical Record Club, also the fourth 
part of Braith waite's Brlti^sh Moss Flora, comprisin g the Fissidcntacew. In 
Germany we should mention tJie work of AVarnstorf, Die Europaischen 
Tor/moose, with critical descriptions of species, and the ISphagnotheea 
Europwa of the same writer, which is a collection of 50 dried speci- 
mens of SpLagna. In answer to Warnstorf, there was a reply by Lim- 



406 BOTANY. 

pricht in relation to the determination of certain species in the Bot. 
Centralblatt, to which in return Warustorf replied at some length. 
Limpricht has described some mosses new to Silesia and new species of 
the genus Sarcoscyphus. I>ie Moose DeuUchlands is the title of a work by 
P. Sydow, intended as an introduction to the study and determination 
of German mosses. Mosses from the north of Europe have been de- 
scribed by Lindberg, from the Pyrenees by Eenauld, from Brazil by 
Hampe, and from Eeunion and Madagascar by Mueller and Geheeb in 
Reliquice Butenhergiance. Four new genera from India, Africa, and Java 
have been described by Mueller in the Bot. Centralblatt. 

Higher Cryptogams and Ferns. — In the second part of his Beitrage zur 
vergleiclienden Entwic'kelungsgescliiclite dcr Sporangien, published in the 
Botanische Zeitung of this year, Goebel shows that an archespor exists 
in several vascular cryptogams where its existence had not been sus- 
pected. After sc/m e obseivaticns onthe Marattiacea, OjMoglossum, 
and Selaginella, he compares the development of the pollen-sacks of Coni- 
ferce with their sporangia. In conclusion he proposes a new classifica- 
tion of the higher cryptogams, including fossil as well as living repre- 
sentatives. Prantl in the Botanische Zeitung gives the results of his 
experiments on the nutrition of the fern prothalli and the distribution 
of the sexual organs. The same writer has a preliminary communication 
on the Morphology, Anatomy, and classification of Schizeocece in Engler's 
Jahrb. In Eichler's Jahrb. is a review of the genus Adiantum by Max 
Xuhn. Additions to the fern flora of the West Indies have been made 
by Jenman. A number of pai)ers on American ferns have appeared in 
the Torrey Bulletin and Botanical Gazette. In the first-named journal 
are Nos. 9, 10, and 11 orf Eaton's ^ew or LittleJcnoirn Ferns of the United 
States, Qontskimng critical notes on species principally from the West, aiul 
fi'om Florida. A new American fern, Cheilanthes Farishii, is described 
and figured by G. E. Davenport, who also has a paper on Vernation in 
Fotrychia, and one on Onoclea sensibilis var. ohtusilohata. There is also 
a note by L. M. Underwood on the last-named species. Mr. John Eob- 
inson records the occurrence of Botrychium simplex near Salem, Mass. 
In the Botanical Gazette are accounts of New Mexican ferns by H. H. 
Rusby, of Arkansas ferns by F. L. Harvey, and of Florida ferns by 
Miss M. C. Reynolds. Sets of Trinidad ferns, collected by Fendler and 
determined by Eaton, have been oifered for sale; also, the second series 
of A. H. Curtiss's Southern Ferns. 

The development of Asolla has been made out for the first time by 
Berggren, who published the results of liis investigations, with illustra- 
tions, in the Proceedings of the University of Lund. The species studied 
by him was Azolla CaroHiiiana, and the development, which was nearly 
completely ascertained, although the act of fertilization was not directly 
seen, was found to resemble closely that of Salvinia. A biological pecu- 
liarity of Azolla Caroliniana was described by Westerniaier and Am- 
bronn, who found that the root-cap remains but a short time, is then 



BOTANY. 407 

thrown off, and the naked apex then retains its activity. An account 
of the development of the embryo of Isoetes lacustris is given by Kienitz- 
Gerloff in the Botanische Zeituug. 

PHJENOGAMS. 

But a brief notice can be given of the numerous descriptive works on 
phaenogams which have appeared during the year. Kehiting to this 
country we have to notice a List of State and Local Floras of the United 
States, by Gerard and Britton, in the Torrey Bulletin; a List o/JV>?r 
Jersey Plants, including also cryptogams, by N. L. Britton; n List of 
Michigan Plants, by Irwin F. Smith, and sl Catalogue of the Phccnogamous 
and Vascular Cryptogamous Plants of Indiana, by the editors of the Bo- 
tanical Gazette and Professor Barnes. Dr.Engelmann, in Some Additions 
to the i^orth American Flora, in the Botanical Gazette, has described six 
new species, principally from California and Arizona. In the same 
journal Eaton has described a new cynaroid-composite, Saussnrea Ameri- 
cana, from Washington Territory; E. L. Greene a number of new si)ecies 
from New Mexico and Arizona ; Thomas Morong a new Potamogeton 
Hillii, with a figure; Vasey new grasses from Oregon, Calamagrostis 
HowellU and Alopeciiriis saccatus, and a Trichostcma Parishii from San 
Diego. In the Gazette is a Comparative View of the Flora of Indiana 
by Coulter, and notes on Chapmannia and Oarheria by A. U. Curtiss. 
Among the prominent papers by Meehan should be noticed an account 
of Mistletoes, and a paper on the origin of Treeless Prairies, which he 
thinks is in gi-eat part to be attributed to the burning of forests by the 
aborigines, both of which papers were read before the Philadelphia 
Academy. The Torrey Bulletin contains notes on Polygala and Lechea 
by W. H. Leggett, and a description by E. L. Greene of a new Asclcpias 
pinifolia from Arizona; the American Naturalist two papers, by E. L. 
Greene, Botanizing on the Colorado, and by J. F. James, Botanical Xotes 
from Tucson. The first part of Bebb's Herharium SaVwum, containing 
dried specimens of willows, has been issued this year. 

One of the most important foreign works issued during the year was 
De Candolle's Monographice Phanerogamarum, vol. iii, containing 1,008 
pages and 8 plates, including the following monographs: Philydracece, 
bj' Caruel; Alismncece, Butomacew, Jwicagincw, by Micheli; Commelina- 
ceoi, by C. B. Clarke; and Cucurhitaceo', comprising nearly two-thirds of 
the volume, by Cogniaux. The third portion of Nymau's Conspectus 
FlorceEuropeoc, mitlndhv^CorolliJlora-Monochlamydccc, has also ai)peared 
this year. Three important works by Benthara, in the Journal of the 
Linnean Society, should be noticed : J^otes on Orchidcw, Notes on Cypera- 
cecc, with special reference to Lestibaudais's Essay on Beaurois''s Genera. 
and the especially valuable Notes on Graminece, in which he exi>resses 
his views with regard to the classification of grasses. Engler's Jalir- 
biicher contains papers by Engler himself on iho, Morphological Pclations 
and Geographical Distribution of the Genus Ehus, in connection with the 



408 BOTANY. 

living and fossil allied Anacardiacew, aud a contribution to the knowl- 
edge of the Aracecc. The third volume, parts 2 and 3, of Eeichenbach's 
Xcnia Orchldacea has been published this year. A Syiiopsls of the Genus 
Fitcairnia is given by Baker in the Journal of Botany. The Bot. Cen- 
tralblatt contains a bibliography of the works relating to Russian 
plants, Fontes Florce Bossiccc, by Herder. Gronlund's Islands Flora 
contains descriptions of the phoenogams and vascular cryptogams, and 
a list of the remaining cryptogams of Iceland. Buchenau has published 
a, Flora of the Islands of Fast Friesla?id; a posthumous second part of 
Visiaui's Flora Dalmatica has appeared; a comparative study of the 
floras of Vesuvius and ^tna is given by Baccarini in the Giornale Bo- 
tanico; Ascherson in th& Bot. Centralblatt describes plants from the 
north of Africa ; Willkomm has continued his Illustrationes Floras His- 
panke; Celakovsky has issued a, Frodromns of the Flora of Bohemia; 
Hieronymus has published an account of phmts collected in Patagonia 
under the title of Sertum Patagonicum. The Eeliquiw Rutenherglana:, an 
account of the phoenogams and cryptogams collected by Dr. Eutenberg 
in Madagascar, was elaborated by Buchenau, Engler, Haussknecht, J. 
Miiller, Kornicke, and others, the greater part of the orders having 
been treated by Buchenau. 

GENERAX,. 

Die Pfanzenmischlinge, byFocke, is tin elaborate treatise on hybrids, 
of 519 pages, giving a catalogue of known hybrids and an account of 
their origin, peculiarities, and nomenclature. A new pubbcation has 
appeared under the charge of Professor Eichler, called Jahrbilcher des 
Idniglichen botanischen Gartens, which includes a history of the Botanical 
Garden at Berlin, with a description ot recent improvemeuts, together 
with original papers by the botanists attached to the garden, the most 
important of which have been noticed under the proper headings. A 
bibliographical work, entitled a Guide to the Literature of Botanij, by B. 
D. Jackson, has been published in London, and includes 4,000 titles not 
given in Pritzel's Thesaurus. The Traitede hotanique of Fvof. Ph. Van 
Tieghem, of Paris, of which the earlier parts have appeared this year, 
is to form, when complete, a volume of about 1,300 pages. The Botani- 
cal CoUector''s HandyhooJij by Prof. W. W. Bailey, is the third of the 
Naturalists' Handy Series, published by G. A. Bates, of Salem, Mass., 
and contains full directions for collecting both phsenogams and crypto- 
gams. 



ZOOLOGY. 



Bt Theodore Gill. 



INTKODUCTION. 

During the past year no discoveries of previously unknown types of 
animals of such magnitude as signalized the year 1880 have been made, 
but much i)rogress has been effected in general morphology and toward 
the systematic appreciation of many minor groups as well as the char- 
acteristics of various organs and structures. Investigation has been to 
a large extent in the same direction as it has tended to for some years 
past, embryology and minute anatomy receiving probably more new 
disciples than systematic zoology, but the latter is sure to receive new 
light tioin such special laborers. A noteworthy work that has been 
completed during the year — Balfour's Introduction to Comparatice Em- 
bryology — will undoubtedly encourage as it will certainly facilitate re- 
search in that held. 

The investigation of the deep-sea faunas has been continued and con- 
firmation of previous conclusions as to the characteristics thereof has 
been obtained and supplemented by new discoveries. The i)rotest which 
we have before made against the association of the deep-sea animals 
with those of the coast to which they happen to be nearest may be aptly 
repeated in this connection. There is no more reason, so far a^ the ani- 
mals tltemnelrea are concerned-^ why for instance we should allocate the ani- 
mals of the deep seas off the New England coast with the coast-inhabit- 
ing animals than for bringing the animals of the entire northern Atlantic 
into the same connection. There is in fact less reason, for there are more 
si)ecies and more types shared in common by the coast waters of Xorth- 
eastern America and Northern Europe, than by the former and tlie 
abyssal depths within a couple of hundred miles of the coast. If it be 
urged that it isdithcult to draw the line between the different zones, it 
must be remembered that it is equally difficult to establish the demar- 
Ciition between contiguous littoral faunas. In a communication on the 
deep-sea crustaceans, Mr. x\lphonse Milne-Edwards lias called attention 
to the fact that near the Spanish coast and the Bay of Biscay are two 
distinct I'aunas neither of which would have been regarded as belong- 
ing to the same geological period nor to the same climate, and he not 
unnecessarily cautions geologists against too sweeping assumptions 

40J 



410 ZOOLOGY. 

because of the existence or non-existence of special forms in a given hori 
zon. Contemporaneous with the peculiar types of the present epoch in 
the surface waters are forms of a more ancient type in the depths of the 
ocean which have continued with slight and only specific modifications 
from the secondary epoch. 

Explot-ation during the year by the dredge, &c., has been prosecuted by 
the Italian and French Governments, and to some extent by the United 
States Fish Commission. An Italian expedition was equipped for the 
investigation of the Mediterranean with Captain Magnaghi as com- 
mander, he also assuming the physical investigations, while Prof. Enrico 
H. Giglioli, the well-known naturalist of Florence, took charge of the 
biological work. The last previous deep-sea exploration of that sea 
had been conducted by the British vessel Porcupine in the year 1870. 

The means for education and investigation in the form of sea-side 
laboratories have also been increased. Those which in this country 
have been especially justified by their works are that of the United 
States Fish Commission, at Wood's HoU, Mass., and that of the Johns 
Hopkins University, at Beaufort, IS". C, under the directorship of Dr. 
J. K. Brooks. In France a new laboratory has been constructed under 
the direction of the eminent biologist de Lacaze-Duthiers, at Port Ven- 
dres, on the Mediterranean, the municipal authorities thereof having 
secured it by providing a building and boat as well as a capital sum of 
32,000 francs, and in addition an income of 750 francs per annum.^ 

A partial bibliography of noteworthy memoirs and works relating to 
diflerent chxsses of animals is supplied in the present article, and will, 
it is hoped, prove to be of use to those to whom the voluminous bibli- 
ographies and records of progress in science are inaccessible. It has 
been a diilicult matter to select the titles which might be most advan- 
tageously introduced in a limited report like the present. Articles of 
a general interest or of special importance as contributing to throw light 
on the affinities of certain groups have been given the first place. ISTeces- 
sarily many very important papers have not been referred to and very 
few descriptive of species have been admitted and only when unusual 
interest attaches to the new species or the groups which they enlarge. 

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate- 
rial assistance to the Zoolof/ischer Anzeiger of Professor Cams and to 
the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society, whose abstracts of in- 
vestigations have been freely drawn upon in the preparation of those 
for the present report. The Zoologischer Anzeiger is so useful to every 
working naturalist that it is a matter of deep regret that an index of 
the authors whose articles are catalogued as well as subjects treated 
in those articles is not given with the close of each volume. The want 
of such an index greatly lessens the value of the work for constant use 
and hours may be consumed in finding a reference remembered as to 
existence but whose exact place is forgotten. 



ZOOLOGY. 41 1 



GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 
HISTORICAI, ZOOLOGY. 

Archiv fur Natnrgescbichte. Gegruudet yon A. F. A. Wiegmann. Fortgosetzt von 
W. F. Erichson. In Verbindang mit Prof. Dr. R. Lenckart in Leipzig herausge- 
geben von Dr. F. H. Troschel, Professor in der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitiit 
zu Bonn. 47. Jalirgang. Berlin, Nicolaische Verlags-Buchliandlung, 1861. (8vo. ) 

Bibliotheca Historico-naturalis, pliysico-cheinica et mathematica, oder systematisch 
geordnete Uebersicht der in Deutscbland und dem Auslaude auf dem Gcbioto der 
gesammten Naturwissenscbaften, etc., erscbienenen Biicber. Ileransgegeben von 
F. Frenkel. 30. Jabxg. Gottingen, Vandenboeck & Ruprecbt, 1881. (8vo. M. 
1.20.) 

Zoological (Tbe) Record for 1880, being Vol. XVII of the Record of Zoological Litera- 
ture. Edited by Edw. Caldwell Rye. London, Van Voorst, 1881. (8vo. xxiv, IJl 
49, 13, 23, 1-23, 61, 30, 3, 238, 15, 11, 23, 23, 22, 12 pp.) 

Zoologiscber Anzeiger. Heransgegeben von Prof. J. Victor Cams. IV. Jabrgang, 
1881. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1881. (8vo.) 

Zoologiscber Jabresbericht fiir 1880. Heransg. von der zoologiscben Station zu Neapel. 
Red. von J. Victor Cams. I. Abtb. Allgemeines bis Vermes. II. Abtb. Artbro- 
poda. III. Abtb. Tnnicata, MoUusca. IV. Abth. Vertebrata. Leipzig, Engel- 
mann, 1881. (Bvo. I=ix, 383 pp., M. 10 ; ll=iv, 435 pp., M. 10 ; ni=116 pp., M. 
3; IV=293pp., M. 8.) 

SCIEXTIFIC DIRECTORY. 

International (Tbe) Scientists' Directory. Containing the N^raes, Addresses, Special 
Departments of Stndy, etc., of Amatenr and Professional N.aturalists, etc., etc., in 
America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceanica. Compiled, by Sam. E. Casino. Bos- 
ton: S. E. Casino. 1882. (8vo, viii, 391 pp.) 

SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY, 

Brebm's Tbierleben. Mit 170 Tafeln in Farbendxnck, nnter Leitung der Zoologen 

Dr. Girtanner, Klunzinger, O. Schmidt and Taschenberg nacb dem Lebeu ausge- 

liibrt vom Maler Olof Winkler. 4 Bd., 1—7 Heft,=p. 1—384. Vogel. Leipzig, 

Bibliogr. lustit., 1881. (8vo. M. 1 each.) 
Bronn's Klassen und Ordnnngen des Tbierreichs. 1 Bd. Protozoa, nen bearbeitet 

von O. Butschli. 3, 9 Lief. — 5 Bd., Abth. Gliedcrfussler, Artbropoda, von Ad. 

Gerstaecker. 1., 2., 3., Lief. — 6 Bd., 3 Abth. Reptilien, von C. K. Hofl'mann. 

18.— 26. Lief. Leipzig, C. F. Winter'sche Verlagsbandlung, 1881. (8vo. M. 1.50 

each.) 
Clans (C.) Grundziige der Zoologie. 4 Aufl. 2 Bd. Marburg, Elwert, 1881. (Bvo. 

M. 8.) 
Edwards ("Alpbonse Milne). Elements de I'bistoire naturelle des animaux. P. I. 

Zoologie ni<5thodiqne et descriptive. Paris, 1882, (8vo, 391 pp. 467 lig. — pub- 
lished Nov., 1881.) 
Gervais (Paul). Cours 61<5mentaire d'bistoire n.atnrelle. 1. Partic : Zoologie pour 

I'enseignemoutdajuilaclasaedeciniiuiomo. Paris, Hachette, 1881. (12mo, 408 pp., 

240 tig.) 

(Couie d'6tudc3 sciontitiqnes ^ I'asage des Lyce6s et des Colldges.) 
Hagelberg ( W. ) Zoologiscber Handatlas. Berlin : DUmmler, 1881. (4to. ) 

C. D. Ampbibien und Fische. (M. 5) 

E. Gliedertbiere. (M. 5.) 

F. G. MoUusken und Wiirraer, Stachelhiiuter, Strahlthiero und Urtbiere. (M. 3.) 
Lenckart (Rudolf) und H. Xitacbe. Zoologiscbe Wandtafelu zuni Gobraucbe an Uui- 

versitiiteu und Scbuleu. 4. Lief. Taf. X-XI. Cassel, Fiscber^ 1881. (M. 5.) 



412 ZOOLOGY. 

Ma«Alpine (D.) Zoological Atlas (including comparative anatomy). Tertebrata. 

London, W. &. A. K. Johnson, 188L (4to. 231 col. fig.) 
Pagensteclier (H. Alex.) Allgemeiue Zoologie. 4. Theil. Hamabsonderungsorgane 

und Haut. Mit 414 Holzsclin. Berlin, P. Parey, 1881. (8vo,viii, 959 pp. M. 21.) 

FOREST ZOOLOGY, 

Altum(B.) Forstzoologie, IIL Insecten. L Abtlu Allgemeines und Kiifer. 2. Aufl. 
Berlin, Springer, 1881. (8vo, vii, 380 pp. M. 8.) 

ZOOTOMY. 

BmM (C. B.) Zootomie aller Thierklassen ftir Lernende nacb Autopsien skizzirt. 
Atlas in 50 Liefgn. zu 4 Taf. Lief. 21—24. Wien, A, Holder, 1881. (4to. M. 4 
each. — These relate to the anatomy of Cephalopods.) 

Edwards (H. Milne). Lemons sur la Physiologie et I'Anatomie compar(?e de Fhomme 
et des animaux. T. 14 (dernier). Fonctions de relation (fin) ; Considerations 
g^u^rales; Table g^n^rale des Mati^res. Paris, Masson, 1881. (8vo, 534 piJ.) 

Mojsiso%'ic8, Edl. von Mojsvar(A.) Manuel de Zootomie, guide pratique pour la dis- 
section des animaux vert^br^s et invert^br^s, etc. Trad, de I'allem. par J. L. de 
Lanessen. Avec 128 fig. Paris, Doin, 1881. (8vo, 376 pp. Frcs. 9.) 

Kanvier (L.) Lemons d'Anatomie g^n^rale faites au College de France. (Ann^e 1828- 
'29. Terminaisons uerveuses sensitives; com^e.) Lemons recueill. par M. Weber, 
revues par le professeur. Paris, J. B, Bailli^re et filfi, 1881. (8vo, xx, 447 pp., 50 
figs. Frcs. 10.) 

EMBRYOLOGY. 

Balfour (F. M.) A Treatise on Comparative Embryology. Vol. 2. London, Macmilr 

Ian, 1881. (8vo. 21 sh.) 
Goette (Alex.) Abhaudlungen znr Entwickelungsgoschichte der Thiere. 1. Heft. 

UntersuchungenzurEntwickelungsgeschichtederWurmer. BeschreibeuderTheil. 

Leipzig, L. Voss, 1882. (8vo, 164 pp. 6 pi., M. 15.) 

SYSTEMATIC PALEONTOLOGY. 

Zitt«l(Karl A.) HandbuchdexPalaeontologie, unterMitwirkungvonW. Ph. Schimper. 
1. Bd., 2. Abth., L Lief. Miinchen und Leipzig, Oldenbourg, 1881. (8vo. M. 7.) 

EVOLUTION, ETC. 

Haeckel (E.) Les preuves du transformisme; r^ponse h Yirchow, Trad, et pr^c^d6 

d'nne preface par Jules Soury. 2. 6d. Paris, Genner-Baillifere & Cie., 1881. 

(18nu), xxxvi, 159 pp. ) 
Perrier (Edmond). Les colonies animales et la formation des organismes. Paris, G. 

Masson, 18^1. (8vo, xi, 978 pp.) 
Roux (Wilholui). Der Kampf der Theilo im Organismns. Ein Beitrag zur VervolU 

stiindigung der mechauischen Zweckmilssigkeitslehre. Leipzig, W. Engelnianu, 

1881. (8vo, viii, 244 pp. M. 4.) 
Weisuiann (Aug.) Studies in the Theory of Descent. Translated and edited by 

Raph. Meldola. P. II. On the origin of the markings of Caterpillars, and on 

Phyletic Parallelism in Metamorphic Species. Loudon, Sampson, Low & Co. 

1881. (8vo.) 
Wilson (An dr.) On the Origin of Colonial Organisms. Ann. and Mag. of 2^at. Hist., 

(5,) V. 7, pp. 413-416. 



ZOOLOGY. 413 

TAXIDERMY, ETC. 

Martin (Philipp L.) Die Praxis cler Naturgeschichte. 3 Theile. Xaturstudien. 2. 
Hillfte. Al]geiiieiner Naturscbiitz. Einbiirgeniug frcmder Thiero iind Gesujid- 
heitspfloge gefangener Siingethiere uud VCgel. Bcarbcitetvou Ph. ^J. Martin and 
Sohn. Die Pflogo gefangener Reptilien uud Aniphibicn, nebst Pflogo und Ziicb- 
tung der Makroi)oden. Bearbeitet von Bruno Diirigeu. Weimar, B. F. Voigt, 
16S2. (8vo, XV, 210 pp. M. 5.) 

EXPEDITIONS AND FAUNAS. | 

General. 

Semper (Carl). Eeisen im Arcbipcl derPhilippinen. 2. Tb. Wissencbaftl. Resultate. 

2. Bd. Malacologische Untersnchungeu von Dr. Eudolf Bergh. Suppl.-Heft II. 

Wiesbaden, Kreidel, 1881. (4to. M. 20.) 
Thomson (Sir-C. Wyville), editor. Eeport of the Scientific Results of the Voyage 

of fl. M. S. " Challenget" during the years 1873-'76, under the Command of Capt. 

Geo. Nares and Capt. Frank Turle Thomson. Prepared under the superintendence 

of Sir C. Wyville Thomson. Zoology. Vol. 2. London, Longmans, 1881. (4to. 

50»7(.. ) 

Arctic Begions. 

Norske (Den) Nordhavs-Expedition. Zoologi. Fiske, ved Rob. Collet. Med 5 pi., 
3 Traesn. og 1 Kart. Christiania, 1880. (Published 'Apr., 1881. gr. 4to.) 

North. America. 

Verrill (A. E.) Notice of the remarkable Marine Fanna occupying the outer banks 
of tlio Southern coast of New England. (=Brief Contributions to Zoology from 
the Museum of Yale College. No. XLVIII.) Amer. Joum. iSc, (3,) v. 22, pp. 
5i92-303. 

Europe. 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Compte-rendn soramaire d'une exploration zoologique 

faite dans la M^diterran^e h bord du navire de l'6tat "Le Travailleur." ComjH. 

raid. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 93, pp. 876-882. 
Couipte-rendu sommaire d'une exploration zoologique faite dans I'Atlantique il 

bord du navire "Le Travailleur." Hid., pp. 931-936. 
Krukeuberg (C. F. W.), editor. Vergleichend-physiologischo Studien an den Kiisten 

der Adria. 4. Abth. Nebst auatomischen Mittheilungen von Graf B. ITallor und 

E. Berger in Wicn. Mit 4 lith. Taf. Heidelberg, C. Winter's Universit.-Buch- 

handl., 1881. (8vo. M. 5.) 
Lacaze-Duthiers (H. de). Cr6atiori d'une station zoologique dans les Pyr6n6es-Ori- 

entales. Compf. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 92, pp. 1023-1029. 
Naples Zoological Station. Bericht iiber die zoologische Station wiihrend der Jahre 

1879 und 1880. Von Anton Dohrn. Mittheil. zool. Station Neapel, v. 2, pp. 495-514. 
Fauna und Flora dca Golfes von Neapel und der angronzenden Meeres-Abschnitte. 

Herausgegeben von der zoologischen Station von Neapel. Mon. II, III, viz : — 

II. Mono^raphio: Fierasfer von Dr. Carlo Emery. Mit 9 Taf. u. 10 Holzechn. 
Leipzig, Engelmann, 1880. (4to. M. 25.) 

III. Monographic : Pantopoda von Dr. Ant. Dohrn. Mit 18 Taf. in Lithographie. 
Leipzig, Engelmann, 1881. (4to, viii, 252 pp.) 

Rolland (Eng.) Fauno populaire de la France. T. 4. Les mammif feres domestiques. 
1. Partie. Noms vulgaires, dictons, proverbes, l^gendes, contes et superstitions. 
Paris, Maisonneuve et Cie., 1881. (8vo, xii, 276 pp.) 



414 ZOOLOGY. 

Africa. i 

Kollaufl (G.) Sur les Poissons, Crabes et MoUusques vivants,' rejet^s par les puits 
art($siens jaillissants de I'Oued Eir* (Sahara de la province de Constautine). Qonpt. 
rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 93, pp. 1090-1093. 

PAllASITES. 

Kiichenmeister (F.) und F. A. Ziirn. Die Parasiten des Menschen. 2. Aufl. 3. Lief. 

Nematoden. lusocten. Leipzig, Abel, 1881. (8vo. M. 10.) 
Leuckart (Rud. ) Die Parasiten des Menschen und die von ihnen herriihrenden Krank- 

heiten. 2. Aufl. 1. B.,2. Lief. Leipzig u. Heidelberg, C. F. Wiuter'sche Verlags- 

handl., 1880. (8vo, xii, pp. 337-856. M. 10.) 
Ziirn (F. A.) Die Schmarotzer auf und in dem Korper unserer Haussiingethiere. In 

zwei Tlieilen. I. Th. Die thierischen Parasiten. 2. Aufl. Mit 4 Taf. Weimar, 

Voigt, 1882. (Nov. 1881— 8vo, xvi, 316 pp. I M. 6.) 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Aristotle on the Parts of Animals. Translated ; Tvith Introduction and Notes, by W. 

Ogle. London, Paul Kegan & Co., 1882. (8vo, 280 pp. 12s. 6d.) 
Brandt (K.) Symbiose niederer Tiere mit Algen. Verhandl. Pkysiolog. Ge&. Berlin, 

1881. 
Garrod,(A. H.) Collected Scientific Papers, Edited by W. A. Forbes. London, 1881. 

(8vo, 527 pp., with portr. aud pi. £1 Is.) 

MYCETOZOANS. 

Kent (W. Saville). The Mysomycetes or Mycetozoa, Animals or Plants ? Pap. Sc 
Bev., n. 8., v. 5, pp. 97-116, pis. 3, 4, April, 1881. 

Animals or Plants? 

Among the lowly organisms whose place in the kingdoms of organic 
nature has not even yet been certainly decided are certain forms which 
were long regarded as gasteromycetous fungi, represented, e.^/., by ^f/irt- 
liiim septicum, a notorious hot-house pest. Mr. M. J. Berkeley, an emi- 
nent authority on the lower plants, in 1857, in his Introduction to 
Cr}7:)togamic Botany, defined them as follows : 

"Whole plant at first gelatinous. Mycelium often vein-like, forming 
reticulated or anastomosing strata, but sometimes diffuse, giving rise 
to sessile or stipitate, free or confluent i^eridia, consisting of one or 
more membranes, inclosing, when mature, a dry mass of threads or 
plates and spores; at length often bursting: threads of various struct- 
ure, sometimes containing one or more spirals." 

The forms of these groups, according to Mr. Berkeley, are remark- 
able for " their indifference as to the matrix upon which they grow. 
The same species may occur on plants of the most distant natural aflBn- 
ities, and on other matrices. One species was observed by Schweinitz 
to be developed on iron which had been heated in a forge only a few 
hours previously. Like algse, they appear to derive their nutriment 
from the surrounding medium, and not from the matrix to which they 
are attached." 



ZOOLOGY. 415 

Such are the most prominent mori)hological and physiological features 
of the group in question. No suspicions had ever been entertained as 
to their existence as plants until a discovery by Dr. A. De Barry, about 
the J ear 1859. That naturalist investigated the development of these 
organisms. "The spores, on careful cultivation, were found to give 
rise not to jointed cellular hyphte, but to flagellate monadiform germs^ 
possessing locomotive faculties^ a spheroidal nucleus or endoplast, one or 
more contractile vacuoles, and the faculty of ingesting solid food sub- 
stances. After a short interval these germs, retracting their flagella, 
assumed an amoeboid repent phase, and, coalescing freelj' with their 
neighbors, built up the so-called gelatinous or pulpy masses out of 
which the si^orangia, or peridia, were developed." In view of such 
manifestations, Dr. De Barry deemed himself forced to the conclusion 
that the so-called jjlants could no longer be properly regarded as such, 
but that they were members of the animal kingdom, and he conse- 
quently preferred to change the name of Myxomycetes to Mycetozoa, 
and thus indicate by the name the supposed facts in the case. The 
observations of De Barry were essentially confirmed in 1862 by L. 
Cienkowski, and still further extended by himself in 1864 in a special 
monograph of the Mycetozoa. 

Nevertheless, botanists have been loath to give np the gtoup, and 
while some have retained it among plants rather for the sake of con- 
venience than conviction as to the plant-like nature of its species, 
others have bitterly resented the attempt to transfer the type from the 
vegetable to the animal kingdom. Whether such forms are animals or 
plants has been a subject of controversy lately between Mr. Saville 
Kent, a well-known student of the infusoria, and Dr. M. C. Cooke, an 
enthusiastic cryptogamist. Mr. Kent has presented the argument in 
favor of the animal nature of the group, and Mr. Cooke, while not 
denying the facts epitomized, denies that they i)rove the organisms so 
distinguished to be animals, and still claims that they are of a " truly 
vegetable nature." Another eminent cryjitogamist, M. Yan Tieghem 
(Bull. Soc. Bot. France, v. 27, jip. 317-322) also considers the problem- 
atic organisms to be ^dants, and even that the forms brought together 
as Myxomycetes exhibit so much heterogeneity that they cannot be 
naturally' associated together, but should be disj)ersed and correlated 
with various diverse fungi, which they most resemble in what he calls 
their fructification. It may be added, in this connection, that Van 
Tieghem divides the Myxomycetes, as he naturally calls them, into 
three groups : (1) those with the Plasmodium fused and endosporous — 
Myxomycetes retstricted ; (2) those with the plasmodium also fused, but 
exosporous — Ceratiacew; and (3) those with the plasmoditim aggro- 
gated — Acrasiacece. 

Some eminent zoologists {e. g., Dr. Clans) also are disposed to or 
actually do reinidiate the organisms in question as animals. 

When such authorities ditfer we will not presume to ofler an opinion. 



416 ZOOLOGY. 

That the characteristics of the organisms in their mature state are 
those of plants, the universal consensus of botanists indicates; that the 
embryonic condition at least simulates or even is essentially identical 
with the amoebiform animals seems to be almost equally certain. Those 
who knew the entities only in their adult stage would not question their 
vegetable nature ; those who might be acquainted with them only in 
their embryonic condition would as little question their animal nature, 
I)rovided that the protozoans were conceded to be animals. Appar- 
ently, therefore, they are animals in the earlier period of their existence, 
and plants in the latter. The question then seems to be whether it 
shall be admitted that the same organisms may really belong to differ- 
ent kingdoms at different stages, or whether the pertinence to either 
shall be decided by the features exemplified in the embryo or the mature. 
IS'aturalists will recall how strong is the evidence as to affinities fur- 
nished by development in the animal kingdom, and how by it questions 
that would be otherwise obscure or insoluble have been completely elu- 
cidated. Embryological characters are generally most persistent. On 
the other hand, important changes and modifications may supervene in 
the early stages of an organism while the adult remain comparatively 
unchanged. 

Symbiosis of Plants and Animals. 

Several very interesting and remarkable cases of consociation and 
interdependence between plants and animals have been recorded by Dr. 
K. Brandt. 

At one time chlorophyll was regarded as a peculiar and distinctive 
constituent of plants, but it has now long been known as an element 
occurring also in certain inferior animals. That the chlorophyll had 
something to do with active vegetation in the animal organism had 
been suspected, but the exact relations at least were unknown. Carl 
Semper, it seems, approached the truth when he suggested that the 
(chlorophyll particles were of the nature of vegetation commensal with 
the animal. Commensalism, however, fails to express the interrelation 
between the two. The green particles are truly unicellular i)lants, 
and they have been discovered under minor modifications in very differ- 
ent animals — infusoria of various kinds, sponges {Spongilla), acalephs 
{Hydra), planarians (a fresh-water species). The investigations and 
experiments conducted by Dr. Brandt and communicated to the Physio- 
logical Society of Berlin may be said, in brief, to have established the 
following facts : On the one hand, the algfe elaborate organic matter from 
inorganic and utilize the waste products of the animal. On the other 
hand, the animals forsake an independent life so far as capture and in- 
gestion of food is concerned, and are sufficiently nourished by the plants 
which have found a home in their bodies. 

Such a relationship cannot properly be said to be one of parasitism 
or commensalism. The consociation of the two is mutually advan- 
tageous, and an interdependence is established between them. The pecu- 



ZOOLOGY. 417 

liar relationship bas been designated Si/mhiosis, and is justly regarded 
by Dr. Brandt as one of the most remarkable phenomena in nature. 
Mori)hologically, the algaj are parasites; the animals are ])hysiologi- 
cally. 

The symbiotic plants are developed under two so-called generic modi- 
fications {Zoochlorella and Zooxanthella are the names conferred on 
them) and several species. (J. E. M. S. 2, 1., 241-4.) 

The telegraph and animal life. 

Certain manifestations of animal life have been co-ordinated with the 
ctiects of the telegraph, by Nielson, director of the Norwegian telegraph 
system. The telegraph posts in the pine region, even when sulphate 
of copper has been applied, have been pecked into by woodpeckers, 
especially near the insulators, and it is assumed that this has resulted 
from the birds mistaking the sonorous vibration of the wires for insect 
sounds. Bears, too, are attracted by the sounds, and disturb the stones 
which are heaped around the poles, in their endeavors to get at the 
bees whose humming is simulated by the vibrations. On the other 
hand, wolves are said to be frightened away by the sound of the wires^ 
and a member of the Storthing, or Norwegian parliament, voted for a 
grant to a telegraph line, not because the line would be of direct use to- 
his constituents, but because the wolves would be thcxeby frightened 
awaj\ We register these observations withont any indorsement of our 
own. 

PROTOZOANS. 



Balbiaui (E. G.) Lea Organismes Unicellulaires. Les Protozoaires. Lefons faites au 

CoUdge de France. Joitrn. de Microgr., 5. ann., pp. G3, 116, 156, 203, 257, 292, 321, 

357, 388, 435. 
Biitschli (O.) Protozoa. Neu bearbcitet. 2.-7. Lief. Leijizig, C. F. Winter, 1881. 

(Broun's Klasseu und Ordunngen. — 8vo. Each Leif. HL 1.50.) 
Kent (William Saville). A Manual of tbe Infusoria, including a description of all 

known Flagellate, Ciliate, and Tentaculiferous Protozoa, British and Foreign, and 

an account of the organization and affinities of the S]Jonges. London, 1680-1881. 

(8vo.) 
Maggi (Leop. ) Intorno ai Protisti ed alia loro clas'ificazioue. II. Delia classificazione 

dei Protisli. Boll. Scienlif., anno 3, pp. 16-23. 
Eyder'( J. A.) Occurrence of the same species of Protozoa on both sides of the Atlantic. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1881, p. 442, 443. 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Pulsaiwia. 

Geddes (Patrick). Sur uno nouvelle sous-classe d'Infusoires. Compi. rend. Acad. Sc, 
Paris, t. 93, p. 1085-1087. 

Phizopoda. 

Biitschli (0.) Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Radiolarienskellctte, insbesondere derder 

Cyrtida. Zcituchr. f. wiss. Zool., v. 36, pp. 485-540. 
Hacckel (Ernst). Entwurf eines Radiolarien-Systems auf Grund von Studien der 

Challeuger-Kadiolarieu. Jena. Zeitschr.f. Naturwisi., v. 1.5, pp. 418-472. 
S. Mis. 109 27 



418 ZOOLOGY. 

Tentaculifera. 
Manpas (E.) Contributions h I'^tude des Acin6tien8. Ai-ch. Zool. Ex))6nm., t. 9, pp. 
299-308. 

Kenfs classification of the Protozoans. 

A new classification of the Protozoans having several novel features, 
and disregarding views now quite generally prevalent, has been proposed 
by Mr. W. Saville Kent in a " Manual of the Protozoa." Of the " sub- 
kiugdom" in question, four classes are admitted and systematically 
treate.d, viz: 

(1.) Pantostomata, without a true oral orifice, the food being indif- 
ferently ingested through the surface. The groups referable to this class 
are the Amcebina, Gregarinida, Foraminifera, Radiolaria, and restricted 
Flagellata, 

(2.) DiscoSTOMATA, without a true oral orifice, but raking in their food 
within the limits of a discoidal aqfa occupyin g the anterior extremity of 
the body. Its groups are the "Choano-flagellatse" (collar-bearing Fla- 
gellatai) and the Spougida. 

(3.) EusTOMATA, having a true mouth and containing the greater part 
of the infusoria, viz : Ciliata, Cilio-flagellata, and "such Flagellata as 
Englena and Chilomonas." 

(4.) PoLYSTOMATA, "with teutaclc-like organs radiating from the 
periphery, each of which serves as a tubular sucking-mouth or for grasp- 
ing food," including the " Suctorial animalcules or Tentaculifera of 
Huxley {Acineta, &c.)." 

It will be thus seen that the old view as to the relations of the sponges 
is still adhered to and the interpretation of the facts from the light of 
development is rejected. (J. E. M. S., 2, I, 615-616.) 

Transparent Anima Icules. 

The waters of Lake Maggiore and the spring of Valcuvia have been 
recently examined by Professor Maggi, and by various coloring and 
hardening re-agents a number of forms not otherwise visible have been 
revealed under the microscope. These have been collectively designated 
as Aphaneri (not evident) and contrasted with the Phaneri (evident), 
which term designates the bacteria and other minute organisms visible 
under the microscope without re-agents. The Aphaneri are thought 
to be harmless. It is proposed to sujiply the city of Milan with water 
from the lake. — {Nature, v. 25, ji. 348.) 

A neiv primary Group of Infusorians. 
In the mesoderm of a certain Planarian worm {Convoluta schulzii) 
occur cells which are about the size of the red blood-corpuscles of a 
frog, and which are of a curved pyriform shape, and have a large cen- 
tral vacuole filled with fluid. From the wall of this cavity, towards the 
convex side of the cell, arise homogeneous transparent fibrillar in a row 
which is almost parallel with its principal axis. These cells, when free 
in salt-water, manifest arhythmical contractility, " the rapidity and vigor 
of which are equally surprising, the most active pulsating from 100 to 



ZOOLOGY. 419 

180 times per minute." Mr. Patrick Geddcs' investigation of these 
bodies convinced liim that they were parasitic infusorians "u ith such 
Mell-marked characteristics as to warrant their distinction as a peculiar 
primary group (which he called a " sub-class") co-ordinate with the Suc- 
toria ciliata and Flagellata, and which he has named Pulsatoria. They 
deviate from the infusoria generally by the suppression of the cilia 
(which would not be available for locomotion among the cells of the 
mesoderm) and the differentiation of the contractile vesicle. " This dif- 
ferentiation," it is added, "is certainly very remarkable from every point 
of view when we consider the relatively enormous size of the vacuole, the 
development of the contractile fibers which limit it, or the rapidity of 
tlieir contraction." The new type has received the specific uamePulsa- 
tella convoluted. Other Planarians were searched for similar organisms, 
but without success. (J. E. M. S. 2, II, 204-205, from Coniptes Rend. 
Acad. Sc, XCIII, 1085-1087.) 

POKIFERS. 

GENERAL. 

Schulz (Frz. Eilli.) Untersucbungeu iiber den Bau und die Entwickelung der Spon- 
gien. — 10 Mittheil. Corticiiim candelabrum O. Schm. Zeitschr.f. wisa. ZooL, v. 35, 
pp. 410-430. 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Fibrosa. 

Carter (J. H.) History and Classification of the known species of Spongilla. Ann. 4' 

Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) x. 7, pp. 77-107, 2 pi. 
Dyl)owski,(W.) Eiuige Bemerkungen iiber die Veriinderlichkeit der Form und Gestalt 

von LubomirsMa baicalensis iind iiber die Verbreitung der Baikalscliwiimme im 

Allgemeinen. Bull. Acad. Sc. St.P4tersb., v. 31, pp. 45-50; M6lang. Molog., v. 11, 

pp. 41-47. 
Potts (E.) Some new Genera of Fresh-water Sponges. Proc. Acad. Xai. Sc. Phila., 

1881, pp. 149-150. 
Schulzo (F. E.) Sur la structure et la disposition dcs parties molles de I'Euplectella 

aspergillum. Arch. ZooL Exjj&im., t. 9, Notes, etc., p. xxvii. 

Camai'aphysemidce. 

Ryder (John A.) On Camaraphysema, a new tyye of Sponge. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 
V. 3, p. 269-272. 

FOSSIL SPONGES. 

Whitfield (R. P.) Observations on the Structure of Dictyophyton and its afiinities 
with certain Sponges. Amcr. Jonr. Sc, (3,) v. 22, pp. 53-54; Jwn. </ Mag. Nat. 
Hist., (5,) Y. 8, pp. 167-168. 

On the Nature of Dictyophyton. Amer. Joitrn. Sc, (3,) v. 22, p. 122; Ann. ^ 

Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 8, pp. 237. 

APPENDIX. 

Parasites. 

Carter (H. J.) On Spongiophaga in Spongilla. Ann. 4- Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 8, 

p. 222. 
Duncan (P. Mart. ) On an Organism which penetrates and excavates siliceous Sponge- 

spicula {Spongiophaga Carteri). Ann. 4- Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 8, p. 120-122. 



420 ZOOLOGY, 

Peculiar Palceozoic Sponges. 

In rocks of the Devonian ijeriod and of the Chemung group of New 
York, the Waverly beds of Ohio, and the Keokuk beds of Iowa and 
Indiana, are found certain problematical fossils to which the generic 
names Hydnoceras, JDictyophyton, and Uphantwnia have been given. 
These fossils have been supjiosed by most palaeontologists to have been 
plants related to the algse. Mr. R. P. Whitfield, of New York, has 
recently sought to ascertain their affinities, and has come to the conclu- 
sion that they were, in fact, of sponge origin. His later researches were 
seconded by PrinciiJal Dawson, of McGill University, who now enter- 
tains the same opinion. The organisms in question are more or less 
elongated tubes, and " have been composed of a thin film or pellicle of 
net- work made of longitudinal and horizontal threads which cross each 
other at right angles"; when carefully examined "one set ai^pears to 
pass on the outside and the other on the inside of the body." A Uphan- 
Uenia from Indiana, which was later examined, exhibited the original 
structure better and "retained the substance of the organism. Under 
a hand-glass of moderate power it is seen to have been composed of 
cylindrical threads of various sizes, now replaced by pjaite." It had 
broad, radiating bands, and between them narrow, thread-like bands as 
well as " circular," narrow or thread ones. " The broad bands are com- 
posed of very fine thread-like spicules, and the narrow ones of much 
stronger ones, while the thin film occupying the intermediate spaces is 
composed of still smaller spicules, apparently arranged in radiating 
manner." According to Principal Dawson, viewed as opaque objects, 
" the reticulating bands are seen to be fascicles of slender cylindrical 
rods or si)icules," and the spicules are " usually cylindrical and smooth," 
but occasionally taper gently to a point. " In their present state they 
appear as solid, shining rods of pyrite." It is aptly added, that " the 
most puzzling fact" is " the mineral condition of the spicules, now wholly 
replaced by pyrite." Nevertheless, "the study of the specimen" in 
question "inclined" Princii^al Dawson "to regard it as more probably 
a sponge" than as a fucoid, as he had previously supposed. (A. J. S., 
(3,) XXII, pp. 53-54; 132-133.) 

Subsequently, Mr. C. D. Walcott re-examined a fossil from the Utica 
slate, which he had described in 1879 as an alga, under the name Cyatho- 
phycus, and now considers it likewise to have been a sponge. It exhib- 
ited the same general features of structure as the Hynoceratidw and the 
spicules in it, too, had been all apparently replaced by pyrite. (A. J. S.. 
(3,) XXII, ])}). 394-395.) All the fossils referred to have been compared, 
as to structure, with Unplectella, and it has been said that they exhibited 
the greatest similarity to that genus, but doubtless it was meant in a 
general manner, and not, as might be inferred, that there was any inti- 
mate relationship, or, in fact, closer aftinity between the forms discussed 
and the recent genus than Avith the living relatives of the last. 



ZOOLOGY. 421 

Pro])agation of Sponges. 

Some observations, interesting from a i)liysiological as well as prac- 
tical point of view, have been pnblished by Dr. E. von Mareuzeller, 
respecting the propagation of sponges. The investigations in question 
were made in 1863 and 1872, in the Bay of Socolizza, under the auspices 
of the Austro Hungarian Government, with a view^ to the imi)rovement 
of the sponge crop of the Adriatic; but, strange as it may seem, Ihey 
were regarded with a determined hostility by the inhabitants of the 
region. This antagonism materially interfered with the investigation, 
but enough was learned to suggest that, under favorable auspices, 
sponge- culture could be successfully^ carried on. Winter is the most 
suitable season for the experiment; clear and sheltered bays the best 
place. The sponges for ]>ropagation should be carefully gathered, and 
the cuttings may be best made with a very fine saw. The best size for 
the cuttings is about a cubic inch. Such pieces, consigned to the water, 
speedily attach themselves to the surface with which they come into 
contact, especially if the cut surface is applied. For fuller details refer- 
ence is made to the Journal of the Society of Arts (v. 29, pp. 592-594) 
and the Journal of the Eoyal Microscopical Society (2, v. 1, pp. 748- 

751). 

« 

CCELENTERATES. 



GENERAL. 



Chun (C.)- Die Natur imd Wirkungsweise der Nesselzellen bei Coelenteraten. Zool. 
Am., 4. Jahrg., pp. 646-650. 



SPECIAL CLASSES. 



Andres (Aug.). Prodromus Neapolitanje Actiniarum Faunse, addito generalis Actinia- 
rum bibliographiie catalogo. Mittheil. zoolog. Station Neapel, v. 2, pp. 305-371. 

ACALEPHS. 

1. General. 

Gnerne (Jul. do). M6duses d'eau douce et d'eau sauniMre. Bull. Sc. D4pt. dii Kord, 

1880 (publ. 1881), pp. 417-424, 
Ha^ckel (Ernst). Monographic der Medusen. 2. Th. Die Tiefsee-Medusen der Chal- 

lenger-Eeise. Der Organismus der Meduscn. Mit 32 Kupfertaf. uud 8 Holzschn. 

Jena, G. Fischer, 1881. (4to M. 46.) 
Konianes (George J.). Conchiding remarks on the locomotor system of Medusae. 

I'hilos. Trans. Iloyal Soc. London, v. 171, pp. 161-202. 
. Medusa} and Hydroid Polyps living in Fresh Water. Quart. Journ. Mic. Sc, 

V. 21, pp. 162-165. 

2. Special orders. 
TTydroidea. 

Clans (C). Ucbor Acquorea Forskalea Esch. als Acquoride des adriatischen Mceres, 
zngleich als Kritik von E. Haeckel's Aequoridensystem. Arbeit. Zoolog. Instit. 
Wicn, V. 3, pp. 283-312, 1881. 

Lankester(E. Ray). On young stages of LymnocodiumGeryonia. Quart. Journ. Micr. 
Soc., V. 21, pp. 194-201, 1 pi. 



422 ZOOLOGY. 

Siphono2)1t07'a. 

Chuu (C). DasXorvensystemder Sipliouoplioren. Zool. Anz., 4. Jahrg., pp. IJr-lll. 
Fewkes (J. W;xlt<'i). The Siphouopliores. II. The Anatomy and DevelopmCiit of 
Agalma— contiunecl. Am. Naturalist, v. 15, pp. 186-195. 

Phanerocarpa^. 

Haeckel (E.). Oigauisation iintl Classificatiou der Acraspeden. Jma. Zeitschiift f. 

JSfaturw., V. 14, SuppJ.-Heft, pp. 20-29. 
. Classification der Discomedusen. Jena. Zeitschrifl /. Nuiuno., v. 14, SiippJ.- 

Bcft, pp. 51-.'4. 

Medusw and Hydroid Folyps living in fresh water. 

Mention was made in the Smithsonian Eeport for 1880 of the occur- 
rence of various medusiform acalephs in fresh water, and the change in 
our ideas as to their adaptability for life in such a medium which the 
facts entailed. "The tolerance by Medusae belonging to marine species 
of fresh water under natural conditions was observed by Mr. Mosely, 
at Browera Creek, in New South Wales" (Naturalist on the Challenger, 
p. 272), and Mr. A. Agassiz communicated analogous instances ob- 
served near Boston in a letter to Prof. E. Ray Lankester (Quart. Journ. 
Micr. Sc, u. s., v. 20, pp. 483-485). Mr. George J. Eomanes has experi- 
mented on Sarsia with reference to its tolerance of change, and recalled 
that Prof. L. Agassiz made a partial experiment in 1850, and found that 
a Sarsia transferred directly from salt water into a glass of fresh " will 
at once drop like a ball to the bottom and remain forever motionless — 
killed instantaneously by the mere difference of density of the two 
media" (Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sc, 1850, p. 229). Mr. Eomanes, 
however, found that while the Sarsia did really drop down as described, 
instantaneous death did not ensue, hut if transferred back into salt 
water within five or ten minutes the Sarsia would revive and regain full 
vigor, but if allowed to remain in the fresh water as long as fifteen min- 
utes recovery never ensued. Mr. Eomanes also sought to ascertain 
whether the collapse of the Sarsia in fresh water was the result of a 
difference of density, and his experiments, although not conclusive, ap- 
peared to indicate that it was not, but rather, perhaps, due to the ab- 
sence of the chemical constituents of its natural medium. It is to be 
borne in mind that these exj)eriments were on the abrupt transfer from 
the one medium to the other. As to the cases cited of the living of salt- 
water species in fresh water, Mr. Eomanes "can only conclude from it 
that a gradual transition from salt to comparatively fresh water, not 
giving rise to such rapid osmosis" as takes jjlace in case of abrui)t 
change, "is not so injurious to Medusse" as lie should have suspected. 
He adds that "the whole subject is thus shown well worthy of further 
experimental inquiry." (Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc, n. s., v. 21, pp. 162- 
165; Phil. Trans. Eoyal Soc, v. 167, p. 744, etc) 



ZOOLOGY. 423 

ECHINODERMS. 

1. GENERAL. 

Morphology. 

Eomanes (G. J.) and J. C.'Ewart^ 'Locomotor syatem of Echinodermata. Nature, v. 
2d, pp. 545-547. 

Fauna. 

Duncan (P. M.) and W. Percy Sladen. A Memoir of the Echinodermata of the Arctic 
Sea to tlie A^est of Greenland. Loudon, Van Voorst, 1861. (fol. lOs 6 d ) 

' 2. SPECIAL ORDERS. 

Blastoidea. 

Carpenter (P. Herbert). On certain points iu the Morphology of the Blastoides. 
Ann. Mag. Xat. Hist., (5,) v. 8, pp. 418-424. " 

Crinoidea. 

Carpenter (P. Herbert). The minute Anatomy of the Brachiate Echinoderms. Quart. 

Journ. Micr. Sc, v. 21, pp. 164-193, 2 pi. 
Carpenter (P. H.). On two new Crinoids from the Upper Chalk of Southern Sweden. 

With 1 pi. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, v. 37, pp. 128-136. 
Wachsmuth (Charles) and Frank Springer. Revision of the Palseocrinoidea. P. II. 

Family Sphseroidocrinidse. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1881, pp. 177-414, 3 pi. 

Echinoidea. 

BeU (F. Jeffrey). Observations on the characters of the Echinoidea. FV. The Echin- 
ometridse : their Affinities and Systematic Position. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, 
pp. 410-433. 

Loriol (P. de). Monographic des ^fichinoides contenus dans les couches nummulitiques 
del'figypte. Mem. Soc. Phys. et d'Hist. Nat. de Geneve, v. 27, pp. 59-146, 2 pi. 

OpMuroidea. 

Lyman (Theodore). Tlfe stomach and genital organs of Astrophytidse. Bull. Mus. 
Comp. Zool, V. 8, pp. 117-125, 2 pi. 

Hblothuroidea. 

Lndwig (Hub.). Revision der Mertens-Brandt'schen Holothurien. Zeitachr. f. ifi'ss. 
Zool., V. 35, pp. 575-599. 

The star-fishes and diagnostic formulae for them. 

The genus containing the common star-fish of the coasts of the New 
England and Middle States, has been re-examined by Prof. F. J. 
Bell. The name Asterias is retained for the genus, and 79 species are 
admitted as distinct. These are distributed under several successively 
narrowed series of groups, and a peculiar diagnostic system or formula 
is proposed to make known in terse form the various combinations of 
characters. They are distinguished (1) by the number of rays, whether 
live {pent act in ida) or more {heteractinidu); then (U) by the number of 



424 ZOOLOGY. 

madreporic plates, wlietlier one [monoplacid) or more {polyplacid) ; (3) 
by the uumber of spines bordering the ambulacra, these being in some 
iiniserial {monacmithida), and in others biserial {diplacanthida)) (4) some 
have the madreporic plate, with a circlet of spines {echinoplacida), and 
others are destitute of such {aneehinoplacida) ; (5) some again have 
"the greater uumber of the intermediate spines on special local modi- 
tlcations of the integument, which may be known as special plates" 
{autacantMd), while "others retain the simpler disposition which is seen 
in A. riihens and most of the better known forms" (typacanthid)', finally 
(G), the spines of the abactinal surface afford modifications of various 
values, some being "simple" [simplices), others "rare" {rarisjnnosce), 
others "blunt" {obtusispinosw), and still others "acute" {acutispinosce). 
The possession of one or other of these several characteristics is expressi- 
ble by symbols, viz: 

1 = monacanthid ; 2 — diplacanthid; 3 = polyacanthid; 

m = monoi)lacid ; p = polyplacid f 

e =echiuoplacid; a =anechinoplacid; 

a' = autacanthid; t = typacanthid; s = simplices ; 

r =rarispin{B; r' = retusispiuos8e; c = acutispinosse. 

Further, to distinguish between the Pentactinida and the Heterac- 
tinida, Professor Bell proposes "to place the formula for the latter 
under the mathematical sign of a squarp. root: thus, Vlp is sufficient to 
distinguish A. calamaria as a mouacanthid, polyplacid, heteractinid 
form." By the use of such symbols Professor Bell has given the prin- 
cipal distinctive characters of 78 species within less than an octavo 
page. The Asterias vulgaris of New England, c. g., is diagnosed by the 
formula, "2 ats, which indicates that it has (1) five rays; (2) is dipla- 
canthid, or with biserial adambulacral spines"; (3) " anechinoplacid," 
or destitute of a circlet of spines to the madreporic plate; (4) "typa- 
canthid," or with the intermediate spines simply disposed and. not 
arising from special plates; and (5) with the spines of the abactinal sur- 
face simple. (P. Z. S., 1881, pp. 492-515.) * 

BILATERALIA. 

ENTEROPNEUSTA. 

Metschuikolf (El.). Ueber die systematische Stelliing von Balanoglossus. Zool. Am., 

4. Jahrg., pp. 139-143; 153-157. 
. Systematic position of Balanoglossus. Journ. E. Microscop, Soc, (2,) v. 1, 

pp. 462-463. 

[An abstract of the precediug.] 

The systematic position of Balanoglossus. 

The remarkable genus Balanoglossus has been reexamined. The 
earlier naturalists regarded it, in its adult stage, as a worm, and had no 
susi>iciou that it could have any other relations. What afterwards 



ZOOLOGY. 425 

proved to be the larva was, however, with as little doubt, referred to the 
Echiiioderms. lu its adult couditiou it has an internal branchiferous 
<anal, which simulates that of the Tunicates. What, then, are its 
affiuities ? 

As early as 1870 Metschuikoff considered that it might be really 
related to the Echinoderms, as its larval condition suggested. This 
view lias not found much favor, but during the past year he reiterated 
it and fortitied it with new arguments, based chiefly on its development. 

Balanofjlossiis, then, resembles the Echinoderms in the longitudinal 
baud of cilia, the water-vesicle opening by the dorsal pore, and the 
peritoneal sacs, while the two hinder circlets of cilia and the terminal 
anus are developed in some Echinoderms, and the latter is always 
found in the youngest stages of all typical Echinoderm larvce. The 
histological characteristics are equally repeated in the Echinoderms. 
The course of development is also similar in the two. In short, Metsch- 
nikoft" insists on retaining Balanoglossus with the Echinoderms in the 
same branch or sub-kingdom — or ^'type," as he prefers to call it — and 
gives to that type the comprehensive name, Ambulacraria. Balano- 
glossus is isolated, as a "sub-type" named Bilateralia, and the typical 
Echinoderms form another renamed Badiata. 

The observations of Metsclinikoff have been reviewed by Prof. A. 
Giard, and supplemented by the French naturalist's own investigations. 
He calls special attention to the existence, in the Tornaria state, of a 
l)eculiar heart, which no Echinoderm is known to possess, the compara- 
tively late development of the ciliated circlets, and the presence of a 
muscular band connecting the dorsal aquiferous system with the median 
point of the eye-spots — all presenting difficulties in associating; Balano- 
(jlossus with the Echinoderms. ISTevertheless, Giard is disposed to coin- 
cide with Metschuikoff in approximating the one to the other, whik; he 
does not venture to pronounce on the i)hylogenetic relationships of the 
two. He even suggests a new argument in favor of the approximation, 
in the possibility of a similarity of the two in the development alike of 
excretory and deutoplasmigenous functions, at certain times of the year, 
of the genital glands. He unqualifiedly repudiates the idea that there 
is, as has been claimed, any genetic relationship between Balanoglossns 
and the Tunicates. (J. E. M. S., (2,) II, p. 194, from Bull. Sci. Dep. 
Nord, IV, pp. 372-378.) 

WORMS. 

ORTHONECTIDS. 

Metschuikoff (El.). Observations on the Orthonectida. Abstr. in Jourii. R. Micro- 
»cop.Soc. (2,) V. 1, pp. 461-4()'2. 

Characteristics and relations of the Orthonectids. 

In the notice of the progress of zoology in the Smithsonian Keport for 
1880, reference was made to the newly proposed "class" of Orthonectids. 



426 ZOOLOGY. 

The group has been again investigated — tliis time by Prof. E. Metschni- 
Koff — with the following results : 

The Orthonectids may be said to be forms which, on the whole, develop 
a radiate plan of structure, and have a ciliated and segmented dermal 
layer, well-developed generative organs, and well-marked dimorphism of 
the sexes. Professor Metschnikoii" considers them to be probably degen- 
erated forms, and suggests that they may be most nearly related to the 
Turbellariaus, through Dinophilus, a member of the latter group, which 
has also a sui)erficial ciliary segmentation and well-marked sexual 
dimorphism. The sexes are developed from diversiform eggs, the males 
arising from the smaller eggs and the females from the larger. The 
males are minute, and their "only evident organ is a spacious testicular 
sac." The representatives of the "class" move in a straight course, 
and consequently negative the suggestion of Eabl-Euckhard, that the 
radiate plan of structure is due to movement within a restricted area. 
(J. E. M. S., (2,) I, pp. 461-462, from Z. W. Z., XXXY, pp. 282-304, 1 pi.) 

PLATYHELMINTHES. 

]. General. 

Lang (A.). Uutersuchungen zui- vergleicheuden Anatomie uud Histologie des Nerven- 
Bystems der Plathelminthen. Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, v. 3, pp. 53-96. 

. Der Ban von Gnnda segmentata nnd die Verwandtscliaft der Plathelmin- 

then mit Coeleuteraten und Hirudineen. Ibid., v. 3, pp. 187-25L 

2. Special orders. 

Cestoda. 

Stein(S. Th.). EntwickelnngsgescliichteundParasitismusdermensclilichen Cestoden. 
Mit 79 Illnstrat. and 115 micropliotogr. Abbild. auf 14 Taf. nach J. Grimm. 
Labr, Schauenbnrg, 1881. (8vo. M. 18.) 

Trematoda. 

Fraipont (J.). Organes excrdteurs des Tr^matodea et Cestodes. Bull. Soc. Beige. Mi- 

croscop., t. 7, 1881, pp. xxxi-xlii. (Abstr.: Journ. Boy. Microscop. Soc, {2,) v. 1, 

pp. 741-742. 
Pagen8teclier(H. Alex.). ZnrEntwickelungsgescliichtederTrematoden, insbesoudere 

liber Arbeit des Prof. Giambatt. Ercolani : Dell' Adattamento, etc. Verliandl. nat.- 

med. Ver. Heidelierg, n. F., v. 3, pp. 33-56. 

Tiirbellaria. 

Silliman (W. A.). Sur un nouveau type de Turbellari6s. Compt. rend. Ac. Sc. Paris, 

t. 93, pp. 1087-1089. 
Seleuka (Emil). Zoologiscbe Studien. II. Zur Eutwickelungsgescbiclite der See- 

plauarien. Eiu Beitrag zur Keimbliitterlehre und Descendenztbeorie. Mit 7 Taf. 

nnd 2 Holzschn. Leipzig, Engelmann, 1881. (4to. v, 44 pp. M. 6.) 

A new suborder of Turhellarians. 

Parasitic on a Nematoid worm — itself parasitic on the Echinoderm, 
UcMnns sphwra — occurs a peculiar form, which has been investigated 
by Mr. W. A. Silliman. The animal is of sublanceolate form, about 



ZOOLOGY. 427 

225 millimeters long ami 1.5 wide, and is destitute of suckers or hooks. 
Its epidermis is coustituted by moderatelj' regular hexagonal and cili- 
ated cells. The male is noteworthy in that it has numerous tes i(;les 
and the penis ensheathed. The female has a double ovary and ps(Hido- 
vitellogen, and a uterus as well as vagina. The pseudovitellogen is. 
developed in the second third of the body, and is manifested in the iorm 
of numerous ramified tubes, which, on each side, unite towards the 
median line and debouch into the uterus ; the vagina open s far back on 
the dorsal surface and extends forwards toward the u terns. The animal 
thus distinguished has received the generic name Syndesmis. It agrees 
with the Turbellarians in the ciliated epidermis, oral apparatus, male 
organs, and the possession of two ovaries by the female, and with the 
Trematods as to the vagina and disposition of the pseudovitellogen. 
The peculiar combination of characters is deemed to authorize its erec- 
tion into a special "suborder" of Turbellarians. (J. E. M. S., (2,) 11^ 
pp. 192-193, from 0. E., XCIII, 1807-1809.) 

NEMATELMINTHES. 

Nematoda. 

Perroncito (E. ). Helmintliologiscbe Beobachtungen beziiglicli der unter den Arbeitem 
am St. Gottbard-Tunnel aufgetretenen endemischen Kranklieit. In Molescliott'a 
Untersuch. zur Naturlebre d. Menschen, v. 15, pp. 532-562. 

ANNELIDS. 

1. General. 

Kleinenberg (N.). SulF origine del sistema nervoso ceutrale degli Annelidi. Kela- 
zione del Fr, Todaro. Atti Accad. Lincei, Transunti, v. 6, pp. 15-16. 

Verrill (A. E). New England Annelida. Part I. Historical Sketch, with Annotated 
List of the Species hitherto recorded. Trans. Connecticut Acad. Sc, v. 4, pp. 285- 
324. 

2. Special orders. 

Oligochceta. 

Eisen (Gustafjjj EcUpidrilidae and their Anatomy. A new family of the limicolid*. 

Oligochaeta. N. Acta. E. Soc. JJpsaliensts, 1881. (4to, 10. pp., 2 pi.) 
Darwin (Charles). The Formation of Vegetable Mould, through the action of Worms,. 

with observations on their habits. With illustrations. London, J. Murray, 1881. 

(r2mo, vii, 326 pp.) 

Polychata. 

Eietsch(Max). Organization of Sternaspis scutata. Abstr. Journ. Boy Microscop. Soc, 

C2,)v.l, pp. 601-602. 
Vejdovsky (Frz.). Untersuchungen iiber die Anatomie, Physiologie uud Entwicke- 

luug von Sternaspis. Abhandl. Akad. Wiss. Wien, v. 43. 

A Parasitic Polychivtous Worm. 

It is a rule that tlie Polychicta, the order represented by the great 
majority of the common marine annelids, lead a free life. It is a rule 



428 - ZOOLOGY. 

'wliieb Las its exceptions, bbwever, though they are rare. In early life, 
for example, the Alciopiils are parasitic in the ctenophorous ccelenterates, 
but later become free. But recently Dr. J. W. Sprengel, at Naples, 
%vhile examining specimens of BonelUa (a genus of Gephyrean worms), 
<letected in their coelom orange-colored cord-like bodies, which mani- 
fested lively movements, which proved to be polychajtous worms. These 
were about 10 centimeters long and a millimeter wide, and had about 
200 segments ; " the maxillary apparatus was rudimentary, and there 
were only three small teeth in the upper jaw." The form has been 
named by Dr. Sprengel OUgognathus BonelUw, and referred .to the 
fauuly of Lumbriconereids. An elaborate description has been pub- 
lished, with illustrations. (J. E. M. S. (2,) v. 2, pp. 190, 191.) 

Xatatory Bladders in Annelids. 

Certain Annelids may be found floating passively on the surface of 
the water, and one of such species — the Hesione sicula — was observed 
by Dr. H. Eisig to emit air-bubbles both from the mouth and anus. 
Dr. Eisig sought to ascertain the rationale of such phenomena, and his 
investigations were rewarded by the discovery of a viscus that had 
apparently been overlooked in the Annelids. In Hesione were found 
two contractile ai)pendages, which communicated with the intestine, 
and which might be either distinct bladders or inconsiderable diver- 
ticula, according to their distension or collapse. These parts are di- 
verticula of the fore stomach, and are regarded as probably arising from 
the endoderm. Air-bladders were found to be developed in representa- 
tives not only of the family Hesionidte, but also among the Syllidfe, but 
not universally. Their absence or atrophy, when not developed, has 
been supposed to be due to the assumption of the function of respiration 
l\v the skin; for although the bladders in question serve to float the 
animal, such office is merely secondary, and not their principal function. 
Their primary purpose is supposed to be respiratory. They were never 
found to contain anything except a gas and a clear fluid, which could 
be taken in or discharged voluntarily by the animal. The so-called air 
was not atmospheric, and was supposed to be secreted by the stomach, 
and probably to be oxygen; enough could not be secured to make a 
•chemical analysis. Although, as already remarked, the organ with its 
functions has previously been unnoticed, it was known — e. r/., in the 
Syllidiie — as the "T-shaped glands." 

Worms as Earthmalcers. 

The common earth-worm comes within the cognizance of the ordinary 
observer cliietiy as a useful bait to be impaled on a hook and thus used 
for attracting fish for the sport of the angler. The juvenile representa- 
tives of the brotherhood of the rod have generally learned to recognize 



ZOOLOGY. 42'. J 

the wlieroaboiit.s of tbeir victim by couglomeratious of little pellets of 
eartli here and there; aud kuowiugoues are wont to cautiously explore 
localities so indicated Avith lanterns at night or in the early morning-, 
and there lind the worms partly or entirely outside their holes. Few of 
the many who liave learned thus much of the animal in question have 
ever thought of the important functions in the economy of nature per- 
formed by the humble being. Even as far back as 1837, hoAvever, Mr. 
Darwin had appreciated the role that it plays and comuumicated to the 
Geological Society of London a special memoir "On the Formation of 
JNIould" by worms. Considerable skepticism was evoked respecting his 
conclusions, so insignificant did the means appear to the end, but the 
author published as his last contribution to science a special work on 
the subject, and has fortified and amplified his early studies and con- 
clusions. As Darwin says, some observant " farmers are aware that 
objects of all kinds left on tlie surface of pasture land after a time 
disappear, or, as they say, work themselves downward." This disap- 
l)earance is of course due to no automatic process of the objects sinking- 
down, but really to the cumulative effect of worms' castings. The 
doubt such a statement may excite will be dissipated by a knowledge 
of what a worm can do in a given period, and the multiplication of that 
amount by number and time. 

Hensen, in experiments made on worms in confinement and fed on 
leaves, found that they ejected about eight grains of earth a day; but, 
according to Darwin, "a very much larger amount must be ejected b\ 
worms in their natural state, at the x)eriods when they consume earth 
as food Instead of leaves, and when they are making deep burrows.'^ 
In corroboration of this opinion, Darwin has tabulated the results of 
numerous observations on the "weight of the castings accumulated at 
the mouth of a single burrow." Before weighing, the castings were 
dried (excepting in one specified instance) by exposure during many 
days to the sun or before a hot fire." These castings for each hole 
"generally exceeded an ounce in weight after being dried, and some- 
times nearly equaled a quarter of a pound. On the Nilgiri Mountains- 
one casting even exceeded this latter weight. The largest castings in 
England were found on extremely poor pasture land; and these are 
generally larger than those on land producing a rich vegetation. It 
would appear that worms have to swallow a greater amount of earth 
on poor than on rich land, in order to obtain sufficient nutriment." (P. 
1G2.) In another place we are tokl that Hensen found that "there 
nuist exist 133,000 living worms in a hectare of land, or 53,767 in an 
acre. This latter number of worms would weigh 350 pounds, taking 
Hensen's standard of the weight of a single worm, namely, one gram. 
It should, however, be noted, says Mr. Darwin, " that this calculation 
is founded ®n the numbers found in a garden, and Ilensen believes that 
worms are twice as numerous in gardens as in cornfields." On the 



430 ZOOLOGY. 

other hand, recent observations demonstrate that worms may occur in 
even much greater numbers than were fouud by Ileusen. An English 
gentleman, e. g., found in Hertfordshire, "in his forest land, as many as 
100 to the cubic yard, and in a rich strip bordering vines not less than 
180 animals in an equal area; i. c, from 484,000 to 871,000 to an acre." 
(Critic, N. Y., V. 2, p. 7G, 1881.) 

A little calculation will convince the most skeptical that worms with 
the habits thus indicated and in the numbers known to occur must in 
time produce great effects. Mr. Darwin has been observing their habits 
and doings for many years. "Near Maer Hall, in Staffordshire, quick- 
lime had been spread, about the year 1827, thickly over a field of good 
pasture-land which had not since been plowed. Some square holes were 
<lug in this field in the beginning of October, 1837; and the sections 
showed a layer of turf formed by the matted roots of the grasses, half 
an inch in thickness, beneath which, at a depth of 2^ inches (or 3 inches 
from the surface), a layer of the lime in powder or in small lumps could 
be distinctly seen running all round the vertical sides of the hol^s." (P. 
130.) Again, a quantity of broken chalk was spread on December 20, 
1842, over part of a field near Darwin's house. "The chalk was laid 
on the land for the sake of observing at some future period to what 
depth it would become buried. At the end of November, 1871 — that is, 
after an interval of 29 years — a trench was dug across this part of the 
field, and a line of white nodules could be traced at a depth of 7 inches 
from the surface. The mold, therefore (exclusive of the turf), had been 
thrown uj) at an average rate of .22 inch i)er year." (P. 139.) In view 
of such operations we can readily account for the burial of ancient 
cities and towns, and a number of cases in jjoint are cited in a special 
chapter on "the part which worms have played in the burial of ancient 
buildings." The subsidence of pavements, the burial of Eoman villas 
at Abiuger, Chedworth, Brading, and elsewhere, the entombment of 
the Eoman towns of Silchester, Wroxeter, &c., are shown to be mainly 
due to the action of worms. We can readily comprehend, therefore, 
bow it is that the more ancient cities which once flourished in Asia and 
the older seats of civilization have been covered to such a depth as to 
have been entirely concealed, even without taking into consideration 
the accumulation of dust and other dirt. 

Analyses of worm-casts have been communicated to the Eoyal Hor- 
ticultural Society, by Dr. Gilbert, with reference to the amount of nitro- 
gen involved. He found that the dried mold contained 35 per cent, 
of nitrogen, which was considerably more than was present in the mold 
of pasture land and two or three times more than in that of arable land. 
It was less rich, however, than highly manured kitchen-garden mold. 
On the whole the soil only gained from what the worms brought up 
from below, as by trenching. 



ZOOLOGY. 431 

ARTHROPODS. 

MEROSTOMES. 

Trilobita. 

Ford (S. W.). Embryonic Forms of Trilobites from the Piimordial Rocks of Troy, N. 

Y. Am. Journ. Sc, (3,) v. 22, p. 250-259. 
Walcott (C. D.). The Trilobite : New and Old Evidence relating to its Organization. 
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., v. 8, p. 191-230, witli G pi. 

Xipliosura. 

Jonsset de Bellesme. Observations sur les fonctions de Fappendice caudal des Limules. 

Ann. Scienc. Nat. (6), v. 2, Art. No. 7. (5 p.) 
Lankester (E. Ray). Limulus an Arachnid. Quart. Journ. Mic. Sc, n. s., v. 21, pp. 
584-548, 609-649, pi. 28-29, July and Oct., 1881. 

Belations of the Merostomes. 

The Merostomes, i. e., the Horseshoe Crabs of the present epoch 
and their ancient relatives, as well as the Trilobites, have been almost 
universally considered, until within the last few years, as true Crus- 
taceans. As long ago as 1829, however, an eminent French anato- 
mist— Straus Durkheim — maintained that Limulus belonged rather to 
the Arachnids, and was the type, in that class, of a peculiar order, 
which he named " Gnathopodes." The Arachnids, for him, were char- 
acterized by the legs abutting on a common sternum, the presence of 
an internal cartilaginous sternum, and the absence of antennae. Al- 
phonse Milne-Edwards i)roposed to isolate the group as an intermediate 
form between the Crustaceans and Arachnids. Claus and Packard 
considered the grouj) to be one of i^rimary importance within the Crus- 
taceans, the Horseshoe Crab and its allies representing a subclass in 
contrast with all the other representatives of the class. 

Prof. E. Eay Lankester has recently discussed the gross morphology 
and relationships of these most gigantic of articulates in the Quarterly 
Journal of Microscopical Science, and presented quite a complete and 
well-digested analysis of their characters compared and contrasted with 
those of Arachnids and Crustaceans. A detailed comparison is insti- 
tuted between Limulus and Scorpio, segment for segment, and the 
results thereof are summarized in very convenient form, in tables, for 
Linuilus on one page, and Scorpio on the opposite, exhibiting in several 
columns the characteristics of the segments from the first to the eight- 
eenth, as to (1) the Tergites, (2) the Sternites, and (3) the Appendages. 
The differences between the forms thus specially compared are great in 
some respects, although generally less than those which would be appar- 
ent on a comparison between Limulus and any true Crustacean. The 
hiatus intervening between the two is, however, to a considerable ex- 
tent bridged over by theEuryptorina of the Pahuozoic epoch. Inasmuch 
as the close aCtinity of the Eury[)ieriiui to the Limulids is now univer- 
sally admitted, that which is relevant to the former is applicable to the 



432 ZOOLOGY. 

major group of which both are equally members. Professor Lankester 
is therefore fully justified in the postulate that "there is not only a gen- 
eral resemblance of the Eurypterine body to that of the Scorpion, but 
that in many of the most important points the Eurypterine body and 
appendages agree precisely with those of the Scorpion, and not in a 
merely general way. The Eurypterina, in fact, confirm the validity of 
the comparisons between Limulus and Scorpio. 

Finally, Professor Lankester has summed up the points of agreement 
of the Horseshoe Crab and Eurypterids with the Arachnids, and their 
differences from the Crustaceans, in the following terms: 

1. Limulus and the Eurypterines (the one supplementing the other) 
agree precisely with the Scorpion in the existence of eighteen segments 
expressed in the structure of their bodies, and in the distribution of 
these segments into three groups of six each, viz: a leg-bearing cephalo- 
thoracic region ; an anterior abdominal region, in which each SQ^meut 
carries lamellate appendages ; and a jiosterior abdominal region devoid 
of appendages, ending with the anus and a postanal spine. No Crus- 
tacean presents this number and groupiug of its constituent somites. 

2. Liuiulus and the Eury])terines agree with the Scorpion precisely in 
the position of the genital aperture beneath an opercular plate formed 
by the coalescence of the seventh pair (in Euryj)terines the actual sixth 
pair of appendages). Xo Crustacean has the generative orifice so far 
forward, and in none is there a genital operculum of the kind having 
such relations of position to the general apertures. 

3. They agree with the Scorpion in the character and position of the 
mouth and upper lii^. 

4. They agree with the Scorpion in possessing a metathoracic steruite, 
in the possession of a fibro-cartilagiuous entosternite, and in the precise 
form and relations of that organ. No Crustacean possesses an ento- 
sternite or any structure resembling it. 

5. They agree with the Scorpion in the disposition of central (single) 
and lateral (grouped) eyes on the cephalothorax. No Crustacean has 
an identical arrangement of single and groui^ed eyes. 

6. Limulus agrees with the Scorpion in the form of tlie alimentary 
canal and its lateral outgrowths (liver), which are more than one pair. 
In Crustacea it is very exceptional to find more than one pair of 
such diverticula, though a single pair may carry numerous secondary 
branches. 

7. It agrees with the Scorpion in i)ossessing a supra- or circum- 
medullary (spinal) artery, which arises from the dorsal aorta by two 
arches embracing the oesophagus. No Crustacean has such a supra- 
spinal arter}- so originating. 

8. It agrees with the Scorpion in the form of the generative glands. 
No Crustacean has its generative glands in the form of an anastomos- 
ing network. 



ZOOLOGY. 433 

9. It agrees with Scorpio iu possessing vibratile spermatozoa. No 
Crustacea, except Cinhipedia, are knowntoliave vibratile spermatozoa. 

10. It agrees with Scorpio aud Spiders in having a brain which (like 
that of that embryo Scorpion and Spider) supplies only eyes and integ- 
ument with nerves, and not any appendage. In all Crustacea, except 
some Phyllopoda, such an archicerebrnm does not exist; but even in 
young stages the brain is found to supply at least one pair of append- 
ages, as well as the eyes. 

11. It agrees with Scorpio in the concentration of the origins of 
nerves supplying the anterior part of the abdomen, in the cephalothorax, 
in the form of a nervous collar, perforated by the pharynx. Such a 
nerve-collar has its parallel in Crustacea, among the brachyurous Deca- 
poda, which, however, are in other respects the Crustaceans which least 
resemble Limulus. 

The points in which Limulus agrees with the Crustacea and differs 
from Arachnida are three only. They are as follows: 

1. Limulus agrees with many Crustacea, and differs from Arachnida, 
in that its respiratory organs are adapted to an aquatic in place of an 
aerial medium. 

2. Limulus agrees with Crustacea, and differs from Arachnida, in that 
it possesses a pair of groups of eyes, in which the association of the 
individual eyes of each group is so close as to constitute a compound 
eye. 

3. Limulus agrees with Crustacea (excepting some Isopoda?), and 
differs from Arachnida, in not possessing glandular coeca (the Malpi- 
ghian tubules) growing out from the proctodteum. 

Li conclusion, Professor Lankester referred the Merostomes unreserv- 
edly to the class of Arachnids, and divided that class into three sub- 
classes, or "grades," the first of which he calls Haematobranchia — a 
new name for the Merostomes — and the other two of which are desig- 
nated Aerobrauchia (Scorpionina, Pedipalpi, and Araneina) and Lipo- 
branchia (Solifugaj, Pseudoscorpionina, Opilionina, and Acarina). 
Among the Haematobranchia he recognizes three " orders," viz : — Trilo- 
bita, Eurypterina, and Xiphosura. 

Legs of Trilohites. 

The Trilobites have long been favorite objects for the collector of fos- 
sils, occur iu exuberant abundance in many rocks, are very often found 
in fine condition — so far at least as the dorsal portion is concerned — 
and have been the subjects of several thoughtful monographs. Never- 
theless, Piofessor Huxley, in 1877, gave expression to the current belief 
respecting them when he wrote (Amit. Invert. An., p. 258) that ''up to 
[that] time, no certain indications of the existence of appendages, nor 
even of any hard sternal body-wall, [had] been discovered, though ii 
shield-shaped labrum, which lies in front of the moutb, has been pre- 
served in some specimens." But iu that same year, 1877, Mr. C. D. 
S. ]Mis. 101) 28 



434 ZOOLOGY. 

Walcott completed the proof of the existence of. true legs iu Trilobites 
of the genera Calymeue and Ceraurus. Thus, too, the correctness of an 
observation made about six years before (in 1870) was confirmed, for 
Mr. E. Billings, the palaeontologist of Canada, then announced the dis- 
covery of traces of legs. The accuracy or relevancy of his observations 
was generally denied, however, and certainly they needed confirmation. 
Mr. Walcott, continuing his studies, in 1881 published the results of his 
researches in a memoir on " The Trilobite; new and old evidence relating 
to its organization." He has done his work well, and by means of 
numerous sections, longitudinal as well as transverse, has traced the 
course and structure of the appendages, and at least conclusively estab- 
lished the existence of legs homologous with those of the King crab 
and Eurypterids. But he further claims that such appendages were 
repeated on each segment, and that in addition to the homologues of 
the five pairs of legs whose basal joints i)erform the office of manduca- 
tion, there are "numerous thoracico-abdominal appendages." If this 
statement is the true expression of the facts, it is evident that while 
the relations of the Trilobites with the typical Merostomes are estab- 
lished, the type of structure is in the highest degree peculiar. So 
remarkable would be the deviation from the standard that probably 
many may feel disposed to await further evidence and suspend opinion, 
lest the observed facts may be susceptible of some other interpretation. 
That which will probably provoke most skepticism is the attribute to 
the pygidium of jilural pairs of limbs similar to the others, and indeed 
Mr. Walcott himself admits that as to the character of those ai^pend- 
ages "the evidence is not all that could be desired" (p. 204). On the 
other hand, it may be added that the well-known variability, according 
to group as well as to individuals, of the number of segments prepares 
us to expect, or at least not to be unduly surprised at, some remarka- 
ble deviation from the typical mode of segmentation and appeudicidar 
api)aratus. We may, therefore, concede that the limbs are existent in 
increased number, but must hold in abeyance confession of belief in 
their extension as such, and unmodified, to the extreme end of the 
pygidium. 

The facts being admitted, even with reservation as to details, little 
fault can be found with Mr. Walcott's systematic conclusions. He rec- 
ognizes as constituents of a peculiar "class," under the name "Pceci- 
lopoda," the typical "Merostomata" (of which he makes a sub-class 
with two "orders" — the Xiphosura and Eurypterida) and the Trilo- 
bites, which, at the same time, represent a "sub-class Palaeadne" and an 
"order Trilobita." He formulates the results of his comparative re- 
searches on the structure of the last in his diagnosis of the "sub-class" 
as " Poeciloi)ods, with numerous thoracico-abdominal appeudages, eyes 
compound (when developed), ocelli unknown," while the "order" is 
distinguished by a "mouth furnished with a large hypostoma and four 
pairs (as far as known) of appeudages j thoracic segments, 2 — 26, bear- 



ZOOLOGY. 435 

ing pointed legs with attached branchiae ; abdomen formed of anchylosed 
segments, 2(?) — 28, bearing articulated appendages." 

The memoir of Mr. Walcott is illustrated by G plates, displayiug sec- 
tions and other details of structure. The author's discoveries certainly 
mark an epoch in the history of the Tribolites. 

CRUSTACEANS. 
1. SYSTEMATIC. 

Kossiuanu (R.). Uober deu classilicatoriscben Werth der Mundorgaue der Crustaceen. 
Zool. Anz,, 4. Jahrg., pp. 544-548. 

2. FAUNiE. 

Europe. 

Meinert (Fr.). Crustacea Isopoda, Amiihipoda et Decapoda Dauiaj; Fortegnelee over 
Damnarka Isopode, Ampliix)odo og Decapodo Krebsdyr. Natitrhist. I'idskr., (3,) v. 
12, pp. 465-512. 

North America. 

Smith (S. J.). Preliminary Notice of the Crustacea dredged in 04 to 325 fathoms, oft 
the south coast of New England, by the United States Fish Commission in 1880. 
Froc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 3, pp. 413-452. 

Middle America. 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Mission scientifique au Mexique et dan s I'Am^rique cen~ 
trale. Kecherches zoologiques publides sous la direction de H. Milne-Edwards. 
5. partie 1. 1. Etudes sur les Xiphosures ot les Crustac^s podophthalm aires; i^ar 
Aliih. Milne-Edwards. Paris, Impr. nationale, 1881. (4to., 372 jip., 61 pi.) 

Caribbean deep-sea fauna. 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Con8id6rationsg6n<Sralcs sur la fauno carciuologique des 
grandes profondeurs de la mer des Antilles et du Golfc de Mexique. Compt. rend. 
Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 92, pp. 384-388. 

>- . General considerations upon the CarciBologi«al Fauna of great depths in the 

Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico. Ann. Mag. of Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 7, pp. 312-317. 

. Report of the results of Dredging in the Gulf of Mexico. Part I. Etudes 



pr61iminaires sur Ics Crustacds. Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool., v. 8, No. 1. 

3. SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Pycnogonida. 

Wilson (Edmund B.). ^Report on the Pycnogonida of New England and adjacent 
waters. Report VrS. Fish Commission for 1878, pi>. 463-506, 7 pi. (15 sp., of which 2 
are new.) 

Copcpoda. 

Grobben (C). Die Entwickelungsgcschichte von Cetochilus eeptentrionalis Goods. 
Arbeit. Zoolog. Instit. Wien, v. 13, p. 243-282. 

BrancMopoda. 

Lankester (E. Ray). Observations and Reflections on the Appendages and on the 
Nervous SjBtevQS pf Apus cancriformis. Quart, Journ. Micr. Sc, v. 21, pp. 343-376, 
Ipl, 



436 ZOOLOGY. 

EdrioplMalma. 

Delage (Yves). Contributions h I'cStude de I'appareil circulatotre des Crnstac^s 
Eclriopkthalmes marins. Arch. Zool. Exp&iment, t. 9, pp. 1-144. 

E. AmpMpoda. 

Ulianin (B.). Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Amphipoden. Zeitschr.f.iviss. Zool., 
V. 35, pp. 440-460. 

E. Isopoda. 

Harger (Oscar). Keport on the Marine Isopoda of New England and adjacent waters. 

Beport U. S. Fish Commission for 1878, pp. 297-462, 12 pi. 
Kossmann (R.). Studien uberEopyriden. I. Gigantioue Moebii uud AUgemeines Uber 

die Mnndwerkzeuge der Bopyriden. II. Bopyrina Virbii, Beitriige zur Kenntniss 

der Anatomie und Metamorphose der Bopyriden. Zeitschr.f.wiss.Zool.,y.'S5,-p^. 

652-680. 
Miers (Edw. J.). Revision of the Idoteidae, a family of sessile-eyed Crustacea. Journ. 

Linn. Soc. London, Zool., v. 16, pp. 1-88, pi. 1-3. 

Decapoda. 

Edwards (Alphouse MiLne). Description de quelques Cru8tac6s macroures provenant 

des grandes profondeurs de la mer des Antilles. (Suite.) Ann.Scienc.Nat.,{&,) 

Zool.,\.\\. (16 pp.) 
Packard (A. S., jr.). On a Cray-fish (Cambarus primaevns) from the lower Tertiary 

beds of Western Wyoming. Bull. U. S. Geogr. and Geolog. Surv. Territ, v. 6, pp. 

391-397. 

Beep -sea Crustaceans. 

One of the most interesting as well as important results of the 
<leep-sea investigations in recent years has been the discovery of the 
richness of the Crustacean fauna at great depths. The Decapods ob- 
tained by the United Siates Coast-Survey ship Blake in the Caribbean 
Sea and Gulf of Mexico have been reported on by Prof. A. Milne Ed- 
wards, of Paris, and the revelations have been most interesting as well as 
unexpected. At those depths which were regarded by naturalists of 
the past generation as devoid of life, numerous remarkable forms, pre- 
viously wholly unknown, were discovered. The bracliyurans— true 
crabs — occur but sparingly at great depths, but even of them species 
extend downward as low as 400 fathoms, in which zone a form allied 
to the genus Gonoplax is represented. It is blind, and has been named 
by Mr. Edwards, Batliyplax. But it is the Anomurous and Macrurous 
Decapods that are especially abundant in the deep sea. Of the family 
of Pagurida; — hermit crabs — numerous forms were secured which are 
interesting not only in themselves, but on account of the light they 
cast on the morphology of the group, and the '' intermediate " types they 
furnish. One, for example — Pylocheles Agassizii — has a regularly annu- 
lated abdomen terminated by a symmetrical fin instead of the usual 
soft " tail," and thus recalls the Thalassinidae. Others, on the contrary— 
Spiropaguriis and Catapagitrus — have very small and sub-spiral abdo- 



ZOOLOGY. 437 

mens, wliicli thej'^ insert iu correspondingly small spiral shells. Other 
remarkable modifications are exemplified in various new genera, desig- 
nated as MixtopagtiriiSy Ostraconotus, Xylopagurus, &c. Again, the 
family of the Galatheidae, which was previously not known to be rep- 
resented in American waters, furnished 41 species, representing a 
number of new genera, as well as the widely distributed old genera, 
Galathea and Mimida, the latter of which was increased by the addition of 
11 new species. Species of the family extend downward to the depth of 
2,000 fathoms or more. Finally, the family of Dromiidaj is no w ascertained 
to be characteristic of the deep and rich in species, and the family of 
EryontidsB is confirmed as an equally characteristic deep sea type, Ee- 
duction or complete atrophy of the eyes was a common attribute of 
the newly discovered species, but by no means universal. A species of 
Munida, on the contrary, was marked by an excessive development of 
the eyes. They are thus analogous in this respect, as a whole, to the 
deep-sea fishes. 

Beep-sea Crustaceans near the Ifew England coast. 

The deep equatorial seas are not singular. While such rich acces- 
sions have been made to the class of Crustaceans from the deep Carib- 
bean and Gulf seas, additions of no inconsiderable importance have 
also accrued from the exploration of tiie ocean farther north. Under 
the auspices of the United States Fish Commission, in 1880, the 
steamer Fish Hawk made three dredging trips to the "Block Island 
soundings," off the eastern end of Long Island, between latitude 39° 
4C' and 40=^ 06' N., and longitude 70° 22' and 71° 10' W. The depths 
explored varied from G4 to 500 fathoms. The Crustaceans obtained on 
these trips were studied by Prof. Sydney I. Smith. Professor Smith 
remarks that "the richness, in both species and individuals, of this 
Crustacean fauna would never have been suspected, and scarcely 
dreamed of, by one accustomed only to the meagre fauna of the shal- 
lower waters of the south coast of New England. The larger part of 
the species secured from the great masses of material brought up in 
the trawl and dredge are Decapoda." There are comparatively few small 
species of Schizopoda, Cumacea and Amjihipoda, and further dredging 
will undoubtedly increase very greatly the number of species in those 
groujxs. Premising tbat the "enumeration is not comijlete even for the 
Decapoda," Professor Smith enumerates just 50 species, of which some 
are widely diffused, although 43 of them are for the first time recorded 
"as belonging to the New England fauna south of Cape Cod"; 14 are 
described as new^, and 3 others are indicated as partially new, while one 
new generic type was discovered — Jlenupagurus, with two species — 
belonging to tlie family Pagurida3, so much enlarged by Prof. A. Milne 
Edwards. Thirty-two of the species were Decapoda; the others were 
Schizopoda (4), Cumacea (1), Stomatopoda (1), Amphipoda (7), and 
Isopoda (5). 



438 ZOOLOGY. 

Parasitic Crustaceans. 

The extent to wliicli fishes of various kinds are infested with Crus- 
tacean parasites is little known. A considerable proportion will yield 
parasites to the careful searcher. Mr. A. Valle has examined a large 
number of Adriatic fishes, and found G9 species of entomostracans 
alone. Out of 670 fishes examined, as many as -250 had entoraos- 
tracan parasites. A new species of the remarkable genus Philichthys, 
named P. EicMardi, was discovered in the canal of the preopercular bone 
of the sparoid fish known as Box salpa. — (Bull. Soc. Adriat. Sc. Nat., vi, 
pp. 65-81.) 

A fossil Tertiary Cray-fish. 

The fresh-water crayfishes of the family Astacidce and like ani- 
mals are of new interest since the publication of Professor Huxley's 
monograph on the craj^-fish, and in view of the peculiarities of their 
distribution. The representatives of the family inhabiting the waters 
of the northern hemisphere are divided into genera variously distrib- 
uted. They resemble each other closely externally, but arc distinguished 
especially by the number of the gills. The typical species constitute 
the genus Astacus^ which is developed in the Old World, and also on 
the Pacific slope of North America, while the species of the eastern 
waters of North America belong to a pecular genus, named Camharus. 
These types are of considerable antiquity, and Professor Packard has 
discovered in the lower Tertiary shales of Western Wyoming, which 
are supposed to be of the Eocene age, remains which he refers to the 
limited genus Camharus, with the name Camharus primwvus. The 
species, in his own words, "is exceedingly interesting, from the fact 
that it represents a jDeriod in which heretofore no fossil cray-fish has 
been found. The soft, fine, fossil, clayey shales of the Bear River Ter 
tiaries contain not only a good many herring-like fish, but also genuine 
•skates. The presence of land plants, mingled with marine animals, 
shows that the waters were fresh, but communicated with the sea. The 
■conditions were apparently those of a deep estuary into which fresh- 
water streams ran, and in these rivers lived the cray-fish." 

It is claimed that "the discovery of an apparently fresh-water 
Camharus in the Green River beds of Northern Wyoming, which are 
supposed to be lower Eocene strata, fills up a break in the geological 
series hitherto existing between the Cretaceous and Pliocene cray-fishes, 
and shows that the dynasty of fresh-water cray-fish, now so powerfully 
developed in the TJn'ted States, began its reign during the early Ter- 
tiary period." 

ARACHNIDS. 
1. FAUN^. 

Ewope. 
Simoti ■(Eug.)' Les Araclmides de France, t. 5. 1. partie, contenant les famiUes 
des EpeiridiTB (suppl6ment) et des Tberidionida) (commencemeiit). Paris, Roret, 
1881. 8vo. (186 pp., 1 pi.) 



ZOOLOGY. 439 

Asia. 

rborell (T.). Stnd siii Ragni Malesi e Papmm , III. Ragni doll' Anstro-Malcsi.a o 
del Capo York, osscrvati ncl Musco Civico di Storia Natiirale di Geiiova. Ann. 
Mus. Civ. Slor. ]\'ai. Genova, v. 17, pp. vii-xxvii, 1-720. 
Note.— I and II were piiblisbed in Aiiii. Mus. Civ. St. Nat., v. 10 and ]:?. 

Ausiralia. 

Kocli (L.). Die Aracliniden Aiisiralieus nacli der Natur beschrieben nnd abgebildet. 
Fortgesetzt von Graf E. Keyserling. 28. Lief. Niirnberg, Bauer «fe Raspe, 1881. 
(4to. M. 9.) 

2. SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Acarina. 

Haller(G. ). Vorliiufige Bemerkungen iiber das Gehororgan der Ixodidon. Mit Ab- 

bild. Zoolog. Anz., 4. Jalug., pj). 1(55-107. 
. Die Muudtbeilc und systematiscbe Stellung der Milben. Zool. Anz., 4. 

Jabrg., pp. 380-386. 

Tardtgrada. 

Jung ( — ). Ueber Tardigraden. Zeitschr. f. d. ges. Natunciss., v. 54, pp. 190-192. 

. Revival of Tardigrades after Desiccation. Journ. E. Microscop. «%c., (2,) v. I, 

p. 5, Oct., p. 732. 
Abstract of preceding. 

Arandda. 

Karsch (F.). Eine neue Vogelspiuno aus Siidafrica (Stromatopelma — u. g. — alica- 
pillatum — n.sp.). Berlin. Entomolog. Zeitschr., v. 2.5, pp. 217-218. 

MacCook (H. C. ) . How Orb-Weaving Spiders make tbe Framework or Foundations of 
Webs. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Pliila., 1881, pp. 430-435. 

Simon (E.). Revision de la famille des Sparassidae (Aracbnidea). Act. Soc. Linn. 
Bordeaux, v. 34, pp. 223-351, 1880. 

The relations of the Mites. 

The small animals known as Mites^have been nsnally regarded as 
repre.sontatives of the class of Arachnids. I)r. G. Haller, liowevor, has 
lately studied these forms with great care, and finds that they have not 
oidy three pairs of maxillae and a true labium, with palpi, but two pairs 
of abdominal, besides the cephalothoracic legs. He considers, there- 
fore, that they do not belong to the Arachnids, and that tliey are even 
more nearly allied to the Crustaceans, from which they chiefly differ 
in breathing through tracheae instead of gills. On account of tins 
peculiar combination of characters he proposes that they should form a 
class of Arthropods, collateral to the Crustaceans, Arachnids, and My- 
riapods and Hexapod insects. 

Tico remarlidble Spiders. 

A most peculiar Spider, inhabiting the Island of IMadagascnr, has 
been made known by the Eev. O. P. Cambridge. The ceplialothorax, 
instead of being simply convex or little tnberculated, as usual, is extraor- 
dinarily developed. It first (1) rises upward, like a long, attenuated 



440 ZOOLOGY. 

neck, and then (2) swells backwards, as well as forwards, into a head- 
like prominence, which (3) presents an anterior and downward surface 
for the falces, near which are the largest eyes; (4) the falces are 
elongated to correspond with the development of the cephalothorax 
and curved. In brief, when viewed from the side the cephalothorax 
and falces combined forcibly remind one of an Ibis, or, still more, a 
Balccniceps in a state of rest, with the head inclining backward, the 
cephalothorax representing the neck and head, and the falces the bill. 
The mimicry, or rather resemblance, is even stronger ia this instance 
than that of a horse's neck and head by the anterior portion of the 
Sea-horse, or Hippocampus. The abdomen is higher than long, and 
rises upward in a conic prominence. This spider is of rather small size, 
and has been described from a single immature male specimen. It has 
been named Eriauclienus \Yorl;manni. Mr. Cambridge has provisionally 
referred it to the family Theridiidae, and would put it ''in a separate 
group, near the genera Argyrodes, Latr., and Ariamnes, Thor.," but 
thinks that "very probably the future discovery of other allied species 
will necessitate the formation of a new family for them." (P. Z. S., 
London, 1881, pp. 767-770, pi. C6, fig. 2 a-f.) The aberration of the form 
from its nearest relatives, indeed, appears to be sufficient, involving as 
it must corresponding structural modifications, to justify its differen- 
tiation as a family type without waiting for kindred species. One of 
the prime objects of taxonomy should be to express in the system and 
nomenclature the facts of structure, without reference to the number of 
species nnder which peculiarities are manifested. 

Another singular Spider, unlike an ordinary spider as a spider could 
well be, has been made known by Mr. Cambridge, under the name 
Ariamnes attemiata. It is an inhabitant of Brazil ("the Amazons"). 
If motionless on the ground it might be mistaken for a thorn or small 
dirt-covered pin. The cephalothorax is oblong, and with the oculiferous 
area elevated into a slight conical eminence. The abdomen presents 
an extraordinary development, being subcyliudrical, very long, and 
attenuated to an acute point, almost as much as the shaft of an ordinary 
pin. The legs are very unequal in length, the first being longest, and 
the fourth, second, and third pairs successively shortened; the third 
pair are much the shortest. In fine, the animal looks at first sight much 
more like an elongated orthopterous insect than a spider. As already 
intimated, the genus Ariamnes ha§ been associated with Eriauclienus in 
the same artificial family — Theridiidae. 

ONyCHOPHORA. 

Erust (A.). Some remarks on Peripatus Edwardsii Blanch. Nature, r. 23, iip. 446-445*. 

INSECTS. 
GENERAL. 

Germany. 
Erichson (W. F.). Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutsclilands. Fortgesetzt von H. 
Scliauui, G. Kraalz, II. v. Kiesen wetter iind Jul. Weise. I. Abtli. Coleoptera. 6 
Bd., 1. Lief., bearbeitet von Jul. Weise. Berlin, Nicolai, 1881, (8vo. M. 4.50.) 



ZOOLOGY, 441 

Inseciarimn. 

Forbes (W. A.)- The insectarium at the Zoological Gardens. Entomoh Monthly May., 
V. 18, pp. 15, 16. 

PliospUoreacent insects. 

Gadeaii de Kervillo (H.). Les insectea phosphorescents. Avec 4 pi. chromo-lith. 
Eouen, iiupr. Deshaye, 1881. (8vo. 55 pp.) 

Generation. 

Jobert ( — ). Eecherches pour servir h I'histoire de la g6n6ratiou chez les iusectea. 
Compt. rend. Ac. Sci. Paris, t. 93, pp. 975-977. 

Geographical distribution. 

Saj6 (Karl). Die Statiatik auf dem Gebiete der Entomologie, im Dieuste der Zoogeo- 
graphie und Zoophaenologie. Zeiischr. filr Entomol., 1881, pp. 28-39. 

Fossil insects. 

Scndder (S. H.). Relation of Devonian Insects to Later and Existing Types. Amer. 
Journ. ofSc, (3,) v. 20; Ann. ^ Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 7, pp. 255-261. 

Nervous system. 

brandt (E.). Researches on the Comparative Anatomy of the Nervons System in the 
different orders of the Class of Insects. Ann. cj- Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 7, pp. 
71-73. 

Periodicals. 

Annales de la Societ6 Entomologique de France. 5. s^r., t. 11, Paris, 1881. (8vo.) 
BuUettino della Society Entomologica Italiana. Anno xiii. Firenzo, 1881. (8vo.) 
Entomologislie Tidskrift. Utgifv. af Jac. Spaugberg. 1881, Bd. 1. Stockholm, 1881. 

(8vo.) 
Mittheilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft. Bulletin de la 

Soci^t^ Entomologique Suisse, v. 6. Schaffhausen, 1881. (8vo.) 
PapUio. Organ of the New York Entomological Club. v. 1. New York, 1881. (8vo.) 
Psyche. Organ of the Cambridge Entomological Club. v. 3. Cambridge, Mass., 

1881. (8vo.) 
Soci6t6 Entomologique de Belgique. Comptes-rendus des stances. 3. s6r. Bruxelles, 

1881. (8vo.) 
Stettijier Entomologische Zeitung. 42. Jahrg. Stettin, Grobmann, 1831. (8vo.) 
Zeitschrift fiir Entomologie. Herausgegeben vom Verein filr schlesische Insecten- 

kunde zn Breslau. Neue Folge, Breslau, Maruschke & Berendt in Comm., 1881. 

(8vo.) 

Economical entomology. 

Ormerod (Eleanor A. ). A Manual of Inj urious Insects, and methods of prevention and 
remedy for their attacks, etc. With a short Introduction to Entomology. With 
ninstrations. London, Sonnenschein, 1881. (8vo. 364 pp. 3sh.) 

Riley (C. V.). Further Notes on the Pollination of Yucca and on Pronuba and Pro- 
doxus. Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sc, v. 29. (23 pp.) 

Schmidt-Gobol (H. M.). Die schiidlichen und niitzlichen Insecten in Forst, Feld uud 
Garten. 2. Abth. Die schiidlichen Insecten des Land- und Gartenbauos. Mit 6 
Foliotaf. u. 13 AbbUd. im Text. Wien, Holzel, 1881. (8vo. viii, 296 pp. ) 



442 ZOOLOGY. 

U. S. EnlomoJogical Commission. 

Second Report of the United States Entomological Commission for the years 1878 and 
1879, relating to the Rocky Mountain Locust and the Western Cricket, etc. With 
Maps and Illustrations (17 pi.). Washington, Government Printing Office, 1880. 
(8vo.) 

SPECIAL ORDERS. 

Myriapods. 

Cantoui (Elvezio). Miriapodi di Lombardia. Atti Soc. Hal. So. Nat., v. 23, pp. 314- 
362. 

ArcMpohjpoda. 

Scudder (S. H.). The structure and affinities of Euphoheria of Meek and Worthen, a 
genus of Carboniferous Myriapoda. Am. Joitrn. Sc, (3,) v. 21, pp. 182-18G; Ann. 
Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 7, pp. 437-442. 

Chilapoda. 

Ryder (John A.). List of the North American species of Myriapoda belonging to the 
family of the Lysiojietalidaj, with a description of a blind form fromLuray Cave, 
Virginia. Proc. U. tS. Nation. Mus., v. 3, pj). 524-529. 

SymphyJa. 

Packard (A. S.), jr. Scolopendrella and its position in nature. Am. Naturalist, v. 15, 

pp. G98-704. 
Ryder (John A.). The Structure, Affinities, and Species of Scolopendrella. Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1881, pp. 79-86. 

Collemhola. 

Renter (O. M.). Etudes sur lea Collemboles. Acta Soc. Sc. Fetinicw, Helaingfora, 1880. 
V. 13. (21pp., 1 pi.) 

Orthoptera. 

Packard (A. S., jr.) The Brain of the Embryo and Young Locust. With 2 pi. Am. 

Naturalist, v. 15, pp. 372-379. 
Prato (Joh. Napol. Barona). Der internationalo Phylloxex-a-Congress zu Saragossa in 

Spanien. Wien, W. Frick, 1881. (8vo. 39 pp. M. I, 20.) 
Riley (Charles V.). The Rocky Mountain Locust. Further Facts about the Natural 

Enemies of Locusts. M Report U. S. Entomological Covimiss., pp. 259-271, with 1 pi. 

Pseudoneuroptera. 

Imhof (Otho E. W.). Beitrag zur Anatomic der Perla maxima Scop. Inaug.-Diss. 

(Zurich). Aaran, 1881. (8vo. 41 pp.) 
Lendenfeld (R. von). Der Flng der Libellulen. Ein Beitrag zur Anatomic und Phy- 

siologie der Flugorgane der Insecteu. Sitzungsber. Akad. Wiss. Wien, v. 83, pp. 

289-376, 7 pi. 
Polotaiew (Nic). Du d^veloppement des muscles d'ailes chez les Odonates. Horce 

Soc. Entomol. Ross., t. 16. (28 pp.) 

Coleoptera. 

Broun (Thonias). Manual of the New Zealand Coleoptera. Wellington, Jam. Ilnghea, 
1880. (8vO. 640 pp.) 



ZOOLOGY. 443 

Cbaudoir {Baron Max do). Monograpljio des Scaritidea. 2. partie. Ann. Soc. En- 

tomol. Bclg., t.23, pp. 1-130. 
Dohrn(C. A.). Zur nordamericaniscliea Kaferlitteratnr. Stettin. Entomolog. Zeitung, 

42. Jalirg., pp. 238-243. 
Heyden (L. von). Monstrose Kiifer aiis nieiuer iind der Sammlung des Horrn Prof. 

Doebner in Ascbaffenliurg. Deutsche Entomoloff. Zeitschr., 25. Jabrg., jip. 105-110. 
Horn (George H.). Synopsis of tbe Sili>bida3 of tbe United States, witb reference to 

tbe genera of otbor countries. Transact. Am. Entomol. Soc, 1880, pp. 219-320, 3 pi. 
Kraatz (G.). Monstrose Kiifer. Deutsche Entomoloff. Zeitschr., 2^). Jabrg., pp. 111-112. 
. Ueber die Wicbtigkeit der Untersncbung des milunliehen Begattnngsgliedea 

der Kiifer fiir Systematik nud Artunterscheidung. Deutsche Entomolog. Zeitschr., 

V. 25, pp. 113-12(). 
Miilsaut (fitienne). Histoire naturelle des Col^opt^res de France. Famille des La- 

tbridiens. 1. partie, par Fr. Marie Jos. Belon, Lyon,Georg; Paris, J. B. Baillifere 

et fils, 1881. (8vo. 213 pp.) 
Reitter (Edm.), etc. Bestimmnngs-Tabellen der enropiiiscben Coleoptoron. IV. Cis- 

telidae, Georyssidae nnd Tborictidiaj, von Edm. Reitter. IVa. CEdemeridae, von 

Ludwig Ganglbauer. Verhandl. Jc. k, zool.-iot. Ges. Wiert, v. 31, pp. G7-96, and pp. 

97-146. 
. Bestimmnngs-Tabellen der enropiiiscben Coleopteren. V. Panssidse, Clavl- 

geridae, Pselapbidse nnd Scydrarenidaj, von Edm. Reitter. Verhandl. k. k. zool.-hot. 

Ges. Wien, v. 31, pp. 443-592. 
Reicbenau (Wilb. von). Ueber den Ursprung der secnndiireu miinnlicben Gescblecbta- 

cbaractero, iusbesondere bet den Blattborn-Kafcvn. Kosmos, v. 10, ])p. 172-194. 
Scbi0dte (J. C). De Metamorpbose Eleiitberatornm observationes. Bidrag til lu- 

sektemes Udviklingshistorie. Naturhist. Tidskr., (3,) v. 12, pp. 513-598, 5 pi. 

Hymenoptera. 

Andr^ (E.). Sp6cies des Hymdnoptferea d'Europe et d'Alg^rie. Fasc. x (pp. 485-5G3 ; 

fin du V. 1.) Beanue, 1881. (Bvo.) 
Cbesbire (E. R.). Pbysiology and Anatomy of the Honey Bee, and its Relations to 

Flowering Plants. Witb 2 large plates in fol. containing 54 col. fig. London, 

1881. (8vo.) 

Jabrbncb der Bienenznebt, zngleicb Bienenkalender und Notizbncb auf das Jabj 

1882. Herausgpgeben von Fr. Wilb. Vogel. Mit Portr. Datbe's. Mannheim, J. 
Schneider, 1882. (Nov., 1881— 8 vo. M. 1.80.) 

Lubbock (<Sir John). Observations on Ants, Bees, and Wasps. Part VIII. Journ. Linn. 
Soc. London, Zool., v. 15, pp. 3G2-387. 

MacCook (H. C). Tbe Honey Ants of the Gardens of the Gods and the Occident Ants 
of the American Plains; a Monograph of the Architecture and Habits of the 
Honey-bearing Ant {Myiinecocystus melUger), with Notes npou the Anatomy and 
Pbysiology of the Alimentary Canal, together witli a Natural History of tbe Occi- 
dent Harvesting Aula or Stone-moukl Builders of tbe American Pkiius. Phila- 
delphia, 1881. (8vo. $3.) 

Spaulding (Justin). The Bee's Tongue, and glands connected witb it, Am. Nat., v. 15, 
pp. 113-119, Feb., 1882. 

Diptera. 

Conil (P. A.). Nonveaux cas de Myiasis observds dans la province do Cordoba (Rdp. 

Arg.) et dans la Rdpublique de Y6n6zn6\a. Periodo Zoolog. Argent., t. 3, pp. 148- 

176; Ann. Sc. Natur., (6,) t. 10, art. 6, 27 pp. 
ViaUanes (H.). Histolysis of the Muscles of l»ho Larva during the poatembryouic 

development of the Diptera. Abstr. Journ. R. Microscop. Soc, (2,) v. 1, pp. 445-446. 
Hagen (H. A.). On tbe Proboscis of Nemoguatha. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 20, 

pp. 429-430, 1880. 



444 ZOOLOGY. 

Meinert (Fr.). Fluernos Munddele. Trophi Dipterorum. Kjpibenliavn, Hagenip, 
1881. (4to. 91 pp., fi pi.) 

Lepidoptera. 

Hartmanu (A.). Die Kleinsclimetterlinge cles europiiisclien Faunengebietes (Fort- 

setzung). Mittheil. Milnclien. Entomolog. Ver., 4. Jalirg., pp. 1-122. 
Hutchinson (E. S.). On the supposed Extinction of Vanessa C-alhum. The Enfomol- 

ogist, V. 14, pp. 250-252. 
Kayser (J. C). Deutschlands Schmetterlinge niit Beriicksichtigung siimmtlicher 

europiiischer Arten. (NeueAusg.) 2.-23. Lief. Leipzig, 1881. (8vo. pp. 17-368, 

mitje4Taf. M.l.) 
Lang (Henry Charles). The Butterflies of Europe. Part 1. London, Reeve & Co., 

1881. (8vo. To be published in about 20 monthly parts of 16 pp. and 4 col.pl. 

each.) 
Scudder (Sam. H.). Butterflies, their Structure, Changes and Life-Histories, with 

special reference to American Forms. Now York, H. Holt & Co., 1881. (8vo. 

322 pp.) 
Walsingham (Lord Thomas). On some North-American Tineidi*. Proc. Zool. Soc. 

London, 1881, pp. 301-325. 

Peculiar carboniferous Myriapods. 

In 1868, Messrs. Meek and TVortlien described a peculiar spinigerous 
Myriapod, found in ironstone nodules, occurring in the Carboniferous 
formation of Illinois, under the name Euplioheria major. They referred 
it to the order of Myriapods, but the condition of their specimens did 
not enable them to satisfactorily elucidate its structure. Later, better 
preserved specimens for that purpose were secured, and have been 
studied by Mr. S. H. Scudder.* Some noteworthy peculiarities of struct- 
ure were disclosed, which contrast with those of living Myriapods. In 
the segments of the body " the dorsal plate occupies scarcely more than 
two-thirds of the circuit of the body, or even less," and is opposed by 
a broad ventral plate ; the dorsal plate is " not perforated for foramina 
repugnatoria, but, as means of defense, it is armed with two or three 
huge spines upon either side"; the ventral plates " occupy the entire 
ventral surface," or may even extend upwards ; they are together equal 
in length to any part of the dorsal plate, the segments of the body 
being equal in length throughout. The legs, " instead of being inserted 
at the extreme posterior edge of the plate, are planted almost in its very 
center, are appreciably distant from their opposites, and are compara- 
tively large ; they also differ from those of modern types in having the 
second joint as long as the others combined." The stigmata are large 
and " situated in the middle of each ventral plate." Between the coxal 
cavities are peculiar paired organs, " situated one on either side of the 
median line at the very front edge of every ventral i)late," thought by 
Mr. Scudder to be " supports for branchiae." On account of such pecu- 
liar characters or their combination, Mr. Scudder is of the opinion that 
the Euplioheriidw should be placed " in a group apart from " the primary 
subdivisions recognized for liying Myriapods, and has proposed to iso- 
late them in a division co-ordinate with the Diplopoda and Chilopoda, 
which he has named Archipolypoda. (A. J. S. (3), xxi, 182-186.) 



ZOOLOGY. 445 

The Blood of Insects. 

The characteristics of the blood of insects have been investigated by 
M. L. Fr6d6ricq, of Belgium, as manifested in the larva of Oryctes nasi- 
cornis, a lamellicorn beetle. Blood drawn from the dorsal vessel by a 
glass cannula was a colorless fluid having nearly the same appearance 
as the lymph of mammals, but numerous colorless globules diffused 
through the fluid negatived complete transparency. Coagulation super- 
vened immediately, and the fluid turned to a dark-brown color soon after 
exposure. This change was due to oxidation, and not at all to light. 
The coloration is not related to respiration. In reality the phenomenon 
of change is one of death, and may be compared to spontaneous coagula- 
tion. There is no evidence of the existence of either haemoglobin or 
hfemocyanin in the blood. 

Stigmata of Insects. 

The respiratory system of the hexapod insects has been examined 
by Dr. O. Krancher as to a large number of species. The variation 
of the stigmata in structure as well as other characteristics proved to 
be very extensive, and consequently no positive generalizations could 
be formulated. The principal conclusion was that the variations were 
correlated with adaptation for various modes of life. The method of 
investigation adopted by the author is detailed in his memoir. (J. K.. 
M. S., i, 729, from Z. w. Z., v. xxxv, pp. 505-574.) 

In this connection it may be added that Dr. H. Uagen, in opposition 
to the views of Dr. Palm^n, contends that the stigmatic cords are not 
rudimentary and closed tubes, but functionless open ones, and that they 
do not become completely developed during the larval stages. (Z. A., Iv, 
404). 

Dr. O. Kraucher, in 1880 (Zool. Anz., v. 3, pp. 584-588), had grouped 
the modifications of the stigmata known to him into two jirimary groups 
and five secondary ones; those without lips having been referred to two 
categories, and those with lips to three. 

An Insectarium. 

In the year 1881 the Zoological Society of London added to its rich 
exhibition a new feature in the shape of an insectarium. No previous 
attempt, at least on an extended scale, had been made to bring to- 
gether a collection of living insects for popular instruction, and the 
novel addition therefore deserves some notice. The insectarium is 
housed in a building framed of iron and glass on three of its sides, while 
its back is brick; the structure, however, was not expressly erected for 
the use to which it has been put, and its interior arrangements need 
only be considered. The insects are imprisoned in special cases, the 
largest of which are 32 inches long and 24 wi'de, with a depth of 18, 
Those used for the principal specimens are formed of zinc plates. 
The upper part of each is glazed on all four sides, the top being 



446 ZOOLOGY. 

formed of perforated zinc so as to admit the air. The food-plant or 
object required for the suspension of the chrysalis, when that stage 
of the insect is exhibited, is inserted into the case through a circular 
hole iu the bottom; but the glass front also opens, so that ready access 
may be obtained to the interior. The cases are arranged all along the 
sides of the interior of the building as well as on two tables in the mid- 
dle. The contents of the several cases are indicated by labels and sup- 
plemented by mounted specimens of the corresponding species in its 
various stages of development. The most conspicuous of the exhibits 
are the large Bomhycidce, or silk-producing moths, which had been ob- 
tained from their respective habitats iu the chrysalis form ; among them 
were the American Samia cecrojpia and Samia Gloveri, and it was found 
that the former selected the plum-tree and the latter the gooseberry as 
favorite food-plants. 

The Periodical Cicada^ alias " Seventeen-year LocusV^ 

The well-known Cicada, which, from its periodical appearance, has 
been designated as "The Seventeen-year Locust," is represented by a 
form, which, according to entomologists, cannot be specifically diflereuti- 
ated from it, but which differs in habits, appearing at intervals of only 
thirteen years, and which has consequently been designated by Professor 
Eiley as the Cicada tredecim. Certain broods of both of these forms 
coincided in their appearance in 1881 : one of septemdecim had made its 
last appearance iu numbers in the year 1864, and one of tredecim in 1868, 
and the last simultaneous appearance of the two would therefore have 
been in 1660. 

Alternate generation in the Gall Insects, 

In certain species of Cynipidse Dr. Adler has discovered that alterna- 
tion of generation takes place, and that the same species in the two stages 
may show such differences that the respective forms had been previously 
referred to two distinct genera. The discovery was made through the 
observation that N'euroterus laid eggs which gave birth to a form repre- 
senting the genus Sjpatheogaster, such form being an agamic condition. 
The organs of generation are nevertheless reproduced in the agamic 
offspring, and the eggs are even developed generally in larger number. 
It is noteworthy, also, that in the agamic form there is also a recepta- 
culum seminis, but it is rudimentary: 19 species representing three 
genera — Ncuroterus^ Dryoj)hanta, and Biorhiza — manifest alternation of 
generation, but four others, of the genus Aphilothrix, do not develop the 
agamic stage. These results are confirmatory of deductions by Bassett 
and Kiley made in the United States about ten years ago. 

Peculiar glands connected with the Bee's Tongue. 

The common honey bee Avas being examined as to the structure of its 
" tongue" by Mr. Justin Spaulding, when he discovered in the mentum 



ZOOLOGY. 447 

a small spiral tube, aud traced it to a glandular body which he consid- 
ered to have been previously overlooked. A fall description has been 
given, but it cati be only stated here that Mr. Spaulding believes that 
these glands, on account of their size, position, and outlet, furnish the 
secretion which changes the nectar into honey. As to their homologies, 
he suggests that they are the spinning glands of the larvse modified for 
the new function, and that in such cases they should be found more or 
less developed or aborted in other Hymenoptera. 

Aqtiatic Lepidopterotis Larvce. 

The butterflies and especially their caterpillars are so associated in 
our minds with terrestrial vegetation, that few conceive of the existence 
of forms that spend their entire larval condition in the Avater, and 
that are especially adapted for aquatic respiration. Yet M. 0. Maurice 
has indicated that most of the prominent groups of the Lepidoptera 
have aquatic representatives. Members of the families BombycidoB 
and Si^hiugidae live during their caterpillar stage in the waters, but 
none are known to have tracheal gills. The larva of Para/ponyx, a 
form of the family Pyralidse, however, has long been known to be pro- 
vided with branchise as well as spiracles, and its pupa to live in its 
cocoon among leaves under water. The structure of that type has been 
re-examined by M. Maurice so far as its respiratory functions are con- 
cerned. The tracheal gills have delicate membranes subservient to an 
endosmosis of oxygen and exosmosis of carbonic acid. The stigmata 
occur in the thoracic regions, but are not functional in the larva and 
are closed by a delicate membrane. It is only when the animal is left 
exposed to the direct air — for instance, by the desiccation of the marsh 
in which it has lived — that functional activity for the spiracles super- 
venes. (J. R. M. S. (2), I, 730, from Bull Sc. Dep. Nord., IV, 115-120.) 

The proboscis of the Lepidoptera. 

The proboscis of the Lepidoptera has been examined by M. Breiten- 
bach, with a view to determine its origin and the homologies of its 
parts. "Without at all indorsing his views, we submit an abstract of 
them. 

The proboscis is represented " in the early stages, for in the late 
larva it has been found already represented by two long, curved cords. 
But, further, the obvious connections of the group with the Trichoptera 
show that the biting mouth of the latter has produced the sucking 
tube of the former by modification of the labium, maxilla?, and labrum, 
which were first all united in a tubular organ; the edges of the two 
maxillaj then became more closely approximated, and the share of the 
other two parts in the organ became unnecessary, and they were ex- 
cluded from it. This metamorphosis, however, was probably made in 
various stages, each having some definite advantage to the insect as its 



448 ZOOLOGY. 

object : e. g., the exclusion of the labrum and labium from the organ 
was a beneficial simpli 11 cation, the great object being to bring the two 
maxillre together; the latter organs were able to assume a greater 
(leveiopment in consequence of the reduction of the former; this de- 
velopment was further promoted by the abnormal method by which 
food was obtained. The increase in the length of the tube was caused 
by the depth which the nectaries of certain flowers exhibited, and by 
which they excluded insects hurtful to them, while, at the same time, 
this very depth allowed of the accumulation of a greater amount of 
honey." 

Among other subjects treated of by M. Breitenbach in this connection 
are tlie structure and functions of the so-called juice-borers, which are 
discussed at considerable loogth. (J. K. M. S., (2,) II, 35-37, from 
Jen. Zeitschr. Nat., XV, 151-214, with 3 pi.) 

Devastations by Insects. 

Many millions of dollars are yearly lost to the farming community 
through the devastations of insects, and thereby the labors of tbe agri- 
culturist are rendered more onerous than they would otherwise be, and 
not infrequently unremunerative. In order to avert as much as possi- 
ble the ravages of these in size insignificant but in numbers formid- 
able enemies, it has been deemed the part of wisdom by civilized 
governments to retain men skilled in the knowledge of insects and in 
investigations of their habits, to learn and teach the best means of 
meeting their attacks. The general government and several states 
have their special entomological bureaus, and each year reports are 
published in which some branch of economical entomology is consid- 
ered. From the great mass of information relative to the subject 
published in 1881 we select the following notes. 

The Phylloxera. — The devastations of the justly-named Phylloxera 
vastatrix on the vineyards of various countries have attracted much 
attention. The losses in many countries have been appalling. In 
France, for example, of the 2,200,000 hectares (about 5,500,000 acres) 
planted with vines nearly a quarter have been overrun and the plants 
practically destroyed, while as many more have been attacked (A. N., 
XV, 821). Strenuous efforts have been made to prevent the spread of the 
insec<ts by different governments. In Italy, Spain, Turkey, Roumania, Al- 
geria, and the Cape of Good Hope the introduction of all living plants 
is entirely prohibited; in Germany the restriction extends only to vine- 
])lants, while in Switzerland, Austria-Hungary, and Portugal, introduc- 
tion of "living plants" is permitted if attested by certificates to come 
from uninfected localities (A. K, XV, 821). So rigidly is the law enforced 
in some places that a cargo of potatoes arriving iji Cape Town from New 
Zealand was destroyed for fear that the pest might be imported therein 
(A. N., XV, 239). Objection has been made, however, to such stringent 



ZOOLOGY. 449 

regulations, but "Dr. Maximo Coriiu has lately submitted a report, iu 
which, while confessing that Fhylloxera vastatrix is confined to the 
grapevine and can flourish on no other plant, he yet recommends the 
following of the example set by Algeria, which is to forbid the intro- 
duction of all vegetable products whatever, except those absolutely 
required for consumption" {Biley, A. N., XV, 239). It has been found 
that the American vines enjoy at least comparative immunity from the 
attacks of Fhylloxera, and large consignments of roots have been im- 
ported into France from the United States to replant the destroyed 
vineyards (A. N., XV, 322). 

Enemies of Rice. — The rice plant in the Southern United States has 
sufl'ered in past years from the attacks of two insects, both beetles, the 
Ckalepus trachypygus and lAssorhoptrus simplex, and a third insect has 
now been added to the list of its formidable enemies; but the newly- 
discovered pest is the caterpillar of a Lepidopter — the Laphygma frugi- 
perda. The last proved to be very destructive to rice plants in the 
summer of 1881 in Georgia, and was identified by Professor Eiley. It 
had been known before as a scourge to various grasses and grains, but 
not as a special enemy of the rice. In the East Indies a third order of 
insects — the Diptera — has contributed an additional and very formid- 
able pest to the rice cultivator. It is the newly-discovered Cccidomyia 
oryscc, of which no congener had previously been known to occur in 
India. {Riley, A. K, XV, 148, 482, 751.) 

Enemies of Pastures. — Another insect, which has long been known, but 
had not been hostile to the industry of man, in 1881 assumed a new 
role, and attacked pastures in the Eastern States — especially in parts 
of New York and New Jersey — " some fields as large as forty acres being 
ruined and others showing only dead spots of a rod or two square." 
The injurious larvae were supposed by the farmers to be "army worms," 
l}ut specimens were identified by Professor lliley as representatives of 
two distinct species, and both diiierent from the true army worm. One 
of the destructive "worms," and the more common, at least in some 
sections, was the larva of Crambus vnlgivagcllus, and the other that of 
Neplielodes violans. Professor Riley well remarks, that " the widespread 
appearance and injury" of the former species during the past year "fur- 
nishes an excellent illustration of the fact that species which have never 
before been looked upon as injurious to agriculture may suddenly be- 
come so." (A. N., XV, 574^577, etc.) 

Enemies of Glover. — The American agriculturist may liave to encounter 
still another enemy of his labors — a curculionid beetle — the Fhytonomus 
punctatus. It has been until recently unknown in the United States, but 
was detected in 1881 in Barrington, Yates County, New York, and speci- 
mens were sent thence to Professor Riley, with the statement that it 
had greatly injured the clover in that region. The insect \i\ a common 
European species, but has not been known heretofore to do any serious 
harm to crops. Professor Riley adds that it is worthy of remark that 
S. Mis, 109 29 



450 ZOOLOGY. 

this imported euemy of clover made its first appearance in the same 
county which, three years before, furnished him with " another Euro- 
pean beetle affecting the same plant — the Hylesinus trifoUi, or ''clover 
root-borer." (A. N"., XV, 750-751, 912-914.) 

Insect Antidote. — AVith enemies so numerous and increasing the agri- 
culturist must be on the alert, and to render his labor remunerative re- 
quires to have antidotes to their ravages at a minimum cost. The seeds 
of species of Pyretlirum — P. roseum and P. cmerariwfolium — ground to 
powder, furnish one of the most effective insecticides. The Fyrethrum 
roseum "the only species of its genus," according to Dr. Eodde, "which 
gives a good, effective insect powder, is no where cultivated, but grows 
at an altitude of 6,000 to 8,000 feet," in Asia, the Caucasus, and south- 
ward. The P. cinerariccfolimn is a Dalmatian species, of which little is 
known, but which is said to be cultivated in Dalmatia. In spite of the 
jealousy of the natives of the countries where these plants grow, seeds 
have been imported into the United States, and Professor Eiley planted 
some in Washington, in the fall of 1880, which "came up quite well in 
the spring, and will perhaps bloom the i)resent year." It would seem 
that the Pyrethrum is quite an effective insecticide, and its acquisition 
and retail at a moderate cost will be doubtless a great boon to the agri- 
culturist. For detailed information as to cultivation, manufacture, and 
use of the plant we must refer to Professor Eiley. (A. N., XV, 242, 569- 
572, 744-748, 817-819.) 

Carnivorous Beetles partly Jierhivorous. — Even insects that are gen- 
erally "beneficial to the agriculturist by preying on his enemies, some- 
times turn round and become destroyers of crops. Species of Carabidse 
and Coccinellidfe, e. g., have been found to change their usual carniv- 
orous habits for a herbivorous diet, according to Professor Forbes, of the 
Illinois State laboratory. Eepresentatives of 17 different species of 
Carabidaj were examined, and 11 of them were seen to have in their 
stomachs "either the spores of different fungi, the pollen of flowers, 
or the seeds of grasses and grains." The Coccinellidse were ascertained 
to be to even a still greater degree herbivorous, and one of them — the 
Megilla maculata — " was proven to feed also upon the anthers and pollen 
of grasses," and, in fact, to almost rival in its herbivorous tendencies the 
squash-beetle {Epilachna borealis), which had been supposed to be excep- 
tional in the family for its herbivority. The Megilla had been charged 
before with sometimes injuring crops, and a farmer of Saint Inigoes, 
Md., reported to Professor Eiley considerable injury done by them "to 
corn by eating holes in the blades, and specimens of blades that were 
perforated and riddled accompanied the beetles." 

So far, however, is this tendency to change of diet from being au 
unmixed evil to the agriculturist, it has been urged by Professor Forbes, 
that it renders these insects more valuable to man. In his own words, 
"as a prudent sovereign finds it worth while to maintain a much larger 
lighting force than is necessary to the ordinary administration of his 



ZOOLOGY. 451 

goverument, in order that he may always have a reserve of power with 
which to meet aspiriug rebellion, so it is to the general advantage that 
carnivorous insects should abound in larger numbers than could find 
sustenance in the ordinary surplus of insect reproduction. They will' 
then be prepared to concentrate an overwhelming attack upon any group- 
of insects which become suddenly superabundant. It is evidently im- 
possible, however, that this reserve of predaceous species should be 
maintained, unless they could be supported, at least in part, upon food 
derived from other sources than the bodies of living animals." (A. N., 
XV, 323-327.) 

Wings of Insects. 

The details of structure of the wings of insects and the contiguous 
parts, especially those of the family Libellulidse, have been investi- 
gated by Mr. R. von Lendenfeld. The monograph of the alar struct- 
ures of the Dragon-flies is especially noteworthy. " Sixty-two separate 
skeletal parts are named and described," and also "16 muscles and 2 
ligaments." "A diaj^hragm of chitin separates the muscles for the wings 
from those for the legs; the exoskeleton is made up of thin chitinous 
plates. There are various methods of articulation, some of which ara 
exactly comparable to those that are found in the vertebrata." 

The Libellulidse and "i!^europtera planipennia" are considered by Mr- 
von Lendenfeld to be the lowest of typical insects, on account of thai 
equality in size of the wings, while those "with one pair of wings appear 
to be the most highly organized and possess the largest brain." The 
rank of the other groups is sought to be determined by the relative 
development of the two pairs of wings. It is probable, however, that 
the logic emi^loyed, as well as the conclusious deduced, will be opposed 
by many entomologists. Probably more satisfactory are the author's 
observations of the mode of flight. 

A method for instantaneously photographing insects' wings was de- 
vised and is detailed by Mr. von Lendenfeld. "Two phases are to be 
distinguished in the movement of the wing — the movement from behind 
forwards, and from in front backwards. In both, however, there is an 
upwardly-acting force; with this there are associated other move- 
ments, resulting in the course of the wing being a more or less compli- 
cated curve, the directions of which depend, of course, on the extent to 
which these other forces .act." (J. R. M. S. (2), II, 184-185, from Sitz- 
ungsber. Akad. Wiss. Wien, LXXIIL, 289-37G, with 7 pi.) 

Relations of Devonian Insects to existing types. 

The fossil insects have been for some years the special subjects of Mr. 
Samuel H. Scudder's studies, and the conclusions which ho has reached 
respecting the relations of the Devonian forms to later ones have been 
published, and are as follows: 

(1) The insects have preseryed their general type of wing structure. 



452 ZOOLOGY. 

unaltered from the earliest times to the present; (2) they were hexa- 
pods; (3) they were all lower Reterometdbola ; (4) nearly all are syn- 
thetic types of a comj)aratively narrow range; (5) nearly all exhibit 
marks of affinity to the carboniferous Palaeodictyoptera, but (6) they 
often manifest wore complicated structure than mostPalfeodictyoptera; 
(7) they mostly bear little special relation to carboniferous forms, and 
have a distinct facies of their own; (8) they were "of great size, had 
membranous wings, and were probably aquatic in early life"; (9) some 
were precursors of existing forms, while others became extinct; (10) 
they flourished under a remarkable variety of structure; (11) they dif- 
fered " remarkably from all other known types, ancient or modern, and 
some of them appear to be even more comi)licated than their nearest 
living allies"; (12) they show no more evidenee of primitive type than 
the carboniferous insects; and (13) "while there are some forms which 
to some degree bear out expectations based on the general derivation 
hypothesis of structural development, there are quite as many which 
are altogether unexi)ected, and cannot be explained by that theory 
without invoking suppositions for which no facts can at present be 
adduced." 

Some of these conclusions (4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12) coincide quite well with 
those derivable from the survey of other classes of the animal kingdom, 
'€. g., fishes, so far as they are Icnown, but the deductions probably some- 
times rather represent the imperfection of the geological record than 
the fiicts as they were, and several of the conclusions {e. g., 8, 11) are 
perhaps rather too sweeping. But whatever may have been the facts, 
the studies of Mr. Scudder have materially increased our knowledge of 
the palaeozoic faunas, and his deductions are especially interesting for 
comparison with other classes of the organic kingdoms of nature. (A. 
J. S. (3), XXr, 111-117.) 

MOLLUSKS. 

GENERAL WORKS. 

Systematic works. 

Fischer (Paul). Manuel de Conchyliologie ou Histoire Naturelle des MoUusqes vivants 
et fossUes. 1,-3. Fasc. Paris, Savy, 1881. (8 vo.) 

Martens (Ed. von). Couchologisclie Mittbeilungen, als Fortsetzung der Novitates 
concliologiciB. Kasscl, Th. Fischer, 1881. (8vo. Bd. I, viii, 101 pp., 18 Taf. M. 
22. Bd^ II, Heft. 1, 2, pp. 103-128., Taf. 21-24. M. 8.) 

Martini und Chemnitz (Systematisches Conchylieu-Cabinet von) Neue reich vermehrte 
ausgabe [etc.], fortgesetzt von Dr. W. Kobelt und H. C. Wcinkauff. 300-313. Lief. 
Iviz: (300:) Cypra^a, pp. 81-104, Taf. 25-30. (301:) Buccinidaj, von W. Kobelt, 
pp. 1-24, Taf. 71-76. (302:) Mactra, pp. 37-52. Rissoina, pp. 41-48, Taf. 13-18. 
(303:) Cypraia, pp. 105-128, Taf. 31-86. Rissoina, pp. 49-56. (304:) Helix, pp. 
595-610, Taf. 173-177. (305:) Mactra, pp. 53-68, Taf. 19-24. (306:) Cypra;a, pp. 
129-152, Tab. 3774I+A. (307:) Crassatella, pp. 1-16, Tab. 1-6. (308:) Cypraea, 
pp. 153-184, Tab. 42-47. (S09:) Caiiccllaria, pp. 1-16, 5 Taf. (310:) Bucciuumj 
pp. 25-40, Taf. 77-82. (311:) Navicclla, pp. 1-32, 6 Taf. (312:) Rissoina, pp. 57-80, 
Taf. 13-15, 15a-15c. (313 :) Die Gattuugcu Cypnoa und Ovula, pp. 185-230, Tab, 
48-53.] I^Urnbcrg, Bauer u, Raspe, 1881. (4to. M. 9, each.) 



ZOOLOGY. 453 

Pfeiffer (Dr. Louis). Malakozoologisolio BHlttcr. Fortgcsotiit voti S. Clcasin. 4. Bd. 
Sclilnss, luit 7 Taf. ; 5. Bd., Bog. L-G. Kasscl, Th. Fischer, 1881. (8vo.) 

Tryou (Geo. W.). Manual ofConchology, structural and systouiatic. With iUustra- 
tions of the species. Vol. III. Tritoniidte, Fusidae, Buccinidio. Pliiladelphia 
Author, 1881. (8vo. 310 pp., 87 pi.— col. $20. ; plain, |12.) 

JouitiaU. 

Journal de Conchyliologie [etc.], puhlid sous la direction de H. Crosse et P. Fischer, 

[t. xxix, or] 3. s6r., t, xxi, Paris, II. Crosse, 1881. (8vo.) 
Journal (The) of Conchology. v. 3. London, D. Boguc, 1881. (8vo.) 
Proc&s-verhaux des Stances de la Soci6t6 Royale Malacologique de Belgique. t. x. 

Ann<5el881, Bruxelles, 1881. (8vo.) 

Bibliography. 

Kohelt (W.). Synopsis novornm generum, specierum, et varietatnm MoUuscorum 
viventium testaceorum anno 1879 promulgatorum, Cassellis, Th. Fischer, 1881. 
(Bvo. aOO pp. M. 8.) 

Miscellaneoua. 

Apostolides (N. Ch.) et Yves Dolage. Les Mollusques d'apr^s Aristote. Arch. Zoolog. 

Experiment., t. 9, pp. 405-420. 
Watson (Robert B.), Mollusea of H. M". S. 'Challenger' Expedition. Pt. vi-x. 

Journ. Linn. Soc. London, {Zool.,) v. l.'i, 1881. 

Morpliology. 

Lankester (E. Ray). On the originally Bilateral Character of the Renal Organ of 

Prosohranchia, and on the Homologies of the lelk-sac of Cephalopoda. Ann. 

Mag. Nat. Mist., (5,) v. 7, pp. 432-437. 
Spengel (J. W.). Die Geruchsorgane und das Nervensystem dor MoUusken. Ein 

Beitrag zur Erkenntnis der Einheit des Molluskentypus. Zeiischr. f. wi83. Zool., 

V. 35, pp. 333-386, pi. 17-19. 

Faunas. 

Gulf of Mexico. 

Dall (W. H.). Preliminary report on the Mollusea. Reports on the Results of Dredg- 
ing, under the supervision of Alex. Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico, etc. XV. 
Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool. , v. 9, pp. 33. 

Morse (Edward). Changes in Mya and Lmiatia since the deposition of the New 
England Shell-heaps. Am. Naturalist, v. 15, p. 1015. 

Europe. 

Kohelt (W. ). Catalog der im IJuropiiischen Faunengehiot lehenden Binnenconchyllen. 

2. Aull. Kassel, Th. Fischer,*1881. (8vo. xvi, 294 pp. M.6.) 
Locard(A.). I^^tudes sur les variations malacologiqucs, d'aprfis la fixune vivauto et 

fossile de la partie ceutralo du hassin du Rh6ne. 1. 1. Lyon, Georg; Paris, J.. 

B. Baillifere, 1881 (8vo. ix, 473 pp., 5 pi.). 

Asia. 

Poirier(J.). Description de q.nelqucs espJices nouvelles du Camhodge, appartenanf 
aux genres Lacunopsis, Jullieuia et Pachydrobia. Journ, de ConchylioL, v. 29, 
pp. 5-19. 



454 ZOOLOGY. 

■Africa. 

CraTteii (Alfred E.)- Oil a coilectidn of Laud and Fresh-water Shells from the 'franS- 

vaal and Orange Free State in South Africa, with descriptions of nine new species. 

Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1880, pp. 614-618, 1 pi. 
Crosse (H.). Faune malacologique du Lac Tanganyika. Journ.de Conchyliol., v. ^, 

pp. 105-139. 
Smith (Edgar A.). Descriptions of two new Species from Lake Tanganyika. Proc. 

Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 558-561. 

SPECIAL CLASSES. 
CONCHIFER8. 

Mitsukuri (K.). On the Structure and Significance of some Aberrant Forms of Lamel- 
libranchiate Gills. Quart. Journ. Microscop. Sc, v. 21, pp. 595-608, 1 pi. 

Yung(E.). De I'innervation du ccBur et de Paction des poisons chez les Mollusquea 
Lamellibranches. Compt. rend. Acad, Sc, Paris, t. 93, pp. 562-564. 

Yung (£m.). De I'innervation du cceur et de Taction des poisons chez les Mollusquea 
Lamellibranches. Arch. Zoolog. Expirimeni., t. 9, pp. 421-432. 

GASTROPODS. 

TeledhrancMata. 

•Graff (L. von). Neomenia and Chsetoderma. ZeitscTir. f. Wise. Zool., v, 28, p. S.'VT-STO. 

Haller (B. ). Vorliiuiige Mittheilung ueber das Nervensystem und Mundepithel niederer 
Gastropoden. Zool. Anz., v. 4, pp. 92-94, 1881. 

Hubrecht (A. A. W. ). Proneomenia Sluiteri, gen. et sp. n., with remarks upon the 
anatomy and histology of the Amphineura. Niederl. Archiv f. Zool., Suppl.-b., 
1881. 

Kowalevsky (A.). Neomenia coralliophila and Cceloplana Metschnikowii. (In Rus- 
sian.) Moskow, 1881. 

Pulmonata. 

Macdonald (John Denis). On the classification of Gasteropoda. Part ii. Journ. Linn. 

Soc. London, Zool., v. 15, pp. 241-244. 
Lessona (Mario). Sugli Arion del Piemonte. Atti Accad. So. Torino, v. 16, pp. 185-197. 
Pfeiffer (L.). Nomenclator Heliceorum viventium. Ed. S. Clessin. Cassel, Th. 

Fischer, 1878-1881. (4to. 617 pp. M.24.) 
Whitfield (E. P.). A new genus and species of Air-breathing Mollusk [Anthracopupa] 

from the Coal-measures of Ohio. Am. Journ. Sc, (3,) v. 21, pp. 125-128. 
Wolfson (W.). Die embryonale Entwickelung des Lymnaeus stagnalls. Bull. Acad. Sc. 

St. Ptitersb., t. 26, p. 79 ; M^ang. Biol. Acad. St. Paerab., 1. 10, pp. 351-377. 

Nudibranchiata. 

Bergh (Rudolph). Beitrage zu einer Monographie des Polyceraden. Verfiandl. k. k. 
zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, v. 30, pp. 629-668, 6 pi. 

Uyes of Gastropods. 

Dr. P. Fraisse has investigated the structure of the eye in three 
species of Gastropods representing two orders, viz : Patella of the order 
Docoglossa and Haliotis and Fissurella of the order Ehipidoglossa. 

In Patella the eyes are minute vesicles ; the retinal cells pass directly 
into the epithelial . Pigment occurs chiefly in the cells opposite the pupil. 



ZOOLOGY. 455 

There is no ommatopliore ; the optic nerve is also not developed, and 
the lens and vitreous body are equally deficient. The eye of this form 
is therefore considered to represent an embryonic stage in development. 

In Haliotis the eyes are large and (as in Patella) there is an open cupj 
the cells pass from one to the other. Pigment is only found around the 
orifice of the cup. Ketractile ommatophores support the eyes; optic 
nerves are developed of a remarkable character ; each divaricates into 
two or three branches before entering the eye,' and the latter expand and 
inclose the entire eye, coming into direct connection with the retinal cells. 
A lens of gelatinous substance is found and a vitreous body occupies a 
large part of the eye cup. The eyes are invested in loose connective 
tissue, and there is no sclerotic nor any other investing membranes. 

In Fissurella the eyes lie just below the epidermis and the corneal 
cells are separated from the epithelial by a delicate layer of connective 
tissue. The "retinal cells belong to two groups; they may be long and 
very delicate at their lower ends, or they may be broader and thicker 
and more closely granulated, and the latter are moreover destitute ot 
pigment. These thicker basal cells are regarded by the author, not as 
supporting cells of the true retinal elements, but as those organs from 
which the lens and vitreous body are developed ; the pigmented cells 
alone function as the end-organs of the optic nerve." 

In fine, the author's investigations have led him to conclude that the 
eyes of moUusks begin their development by an invagination of the 
epidermis which is originally open to the exterior; as this becomes shut 
off, the retinal cells become developed out of the epidermal cells. The 
eyes of Patella present the simplest known condition. " In Nautilus the 
eye is likewise oi)en to the exterior, and in the Hirudinea [leeches] we 
may find organs of a somewhat similar construction. In cases of this 
kind the use of the term retina should be avoided, and be replaced by 
that of rod-cells. The cells which appear to be the organs for the per- 
ception of light are very characteristicallj^ developed in the MoUusca; 
what is here seen almost in diagram is found more or less distinctly in 
all other mollusks. The so-called -retina consists of a series of elon- 
gated cells, the anterior portion of which is filled up by dark pigment. 
This pigment is more or less marginal in position, so that there is in the 
center an unpigmented cylindrical canal which passes directly into the 
unpigmented part of the cell." (J. R. M . S., (2,) 1, 724-725, from Z. W. Z., 
XXXy, 461-478.) 

Tlie Neomenice and Chcetodermw. 

One of the most interesting groups of Invertebrates is that represented 
by the genera Chaetoderma, Keomienia, and Proneonifeuia. 

The representatives of this type have been associated with very 
diverse groups by various authors ; by some with the worms, by most 
with the mollusks; and in the branch of mollusks, by some with the 
Nudibrauchiates; but by the majority of anatomists with the Chitons. 
Although few in number and of rare occurrence, or rather only found by 



456 ZOOLOGY. 

careful search in tlie proper habitats, they have received considerable 
attention within the last few years, and to Prof. A. A. W. Hubrecht, of 
Leyden, we are indebted for an elaborate memoir on the group, published 
in 1881. 

The most conspicuous feature of the group is " the presence of four 
longitudinal nerve-trunks, united together into one in front of or above 
the pharynx," and coalescing behind in whole or part (two of them) into 
a ganglionic swelling above the rectum. 

In all the genera of the group "a heart, situated dorsally close to 
the posterior extremity of the body, a median dorsal and a median ven- 
tral blood-vessel, are the principal parts of the circulatory apparatus." 
The respiratory apparatus is variable. In Chsetoderma and Neomenia 
retractile brauchise are developed at the posterior extremity of the body, 
in Chcetoderma being paired and in Neomenia being tuft-like; in Pro- 
ueomenia special branchiae are absent, and respiration is supposed to 
be effected through the wall of the intestine and the foot, "and per- 
haps more especially in the rectum." 

There is a decided difference, it seems, in the relations of the sexes in 
the two primary grouj)s of the class. The Chaetodermid£e, like the 
Chitonids, have the sexes separate, while the Neomseniidae are monoe- 
cious or hermaphrodite. There is a direct communication between 
the ovary and pericardium (at least, in Chsetoderma and Proneomenia), 
and the pericardium also communicates with the exterior by a system 
of ducts and passages. Such ducts, in part, at least, are considered as 
renal organs. "And so the Solenogastres exemplify a primitive stage, 
in which the pericardium (body-cavity) receives the oviducts on the one 
hand, and on the other communicates with the exterior by means of the 
nephridia." 

It is maintained by Dr. Hubrecht that the deviations in this type are 
rather manifestations of degradation or atrophy of parts than of incip- 
iency and original non-development. The radula has been aborted or 
lost, and not failed. The condition of the nervous system is expressive 
of a reduction of type and is not a primitive stage, and the inferior 
development of the intestine and liver is likewise to be looked upon as 
a result of reduction. 

Americanised European Shells. 

Several species of well-known European sheUs have been introduced 
into the waters of the Atlantic coast within recent years. A common 
shell of England — Littorina littorea — was found on the shores of Maine 
as early as 1868, and still earlier as an inhabitant of Nova Scotia. But 
several closely related species were already known as common Ameri- 
can forms. During the past year, however, two distinct family forms 
have been added to the American Fauna — Truncatella trimcatula, the 
type of the family of TruncatellidaB, and Assiminea grayana, also a type 
of a peculiar family, the Assiminiidse. Both were found for the first time 
by Professor VerriU among the docks of Newport, E. I., at high water. 



ZOOLOGY. 457 

Land shells of the palccozoie era. 

The geological history of the Piilmonates is a most remarkable one 
in more respects than one. So far as the evidence appeared until com- 
paratively lately, with a limited spot in Nova Scotia unknown, the 
paLneontologist might have felt justified in declaring that the order was 
"ushered in" with the tertiary epoch. But as long ago as 1852, Lyell 
and Dawson indicated the existence of a minute pupa-like shell in the 
carboniferous period on the testimony of a specimen found in 1851 
within the hollow of an erect fossil tree at the "South Joggins," Nova 
Scotia. Subsequently the form was named Pupa vetusta. In the same 
place were afterwards (in 1866) discovered specimens of another land 
shell, resembling the species of the existing helicoid genus Conulus. 
tn 1869, Prof. Frank H. Bradley made known two other terrestrial mol- 
lusks in the carboniferous rocks occurring at Felly's Fort, on the Ver- 
million River, in Illinois, one a pupoid and the other a helicoid. In 
1880, Principal Dawson added a third species of land shell obtained 
from the Joggins, with the so-called Pupa vetusta, which he called Pupa 
BigsML Still more, he described a shell from Devonian rocks of New 
Brunswick which he considered to be a new generic type and named 
Strophites grandwva. Finally, during the past year Mr. E. K. Whitfield 
has made known a coal measure pupoid shell, which he has designated 
as a peculiar generic form, naming it Anthraoopupa Ohioensis. Seven 
Palaeozoic Pulmonates have thus been made known, viz; Devonian: 
Strophites grandccva. — Carboniferous: Dendropupa vetusta (N. S.), 
Pupa m Bigshii (N. S.), Pupa f!] Yermilionensis (111.), Strophites gran- 
dwva (N. B.), Anthracopupa Ohioensis (O.), Conulus priscus (N. S.), and 
Dawsonella MeeMi (111.). 

So far as can be determined from the shells, and even the associations, 
aU these mollusks, except, perhaps, the last {Dawsonella Mceldp), were 
true land Pulmonates, related to the existing Pupidas and IlelicidtB. 
That any of them belonged to the restricted genus PuiJa is very doubt- 
ful, and Owen has proposed the name Dendropupa for the earliest 
species made known. This is not the place, however, to discuss their 
intimate affinities. As to the Dawsonella., its helicoid relations are at 
least extremely dubious. It has considerable resemblance to a Heli- 
cinid, and Mr. Whitfield "cannot but come to the conclusion that Daw- 
sonella was an operculated shell" and probably related to Eelicinia. 
This genus, be it recalled, cannot be associated with the true Pulmoiuites, 
but is allied to the aquatic Neritidie, etc. None of the opercuhite terres- 
trial mollusks are, in fact, at all related to the Pulmonates, properly so 
called, the Cyclostoraidfe being most nearly related to the marine Lit- 
torinidae of the order Pectinibranchiata, and the HelicinidnB, as just 
remarked, of the Neritidoe, and representing the order Ehipidoglossa. 

The Pulmonates then, it appear?, existed in the Devonian and Car- 
boniferous periods in forms little different from some now living, and 



458 ZOOLOGY. 

noue are known from the roeks intervening between tbe last and the 
tertiary. Nevertheless, no reasonable naturalist will doubt that they 
did exist in that intervening period, and few now would believe that 
the devonian forms were not preceded by kindred types. The distri- 
bution of the order is therefore a striking exemplification of the " imper- 
fection of the geological record." (A. J. S., (3,) XX, 403-415; XXI, 
125-128.) 

Shells of Lake Tanganyika. 

As a rule there is soraethiug in the appearance and texture or epi- 
dermis of true fresh-water shells which enables the conchologist at once 
to recognize them as such, even though they be quite different from any 
forms he has i)reviously known; but in a Central African lake — Lake 
Tanganyika — peculiar univalve shells have been discovered which a»e 
remarkable for their unlikeness to any fresh- water forms before known, 
and conversely for their resemblance to marine shells. The mimic forms 
have been designated as follows : 

(1.) LiMNOTROCHUS (E. A. Smith, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 6, p. 425, 1880; P. Z. S , 
London, 1881, 285). 

This is said to "have all the appearance of a Trochus when viewed 
with the aperture from the eye. It is, however, more closely related to 
the Littorinidoe, and exhibits the greatest affinity with the genus Eclii- 
nella.''^ Two species have been discovered, one of which {L. Thomsoni) 
has an especial resemblance to an Uchinella, while the other {L. Kirki) 
reminds one, by form as well as sculpture, of a Solarium. 

(2.) Syrnolopsis (E. a. Smith, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 6, p. 426, 1880; P. Z. S. 
L., 1881, 288). 

This "curious form has all the appearance of a marine genus, in fact, 
closely resembling Obeliscus or Syrnola.''^ Mr. Smith believes "it may 
temporarily be classed with the Eissoidse." 

(3.) TiPHOBiA (E. A. Smith, P. Z. S. L., 1880, 348 ; 1881, 293). 

This form is thought by Mr. Smith to be "perhaps the most remarka- 
ble species of fresh-water mollusca yet discovered." It reminds one of 
a "P^r?<?rt," but still more of a "jRo/jawcr," while it also may recall to 
mind the Glotella armigera of the United States. 

(4.) Tanganyicia (Crosse, Jonrn. Concho!., (3,) t.21, p. 287, 1881). 

The species of this group somewhat resemble Natioids, but they also 
approach the Ampuliariids. 

(5). Spekia (Crosse, Joum. Conchol. (3), t. 21, p. 302, etc., 1881). 

This "subgenus" of '■'■ Lacunopsis'''' has been proposed for the '■'■Litlio- 
glyphus zonatus'''' of Woodward, a shell peculiar for its thickness, and 
thus recalling certain Littoriuaj, but related to a fluviatile mollusk of 
China. 

(6.) "Melania ( ?) Hoiei" (E. A. Smith, P. Z. S. L., 1881, p. $92). 

This shell is said by Mr. Smith to be " another instance of a species 



200LOQY. 459 

from Tanganyika, having very much the appearance of a marine form." 
What particular "marine form," if any, is meant is not specified, but 
the figure reminds one of a Flanaxis. 

Two other sub-genera or genera complete the list of peculiar types 
discovered in the African lake. They are — 
Pakamelania (E, a. Smith, P. Z. S. L., 1881, p. 558) 
Keothauma (E. a. Smith, P. Z. S. L., 1880, p. 349 ; 1881, p. 293). 

The former is a Melanoid; the latter a Viviparine gastropod with the 
labrum "deeply emarginate" and reflected. 

The discovery in a single body of water of such aa association of 
peculiar and limited types, and with such a facies is unexampled in the 
annals of conchologj'. In the opinion of Mr. Smith, three of these, es- 
pecially the species of lAmnotrochus and Syrnolopsis, "have all the 
appearance of being modified marine types; and such is probably the 
case," he adds, for, "judging from the geology of the neighborhood, 
Tanganyika at some remote epoch has been an inland sea, the saltness 
of whose waters has almost entirely vanished, leaving only a peculiar 
taste, which can scarcely be described as brackish" (P. Z, S., 1881, 276- 
277). Their presence involves one of the most difficult malacological 
problems, thinks Mr. Crosse (Journ. Conchol. (3), t. 21, p. 303); but 
while he retains lAmnotrochus in the Littorindce^ he is very doubtful 
whether the soft parts of Syrnolopsis will confirm its reference to the 
same family with Syv/iiola. 

It is very regrettable that the soft parts of the several genera discov- 
ered should remain unknown. The opercula seemed to have been intact 
in some of the shells, and probably, therefore, the lingual ribbons could 
with proper care have been found. Their examination alone would have 
permitted a determination, at least, approximative, of the mollusks, 
aflQnities. Until such examination the question of relationship must 
remain doubtful. It may be suggested, however, that the variations of 
the shells, considerable and remarkable as they are, are not incompati- 
ble with their association with the Melaniids, for they can be derived 
from the same type. But whether the new genera are much modified 
Melanians, (or Viviparids,) or related to marine forms, or representatives 
of even peculiar families, must remain unsettled till the lamentable 
neglect to search for and examine the odontophores at least is repaired. 
Meanwhile the most conservative course would be to associate them with 
doubt in the family of Melanians. The deductions of Mr. Smith as to 
the geological relations of the lake forms do not appear to be warranted. 

Lake Tanganyika has now contributed to conchology 32 species, rep- 
resenting 19 genera; 20 species and G genera or sub-genera have not 
been detected elsewhere; 8 species are known to bo also found in the 
Nile. 

As to the Faramelmiice, Dr. C. A. White, of Washington, has ex- 
pressed the opinion that there is a generic identity between those species 
and the Fyrgulifera humerosa of Meek, described about five years 



460 ZOOLOGY. 

before (U. S. Geol. Surv. 40tli Par., v. 4, p. 176, pi. 17, f. 19, 19 a) from 
specimens obtained in the Laramie group, "which holds a transitional 
position between the Mesozoic and Cenozoic series" (Nature, v. 25, pp. 
101-102). Dr. White also was of the belief that the ^'■Melania (Sermyla) 
admiraUlis^^ of Tanganyika Lake is "evidently congeneric with" the 
^^Goniohasis Cleburni," described by him from the same formation. Mr. 
Smith, however, thought that it was "decidedly unadvisable at present 
to locate the two forms in question in the same genus" (Nature, v. 25, 
p. 218). In view of the known facts of distribution coincident with 
structural characteristics of the Melaniids and related forms, it seems to 
be premature, without direct comparison, to identify the extinct Ameri- 
can and living African shells as congeners. 

The quasi-representative forms are probably not only not isotypes, 
but simply mimotypes, and it is quite improbable that any of the Ameri- 
can Melaniiform mollusks are necrotypes* of Africa. 

CEFHALOPODS. 

Dihranchiata. 

Girod (P.)- Structure et texture de la poche du noir chez lea C^phalopodes dea c6tes 

de France. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 92, pp. 966-968. 
. Les vaisseaux de la poche du noir des C6plialopodes. Compt. rend. Acad. So., 

Paris, t. 92, pp. 1241-1243. 
Ihering (H. von). t!ber Aptychen und Anaptychen. Kosmos, v. 9, pp. 142-144. 
. Das Verhalten der Siphonalducte und die Descendenz der Cephalopoden. 

Kosmos, V. 9, pp. 145-149. 
Owen (Rich.). Descriptions of some new and rare Cephalopoda. Trans. Zool. Soc. 

London, v. xi, pp. 131-170. 
Yung (E.). Recherches exp6rimentale8 sur Taction des jioisons chez les C6phalo- 

podes. Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, v. 3, pp. 97-120. 
Verrill (A. E.). Giant Squid (Architeuthis) abundant in 1875 at the Grand Banks. 

Am. Journ. Sc. (3), v. 21, pp. 251-252 ; Ann. ^ Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v, 7, pp. 351-352, 

Gigantic Cuttle-Fishes. 

The gigantic cuttle-fishes have been specially studied by Professor 
Verrill, and much light has been thrown on the subject by his researches. 
The largest of the class appear to belong to the family of Ommastre- 

*The geography of animals and plants may he discussed with increased precision 
and terseness by the use of several terms, e. g. : 

Mimotypes (fu/uo^, mimic; tvttoc, form): Forms distantly resembling each other, 
but fulfilling similar functions, and thus representing each other in dift'ercnt faunas; 
e. g., (1) the Shrews of Europe are mimotypes of the An techinus of Australia; (2) the 
Sloths of South America, of the Phascolarctida3 of Australia, etc. By the use of this 
term, the word " analogue" may be relieved of a part of the burden borne by it. 

ISOTYPES (Iffof, equal or like; rvnog, form): Forms common to different countries: 
e. g., the Shrews are isotypes in Europe and North America, etc. 

Necrotypes (veKpoc, dead, and Tvnog, form) : Forms formerly existent in a country, 
but now extinct; e. g., the horses and rhinoceroses are necrotypes of North America, 
indigenous species having once flourished on that continent, but become exterminated 
in prehlBtoric times. 



ZOOLOGY. 461 

pliididae, and the geuus appropriately named Architeuthis, i. c, chief of 
the cuttle-fishes. Two of those are recorded as having an extreme 
length of 52 feet. In one {A. princeps ?) the body from the base of the 
arms to the tip of the tail was 15 feet long. Another, still larger, was 
55 feet in extreme length, and its body was 20 feet long. It may be 
well to add that the large cuttle-fish lately exhibited in New York and 
through the country was very badly, indeed grotesquely, prepared by 
the taxidermist, and gave no idea of the real animal. 

MOLLUSCOIDS. 
POLYZOANS. 

Hiucks (Thomas). Contributions toward a General History of the Marino Polyzoa. 
Ann. Mag. Kat. Hist., (5), v. 8, pp. 122-136. 

BRACHIOPODS. 

Davidson (Thomas). Monograph of the British fossil Brachiopoda. Vol. iv, part 4. 
Devonian and Silurian Brachiopoda that occur in the Triassic pebble-bed of Bud- 
leigh Saltreton. With 5 pi. London Palseontographical Society, 1881. 

Douville (H.). Note eur quelques genres do Brachiopodes. NeuesJakrb.f. Miner. Geol. 
Palwontol, 1881, v. 1, pp. 438-440. 

PROTOCHORDATES. 

TUNICATES. 

Herdmann (W. A.). Notes on British Tunicata, with descriptions of new species. 1. 

Ascidiidae. Journ. Linn. Soc. London; Zool., v. 15, pp. 274-290, 6 pi. 

. " Olfactory Tubercle" of Simple Ascidians. Journ. R. Microscop. Soc, (2,) v. 

i, p. 5 ; Oct., p. 726. (Proc. B. Phys. Soc. Edinburgh.) 

. Die Hypophysis dor Seescheiden. Kosmos, v. 9, pp. 387-389. 

Joliet (L.). Eemarques sur I'anatomie du Pyrosome. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, 

t. 92, pp. 1013-1015. 
Julin (Charles), fitude sur I'hypophys© des Ascidies et les organes qui I'avoisinout. 

Bull. Acad. Belg. (3), 1. 1, pp. 151-170, 895-900. 
. Kecherches sur I'organisation des Ascidies simples. Arch.de Biol., v. 2, pp. 

59-126. 
Van Beneden (Ed.). Sur quelques points relatifs 4 ^organisation et au d6veloppe- 

ment des Ascidies. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 92,pp. 1238-1241. 
. Existe-t-il un ccelome chez les Ascidiens? Zool. Anz., 4. Jahrg., pp. 375-378. 

VERTEBRATES. 

GENERAL. 

Heldroich ( — ). Vertebrados de Grecia. Cronicacicntif.,revis1ainternac. de cienc, Barce- 
lona, 1879. 

Hertwig(0.). Dio Entwickoluug dos mittleren Keimblatts der Wirbelthicre. Jena. 
Zeitschr. fUr Katurivi^s., v. 15, pp. 286-340. Also published at Jena, by G. Fischer, 
1881, as Studien zur Blattertheorio von O. und R. Hertwig, Heft V. 

Lefonr ( — ). Animaux domcstiqucs; zootechuie g<Sn6ralo. 0. 6dit. Paris, libr. agri- 
cole do la maison rustique, 1881. (18mo. 184 pp., 33 fig. Frcs., 1, 5.) 

Loos (P. A.). Die Eiwoissdriisen dor Amphibicn und Vogol. Zeitschr. f. tciss. Zool., 
Y, 35, pp. 478-504, 1 pi. 



462 ZOOLOGY. 

Rebzins (Gust.). DasGehororgan derWirbelthiere. Morpliologisch-histologische Stn- 
dien. I. Das Geliororgan der Fisclie und Atnpliibieu. Mit 35 Taf. Stockholm, 
Samson und Wallin, 1881. (gr. 4to. xi, 222 pp., 35 Bl. Xafelerklarung. ) 

Schnlin (Karl). Zur Morpbologie des Ovarium. Arch. /. mikroskop. Anat., v, 19, pp. 
•142-512, 3 pi. 

Development of paired limbs. 

Several naturalists — e. g., Maclise, Humphrey — bad long ago sug- 
gested that the paired fins were morphologically parallel with the 
median ones, but, on account of the crudity of their conceptions and 
the insufficiency of the evidence adduced, they failed to convince their 
fellow-workers of the soundness of their conclusions. Later, Mr. F. M. 
Balfour was led to "the conclusion that the vertebrate limbs were rem- 
nants of two continuous lateral fins " by the study of their development, 
and soon after Mr. J. K. Thacher, of New Haven, and followiug him 
Mr. St. George Mivart, reached the same results through anatomical 
studies. Objections having been raised against the soundness of these 
conclusions, the subject was re-examined in 1881 by Mr. Balfour, by 
reference to the development of the pectoral and ventral fias in Scylliids 
as well as their structure in the adult. After paying due attention to 
the observations and criticisms of several naturalists — especially Da- 
\ddott" and Gegenbaur — he reiterates the opinion that " the skeleton of 
both the paired and the unpaired fins of Elasmobranchs and Lepidos- 
tens is in its development indej^endent of the axial skeleton," but 
admits that "the phylogenetic mode of origin of the skeleton, both of 
the paired and of the unpaired fins, cannot, however, be made out with- 
out further investigation." He aptly dissents (as the recorder did in 
1872) from Gegenbaur's view as to the archypterygium, and also, but 
apparently with far less reason, from the "derivation of the folds, of 
which the paired fins of the Yertebrata are supposed to be specializa- 
tions, from the lateral folds oi Amphioxus.^'' His reasons for dissent in the 
latter instance have not been given. It may be added, in this connec- 
tion, that the ancestors of the Myzonts probably had the lateral fins, and 
their absence in all the surviving members of the class is doubtless due 
to the elongation of the body. (P. Z. S., 1881, G56-G71, pis. 57, 58.) 

FISHES IN GENERAL. 
ANATOMY. 

Integumentary system. 

Hertwig (Oscar). Ueber das Hautskelet der Fische. 3. Abtheil. (Pediculati, Disco- 
boli, Diana, Centriscidae, Triglidse, Plectognathi.) Morphoiog. Jahrb., v. 7, pp. 1-42, 
4 pi. 

Osseous system. 

Klein (von). Beitriigo zui Osteologie der Fiscbe. Jahreshft. d. Ver.f.vat, Naturk. 

Wurttumb., 37. Jabrg., pp. 325-3G0. Mit 1 Taf. 

Wiedeisbeim (R.). Uob< r das Beckcn der Fiscbe. Morpholog. Jahrh., v. 7, pp. 32^ 

327. 



ZOOLOGY. 46g 

Muscular system. 

Hartiuaun (R. )• Ueber die Brustflossenmuskelu einiger Fische. Sitzungsber. Ges. nat. 
Fr. Berlin, 1881, pp. 150-154. 

Nervous system. 

Cattie (J. Th.). Vergelijkeud-anatoiuische en histologische Onderzoekingen van de 

Epipliysis cerebri der Plagiostomi, Ganoidei en Teleostei. Leiden, S. C. van 

Doesburgh, 1881. (8vo. 104 pp., :3 pi. M. 3.) 
. Die Epiphyse der Plagiostomi, Ganoidei und Teleostei. Zool. Anz,, 4. Jahrg., 

p. 604. 
Mayser (P.). Vergleichend-auatomische Studien iiber das Gebirn der KHOchenfische 

mit besondf rer Beriicksicbtigung der Cyprinoiden. Zeitschr. f. wm. Zool., v. 36, 

pp. 259-364. Mit 10 Taf. und 1 Holzscbn. 

Eye. 

Zelinka (Carl.). Ueber die Nerven in der Cornea der Knochenfische, Zool. Anz. 

4. Jahrg., pp. 338-339. 
Berger (E.). Beitrage zur Anatomie des Fiscbauges. Zool. Anz., 4. Jahrg., pp. 258- 

262. 
Brass (A.). Die Accommodation des Auges der Knochentische. Zeitschr. f. d. ges. 

Xaturidss., v. 53, pp. 901-903. 

Ear. 

Cisow (A.). Ear of Ganoids. Journ. R. Microscop. Soc, (2,) v. 1, pp. 429-430. (Ab- 
stract. ) 

Accessory organs. 

Bell (H. Jeffrey). Eye-like Spots in Fishes. Poj). So. Her., n. b., v. 5, pp. 221-234, pi. 

6, July, 1881. 
Guerne (Jul. de). Les yeux accessoires des Poissons osseux. D'apr^s le Dr. Ussow. 

Bull. Scientif. dept. du Nord, 1880. Dec. (publ. March, 1881), pp. 459-470, 1 pi. 
Kranse (Ernst). Die augeniihnlichen Organe der Fische. Kosmos, v. 9, pp. 433-438. 
Leydig (Franz). Die augenahnlichen Organe der Fische anatomisch untersucht. 

Bonn, E. Straiib, 1881. (8vo, 100 pp., 10 pi. M. 13, 50.) 
Solger(B.). Zur Kenntniss der Verbreitung von Leuchtorgauen bei Fischon. Arch, 

f. Mikrosk. Anat., v. 19, pp. 147-152. 
. Ueber den feineren Bau der Seitenorgane der Fische. Bericht. Sits. Nat, Ges. 

Halle., 1880, pp. 105-109. 

Taste. 

Jourdan (E.). Sur les organes du godt des Poissons osseux. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, 
Paris, t. 92, pp. 743-?45. 

Gills. 

Riess (Albiu). Der Bau der Kiemenbllitter bei den Knochenfischen. Arch.f. NatxiV' 
gesch., 47. Jahrg., v. 1, pp. 519-550, 3 pi. 

Lymphatic system. 

Trois (Enrico F.). Contribuzioni alio studio del sistema linfatico dei Teleostei. Ri- 

cerche sul sistema linfatico dell' Uranoscopus scaber. Alti li. Istit. Venelo Sc, Lett. 

ed Arti, (5,) t. 6, pp. 404-418, 1 pi. 
. Contribuzione alio studio del sistema linfatico dei Teleostei. P. III. Ri- 

cerche sul sistema linfatico dei Plcuronettidi. Atti R. Isiit. Ten. Sc, Lett, ed Artf 

(5, ) V. 7, pp. 37-47 ; v. 8, pp. 49-50, 1 pi. 



464 ZOOLOGY. 

Generative system. 

MacLeod (J.). Recherches sur I'appareil roproductour des Poissous ossoiix. Bull. 
Acad. Sc. Belgique, (3,) t. 1, pp. 500-505, 614-020. 

Ontogeny. 

Hoffmauu (C. K.). Zur Oatogeuio der Knocheufiscbe. Natuurk. Verhandd. K. Akad. 
Wet. Amsterdam, v. 21 (168 pp., mit 7 Taf.). 



Europe. 

Day (Francis). The Fishes of ©reat Britain and Ireland ; being a natural history of 

such as are known to inhabit the seas and fresh waters of the British Isles, 

including remarks on their economic uses and various modes of capture; with 

au Introduction upon Fishes generally. Part II. Loudon, Williams «& Norgate, 

188L (8vo. pp. 65-144, pi. 7-48; 12 sh.) 
Doderleiu (P.). Manuale ittiologico del Mediterraueo. P. I. Bibliografia ittiologica. 

P. II. Sinossi metodica delle specie. Fasc. I. Epibranchi, Elasmobranchi. 

Palermo, 1881. (8vo. I, 67 pp. ; II, 117 pp.) 
Moreau (Em.). Histoire naturelle des Poissonsde la France. Paris, G. Masson, 1881. 

(8vo. 3 vols., viz, V. i, 480 pp. ; v. 2, 576 pi>. ; v. 3, 701 pp. ; frcs. 60.) 
Klunzinger (C. B.). Die Fische in Wilrttemberg, fauuistisch-biologi.sch betrachtet, 

Tind die Fischercivcrhaltnisse daselbst. Jahreshft. Vcr. valrrldnd. Naturk. TViirl- 

temb., 37. Jahrg., pp. 172-304. 
Lilljeborg (W.). Sverigcs och Norges Fiskar, 1. Haftet. Upsala, W. Schultz. (8vo. 

pp. 1-208.) 

North America, 

Bean (Tarleton H.). Descriptions of some genera and species of Alaskan Fishes. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 2, pp. 353-359. 
. Descriptions of [14] new Fishes from Alaska aud Siberia. Proc. U. S.Nat. 

Mits., V. 3, pp. 144-159. 
Jordan (David S.) and Charles H. Gilbert. List of the Fishes of the Pacific Coast of 

the United States, with a table showing the distribution of the species. Proc. 

U. S. Nat. jI/«s., v. 3, pp. 452-458. 
. Notes on the Fishes of the Pacific Coast of the United States. Proc. 

U. S. Nat. Mus.yV. 4, pp. 29-70. 

South America, 

Steiudachuer (Franz). Beitrage zur Keuntniss der Flussfische Siidamerikas. (HI.) 
Beschreibung der ueuen Arten. Anzeiger d. kais. Akad. d. JViss., 1881, No. XI, pp. 
97-99. 

. Ichthyologische Beitrage. (XL) Neue Arten. Ibid., pp. 99-100. 

Pacific Ocean. 

Gunther (A. ). Garrett's Fische der Sudsee. Heft 7 (pp. 217-256, 20 Taf. ). Hamburg, 
1881. Journ. Mus. Godeffroy, Heft 15. 

Australia. 

Macleay (William). Deseriptive Catalogue of Austrahan Fishes, vol. 1. Sydney, F. W. 
White, 1881. (8vo, vi, 264 pp., 2 pi., numbered 13 and 14. From Proc. Linn. Soc. 
Ne^p S. Wales, v. 5, parts 3 and 4. J 



ZOOLOGY. 465 

FISHERIES. 
General. 

Amtllche Bericlite uber die Internationale Fiacherei-Ausstellung zu Berlin 1880. 
Berlin, P. Parey, 1881. (8vo.) viz: I. Fiscbzucht von M. von dem Borne, H. 
Haack, K. Michaelis. Im Anhange: die Angelfisclierei, von M. von dem Borne. 
Mit 39 Holzschn. (84 pp.) II. Seefischerei, von Dr. M. Lindemaun. Mit 162 
Holzschu. (244 pp.) 

Meyer (J.). Haudbuch des Fischerei-Sports. Wien, Pest, Leipzig, Hartleben's Ver- 
lag, 1881. (Svo. 272 pp. M. 5. 40.) 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part VI. Report of the Commis- 
sioner for 1878. (A. Inquiry into the decrease of food flslies. B. The propaga- 
tion of food iishes in the waters of the United States.) Washington, Govt. Print- 
ing Office, 1880. (8vo, liv and 988 pp. ; published 1881.) 

Fish epidemic. 

Endlich (F. M.). An Analysis of Water destructive to Fish in the Gulf of Mexico. 

rroc. U. S. Kat. Mus., v. 4, p. 124. 
Farlow (W. G.). Report on the contents of two bottles of Water from the Gulf of 

Mexico, forwarded by the Smithsonian Institution. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, 

p. 234. 
Glazier (W. C. W,). On the destruction of Fish by polluted waters in the Gulf of 

Mexico. Proc. U. S. Na t. Mus. , v. 4, pp. 126, 127. 
Ingersoll (Ernest). On the Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. U. S. Xat. 

Mu8., V. 4, pp. 74-80. 
Johnson (S. H.). Notes on the Mortality among Fishes of the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. 

U. S. Nat. Mus.,y. 4, p. 205. 
Moore (M. A.). Fish Mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. Proc, U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, 

pp. 125-126. 
Porter (Joseph V.). On the destruction of Fish by poisonous water in the Gulf of 

Mexico. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, pp. 121-123. 

Fishes of Alaska. 

Fishes had been collected in Alaska and scientifically described long 
before any were made known from California, but while the fauna 
of the latter was in later years well studied, that of Alaska remained 
comparatively neglected. But several collectors have gathered there 
within a few years past, and Dr. Tarleton II. Bean, in 1880, visited the 
country to study the fishes and fisheries, and has, since his return, pub- 
lished a number of articles respecting them, and compiled " a prelimi- 
nary catalogue of the fishes of Alaskan and adjacent waters." (Proc. 
U. S. Nat. Mus., V. 4, pp. 239-272.) One hundred and sixteen species are 
enumerated, all of which but seven are represented in the ifational 
Museum. The species are almost wholly shore fishes, or such as are 
found in comparatively shallow water, scarcely any deep-sea forms 
having been discovered. "VVe need only add here that the Cod family 
is represented by G species, the Flounder family by 9, the Sculpins by 
21, the Chiridai by 8, and the Salmon family by 9. Two very interest- 
ing genera have been added by Dr. Bean to the fauna which are at the 
same time new to science, 31elletes, a kind of Sculpin, and VaUia, a fish 
related to the Mud fishes, or Umbridte. 
S. Mis. 109 30 



466 ZOOLOGY. 

Fish epidemics in the Gulf of Mexico. 

In different years, at considerable intervals, an unusual mortality has 
occurred among the animals of the Gulf of Mexico around the peninsula 
of Florida, and fishes in large numbers and of many species could be 
then found floating, dead or dying, at the surface or stranded on the 
shore. The years 1844 and 1854 are especially remembered ou account 
of the fatality among the inhabitants of the Gulf. In the fall of 1878 
there was also a notable epidemic. (Jefferson, &c., in Proc. U. S. Nat. 
Mus., V. 1, pp. 244-246, 363, 364.) In the fall of 1880, likewise, occurred 
a destructive epidemic. These epidemics ensue on the presence and 
diffusion of bodies of discolored "poisoned water," which appear "in 
long patches or 'streaks,' sometimes 100 yards wide (and probably 
sometimes much wider), drifting lengthwise with the flow of tide," 
and which can be readily distinguished from the natural clear blue 
water of the Gulf. The sponges and other animals living near the 
bottom seem to be among the first to suffer, and profitable sponging 
grounds have been ruined by the poisoned stream. According to Mr. 
IngersoU the epidemic of 1880 "began suddenly, and immediately 
followed the terrible hurricane which is known as the 'August gale,' 
the fish and all other ocean life suddenly dying in hordes all along the 
southern (eastern) shore of Tampa Bay, in Egmont Keys, at its mouth, 
which was the most northern point, and thence southward as far as 
Shark River, in Whitewater Bay, on the coast. Thence fatal localities 
were to be found in the currents that set southward through Bahia 
Honda passage, through the Northwest Passage beyond Key West, and 
even out in the neighborhood of the far isolated Tortugas." Not only 
are these masses of deleterious water fatal in their course, for numerous 
fishermen are compelled to cross it in going from their fishing grounds 
to their markets, and lose their cargoes on account of the transit. 
Various attempts at explanation have been made of the phenomena. 
The most popular seems to be a hypothesis that the dirty water is due 
to an overflow from the everglades or swamps of "fresh water poisoned 
by a decoction of noxious acids, &c., leached from the roots which had 
been soaking for years in the pent-up floods " (P. N. M., iv, p. 78), or which 
had been saturated with the dogwood ( Cornus florida), especially. (P. N. 
M., iv, p. 122.) Another quite prevalent opinion attributes the unclean 
water to the eruption of a submarine volcano or "eruptions of volcanic 
gases which may have taken place through the bottom of the sea along 
a line stretching from Tampa Bay to the Tortugas and through the 
western half of the Florida Keys." (IngersoU, P. N. M., iv, pp. 79, 80.) 

In order to determine if possible the truth in a case which affects 
such large interests, both in labor and capital, the United States Fish 
Commissioner sent Mr. Ernest IngersoU to Florida to collect evidence 
in the matter, and referred samples of the "poisoned water" to Dr. F. 
M. Endlich for chemical examination, and to Dr. W. G. Farlow for 
microscopical investigation. 



ZOOLOGY. 4G7 

Dr. Endlicli, on analysis and comparison of the "ijoisoned water" 
with normal Gulf water, found the constituents to be, respectively, as 
follows, the injurious being designated as A and the normal as B: 

A B 

Specific gravity 1.024 1.022 

Solid constituents (total), per cent 4. 0780 4. 1095 

Ferric compounds, per cent 0. 1106 ' 0. 0724 

Injurious organic matter ratio =3 ratio =2 

He could not find, "even by spectroscopic analysis, any mineral con- 
stituents in the water A which could noxiously affect the fish," but he 
came to the conclusion that "the death of fish was caused by the more 
or less parasitic algae, which are found in large quantities in water A, 
but do not occur at all in water B." (P. U. S. N. M., iv, 124.) 

Professor Farlow, the eminent cryptogamist, to whom two bottles of 
the water were sent, found therein " a mass of amori)hous slime, in 
which were numerous crystals, apparently of a fatty nature," as well 
as numerous and partially decomposed remains of small crustaceans and 
various plant tissues. It was his " opinion that the trouble is not 
caused by the presence of any vegetable substance, but that the pres- 
ence of the latter is accidental. The slimy mass probably originated 
from a mass of eggs which, for some reason or another, were killed near 
the surface, and the smaller crustaceans in the neighborhood here have 
been involved in the general mass of slime." {Op. cit., p. 234.) 

Practically the results of the investigations so far have been nega- 
tive. More data are required, the extent and course of the noxious 
currents should be ascertained, a rigorous co-ordination of all facts 
bearing on the question is requisite, and renewed chemical and micro- 
scopical investigations must be made, as well as careful examination of 
the dead and dying fishes, as to their gills, &c. The factors that have 
been assigned as causes of the disturbed waters, and the mortality 
among the fishes, are scarcely likely to be the efficient ones. It is use- 
less to speculate at this time what are. It is most desirable in the in- 
terests of the fisherman, as well as science, that the truth should be 
known. 

A communication of Mr. S. H. Johnson, the collector of customs at 
Corpus Christi, Tex., is of interest in this connection, but fails to give 
any solution to the question at issue. "After very heavy rains and 
overflowing of rivers, the inner bays on the Texas coast sufl^er a loss of 
from one-half to three-fourths of their salt-water fish, not including 
mullet, which live as well in fresh as salt water," and unusual cold 
weather is also quite fatal to fish in shallow waters. The percentages 
given are, of course, only of value as crude estimates based on superfi- 
cial appearances. (Proc. U. S N. M., IV, 205.) 



468 ZOOLOGY. 

ICHTHYOLOGY. 

The subjects of this "science" are separable under four classes: (1) 
the Leptocardiaus, (2) the Myzonts or Marsipobranchiates, (3) the Se- 
lachians, Sharks, Eays, and Chimserids, and (4) the true Fishes. 

CLASS OF LEPTOCAEDIANS. 

Hatschek (B.) StudieniiberEntwickelungcles Amphioxus. Arbeit. Zool. Inst. Wieu, 

V. 4, p. 1- 88, 9 pi. 
Hoppe-Seyler (F.) IJber Amphioxuaund Cephalopodeu. Bericlitigung. Zool. Auz., 

4. Jalirg., p. 185-187. 
Krukenberg (C. Fr. W.) Zur Kenntniss des cheniischen Baues von Ampliioxus lance- 

olatus und der Cephalopoden. Zool. Auz., 4. Jalirg. , p. 64-66, p. 263, 1881. 

Eml)ryology of Ampliioxus. 

In some respects the most important vertebrate type known is Am- 
phioxus or Branchiostoma. Were it not for this form we would be left 
in the dark as to the relationships of the great vertebrate with the other 
branches of the animal kingdom and could only at best surmise, and 
unperfectly, the truth in the case from the facts of the embryology of 
the Marsipobranchiates and succeeding animals. Whatever light is 
thrown on the history of Amphioxus, is consequently reflected on the 
genealogy and history of all other vertebrates, including man himself. 
A full knowledge of that form is therefore especially desirable. Numer- 
ous naturalists have contributed to our information respecting the mor- 
phology and histology of the adult stage, but few have done aught re- 
specting the embryology. Years ago the eminent Eussian embryologist, 
Kowalevsky, gave the first glimpses of the animal's earlier history, and 
during the past year Dr. Hatschek has added to the stock of informa- 
tion respecting its development, and confirmed, supplemented, and 
sometimes modified Kowalevsky's account. The ova are generally quite 
isolated. Oviposition seems to be dependent on the weather and even 
time of day. The generative products are discharged through the 
mouth, as Kowalevsky stated. The five fat-like bodies of the Eussian 
author are regarded as yolk granules ; the spermatozoa would appear 
to always enter at the vegetative pole. The progress of development is 
described as it appears at five different periods. 

In the first period after the fecundation of the egg^ segmentation en- 
sues. The cleavage was found to be unequal, the differences between 
the two poles being well marked. There is a pause of about an hour 
between the formation of the first and second groove. 

In the second, or " blastula-stage," the investing cells take on " an 
epithelial character till there is formed a general outer layer, inclosing 
a cavity. This simple epithelium forms the substratum for the later 
developmental processes. All the essential organs are formed by fold- 
ings or outgrowths from it. Bilateral symmetry is obvious at a very 



ZOOLOGY. 469 

early period ; the blastopore appears to close from before backwards. 
The lower layer, which goes to form the eudoderm, does not correspond 
to more tban one-third of the blastula. This undergoes invagination ; 
the lluid of the cleavage ca\'ity becomes absorbed, and bilateral sym- 
metry soon becomes well marked." 

In the "'third period' the primitive segments, the nervous system, 
and the notochord begin to be apparent ; the remnant of the blasto- 
pore persists as an opening between the enteric cavity and the nerve- 
tube, representing the typical neuro-enteric canal. Contemporaneously 
with the development of the nerve-tube, the mesoderm develops the 
primitive segments ; two lateral longitudinal folds arise in the dorsal 
portion of the endoderm,and represent the rudiments of the mesoderm. 
The cavities of the primitive segments are diverticula from the arch- 
enteric cavity." 

In the fourth histological differentiation especially supervenes. "The 
muscles become apparent ; the notochord undergoes histological differ- 
entiation, and fibrous cords appear in the medullary tube. At the same 
time the larva alters greatly in form, becomes elongated and compressed, 
and takes on generally a piscine character. The increase in the num- 
ber of primitive segments goes on but slowly, but what are formed 
gradually fuse in the median central line. Each muscle-cell has at first 
only a single fibril, which is continuous throughout the length of the 
body." 

In the fifth period " those changes occur which enable the embryo to 
pass into the larva. A number of orifices are now formed — the mouth 
and the"first gill-cleft, the orifice of the ciliated organ (or left endodermal 
sac), the club-shaped gland, and the anus. The body meanwhile in- 
creases in length, fresh segments being formed ; a number of strong 
motile flagella may be seen to be developed from the cells, and all the 
tissues of the body are now formed of transparent protoplasm." 

The first four of these phases successively manifested correspond to 
the first of " two well-marked stages, the one embryonic when it is ef- 
fected at the cost of the nutrient material contained in the egg, and is 
very rapid. The fifth phase represents the second stage. At the close 
of the first the mouth is developed, and the first gill-cleft. Tlie larva 
now begins to feed itself; its cells contain transparent protoplasm, and 
the developmental processes are very much slower." (J. R. M. S., (2) II, 
174-176, from Arbeit. Zool. Inst. Univ. Wien, IV, 1-89, with pi.) 



470 ZOOLOGY. 

CLASS OF MYZONTS. 

Scott (W. B.). Beitrage zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Petromyzonten. Morplio- 
log. Jalirb.,v. 7, pp. 101-172, 5 pi. 

Eiiibryology of the Lamprey. 

An important contribution, in the German language, to our knowl- 
edge of the development of the Petromyzontids is due to Mr. W. B. 
Scott, of Princeton, New Jersey. In the laboratory of Professor Gegen- 
baur, at Heidelberg, he instituted new investigations on the family in 
question, and has published the result in an elaborate memoir in Gegen- 
baur's Morphologisches Jahrbuch (v. 7. pp. 101-173, with 5 pi.). We 
can only notice a few of the fruits of his studies. 

The gastrula is the result of a true invagination, (but it is not central 
as it is in Amphioxus,) and the overgrowth of the smaller elements. 
The notochord was found to be of endodermal origin as has been 
known to be the case in the Leptocardians, Selachians, true Fishes, Uro- 
dele Amphibians, Lacertilian Eeptiles and Mammals. Eight pairs of 
branchial clefts are developed, but the foremost speedily disappears, 
and it is added that there is no evidence of the existence of gill clefts 
anterior to the first pair of the lamprey in any primitive vertebrate. 
The embryonic mouth develops into the mouth of the adult, while in 
the higher vertebrates, save the Teleost fishes, the medullary tube 
arises from the growth together of two folds in the lamprey. The folds 
are appressed, and " the medullary tube forms an inwardly projecting 
knob, which, when it is separated off from the ectoderm, is at first a 
solid tube, and only becomes hollow by the outgrowth of its cells." 
The sensory organ first developed is the auditory, and this appears 
just in front of the primitive vertebra (and not, as in the Selachians, at 
some distance from it). The brain is notable in that for some time 
" there is no tendency to folding ; when it does occur it appears to be 
due to the sudden increase in growth of the median portion." The ru- 
dimentary olfactory organ was found to be primitively single (and not 
double, as described by Calberla). 

Some of the observations and inferences of Dr. Scott, especially those 
on the germinal layer, have been since controverted by J. P. ISTuel, 
(Archives de Biologic, t. 21, pp. 403-454, with 2 pi.), but the memoir 
noticed is one of sterling merit and noteworthy as the production of an 
American naturalist. 

CLASS OF SELACHIANS. 

Balfour (F. M,). On the Development of the Skeleton of the Paired Fina of Elasmo- 
branchii, considered in Relation to its Bearings on the Nature of the Limbs of the 
Vertebrata. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 656-€71, 2 pi. 

Benda (Carl.). Die Dentinbildung in den Hautzahnen der Selachier. Arch. f. 
mikroskop. Anat, v. 20, pp. 246-270, 1 pi. 

Bolau (H.). tJber die Paarung und Fortpflanzung der Scyllium-Arten. Zeitschr. 
Wiss. Zool., V. 35, p. 321-325. 



ZOOLOGY. 471. 

Herrmauii (G.)' Sur la Spermatog^n^se chez les S^laciens. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc; 

Paris, t. 93, pp. 858-860, 
Marshall (A. Milnes). On the Hoad Cavities and Associated Nerves of Elasmobranchs. 

Quart. Jouru. Mic. Sc, v. 21, pp. 72-97, 2 pi. 

Anterior termination of notochord in Selachians. 

It liadbeen generally supposed that the notochord in all fishes termi- 
nated in front, back of the sella turcica, and this belief has been embodied 
in diagnoses of those animals as contrasted with the lowest of the verte- 
brates — the Leptocardiaus. Recently, however, the eminent German 
embryologist, Professor Reichert, thought that he could trace the noto- 
chord "through the cranial floor in front of and below the hypophysis." 
Eeichert's observation was made on the embryo of a dog-fish {Sqiialus 
aeanthias). Dr. Eabl-Ruckhard has re-examined the same species with 
reference to the mooted question, and confirms the old view in opposition 
to Professor Reichert. After an examination of several specimens he 
formulated his conclusions as follows : 

1. "At no period of its development has the embryo of Aeanthias a 
notochord with its apex projecting beyond that part of the base of the 
skull which subsequently becomes the dorsum sellae." 

2. " The hypophysis arises immediately in front of the apex of the 
notochord in the basal portion of that deposit of connective tissue which 
is termed the middle cranial trabecula." 

3. "The summit of this rudiment (Reichert's processus sellae turcicse) 
does not pass into the later sella turcica, but becomes the adveutitia of 
the basilar artery." 

It is added that " though it is certain that the notochord stops short 
of the hypophysis and lies behind (not beneath) it, this is not irrecon- 
cilable with Reichert's other statement — that the chorda of young sharks 
at a certain period of development reaches to the frontal wall {Stirn- 
wand). The cephalic flexure shows us that such a state of things is 
quite possible." 

Observations were also made on the morphology and development of 
the hypophysis and pineal gland. The results of the lamented Balfour 
are confirmed. In contradiction of Fritsch, it is maintained that " the 
pineal gland is developed just as among the higher vertebrates." The 
sources of error which have led to contrary assertions are explained. 
(J. R. M. S., I, 9-11, from Morph Jahrb., VI, 535-570, 2 pi.) 

FISHES PROPER. 

p Chondrostei. 

Parker (William Kitchen). On the Development of the Sturgeon (Acipenser aturio). 

Nature, v, — , p. 71. 

Salensky (W.). Sur le Developpement de la Sterlet. Arch, de Biologie, t. 2 pp. 233- 

341, 8 pi. 

Apodes, 

Brock(J.). UntersuchungeniiberdioGeschlechtsorganeeinigerMuraenoiden. Mittheil. 
Zool. Station Neapel, v. 2, pp. 415-494, 3 pi. 



472 ZOOLOGY. 

Hermes (0.)- tjber reife mannliche Geschleclitstlieile des Seeaals (Conger viilgaria) 

uiid einige Notizen liber den mannlichen Flussaal (Anguilla vulgaris Flem. ). Zool. 

Anz., 4. Jahrg., pp. 39-44. 
Eobiu (Charles). Les Anguilles males compar^es aux femelles. Compt. rend. Acad. 

Sc, Paris, t. 92, pp. 328-383. 
Weyonbergli (H.). Morphologische Aanteekeningeu over de Proest-Alen (Symbran. 

cbidaj). Zool. Anz., 4. Jahrg. (31 p., I Tab.) 
tJber den Kiemenapparat der SymbranchidsB. Zool. Anz., 4. Jahrg., pp. 407-409. 

Nematognathi. 

Bean (Tarleton H. ). Description of a new species of Amiurus (A. ponderosus) from the 
Mississippi River. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 2, pp. 286-290. 

Eventognathi. 

Cope (E. D.). A new genus of Catostomidis (Lipomyzon). Am. Naturalist, v. 15, 

p. 59. 
Hensen (V.). Nachtrag zu meinen " Bemerkungen gegen die Cupula terminalis 

(Lang)." Arch. f. Anat. u. Entwickelungsgesch., 1881, pp. 405-418, 1 pi. 
Nusbaum (Jos.). tJber das anatomische Verhiiltnis zwischen dem Gehororgane und 

der Schwimmblasc bei den Cyprinoiden. Zool. Anz., 4 Jahrg., pp. 552-556. 

Ahdominales. 

Bendire (Charl.). Notes on Salmonidce of the upper Columbia. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 
V. 3, pp. 81-87. 

Hajilomi. 

Lepori (Ces.) Osservazioni sull' uovo della Lebias calaritana. Relazione del De Sanc- 
tis. Atti R. Accad. Line. Transunti. 

Sternfeld (Alfr. ). . Uber die Structur des Hechtzahns, iusbesondere die des Vasoden- 
tins. Arch, mikroskoi). Anat., v. 20, pp. 382-412, 2 pi. 

Acantlioplerygii. 

Krukenburg (C. Fr. W.). Beitriige zur Anatomic nnd Physiologie von Lu varus im- 
perialis. Graf BdlaHaller, zur Anatomic und Histologic; Das Auge, von E. Berger; 
Physiologisch-Chemische Untersuchungen von C. F. W. Krukenburg. Kruken- 
burg, Vergl. Physiolog. Studien Adria, 4. Abth., pp. 1-64. 

MacKay (Charles L. ). A review of the genera and species of the family Centrarchidae, 
with a description of one new species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 3, ])p. 87-93. 

Martens (Ed. von). Uber die Bewegungswcise der Fische aus der Gattung Perioph- 
thalmus. Sitzungsber. Ges. nat. Fr. Berlin, 1881, pp. 160, 161. 

Jugidares. 

Emery (Carlo). Fierasfer. Studi intorno alia sistematica, I'anatomia e la biologia 
delle specie mediterranee di questo genere. Atti accad. Line. Mem., CI. fis., t. 
7, pp. 167-254. 
Also published as the second monogra])h of the "Fauna und FlorS, des Golfes voi 
Neapel." Leipzig, Engelmann, 1880. (4° M. 25,) with the title Le specie de 
genere Fierasfer uel Golfo di Napoli e regioni limitrofi. 

Plectognathi. 

Vignal (Will.). Note sur I'Anatomie des centres nerveux du mole, Orthagoriscus 
mola, Arch. Zool. Experiment., t. 9, pp. 369-386, 1 pi. 



ZOOLOGY. 473 

Retinal vessels of fishes. 

Vessels in the retina of the eel have been described by W. Krause as 
well as by W. Miiller, but on the other hand several competent anato- 
mists have denied the existence of such vessels in fishes. Dr. G. Den- 
issenko has, to some extent, reconciled the conflicting statements. In 
old eels that investigator was unable, like others, to find any vessels, 
and in old carp, although vessels were found, they were very insignifi- 
cant, and might easily be overlooked. In the young carp, however, 
" they occur not only in the innermost layers, but also in the outer 
granular eye." Dr. Denissenko was consequently led to believe, with 
Krause, that " with age these vessels usually disappear, in consequence 
of the growth of the eye forwards and sidewards and the simultaneous 
extension of the optic nerve. In this way the vessels become com- 
pressed; their lumen is reduced and finally obliterated." They may 
thus be developed in the young and atrophied in the old. (J. E. M. S., 
I, 18, from Arch. Mikr., Anat, xviii, 468-480, with 4 fig.) 

Development of the sturgeon. 

Prof. W. K. Parker has supplemented the important work of Sa- 
lensky on the embryology of the sturgeon by a memoir " on the 
structure and development of the skull in sturgeons {Acipenser ruthe- 
mis and A. sturio) " in more advanced stages. It will be sufficient in this 
place to indicate that Professor Parker thinks that the cranial scutes of 
the head are only homologous to the bones of the true osseous fishes in 
part ; that is, the teleost bones " can only correspond to the inner layer 
of the scute." But, in addition to others, " along the side of the skull 
in old individuals, plates of bone appear as splints or parostoses, that 
are manifestly the forerunners of the deeper plates that, in the higher 
ganoids and the telostei form the proper ectosteal bony centres of the 
more or less ossified cranial-box." 

The discovery by Salensky of teeth in the embryonic sturgeon is, of 
course, confirmed. Larval sturgeons, says Professor Parker, "are, in 
appearance, miniature sharks. For a few weeks they have a similar 
mouth, apd their lips and throat are beset with true teeth that are 
molted before calcification has fairly set in. Their first gills are very 
long and exposed, but not nearly so long, or for such a time uncovered, 
as in the embryos of sharks and skates." 

Oviposition of eallichthyids. 

The fact that certain Callichthyids take care of their eggs and young, 
and are able to progress on land, has long been familiar through the 
oft-republished observations of Hancock on the so-called Ilassars of 
Guiana. Eecent experiments by M. Carbonnier, of Paris, (Comptes Ren- 
dus Acad. Sc, December 6, 1880,) furnish additional details. The in- 
dividuals experimented with were received at Paris from the Rio de la 



474 ZOOLOGY. 

Plata. When the female is preparing to deposit her eggs, she brings 
together the ventral fins so as to form a pouch which receives them by 
degrees^ and wherein they are fertilized by the males. The eggs are then 
deposited in a spot cleaned, by the mouth of the mother, of vegetation. 
Somewhere about two hundred and fifty eggs are extruded and attached 
by a viscous coat which envelopes them. The young are developed and 
able to swim in twelve or thirteen days, but they do not reach maturity 
till two years after hatching. It is noteworthy that the fishes introduced 
into France have accommodated their oviposition to the reversed seasons, 
for, whereas in the Eio de la Plata they lay their eggs in October or No- 
vember, those born in France matured their eggs in June. 

New observations on terrestrial progression of these fishes have also 
been published by Mr. Joseph Manson, of Bahia, in " Science" for De- 
cember 25, 1880. 

A new type of suckers. 

A characteristic family of fishes for the North American fauna is that 
of the suckers or Catostomidse. Two genera, it is true, are represented 
in Northeastern Asia; but all the other members of this family are 
American, and help to impart the stamp of peculiarity to the fish 
fauna of the United States. Ten genera have been recognized by Jor- 
dan in his revision of the family, and these are divided into three sub- 
families, Catostomince, Bubalichthyincc, and Gycleptince. To the first of 
these is now added, by Professor Cope, a peculiar genas, called Lipo- 
myzon, the species of which had been previously confounded witli Chas- 
mistes. They, however, exhibit a difference, especially in dentition, the 
pharyngeal bones being very slender and flattened, and the teeth min- 
ute and numerous, as in the carp-suckers. 

Two species are known, both from Klamath Lake, Oregon, the L. 
luxatus and L. hrevirostris. 

Peculiar eye-like organs in p hy so stome fishes. 

Scarcely any two organs would appear to be more unlike than the 
eyes of vertebrate animals and the electric organs so highly developed 
in certain fishes — the torpedos, gymnotus or electrical eel, and mala- 
pterurus or electrical cat-fish. Nevertheless there are peculiar organs 
found along the sides of the body, and sometimes on other parts, of 
sundry pelagic and deep-sea fishes, which have been claimed, on one 
hand, by different naturalists to be accessory eyes, and, on the con- 
trary, by others to be rather of the nature of electric organs. Tbe fishes 
so endowed are mostly of small size and like herring or salmonids in 
appearance, and were formerly associated in the same family as the 
latter, but are now referred to several peculiar families — the scopelids, 
the stomiatids, the chauliodoutids, and the sternoptychids. Generally 
the organs in question are manifested as pearl-like spots distributed in 
longitudinal rows along the sides near the abdomen, but they are often 



ZOOLOGY. 475 

likewise developed on the head, and eveu on the brauchiostegal rays. 
Nearly quarter of a century ago the illustrious German histologist 
KoUiker had suggested that these organs were " essentially nervous, 
and present the nearest resemblance to the electrical organs of fishes." 
But this suggestion received no notice, and has only recently been res- 
urrected by Professor Bell. In 1865 Professor Leuckart published the 
results of a special examination, and expressed the belief that they 
were accessory eyes. In 1879 Professor Ussow examined the organs 
anew in seven distinct generic types, and urged that they belonged to 
two different categories, those of some fishes being accessory eyes, 
while those of others were special glandular organs. The two kinds, 
it was claimed, were never developed in the same fish. Finally, in 1881, 
Professor Leydig attacked the problem and made known the results of 
his examinations in a special work (illustrated by ten plates), of which 
an abstract has been given by Prof. F. Jeffrey Bell, from which, in 
the absence of the original, we derive the conclusions of the Bonn pro- 
fessor. 

The peculiar organs of the fishes under consideration are referable, 
according to Leydig, to three categories: (1) "Eye-like organs," (2) 
" mother-of-pearl-like organs," and (3) " luminous organs," but the last 
two are confined to the scopeli. 

The ey^-like organs are " saccular in form and divisible into a bulb, 
a neck, and an orifice, and this orifice is always directed downward." 
They have " an investment of brown pigment, a layer with a metallic 
glitter, a gray inner body, and a surrounding lymphatic space. The 
investment is derived from the general integument of the body, and ihe 
pigment granules are contained in the cells of the underlying connect- 
ive tissue ; the metallic layer consists of iridescent plates, rods, or 
fibres. The gray inner body is divisible into two portions, the hinder 
and larger of which fills the sac, while the anterior and smaller occu- 
pies the narrower neck. The striate appearance of this part " is ap- 
parently due " to the presence of a framework of connective tissue, which 
sends rays into or forms a network in it; into this gray part there 
further proceeds a nerve, the fibers of which j^robably come into con- 
nection with the contained cells." These organs were regarded by 
Ussow as having one or other of two functions, but according to Leydig 
there is no essential difference between them, and both must have the 
same function — whatever that may be. 

The mother-of-pearl organs "have in all cases an outer brown invest- 
ment, a metallic layer, a gelatinous internal body formed of connective 
tissue ; they are provided with nerves and blood-vessels, and are sur- 
rounded by a lymphatic space. The metallic plates are regarded by 
Ussow as special cells, but Leydig looks upon them as altogether simi- 
lar to the minute iridescent bodies found on the skin. The gelatinous 
portion is made up of delicate radiate cells, which give rise to a net- 
work, and an intermediate soft substance?'. 



476 ZOOLOGY. 

The so-called liminous organs present no essential difference of 
structure from the preceding. 

Organs exhibiting the characteristics of these parts, it is urged, can- 
not be sensory, much less endowed with the function of sight. The ob- 
jections to their consideration as eyes are given in detail, and of the so- 
called lens it is said that "it does not lie in the center, but at the edge of 
the mass which does duty as the vitreous body," and its histology is also 
antagonistic to an analogy with the lens, and, " greatest difficulty of all, 
the ' pupil,' the '■ lens,' and the ' vitreous body' are not turned upwards to 
the light, but so long as the fish is swimming they look downwards into 
the deep ; and in the case of ChauUodus are developed also on the mem- 
brane that lines the cavity of the mouth." 

What, then, are these organs ? According to Leydig, the problem- 
atic bodies " bear the closest resemblance to the electric or ' pseudo- 
electric' organs of other fishes, and he brings many points to strengthen 
his position." Different as the electric organs are in form as well as 
position, in all they are richly supplied with nerves; they are surrounded 
by a layer of connective tissue, which gives rise to a number of ' ' alveolar " 
chambers filled with a gelatinous substance. Now, on comi)arison with 
these of the eye-like spots of the fishes, it is found that in this one as 
in the other there is '* a contained mass of gelatinous tissue," and " the 
same net- work of connective tissue," as well as "nerve fibres of very 
much the same character." Still other points of resemblance are ad- 
duced, but " whether they really have the power of developing elec- 
tricity is a problem that cannot yet be solved." As to their phosphores- 
cence, it is contended that " no definite phosphorescent organ has ever 
yet been examined which presented any other contents than fatty or 
oily matter." Conceding all the j^ostulates claimed by Professor Leydig, 
however, in view of the surroundings of the animals developing the 
organs treated of, we can scarcely avoid the belief that they have some 
relation to illumination. In the words of Professor Bell, " it still re- 
mains possible that these creatures add to the feeble light of great ocean 
depths by reflecting the light that fall on these eye-like organs," although 
their function as such may be a secondary development. 

The Facijic Coast salmon. 

The species of salmon -like salmonidae found upon the Pacific coast 
of jSTorth America and its entering rivers have been unduly multi- 
plied, and much confusion has existed as to the limits of the spe- 
cies. With more ample material than was enjoyed by any of their 
predecessors, and, above all, the privilege of seeing the fishes in their 
haunts, Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert have revised all the known forms 
and have reduced them to five species. All belong to the genus Onco- 
rhynchus, which differ from the Salmo in the greater number of rays in the 
anal fin, and accessory but slight modifications of the snout. The males 
of all the species when running into fresh water assume an attenuated 



ZOOLOGY. 477 

beak-like snout, and at least most of them die and never return to the 
sea. These five species enjoj vernacular names, and are known as fol- 
lows : 

(1.) Oncorhynchus chouicha or quinnat. — Ohouicha, king salmon, 
e'quinna, saw-kwey, Chinook salmon, Columbia Eiver salmon, Sacra- 
mento salmon, tyee salmon, Monterey salmon, deep-water salmon, 
spring salmon, ek-ul-ba ("ekewan"), (fall run). 

(2.) Oncorhynchufi nerlxa. — Blue-back. — Krasnaya ryba, Alaska, red- 
fish, Idaho red-fish, sukkegh, Frazer's Eiver salmon, roseal, oo-chooy-ha. 

(3.) Oncorhynchus Icisutch. — Silver salmon. — Kisutch, winter salmon, 
hoopid, skowitz, coho, bielaya ryba, o-o-wun. 

(4.) Oncorhynchus keta. — Dog salmon. — Kayko, lekai, ktlawhj", qua- 
lock, fall salmon, o le-a-rah. The males of all species in the fall are 
usually known as dog salmon, or fall salmon. 

(5.) Oncorhynchus gorhuscha. — Hump-back. — Gorbuscha, haddo, hone, 
holia, lost salmon, Puget Sound salmon, dog salmon (of Alaska.)* 

Of these species the quinnat is the one that is most generally known, 
and is the largest and finest of all, deserving the name of king salmon 
which has been given to it in some places. This species occurs farther 
south than its congeners, and enters into the Ventura Eiver, which is 
the southernmost stream of California not muddy and alkaline at its 
mouth. 

The 0. nerl'a or blue-back is the most abundant species in Frazer's 
Eiver, and is the famous red-fish of Idaho. 

The hlind fishes and congeners. 

The well known and remarkable blind fish of the Mammoth Cave of 
Kentucky is the representative of a peculiar family, limited, so far as 
has been ascertained, to the Middle and Southern United States, and 
known by the name of Amhlyopsids or Heteropygii. The forms are re- 
lated, but distantly, to the cyprinodontids, and are distinguished by the 
position of the anus under the throat, the very small scales of the body 
and the scaleless head. Much interest attaches to the family for various 
reasons, and it has indeed been regarded as a keystone to the theory of 
evolution on the one hand, or specific creation on the other, Professor 
Agassiz having especially insisted upon the value ol the study of the 
type with reference to this question. We are indebted to Mr. P. W. Put- 
nam for a revision of the family, and for good descriptions of the genera 
and species. By him four species were recognized belonging to three 
genera, namely, (1 ) Amhlyopsis, with the large blind fish of the Mam- 
moth Cave; (2) Typhlichthys,v,^it]i asmallerblind fish inhabiting subter- 
ranean streams of Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, and coexisting 
with the large blind fish in the Mammoth Cave; and (3) Chologaster, with 

* Observations on the Salmon of tlie Pacific by David S. Jordan and Charles IT. 
Gilbert. (Am. Nat., v. 15, pp. 177-186.) 



478 ZOOLOGY. 

two species — G. cornutus and C. Agassizii, tlie former occurring in 
ditches in the-rice fields of South Carolina, while the latter is only 
known from a specimen found in a well in Lebanon, Tcnii. A third 
species of Chologaster * has recently been added by Prof. S. A. Forbes, 
and was discovered in a spring at the foot of a bluff in western 
Union County in the southern part of Illinois. At first only one 
specimen was obtaiued and a name was deferred till more information 
should be obtained. Later,! seven more specimens were secured and the 
form has been named Chologaster papilliferus. The species is especially 
noteworthy in that it lessens the gap between its own kind and the blind 
fish and answers one of the objections urged against the primitive com- 
mon parentage of all the species. 

Habits of fierasfer. 

In certain of the holothurians (known as sea-cucumbers, trepangs, 
&c.), living at moderate depths, fishes may be found in the interior of 
the body. These fishes are elongated and taper to the end of the tail, 
which is pointed. The name of fierasfer has been given to them. 
How they enter into the holothurians has been explained by Pro- 
fessor Emery. When free in the water, the fish swims head down- 
wards with tail curved toward the back, by undulatory movements 
of the anal fin. Coming to a holothurian lying at the bottom of the 
water, it eagerly seeks the posterior aperture. Sometimes it pene- 
trates through this head-foremost, but generally enters in a character- 
istic manner. By its anal aperture the holothurian expels and sucks 
in water. The fish, during the expulsion of the water, pushes its head 
into the orifice and curves its tail to one side, and then by a rapid 
recoil movement, introduces itself, tail-foremost, into the intestinal 
canal, pushing farther and farther in with every suction of its in- 
voluntary host. From the intestine it penetrates into the pulmon- 
ary passageo, and thence, after their rupture, into the perivisceral 
space. It remains, however, near the anus, and protrudes its head, 
when hunger impels, in search of food. It is therefore neither a true 
parasite, since it does not feed on its host, nor a commensal, as it does 
not share the food of its host, but simply a lodger or tenant at will. 



AMPHIBIANS. 

Skull. 

Parker (W. K.). On the structure and development of the skull in the Batrachlan. 
P. Ill, with 44 pi. Philos. Transact. R. Soc. London, v. 172, 1881, pp. 1-266. 

'Forbes (S. A.). A rare fish in Illinois. Am. Nat.^ v. 15, pp. 232-233. 
tForltcs (S. A.). The blind cave fishes and their allies. Am. Nat., v. 16, pp. 1-5, 
JaQ., 188-i. 



ZOOLOGY. 479 

Vascular system. 

Boas (J. E. V.)- Bidrag til Kundskaben om Conns arteriosus og Artcriebuerne hos 
Anipliibierne. Kjobenhavn, Hest & Son, 1881 (8vo, 98 pp., 4 pi., M. 4). 

, tjber den Conus arteriosus und die Arterienbogen der Ampliibien. Morpho- 

log. Jabrb., v. 7, pp. 488-572. 

Hartog (J.). Bijdrage tot de pbysiologie van den Bulbns Aori^ae van bet kikvorsch- 
hart. Onderzoek. Pbysiolog. Laborat. Utrecht, (3), v. 6, 1881, pp. 361-418, 1 pi. 

Urodela. 

Camerano (Lor.). Delia scelta sessnale degli Anfibi urodeli. Atti Acad. So. Torino, 
V. 16, pp. 214-225. 

Anura. 

Boulenger (G. A.). Sur les larves des genres Pipa et Dactylethra 4 propos de la 

classification des Batraciens Anoures de M. Lataste. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, 1881, 

ibid, pp. 27-29. 
Fubiui (S.). Gowicht des centralen Nervensystems in Vergleich zu dem Korper- 

gewicbt der Tbiere, bel Eana esculenta und Rana temporaria. Molescbott, Unter- 

such. z. Naturiebre d. Mensch., v. 12. p. 455-461. 
Stobr (Phil.). Zur EntTwckelungsgeschichto des Anurenschadels. Zeitschr. wise. 

Zool., V. 36, p. 68-103, 2 pi. 

REPTILES. 

Anomodonta. 

Owen (Richard). On parts of the skeleton of an Anomodont reptile (Platypodo- 
saurus robustns). Part II. The Pelvis. Quart. Journ. Geolog. Soc. London, v. 
87, p. 266-270, 1 pi. 

Theriodoniia. 

Owen (Richard). On the order Theriodontia, with description of a new genus and 
species (Aelurosaurus feUnus). Quart. Journ. Geolog. Soc. London, v. 37, p. 
261-265, 1 pi. 

Plesiosauri. 

Sollas (W. J.). On a new species of Plesiosaurus (P. Conybeari) from the Lower Lia. 
of Charmonth, with observations on P. megacephalus Stutchb. and P. brachys 
cephalus Ow. With a supplement by Mr. G. F. Wbidborne. Quart. Journ. Geolog- 
Soc. London, v. 37, p. 440-480. 

^Dinosauria. 

Marsh (O. C). Principal characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs. Amer. Journ. 
Sc, (3,) V. 21, pp. 167-170, 3 pi., 417-423, 7 pi. 

New order of extinct Jurassic Reptiles (Cceluria). Am. Joum. Sc, (3,) v. 21, 

p. 339-340, 1 pi. 

Lacet-tilia. 

Eimer (Th.). Untersnchungen iiber das Variiren der Mauereidechse, ein Beitrag zur 
Theorie von der Entwickeliing aus constitutionellen Ursachen, so wio znm Dar- 
winismus. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 47. Jahrg., v. 1, pp. 239-340. 

I. Abtb. tJber Farben, iiber ihre u. der Zeichnung Anpassung, und iiber ihre 
Ursachen im Allgemoinen, unter Hinweis anf Biologisches und mlt Bemer- 
kungen iiber die Stimmen der Eidechsen. 

II. Abth. Die Grundvarietaton der Mauereidechse. Mit 2 Taf. 
Untersnchungen iiber den Ban der Mauereidechse. Mit 3 Taf. 

(Schluss.) Arch. f. Naturgesch., 47. Jahrg., v. 1. pp. 341-517. 



480 ZOOLOGY. 

• 

O'Sbaugnessy (A. W. E.)- An account of the Collection of Lizards made bj Mr. Buck- 
ley in Ecuador, and now in the British Museum, with Descriptions of the new 
Species. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 227-245, 3 pi. 

Parker (W. K.) On the structure of the skull in the Chamaelcons. Transact. Zool. 
Soc. London, v. 11, pp. 71-105, 5 pi. 

Ophidia. 

Ihering (H. von), tjber den Giftapparat der Korallenschlange. Zool. Anz., 4. 

Jahrg., pp. 409-412. 
Peters (W.). IJber das Vorkommenschildformiger Verbreiterungen der Dornfortsiitze 

bei Schlangen, und iiber neue oder wenig bekannte Arten dieser Abtheilung. Sit- 

zungsber. Ges. Nat.-Fr. Berlin, 1881, pp. 49-52. 

Chelonia. 

Sabatier (A.). Du M6cauisme de la Respiration chez les Ch^loniens. Revue Sc. Natur., 

(Montpellier), t. 2, pp. 417-437, 2 pi. 
Vaillant (L^on). M^moire sur la disposition des Vertfebres cervicales chez les Ch61o- 

niens. Ann. Sc. Natur., (6,) t. 10, art. 7 (106 pp., 6 pi.) 

rterodacfyli. 

Marsh (O. C). Note on American Pterodactyls. Am. Journ. Sc, (3,) v. 21, pp. 342, 
343.) 

A 7iew order of extinct Jurassic reptiles. 

In 1879, Prof. O. C. Marsh indicated a " new genus " of reptiles named 
Gwlurtis, which he subsequently re-examined and considered to rejire- 
sent a " new order," most nearly related to the Dinosaurians (A. J. S. 
(3), xxi, 339-340); or, a little later, a "suborder" probably of the 
" order Dinosauria" (A. J. S. (3), xxi, 423); and later still, an "order" 
of the "subclass Dinosauria" (xxiii, 85), The new type is remark- 
able for the hollowness of the vertebrae and the extreme lightness of 
those bones, " the excavations in them being more extensive than in 
the skeleton of any known vertebrate. There was, in fact, merely a 
slender framework of bone to define the form and inclosing extensive 
cavities." The ribs, too, of Coelunts are hollow, with well-defined walls 
to their large cavities. The metatarsals were " very long and slender." 
The genus is only known from various vertebrae representing the differ- 
ent regions of the body, ribs, and metatarsal bones. It is inferred from 
these that the animal had " a large and powerful neck, a trunk of mod- 
erate size, and a very long neat tail," and it has been suggested that 
the posterior limbs may have been larger than the anterior. "The re- 
mains now known are all from the Atlantosaurus beds of the Upper 
Jurassic of Wyoming." The name Coeluria has been proposed as the 
ordinal designation. 

American Pterodactyles. 

The remains of Jurassic Pterodactyles found in the United States 
hitherto have been fragmentary. Enough has been preserved, however, 
to enable Professor Marsh to recognize in the Jurassic fossils species 



ZOOLOGY. 481 

of a peculiar genus — the Dermodactylus montanns. In the Cretaceous, 
the representatives of a group distinguished by its toothless jaws are 
abundant, and of such two si)ecies are described. In this paper two 
are described — '■'•Pteranodon nanus,''^ and '■^Nyctodactylus gracilis.^'' The 
large Pteranodon first described exhibited a noteworthy peculiarity of 
its skeleton. " To aid the powerful wings in flight, the pectoral arch 
is strengthened (1) by the anchylosis of several vertebrae; (2) by the 
robust scapulae articulating on oppo^iite sides of the common neural 
spine of these vertebrae. This is virtually a repetition of the pelvic 
arch on a much larger scale." This structure was apparently not mani- 
fested in NyctodactyUis (A. J. S. (3), xxi, 342-343.) 

BIRDS. 



Systematic. 

British Museum : Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum. Vol.5. Catalogue 
of the Passeriformes or Perching Birds in the collection of the British Museum. 
Cichlomorphae. Partll. Containing the family Turdidse. By Henry Seebohm. 
London, printed by order of the trustees. 1881. (8vo., xvi,, 426 p., 18 col. iil., 
20 sh.) 

Miscellaneous. 

Hay (Arthur, Marquis of Tweeddale). Ornithological works. Reprinted from the 
originals, edited and revised by R. G. Wardlaw Ramsay. Together with a bio- 
graphical sketch by W. H. Russell. London, 1881. (4to, 64, 760 p.) 

Russ (Karl). Hamlbuch fiir Vogelliebhaber, Ziichter, nnd Handler. H. Einheimische 
Stubenvogel. 2. vollig umgearb. Aufl. Hannover, C. RUmpler, 1881. (8vo, xii, 
462p., Jf. 5,25.) 

Journals. 

Bulletinof the Nuttall Ornithological Club. Vol.6. Cambridge, Mass., 1881. 8vo. 
Ibis (the). A Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Edited by O. Salvin and Ph. L. 

Sclater. 4 Ser. Vol.5. London, Van Voorst, 1881. (8vo.) 
Journal fiir Ornithologie. Deutsches Centralorgan fiir die gesammten Ornithologie. 

Herausgcgeben von J. Cabanis. 29. Jahrg. (4. Folge, 9. Bd.) Leipzig, Kittlcr. 

1881. (8vo.) 
Stray Feathers. A Journal of Ornithology for India and its Dependencies. Ed. by 

Allan Hume. Vol.9. Calcutta, 1880. (8vo.) 

Bibliogropliy. 

Coues (Elliott). Third instalment of American ornithologicalliterature. Bull. U. S. 

Geol. Geogr. Survey Territ., v. 5, pp. .522-1072, 
Reichenow (Ant.) and H. Schalow. Compendium dcr neu beschriebenen Gattungeu 

und Arten. VI. Folge, 5. Serio. Journ. f. Ornithol., 28. Jahrg., p. 314-324 ; 29. 

Jahrg., i)p. 70-102. 

Morjjhology. 

Behrens (Wilhelm.). Untersuchungen iiber den Processus uncinatus der Vogel und 

Krokodile. Inang. Diss. Gottingcn, 18S0. (8vo., 36p.) 
Fraissc (P.). tjber Ziihne bei Vogeln. Vcrhandl. physik.-med. Ges. Wiirzburg, v. 15, 

pp. iii-ix. 
Jeffries (J. Amory). On the number of primaries in Birds. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. 
Club, V. 6, pp. 156-163. 
S. Mis. 109 31 



482 ZOOLOGY. 

Krukenberg (C. Fr. W.)- Die Farbstoffc der Federn. 2. Mitthciluiig. Veigl.-pliys. 

Stud., (2,) I. Abtli., pp. 151-171. 
Meyer (A. B.). Die Farbstoffe der Federn der Edelpapageien und des Konigspara- 

diesvogels. Nach Untersuchiingeu vou C. F. W. Krulienberg. Mittheil. Ornithol. 

Ver. Wien,.5. Jahrg., pp. 83-85. 
Morse (Edw. S.). Ou the identity of the ascending process of the Astragalus in Birds 

■with the Intermedium. Annivers. Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., (10. p.) 
Keller (Carl). Uutersuchungen iiber die Bliitterbilduug im Hilhnerkeim. Arch. f. 

mikroskop. Anat., v. 20, iip. 174-211, 3 pi. 
Sedgwick (Adam). On the early development of the anterior part of the wolffian 

duct and body in the Chick, together with some remarks on the excretory system 

of vertebrata. Quart. Journ. Microscoj). Sc, v. 21, pp. 432-468, 1 pi. 



Europe. 

Dresser (Henry E). A History of the Birds of Europe, including all the species in- 
habiting the Western Faliearctic Region, v. 8. Conclusion of the whole work. 
London, 1881. (4to.) 

A List of European Birds, including all species found in the Western Palajarctic 

Region. The nomenclature carefully revised. London, the author, 1831. (8vo.) 

Morris (B. R.). British Game Birds and Wild Fowls. New edit,, with 60 col. i>lates. 
London, Groombridge, 1881. (sp. 8vo. 45.) 

Robert (Leo Paul) and W. Marshall. Gefiederte Freunde. Bilder zur Naturge- 
shichte der niitzlichen Vogel Mittel-Europas. Nach der Natur gemalt von Leo 
Paul Robert. Mit beschreiViendem Text von W. Marshall. Erste Serie. 20 Taf. 
Leipzig, Arnold'sche Buchandl., 1881. (Fol. M., 25.) 

North America. 

Nehrling (H.) Beitriig zur Ornis der nordlichen Illinois. (Fortsetz.) Journ. f. Or- 
nithol. 28. Jahrg., pp 408-418; 29 Jahrg., pp. 196-203. 

Ridgway (Robert). A Catalogue of the Birds of North America. Proc. U. S. Nat. 
Mus., V. 3, pp. 163-246, 1880. 

Catalogue of the Birds of Illinois. Normal, 111., 1881. (8vo,, 208 p.) 

Stearns (Winfrid A.) and Elliott Cones. New England Bird Life, being a Manual of 
New England Ornithology. Revised and edited from the manuscript of Winfrid 
A. Stearns, by Dr. Elliott Coues. Parti. Oscines. — Boston: Lee and Shepherd, 
1881. (8vo., title, 324 p. $2.50.) 

West Indies. 

Cory (Charles B.). List of the Birds of Hayti, taken in different parts of the island 
between January 1 and March 12, 1881. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. Club, v. 6., pp. 
151-155. 

Asia. 

Oates (Eug. W. ). Ornithology [of British Burma]. Brit. Burma Gazetteer, v, 1, j»p. 

569-604. (Nominal list of 776 sp). 
Salvador! (Tommaso). Ornitologia della Papuasia o delle Molucche. P. 1 Torino, 

1880. (4 to, 540 p. ) 

Ornitologia della Papuasia e delle Molucche. P. 2. Torino, 1881. (4to. xvi., 

705 p. Frcs., 50) . 

Africa, etc. 

Bocage (J. V. Barboza du). Aves das possess6es Portuguezas d'' Africa Occidental, 
18. lista. Jorn. Sc. Math., Phys., e Nat. Acad, Lisb, No. 26, pp. 100-102; 19. lista, 
No. 28, pp. 219-246. (S. auch vertebrata, 18, 17, sp. ; 19, 93, sp. : 1 n. sp.) 

Cowan (W, Deans), List of Madagascar Birds. Antananarivo, 1881, (8vo.) 



ZOOLOGY. 483 

Hartlaul) (G.\ Beitrag ziir Ornitliologie der ostlichiiquatorialen Gebiete Africa's. 
Abhaudl. naturwiss. Ver. Bremen, v. 7, pp. 83-128. 

Polynesia. 

Finsch (G. ). On the birds collected in Tongatabn, the Fiji Islands, Api (New He- 
brides), and Tahiti. Reports Scient. Results Challenger, Zool., v. 2. Birds, pp. 
34-58. 

EXTINCT BIROS. 

Marsh (0. C. ). Discov ery of a fossil bird in the Jurassic of Wyoming (Laopteryx pris- 
cus n. g. et sp.). Amer. Journ. Sc, (3,) v. 21, pj). 341-342. 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

JSatitce. 

Douglas (A.). Ostrich Farming in South Africa : being an account of its origin and 
rise, how to set about it, etc. London, Cassell, 1881. (8vo. 258 p., 6 s.) 

Forbes (W. A.). On the Conformation of the Thoracic End of the Trachea in the 
" Ratite " Birds. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 778-788. 

CarinatcB Steganopodes. 

Ewart(J. C). Ou the nostrils of the Cormorant (Phalacrocoraxcarbo). Journ. Linn. 
Soc, Zool., V. 15, p. 455-456. 

Carinatw Pygopodes. 

Dybowski (Bened.). Beobachtungen iiber Mormonidae. Vorliiufige Mittheilung. 
Sitzungsber. Dorpat. Naturf. Ges., 1881, p. 159-175. 

Carinatce Graliatorea. 

Forbes (W. A.). Notes on the Anatomy and Systematic Position of the Jacanas (Par- 
ridte)- Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, p. 639-647. 

Carinatce raptores, 

Shufeldt (R. W.) On the Ossicle of the Antibrachium as found in some of the North 

American Falconidse. Bull. Nutt, Oruithol. Club, v. 6, p. 197-203. 
. Osteologyof Speotytocuniculariavar. hypogjea. Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geogr. 

Surv. Terr., v. 6, pp. 87-117, 3 pi. 
Coues (Elliott). Probable occurrence of Sarcorliamphus papa in Arizona. Bull. Nutt. 

Orthithol. Club, v. 6, p. 248. 
. The Claw on the Index Digit of the Cathartida\ Am. Naturalist, v. 15, pp. 

906-908. 

Carinatco gallince. 

Oustalet (E.). Monographic des Oiseaux do la Famille des M^gapodiidds. 2 p., 
Ann. Sc. Nat., (6,) Zool., t. 10, art. 5, and t. 11, art. 2. 

Tegetraeier (W. B.). Pheasants: Their Natural History and Practical Management. 
2 edit., illustr. with full page engravings, drawn from life by T. W. Wood. Lon- 
don : H. Cox, 1881. (fol. — 15, 8h.) 

Carinatce Cohimhce. 

Lyell (.J. O. Fancy Pigeons: containing full directions for their breeding and 
management, with descriptions of every known variety and all other information 
of interest or use to Pigeon Fanciers. London, Bazaar Office, 1881. (8 vo., 230 
pp. — 7a. Gd.) 



484 ZOOLOGY. 

Carinatce psittaci. 

Braiin (M.)- Die Entwickelung des Wellenpapageis (Melopittacus undulatus Sh.) 

II. Theil. Arbeiten. Zool.-Zoot. Institut Wiirzbur j;, v. 5, pp. 205-341, 5 pi. 
Potts (H. H.). On the habits of tlie Kea or Mountain Parrot of New Zealand (Nestor 

notabilis). The Zoologist, t. 5, pp. 290-301. 
Reichenow (Aut.). Conspectus Psittacorum. Systematische tJbersicht aller hekann- 

ten Papageienarten. Jour, for Ornithol. Cabanis, 28. Jahrg., pp. 225-289. 
Reichenow (Anton). Conspectus Psittacorum. Systematische tjbersicht aller be- 

kannten Papageienarten. Journ. f. Ornithol., 29. Jahrg., pp. 1-49; pp. 113-177. 

Carinatce cypselifornes. 

Eudes-Deslongchamps (Eugene.) Catalogue descriptif des Trochilid«5s on oiseaux- 
mouches aujourd'hui connus. Revue d'apr^s les exemplaires du musde de Caen. 
I, Fasc. Paris, Savy, 1881. (8vo., 493 pp., 5 pi. Frcs, 15.) 

Carinatce zygodactyli. 

Sclater (Ph. L.). On the Generic Divisions of the Bucconidae, together with the 

description of a new species of the Genus Nonnula. Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, 

1881, pp. 775-578. 

Carinatce passercs. 

Braudner (Otto). Der Harzer Kanarien-Vogel. Zweite Vollstandig uragearbeitete 
Auflage der gekronten Preisschrift. Der Gesang des Harzer HohlroUer. I. Th. 
Gesangeskunde. II. Th. Zucht and Pflege. Stettin, O. Braudner, 1881. (8°, 1, 
M., 2—, II, M. 1, 50.) 

Brewster (Will.). On the Relationship of Helminthophagaleucobronchialis Brewster, 
and Helminthophaga Lawrence! Herrick ; with some conjectures respecting cer- 
tain other North American Birds. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. Club, v. 6, pp. 218-225. 

Brewster (Will.). Carnivorous propensities of the Crow Blackbird (Quisqualus 
purpureus aeneus. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. Club, v. 6, pp. 180-181. 

Forbes (W. A.). Contributions to the Anatomy of Passerine Birds. Part IV. On 
some points in the Anatomy of the Genus Conopophaga and its Systematic 
Position. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 435-438. 

Shufeldt (R. W.). Osteology of Eremoijhila alpestris. Bull. U. S. Geolog. Geogr. Surv. 
Terr., v. 6, pp. 119-147, 1 pi. 

The coloring matter of feathers. 

The coloring- matter of feathers lias been subjected to an elaborate 
examination by Dr. C. W. Krukenberg, both by chemical and spectro- 
scopic analyses, and three different substances have been found in the 
red and yellow feathers of birds, to which have been given the names 
Turacin, Zoonerythrin, and Zoofuloin. 

Turacin has only been detected in the feathers of the Plantain -eaters 
or Musophagid?e, and more especially in their red feathers. It " gives 
two different absorption-spectra, according to whether it is in solution 
or not — a very unusual circumstance with organic pigments. A solu- 
tion-c.pectrum has two absorption-bands, nearly coinciding in position 
with those of oxyhajmoglobiu, from which, however, Turacin differs 
greatly m chemical composition, containing, as is well known, copper 
in abundance." 

Zoonerythrin " gives a continuous spectrum." 



ZOOLOGY. 485 

Zoofaloin affords a spectrum '' with two absorption-bands which how- 
ever are not those of Turaciu." 

Tlie attempts made "to extract blue, violet, and green pigments 
from feathers so colored have as yet been unsuccessful; and these 
colors may therefore depend upon optical, and not chemical, causes." 
(Ibis, (4,)V. 602-603.) 

Number of American birds.* 

In 1859 was published a catalogue of the known North American birds 
north of Mexico, prepared by Professor S. F. Baird, which for many 
years afterward was the standard authority for the nomenclature and 
arrangement of the species. But the numerous additions that have 
been made from time to time, as well as the investigations upon the af- 
finities of the forms, have necessitated a new arrangement. In 1873 a 
check list of the species was published by Dr. Elliott Cones, which incor- 
porated the forms up to that time added to the fauna. Discovery still 
progressed, however, and during the past year a new catalogue of all 
the species was prepared by Mr. Robert Eidgway, and has been issued 
by the Smithsonian Institution, as a "Bulletin of the United States Na- 
tional Museum," and a comparison of it with that of 1858 is instructive 
hi its illustration of the tendencies of ornithologists at the two periods. 
The catalogue of 1859 bears the impress of the influence of Professor 
Agassiz and Bonaparte in the excessive diflerentiation of species. Since 
that period the comparison of birds obtained from the various portions of 
our wide domain has shown that nominal species concerning which there 
existed no doubt in the early period are connected by intermediate forms 
obtained from intervening stations, and consequently a number of 
old species have been associated together as mere varieties or "sub- 
species" of more comprehensive species. On the other hand, the same 
system of comparison has compelled ornithologists to recognize the fre- 
quent existence of such differences between forms found at widely re- 
mote regions as to warrant the introduction of the categoi-y of "sub- 
species " or varieties which hav^e received trinomial names. Thus we 
have many old species now combined together as forms of others but with 
varietal differentiations ; in other words, the fact that while most of the 
individuals are separated into two or more types of differentiation as 
distinct forms is indicated by then" recognition as varieties, nevertheless 
intervening forms occur which forbid their rank as fully developed 
species. 

Comparing the catalogues of 1859 and 1881, the number of avowed 
species in the former is 738, and in the latter 764, but the actual num- 
ber of names, that is, forms more or less distinct, including species and 
subspecies, was in the catalogue of 1859 764, but in 1881 924 are rec- 

* Ridgway (Robert). Nomenclature of North American Birds, chiefly contained in 
the United States National Mnseiun. Washington, Government Printlng-Office, 1881. 
(Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 21.) 



486 ZOOLOGY. 

ognized. While we have thus an increase of nominal species by 
only 26, the number of forms — species or subspecies — is 1G4 more than 
were known iu 1859, Bat from the catalogue of 1859 42 names have 
been eliminated as synonymous with others, and 20 as extra-limital, 
while there are given as new species in the catalogue of 1881 127 spe- 
cies, and in addition thereto 89 subspecies, or a total of 220. 395 of 
the names of the 1859 catalogue are retained in nearly or quite the 
original form in the new catalogue ; 89 names are changed, and 100 
forms appear under diflerent genera or subgenera, while 01 of the species 
of the old catalogue are degraded to the rank of races in the new. The 
appendix of the new catalogue is especially valuable on account of the 
detailed information regarding changes that have been made. In this 
appendix, under different categories, are enumerated : 

A. " Species eliminated from the catalogue of 1859." (Syns. 42 + Ex- 
tralimital 20=62.) 

B. " Species and races described or added to the I^orth American 
fauna since 1859." (Sp. 127 + S. sp. 99 = 220.) 

C. "List of genera which have been added to the fauna since 1859, 
under which are names that have been changed since that time." (26 
n. g. + 108 changes = 134.) 

D. " Species included in the category which have not yet, according 
to the records, been actually taken within the prescribed limits." (41.) 

E. "Species (chiefly j^altearctic) which occur only as stragglers or 
visitants in Eastern Xorth America, or which occur regularly only in 
Greenland and adjacent portions of the continent." (39.) 

F. "Paliearctic and oceanic species occurring only in Alaska and other 
parts of the Pacific coast." (24.) 

G. " Palffiarctic species occurring both in Greenland and Alaska, but 
not recorded from any intermediate point of North America." (4.) 

H. " Tropical American species occurriug only in southern portions 
of the United States." 

I. " Supposed valid species, described by Audubon and Wilson, which 
have not been since met with, and of which no specimens are known to 
exist in collections." (4.) 

J. " List of untenable species and races of North American birds de- 
scribed since 1858." (35.) 

K. " List of exotic species which have been attributed to North Amer- 
ica by various authors, but apparently without sufficient evidence of 
their occurrence." (47.) 

L. " Pa-rtial list of foreign birds which have been introduced to the 
United States, and those which have been captured after escape from 
coufliiement." (4 + 10 = 14.) 

It may be added that the species which have been introduced with a 
view to their naturalization, and have been actually naturalized, are four 
in number, viz : 

(1.) Passer domesticiis, the too common Eurox)ean house sparrow. 



ZOOLOGY. 487 

(2.) Passer nwntanus, the Europeau tree sparrcw. 
(3.) Alauda arvensis, the sky hirk of Europe ; and 
(•4.) Coturnix commnnis^ the Europeau quail. * 

Birds added to the American fauna in 1881. 

Aestrelata gularis (Peale). Brewster: Critical notes on a Petrel uew 
to North America. Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1881, p. 91. From INIount 
Morris, Livingston County, New York. 

Fwffinus laililii horealis. Cory. Description of a new species of the fam- 
ily Procellaridoe. B. N. 0. C, 1881, p. 81. From Chatham Island, Cape 
Cod, Massachusetts. 

FuUgula rufina, Steph. Eidgway : On a duck new to the North Amer- 
ican fauna. Proc. U. S. Kat. Mus., Apr., 1881, p. 22-21. From -'Fulton 
Market, New York City." 

Fulicaatra, Linn. Eidgw., 1. c. From Greenland. 

Eury norliynchus pyqccmus (Linn.) Eidgw. Catal., 1881. Bull. U. S. N. 
M., N^o. 21, p. 85. From Arctic coast of Alaska. 

Callipepla squamata pallida. Id.ihid., p. 72. From Eio San Pedro, 
Arizona. 

Buteo brachyurus, Vieill. Eidgway : On a tropical American hawk 
to be added to the North American fiiuna. B. N. 0. C, 1881, p. 207, 
From Palatka, East Florida. 

Buteo fuliginosus, Sclater. Eidgw., 1. c, p. 212. From Oyster Bay, 
Florida. (" Melanistic phase of B. brachyurus ?") 

Antrostomus vociferus arizoncc. Brewster : Notes on some birds from 
Arizona and New Mexico, with a descrii)tion of a supposed new Whip- 
poor-will. B. N. 0. G. 1881, p. 09. From Chiracahua Mountains, Arizona. 

Myiarclms Gooperi (Kaup.). Brewster: Additions to the avifauna 
of the United States. B. N. 0. 0., 1881, p. 252. From Camp Lowell, 
Southern Arizona. 

PoUoptila californica. Brewster : On the affinities of certain Poliop- 
tilfe, with a description of a new species. B. JV". 0. G., 1881, p. 103. 
From Eiverside, Sau Bernardino Co., California= " 29. P. melanura Lawr." 
Eidw. catalog., 1880, Pr. U. S. N. M., 1880, p. 1G8. (Nee Lawr.), 

The following species, included in Mr. Eidg way's list 1881, for the first 
time definitely ascertained to have been taken within the limits of 
United States : 

Parus meridianalis, Sel. Brewster, 1. c. From Chiriicahna Mount- 
ains, Southern Arizona. 

Myiarvhtis Lawrcncei (Gir.). Brewster, 1. c. From Santa Eita Mount- 
ains, Southern Arizona. 

Gharacteristics of the Archccopterygidcc. 

Prof. O. C. Marsh embraced the opportunity, during a visit to Europe 
in 1881, of examining the remains of the remarkable Jurassic ArcJiTop- 



488 ZOOLOGY. 

teryx hitlierto discovered — the feather which originally served as the 
basis for the name, and two carcasses. His examination resulted in the 
discovery of "several characters of importance not previously deter- 
mined," viz : (1) "the presence of true teeth in position in the skull;" 
(2) "vertebriB biconcave;" (3) " a well ossified broad sternum;" (4) 
"three digits only in the manus;" (5) "pelvic bones separate;" (6) 
"the distal end of fibula in front of tibia;" and (7) " metatarsals sepa- 
rate, or imperfectly united." These characteristics indicate, in the opinion 
of Professor Marsh, that we have in Arcliccopterux '-'■ iho, most reptilian 
of birds." The brain-cast, "although comparatively small, was like 
that of a bird, and not that of a Dinosauriau reptile. 

Ai^ropos of its relations. Professor Marsh found that the extremities 
of the Dinosaurian reptile, CompsognatJms, evinced "a striking similar- 
ity " to those of Arcliccopteryx. " The three-clawed digits of the manus 
correspond closely with those of that genus, although the bones are of 
different proportions. The hind feet also have the same structure in 
both. The vertebrae however and the pelvic bones of CompsognatJms 
difier materially from those of Archccopteryx, and the two forms are in 
reality widely separated." Professor Marsh adds that "the nearest ap- 
proach to birds now know^n would seem to be in the very small Dino- 
saurs from the American Jurassic. In some of these the separate bones 
of the skeleton cannot be distinguished with certainty from those of 
Jurassic birds, if the skull is wanting, and even in this i^art the resem- 
blance is striking." (A. J. S. (3), XXI, 337-340.) 

An American Jurassic bird. 

Although the famous Archceopteryx lithographicus testified many 
years ago to the existence of birds in the Jurassic period in Europe, 
no remains of the class had been Ibund in America older than Cre- 
taceous. But Professor Marsh's search for more ancient forms has been 
lately rewarded " by the discovery of various remains, some of which 
are sufficiently' characteristic for determination." The posterior part 
of a skull exhibited characters which have served as the basis of the 
" Laopteryx priscus, gen. et sp. nov." The size indicated " a bird rather 
smaller than a Blue Heron." In its main features, " it resembles the skull 
of the EatitiB more than that of any existing birds." In the " matrix 
atttiched to this skull a single tooth was found, which most resembles 
the teeth of birds, especially those of Ichthyornis. It is probable that 
Laopteryx possessed teeth, and also biconcave vetebrse." The skull de- 
scribed " and others apparently of the same species, were found in the 
upper Jurassic of Wyoming Territory in the horizon of the Atlanto- 
saurus beds." The discovery thus signalized is one of great interest on 
account of its establishing practically (what was of course theoretically 
certain) the existence of birds in the Jurassic period, and as a presage 
of future discovery. The specimen found was not however sufficient 
to enable Professor Marsh to give a diagonsis which does more than 



ZOOLOGY. 489 

prove that the form indicated was a generalized bird. For a knowledge 
of its peculiar characteristics and affinities we must await the ex- 
humation of other specimens (A. J. S. (3), xxi, 3-11-3-12). 

Shedding of the gizzard lining by birds. 

It has for some years (since 18G9) been known that the horn-bills 
(Bucerotids) shed the epithelial lining of the gizzard, but it is ouly 
lately that the same peculiarity has been observed in very different 
birds. Mr. A. D. Bartlett, the superintendent of the Gardens of the 
Zoological Society, ascertained that a darter {Plotus anhinga) had 
"thrown up the lining of its stomach on three or four occasions," during 
the latter half of 1880. A casting was examined by Mr. W. A. Forbes, 
the prosector to the society, and was found to be " undoubtedly the 
shed 'epitheliaP coat of the gizzard," and on microscopical examina- 
tion i^roved to be " quite identical in structure with that of the unshed 
epithelium of the stomach." Mr. Bartlett thinks that a similar habit 
will be found to occur in other birds, and suggests that the cormorants 
especially may manifest it. (P. Z. S., 1881, 247-248.) 

A claw on index digits of the turJcey vultures. 

Dr. Shufeldt has called special attention to the development of a 
large claw on the index digit of the turkey vulture and related forms 
of the Cathartidse. In a young California vulture or condor {Pseudo- 
gryphus californianus) the claw was over a centimeter long. " It can 
be immediately brought into view and examined by simply parting the 
feathers that overlie the region of the first finger, whereupon it will 
be found to be a strong curved claw — convex anteriorly, sharp, slightly 
grooved from above downward on its posterior aspect, covered by the 
same kind of horny integument, or thecae, that shields the bony claws of 
the feet, and movable." When the horuj' sheath is removed, "it leaves 
an osseous claw, such as we find in the distal or ungual i^oints of the feet ; 
this has a tranverse facet at its base, that articulates with a similarly 
placed surface at the extremity of the index digit, rather toward its 
outer side." Numerous Old World vultures and other Falconidse were 
re-examined with reference to the question, and no corresponding chiw 
was found in any species. It was consequently suggested that its devel- 
opment in Cathartidae may be looked upon as a family characteristic. 
The claw has however been since found in true Falconidae. 

Woodpeclcers and moth cocoons.* 

Premising that one of the most interesting, as well as difficult prob- 
lems in entomology is the relation which the cocoon sustains to the 
pupa, and the various ways in which the cocoon offers protection to the 
pupa, or future imago, I\Ir. Webster has regarded the attack of the 

* Cecropia cocoons puuctured by the hairy Woodpecker. By F. 51. Webster. Am. 
^fat., V. 15, pp. 241, 242. 



490 ZOOLOGY. 

hairy woodpecker on the cocoon of the hirge cecropia moth ; in opposi- 
tion to the belief that the cocoons offer protection against other natural 
destructive agencies, such as mice and birds, it is remarked that " there 
is at least one bird, the hairy woodpecker {Piciis villosiis Linn.), from 
whose attack the staunch cocoon of the cecropia offers no protection 
whatever." Indeed, although, so far as Mr. Webster was able to ob- 
serve, birds do not attack these cocoons at all until winter ; they then 
seem to make it a regular source of subsistence, and where the wood- 
pecker abounds the cocoons are rarely left uninjured. We need only 
remark, in this connection, that while the observations of Mr. Webster 
may be quite correct, his inference is scarely justifiable, at least to the 
extent he would seem to push it. What dangers the cocoon may escape 
because of its envelopment are unknown, but, doubtless, more than offset 
those noticed by Mr. Webster. 

MAMMALS. 

GENERAL. 

Allen (Harrison). On the Temporal and Masseter Muscles of Mammals. Proc. Acad. 
Nat. So. Phila, 1880, pp. 385-396. 

Balfour (F. M. ). On the Evolution of the Placenta, and on the possihility of employ- 
ing the characters of the Placenta in the Classitication of the Mammalia. Proc. 
Zool. Soc. Loudon, 1881, pp. 210-212. 

Cope (E. D.). On the Effect of Impacts and Strains on the Feet of Mammalia. Am. 
Nat.,v. 15, pp. 542-548. 

Ficatier (Jac. Frc. Adr.). Etude anatomique des glandes sudoripares. Auxerre, 
Gallot, 1881. (4to, 85 p., 3 pi.) 

Focillon (A.) Esquisses des Animaux Mammif feres les plus remarquables. Tours, 
1831. (8vo, 212p.) 

HenselCKeinhold). Craniologische Studien. Mit8Taf. Nova Acta Ac. Caes. Leop. 
Carol., V. 42, pp. 127-195. 

Huxley (Thomas Henry). On the application of the Laws of Evolution to the ar- 
rangement of the Vertehrata, and more particularly of the Mammalia. Proc. 
Zool. Soc. London, 1880, pp. 649-6G2. 

Lucae (Joh. Chstn. Gst.). Zur Statik und Mcchauilfder Quadrupeden (Felis und Le- 
mur). Frankfurt a. M., 1881. (4to., 24 p., 2 Taf ) 

Martin (H. Newell). A new method of studying the Mammalian Heart. Studies 
Biolog. Laborat. Johns Hopk. Univ., v. 2, p. 119-130, 1 pi. 

Meyer (E.) Spermatogenese bei den Saugethieren. MtSm. Acad. Imp. Sc. St. Pdterbg., 
(7,) t. 27, no. 14. (15 pp., 2 pi.— M. 1 30.) 

Paladiuo (Giov.). Delia caducita del parenchima ovarico e del rinnovameuto totale 
della stesso mercfe ripetizione del processo di primordiale produzione. Con. 2 tav. 
Napoli, Detken, 1881. (8vo., 73 pp.) 

Talma (S.). Beitrag zur Histogenese der weiblichen Brustdriise. Arch. f. mikroskop. 
Anat., v. 20, pp. 145-159. 

Fossil mammals. 

Grewingk (Const.), tjbersichtderbisberbekannten Reste altquartiirer und ausgestor- 
beuerneuquartiirer Saugethieri Liv, Est— und Kurlauds. Sitzungsber. Naturforsch. 
Ges. Dorpat, v. 5, pp. 332-336. 

R^rolle (Lonis). Etude sur les Mammiferes fossiles des dep6ts pampeens do la Plata, 
d'apres les collections du mvisde de Buenos Ayres, present 6e a 1' Academic des Sci- 
ences, etc., de Lyon le 20 Juill. 1880. Mem. Acad. Scienc, etc., de Lyon, v. 24. 
Classe d. Sc. 



ZOOLOGY. 491 

Roger (O'ito.)- Liste tier bisjetzt bekaunteu fossilen Siiugethiere. (Fortaetzung.) 
Correspond. Bl. Zool. miu. Ver. Rogensbg.,35 Jalirg.,1881, viz : No. 3, pp. 27-34; 
No. 4, pp. 52-64; No. 35, pp. 414. No. 8, pp. 117-128. (S. Z. A,— Fortse^z. ibid., 
1879. No. 10. 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Monotremea. 

Pritcbard (Urb.). Cocblea of the Mouotremata. Philos. Trans. Roj'al Soc. London, 
V. 172, pp. 267-282, 1 pL 

Marsupials. 

Copo (E. D.). Eocene Flagiaulacidro (Ptilodus meditevus, n. g. et sp.). Amor. Nat. 
V. 15, pp. 921-922. 

Edentates. 

Schmidt (Max). Der Amciseufrcsser (Myrmccophaga jubata.) Zoolog. Garten, 1881, 

pp. 225-230. 
Sorby(H. C.). On the Greeu Colour of the Hair of Sloths. Journ. Linn. Soc. Loudon, 

Zool., V. 15, pp. 337-341. 

Chiropters. 

Dobson (G. E.). Ou the Structure "of the Pharynx, Larynx and Hyoid Bones in the 

Epomophori ; with remarks on its relation to the habits of these animals. Proc. 

Zool. Soc, London, 1881, i)p. G85-C93. 
Robin (H. A.). Sur I'epoque de I'accouplemeut des Chauves-Souris. Bull. Soc. Philo- 

mat. de Paris, 1881. 
. Sur la morphologie des enveloppes foetales des Chiropteres. Comi^t. rend. 

Ac. Sc. Paris, t. 92, pp. 1354-1357. 

Bodents. 

Gayot (Eug.). Lapins, li^vres et l^porides. 2. ddit. Paris, libr. agricole de la Maison 

rusticxue, 1881. (8vo, 216 pp., avec 15 grav. Frc. 1, 25.) 
Gill (L. U.). Book of the Rabbit; giving the history, variations, uses, points, selec- 
tion, and other information bearing on the subject of fancy rabbits. London, 

Bazaar Office, 1881. (8vo, 448 pp. 128. 6(7.) 
Klein (E.). The Organ of Jacobson in the Rabbit. Quart. Journ. Microscop. Sc, v. 

21, pp. 549-570, 2 pi. 
. A further contribution to the Minute Anatomy of the organ of Jacobson in 

the guinea-pig. Quart. Journ. Microsc. Sc, v. 21, pp. 219-230, 2 pi. 
Parker (W. K.). Note on some Points in the Anatomy of the Coecum in the Rabbit 

(Lepus cuniculus) and the Hare (Lepus timidus). Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, 1881, 

pp. 624-626, 1 pi. 
Valentin (G.). Bcitriige zur Keuntnis des Winterschlafs der Murmclthiere. 26 Ab- 

theil. Moleschott, Untersuch zur Naturlehre d. Mensch., v. 12, pp. 466-472. 

Creodonts. f, 

Cope (E. D.). Notes on Creodonta. Amer. Nat., v. 15, pp. 1018-1020. 

. On the genera of Creodonta. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, v. 19, pp. 76-82. 

Dinocerates. 

Osborn (Henry F.). A Memoir on the Loxolophodon and Uintatherium. Accompanied 
by a stratigraphical report ou the Bridger beds in the Washakie Basin. Pub- 
lished by the Museum of Geology and Archaiology of the College of New Jersey, 
1881. (4to, 54 pp.) 

Toxodonts. 

Cope (E. D.). Note on the Structure of the Posterior Foot of Toxodoa. Proc. Amer. 
Phil. Soc, V. 19, pp. 102-403; Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 8, pp. 389-390. 



492 ZOOLOGY. 

PrdboHcideans. 

Camerano (Lor.). Ein Beitrag zur Anatomie dea Loxodon ifricanus. Zool. Auz., 4. 

Jalirg., p. 481-483. 
Watson (Morrison). On the anatomy of the female organs of the Proboscidea, Traus. 

Zool. Soc, Loudon., v. 11, p. 111-130, 2 pi. 

Condylartlira. 
Cope (E. I).). A new type of Perissodactjia. Amer. Nat., v. 15, pp. 1017-1018. 

Perissodactylea. 

Cope (E. D.). The Systematic Arrangement of the order Perissoductyla. Proc. Amer. 
Phil. Soc., V. 19, p. 377-401. 

. On the origin of the foot structures of the Ungulates. Am. Nat., v. 15, p. 

269-273. 

Cornevin (Ch.). Nouveaux cas de didactylie chez le Cheval et interpr6tation de la 
polydactylie des Equid<§8 en g6u6ral. Lyon, impr. Pitrat alnd, 1881. (8vo., 81 
pp., 3 pi.) 

Major (C. J. Forsyth). Beitriige zur Geschichte der fossilen Pferde. 2. Theil. (Schluss, 
p. 17-184, 3 pi.). Ahhandl. Schweizer Paliiontolog. Ges., v. 7. 

Poliakoif. Supjiosed new species of Horse from Central Asia (Equus Przewalskii n. 
sp.). in Ann. of Nat. Hist. (5), 8, p. 16-26. 

Schlechter (Johanu). IJber Ban und Form der Ziihne bci dem Pferde und seinen Vor- 
fahren. Inaug. Diss. Leipzig. 1881, Wien, 1881. (8vo, 39 p.) 

Selous (F. C). On the South African Rhinoceroses. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, 
p. 725-734. 

Stillman (J. D. B.). The Horse in Motion, as shown in a series of views by instanta- 
neous photography, with the study on animal mechanics founded on the revela- 
tions of the camera. With anatomical illustrations in chromo. Boston, 1881. 
(4to.) 

ArtiodactyJes. 

Selous (F. C). Field notes on the Antelopes of Central South- Africa, made during 
eight years spent in many different districts of the courltry. Proc. Zool. Soc. 
London, 1881, pp. 748-765. 

Carnivores. 

Brandt (J. F.). Beobachtungen iiber die verschiedenen Kleider der Seeotter (Enhy- 

dris marina), nebst eiiiigen Bemerkungeu iiber ihre geographische Verbreitung. 

M^lang. biolog. St. Petersburg., t. 11, p. 1-12. 
Desor (E.). Sur un Emploi singiilier des jieaux de Blaireaux. Bull. Soc. Sc. Na- 

tur. Neuchatel, t. 12, p. 195-198. 
Filhol (H.). Observations sur le genre Proailurus. Toulouse, Imj)r. Douladoune. 

1881. (8vo., 47 p., 5pl.) 
Mivart (St. George). The Cat. An Introduction to the study of back-boned animals, 

especially Mammals. With 200 illustr. London, Murray, 1881. (8vo., 530 p. — , 

30 sh.) 
Watson (Morrison). On the Female Organs and Placeutation of the Raccoon (Procyon 

lotor). Proc. Royal Soc, 1881. (27 p.) 

Pinnipeds. 

Bartlett (A. D.). Are Seals Born Blind ? Zoologist, v. 5, p. 383. 

Flower (William Henry.). On the Elephant Seal, Macrcrhinus Iconiuus (L.). Proc. 
Zool. Soc. London, 1881, p. 145-162. 



ZOOLOGY. 493 

Sirenians. 

Lepsius (G. R.)- Halitherium Schinzi, dio fossile Sireiie des Mainzer Beckens. Eine 

vergleicbend-anatomische Studien. Mit. 10. Taf. Abhandl, des Mittelrhein. 

Geolog. Vereina, v. 1. 

Cetaceans. 

Flower (W. H.). Abstract of Lectures on tbe Anatomy, Pbysiology, and Zoology of 
the Cetacea. Brit. Med. Journ. (Lect. I, p. 553-554; II, p. 632; III, p. 717; IV, 
p. 760; V, p. 794-795; VI, p. 840; VII, p. 876: VIII, p. 962-963; IX, p. 38-39.) 

Development of the ear-ossicles. 

As is generally known, the principal auditory ossicles of mammals are 
represented by external bones in the inferior vertebrates, but it seems 
to be yet a question what are the exact equivalents in several cases. The 
English anatomists — notably Huxley and Parker — have latterly main- 
tained that (1) the malleus is developed from the first branchial arch in 
connection with Meckel's cartilage, while (2) the stapes and incus are de- 
rived from the second or hyoidean arch. This view has now been called 
into question by Prof. W. Salensky. That embryologist instituted re- 
searches on the development of the ossicles in embryonic lambs and pigs 
ranging from 1.5 centimeters long upward, and derived the following 
conclusions : 

A 1. " The proximal segment, at an early period separated from the 
cartilage of the first visceral arch, becomes the rudimentary incus. (The 
second visceral, Reichert's cartilage, here plays no part.)" 

A 2. " The distal moiety of the same cartilage gives rise to Meckel's 
cartilage {s. str.), together with the rudiment of the malleus.^'' 

B 1. " The stapes is formed independently of the other auditory os- 
sicles." 

B 2. " It begins as an accumulation of cells around the mandibular 
artery." 

B 3. "From its first appearance the stapes is a perforate and not a 
solid plate, though wrongly taken for the latter by all embryologists." 
(J. K. M. S., I, 18-19, from Morph. Jahrb., VI, 415-432, with pi.) 

In fine, Salensky adopts the old view propounded by Reichert, and 
which was also originally accepted by Huxley. 

New Jurassic Mammals. 

In the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880, a list of the 
Jurassic mammals, found up to 1880, was given and thirteen species 
were therein enumerated. During 1881, Professor Marsh added to the 
list four more, two qf them representing distinct genera, viz : Allodon 
laticeps and Docodon strigatus. Professor Marsh believed that the former 
should probably be placed in the Plagiaulacidce and that the latter was 
most nearly allied to Diplocynodon. The other species were named Cten- 
acodon iianus and Bryolestes gracilis. As usual for Jurassic mammals, 
only lower jaws of the several species were found. All were obtained 



494 ZOOLOGY. 

from tlie upp( r Jurassic beds of Wyoming Territory. (A. J. S. (3), xxi, 
511-513). 

The Development of the Placenta and its Classificatory Value. 

Many, or rather most naturalists for the past two decades, have at- 
tached a primary value to the modifications under which the placenta is 
manifested, for the classification of mammals. This question was re- 
examined early in 1881 by Dr. F. M. Balfour. He considered that "the 
fact that in marsupials both the yolk-sac and the allantois are concerned 
in rendering the chorion vascular, makes it a priori i^robable that this 
was the case in the primitive types of the placentalia; and this deduction 
is supported by the fact that in the rodentia, insectivora, and cheiroptera 
this peculiarity of the foetal membranes is actually found." In the prim- 
itive placentalia it is also probable that, from the discoidal allantoic 
region of the chorion simple foetal villi, like those of the pig, projected 
into uterine crypts ; but it is not certain how far the umbilical region 
of the chorion, which was no doubt vascular, may have also been villous. 
From such a primitive type of foetal membranes divergencies in various 
directions have given rise to the types of foetal membranes found at the 
present day." 

Eeference must be had to Professor Balfour's article for his views as to 
the further development of the placenta, the ways in which modifications 
have arisen, and the significance of such modifications. It can only 
be added in this place that his conclusions are as follows : (1) The 
rodents, insectivores, and cheiropters exemplify the closest approach to 
" the primitive type of placenta described above" and departed least 
from what are called the " protoplacentalia " ; (2) the lemuroids, the 
ungulates, and the edentates, or rather their ancestors, "must have 
branched oft" from the primitive stock before the preceding had be- 
come distinctly differentiated "; and (3) the primates " are to be derived 
irom a primitive lemurian type." But as to the edentates and un- 
gulates it is a question " how far these groups arose quite indejiend- 
ently from the lirimitive stock, or whether they may have had a nearer 
common ancestor." The carnivores were " certainly' an oft'-shoot from 
the primitive placental typo which was quite independent" of the 
lemuroids, ungulates, and edentates, but at what stage cannot be 
determined. " No important light is thrown by the placenta on the 
affinities" of the proboscideans, cetaceans, or sireniaus, but it was 
thought that " the character of the placenta in the latter group favors 
the view of their being related to the uugulata." The recorder feels 
impelled to add that it seems scarcely probable that the cetaceans and 
sirenians have diverged from different primitive s'tocks. (P. Z. S., 1881, 
210-212.) 

Relations of some Marstqnals. 

From analogy in the placental mammals much weight has been at- 
tached to some of the modifications of the dentition observable among 



ZOOLOGY. 495 

the marsupials. Tbe wombats [Phascolomys) of Australia, for example, 
Lave rodeut-like incisor teeth, and have been generally regarded as rep- 
resentatives of quite a peculiar family. Mr. A. M. Forbes, after a special 
examination of the koala {Phascolarctas) and collaterally of other forms, 
came to a different conclusion, and has proposed to combine the wom- 
bats, the koala, and the i)halangers in one family, or at least group of 
families, of which the several types named may in the former case con- 
stitute subfamilies. The common characters of the three forms com- 
bined under the name PJialangisticlce are a " diprotodont marsupialia, 
with clavicles, and not more than six incisors above the hallux present, 
the second and third digits of the pes smaller than the others, and more 
or less united together by integument; stomach not sacculated; caecum 
present; glans penis more or less bilobed ; vaginre provided with median 
culs-de-sac which may unite." The phalangers (5 genera) constitute the 
subfamily (1) Phalangistivw ; the koala the subfamily (2) Phascolarctincn, 
and (3) the wombats the subfamily (3) Pliascolomylnoe? (P. Z. S., 1881, 
180-195.) 

On the structure of the pharynx, larynx, and hyoid hones in the Epo- 

mophori. 

"In all species of Chiroptera of which the structure of the i:)harynx 
and larynx has hitherto been described, and in all of those examined up 
to the present by [Dr. Dobson], the form of these parts has been found 
remarkably simple, differing but slightly from that of the insectivora, 
all agreeing in i^ossessing a short pharynx generally guarded bv a short 
acutely-pointed epiglottis, which, in some genera [Harpyia, Yampyrus, 
e. g.), is almost obsolete, opening close behind the fauces, near to which 
also the posterior nares enter, and in the small size of the laryngeal 
cavity and feeble development of the vocal chords, the hyoid bone also 
being slender and connected by a chain of simj^le cylindrical bones with 
the cranium. 

" In the Epomophori, however, we find in the structure of all these parts 
a remarkable departure from the general type; the i)harynx is long and 
very capacious, the aperture of the larynx far removed from the fauces; 
and opposite to it a canal leading from the narial chambers and extend- 
ing along the back of the pharynx opens; the laryngeal cavity is spa- 
cious, and its walls are ossified, and the vocal chords are well developed; 
the hyoid bone is quite unconnected, except by muscle, with the cranium ; 
the ceratohyals and epihyals are cartilaginous and greatly "exjianded, 
entering into the formation of the walls of the pharynx, and, in the males 
of two species at least, supporting the orifices of the large posterior pair 
of air-sacs which extend beneath the integument of the sides of the neck." 

Dr. Dobson then proceeds to describe the structures exemplified in 
the Epomophorus fraqueti in detail, and finally considers the physiology 
of the modified parts in the following terms : 

"The remarkable form of the hyoid bones and great development of 
the isthmus faucium part of the pharynx, in which (though especially 



496 ZOOLOGY. 

prououuced in the males of certain species) all the species agree, may 
be understood when we consider the nature of the food of these animals. 

"In the collection of theBritish Museum are specimens ofE. gamhianus 
from the banks of the Zambesi, with the note " eating figs" on the label 
attached to them by the donor Dr. Kirk. That figs constitute the food 
of E. franqueti, macrocephalus, labiatus^ and minor also I have proved 
by finding remains of these fruits in the alimentary canal of these 
species. 

"The fig being a hollow receptacle containing numerous small fruits, 
is not easily detached from the branch for the purpose of mastication ; 
and its outer rind is evidently too tough to be readily torn through by 
the feeble teeth of the Upomovhori. The easiest method therefore of 
getting at its soft juicy contents is by sucking them out through the 
aperture at the distal extremity of the fig. 

"Now the whole structure of the mouth and pharynx of these animals 
is admirably suited for this purpose. The peculiarly voluminous lips 
are capable of completely encircling the fig, and their adherence to 
its smooth surface is evidently securely maintained by the soft pads 
which spring from their upper margins near the angles of the mouth. 
While thus encircled by the lips, the fruit is probably slowly chewed 
by the feeble acutely pointed teeth, and pressed upwards against the 
prominent palate-ridges so as to cause it to give up more freely its juices 
and soft contents which are drawn out by suction through the terminal 
aperture. 

" The construction of the parts above described is specially suited to 
the action of suction, accomplished probably by the alternate action of 
the buccal muscles and the lungs. The spacious pharynx, shut off from 
the nasal apertures by the constrictors of the pharynx, and from the 
mouth by the small valvular opening referred to, and having its sides 
supported behind by the expanded hyoid bones, constitutes a most per- 
fect exhauster ; while the broad epiglottis, permanently folded over the 
larynx in front so that its aperture is directed upwards towards the 
spine, and the great size of the fibrocartilaginous masses extending 
forwards from the arytenoid cartilages to the epiglottis, effectually 
guard the glottis, preventing any part of the food, such as the small 
fig-seeds, from being drawn into the air-passages." 

American Mioc&ne rodents.* 

Professor Cope has studied the American miocene rodents, and given 
a list of all the known species. Kot less than thirty-seven have been 
recognized, and these are referred to 17 genra and distributed under 
9 families. 

The sciuridse, ischyomydse, castoridse, mylagaulidae, an undetermined 
one for the genus heliscomys, muridse, geomyidse, hystricidte, and lep- 

* Cope, E. D. The Rodentia of the American Miocene. Am. Nat., v 15, pp. 
586, 587. 



ZOOLOGY. 497 

oridPB were all represented by species. Most of these families will be 
recoguizetl as still existent, bnt two or three families are only repre- 
sented by extinct forms, viz : ischyromyida?, mylaganlida}, and i)erhaps 
the heJiscomys type. 

Use as a factor in the differ eniiat ion of ungulate animals. 

Professor Cope, following ont the line of investigation indicated in 
this country by Mr. John A.Eyder and Professor Cope himself, seeks to 
show that the distinction between the odd and even toed types of ungu- 
lates is due, in great part, to the effect of use of the toes in progression. 
He recalls that the principal specializations in the ungulates are as fol- 
lows:* 

1. "The reduction of the number of toes to one in the Perissodactyla 
(horses, etc.), and two in the Artiodactyla (cloven feet). 

2. "The second hinge-joint in the tarsus of the Artiodactyla. 

3. " The trochlear ridges and keels of the various movable articula- 
tions of the limbs," whether looking downwards (5 categories) or look-, 
ing upwards (4 categories). 

It is insisted upon that the trochlear keels that look downwards are 
much the most prominent and important. The others, enumerated as 
looking forward, are weak and insignificant, or of a different character 
from the down-looking ones. " The latter are all projections from the 
middles of the ends of the respective elements. The up-looking are 
generally projections of the edges of the bones. Such are the lateral 
crests of the astragalus and the adjacent edges of the cuboid and nav- 
icular bones, which cause the emargination of the astragulns in the 
Artiodactyla. The proximal ridges of the phalanges are very weak, and 
the concavities in the extremity of the radius cannot be called trochlear, 
as they are adaptations to the carpal bones." 

Professor Cope then comes to the following conclusions : 

1. " The reduction in the number of toes is supposed to be due to the 
elongation of those which slightly exceeded the others in length, in con- 
sequence of the greater number of strains and impacts received by 
them in rapid progression, and the comi)leraentary loss of material 
available for the growth of the smaller ones." 

2. "The hinge between the first and second series of tarsal bones in 
the Artiodactyla may be accounted for by reference to the habits whicli 
are supposed to have caused the cloven-footed character. Observation 
on an animal of this order moving in mud shows that there is a great 
strain anteroposteriorily transverse to the long axis of the foot, which 
would readily cause a gradual loosening of an articulation." 

3. "The trochlea?. These prominences, which form the tongues of the 
tongue and groove articulations, exhibit various degrees of develop- 
ment in the different mammalia, and those of different parts of the 

•Cope (E. D.) On the effects of Impacts and Strains on tlie feet of Mammalia. 
Am. Nat., v. 15, pp. 542-548. 
S. Mis. 109 32 



498 ZOOLOGY. 

skeleton coincide in their condition in any one type of ambulatory 
mammalia, and so may well be considered together. This fact suggests 
strongly that they are all due to a common cause." 

Of the prominences in question, it is added that " they are all imper- 
fect in the rodentia and carnivora (except the leporidfe), which are es- 
pecially characterized by their great speed. Among ungulates they 
are very imperfect in the proboscidea. The orders mentioned all have 
elastic pads on the under side of their feet or toes. The same is true 
of the lowest types of both the artiodactyla and perissodactyla, the 
hippopotami and rhinoceroses. In the ruminantia the trochlese are well 
developed, with one exception, and that is the distal metacarpal and 
metatarsal keels of the camelidiie. These animals confirm the proba- 
bility of the keels being the effect of long-continued shocks, for they 
are the only ruminants which have elastic pads on the inferior sides of 
:vlieir digits." 

A New type of ungulates. 

. Through the investigations of Professor Cope there has been discov- 
ered, in the Wasatch Eocene of Wyoming, a new type of mammal, which, 
while related to the ordinary perissodactyles, or odd-toed ungulates, pre- 
sents certain peculiarities which necessitate its differentiation from the" 
existing type. The newly discovered type approaches the proboscis 
deans, and differs from the perissodactyls in the fact that the astragalus 
articulates with the navicular only, and by a universal convex surface, 
as in the carnivores. 

The new type realizes the prediction long before ventured as to the de- 
velopment of five good-sized toes on all the feet. " The cast of the brain 
case shows that the cerebral hemispheres were quite small and nearly 
smooth, and that the very large cerebellum and olfactory lobes were 
entirely uncovered by them. The bones of the two carpal rows alter- 
nate with each other, and there is a large third trochanter of the femur." 
The animal is supposed to have been partially plantigrade It was at first 
regarded by Professor Cope as a suborder of perissodactyla, and named 
Condylarthra, and diagnosed by the " astragalus convex in all directions 
distally, only uniting with navicular bone, a third trochanter of femur." 
Recently, however, it has been elevated to ordinal distinction. 

In addition to the typical genus, named Fhenacodus, a number of 
forms coeval with it have also since been associated with it as mem- 
bers of the same group. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



By Otis T. JMason. 



INTKODUCTION. 

The word progress as applied to any science may mean either addi- 
tions to our knowledge, without inquiry into their value or relations, or 
it maj^ imply improvement in the quality of material, the instrumentality 
of research, or in the significance of results. Our account of the prog- 
ress of anthropology during 1881 will embrace all the particulars above 
named. ]S"ot only have students gone on amassing materials and facts 
from old mines, but they have opened up new leads, as classes of phe- 
nomena hitherto regarded desultory have shown themselves to be the 
results of fixed laws. 

As in former summaries, the materials are arranged according to a 
classification which has been adopted more for the convenience of special 
students than because it embodies all the facts according to well defined 
bases of division. And yet the arrangement is not wholly nnphilo- 
sophical. Whatever the time, the place, the manner, or the condition, 
the human race had an origin upon our globe. For the discussion of 
such questions Haeckel uses the term Anthropogeny. 

After this event, came long periods of struggle from the lowest sav- 
agery up to the time when the iieoples of the earth could record their 
own history. The record of these epochs is indicated only by a few 
human remains, and the implements of activity. The study of these 
remains and their relation to time is called AECHiEOLOGY. 

The exclusion of the past leaves us the present and the future. As 
he stands before us now, man is an animal, epitomizing in his embryonic 
growth the history of all faunas, and exhibiting in his adult form those 
characteristics which engage the attention of the anatomist, the phys- 
iologist, and the anthropometer. To this extensive study, the old 
anthropology, so brilliantly pursued by Paul Broca and his school, and 
so sadly neglected in America since the death of Jeffries Wymau, we 
may apply the term Antheopo-eiology, or the biology of man. 

Again, we find this being endowed with a set of faculties called intel- 
lectual, allied in certain iDarticulars to those of the lower animals, but 
so far transcending them as to form a separate branch of study, requir- 
ing totally diverse methods and machinery of observation, and enlisting 
an entirely different set of investigators. To all these studies we have 
given the name of Compaeatiye PsYcnot.oGY, or Phrenology. 

499 



500 V ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Through causes now under investigation the human family has become 
differentiated anatomically, and these variations have been more or less 
fixed and intensified by social and national prejudices, until there have 
arisen races of men. The description of mankind, race by race, may be 
called Ethnography. All discussions concerning race and the causes 
leading to race distinctions should be named Ethnology. 

Among the characteristics of these diversities of man the most trench, 
ant, useful, and prominent is language. The investigations respecting 
the origin and the diversity of languages we name Gl ossology, though 
the terms Linguistics and Comparative Philology, have some 
claims to preeminence in the matter. 

Next to the speaking tongue comes the cunning hand. Indeed, the 
footprints of civilization during its toilsome march may be traced better 
through handicraft in the various human occupations than in any other 
way. To this study Klemm gave the name CuUurgeschichte^ but the 
title preferred here is Comparative Technology. 

For regulating the i)ropagation of the species, the care of the young 
the division of labor, and for mutual protection there exist everywhere 
(1) traditional or written codes, (2) manners and customs, and (3) instru- 
mentalities. For the investigation of these matters the term Sociology 
is used. 

All races of men have beliefs, practices, and organizations with refer- 
ence to a world of spirits. To call the study of these things compara- 
tive religion would be misleading. For, in the first place, the word im- 
plies action rather than study, and, in the second place, it is commonly 
understood to refer only to the higher forms of worship. Various terms 
have been suggested, as comparative mythology, spiritology, pneumatol- 
ogy, philosophy, daimonology, «&c. Although the term " daimonology"' 
was used in the last summary, in order to call forth the opinions of 
those competent to judge, the word Pneuimatology is here employed 
with some reserve for the same purpose. 

The human race, like all other groups of living beings, is surrounded 
and transfused by the laws of the material environment. As the bottle 
is the joint product of the breath of the glass-blower and the mold, so 
are the tribes of men the result of their own inherent vitality and the 
environment. The behavior of living beings in the presence of their en- 
vironment Mr. Mivart has called Hexicology, for which the more properly- 
constructed and more euphonious term Hexiology will here be em- 
ployed. 

Finally, anthropology, like every other honest craft, must have its 
tools and its workshops, viz, its museums, libraries, societies, journals, 
and implements, and its encyclopedic works. For all these the term 
Instrumentalities of Research will be used. The scheme, therefore, 
stands : 

1. Anthropogeny. 

2. Archaeology. 

3. Biology of man. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



501 



4. Comparative psychology or phrenology. 

6. Ethnology. 
C. Glossology. 

7. Comparative technology. 

8. Sociology. 

9. Daimonology or pnenmatology. 

10. Hexiology. 

11. Instrumentalities of research. 

It is well known to all students of nature that knowledge passes 
through three stages. The first is the observing and descriptive stage, 
in which the universe is explored for new materials and facts. The sec- 
ond is the inductive and classifying stage in which facts and materials 
are arranged according to dijffering bases and general principles arrived 
at. The third is the deductive or predictive stage, the true scientific 
stei), in which the laics and the true nature- of things are ascertained 
with such accuracy that new consequences may be deduced, and the 
recurrence of phenomena, under certain circumstances, may be pre- 
dicted. A scheme of nomenclature is presented below merely as a sug- 
gestion, in order to ascertain the opinion of anthropologists as to its 
merits. To represent the three stages mentioned above, the Greek 
words Tpafrji ^oyoq, and v<5,ao<; are chosen to furnish the significant termi- 
nation, agreeably to established analogy. As will be seen, a difficulty 
occurs with psychology and phrenology, and with the terms denoting 
the spirit world together with the actions and apparatus growing out of 
it. These difiiculties have been noticed under the appropriate head. 

As the genesis or origin of anything is essentially speculative, how- 
ever necessary, the first term of our technical series does not admit of 
this tripartite division : 

Antliropcgeny (undifferentiated,)* 



Observing and descriptive 
stage. 




Deductive aud predictive 
stage. 
(v6/uof) 



Anthropography . 
Arclia30CTaphy . . 

Biograpuy 

Psychograpliy 

Phreuograpliy. .. 

Ethnography 

Glossography 

Technography 

Sociography 

Pueuuiatography 
Daimonograpljy . 
My thography ... 
Hexiography 



Anthropology . 
Archajology .. 

Biology 

Psychology ... 
Phrenology ... 

Ethnology 

Glossology 

Technology. .. 

Sociology 

Pnenmatology 
Daimonology.. 
Mythology ... 
Hexiology 



Anthroponomy. 

Archajonomy. 

Bionomy 

Psychonomy. 

Phrenonomy. 

Ethnonomy. 

Glossonomy. 

Technonomy. 

Socionomy. 

Pneumatonomy. 

Daimouonomy. 

Mythonomy. 

Hexionomy. 



Instrumentalities of Eesearch (unditferentiated). 



•By a further application of the Greek word ycrc'a, this term micht ho nsed in a pcneric sense as the 
bejrinning of a quaternary division, making the series — anthropo^eny, anthropoKrai)hy, anthropology, 
anthroponomy; thus giving four columns instead of three; thotust of which would embrace the genesis 
of those branches in which the qaestion of oiigin could aii&o. 



5G2 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The multiplication of -^orks on anthropology throughout the world 
makes it absolutely impossible to even name them within the Umits of 
this summary. It is designed to mention only works on America, works 
by Americans, and valuable republications in America of foreign produc- 
tions. In addition to this, the names of foreign journals, &c., containing 
anthropologic bibliographies will be given among instrumentalities. In 
this manner the student will have the means of compassing the whole 
field of literature relating to the science. 

In order to render this summary more complete from year to year the 
co-operation of all American anthropologists is earnestly solicited. 

I. — AjNfTHEOPOGENY. 

The question of man's origin is separable into several subdivisions, 
related among themselves, but quite distinct. Among the titles quoted 
under anthropogeny will be noted some referring to the time of man's 
advent and its connection with geology, others dealing with the evolu- 
tion of man and his relation to the animal kingdom. A third group 
discuss the origin and development of parts of his organism, as the 
brain, the soul, or the sexes. A fourth class is concerned with the bear- 
ing of the question upon the Adamic races of Genesis. Finally, Dr. 
Woodward, in his annual address before the Wasliington Philosophical 
Society, examines the modern conceptions of the mechanical nature of 
life, and puts in a plea for the existence of a vital force. The subject 
is surrounded with so many difficulties that men of true scientific as- 
pirations have declined to spend much time speculating about it, when 
so much valuable material lay within their grasp untouched. 

II. — AECH^OLOGY. 

Tbt-re is not a State in our Union devoid of interest to the archceolo- 
gist. Along the entire border touched by the salt water are the shell- 
heaps. Inland \ij)on the Atlantic border occur stone implements as sur- 
face finds in great variety, and rude celts are found in the river gravels. 
Once upon the streams flowing westward into the Mississippi the stu- 
dent of the past is among the mounds and earthworks of a higher group 
of peoples. The same character of remains also occur in the Gulf States 
and through the first tier west of the Mississippi Eiver. 

As yet the Plains of the Great West, the Great Interior Basin, and 
the Sierras have yielded few evidences of ancient jjopulation, excepting 
in the west coast shell-heaps and in the so-called relics from the aurif- 
erous gravels of Califoniia. In New Mexico and Arizona the past is 
continued to the present in the pueblos, clili-dwellings (both cavated 
and walled), the deserted pueblos, and in the relics of former industry. 
Further south there remain throughout Mexico many ruins of the former 
populations even yet unexplored. 

It is difficult to report all that is doing for the study of every portion 
of our Territory. The poi)ularity of archceology induces many persons 



ANXnKOPOLOGY. 503 

of wealtli or leisure to expend much time and money on i)rivato collec- 
tions. The committee of arrangements of the American atisociatiou 
last summer published a list of all such private museums in and around 
Cincinnati. Tlie public enterprises for the exploration of American 
antiquities demand a more tliau passing notice. In Massachusetts, the 
Achreological Institute of America in Boston, the Peabody Muiseum iu 
Cambridge, and the Antiquarian Society' of Worcester are doing most 
valuable service to archaeology. The lirst named has secured the serv- 
ices of Mr. A. F. Eandelier among the i)ueblos, and has published its 
first volume noticed in the bibliography of archneology. The report of 
the Peabody Museum for 1881 h;is not yet appeared, but a reference to 
the names of the curator and his assistants will show that they have 
not been idle. 

Xo pubhcations in archaeology have been issued by the museum in 
Xew York or the societies of Philadelphia. The Smithsonian Institu- 
tion has published its annual report and Vol. XXII of Contributions, 
which includes the monographs of Jones, Habel, Eau, and Dall, pre- 
viously issued in separate form. The Bureau of Ethnology, though de- 
voted mainly to language, sociology, and mythology, has employed two 
explorers among western mounds, and under its auspices Col. James 
Stevenson, with a competent force, has been occupied in the pueblo 
country reaping a rich harvest of ancient and modem pottery and 
other objects. The bureau has also issued as a part of Vol. V, "Obser- 
vations on cup-shaped and other lapidariau sculptures in the Old 
World and in America," by Charles llau. 

Mention should also be made of the Lorillard expedition to Mexico 
and Central America under M. Desire Charnay, whose preliminary re- 
ports have appeared in the pages of the Xorth American Review. 

In the State of Ohio, the Western Reserve and Xorthern Ohio His- 
torical Society publishes tracts, and the Madisonville Literary and 
Scientific Society, associated with the Cincinnati Society of Xatural 
History, reports the progress of explorations in the Madisonville Ceme- 
tery. 

In the State Historical Society and in the Geological Survey volumes 
of Indiana, Wisconsin, and Minnesota occur, now and then, accounts of 
ancient remains. 

The papers on archjBology at the American association will be found 
enumerated under Instrumentalities. Special volumes upon, archteology 
will be noticed under the names of Abbott, Bransford, Evans, Geikie, 
Merrill, Nadaillac, Putnam, Ran, Reiss, and Wheeler. . 

III. — BIOLOGY OP MAN. 

It is much to be regretted that we have not on the w^^tern continent 
an institution for the study of man as a njember of the animal king- 
dom. For this cause that portion of anthropology, which has been 
pursued with such brilliancy in France, England, Germany, Russia, and 



504 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Italy, has almost languished among us. Exception must be made in 
favor of those surgeons who have, in tbeir medical college courses, in- 
troduced higher studies, and those geologists who sought to complete 
their investigations by including the highest member of the vertebrate 
branch. A further exception in favor of special laboratory work should 
be made in favor of the cranial measurements prosecuted at the Pea- 
body Museum, by Mr. Lucien Carr, and at the Army Medical IMuseum, 
■Washington, by Mr. Parker, under the dii^ection of the late Dr. Otis. 
The last-named institution published the second volume of its great 
index-catalogue of medical literature, which includes many titles on the 
biology of man. Dr. Billings and Dr. Fletcher continue the editing 
of the Index Medicus, a monthly, devoted to the cataloguing of periodi- 
cal medical litera ture. 

IV. — PSYCnOLOGY OR PHRENOLOGY. 

As interpreted by Professor Huxley, biology includes thinking and the 
emotions, as well as mere animal and vegetable life. As long, however, 
as we separate the two things for the subject of investigation, it is 
necessary to distinguish them by proper names. The term "psychology'' 
lias become somewhat popular, but, as expressiug an inductive science 
of mind or intelligence, is less appro|)riate than the term "phrenology." 
The objection to the use of the latter word is that it was formed and 
first employed by Dr. Gall to express a theory of mind and character 
based on the observation of the external form of the skull, and that it 
has ever since been thus exclusively applied. This sj'stem, however, 
by reason of its immature and faulty inductions, has so far fallen out of 
use and sight by the scientific explorer in the field of mind, that it may 
be regarded as obsolescent, if it is not indeed extinct. To suffer the 
name, which would naturally have been selected for the latter science, 
to perish with the earlier and abandoned scaffolding, would seem to 
be unnecessary and unwise. The term " biologize," applied by a class 
of peripatetic exhibitors to express their manipulations, has not pre- 
vented "biology" from being completely redeemed. Indeed the analo- 
gous term " psycologize " has had a similar career; nor has the previous 
use of "anthropology," in a theologic sense, debarred its emi)loyment 
to comprehend the entire study of the natural history of man. Is there 
any good reason, therefore, why an effort should not be made to rescue 
the abused but expressive term "phrenology" from its impending fate 
for service in a broader and sounder department of investigation? 

The phrenology or psychology of man may be and is considered from 
various points of view. James and Eomanes approach the subject from 
the side of the reasoning powers of animals. Spitzka and Yariguy 
would reconstruct a phrenology upon the results of cranio- cerebral to- 
pography. Preyer and Wyma watch the unfolding of the infant mind. 
Mason observes the mental condition and changes of savages in the 
presence of higher civdization. Professor Porter seeks to discover in- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 505 

tellection and mental gTowtli aside from the medium of languaj^e. In 
all tliese studies there is real progress. No doubt iutrospectioii reveals 
to a trained thinker the processes of thought ; but the careful obser- 
vation of many minds — animal, infantile, savage, and civilized — in their 
processes, sequences, and aims will disclose results hitherto uucxpected. 

V. — ETHNOLOGY. 

The great mass of our ethnologic literature is ethnographic. Little 
has been attempted within a year towards developing a rational scheme 
of humanity on indisputable marks. Under the encouragement and 
patronage of anthropological associations trained observers bring us 
into intimate acquaintance with our brethren of every clime and grade. 
The bibliographic list attached to this paper includes descriptions of 
the peoples of the two Americas, tribes of the Eastern Continent visited 
by Americans, and even ethnologic reprints which have been brought 
out by our American publishers. Prof. John Campbell, of Montreal, 
attempts on philologic grounds to trace the relationships of the Amer- 
ican Indians. Major Powell's first annual report gives notice of a 
synonymy of all tribes ever known to have inhabited ISTorth America, 
together with their priscan home, migrations, and linguistic affinities. 

YI. — GLOSSOLOGY. 

In glossology our country has much that is attractive and of perma- 
nent value to offer. In the first place, grammars and dictionaries of all 
our tribes are in the course of preparation, not only by missionaries, 
both Catholic and Protestant, but ou a larger scale by the Bureau of 
Ethnology, and even by foreign societies. Again, the meaning of the 
w'ord language has come to be better understood through studies on 
America. The whole panorama of the growth of organized writing, 
or speech to the eye, may be witnessed by the pictographs and aerial 
X)ictures, called sign language. It may not be that we shall ever under- 
stand the Maya hieroglyphics; but the investigations of Mallery, 
Thomas, Holden, and others on the same line will exhibit to us the 
value of each form as parts of a continually improving series. 

VII. — COMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY. 

Whether we originate or whether we borrow the materials, imple- 
ments, processes, and products of industry, the history of civilization 
cannot omit the arts, by whomsoever elaborated or practiced. The list 
of publications noticed is very meager, and does not at all represent 
the immense amount of literature which accumulates upon this subject. 
The new National Museum will be anthropological, and all the objects 
there will be arranged with reference to the evolution of human industry 
A hurried visit through our Patent Office, or, indeed, the inspection of 
any old garret or farm yard will convince one of the rapidity with which 
the fertile genius of man adapts itself to changing environment. 



506 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Just liere a word of caution may not go amiss. Collectors of objects 
for autliropological museums should be careful to note with reference 
to each specimen the source of the material, all the tools employed in 
its elaboration, the caste or sex to which its use is relegated, the time 
o'' season of the manufacture, the craft processes and the ceremonies 
observed, the variety and range of products in fineness, form and func- 
tion. 

YIII. — SOCIOLOGY. 

The term " sociology" as a philologic hybrid is not entirely satisfac- 
tory, but it could not now be easilj^ displaced, nor is it indeed easy to 
substitute a better word. The summary of progress in anthropology 
each year exhibits a gratifying progress in sociology. The recognition 
of the oneness of all human phenomena gives value to the social structure 
of even the lowest tribes. We seem to hear in the songs and dances of 
the savage Indians the echoes of our own priscan history. Our own Bu- 
reau of Ethnology is not behind in this matter. Major Powell has worked 
out the Wyandotte scheme, and has elaborated a series of charts by 
means of wliich the clan and the family organization of any people may 
be exhibited. 

The inspection of the list of works will show how these investigations 
have ramified into every department of society, including marriage and 
family life, tribal structure and functions, political institutions, acqui- 
sition, tenure, and cession of property, fashions, economics, statistics, 
education, disease, crime, and death. 

IX. — DAIMONOLOGY, OR PNEUMATOLOGY. 

It is easier to indicate what is included in this class than to find a 
name. As regards any set of human activities we have to inquire by 
whom, with what, and how. It may be the making of a pot. If so- 
then society is organized into those who make and those for whom they 
make. Again, the clay must be taken from a certain place at a certain 
time, and with appropriate ceremonies; the effect depending quite as 
much upon the method as upon the material or the implement. Further, 
more, there are certain tools useful to the potter only ; and finally the 
finished product of his art passes on to be the implement of some other 
craft, say the water seller, the cook, or the caterer. 

liTow, if we desire to study the religions of the world we must have 
a museum containing models of typical sacred inclosures or edifices, 
together with all the furniture belonging thereto. This will not suffice; 
we must have mannikins dressed to resemble all the servitors in these 
temples, let us call them. Even that would be dead religion. Eor these 
figures must move, they must go through every performance which 
enters into their ritual and liturgy, observing carefully the right posture, 
saying the right words, at the proper time of the day, or of the mouth, 
or of the year. After all this would be more interesting than com- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 507 

preliensible, for we should know what words they utter, what their own 
conceptions and motives were, and on what general law their conduct 
is based. We should not be long in finding out that all we had seen 
had reference to a supra-sensible world. The investigation which we 
are engaged in, therefore, is the study of human behefs, of social organi- 
zations, activities, instrumentalities, with reference to the supra-sensi- 
ble, the so-called spirit world. Inasmuch as we have borrowed a spe- 
cific term from the theologians to stand for the whole study of man, 
we may be compelled to take the word pneumatology, meaning with 
them the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, for the science of the spirit \Yorld. 

X.— HEXIOLOGY. 

Professor Mivart, in his monograph upon the cat., devotes a chapter to 
the hexicology (hexiology ?) of the animal. "Every living creature has 
also relations with other living creatures, which may tend to destroy it, 
or indirectly to aid it, and the various physical forces and conditions 
exercise their several influences upon it. The study of all these com- 
plex relations to time, space, physical forces, other organisms, and to 
surrounding conditions generally, constitutes the science of hexicology 
(hexiology ?). The higher a plant or animal stands in its kingdom the 
greater will be the variety of influences bearing upon it and the greater 
will be the diversity of impressions made by any external agent. This 
being true, the relations of man to force and to matter in the three king- 
domE of nature would be numerous and complicated. Indeed it is only 
within our own day that men have conceived the possibility of grappling 
with this subject at all; and even now treatises upon the subject are so 
scattered and so mixed up with economics and medicine that it is dis- 
couraging to attempt a bibliography. The defect is partly remedied by 
the fact that hexiology is intimately related to other divisions of the 
subject: to anthropogeny, since all investigations into the evolution of 
man from a lower form proceed upon the assumption of the modifying 
and selecting function of environment; to anatomy and psychology, since 
climate, food, and natural enemies perfect or dwarf the bodies of men 
not less than their minds ; to ethnology, since the races of men are almost 
universally believed to be the product of surroundings; to language and 
technology, since words as well as implements have reference to what 
is at hand and not to something outside of experience; to art and enjoy- 
ment, since the sense of beauty grows by what it feeds ujion, preserves 
and reproduces that which has contributed to its indulgence ; to society, 
since tribal organization and government are well known to be the sport 
of geography; to religion, since the gods, the temples, the vestments, 
and the routine of worship are very much the creatures of the land 
where they had their origin. 

XI.— INSTRUMENTALITIES. 

The purpose of this section has been so frequently explained that no 
repetition is needed. Museums, libraries, associations, congresses, jour- 



508 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

nals, improved implements and methods of observations, popular works, 
and lectures, all are indispensable to the anthropologist. Hence, a list 
of the most important is appended. This becomes the more valuable at 
this time. Since the numberless publications on anthropology abroad 
cannot fiud a place in our list, the journals and separate works in which 
their titles are given will be found under "Instrumentalities." In this 
manner nearly every issue of importance will be placed within the reach 
of American students. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY FOR 1881. 
I.— Anthropogeny. 

BuCHANAA', S. H. — Date of the origin of tlie human race. Cumberland Presb. Quart., 

Oct. 
Byrd, n. L.— Pre-adamite races of men. Independ. Piact., Bait., Jan. Separately 

printed by Thomaa and Evans. 
Carlisle, A. N.— Man's place in nature, (xixtb cent.) Appleton's Jourual, Sept. 
Clevexgeh, S. V. — Origin and descent of the human brain. Am. Natiualist, July, 

pp. 513-517. 
Dawson, J. W. — The antiquity of man and the origin of species. Kansas City Rev., 

Jan., 6 pp. ; Feb., 5 pp. [From the Princeton Review.] 
Denton, William.— Is Darwin right ? Or the origin of man. Wellesley, Mass., 1881, 

193 pp. rJmo. 
Dewau, a. — The materialistic origin of the sexes. J. Sc, Lond., 1881, pp. 33-36. 
Evans, M. J. — The geologic evidence of the antiquity of man. Christian Month., Feb. 
Geiger, L.— Contributions to the history of the development of the human race. From 

the German, by D. Asher. Boston, 1881. 8vo. 
Howard, H. — Man's two natures; man created by evolution; thinking, how pro- 
duced ; nemology. Canada Med. Rec, Montreal, 1880-1881, is, 97-107. 
Some remarks on *' Haeckel on the evolution of man," and ou so-called 

blood-poisoning. Canada Med. Rec, Montreal, 1880-81, ix. Intellect and Evolu- 
tion. British Quart. Rev., Oct. 
Lesley, J. P.— Man's origin and destiny. Boston : G. H. Ellis, 440 pp. 8vo. 
Lewis, T. L. — Indian traditions respecting their origin. Kansas City Rev., March. 
Llanas, E. — Conferencias cientlfico-religiosas sobre el orlgen delhombre. Sentido ca- 

t61. Barcel., 1881, iii, 2. 
Mivart, St. G. —The soul and evolution. Am. Cath. Quart. Rev., July. 
Nesbit, Bcv. E. — Antiquity of man. Its recent phase. Baptist Rev., Jan., 12 pp. 
Pleistocene Man, and his relation to the theory of development. The Lake Dwellers. 

Cosmos, May. 
Southaxl, J. C. — Man's place in time. Methodist Quart. Rev., April. 
Pliocene man in America : a paper read before the Victoria Institute of Great 

Britain. London. 8vo. 30 pp. 
■Wilson, J. D.— Pre-adamites. Kew Englander, May. 
Woodward, Josepu J. — Modern philosophic concei^tions of life: an address delivered 

before the Philosophical Society of Washington, Dec. 3, 1881. Washington, Judd 

and Detweiler. 
Wright, Frederick G. — The glacial phenomena of North America, and their relor- 

tion to the question of man's antiquity in the vaEey of the Delaware. Phila., 

188L 12 pp. 8vo. 

II.— ARCniEOLOGY. 

Abbott Charles C. — Articles made of wood. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. ol 
100th Merid., vii, pp. 122-124, fig. 42. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 509 

— Chipped stoue implements. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surr. "W. of 100th Merid., 
vii, pp. 49-69, pi. 1-4, figs. 1-16. 

— Historical sketch of the discovery of the palaeolithic implements of the Tren- 
ton gravels. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. June 19. xxi. 

and F. W. Putxam. — Implements and weapons made of bone and wood. 

Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 222-203, pi. xl, figs. 
100-114. 

— Miscellaneous objects made of stone. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. W. of 100th 
Merid., vii, pp. 190-217, figs. Gl-99. 

— Mortars and pestles. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100 Merid., vii, pp, 
70-91, pi. 5, figs. 17-31. 

— Musical instruments made of bone. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th 
Merid., vii, pp. 234-23d, figs. 115-120. 

— Primitive Industry ; or illustrations of the handwork in stone, bone, and clay, 
of the native races of the northern Atlantic seaboard of America. Salem, Mass., 
560 pp. 8vo. [Reviewed in Nature, Nov. 10.] 

Smoking pipes of stone. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., 

vii, pp. 125 — , pi. vii-ix, tig. 43. 

Steatite cooking pota, plates, and food vessels. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. 



W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 93-116, pi. vi, figs. 32-38. 
Ameghino, F. — La antiguedad del hombre en el Plata. Paris, ^lasaon. 25 plates, 

1881. 8vo. 
Barber, Edwin A. — Pueblo pottery. Am. Naturalist, June. pp. 453-462. 
BiXKLEY, S. H. — A (iloth robe from a mound-builder's tomb. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 
pp. 325-3.>8. 

Nest of flint relics. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 144. 

BiRNiE, Rogers, Jr. — Report on ruins visited in New Mexico. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. 

Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 346-350. 
BooTU, Henky. — Notes on some ancient remains in Arizona. Proc. Poughkeepsie Soc. 

Nat. Hist. No imprint, pp. 37-43. 
Braxsford, J. F. — Archioological researches in Nicaragua. No. 383, Smithsonian 

Contributions. Published by the Smithsonian Institution. 4to. 
Brixkley, C. H. — Ancient stone mounds — were they objurgatory burial heaps? Am. 

Antiquarian, ii, pp. 189-194. 
Buckingham, Harriot. — Oregon and prehistoric relics. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 135-" 

137. 
Butler, J. D. — Wisconsin copper finds and lake-dwellings. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 

141. 
Carr, Lucien. — statement relating to finding an implement in the Trenton gravel. 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. Jan. 19. xxi. 
Charney, D£sirtS. — The ruins of Central America. North Am. Review : 

Part V. Resemblances and analogies between Teotihuacan and Tula. Jan. 
Part VI. The village of Comalcalco, in the State of Tobasco. Feb. 
Part VII. The ruins of Palenque, May. 
Part VIII. The ruins of Palenque. June. 

Part IX. The probable age and origin of the monuments of Mexico and Central 
America. Oct. 
[Translated in Petefraann's Mittheilungen.] 
C^A^^F;RO, Alfredo. — La piedra del sol. (Continuacion.) Anales del Mus. Nac. de 

Mexico. II. Parts iv and v, pp. 234-266, 291, 403-410. 
COLLETT, John. — Mounds and stone graves of Shelby County, Indiana. Rep. State 

Geologist, 1881. 
■ The mammoth and the mastodon. Remains in Indiana and Illinois. A 

Vincennes Mound. Indiana Geolog. Rep., 1879-1880. Indianapolis, C. Hollen- 
beck, 1881, pp. 16-28. 



510 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Cope, Edward D. — Report ou the remains of population observed in Northwestern 
New Mexico. Wheeler's Survey W. of 100th Merid.. vii,pp. 351-3G1. 

De Haas, Wells. — The mound-builders : an inquiry into their supposed southern ori- 
gin. Am. Assoc., Cincinnati. 

Evans, John. — Tlie ancient bronze implements, weapons, and ornaments of Great 
Britain and Ireland. With. 540 illustratious. N. York : D. Appleton & Co. 509 
pp. 8vo. 

Failyer, G. H. — Traces of the aborigines of Riley County, Kansas. Tr. Kansas Acad. 
Sc, vii, p. 132. 

FOXTPERTUIS, A. E. DE. — Les anciennes civilisations amdricaines, le peuple des 
mounds et ses monuments. (Drapeyron.) Revue de g6of;r., April, if. 

Gass, J. — Indian burial grounds near the mouth of Rock River. Proc. Davenport 
Acad., ii. 

Gass, J. and R. J. Farquhaeson. — Exploration of a mound near Moline, 111. Proc. 
Davenport Acad., ii. 

Geikie, J. — Prehistoric Europe: a geological nkctch. Phila., 1881. 8vo. 

Gratacap, a. — Prehistoric man in Europe. Am. Antiquario.n, iii, pp. 280-290; iv, pp. 
1-8. 

Halford, C. W. — Oriental resemblances in New Mexico. Kansas City Rev., Feb., 
3 pp. 

Harrison, C. E. — Exploration of Mound No. 11, Cook's Farm, Iowa. Proc. Daven- 
port Acad., ii. 

Hayxes, Henry W. — The argillite implements of the Delaware River, compared with 
the pahcolitliic implements of Europe. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxi, Jan. 19. 

Comparison of the implements of the Trenton gravels with those of similar 

deposits in Europe. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Jan. 19, 1881, xxi. 

Discovery of palaeolithic flint implements in Upper Egypt. Reprint from 



Mem. Am. Acad, of Arts & Sc, x, Boston. 

Henshaw, H. W. — Cliff-house and cave on Diamond Creek, New Mexico. Wheelers 
U. S. Geog. Survey W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 370-371. 

Hoffman, W. J. — Antiquif les of New Mexico and Arizona. Reprint from Proc. Daven- 
port Acad. Nat. Sc, iii, 21 jjp. 

An Indian theater : detailed description of Arikara semi-religious ceremonies 

performed during the mouth of August and part of September of each year, at Fort 
Berthold, Dak. Reading (Pa.), Times & Despatch, Sept. 20. 

HOLBROOK, W. C. — Stone implements in the drift. Science, Nov. 19. 

Howell, G. R. — Was America known to the ancients? Potter's American Month., 

July. 
Howarth, H. H. — The sudden extinction of the mammoth. Geological Mag., 

July. 
Langdox, F. W, — The Madisonville prehistoric cemetery: Anthropological notes. 

J. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., iv, October, Reprint. 
LOEFFLER, C. — Reiseskizzen aus Peru : Die Ruiuen von Tiahuanuco. Aus alien Welt- 

theil, xii, No. 2, pp. 378-380. 
LOEW, Oscar. — Report on the ruins in New Mexico. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. 

of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 337-345. 
McAdams, Wm. — Sea shells in mounds. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 61-62. 

The ancient pottery makers. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 139-140. 

The stone images and idols of the mound-builders. Some remarkable relics 

from the mounds of Illinois. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Macleax, J. P. — A study of American archasology. II. The literature of the subject. 

Universalist Quart., Jan., 22 pp. 
Marquez, P. Pedro Josi5. — Dos antiques monumentos de Arquitectnra Mexicana, 

illustrados. Traducido para los " Anales del Museo " por F. P. T., pp. 279-290. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 511 

Mendoza, G., and Felipe SixcnEZ SoLis. — Analcs de Cuauhtitlan. Original, and 
translation of Chimalpopoca, iu parallel columns. Anales d. Mus. Nac, de ilex., ii, 
pt. (5; appendix, pp. 41-56. 

Mitos de los Nahoas. (Analcs d. Mus. Nac. de Mex., ii, pts. 4 & 5, pp. 271- 

278, 315-322.) Translated by F. P. T. Mexico, 1881. 8vo. pp. 80, 3 pi. 

Meerill, Selaii. — East of the Jordan : a record of travel and observation in the 

countries of Moab, Gilead, and Bashan, during the years 1875-1»77. New York: 

Charles Scribner's Sous, 1881. 111. and map. 
Metz. Charles L. — The prehistoric monuments of Anderson Township, Hamilton 

County, Ohio. From the J. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., iv. 
Mlschin, J. B. — Eastern Bolivia and the Gran Chaco. Proc. lioy. Geog. Soc, Loudon. 

No. 7, pp. 401-420, with chart. 
Mol'SE, Columbus. — Dead cities of New Mexico. Kansas City Kev., December, 2 pp. 
MOERISON, C. C. — Notice of the Pueblo Pintado, and of other ruins in the Chaco 

Cauon. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Survey, W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 366-369. 
MoESE, Edwards S. — On the ancient Japanese bronze hells. On worked shells in 

New England shell-heaps. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Prehistoric Man in America. Kansas City Rev., June, Jnly, 1881, p. 90. 

MUDGE, B. F. — Mound-buildei's in Davis and Riley Counties. Kansas Acad. Sc. To- 

peka, 1881. 
Nadaxllac, Marquis de. — Les premiers hommes et les temps pr(ihistoriques. Paris: 

Massou, 1881. 2 vols., 12 plates, 211 figures. 8vo. 
Netf, Pe^er. — Look-out mounds in Ohio. Am. Antiquarian Hi, 138. 
Orozco y Berra Maxuel.— Codice Mondozine : Eusayo de descrifacion geroglifica 

(Coutinuacion). Anales d. Mus. Nac. do Mex. ii, pt. 4 & 5. 
Palmer, Edward. — Utah Mounds. Proc. Davenport Acad., ii. 
Parker, J. D. — Heath's Discoveries iu South America. Kansas City Rev., April. 
Peet, Stephen D. — The emblematic mounds on the four lakes of Wisconsin. — Am. 

Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Buffalo drives among the mound-builders. Trans. Wisconsin Acad, of Sc, 

Arts & Let., v. * 

The military architecture of the emblematic mound-builders. Am. Anti- 
quarian, iii, pp. 80-101. 

The prehistoric architecture of America. Trans. Wisconsin Acad, of Sc, Arts 



& Letters, v. 

Perkins, George H. — Archajology of Vermont. Am. Naturalist, June, 13 pp. 

PrvEiiisTORic Science en FiiXE. — The International Congress of Prehistoric Anthro- 
pology and Archieology. Pop. Sc. Mouth., Feb. 

Prehistoric vessels. Some. (La Nature.) Popular Sc. Month., May. 

PUOUDEIT, S. V. — Earthworks on the Missouri River. Am. Antiquarian, iii, p. 139. 

Antiquities of the Missouri Bluffs. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 271-280. 

Putnam, F. W. — Archteological explorations at Madisonville, Ohio. Harvard Univ., 

Bull. No. 19, June 1. (These Bulletins publish the titles of all authroi)ological 
works added toPeabody Museum Library.) 

w Fourteenth annual report of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Eth- 
nology, iii, No. 1, Cambridge. 41 pp. 

Palaeolithic implements of the valley of the Delaware. Reprint from Proc. 

Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. sxi. A 6ymi)osium by Abbott, Haynes, Wright, Carr, 
Wadsworth, and Putnam. 

Iron implements and other articles obtained by contact with Europeans. 

Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 272-276, pi. xv, figs. 

133-134. 

Notes on the implements of stone, pottery, and other objects obtained in New 

Mex. and Arizona. Wheeler's Survey W. of 100th Merid., vii, i)p. 374-3'JO. 4 
beautifully colored lithographic plates. 



512 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Ornaments. Wheeler's U, S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 251-232, 



pi. xii, figs. 124-132. 

— Perforated stones. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 
135-189, pi. X, figs. 44-GO. 

— Pueblo pottery. Am, Art Rev., Feb. 
Remarks on the paliEolithic implements of the Trenton gravels. Proc. Boston 



Soc. Nat. Hist., Jan. 19, vol. xxi. 

Textile fabrics, basket works, etc. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th 

Merid., vii, pp. 239-250, pi. xiv, figs. 121-123. 

Quick, Edgar R. — A prehistoric cup made fiom a human cranium. J. Gin. Soc. Nat, 

Hist., iii, 296. 
Ratt, Charles. — Aboriginal stone-drilling. Am. Naturalist, July, pp. 536-542. 

Observations on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculptures in the Old World 

and in America. (From Contributions to N. Am. Ethnology, v, Washington, 
Govt. Printing Office, 102 pp. 4to, 60 figs.) 

Eeid H. a. — Prehistoric man in Lafayette County, Missouri. Kansas City Rev., Nov., 
4 pp. 

Eeiss, W. and A. StijBEL. — The Necropolis of Ancon in Peru : a series of illustrations 
of the civilization and industry of the Empire of the Incas, being the results of 
excavations made upon the spot. Part 5. Dodd and Mead, N. Y. 

Savage, Joseph. — Mounds in Southern Kansas. Tr. Kansas Acad. Sc. Topeka, 1881. 

SiMONDS, Frederick W. — The discovery of iron implements in an ancient mine of 
North Carolina. Am. Naturalist, xv, 7-11. 

Smucker, Isaac. — Mound-builders' works, near Newark, Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, 
iii, pp. 261-270. 

Soldi, M. E. — Aiacient sculptures in America. Bui. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, iv, p. 
20(_;,1881. 

Stoddard, C. W. — Primeval California. Scribner's Mag., Oct. 

TuoMAS, Cyrus. — An attempt to reconcile the dilference between authorities in refer- 
ence to the Maya calendar and certain dates ; also to determine the age of the 
manuscript Troana. Am. Naturalist, October. 

The manuscript Troana. Am. Assoc. Cin., Am. Naturalist, Aug., pp. 625-641. 

TuoMPSON, A. H. — On a recent Lidian find near Topeka, Ks. Kansas Acad. Sc, To- 
peka, 1881. 

Trowkkidge, S. H. — Exhibition of archaeological specimens from Missouri. Am. 
Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Vlasto, M. — Stone implements from Northern Brazil. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 
1881, iv, p. 206. 

Wadsworth, M. E. — On the lithological character of the implements in the Trenton 
gravels. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Jan. 19, xxi. 

Welch, L. B., and J. M. Richardson. — A description of prehistoric relics found near 
Wilmington, Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 40-48. 

Wheeler, George M. — Vol. vii, Archajology. Report upon U. S. Geographical Sur- 
veys west of the 100th meridian. Washington: Government Printing Office. [Im- 
print 1879, but issued in 1881. Edited by Prof. F. W. Putnam, assisted by several 
eminent specialists.] 

Whittlesey, Charles. — Inscribed stones. Licking County, O. Western Res. & N. 
Ohio Hist. Soc, No. 53. 

Winchell, N. H. — Ancient copper mines of Isle Royale. Engineer & Min. J.,, Sept. 
17, 24 ; Popular Sc. Month., Sept. 

Wright, G. F. — Ou the age of the Trenton gravels. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Jan. 
19, xxi. 

Yarrow, H. C— The pueblo of Taos. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., 
vii, p. 327-330. 

The pueblo of San Juan. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv., vii, p. 531. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 513 

A ruined pueblo and an ancient burial-place in the valley of the Rio Chama. 

Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv ., vii, p. 3G2-365. 

III. — Biology. 

Anatomist, The. Being a complete description of the anatomy of the human body, 

3 ed. N. Y., 1881. 16mo. 
Bartley, E. H.— a new craniometer. Pathologist. Brooklyn, i, 29. 
Bastian. — Mesicanischer Graberschiidel. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch f. Anthrop., 

1881, p. 33. 
Benedict, Moriz. — Anatomical studies upon brains of criminals. A contribution to 

anthropology, medicine, jurisprudence, and psychology. Trans, from the German 

by E. P. Fowler, N. Y. Wm. Wood & Co., 185 pp. 8vo. 
Bolton, H. C. — The early practice of medicine by women. J. Sc, Lond., 1881, 3d s., 

iii, 57-70. (Also, separate reprint.) 
BORDIER, A. — De I'anthropologiepathologique. Rev. scient., Paris, 1881. pj). 180-184. 
Bossu, A. — Anthropologie. Etude des organes, fonctions, maladies de I'homme et de 

la femme, comprenant I'anatomie, la physiologie, I'hygifene, la pathologic, la 

th^rapeutique et notions de mMecine legale. 2 vols. Par., 1881. 8vo. 
Burnett, Swan M. — Color perception and color-blindness. From Arch, of Ophthal- 
mology, X, No. 1, March. 

Method of educating the color sense in children. Washington. 4 pp. 

Byrd, H. L. — Anatomical and physiological differences between the Caucasian and 

African races. Independent Practitioner, June. 5 pp. 
Carr, Lucien. — Notes on the crania of the New England Indians. Mem. Boston Soc 

Nat. Hist. 4to, pp. 10, pi. 2. 
. Observations on the crania from Santa Barbara Islands, California. Wheeler's 

U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 277-292. 
Chudzinski, M.— The encephala ^f three Eskimo. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

iv, p. 312, 1881. 
Deschiptive atlas of human anatomy. London, 1880; Phila. 
Engelmann, G. J. — The third stage of labor: an ethnological study. Am. J. Obst., 

N. Y., 1881. xiv, pp. 303-322. 
EXNER, SiGMUND. — Untersuchungen iiber die Localisation der Functionen in der 

Grosshirnrinde des Menschen. Wien, 1881. [Nature, Jan. 5, 1882. Reviewed by 

David Ferrier. ] 
Eyes, The ethnology of. [Standard.] Living Age, June 11. 
Farquharson, R. J. — Amulets and post-mortem trepanation. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 

pp. 330-331. 
Flint, Austin. — Text-book on human physiology. 3. ed. N. Y. 8vo. 
Frldolin, J. — Studien iiber das Wachsthum der Extremitaten beim Menschen nach 

der Gebust. Arch. f. Anat. Leipzig, 1881. pp. 79-88. 
Hagen, Fritz Bessel. — Zur Kritik und Verbesserung der Winkelmessungen am 

Kopfe, mit besondere Riicksicht auf ihre Verwendung zu weiteren Schlussfolger- 

ungen und auf ihre mathematische sichere Bestimmung duich Construction und 

Berechnung. Archiv f. Anthrop, xiii, pp. 269-316. [An indispensable review 

of craniometry. ] 
Harris, R. P. — Foot-binding in China, etc. Tr. Coll. Phys. Phila. 3 s., v. pp. 1 ; 63. 
The practice of obstetrics among the Chinese. N. Y., Wm. Wood & Co. 14. 

pp. 8vo. [Am. J. Obst., N. Y. xiv. ] 
IIartmann, R. — Handbuch der Anatomie des Menschen fiir Studirende und Aertzte. 

Strassburg, 1881. 8vo. 
Hartwell, E. M. — The hindrances to anatomical study in the United States, dec. 

Annual Anat. & Surg., Brooklyn, iii, pp. 209-225. 
S. Mis. 109 33 



514 AJ^THROPOLOGY. 

Hesse, W. — Bestimmungen des Gewicbtes und Messuugen der Korperlllnge bei 

einein Kinde irn ersten und zweiten Lebensjabre. Arcb. f. Gynaek., Berl., 1881. 

pp. 150-152. 
HiLLis, J. D. — Leprosy in Britisb America. An account of West Indian leprosy. 

London. 8vo. 
HOLBROOK, Watson C. — Mound-builders' skeletons. Prebistoric bieroglypbs. Stone 

implements of tbe drift. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 
HOLGATE, F. H. — An instrument for measuring tbe lower extremities correctly. Med. 

Rec, N. Y. xxi, p. 164. 
Hybrid marriages to sex in offspring and fecundity, The relations of. Pbila. Reporter, 

April 16. 
Kesteven, W. B. — An alleged diminution in tbe size of men's beads. Nature, Nov. 

3, 10, 17. 
Langdon, F. W. — Tbe temporal process of tbe malar bone in the ancient human 

crania from Madison vi lie, Ohio. Cincinnati. 
Majjouvrier, L. — La craniologie ; sa place parmi les sciences, son programme et sea 

divisions. Rev. scientifique, 8 Oct., 1881. 
Majrtix, H. N. — Tbe human body ; account of its structure and activities and the 

conditions of its healthy working. N. Y., H. Holt, 1881. 12mo. 
McKlE, T. J. — The negro and some of his diseases, as observed in tbe vicinity of 

Woodlawn, S. C. Trans. S. C. Med. Assoc, Charleston, xxxi, pp. 85-90. 
McClenahan, H. M. — Medical knowledge of the North American Indians. Phila. 

Reporter, May. 
Morris, C— Man and the vertebrates series. Pop. Sc Month., N.Y., 1880-81. xviii, 

pp. 783-797. 
Prentiss, D. W. — Change in tbe color of the hair tlirougb tbe use of pilocarpin. 

Pbila., Lippincott, 15pp. 
Rannet, a. L. — Anatomical plates, arranged as a companion volume for "The essen- 
tials of anatomy " and for all works upon descriptive anatomy. N. Y. 4to. 
Read, H. N.— Ready method of measuring children's heads. Pathologist. Brooklyn. 

i, pp. 25-28. 
Roberts, John B. — Tbe compend of anatomy; for use in tbe dissecting room, and in 

preparation for examination. PbUa., C. C. Roberts & Co. 191 pp. 
Schmidt, Emu.. — Ueber die Bestimmung der Scbadelcapacitat. Arcbiv f. Antbrop. 

xiii. Supp. pp. 53-79. 
Severance, M. S. and H. C. Yarrow. — Notes upon human crania and skeletons col- 
lected by tbe expedition of 1872-74. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Survey w. of lOOtb 

meridian, vii, pp. 391-397. 
Simmons, D. B. — Tbe diseases of Japan. Med. Rec, N. Y. xix, pp. 90-92. 
Smythe, a. G. — Decrease in tbe size of tbe bead. Med. Rec, N. Y. xx, p. 473. 
Solaville, M. de. — Tbe duration of human life. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov. 
Spencer, T. D.— Tbe phenomena of death. Pop. Sc. Month, xix, pp. 394-399. 
Spitzka, Edward C, M. D. (New York.) Author of a series of pamphlets on the 

nervous system. Preliminary considerations. Chapter I, The central tubular 

grey; Chapter II, Tbe higher ganglia of the mid- and hind-brain. 
Notes on tbe anatomy of the encephalou, notably of tbe great ganglion. New 

York. 
TOLDT, C. — Ueber die Schiidelform der Eskimo. Prag. med. Wchnscbr., 1881, vi, 

pp. 21-24. 
Wilder, Burt G. — A partial revision of medical nomenclature ; with especial refer- 
ence to that of tbe brain. Science, N. Y., ii, pp. 122; 133. 

IV.— Psychology, or Phrenology. 

Allen, Grant. — J2stbetic Evolution in Man. Pop. Sc. Month., Jan. : The Genesis of 
Genius. Atlantic Month., March. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 515 

Clevekger, S. V. — Contributions to comparative psychology. Science, N. Y., ii, 
pp. 233; 342. 

James, Joseph F. — The reasoning faculty of animals. Am. Naturalist, pp. 604-615. 

Mason, Otis F. — The uncivilized mind in the presence of higher phases of civiliza- 
tion. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Pari, A. G. — Possibility, della psicologia scientifica. Udine, 1881. 8vo. 

Parvin, T. — The interdependence of mind and body. Cincin. Lancet and Clinic, 

1880, n. 8., T, pp. 521-530. 

Porter, Samuel. — Is thought possible without language? Case of a deaf mute. 

Princeton Review, January. 
Preyer, W. — Psychogenesis ; the development of the human mind in the first years 

of life. [From the German.] Am. J. Obst., N. Y., 1881, xiv. pp. 461-484. 
Romanes, G. J. — The intelligence of ants, (xixth century, Aug.) Popular Sc. 

Month., Aug., Oct. Living Age, July 16. 
Spitzka, E. C. — An important contribution to the doctrine of localization. Science, 

N. Y., ii, pp. 596-600. 
Varigny, H. de. — Cerebral localization; or the new phrenology. Popular Sc. 

Month., March. 11 pp. 
Wyma. — The mental development of the infant of to-day. J. Psych. Med., London, 

1881, n. 8., vii, pp. 62-69. 

V. —Ethnology. 

Boyd, M. N.— Chili : Sketches of Chili and the Chilians during the war, 1879-1880. 
London: Allen, 1881. 240 pp. 8vo. 

Brinton, Daniel G. — The probable nationality of the mound-builders. Am. Antiqua- 
rian, iv, i^p. 9-18. 

Brunner, D. B. — The Indians of Berks County, Pa., being a summary of all the 
tangible records of the Aborigines of Berks County, and containing cuts and de- 
scriptions of the varieties of relics found within the county. Written for the 
Society of Natural Sciences, Reading, Pa., by, etc., superintendent of the schools 
of the city of Reading, Pa. Reading, Pa., The "Spirit of Berks" Book and Job 
Printing Office, 1881. 

Butts, W. H. — Mission work in the forests of Guiana. (Athenaeum, Nov. 19.) 

Campbell, John (Montreal). — Asiatic tribes in North America. Reprint from Proc. 
Canadian Inst. 38 pp. Montreal ; no date. 

Culdee Colonies in the North and West, being a critique of M. EugJine Beau- 

A'ois' hypothesis of a Scot-Irish colony on the Lower St. Lawrence m the xth cen- 
tury. Br. & For. Evangel. Rev., Loud., July. 

Origin of the Aborigines of Canada. A paper read before the Lit. & Hist. Soc. 



of Quebec. Quebec Morning Chronicle, 1881. Pamph., 33-xxxiv pp. 

Cannon, George Q.— Utah and its people. North Am. Rev., May. 

Carrington, Henry B.— The Dacotah tribes; their beliefs and our duty to them out- 
lined. Salem, Mass. : Salem Press, 8vo. 

CORRA, E. — Les sauvages de la Terre do Feu, leur origine, lours moeurs, et leur ac- 
climatatiou. Paris, Bouzin, 1881. 16 pp. 16mo. 

Daireaux, £mile. — Buenos Ayies, la Pampa, la Patagonio, 6tudes, races, mceurs et 
paysages, Industrie, finance et politique. 2. 6d. xii, 391 and pp. et grav. Paris: 
Hachette at Cie. 

D'Albertis, L. M.— New Guinea : What I did and What I saw. Boston : Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co., 1881. 2 vols. 8vo. 2d edition. 

Dall, William H.— On the so-called Chukchi and Naraollo peoples of Eastern Sibe- 
ria. Am. Naturalist, Nov., pp. 857-808. 

Discoveries in South America, Heath's. Kansas City Rev., Sept. 

Douglass. — The Eskimo race: Its origin, migrations, and characteristics. Good 
Company, March-April. 



516 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Endlich, F. M. — Demerara. Am. Naturalist, Dec, pp. 937-946. 

Elcuo, R. — Die ludianer Californiens. Westermaan, Monatshefte, July, vi, No. 299, 
pp. 500-515. 

FisKE, John. — Who are the Aryans? Atlantic Month., Feb. 

Fowler, O. S. — Hudson Bay Indians and HaK-Breeds. Phrenological J., Jan., 2 pp. 

Gatschet, a. S. — The Massawomekes. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 321-324. 

Gilder, W. H. — Among the Eskimo with Schwatka. Scribner's Mag., May. 

Gravier, Gabriel. — fitude sur le sauvage du Br^sil. Paris, Maisonneuve, 1881. 63 
pp. 8vo. (Extrait de la Revue des 6tudesjuives.) 

Grout, Eev. A. — Who are the Boers? Missionary Herald, April. 

Hopper, Captain C. L. — Report of the Cruise of the U. S. Revenue steamer Corwin 
in the Arctic Ocean, 71 pp. Washington. 

Holub, Emil. — Seven years in South Africa : Travels, researches, and hunting ad- 
ventures between the Diamond Fields and the Zambesi (1872-1879). Translated 
by Ellen E. Frewer. Boston : Houghton, Mifliin & Company, 1881. 2 Aols. 8vo. 
200 ill., and map. [Nature, May 12, 19 ; Acad., Apr. 23.] 

Ingersoll, Ernest. — Personal recollections of the Utes. Good Company, March- 
April. 

Klutschak, H. W. — Die Eskimos von Hudson Bay. {Geogr. Rundschau, iii. No. 9, 
pp. 417-424, chart; als Eskimo unter den Exkimos. Eine Schilderung der Ergeb- 
nisse der Schwatka'schen FraukUn Expedition. Wien : Hartleben, 1881, 247 
pp., 3 charts, 8vo. [Review in Athenaeum, Sept. 3.] 

KOLWYK, A. S. van. — De Indianen Caraiben (Tijdschrift Aardrijksk. Genootsch., 
Amsterdam, 1881, No. 2, pp. 57-69. 

La Selve, E.— Le pays des n^gres; voyage 5, Haiti. Paris: Hachette, with chart, 
1881, 376 pp. 18mo. 

LiSTA, R. — LaTierra del Fuego y sus habitantes. Bol. Inst. Geogr., Argent., ii. No. 6, 
pp. 109-115. 

Lodge, H. C— A short history of the English Colonies in America. New York, 1881, 
560 pp. 8vo. 

Mano, J. Ch. — Ethnologie am6ricaine. L'Exploration, 1881, xi. No. 227, 913-919. 

Marcel, G. — Australian aborigines. (La Nature.) Popular Sc. Month., September. 

Martin, C. — Eiu Eingeborner der Insel Espiritu Santo. Jenaische Ztschr. f. Naturew., 
1881, pp. 66-69. 

Mayhew, Athol. — In Albania with the Ghegs. Scribner's Monthly, Jan. 

Meline, Mary M. — Studies among the North American Indians. Catholic World, 
May. 

Miller, O. D. — On the origin of the Egyptians and the Egyptian civilization. Am. 
Antiquarian, iv, pp. 18-31. 

MuNRO, W. F. — The backwoods of Ontario and the prairies of the Northwest. Lon- 
don, Simpkin, 1881, 128 pp, 8vo. 

Nordenskjold, a. E. — The Voyage of the Vega around Asia and Europe, with an 
Historical Review of Previous Journeys along the north coast of the Old World. 
Loudon: McMillan, 2 vols. (Rev.: Acad., Dec. 24, p. 465; Athen., Dec. 17, p. 
807; Nature, Dec. 22.) 

Petroff, Ivan. — Population and resources of Alaska. A preliminary report for the 
Census Bureau. 46th Cong., 3d session, Ex. Doc. No. 40. 

Pilling, J. C. — The Pueblo Indians. Kansas City Rev., April. 

Pinto, Serpa. — How I crossed Africa from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean, &c. 
Translated from the author's manuscript by Alfred Elves. London: Sampson, 
Low & Co., 1881. .Maps & ill. 2 vols. Rev. in Nature, July 7, 1881. 
How I crossed Africa : from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean, through un- 
known countries; Discovery of the great Zambesi affluents, &c. Phila., J. B. Lip-, 
pincott & Co., 1881. 2 vols. 8vo. 132 ill. & maps. [Acad., May 21, June 11.] 

Poole, D. C— Among the Sioux of Dakota. N. York : D. Van Nostrand. 12mo. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 517 

PuTXAM, FnEDERiCK W.— Tho Southern Californiaus. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. 

W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 1-30. [Mr. Putnam also edits tho vol.] 
Raxkin, M. — Twenty years among tho Mexicans. Cincinnati, 1881. 233 pp. 12mo. 
Rawlixson, George. — The origin of nations, New York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 

1 vol. 8vo. 
Reclus, Elisd. — Tho Zulu Kaffirs. International Rev., June. 
Redhouse, J. W.— A theory of tlie chief human races of Europe and Asia. Tr. Roy. 

Soc. of Literature, Lond., xii, pt. ii. 
RoYCE, C. C. — An inquiry into the identity and history of the Shawnee Indians. Am. 

Antiquarian, iii, pp, 177-189. 
Seely, J. H. — The British Race. Education, March-April. 
Sciiwatka, F. — In the land of the midnight sun. Good Company, June. 
Sharpe, Wm.— Cause of color among races. Boston : G. P. Putnam & Sons. 1 vol. 8vo. 
Sharpe, "W. — Causes of color among races, and the evolution of physical beauty. 

New ed., N. Y., 1831. 16mo. 
Stevenson, Mrs. Tilly. — Znui and the Zunians. No imprint. 
Tii^BAUD, A. J. — Native tribes of North America and the Catholic missions, x. The 

Hurons. Month., Jan. 
Native tribes of North America and the Catholic Missions, xi. Process of 

conversion among the Hurons, etc. Month., July. 
Thompson, G. — Notes on the Pueblos and their inhabitants. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. 

Survey W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 319-326. 
Tylor, E. B. — The races of mankind. Popular Sc. Month., July. 
Vattemore, H. — L'Am^rique Septentrionale, et les Peaus Rouges, explorations, &c. 

Paris: Hachette, 1881. 8vo. 224 pp. 
Verneau, D. R. — The black races of Oceanica. Popular Sc. Month., April. 
ViRCHOW, R. — Eskimos von Labrador. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., 

Berlin, 1880. 1 pi. 
Wallace, Susan E. — In tho land of the Pueblos. The Pimos. Good Company, 

June. 
WiEN — Die Indianer in Argentinien. Verhandl. d. Berliner Anthrop. Gesellsch, 1881, 

p. 169. 
Wright, J. H.— The Indo-Euiopean Family : Its subdivisions. New Englander, July. 

VI.— Glossology, 

Abbadie, Antoine. — Dictionnaire de la langue amarinna, Paris : Vieweg. (Reviewed 
in Academy, Oct. 8, 1881.) 

Adam, L. and V. Henry. — Arte y Vocabulario de la lingua chiquita, sacados de manu- 
scritos ineditos del siglo xviii. Paris : Maisonneuve. 

Adaji, L. — Les classifications de la Linguistique. Rev. de Linguistique, July, 52 pp. 

Adams, F. G. — Phonetic representation of Indian languages. Tr. Kansas Acad. Sc, 
Topeka, 1881. 

Avery, John. — Influence of the Aryans upon the aboriginal speech of India. Am. 
Antiquarian, iii, pp. 236-243. 

Baraga, R. R. Bishop. — A dictionary of the Otchipwe language, explained in Eng- 
lish. Part ii. Ochipwe-English. Montreal : Beauchemin & Valois, 1881. A 
new edition by a missionary of the Oblates. 

Beauchamp, W. M. — Tho Indian prayer book. Church Eclectic, August. 

Brinton, Daniel G. — Notes on tho Codex Troano and Maya Chronology. Am. Na- 
turalist, September, pp. 719-724. 

Cajipbell, John. — The key to the Hittite inscriptions, or their decipherment by 
means of the Mexican and Cypriote written characters. Proc. Soc. Bibl. Archajol., 
Lond., Dec. 

— '^ The Davenport mound-builders' inscriptions read by means of the Hittite 

Syllabary. Tr. Davenport Acad., Iowa, 1881. 



518 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Chakency, M. de. — M61anges sur la langue Basque ; des couleura symboliques con- 

8id^r€es comme symboles des points de I'horizon chez les peuples du Nouveau- 

Monde. Actes d. 1. Soc. Philologique, tome viii. 
COLLUDO, Antonio de Coruna y. — Zoque, the language of Chiapas, translated by J. A 

J. Dacus. Tr. Acad. Sc, St. Louis, iv, i, 6 pp. 
Cr^vaux, J., P. Sagot et L. Adam. — Grammaires et vocabulaires arrouaque, piapoco 

et d'autres langues de la region des Guyanes. Paris : Maisonneuve. 
Eells, M. — The Twaua language of Washington Territory. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 

pp. 296-303. 
FiSKE, John. — What we learn from old Aryan words. Atlantic Month., April. 

The theory of a common origin of all languages. Atlantic Month., Nov. 

Gatschet, Albert S. — Classification into seven linguistic stocks of western Indian 

dialects contained in 40 vocabularies. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Survey W. lOOtb 
Merid., vii, pp. 403-485. With copious notes. 

Legends to illustrate the method of recording Indian languages, let An. 

Eep. Bureau of EthnoL, Smithson. lust., pp. 583-587. 

Linguistic notes ; The Taeansas ; The Campos of Peru; Shoshoni dialects in 

Southern California; Notes on the Iroquois; Names for mounds Malabanchia. 
Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 73-77 ; Wandot, the Paez language. Am. Antiquarian, 
iii, pp. 249-253 ; Shawnee, numeral classifiers in Maya, the Sarakhole, Khasia. 
Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 337-338. 

Phonetics of the Kayome language. Science, Sept. 17. 

Volk und Sprache der Timucua. Ztschr. d. Ethnol., Berlin, xiii, 189-200. 



Hoffman, W. J. — On the interpretation of pictographs by the application of gesture 

signs. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 
HoLDEN, Edward S. — Studies in Central American picture-writing. 1st An. Rep, 

Bureau of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 205-245, figs. 48-60. 

The hieroglpyhs of Central America. Scribner's Month., Dec. 

Lubbock, John. — Observations on ants, bees, and wasps; Power of communicating 

something approaching language. Nature, Jan. 13, 1881. 3 pj). reported in full. 
Languages of India, with map. (Miss. Herald.) Am. Antiquarian, iii, 130. 
Maxlery, Garrick. — Sign language of the North American Indians compared with 

that of other peoples' and deaf mutes. 1st An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., Smithson. 

Inst., pp. 263-552, figs. 61-346. (10.0 copies extracted and reprinted in pamphlet 

form with original pagination.) 

The gesture speech of man. Chairman's address before the subsection of 

Anthropology, American Association, Cincinnati, Ohio, Aug., 1881. Salem, 33 pp. 

McCurdy, James F. — Aryo-Temitic speech: A study in linguistic archaeology. An- 
dover, W. F. Draper. 176 pp. 8vo. 

Relations of the Aryan and Semitic languages. Bibliotheca Sacra, Jan. 31 

pp. 

Powell, J. W. — On the evolution of language, as exhibited in the specialization of 
the grammatic processes, the diflerentiation of the parts of speech, and the inte- 
gration of the sentence, from a study of the Indian languages. Ist An. Rep. Bu- 
reau of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 3-16. 

RiGGS, S. L. — The Dakota language. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 243-244. 

Smith, Mrs. Erminnie A. — Comparative differences in the Iroquois group of dialects. 
Animal myths of the Iroquois. — Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge. London. The Book of Common 
Prayer in Ojibway ; also in Cree Syllables; the Book of Common Prayer. (By the 
Rev. J. Horden.) 

Trumbull, J. Hammond.— Indian names of places, &c., in and on the borders of Con- 
necticut, with interpretation of some of them. Hartford, Brown & Gross. 8vo. 
93 pp. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 519 

VII.— Technology. 

Bricks and their historical interest. Van Nostrand's Engiu. Mag., Jan. 

Burns, E. S. — History of Chronology. No imprint. 

Clarke, C. — The mace and its use. Canadian Month., Aug. 

F. P. T. — Eusayo sobre los slmholos cronogriificos de los Mexicanos. Anales del 
Museo Nacional de Mexico, ii, 323-402. 

Gun and its development, The. Army and Navy Jour., July 30. 

Halbert, H. S. — Muscogee fighting pits. Am. Antiquarian, iv, p. 64. 

Haldeman, S. S. — Beads. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 
263-271, pi. xiii. 

Henderson, John G. — Agricultui-e and agricultural implements of the ancient in- 
habitants of the Mississij^pi Valley. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

Houses of the ancient inhabitants of the Missifsippi Valley; was the ante- 
lope hunted by the Indians on the plains of Illinois T Ilex cassina, the black drink 
of the Southern Indians. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 

M'Gee, W. J. — Inductive metrology. 8 pp. Eeprint from Am. Antiquarian, iii. No. 
3, p. 194. 

Maclagan, General. — The Building Arts of India. Van Nostrand's Eugin. Mag., 
Aug. 

Miller, O. D. — Symbolical geography of the ancients. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 
307-319. 

Morse, E. S. — Review of Audsley and Bowes's Keramic Art of Japan. Publ. by Estes 
& Lauriat. Am. Art Rev. 

Morris, Alexander. — The treaties of Canada with the Indians of Manitoba and the 
northwest Territories, including the negotiations on which they were based, and 
other information relating thereto. Toronto, Belfords, Clarke &, Co., 1880. 1 
vol. 12mo. 375 pp. 

Morgan, Lewis H. — Houses and house life of the American aborigines. Washing- 
ton: Government Printing Office. Vol. iv, Powell's Contributions to North 
American Ethnology. 

Peet, Stephen D. — The military architecture of the emblematic mound-builders. 
Am. Antiquarian. 

Prehistoric architecture, life and manners, a survival of. Builder. April 30. 

Putnam, F. W. — American pottery. (Am. Art. Rev.) Ks. City Rev., March. 

Were ancient copper implements hammered or moulded into shape? Kansas 

City Rev., December. 1 p. 

Pueblo pottery. From the Am. Art Rev., Feb., 1881. 4to. 4 pp., 1 pi. 



Redding, B. B. — California Indians and their food. The Californian, November. 

Tattooing. Scientific News, Oct. 

Thomas, Cyrus. — An attempt to reconcile the differences between authorities with 
reference to the Maya calendar and certain dates; also, to determine the age of 
the manuscript Troauo. Am. Naturalist, October, pp. 767-772. 

TiBBALD, A. T. — Savage architecture. Builder, July 30, August 13. 

Tuck, Edward. — The art of founding in brass, copper, and bronze. Kansas City 
Rev., November, 6 pp.; December, 8 pp. 

Tylor, E. B. — Origin of the plow and wheel carriage. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb. 

Savage architecture. Builder, July 30. 

Sayce. a. H. — Horticulture in the time of Merodach-Baladan. Am. Antiquarian, 
iii, 128. 

Schumacher, Paul. — The method of manufacturing soapstone pots. Wheeler's U. S. 
Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 117-121, figs. 39-41. 

SiMONDS, F. W. — Farm implements in an ancient mine in North Carolina. Am. Nat- 
uralist, Jan., 5 pp. 

Soldi, I^mile. — Les arts m^connus: Les camdos et les pierres grav<5es, I'art an moyen 
&,ge, I'art persan, I'art Khmer, les arts du P6rou et du Mexique, I'art <5gyptien, les 
arts iudustriels, les musses du Trocadero. 1 v. gr. in 8vo. 530 pp., 4U0 gravures. 



520 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

VIII.— Sociology. 

Andrews, W. — Punishment in the olden time. 8vo. London. Athecseum, June 4. 
Avery, John. — Polyandry in India and Thibet. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 48-53. 
Bandelier, a. F.— Historical introduction to studies among the Sedentary Indians 

of New Mexico. 2. Report on the Ruins of Pecos. Papers of the Archfeological 

Institute of America. Boston: A. Williams & Co., 1 vol. 8vo. 135 pp., 11 plates. 
Butler, James D.— A Shakespeare among the Indians early in the history of the 

West. Am. Antiquarian, vol. iii, 101-104. 
Crawford, T. P. — The dynasties of Berosus and of China compared with those of 

Genesis. No date or imprint. 
Dally, E. — Causes of human degeneracy. Bull. Soc. d'Anthrop. de Paris, iv, 339, 

1881. 
DwiGHT, H. 0. — The family life of the Turks. Harper's Mag., March. 6 pp. 
DuGDALE, R. L. — Origin of crime in society. Atlantic Month., Oct., Dec. 
FiSKE, John. — Sociology and hero-worship. An evolutionist's reply to Dr. James. 

Atlantic Month., Jan. 
FisoN, LORIMER, AND A. W. HowiTT. — Kamilaroi and Kurnai. Group-marriage 

and relationship, and marriage by elopement, drawn chiefly from the usage of 

the Atistralian aborigines.- Also the Kumai tribe, their customs in peace and 

war. With an introduction by Lewis H. Morgan, LL.D. Melbourne: Robert- 
son; London: Macmillan. [ReviewedinAcademy and Athenseum, April 9, 1881.] 
Flower, W. H. — Fashion in Deformity, as illustrated in the customs of barbarous 

and civilized nations. Nature Series, Macmillan, No. 26, Humboldt Library. 
FoNTPERTUis, A. DE. — Etudes sur l'Am6rique latine; le Mexique. J. des ficonomistes, 

March. 
Geddes, p. — Economics and statistics, viewed from the standpoint of the preliminary 

sciences. Before section F, Brit. Assoc. Nature, Sept. 29, 1881, in full with tables. 
Hale, Horatio. — A lawgiver of the stone age. Am. Assoc, Cincinnati. 
Harsha, W. J. — The Indian question in the United States. Catholic Presbyterian, 

April. 
Indian question, Our. J. Mil. Service Inst., U. S., ii. 
Indian policy. What shall be our? Army and Navy J., "July 9. 
Letourneau, C. — Sociology based upon ethnography. Translated by H. M. TroUope. 

8vo. Library of Contemp. Science. 
Mitchell, Arthur. — The past in the present: What is civilization? New York: 

Harper & Bros., 1881. 1 vol. 8vo. 362 pp. 
MoRSELLi, Henry. — Suicide: an essay on comparative moral statistics. International 

Science Series, xxxii. London : C. Kegan Paul & Co. Nature, Dec. 29. 
Powell, J. W. — Wyandot Government. A short study of tribal society. 1st An. 

Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 59-69. 
Pierce, M. P. — The Indian problem. Stoddart's Rev., June. 
Peet, S. D. — The tribal condition of the American races a clue to the condition of 

society in prehistoric ages. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 202-217. 
Rawlinson, G. — The prospective civilization of Africa. Princeton Rev., Sept. 
.RiGGS, A. L. — Where shall our Indian brothers go to school? Jour, of Education, 

Sept., Oct. 

Concerning gentes and phratries. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 63-64. 

RoYCE, C. C. — Cessions of land by Indian tribes to the United States; illustrated by 

those in the State of Indiana. Ist An. Rep. Bureau Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 

247-268. Map. 
Savage, M. J. — Natural ethics. North Am. Rev., Sept. 
ScHURZ, C. — Present aspect of the Indian problem. North Am. Rev., July. 
Smith, M. C. — Training the Indians. Methodist Prot. Mag., July, Aug. 
Spencer, H. — Descriptive Sociology, or groups of sociological facts, classified and 

arranged by H. Spencer ; North and South American races, No. 7. N. York, D. 

Appleton & Co. folio. 



id. 


Feb. 


id. 


March. 


id. 


April. 


id. 


June. 


id. 


July. 


id. 


September. 


id. 


October. 


id. 


November. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 521 

The development of political institutions : 

III. Political integration. Pop. Sc. Month., Jan. 

IV. Political differentiation. 
V. Political forms and forces. 

VI. Political heads, chiefs, «fec. 
VII. Compound political heads. 
VIII. Consultative bodies. 
IX. Representative bodies. 
X. The militant type of society. 
Xl. The industrial type of society. 
VOGT, Carl. — Lingering barbarism. Pop. Sc. Month., March. 
Ward, Lester F. — Politico-social functions : A paper read before the Anthrop. Soc. 

of Washington. Reprint from the Penn Monthly, May. 16 pp. 
Wehle, Theodore. — Origin and history of life insurance. Pop. Sc. Month., Aug. 
Yarrow, H. C. — Medical facts relating to the Zuni Indians of New Mexico. Rocky 
Mt. Med. Rev., Colorado Springs, 1880-81, i, pp. 192-194. 

A further contribution to the study of the mortuary customs of the North 

American Indians. 1st An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 87-203. 
Figs. 1-47, in wood and on stone. 

IX. — Daimonology or Pneumatology. 

Argyle, The Duke of. — The unity of nature. Contemp. Rev. : 
V. On the truthfulness of human knowledge, Jan. 
VI. On the moral character of man, considered in the light of the unity of 

nature, Feb. 
VII. On the moral character of man, considered in the light of the unity of 
nature, March. 
VIII. The origin of religion, April. 
IX. The origin of religion, considered in the light of the unity of nature. 

May. 
X. The origin of religion, considered in the light of the unity of nature, 
June. 
Bassett, F. S. — Superstitions and legends of the sea. United Service Mag., May, 

June, July, Novemb%'. 
Beauchamp, W. M. — Indian missions of the colonial period. New York. Church 

Eclectic, July. 
BiGELOW, H. R. — Curiosities of superstition. Maryland Med. J., October. 
Brixton, Daniel G. — The names of the Gods in the Kiche myths. Central America. 

Read before the Am. Phil. Soc, Nov. 4. Printed by McCalla & Stavely, Philad. 
Budhist birth stories. [Rev. in Athen., June 18, 1881.] 
Cox, George W. — Introduction to the study of mythology and folk-lore. N. Y., 

Henry Holt & Co. 369 pp. 12mo. 
Cox, George. — Introduction to mythology and folk-lore. Kegan Paul, French & Co. 

Rev. in Academy, Oct. 22, 1831. 
Development of religion. Westminster Rev., July. 

DoRM^VN, RusHTON M. — The origin of primitive superstitious, and their development 
into the worship of spirits and the doctrine of spiritual agency among the aborig- 
ines of America. Philadelphia and London, J. B. Lippincott & Co. [Rev. in 
Academy, Nov. 5, 1881.] 
Dorsey, J. Owen. — How the rabbit caught the sun in a trap ; to illustrate the method 
of recording Indian languages. 1st An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., 
pp. 581-583. 

The young chief and the thunders; an Omaha myth. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 

pp. 303-313. 



522 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Dyer, T. F. T. — The -will-o-wisp and folk-lore. (Gentleman's Mag.) Popular So. 

Month., May. 
FiSKE, John. — What is mythology? Atlantic Montli., July. 
Folk-Lore.^A short review of the literature of. Athenaeum, July 16, '81. 
Grinnell, Dr. F. — The Sioux sun dance. Cincinnati Lancet, July. 
Hedge, F. H. — The philosophy of fetishism. Unitarian Kev., March. 
Hubbard, A. J. G. — Census of religions. XlXth Century, Jan. 14 pp. 
Hyatt, F. E. — Lunar lore and portraiture. Pop. Sc. Month., Aug. 
Klett, Francis. — The cachina ; a dance at the Pueblo of Zuna. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. 

Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 332-336. 
Legge, James. — The religions of China : Confucianism and Taoism described and 

compared with Christianity. N. York, Charles Scribner's Sons. 12mo. 308 pp. 
Miller, O. D. — Solar symbolisms in the ancient religions, 2. Am. Antiquarian, iii, pp. 

218-227. 
Powell, J. W. — Sketch of the mythology of the North American Indians. 1st An. 

Eep. Bureau Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 19-56. 
EiGGS, S. R. — A dog's revenge, illustrating the method of recording Indian languages. 

Ist An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnol. "Washington, D. C. p. 587. 
Smith, Erminnie C— Myths of the Iroquois. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 31-39. 
W., M. E. — Tree and serpent worship. Western, Jan., Feb. 22 pp. 

X. — Hexiology. 
Buckley, S. B. — Climatic influences on mankind. Peun Month., Jan. 

XI. — Instrumentalities. 

American Association for theAdvancement of Science. See Dall, De Haas, Hale, 

Henderson, Hoffman, Holbrook, Langdon, Mallery, Mason, McAdams, Morse, Peet, 

Smith, Thomas. 
American Naturalist. Devoted to the natural sciences in their widest sense. Monthly, 

[In addition to articles of the highest scientific value, there is a department of 

Anthropology for notes. ] 
American Oriental Society met in Boston, May 18, 1881. 
Annales de d6mographie Internationale. Ed. by Dr. Arthur Chervin, and published 

quarterly by G. Masson, Paris. 
Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to thPSecretary of the Interior 

for the year 1880. Washington : Govt. Printing Office. 
Anthropological Bibliography. Revue d'Anthropologie, Jan., 1882, pp. 187-192. 
Anthropological materials in the Anatomical Museum of the Royal University at 

Berlin. First part by Dr. G. Broesike. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, pt. 3, suppl. 

pp. i-viii, 1-87. 
Anales del Museo Nacional de Mexico. Tomo ii, entrega 4a-6a. 
Antiquary (The). A magazine devoted to the study of the past. London : Elliot 

Stock, 62 Paternoster Row. iii-v. 
Anthropological Society of Washington. Abstracts of Transactions, pub. by the 

society, 1881. 
Arch^OLOGICAL Congress in Tiflis. Vth session of the Russian Archaeological Con- 
gress, September, 1881. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, pt. iv, pp. 520-522. (Nature, 

Oct. 20.) 
Arch^ological Institute of America. 2d Annual Report. Cambridge: John Wil- 
son. 49 pp., pamph. 
Arcileological Institute of America. American series 1. Boston: A. Williams «fc 

Co. See Bandolier. 
Archiv fUr Anthropologie. Zeitschrift fiir Naturgeschichte und Urgeschichte des 

Menschen. Organ der deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und 

Urgeschichte. Braunschweig : Vieweg u. Sohn. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 52.'1 

Archivio per 1' anthropologia e la etnologia. Fireuze. xii, 1880. Ed. Dr. Paolo 
Mantegazza. 

Baird, Spencer F. — Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880. Separate pam- 
phlet giving account of work done in 1880. 

Barber, Edwix A. — Notes in the Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 78-79. 

BoEHMER, George H. — Index to papers on anthropology published by the Smithso- 
nian Institution, 1847-1878. Reprint, 10 pp. Washington. 

Bulletins de la Soci6t6 d'Anthropologie. 3d series commenced in 1878. 1 vol. a 
year, quarterly. 10 francs. G. Masson, Paris. 

Butterfield, C. W. — History of the Discovery of the Northwest in 1634; with a 
sketch of the life of Jean Nicollet, the Discoverer. Cincin. : R. Clarke & Co. 
12mo. 

Baye, J. DE. — Compte rendu du Congrfes international d'anthropologie et d'archdolo- 
gie pr^historique de Lisbonne. Tours. 8vo. 

Catalogue of Anthropological Literature. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, Supplement, pp. 
1-143. (Most excellent, with short reviews of works.) 
I. Archaeology and Prehistory, by J. H. Miiller, 1-32. 
II. Anatomie, by A. Ecker, 32-38. 

III. Ethnography and Travels, &c., by Dr. Frederick Ratzel, 38-122. 

IV. Zoology, by Dr. W. Branco, 123-end. 

Catalogue of American Anthropological Literature. Archiv fiir Anthrop., xiii. Sup- 
plement, literature, pp. 108-114. (Prior to 1881.) 

Cartailhac, E. — Congr^s international d'anthropologie et d'archdologie pr^histo- 
riques. Rapport sur la session de Lisbonne. Toulouse, 1881. 

Chinese Linguistic Study, The Progress of. Triibner's Literary Record, vol. i, Nos. 11 
and 12. 

Clarke, Robert, & Co. — The scientific, literary, social, art, and public educational 
institutions and collections of Cincinnati and vicinity. Cincinnati, 33 pp. [Con- 
tains the names of the largest private collections. ] 

CONGRfes et missions ethnographiques. Second session announced to be held at Ge- 
neva, in April, 1882. American delegates. Prof. John T. Short, of Columbus, O.; 
and Francis Parkman, of Boston, Mass. 

CONGRi;s des Am^ricanistes at Madrid, Sept. 26, 1881. [Rev. in Academy, Oct. 29, 
Nov. 5.] 

CONGRi:s international d'anthropologie et d'arch^ologie pr6historiques. Rapport sur 
la session de Lisbonne, par E. Cartailhac. Toulouse, 1881. 8vo. 

CONGRi:s et missions ethnographiques, to be held in Geneva in 1882. 
The labors of the congress will be divided into seven sections : 

1. Ethnogeny : Origin and migration of races. 

2. Ethnology : Development of nations by environment, etc. 

3. Descriptive Ethnography: Description and classification of peoples. 

4. Theoretic Ethnography : The development of nationalities. 

5. Ethic : Manners and customs of nations. 

6. Political Ethnography : Motives to national existence. 

7. Ethnodicy : Comparative legislation. International law. 
Continental Literature in 1881. Athenajum, Dec, pp. 875-897. 

Deutsche anthropologische Gesellschaft. General meeting at Regensburg, 8-10 Au- 
gust, 1881. Stenographic Report, in Correspondenz Blatt, vol. xli. No. 9, Septem- 
ber, pp. 65-164. 

Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques. Part 1. A. — Am., Paris. 

Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques ; anatomie, craniologie, arch^ologie prd- 
historique, ethnographie, ddmographie, langues, religions. Publi6 sous la direc- 
tion do MM. Bertellon et al. Paris, 1881. 4to. Complete in 24 parts; price per part 
1 fr. 25. 



524 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Evans, Richard Stuart. — Translation from the Spanish of the account by the Pilot 
Ferrel of the voyage of Cabrillo along the west coast of North America in 1542, 
•with introductory notes by H. W. Henshaw. "Wheeler's U. S. Geogr. Survey "W. 
of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 293-314. 

Farr et al. — Report of the anthropometric committee. Rep. Brit. Assoc. London, 
1880. XV, 120-159. 

Fischer, G. J. — Historical and bibliographical notes on Hippocrates. Ann. Anat. & 
Surg., Brooklyn, iii, 235 ; 283. 

Flower, Prof. W. H. — Address before the Department of Anthropology. British Asso- 
ciation. [Reported in Nature, Sept. 8, 1881.] 

Hernandez, Manuel G. — Directions for the members of the fourth meeting of the 
Congress of Americanists, at Madrid, Sept. 18-20, 1881. 

Index Catalogue of the library of the Surgeon-General's Office, U. S. A. ii. Ber- 
leoz-Cholas. Washington: Government Printing Office. 4to. 990 pp. Introduc- 
tion, with abbreviations of titles to medical periodicals, containing the following 
titles useful to anthropologists : Bibliography, Biography, Biology, Blumenbach, 
Brain, Broca, Burial, Cadaver, Camper, Cerebellum, Children. [This is the most 
elaborate feat of classifying titles known to this editor. ] 

Index of gynecological and obstetric literature of all countries for the year 1879. 
Tr. Am. Gynec. Soc, 1880. Boston, 1881. v, 391-470. 

Index Medicus. — A monthly classified record of the current medical literature of the 
world. Compiled under the supervision of Dr. John S. Billings, U. S. A., and Dr. 
Robert Fletcher, M. R. C. S. Eng. iii. N. York: F. Leypoldt. N. York. 

International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and Archaeology. Lisbon, 20-29 
Sept., 1880. Account by Schaaflfhausen. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, Sept., 100-120. 

Jones, John P. — The Spanish Expedition to Missouri in 1719. Kansas City Rev., 
April. 6 pp. 

Incidents of early travel in Missouri, id., May. 4 pp. 

Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, Kansas City, Mo, Edited by Theo. S. 
Case. 

Krceger, a. E. — Kant's "Anthropology." J. Speculative Philos., January (continued). 

Langdon, Frank. — List of private collections in archaeology and ethnology in Cin- 
cinnati and vicinity. Published by R. Clarke Sz, Co. in a pamphlet, describing 
Cincinnati and its environs for the members of the Am. Association. August, 1881. 

Lubbock, John. — Presidential address before the British Association at York. Am. 
J. Science, Oct. 

The Origin of Civilization and the Primitive Condition of Man; Mental and 

Social Condition of Savages. New ed., ill. NewYork: D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. 

Mason, Otis T. —Monthly notes on anthropology in the American Naturalist. 

Progress of anthropology in America during the year 1880. Am. Naturalist, 

August, pp. 616-625. 

MeasoDT) (B. n.) .IniepaTypa pyccKoii reorpa*in, cTaincTHKn n 8THorpa<i>in aa 1878 ro4T>. [The 
Literature of Russian Geography, Statistics, and Ethnography for 1878.] Pub- 
lished in the nsBtcTiH [esvestia] of the Imperial Russian Geographical Society. St. 
Petersburg, 1881. 

Mittheilungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft in "Wien. Fr. Witter von Hauer, 
C. Langer, M. Much. Fr. Miiller, &c. Wien, 1880. ix. 

Peabody Museum, Fourteenth Annual Report of the Trustees of the. iii. No. 1. 
Cambridge, 1881. 42 pp. 8vo. 

Fetermann's Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt. Dr. E. Behm. 
[Publishes with each number valuable lists of anthropological works among the 
geographical literature.] 

Pilling, James C. — Catalogue of linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau 
of Ethnology. 1st An. Rep. Bureau of Ethnol., Smithsonian Inst., pp. 553-577. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 525 

Powell, J. W. — First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, 1879-80. Washington : Government Printing OflSce. 
4to. xxxv-603 pp., 346 figs, in ■wood and on stone. 

On the limitations to the use of some anthropologic data. Ist An. Rep. Bureau 

of Ethnol., Smithson. Inst., pp. 73-86. 

Putnam, F. W. — A course of lectures at the Peahody Museum of Archaeology and Eth- 
nology. Not published. 

Reclus, £Lisi:E. — The Earth and its Inhabitants. Edited by E. G. Ravensteiu, 
Published in 46 jiarts, iive volumes. N. York: D. Appletou & Co. 

QUATKEFAGES, A. DE. — The Human Species. The International Scientific series. New 
York: D. Appletou & Co. ]2mo. 498 pp. 

Revue d'Anthropologie. Ed. Paul Topinard. Quarterly, 25 fraucs. G. Massou,. 
Paris. 

RiTCH, W. G. — Inaugural address as president of the Hist. Soc. of New Mexico. Santa 
F6, N. Mex. 

Semitic literature in 1880. Atheujeum, 1881, Jan. to June, pp. 459, 493, 592. 

Schmidt, Emil. — Mittheilungen aus der anthropologischen Literatur Amerikas. Ar- 
chiv f. Anthrop., xiii, pt. iv, 485. 

Shipp, Barnard. — The history of Hernando de Soto and Florida, &c. Phila., Collins. 
8vo. 

Societies, Museums, and Collections. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, supplement, Cata- 
logue of Literature, pp. 39-40. 

St. :Martin, M. Vivien. — Nouveau dictionnaire de geographic universelle. 16th fas- 
cicule. Paris: Hachette et Cie. 1881. 

Scandinavian Anthropological Literature. Archiv f. Anthrop., xiii, supp., 81-96. By 
Miss Julia Mestorf. 

Thwing, C. F. — The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology. Harper's Mag., 
Oct. 

Transactions of the Wisconsin Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters, v. Madison;, 
Wis. [Covers work for five years, and contains many communications on au- 
thropology. ] 

Tylor, E. B. — Anthropology: An Introduction to the Study of Man and Civilization. 
N. York : D. Appletou & Co. 1 vol., 448 pp., 78 ill., 12mo. 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. — Anthropological notes. Rocky Mt. Med. Rev., June, July. 3 pp. 

Report on the operations of a special party for making ethnological researches 

in the vicinity of Santa Barbara, Cal., with a short historical account of the region 
explored. Wheeler's U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th Merid., vii, pp. 32-47. 

Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic. Organ der Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, &c. 
R. Hartmann, R. Virchow, A. Vosa. xii, 1880. pp. 1-332. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



ABORIGINAL WOEKS AT THE MOUTH OF THE KLIKITAT 
EIVER, WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

By T. M. W«itcomb. 

The works represented in the accomimnyiug sketch consist of a stone 
wall 5 feet high, fiUed inside with earth, except the two squares within. 
These are 8 feet deep and 15 feet on each side, the whole work being about 
200 feet on either side. There was formerly some kind of wooden struct- 
ure on the stone wall, as the remains of cedar timbers occur at certain 
points on the top. The wooden work was evidently destroyed by fire, 
since all the cedar is charred. 




None of the Indians in this country have any knowledge of the build- 
ers or of its use. There is a tradition among them that it was finished 
a long time ago. Large quantities of arrow-heads are found in and 
about the works. The place is eminently adapted for defense, being 
100 feet above the river. The scarcity of aboriginal works of aperma- 
nent character on the Pacific coast makes this an object of peculiar 
interest to the archaeologist. 



528 MISCELLANEOUS PAP^KS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MOUNDS NEAR EDWAEDSVILLE, WYANDOTTE COUNTY,, 

KANSAS. 

By E. F. Serviss, of Wijandotte City, Kansas. 

On the farm of William Kouns, on the Kansas Pacific Eailroad, near 
Edwardsville, Wyandotte County, Kansas, 14 miles west of this citVy 
there are four mounds that have never been explored. They are situ- 
ated on the third terrace of the valley of the Kansas Eiver, about one- 
half mile from it, near a small creek. There is a very large spring about 
200 yards northeast, and a smaller one about 300 yards northwest. On 
approaching the mounds from the east we find them extending in a- 
straight line in a due westerly direction. They are about C feet in 
height, 25 feet in diameter, about 50 feet from each other at the base^ 
and of uniform size. They have been somewhat injured by cultivation, 
the ground having been plowed twice. The soil is a black loam-. Be- 
fore the clearing of the land the mounds were covered with a heavy 
growth of timber, principally oak, and the stumps now remaining would 
indicate great age, averaging from 3 to 4 feet in diameter. A large 
number of axes, celts, arrow-heads, and other implements have been 
found in the immediate vicinity of the mounds. 

About two years ago I discovered on the farm of J. L. Stockton, 1 
mile northwest of this city, remains of an aboriginal workshop or village. 
It is located on a small stream, called Jersey Creek, and near a large 
spring. It covers an area of about 2 acres. The soil is sandy, and to 
the depth of 2 feet is a complete mixture of flakes of flint, ashes, bones 
(both animal and human), fragments of ornamented pottery, broken aud 
unfinished stone implements of nearly every description. The fragments 
of pottery are the most numerous ; there are three kinds as to color; viz, 
black, brown, and red, composed of a mixture of clay, sand, and pounded 
shells. The variety of the combinations of lines and dots is inexhausti- 
ble. I have never found two pieces alike. 

Judging from the degrees of curvature of the fragments, the original 
vessels were mostly globular, and would hold from one-half pint to one 
quart. I found a very small vessel, containing powdered bone or hme^ 
it was globular in shape, would hold about one gill, and was profusely 
ornamented. There are no deposits of flint and other stone valuable 
for arrow-making, &c., in this vicinity. The axes, celts, skin-dressers, 
and balls are all made of porphyry, and the arrow-heads of flint. 



ANTIQUITIES OF MILLS COUNTY, IOWA. 

By Seth Dean, of Glenwood, Iowa. 

Mills County is located on the extreme western boundary of Iowa, and 
is the second county from the southern boundary. Immediately prior 
to its settlement by the whites it was the home of the Pottawatomie 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 529 

Indians, numerons traces of whom may still be seen, but the two places 
to which this article refers seem to have an earlier date. The sketch 
marked No. 1 is a point in the southeast corner of the southwest quar- 
ter section 8, township 73 north, range 43 west of the fifth principal 
meridian, and on the lands now owned and cultivated by Mr. O. E. 
Allis. Topographically considered it is located on a spur of the bluffs 



'^^^ 



<«^' 






m 






^\W» 



^(. 



|>\iii.i' 









^-t. 









s^% 



^1 ^ 









i/i'-Zm 







.spring. 



Sketch No 1. 

which form the eastern boundary of the great Missouri flood plain, and 
is perhaps 50 feet above the level of the plain. The remains at present 
consist of a number of circular depressions on the southwestern slope, 
but near the summit of the aforesaid point of bluff". To the south 
about 400 feet there is at present a deep ravine, from which flows an 
excellent spring of water, while east and north the range of bluff's rise 
to a height of 250 feet above the plain. The depressions are from 20 to 
30 feet in diameter, of circular form, and at present are from 1 J to 2 feet 
deep, but as the ground has been in cultivation for a number of years, 
it is probable that they have been filled up considerably. 

The ground on the site and for some distance around these hollows 

is strewn with small chips of stone and fragments of pottery, together 

with occasional tools of various kinds, such as arrow-heads, knives, «&c. 

Also a number of pieces of dififerent-cotored paints and occasional oma- 

S. Mis. 109 34 



530 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



ments have been found. The inhabitants seem to hav^ understood the 
manufacture of pottery to some extent, as numerous fragments show. 
The clay for this they obtained in the bank near at hand. This was 
probably mixed with the lime of powdered clam-shells, and then molded 






W0Ah\^^- 



~^^^ 



t^"^ 






'■""'/Mm,' 











W'"(1HW\V» 






\^ 



-'^y^ 



W^ 



.cSIl 



J^v.*'" 



>&> 



jt»\yy/ 



^ 






Sketch No. 2. 
into shape, and probably the larger vessels were suiiported by wicker- 
work made from small twigs, as there are numerous specimens which 
seem to show such an arrangement, although no perfect vessels have 
been found here, nor is it certain whether the vessels were baked in the 
fire or not. 

The writer thinks the inhabitants lived mostly upon the products 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 531 

from the water, as tlie shells of the fresh-water clam are numerous, aud 
Avere obtained from the Missouri Eiver, which at that time i)robably 
Howed along the foot of the blufl", at their very door. 

The stone for their implements seems to have been obtained in part 
from some ledges near here, and perhaps some of it from a distance, as 
the finer and more perfect of their tools were made from a kind not found 
here, except in the form of pebbles or drift bowlders, all the native 
stone being a carboniferous limestone, with the exception of a very 
coarse flint which is met with in some localities, and which was used for 
the larger tools, but which apparently was not suitable for smaller im- 
plements. Chalcedony seems to have been used by them to some extent, 
as were other kinds of stone of which the writer does not know the 
name. Some of these tools show superior skill, and have been appar- 
ently first chipped into shape and then ground to a perfectly smooth 
surface. This is the case with some hatchets which have been found, 
also of a globular stone which the writer has in his collection, and which 
was probably used as a sling shot or for a similar purpose. 

Sketch No. 2 shows the location of a peculiar mound, which is situated 
on the summit of one of the highest of the range of bluffs which borders 
the Missouri Eiver flood plain. It is near the northwest corner of the 
northwest quarter of the southeast quarter section 10, township 72 
north, range 43 west of the fifth i)rincipal meridian, aud is about 5 J miles 
south and 2 miles east from No. 1. 

This bluff is nearly 300 feet above the lowlands, and overlooks the 
country for many miles in every direction. The mound in question was 
formed of the soil adjacent, and is at the present time about 8 feet in 
height above the original surface. The base of the mound is elliptical 
in form, being about 70 feet north and south, aud 40 feet east and west. 
The earth from which this mound was made was apparently taken 
from a place 125 feet south, where a large depression exists, about 
35 feet square, and at present 5 feet deep. There is the stump of 
a burr-oak tree IG inches in diameter standing near the northwest cor- 
ner of the pit, on the edge of the slope of the bank ; also another burr- 
oak stump 14 inches in diameter near the southeast corner, which is also 
on the bank, but at the edge of the excavation. This mound was par- 
tially opened some twenty-five years ago, but without yielding anything 
of consequence. My note-book shows the foUowitig entry: "Opened 
mound with S. B. Proudfit, November 25, 1879, and dug a hole G feet 
long and 4 feet wide. At 7 feet from the surface came to a layer of 
ashes about one-half an inch thick, and below this a layer of stones. 
These stones were from 2 to 11 inches thick and would probably weigh 
from 20 to 30 pounds. They were evidently placed on what was the 
original surface of the ground, and the ashes and earth placed above 
them. The stones were probably brought from the Nebraska 'side of 
the Missouri Eiver. About 4 miles directly west the characteristic 
fossils in the stones indicate this. There did not seem to have been any 



532 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

action of fire on the stones, so far as we could discover, neither were 
there any bones or implements found in the mound, although we dug 
down 3 feet below the layer of stone. There were a few chips of flint 
found on the ground around the base of the mound, and a large stone 
implement which the writer thinks may have been used for a hoe, but 
belonged to a later tribe than the one which built the mound." (See 
Fig. 1.) Two cemeteries are also found in the county, but no examina- 
tion has as vet been made. 



DESCEIPTION OF MOUNDS AT SNAKE DEN, NEAK SALEM, 
HENEY COUNTY, IOWA. 

By \V. V. Banta and John Garbetson, of Salem, Iowa. 

There are many unexplored mounds in Henry County, Iowa. The 
group examined and here described are 3 miles west of Salem, in sec- 
tion 22, on land owned by Mr. Joel Jones, at a place known as the Snake 
Den. 

1. The first one in the group is 8 feet high, and 20 feet in diameter. It 
was opened by the authors, but nothing of value was discovered within. 
A burr-oak 26 inches in diameter was growing on the summit. The land 
slopes gradually westward to Little Cedar Creek. 

2. Sixty feet from No. 1 occurs a burial mound nearly level with the 
surrounding surface and 20 feet across. It is covered with flat rocks. 
(A large quantity of bones of all sizes were encountered, but none of them 
were whole, and some appear to have been burned.) 

3. No. 3 is 60 feet from No. 2. It is 3 feet high. It was not very 
thoroughly opened. In it was found one body, lying at length, between 
flag-stones, the head toward the north. The bones were badly decayed. 

4. This mound is the usual distance from the last mentioned.* Indeed, 
to avoid repetition, it is a remarkable fact that each of the mounds in 
this row is just 60 feet from the preceding. This mound was 3 feet 
high and 20 feet in diameter. It was but partially opened, and three 
skeletons were found, badly decayed, lying at length, the heads to the 
north. 

5. The fifth mound in the series is 5 feet high and 20 feet in diameter. 
The top was covered with smooth, flat rocks, arranged in the shape of an 
elongated hexagon or coffin lid, with stones set edgewise around the 
border. Five feet beneath the top, that is, on a level with the natural 
surface, two bodies were lying at full length, the heads toward the north. 

6. The sixth mound was not opened. It is 30 feet in diameter and 5 
feet high. 

7. The next in order, No. 7, is also 5 feet high and 20 feet in diameter. 
It was only partially explored, revealing a few human bones. On the 
top there are two trees growing, one of them 2 feet in diameter. 

8. No. 8 is 5 feet high and 30 feet in diameter. It had been opened 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 53.T 

previously to the visit of tbe autliors. It is said to have contained a 
stone vault, in which were discovered human crania, &c. These were 
very badly decayed. A sandstone mortar and arrow-points were also 
found. The burial seems to have been in a sitting posture. 

9. The first eight mounds are in a right line, but No. 9 is GO feet east 
of No. 8. It was 5 feet high, and yielded nothing upon exploration. 



MOUNDS IN RALLS COUNTY, MISSOURL 

By George L. Hardy and Fred. B. Scheetz, of Monroe, Mo. 

The only ancient remains in Ealls County, so far as known to the 
writers, are what are commonly called mounds. They are located on 
Salt River, a western tributary of the Mississippi, passing through 
townships 55 and 50, in ranges 5, 0, and 7 west of the fifth prime me- 
ridian. 

The mounds are invariably found AA'ithin less than a mile of a stream 
affording a permanent water supply. They are always in the bottoms 
or on the crests of bluffs and ridges, bordered either by the streams or 
the bottom lands, mostly by the latter. 

It is impossible to state what changes have taken place in the course 
of the streams since the erection of the mounds, but doubtless in 
some places they have been very great. The growth of timber is uni- 
versally the same on the mounds and in the surrounding forests. 

Occasionally a single one is found, but they are almost invariably in 
groups, numbering from 3 to 10, and sometimes more. Commonly they 
follow the crest of the ridge, but when they occur in the bottoms or on 
a level bluff they are found in direct lines or in gentle curves, extend- 
ing generally east and west. They exist in large numbers in almost 
every bottom and on nearly every bluff, on both sides of the river, 
throughout the entire county, as well as on its branches near the main 
stream. 

The mounds are usually circular in ground j^lan, and rise above the 
present level from 2 to 12 feet. They are composed either wholly of 
earth, wholly of stone, or of the two combined. Wliere stone was used 
at all, the plan seems to have been first to pave the natural surfiice 
with flat stones in one or two thicknesses for a foundation. In one 
case the stones were thrown together indiscriminately. Peculiar con- 
structions will be more fully noted in the descriptions given below of 
mounds examined by the i)resent writers. 

The stones were procured from the beds of the neighboring streams 
or from beneath the bluffs. Rarely can it be determined whence the 
earth was taken, there being only one example where there was any 
indication of the removal of the earth in the vicinity. 



534 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Human remains are almost invariably met with, only one exception 
being noted. The boues are generally verj^ much decayed, though each 
bone is found almost entire, except those of the head. This seems to 
have always rested on a stone, and to have been covered by one or 
more, so that it is always found in a crushed condition. In stature 
the skeletons indicate a variation from 5 to G feet. No jaw-bone or 
even a fragment of one has been found from which the teeth were 
missing, and of the scores of teeth recovered there has been but one 
decayed, a wisdom tooth still in place. The teeth invariably indicate 
mature or advanced age. The human reuiains found in mounds con- 
structed wholly of stoue are generally much more decayed than those 
in mounds of mixed material. In rare instances stone implements, 
pipes, &c., are taken from the excavations, but these are more frequently 
picked up on the surface at no great distance from the remains. 

So far as known, no accounts have been published concerning these 
mounds, nor have any systematic examinations been made. 

As the stones used in their construction were of a kind useful to the 
early settlers in w^alling up their wells, laying foundations, building 
chimneys, &c., nearly all such material has been removed, so that it 
is rare to And a mound that has not been disturbed to some extent. 

Since all the bottom lands are now in cultivation, those in such loca- 
tions have been i)lowed dov.-n for many years. But where they are 
tolerably large and built principally of stone, as is generally the case, 
they are still well defined. Those that are situated on timber lands 
have the same growth of trees upon them as in the surrounding forests, 
if they are composed wholly of earth. In some cases white-oaks 2 feet 
in diameter or more are found on the very summit as well as on the 
slopes. 

In the southeast quarter section 6, township 55, range 5, owned by 
Mr. J. Brashear, on the right bank of Salt Iliver, is a row of mounds 
on the top of the bluff, which rises precipitously and then slopes back 
to the interior. There are twelve of them, the three southern ones be- 
ing in a cultivated field, the others in the native woods. They vary 
in distance from 20 to 70 yards and in size from 20 to 50 feet in diam- 
eter, and in height from 2 to 5 or 6 feet. Except the south one they 
are of mixed material. That was wholly of stone, which was mainly 
removed by Mr. Brashear some forty years ago, when he commenced 
his improvements. He found in it a single human skeleton of large 
size. The fourth from the south was examined by us a few weeks ago 
by digging a ditch about 3 feet wide through its center. It is 58 feet 
in base diameter, and at the center 5i feet above the general surface, 
having several white oaks growing upon it as large as any in the 
w^oods. The base was of flat limestone, thrown together without or- 
der; above this a layer of earth, another of stone, and so on to the 
top. No relics were found except a small fragment of pottery, a por- 
tion of a globular-shaped vessel, the inside of which was coated with a 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 535 

j^reasy soot, which smutted one's hand like lamp smol^e. This was 
found about 3 feet below the surface. Many such fragments have been, 
and some can still be, found on the field before spoken of. There was 
no indication of any decayed substance anywhere to be detected, nor of 
any action of fire, except on some of the limestones, which had evi- 
dently occurred beibre they were placed in the mound. The earth in 
this mound appears to have been taken from a portion of the field about 
IGO yards distant. 

Southeast of the house of Mr. Eobert M. Spalding,. in the southeast 
quarter section 30, township 5G, range 6, about 1 mile from the left bank 
of the river is a row of mounds, the western one of which was composed 
of stone of a peculiar color, only found in the vicinity on the right bank 
of the river at the distance of nearly 1 mile. 

On the southeast quarter section 35, township 56, range 6, we opened 
a mound, one of several on the top of the ridge. (Jn the south side of 
it the bed stone had been formed into a shallow trough. On removing 
the flat stones which covered this, and which showed no action of* fire, 
we found a bed of charcoal several inches thick, both animal and vege- 
table, and the limestone which composed it was burned completely 
through. Some fragments of a human femur were found in a calcined 
state. There was no indication of fire elsewhere in the mound, but there 
were the partial remains of several skeletons, lying in two layers, with 
stone and earth between them. The implements marked with Mr. Spald- 
ing's initials were found in his vicinity, and are sent by him. 

On the west half of the southwest quarter section 4, township 55, range 
G west, owned by Mr. Utterback, a row of mounds, four in number, is found, 
commencing on the brow of the bluff and extending back in nearly a 
westerly direction, in a slight curve for about 250 yards, at irregular dis- 
tances. The eastern one is mnch the largest. The others are all in a 
field which has been cultivated for thirty years. One was examined and 
opened. Fragments of human bones were found on the surface, thrown 
up by the plow. On the north and south sides single skeletons were 
found, laid at length east and west, and between the two a confused mass 
of bones, as though a number of bodies had been thrown together indis- 
criminately. The diameter of this mound was about 30 feet, its height 
about 2i feet above the general surface. It was composed of earth and 
stones. 

On the nortlieast corner of section 8, township 55, range G west, 
owned now by W. Keithley, a mound was opened by one of the present 
writers (G. L. 11.) in 1S53. It was on the brow of the bluff, about 50 feet 
in base diameter, and at the center 5 to G feet high, and made wholly of 
stone; near the n)iddle lay a single skeleton, indicating a i>erson feet 
4 inches in height. It was extended at full length, vrith head to the 
west^ A dry wall was laid up around the remains 1 J feet high, and this 
covered with large flat stone, on which the remainder were thrown in- 
discriminately. 



536 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Near the Dortliwest corner of section 18, township 55, range 6 west, 
is an isolated conical bill, called the "Eound Knob." Its crest is a nar- 
row ridge about 150 yards long, on which are four mounds. The north- 
ern one was much the largest, and forty years ago portions of a dry 
wall still were standing, 4 to 5 feet in height. Human remains were 
found in all these mounds. 

In section 24, northeast quarter, township 55, range 7, and on the oppo- 
site side (the left) of the river, is a similar but smaller hill, called "Wil- 
son's Knob." Its crest is about 120 feet long, completely covered with 
stone to the depth of several feet, the pile being about 20 feet wide. On 
examination, made recently, it was found to have been originally a row of 
burial-places, nine in number, circular in form, each from 8 to 9 feet in 
diameter (inner measure), contiguous to each other. The remains of the 
walls still stand to the height of about 20 inches. Judging from ajjpear- 
ances, it would seem that each had been of a conical or dome-like form. 
They were composed wholly of stone, and the remains found in them 
were almost wholly decomposed. 

On the top of an opposite ridge to the west is another row, four in 
number, similar to those just described, except that the cists are square 
instead of circular, the sides being equal to the diameter of the former. 
In these also only small fragments of bones could be found. These 
last have been examined within a few days. 

On the left bank of the river, about 1 mile below the "Eound Knob" 
above referred to, are what are known as ''The Painted Rocks," a num- 
ber of rough representations of the human figure, about 20 inches in 
height. They are drawn on the face of the bluff, which overhangs so 
as to afford almost complete protection from the weather. This bluff 
rises 180 to 200 feet above the bed of the stream, and these drawings 
are 60 or 70 feet below the top. At the foot of the bluff are large masses 
of fallen rock and earth, filling up between the river and the blufl^", and 
rising within 30 feet of the drawings. The central human figure is 
somewhat larger than the others, who are represented as approaching 
Mm in Indian file. 

A single mound was found on the northwest corner of the southwest 
quarter section 12, township 55, range 7, on the point of a secondary 
ridge, near a small northern tributary of Salt River. It contained two 
skeletons, one with the head east, the other west. Beneath one of these 
a trench had been dug and filled up with stone, on which flat stone had 
been laid, and on which last the body had been placed. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 537 



MOUNDS IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF PIKE COUNTY, MIS- 
♦ SOURI. 

By Joseph C. Watkins, of Ashley, Mo. 

There are mounds in this section known as " Indian graves." The time 
of their construction antedates the settlement of this section by the 
whites. Some of the oldest citizens suppose that the mounds were the 
burial places of the Sacs aud Foxes, but they say the mounds appeared 
as old when they first came here, sixty years ago, as they do now. I have 
found no one who ever saw or heard of the construction of one of these 
mounds. There are no other indications of a former occupation of this 
region by the aborigines that I have ever seen. The mounds visited 
by me are located in the southern part of Pike County, Missouri, as 
follows : 

One mound on the laud of L. M. Wells, southwest corner of the north- 
west quarter section 34, township 52, range 3 west, about 1^ miles south- 
west of Ashley ; one on what is known as the "House Land," about the 
center of the southwest quarter section 28, township 52, range 3 west, 
about 2 miles west-southwest of Ashley ; one on the laud of James Far- 
quar, northwest corner of the northeast quarter of the northwest quar- 
ter section 10, township 51, range 3 west; three on the land of E. G. 
Collins, near the southwest corner of section IG, and about 1 mile south- 
east of New Hartford; two on the land of Benjamin Young, northwest 
corner of the northwest quarter section 24, township 51, range 3 west; 
three on the land of John Motley, near the southeast corner of section 
24, township 51, range 3 west, and near the junction of the creeks North 
Cuivre and Indian, and nearest the post-office of Louisville, Lincoln 
County, Missouri ; two on the Coperhaver farm (now occupied by Nunc 
Estis), about 2^ miles south of Louisville, Lincoln County, Missouri. 

All the mounds in question are situated on high points of land, form- 
ing bluffs to the creeks Cuivre and Indian. At the foot of the blufls 
are good springs. Back from the blufls the surface is undulating and 
tillable. 

Three of the mounds are isolated, six in groups of threes, and four in 
groups of twos. All the mounds are circular. They are composed of 
soil aud rock, some with the dirt and rock alternating, some of clay, 
with vaults of rock in the center. In the center of some there are rect- 
angular vaults containing remains and soil. The material was i)robably 
obtained nearby — the rock from the ravines aud the soil from the banks 
of the same. Eight of the mounds have been partially exi)lored — all of 
the Collins group, both of the Benjamin Young group, and Nos. 1 and 
2 of the Motley group; also one of the isolated mounds on L. M. Wells' 
land. 

In No. 1 of the Collins group the remains of two skeletons were found, 
with some fragments of pottery. In No. 2 of same, in a rectangular 



538 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

vault, 4 by 5 feet, were found the remains of eight skeletons, with a few 
pieces of pottery. In ISTo. 3 of same, a vault made of flat rocks, in the 
shape of a coffin, containing a few ijieces of cranial bones, fery much 
decayed. In No. 2 of the Young group nothing was found. In No. 1 
of same, a large vault, the dimensions of which we did not have time 
to determine, contained human remains, much decayed, among which 
were found tliree flint arrow-heads, a small vessel molded of clay and 
burnt, and a pipe carved out of steatite, having upon its front a figure- 
head. In No. 1 of the Motley grouji bones were found, and among them 
a piece of pottery which shows some attempt at ornamentation, and a 
peculiar rock, oblate-ellipsoidal in form, with depressions (central) on its 
opposite sides. Around these depressions are 36 marks, arranged in 
groups of threes. All seem to have been diminished in altitude by con- 
tinued exposure to the elements. 

Trees were growing upon all the mounds, but some of them have been 
cleared. On the apex of No. 1 of the Motley group an oak tree had 
grown 22 inches in diameter, but was blown down, and now lies in the 
last stages of decay. Large oak and hickory trees have grown upon 
the other mounds. 



ANCIENT EOCK INSCRIPTIONS IN JOHNSON COUNTY, 

ARKANSAS. 

By Edward Green, of Clarksville, Ark. 

Five miles north of Clarksville, Johnson County, Arkansas, in section 
7, township 10 north, range 23 west, is situated a cavern, or rock house, 
as it is commonly called, rather remarkable for its shape and the inscrip- 
tions on its walls. This cavern is in the southern side of a solid mass 
of sandstone that crops out on the crest of a hill, which rises some 200 
feet above a small stream that flows by its southern base. 

The cavern presents the appearance of having been worn out by the 
action of running water in some remote geological period, and in shape 
a])proximates a quarter section of a sphere. It is about 50 feet wide, 
25 feet deep, extending into the rock, and about 10 feet high. 

A partition, or rather two pillars of rock, descending from the dome 
or roof to the floor, divides the cavern into two chambers, of which the 
western, or left-hand one as you enter, is three or four times as large as 
the other. This partition divides the entrance into two semicircular 
apertures, which, together with the high, bold, and retreating mass of 
rock above, give it the appearance of an enormous skull buried to the 
orbits in the earth. This, together with a peculiar resonance produced 
whenever the floor is forcibly struck, must have caused this place to be 
held in reverence and awe by the superstitious aborigines. The cavern 
is somewhat difficult of access, and could have been easily defended in 
time of war. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 539 

Ou the walls of the larger chamber curious characters have been cut 
into the roclc to a depth var\ing- from one-i'ourth to oiio-lialf inch, by 
some blunt instrument in the hands of an unskilllnl sculptor. 

Upon my last visit to this interesting spot, with the assistance of Mr. 
C. E. Eobmson, of Clarksville, Ark., 1 succeeded in tracing these char- 
acters on paper, which I afterward reduced to one-sixth the size of the 
originals, by means of the camera lucida, thus preserving their true 
outlines and proportions -, a traced copy of which accompanies this ar- 
ticle. 



O. 



/ 



Q 



Q Q 



Q 





Fig. 1 represents hemispherical depressions or holes in the floor of 
the cavern, near the left entrance and a few inches from the wall. They 
are arranged in an arc-shaped row, with concave side to the wall. 

Fig. 2 and the first character in Fig. 3, which occur al)Ove Fig. 1, on 
the wall, are incised circles, each 7 inches in diameter, and have each 
a single ray pointing downward and to the right. The other character 
of Fig. 3 consists of two concentric circles, the outer one measiu'ing 5^ 
inches in diameter, and the inner one 3 inches. 






Figs. 4, 5, and G occur to the right and at about the same height as 
Fig. 3. Fig. 4 measures from top to bottom 11^ inches ; Fig. 5, 7 inches, 
and Fig. 6, 23 inches. 

8 





Fig. 7 is a double character. The one on the left may represent the 
antler of a stag, the other a bow. The whole figure from left to right 
measures 23i inches. 

Fig. 8 is a rayed character with a circular body chiseled out to t])0 
depth of the rays, viz, one-fourth inch. The body of this figure is 4^ 



540 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



inches in diameter, and the length of its rays about 2^ inches. One of 
the rays connects with a similar but smaller figure. 

Fig 9 is also a double figure ; the first character is like Fig. 8, but 
larger and has one ray less. The body of this figure measures 7^ inches 



& 





in diameter, and the length of the rays from 2 to 3 inches. The second 
character represents some reptile, as the tortoise, and measures from 
head to tip of tail 13 inches. The bodies of these figures, like Fig. S, 
are cut to the depth of one-fourth to one-half inch. 

Fig. 10 is another double object and might have been intended by the 
unskillful sculptor to represent a lizard with its prey or young. The 
smaller figure is reversed. The larger figure, from head to tip of tail, 
measures 15 inches; the smaller one, 7 inches. 

To the right of the characters represented in Fig. 10 are two charac- 









13 



<o 



ters. Figs. 11 and 12, w^hich are somewhat confused, and were difBcult 
to trace, as they are surrounded by a multitude of indistinct lines and 
cuts. The sculptor had perhaps spoiled his figure and tried to obliter- 
ate it. 

Fig. 13 are small irregular depressions in the wall of the cavern, to 
the right of the character represented by Fig. 14. 






Fig. 14 is another reptile, with a peculiar swell on the neck and an 
elongated head. The length of this figure, from head to tip of tail, is 
19J inches. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 541 

Figs. 15 and 10 occur still further to the right, and appear to be of a 
more recent period, and cut with a better instrument or by a more 
skillful sculptor. 

In the rock lloor of the smaller chamber is a ronnd hole 10 inches in 
depth and 7i inches in diameter at the top, and about 4 inches at the 
bottom ; probably used for a mortar by the ancient cave-dwellers. 

On the roof or dome there are several figures, as represented by Fig. 
17, that have been painted on the surface of the rock and are now faded 
to a i^ale gray. 

I found no spiral figures of any kind here, which occur so frequently 
among inscriptions of this character in other localities. 

No stone implements of any kind, except a few broken pieces of arrow- 
heads, have been found in the vicinity of this cavern. 

The sculptured characters here described are undoubtedly of ancient 
origin, and the only ones that have been discovered in Johnson Count}'. 
However, I have been informed that similar inscriptions occur in New- 
ton and Carroll Counties, of this State. 



MOUNDS AND OTHER EEMAINS IN INDEPENDENCE COUN- 
TY, ARKANSAS. 

By a. Jones, M. D., of Caddo Gap, Ark. 

In the fork of White and Beach Rivers, Independence County, Arkan- 
sas, is a collection of mounds 2 or 3 miles each way in extent. They 
are 4 or 5 feet high, and laid out in rows in a semicircular form, about 
C miles above Jackson. 

There is another group south of Suspension Rock, half a mile south, 
laid out in the same w^ay. 

On section 17, township 5 south, range 21 west, are two mounds 7 
or 8 feet high, sunken at the top. Near by are depressions whence the 
earth for the mounds was taken. These have never been explored. 
They are on a piece of upland that has been cultivated and each had 
large trees growing on the summit. They stand about 2 miles from the 
Cadcjo River. There are two shell-beds near by, constructed of the com- 
mon mussel, in which the coarse clay and shell pottery is found. 

Four miles north of Amity, section 17, township 5 south, range 23 
west, are several shell-heaps on a high and second bottom of the Caddo, 
entirely above overflow. 

Another mound is in the Caddo Cove, 2 miles west of Black Springs, 
on the old Major Farr place, now owned by Dr. Gray. It is 5 feet high 
and has been explored. A depression 80 yards distant is the only spot 
in the vicinity whence the material of the tumulus could have been 
derived. 

There are several shell-heaps on a high table-land bordering on tho 



542 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Washita, in this county, 4 miles sontbwest of Cedar Glades, on the land 
of Robert Hansley. Fragments of pottery occur about the heaps. 
The beds are 40 teet above high water, indicating that the shells must 
have been carried to the spot. 

On the south fork of Washita, section 24, township 2 south, range 26 
west, near Mount Ida and at the upper ford of the creek, human remains, 
partly washed out, were discovered. The bodies were buried in a recum- 
bent posture, the head to the west. The bones were too friable for pre- 
servation, the teeth alone remain firm. Forty years ago the ground was 
covered with a dense growth of cane. The bottom is a high one and 
above overiiow. Many human remains have been plowed up in the 
vicinity. The cemetery must be about 200 to 300 yards long, and 75 
yards wide. Near by, running east and west, are severals small mounds, 
in the largest of which a former owner, Mr. Powell, was buried. 

Three miles east of this point, in a bottom-land owned by Eeuben 
McKenney, were plowed up the remains of a very large man. Pottery 
has also been found in the same vicinity. 

On section 9, township 4 south, range 24 west, is an outcrop of nova- 
culite or flint of a very tough quality and of various colors. From 
this material large quantities of arrow-heads, &c., have been formed. 
The ancient artisans went down on the south side of the outcrop, which 
is a ledge 700 or 800 feet above the adjacent valley, and carried away 
immense quantities. The material is the same as that of arrow-heads 
from Tennessee, Mississippi, and westward. 

There is on Capt. R. S. Burk's farm, section 17, township 5 south, 
range 23 west, evidence of an extensive workshop in arrow-heads and 
cutting implements. The arrow material was taken from the quarry 
above described, although ten miles away. The cutting instruments 
were of the hatchet kind and made from a species of iron ore. There is 
another atelier near my home, section 7, township 4 south, range 24 
west, Montgomery County, Arkansas. 



MOUNDS NEAR THE NATIONAL HOME, MILWAUKEE 
COUNTY, WISCONSIN. 

By George W. Barber, of the Xational Home, Wisconsin. 

The mounds described in this paper are on land owned by Joseph 
Carey, nearly opposite the Dewy place (adjoining John R. Goodrich's 
farm), now occupied by E. P. Bacon. They are about one mile west of 
Milwaukee City limits, on the south side of National Home avenue, 
and on the west side of the Trowbridge road. The two that have 
been removed were upon land owned by William Trowbridge, lying 
south of and adjoining Carey's land. Two are in Wauwatosa town- 
ship, two in Greenfield, and all are in Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. 
They are situated upon a swell of land from 20 to 100 rods distant 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 543 

from what was once a shallow pond or lake. Tlic land occupied by the 
lake has been i)artially drained within a few years, and is now a 
meadow. The surface around the mounds is covered with soil from 12 
to 18 inches deep, and might have been used for cultivation. William 
S. Trowbiidge and other old settlers have said that there are, or were 
a few years ago, hillocks or marks of Indian cornfields in this vicinity, 
and that they have seen Indian corn growing, i^lanted by the Indians. 
The land to the west has been partially drained. There is no api)arent 
arrangement of the materials. The center of the mound is not difler- 
ent from other parts. The material was probably obtained around the 
mound, as the soil is deeper under it than at its sides. All have been 
explored. I have taken bones from two of them, and have been told 
that pottery and bones were found in the other two. I have one good 
skull from No. 2, and leg bones, vertebrae, ribs, &c., from No. 1. No 
account of these mounds has ever been published, to my knowledge. 
Nos. 3 and 4 have been entirely- obliterated for purposes of cultivation. 
No. 2 has been dug into. No. 1 is fast being undermined to obtain 
gravel for the streets of Milwaukee. For two years past 1 have 
watched with sad interest the destruction of this grand old monument 
of a decayed race, and secured the bones as they were exposed. It 
now presents a perpendicular section, running nearly through the cen- 
ter, of which a photograjih might easily be taken. A maple and a red- 
oak tree grew upon the mound, each 18 inches in diameter. There are 
two red-oak stumps within two or three rods of No. 1, 3 feet across the 
shorter, and 3J feet across the longer diameter. Judging from the soil 
around them, these trees must have grown since the mound was built. 
I have counted the annual rings of growth of one, and found them to 
number 155. I assisted in taking out of No. 1 the fragments of three 
skulls, and other bones of three skeletons. The skulls, vertebra?, and 
hip-bones of each skeleton wTre on about the same level, and in a 
space not more than 15 inches square. In one case the crown of the 
skull was downward, and the top on a level with the hip-bones. This 
position at first puzzled me, but I suppose that the body w^as buried in 
a sitting posture, and the superincumbent weight of the earth, as it 
settled and the flesh decayed, turned the top of the head downward by 
the side of the body, and it continued to descend until it reached the 
level of the hips. The faces, judging from the position of the legs, 
were toward the west. The bodies were not inclosed. One skull was 
quite well preserved, but the other bones were considerably decayed. 



544 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



EXPLOEATIONS IN MOUNDS IN WHITESIDES AND LA 
SALLE COUNTIES, ILLINOIS. 

By J. D, Moody, Mcndota, III. 

The explorations noted in Plan I, were made at different times in 
company with Dr. Everett, of Troy Grove, and Dr. Edwards, of Men- 
dota, IlL Those noted in Plan III, were made in company with Prof. 




Plan L 



Samuel Maxwell, of Lyndon, 111. The "iind" noted in Plan II, was 
made by some workman while digging for gravel. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 545 

The location of Plan I is about 4 miles in a southeasterly direction 
from the village of Troy Grove, La Salle County, Illinois. It is about 
10 miles north of the village of Utica, on the Illinois Kiver, near which 
was situated the great town of the lUini Indians, famous in the early 
history of Illinois. 

All of the mounds discovered were situated on the blufi's on the 
eastern side of Vermillion Creek, a small stream ilowing into the Illi- 
nois Kiver. > 

No. 1 was a circular depression about 12 feet in diameter and 1 foot 
deep at the center. On trencliing it we found evidence of a long-con- 
tinued fire-place in the baked clay, bnrned stones, and fragments of 
charcoal, evidently the site of an Indian's fireside. 

No. 2 was a mound 15 feet in diameter and 4 feet high, occupying a, 
commanding position on a high blutt" projecting out into the valley. 
The view from this point is a fine one, commanding the valley for miles 
in either direction. On opening the mound we made the following dis- 
coveries: In the center and just under the sod we found a great quan- 
tity of burnt bones, human and animal, — the latter those of dogs or 
Molves. From a careful examination of the fragments of skulls, we 
determined the remains of nine individuals. There was no evidence of 
fire in the soil. They had been placed there in comparatively recent 
times after having been elsewhere cremated. Along with these bones 
were found a few perfect arrow-points, numerous fragments, and a rude 
stone pipe fashioned somewhat like a spool. 

On digging deeper, jnst below the original surface of the ground, was- 
found a skeleton lying upon its back, with the feet toward the west. 
It was of an individual of average height and advanced in years, as in- 
dicated by the absorption of the alveoli and the angle of the inferior 
maxillary. The arms were extended along the body. The frontal de- 
velopment of the skull was of a low order, more so than is found in the 
Indian, and yet 'not so much so as is usually ascribed to the mound- 
builder. This was the only burial in a horizontal position discovered 
in this locality. A very careful examination of the soil about the head 
and upper parts of the body failed to bring to light any relics what- 
ever. The burial was in a compact dry clay, and the bones in a crumb- 
ling condition. 

»i>ro. 3 was a burial place on the point of the same bluff just spoken of. 
Nothing but bones were found in it, the remains of several individuals. 
One skull was taken out in good condition, lacking the inferior maxil- 
lary. The bones still preserved quite a portion of the animal matter, 
and indicated a comparatively late burial, presumably Indian. 

No. 4 was a circular depression but a few feet in diameter, evidently', 
from the burnt stones, being a fireplace. 

No. 5 was a mound about 10 feet in diameter and 2i feet high. It 
had been opened a short time before our visit and a few bones taken 
S. Mis. 109 35 



546 MISCEI7LANE0US PAPERS EELATTNG TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

out. From tbe description we received we could form no idea as to the 
character of tlie interment, ifo implements of any kind were found. 

No. 0, on a broad flat in tlie bend of tlie creek, is the remains of an 
Indian encampment; numerous fire-places just beneath the surface of 
the ground, broken flints, &c., being found. 

No. 7 is a group of three mounds. Having been plowed over for 
years, they were nearly obliterated. The remains in mounds b and c 
were alike, each containing the bones of several individuals thrown in 
promiscuously. They were not burned, yet each mound contained great 
quantities of ashes and bits of charcoal. The bones crumbled on the 
slightest touch, and presented the appearance of having been leached. 
In mound a one skeleton in tolerable preservation was found. It had 
been buried in a sitting posture. Near the head was found a large 
mussel-shell filled with what appeared to be paint. A little to one side 
and at bottom of excavation was an ash-pile with about one peck of 
charcoal in the center of it. Neither ornaments nor implements were 
found. This group was evidently Indian in origin. 

No. 8 is a mound 35 feet in diameter and 5 feet high. Though reg- 
ular in outline and occupying a commanding position, yet from our ex- 
amination of its structure we considered its artificial origin as doubtful. 

No. 9 is a mound 12 feet in diameter. In it was found one skeleton 
very much decayed, and near the head a very rude earthern bowl, hold- 
ing about one pint. 

No other mounds are found in the vicinity. Scattered over the bluffs 
and fields are found quantities of broken pottery, arrow-points, flint 
chippings, stone axes, &c. A copper spear-point was also found in the 
vicinity. From my examination of them, I assign to them an origin 
and date, with possibly the exception of the horizontal burial in No. 2, 
as of the Illini Indians, and of about the beginning of the seventeenth 
century. 

Plan II is located 4 miles southwest of the city of La'Salle, on Cedar 
Creek, a small stream flowing into the Illinois River from the south. 
There were three graves two and a half feet deep, on a gravel point 
projecting out from the ridge. No mounds had been erected over them. 
They were close together. They were discovered by some laborers 
while digging for gravel. One of them, possessing a little curiosity, 
gathered up the bones and relics. One body was deposited in each 
grave, and in a recumbent position. The relics found consisted of sev- 
eral simple, rude pipes cut from sandstone, a few shell beads, arrow- 
points, and the fragments of a curious vase, holding, when reconstructed, 
about four ounces,. and representing a man sitting on his knees, with 
hands folded across the abdomen. The opening was at the back of the 
head. It was composed of clay and powdered shells baked. The face 
presents strongly-marked Aztec features, or possibly an exceptional 
Indian countenance. The bones were very much decayed, with the ex- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 547 



ception of one side of one inferior maxillary. This was well preserved, 
and stained a deep green color. Not nnderstanding the import of this, 
the laborers missed finding a copper implement of some kind. No other 
remains were found in the vicinity. 





M- 




\ 












"■ "T 


1 ^^t^% 


^^ 1 




rT.Hfwen 1 























Plan IL 

Plan III is a singular group of mounds 3 miles from Spring Hill post-of- 
fice, Whiteside County, Illinois. The bluffs along Rock Eiver are covered 
with mounds. This group, however, is on the alluvial bottom, about 30 
rods from the river. Though there maj- be others on the lowlands, yet 
these are the only ones I found so situated. This group is in a semi- 
circular form, in quite regular lines, as will be seen by a reference to 
the plan. They are on a plat of ground a little higher than the sur- 
rounding level. They are surrounded on three sides by a slough, in 
earlier times probably communicating with the river, and this may have 
had some influence in shaping the crescent form of the arrangement. 
However, being on the ground, the impression cannot be resisted that 
there was some special design in the grouping. 

While most of the mounds were round and of varying size, some of 
them were long and narrow. The figures inside the circles indicate the 
dimensions of the larger ones in paces (2i feet to the pace). Their rel- 



548 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ative sizes are preserved in the diagram. The ground is covered with 
timber. A stump standiDg on one of the mounds indicated an age of 
over two hundred years. The soil was a very hard, sandy clay. The 











. "' ' .,, A,\£Tr'nfea 'tl-^® ^J''' — J^ — V... 










w*I'w»w. 't',' ji''^— _0£r //'^»-*i''.^^"* '"U- I'^.o/^rfw. 










,-../' ,:„."i..;.. w,7*:^,t.7^.T,_ ^ 4.. 3F=?-.i!»^^ ,?'-'"», 


About SOrocLef/oRocKBlver: ' 


^ 


\ ^r^''"'^X^^^^^^^^t^^ T*.'-,:; 












^ 7 




' ) 


^ 






o 

d 


1 

1 

1 
1 


=> 




.^\Wi^y^ 








^Jm-^ 1 


2. 


1 
1 


Sh 






C^ C^d 


o 4i c 

r 
1 

1 




Qz-vd ^z(r= "^ Scale qf Feet. 





Plan III. 



space A of the diagram was inclosed and used as a hog-lot. None of 
the mounds were over three feet high. Nos. 1, 5, 4, and 7 were opened, 
but nothing whatever was found. In No. 2 we found no bones, but 
two rude vessels, holding about one quart each, made of clay and coarse 
sand molded on the inside of a grass basket and then burned, as evi- 
denced by the ipipressions of the grass on the outside. No. 3 contained 
the remains of several individuals, lying side by side, but too badly de- 
cayed to be preserved. No. 6 had been bored through years before for 
a well ; quantities of broken bones were brought to the surface. Our 
time did not allow of any further explorations. The regularity in the 
arrangement of the mounds presented a weird appearance in the forest. 
Some of the mounds on the bluffs opened at same time jielded the same 
results. On one a white-oak tree, three feet in diameter, was growing. 
Eude vessels and stone axes have been found in the neighboring mounds. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 549 



ANTIQUITIES OF FOX RIVER VALLEY, LA SALLE COUNTY, 

ILLINOIS. 

By W. Hector Gale, of TVedron, III. 

Having recently had the pleasure of examining a portion of the Fox 
River Valley, about 8 miles from Ottowa, the capital of La Salle County, 
Illinois, the author gives below the results of his investigations. The 
valley abounds in picturesque scenery of rocky bluffs and wide, fertile 
fields. The surface rocks are the Saint Peter's sandstone and Trenton 
limestone of the Lower Silurian. The drift in many places is 40 feet in 
thickness, consisting of a bluish clay, very hard, which, when under- 
mined, breaks into blocks with the regularity of stratified rocks. 

The Fox River j)asses along the eastern side of the valley in this 
locality', and is, in ordinary times, very shallow and rapid. The stream 
has, in the remote past, covered the entire valley, about one-half a mile 
in width. The ground is eminently historical as being the region which 
was explored by those intrepid voyagenrs, La Salle, Tonti, Marquette, and 
Joliet, also the scene of the almost romantic extermination of the Illini 
Indians by the Iroquois. Within a radius of a few miles, and especially 
within this immediate locality, were enacted some of the most sanguin- 
ary scenes of the Black Hawk war. 

But relics of a still older people are unmistakably visible here. It 
may be well to add that the course of the river here is from north to 
south. Perpendicular bluffs, of Saint Peter's sandstone, rise along the 
eastern shore, which are washed by the waters of the Fox, even at low 
water, while along the western side of the valley are sloping bluffs from 
20 to GO feet above the river. My experience during the late war teaches 
me that, were an enemy expected from the south, this locality, on ac- 
count of its natural advantages, would be fortified and made a very 
strong place. It would seem that this fact was not lost sight of by the 
prehistoric inhabitants. On the west side of the valley, on a point of 
the bluff highest above the valley, I find an earthwork commanding the 
surrounding country, and facing toward the east and south. The blnffs 
are divided from those south by the Indian Creek, which enters the Fox 
about one-quarter of a mile distant, coming from the west, and has cut 
out a valley from that direction. The general shai)e of the fortification 
may be seen by an examination of Fig. 1. The large mound at the cor- 
ner is highest, rising some 5 feet above the natural surface of the ground. 
Some time since, an excavation was made in the center of the mound, 
and a few bones found, but they had perished to such a degree that it 
would be impossible to describe any of its characteristics in an intelligi- 
ble manner. On either side of the mound referred to is a smaller one, 
about 2 feet in advance of the main line, giving a passageway, gate, oi 
entrance on either side, yet not leaving space entirely open and unpro- 
tected. In '':he rear of the fort. Fig. 1, is a thick second growth of oak 



550 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and hickory. Immediately in front there are very few trees, bnt whether 
they have been removed by the buihlers of the earthwork, by a more 
modern race, or liave never existed, I am unable to state. The valley 



^'W- 









Prehistoric Fort, 

near Wedron HI. 



■■?.*^.^W^^^ 



vv^"jtte»«««/, 



/<^„„ii 



A 






<-?, 






■"■>*-m55Jv' 






j'% 



1 



,«i&^^.. 









gM^ 







Fig. 1. 



before cultivation, was a succession of mounds, crowded closely together, 
and the remains of many are still plainly visible. Some of these have been 
excavated, and in most cases found to contain skeletons, which, upon 
being exposed to the air, rapidly crumble away. In some cases stone 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 551 



axes made of syeuitic rock were found, and in one instance two earthen 
vesselvS or jius of rude worlvniansliip. Across the river, in an easterly 
direction from the fortification just described, is another fort, facing in 
the same direction. This was surveyed by Col. D. F. IJitt, in 1877, and 
from this I take the drawing (see Fig. 2). The sand-rock is from 35 to 
40 feet perpendicular above the river, and on the eastern side of the 
bluff is a ravine 65 feet deep, nearly vertical. The eartliwork extends 
from the bluffs on the river side to the bluffs on the western side of the 
ravine. 




^^^ hy OcLle. Giiis a.n^ HeZrost 



Fig. 2. 



552 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

In my examination I discovered a mound about 80 rods south of tlie 
fort which bore no evidence of ever having been disturbed, and, in com- 
pany with Mr. J. I. Gibbs, of Vermont, and Thomas Belrose, of Wed- 
ron. 111., gentlemen interested in archteology, made an examination of its 
contents. About 2 feet from the surface we discovered charcoal in quite 
large quantities, and the skull, thigh bones, a fragment of the collar 
bone, and one joint of the vertebra of what had once been a member 
of the humau family. Underneath was a number of granitic bowlders 
of quite large size, placed in a circular form, inside of which was found 
charcoal. Were I to give an opinion, I should say that the fact of find- 
ing but a small portion of the skeleton and charcoal in so large quan- 
tity is conclusive evidence to me of cremation. The skull was very 
narrow, with a rapidly sloping forehead, extremely heavy under jaw, and 
large teeth. The skull retained its shape but a few moments, when it 
crumbled in pieces. It was, when discovered, lying with the face nearly 
downward, and the head to the east. 



MOUNDS m HENEY AND STAEK COUNTIES, ILLINOIS. 

By T. M. Shallenbekger, of CamJmdge, III. 

The locations of the mounds referred to in the title of this paper are 
indicated on the two accompanying plats. The first gives an outline 
of Henry and Stark Counties. The ])oint marked A is 1^ miles south- 
west of Cambridge, aud is more fully illustrated in plat No. 2. 

At B is a group of fourteen mounds, 1 mile east of Cambridge, still 
unexplored. 

In Peoria County, at the location marked C, is a large conical mound 
on the river bottom, which was excavated by the writer, but nothing 
of value was found, inasmuch as it had been previously opened. No 
doubt a body had been interred in this mound, since the slab which had 
lain over it was still there, and the ground at the original surface was 
burned hard. Two other flat stones close by had been probably taken 
from the mound, there being no other stones in the mound which could 
have been used to support the slab before mentioned* There are no 
other mounds in the vicinity . 

At D is a mound still unexplored. It is situated in West Jersey 
Township, and is yet 4 feet high, although it has been cultivated for 
several years. 

The point marked E is a salt marsh, and would in all probability 
yield relics of prehistoric salt works and mastodon bones. Fragments 
of pottery have been discovered here already, but the exploration of 
this spot would be attended with considerable expense. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 553 




HENRY CO. 

„ CAMBRIDGE 

A ^ 'B 



Part of KNOX CO. 



jf 

Plat No. I. 




Part of PEORIA CO. 



lu the corporation of Toulon, marked F, from a very low mound were 
taken two axes and some white flakes like enamel. Judging from the 
deposits, as well as from the mold, a body had been interred here. 

In the northeast of 
Henry County, at a 
point marked G, are 
immense sand-hills 
and swamps. The 
mound-builders evi- 
dently made this a 
rendezvous for game 
and fish, the sand- 
banks abounding in 
all kinds of relics. 
This is the Winne- 
bago swamp, and 
scattered through it 
are many evidences of 
ancient inhabitants. 

As mentioned above, 
Plat No. 2 is in en- 
largement of point A 
in Plat 1. The mounds 
will be described in 
the order of the numbers in the figure. 
1. The mound was opened and a polished agate was found, about the 

size and shape of a hen's e}:i;g^ but 
more pointed.' Both this mound 
and ^o. 2 are still coveied with 
timber. 

3. K'othing but nshes was found 
in the bottom of this mound. 

4. At the bottom, the stump of 
a crab-apple tree was discovered, 
which had been felled by a blunt- 
edged tool. Another tree had 
grown on the surfaceof the mound, 
and the roots completely sur- 
rounded the ancient stump be- 
neath. Another mound formerly 
located at this point has since 

been obliterated. 

5, 6, 7. Permission to open these could not be obtained. 

All the mounds mentioned in this paper are about the same size, 30 
feet across, and 2^ feet high, and are built of material found on the spot. 
The last named are on the land of Peter H. Nilson. 



Plat No.2. I Mile Square. 




554 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ANTIQUITIES OF KNOX COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By M. a. McClp:lland, of Enoxville, 111. 

The drainage of the eastern and southern part of Knox County, Illi- 
nois, is accomplished by numerous small streams navigable in the 
spring for canoes. Their general course is toward the southeast to empty 
into Spoon Eiver, a tributary of the Illinois. In the northwestern part 
of the county numerous other small streams have their rise, and, run- 
ning to the west, finally empty into the Mississippi. The portage be- 
tween the headwaters of these streams is only a few miles in extent. 

The trails anciently followed by the aborigines have now entirely dis- 
appeared, but along their former course, and upon the bluffs of the 
streams, are still found implements of war, amusement, and the chase. 
The discoidal stone, stone hatchet, and arrow-points sent to the Nation- 
al Museum were all found upon the north bluifs of Court Creek, i)rin- 
cipally upon sections 13, 14, 15, 16, township 11 north, range 2 east, 
Knox County, Illinois. The stone axes, and arrow-points came also 
from these sections, except the largest, which came from Haw Creek, 
section 3, township 10 north, range 2 east. 

To all the interrogatories contained in circular No. 316 I return a 
negative answer, except as to mounds and cemeteries. 

Mounds and excavations. — No. 1. One and a half miles westof Knoxville, 
on section 30, township 11 north, range 2 east, Knox County, Illinois, on 
the east side of a ravine running into Haw Creek, on a level piece of 
timber land belonging to Harvey Montgomery, esq., is a single mound 
51 feet in diameter, iind at the center about 3 feet above the general sur- 
face. The trees upon this land are of two ages, viz, first, large oaks, elm, 
&c., 2 feet 8 inches in diameter, and a smaller growth, of black-jack, 
and white oak, ash, hickory, «&c., 6 to 8 inches in diameter. The mound 
is surrounded by six or seven of these larger trees, one on the southwest 
edge of the mound, the others, west, north, northeast, east, and south, 
east, at variable distances, from 20 to 32 paces. Upon the mound there 
are numerous trees, of from 3 to 6 inches, growing. There are very large 
areas of ground in this same timber, in which the larger trees are very 
sparsely scattered. The mound is circular in form, and 60 feet S. S. W. 
is a circular pond or excavation, about 40 feet across, from which, 
doubtless, much of the earth of whictf the mound is composed was taken- 
Within 60 feet of its western edge the ground begins to decline to form 
the ravine which carries the water from the adjacent praries to Haw 
Creek. 

The mound had been dug into before, by whom I do not know, and 
I think nothing was found — at least that is the report. I cleaned out 
the former excavation, which was in the center, and about 4 feet across, 
enlarging it to 6 feet, carrying it at least 2 feet deeper, or 2^ feet below 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 555 

the general surface of the soil, aud thence ran a trench G feet wide 
towards the west 10 feet. The composition of the mound from surface 
down was as follows: thin layer of humus; then yellow clay and humus 
mixed, becoming more largely mixed with humus as it reached the level 
of the surrounding country, this layer being 2 feet 10 inches; then a 
thin, light colored layer one-half an inch to an inch in thickness, which 
I suppose to be ashes of grass and leaves, as there was no sign of char- 
coal in any i)art of the layer; then a layer of a few inches thickness, 
similar to the surrounding soil; then a firm yellow clay, that had no 
appearance of having ever been disturbed. The ash layer was under- 
mined to the extent of two feet ou each side. It was found to lie hori- 
zontally aud at about the level of the surrounding ground. aSTothing 
else was found. 

No. 2, ou the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter section 16, 
township 11 north, range 2 east, Knox County, Illinois, is 30 feet across, 
and on the east side of a ravine that runs into Court Creek from the north. 
The laud is lightlj' timbered. A quarter to a half a mile nearer Court 
Creek, however, there are some fair-sized trees (2 feet). The ground 
immediately surrounding has hazel brush and scrub oaks, black-jack, 
&c. In height the mound is similar to No. 1. Its envelopes are similar, 
but the ash layer contains decided traces of charcoal. Nothing found 
by a very positive excavation carried to the depth of 3J feet below 
level of surrounding surface. In the fields around for a quarter of a 
mile a great many arrow-points have been found. The twenty-eight 
nearly or quite perfect ones sent in package to the National Museum 
were found within this area. 

To the north and a little to the east, ahout 100 rods, there is a very 
high point of land, from the summit of which an extensive view may 
be had of the surrounding country. This hill is and has been for thirty 
or forty years under cultivation, and upon it arrow-points in large num- 
bers have been found. There are places on it where the ground is white 
with flakes and chips of the same material as the arrow-points. The 
stone hatchet of Witterell's collection was found about 40 rods east 
of the top of the hill. Between this point and where the hatchet was 
found, the old trail running from Maquon, on Spoon Eiver, to Hender- 
son Grove, on the head of Henderson Creek, was easily recognized thirty 
years ago. Upon the eastern slope of this hill and upon both sides of 
the old trail, and upon the south slope, towards the mound, are found 
numerous deposits of small, mosfly flat-faced stones. The stones are 
found now but 2 or 3 inches beneath the surface. These are so placed 
that their flat faces are on the same horizontal plane, and cov^-r a space 
of a foot or two, with intervals of a rod or two between them. Many 
of them are reddish, as if some ore of iron might enter into their com- 
position, which upon being heated had become changed to red. The 
stones i^resent other appearances of having been subjected to the in- 
fluences of fire. 



556 MISCELLANEOUS PAPEES EELATING TO ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Trails. — Thirty years ago there were three distinct trails riiuuing 
across the country. One ran from Maquon, on Spoon Eiver, to Hender- 
son Grove ; thence, in a northerly direction, to Galena, on the Mississippi. 
Another from the mouth of Court Creek, on Spoon River, to the same 
points. A third trail ran from Maquon north to strike the trail from 
mouth of Court Creek to Henderson Grove. These two trails met in 
township 11 north, range 3 east. Along these routes all the specimens 
sent you were found. Maquon was an Indian settlement on Spoon 
River. Here, within the memory of our oldest settlers, they had a vil- 
lage, and lived from year to year. There is an old Indian cemetery at 
this point and another at the mouth of Court Creek. Near the south 
line of Knox County, half a mile west of Spoon River, there is a group 
of three mounds, not yet examined, and half a mile further south, in 
Fulton County, there is another group of three, none of which have been 
explored. 



DESCRIPTION OF A GROUP OF MOUNDS IN BUREAU 
COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By a. S. Tiffaky, of Davenport, Iowa. 

The group of eight mounds described below and represented in the 
accompanying plan is situated near Bureau, in Bureau County, Illinois, 
on the bottom lands of the Illinois River and Bureau Creek. 

The land on which they are located has been farmed about forty 
years, and the smaller mounds have been considerably reduced. Num- 
bers 1 to 3 are situated on a natural swell, and the diameters can be de- 
termined only approximately. These three were explored by the writer 
and Mr. Sale. 

Dimensions and distances of the mounds. 



No. 


Diameter 


Height. 


Directions. 


Distance. 




Feet. 


Inches. 




Feet. 


1 


50 


30 


W. 20° N. to No. 2... 


90 


2 


50 


30 


W. 20° N. to No. 3... 


100 


3 


50 


30 


W. 45° N. to No. 4... 


120 


4 


70 


36 


S. 403\V. toNo. 5... 


185 


5 


80 


48 


S. 25'^ W. to No. 6... 


240 


t! 


70 


42 


S. 25°W. toNo. 7... 


240 


7 


90 


66 


S. 25° W. to No. 8... 


210 


8 


80 


48 







A rectangular opening, 7 feet square, was made in mound No. 1. At 
a depth of 15 inches a bed of ashes several inches in thickness was 
reached, which extended in all directions beyond the opening. At a 
depth of 5 feet a few bones, much decomposed, were found. They were 
parts of two individuals. A small number of bone awls were lying near 
them. 

A slight dip in the floor of the mound was observed in the northeast 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 557 



corner. The exploration was extended 9 feet further, making the entire 
lengtli of the opening IG feet. The remains of two individuals were 
found with their heads toward the north. Under the head of the in- 
dividual lying upon the west side was discovered a porphyry cresceut- 



A 



w- 



1..... Ji...... -Mif, s\ >iiili!];. .?..,)i,i itii,i^„. \»,i.,,. ,l)j//..i vit,,,.. ,/i,„._ u>,„,». 

■1k/...^.11„„. ,!/<//... U/».... .!!<.•.,.., J(.„-^.yl///j|...i. rfM:, •//,.-_ <l.~... >!./,..„ 



»H.,^... 4,„ </;.,.,... On' 

4U1M»** ^^t^4^ tlliiti'h' *> 




iip- 



— -E? 

\M>M»,. ,(»,«„., .>I»|1I 

.Il»«./., ,1,.....,, >(///..,.. 

J;»./», Jill/... ,|lr/„- .K.i" .|)>(,'^^*n(^^l' - >'>' <!'<' 

ttfff../.. >Jlii;..~ ,lli.~. .11.,^ Jli;, '5/ ;Hvf^ ■'">'— «!. J/lui.-. <l'l 

*»•<.. ,l|li.»„ \1l (»..(,,. ,Uf</,_, ^ll.//»^.(lJlJ^I/..>... Jlfi,,.:^ Jiirn... Jl/f<^/«— 

\Ml»l).... .IKi./".. «.,..!.... ,\i. ,../-.. lth///.» vil/O,, .,; .11/1,,,. Jl.lf/,,— JtUi,,,..- ■ 

JM»... •III,,.,,. S\i,... , O «l I,-.-.. 11 Jill/,,. A, • J„ ll,...— >yi«/— ,r,y/» 

^. Jl//.,... ,\if,.,. >!*/•. \)...~ \Y..,.. vlnu". •) J," — •! -J,,,,- ,/./.^^ .;„/</•. •! _ 

\\\i,,„, iliii,.,. .///v,x, Ai,i-.. vlii,»..,,^^'v>///yi^ .li„. J". .11.-. Ji,..^ J),..... ilir,.... ilii,,//^. 

-.11.,,, ■ -.liv... ,11.,.. ■. ,!!,..„,. .ip. <r '^//['AVV^/—.^ Ji"" \i'-~. .W-~. J ido^ Jtf.' Jl„j.^ 



-Ul,..,, III,... .1.,,-, •.lu,, H, .Ii...- 

-,111.,.. ilF,.,.. *ll>,»,. -A,,,.. I. V.U„... .11..,.. ,11.1,,., 

-xiH,.,^ a/„_, ,)/,.— .,i.-~. .11.,,,., J,„,. 



^..^ ,l< 



..... ,<»,.,.. 



— — -m^^ 

T,r,"...!r,?.::..T:.''.'^;r«3filtr'.';,;,ir 



6 



».. .11,. 



J,,..,. .1,. 



J,.,,,,. 0:/um fUr^» «Wh» 

-»»„,„ 01,., .» ,»n-.- Jl*"". .|r^,„. >1|.,,.... \Ul„„ 4j/,.,. 

— .Ik,,..,,/.. .„fi,... il„,,- -i1,,-« .1,,,. J Jl,,,,. d/»„.... 

- * ''■'■'■•\\\^y/f'yy ' "' ■• '"■'• 

... .1 * .v.-S^^lfc'gS , .«,„.„ .„„,_ 

.11/,,.., >iv„., ^I)„,.•..-;r■^!^(5t?^$■Jl/,.... Ji..... .11..,..., 

f"ii\\Vf/^J''"- «"'■- •^"'- >'"■•'■ "' "• — ' 

-^^•.^Ss -I/,/,,.. ,iii„„„. v,.,,,,„ .1,/, 

^;f'A'Jv^^'' *'•• ■*'■"- '• '"'■- 

y'/l\\\S\^'il,.„; I-,:, Wl.,.. „.,.,.. 1/,,.... 



I 

GROUP 

OF 

MOUNDS 
on BottomLands 

BUREAU CO, ILL. 



Scale. 



it 10« ISO £30 



looft. 



shaped implement of rare beauty. It is polished on both sides, and all 
its edges are nicely wrought. The perforation does not extend through 
the stone, being only .55 inchs in depth, but sufiBcient for mounting. 
A flint knife was deposited with the same individual, about where the 
right hand would naturally be. 

At the northeast corner of this excavation, with some decomposed 
bones of the other individual, a bone awl or needle was recovered, about 
four inches in length, but a portion had been broken off. It was grace- 
fully tapering and finely pointed. 

A few pieces of pottery obtained were of the same character as that 
which occurs universally in this region. The crania were too fragile to 



558 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

be saved. A few iinio shells and water- worn pebbles bad been deposi- 
ted in different parts of the mound. 

In mound No. 2 the skeleton of a youth, much decomposed, was all 
that rewarded our labor. 

In mound No. 3 no human remains or objects of interest occurred. 

The second group of mounds surveyed are situated on the bluff at 
Bureau, Bureau County, Illinois. The measurements are given in the 
accompanying table : 



No. 


Diameter. 


Height. 




Feet. 


Inches. 


1 


18 


18 


2 


21 


30 


3 


21 


20 


4 


30 


40 


5 


30 


3C 


6 


21 


18 


7 


30 


30 


8 


36 


36 


9 


24 


30 


10 


21 


15 


11 


25 


12 


12 


21 


24 


13 


27 


20 


14 


30 


24 


15 


24 


30 


16 


25 


20 


17 


24 


20 


18 


27 


30 


19 


18 


10 


20 


24 


27 


21 


15 


10 


22 


27 


48 


23 


24 


15 


24 


24 


24 


25 


20 


24 



Anfjle. 



S. 20° W. to No. 2 

W.2UOS 

S.4u° 

W.20ON 

S. 40° W 

S. 40° W 

S. 20° W 

S. 40° W* 

S. 40° W 

N. 20° W 

S. 30° W 

W. 20OS t 

S 

E. from No. is.!! 

S. 10° E 

W. -20° S 

S. 20° W 

S. 20° W 

S.20°E 

s.2o°e: 

S. 40° W 

S. 20°E§ 

s. 10° w 

S. 10° E 



Efl 



Ho 



Feet. 
18 
33 
120 
50 
130 
250 
150 
75 
39 
30 
24 
66 
49 
30 
30 
45 
57 
30 
24 
27 
30 
30 
24 
78 
to No. 25 



* Explored ; pebbles, cedar wood, decayed, and coal ; one skull. 
tOak stump ; 160 annular rings. 
I Oak stump ; 450 annular rings. 
§ Large white-oak tree. 



MOUNDS IN SPOON KIVER VALLEY. 



By W. H. Adams, of Peoria, 111. 

On what is usually termed a hog-back, on the north side of the Spoon. 
Eiver, 75 yards distant, 80 rods west of the east line and 20 rods south of 
the north line of section 12, township 11 north, range 43 east of the fourth, 
principal meridian, is a round mound about 30 feet in diameter. On the 
highest point of the hog-back, at the surface, is some evidence of fire. 
The evidence of a former fire increases very rapidly. At a depth of 
from 12 to 16 inches five skeletons were found, of which nearly all the 
bones were calcined, and many of them entirely consumed by the fire. 
One of the skulls lay to the north, one to the northwest, one to the south- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 559 

west, one to the south, and one to the northeast. With the bones were 
fragments of sandstone burned red; at or near each skull, and nearly 
on a line bet\yeeu the point of the shoulder and ear, was a water-worn 




k 




.^ 




^ 




!**. 




to 




13 




•a 








1 ^""^ 




<*". ^%. 




i? ^ 






> 


1 


!» 



9^ 









r,. -- *'f' --.---'■ 



^tk 
52% 






'"' -TC" -'♦'>■ 









S* 













Fig. 1, 

pebble, except in one instance, and in that it was an angular piece of 
flint. The pebbles had not been acted upon by the fire, so that they 
must evidently have been placed there after the^ intense heat had sub- 



560 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

sided. From the appearance of the earth one would be strongly in- 
clined to believe that the fire in this instance had been one of unusual 
intensity. From the position of the skulls with reference to oue an- 
other, the feet of oue body would reach to the head of the next, if laid 
at full length. One of the skulls was rather thinner than those we usu- 
ally fiud in other mounds. Some of the teeth evidently belonged to a 
person of great age, while others were very small, but I cannot say that 
they belonged to an infant. The skulls were in fragments, the largest 
piece obtaiued being about 2 inches square. 

On another hog-back, east of the one described, commencing on sec- 
tion 12, township 11, range 4 east, and extending across the northwest 
corner of section 7, township 11, range 5, and also some distance on 
section G, township 11, are thirteen common round mounds, varying in 
height from 18 inches to 5 feet. As ftir as examined these are burial 
mounds, and nineteen skeletons were found in one of them. This mound 
was 45 feet in diameter and 5 feet high. The bones in it were in a 
fair state of preservation. I opened four or five of this group, and in 
each were found pieces of trap-rock from 1^ to 2 inches square, pieces 
of burnt sand-roclc, and small water-worn pebbles, which I suppose to 
be jasper or something of that character, and in the largest mound was 
discovered a very small fragment of red pottery. 

On the high bluft' between Spoon River and Walnut Creek, on the 
south line of the southeast quarter section C, township 11 north, range 
56, are three mounds of some importance. The first is a common round 
mound, 3^ feet high, with a base diameter of 40 feet. This mound is 
three rods north of the sectional line between sections 6 and 7, and 60 
rods west of the east line of section 6. (The land is owned by Henry 
Jaques.) I opened this mound at the apex, and at a depth of 2 feet 
found quite an amount of ashes, also one piece of trap-rock of irregular 
shape, and about the size of a small boy's head -, also a honestone arrow 
point of the leaf-shape pattern. Eight feet east of this is a mound 62 
feet long and 19 feet wide, with the greatest length from southwest to 
northeast. I made a cross cut of this mound at the middle, and in the 
center found a bed of charcoal, 10 inches deep, intermingled with ashes. 
I also made an opening near the east end and found nothing. Twenty 
rods east of this, on the sectional line, is an oblong mound, measuring 
64 feet from west to east, and 47 feet from north to south, with an ap- 
parent height, above the surrounding level, of 3 feet. I made an 
opening in the center of this mound, 4J feet in diameter, and at a depth 
of 2 feet I found some ashes and fragments of stone which had been 
polished, and 3 inches of yellow clay. This clay has the appearance of 
having been rammed or packed while in a plastic state. Below the clay 
is a thin stratum of red paint, and below the paint were ashes and paint in- 
termingled. In this material were found fourteen arrow points made of 
honestone, all of the leaf pattern except one, and this was 3i inches long, 
with notches at the base, and had the appearance of having been used; 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 5G1 

also a small piece of galena was exhumed. There was a slight depres- 
sion on the surface above the deposit. I made an opening 9 feet east 
of the center, in which was obtained a copper awl or needle 3^ inches 
long, and three-sixteenths of an inch square, thick in the middle, and 
sharp pointed at each end. This copper implement was inclosed in 
some material, which, under a microscope of low magnifying power, has 
the appearance of being the bark of a tree. This tool lay with the points 
southwest and northeast. I also found a white-flint spear-point or lance- 
head, 4 inches long and 1^ inches wide, without notches at the base. 
We found the flint implement about 10 inches southwest of the copper. 
This was surrounded by the same red material as the first. We first 
made an opening 14 feet west of the center of this mound, and at a 
depth of 3 feet 8 inches we found one copper needle or awl, rounded and 
pointed 5 three copper beads one-quarter of an inch in diameter and 
three sixteenths of an inch in length ; one piece of copper tubing or 
bead 1 inch in length and one-quarter of an inch in diameter; one piece 
of tubing or bead three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter and 1 inch in 
length ; one piece If inches in length and one-quarter of an inch in 
diameter; and five other pieces very much like those described; also a 
small fragment of a tooth supposed to be human, and several small flint 
pebbles. 

There are traces of a breastwork or fort, commencing at the south- 
western part of this mound, about 6 to 12 inches in height. Commenc- 
ing at the mound it extends southwest 120 feet, thence south 67 feet, 
thence south-southeast 106 feet, thence to bluff of Spoon River 130 feet 
(the bluff is 40 feet high), from the mound to the bluff in a straight 
line southeast 186 feet. 

All the arrow points were finely finished, and far superior to those 
found on the surface of the ground. This mound is 42 rods west of 
Spoon River. The bluffs here are composed of the usual yellow clay, 
and contain very little sand. On the northeast corner of the northwest 
quarter of the southeast quarter section 5 are three common round 
mounds, standing in a triangular position to each o.'her, with ^ 
the largest to the north, the next^in size directly south of it, ^ ^^^ff 
and the smallest to the east, somewhat like the following f^ • 

figure : • 

On or near the southwest comer of section 4, township 11 north of 
the base lino 5, east of the fourth principal meridian, are a series of 
common round and long mounds of more importance than any other yet 
discovered in this part of Illinois. (See Fig. 2.) Commencing at a 
point near the foot of a long bluff sloping to the south, and 40 rods 
north of the south line of section 4, and 10 rods east of the west line, 
are three common round mounds. For convenience we have numbered 
these, commencing with the most westerly. The distance is reckoned 
from center to center of round mounds, and from end to end of long 
mounds. 

S. Mis. 109 36 



562 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



From 1 to 2 is 39 feet from center to center, from 2 to 3 is 30 feet from 
center to center, from 3 to 4 is 50 feet from center to center. This last 
monnd is 80 feet long, with a cross monnd at the center 33 feet long, 2 
feet high, and 10 feet wide. The i^rincipal mound is 15 feet wide. 



Sec. J. 



Sec. a. 



S'^.S. 



.4^ 






JVb.J. 





An 



n 

If 




JS^o. 



JVo.J. 



Scale of Feet 

JO 100 



^o. 



'.J. 



^^vr/V i' 1^ "?''l'."^'*v'■ 



Fig. 2. 



From No. 4 to No. 5 is 123 feet. No. 5 is a common round mound, 3 
leet high, with a base diameter of 40 feet. No. C is 53 feet from No. 5, 
98 feet long, 2 feet high, and 18 feet wide, with the greatest length from 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 563 

eoutliwestto northeast. iSo. 7 is 75 feet west-nortliwest of No. G, and is 104: 
feet long, 2i feet high, and 18 feet wide, with the greatest length from 
southwest to northeast. No. 8 is 100 feet from No. 7, and is 140 feet long, 
3 feet high, 20 feet wide. Fifty feet from the south end of this is a 
black-oak tree, 3 feet in diameter, standing in the middle of the mound. 
{In ac(;ordance with the usual rule in this vicinity of (;omi)uting sixteen 
growths to the inch, measuring on one side of the center, this tree was 
nearly three hundred years old.) This mound is 100 feet Mest of the 
blulf of Spoon Eiver. The bluff is 40 feet high at this place, and very 
precipitous. In company with Mr. W. J. Morris, I made a cross cut in. 
this mound to the original soil. At every spadeful we would bring up 
flint chips, and we found several pieces of trap-rock, some of them be- 
ing polished on one side. Around the mound where the surface is bare 
great quantities of flint chips are picked up. We made a slight exam- 
ination of Nos. 6 and 7, and found nothing, excepting traces of ashes 
and charcoal. On opening No. 3, at a depth of 2 feet, we found ashes ; 
at 2^ feet, C to 8 inches of charcoal and ashes; at 3 feet, Lard-packed 
earth ; at 3 feet 3 inches, two skeletons, all the bones very much de- 
"Cayed, except the teeth, and these were not worn, showing the owners 
to have been not over thirty years of age. We opened Nos. 1 and 2, 
and found nothing. All the mounds appear to have been built at the 
same time, by the same people. 

Si)oon River at this point is 100 feet wide. AYe found no depressions 
whence the material of which these mounds are built was taken. 



BUEIED FLINTS IN CASS COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By J. F. SxYDER, M. D., of Virginia, III. 

Prof. Joseph Jones has well said that " the fabrics of a people unlock 
their social history; they speak a language which is silent, but yet more 
<jloquent than the written page." 

To every thoughtful i)erson there is a i)eculiar interest in the remains 
of nations that have fulfilled their destiny, and passed away; and this 
interest grows to fascination when studying the works of art, however 
rude, of people who have disappeared, and left no other legible records 
of their history and characteristics. 

The origin and language of the prehistoric occupants of this region 
may remain forever unknown to us, and their color and i)ersonal appear- 
ance be onlj^ conjectured; but their implements, utensils, and ornaments, 
which have escaped the ravages of time, when properly interpreted, 
rei)e()ple our hills and prairies with their ancient inhabitants, and tell 
us, in language as plain as the written page, the story of their domestic 
pursuits and arts of life; of their customs, superstitions, and habits of 
ithought. 



564 MISCELLANEOUS PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

In this view it is important that all discoveries of the remains, either 
of the works or the skeletons, of the aborigines, it matters not how in- 
significant, apparently, or how similar in kind they may be, should be 
carefully noted and accurately recorded, as each may possibly increase 
in some particular our knowledge of the primitive American trib€'S, or 
serve to confirm anew some fact of their history already known. Every 
stone implement, shell or bone ornament, and earthen vessel recovered, 
is a silent revelation of the past; and from this accumulated material 
the restoration of ancient life upon this continent is becoming annually 
more and more distinct. 

It is well known to have been the custom of pre-Columbian Indians, 
as of their descendants in later times, to hide in the ground, for security 
until again wanted, stores of surplus provisions, and such implements 
and other articles as were not immediately needed or easy of transpor- 
tation. Many of these buried stores of perishable materials, forgotten, 
or from other causes never recovered by their owners, soon totally dis- 
appeared; but others, consisting of objects wrought in stone, bone, and 
shell, are yet occasionally discovered in all parts of our country previ- 
ously inhabited by the red race. These deposits are all full of interest, 
and some are wonderful for the surprising numbers, or weird beauty of 
design, or marvellous forms of the strange things they comprise. 

Within the limits of this county two small subterranean long-hidden 
stores of flint implements have been recovered by the plow during the 
last two years. In the alluvial soil of Central Illinois, so destitute of 
surface rock, a stone of any kind turned up by the i)low is of so rare 
occurrence as to at once attract the attention of any plowman, but un- 
fortunately many valuable specimens so found excite but momentary 
notice and are again lost. 

In the spring of 1880, Mr. George W. Davis, an intelligent farmer 
residing in Monroe precinct, 10 miles east of the Illinois River, when 
plowing one day in a field that, until a few years ago, had been cov- 
ered with a heavy growth of timber, observed in the furrow his plow had 
just made a few sharp pointed flints, and stopping his team to secure 
them, he found on examination that they formed part of a deposit con- 
sisting of thirty-two small implements, which had been carefully placed 
in the ground, on edge, side by side, with their points toward the north. 
They seem to have been buried near the foot of a large oak tree long 
since prostrated and decayed. Tbis spot was on the crest of the ridge 
bounding the valley of Clear Creek on the south, and half a mile dis- 
tant from a corresponding elevation on the north of the little stream, 
known locally as "Indian Hill," so called because the skeletons of sev- 
eral (supi)osed) Indians with stone implements, bone awls, glass beads, 
&c., were some years ago disinterred there in the process of grading a 
public road. 

The thirty-two ira])lements were presented to me by Mr. Davis. 
With one exception they are ma<le of a cherty, muddy-looking siliceous 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 565 

Stone, of grayish color streaked with white: a flinty formation occurring 
in all lead-bearing strata of Illinois, and identical with the cherty nodules 
and seams very common in the sub-carboniferous outcrops of the u])per 
Mississippi and southwest Missouri. They had been buried new, show- 
ing no marks of having been used, and their peculiar style of workman- 
shi}) and similarity of design leave but little doubt that they are the 
juoduct of the same artisan. The exceptional one in the deposit is a 
well-proi)ortioned and perfect spear i>oint, nearly 3 inches in length, 
neatly chipped from opaque, milk-white flint, strongly contrasting in 
material, shape, and finish with the others, and evidently manufactured 
by some other hand, perhaps in a diiferent and remote workshop. 

Fourteen of the lot are of the laurel leaf or lanceolate pattern, pointed 
at one end and rounded at the other, with edges equally curved from 
base to point, averaging three-eighths of an inch in thickness in the mid- 




FlG. 1. 

<dle and evenly chipped to a cutting edge all around. They are uniform 
in shape, but differ in size; the smallest measuring 2^ inches in length 
by 1^ inch in width at the center; and the largest one is 6 inches long 
and nearly 2 inches wide. These fourteen are of a type quite common in 
all ])arts of the Mississippi Valley, and are supposed to have been used 
as Icnives or ordinary cutting tools. In our collection are six of these 
su])i)osed knives, taken a few years ago from a deposit of over four hun- 
dred in West Virginia, and very similar in material, pattern, and di- 
mensions to the fourteen now before me. 




Fig. 



The remaining seventeen are shaped alike, but also difler in size aa 
the first do, and are of the same average thickness. Thej' too are sharp 
pointed at one end, but in outline from base to point their si<les are uu- 



5G6 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

equally couvex, oue being considerably curved and the other curved 
but little from a straight line, giving them an ungainly and lop-sided 
form. Their broad ends, originally rounded, i)robably, like the first 
fourteen, have been chipped away on each side for half or three-fourths 
of an inch from the extremity, forming abroad rudimentary shank. At 
first glance these objects would readily be mistaken for unfinished awk- 
wardly shaped spear-heads; but slight examination proves them to be 
completed implements, all fashionedafterexactly the same pattern, with 
one end pointed, a greater convexity of one side than the other, and the 
base which in the first fourteen is regularly rounded, in these has been 
slightly cut away on each side, perhaps to facilitate their insertion in 
some sort of handle. The greater rounding out of one side than the 
other in all cannot be accidental, or due to want of skill in the workmen 
who made them; and this odd design is not easily reconciled with the 
ordinary forms and uses of spear points. Occasionally flint arrow-points 
are found approximating this shape, one side from 
point to shank describing a slightly curved or 
straight line with the other side regularly barbed, 
or curved, as in the common types. In our collec- 
tion are two specimens somewhat concavo-convex, 
or sickle-shaped. It has been gravely suggested 
that implements of this form were so made, and in- 
tended for use, exclusively for spearing and shoot- 
ing fish, on the hypothesis that the greater weight 
of one side of the flint, or its irregular form, would 
give the shaft to which it was attached, when 
launched, a curved direction, thereby overcoming 
the water's refraction of the solar rays, and cause 
the weapon to strike the real and not the appar- Fig. 3. 

ent position of the fish aimed at. In order to test this idea I made sev- 
eral experiments with the abnormally shaped flints. Securely fasten- 
ing the one-barbed arrow-heads in straight, perfectly made arrows, I 
shot them with a strong sinew-backed Indian bow, at marks in the 
water and in the air, and found in every instance that the deformed 
flint had not the least tendency to deflect the shaft from its direct 
course. I then inserted some of the lop-sided implements from this 
Clear Creek deposit in light javelin shafts 5 feet or more long, and failed 
to discover the slightest deviation of flight when thrown either with 
much or little force in the air or in the water. The result of these ex- 
I)erimeuts led me to conclude that the one-barbed arrow-points are 
merely weapons accidentally mutilated ; and the most reasonable view 
of all the flints in the deposit now under consideration, save the intru- 
sive white spear-point, places them in the general class of common cut- 
ting tools. 

The second deposit of flints to which I have alluded was also turned 
up by the plow, on the 28th of March of the present year (1882), on the 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 5G7 



southern border of this county, 20 miles east of the Illinois River. Its 
location was on the brow of the hills overlooking Indian Creek to the 
south, and in a lield cultivated for the last ten years, but which had 
been cleared from a dense growth of large forest trees. In this cache 
were thirty-five elegant implements entirely different in form, material, 
and finish, from those before described. Their position in the ground 
was vertical and closely packed together, but otherwise without any 
peculiar arrangement. Axes and other objects made of copper, buried 
in the ground long ages ago by their rude owners, are now and then 
found, in many instances still encased in shreds of coarsely woven fab- 
rics in which they had been carefully wrapped ; the preservation of the 
matting or cloth being due to the salts of the decomposing metal. It 
is i)robable that the articles in all minor deposits, as the two here de- 
scribed, were also enveloped, when consigned to the safekeeping of the 
earth, in bark cloth or dressed skins, which, in the absence of antiseptic 
mineral oxides, have long since decayed without leaving a trace of their 
presence. 

The thirty-five beautiful flints of this Indian Creek deposit are the 
perfection of ancient stone-chipping art. In form they are of the broad, 




Fig. 4. 

or lilac-leaf pattern, pointed more or less obtusely at one end and 
regularly semicircular at the other ; the length but little exceeding the 
width; scarcely more than three-eighths of an inch thick in the center; 
they are smoothly chipped to an even sharp edge all around. Thej' 
vary a little in size and somewhat in proportions, in the greater number 
the length exceeding the breadth by scarcely a third, while in a few, 
approaching the lanceolate type, the length is twice that of the width. 
The smallest of them is 3.^ inches long by 2| inches broad at the 
base; and the largest one measures o inches in length and 3^ inches 



568 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

across the widest part. Six of them are made of mottled red and brown 
flossy jtisper, and the remaining twenty-six of ordinary white flint, 
shading in texture from the compact translucent glassy, to the opaque 
milk-white varieties. In one of the neatest and most perfectly proi^or- 
tioned specimens the natural conchoidal fracture of the stone from which 
it was struck gives one side its exact contour without aid of any chip- 
ping. In several are embedded fragments of fossil crinoidal stems around 
which the siliceous atoms in solution or suspension first collected and 
solidified to form the rock; and in six there remain near the edges 
small patches of the buff, rind-like calcareo-siliceous outer coating of 
the flint-nodules from which they were split, not entirely removed by 
the process of manufacturing. The rounded edge of each is smooth and 
worn, and the sides of some are gapped, testifying to long and hard 
usage before their interment, and indicating conclusively that the broad 
circular edge of the tool was the one chiefly used. There is no reason 
to believe that these beautiful objects were used as weapons in any 
manner. Their pointed ends may have been inserted in handles of some 
description for convenience of manipulating them ; but their crescent 
edges, so similar to the half-moon knives of modern curriers and other 
leather workers, forcibly suggest their use as skin-dressers. They are 
too fragile to have been serviceable in the scraping work of canoe-mak- 
ing, or in shaping any hard- wood or bone instruments; and could not 
have so well preserved their fine edges as hand-used agricultural im- 
plements, or clay-diggers for pottery making. Hence, I conclude that 
they were the vade mecum of the squaws, and their chief reliance in all 
their work requiring the aid of mechanical appliances. 



i:j^dian remains in^ cass county, Illinois. 

By J. F. Snyder, M. D., of Virginia, III. 

Cass County fits into the angle formed by the confluence of the San- 
giimon, flowing from the east, with the Illinois River in its course to 
tlie Mississipjii, a little west of the center of the State. It is not in 
tae "forks" of the two rivers, but the one sweeps its entire northern 
border while the other bounds its lim its on the west. Its topography 
is identical in main features with the most part of the great undulating 
prairie system of the State ; and may be briefly described as a scope 
of open rolling land, studded with groves and furrowed with creeks 
and rivulets, and fringed all along its northern and western jwrtions 
with ranges of bluffs which form the boundaries of the river valleys. 
Extending from the foot of these ranges of bluffs to the rivers lie the 
rich alluvial " bottoms" varying in width from 2 to 7 miles. Viewed 
from below the bluffs rise to the height of 150 feet in picturesque 
grass-covered peaks and ridges separated from each other by deep 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 569 

wooded jilens and gorges ; aud the bottoms, geutly declining from the 
hiUs for half their width, are smooth as lawns, and now converted into 
the finest farms in the State, then reaching a lower level as they near 
the rivers, become heavily timbered and interspersed with numerous 
lakes and sloughs. Nature was here lavish in its suj^plies of lish, game, 
aud wild fruits, and every condition necessary for the subsistence and 
endurance of a large population was present. This beautiful aud fer- 
tile region, it is evident, was occupied by successive tribes from the ear- 
liest times before our history began down to the peaceable expulsion of 
the last of its dusky tenants, the Sacs and Foxes, during the adminis- 
tration of General Jackson. In testimony of this fact we have the 
relics of their remains, arts, and methods of life, which time has been 
l)Gwerless to destroy, in great profusion and full of fascinating inter- 
est. Of these silent records of a rapidly vanishing race the most im- 
portant as well as the most legible are the earthen mounds which cover 
the bones aud dust of their dead. They crown all the peaks and 
ridges of our bluffs, a few rising to considerable proportions, but the 
greater number are mere swellings of the surface not readily recog- 
nized as being of artificial origin. Every gradation of mound struct- 
ure is here present, from the stately tumulus 30 feet in height to the 
broad, flat sepulchres so slightly elevated as to be scarcely noticed. 

It would be useless labor and waste of time to attempt to locate on 
a map the situation of each mound or group of mounds in Cass 
County, and a tedious aud unprofitable repetition to detail minutely 
the examination of each separate mound. For brevity of description 
they can readily be grouped in two or three classes, and the descrip- 
tion of one will answer generally for all of its particular class. While 
in all of them, so far explored, the inclosed bodies of the dead were 
deposited on the surface of the ground, we find in some the posi- 
tion and arrangement of the remains to have been different from that 
found in others; from which we must infer that at times changes aud 
innovations in mortuary customs were introduced, perhaps by different 
tribes who succeeded each other in occu2)ancy of the country. 

Of the first class of mounds, and by far the largest, and no doubt the 
most ancient, but one has yet been opened, and, unfortunately, no one 
versed or interested in ethnological study was present at the time to 
collect and preserve the relics it disclosed, or make any record of them. 
This mound, which I have before had occasion to mention,* formerly 
stood immediately upon the bank of the Illinois Kiver, within the pres- 
ent limits of the city of Beardstown, 6 miles below the mouth of the San- 
gamon. This locality is slightly more elevated than the surrounding 
river bottoms on either side, and was anciently an island surrounded 
on one side partly by the Illinois an<l on the other by a slough through 
which the river had once passed and yet discharged its sur])lus water. 
The island, on account of its peculiarly favorable position, had been for 

*Smirhsn>uiau Annual Report for 1876, p. i-iti. 



570 MISCELLANEOUS PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

centuries a camping? ground and stronghold of the aborigines. Geologi- 
cally it, as well as most of the bottom, has a basis of loess or drift 
clay with a superincumbent stratum of sand 5 to 10 feet in thickness. 
All around the site of the mound the soil to the depth of 20 inches is 
composed of the debris of old camps, a mixture of ashes, mussel shells^ 
bones of fishes and wild animals, charcoal, broken pottery, &c. ; and 
here hundreds of implements of stone, bone, and shell have been ob- 
tained. The big mound is said, by persons who have often seen it 
before the hand of vandalism desecrated it, to have been more than 30 
feet high by 150 feet in diameter at the base. Its summit commanded 
an uninterrupted view of the distant bluffs on both sides of the river 
and of the stream itself for 2 or 3 miles above and below. We can easily 
imagine the strange scene this great cone presented when it swarmed 
one autumn day with an eager, startled multitude of wild, half naked 
barbarians gazing with astonishment at the sun-burnt, bearded faces 
and tattered garments of Marquette and Joliet as they wearily paddled 
their frail canoe up the quiet river at its base. More than thirty years 
ago the city authorities of Beardstown commenced the destruction of this 
splendid monument to utilize the clay of which it was composed for 
covering the sand of their streets, and in a few years the grand struct- 
ure was totally demolished. The mound was found to have been made, 
on the sand, of clay taken from the bed of the river at low water or 
brought from the blutfs ; and it had been used as a burying ground by 
people of different eras and races. Just below the surface the shallow 
graves and well-preserved skeletons of recent Indians, buried with im- 
plements of stone and iron and ornaments of glass and brass, were 
shoveled out; and a little deeper the spades uncovered the remains of 
a few Europeans, deserters, perhaps, from the commands of Chevalier 
La Salle or Lieutenant Tonti, who had found an asylum and graves 
among the Indians of this distant wilderness. There was one of them^ 
however, whose mission in this part of the New World was widely dif- 
ferent from that of his buried associates : the silver cross still grasped 
by his skeleton hand, the Venetian beads about his waist that had 
formed a rosary, and the ghastly skull still encircled by a thin band of 
polished silver proclaimed that here a self-sacrificing disciple of Loyola 
had expended life in the hopeless work of converting the heathen. 
These intrusive burials passed, nothing more was discovered until the 
original sandy surface of the island was reached, and what was there 
deposited before the great mass of clay had been jnled over it was cast 
aside by the laborers without notice. From the street commissioner 
who had the work in charge I gained the following meager account of 
all that attracted his attention sufficient to impress his memory. Eanged 
along the middle of the structure was a parapet or wall, as he supposed, 
of rough tlag-stones 30 inches high by 3 feet in breadth and 25 feet in 
length, designed apparently by the ancient inhabitants as a breastwork 
or rampart for the defense of their town from river approaches. But^ 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, oTt 

on removinji: the stones, it was found that this work of defense was not 
a solid wall, but a series of crypts or stone graves, constructed by plant- 
ing broad, tlat stones perpendicularly in the sand and covering tliem 
with others of the same kind laid across them. These rude tombs were- 
entirely empty. Not a bone or tooth remained ; so great was the lapse of 
time since the bodies of the honored dead had been laid in these secure 
vaults that not a vestige of them survived but blotches of dark dust 
upon the yellow sand. On either side of the primitive coffins, but not 
contiguous to them, were traces of fire, and with ashes and charcoal 
were noticed calcined bones, small cubes of galena, and broken ilints 
and pottery. The destruction of the great mound yielded many rare 
and fine implements and ornaments of stone and shell, which no one- 
thought to preserve ; and no one thought to observe whether they had 
been interred with the dead at the base of the tumulus or with those 
buried upon its surface. Among the many relics unearthed, one par- 
ticularly fine axe of polished stone is remembered, having a groove cut 
around the middle and a cutting edge on each end ; also three pestle- 
shaped objects of beautifully polished porphyry 20 inches long, 2i or 3 
inches in diameter, rounded at one end and pointed at the other. 

Seven miles east of Beardstown, up the Sangamon, and quite near it, 
at Mound Lake, is a conspicuous landmark known as "the Mound;" a 
ridge-like elevation 40 feet high by GO yards in width, and 400 feet in 
length. This mound has never been explored, and may be of artificial 
origin; but I am strongly inclined to regard it a natural formation (like 
the great Cahokia mound and other similar elevations in the American 
Bottom), merely an outlier of the loess or bluff formation left there in the 
primal erosion of the river valley. It is situated in the edge of the tim- 
ber, on the bank of a small lake, 3 miles from the bluffs, and in the midst 
of the finest fishing and hunting district, even in this day, to be found 
in Illinois. Whether or not the Indians raised this mound is a question 
to be determined by future investigation, but there is no doubt of their 
having used it as a place of resort and camping ground for a great 
length of time. Although it has been in cultivation for many years,, 
traces of camp-fires are yet seen all over it, and its surface and the ad- 
joining fields are yet littered with potsherds, flint chips, and decayed 
bones and teeth of wiUl animals. One of the very few entire pieces of 
pottery ever recovered in this county was plowed up with some human 
bones on this mound in the early history of its cultivation. It was a 
globular earthen vessel, 10 or 12 inches in diameter, marked externally 
as usual with the impression of the fabric in which it was moulded or 
sustained while drying. A similar vessel, but smaller, was plowed up 
unbroken in a field a few miles east of this place a few years later. At 
a point about midway the lake-side base of the mound I discovered, some 
years ago, the remains of a kiln in which the savages had burned their 
pottery. It was an excavation in its side, almost circular and 4 feet 
in diameter, an old-fashioned lime-kiln in miniature, with walls burned 



572 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

as bard as a brick, and the bottom for the depth of a foot filled with 
ashes, charcoal, and broken jjottery. 

Nine miles farther east, up the Sangamon Yalley and near the bluffs, 
is another large conical mound, 25 feet high, which has never been ex- 
amined even superficially. These three mounds, assuming the latter 
two to be the product of human agency, are all of the first class, and of 
any class worthy the designation of mounds, found upon the river ter- 
races or bottoms in the county. 

The next class of mounds comprise those next largest in magnitude, 
and are more numerous than the first. They are invariably perched 
upon the peaks of the Sangamon bluffs, rarely exceeding 8 or 10 feet in 
height by 20 to 30 in diameter, and are more frequently met of much 
smaller dimensions. This class of mounds differs from all the others 
in the peculiar disposition of the remains they inclose. Too few in num- 
bers to constitute the sepulchers of a distinct tribe with an exclusive 
burial custom, we must conclude that they cover the remains of a class 
of individuals distinguished from the commonalty for sui)erior ability 
or merit. The mode of inhumation in mounds of this kind consisted in 
placing the body or bodies (for they contain from one to six or eight 
each) of the deceased upon the ground in a sitting or squatting posture, 
with the face to the east, and inclosing them with a rudely-constructed 
circular wall of rough, undressed stones, which was gradually contracted 
at the top, and finally covered over with a single broad stone slab, over 
all of which the earth was heaped. Though I have carefully examined 
several of these mounds, I have not yet succeeded in securing from them 
either an entire skull or earthen vessel, as their inclosed cairns are in- 
variably found to have fallen in and crushed the bones and accompany- 
ing pottery into a confused mass. Nor have I discovered in them cop- 
per implements or jiipes of any description, or any object of carved 
stone; but only a few tiint and bone implements, and broken pottery 
without ornamentation and of very poor quality. Judging from every 
indication, external and internal, I would conclude that the class of 
earthworks under consideration were very old were it not for the sin- 
gular fact that in one of them, a few years ago, the decayed bones of a 
single individual were found, with a few flint arrow points, a small 
earthen cup or vase, and an iron gun-barrel very much corroded. 

The next class of mounds in this county are so numerous and were 
obviously constructed with so little care and labor that we must regard 
them as the depositories or cemeteries of the common and untitled dead. 
They are seen on every knob and ridge of the blufl's and on the hills 
bordering all of our smaller streams. Seldom rising in elevation more 
than a foot or two above the general surface, they frequently cover a 
space of 10 or 15 yards in diameter, and we sometimes find eight or ten 
of them in a row, along the crest of a ridge, separated from each other 
by intervals of 10 or 15 yards; each containing the bones of a greater 
or less number of individuals in different states of preservation. Their 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 573 

repose is often rudely disturbed by the plow, and tlieir human remains 
scattered over the fields with broken pottery aud occasionally flint im- 
plements, stone axes, bone awls, and other relics. In many mounds of 
this class the tirst step taken in the inhumation of the corpse or corjises 
apparently was to scoop out from the soil a shallow, dish-like excava- 
tion in which the body or bodies — generally several together — were de- 
posited, sitting up with limbs flexed upon the breast; they were then 
I>robably covered with bark or other perishable material, as no large 
stones are ever encountered in these graves, and then covered with 
earth. In some of them the bones of the dead, in extreme stages of de- 
cay, are in great confusion and were buried without definite arrange- 
ment or system, somewhat as was observed by Mr. Jeflerson in a mound 
which he describes in his "Xotes on Virginia," indicating that in those 
the skeletons of all members of the tribe who had died within a definite 
period of time had been collected from the tre«- scaffolds, or brought 
from the tribal bone-house, as was witnessed by Bartram, and laid to- 
gether in bundles and "covered with a great mount." The chalk-like 
softness of the bones in this class of mounds tends to confirm the first- 
thought impression of high antiquity; but this fact alone cannot be re- 
lied on as satisfactory proof of their age when we consider that the 
covering of earth, ])erhaps not of great thickness at first, has been 
washed down and thinned by rains, leaving the animal remains but 
slightly protected from the decomposing agencies of water and frost. 
In one instance unquestionable evidence of comparatively recent origin 
was presented. In cutting down a roadway through one of the Prairie 
Creek ridges, since known as " Indian Hill," in the southwestern part 
of the county, a broad, low mound was removed and the skeletons of 
several individuals exposed. With the mingled mass of bones thrown 
out were found broken pottery, a few stone and bone implements, to- 
gether with a quantity of glass beads and brass rings of European man- 
ufacture. Eesting in what remained of the hand of one of the female 
skeletons was a beautiful pipe of polished serpentine in the perfect 
form of a squatting frog, of life size, but instead of the usual flat, carved 
base of the so-called " mound pipes," it had an aperture drilled to con- 
nect with the bowl for the insertion of a cane or wooden stem. Some 
time afterward, at the foot of this ridge, the plow turned up a single 
skeleton from a mound so small as to have escaped previous notice; 
and so far advanced in decay were the bones that it was with difficulty 
I succeeded in partially restoring, by the aid of glue and plaster, the 
skull and facial bones. The only relics found with this individual, 
which I judged to have been a female, were a stone frog, probably un- 
finished, larger than the natural maximum size, without perforations 
of any kind, and a pipe, representing the head of a fox, both rudely 
cut out of soft, coarse, yellow sandstone. 

In all the interments I have heretofore mentioned the bodies of the 
dead, so far as I could ascertain, had been primarily placed upon the 



574 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

surface of tlie ground, or in shallow saucer-like depressions, iu a sit- 
ting or doubled-up posture ; or the dry bones, after decomi)osition of 
the Hesh, had been gathered ia bundles and placed on the ground in 
piles, and the earth heaped over them in a conical mound of greater or 
less magnitude. But in some, judging from the better state of preser- 
vation of the inclosed remains to be of most recent construction, a dif- 
ferent arrangement is observed. The bnried skeletons are found on the 
surface of the ground, but laid at full length on their backs, and sur- 
rounded or inclosed with thin broad stones or sheets of bituminous 
shale, stuck into the ground upright, and probably at the time of inter- 
ment covered over with poles or bark before the earth was thrown on. 
This change in disposing of the corpse for burial was, in my opinion, a 
consequent innovation of the first contact with Europeans; and we 
have convincing reasons for believing that the old practice of burning 
the dead above ground in mounds of earth or stone prevailed generally 
among our Indians down to their acquaintance with the whites. Here, 
as elsewhere, we oc(5asioually find the remains of Indians extended full 
length in graves below the surface of the ground, unmarked by mound 
or monument of any kind. These comparatively modern graves, copied 
after those of the white intruders, are, like the mounds, invariably on 
the high lands ; and in manj^ instances the crumbling chalk-like bones 
•can only be identified as belonging to the red race by the implements 
of stone or shell ornaments associated with them. 

Upon the open prairies of Cass County neither mounds nor graves of 
the pre-historic dead are ever found, and but few of their relics except- 
ing flint weapons of the chase. The Indians no doubt hunted the deer 
and buffalo and elk on our prairies, but neither lived nor buried their 
dead there. Their camping-grounds and villages were in the groves 
along the streams and near springs, and they located their cemeteries 
upon the adjacent bluifs. 

The southern line of this country in its entire length coincides very 
nearly with a small stream, called Indian Creek, which drains the prai- 
ries of a portion of Sangamon County, and, running almost directly 
■west, joins the Illinois ten miles below Beardstown. This creek, too, 
was the resort of the hunter tribes, and along its banks are still traces 
of many of their camps and relics of their home life ; and on the hills 
overlooking its valley are the low mound graves of their dead. On a 
high terrace sloping down to the water of this little stream I discovered, 
some time ago, the location of an ancient workshop for the manufacture 
of flint implements. The ground for a considerable space was littered 
with chips and nodules of flint and broken and unfinished arrow and 
spear points; and scattered here and there were several water-worn 
bowlders of granite and greenstone, brought from the drift clay of the 
hills for use by the early artisans as anvils. In this debris a beautiful 
polished celt of hematite and a few complete flint weapons have been 
recovered, together with bone punches and awls, and quantities of 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 57^ 

"broken pottery, ashes, cbarcoal, and fragments of shells, bones, and 
antlers of deer and elk. Only a few of the Indian Creek mounds have 
been critically examined, but there is no reason for believing that they 
ditter in any essential characteristic with those of the Sangamon blufls. 

The remains of Indian art found in this country diller but little from 
similar objects found in all parts of the Mississippi Valley. The race 
inhabiting' this locality before us left no specimen of their work indicat- 
ing any expression of genius, or any marked degree of skill or proficiency 
in the common arts of life. The i>ot-sherds seen in profusion about 
their old camps and mounds are comjiosed in the main of clay and lime 
(calcined muscle-shells), but a large proportion were molded from clay 
alone, and aj)parently formed parts of small rude ill-shai)ed and poorly 
burned vases and cups. The best sj^ecimens are ornamented with im- 
pressions of coarsely woven fabrics and bark of trees, curved lines, nobs, 
and indentations, and the marks of finger-nails. In no instance has 
there been noticed the slightest attempt to produce upon any piece of 
l)ottery the representation of the human face or figure, or of any bird 
or animal. But few of their earthen vessels have survived to the pres- 
ent time; besides the two pots found unbroken, which I have before 
described, not half a dozen have been secured entire in the whole 
€Ounty. 

I have not yet heard of an implement or ornament of copper having 
"been found among the mound remains of the county, and of hematite 
only the small celt before mentioned ; two or three so-called '' plummets," 
several "paint rocks" (or burnt pieces), and some rough blocks of the 
ore, constitute all of the relics of this material so far known. Occasionally 
with the bones of the dead are noticed small cubes of galena ; and in our 
collection is a ball of this ore, taken from a mound, weighing a pound 
and two ounces, which probably did service, enveloped in raw hide, as 
some form of weapon. No lead, however, has here ever been discovered 
■with any of the aboriginal remains. It is passing strange that the Illi- 
nois Indians, so well acquainted with lead ore as we know them to have 
been, should have never gained the knowledge of its fusibility and ready 
reduction to metal. Plates of mica are of comparatively common oc- 
currence in our mounds, and in many instances are found to have been 
deposited upon the breast of the corpse. In one of the small ridge mounds 
of the Sangamon blutis a skeleton was uncovered having upon the de- 
cayed sternum ten plates of mica uniformly cut to the dimensions of 9 
inches -in length and 4 wide, with the corners neatly rounded. This 
mineral is not found in situ in Illinois, and of course must have been, 
imported from a considerably remote distance. 

Of marine shells no entire specimen of the conch, or Cassis, or Lycoiy- 
ptis, has been seen in the old graves of our country; but small ornaments 
and beads made of the columellas and broken pieces of large sea-shells 
are quite frequently found. In our collection is a necklace comprising 178 
jneces of conch shell — each perforated in the center and presenting all 



576 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

stages of finish, from the rough angular sections two or more inches 
square, to the round polished complete disc two or three lines in thick- 
ness and from half an inch to an inch in diameter — which a short time 
ago was turned out of a low mound by the plow, with the skull and cer- 
vical vertebrae of a female skeleton. In another low mound on the bluffs 
the plow threw out, with a mass of chalky bones, a pint of small sea- 
shells {Marginella aplcina), each pierced at the shoulder for the recep- 
tion of a string to suspend them about the neck or hair. These beauti- 
ful little shells are often found in our mounds, and must have been in 
general use for personal adornment, or as a medium of exchange in the 
primitive system of commerce and trade. The valves of several species 
of fresh-water mollusks, especially of the JJnios and Anodontas, were 
utilized as spoons and knives, and used for digging in sandy soil. Earely 
we meet with ornaments cut from them. The hypothesis that our river 
mollusks constituted a part of the food-supply of the Illinois Indians is 
not sustained by the presence on our streams of shell heaps of any ex. 
tent. Fish and game were abundant enough for subsistence at all times, 
and muscles were in this latitude evidently not considered a luxury. 

The long bones of the deer, turkey, &c., were here as elsewhere fash- 
ioned into awls, needles, fish-hooks, and punches, and made to do service 
as handles for stone-tools and domestic utensils. The only ornament of 
bone (if it was an ornament) the county has yet produced is a broad, 
flat rib from the carapace of a very large snapping turtle, perforated 
at each end and ground smooth and polished all over. 

Of objects carved in stone but few, besides the specimens I have specif- 
ically mentioned, have come to light in this county. Of pipes, a small 
" mound " pipe from Beardstown and the frog (of serpertine) are the only 
fine specimens known. In our collection are the fox-head pipe and sev- 
eral coarse, heavy affairs, without beauty or symmetry, which were un- 
doubtedly used for smoking tobacco; and jiipes made of clay and burnt 
are not uncommon. These latter objects were perhaps manufactured 
after the arts of the whites had been learned, as they are fashioned in 
the exact shape of common English clay pipes ; at any rate, their resem- 
blance to the imported article is so striking as to place their claim to 
high antiquity in serious doubt. As a rule, the objects carved in stone 
by the stone-age denizens of this region, exhibit such flagrant deficiency 
of taste or talent in design, and such low order of skill in execution, 
that we must conclude the few elaborate and finely-finished specimens 
now and then discovered here are importations from a distance, secured 
either by barter or reprisals in war, and were made by a people of higher 
intelligence and advancements in the arts. Of these exotic relics the 
porphyry "pestles," the "mound," and serpentine pipes, the perforated 
weapon of ribbon slate, a discoidal stone of milky quartz, and one of 
those beautiful perforated " ceremonial "stones of rosy, variegated, trans- 
lucent quartz now in our collection, constitute all of that class known 
within the limits of the county. Agricultural flint implements, com- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 577 

prising spades and hoes, are not uncommon in the rich loamy terraces 
of our rivers, but are generally interior in size and workmanship to 
those met with in that portion of Saint Clair and Madison counties 
known as the American Bottom. The spades are smaller and ruder, 
and the hoes are iilain and without notches for fastening them to hand- 
les. The broad hornstono disks, discovered some years ago buried in the 
sand a short distance above the large Beardstown mound, and which 
I have described in a previous paper,* are supposed by some archffiol- 
ogists to have been intended for agricultural tools, though never intro- 
duced in general use. Of this however we have no positive evidence, 
and until our knowledge of this class of relics is increased, we must 
regard that strange deposit as an unsolved mystery. 

Celts and grooved axes of granite and Various augitic rocks, of all 
sizes and many patterns, have been, and still are, abundant hero. The 
largest grooved ax in our collection weighs twelve and a half pounds; 
the smallest, one and a half ounces. Our largest celt, cut from a coarse- 
grained diorite, weighs eleven pounds; and the smallest, obviously a 
child's toy, weighs scarcely half an ounce. Flint arrow and spear points, 
knives, scrapers, and hatchets of the usual forms have been collected in 
Cass County in great profusion. Hammer-stones, nut-stones, discoidal 
stones, perforated "talismans " or " arrow atraighteners" of ribbon-slate, 
of basalt, and of fossil wood; stone-balls, plain and grooved; in short, 
all of the ordinary types of rough and polished stone implements in use 
by the pre-metal Indian tribes have been and still are often found about 
our streams and bluffs. 

The archaeological remains of which I have so far briefly treated are not 
peculiar to this county or to any circumscribed locality, but are common 
in all those portions of Illinois and of almost all of the Western, Middle, 
and Southern States contiguous to water-courses, where the aborigines, 
with identical habits of life and by identical methods, obtained, with little 
effort, their food-supplies. And the comprehensive generalization which 
I have attempted of the antiquities observed here will, with trifling 
variations and additions, apply equally well to those of other counties 
and States. 

I have yet to mention, however, one object recently discovered in this 
vicinity, of rare occurrence in the prehistoric remains of this State, be- 
longing to a class so suggestive of savage, ethnic characteristics as to 
incite interest and thoughtful study. On the crest of one of the highest 
and most prominent points of the Sangamon blufts, jutting out irom 
the range into the valley, a promontory, conspicuous for many miles in 
all directions, was one of the common oval swellings of the surface, 
usually known here as an "Indian grave," but so overgrown with 
bushes and weeds and tall grass as to have required close inspection to 
distinguish it from the natural contour of the hill. The owner of the 
land, having occasion to build a pasture-fence over this point, set a 

Smithsonian Annual Report for 1876, p. 438 et acq. 
S. Mis. 109 37 



578 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

laborer to diggiug holes for the fence-posts; but when the work had 
progressed as far as the "grave," the spade barely penetrated the sod 
at its edge, when it came in contact with a stone, which proved, on re- 
moving the soil covering it, to be a rough, flat sandstone flag, nearly 
square, 3 inches thick and IS or 20 inches broad. It was thrown aside, 
and the fence completed. Some time afterwards, on learning that such 
a stone was found on this point, I concluded to explore the place with 
the hope of securing a skull or other relic of interest which it may have 
covered. Investigation soon convinced me that it had not formed any 
part of the covering of a grave, but had been laid flat on the bare ground. 
Carefully removing the bushes and earth in which they grew, other 
similar stones were uncovered, forming together a rude floor or pave- 
ment 12 feet in length by 8 'in width, somewhat dish-shaped, the center 
being gradually depressed 10 inches below the edges. The stone first 
discovered had formed one of the corners of this curious structure. The 
long axis of the work coincided with the strike of the ridge, exactly 
north and south ; and the flags of which it was made had been carried 
up from an outcrop of carboniferous sandstone a mile and a half distant, 
and were rough and uncut, but fitted together with surprising accuracy. 
They were reddened and cracked, apparently by long continued heat, 
and the interstices between them were compactly filled with fine 
ashes. Upon this pavement or "altar" was a mass of ashes, per- 
haps a foot thick in the middle, and a little more than filling to a 
level its basin-like concavity. On the surface of this ash-bed I col- 
lected fragments of charred bones, constituting parts of three adult 
human skeletons, among which were considerable portions of three 
lower jaws, with teeth intact, large pieces of six femurs and pelvic 
bones, the occipital protuberances of three crania, some bodies of ver- 
tebrae, and many small j)ieces so burned as to be unrecognizable. The 
fire which consumed these three skeletons had been smothered be- 
fore it was exhausted, and while yet glowing, as many large pieces of 
charcoal were mingled with the bones, and the superincumbent earth in 
contact with the fire was reddened and partially baked. Interspersed 
throughout the mass of ashes filling the basin were many small 
X)iece8 of bone and teeth converted into animal charcoal, and bits of flint, 
perhaps weapons, shivered and broken by the fierce heat of the pyre. 
I also observed many minute scales of burnt mica and shell, but found 
no part of any pipe or other object carved in stone, or of pottery. The 
mound inclosing this weird " sacrificial altar," after the washing of rains 
and beating of storms for centuries unnumbered, measured but httle 
more than 2 feet high by 20 in diameter. The cracked and fire-scarred 
stones and great quantity of ashes without charcoal, mingled through- 
out with fragments of calcined bones, considered in connection with the' 
prominent situation of the "altar," in full view of the valley below and 
of the highlands around for miles, seem to support the inference that 
here, at stated times, for a long period, had been practiced the burning 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 579 

of human bodies ; or that the remains of a great number of individuals 
had at one time been consumed until, with the three last victims, the 
fire was suddenly extinguished by heaping over the seething mass the 
earth that was to keep the story for the coming of another race. We 
are warranted in believing that all tribes of Indians inhabiting this 
great valley, from the remotest times, executed by burning certain cap- 
tives taken in battle 5 but we have no evidence that dish-shaped plat- 
forms of stone were constructed especially for that purpose. The 
simpler method of securing the doomed wretch to a stake or tree and 
there slowly roasting him amidst the wild jeers and exultations of the 
captors is far more consonant with well-known Indian nature and 
usages. But for the absence of collateral testimony the hypothesis that 
so-called "altars" of this class were made for the purpose of incinerating, 
at stated i^eriods, the remains of the dead of the entire tribe, collected 
for such disposal from tree-scafiblds or bone-houses, would present many 
elements of plausibility. It is possible that a single tribe may have so 
cremated the skeletons of their deceased kinsmen before making their 
voluntary or compulsory exodus from this locality j but observed facts 
fail to sustain the idea that such a mortuary custom prevailed here 
generally at any time or among any peojile. We have the authority of 
La Hontau that the Indians of the Lower Mississippi "burnt their dead, 
keeping the bodies until they had accumulated" sufficiently in num- 
bers for the grand ceremony, which was performed in certain places 
remote from their villages. But Du Pratz, whose opportunities for 
observation and sources of information were equal if not superior to his, 
positively asserts that " none of the nations of Louisiana were acquainted 
with the custom of burning their dead." Had this custom been in vogue 
to any considerable extent or for any considerable period of time it is 
plain that cinerary altars would be numerous and sepulchral mounds . 
exceptional. In Cass County and the State of Illinois, so far as my 
knowledge extends, this strange monument is unique and without par- 
allel among thousands of Indian mound-graves, a mystic expression, it 
may be, of religious fervor or superstitious frenzy. 

The intrinsic evidence of many prehistoric remains of this county 
sustains their claim to extreme antiquity, but no work or specimen of 
art of a former race has yet been found here above the capacity or 
achievement of the typical ISTorth American Indian. And in studying 
the life, habits, and burial customs indicated by these relics, I can see 
no necessity for ascribing them to the agency of a distinct or superior 
race, when they express so unmistakably the known status of Indian 
intellect. 



580 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ANTIQUITIES OF JACKSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By G. H. French, of Carhondale, III. 

Among the many objects attesting that Southern Illinois is part of 
a region once inhabited by a race of people abont -srhom comiiaratively 
little beyond conjectnre is known, the various mounds and cairns form 
a conspicuous part. The exploration of one of these structures was 
the subject of two visits by Dr. E. B. Chapin, a resident of this i)lace, 
and myself on the 3d of April and the 3d of June, 1878. The mound 
is situated on the farm of E. M. Norbury, about 3 miles south of 
here, and is about 40 rods west from the Illinois Central Eailrcad, on 
a hill that forms a spur from a comparatively level area of land back 
a little from a creek on the south, and just in the edge of a piece of 
second-growth oak timber. Situated as it was on the point of this 
hill, it was difficult to judge at first of either its height above the nat- 
ural ground or of its size; but subsequent examination showed that it 
was, in its highest i)art, about 3 feet above the original ground, and it 
appeared to be 25 or 30 feet in diameter. We found, however, that in- 
side these limits was a sericvS of stones that seemed to have been placed 
around the base of the mound to hold the dirt in position as it was 
heaped up, and as the elements in time had removed the dirt from the 
higher parts and spread it around and beyond these stones they had 
become partly or wholly covered up, while the extent of the structure 
was increased. If this theory is correct, and the position of the con- 
tents of the mound seemed to indicate that it is, the mound was origi- 
nally oval or nearly oblong, and measured 12 by 15 feet in its shortest 
and longest diameters. 

For 2 or 3 rods to the south and for 20 or more rods to the north and 
northwest, chips of flint were abundant, both mingled with the soil and 
on its top. The same soil and flints mixed with broken bits of pottery 
formed the general substance of the mound. These seemed to indicate 
that the immediate vicinity had been the site of an Indian workshop 
and i)erhaps camping ground. In the time when this ground was 
covered with the primeval forest the small branches only a few rods 
to the east and west would have afforded them water most of the 
year, if this locality ever formed a permanent place of abode; while the 
creek, from 50 to 80 rods to the south, would be the unfailing source 
when the heats of summer had dried up the others. Several other facts 
seemed to point to this as having been for them a central position. 
A-cross the creek, that is to the south, and 80 or more rods on the other 
side, in a southwesterly direction, was a stone mound that we also ex- 
plored, but found no remains of any character either in or about it. 
It seemed to be simply a monument of direction as much as anything we 
could discover, an irregular cairn of stones in such a position that the 
natural contour of the land would indicate there might have been here 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 581 

a trail, but all other marks are uovr obliterated. Still further to the 
south, but whose exact positiou I did uot learn, are several other inouuds, 
which 1 think have been more or less explored. To the southeast, at a 
distance of 5 or G miles, is a structure known now as "Stone Fort," that 
is supposed to have been constructed by the Indians, and probably for 
defensive purposes. This is, or evidently has been, a wall across the 
neck of a projecting point of rocks, thouj^h it is now but a lon<^ pile of 
stone as though a wall had been demolished. Northwest from this 
mound, some 12 or 15 miles west of Carbondale, are other mounds, while 
north or northwest of these are others, as though forming a line with 
those that have been found within the vicinity of East Saint Louis and 
Alton. All these facts seem to bear more or less directly on the idea 
that at some time this locality had been a place of general work and 
resort. 

The central part of the mound had been more or less disturbed on 
top by having been a place where brush and other refuse had been 
burned, and where hogs had lain and rooted, but it was claimed by Mr. 
Norbur}^, the owner of the place, that other than this it had not been 
disturbed. As intinrnted before, the mound was composed of th^ nat- 
ural black surface soil of the place mingled with chips of flint and broken 
pieces of pottery, the latter red, the flint of a blue kmd, and in all shapes 
and sizes, but we found no arrow-heads or other imi)lements of the same 
kind of stone. We found only one arrow-head, and that was of white 
flint, regular lanceolate shape and about 3 inches long. The pie<3es of 
pottery were all small and of irregular shai)es. The only implement 
found, other than the arrow-head, was a thong-gauge, about 3 inches 
long by about an inch and a half wide, with two gauge-holes and a slight 
depression on one side between the holes as though a place for the thumb 
when used. This wag composed of either red stone or pottery ; I am 
inclined to think the first, as it seemed to be too compact for pottery, or 
at least more so than the broken pieces found. 

In the northwest part of the mound was found a skeleton in a hori- 
zontal position b'ing on the back with the head towards the northeast, 
and about 3} feet below the toj) of the mound. The bones were so de- 
composed that it was with difficulty that a whole one of any part of the 
skeleton could be taken out without breaking and crumbling, though 
while in position the shape of the skull indicated that it corresponded 
with those taken from other mounds at Sand Eidge, this county, and 
other i)oints in the vicinitj*. 

Xo other complete skeleton was found in the mound, though pieces of 
human bones representing nearly all parts of the skeleton were scattered 
through different parts of the structure, together with the bones of other 
animals. Of these we could recognize the lower maxillary of deer and 
the atlas of a bear, but the rest were too much broken to be identified. 
Besides these there were a few laud-shells, a species of helLv, and a few 
broken salt-water shells, perhaps of some species of uuio. The scattered 



582 MISCELLANEOUS ■ PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

liuman bones were all of them more or less broken, the breaking seem- 
ing to have been done when the bones were fresh. In one or two in- 
stances only were we able to find the different pieces of the same bone. 
In one case a femur was broken into three pieces, the head and two parts 
of the shaft, and these were 2 or 3 feet apart. It may be stated here 
also that these scattered human bones, the flints and broken pieces of 
pottery, together with the shells and bones of animals, were all of them 
above the depth where the skeleton was found, as though they were 
mixed with the earth of which the mound was built. We could account 
for this in the following manner : The chips of flint, shells, bones of an- 
imals, and the scattered human bones were on the surface when the 
burial took place, and after the body had been placed in position the 
dirt on the surface that could be the most easily obtained was gathered 
up together with whatever was scattered over the surface. Of this the 
mound was built, and, from what we know of the habits of the Indians 
of the present, it takes but little imagination to form a picture of the 
squaws gathering up this material in their baskets and carrying it to 
the place where it was wanted. This would imply that the people who 
did the burying were cannibals, and the broken character of the scat- 
tered human bones would in a measure substantiate that view. 



A STONE FOET NEAIi IMAKANDA, JACKSON COUNTY, ILLI. 

NOIS. 

By G. H. French, of Carhondale, III. 

In company with Prof. A. C. Ilillman and Mr. John Martin, one of our 
students very much interested in natural history, I visited Stone Fort, 
near Makanda. This place is situated in township 10 south, range 1 
west, of the third principal meridian, on the east side of the Illinois Cen- 
tral Railroad, and is about three-fourths of a mile, by road, northeast from 
the village of Makanda. The country here is very hiUy and rocky, Ma- 
kanda being situated in a gorge, through which the Drury Creek runs. 
North of Makanda, where the road turns east, is a side gorge, through 
which runs a small tributary stream of the Drury, more or less lined 
with rocky bluffs on both sides. The surface beyond the bluffs in some 
places slopes upward ; at others the bluffs are nearly as high as the 
general elevation of the surrounding country. On the west of a bluff 
known as the Stone Fort another smaller stream comes down between 
the bluffs. It is now nearly tlry but is well filled with water in times 
of freshets. Stone Fort is a ledge of rocks projecting out as a rounded 
point from the northern and eastern side of this second gorge, more 
toward the stream than the general course of the blufis. On the south- 
em face the bluff is 125 feet high. Across its neck above extends a pile 
of stone, running east and west, which gives the place its only import- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 583 

ance archaeologically. This pile of stone is about 280 feet long, and on 
an average 2 rods wide, and in the middle is about 30 inches high. 
The distance from the front face of the bluff to the middle of the stone 
wall is about 300 feet. The lengths were obtained by pacing, and the 
width and depth by tape-lmo. The middle of this inclosed space is from 
15 to 20 feet higher than the edges, the slope being gradual. The whole 
space is covered with trees similar in size and appearance to those 
on the tops of the other bluffs. All around the bluff, from the front or 
south face to the east and west, the rocks are either peri^endicular or 
overhanging; but on both sides back of the line of piled stone the top 
may easily be reached, as the distance from the summit of the bluff 
on its southern face to the more nearly level ground below decreases 
toward the north, being perhaps 50 feet at the eastern and 25 feet at the 
western end of the stone wall. This pile of stone across the neck of the 
bluff shows evidence of having been a wall. To see if there were any 
signs of regularity in its structure, and upon what base it had been 
constructed, we took out a cross-section of the stone in one place where 
they seemed to have been thrown down, and partial sections in several 
other places. First, the materials are sandstone, the same as that of 
the bluffs. Many of them are flat, all irregular, just as would occur in 
breaking up that kind of stone. In size they vary from some smaller 
than a man's head to those as large as one man can lift. They are built 
upon the ground and not upon the ledge of rocks, as the earth beneath 
the pile is the same as that constituting the top of the bluff, save that 
here there is no vegetable mold. Most of the larger stones are placed 
where was the base of the wall, seemingly with but little regularity. 
At the ends, where the hill is a little steep, the flat stones at the bottom 
are set on edge, and the next course so laid that its top surface would 
be nearly level, or sloping a little up the hill. This, of course, would 
make it easier to lay the succeeding stones. Where these stones came 
from is hard to tell. If there were only a few of them one might conclude 
that they were picked up from the surface of the inclosed ai ea south of 
the wall and on the open space north of it. But there are not stone 
enough on the same area of the tops of the other bluffs to make such a 
pile. Part of them may have been obtained in that way and the rest 
brought there from abovc», where this bluff is not very high. 

The question "why they were placed there?" seems to admit of but 
one answer — they were a means of defense. The fact that it has been 
known as Stone Fort ever since the country was settled imi)lies that 
such has been the general opinion of the people acquainted with the 
place. It has been assumed, however, that it was the work of hunt- 
ers for the purpose of a protection to their camp. I can hardly con- 
ceive that a party of hunters, for a temporary camp, would go to the 
trouble of gathering such a mass of stone as is represented in 280 feet 
long, 33 feet wide, and, on an average, li feet high. It may have been 
the location of an Indian encampment in some former years, and built 



584 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

by tliem as a protection from tlieir foes, aud used very much as Starved 
Eock, on the Illiuois Eiver, was by the Illinois Indians. 

The question will occur, where did they obtain their water for domestic 
purposes? On the west side, just within the end of the waU, there is a 
deep, narrow fissure in the rocks, down which one man at a time might 
go ; and it is only a few feet from the bottom of this fissure to the stream 
that comes down the rocks. Evidently there is always a little water 
here, and it is quite palatable, as we found by trial. This may have 
been their mode of egress and ingress to the inclosure. 

"We found very little remains of the former occupants. At one place 
beneath the stones, evidently just south of what was the south side of 
the wall, we found a broken arrow-head of white flint, the only rehc dis- 
co verd in the inclosure. We did not dig iuto the ground, either south or 
north of the wall, not seeing any elevation that looked like a mound. I 
would add fiu"ther, in relation to the blulf, that the fissure just sjioken 
of, inside the western extremity of the wall, is the only i)lace where it 
is possible to reach the top from any point south of the wall. 

That it was a place of refuge from any body of men using fire-arms 
does not seem probable, for the following reason: In addition to the 
evidence which the broken arrow-head affords, the bluff to the south, 
across the creek, is considerably higher than this one, aud is within 
range of a rifle, but would not be within arrow-shot. This, and the fact 
that there seems to be no tradition of the building of the wall, would 
lead us to conclude that it antedates the white settlements of this region. 
It is not far from a number of Indian mounds to the north, or a little 
west of north, that seem to form a nearly continuous line with others still 
farther north. One of these mounds I opened in 1878. 



ANCIENT REMAINS NEAR COBDEN, ILLINOIS. 

By F. M. Farrell, of CoMen, III. 

Along the range of sandstone bluffs that traverse Southern Illinois 
running eastward and forming the water-shed between the tributaries 
of Big Muddy River on the north aud Cache River on the south, aud 
from 16 to 20 miles east of the Mississippi River, I have been making 
a few discoveries which prove that the sheltered nooks formed by the 
projecting clifts were the favorite abodes of an ancient race that once 
peopled the Mississippi Valley. 

The first jflace investigated is 2 miles east of Cobdeu, 111., under a 
projecting cliff of sandstone (millstone grit) about GO feet high aud fac- 
ing the east. 

Around an ancient fire-bed, not more than 1 foot below the surface, 
in a loose, porous clay, were found charred bones, flint chippings, frag- 
ments of arrow-heads of very rough workmanship, fragments of rude 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 585 

pottery made of red day, and fine gravel. The pieces Avere half an inch 
thick, or nearly so, and, judging lloni the curve, they may have been of 
considerable size. 

One morning in March, 1880, a party of us went to the bluffs known 
locally as Buffalo Gap, a deep triangular hollow, inclosed on two sides 
by immense ledges of stone, towering high above the tree-tops, and pro- 
jecting far over the base, and forming sheltered nooks which bid defl- 
auce to the storms of winter and the heat of summer. 

All along the base of these rocks the ground is strewn with flint 
chippings, bones, bits of pottery, arrow-heads, rocks, and rubbish. We 
made excavations in several places, and to various depths, varying from 
1 to 3 feet. 

The earth is dry and loose, and composed of considerable vegetable 
matter, and has the appearance of having been forming slowly for ages. 
All through this dust we found bits of pottery, arrow-heads, charred 
bones, charcoal, bones split lengthwise to extract the marrow, mussel- 
shells, turtle-shells, deers' horns, bones and jaws of various kinds of 
mammals, a bunch of charred hay, a large limestone mortar, having a 
bowl nicely cut in the center, which was circular in form and 1 foot in 
diameter, and deep enough to hold abo«t a gallon. On a fire-bed 2 feet 
from the surface were the fragments of an earthen pot, probably a cook- 
ing vessel, as it contained bones and a fragment of a deer's upper jaw; 
also other material, which we were unable to determine. Near this pot 
were numerous spherical bodies, resembling spice in form, white, hollow, 
and too fragile to be preserved. 

The pottery has markings on the surface like the impression of grass, 
twine, and sometimes small sticks, showing that the vessels were 
molded in some kind of woven sack or basket made of willows and 
twisted grass. Some of the fragments were smooth and thin, the coarser 
ones one-half inch thick, and made of pounded mussel-shells, small 
gravel, and red clay. The shells which were found were i)robably 
brought up for that purpose, the animal having been used for food. The 
arrow-heads are rude and very jioor compared with the field specimens 
of which I will speak later. 

An old fort is near b^', on top of a cliff, and cut off from the main land 
bj' a wall of stone, which is now nearly fiat, covering a base 20 feet wide 
and about 150 feet long. The fort is triangular, the wall making one 
side and the x>erpendicular rocks below forming the other two sides. 
It had but one point of access from below, which is a path up a crevice 
in the rock, and could have been easily defended from above. This has 
the appearance of being very ancient. 

Near the Illinois Central Eailroad track, 5 miles north of Cobden, are 
other large bluffs, and underneath are numerous beds, which have afforded 
a great many relics. Several human skeletons have been unearthed, 
more or less preserved, though usuallj' badly decayed, but one skull 



586 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

(female adult) was nearly perfect; forehead small, domestic faculties 
largely developed. The body of an infant was found near this one. 

Besides human skeletons, bones of a good many kinds, though mostly 
deers' horns and bones, bones split lengthwise, large numbers of mussel- 
shells, turtle-shells, broken pottery (some of which must have been 
large), a considerable amount of i:)arched com, and the impression in 
the earth of woven fabric, which is rare here. The arrow-heads are nu- 
merous but of a rude character. Several fine bone awls were found. 
This seems to be the richest locality yet discovered here. 

N"ear Makanda, 3 miles north of this place, is an old fortification, called 
Stone Fort, as it has once been defended by a stone wall, which is now 
nearly demohshed. 

Field relics. — Near all large springs implements of stone are found 
more numerous than at other places. They are of fine workmanship 
usually, and of various forms. The arrow-heads are of flint, of all colors. 
Shovels from 4 to 15 inches long have been found. Celts are of green- 
stone, handsomely polished, from 3 inches to nearly a foot long. Green- 
stone hatchets, having a groove for a handle, are found of various sizes, 
and well made. I have two in my possession, weighing 1 J and 2^ jiounds, 
respectively, though some found here will weigh probably 5 pounds. 

Worhshops. — Three miles w^est of Cobden, near Kaolin Station, on the 
Saint Louis and Cairo Railroad, is the most extensive workshoj) I have 
found. It covers several acres of ground, and car-loads of flint chips 
and bowlders are strewn everywhere. Four miles south of Cobden is 
another of less dimensions. Others of greater or less size are met with 
in various parts of the country, but no relics of much value are found 
with them. 

Aboriginal burial. — Seven miles west of Cobden, in Union County, 
Illinois, near Clear Creek, on the fiirm of Adam Smith, is an aboriginal 
cemetery. It is situated on a hillside facing the south. The graves 
axe in a grouii, and were probably arranged according to some plan, but 
the spot has been in cultivation fifty years, and the graves are sadly 
mutilated. Each grave contains a single individual. The bodies were 
stretched out at full length. Of the two that were examined one was lying 
with the cranium to the west; the other toward the north; the face 
of the one toward the rising sun; the other facing the noon-day sun. 
The remains were inclosed in sarcophagi made of thin slabs of white 
sandstone, which were probably quarried from a ledge about three-fourths 
of a mile distant, in the bank of Clear Creek. The bones were (except 
the teeth) nearly decomposed. The graves were scarcely a foot beneath 
tJie surface, and mostly disturbed by the plow. 

The mounds 7 miles below Jonesborough, 111., have aftbrded many 
valuable relics, including numerous perfect water- vessels and other pot- 
tery, arrow and spear heads, celts, hoes, hatchets, pipes, skeletons, and 
one stone idol made of stalactite. These mounds have been investigated 
by F. M. Perriue, of Anna, III., who has a fine collection of mound and 
field relics. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 587 

ANTIQUITIES OF WAYNE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By H. F. Sibley, of Fairfield, 111. 

Wayne County is one of the larger connties of tlie State, located on 
tlie southern border of the prairie region. At least three-fourths of its 
surface was originally timbered land. The prairies are generally small. 
The principal streams are the Little Wabash and Elm Eivers and the 
Skillet Fork (a branch of the Wabash). The sm-face is generally roll- 
ing- and elevated from 50 to 125 feet above the stream beds. The 
Wabash and Skillet Fork bottom lands are generally rather low and 
flat, with the exception of some few ridges of hig-h land, ordinarily lying 
parallel with the watercourse. On the ridges generally we find the 
ancient tumuli of the Mound Builders. One of the most prominent 
places of ancient resort in our county was a ridge in the Skillet Fork 
bottom, now known as Fleming's Eidge, in Arrington Township. (See 
map.) The ridge commences at the river and runs almost due north to 
the prairie, and is from one-half mile to one mile wide. Near the 
south end of the ridge, about one-quarter to one-balf mile from the 
river, is a groui) of mounds, seven or eight in number. Several farms 
have been opened up, and mounds aie found all over the ridge. Two 
of them have been explored and the ordinary fragments of pottery, 
shells, human remains, «&c., were found, but all seem to have been 
disturbed. Just to the southwest of the ridge I have drawn a half- 
moon- shaped figiu-e for a pond, or rather where a pond had been, but 
which has been drained for the fish. It is now known by the name of 
the Horseshoe Pond from its peculiar shape. It was probably an artifi- 
cial fish-pond built by the Mound Builders, as it fills up when the river 
is high, but can easily be shut up even during high water. Southeast 
of the ridge are two more mounds, about 100 feet long and 50 feet 
wide, and now G or 7 feet high. One of them was examined, and in it 
were found some flint arrow-heads (very rude), an immense number of 
turkey and wolf bones, together with deer-horns, &c., which seemed 
to have been thrown into fire, some of them being partially consumed. 
Human remains were also found, as well as some broken bits of pot- 
tery. There seemed to bo no line of separation. 

In the southwest corner of Big Mound Township are three mounds 
in one group which have never been examined. Northwest and near 
to them are two more, of which one was examined, and in it were 
found rude arrow-heads, broken pottery, &c., but could not get a skele-* 
ton in any state of preservation at all, so as to determine how they 
were buried. 

On the east edge of the township, some 2 mOes south of this place 
(Fairfield), are two mounds, one of which was shghtly examined, and 
found to be a burial mound. One mile farther south, almost right in 
the center of Little Mound Prairie, is a natural elevation,- topped out by 



588 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



the Mound Builders into a cemetery that can be seen for a long dis- 
tance. It was the burial-])laee of hundreds who are interred in the 
stone cists, of which numbers have been examined. Axes, arrow-points, 
&c., used to be found in abundance in the vicinity, but they are now 




about all picked up. In Barnhill Township, 5 miles east of us, is a 
groui) of seven mounds, which have not been examined, but which 
were probably dwelling-places. They are small, about 90 feet in circum- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 589 

ference, and from 2J to 3 feet liigb. In Leech Township, on the west 
side of the river, is a group of six monnda, which have not been exam- 
ined; neither has the one which is on the east of the river at the Iron 
Bridge, where the stage road crosses the stream. Abont one mile east and 
one mile south of the bridge are three mounds, standing as shown on the 
map, one of which was examined, and found to be a burial mound. 
About 100 yards southwest of these mounds is a i)it 10 or 12 feet square 
and 7 or 8 feet deep, and within 6 or 8 feet of tbe river bank. It has 
never been examined. One of the old men in the vicinity told me he 
had noticed it every year for a long time, and says it is not nearly so 
large as it used to be. Just below, at the mouth of the Pond Creek (on 
the west side of the river), is a square inclosure, said to be 100 jards or 
more square, called the Old Fort, but I have not seen it. In Massillon 
Township is a group of seven or more mounds, as shown on the map. 
It is a very high bluff, and has been a famous place for the ancient race. 
It is a good fishing and hunting locality, the river at that i)oint con- 
taining a shallow rapid or rifSe, and just across the river on the east 
side is a low, flat, bottom land, stretching around for miles, and has been 
one of the choice spots for game. 

In the northeastern part of the county are two mounds, which, from 
the description given, must be the largest in the county, being GO or 80 
feet high and wide in proportion, but they have never been examined. 

Our mounds, as a rule, do not at all compare with those on the Ohio 
Eiver, about 60 miles south of us. They are small and scattered, and are 
generally found in groups of from 3 to 20. I must not omit to mention 
that there are a number of mounds outside of Wayne County, situated 
on the bank of a river in White County. I have never been to see them, 
but I have been told that they number between thirty and forty, all 
in a row and following the trend of the river. Throughout the county 
generally are found more or less of the stone implements, but they are 
much more plentiful near the streams and in the timbered lands, and 
are scarce on the prairie. 

In the Smithsonian Report for 1876 (page 430) is cited a remark of 
Messrs. Squier and Davis relating to the disks of black flint. There 
have been two dei)Osits found in this country, one in the county south of 
us (White), and one in the county west (Jetterson). The first one con- 
tained thirteen of them, of which I obtained eight, and the other con- 
tained forty-six, of which I obtained several. Speaking of the disks, 
on page 440 (1876), it is said: '-Thus far not one of thera has been found 
isolated or bearing marks of use." This is a mistake, if mine are of the 
same kind as those spoken of by them, as I have found three in this 
county, one at a time, and one of them not quite twice the size of a trade- 
dollar. They are of the same stone and the same shape, &c., but none 
bear marks of use. In addition to those given above, fifteen more mounds 
have been found in Massillon Township. They are on the west side of 
the river, about one inch (as measured on the map sent) from the north 



w 




590 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 

line, on a high bluff, hardly a quarter of a mile from the river. They are 

somewhat in this shape, the largest 
mound being in the center. 

The mounds in Barnhill Township, 
just east of Fairfield, are seven in num- 
ber. They were explored two or three 
years ago, butuothingbutcharcoalwas 
, « • found in the bottom. I have inquired 

of the man living on the farm, but he 

does not find many tools, &c. The mound in Big Mound Township 

marked y-"^ is 3 miles from here. Ttis, probably, alarge natural mound 

o 

on the prairie, to which dirt, &c., has been brought from other parts, and 
so completed the cemetery. There are many graves, and several bodies or 
parts of bodies apiiear to be buried in one grave, but they are so decayed 
that no perfect skulls can be obtained. The graves are made by building 
the side and end walla of a hard sandstone, with a large one for the bottom 
and one for the top. The stone could not have been obtained nearer than 
7 or 8 miles, on the Skillet Fork. Two trees are growing on the mound, one 
of them a catalpa and the other an dak, both of which have been planted, 
beyond a doubt. The catalpa is found in abundance in our river bottoms, 
but there are none on the upland. The other two mounds in the same 
township are also large, and located in the bottoms in the woods. One 
of them was found to contain human remains and a few broken i>ieces 
of pottery, but nothing of value. The other contained human remains, 
but not in any order of arrangements j also river shells, dccr-horns, 
wolf jaws, &c. ; also much charcoal and many small stones occur among 
the mass. The group of mounds in Four Mile Township is near the 
Skillet Fork. The one in the southwestern corner, marked " Explored," 
has been plowed over a great many times, and evidently contained 
human remains and flint tools. The second one above it was explored 
this spring, but not very thoroughly, as it was very warm and the woods 
dense. Human remains were found, and one broken piece of pottery, 
too small to tell its shape, and one flint arrow-point. The pottery was 
different from any I have ever seen, of bright-red clay and small peb- 
bles. There are probably a gi^eat many mounds about 12 or 15 miles 
from here, in the woods, all of which are built on what is called Flem- 
ing's Kidge, mentioned above. Probably the Mound Builders settled 
on the same ground for this reason : the best ford on the river was just 
south of the mounds, in fact it is the only place I know of where it can 
be forded at all for miles. The place marked " Hay Pond" is a low place 
that used to be a kind of lake, which was drained by the inhabitants 
to catch the fish. The mound in Leech Township (on the north) is near 
my dwelling. Those south of it are three in number, situated as in- 
dicated in the drawing. Eight on the bluff is a square hole 10 or 12 
feet in diameter. All of these mounds are unexplored. The square 
hole used to be much deeper than it is now, about 5 to 7 feet. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 591 

MOUIS'DS AND EAETHWORKS IN YANDENBUEG COUNTY, 

INDIANA. 

By Floyd Stixsox, M. D., of Evavsville, Ind. 

On the 3d day of June, 187G, I visited Mathias Angel's farm, sitnated 
G miles soutlieast of Evansville, where I found six mounds, four dis- 
tinct cemeteries, three lines of earthworks, one large stone cist, and one 
altar. 

The first and most western mound is 15 feet high, 585 feet in circum- 
ference, truncated, and 100 feet across the top. The second mound, east- 
northeast of this, is 8 feet high and 150 feet in circumference. This had 
been dug into by Charles Artes, who found in it some human bones, burnt 
earth, charcoal, and ashes. Near this mound I found a stone cist, which 
was 8 feet long, 4 feet wide, 4 feet deep, walled with slate. In this were 
found several skeletons. Nearly north of this is a third mound, which 
is 20 feet high, 402 feet in circumference, truncated, and GO feet across 
the top. On the top of this mound, just below the surface, was burnt 
earth. Forty yards from this I found a remarkable altar. The roof, 
which was sand rock, was plowed offj the sides and ends were slate, 4 
inches thick; the floor the same as the roof rock. Inside it was 3 feet 
long, 2 feet wide, and 14 inches deep. The contents of this altar were 
first earth, then one-half peck of burnt and charred bones, charcoal, and 
ashes. Part of the bones were human, (the i)atella and head of the 
femur). Beneath this was burnt earth, and below that, earth. I have 
in my cabinet part of the contents of this altar. 

East-southeast from the second mound is a fourth mound, which is 
150 feet in circumference and 4 feet high. To the east of this is one of 
the most remarkable mounds I ever beheld. It is 100 yards long, 100 
yards wide, and square; consequently it is 400 yards around. It is 45 
feet high to a plateau, the width of which is 185 feet. Then at the 
southeast corner, on the top, there is an additional mound, 15 feet high, 
w^hich would make a mound CO feet high. Then at the west end there 
was an elevated platform 4 feet high, 150 yards long, 55 feet wide. I 
will designate this as the fifth mound. East and west of this great 
mound are burying-grounds. All of the graves in this section are 
walled with slate. East of this again is a sixth mound, which is 10 feet 
high, 30 yards in circumference. Around these six mounds is a line of 
earthwork, resting at either end on the river bank, and inside of this 
are two other short ones. Tlie outer line is about 1 mile in length. 
The middle and inner lines are about 2i feet high, and about every 40 
yards there are mound-like widenings on the outer edges. One-half 
mile northeast of these mounds is a mound 50 feet high and 1G4 yards 
in circumference. 



592 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



EXPLOEATION OF A MOTOTO NEAE BEACEVILLE, TEUM- 
BULL COUNTY, OHIO. 

By S. N. Luther, of Garrettsvillc, Ohio. 

Eecently, in company with Mr. C. Baldwin, I explored an ancient 
monnd on the estate of the late jSTathan Humphrey, esq., situated one- 
third of a mile southeast from the center of Braceville, Trumbull County, 
Ohio. Miss E. B. Humphrey, who now has charge of the estate, in- 
formed me that the mound was formerly covered with a growth of heavy 
timber, which was cleared from it by her father many years ago, and 
that grading and the process of cultivation have reduced it from not less 
than 10 feet in altitude to its present height of 4^ feet. It is situated 
on a terrace a few feet above the alluvial bottom of the Mahoning Eiver. 

The length due east and west ia 75 feet, and the breadth about GO feet. 
It is elliptical in form, composed of the dark sandy loam which sur- 
rounds it, and in several places has been considerably disturbed by 
previous explorers and by the burrowiug of woodchucks. We com- 
menced by digging trenches from the east and south sides toward the 
center, somewhat below the base of the mound. In the eastern portion 
we found the remains of five bodies, a short distance from each other. 
Except the crania and fragments of the long bones, nothing could be 
saved, barely enough remaining to define the position in which they 
lay. Of the crania two were saved in fair condition. With two others 
we were not so successful, though enough was preserved for several 
measurements. The fifth was so frail that no portion of it had escaped 
decay. The bodies were usually buried with the head to the west, though 
in one case this order was reversed, the head lying to the east. Near 
the latter were a quantity of very l)rigbt-red ocher, pieces of pottery, 
and at a short distance a stone pipe of iieculiar construction. Many 
bright fragments of stone, a few arrow-heads, and flakes of chert were 
foundinthe process of excavation. Throughout the undisturbed portion 
of the base, and about 1 foot from the original soil, a very hard layer 
of earth was discovered, 2 inches in thickness, beneath which were the 
skeletons. It is stated that a tier of skeletons were obtained by remov- 
ing the upper jiart, and that many relics have been secured, but the 
persons who made the excavations being inaccessible, I cannot obtain 
authentic imformation of their observations. 

Bfeasnrements of the crania, — No. 1, the best jireserved skull, is that of 
an old person. Length, 7.05 inches; vertical height (inside measure), 
4.92 inches; occipito-frontal arcli, 13.09 inches; parietal diameter, 5.G8 
inches; horizontal circumference, 20,35 inches; cephalic index, .8056. 

No. 2 is that of a young person (the wisdom teeth only partly through 
the process). Length, C.90 inches ; vertical height (inside measure), 5.10 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 593 

iuches; occipito-froutal arch, 14.45 inciie.s; parietal diameter, 5.45 inches^ 
liorizoutal circumference, 20.25 iuclies; cephalic iudex, .7898. 

No. 3. Length, 7.07 inches; vertical height (inside measure), 5 inches;, 
occipito-frontal arch, 13.30 inches; parietal diameter, 5.45 inches; hori- 
zontal circumference, 20.50 inches; cephalic ipdex, .7708. 

No. 4. Length, 7 inches; parietal diameter, 5.70 inches; cephalic index, 
.8143. 

Three-fourths of a mile west of Hiram, Portage County, I examined 
a stone structure to which my aftention had been called several times 
by persons who supposed it to be a place of burial. On viewing it, I 
found an annular pile of sandstone nearly 3 feet high, inclosing a space 
10 feet in diameter, with an outer diameter of 25 feet, making a wall 5 
feet in width. When the center was excavated, ashes and charcoal 
were found to the depth of 3 feet, the wall showing the action of much 
tire. The entire absence of bones and other kitchen refuse, with the 
elevated location, led to the inference that this was a signal station. 
It is one of the highest points on the Western Eeserve, and commands 
a view of over 30 miles to the east, and also a portion of the Cuyahoga 
Eiver on the west. 

There is quite an important cemetery in the extreme southeast part 
of *Geauga County, 2 miles southeast from the village of Parkmau. 
The graves were mostly constructed of flat stones, placed on edge at 
the sides and ends. They are paved and covered with the same flag- 
ging stones found at the Grand River, which is not distant. Over these 
were piled loose stones. The location is a side hill, with a descent to 
the east. In one place the graves extended several rods up the hill in 
a line, in such a manner that the foot of one grave made the liead of 
the next, and were all covered by a continuous pile of loose stone. This 
burial-place has been almost entirely despoiled by the persistent ef- 
forts of relic-seekers. I can learn of no imi^lements of special interest 
that were found here. Those obtained consist of the commoner forms 
of chert, with celts, grooved axes, &c. 



DESCPJPTION OF MOUNDS AND EARTHWORKS IN ASH 
LAND COUNTY, OHIO. 

Bv H. B. Cask, of Loudoni-ille, Ohio. 

The accompanying map locates nearly all the mounds and earthworks 
in Ashland County, Ohio. Each one is indicated by a letter, and oppo- 
site the same letter in the text will be found a description of the work. 

A. — This square inclosure with the gateway to the southwest is situ- 
ated in section 30, Clear Creek Township, on the line between the north- 
west and southwest quarters of the section, upon land owned by John 
and Thomas Bryte. It is about 400 feet long by 200 feet wide, and has 
S. Alls. 100 38 



594 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



a gateway at tlie southwest corner near a very strong spring. In 1824 
Mr. Bryte commenced to clear his farm. The embankment at that time 
was from 3 to 4 feet high and 10 feet wide at the base. Both the em- 




SlTLLl 



"^SULLIVAN 

^XN TV. 



ORANGE TP.j 



MILT OX TR 



MONTGONf/l-;RY TP. 



JA^ 



FrnRYSBU/JC//. 



TP. 



/ 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 595 

baukment and the area were covered with large oak trees. The i)lace 
uow goes by the uaiue of Bryte's Fort. 

B. — Two mounds stand upon a high natural elevation (90 feet) covering 
about 5 acres at the base, and being about 60 by 90 feet on the top, 
which is nearly flat. Each is 25 feet in diameter and 4 or 5 feet high. 
They are situated on the northeast quarter section 35, Clear Creek Town- 
ship. At least one of them was explored as early as 1844, by Thomas 
Sprott and brother, who found a number of human skeletons in a kind 
of stone cist, upon which was almost a peck of red Indian paint. The 
bones were replaced. 

C. — A circular inclosure containing 2 acres, more or less, is situated 
just north of the Atlantic and Great Western Eailway, and within the 
city limits of Ashland. The farm was formerly owned by Henry Gamble. 
In 1812-'15 the first settlers found embankments from 3 to 4 feet high, 
and from 8 to 10 feet wide at the base. A forest of oak, hickory, sugar, 
and ash grew upon and near this work. It overlooked the valley to the 
south and east, and had a gateway at the southwest opening near a fine 
spring. The site has been plowed for more than fifty years ; and scarcely 
a trace of it remained in 1878. 

B. — At this jioint is a circular inclosure located near the north line 
of the northeast quarter section 9, Mohican Township, one mile east of 
Jeromeville. 

E, E. — On the farm of Nicholas Glenn are a mound and an earthwork. 
Information might be obtained from John Glenn, jr., or from William 
Gondy, an old settler, both of whom live at Jeromeville, Ohio. The 
works are about 2 miles southwest of Jeromeville. 

G. — Tlie Mohican town called Johnstown was located here. In the 
years 1S08-'10 it contained Delawares, Mohegans, Mohawks, Mingos, 
and a few Senecas and Wyandots. Captain Pipe, a Wolf Indian, ruled 
the village until he left it, in 1812. 

H, — Tbis large circular inclosure and burial mound are situated in 
Wayne County, just south of the road leadiug from Lake Fork to Blatch- 
leysville, and just east of the road leading from McZena to Blatchleys- 
ville. These remains are upon a high, gradual elevation overlooking a 
vast range of i)rairie, northeast and southeast, as well as the valleys 
westward. The circle is a little less than one-third of a mile in circum- 
ference. At i)resent the embankments are from 1 to 2 feet in height. 
The area and embankment are covered by the forest growth, which is 
not older than 60 or 70 years, the Indians having burned this region 
annually until about 1812, for the i)urpose of hunting. Years ago the 
mound was opened by unknown persons. In 1876 the author visited it, 
and found that an animal had burrowed into it and brought out a frag- 
n)ent of skull, which is now in his possession. Some time after, Mr. 
Thomas Bushnell, of Ilayesville, made excavations in the mound and 
found only bones, among which was a well-preserved skull. The mound 
is 25 or 30 feet in diameter and 4 feet in heisrht. 



596 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

I. — A small mound, 3 or 4 feet high and 15 feet in diameter, stands 
upon a very high hill, perhaps the highest land in the county, and is 
composed of stone and clay. It was excavated some years ago by Dr. 
Emerick and a Mr. Long, who are said to have found a skeleton in a 
kneeling or sitting posture, and a pipe, both near the center. The au- 
thor was unable to learn what had become of the pipe. Messrs. H. B. 
Care and J. Freshwater made another examination in 187G, but found 
nothing. There is a large spring at the foot of the hill, on the east 
side, but it is nearly half a mile from the spring to the mound on the 
hill. 

J. — This work is said to be located on the west side of the creek. The 
author has not visited the site. 

K. — In 1876 the author, in company with Mr. J. Freshwater, made a 
slight examination of this mound. It is 25 or 30 feet high, oval in shape, 
and over 100 feet long. The citizens regarded it as an artificial mound, 
but we considered it a natural elevation of gravel drift. Excavations 
might change this view. The mound is located on the west side of the 
Lake Fork, and just north of the road and bridge leading from Mohicau 
to McZeua in Lake Township. 

L. — A mound is situated on the lands of J. L. and Cyrus Quick, in 
Washington Township, Holmes County, Ohio, It stands upon an emi- 
nence which slopes gradually for half a mile southward toward the bot- 
tom lands of the Lake Fork; northward and westward it declines a 
short distince to a small valley extending to the southwest. It is about 
5 or G feet high, and 30 feet in diameter. Some trees were growing upon 
the mound when the author first visited it, some twenty-seven years 
ago. The trees were, perhaps, not of more than one hundred years' 
growth, but were as old as the trees in the immediate vicinity; not far 
from it, however, were oak trees 2 and 3 feet in diameter. The mound 
was excavated about 1820-'25 by Isaac and Thomas Quick, Daniel 
Priest, and others. It is said that, upon making a central excavation, 
they found a wooden puncheon cist, together with some human remains, 
and ornaments of muscle shell, which a])peared to be strung around the 
neck. All the remains are reported to have crumbled away on being 
exposed to the air. It is ditticult to ascertain the facts concerning this 
excavation. It has been said that some pottery was found also. Ad- 
ditional remains might be disclosed by further investigation. The per- 
sons who made the excavation are dead. 

M. — This mound, located a little southwest of mound L, on the lower 
ground about half a mile from the same, was probably of an equal size 
originall}', but, having been plowed for nearly fifty years, it is now 
spread over quite a space. It is, however, still discernible from a dis- 
tance, and shows the eleyation from the flat surface of the field. The 
yellow clay presents a contrast with the darker soil of the surrounding 
land. No excavation had been made until 1877, when the author, aided 
by Mr. Freshwater, removed abor t 1 square feet from the center. We 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 597 

fouiul tough, tempered clay, some bits of charcoal, but no remains. This 
could not be regarded as an examination, being of so small a character. 
Further work on this mound might unearth interesting relics. 

]^. — A lake is situated a short distance east of mound M, on the 
farm of D. Kick, Washington Township, Holmes County, Ohio. In 
draining this pond a cache of flint implements was discovered. Speci- 
mens of these im})lements may bo seen- in the Smithsonian i«*llection. 
The remainder are in the author's possession. (See Smithsonian Iteport 
of 1877, article by H. B. Case.) 

O, P. — There are mounds southeast of Odels' Lake, upon the summit 
overlooking the lake, on the farm of J. Cannon. They were excavated 
by Dr. Boden, of Big Prairie, Ohio, who has in his possession some teeth, 
jaw bones, and long bones taken from them. He says that they should 
be further examined. The author has not visited the mounds. 

Q. — A mound stands on the summit of Dow's Hill, one mile northeast 
of LoudonA ille, just east of the Holmes County line. It was excavated 
about 1855 by Dr. ]\ryers, of Fort Wayne, and D. Bust, who found a 
skeleton near the center, whose structure is of stone and earth. The 
top has since been leveled by the plow. In 187G, Mr. Lucien Bust 
made some excavations upon the site of the mound, and great numbers 
of stone were removed. At length a kind of pot or cist was unearthed, 
which was about 18 inches in diameter and 8 or 9 inches deep. It was 
formed of stone, and the edge was covered by other stones which made 
a roof over the pot. The removal of this roof or top showed that the 
cist was filled with charcoal, apparently closed while glowing coals. 
About 4 feet below this charcoal deposit human remains were found, 
reposing horizontally. Near the left hand was a perforated stone hav- 
ing the figure of a l)ird, resembling slightly the iiheasant, scratched upon 
it. A part of a bone implement was also found. The bone, which is of 
firmer texture than the human bones, and is perhaps a jiart of the leg- 
bone of a deer, had been perforated, evidently with a stone drill. Lying 
across this lower skeleton and some distance above it were the remains 
of another. But little of the mound has been excavated, and further ex- 
amination should be made. From the mound the view of the surround- 
ing country is very fine. The mound i)roper has been obliterated for 
some years, but the site can be observed hj a slight elevation and the 
great number of stones scattered about and upon it. There must have 
been a kind of hollow made in the Waverly shale which lies near the 
surface upon the underlying Waverly sandstone, of which the hill is 
composed, because when one digs the same depth elsewhere on the hill 
the shaly sandstone is penetrated. The stone implement is in the pos- 
session of L. Bust, Loudonville; the bones, bone implement, and char- 
coal are in the authors cabinet. 

11. — This mound, .similar to mound Q, is situated just north of Loudon- 
ville, on the summit of Bald Knob. For a long time it was supposed 
by The citizens of Loudonville to have been formed by counterfeiters in 



598 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

former times. The author excavated it in 1877, and found it a veritable 
mound containing fragments of human bones and of charcoal. Being 
encased with large sandstones, and composed of stone and earth, it is 
verj' difficult to excavate. As there has been a central depression for 
a great many years, what remains the mound Y contained of a perish- 
able character have probably been destroyed by the collecting of water. 
This sitii^plso commands a fine view ot the Black Fork Valley. 

S._T1^€ settlers of 1808-'00-'10 found here a village of Delawares, 
the remnant of a "Turtle" tribe. Their chief was a white man, taken 
in infancy — Capt. Silas Armstrong. They removed to Piqua, Miami 
County, Ohio, in 1812, the site of the old burying-ground, now almost 
entirely obliterated by cultivation. It is located a few rods north 
of the Black Fork, upon a gentle eminence, in the southwest part of 
northeast quarter-section 18, Green Township. The southern portion 
of the site is still in woods, and the depressions that mark the graves 
are quite distinct. Henry Harkell and the author exhumed several of 
the skeletons in the summer of 1876. In some cases the remains were 
inclosed in a stone cist; in others small, rounded drift-bowlders were 
placed in order around the skeletons. The long bones were mostly 
well preserved. No perfect skull was obtained, nor were there any stone 
implements found in the graves. At the foot of one a clam shell was 
found. The graves are from 2^ to 3 feet deep, and the remains repose 
horizontally. A few relics, such as stone axes, arrow-heads, and a few- 
bits of copper, have been picked up in the immediate vicinity. They 
are in the hands of the author. On the opposite side of the stream and 
some distance below, near the south line of southeast quarter section 
18, Green Township, there are ancient fireplaces. They are about 15 
inches below the present surface, and are formed of bowlders regularly 
laid. The earth is burned red. Great numbers of stones have fidleii 
into the streams during its incursions upon the west bank. Some three 
or four of these fireplaces are yet plainly visible, but in a few years 
they will be swept away by the current. About half a mile east of the 
graves marked S is a small circular earthwork almost razed. It con- 
tained about 1^ acres, and had a gateway looking to the river, which is 
westward. It is situated upon the nearly level bottom land of the beau- 
tiful valley. 

T. — Upon the high ridge separating the valleys of Black Fork and 
Honey Creek is a depression filled with large and small bowlders. J. 
Freshwater and the author removed them to some depth, but as the 
stones were heavy we desisted from further investigafton. This point 
would command a view of the valley of the Black Fork, overlooking, as 
it does, the old village of Greentowu; and by walking a few rods east- 
ward on the same eminence a view of the valley of Honey Creek might 
be had. Most of the trees on this height are less than 100 years old. It 
may have been timberless during the occupation of this work. The ex- 
cavation appears to have been about 15 feet in diameter. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 599 

U. — There is a stone mound, like mound 1*, situated on a lofty emi- 
nence overlooking the Black Fork Valley northwestward, and eastward 
the valley near Loudonville. The author has never seen the work, but 
it has been described to him as a small stone and earth mound such as 
are usually found on high points. 

V. — A short distance northwest of mound W, on the farm of L. Os- 
wald, southwest quarter section 18, in the woods, is a mound about 30 
feet in diameter and from 4 to 6 feet high. It was slightly opened at 
the center by the owner of the lands, who found part of a skull. 

W. — This mound and earthwork are located upon the old Parr farm, 
now owned by C. Byers, in the northwest part of southwest quarter 
section 19, Green Township. The mound stands on the west side of 
the Black Fork, within 2 or 3 rods of the stream. It was quite large 
originally, perhaps 8 or 10 feet high and 35 to 50 feet in diameter. 
At present it is from 4 to 6 feet above the level of the bottom laud and is 
spread over a considerable space. When the first settlers came, there 
was an earthwork running a little southwest from the mound for some 
20 rods, then back eastward to the river. The place has been under 
cultivation for forty or fifty years and the work is now obliterated. 
The mound was encased with a wall of sandstone bowlders as large as 
a man can lift. 

These stones must have been carried from the hill half a mile west, 
where they are found in place. The wall was carefully laid, as can be seen 
by excavations below the depth of the plow where the pile is still intact. 
The mound was examined in 1816 by some persons named Slater, who 
found in it bones, flint implements, a pipe, and a copper wedge which 
. they thought gold. Accordingly they took it to a silversmith at Woos- 
ter, Ohio, who told them that it was copper, and bought it from them 
for a trifle. In 1878 the mound was explored by J. Freshwater and the 
author. The center of the mound, where not disturbed by former ex- 
cavations, resembles an altar or fire-place where the fire had burned 
the earth to a brick-red. In the ashes and burnt earth were fragments 
of arrow-heads broken by the heat. The fire had been kindled on the 
mound when it was from 2^ to 3 feet high. Ko human remains were 
discovered in this last excavation. A few scrapers were found, wliicli 
are in the cabinets of the above-named gentlemen. 

X. — On the summit of a hill west of Perryville, and to the right of the 
road leading to Xewville, was a mound, now entirely obliterated. In 
181G-'20 it was opened by the Slaters, who found a ])ii)o, human remains, 
and some other relics. 

Y. — A large oval earth\^ork on the summit of the ridge between the 
valleys of Black Fork and Clear Fork. It is 210 iWt wide by 350 feet 
long. About the center of the inclosure was a large pile of stone bowlders, 
most of which have been removed to the level of the ground. There is, 
however, a visible outline of the stone-work, which consisted of a i>aved 
circular space. >^o excavation has been made in either the stone or clay 



GOO MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

work beyond 1 or 2 feet in depth ; consequently the character of the 
mound is unknown. A forest, containing oak trees over 30 inches in 
diameter and other large trees, covers most of the work, but a portion 
extends into a field and has been almost razed by the plow. 

Z. — On a high hill directly north of the junction of the Black Fork and 
the Clear Fork, and overlooking the same, is a stone and earth mound 
composed principally of large sandstones from the immediate vicinity. 
Some twenty or twenty -five years ago it was explored by unknown per- 
sons. The author examined it again in 1877, but discovered nothing. 
A similar mound is said to have been located upon the hill south of the 
Clear Fork, just below the junction of Pine Eun. The stone were hauled 
away and the site plowed over. (See Z«.) 

Z h. — This is the site of Old Delaware village of Hell Town. It was 
deserted about 1782, the time of the massacre of Anaden Hutten. Graves 
were visible until two years ago ; the field is now cleared and plowed. 
In the author's cabinet are two iron scalping-kuives and an iron toma- 
hawk which were thrown up by the plow ; also the brass mountings 
of a gun, a gun-flint, a stone ax, and some arrow-heads. Dr. James 
Henderson, of Newville, Ohio, has in his possession several articles ob- 
tained frotn this site. The Indians formerly called their settlement Clear 
Town, and the stream Clear Fork; but learning the German word hell, 
for clear or bright, they changed the name to Hell Town. 

Z c. — A rock shelter is located on the west side of Clear Fork, in the 
conglomerate sandstone of the Lower Carboniferous. It was explored 
in 1877 by L. Rust and the author, who found about 2 feet of ashes in- 
termingled with a few animal bones and coprolites. No human'remains 
were disclosed excepting a split bone, and even that is doubtful. The. 
ashes continue deeper, and further examination might prove interesting. 



EARTH- WOEKS NEAR JONES' STATION, IN BUTLER COUNTY, 

OHIO. 

By J. P. MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio. 

While I was engaged in examining the earth-works of Butler County, 
Ohio, I was informed by Mr. John W. Erwin that an ancient work was 
near Jones' Station. On repairing thither I was unable to find either 
the work or any one who had ever heard of it. I next attempted to find 
the papers of Mr. James McBride, but no one knew what had become 
of them. The record of the sale of McBride's eft'ects gave no account of 
them. 

During the month of December, 1879, I received a note from Mr. W. 
S. Vaux, of Philadelphia, stating that he owned both the cabinet and 
the archaeological papers of the late James McBride. I immediately 
applied for that portion of the papers relating to the earth-works near 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 601 

Joues' station. These papers were placed iu my possession January 
2G, 1880. On the 27th of the month, in company with Mr. John W. 
Erwiu, I started to locate the works. Although it had been nearly 
thirty-eight years since Mr. Erwin visited the spot and assisted in the 
survey, and made the original delineation, he recognized the spot and 
the plan of the works as preserved in the papers of James McBride. 

These works were located on the southeastern slope of one of the 
highest hills in the vicinity. The hill is a detached ohe and surrounded 
entirely by one of the richest valleys in the State. Between it and the 
uplands toward the north was originally a swamp. This swamp was 
drained at the expense of and under the direction of the State. Through 
it passes the Miami Canal. The hill is composed of a yellowish clay, 
having been formed during that period known as the glacial or drift. 
Its summit is about 225 feet higher than the city of Hamilton. 

The works are now entirely obliterated. There is not the slightest 
evidence that they ever existed. "We searched in vain. They occurred 
in both Fairfield and Union Townships, on section 15 of the former and 9 
of the latter. The township line passing through the works, if extended 
southward, would terminate at the foot of Broadway, in Cincinnati. 
The work marked A is wholly in Fairfield Township, while the township 
line passes through the center of the smallest circle, marked B. The 
same line passes on a fraction of the wall of the largest circle, C. On the 
summit of the hill, Fairfield Township, section 15, is a mound composed 
of yellow clay, about 5 feet high, from the top of which a commanding 
^-iew of the surrounding country may be obtained. It probably belongs 
to that class of mounds known as signal stations. It would be impos- 
sible to tell the original height of this tumulus. The plow for fifty-two 
successive years has accomplished all this destruction. 

James McBride came to this county in the year 1808; and, as he 
early took an kiterest in antiquities, it is probable he saw these works 
before the forest trees had been cut away. He and John TV". Erwin sur- 
veyed the works May 7, 1842. The following is a verbatim copy of Mr. 
McBride's description: 

-'■ Saturday May 7, 1842. — "Went, in company with John TV. Erwin, 
civil engineer, and James McBride, jr., to an ancient work in Butler 
County, Ohio, six miles southeast from the town of Hamilton, on the 
lands of James Beaty. The work is situated principally on section 
Xo. 9, town 3, range 2, ^[. E., about 30 poles south of the K TV. cor- 
ner of the section. On measuring the main part of the work it was 
found to be a true circle 3 ch. 5 links in diameter. The ground was 
cleared some 14 or 15 years ago, and has been cultivated since that time, 
consequently the height of the embankment has been much reduced. 
Previous to cultivation the embankment was fully three feet high above 
the natural surface of the ground. Inside of the embankment was a 
ditch two feet deep, making a perpendicular height of about 5 feet from 
the bottom of the ditch to the top of the bank. 



602 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

"Three cliains east of this work is another circuhir ^york 1 ch. 30 links 
in diameter, and from this in a direction S. 15° W. three chains distant is 
another circular work of the same dimensions, viz, 1 ch. 30 links diam- 
eter, and also the same distance, viz, 3 ch. 00 links from the center or 
main work. 




"At the distance of one chain K. W. from the center or main work is 
another small circular work two poles in diameter, and adjoining and 
touching this is still another enclosure, of an oval form, from 2 ch. 30 
links by 1 ch. 70 links in diameter, extending in a N^. W. direction. 

"The embankm'ent of t»he smaller works before reduced by cultivation 
was ui)wards of two feet liigli above the natural surface, with ditches 
on the inside eighteen inches deep. 

" On the S. E. of the main work is an opening in the embankment com- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 603 

municating with tlje smaller works to the S. E. Probably communica- 
tions might have existed throughout from one work to the other, though 
they cannot now be distinctly traced. 

"The embankments of these works are of a bright yellow clay, differ 
erent from that which appears on the surface of the surrounding ground, 
hence the form of the works can be distinctly seen and traced as far as 
the eve can see them." 



MOUNDS IN BOYLE AND MEECER COUNTIES, KENTUCKY. 

By W. M. Linnet, of Rarrodshurg, Ky. 

In the counties of Boyle and Mercer, State of Kentucky, there are a 
number of mounds, graves, &c., which were constructed by former in- 
habitants of the country, and many aboriginal implements have been 
found. On the map of Boyle and Mercer Counties I have located all 
points of interest that I have been able to learn. They will be alluded 
to more particularly in the following notes by the letters that are con- 
nected with them. The point of greatest interest (A on the map) is 
situated on the west bank of Salt Eiver, in Mercer County, a little north 
of its union with Boyle County, on a farm owned by Dr. Thomas Hyle, 
Tlie first notice given of this point is found in "Collins' History of Ken- 
tucky," under the head of Mercer County. Speaking of ancient towns 
and fortifications, it says : "There are two of these, both on Salt River, 
about 4 miles above Harrodsburg, containing ditches and a mound 10 
or 12 feet high, filled with human bones and broken pieces of crockery- 
ware. On one side of the mound a hickory tree, about 2 feet in diam- 
eter, grew and was blown up by the roots, making a hole 3 or 4 feet 
deep. Its lower root drew up a large piece of crockery- ware which had 
been on some fire coals. The handle was attached to it, and human hair 
lay on the coals. This was probably a place of human sacrifice. The 
other ruins were about a mile and a half above this, both being on the 
west bank of Salt Eiver. There is no mound near this, but only the 
remains dug out of ditches." 

The ground has been cleared, and the continual cultivation of the 
land has tilled up the ditches and removed all traces of any lines that 
once existed. The mound has also been removed by the plow. From 
it have been taken, as cultivation yearly went on, the bones of a num- 
ber of human skeletons, none of which were retained, few of them be- 
ing in a good state of preservation ; the skulls crushed to fragments and 
the soft ends of the bones, with few exceptions, gone entirely.' I do not 
know that any relics have been taken from the mound proper, except 
some shell bead?;. The river bank here is only about 15 feet high, and 
the slope back from the river is not more than 2°. The mound stood 
200 yards from the stream. Between those points there must have been 
a village of huts or some form of hal)itation; for even now, when the 



604 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROP©LOGY. 

ground is freshly plowed, tliere is a regular parallelogram, where the 
uniform lines of black earth, charcoal, and burnt bones show the former 
presence of fires long continued at that point. Within this area have 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G05 

been fouud a great number of specimens of broken crockery, plain and 
ornamented in crossed lines; grooved axes of greenstone; celts in green- 
stone, jasper, agate, hornstone, and limestone; pipes, arrow and lance 
beads, cbisels, grindiug stones, pestles, sinkers, flint flakes and cores, 
ornaments in slates and otber colored stones; bones of flsb and many 
animals, borns of deer and elk, teetb of bears, &c. Some of tbese may 
bave been tbrown up by tbe plow and scattered over tbe space near the 
mound. From the number of fragments of various stones, it seems that 
there was a workshop here, and so I have located one on the map. The 
mound was built of earth taken from the vicinity, and there were evi- 
dently some large stones in connection with it, but how they were j)laced 
is not know^n. B, C, D were within a mile of A, and were single graves. 
They have all been opened, and each contained one skeleton, without 
implements or ornaments so far as known. In one, the body seemed to 
have been buried horizontally, on the right side, with the head to the 
east; the position of the others is unknown. There seemed to have 
been a stone cist erected on or near the surface of the ground; and 
then rocks appear to have been set on edge around it, until a space 10 
or 12 feet square was inclosed. If ever covered with earth, time has 
removed it down to the rocks. B is on the farm of Dr. Thomas Ilyle, 
and C and D on that of Cornelius Terhnne. E and F are points on 
Salt Kiver, above and below A, where remains of pottery, &c., have 
been found; but their real character cannot be determined. E is on the 
farm of John Ludwich, in Boyle County, and F on that of Mrs. Lewis. 

G is a grave on the farm of Thomas Knox, but I have not seen it. 
From description it is like B, C, and D. 

H is only a point marked by great numbers of flint chippings and 
broken arrow-heads. 

I represents a space on a farm owned by W. B. Cecil, where a great 
many pipes, axes, &c., have been found. 

J is a mound of earth on the farm of the Misses Craig, about 1^ miles 
south of Danville, in Boyle County. It is some 5 feet high and 50 feet 
in circumference. It has been opened, but I know of nothing obtained 
from it. 

K is located on the farm of John F. Yedger. It has been opened, and 
is similar to B, C, D. 

L is iu Boyle County, on the land of Wyatt Hughes. It wa s destroyed 
by excavating a road-bed for a railroad; and seems to have been like 
B, C, and D. 

M is a small earthen mound on the southern bank of Eollmg Fork, 
Boyle County. It has been razed by cultivation. Some bones, a grooved 
ax, and a few arrow-heads of hornstone were disclosed. 

N is said to be the site of two graves, and is just west of Harrodsburg 
and "old WiUiams" place. From what I can learn the graves are like 
B, C, D. 

O is a single (?) grave with stones set up around it. I have not ex- 
amined it, but from appearances it is like B, C, D. 



606 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



P is an earthen mound, on tlie farm of J. A. Shuttle worth. It is 4 
feet high and 50 feet in circumference, and was opened in 1807 or 1811 
and later. From an old man, who was a boy when it was first opened, 
I learn that a number of bodies had been buried in it, and that an ax 
or two were found. On the night of the day on which it was opened 
occurred the earthquake of that year, and the whole neighborhood 
thought that the Indians had come after them for disturbing their bones. 
Q was one or two graves, now obliterated, on the farm of Achilles 
Davis. 

R is a point on the farm of Dr. Walter Davis, where some relics were 
found in digging the foundation of a house. A lot of bones were near 
these relics. 

S is the site of three graves covered with stones placed on edge, and 
is on the farm of George Davis, sr. The two near each other have been 
opeued, and a number of human remains were exhumed from each. 
They had, seemingly, been buried with their heads together and their feet 
radiating from this center. Plates of mica were found with the crushed 
skulls, as if they had been placed over their eyes. Only one implement 
was obtained here. A bone had apparently been buried with one of the 

bodies, and, when discovered, 
it was lying upon the arm, at 
the elbow, and parallel to it. 
The third grave has not yet 
been examined, but will prob- 
ably be exi>lored in the spring. 
T is a group of four earthen 
mounds on the farm of Thomas 
Coleman. They have all been 
excavated at some time. The 
last examination took place 
in July past, and yielded one 
skeleton, and a copper bead 
almost destroyed by oxidiza- 
tion. Their relative positions 
as to streams and to each 
other is shown in diagram T. 
(See also the accompanying 
plan.) 

U is the site of two mounds 8 feet high, and GO or 70 feet in circum- 
ference, on land owned by Mr. Hugely, upon the bluffs of Dick's Eiver. 
The mounds seem to be composed of gravel, earth, and limestone. Sev- 
eral persons have examined them, and pronounced them mounds. Par- 
tial excavations have been made, but without success. Poplar trees 
(Liriodendron) 2 feet in diameter are growing upon them. I am disposed 
to think that the mounds are the remains of lime-kilns made in the first 
settlement of the State; at any rate the limestone in them has been 
burned. 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. GOT 

V was a large pile of rocks, giving no evidence of ever having been 
covered with earth. It was opened and some skeletons were found, 
probably tbose of Indians killed in some attack on Harrodsburg. 

W and X are similar to V. 

The above list iuchides all the points of much interest in these two 
counties. Nearly every spot mentioned has been examined, and the 
relics carried off or destroyed. The great majority of those relics, such as 
pijjes, arrow and lance heads, grooved axes, and celts, have been 
plowed up isolated in fields all over the counties; but the largernum- 
ber have been found on the farms contiguous to Salt Eiver. No shell 
heaps have been noticed except at A, where the common mussel of Salt 
Eiver seems to have been used for some purpose other than pottery 
manufacture, perhaps as food. 

Nothing is known as to our caves or cliff shelters ha\'ing been used 
for dwellings. A cave east of Danville, on the farm of Samuel Stone, 
contained some human skeletons; but as the remains had been thrown 
down into a sink-hole without other opening, and as there were no im- 
plements, I suppose that the persons were Indians, or i>erhaps murdered 
whites of a comparatively recent date, and not mound-builders. The 
bones were in a good state of preservation. Nowhere in this part of the 
State has anything resembling masonry been observed, to my knowl- 
edge. 

As far as I can learn, no carving, engraving, or sculpture has been 
discovered in those counties; but in the Deaf and Dumb Institution at 
Danville, Professor Dudley, principal, there is a carved image or rather 
bust of Aztec type, which was plowed up in Marion County, Ken- 
tucky. Eock paintings and inscriptions are not found here. The dead 
are discovered both in mounds and in isolated graves. Some contain 
one individual, others more. It is diflicult to determine the position of 
the bodies wlien interred, as the pressure from above and the trees 
over them have forced them out of place. Some appear to have been 
buried in a sitting posture, some were stretched out, and others evi- 
dently lying on their sides. They we^e laid, in most cases, toward the 
east, sometimes toward the west, and again in every direction like 
spokes in a wheel. A few were placed in cists, others in earth only. 
Generally only a few of tlie more solid bones were preserved. At one 
point in Boyle County some arrow-heads were turned up by the plow, 
but they were lost or tlirown away. No large places are known where 
flint implements have been manufactured; but chipi)ings, evidently 
broken off by mechanical means, show that arrow-heads have been made 
in limited quantities. I am unable to learn whether or not the pottery 
found at A had been made on the grounds. The presence of many frag- 
ments, the 'quantities of decaying mussel shells, the balls of sand car- 
ried from the river, and the proximity to suitable clay all render it likely ; 
yet there are no places, that I could see, which ^ive any reliable evi- 
dence of its manufacture. 



608 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 




Plan 1. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 609 



MOUNDS IN BAEREN AND ALLEN COUNTIES, KENTUCKY. 

By R. B. Evans. 

I. Mounds in Allen County. — The figures in the text refer to the ac- 
companying map. Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 are mounds on Barren Eiver, 
and near the mouth of Eouton's Creek. They are inclosed in one corner 
of a cultivated field, though covered thickly with large trees. No. 5 
was explored about fifty years ago, and some stone implements and a 
silver pipe were found. The author does not know what became of 
them. About two years ago he thoroughly examined No. 1, and dis- 
covered many large bones, which, however, were much decayed. The 
vault was 10 feet deep from the top of the mound, and 8 feet in diameter. 
It was round, and walled up with stones like a well. Every 2 feet was 
a layer of large flat rocks, and between these layers were human remains. 
The bottom was made of stones laid edgewise, and, being keyed in with 
small stones, was consequently very tight. Old farmers in the neigh- 
borhood say that Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 have never been excavated. No. 6 
is a cluster of graves which were formed of stones placed edgewise. 
Some of the graves are long and others short, the longest being 8 feet 
and the shortest 2^ feet in extent. The author opened one and found 
some human bones in a very decayed state. 

II. Mounds in Barren County. — Nos. 1, 2, and 3 are mounds on Barren 
Eiver, at the mouth of Peter's Creek. Erom No. 3, the largest, a great 
many human bones and several stone imj^lements have been taken. The 
author has one specimen of the latter. Nos. 1 and 2 are not so large, 
and have never been explored. They have been seen by Professor Put- 
nam, of Cambridge. The mounds are bare of timber. No. 3 is now 
used as a graveyard by J. F. Jewell, the owner of the land. 

III. Ancient toicn and cemetery in Barren County, KcntucJcy. — The ac- 
companying diagram. Plan II, represents the location and details of an 
aboriginal town and buryiug-ground on the Barren Eiver, in Barren 
County, Kentucky. The work occupies a blufi' GO feet high. The six 
teen circular figures are lodge sites, partly raised on the outer rim and 
depressed in the center. In the center of each, a foot beneath the sur- 
face, were found coals, the grain of the wood being easily distinguished 
as oak and poplar. The diameters of these rings average about 18 feet. 
The other figures represent mounds. These works are now in the virgin 
forest. One of the mounds was opened by the author, but a detailed 
account of the exploration will have to be deferred. 

S. Mis. 109 39 



610 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 




Plans. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. Gil 

MOUNDS ON FLYNN'S CREEK, JACKSON COUNTY, TEN- 
NESSEE. 

By Joshua Haite, S.r., of Jaclson Counfy, Tenn. 

The valley in which these mounds are situated is on the east bank of 
Flyun's Creek, which empties into the Cumberland River, and is 3 miles 
above the mouth of the creek and 1 mile south of the river. The valley 
is 4 miles west of Gainesboro', the county seat, and near the center of a 
section of country that abounds in mounds and graves. This valley 
which is full of these graves, contains near 100 acres, and is the site of 
the village called Flynn's Lick. There are five limestone springs, one 
sulphur spring, and a salt spring. From the number of mounds of earth, 
stone, and shell, it is evident that it has been a large town and a place 
of note among the inhabitants of that day. A further reason is that 
the valley is easily approached from every direction. The valley is full 
of graves, placed as close as they can be in the ground. It has been 
in cultivation sixty-five years. Before it was cleared it was covered 
with a dense forest of trees, some of which are from 4 to C feet in diame- 
ter. Even on the tops of these mounds trees were standing (of the oak 
and poplar species) measuring 4 and 5 feet in diameter. At the time 
the valley was cleared it was not known that there were any graves 
there. 

The graves are of all sizes, varying from 18 inches to 6 feet in length 
and the usual size in width. The cofQns are made of slate-rock slabs 
(which now seems to be plentiful 4 miles up the creek, where there is a 
large quarry), and are generally neatly polished. The bones and pot- 
tery are now found from 18 to 20 inches below the surfiice of the ground. 
The coffins are co;!Structed in the following manner: They first placeel 
on the bottom of the grave one or two slabs of slate- work neatly polished 
and jointed closely together in the middle .when they had to use two 
of them; they next placed one at the head and one at the foot of the 
grave; then they set up one or two, as the case required, on edge 
on both sides, neatly fitted together in the middle aid at the ends, which 
forms a box. They next took one or two i)ieces, as the size of the coffin 
demanded, neatly polished and jointed together in the middle and at the 
ends, and placed them on for the lid, projecting on all sides from 2 to 4 
inches. Occasionally we find a grave where they have used limestone 
instead of slate rock. 

On the east side of the creek, about 100 yards from its bank, is the 
grand earthen mound, which is larger and higher than any of the others 
in the valley. All tlie graves as a general rnle face this grand nu)und ; 
but occasionally, owing to the rock in the ground, this rule is varied and 
the direction changed, showing that closeness or compactness was their 
leading idea. 

The mounds referred to in this valley and vicinity are composed both 
of earth and stone, and are found on both sides of the creek. The 



612 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

largest earthen mound, which I call the grand mound because all the 
graves are facing it, is about ninety feet in diameter, and at this time 
about 4 feet high ; but when first discovered by whites it was 5 or 6 feet 
high. This mound has not yet been examined, but others in the 
valley, not so high but larger in diameter, have been looked into and 
were found to contain graves, pottery -ware, pipes and arrow-lieads made 
of dirt or cut out of rock. These are found in the graves in the mound 
and in those around it. 

On a hill adjacent to the valley, about 2'^0 feet high, are six stone 
mounds constructed of rough limestoue rock. These mounds are 'situa- 
ted about 300 yards east of the valley. They are about 20 feet in 
diameter and 2 J or 3 feet high. Four of them have been examined, and 
all of them were found to be full of human bones and pottery ware, but 
not so close together as the others. The graves were constructed, or 
covered over with rock, differently from the others. The corpse seems 
to have been put in first, and then rock slabs set up and jjlaced together 
at the top in the shape of the roof of a liouse. In this way was the 
l)lace filled with graves all over a certain spot, and then rough stone 
juled on until the mound was formed. I have spoken of only six mounds 
on this hill, of this kind ; but there are many in this vicinity of this kind, 
but they have not been examined. Near the center of the mound ex- 
amined by me, in a grave, were found bones of a human being charred 
perfectly black, around which were placed all the others. 

On the west side of the creek is a bluff in which were found several 
holes, and on examination one of them was found to lead into a cave 
which has been explored for about 100 yards. This cave contains sev- 
eral apartments which are dry, and within this are found a great many 
human bones, some of which are still in a state of preservation. 

A female skeleton was taken from a grave found about 80 yards west 
of the mound that I have designated in this letter as the grand mound. 
This skeleton was lying with the face towards the mound, with a 
pipe in her right hand resting on her right thigh. With this skel- 
eton I found in opening the grave an infant child lying with its feet 
against the thigh bones of its mother. When first opened this child's 
skull-bone and other bones were in perfect form, but as soon as the 
air came in contact with it it broke into lime, or powder. This female 
evidently died in childbirth, the feet of the foetus coming first. This 
female we are led to believe, from the pains taken in burying her, must 
have been of note amongst them, for I found in disinterring this skeleton 
that the remains were deposited in a wooden coffin, and then this one 
was put into one of neatly polished rock. A jug was found, with the 
mouth down and the bottom upwards, placed against the skull-bone. 
The stone with a hole in the center, which is called a corn-muller, I 
foind about 80 yards from the grand mound. This was plowed up and 
found, among a large number of human bones in a decayed condition, 
upon the top of a small mound in the valley. The pottery, of the char- 
acter sent, is found in all the graves and in a similar condition. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO AXTHROPOLOGY. do 
ANTIQUITIES AND ABORIGINES OF TEXAS. 

By a. R. Roessler, of Washington, D. C. 

In my frequent walks, some years since, along the beaches of the bays 
and inlets of the Gulf of Mexico, a few miles south of the Guadahii^e 
Eiver, I rarely failed to find a number of aboriginal relics — especially 
immediately^ after the ebb of a high tide. I have also found many about 
the bases of the sandy hillocks, or ''dunes," which have been heaped up 
by the winds in many places along- the coast. I have occasionally found 
large flints; but these were probably used for harpoons. Some of these 
arrow-heads are very rudely wrought, while others, particularly a very 
small kind, are. of esqiusite finish, with a poiut as sharp as a lancet, and 
the cutting edges finely and beautifully serrated. Most of the specimen s 
collected by me had necks, or shanks, by which they were fitted into the 
shaft; a few, however, were without this api)eudage, but were either 
grooved or beveled on both sides of the base of the tongue. The flint 
pebbles, from which these arrow-heads were chipped, were probablj^ ob- 
tained from 30 to 40 miles inland, where they abound in several localities. 
All the Indian tribes of Texas, when it was first colonized by Americans, 
used metallic arrow-heads, which they had probably substituted for flint 
ones nearly a century before, or not long after the establishment of the 
missions and military posts of San Antonio and La Bahia, where they 
doubtless obtained copj)er, brass, and iron, all of which metals they used 
for pointing their missiles. Fragments of earthen pottery are coexten- 
sive with the flint relics. But they bear evidence that our aborigines 
were never much skilled in the ceramic art. 

The Indian dead usually receive very shallow sepulture. Often the 
Texas tribes do not bury their dead at all, but merely pile logs or stones 
upon their bodies, which are soon extricated and the flesh devoured by 
beasts of prey. The bones being thus left to the action of the elements, 
rapidly decay. Hence the osseous remains of the aborigines are rarely 
found far inland, but in various places along the coast the winds have 
performed the rites of sepulture by blowing the sand upon the dead. 
At Igleside, in 18G1, human bones were disinterred at two localities 
more than a hundred yards apart, from a depth of 8 feet ; and recently, 
in October, 1877, others were discovered in a sand hill, or "dune," near 
what is locally known as the "False Live Oak," -in Kefagio County. 
About a month after the discovery I went to the spot and found that a 
large quantity of human bones, including several skulls, had been ex- 
posed by the caving of the "dune;" but being much decayed, had 
broken to pieces in falling, and quickly dissolved in the Gulf tide at the 
base of the "dune." I saw for 40 feet along the face of the steep slope, 
from which the sand had slidden, a number of human bones and skulls 
projecting at various angles. One skull, which was better preserved 



614 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

than the rest, was of medium size and remarkably round. The others 
seeuied of similar size and type. The teeth of all were well preseived, 
and did not exhibit any appearance of having been faulty during the 
lifetime of their owners. IS^one of the bones seemed to have belonged 
to persons above the average size, with the exception of one femur. 
Neither the vertebral nor pelvic bones, the ribs, the omoplates, nor the 
bones of the hands and feet were preserved. These human remains 
were from 5 to 7i feet beneath the surface of the ground, and 10 or 12 
feet above the level of the bay. 

After an interval of about six weeks, 1 again visited the spot. About 
2 feet of the hill had caved away since my first visit; but the bone de.- 
posit was still unexhausted, for I found three more skulls and several 
limb bones, all of which broke into fragments in extracting them from 
the compact sand. 

I was disappointed in not finding stone arrow-heads in the caved 
sand. But my search for them was not thorough. There is no reason, 
however, to doubt that these are aboriginal remains. Their imperfect 
state of preservation in any kind of earth, very conservative of organic 
substances, alone warrants the conclusion that they are ancient, which 
is reinforced by an argument which I will here state. These remains 
are found at the southern extremity of a sand ridge about 2 miles long 
from north to south, and varying in height from 20 to 40 or 50 feet, and 
which was evidently formed while the gulf beat directly upon the shore 
of the mainland. But ever since the long, sandy islands extending i)ar- 
allel with our coast were heaped up by the action of the waves and cur- 
rents of the sea, the only communication between the gulf and the in- 
terior bays, or lagoons, has been through a few narrow channels called 
"bayous." The consequence is, that the sandy materials of which the 
"dunes" are formed, instead of reaching the shore of the mainland as 
in former ages, are now deposited on the gulf side of the islands and 
blown up by the east and southeast winds into hillocks similar to, but 
generally less elevated than, those which were formerly heaped by the 
same agency upon the mainland. 

Now, on the assumption that these human remains, in accordance 
with the universal custom of ISTorth American savages, were only in- 
ferred to the depth of 2 feet at most, several feet of sand must subse- 
quently have been blown over them to account for the depth at which 
they were found, and the sand for this purpose must have been trans- 
ported to the adjacent beach by the currents of the gulf. Hence, I 
conclude that the remains were deposited in the "dune" before the gulf 
was cut off from the mainland by the formation of the chain of island 
barriers above mentioned. The sand ridge containing the osseous relics 
has been preserved from the wasting effects of the winds by the thickets 
of dwarf oak and sweet bay with which it is overgrown. Some of the 
live oaks at its eastern base are of sufficient girth to indicate an age of 
two centuries. Other oaks of the same species a short distance south 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 615 

of the "dunes," and very near the bay, arc of much greater antiquity. 
All these trees must have grown up since the Gulf retreated behind 
Matagorda Island, which at this point is about 8 miles distant from the 
mainland. From all of which it follows as highly probable that the 
human remains, which I have described, were inhumed at a period 
when the broad waves of the sea resounded along the shore of the 
mainland, and before the sail of a ship had gleamed on the Gulf of 
Mexico. 

Both history and tradition preserve the names of several tribes of 
Texas Indians, which had become extinct or had been blended with 
other tribes before the State was first colonized by Anglo-Americans, 
at which i^eriod, A. D. 1821, the only tribes with w^hich the settlers 
came in contact were the Comanches, Wacos, Tawacanies, lonies, Keech- 
ies, Lipans, Tonkaways, and Carancawaj^s. Of all these tribes the last 
named was the most remarkable. They inhabited the coast, and ranged 
from Galveston Island to the Eio Grande. The men were of tall stature, 
generally G feet high, and the bow of every warrior was as long as his body. 
These Indianl^ navigated the bays and inlets in canoes, and subsisted, 
to a considerable extent, on fish. They were believed by many of the 
early settlers to be cannibals ; but it is probable that the only cannibal- 
ism to which they were addicted was that which was occasionally 
practised by the Tonkaways, if not by all the tribes of Texas. This con- 
sisted in eating bits of an enemy's flesh at their war dances to inspire 
them with courage. A dance and feast of this kind I once witnessed at 
a settlement on the Colorado, where the Tonkaways were temporarily 
camped. A party of its braves on a war tramp slew a Comanche, and 
upon their return to their tribe brought with them a portion of the dried 
flesh of their slain foeman. This human "tasajo," after being boiled, 
was partaken of by the warriors of the tribe Avith cries and gestures of 
exultation. Their thievish and murderous propensities early involved 
them in war with the settlers of Austin Colony, by whom they were re- 
peatedly defeated with severe loss,#n consequence of wliicb, about the 
year 1825, they fled west of San Antonio Eiver, whither tUey were pur- 
sued by Austin at the head of a strong party of his colonists. When 
he arrived at the Manahuila Creek, C miles east of Galliad — then called 
La Bahia — he was met by a Catholic ])ricst of that place, who bore a 
proposition from the Caraucaways, that if Austin would desist from 
hostilities they would never in future range east of the San Antonio. 

Austin agreed to this proposition and countermarched his force. The 
Caraucaways, however, did not long keep their promise. A few years 
afterwards several parties of them returned to the Colorado, their favor- 
ite resort, and committed divers thefts and atrocious nuirders, for which 
they weie again severely scourged by the colonists. 

Efforts were long made by the Catholic missionaries to christianize 
these savages, and the mission of Befugio, 30 miles south of Galliad, 
was, I believe, founded for that special purpose. But the Caraucaways 



G16 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

were proof against all civilizing Influences. At length, about the year 
1843, forty or fifry men, women, and children — the sole remnant of this 
tribe, which twenty-one years before numbered nearly a thousand souls — 
emigrated to Mexico, and were permitted to settle in the interior of 
the State of Tamaulipas. At this time it is not improbable that the 
Carancaways are almost, if not quite, extinct. I am unable to ascertain 
whether any of the other tribes mentioned before in this paper are also verg- 
ing on extinction, but it is well known that they have all rapidly diminished 
in numbers since they came in contact with civilization, and the con- 
clusion is inevitable that in a score or two of years all the smaller tribes 
will become as extinct as the mammoth and the mastodon that preceded 
them. 



MOUNDS, WOEKSHOPS, AND STONE-HEAPS IN JEEFEESON 
COUNTY, ALABAMA. 

By William Gesner, of Birmingham, Alabama. 

Three mounds are to be seen in township 17, range 1 west, of Jeffer- 
son County, about 4 miles north of Birmingham, and west of the South 
and North Alabama Eailroad, in that portion of Jones Valley through 
which flows Village Creek from east to west. They are on the north 
side of the creek where it is forded, on the Birmingham and Huutsville 
wagon road, and west of the machinery and buildings of the Birmingham 
Water Works Company about 1 mile. The largest of them is nearest 
to, and visible from, this road toward the west. The one, which is the 
most southerly of the group, appears to be about 30 feet high, conical, 
and about 100 feet in diameter at its base ; the others, distant from it 
and from each other, about 300 yards, are not in a direct line with each 
other. The second one north has not one-third the dimension of the 
first, and the third is much smaller than the second. They are situated 
on the plain of one of the most ferfcle tracts of land in Jones Valley, 
which has been cultivated for more than fifty years. 

Five Mile Creek, also flowing from east to west, through the hills, 
from out of this Jones anticlinal Valley, along the base of low ridges 
of Millstone Grit, bordering the Warrior Coal Field on the southeast, 
being crossed at Boyles Gap, on the South and North Alabama Eail- 
road, places these mounds between two streams, abounding in fish, and 
tributary to the Black Warrior Elver. Their immediate locality is 
unsurpassed by any other region of the State for number, size, clear- 
ness, and coolness of the springs, issuing from out both the ridges of 
Silurian quartzites, and beds of limestone outcropping in the valley. 
They have been injured to some extent by hunters and farming opera- 
tions, particularly the smallest one, but the largest one has oaks and 
other trees of large dimensions on it, growing without thriving. No 
explorations having been made of any of them, their arrangement and 
composition remain unknown. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 617 

Worlshops. — In township 18, range 7 east, of Talladega County, on 
the headwaters of Talladega Creek, at the eastern end of Cedar Kidge, 
(a spur of the Eebecca Potsdam sandstone Mountain) in the old fields 
where the JMontgomery Mining & Manufacturing Company's, Sulphur, 
Bluestone, Copperas, and Alum Works were situated, wagon loads of 
quartz fragments, broken arrow-heads, and spear-points, cover the 
ground ; but on a much larger scale appears to have been the manu- 
factory of these implements in township 19, range 27 east, of Lee County, 
on the Columbus Georgia branch of the AVestern Railroad east of 
Tougesborough ; for in the fields, on the southeastern side of a low 
ridge called Storees Mountain, many acres are covered with the broken 
quartz, in every variety of that mineral found in this hill, from trans- 
parent rock crystal to jasper and chalcedony ; among which occasional 
good implements occur. 

Stone-heaps. — In township 23, range 14 east, of Chilton County, on 
the middle prong of Yellowleaf Creek, about 3J miles northeast of 
Jemison Station, on the South and North Alabama Eailroad, there are 
three stone heaps. The first one is about 100 yards from and on the 
west bank, being about 20 feet in diameter, and from 4 to 5 feet high at 
the center, with a post oak and pine growing on it of ancient appear- 
ance, and each of them about 8 inches in stump measurement. Two 
others nearly west of this, distant about 700 yards on the eastern brow 
of the ridge, are about 100 yards apart ; one of them about 10 and the 
other 20 feet in diameter at the base and from 4 to 5 feet high at the 
center, which, though in the primitive forest, have no trees growing on 
them. Another, 1 mile east of these, on a more westerly ridge, in the 
same range and township, is about 50 feet in diameter at the base and 
over 5 feet high at the center. In township 21, range 3 west, on the 
quartzite ridge east of Siluria (about 1 mile), on the South and North 
Alabama Eailroad, occurs a smaller stone heap than any of those be- 
fore mentioned, supposed to be the grave of an Indian warrior. 



ABORIGINAL SOAPSTONE QUAEEY AND SHELL-HEAPS IN 

ALABAMA. 

By Charles Mohr, of Mobile, Alabama. 

In the course of a mineralogical trip through the region of metamor- 
phic rocks in this state, stopping at Dudleyvillc, Tallapoosa County, I 
heard much of an ancient soapstone quarrj-, worked by a race of which, 
according to the statements of the first settlers amongst the Creeks j^nd 
Muscogees, no tradition existed among these tribes. I was urgently 
pressed, but could not go, to visit the quarry myself, so it is due to Dr. 
Johnston, of Dudley ville, that I am enabled to make this contribution. 
The' geutleraau writes: "I iiicked up the large fragments near excava- 



G18 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tions in the rock from the very place where the ancient stonecutter left 
his rude and unfinished work." Allusion to these so called soapstone ex- 
cavations and pottery is made in the second biennial report on the Geol- 
ogy of Alabama, by Professor Tourney, 1858, and also in the first report 
of the Progress of Geological Survey of Alabama, by Dr. E. Smith, 1874, 
pages, SG, 91, and 118. The rock from which this specimen has been 
quarried is rather a fibrous serpentine, intermixed partlj^ with an asbes- 
toid actinite than a soapstone. A stone chisel has, according to the 
statement of Dr. Johnston, been found in the soapstone quarries, and 
was undoubtedly an instrument used in cutting and dressing the vessels, 
and is of a porphyritic or dioritic rock foreign to the geological forma- 
tion in that section. 

1 found a i)eculiar tablet of iudurated ferruginous clay, the straight 
lines along the margin of which would lead one to think that it was 
used for a tally, "worn around the neck suspended by a string. It was 
found in an old field on the western shore of Mobile Bay, near Magnolia 
race course. In this county two kinds of shell-banks or shell-mounds 
are met with. 

The first are situated in the low marshes of the delta of Mobile Eiver, 
first recognized as artificial accumulations of shells, and described as 
the gnathodon beds by Professor Tourney in his second biennial report 
on Geology of Alabama, 1858. He mentions the same at the time of 
his visit extending over several acres of ground, and some with an ele- 
vation of from 10 to 20 feet, presenting the shape of truncated cones, 
covered with a growth of native forest trees. These beds are almost 
entirely made of the shells of Gnathodon cuneatiis, but in some quanti- 
ties of stone of Cyrena caroliiiensis and the Neriiina reclivata have served 
in a less degree to swell those accumulations ; together with these, 
charcoal, ashes, and the bones of birds and animals are found. Eelics 
of the handicraft of the builders of these shell-mounds are almost 
unknown. Professor Toumey speaks of an instrument cut from the shell 
of the Pyrula ficus which he found 10 feet below the surface, and of 
scarce fragments of pottery. These beds are, at this day, almost all 
levelled to the ground, and are rapidly disappearing, many having been 
appropriated as excellent sites for market gardens, and vast quantities 
of shells have been, and are still, removed for the construction of our 
shell-roads. The time is rapidly approaching when scarce any vestige 
will be left of them, and it is therefore most to be wished that the little 
of what yet remains should be closely investigated, and a minute account 
be put upon permanent record. 

The other shell-banks are situated on the eastern and western shoi'es 
of Mobile Bay, and along the coast of the Mississippi sound to the mouth 
of the Pascagoula. They are all above tide- water on dry land, contigu- 
ous to the extensive oyster beds in these waters, and composed exclu- 
sively of the oyster. The most interesting and the most extensive of 
these accumulations made by the ancient Ostreai)hagi is found on the 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. GlD 

north side of the Bayou Cock d'ludes near its mouth, a few miles dis- 
tant from Bayou La Batterie, iu the extreme southern part of this 
county. But comparativeiy a small i^art of the large mound is left, and 
what remains serves as a beautiful site for a farm house, shaded by ma*;- 
uificent live oaks of the growth perhaps of scores of decades, offering 
under their shade, from an elevation of from 25 to 35 feet, a fine view 
of the surrounding country, and the island-studded waters of the Gulf. 
A quarter of a century ago these banks furnished this city for years 
■with lime for building, and are still much used for the construction of 
roadbeds; having, however, passed of late years into the hands of farm- 
ers, the application of lime for agricultural j)urposes tends now, more 
than anything else, to their demolition and rapid disappearance. Con- 
siderable quantities of remains of the industries of these shell-bank 
builders have been found, mostly in the shape of ornamental pottery, as 
testified by a collection of these relics in the hands of Major Walthall. 
They consist of a pipe, bowls, handles of pots, mouthpieces of jars, rep- 
resenting heads of birds and animals, and human heads with a most 
characteristic and impressive cast of features, reminding me strongly of 
the faces of Mexican idols. Some of these are almost indentical with 
those mentioned by Mr. Putman, in his report on the Peabody Museum 
of ArchiBology and Ethnology, published in the June number of the 
American Naturalist, and figured under Nos. 7775-70, specimens repre- 
senting female heads bearing the very same features and the same style 
of head-dress as l^o. 7778. They are all made of soft clay found on. the 
bay shore, mixed with very small particles of burnt shell. What inter- 
ested me mostly in looking over these remains is the occurrence of the 
same double concave, rounded, and polished disks, agreeing exactly 
with those of No. 7838 in the same pajjer. 

I learn that near Mount Vernon Arsenal, 30 miles distant from this 
city, and about 3J miles from the Alabama Eiver, are ancient burial 
grounds, and that the exploration of the same has, from time to time, 
been attempted by different persons, I do not know with what result. 



SILYEE CROSSES FEOM AN INDIAN GEAVE-MOUND AT 
COOSAWATTEE OLD TOWN, MUEEAT COUNTY, GEOEGIA. 

By Ciiaklks C. Jones, Jr., LL.D., Augusta, Ga. 

The two silver crosses, correct representations* of which are herewith 
I)reseuted, were taken, in November, 1832, from a grave-mound at Coosu- 
wattee Old Town, iu Murray County, Georgia. Indian relics were 
found associated with them. We incline to the opinion that they may 
properly be referred to the expedition of Hernando de Soto. 

If we interpret aright the wanderings of the Adelantado over the 

*' These dnnviujis aio balf-size, luid deliueato both faces of cacli cross. 



620 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

territory embraced within the geographical limits of the modern State 
of Georgia, his command halted for a while at the precise spot where 
these objects were obtained; and thence, moving down the valley of 
the Oostanaula, reached Ohiaha, the site of the present town of Eome, 
where De Soto tarried during the month of June, 1540, to recruit his 
men and animals. 




Fig. a L 

In the Spanish narrative we are informed that before entering the 
village of Canasagua the strangers were met by twenty natives, each 
bearing a basket of mulberries. 

Now, this name Canasagua lives to-day, and is borne by the Connas- 
agua River, which, uniting with the Coosawattee, forms the Oostanaula. 
Coosa wattee Old Town is located not far above the confluence of these 
streams. Within the historic period it continued to be a favorite abode 
of the Cherokee Indians. 

In the neighboring county of Habersham, metallic objects of Euro- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 621 

pean manufacture have been unearthed under such circumstances that 
we feel justified in attributing them to the companions either of De 
Soto or of Louis de Yelasco. 

It is a well-established fact that twelve priests, eight clergymen of 
inferior rank, and four monks accompanied the Adelantado's army. 
We are assured that the conversion of the natives was one of the av^owed 




Fig. a 2. 

purposes of the expedition. These clerical gentlemen were supplied 
with crucifixes, crosses, and rosaries, which they employed about, and 
distributed during the course of, their religious labors. That some ef- 
fort was made to indoctrinate the aborigines in the mysteries of Christi- 
anity, and to lead them to look upon the cross as a symbol of peace, we 
are distinctly advised. Witness the erection of large wooden crosses, 
and the teachings of the priests at Achese, at Casqui, in the province 
of Icasqui, and elsewhere. 
It appears by no means improbable that these crosses were presented 



622 I^IISCELLANEOUS PAPEES EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

by tlie Spanish clergymen of the expedition to prominent Indians- 
reckoned as converts at the time— and that their fellows, in obedience 
to a custom long established and maintained even to the present moment, 
upon the death of the fortunate owners, buried them in the grave-mounds 
erected for their sepulture. 




Fig. B 1. 

We regret that we have no suitable references at hand which would 
enable us to determine, at least api)roximatively, the date of the manu- 
facture of these crosses. The silver of which they are made is seem- 
ingly quite pure, and each cross is about the thirtieth of an inch in 
thickness. 

Some intrusive engraving appears on the face of one of these objects. 
Behold the delineation of the head and neck of a horse! Even the most 
sui)erficial examination will convince any one that this figure was not 
made with the graver's tool which wrought theother ornamentations, but 
that it was more rudely done, and, in all likelihood, with the sharp 
point of a flint flake. 

Why an oicl should have been figured on the other face of this cross, 
i know not. Were this a Eoman relic our wonder would not be excited. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 623 

We are at a loss to suggest a satisfactory interpretation of the in- 
scrij)tion appearing in the center of one of the faces of the cross \Yhich 
still retains its ring for suspension. Can it be a rude tracing by the donor, 
on the spur of the moment, of the name of the Indian to whom the 
cross was presented? This inscription has an illiterate, unskillful, and 
hasty look about it. It is not a of a kind with the rest of the engrav- 
ing, and was certainly added after the completion of the object. Writ- 




FiG. B 2. 

ten from left to right, it runs as follows: lYNKicrDU. Eead from right 
to left, we have udiciknyl In either case, by a slight exercise of the 
imagination, we have a name with a traditional aboriginal ring about it. 
Manifestly these letters were not within the double circle when the 
cross passed from the shop of the silversmith, and we are persuaded 
that both a clumsy tool and an unskilled hand were employed in their 
superscription. 

As we well know, the Florida tribes were wholly unacquainted with 
tlie horse prior to the advent of the European. To them, therefore, on 
its first appearance, this quadruped must have proved an object of 

These silver ornaments, too, were doubt- 



special interest and wonder. 



624 illSCELLAXEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

less held in high, esteem, because, in beauty of material, symmetry of 
form, and excellency of manufacture, tbey far excelled all the products 
of aboriginal fabrication. 

May we not suggest that the native, into whose ownership) one of 
these crosses passed, endeavored with a flint flake to perpetuate his 
recollection of this animal which, in his esteem, was not less remark- 
able than the pale-faced stranger or his shining gift? We cannot re- 
sist the impression that this equinal delineation was the work of an 
Indian. 



THE GREAT MOUND ON THE ETOWAH RIVEE, GEORGIA. 

By Charles Whittlesey, of Cleveland, Ohio. 

Not having seen a detailed description of this mound, I made a visit 
to it in behalf of the Western Reserve Historical Society in May, 1871. 
It stands upon the north ^bank of the Etowah, about 2 miles below where 
it is crossed by the Chattanooga and Atlanta Railway, near Cartersville. 
Its form, size, and elevation are singular and imposing. It occuj^ies 
tlie easterly point or angle of a large and luxuriant river bottom, a part 
of which is subject to inundations. The soil is a deep, rich, black loam, 
covering several hundred acres, which has been cultivated in corn and 
cotton since the Cherokees left it about forty years since. 

I was compelled, by bad weather, to make the survey in haste. The 
bearings were taken with a j^rismatic comj^ass, the distances measured 




Fig. 1. 



by pacing, and the elevations obtained with a pocket level. They are 
therefore subject to the corrections of future surveyors. Its base covers 
a space of about 3 acres, and stands at a level of 23 feet above low water 
in the river. In great floods the water approaches near the mound on 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 625 



the west, but has not been known to reach it. The body of the mound 
has an irregular figure, as shown in the plan. It is longest on tlie 
meridian, its diameter in that direction being about 270 feet. On the to]) 
is a nearly level area of about an acre, the average height of which is 50 
feet above the base. A broad ramp or graded way (1) winds upward 
from the plain, around the south face of the mound, to the area on the 
top. 

Like some of the pyramids of Egypt, it has two smaller ones as tenders : 
^ne on the south, (7; another to the southeast, B; each about 100 feet 
distant, their bases nearly square, and of nearly equal dimensions. If 
they were not in the shadow of the great mound they would attract 
attention for their size and regularity. The ground at i? is 3 feet higher 
than at (7. All of them are truncated. The mound G is not a perfectly 
regular figure, but approaches a square, with one side broken into three 
lines. Its height above base is 18 feet. The bearing of its western side 
is north 10° west, and the length on the ground 47 i)aces, having been 
Bomewhat spread out by plowing around the foot. On the east is a 




Fig. 2. 



ramp, with a slope of one to two degrees which allows of ready ascent 
by persons on foot. 

The slopes of all the mounds are very steep and quite perfect, in 
S. IMis. 109 40 



G26 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

some places still standing at an angle of 45°. ^ is a regular truncated 
pyramid, with a square base about lOG feet on a side, two of the faces 
bearing 5° west of the meridian. Its elevation is 22 feet. There is no 
ramp, or place of ascent which is less steep than the general slopes. 

Towards the southeast corner of the surface of jB is a sunken i>lace 
as though a vault had fallen in. 

The proprietor has managed to cultivate the summits of all the mounds, 
regarding the group in the light of a continual injury by the loss oJ^ 
several acres of ground. Most of the material of the mounds is the rich 
black mold of the bottom land, with occasional lumps of red clay. The 
soil on their sides and summits produces corn, cotton, grass, vines, and 
bushes in full luxuriance. The perimeter of the base of the great mound 
is 534 paces. As the ground had been recently plowed and was soaked 
with a deluge of rain, a pace will represent little more than 2 feet. I 
give the circumference provisionally at 370 yards. The area on the top 
is like the base, oblong north and south, but its figure is more regular. 
Its perimeter is 231 paces. 

From the center of the pyramid G a line on the magnetic meridian 
passes a few feet to the west of the center of the platform on the summit 
of A. Its sides are nowhere washed or gullied by rains. Prior to the 
clearing of the land, large trees flourished on the top and on the slopes. 
I estimate its mass to contain 117,000 cubic yards, which is about four- 
fifths of the Prussian earth monument on the field of Waterloo. 

At the base the ramp is 50 feet broad, growing narrower as you as- 
cend. It curves to the right, and reaches the area on the top near its 
southwest corner. Twenty-five years since, before it was injured by 
cultivation, visitors could easily ride to the summit on horseback along 
the ramp. From this si)0t the view of the rich valley of the Etowah, 
towards the west, and of the picturesque hills which border it on either 
side, is one of surpassing beauty. 

About 300 yards to the north rises the second terrace of the valley, 
composed of red clay and gravel. Near the foot of it are the remains of 
a ditch, inclosing this group of mounds in an arc of a circle, at a dis- 
tance of about 200 yards. The western end rests on the river below 
the mounds, into which the high waters back up a considerable distance. 

It has been principally filled up by cultivation. The owner of the 
premises says there was originally an embankment along the edge of 
the ditch on the side of the pyramids, but other old settlers say there 
was none. If the last statement is correct, a part of the earth compos- 
ing the mounds can be accounted for by the ditch. 

Its length is about one-fourth of a mile, and it does not extend to the 
river above the mounds. Near the upper end are two oblong irregular 
pits, 12 to 15 feet deep, from which a part of the earth of the mounds 
may have been taken. The diameter of tlie pits varies from 150 to 200 
feet, and the breadth from 00 to 70. The ditch is rei)uted to have been 
30 feet wide and 10 feet deep. Two hundred yards to the northeast of 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 627 

A are the remains of four low mounds within the ditch, near the large 
pits. Five hundred yards to the northwest, on the edge of the second 
terrace, is a mound which is jet 8 feet high, although it has been indus- 
triously plowed over more than thirty years. On the opposite side of 
the river, one-fourth of a mile below, and on the same side 2 miles 
below, are said to be small mounds. 




Fig. 3. 

On the summit of a rocky hill, 2^ miles northwest, which overlooks 
the valley of the Etowah towards Kome, and also the hill country on 
the south, is an inclosure of loose unhewn stoues, known as the "Indian 
Fort." It has now the api)eaian(;e of a heavy stone ienc-e which has 
fallen down. There are six opeuings or entrauces, B B B, having a 
breadth of 10 to CO feet, situated at irregular distances. It is an irregu- 



628 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



lar oval figure inclosing the rocky summit of the hill, the largest diam- 
eter of which is 220 paces and the shorter 200. The elevation of the 
knob, at the center, is 50 feet above the terrace or bench, on which 
the lines of loose stones are lying. This interior space is principally 
cleared of loose stone, and shows bare ledges of lime rock, in horizontal 
layers. 

The hill is covered with an open growth of oaks. There is nothing 
in this structure suggestive of a fort, except its elevated position, which, 
however, is by no means inaccessible. The openings are too wide and 
too numerous to warrant the idea of a defensive work. It is more i)rob- 
able that it was the scene of imposing public processions and displays, 
and was approached by crowds of persons from all sides through the 
openings. The rude wall or line of stones would be the necessary re- 
sult of clearing the ground of the blocks of limestone once scattered 
profusely over the surface. 

Near where the railway from Cartersville to Cedarville crosses Petit's 
Creek, at the base of the limestone bluif, about half a mile east of the 
"fort," is an artificial pile of small stones, which was once about 18 feet 
in height. It is now very much injured by persons in search of treasure 
and of relics, who have formed a crater at the center nearly down to the 
ground, throwing the stones over the sides. It must have been a regu- 
lar cone, with smaller heaps attached around its base, which was irregu- 
lar, and about 160 feet in circumference. This mound of stones does 
not differ from those raised by the red men over the remains of their 
dead chiefs except in size. 

A few days before I was at the great mound, a rude stone effigy of a 
female was plowed out near its base on the north side. It is quite gro- 
tesque, resembling the uncouth carvings in wood of the Indians of 
the north. Its height is 14 inches, its weight 36 pounds, and the mate- 
rial is the limestone of the region. 





Fig. 4. 



Fig. 5. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 629 




I have a i)liotograpli of it, viewed on three sides. On the hips and 
back are colored zigzag lines of white and brown, intended for orna- 
iiient. Some years since a male, prob- 
ably the mate to it, was plowed out near 
the same place; also an earthen vase and 
other pottery,- with flint disks. The first- 
found image was lost or destroyed, and 
the other soon will be. In style and ar- 
tistic execution they appear to be the 
work of the present red man. 

Mr. Tumliu, the owner of the premises, 
and Mr. Sage, of Cartersville, who knew 
the country while the Cherokees were in 
possession of it, state that the summit of 
the great pyramid was a fortified village, 
snrronnded by pickets of wood and a 
slight embankment. This parapet is still 
visible, but is, at least in part, owing to Fig. 6. 

furrows turned outward in plowing, and, until recently, the stumps of 
the pickets were struck by the plow. Xear the southeast corner of the 
area, on the top, is a low mound. It is a third of a mile, at the nearest 
point, to where there is laud of a height equal to the mound, and there- 
fore it was a place easily defended. Although the Cherokees made use 
of it as a fort against the Creeks, they always denied having any knowl- 
edge of the race or the persons by whom the mound was erected. The 
gentlemen above named questioned them repeatedly on this point, and 
always received the same answer. If it had been designed as a place of 
defense originally, a much less broad and gentle road to the summit 
would have been made. 

I was attracted to this mound and its surroundings as a type of the 
flat-top pyramids, so common on the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, which 
have been by some archaeologists attributed to the present race of red 
men. In Florida and in Alabama, the early English and Spanish trav- 
elers found Indian caciques with their wigwams on the top of such 
mounds, around which were the villages of their tribe. Instances are 
given where Indian towns occupied spaces surrounded by ancient em- 
bankments of earth, both with and without mounds. 

Mr. S. F. naven, long distinguished in archaeology as the secretary 
of the American Antiquarian Society at Worcester, I\rass., in his article 
in the Smithsonian Contributions for 1855, vol. viii, has referred to an 
instance of an intrenched fort made by the Arickarces, in a bend of 
the Missouri Kiver, above Council Blufls. The description of this fort 
by Lewis and Clark does not give it the character of an earthwork with 
ditches for defense. It was a temi^orary breastwork of logs and earth 
and stone, hastily thrown up, such as are common in Indian warfare, 
and in all warfare. 



630 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The Indian forts which were attacked by Champlain in northeastern 
New York in 1609 were constructed of pickets set in a low bank, strength- 
ened h} interlaciug branches and poles, secured by bark and withes. 
During the French wars with the Iroquois, on the waters of Lake Ontario, 
they met with nothing more advanced than these light stockades. The 
pickets were set in the earth, and the bank raised against them from 
both sides, to give them a more firm support. In no case was the bank 
or ditch relied upon as a protection or as an obstacle to those without. 
They were of a profile too slight for this purpose. 

The northwestern Indians have been questioned in numerous instan- 
ces as to the authors of the earthworks of the West. They universally 
deny having any knowledge or tradition of the persons who built them; 
a tradition which could not have been lost, or the art of making them. 
The relics which are found in the mounds, in connection with the first 
or oldeist burials, although there are resemblances, differ from the relics 
of the red men in many particulars. If stone axes or mauls of the Indian 
type have been found in the mounds, they are rare. The last-named 
race were not miners of copper or copper-workers. In the implements 
of the two races there are resemblances, especially in those which are 
made of flint, but no greater than in those of the ancient races in Europe, 
where no connection is claimed. 

It cannot, however, be denied that continued investigations bring to 
light a strong similarity between the works of the ancient tribes of the 
South and the mound-builders. If the dividing line shall be broken 
down as to them, there is a wide difference between the northern tribes 
and the mound-builders. 

Col. C. C. Jones, of Atlanta, Ga., in his valuable work on the Southern 
Indians (1874), has given historical proof to show that the Spaniards 
were witnesses to the erection of such mounds. 

Most of the above descriptive matter is an abstract of my remarks at 
the Chicago meeting of the American Association, in August, 1871, 
before the appearance of the book of Colonel Jones. The drawings 
used at the meeting have been reduced by photograph for this paper. 
I take pleasure in referring to his work (pages 137 to 143) for details 
not in ray description, especially the artificial ponds D D, and the mound 
U inclosed by the moat. The cavities E U U of mj sketch are the 
ponds P of Colonel Jones, but at the time of my visit were without water. 
There is but one ascent to the platform A, which is represented at 1, e j, 
and is in very good condition. Fort Hill no doubt had a relation to this 
group of mounds answering to the high places of worship which are 
common in Palestine. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 631 

NEW KIVER MOUNDS, BERRIEN COUNTY, GEORGIA. 

By William J. Taylor, of NashrilU; Ga. 

The mouucls described in tliis paper, two in number, arc situated on 
a dry sandy level of pine and oak land near the edge of a hunmoek 
which skirts the creek in the ninth district of Berrien County, G jorgia. 
They are about 300 yards from the creek and 100 yards from a branch 
emptying into the creek. This site is on lot numbered 275, and G 
miles southwest from the town of Nashville. 

The mounds had been partially explored previously to our examina- 
tion, but the following is an account of our results : 

Mound No. 1 was 30 feet wide and 4 feet high, and perfectly cir- 
cular at the base. The earth composing it was obtained from a saucer- 
shaped excavation, now 8 feet across and 1 foot deep. At the bottom 
of this depression were found charred wood, ashes, and pieces of burnt 
pine wood, which appeared to have been placed there when the inter- 
ment was made. 

Mound No. 2 resembled No. 1 in every respect. The growth on both 
mounds were wire-grass, sedge, bushes of the red oak and post oak. 
The early settlers and the Indians whom they encountered were alike 
ignorant of the origin of these relics of the past. 



ANCIENT CANALS IN FLORIDA. 

By Charles J. Kenworthy, of Jacksonville, Fla. 

In November and December, 1877, I indulged in a sail-boat cruise 
from Key West to Cedar Keys, and en route found and superficially ex- 
amined an ancient canal in township 50 south, range 25 east. The 
accompanying drawing gives a sketch of the locality. 

The canal is at present 12 feet wide at the bottom, and about 40 at 
the top. The embankment on each side is about 4 feet higher than the 
original surface. Engineering skill was manifested in laying out the 
canal, for its first 600 feet are at right angles with the coast line, after 
which it trends to the eastward. Those canals were not erected by our 
indolent Indians, and in my opinion they were made by another race. 
Three years ago I made a boat trip from Cedar Keys to Charlotte Har- 
bor, on Lake Okeechobee. On my return I superficially examined a 
canal at Pine Island, Charlotte Ilarbor. 

Some of the largest mounds in the State have been constructed near 
the southwest end of the canal. In my opinion the mounds have been 
made since the canal was excavated. I was anxious to make an exami 
nation to determine the date of the mound-building as regards the canal, 



032 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 




Plan No. 1. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 633 

but my companions would not stop. I was assured, by a gentlemau 
who had resided on the island for 24 years, that the canal extended 
across the island a distance of 3 miles, and that it could be traced in- 
land (from the shore of the mainland) a distance of 14 miles. A canal 
similar in character exists between the falls at the head of the Caloosa- 
hatchee and Lake Okeechobee. An old coaster informed me that he 
had discerned an ancient canal on one of the Thousand Islands south 
of Cape Eomano. Those excavations are evidently very old and not the 
work of Indians. They were not construicted for defensive purposes, 
but evidently for canals. 

In his examinations, Professor Wyman did not visit the large mounds 
of the State. The largest of those standing are to be found on Pine 
Island and Gasparilla Island, Charlotte Harbor, at Old Fort Centre, 
Fish Eating Creek, on the plain between l^ew Fort Centre and Fort 
Thompson, and between Fort Myers and Cyprus Bay. The mound at 
Old Fort Centre is about 50 feet high. It was evidently used for burial 
purposes, and if an excavation was made many things might be collected. 
I used a stick, and with a few minutes' scratching I found bones every- 
where. The largest and most interesting mounds in the State have es- 
caped notice and examination. From the immense number and large 
size of the shell heaps on the southwest coast, this section must have 
been inhabited for a long period by a large population. The distribution 
of the shells in some of the heaps led me to believe that the inhabitants 
were governed by some law. In some of the heaps you will find a layer 
of conch shells several feet in thickness, and above or below a layer of 
oyster shells. The largest number of shell mounds are to be found on 
the IS^elt River, a lagoon or river connecting Crystal and Henoosana 
Rivers. 

In my wanderings I found a remarkable shell deposit on the shore of 
Orange Lake. I noticed an elevation on the flat near the shore of the 
lake, covering ov^er an acre and about 6 feet high. I noticed on the 
surface fragments of oyster shells. I obtained a grubbing hoe and 
made an excavation about 2 feet deep, and found a bed of oyster shells. 
They differed from other shells I have examined in other portions of the 
State. As far as examined, each shell had been broken at the end, as 
oysters were opened some years ago. The present elevation of Orange 
Lake is 48 feet 8 inches above the ocean level. The nearest oyster bed 
is distant 43 miles. This immense heap of shells was not trans])orted 
43 miles, but in my opinion were obtained from Orange Lake when it 
was a bay or estuary of the sea. From my investigations I feel assured 
that the oysters were collected and eaten when the State of Florida 
consisted of a belt of high land extending from the Chattahoochee to a 
point south of Sumterville, and before the balance of the State at- 
tained its present elevation above the ocean. If my views are correct, 
Florida was inhabited a long time ago. If the shells referred to have 
not presented the endeavors of man's work I might have referred the 



634 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



collection to other causes. Two years ago I made the acquaintance of 
a very intelligent gentleman residing near Sumterville. Four years ago 
he was out deer hunting with dogs on the shore of Lake Charleossos- 

skie. He was riding over an 



ele vated hummock s u r - 
rounded by a large sun-grass- 
swamp, and discovered traces 
of old cultivation. Looking 
about, he discovered a heap 
of ancient pottery, which, he 
assured me, amounted to 
several cart-loads. He dis- 
mounted and examined a 
number of the vessels, and 
found that a hole had been 
made in the bottom of each 
to render it useless. After 
examining a few of them he 
followed in pursuit of his 
dogs. It seems to me that 
this hummock must have 
been the resort of a tribe of 
Indians, and when attacked 
by enemies they rendered 
their most valuable utensils, 
useless to the enemy. 

He had in the city, some 
months since, a large molar 
tooth weighing 9 pounds. It 
was picked up near Sumter- 
ville. On some of the tribu- 
taries of Pease Creek huge 
bones are visible in the sand 
bars at low stages of water. 
Plan No. 1 is an accurate 
sketch of the locality, show- 
ing the peninsula, inlet, lagoon, islands, and canals. Plan No. 2, on a 
smaller scale, shows John's Pass and Marco Inlet. 

One mile and three-quarters south of Doctor's Pass is John's Pass^ 
with three inside channels connecting them. Three miles and a quarter 
south of John's Pass is Little Marco Inlet, with an inside channel con- 
necting them. 

The land on the peninsula traversed by the canal is low, and poor 
pine land, not over 4 feet above high-water mark. From a passing 
examination of the mainland east of the lagoon it presented the ap- 
pearance of low pine land unfit for cultivation. It is evident that no 




Plan No. 2. 



MISCELLAFEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 635 

large settlement ever existed in the neighborhood of the canal. Unless 
marked chaDges have occurred in the land by the opening of i)asses 
since the excavation was made, there is no apparent reason why so 
much labor was bestowed on the work. 

Along the Gulf shore, for a distance of 150 feet inland from high- 
water mark, there exists a Hat sand bank about 4 feet above the gen- 
eral surface of the peninsula, and this deposit has apparently blocked 
up the Gulf end of the canal. The canal at the head of the Caloosa- 
hatchee connects with the river and ends abruptly inland. 

The canal crossing Pine Island is less than 4 miles from its northern 
end, and there is no apparent object why the excavation was made. 
The width, depth, and general appearance of all the canals are the 
same. 



MOUNDS m ALACHUA COUNTY, FLORIDA. 

By James Bell, of Gainesville, Fla. 

There are at least fifty mounds within 20 miles of Gainesville, Flor- 
ida. The accompanying sketch gives the location of six which have 
been examined, and of which the descriptions are given in this paper. 




^^„^_ •»"• V"- >'"" '^'" •^" •^'"' ■»"-- V"-^ \\1/' vliw M//, xU<» '•""^1,, 
O".. v»»- '■■"" ^*'" ""■ '"'" ^>"•• ■.*'•■> Wi. -'•'' >V'» ■»•'. •)!"• ,1,, 



0'» tU/f \U^ 



\\Ui ^\*1^, 4J/y# <ii^^ 
^ nX*'^ -^l*, ^V/, ^u. 



P^IG. 1. 



Mound No. 1 was 7 feet high and 30 feet in diameter, and located in 
a cleared field which has been plowed over for the last twenty years. 



636 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

A shaft was sunk below tlie original surface. Openings were also made 
in the sides. But no relics whatever were found. 

Mound No. 2 is situated in the same field 300 yards north of No. 1. 
It was at the time of its examination 10 feet high and about 95 feet iu 
base diameter. Like No. 1, it had been much plowed over. A shaft was 
sunk in it below the base and extended laterally, but nothing was found 
excepting a few fragments of charcoal and pottery. 




Fig. 2. — Mound No. 3 — looking uortli (1 and 2 = shafts: 4, 4=: pottery. 

Mound No. 3 is ujion a hummock near its edge. It measures 12 feet 
in height, and 105 by 70 feet in base diameter. Being situated on the 
slope of the hummock, the summit of which overlooks the mound, this 
work seems to have escaped observation. A family living only 30 yards 
distant were very much surprised to find it a burial mound. Two large 
trees were growing on the top at the time of my visit, and the entire 
surface was covered with a dense growth of bushes and grape-vines. 
The accompanying sketch will convey a clear idea of its appearance. 
A shaft G feet in diameter was sunk to the original surface. After dig- 
ging down about 10 inches broken pottery was encountered iu great 
quantities, but so much shattered that it was impossible to restore a 
single vessel. 




Fig. 3. — Mound No. 3 — looking west. 

The first bones were found about 15 or 18 inches from the surface. 
This stratum extended over the mound for a space 30 feet in diameter. 
There appeared to be three tiers of bones about a foot apart. The 
bodies had not been buried here ; the bones seemed to have been thrown 
in promiscuously. 

Being compelled to abandon my work for a season, other persons dug 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 637 

into this mound and recovered some valuable pottery. One large basin 
was made in imitation of a duck with wings and bill exposed. 

Kesuming the exidoration, the surface was dug over for a space of 
30 feet in diameter and a feet deep. Within that area not less than one 
thousand skeletons were exhumed and at least two wagon loads of pot- 
sherds. This pottery commenced about a foot from the surface and ex- 
tended down to the first stratum of bones. 

Mound No. 4 was only 4 feet bigh and 15 feet in base diameter. Upon 
examination it was found to contain no relics. 







Fig. 4. — Mound No. 5 — looking north (1, 2, 3 = shafts: 4, 4, 4 = charcoal and ashes.) 

Mound No. 5 was 10 feet high and 32 feet in base diameter, and very 
symmetrically shaped. It was situated on a hummock about 50 yards 
from the margin of the arm of Payne's Prairie. This was formerly a 
lake, but about twenty years ago the water disappeared through the 
sink. It remained dry for about three years, when it filled with water 
and has remained a lake ever since. This mound was examined (see 
Fig. 4) and a stratum of ashes, charcoal, and charred bones encountered 
3 feet from the surface. 

Mound No. 6 was about 8 feet high and 80 feet in base diameter. It 
stood in a cleared field which had been plowed over for a number of 
years. Nothing was discovered within it, although a ditch was cut 
through from one side to the other. 



SHELL DEPOSITS AT THE MOUTH OF SHOET CREEK, WEST 

yiEGINIA. 

By H. B. Hubbard, of Wheeling, W. Va. 

Short Creek is a little stream that enters the Ohio River 9 miles above 
the city of Wheeling, and the shell deposit alluded to commences to 
show in the bank of the river some 50 yards above the mouth of this 
creek, and is exposed for over 100 feet up the river, when it is hidden 
by a fill for a road down to the water. The shells are those of the fresh- 
water clam and are very fragile, splitting into fine scales on handling, 
though an occasional one is found that is perfect. The shells are now 
covered with about 3 feet of silt, and formerly there were 3 or 4 feet of 
the same loamy deposit over this, but it was removed in grading for a 
I)ublic road. A portion of this road, witli much of the deposit of shells, 
has fallen into the river by the caving iu of the bank. 



638 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

While many of the usual indications which mark such deposits as 
artificial, such as the remains of fires, &c., are present, there are two 
peculiarities worthy of especial notice. One of which is a stratum of 
river bowlders which divides the deposit of shells, which is over 2 feet 
in tl kickness, into two very equal parts through its entire exposure. These 
bowlders were evidently selected with great care for uniformity in size 
and are about 3 inches in diameter, and are jiacked as closely as in a 
pavement. The remains of the fires show both above and below these 
bowlders, but none immediately upon them. The other peculiarity is the 
abundance of human bones found mixed with the shells, but these are 
probably of later origin, and, if so, show that the place has subsequently 
been used for a burial place. 

The large mound at Mouudsville, W. Va., was opened in 1838 by Mr. 
Tomlinson, who, in opening, drove two shafts into it, one on the plane 
of the base to its center, the other from the top to the base. The hor- 
izontal shaft was through a loamy clay as far as driven, which was some 
12 or 15 feet at the time I was there, and for 3 or 4 feet in from the sur- 
face on the sides and top was marked with fine dark lines which formed 
segments of circles springing from each other in successive rows, after 
the manner of what is sometimes termed the "shell-pattern." These lines 
were from 12 to IG inches from point to point of contact and 2^ to 3 
inches apart at their greatest vertical separation. These lines suggested 
the idea that the mound s had been faced with turf. In support of this 
hypothesis, it would be necessary to remember the high angle of eleva- 
tion of the faces of the mound, the height of the mound and the material 
of which it is composed, and while the angle of inclination of the faces 
is no more than nature willingly tolerates under such circumstances, 
yet, unless the faces were protected, they would be much wasted and 
gullied by the rains before they would be protected by spontaneous veg- 
etation. The adaptation of the means to the end is apparent in the 
facility with which the material could be obtained and applied, and in 
the perfect protection which such a casing would afford. 



ANTIQUITIES OF SOUTHWESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 

By Rev. Horace Hayden, of West Brownsville, Pa. 

In view of the fact that in the States of Ohio, Indiana, and espe- 
cially Wisconsin, ancient remains have been so carefully investigated, 
it must appear strange that the many indicia of a i^rehistoric race in 
the western ])art of Pennsylvania and in the State of West Virginia 
should be so little known. At the present date these indicia have been 
largely decreased by vandalism and by the action of the elements. 
Many mounds have been plowed down to the surface of the surround- 
ing ground or leveled to make way for towns. Many of the remark- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 639 

able sculptured rocks Lave been used for building purj^oses or are 
lying below the surface of the Monougaliela lliver, even at low tide, 
the river being higher now at all seasons by reason of the slack-water 
improvements than it was forty years ago. The second geological re- 
port of Pennsylvania contains nothing on the subject of antiquities; 
Dr. Creigh, in his "History of Washington County," is entirely silent 
as to the numerous mounds, &c., which are found in the county limits; 
and the centennial volume of the "Resources of West Virginia," by 
Prof. M. F. Maury, ignores the many and exceedingly interesting re- 
mains in that State. I shall here, however, give simply an account of 
the antiquities of Fayette County, Pennsylvania, and, in another paper, 
of those in parts of West Virginia. This account will necessarily be 
taken largely from an unpublished work by Hon. James Veech and 
Freeman Lewis, the latter an old and experienced surveyor of Browns- 
ville, Pa. Eemains of embankments or "old forts" are numerous in 
Fayette County. The Indians known to us could give no satisfactory 
account of them. While the trees of the surrounding forests were chiefly 
oak, the growth upon and in the old forts was generally of large black 
walnut, wild cherry, and locust. Some indicate an age of three hun- 
dred to five hundred years, and some stood around the decayed remains 
of others. Judge Veech thinks they were originally composed of wood, 
as their d6hris is generally a vegetable mold, no stone being used in 
their construction. Old pottery, made of clay and mussel-shells, is al- 
ways found among these ruins. The old forts were of various forms, 
square, oblong, triangular, circular, and semi-circular. Their sites were 
generally well chosen in reference to defense and observation, and, what 
is a singular fact, they were very often, generally in Fayette County, 
located on the highest and richest hills, and at a distance fr^m any spring 
or stream of water. 

One of these "old forts" was on the land of William Goe, near the 
Mouougahela Kiver, and just above the mouth of Little Eedstone, 
where afterwards was a settlers' fort, called CasselPs or Castle Fort. 

Another was situated at the mouth of Speers Run, where now stands 
the town of Belle Vernon. Two or three are found on a high ridge 
southwardly of Perryopolis, on the State road, and on land lately owned 
by John F. Martin. 

Another noted one is on the west bank of the Youghiogheny River, 
nearly opposite the Brood ford, on land lately owned by James Collins. 
There are several on the high ridge of land leading from the Collins 
fort southwestwardly towards Plumsock, on lands of James Paull, John 
M. Austin, John Bute, and others, a remarkable one being on land lately 
owned by James Gilchrist and the Byers, where some very large human 
bones have been found. 

There is one on the north side of Mountz Creek, above Irishman's Run. 
A very largo one, containing G or 8 acres, is on the summit of Laurel 
Hill, where the mud pike crosses it, covered with a large growth of 
black walnut. 



640 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

One especially noted as containing a great quantity of broken shells 
and pottery existed on the high land between Laurel run and the 
Toughiogheny River, on a tract formerly owned by Judge Young, and 
remains of the fort are to be seen. There are yet distinct traces of one 
on land of General Henry W. Beeson, formerly Colonel McCleau's, about 
miles east of Uniontown. 

There was one northeast of New Geneva, at the locality known as the 
"Flint Hill," on land now owned by John Franks. 

Two miles northeast of New Geneva, on the road to Uniontown, and 
on land late of William Morris, now Nicholas B. Johnson, was one cele- 
brated for its great abundance of mussel-shells. In the high ridge south- 
wardly of the headwaters of Middle Eun several existed, of which may 
be named one on the Bixler land, one on the high knob eastwardly of 
Clark Breading's, one on the Alexander Wilson tract, and one on the 
land of Dennis Eiley, deceased, formerly Andrew C. Johnson's. Judge 
Veech also states that "a very noted 'old fort' and of most command- 
ing location was at Brownsville, on the site of Fort Burd, but covering 
a much larger area. Even after Colonel Burd built his fort here, in 1750, 
it retained the name of the ' Old Fort,' Redstone Old Fort, or Fort Red- 
stone.^^ I am quite sure that Judge Veech is in error in locating this 
old fort on the site of Fort Burd. 

Of the antiquities immediately around Brownsville no trace at pres- 
ent remains. On the original draught of Fort Burd, made by Major 
Joseph Shippen in 1759, and now in the possession of the Historical 
Society of Pennsylvania, can be seen, immediately to the rear of Fort 
Burd, the old Indian Fort, which is now so entirely obliterated that 
very few remember where it was located. The fullest description of 
this earthwork is found in " Travels in America, performed in 180G, for 
the purpose of exploring the rivers Allegheny, Monongahela, Ohio, and 
Mississippi, &c., by Thomas Ashe, esq., London, 1808." In the fifth let- 
ter of this work the author says : 

'' The neighborhood of Brownsville or Redstone abounds with 
monuments of Indian antiquity. They consist of fortified camps, bar- 
rows for the dead, images and utensDs, military appointments, «&c. A 
fortified camp (which is a fortification of a very complete nature, on 
whose ramparts timbers of 5 feet in diameter now grows) commands 
the town of Brownsville, which undoubtedly was once an Indian settle- 
ment. This camp contains about 13 acres, inclosed in a circle, the ele- 
vation of which is 7 feet above the adjoining ground. Within the circle 
a pentagon is accurately described, having its sides 4 feet high and its 
angles uniformly 3 feet from the circumference of the circle, thus leav- 
ing an unbroken communication all round. Each side of the pentagon 
has a postern opening into the passage between it and the circle, but 
the circle itself has only one grand gateway, which directly faces the 
town. Exactly in the center stands a mound, about 30 feet high, 
hitherto considered as a repository for the dead, and which any correct 
observer can perceive to have been a lookout. I confess that I examine*! 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G41 

these remaius of the former power of man with much care and veuera- 
tiou ; nor could I resist reproaching those writers who have igiiorantly 
asserted, ' We know of no such thing existing as an Indian monument 
of respectability, for we would not honor with that name arrow-points, 
stone hatchets, stone pipes, half-shapeu images, &c.' 

"The one which I have opened might have been originally a parallelo- 
gram GO feet by 20, and 30 feet high, whose upper surface aud angles 
have been rounded by the long influence of time and accident; for we 
are not to conceive that the form of ancient works is exactly similar to 
that which they first possessed. Such, indeed, as are built of stone and' 
have not been exposed to dilapidation do not experience any material 
change; but all those monuments (and they are by far the most numer- 
ous) which are composed of earth must have undergone consider- 
able alteration and waste, and therefore afford a very scanty evidence 
of their original dimensions, or (except where bones are found) of their 
purx)Ose. The bones in the barrows of this neighborhood were directed 
to every point, without regard to system or order. This surprised me 
more as I am well convinced that in general most of the ancient abo- 
riginal nations and tribes had favorite positions for their dead, aud 
even favorite strata with which to cover them, as I shall have occasion 
to explain when on the spot where the primitive Indians resided. Per- 
hai)S the irregularities in the barrows of this i)lace may arise from the 
bones deposited in them, having been those of persons killed in battle, 
and collected by the survivors in order to be buried uuder one great 
mound. - - - At the same time and place I found in my researches 
a few carved stone pipes and hatchets, flints for arrows, and pieces of 
earthenware. I cannot take upon me to say that the workmanship of 
any of these articles surpasses the efforts of some of the present race 
of Indians, but it certainly destroys an opinion which prevailed, that the 
inhabitants in the most remote times had the use of arms, utensils and 
instruments made of copper, iron, and steel." 

Josiah Priest, in his American Antiquities, 1833, p. 85, mentions this 
ancient fort, but he uses the language of Ashe without giving credit. 
Mr. James L. Bowman, who had frequently seen the outlines of the 
camp, notices it briefly in " Day's Historical Collections " and the "Ameri- 
can Pioneer." 

Curiously carved rocks are to be seen on many i)arts of the ^lonon- 
gahela River. At the mouth of Ten-Mile Creek, 12 miles above Browns- 
ville, are the most interesting of these. Some of the rocks there bear 
the impress of a man's foot, a horse's foot, a hand, a head, a turkey, a 
fish, birds, beasts, &c. 

On the farm of Mr. George. E. Hogg, near Dunlap's Creek Church, 5 
miles east of Brownsville, there have been found a vast number of flat 
stones, soft and friable, which are full of small circular indentations of 
various diameters, as if made by the attrition of some harder substance, 
rubbed between the hands. Possibly they were used to produce fire by 
rubbing pieces of cane it. them rapidly between the palms of the hand. 
S. Mis. 109 41 



G42 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



EOCK-CAEVINGS ON THE SUSQUEHANNA RIVER. 

By F. G. Galbraith, of Bainbridge, Pa. 

The rock referred to in this j^aper was originally 71 feet in length 
and 10 feet in width. Seventeen feet on the west and 16 on the east 
remain undisturbed. The center, 38 feet in length, was blasted away 
many years ago, and the stone used in the construction of a shad-lish- 
er}^, by which many carvings were undoubtedly destroyed, traces of 
which I discovered upon fragments of rock lying scattered over the 
upper end of the island. The rock was evidently a continued mass of 
sculpturing, and hundreds of these may yet be traced with a little care. 
A large portion of the east end is becoming detached from the main 
body, and will in the course of a few years topple over, face foremost, 
into the river. Many of the carvings, which are undoubtedly of a 
very remote date, are much defaced by the elements. This statement 
relates more particularly to those on the north and east ends, which I 
impute to the changing in the course of the stream at this particular 
point. The rock being located at the head of Grey Rock Falls, is sub- 
ject to much wear by swift water. For this reason, and the fact that the 
rock is composed of talcose slate, it is my impression that the carvings 
were originally deeply cut, which evidence can again be traced in the 
east and south end carvings, all of which are much deeper than those 
ou any other portion of the rock. The large circular carving is tlie only 
one traceable by compass on the rocks, and faces "nine o'clock, sun- 
rise." The tracings were all taken by actual measurements from dead- 
lines made upon the rock, one perpendicular through the center of the 
carving and another across. The one from which the tracings were 
made is slightly enlarged to show it more plainly. The small island (a 
fishery) which it connects is probably 80 feet long by 20 broad at its 
widest point. Tlie large rock on the opposite side of the middle chan- 
nel is about 150 yards distant, having several carvings upon it. I am 
unable to say whether the spring and fall floods rise sufficiently high 
to cover the largo projecting rocks below the small island so as to 
change the course of the stream at that point, but do not think so, as 
the fall of water is about 8 feet to the mile. Mr. French informed me, 
however, that the rock and island were accessible in very dry seasons, 
so that it does not appear necessary that boats should have been brought 
into requisition by the natives, or if so, only in case of high water, 
while at work upon the rock. The outer rock can only be reached by 
boat. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G43 



CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY, NEW YORK. 

By James Sheward, of Dunkirk, X. T. 

Cbautauqua County has furnished many indications of a former oc- 
cupancy ; but, as yet, we have found nothing to establish its probable 
antiquity. 

I have some fragments of a piece of pottery, ajar or vase, found be- 
neath the roots of a very old apple-tree in the town of Stockton. This 
tree grew in a valley, and was evidently quite old when it was blown 
down. The vase or jar was broken, but it was estimated, from the 
pieces found, to be about two gallons capacity. The pieces indicate 
that it was made principally from pounded quartz. The surface was 
smooth and impervious to water. The depth at which it was found I 
have been unable to ascertain with any certainty. Thus far I can find no 
evidence of a secular increase in the valley ; consequently there are no 
data for a calculation of the period when the jar was abandoned. The 
fragments and description were given to me by Mr. F. McCullough, of 
Delanti, this county. Within the village of Frewsbury, town of Car- 
roll, some years ago, a jiine stump, which had been left standing for a 
long time, was pulled up, and under its roots were found two human 
skeletons. I saw some of the bones were parts of the skull, but was 
unable to determine whether the crania indicated round, flat, or oval- 
shaped heads. I could obtain no certain information as to the depth 
below the surface at which these bones were found, and none as to sec- 
ular increase. The i^iue stump was very large and showed 580 jcuticle 
layers or growths. The tree at the time it was felled was five hundred 
and eighty years old, and was probably cut down twenty years or 
more before the stumj) was pulled up. A period of six hundred years 
must have elapsed since that tree began to grow. How long those 
skeletons have been inhumed prior to the germination of the tree we 
cannot tell. At the first settlement of that section of our county the 
valley was a vast pine forest. Through this valley runs a creek or 
brook, tributary to the Conawauga, one of the tributaries of the Ohio. 
I have reason to think that a thorough exploration of this neighborhood 
would give valuable information. 

In the town of Sheridan, on the farm of Mr. N. Gould, have been 
found, at various times, numbers of human bones. These bones indi- 
cated, by their number, size, and position, that the place where they 
were found was either a cemetery or had been the scene of a battle 
where large numbers of all ages and sexes had been killed. The cra- 
niologieal developments I know nothing about. In the vicinity of Mr. 
Gould's farm are yet to be found earthen fortifications, breastworks, 
and ditches. These fortifications are somewhat numerous and exten- 



644 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

sive, reaching over into the town of Perufret, where a hill, known now as 
Fort Hill, gives unequivocal testimony of the work of man. Between 
Fort Hill and Mr. Gould's farm is found a hill about 30 feet high, with 
a circumference at its base of about 90 paces. The top of this hill is 
flat, oval in outline, and composed, as far as examined, of the material 
constituting the surface formation of the plain. The hill may possi- 
bly have beeu formed by currents of water, but there is no bluff or 
bank near it. It stands about 3 miles inland from the lake, and was 
originally covered with large forest trees in nowise differing from the 
trees of the surrounding plain. Mr. Gould, over seventy years of age, 
says he well remembers the hill as it was in his childhood, and that it was 
so conspicuously above the surrounding trees as to be regarded as a 
landmark by early navigators of Lake Erie. He describes one tree, 
which grew near the top of the hill, as being 4 feet in diameter. Care- 
ful examination of the plain gave no depression in the surface to indi- 
cate that the earth which composes the hill was excavated there. I 
am inclined to the opinion tbat the hill is in reality a mound, and that 
it was in some way connected with the other fortifications already men- 
tioned. In this connection I may mention that some years ago, in 
plowing a field on his farm, Mr. Williams, of the town of Sheridan, 
turned up as much as two bushels of flint spalls or chips, and a number 
of arrow and spear heads. These were pretty much all together, and led 
Mr. Williams to suppose that Indians made their tools there. Some of 
these implements, in outline and material, very nearly, if not entirely, 
correspond to those found in Ohio, near what is called Flint Eidge. I 
believe that flint or chert is not to be found in this county. Whether 
the crude stone was brought to the place where the flints were found, and 
was there worked into shape, cannot be settled as yet. Some fifty-odd 
years ago I saw a large field in what is now the city of Zanesville, Ohio, 
plowed up for the first time. The whole field was dotted over with 
flakes, spalls, arrow and spear heads, stone hammers, and axes, indica 
tive of a manufactory. Old and partly decayed stumps were overturned 
or pulled up and the spalls were found under them. From this field to 
Flint Eidge there was nearly a continuous water communication. There 
are grounds for believing that the material was origmally quarried at 
Flint Eidge, where numerous excavations, partially filled up, are to be 
found, and having trees growing in them. Whether the persons or 
people who wrought in Sheridan were located there we do not know, 
neither can we safely say that the implements found were made by 
those who erected the fortifications. 

I have an amulet which w^s plowed up on the farm of Mr. Prender- 
gast, in the town of Westfield, this county, and by him presented to me. 
It somewhat resembles Fig. 27 in Colonel Foster's work, "Prehistoric 
Eaces," page 222, which he calls a totem. His totem was found in Wis- 
consin ; the amulet was found in Chautauqua County. I will give my 
reasons for regarding these effigies as amulets in an article now pre- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 645 

paring, entitled "An Inquiry into the Origin and Antiqnit.^ of the Indian 
Race." I have never yet found an Indian drawing or signature of his 
totem that eouhl be at all compared to the outline of the amulet ; and 
as there are two holes neatly drilled and rimmed for the reception of a 
thong or cord, I am inclined to think that no Indian made it, and that 
it belonged to a people of superior taste and skill. He who made and 
polished it was an expert workman, and could not have been a hunter 
or a warrior of the Indian kind. I have a stone gouge of admirable con- 
struction, :^hich was plowed up in the town of Sheridan and given to 
me by Mr. Griswold. Like the amulet, it must have been made by an 
iexpert. The stone is hard enough to carry quite a fine edge, and the 
tool gives evidence of having been much used on wood. It is supposed 
that it was used for tapping the maple tree. I have some other imple- 
ments found in this county, one in the shape of a celt, which, a Seneca 
Indian told me, was used by his people for skinning animals. 

Chautauqua Lake lies within this county, and many relics have been 
found along its shores. At one place Long Point juts out into the lake, 
forming a long, narrow neck of land, which used to befringed with bushes 
and covered with stately trees. On this point, near its outer extremity, 
there had been a canal and basin excavated. A party or a person 
could easily double the point in a canoe, part the bushes and paddle 
through the canal and into the basin, where they were perfectly hidden 
from view. I saw the remains of this canal and basin about seventeen 
years ago; the outlines were then quite distinct. These works, how- 
ever, are not proofs of a settled population. 

The Iroquois knew all about our territory ; indeed, they gave the name 
to the lake, Cha-tau-quah, or "bag tied in the middle." In a wiitten 
speech, prepared by Corn-planter, Half-toicn, and Big tree, Seneca chiefs 
or sachems, and presented to President Washington, they ask their 
" father" if he is determined to crush them, and say, in case he is: "In 
this case one chief has said he would ask you to put him out of his pain. 
Another, who will not think of dying by the hand of his father or his 
brother, has said he will retire to the Chataughqua, eat of the fatal root, 
and sleep with his fathers in peace." This speech Avas answered by the 
President, and these chiefs replied as follows : " Father, we see that you 
ought to have the camping-place from Lake Erie to Niagara, as it was 
marked down at Fort Stanwix, and we are willing it shall remain to be 
yours. And if you desire to reserve a passage through the Canawauga, 
and through the Chataughqnah (Lake), and land for a path from that to 
Lake Erie, take it where you like best. Our nation will rejoice to see it 
an open path for you and your children while the land and water remain, 
but let us pass along the same and continue to take fish in those waters 
in common with you." 

There was, at an early day, a path or road from Lake Eric through 
the towns of Portland and Chautauqua to Chautauqua Lake, and thence 
to Pittsburgh, which the French and Indians traveled ; but, except a 



646 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

rude camp and defenses, there was no settlement nearer than Logstown, 
Ohio. The Senecas formed what was called the western door of the 
Iroquois Long-house, and claimed our county as a part of their hunting- 
ground. I can find no satisfactory proof of the occupancy of this ter- 
ritory by any tribe of Indians, unless it may have been the residence of 
the Kah Kwahs, a tribe said to have been driven out by the Iroquois, 
and which has wholly disappeared. It is claimed by some that there 
was once a tribe called AUeghans occupying lands in or near this county. 

It appears to me that the Iroquois, admitted to be the most intelligent 
and powerful of all the tribes or confederacies, were never far enough 
advanced to construct the fortifications or to make the polished stone 
implements found in our county ; and if they were not, was there any 
other people who were ever settled in this territory 1 

Champlain, in 1609, gives us some idea of the barbarism of the Sene- 
cas, against whom he made war. Wasseuaer, the Dutch historian, in 
1621-'2 represents the Indians as savages who could not have been of 
the "polished stone age." Cartier found them " insuiferable" ; so Cadil- 
lac describes them. All we can gather from historical documents leads 
to the belief that the stone implements, the pottery, the fortifications, the 
skeletons found, and the large mound (if it be one) were the work of a 
people existing anterior to the historic period and more advanced than 
the Knoshioni, or Powhatanic stocks. One argument grows out of the 
fact that all the relics have been dug or plowed up. Stone axes, flint 
or chert arrow and spear heads have often been found on the surface or 
just below the surface of the land, while the pottery, gouge, amulet, &c., 
have been found at various depths. The two skeletons found at Frews- 
bury under the pine stump lived and died long before the " League of 
the Long-house" was formed. Two feet, at least, of a secular increase 
has grown up since these two human beings were laid away, ('an we, in 
the absence of " monuments of known age," ever ascertain the rate of 
that increase ? The lofty old pine tree began its life more than six hun- 
dred years ago. How long before that tree sprouted had these bodies 
been deposited there? And then, again, were these two dead ones 
members of the tribe or nation that raised the breastworks and made 
the implements we find at various depths below the surface of to-day? 

In my search after data upon or from which to estimate a secular in- 
crease of land I have consulted many Indians and whites, but none 
are able to give any facts. Sa-gun-da-wie, or Big Nose, a member of 
the Seneca tribe, gave me an iron ax or hatchet, evidently one of the 
kind used by the Dutch or French to trade for fur^. He told me it was 
plowed up on the Cattaraugus reservation from a depth of about 8 inches, 
but he could not say whether the plow had ever before passed over the 
spot. The ax must have been lost or thrown away at least two hundred 
years ago ; it may have been two hundred and fifty years. If we were 
sure that the implement was left on the surface two hundred years ngo, 
the secular increase would have been at the rate of about 4 inches per 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. C47 

ceutiiry ; if two hundred and fifty years had passed, it woukl have been 
at the rtite of 3^ inches per century, or nearly the same as tliat found by 
Dr. Horner at Keliopolis, in Egypt. If we assume an average secuhir 
increase in our valleys of 3 inches per century, the skeletons at Frews- 
bury are at least eight hundred years old ; they must be at least six 
hundred y6ars old. I am not without hope that closer and more pa- 
tient observations will, in course of time give us some reliabk' data 
upon or from which we can estimate antiquities now seemingly beyond 
our reach. 

That Chautauqua County was once inhabited by a people more ad- 
vanced than were the Indians found in the neighborhood by the French 
and Dutch may, I think, be assumed. That there were human beings 
here eight hundred or even one thousand years ago seems probable. 

1 think there are many reasons for the belief that the Indian race, or 
races, if you will, were the descendants of the Mound-Builders, notwith- 
standing eminent ethnologists think to the contrary. 

I think our county would richly repay a thorough scientific explora- 
tion. 



ANTIQUITIES OF ONONDAGA AND ADJOINING COUNTIES 

IN NEW YORK. 

By W. M. Beauchamp. 

The best accounts of the antiquities of this portion of New York are 
in Clark's History of Onondaga (1849). This work treats jn-incipally of 
Elbridge and Pompey. General J. A. Clark, of Auburn, has published 
an identification of Onondaga historical sites, which is also worthy of 
study. Recently the Skaneateles Democrat gave an account of the 
finding of a clay pipe there, with human face, 30 inches under ground, 
in low hind; the Auburn papers, of the discovery of human skeletons 
in Fleming; and the Syracuse papers, of the disinterring of thirty pre- 
historic skeletons in stone cists in East Syracuse, and of the finding 
of several skeletons (historic) in Onondaga Valley. 

The writer has also made extensive investigations in this section, 

correcting some errors, and gives, in the following notes, the results of 

his labors and reading. The localities mentioned will be found on the 

accompanying chart. 

OSWEGO COUNTY. 

At Fulton, on the east side of the Oswego Eiver, were the remains 
of a European earthwork, constructed in the French war, and of a 
semicircular aboriginal fort. The other portions were removed in mak- 
ing the canal. Here was a noted portage. Bone Hill, now leveled, 
on the west side of the river, contained large quantities of human.bones, 
and about Lake Neawantha were many arrows. 

1. On the line dividing the towns of Volney and Schroepptd was an 



648 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 




Fig. 1. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 649 



eartlnvork on a hill, now destroyed. A long," wall, scparatinj]^ the hill 
from ii marsh on the east, still remains. Arrow-heads of tlint, en cache, 
have been plowed up. 



Osivfigo Hirer. 



Bonemil. i4W^ 

>■, 'US'- 




Trvdtan 

HarthivorTc. 



Fig. 2. 



2. The remains of a circular earthwork on Mr. J. T. Geer's farm, lot 
24, Granby, east of the railroad station, are in very good preservation. 



n J- Geer's 



BoojoL. 



Orchard. 



»«''"IIS''''**. 









Earthwork . 
Lot 24.Granby. 



"^/-(V-^ 

->^li^ 









Fig. 3. 
showing both gates. It yields nothing but small pieces of earthenware. 
The area inclosed is about an acre, and is ui)Ou a hill ; Clark's estimates 
for this and the next are too high. 



650 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



3. There was an earthwork, like the preceding-, on lot 32, east of the 
State road, but it has been demolished by cultivation. It was on a large 
])lain, and many fragments of pottery, celts, and clay pipes are found. 




^ 

.^^ 



#" ""\MWm,. 



' W'fT ' ~ 



l^Hou^e. ^ f=- 



^orf. 



•'% 



^ %%: 






%„ 



%.. 



JEarfhivor/C. Oswego Hiver. 



\ 

\ 
I 



Gravel Sed. 



Fig. 4. 

4. There were villages about Phoenix of historic and prehistoric 
dates. One of the most important was on a small island, where over 
1,500 flint implements have been collected ; scrapers, flint and quartz 
arrows and knives, polished slate arrows, points, celts, gorgets, and bird 
totems abound. 

7. A village site and cemetery occur at Caughdenoy, on the Oneida 
Eiver. Arrows, gouges, and fine celts have been found. 

8. At Brewerton are several village sites on either side of the Oneida 
Eiver, near the lake. A noted burial-place is on the north side. These 
villages were both historic and prehistoric, and here the Trails of old 
Fort Brewerton are still in good preservation. Arrows, pipes, celts, 
gorgets, and bird totems are met with here, and between this site and 
Caughdenoy two fine bayonet-shaped implements of slate were discov- 
ered. 

9. On the Oneida Lake, at Gttod Harbor, fine arrow-points, stone tubes, 
and gouges have been found, and there are other localities beyond. 

CAYUGA COUNTY. 

52. In Brutus is the site of an earthwork, near the Seneca Eiver, de- 
scribed by Squier. Fine gouges, with and without grooved backs, gor- 
gets, arrows, and celts occur. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 651 

63. Eemaiiis of an earthwork, figured by Schoolcraft, are still to be 
seen on Fort Hill, Auburn. The pipes found here are peculiar. Two 
other sites have been identified in Auburn, and there were Cayuga 
settlements on Cayuga Lake, Salmon Creek, and Seneca Eiver, mostly 
of the historic period. A well-known site is on Frontenac Island. Skel- 
etons were dug up in Fleming in 1878. West of Cross Lake are sites 
but partially examined, and yielding coarse implements! Early sites 
have been found in the southern part of the county. 

ILADISON COUNTY. 

The Tuscarora village of Conaseraga was in this county, as well as 
some Oneida hamlets and villages. There is said to have been an earth- 
work at Cazenovia, and there are burial-places near there. The most 
noted site is at Nichols Pond, on the Mile strip, which is claimed as the 
stockade attacked by Champlain in 1615. It is a few miles northeast 
of Cazenovia, and presents strong points of agreement and disagreement 
with Champlain's picture. It is prehistoric and yields fine relics. 
There was a fishing vUlage at Bridgeport, and other sites Avill be men- 
tioned in connection with Pompey. 

ONONDAGA COUNTY. 

Toicn of Clay. — On lot 14, near the Seneca Eiver, was a small \illage 
and burial-place; and also on lot 16, at Oak Orchard, skeletons, tablets, 
arrows, pestles, celts, &c., have been found. A fine slate "bird-pipe" 
was picked up here in 1878; also slate arrows on lot 48, and a sand- 
stone tube on lot 49. A fine copper celt, weighing 2 pounds 14 ounces, 
was recently found on lot 22. 

Town of i2/s«wder.— Near Belgium, on lot 82, a fine banner-stone was 
discovered, and also a fine and curious copper celt in 1878. 

11. A village site exists at Cold Spring, lot 100. Human remains, celts, 
banner-stones, flint and quartz arrows are most frequent here. A bird 
totem, unique in form and material, has also been found on this spot. 

10. On lot 89 was an earthwork, inclosing about 2 acres, within two 
circular ditches. Something like a wall was between these. It was 
on high ground, and the relics are earthenware, celts, pipes, and slender 
arrows of flint. 

Two small hamlets were on lots 93 and 94, with similar relics, but 
coarser arrows; and two others occur on lots 86 and 87 (15), near Float 
Bridge and Eailroad Bridge. 

16. At Baldwinsville are vestiges of three small hamlets on the north 
side of the river, one of some size. The relics do not differ from those 
on neighboring sites. 

17. A village site of two acres, probably once stockaded, occurs on 
high ground on lot 78. The arrows are slender and pottery fine. 

18. A village site of two acres is on lot 76, where fine drills, celts, 
arrows, &c., are found, with banner-stones. 



C52 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

19. Here are tliree hamlets, with the ordinary relics, on lot 75, and 
there are others on lot 74. On this lot also was found a line copper 
spear-head, and another was obtained on lot 64. 

20. A. village site remains on lot 96, where arrow-heads, celts, and a 
little pottery are found. This is on tbe Seneca River, and smaller ones 
occur at Cross Lake. 

21. On lot 99 are two or three hamlets, revealing arrow-heads, ham- 
mer-stones, pestles, gouges, and celts. On the same lot was recently 
found a fine and very sharp copper celt. There are some smaller sites 
not mentioned here. 

Toic7i of ElhrkJge. — Small sites occur on the shore of Cross Lake, on 
lots 31, 32, and 33, with the ordinary relics. 

23. Lot 34 contains the remains of a large village and one or two 
smaller hamlets, where arrow-heads, pestles and mortars, celts, fine 
gouges, and a little pottery have been found. 

25. Lot 35 has similar remains on several sites, one historic. Stone 
pipes are found here ii*- graves, and in a recent burial-place a fine human- 
headed pipe was unearthed. West of Carpenter's Brook one of the rare 
pentagonal arrows was found by the writer. 

34. On a high hill on lot 70 was an earthwork, which Clark describes 
as rectangular, with two gateways, and inclosing 4J acres. It really 
was elliptical, and inclosed a smaller area. Pottery is abundant there 
yet. 



viiirai|Uiimiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiminuiiiinni« 
£-dm>iuiiiiiiiiiiJuuiliiilMiriiiiuiiMii!^ 



^'E 



JFort at X]lhridge. 



#0 % 



■^ 
# 






,\\\\lmilllii'iin|iiiiiiiiiiMiiinmniuK 






%'1///(lUlllllllMIIUIIinillllllll'Mll^5 

%/iiiiiiniiiMuiiium\iiHiu\iiiuwiB 



FoHr atJEHbridge. 



Fig. 5. 



35. A smaller one on a hill on lot 81 inclosed 1^ acres. It is described 
by Clark as having straight walls on three sides and a curved wall on 
the fourth. It was probably also elliptical, but has been leveled. 

36. On lot 83 was a large Indian village. The writer has ascertained 
that Clark was mistaken in saying that hundreds of grooved axes were 
found there. None were found, and they are very rare in Onondaga 
County. 

37. Here was a circular fort on lot 73, inclosing about an acre. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 653 



22. On lot 84 was a circular earthwork, with two gateways, and said 
b}^ Clark to have included three acres, but his estimates i)rove almost 
always too high. Earthenware always occurs in earthworks or stock- 
ades, and often river shells in the north part of the county. 

Toicn of Van Buren. — 2C. xVn Indian orcliard was located on lot 18. 

27. Here was a small hamlet, on lot 1(5, with pottery, arrow-heads, and 
a pick-shaped banner-stone. 

28. In the river, at lot 3, is a stone lish-weir in good preservation, with 
several bays, and formed of bowlders. Since the river has been dammed 
it has been generally 
some feet below the 
surface, but an unu- 
sual drought gave op- 
portunity for full ex- 
amination. There are 
others on the river, the 
Indians reserving the 
right to make them in 
their treaties. 

29. An Indian or- 
chard and burial-place 
were located here, one 
of the few recent sites. 

On lot 4, west side 
of Dead Creek, was a 
hamlet. 

30. On lot 8, east 
side of the same creek, 
was a hamlet of con- Fig. 6. 

siderable size, and there are fire-places on the opposite bank of the 
river. The Van Buren site yields celts, arrows, pestles, and pottery. 

31. On high land, on. lot 6, there is a large village site which was 
stockaded. Arrow-heads, celts, fine clay pipes, pottery, and one copper 
bead have been recovered. Close by was found a fine copper sj)ear- 
head of large size. 

32. Lot 7 includes at least four distinct village sites in Baldwinsville, 
south of the river, all of considerable size. On one was found a pentag- 
onal arrow-head; on another a clay face luted on pottery. Here are 
burial-places and a great variety of i)rehist()ric relics, including some 
fine pipes. At one i^oint glass beads have been found. 

33. A stockade, inclosing two. acres, stood on a low hill on lot 13, by 
a small stream, and having one gateway. The usual prehistoric relics 
occur, witli botli stone and clay pipes. Neiir Memphis, lot 37, many fine 
articles have been found, as tubes, bird totems, slate knives, <Jc<'. Fur- 
ther east, on the Seneca liiver, are occasional small sites. 

Toicn of GedcleH. — 12. On lot 0, west side of Onondaga outlet, arc two 




654 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



village sites, on which occur celts, banner-stones, pestles, arrow-heads, 
scrapers, drills, stone pipes, plummets, gouges, together with a little pot- 






^%i 



,»llW<j^x'>^"'i!'/**"'^'5" •..•'!""''"'->^*""''''''<-"*"% 






,s\ll% 



Stochade, Lot 13. T^m Siiren. 



Fig. 7. 
tery. Another small hamlet was east of the present outlet, and a burial- 
place in a gravel-bank, now removed. In tlie Avoods a little north is a 
small mound. Fort of 1696. 

38. There is a village site on .•::'.•'■.••*.*.*;.•;. .^ 
the north side of Nine-Mile Creek, ,•.*•'* '''••I-. 
with arrows and pottery, and .;*•* '"•;., 
there are others still further 
north, with flue relics. On one /•* 
of these, by the shore, the writer :;" 
obtained a small cup-shaped :; 
stone pendant of very rare occur- •• 
rence, the only one in the Smith- •• 
souian collection having come •• 
from California. •!": 

The site of the ancient Kan- •• 
eenda, a fishiug village of A. D. i,: 
1700, was on the west bank of ;'. 
Onondaga Creek. Eelics modern, V\ 
but fine. 

39. Town of Salina. — A scat- 
tering village stood on lots 61, 
62, and (i5. Pottery, banner- 
stones, pestles, and arrow-heads 
are found, and other remains occur near Liverpool, where was also a 
village. Bird totems have also been found in this town. 




Fig. 8. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G55 



The old Frencli fort of 1690 stood on lot 106, but traces of it can now 
bo found only by digging. An Indian village grew up about it, and 
there was a burial-ground farther south. In [Syracuse there were also 
orchards and burial-places. 

Totcn of Onondaga. — Sir William Johnson built the Onondagas a 
stockade in 1756, whicli was burned in 1779. It stood on a plateau on 
Webster's Mile Square, and the inclined roadway by which it was 
reached from the creek yet remains. The writer recently examined and 
fully described this site. The several burial-places and other sites in 
this town are all modern, and yield European and Indian relics. Yet a 
stone plummet and a bird totem were found at the present reservation, 
the latter worn as an ornament by an Indian girl. 

40. Toicn of Be Witt.— A burial-place was discovered in East Syra- 
cuse, lot 42, in 1878, from which many skeletons were taken. They were 
inclosed in rude stone cists, whicli yielded also clay pijies, arrow-heads, 
and celts. Xear Jamesville fine stone pipes have been found. 

41. Town of La Fayette. — On lot 3, east side of the reservoir, is the 
site of the large fort destroyed in 1696, during Froutenac's invasion. It 
was a stockade and earthwork, and the remains are both Indian and 
European. Several burial-places occur in this vicinity. 

42. On lot 13 was a large Indian orchard and a settlement, which was 
abandoned on the invasion of 1779. 
The relics are both Indian and 
European. A burial-place has the 
graves in rows, and also scattered 
promiscuously. The bodies were 
inclosed in boxes of wood or bark. 
{Clarlc.) 

Toicn of Pompey. — This has mauy 
sites, nearly all historic, and fully 
described by Clark, but with some 
errors. 

43. At this point is a village site, 
which had circular lines of stone 
and relics of mixed origin. {Clarlc.) 

44. A little south of the last named 
is a burial-place, and also lines of 
earthworks, with similar remains. 
{CJar'k.) 

45. On lot 19 was a village site 
with four streets and mixed relics. 
[Clark.) 

46. On lot 9 is Indian Hill, i)robably the Onondaga Castle of 1650. 
Clark describes the settlement as about a mile long, with a burial-place 
of 30 acres, but makes an overestimate again. He describes the earth- 
work as elliptical. European relics are found there yet. It may extend 
slightly into lot 20. 




I 



Fig. 9. 



656 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

47. East of lot 44 was an angular earthwork and stockade, inclosing 
five acres, with a l)urial-place. (Clarlc.) The plan given by Clark would 
seem to be reversed by present indications. This is a prehistoric site, 
and has yielded very fine articles ; among the rest, a clay pipe with 14 
human faces, and earthenware with faces luted on at the corners- 
On lot 68 there is a site of about 3 acres. 

48. The site on lot 69 is described"by Clark as similar to No. 47, but 
it is on higher land and has some European relics. 

50. On lot 100 is a ditch with a stockade inclosing 8 acres, with raves 




Fig. 10. 



within and without. The bodies were placed in rows, which face the 
east and west alternately. {Clark.) A historic site, judged by relics. 
The post-holes and graves can yet be seen. 

49. On lot 99, and like the last (ClarJc), graves are yet distinct. 

On lot 98, touching the town line of Fabius, is another circular site 
on a hill-top, and of early date, though the writer discovered European 
articles mixed with the peculiar pottery. This is not mentioned hy Clark. 

54. This was "Indian Fort." An earthwork on lot 33, inclosing ten 
acres, with a straight ditch across the point, the flanks being defended 
by steep banks of the ravine. Pottery and early Indian reUcs abound, 
but with some European articles. (Clarlc.) Some have supposed this was 
occupied by the Onondagas just before they moved to Indian Hill. 
Through this town and on the Seneca and OsAvego Eivers brass and iron 
arrow-heads are sometimes found, of European origin, occasionally per-, 
forated, and of the same pattern as those found with the "Skeletons in 
Armor" at Fall Eiver. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 657 

Torcn of 2Ia)iJius. — The deep spring- ou lot 79 ■was the eastern door of 
the Ouondagas, and shows signs of their occupauey. It "was the start- 
ing-point for surveys. There is a reputed earthwork iu the west part of 
this town, but of doubtful character. 

GENERAL REMARKS. 

Some banner-stones of striped slate have been found in Camillus, and 
one on Skaneateles Lake. Arrow and spear heads are occasionally 
found in all parts of the country. 

The settlements in Southeastern Onondaga show a large and general 
intercourse with the whites ; those iu the northern part but very little, 
the only indications there being the Indian orchards, a few brass ket- 
tles at Jack's Eifts, and a few glass beads at Baldwinsville. Many sites 
have no signs of vessels of any kind. Potstone vessels occur in several 
localities, but seldom in connection with earthenware. Banner-stones, 
bird totems, and gorgets of striped slate occur in many places, some 
apparently recent. Catliuite is found at Phoenix and Onondaga Lake. 
Polished slate arrows are found on all the rivers, but sparingly. Stone 
tubes are generally of striped slate, and of manj' forms, while pipes 
have their usual variety of form and material. Copper articles are not 
common, but are generally fine. Stone cups take many shapes, a hand- 
some circular one of striped slate from Hannibal being the finest. 
Banner-stone and gorgets varj' grea]:ly in form and material. Plummets 
are often highly finished, and some of the finest drills have been dis- 
covered here. Arrows and spears are of all materials and finish. Sink- 
ers and hammer-stones occur on most sites, and the latter exhibit a per- 
plexing variety of forms. Many fine articles have been found ou the 
great trail from the north crossing at Brewertown, and others near the 
east and west trails. 

The Ouondagas were i^artial to stockades, although they also had 
earthworks. ISToue of the settlements seem A'ery ancient, and the defens- 
ive works may be placed in four groups : Earthworks along the Seneca 
and Oswego Eivers, east and north of Baldwinsville; simple stockades 
about Baldwinsville; earthworks in Elbridge; earthworks and stock- 
ades combined iu Pompey. The last two groups have features iu com- 
mon, but the others are distinct ; they seem of difiereut periods. 

The pottery is of the ordinary Indian type, and some attempt has been 
made to compare sites by its styles of ornament. Celts are of both hard 
and soft stone, and pestles and mortars of common forms. Semi-cir- 
cular slate knives are sometimes found, generally without a thickened 
back. 

There are no large burial-places known near the Seneca Eiver, but 
the bodies found are in a sitting posture, and corn frequently occurs in 
graves. Horn implements are found ou the southern sites, seldom on 
the northern ; and there are marked diflerences in arrows, spears, and 
earthenware. 

S. Mis. 109 12 



658 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

I 
A PERFORATED TABLET OF STONE FROM NEW YORK. 

By William Wallace Tooker, Sag Harhor, N. Y. 

In every considerable collection of aboriginal antiquities can be seen 
those thin, perforated tablets of stone, commonly called gorgets, twine- 
twisters, pendants, or whatever else the theory or fancy of different 
writers or collectors have bestowed upon them.* 

These fanciful titles are mostly conjectures, for it is a recognized fact 
that no one yet knows the aboriginal use of these tablets with any de- 
gree of certainty.t Those with one to five perforations are all given the 
same name or put into the same class, without regard to the fact that 
those with more than two perforations of a recognized form wei^e used 
for a different purpose and should be classed differently. 

We do not call drills arrow-points, nor grooved axes celts, because 
they have the same kind of points or blades. 

So it ought to be with the different forms of these perforated tablets. 
To those ^j-ith one perforation perhaps belong the name of pendant, hav- 
ing been used for personal adornment, but as the greater number of 
those with two perforations bear no marks of having been worn sus- 
pended by a string, may be called twine-twisters or anything else that 
theory may invent but cannot prove. As the writer of this brief article 
does not care at present to theorize in regard to the uses of the tablets 
with one or two perforations we will leave those out Of the subject and 
proceed to explain the object of this essay. 

The tablets with four perforations similar to one already figured and 
described as a gorget by a well-known writer on this subject, | (who 
does not say whether the specimen bears any cord marks or not, prob- 
ably not,) belong to another class, and were no doubt used for an entirely 
different purpose. 

It is one of these tablets in my possession that I intend to describe 
and to prove, as I have already done to the satisfaction of all who have 
seen it, that it is neither a gorget, twine-twister, totem, or pendant, but 
something that I have never seen mentioned in any work bearing on 
the subject that has been accessible to me. 

That something is nothing more nor less than a puzzle, a plaything 
made to amuse some young savage, or jierhapsanolder one,asweknow 
they are easily amused. 

This tablet, of which figures 1 and 2 show the obverse and reverse, is 
made of slate with the usual countersunk perforations common to all 
perforated tablets, andis marked onits edge with twenty-four tally orrec- 
ord marks. These have become nearly obliterated by time and weather. 
This tablet was found on Montauk Point, New York, and must have been 

* Joues. Antiquities of the Southern Indians. 

tRau. Smithsonian Contributions, No. 287, 1876, page 33. 

X Abbott. Primitive Industry, Fig. 361, 1881. 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. (J59 



in use for a long time to have caused tlie wear near the perforations, 
consequently have been the cherished property of its aboriginal owner. 

One can easily see the marks of where the cords have worn slight 
grooves or abrasions between the different perforations. This is where 
it differs from all the tablets with two perforations only that liave 
come under my observation, as they as a rule never bear any marks of 
cords.* 

This tablet, it will be noticed, bears on its upper margin a slight notch 
or groove, worn smooth as by the wearing of a cord. The abrasions on 
this tablet having been made by cords or sinews passing through the 



Fig.l 



Fi^.2 



TiffS 



Ti^.4 




various perforations, the question naturally arises how were the cords 
put on to have caused the wear in those particular places, and why 
were they put on in that way ? If it was a gorget or a pendant, why 
the necessity of so much cord traveling through the different perfora- 
tions, which evidently belonged to it when in use ; why so many per- 
forations, when one loop and one perforation would have answered ? 
This I consider as a i)roof it was not a gorget, nor was it worn as an 
ornament. 

Let me proceed and illustrate as simply as I can how this tablet was 
used and strung during the aboriginal era. Take a piece of cord thirty- 
six inches long or thereabouts, tie the two ends together, place it on 



'Rau. Smithsonian Contributions, No. 287, 1876, page 33. 



G60 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the tablet, beginuing at the top, formiug a slip noose tliroiigli tlie two 
top perforations, then following the direction of the abrasions with the 
tied end, we find the cord placed on the stone as in Figs. 3 and 4, which 
shows it better than any description could give. One slight abrasion 
above the third hole on Fig. 3 has not been covered by the cord ; that 
lilace has been made no doubt by hanging up the tablet when not in 
use or by reversing the cord. This was evidently the way the string 
was placed on the stone originally, for in no other way could those 
abraded places in the tablet have been made. 

The imzzle part of this tablet is to get the string off, with some one 
holding fast the knotted end, then to put it on again with the end still 
fast. 

The puzzle is solved by following the cords with the loop over the top 
down through the two lower perforations with plenty of slack ; after 
getting through the perforations slip the loop over and clear around the 
tablet, then the loop will be found separated from the two strands, then 
the cord can be drawn from the tablet quite easily. In putting the 
cord on again the process is reversed, and consequently more difficult. 

Fig. 5 represents an ivory heart-shape puzzle from China. The reader 
will see that the cord is put on in the same way, and that the perfora- 
tions bear the same relation to each other as they do in the former illus- 
trations. 

In offering the above to the scrutiny of those who have made these 
objects of stone almost their life study, I wish to say that I know I am 
invading their domain to assert that these tablets with four perforations 
are puzzles. But I think I have made out a good case in favor of this 
tablet of mine, and hope the subject maj^ be investigated still further, 
and that others of the same form and number of perforations may be 
extant that will show the cord marks as perfectly as mine does, and thus 
corroborate mj' assertion that this tablet of stone is a puzzle. 

To the many contributions in regard to the problematic uses of these 
tablets I offer the above mite, trusting that it will solve iiartly the 
problem that has puzzled so many. 



ANTIQUITIES OF EAST WINDSOR, CONNECTICUT. 

By E. W. Ellsworth, of Hast Windsor, Conn. 

There are no remains of aboriginal structures in this vicinity. The 
indications of a formet occupation by the aborigines are scattered relics 
found in the soil. These relics are to be found anywhere, but are not 
remarkably abundant in any one locality. The most promising places 
for search are dry sand knolls, in the vicinity of some river, brook, or 
large spring. 

The caving of the banks of the Connecticut Eiver occasionally disclo- 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. GGl 

ses a place of interment. The graves are not in gronps, nor arranged 
according to any plan — sometimes in level loam soil, tliongli sandy ele- 
vations seem to have been preferred. 

Usnally each grave contains the remains of one individual, though, 
in some cases; those of several have been found near each other. Xo 
burial posture is distinctly indicated. Bones , soft, criimblin g, and broken , 
are found. The graves are not more than 3 feet deep. Xo evidence of 
artificial preservation of bodies exists, though there is a hint of crema- 
tion in the frequent occurrence of charcoal among the bones, which, 
however, are not plainly calcined. 

Spear and arrow heads have been found cached. I have in mj- jios- 
session a find of fourteen flint arrow heads, averaging about two and 
a half inches in length, and most of them perfect. These heads were 
found at East Windsor Hill, on my father's farm, about 30 rods from 
Connecticut River, in a sand knoll, about two feet under ground, asso- 
ciated with a little charcoal and sooty sand. A fragment of a small 
and remarkably thin soapstone cup was found near them; nothing else. 
They came to light in consequence of the digging of a roadway through 
the knoll. 

Another similar find was made this spring in this town (South Wind- 
sor), not far from the line of Connecticut Central Eailroad, about mid- 
way between South Windsor and East Windsor IIill stations, near a 
brook, in low ground. The cache was opened in plowing, though 
the plowman did not notice it. Some boys afterward found flint 
spear heads among the furrows, and dug up the ground, and took out 
about one hundred heads, each between two and four inches in length, 
many whole, some broken. There was a scramble among the boys to 
procure them, and the collection was scattered beyond recovery before 
it came to the notice of any x)erson interested to preserve it entire. 

Arrow heads in unusual numbers are found on sand hills, brought to 
the surface by rains and winds ; and in the same places it is common 
to find flat and sharp angular chips of flint and quartz, such as are not 
found in our sand elsewhere. These are suggestive of the manufacture 
of arrow and spear iioints at those localities. 

Fragments of clay pottery are common; but there is nothing by 
which places of manufacture can be located. 

Some items of value may be gleaned from the " Connecticut Histor- 
ical Collections," published by John Warner Barber, Xew Haven and 
Hartford, 183G. For instance, "In the south part of the town" (East 
Windsor, now this town of South Windsor), " where Podunk Kiver 
crosses the road to Hartford, was an Indian burying ground. A few 
years since a number of skeletons were discovered, by digging from 
one to four feet. These skeletons were found lying on one side, knees 
drawn up to the breast, arms folded, with their heads to the south. A 
covering of bark seems to have been laid over them, with some few re- 
mains of blankets ; in one instance a small brass kettle and hatchet 



662 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

were found in good preservation, the remains of a gun barrel and lock, 
a number of glass bottles, one of whicli was found nearly half filled 
with some sort of liquid. These articles were probably obtained from 
the Dutch, either by present or by trade. There was also found a pair 
of shears, a pistol, lead pipes, strings of wampum, small brass rings, 
glass beads ; a female skeleton with a brass comb ; the hair was in a 
state of preservation wherever it came in contact with the comb. Af- 
ter the Podunks had removed from these parts they were known to 
have brought a dead child from toward Norwich and interred it in 
this burying place." 

The Podunk Indians were of peaceable disposition, and we have no 
records of serious feuds between them and the white settlers. They 
(the Indians) suffered much from forays of the Mohawks, who roamed 
across the wilderness from the northwest. 

Of scattered relics, quartz and flint arrow points are most frequently 
found here. These were probably in numerous instances lost by the 
Indians in hunting. Then we have stone axes, hoes, chisels, gouges, 
and pestles. A large proportion of the axes, hoes, chisels, gouges, and 
pestles fire made of trap-rock, and many of them have had but very 
little artificial fashioning to adapt them to their uses. 

There are localities in this State, one of which in New Britain, I have 
particularly examined, where trap-rock, broken from the face of a cliff' 
by the atmospheric vicissitudes of centuries, has accumulated in a slo- 
ping -pile at the foot of the clifit". This debris consists of elongated and 
angular fragments, some of which, untouched as they are by art, would, 
if found in our fields to-day, be mistaken for genuine Indian relics. 
Kettles excavated from lumps of soapstone are sometimes found. These 
are usually broken and portions missing. They are of rude oval form, 
with a capacity of from one to three gallons ; they have short, project- 
ing handles or lugs at the ends, and are without ornamental carving. 
The sides and bottoms are from half an inch to an inch in thickness, 
and are sometimes externally sooted, indicating that they were used in 
cooking. 

Fragments of clay pottery are frequently found here, though it is rare 
to find a single piece large enough to show the size or shape of the ves- 
sel from which it was broken. Occasionally a sufiQcieut number of j)ieces 
of one utensil are obtainable to admit of a reconstruction. One which 
1 have in my jiossessiou was put together with glue and brick-dust, and 
some gaps were sui^plied with the same composition. It is now sound, 
strong, and perfect in appearance, and, for exhibition purposes, as good 
as if it had never been broken. This pot is egg-sliaped, about fourteen 
and a half inches high and eleven inches in diameter, with a contrac- 
tion in the rim below the mouth. The sides are about three-eighths 
of an inch thick. Similar pottery is always rudely ornamented on the 
outside by dots or lines, smooth or serrated, which were impressed by 
l)ointed implements when the clay was soft. Granules of quartz or mica 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 663 

were commonly mingled with the clay to prevent cracks in drying; and 
the ware was finished, without glaze, by burning in the same manner 
as modern bricks. In fact, it may be regarded as in substance soft 
brick of poor quality. One of these pots, recently obtained by Dr. 
Wood, was found in the bank of Connecticut River, in Massachusetts.* 
It was much broken, and has been clumsily reconstructed, but is nearly 
entire. The bottom is quite sharply conical, and the neck has no con- 
traction, but slopes inward quite uniformly to the brim. The figure is 
somewhat that of a gigantic beet. Now, if we had given us a strap of 
leather, say 2 inches wide and 18 inches long, and were required to 
fasten it as a bail to this kettle, an obvious method would be to punch 
several small holes in the strap near its ends, and drill corresponding 
holes in the opposite sides of the neck and brim of the kettle and lace 
the strap thereto with a couple of strings. Whether this particular 
kettle ever had such a bail we cannot know, but there are the holes of 
suitable size and arrangement for the purpose. When I first saw them 
they struck me as an experimental attempt of the finder to sew or lace 
the broken parts together; but closer examination satisfied me that 
they had been drilled before the pot was baked, and while the clay was 
soft, with some tool like an arrow point. Subsequently I learned that 
the finder testified that the holes were in the sides of the neck when 
the kettle was found. There are no other drilled holes in the kettle 
besides these on opposite sides of the neck. 

Breaks in Indian pottery sometimes seem to follow lines originally 
unsound, which gives a hint that the process of manufacture was not 
continuous, but that successive portions of the work were built up after 
previous ones had become firm by drying, from which there sometimes 
resulted an imperfect union between the wet clay and the dry. 

About the year 1840 students of the Theological Institute, then lo- 
eated at East Windsor Hill, found on the bank of Connecticut Eiver, at 
the west end of the institute grounds, a deposit of Indian relics. The 
place was a sandy knoll, above the highest water-mark of floods, and 
was traditionally known as ''Gun's Hill," and as the site of an Indian 
fort. The articles then dug up consisted of fragments of large soapstone 
kettles, of the form previously described, axes, chisels, gouges, arrow- 
points, and other relics of stone. Referring to the Smithsonian yrork. 
No. 287, by Dr. Rau,t there was an article identical with figure 210; the 
only specimen of its kind that I have known to be found in this region. 
These relics were scattered among those who found them, and the sand 
hill has since been cut into by the river, beyond the place where they 
were found. I have, from that locality, a cup of soapstone that will 
hold about a pint; and an ancient musket bullet of large size. I have 
a copper chisel, like Fig. 226; length, 3 inches; width, 2; thickness, f ; 

* West side, midway between Tlioinpsonville aud Springfield. 

t"The Archielogical collection of tho U. S. National Museum." — Smithsonian Contri- 
butions, vol. xxii. 



664 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

which was found by a hiborer in the meadow directly west of my resi- 
dence. I have not known of any similar relic found in this region. 

I have several times visited the locality where was found that re- 
markable ancient implement of wood, which I described in the Smith- 
sonian Eeport for 1876, p. 445. It lies so low that it is usually covered 
by the water of the river. I had a good view of it last September, but 
made no discoveries, and found nothing to modify the inferences set forth 
in the report. Undoubtedly the place was an ancient swamp, lower than 
the present average water level of Connecticut Eiver. The soil was very 
wet with springs, some of them issuing from holes an inch in diameter. 
In seasons of low water many springs appear along the banks, most of 
which are ephemeral. The banks being previously filled with water, 
partly from the river and partly from the accumulations of rain, drain 
off in a low time. 

A great deal of fine quicksand was issuing from the springs above 
mentioned, and I found more of this minute sand in the clay tbau I de- 
tected when it was in a frozen state. . The natural color of the bed 
where un tinged by vegetable material is very blue — quite different from 
the browns of the loam and sand now deposited by the river. The 
grooved log described in the report was unchanged. It inclines down- 
ward, as it enters the bank near the low- water line, and lies verj- firmly 
in place. Prying upon it with a lever ten or twelve feet long did not 
change its set in the least. I was deterred from attempting to dig it 
out by the certainty that the hole would immediately fill with water. 

I visited the place again on the 18th of this month. The water was 
low, and appearances were not much changed. I traced the blue clay 
formation thirty or forty rods farther north than I had previously dis- 
covered it, and found it there containing much less vegetable material. 
Walking about twenty rods south of where I found the mallet, and near 
the water's edge, on a gently sloping beach of loamy sand, I noticed 
a portion of a buried stone, about two inches in length and half an inch 
in width. The pecked and rubbed surface looked familiar, and on being 
taken out it proved to be a pestle of gneiss 11^ inches long and 2 inches 
in diameter. It is round and smooth, well made, and perfect, with the 
exception of a small piece broken from the handle end. 



SHELL HEAPS IN BAENSTABLE COUNTY, MASSACHUSETTS. 

By Daniel Wing, of South Yarmouth, Mass. 

On both banks of Bass Eiver, which separate the towns of Yarmouth 
and Dennis, in Barnstable County, Massachusetts, are ancient shell 
heaps and stone hearths. They are particularly numerous in the vicinity 
of the Old Colony Eailroad bridge and below the village of George- 
town ; in both cases upon the Yarmouth side of the river. They are 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 665 

generally upon the brow of tlie river bank in a commanding position, 
though sometimes on lower ground. In diameter they vary from 4 or 
5 to 15 feet, and in depth from 2 or 3 inches to 2 or more feet. They 
consist principally of oyster, clam, and quahaug shells. Stone imple- 
ments have been found in the vicinity of shell heaps in great numbers, 
though not of many siiccies. This I attribute to the fact that the In- 
dians living hereabout used shells for many purposes. The Pilgrims 
on landing upon our shores found in the wigwams baskets formed by 
sewing together shells of the horseshoe crab. I have a collection of 
nearly a hundred spear and arrow points of stone, in about every form 
represented in Schoolcraft's large work on the Indian tribes of the United 
States. I have also a stone pestle, ax, hatchet, and a fragment of a 
stone mortar or kettle. All up and down the peninsula of Cape Cod 
are to be found stone implements of the kinds mentioned above — though 
in the attack upon the Pilgrims atNamskaket Creek, in 1620, the arrows 
used by the Indians were tipped with brass, eagles' claws, and bits of 
horn. This last fact led some writers to suppose that the Indians conld 
find no suitable material on the cape for constructing their imple- 
ments. Though there are no outcropping ledges on the cape, yet there 
are many bowlders and fragments of rock which the Indians found suited 
to their purposes. I know of several ancient burial x)Iaces, but they 
have not been examined, or, if they have, I am not aware of the fact. 



A SCTJLPTUEED STONE FOUND IN ST. GEOEGB, NEWBEUNS- 

WICK. 

By J. Allen Jack, of St, John, N. B, 

In the autumn of 1863 or winter of 1864, a remarkable sculptured 
stone, representing a human face and head in profile, was discovered in 
the neighborhood <5f St. George, a village in Charlotte County, in the 
province of New Brunswick, Canada. This curiosity was found by a 
man who was searching for stone for building purposes, and was lying 
about 100 feet from the shore of Lake Utopia, under a bluff of the same 
formation as the material on which the head is sculptured, which 
abounds in the neighborhood. This bluff is situated three itiiles or more 
from St. George, and Lake Utopia empties into the Magaguadavic 
Eiver, or, as it may be translated from Indian into English, the Eivor of 
Hills, which flows towards and pours through the village in the form of 
a beautiful waterfall. The stone, irrespective of the cutting, which is 
in relief, has a flat surface, and is of the uniform thickness of 2 inclies. 
Its form is rounded elliptical, and it measures 21^ inches longitudinally 
and 18J inches across the shorter diameter. The stone is granulite, being 
distinguished from granite proper by the absence of mica. The sculp- 
ture, shortly after it was discovered, attracted a good deal of attention, 



..VOV, PAPERS «^^^«^° ™ ASTHKOPOLOOV 
666 MISCELLANEOUS PArtK 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 667 

and was examined by a number of persons possessing respectable scien- 
titic attainments. As far as I am aware, however, neither its visible 
characteristics, nor its history, or its historical associations have ever 
been carefully studied by any conversant with American archa'ology. 
This carved stone was found at the point marked a in the accompanying 
map. For myself, while undertaking- to comment upon this interesting 
memento of a past age, T must at the outset acknowledge my want of 
qualifications for the purpose, and explain that my object is rather to 
suggest than to dogmatize, and to give such small assistance to the 
learned as is comprised in scraps of information which T have been able 
to obtain from various sources. 

A tolerable knowledge of the history of Charlotte County and of 
the province, and an imperfect memory and record of the contents of 
several letters received from various persons upon thei)rincipal subject, 
are all of some service in furthering my purjiose. The letters whicli 
weri' written to assist me in preparing a jiaper upon the stone, subse- 
quently read before the Natural I^istory Society of New Brunswick, 
an association not now in existence, were unfortunately destroyed in 
the great fire of St. John. The paper itself was preserved, and em- 
bodies at least a portion of the contents of the letter. Opinion, at the 
time of discovery, was somewhat divided, both in regard to the nation- 
ality of the workman ^^.^■^^s.^^^^'v^ 
by wiioin the stone was 
carved and also in re- 
spect to the object of Mf^^-Mj ." ■ \ ^\ 
the work. Three sug- 
gestions, one of which .... >>;,., . - . ', ^ V 
is probably correct. -, \ ■ \ 
were oifered by dilfer- 
ent parties with refer- 
ence to the workmen : 

First, that he was a^^H^^^^H|i V 

British colonist; ^^^^-^^IF^^^^^H^ H' 

oudly, that he was a 
Frenchman, and, third- 
ly, that he was an In- 
dian. The discussion 
of these several ]>ropo- 
sitions naturally sug- 
gests, if it does not nec- 

essaril V involve, in each 

case a consideration of 
the motives of the work- 
man. I have little hesitation in dismissing, as m-injv improbable, the 
hypothesis that the artist was a British colonist. The ai)i)earance 
and position of the stone when discovered, to Avhich I shall presently 





g68 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

more particularly refer, couvince me that it was not carved for the pur- 
pose of deceiving scientific investigators, as might be, and I believe has 
been, charged. For the same reasons I am led to form a strong opinion 
that the carving was executed long before the date of British occupa- 
tion. Irrespective of these reasons, however, I would point to the carv- 
ing itself as an answer to the theory; and the argument here makes as 
strongly against the suggestion of French origin as it does against that 
of British. The features and expression of the face are not in any re- 
spect European, neither is the shape of the head. Again the ellipti- 
cal eye, appearing on a profile as it should only properly appear to the 
spectator in the full face, is a characteristic of Eastern, especially of 
Egyptian, art. I have not the means at hand to verify the opinion, but, 
if my memory serves me rightly, this same peculiarity appears in de- 
lineations of human faces among the ancient Mexican Indians, if not 
among other American tribes. The theory for which I contend is, 
that a European workman, either skilled or unskilled, would have pro- 
duced something having a semblance to a European subject or work of 
art. The suggestion of French origin for the sculpture leads me to 
speak of the connection of the French with the history of this part 
of the province. 

The earliest record of the French occupation of Acadia is that of 
De Monts, who with a party of fellow-countrymen i)assed the winter of 
1604 on the island of St. Croix, situated on the river of the same name, 
forming the boundary between the province and the State of Maine, 
and distant about twenty-one miles from the village of St. George. I 
have never heard of there being any considerable number of French set- 
tlers in the neighborhood of St. George, and cannot even say with cer- 
tainty that there were any French families permanently settled there. 
L'Etang approaches to within 300 feet or so of Utopia, and La Tete Pas- 
sage is distant about eight miles from the village, and the occurrence of 
these names may lead to the inference that there was a partial French 
occupation of the adjacent country. I have indeed heard of inscriptions 
on the rock at Black's Harbor, or its vicinity, on Bliss's Island, which are 
supposed to be in French, but have never met any one who had actu- 
ally seen these inscriptions. This island is nearly half way between 
Campobello or Deer Island and Utopia, from which it is about ten 
miles distant, and opposite the mouth of La Tete Passage. By no hy- 
pothesis, however, am I able to connect this curiosity with any Euro- 
pean custom or idea, and consequently the remainder of my investiga- 
tion will be devoted to the argument in favor of its Indian origin. 

If it is possible to derive approximately accurate information as to 
the age of the stone from its situation and condition when found, it 
would of course assist materially in discovering the nationality of the 
workman. I believe that the finder, who, as I have stated, was search- 
ing for stone for building purposes, was attracted by the shape of the 
stone in question; that it was lying on the surface and covered with 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G69 

moss, aud that it was not until the removal of the moss that-the true 
character of the object appeared. Au examination of its surface must, 
I think, convince the observer that the stone has been subjected to the 
long-continued action of water, and from its situation it seems fairly 
certain that the water which has produced the wasted appearance was 
rain, and rain only. An exi)ert might i)erhaps form a tolerably accu- 
rate opinion as to the peri»d which would be required for ordinary rain- 
falls to effect such results as are here plainly visible. For myself, I 
hesitate to speak of the precise period where the stone showed no 
marks of rain. I feel, however, that I am safe in expressing the belief 
that it would require a length of time commencing at a date before a 
Frenchman is known to have set foot in the country to produce from 
the action of rain so worn a surface as this stone exhibits. If this 
]>roposition is correct, there can be no reasonable ground to doubt that 
the carving is the work of an Indian. I may refer, but solely for the 
l)urpose of expressing my disbelief in any such hyjjothesis, to the sug- 
gestion that art, employed for the purpose of deceiving, and not any 
force of nature, has produced the worn appearance to which reference 
has been made. The mossy deposit, and the unfrequented locality in 
which the curiosity was found, both aid in dispelliug this idea; but even 
had it been found in au often visited part, and without its mossy cov- 
ering, I should have no hesitation in affirming that its worn appearance 
was not due to the hand of man. I may further urge that, had the object 
of the workman been solely to deceive, he would have scarcely selected 
a stone whereon to carve of a granite character, and especially a piece of 
grauulite, one of the hardest of rocks to work, being not only hard in qual- 
ity but of crystalHne structure, aud ill-adapted for receiving a polish, at 
least under rough tools. Granting, however, that for the reason stated we 
are justified in assigning the origin of the carving to the Indian period, 
there still remain many diflticulties in the way of determining its object 
or meaning. There are at the present time several Indians in the 
neighborhood of St. George, but half a century ago there were many 
more in that locality, and i:)revious to the commencement of that period 
♦ the vicinity of the canal, about one and one-half miles from the bluff 
mentioned before, was continuously a favorite camping ground for these 
people. The Magaguadavic Lakes abound in fish, even at the present 
day, aud the surrounding woods, formerly well stocked with all kiuds 
of game, would prove a great attraction to the savage hunters, and the 
proximity of the sea would also add to the attractions. The Magagua- 
davic Indians speak the Milicete lang,uage, and are, I believe, members 
of that tribe, and are, of course, descended from the Algonquins. I speak 
with some hesitation of their being Milicetes, because I understand that 
the Passamaquods claim to be distinct from the Milicetes, aud there 
may be some question whether Magaguadavic Indians were not a por- 
tion of the former tribe. A very obvious question iireseuts itself to the 
mind of the investigator, which may here very i>roperly be considered. 
What purpose would an Indian have in view in producing this curious 



670 MISCEL^^ANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

work of art"? In the paper which I read before the New Brunswick 
Society I was unable to give any tolerably satisfactory reply to this. 
At the present time I think that 1 can suggest an answer which 
may be correct, and which, at least, deserves some consideration. The 
members of that society were, if I mistake not, generally impressed with 
the force of the arguments brought forward to support the suggestion 
that the sculptor was an Indian, and were kiclined to guess that the 
carving was, in some indefinite way, connected with the funeral rites, 
or was in commemoration of a departed brave. No work published at 
that time afforded any solution of the difficulty. No relics of a similar 
character to this had been dug up at any Indian burial ground in New 
Brunswick, and although our Indians produce very well executed full 
relief figures of the beaver, the muskrat, and the otter, upon soapstone 
pipes, their skill apparently goes no further in this direction. I have 
indeed seen rude sketches of human figures executed by these people, 
but have never seen or been informed of any likeness to a man being- 
carved by them in stone. It was only by bringing pieces of informa- 
tion together, and after the lapse of some years, that I was enabled to 
suggest an answer to an apparently almost unanswerable question. 
Upon one occasion, while in conversation with an old resident of St. 
George, he gave me an account of a somewhat singular monument 
which, many years before this period, stood on the summit of a high 
hill near tha canal, and about one-half mile distant from the place 
where the carved stone was found. It consisted of a large oval or 
rounded stone, weighing, as my informant roughly estimates, seventy- 
five hundred weight, lying on three vertical stone columns, from ten 
inches to one foot in height, and firmly sunk in the ground thus . • . 
(The above weight, I should imagine, is an over-estimate, but I give it 
as stated to me.) The site of this monument is marked b on the pre- 
ceding map. My informant stated that the boys and other visitors 
were in the habit of throwing stones at the columns, and that eventually 
the monument was tumbled over, by the combined effort of a number 
of ship carpenters, and fell crashing into the valley. Some years after- 
wards I read, for the first time, Francis Parkman's " Pioneers of France 
in the New World," when my attention was at once arrested, and the 
conversation with the gentleman from St. George brought to my mind, 
by a j)assage which occurs on page 349, of that highly interesting 
work. 

Champlain, the writer states, had journeyed up the Ottawa Eiver be- 
yond Lake Coulange, and had reached an island in the neighborhood 
of the village of a chief named Tessonat, which, Mr. Park man is of 
opinion, was on the Lower Lake des Allumettes. I quote what the his- 
torian writes of what the French explorer sees : "Here, too, was a 
cemetery, which excited the wonder of Champlain, for the dead were 
better cared for than the living. Over each grave a flat tablet of 
wood was supported on posts, and at one end stood an upright tablet, 
carved with an intended representation of the features of the deceased." 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 671 

Now, it may be that there is no connection whatever between the Indian 
custom described by Champlain, as existing at the place described, and 
the finding of the sculpture and the appearance of a large stone, sup- 
ported on stone columns, at a place in New Brunswick. The points are 
certainly far apart, and while in the one case there is clear evidence of 
the common custom, there is in the other barely sufficient evidence to 
justify the supj)osition that there may be a single instance of the adop- 
tion of the custom. The Magaguadavic Indians indeed have a tradition 
that they were driven from some distant part of Canada to the seaboard, 
but if this were established as a fact, it would scarcely aid in the elucida- 
tion of this matter. Two conjectures may be made, however, either of 
which if correct might account for the supposed existence of an Ottawa 
custom in New Brunswick. An Indian might have been captured, or 
might have been expelled by his brethren on the Lower Lake des Allu- 
mettes, and been carried, or have found his way, to the maritime province. 
Or, a young Milicetes might have been carried away by the Ottawas, and 
have escaped to his old home. In the one case the prisoner would nat- 
urally wish to secure for his burial place the monuments which had orna- 
mented the graves of his fathers, and might have succeeded in securing 
the aid of his captors in the accomplishment of his object. In the other 
the escaped captive might well desire to adopt the arts of his former 
masters, and wish to take his last rest beneath a monument with his 
effigy at its head. The use of a large stone instead of a wooden tablet 
scarcely deserves comment, for the change of material would in no sense 
interfere with the object in view, but on the contrary would render the 
monument more deserving of the. name. 

I think that a careful or even superficial examination of the carving 
must impress the observer with the idea that it is intended to repre- 
sent the face of an Indian, and the head, although viewed only laterally, 
certainlj^ presents many of the peculiarities of the North American type. 
Of course the examiner is placed at a great disadvantage in having 
only a profile, and not a completely developed head, as for ethnological 
purposes craniology is chiefly available when an opportunity is given 
to measure the comparative breadth from the petrous portion of the 
right, to the petrous portion of the left temporal bone, or to measure 
from and to the parts of a carved head representing these portions. 
There is a portrait of a Magaguadavic Indian by Mr. C. Ward, of St. 
George, which is considered to present some points of resemblance to 
the head in discussion, which may be found in the Illustrated London 
News of the 5th of September, 1863, No. 1220. The fashion of wearing 
the hair as represented by the carving is perhaps somewhat calculated 
to puzzle the investigator, but there is scarcely anything sufficiently 
definite in the delineation to enable one to trace an analogy to either 
Indian or European fashions. It may be noticed that some have ex- 
pressed an opinion that a wig was intended to be represented. 



672 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



A SUPPOSED SPECIMEi^ OF ABOEiaiNAL AET, 

Discovered at Gondola Point, parisli of Rothesay, in Kings County, New Brunswick, 
and exhibited at the Provincial Exhibition held at the Mechanics' Institute, St. 
John, New Brunswick. (Autumn of A. D. 1851?) 

By G. F. Matthew. 

Living in the reigliborhoocl of the spot where this object was found, 
I undertook, at the request of J. Allen Jack, esq., to make inquiry into 
the circumstances connected with its discoveiy. It had been found, 
I was told, on the farm of Andrew Kilpatrick (now owned by David 
Kilpatrick), about half a mile from the Ei^iscopal church, near Gondola 
Point. It was turned out from a depth of between three aud four feet 
below the surface of the ground in digging a cellar on the farm referred 
to ; and was intrusted to Mr. Harding to take to St. John and ex- 
hibit at the provincial exhibition held at the Mechanics' Institute (in the 
year 1851 ?) 
In general outline the object, which is a rough-looking stone, is of an 

oval form, 2 feet 
llf inches long, 1 
foot 3^ inches 
broad, and 1 foot 
2§ inches deep; 
and as regards 
most of its surface 
does not differ from 
an ordinary bowl- 
der of Lower Carboniferous conglomerate, numbers of which lie scat- 
tered around the neighboring fields. This conglomerate consists chiefly 
of pieces of granite, aud protogene in association with less numerous, 
but characteristic fragments of crystalline limestone of the upi^er series 
of the Laureutian area, the border of which lies about a mile to the 
southward of the point where the bowlder was found. I am satisfied, 
therefore, that the bowlder was not brought from a distance, but belongs 
in the neighborhood where it was dug u]). 

While, as regards most of its surface, this stone does not differ from 
an' ordinary bowlder, there is an exception in the apiiearance of one end. 
This has been carved into the form of a human head, looking out, as it 
were, from the end of the stone. The features are aquiline, rudely carved, 
and somewhat irregular, as though chiseled by an unskilled hand. They 
j)resent the appearance of having been worked out upon the surface of 
the stone by using certain hard protuberances as the basis for the more 
X:»rominent features and graving the rest to correspond. The artist has 
apijarently seized upon a rude semblance of the human face presented, 
and worked out the finer lineaments to correspond. 




MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 673 

On examining the carved head carefully it was found that the surface 
Siad been coated with a dark-red i)igmeut. This could hardly have 
"been on the stone when it was dug up, if, as I was assured, it came 
•from a depth beneath the surface of three feet or more ; and for the fol- 
lowing reasons I suppose it to have been painted after it was exhumed. 

An examination of the bank or hillside where the relic was found 
revealed the presence of " Drift," a deposit of the glacial and post- 
glacial period, immediately below the surface loam, which is a foot thick. 
The point at which the stone was dug up is not more than about 
sixty feet above the Kennebecasis Eiver, and it would thus for a long 
period have been below the sea-level in the time marked by the accu- 
mulation of the Ledalelay of which (or of the bowlder clay) the deposit 
containing the stone lay consisted. If buried by natural causes in this 
■deposit the age of the relic would be carried back to a very distant 
period — a period so distant that one may question whether it could 
have had its present appearance at that time. And it seems more rea- 
sonable to suppose that if it possessed its present aspect when dug up, 
it must have been buried later than the Drift period, either by accident 
or design. The paint with which the face is covered appears to have been 
a subsequent embellishment, for loug-coutinued exposure to the action 
of the elements would have removed the oil or other substance which 
serves to give body to the color, and the paint would have remained as 
a dry powder liable to be brushed off with the slightest touch. 

The mode of burial of this stone cannot now be verified, owing to the 
crumbling condition of the bauk, and its actual age as a work of art 
must remain to a great extent a matter of conjecture. The naturally 
rough features have been rechiseled, and (since the stone was dug up) 
-coated with paint ; so that in some respects the object is not in its pris- 
tine condition, and its value as an object or specimen of aboriginal 
-art has been seriously marred by these changes. 



ANTIQUITIES OF NOVA SCOTIA. 

By Rev. George Patterson, D. D., of New Glasgow, N. S. 

No earthworks, properly speaking, exist in this region, but shell heaps 
are to be found in various places. The shores of this county at vari- 
ous places give evidence of the former occupation of the couutrj^ by 
the aborigines, particularly the shells, which are found in the soil as it 
is turned up by the plow, and the stone implements which were formerly 
picked up in abundance, aud are still sometimes found, though more 
rarely. The principal places are. Middle River Point, Fraser's Point, 
both sides of the East Eiver at its entrance into the harbor, Fisher's 
>Grant, and the Beaches, all in Pictou Harbor, and almost every island 
S. Mis. 109 43 



G74 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and headland in Miegomish Harbor. In the neighboring counties on 
the northern shore of the province, the same thing is to be found, 
particularly at Antigomish Harbor to the east, and at Tatamagouche 
to the west. 

There is scarcely anything in this province that can be called a 
mound or earthwork, at all events like those found in the Western 
States. There was found some years ago, at Tataiuagouche, a small 
heap. It was situated on the farm of the late Eev. Hugh Iloss, next 
to A. Campbell's, which forms Campbell's Point, at the entrance of the 
harbor. It was opened and examined some fifty years ago by the late 
Dr. Thomas McCulloch, of Pictou, who found in it a large number of 
human bones, and various stone implements. He published no account 
of them, but I have learned that he came to the conclusion that it was a 
place where a large a number had been buried, probably after a battle. 
The spot has long been plowed over, and the ground leveled. 

There was another found at Kempt, Yarmouth County, in the west- 
ern part of the province. The spot where it was found was some fif- 
teen miles in the interior, and some distance from the river. It was 
opened by Dr. Joseph Bond, of Bear Eiver, Digby County, JST. S., and 
from him I learned that it was about ten feet in length, five feet in 
width, and four feet in height. It has been represented to me as re- 
sembling a large cradle hill. In this were found forty very beautifully 
executed stone-arrow or spear-heads, which are now in the couutj' mu- 
seum at Yarmouth, established byL. E. Baker, esq., who has had them 
photograjihed. Dr. Bond supposed that it was an ancient burying 
place, tbough he found no bones, for which he accounted by supposing 
that they had become so entirely decayed as to be no longer recogniza- 
ble. But Dr. John W. Webster, of Yarmouth, informed me that from 
the material around he believetl it had been the site of an old work- 
shop. This might be the case, and the mound might have been a cache 
of such implements. 

I have seen some thin layers of shell at points on the shores of our 
harbors, but I am told that there are some of considerable thickness at 
points in Miegomish Harbor. They are generally close by the shore, 
and the sea, wearing away the soil, exposes them on the banks. But 
none in this part of the country have undergone a proper examina- 
tion. 

Thereare in the museum ofthe Mechanics' Institute, St. John, N.B., two 
sculptures. The one is very rude, and will be found figured in Dawson's 
Acadian Geology. The other is a medallion of about fifteen inches in 
diameter, containing a rather well-executed i)rofile of a human head. 
But I am not certain that this was found in the j^rovince. 

The rocks on the north shore of tlie province are soft, and are being 
worn away so rapidly that if there had been any carving upon them it 
would long ere now have disappeared. In Yarmouth a stone has been 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 675^ 

found on the shore with what looks like letters engraved on it, but 
they have never been deciphered. The stone is in the possession of 
John K. Rverson, of Yarmouth. Dr. Gilpin, of Halifax, has discovered 
a rock in Annapolis County with some engraving on it. In the history 
of the county* of Pictou, published by me, on pages 29-31, will be found 
an account of the only genuine prehistoric cemetery with which I have 
met. I could see no plan of arrangement in the graves. They would 
be found at distances of from three to five feet apart, and over a spaceof 
about fifty feet square, lying to the west of a pit. I was not able to find 
any to the eastward, that is, farther away from the shore. The graves 
formed a layer of browu, velvety mold, two or three inches deep, and 
containing fragments of bones. The ground is gently sloping and fac- 
ing southwestwardly. In only one instance could I detect the posture 
of the body. This one was lying on its side, and doubled up. In other 
instances there were plainly a number together, and the bones were so 
decayed and seemingly so mixed, that I could not trace any order. I 
did not j)articularlj^ observe, but I think the body lay north and south 
with the face to the west. The graves were shallow, not more than 
from niue to twelve inches deep. 

There was no evidence of desiccation. But there is in the possession 
of Dr. Wm. Doherty, of Kingston, Kent County, N. B., a perfect 
mummy of an Indian head. The face retains its features, and the hair 
adheres as completely as in life. It was found on a part of a bank of 
the river Richibenclo. Along with it was found a copper kettle, showing 
that the burial took place after the arrival of Europeans, and while they 
still retained the practice of burying the valuables of the deceased with 
him. The skin has a bluish discoloration, probably from the copper. 
I am informed that up the St. John's River a large copper kettle was 
found with the remains of a body, which had been squeezed into it. 

There are no quarries. There is an island known in the Micmac lan- 
guage as Pipestone Island, to which they may have resorted for mate- 
rials for theii* pipes, but I have not been able to find the place. ■' 

The only workshops that I have heard of in these maritime provinces 
is what is known as Bockman's Beach, Lunenburg County, X. S. It is 
a beach of sand and gravel, running east and west, perhaps 300 yards 
in length and connecting an island, known as Bockman's Island, with 
the main-land. On the north side the sea has heaped up the sand and 
gravel, but in the rear of this it is lower, and here, about midway be- 
tween the shores, have been found large quantities of fiakes and splin- 
ters of stone and arrow-heads in various states of preparation. Many 
of these have been carried away by collectors, but the sea washes over 
the spot, and after overj' storm more are exposed. 

A small circular heap, about 6 feet in diameter, and from 15 to 18 
inches high at the time of my visit, has been supposed by some to have 
been the seat of the ancient arrow-maker. But on close examination 
of the spot and from information received from those living in the 



'616 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

neighborhood, as to the changes effected upon the shore by the action of 
winds and the sea in storms, I could easily see that the sand around it 
had been swept away, leaving this spot a little above the head of the 
surrounding beach. In fact changes have been going on which render 
it impossible to ascertain how the ground lay in those old days. But 
the amount of splinters, hammered stones, &c., plainly shows what had 
been going on. These principally consist of agates aud jaspers, which 
are not to be found in any rocks near, but are similar to those found at 
the present day in the trap rocks bordering on the Bay of Fundy, form- 
ing the northern mountains of King aud Annapolis Counties, distant, 
in a direct line across the country, nearly sixty miles. A few are of the 
dioritic rocks, which are found intrusive in the southern mountains of 
the same counties, and some are of quartz, such as is found in the 
metamorphic rocks in the immediate neighborhood. An examination of 
these rocks shows the process which had been going on. Here is a stone 
at which the old arrow-maker had been hammering, with the view of 
splitting it longitudinallj^, but the result was several cracks crosswise, 
and it was thrown away. Here is a disk-like stone, around the edge of 
which he had been hammering, but, instead of splitting through the 
center, it broke away in fragments to the side. And then there are 
flakes of all sizes and thickness. A few complete arrow-heads have 
been found, and a much larger number of imperfect ones. These are 
all small, from 1| to 2 inches in length, but are very finely executed. 
Stones are also picked up which bear on their edges the evidence of 
having been used as hammers. A few stone chisels or axes have also 
been found, but it is evident that the work carried on was mainly of 
forming arrow-heads, for which they brought from the Bay of Fundy 
the finer stones mentioned. Small pieces of copper are also found. They 
consist sometimes of small nuggets seemingly in their natural state, 
sometimes they are flattened out by hammering, and they are also 
formed into small knives or piercers. 

There were portages, where they carried their canoes from one lake or 
stream to another, or across a headland. These were mere paths 
through the forests, and are now either grown up with wood or have 
been plowed up. 

I have some small copper knives and small specimens of copper, the 
latter from Lunenburg County. It has commonly been supposed that 
•'the Micmacs were entirely ignorant of the use of metals till the arrival 
^of Europeans. These show that they had at least got to the length of 
imaking use of the small specimens of native copper found in the trap 
rocks of the Bay of Fundy. I have also some bone spear-heads, a 
good deal decayed, from some cemetery; also, a pii^efrom the same place. 
It is made out of a very hard granitic rock, aud Dr. Dawson, of McGill 
College, Montreal, our highest authority on the geology of these regions, 
says that he knows no rock of the same kind nearer than Bay Chaleur, 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 677 

and, furthermore, be has since received a number of pipe-heads, resem- 
hling it in shape, from the Upper Ottawa. 

There is, in the Provincial Museum at Halifax, a collection of varioua^ 
aboriginal antiquities. It contains, besides the usual stone axes and 
arrow-heads, some small pieces of copper, similar to those from Bock- 
man's Beach, and a flat pipe found in the interior of the province, re- 
markable from the circumstance of its having been found so far east^ 
it being held that this is characteristic of the mound-builders or tribes 
of the far West. There are also a few articles in the museum of the 
Mechanics' Institute of St. John, N. B. The most remarkable are the 
sculptured figure and medallion already referred to, and a small hammer 
with a short stick for a handle, remarkable for the manner in which it 
is iiistened to the helve, being merely held by a band of burnt clay. 
Professor Jack, of the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, N. 
B., is said to be the best authority in that province on this subject. 
In the collection of Judge Desbusay, of Lunenburg County, N. S., are 
also small pieces of copper from Bookman's Beach. Dr. Gray, of Ma- 
hone Bav ; in the same county, also has a collection. 



THE ABORIGINES OF FLOPvIDA. 

By S. T. Walker. 

In comparison with their number and size, the shell-heaps of Florida 
contain but few relics of the peojjle who constructed them. Besides the 
ashes of their fires, the refuse of their feasts, and the fi-agments of their 
utensils, we find but little to aid us in our researches into their civiliza- 
tion or condition. The shell-heaps are so vast in size that it is only when 
the sea has swept away their slopes or when the lime burner has at- 
tacked their sides that we get an insight into the mysteries of their in- 
terior, and even then there is little to be obtained and but few uncertaiu 
data given upon which to base a calculation. By far the greater mass 
of these heaps is composed of shells, bones of mammals and birds, ashes, 
charcoal, and thin layers of soil. Scattered throughout the heap how- 
ever there are quantities of broken pottery and near the top, a few ob- 
jects of stone, and numerous implements of bone or shell. 

The accompanying diagram represents a section of a shell-heap at Cedar 
Keys, Fla., formed by cutting through the center of a mound to open a 
street. This may be considered a fair representation of the interior of 
all shell-heaps with the exception of the unusually thick stratum of soil 
near the center of the mass. From this it will be seen that the pottery 
is pretty uniformly distributed throughout the heap from the bottom to 
the top and is generally in small fragments, most probably pieces of pots 
and utensils accidentally broken during the ordinary culinary opera- 



678 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



SECTION OF SHELL-HEAP. 



Six inche.s of modern soil. 



(Later stage.) 

Fine thin pottery lieautii'ully orna- 
mented. Neatly-niade implements of 
bone, shell, etc. Axes, arrow and 
sjiear heads of stone ; also stone- 
beads and objects of stone used in 
games. 

Three feet. 



tions of their owners. I have never known a whole vessel to be fonud iii 
a shell-heap. An examination of this pottery, then, it seems wonld give 

us a pretty correct idea of the progress of 
the aborigines in the art of pottery during 
a period of time corresponding with that of 
the age of the shell-heaps. An inquiry 
therefore into this progress among the 
builders of the shell-heaps necessarily in- 
volves a question of time, and is by far the 
most dilBcult part of the subject. 

In the section of the shell-heap given in 
the illustration, it will be seen that a 
stratum of soil six inches in thickness has 
accumulated since the completion of the 
mound, and that a similar stratum nearly 
two feet in thickness occupies a position 
near the center of the mass, indicating a 
cessation in the growth of the heap, when 
it had reached a height of sev^en feet, for 
a period of time sufficient for the accumu- 
lation of this two feet of soil on the sur- 
face of the shell. After this the accumula- 



Two fret of soil containing a few 
fragments of pottery. 



(Middle stage.) 

Better pottery, rudely ornamented. 
Primitive implements of bone and 
shell. 

Four feet. 



(Earlier stage.) 

Rude, heavy pottery, destitute of 
ornament. 

Three feet. 



tion of shell begins again, and w^hen it had 
acquired a depth of three feet it ceased 
again and this tiine forever. 

Kow, we know pretty well how long a 
period has elapsed since the aborigines 
ceased to inhabit this region, and although 
it, is possible that there has been no addi- 
tion to this heaj) for seventy-tive or one 
hundred years, we know positively tliat 
there has been none for the last tifty years. 
It requires then at least fifty years to ac- 
cumulate six inches of soil on a shell-heap, 
and consequently we may be justified in 
sup[>osing a period of two hundred years 
to have been necessary for the formation 
of the central stratum of soil in this mound. 
A comparison of the pottery immediately 
above and below this stratum of soil repre- 
senting a period of two hundred years 
ought to give us some idea of the rate of 
progression made in the arts. And a criti- 
cal comparison of tlie different styles of 
pottery with each other in different portions of the heap should give 
us a rude idea of the age of the shell-heaps. The object of the present 



i 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. G79 

paper is to present the reader with a description of the relics and pottery 
found in each stratum of the shell-heap, beginning at the foundation 
and ending at the top, and from a comparison of the various styles 
which mark the march of progress and improvement, to hazard a con- 
jecture as to the time which elapsed from the beginning of the shell- 
heaps up to the advent of the European. 

In all the large shell-heaps examined hitherto I have invariably found 
pottery in the lowest stratum of shell, and, in many instances, in the 
soil beneath the foundations, which I regard as conclusive evidence 
that the aborigines were acquainted with the art of fabricating earth- 
enware iiots long before they began these vast accumulations of shell. 
The art however was in its rudest state. The fragments are thick, 
heavy, and coarse, the composing clay often containing a mixture of 
coarse sand or small pebbles. The utensils were of large size and rudely 
fashioned, as shown by the curves of the fragments, and thej' were des- 
titute of all attempt at ornament. The rims were plain, and were not 
thickened or re-enforced to increase their strength. This style is found 
generally for about three or four feet in height, and may be said to rep- 
sent the first stage. Above this a gradual change is perceptible, the 
two styles overlapping, so that it is difficult to say where one begins and 
the other ends. 

The second stage however as we ascend, soon becomes plainly 
marked. The walls of the utensils become thinner. The rims are 
turned outward and slightly thickened. Dots and straight lines are 
cut into the sides of the vessel by way of ornament, and the thickened 
rims are sometimes " pinched" like pie-crust with the fingers. During 
this stage the savage artist first began to mold his wares in rush bas- 
kets, which were subsequently burned away, leaving the vessel curi- 
ously checked as though it had been pressed while wet with coarse 
cloth. The use of sand or gravel is totally abandoned during this 
stage, and the quality of the pottery is in every way improved. Im- 
plements of shell and bone are sometimes found, but they are generally 
few in number and rude in manufacture. 

This brings us to a portion of the shell-heap corresponding in position 
with the two-feet stratum of soil shown in the diagram, and that stratum 
marks the transition period between the middle and modern styles of 
Indian pottery. Immediately below this layer of soil we find the curved 
line introduced in ornamental designs on the utensils, and a few frag- 
ments of the rims of pots show that ears began to be attached to them 
for the convenience of suspension, and that the thickness of the ware 
was reduced by the employment of better materials. Immediately over 
the stratum of soil all the fragments show improvement on those below. 
New patterns are introduced, and we begin to find fragments of dishes, 
bowls, cups, as well as those of jars and pots, many of them of elegant 
design and of a superior quality of ware. Stone axes, arrow-heads, bone 
and shell implements are of frequent occurrence. 



680 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

As we approach the top, marks of improvement are numerous. AB 
the larger pots are furnished with numerous ears, through which strings 
might be run for suspension. Vessels are sometimes furnished with 
handles, and all the finer wares are elaborately ornamented with zigzag 
lines, curves, dots, and, in rare cases, with figures of men and animals. 
The finest wares are invariably found on or near the surface, and among 
them we find the first attempt at coloring their work. 

We thus observe that from the testimony of the pottery the age of 
the shell-heaps is divided into three distinct periods, which may be 
styled the ancient, the middle, and the modern, which are further 
divided by two periods of transition, the latter of which is marked 
by the stratum of soil representing a period of two hundred years. 
Assuming that the march of improvement was uniform, and seeing that 
a period of over two hundred years* was occupied in a transition from 
the middle period to the modern, I think we might be safe in attribut- 
ing a period of at least two hundred years to each of the five eras men- 
tioned above. This would give one thousand years for the age of the 
oldest shell-heaps. 

I might properly extend this time much beyond these figures, as 
there are many shell-heaps which were abandoned fully as long as this 
upon which there is no accumulation of soil, or at best but little, so it 
would seem that I have adopted the smallest period of time necessary 
to a correct calculation, still these calculations may be far from the 
truth. There are so many possibilities to be encountered that the ques- 
tion of age is lost among them. The growth of a shell-heap depended, 
of course, upon the number of people living in the vicinity, whether 
their residence was continuous or occasional, the abundance or scarc- 
ity of shell-fish, and many other accidents too numerous to mention- 
Layers of soil in dift'erent portions of the same heap show that portions 
of the mass ceased to grow for long periods of time, while thick strata 
of clean shell indicate the raiiid and continuous growth of other portions* 
Future investigations may throw more light on this subject at present 
involved in doubt and mystery. 

The key to the whole matter is a critical study of ancient pottery. That 
the aborigines of Florida reached the state of advancement in which they 
were found by the Europeans by slow and painful steps is evident to the 
most superficial observer. That they did advance is equally plain. Ac- 
cording to the estimate of time made in this paper it was three hundred 
years before they thought of ornamenting moist clay with lines and 
dots, and five hundred years before they thought of making ears to pots. 
Dishes and bowls were not thought of for eight hundred years, and cups 
with handles for nearly one thousand. Still they progressed, and who 
can say what point their civilization might have reached had the discov- 
ery by Columbus been delayed another thousand years ? 

*I say " over two liiindred years." because this transition began in the hitter yeara 
of the middle period and continued in the earlier years of the modern period. 



ABSTRACTS FROM ANTHROPOLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 



Numerous correspondents of the Institution, in writing upon various 
matters, frequently convey valuable information. It is the design of 
this chapter to i)ut on record those statements of correspondents re- 
specting archaeology that are not sufficiently long to form a separate 
article. 

Barkley, W. F., writes that about 15 miles from Mount Pleasant, Pa.^ 
are the remains of a burying ground, in which the dead are interred be- 
neath piles of stone. 

Carruthers, Arthur, writes that in the western part of Am- 
herst Townshij), Lorain County, Ohio, on the farms of Joseph liice,. 
David Shevarts, and others, are sandstone rocks rising about 1 foot above 
the ground and from 6 to 50 feet across the top. They belong to the 
Waverly sandstone. The impressions of Indian moccasins, bears' tracks, 
turkey tracks, and those of small birds are very plentiful. They do not. 
all run in the same direction, but cross and recross one another. 

CouES, Elliott, mentions a cliff-house on Beaver Creek at its junc- 
tion with the Eio Yerde, 40 miles from Fort Whipple, Ariz. 

Ferry, C. M., of Oneida, New York, mentions the opening of a. 
. trench of buried Indians. Part of the bodies were in wooden coffins^ 
(plainly indicating recent burial. Some of the dead had been wrapped 
in blankets, and a child's moccasin was ornamented with glass beads. 
Buttons and bricks also add their testimony to the fact that the ceme- 
tery is not ancient. 

Flint, Earl. Eock inscriptions extend all along the summits of 
the Cordilleras, from Bolivia to Mexico. They are similar in character. 
At Telembela, in Ecuador, is a sacrificial stone, similar to that in Mexico. 
A sculpture of a chief with a scepter in each hand, surmounted by a 
condor, and standing on the prostrate form of a supplicant, was found 
in Peru. This resembles very much the figure in the Palenque stone, 
but it is coarser. At Samiapata, near the top of the declivity, sculptured 
in relief, is a figure of a tiger. A little higher up is a similar one, more 
massive, from which a double series of rhombs lead from the sculpture 
to a kind of throne, supported on four feet of a bird of prey, surrounded 
by a circular line of seats. These all join to form the body of the cross. 
The toi^ is in shape a species of platform, on which are chiseled hemi- 
spheric holes, one yard in diameter, communicating with one another by 



682 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

small canals. Sculptures of this class occur from Bolivia to Columbia. 
Lower down, at Samiapata, are niches cut in the rock, and buried near 
them are inscribed stones. Similar ones, and less elevated, where the 
Cordilleras separate the territory of Chaco from Chiriquanes, occur in a 
real des*ert, and being on a declivity, have escaped the alluvial burial of 
the first. Inscribed on the stones found at Chaco and Samiapata and 
those of the niches are the same persons, figures and paintings as those 
on the murals of Palenque. 

Graham, N. B., writes that there is a mound four miles south of 
England's Point post-office, Cherokee County, Xorth Carolina, on the 
farm of Jesse Raper. It is the only mound within ten miles, is circular 
in ground plan, 120 feet in base diameter, and 90 feet apex diameter. 
It is composed of alternate layers of burnt clay, ashes, and soil. 

Harlan, Calvin S., describes a cave in a rocky hillside, four miles 
from Ellora, Baltimore County, Maryland, known as the Old Indian 
Oave. It extends into the hill about 36 feet. Around the entrance are 
ashes and charcoal, which are also mingled with the earth about the 
floor ; oyster shells, some of which show the action of fire, occur in the 
debris. Arrow-heads are also reported to have been found. 

About one and a half miles from Sweet Air, in the same county, are 
the remains of an old Indian trail, leading from the Rocks of Deer Creek, 
in Harford County, a seat of the Susquehannocks, to a settlement south 
of Sweet Air post-office, at which spot arrow and spear heads have 
been found, together with several axes. 

Other localities in the vicinity of Sweet Air have been mentioned 
where chij^ped stone implements occur. 

HoMSHER, G. W., Fairfield, Indiana, writes to the Institution that he 
is preparing maps and sketches of the mounds, circles, implements, &c., 
of Franklin County, in that State. 

Kales, J. W., sends the following report : Along the east shore of 
Cayuga Lake, New York, occur many relics of aboriginal populations. 
On the beach are found multitudes of notched sinkers. On the points 
these relics are most numerous. Several burial places have been dis- 
covered ; one of them is on a small island opposite the village of Union 
Springs. The skeletons rest on a substratum of rock, about 2 feet be- 
low the surface. A large number of skeletons were unearthed about 
one mile north of Union Springs and 200 feet from the lake. They were 
promiscuously buried in a pit under about 2 feet of tine black earth, 
those of men, women, and children being intermingled. The skeletons 
of males indicated men of large size and great strength. No relics oc- 
curred in the pit. 

Luther, S. N., writes to the Institution with reference to the former 
use of manganese as a degraissant in the manufacture of Indian pottery, 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 683 

111 tlie vicinity of Nelson Ledges, Portage County, Ohio. These ledges 
iuc uutL'i'opsof the conglomerate, and their cavities had furnished shelter 
for the ancient people. In the talus and on the higher level are found 
areas of dark soil, rich in relics of various kinds, and among these only 
occur the lumps of manganese. This mineral crops out in places at 
Bainbridge, twenty miles away, and no nearer. Pottery fragments, 
showing black spots of tlie manganese, and lumps having a polished 
surface, have been picked up. Mr. Luther also speaks of a great mortar 
which appears to have been used in crushing quartz. 

McLean, John J., while transmitting a meteorological report from 
Sitka Castle, Alaska, notes the " fish-dance," performed in lionor of the 
arrival of the shoals of herring. " The herring are so ijlentiful that an 
Indian with his nail-studded thin board could catch a canoe full in an 
hour. The Sitka Indians built fires at the mouth of Indian Elver, and 
sang and danced their national airs every night for more than a week. 
I witnessed several of the dances at the arrival of the fish. None but 
the men participated, the women sitting around the fire and keeping 
up a shrill monotonous chorus. The dancing movement consisted in a 
step from one foot to the other and stamping to emphasize the music, 
the body more or less stooped, and the head jerked from one side to 
the other in rapid movement. The melodies were extremely simple, 
containing three or four notes. The time was now slow and stately, 
like a funeral dirge, again quick and lively. There were numerous 
pauses, each ushering a slight modification of the melody and time. On 
the whole the tune was not inharmonious, having a barbaric fitness to 
the people and the occasion. They seem to have an api)reciation of 
the picturesque, for they had chosen one of the prettiest spots in the 
whole neighborhood for their festivities. The dark snow-capped mount- 
ain for a back-ground and the broad waters of the beautiful bay, lit 
up by the full moon. The subject of the songs was a description of 
hunting and fishing. Their costume consisted of blankets with tin tags, 
sewn on, jingling with each movement of the body, wigs made of oakum 
and eagles' feathers, and blackened faces striped with vermilion. The 
sports were kept up each night until a late hour. 

MacLean, J. P., describes aiul figures in his letter of December 10th 
two circular inclosures in Sycamore Township, Hamilton County, Ohio. 

He also found on Blennerhasset Island numerous antiquities, among 
them a shell heap, 100 feet long. He reports that Dr. G. O. Hildreth, 
in sinking a cistern a little west of the Graded Way, Marietta, Ohio, 
came upon a cave containing human and animal bones. The cistern 
was commenced 15 feet below the plain, on a side hill. Six feet below 
the surface the diggers came upon a solid mass of concrete, composed 
chiefly of quartz pebbles. Below this was a cavern one foot in height, 
on the floor of which were the bones above mentioned. There was no 
outlet to the cave, and it is to be supposed that by the filling up of the 



684 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ravine the original opening was closed. In the Marietta Works* a line 
of embankments leads from the mound inclosed by a circle to the- 
square containing 27 acres. Recently, in cutting down a portion of this- 
embankment, near the fence, the workmen came upon a circle composed 
of sandstone pestles and round balls, arranged radially, the balls alter- 
nating with the pestles. 

MoNTFORTH, Warren. There are located in the vicinity of New- 
Liberty, Owen County, Kentucky, a few mounds. There are a number 
of mounds in the "bottoms " along the Ohio Eiver, and on the hill-tops- 
not tiir from the Kentucky Eiver. There are others in secluded spots^ 
One of them, about 50 feet in base diameter, and 15 feet high, is situated 
at the junction of two small streams, about a mile and a half from tho 
Ohio Eiver, in Gallatin County, surrounded on all sides by high hills. 
It has been cultivated a number of years and many relics have been 
found. 

Null, Ja^vies W., sends the following account of mounds, «&c., in 
the neighborhood of Eeel-Foot Lake, in Western Tennessee, a body of 
water 20 miles long and from 2 to 5 miles wide, formed by the sinking 
of the earth during the earthquakes of 1811 and 1812. Near Thomp- 
son's landing is a group of seven mounds within a space of 3 acreSy 
circular in outline, 5 feet high, and 20 or 25 in diameter. Some were 
bare, others had large trees growing upon them. A large tree up- 
rooted revealed the structure of one to be a layer of soil over a heap of 
sand. One-fourth of a mile north is a group of eight, very similar to 
the former in every respect. A few hundred yards further north is a 
group consisting of a central mound, about 3 feet high, kidney-shaped^ 
100 feet long, and 40 to 50 feet wide, surrounded by a number of circular 
mounds 2 to 3 feet high. Several isolated mounds were discovered 
larger than those in groups. Dyer, Obion, and Lake Counties are ali 
said to be rich in aboriginal remains. 

Palmer, Edward, reports mounds and graves at Niles Ferry on 
the Tennessee Eiver, at Chattanooga, and at points near Nashville. 

Peet, S. D., announces that he has been prosecuting the survey of 
the mounds of Wisconsin during the past year at his own expense. 

Eice, H. B., announces the discovery in South Florida of crania 
having a peculiar shape. " They are without foreheads or depressions 
at the root of the nose. A number were buried close together, inverted, 
and in proximity to normal skulls erect in position, all partly decomposed. 
The crania do not exhibit evidences of flattening." 

EusBY, H. H., describes a cave near Silver City, N. Mex. 



* "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," by E.G. Squier and E. H. Davie r 
plate xxvi. — Smithsoitian Confrihutions, vol, i. 






MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 685 

Stockton, J. B., Toronto, Kans., reports tliat there are no mounds 
in that vicinity. A cave near the town is reported to have carvings on 
the walls. 

Tandy, W., of Dallas, Hancock County, Illinois, excavated a mound 
near that place, which had been the buiial place of warriors. All the 
skeletons were those of adults ; ten of the crania and a vertebra hav- 
ing arrow-points sticking in them. There are about thirty mounds in 
the vicinity of Dallas, of which Mr. Tandy will make a map. 

Walker, S. T., writing from Milton, Florida, makes the following men- 
tion of antiquities : " I know of quite a large mound containing bones 
on the Withlecoochee Eiver, seven miles north of Crystal Eiver post- 
office, from which human bones have been taken ; another is situated 28 
miles north of Milton, the most wonderful that I have seen. It is one 
liuudred paces in circumference." 

He also states: "I have sailed over five hundred miles, and located 
many mounds, shell heaps, sites of ancient villages, cemeteries, &e. 
The most important discovery was that of an ancient canal leading from 
the head of Horseshoe Bayou into the fresh-water lakes of the interior. 
"This canal is about 10 or 12 feet wide, and must have been originally 
from G to 15 feet deep. It is as straight as an arrow, excepting an obtuse 
ngie in one place. Estimated length, one mile. Large pines grow on 
•the embankments and cypresses, 2 feet in diameter, in the bottom of the 
trench. The lakes, connected by this canal, are about 7 or 8 miles long, 
and are famous for the immense numbers of fish which they contain. 
All along Four-Mile Point shell heaps abound, and low mounds, from 1 
2 feet high, are scattered through the woods for miles. These were 
undoubtedly built for residence, each being large enough to accommo- 
date a single house, excepting a few which are large enough for half a 
dozen. East and west of Four-Mile Point the signs of ancient occupa- 
tion grow gradually less, especially toward the mouth of Choctawhatchie, 
where a single sand mound exists. West of this, at Indian Bayou, there 
is a large domiciliary mound and several shell heaps, ^o more occur until 
East Pass is reached, where are several small heaps and a cemetery. The 

urials seem to have been made in separate graves, some being covered 
Avith a species of clay or coquina rock. At Camp Walton, or Brook's 
farm, on the mainland, at the head of the sound, were discovered fifteen 
large shell heaps and a large domicile mound, 15 feet high, 135 feet 
wide, and 300 feet long, containing a layer of shells and some human 
remains, while all through the hammock there are dozens of small cir- 
cles of earth, &c. At Black Point, at the mouth of Garnier's Bayou, 
was found a large sand mound, 10 feet high, with a circular base about 
200 feet in diameter, and haAing a sloping roadway to the top. 

"Although no oysters now live in Choctawhatchie Bay, they once ex- 
isted there in vast numbers. The heaps are composed almost entirely 



686 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of this shell, aud they were are as large as they ever grow in this lati- 
tude. Scallops also were once numerous, but now are entirely extinct. 
The cabbage palm and the j^elican have also vanished within the memory 
of old men." 

Wiggins, John B., announces the discovery of the mound where the 
Indians buried their dead after the battle between the Shawues and 
the Nanticohes, at Nanticoke, Hanover Township, Luzerne County, Pa. 

Williamson, George, calls attention to works near Marksville, 
La. South of that place is an embankment extending from a bluff on 
an old channel of the Red or some other river, a distance of a mile or 
more. The embankment is from 8 to 12 feet high and is flanked on 
the outside by a wide, deep ditch. In several places appear to have 
been sally-ports, and large old forest trees are growing on the bank. In- 
side the work are two large mounds, one of them covering several acres. 
In this vicinity are a great many mounds, some of them of great size. 
The remains are on the first high land on the bank of what was once a 
river channel, communicating with the Atchafalaya. 

WiLTHEiss, C. J. incloses testimony of A. J. Templeton aud Joseph 
Defrees with reference to finding two tablets in a gravel bank within 
the corporate limits of Piqua, Ohio, on the land of Wilson Morrow. 
One of these tablets was 15 feet from the surface, which was covered 
with 4 feet of loam. On the surface of the object were "characters"^ 
and in the center lead inserted. The second was found the next day in 
the loose gravel which had caved down. 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 



By Prof. J. Howard Gore. 



Among the many interesting topics relative to the American aborig- 
ines, few are moreinterestiug than their means of obtaining subsistence j 
principally because of its imx>ortance as a factor in solving the problem 
of the primitive poj^ulation. Procuring food, and waging war, occu- 
pying the Indian's whole attention, developed his ingenuity by exercis- 
ing it, and the degree of skill employed in these pursuits determines 
the relative status of different tribes. Nearly every writer upon the 
customs of the Indians has made this the subject of special considera- 
tion, and as the early settlers in different parts of America were fre- 
quently compelled to resort to the use of Indian foods, on account of 
failure in their first crops, our historians have dwelt largely upon the 
food products of the Indians. In regard to the character of the game 
and the means of obtaining it, there is but little doubt, but in the case 
of vegetable foods, much that has been written is of no value, since only 
the common names of the plants and roots were given, on account of 
the ignorance of the writers on botanical subjects; and, in addition to 
this, many mistakes have occurred by the change or corruption of the 
names by which these plants were formerly known. Those who were 
sufBciently skilled in the ideutification or the naming of the plants which 
came under their observations have given us important data for coinjiar 
ing the flora of the country at different periods. Unfortunately, many of 
the scientific pioneers were so enthusiastic in the discovery of new species 
that insufficient care was observed in naming plants already described, 
so that our botanical synonymy has become tangled, and in some cases 
the specific is not a check for the common name, wliich, varying in differ 
ent places and at different times, causes plants to possess impossible 
properties, that have been ascribed to others once bearing the same com- 
mon name, and the complicated synonymy sometimes fails to ])oint out 
the exact inconsistency. An example of the condition of affViirs just 
mentioned is the subject of this paper. 

In 1875, while in charge of the museum of Richmond College, Virginia, 
some specimens of Tuckahoe were received, which elicited considerable 
interest concerning its production and the methods by which it was 
obtained, since the donor said that it was once an article of great es- 
teem among the Indians as food. Many questions were asked of the 
students who came from the locality from whence the specimens were 
sent, and some correspondence was resorted to in hopes of obtaining 

()87 



'S88 TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 

information upon the topics referred to. The very Uttle knowledge 
thus procured, together with the curious shape of the substance, its 
traditional use and mysterious propagation, at once suggested that it 
be made the subject of a careful examination. But, as library facilities 
were not then available, nor could a definite plan of procedure be deter- 
mined upon, the investigation was deferred until the beginning of the 
past year. In order to ascertain all that is now known on this subject, 
-circulars of inquiry were sent, through the Smithsonian Institution, to 
•every cryptogamic botanist throughout the United States, asking for in- 
formation upon its botanical nature, also to curators of natural-history 
museums, and a set of queries for publication sent to at least one news- 
paper in every town along the Atlantic coast from Xew Jersey to 
Florida, in the Mississippi Valley and in California, with a request that 
all the readers who were able would favor me with answers to the ques- 
tions asked. By these means a large number of specimens were ob- 
tained, all of which were identical in their general appearance, showing 
that wherever it is now found, the same substance bears the same name. 
Its geographical distribution was also accurately ascertained, and much 
valuable information relative to the character of its growth and the at- 
tending conditions. In the mean time the literature of the subject re- 
ceived especial attention ; the various libraries of this city were thor- 
oughly examined, as well as those of Boston and Harvard. The differ- 
ent theories concerning its use and i)roduction, the analyses obtained, 
with a very elaborate one made especially for me, and the record of 
observed facts, when brought together, gave a medley with so many 
contradictory elements that it seemed impossible to either reconcile the 
differences or deduce any satisfactory conclusions therefrom. 

The disagreement in the analyses could be accounted for by supposing 
that either some were wrong, or that the specimens when examined 
were in different stages of development. But when all (see future part 
of this article) negatived tradition, as well as the statement made by 
historians and botanists, that Tuckahoe was nutritious, the outlook 
was far from cheery. 

The only solution then ai)parent was the supposition that the sub- 
stance called Tuckahoe by these writers was not the same as the tuber 
now loiown by that name. This surmise receives confirmation from a 
comparison of the following quotations : '•'' Lycoperdon solidum, a very 
large tuber of the ground, outside rough, white within. The Indians 
use it for making bread, commonly called Tuckahoe" (Clayton, "Flora 
Virginica," p. 176). By referring to the analysis it will be seen that a sub- 
stance with less than one per cent, of nutritive properties could not 
be used with any success as food, while the description given exactly 
suits the tuber now called by the same name. So there is some reason 
in thinking that the property belonging to one root known as Tuckahoe 
has been ascribed to all roots having that common name. In Fries' 
^' Systema Mycologicum," vol. 2, p. 242, we read: " Pachyma cocos, oblong, 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 689 

with a hard scaly bark, with a brown and woody appearance; elliptical 
in shape and about the size of a man's head, exactly resembling a 
cocoa nut; bark thick and fibrous, in general appearance like a pine 
root. Within, the substance is almost white and flesh-like, with an 
odor like a mushroom. When they attain their growth, the color is 
white, and they are considered by the natives as possessing medicinal 
properties. They are found in Carolina, especially among the i)ine for- 
ests." Almost the identical description is given by Von Schweinitz, in 
''Synopsis Fungorum," -p. 56-, also in Walter's "Flora Carolina," p. 256. 
In order to be able to positively assert that there were more than one 
root known as Tuckahoe, we must find at least one other whose proper- 
ties and general appearance will coincide with or take the place of those 
already given. A search for this was made among the earliest histories 
of the eastern parts of America. The first promise of success was de- 
rived from Smith's " History of Virginia," ji. 87, where it is written : " The 
chief root they have for food is called Tockawhoughe. It grows like a 
flag in marshes. In one day a savage will gather sufficient for a week. 
These roots are much of the greatness and taste of potatoes. They used 
to cover a great many with oak leaves and ferns and then cover all M'ith 
earth in the manner of a coal pit; over it and on each side they continue 
a great fire 24 hours before they dare eat it. Kaw, it is no better than 
poison, and being roasted, unless it be tender and heat abated, or sliced 
and dried in the sun, mixed with sorrel and meal it will i)rickle the 
throat extremelj', and yet in summer they use this ordinarily ibr bread.' 
The account given by Smith is confirmed by Beverly, "History of Vir- 
ginia," p. 153 : " Out of the ground they (the Indians) dig earth nuts, wild 
onions, and a tuberous root they call Tuckahoe, which, while crude, is 
of a very hot and virulent quality. But they can so manage it, as in 
case of necessity to make bread of it. It grows like a flag in the miry 
marshes, having roots of the magnitude and taste of Irish potatoes." 
Also, in Campbell's "History of Virginia," p. 75: "Of the spontaneous 
productions of the soil, the principal article of sustenance was the tuck- 
ahoe root, of which one man could gather enough in a day to supply 
him with bread for a week. The Tockawhoughe, as it is called by 
Smith, was in the summer the principal article of diet among the natives. 
It grows in marshes like a flag, and resembles somewhat the potato in 
size and flavor. Eaw, it is no better than i)oisou, so that the Indians 
were accustomed to roast and eat it mixed with sorrel and corn meal. 
There is another root found in Virginia called Tuckahoe and confounded 
with the flag-like root described above, and erroneously supposed by 
many to grow without stem or leaf. It appears to be of the convohndus 
species, and is entirely unlike the root eaten by the Jamestown settlers." 
It is evident from the preceding extracts that at least two dissimilar 
roots were referred to, so that the supposition that more than one tuber 
was known as Tuckahoe may now be called a conclusion. The ques- 
tion then remaining is: What was this flag- like root? The Kooyah, or 
S. Mis. 109 14 



690 TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 

Tobacco root {Valeriana edulis), resembles iu several particulars the 
root described by Smith and Beverly, especially in having its poison- 
ous properties removed by prolonged cooking in the ground. (See 
Fremont's "First and Second Expeditions," pp. 135 and 160; also Agri- 
cultural Report for 1870 p. 409.) But as this species of Valeriana is 
not found so far southeast as Virginia, this surmise wQl have to be aban- 
doned and another answer sought. I am indebted to Prof. J. Hammond 
Tmmbull for a reference which assisted in the solution of the problem. 
In Kalm's "Travels," vol. 1, p. 388, we read: ^'■Taicho and Taicking was 
the Indian name of another plant, the root of which they eat ; some of 
them call it Tnckah, but most of the Swedes knew it by the name of 
Tawko. It grows in moist grounds and swamps. This is the Aru7n 
virginicum, or Virginia Wake Robin." And again: "Tawkee is another 
plant, so called by the Indians who ate it. Some of them called it Tawkiu 
and others Tackoim; the Swedes called it always by the name of Taw- 
kee; this was the Oronfm/MogMfl^icM/n" (Golden Club). -- - "Tawho, 
Tawhim, some call it Tucah. It grows in moi^t swamps, roots as large 
as a man's thigh. When fresh, are pungent and considered jioisonous. 
They were cooked in pits. It is the Arum virginicum^ or Virginia Wake 
Robin, same as the Tuckahoe of North Carolina" (vol. 1, p. 389). This 
description agrees with that given by Smith and Beverly, and as it was 
-written by a botanist with suflicient knowledge of the habits of the In- 
dians to speak with accuracy, we feel perfectly safe in accepting his 
statement, and conclude that Tuckahoe, if not applied exclusively to the 
Arum virginicum, at least included it, and its reputed nutritive proper- 
ties were obtained from A, virginicum, or a similar root, as may also be 
seen ftomthis quotation from Rafinesque's "Medical Flora," vol. 2, p. 270: 
i' - - - all esculent roots were called Tuckahoe, such as Apios and pota- 
toes. Tuckhaus is a solid white mass, with wrinkles and gemmules out- 
side; several species seen (3) rugostts, leviusculus, and albidus. T. rug- 
osus reaches 40 pounds weight. Fungose, when fresh, hard, brittle like 
starch when dry, tasteless, inodorous, and esculent, eaten by Indians 
in many ways." In order to substantiate this theory, we will appeal to 
language as the final arbiter. We are again pleased to acknowledge 
our indebtedness to the distinguished ethnologist. Professor Trumbull, 
w^ho gave us access to liis notes. He says: " Tuckahoe, Tawkee [Dela- 
ware, j^/itcg'Mi, mass, ^e/itfc^Mi; Gve.e,,'pittilcwoic'. round globular.] This 
name, varied by the dialects of the several tribes, belonged to aU esculent 
bulbous roots used by the Indians, among which are these: Orontium 
aquaticum, Golden Club, and Pentandria virginica, Virginia Wake Robiu. 
The word Tuckahoe is generic, and was given to several species, which 
has misled the botanists and tangled the synonymy. The word is not 
derived from the Indian word for 'bread' but the word for loaf or cale, 
derived from ptucqui or ptuclcqueu, and signifies that which is made round, 
or rounded. " This conclusion was reached before appealing to Dr. Trum- 
bull, and it is a source of great satisfaction to have it indorsed by such 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD; G91 

indisputable authority. In the future, then, when we read of the nutri- 
tive properties, of Tuckahoo, and that it aflords the chief article of sus. 
t«nauce for the Indians, w^o shall know that nothing more definite was 
referred to than an edible root. 

For the substance now quite familiar as Tuckahoe we will adopt the 
name Facliyma cocos Fr., and proceed with a discussion of its many in- 
teresting features, giving, first, 
The Synonyms: ^ 

Fachyma cocos, Fries, fol. 2, p. 242, in 1822. 
soUdum, Oken, p. 93, in 1825. 
pinetorum, Horaninow, pj). 2-23, in 1856. 
coniferarum, Horaninow. 
Lycoperdon solidum, Clayton, p. 170, in 17G2. 
sckrocium, l^Tuttall, p. 200, in 1820. 
cervinum, Walter, p. 2G2, in 1788. 
Sclerocium cocos, Schweinitz, p. 56, in 1823. 
giganteum, MacBride, 1817. 
TucJchaus rugosus, Eafiuesque, vol. 2, p. 255, in 1830. 
MacBride stated that Tuckahoe was thought by some to be the root 
of the Eryilirina herhacea, or Convolvolus panduratus (Trans. Lin. Soc, 
June 8, 1817), but this supposition is so far from a semblance to truth 
that these names should not be included in the synonymy. The other 
names refer to the same substance beyond a doubt, as shown in the case 
of several by the quotations akqady made and also by the derivations 
of the names. 

The generic designation Fachyma is from -azy? — thick — referring to the 
thick skin ; cocos from cocoes — a cocoa nut, which it resembles. P. solidum 
is evidently given on account of its solid nature, which distinguishes it 
from other species of Fachyma. F. pinetorum is from pinus — a pine — 
around whose root it was found, as stated by Fries, in the extract already 
given ; and also von Schweinitz, Am. Phil. Trans, for 1823, p. 2G1 : " I have 
found it among the pines of Carolina." Coniferarum is from conifer — cone- 
bearing — as the pine and fir, as first mentioned. Other botanists, think- 
ing that it was similar to the mushroom in the character of its growth, 
gave to it the same generic name — Lycoperdon — differentiating it from 
other species by the characteristic which appeared to them the most 
striking, as L. solidum, L. ccrvinum, from cervinus — like a stag's horn — 
a shape which Tuckahoe sometimes assumes. 

The first analysis made of it was by Torrey in 1819, which is sum- 
marized as follows : In an elaborate analysis of this fungus it was found 
that no gluten enters into its composition, but that it consists almost en- 
tirely of a peculiar vegetable principle, which he calls scUrotin {Silliman''s 
Journal, v. 2, p. 369). This confirmed the view held by MacP>ride, 
that it belonged to the genus Sclerotium of Persoon, and, considering 
it an unnamed species, he was pleased to call it S. giganteum. Nuttall, 



692 TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 

a year later, thinking that it belonged to the genus Lycoperdon, and 
recognizing its predominating constituent as determined by Torrey, 
called it L. sderocium. Schweiuitz also considered it as belonging to 
the Sderocium of Persoon, but specialized it by cocos, by reason of its 
external appearance and shape. The appellation of Eafinesque was 
altogether fanciful — TucMaus, from the common name Tuckahoe, and 
rugosus from its roughened exterior. So it happened that the synonymy 
has become so extensive— Not knowing the character of the formation, 
the manner of reproduction, nor its chemical constituents, each writer, 
forming a theory of his own, gave it a name in accordance therewith. 
By general consent we have adopted the name of Fries — Pachi/ma cocos — 
which will be equally applicable should we be compelled to alter our 
views upon any or all of its salient features. 

The next point to be observed is some of its ascribed 
Affinities. — It is quite reasonable to suppose that wherever the req- 
uisite conditions for the growth or formation of P. cocos exist similar 
structures may be found, with the same or different names. The 
synonyms just given were all applied to the species found in America, 
the common name of which is the same in all localities, with various 
secondary appellations, as "Indian Bread,"" Indian Head," and "Indian 
Loaf." That there is at least one similar tuber in China is shown by 
Smith, in " Materia Medica of China," p. IGG, ^^ Pachyma cocos^^ (Fuhling). 
This fungal growth, which is both food and medicine for the omnivorous 
, Chinese, is met with in the form of large tubers, having a corrugated, 
blackish -brown skin, and consisting internally of a hard starchy sub- 
stance, of a white color, but sometimes tinged with pale or brown, es- 
pecially towards the outside. The tuber is sometimes perforated by 
an irregular channel, lined with a red membrane markiug its attach- 
ment to some root. They are met with on the sites of old fir planta- 
tions, or actually connected with living trees. A similar stuff is found 
in Japan and South Carolina, where it is called Indian bread. It is 
ground up, mixed with rice -flour, and made into small cakes, which 
are hawked about all hot in the early morning. They are set down as 
good in febrile and dyspeptic complaints." In Cleyer's and Hanbury's 
" Materia Medica" like statements are made. It is known in China by a 
variety of names, as : Fuhling, Pu-fuhling, Pefolim, and Pu-foohling. In 
Burmah it is called Tsein aphotaroup. From Dr. Barbeck, of Phila- 
delphia, I have the following information: ^^PacJiyma tiiher regium 
Fries (diameter varying from 3 to 5 inches, surface rougli and strobic- 
ulate) is found in the Moluccas, growing in the groupd like our Tucka- 
hoe. It is called by the natives Ubi Eadja, Culat-Batu, or Ulta-Batu, 
and furnishes a favorite remedy for diarrhea, fever, and other diseases. 
From this Pachyma a mushroom {Agaricus tuber regium Fr.) is devel- 
oped, which is edible, though rather poor. Also in China there is a 
similar Sclerotium (size of a child's head, surface shriveled, color yel- 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 693 

lowisli, in and out side), known as Hoelen or Foelem. It grows in sandy 
soil, in the province of Tcheucn, and is generally esteemed for its medic- 
inal properties." In this country there seems to have been found a plant 
quite like P. cocos, as indicated by the following extract: "Picquotaine, a 
highly nutritious plant growing in Korth America and used by the In- 
dians as food. It belongs to one of the species of the genus Psoralea, 
and is temporarily placed by Lamarc Picquot, who first introduced it 
into France, under the species escidenta, of Prusch. In the proportion 
of one-half or one-third parts farina, makes excellent bread with wheat 
flour" (Booth & Morfit's "Encyclopaedia of Chemistry," p. 832.) These 
authors considered Picquotaine identical with Tuckahoe, since the above 
sketch is referred to under the word Tuckahoe. That they are different 
can be seen by the analysis of Picquotaine, which is : Nitrogenous matter, 
4.09; mineral substance, 1.61; starch, 81.80; water, 12.50 (Pay en, in 
Comptes Rendus, for 1848, p. 826). 

By comparing this with the analysis of P. cocos, it will be seen that 
it contains six times as much nitrogenous matter as P. cocos, while the 
starch in the former is equal in quantity to the pectine in the latter. 
So the claim for identity is groundless, and there is but little indication 
of affinity. 

The next topic occupying our attention is its 

Habitat. — By means of the set of queries sent to various parts of 
the United States, asking, among other questions, about the prevalence 
in each locality where it is found, the geographical distribution was 
accurately determined. The States only will be given, without men- 
tioning the county. It has been found in several places in Delaware 
as far north as Kent County, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia, North and South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Mississippi, 
Kansas, Arkansas, Texas, and Florida. The character of the soil in 
which it is universally found is a light loam, free from prevalent moist- 
ure, and in fields that have not been farmed for several years, especially 
those from which the timber has been cleared within fifty years past. 
Not a single specimen has been found in very old fields, nor in wood 
lauds. This however might be from the fact that timber land is not dug 
up nor plowed — the way P. cocos is always found. Even if it were nu- 
tritious, this accidental manner of finding it — by no means frequent in 
plowing several acres — would render it of very little and uncertain 
service as food. The above requisites for its production being so fre- 
quentlj' coexisting, there would appear no natural limit to the extent of 
P. cocos, unless we suppose that a cold climate and a prolonged frozen 
condition of the ground would prevent its formation. This is quite 
likely, as it is not found north of Delaware. 

Chemical composition. — In order to fully determine whether P. cocos 
could possibly be used as an article of food, it was necessary to have a 
careful analysis made of its substance, especially since the analyses 



G94 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD, 



])revioasly consulted were so different as to attacli nncertainty to all. 
Several specimens for examination vrere placed in the hands of Professor 
Colyer, chemist-in-chlef of the Agricultural Department, with the result 
indicated by the following report, prepared by Dr. Henry B. Parsons, 
assistant chemist, with the concurrence of Professor Colyer: 

"The first careful chemical examination of Tuckahoe was made by 
Prof. Joh.n Torrey, in 1819 (Xew York Medical Repository, vol. 1, y>. 37). 
He found the fungus to consist almost entirely of a hitherto undescribed 
substance, not starch, which had the property of forming a jelly when 
heated with water and allowed to cool. To this substance he assigned 
the name 'sclerotin.' The later researches of Bracconnot on the jelly- 
forming constituents of fruits and tubers were published in 1824, and 
led to the adoption of the term 'pectous substances' (Ann. Chim. Phys. 
vol. xxviii, p. 173). In 1827 Torrey republished his original article with 
additions, and demonstrated that the substance he had named sclerotin 
was identical with the pectic acid of Bracconnot (Med. & Phya. Jour., 
vi, p. 484). In this conclusion he was certainly correct, as this gelatin- 
ous substance deports itself exactly like pectic acid, as described in the 
standard textbooks on proximate analysis (Prescott's Prox. Orig. Anal., 
p. 1G6). In 1875 an analysis was made at the Bussey Institute. In this 
the gelatinous substance is spoken of as pectose; in most respects the 
analysis there made agrees very closely with the one here reported. 
Trifling differences are to be ascribed to the examination of different 
samples. 



Departinont 
of ARricul- 
turo. 



Bnssey In- 
stitute. 



University 
of Vir- 
ginia. 



Moisture at 110° C . 
Ash. 



AlbTiminoids : 

Soluble in alcohol, not in Tvator 

Soluble in water, not in alcohol .., 

Carboliydrates : 

Tarinin-lilie substance soluble in water 

Gam 

Pectic acid, by difference 

Fatty suhst.iuco soluble in gasoline 

Crude cellulose 

Mineral matter 



12.97 
.24 

25) 

20 > 79. 88 

43 i 

.35 
5.77 



14.57 
.24 



L38 



73.73 



.34 
9.80 



10.70 
3.C4 



.76 



75.25 



3.7fl 
3.64 



(The other two analyses appended for comparison were not known tc 
Dr. Parsons until after he had finished his. The one made at the Uni 
versity of Virginia was under Professor Mallett's supervision, and can 
be seen in London Chemical News, No. 882, p. 168.) 

The most notable peculiarities of this substance are, the entire absence 
of starch ("No fungus has yet been found to contain true starch." — 
Sach's "Botany," p. 241), the comparatively small amounts extracted by 
solvents, the gelatinous character of the cellulose, and the very small 
amount of albuminous substance. Nothing else yet analyzed has been 
reported to contain so large a proportion of pectinous matter. In ordi- 
nary fruits, such as are commonly used for making jellies, these pectin 



TUCKAnOE, OR INDIAX BREAD. G95 

bodies seldom amount to ten percent. According: to Saab's Botany, "tlio 
origin of colloidal pectin is still unknown." Its nutritive value seems also 
to be entirely undecided. The older writers considered the pectin bodies 
of no value as foods, while later authors seem inclined to give them a 
value approximately that of starch. It seems certain that a diet of 
Tuckahoe (P. cocos) alone would not sustain life, because of the lack of 
sufficient nitrogenous materials to repair the waste inthe animal tissues j 
still, it might prove a valuable adjunct to highly nitrogenous foods. 

Various medicinal properties have been ascribed to P. cocos, such as, 
an antidote to mineral poisons; for poultices on the ulcers that foUow 
yellow fever; diarrhea; cancers; and, the most startling of all — the state 
mcnt made in Hobb's "Botanical Hand-Book'' — that it is aphrodisiac. 
It is easy to understand how these properties could be ascribed to Tucka- 
hoe — a representative name for all round or tuberous esculent roots — 
and now when P. cocos is the only root bearing the name of Tuckahoe it 
retains the traditional virtues of a large part of the Indian materia 
medica. From the.large number of correspondents upon this subject, 
not one has been found who ever knew of any use to which it has been 
I)ut. So we may safely conclude that P. cocos possesses no practical 
value; but it is unsurpassed in interest from a botanical standpoint, 
especially since so little is known concerning its 

Groicth or formation. — To those not familiar with the general appear- 
ance of P. cocos a description might be acceptable. As already stated, 
the outside is rough, dark brown in color, in many places considerably 
wrinkled, looking like the bark of a hickory tree just at the surface of 
the ground. Upon cutting this bark there will be seen a grain almost 
as distinct as that in the bark of the oak or hickory, and a woody ap- 
l)earance in other respects. There is not noticeable any membranous 
division between this bark and the substance within, neither does the 
one merge into the other, but there is a marked distinction between 
them. Within we find a comj)act white mass, without any apparent 
stracture, either vascular or granular. When first taken from the 
ground it is quite moist, and gives away under pressure; but this moist- 
ure is doubtless absorbed from the gi'ound and is not inherent. When 
dry, this white substance cracks from within and becomes very hard. 
At all times it is absolutely tasteless, and insoluble in water. Even 
after a careful and extensive study of the subject, there is still some 
doubt as to its formation. From a critical inspection of its structure, 
and an examination of many specimens at different stages of develop- 
ment, together with the confirmatory evidence of numerous correspond- 
ents, the following conclusion was reached. At some season of the year 
spores are given off and transmitted by insects, water, or other natural 
means, and are attached to the roots of other trees suitable for its pro- 
duction. This doubtless occurs while the tree is in a living condition. 
These spores have the property of converting the woody fiber of the 



\\i 







o" 



Fig. 3. 



"•w^ 



^1 i// 



m 




Figs. 1 and 2.— A root witli growtli of Tnckalioe around it. 
Fig. 3— a mass of Tuckalioe. 



696 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 697 

root into their own substance, which forms underneatli the bark. It may 
also, by stimulating the flow of sap to this point, receive accretions by 
assimilating the sap, and the periodic gi\ingoff of spores may continue 
to excite the deposition of sap at this point. It gradually grows in this 
manner, appropriating the bark of the root for its own covering until it 
becomes too large, during which process it forms a bark of its own, as 
already described. 

Every link of the above theory is indisputable except the production 
and transmission of spores. About this there is a shadow of doubt — a 
shadow only — because the microscope reveals a mycelium, and spore. 
Specimens in all stages of development are in my possession, from the 
root, with only a film of tbe substance between the bark and the woody 
part of the root up, to pieces of 6 inches in diameter. In the smallest 
the original bark surrounds the whole, and continues to do so until it 
attains a thickness of an inch or more. In the largest specimens will bo 
found the root still passing clear through the substance of tbe Pachyma, 
or scars at both ends marking its previous attachment. The root within 
the Pachyma is always smaller than that just without. 

From this fact, as well as the total disappearance of the root in some 
pieces, we are safe in saying that the wood of the root has been con- 
verted into the substance of the Pachyma. By way of confirmation, 
extracts from a few letters will be given : 

"At the close of the past winter, having occasion to build a new gar- 
den, in land that had never been cleared, we dug and plowed up several 
pieces of it, some in advanced state of growth, while others had just 
commenced growing. Several small pines had died on this spot four or 
five years ago. This growth had taken place from the roots of these 
pines, as was evident from some having just commenced growing, the 
pine root extending through and reaching out at each side. - - - Others 
were developed to considerable size, showing no appearance of any root 
in them or any bark of the pine on the outside, as was the case with 
the smaller ones. - - - I think the whole root for 2 inches or more is 
changed into this substance, from the fact that some of the roots ex- 
tended entirely through it, some of them being small inside and larger 
outside." — (Jonathan Stewart, Barnesville, Ga., June 21, 1880.) 

"In almost every case I have observed they have been i)lainly at- 
tached to a root of another growth. I have no doubt they have been, at 
some time, in every case. This root is usually about one half or three- 
quarters of an inch in diameter outside the tuber, frequently larger ; 
sometimes runs directly through the center of it, sometimes nearer oue 
side than the other. This root is always free from bark inside the tuber, 
and is often diminished to a slender stick or single fiber, and is some- 
times imperceptible, having the appearance of being, eaten away more 
or less, or entirely, in the process of formation." — (Edwd. Bull, Wood- 
bridge, N. C, April 21, 1880.) 



COS TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. , 

" The Tuclcalioe of which this is a part was at least 20 inches in length j 
the dead root which you see in this ran quite through its wliole length, 
and about which it was formed. The specimen was in a growing con- 
dition when found, the growth proceeding towards either end of the root 
between the bark and heart, showing there was something in the root 
fiivorable to its development. The specimen proves that it has no top 
growth."— (Thos. E. Baker, Fountain HUl, Ark., March 29, 1881.) 

In order to determine its botanical character, a searching microscopical 
examination was necessary; this was prosecuted by Prof. W.H. Seaman, 
of Howard University, and Prof. Thomas Taylor, microscopist, Agri- 
cultural Department. Professor Seaman I'eports as follows. : 

''On February 25, 1881, I received a large fresh Tuckahoe from ISTorth 
Carolina. The interior was soft, white, and crumbly; specific gravity 
nearly that of water. Boiling made it more mealy; the iodine test 
gave no reaction. The body of the fungus is composed of short, irreg- 
ularly-jointed threads of mycelium, somewhat tuberculated, which swell 
considerably on heating with water. The fungus is covered with a skin 
or cortical layer much resembling the bark of a young pine tree, be- 
neath which is a dense layer of dark-colored mycelium composed of finer 
threads, from which at the proper season I should expect to find spores 
developed." 

The appended report of Professor Taylor gives a detailed description 
of many interesting experiments which I had the pleasure of witness- 
ing. It is my desire to express my satisfaction with the examination 
made by him — doubtless the most searching and satisfactory ever at- 
tempted. 

" In my early experiments made some years ago, with Tuckahoe, I 
was successful only in finding a few very mijiute spore-like bodies. In 
these experiments the microscope only was employed, and the Tuckahoe 
was used in its natural condition. In some recent experiments the 
diiriculties encountered by reason of the cAacity of the Tuckahoe, I 
called in the aid of chemical solvents with very gi^atifying results. In 
consequence of the success attending this line of investigation, I made 
the following experiments: 

" First I placed a portion of the crust on a glass plate, pouring over 
and combining with it a few drops of strong sulphuric acid, which changed 
it into a pulpy mass. Quickly and before total destruction of the or- 
ganic matter could take i^lace I examined the mass under the micro- 
scope with a power of 75 diameters, and found present a mass of dark- 
brown mycelium. I have repeated these experiments many times, using 
different pieces of Tuckahoe, with the same results. 

" In the second, experiment I placed a section of Tuckahoe, including 
the broAvn crust, in a glass vessel containing strong nitric acid. After 
tbe lapse of forty-eight hours I found that the larger portion of the 




Fro. 5. 




\ 







"... >. jis--' 




Figs. 4 aud 5.— Micr 



oscopic views of sections of Tnckalioo. 

699 



700 TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 

specimen was changed to a transparent jelly. A p ortion of the trans- 
parent crust was examined under powers varying from 25 to 250 diam- 
eters. In each case I found in it large quantities of mycelium of a dark- 
brown color, branched, transparent, and in long fibers or cells, varying 
from the .002 to the .020 of an inch in diameter. 

" I next subjected a section of Tuckahoe to the action of a strong solu- 
tion of cyanide of potassium for a period of 48 hours. The substance 
of the Tuckahoe became quite transparent and pasty, color light-amber. 
On subjecting a portion of this paste to the microscope in the usual 
way, under a glass cover, masses of mycelium were discovered. 

" With a "Beck" inchand-a-half and No. A eye-piece I can clearly de- 
fine in nearly every portion mycelium stretching in masses over the 
whole field in view. 

" In the crust of the Tuckahoe, under the acid treatment, the mycelium 
is of a transparent amber-color, while in the white portions the mycelium 
is whitish and translucent. In the fourth experiment I cut very thin 
sections of moistened Tuckahoe, and mounted them in the usual way, 
dry, and in glycerine. When examined under the microscope a few 
threads of mycelium were visible, but only at points of rupture. Tuck- 
ahoe, whether dry or in watery solution, is opaque, and for this reason, 
and partly because of the exceeding fineness of the m j'celium, the latter 
is not discovered in quantity by the simple use of the microscope. 

"The application of balsam or other mounting fluid has very little 
effect in rendering its structure transparent, but my experiments have 
shown that strong alkalies and mineral acids, especially the nitric acid, 
will render it perfectly transparent and so soft that with slight pressure 
the pulp is reduced to a thinner condition than can be obtained by the 
use of any section-cutter. 

" Specimens reduced by means of cyanide of potassium may be mounted 
with a solution of gum-arabic and glycerine. Specimens prepared with 
acids may be mounted in glycerine temporarily. 

" Having succeeded in demonstrating by the methods described that 
mycelium is present in large quantities in Tuckahoe, I have come to the 
conclusion that although Tuckahoe may not itself be a fungus in the 
strict sense of the word, it is probable that it is caused by the mycelium 
of a fungus acting on the roots of trees on which Tuckahoe is found. 

" The outer surfiice is a bark-like crust which appears to consist of large 
cellulose cells, and between this outer crust and the inner white sub- 
stance is a thin and dark layer about an eighth of an inch in thickness 
of amber-colored pectic acid, cob-webbed through with masses of dark- 
brown mycelium." 

Bibliography of Tucliolioe. 

One of the in teresting features of every subject is a knowledge of 
what has been written upon that subject, the preliminary step being 
the acqaintance with books and authors from which such knowledge 



TUCKAHOE, OR INDIAN BREAD. 



701 



can be obtaiued. The following list is perhaps far from complete, but 
^ it embraces all the works wliicU treat of Pacliyma cocos under its own 
name, or one of synoDyms, that were found among the many liundi-eds 
that were examined : 



Agricultural Report for 1859, 1870, and 
1871. 

Berkeley, M. J. Transactions Liuntean 
Society. London, 1817. 

Berkeley, M. J. American Journal Arts 
and Sciences. 1859. 

Beverly, Robert. The History and Pres- 
ent State of Virginia. Loudon, 172ii. 

Booth & Morlit. Encyclopedia of Chem- 
istry. Philadelphia, 18G3. 

Bulletin Bussoy Institution for 1874-76. 

Campbell, J. W. History of Virginia from 
its Discovery till the year 1781. Phila- 
deljihia, 1781. 

Chemical News. London, 1876. 

Clayton. Flora Virginica. Lugduni Ba- 
tavorum (Lyons), 1762. 

Cleyer, Andreas. Specimen Medicinse 
SimiesB. Frankforti (Frankfort), 1682. 

Currey & Hanbury. Transactions of Lin- 
njean Society, Vol. XXII. 

Ellet, Stephen. A Sketch of the Botany 
of South Carolina and Georgia. Charles- 
ton, 1821-'24. 

Fries, Elias. Elenchus Fungorura. Gry- 
phiai (Greifensee), 1828. 

Fries, Elias. Sy sterna Mycologicum Sis- 
tens Fungnrnm. London, 1822. 

Fliickiger & Hanbury. Pharmacographia. 

Gardener's Chronicle. London, 1848. 

Hanbury. Materia Medica of China. 

Hobbs, E. C. Botanical Hand-book. Bos- 
ton, 1876. 

Jahresbuch der Chemie. 1876. 

Johnson, C. W. Farmers' and Planters' 
^ Encyclopaidia of Rural Atfairs. Phil- 
m adelphia, 1857. 

Kalm. Travels. Translated by Foster. 
Loudon, 1772. 



MacBrido. American Monthly Magazine, 
vol. 1. 

MacBrido. New York Philosophical So- 
ciety Transactions. New York, 1817. 

National Dispensatory, Isted. 

New York Medical and Physical Journal, 
Vol. VI, No. 4. 

Nuttall, Thomas. Systematic and Physio- 
logical Botany. Cambridge, 1820. 

Okeu. Lehrbuch der Naturgeschichte, 
2ter Theil: Botanik. 2ter Abtheil, Ite 
Hiilfte, 1815. 

Payen. Comptes Rendus, 1848. 

Persoon, C. H. Synopsis Methodica Fun- 
gorum. Gottingen, 1801. 

Ratinesque. Medical Flora of North 
America. Philadelphia, 1830. 

Schweinitz, L. D. Synopsis Fungorum 
Carolinte Superioris. Leipzig, 1822. 

Schweinitz, L. D. Transactions Ameri- 
can Philosophical Society. Philadel- 
phia, 1832. 

Silliman's Journal, vol. 2 and vol. 27. 

Smith, F. P. Materia Madica and Nat- 
tural History of China. London, 1871. 

Smith, John. History of Virginia. Rich- 
mond, 1819. 

Southern Planter. Richmond, 1847. 

Tatarinov. Catalogus Mddicamentorum 
Sinesinm. 1856. 

Treasury of Botany. London, 1876. 

Torrey, John. Transactions Natural His- 
tory Society. New York, 1819. 

Torrey, John. New York Medical Repos- 
itory, vol. 1. New York, 1821. 

Walter, Thomas. Flora Carolina. Lon- 
don, 1788. 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSOXIAX EXCHANGES. 



By George H. BoEnMEK. 



INTKODUCTORY SKETCH OF EARLY EFFORTS IN INTERNATIOXAL 

FXCUAliGE. 

Before giving an account of the system of literary and scientific ex- 
changes, organized and first carried into effect by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution in 1850, it may be appropriate, for indicating more clearly its 
precise character and importance, to briefly notice pre%'ious attempts 
in a similar direction. One of the earliest of such nndcrtaldugs is thus 
set forth in a history of the Royal Library of France: 

"In 1094 the Royal Library of France exchanged its duplicate vol- 
umes for new books printed in foreign countries. This kind of trade, 
authorized by the si)ecial order of the King (Louis XIY) and continued 
for several years, could not fail to supply the library with a very con- 
siderable accession of valuable books, especially froia England and 
Germany. In 1G97 one hundred and forty-nine Chinese books were 
received, in return for which the King gave a selection from all Lis 
engravings." {Essai liisiorique sur la Bibliotheque clu lioi.) 

In our own country the American riiilosophical Society, founded at 
Philadelphia in 1743, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 
founded at Boston in 17S0, commenced about the beginning of the present 
century a system of international exchange of their proceedings and 
transactions witli those of foreign scientific societies. 

In 18;32 M. Lichtenthaler, director of the Royal Library of Munich 
(Bavaria), in a letter dated Jaunary22 of that year, addressed to J\L Alex- 
andre Yattemiire, of Paris, referring to a conversation ])reviously held 
between them, recalls the large number of duplicates in the ilunich 
Library, and asks: "Would it not be possible, with your connections at 
Paris, to interest the Bureau of Fine Arts in adopting an exchange with 
our library?" This letter appears to have given .Mr. Yattemare the im- 
pulse to enter upon the execution of a favorite project — the establish- 
mi'ut of a system of library exchanges. lie secured the approval of 
his plans, and in a measur*? promise of coo])erati(>n on the part of tin; 
King of Prussia (letter of Count Charles Briehl, director-general of the 
museum) and of the King of Denmark (letter of the scientist, Mr. Ilank). 
At the court of St. Petersburg he was introduced by a letter of King 

Frederjck "William lY, of Prussia, to his sister, the Empress of Russia. 

7U3 



704 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

In 1883 lie went to Vienna and addressed tlie Count Maurice of Die- 
tricbsteiu, director general of the Imperial Museum, who replied, on 
the Gth of December, 1833, by letter, that the preparation of a catalogue 
of duplicates in the library would require more time than he could just 
then devote to the subject; but that, nevertheless, Mr. Vattemare mifht 
depend on his assistance, and he further expressed his belief that, 
through Mr. Vattemare's intervention, the librarj^ would be greatly 
benefited. 

He had now received favorable consideration from a number of sov- 
ereigns and governments which were waiting for France to take the 
initiative. Knowing that in laying his propositions before his govern- 
ment he must be prepared to support them in an incontrovertible man- 
ner by facts, and possessing now oCBcial evidence of the favorable re- 
ception accorded them abroad, Mr. Vattemare returned to Paris in 
November, 1835. 

In his first petition to the two Chambers he set forth the fact that 
'• all the large establishments founded by the munificence of govern- 
ments in the interest of science and arts, namely, museums, collections, 
galleries, and libraries, possessed, besides the treasures they displayed, 
many others, which by reason of their abundance were condemned to 
be usfeless. The duplicates which formed this precious waste, the'sa- 
vant saw with regret, buried in the dust of forgetfulness"; and "there 
was not one large city in Europe which did not possess a considerable 
number of such duplicates. The library at Munich had 200,000; Jena, 
12,000; St. Petersburg, 54,000; Vienna, more than 30,000, which in- 
cludes a large number of these 'incurables,' which were hidden away 
in store-rooms. At Vienna 25,000 duplicates were encumbering the en- 
tomological section of the Brazilian museum. Any attempt at enumera- 
tion would be imperfect, for everywhere there would be discovered, in 
addition to those collections of books intended for study or exhibited 
as curiosities to the public, hidden collections, unknown libraries and 
museums, treasures lost to science and the world," &c. 

The report on this petition was made to both Chambers in March, 
1836. The proposition was favorably received. Two years, however, 
elapsed without any action being taken, the government being en- 
grossed by j)olitical events. 

Mr. Vattemare, becoming impatient at the delay, resolved to go to 
England for the purpose of propagandism. He,laid his project before 
the Marquis of Landsdowne in May, 1838, and succeeded in establishing 
an exchange with the British Museum. 

After his return to Paris, IMr. Vattemare addressed a second petition 
to the Chambers on February 2, 1839, in which he stated an important 
fact. He said : " For two years the system of exchanges of duplicates 
has been in operation to some extent. Austria, Prussia, and England 
have obtained important results, and the greater number of the dupli- 
cates at Vienna, Berlin, and Munich, of whose existence mention was 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 705 

made in my first i)etitiou, have enriched other libraries, and are lost 
to us." 

Upon this the Chambers seemed desirous" of taking more effective 
measures, but the administration remaining inactive, matters remained 
at the same point as in 183G. 

At the suggestion of one of the deputies that it would be desirable 
also to make an arrangement for exchanges with the United States, 
Mr. Vattemare resolved to visit America. He left Havre October 20, 
1839, and arrived at Kew York November 29, 1839. After taking some 
preliminary steps in New York he left for Louisiana. On the vray he 
aroused the interest of the Societe Royale Patriotique de la Havane in 
the project of establishing exchanges. 

On the 2Gth of March, 1840, the legislature of Louisiana voted $3,000 
for the collection of material for exchanges. 

Mr. Vattemare then went to Albany, N. Y., where he arrived two 
days before the adjourning of the State legislature. He had a memoir 
presented to the senate, which body approved the plan and voted an 
annual appropriation for the purpose of exchanges. 

Wherever Mr. Vattemare went his views were indorsed. On reaching 
Washington the session of Congress was nearing its end, and impor- 
tant measures were being considered. Many influential men assured 
Mr. Vattemare that the moment was not a propitious one for his cause, 
but he persevered in his efforts, which were finally crowned by success. 

On June 5, 1840, in the Senate of the United States, Mr. Preston, 
chairman of the Committee on the Library, presented a favorable re- 
port on Mr. Vattemare's memorial, setting forth: "There are now in 
the possession of Congress many hundred volumes of public documents, 
some of which might well be distributed among friendly governments; 
and, for a like return, and at a very small expense, permanent provis- 
ion might be made to supply them in future. As in this department of 
publication we probably exceed most foreign nations, the exchange 
would be equalized by receiving in return national works of science or 
art, which the more ample powers of other governments enable them to 
execute. Besides this not inconsiderable means of profitable exchange. 
Congress also has, occasionally, the disposition of duplicate books in 
the Library." 

The committee's report concluded by recommending the passage of a 
joint resolution, authorizing such exchanges of dui^licate volumes in the 
Congressional Library, and also of a limited number of public documents. 
The report also published several of the testimonials from distinguished 
persons presented by Mr. Vattemare, abstracts of which are here given. 

[From his excellency Alexandre do Mordwinoff, St. Petersburg.] 

" I have the honor to inform you that His Majesty the Emperor, hav- 
ing been made acquainted with your proposition respecting the estab- 
lishment of a system of general exchange of dui^licates, has perfectly 
S. Mis. 109 45 



706 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

approved your idea ; and you are requested, sir, to present a prospectus 
clearly setting forth, your plan for efiecting that object," 

[From M. Guizot, minister of pnblic instruction of France, December 31, 1835.] 

" I have examined with much attention the plan which you have sub- 
mitted to me. The considerations adduced by you in support of this 
plan api^ear to me to be of such a nature as to entitle them to attention ; 
and I ardently desire that it may be possible for me to put it into exe- 
cution." 

[From M. de Lamartrne, member of the Chamber of Depatiea of France, April 10, 

1836.] 

"Your plan for a general exchange of duplicates between all libraries 
is excellent. It would aid us in completing our collections which are 
already so rich ; but it would also have another and happier effect ; it 
would introduce into France all the ideas of Europe, and would spread 
through Europe all the ideas of France. Thus, by means of simple ex- 
changes, this diffusion of information — the object of so many of our cares 
and labors — will be effected." 

[From M. Eugene do Monglave, of the Historical Institute of France, March 12, 1836.] 

" Your idea, dear sir, is a grand and generous one, which ought to 
succeed, and which every studious man should encourage by all means 
in his power. The Chamber of Deputies has offered you its aid, and you 
will doubtless also receive that of the Chamber of Peers." 

[From the Due de Broglio, minister of foreign affairs of France, June 12, 1835.] 

"The minister of foreign affairs has read, with great interest, the let- 
ter which M. Vattemare has done him the honor to address to him, re- 
specting the establishment of a system of exchanges between the differ- 
ent libraries of Europe possessing several copies of the same works. 
The usefulness of the labors undertaken by M. Vattemare, with the 
view of facilitating such exchanges, seems to be unquestionable; and 
the minister of foreign affairs will embrace the earliest occasion to speak 
to his colleague, the minister of public Instruction, upon the plans 
formed by M. Vattemare." 

[Extract from the speech of the Marquis de Laplace in the Chamber of Peers of 

France, March :50, 1836.] 

"I believe it to be the duty of our government to encourage and to 
protect such an enterprise, and that it becomes France to take the lead 
in a measure which may produce such desirable results. Such publicity 
will draw out invaluable works, which are not sufiiciently appreciated 
by their owners, from the dust of oblivion and from their obscure re- 
treats. How many manuscripts thus buried and lost to the world may 
be restored to light, and shall we not congratulate ourselves for having 
made private interest contribute to so great a work ?" 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 707 

[From Gnlian C. Verplanck, New York, December 3, 1839.] 

"The liigli and numerous attestations given to your plan of literary 
and scientific exchanges by the most eminent scholars and public men of 
Europe, and the eloquent manner in which several of them have stated 
its philanthropic objects and beneficial results, leave me little to say on 
those heads. - - - I admu'e the zeal and devotion with which you 
have apx)lied yourself to the execution of this uniiretending but bene- 
ficial plan." 

[From Washington Irving, Albany, N. Y., May 7, 1840.] 

" I regret extremely that engagements which require my departure 
for jSTew York will prevent my having the pleasure of attending at the 
meeting to be held this evening for the consideration of your plan for a 
system of exchanges between governments and learned institutions, 
throughout the civilized world, of duplicate specimens in natural history 
and productions in literature. It is a noble and magnanimous scheme, 
worthy of the civilization of the age, and the advantages of which are 
so obvious and striking that they must strike every intelligent mind at 
a single glance." 

[From Joel R. Poinsett, Secretary of War, Washington, December 18, 1839.] 

" I regard the subject of your memorial as highly interesting, useful, 
and imi)ortant, and it will command my warm support." 

In accordance with the recommendation of Mr. Preston's committee, 
the following act was passed by Congress July 20, 1840 (Vol. V, Statutes 
at Large, p. 509) : 

Joint Resolution for the exchange of books and public documents for foreign publi- 
cations. 

Be it resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the Unittd 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Librarian, under the 
supervision of the Committee on the Library, be authorized to exchange 
such duplicates as may be in the Library for other books or works. 

Second. That he be authorized in the same way to exchange docu- 
ments. 

Third. That hereafter fiftj' additional copies of the documents i)rinted 
by order of either House be printed and bound for the pui'pose of ex- 
change in foreign countries. 

Mr. Vattemare also visited Canada in 1841, and his mission was 
equally successful there. In the summer of 1841 he returned to France 
and immediately presented a third petition to the Chambers, referring 
to his success in America. The report of the Count of Montesquiou to 
the Chamber of Peers was sent back to the ministry of foreign aftairs 
and public instruction, but no more was heard from it. 

^ow, however, jMr. Vattemare commenced the distribution of the ob- 
jects intrusted to him for exchange. Some had their destination as- 
signed them, but the distribittion of the greater number was left to Mr. 



708 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Yattemare's discretion. He transmitted the legislative documents to 
the cliambers, elementary books of education, &c., to the ministers of 
public instruction, &c. 

The cities of Boston, New York, Baltimore, and Washington had pre- 
sented certain works and documents to the city of Paris. On December 
21, 1842, it was resolved to address a letter of thanks to the former cities 
and to send them books in exchange for those received from them. 

Mr. Vattemare received from the chambers, departments, and tliose 
scientific institutions which had been included in his first distribution 
a great number of important works. He also made an appeal to sa- 
vans, authors, and artists, from whom he received some contributions. 

The sendings to the United States had been gradually growing larger 
from the year 1842, and on the 1st of January, 1846, 6,000 volumes had 
passed between France and the United States. The following year 
their number reached 8,000. 

Mr. Vattemare concluded to personally deliver a large amount of ex- 
changes, and he started on May 10, 1847, with sixty-one boxes. 

The custom-house charges at jSTew York being very heavy, he ad- 
dressed the Secretary of the Treasury, explaining to him that the ex- 
changes from the United States were allowed free entry in France, and 
in reply the same privilege was granted for the French exchanges. 

On his second visit to the United States Mr. Vattemare was equally 
successful; he forwarded in the course of the year 1848, forty-eight cases 
to France. 

On the 26th of June of the same year Congress charged the Library 
Committee with the nomination of an agent to conduct the operations 
of the exchanges between France and the United States. The commit- 
tee unanimously designated Mr. Vattemare, who entered upon his duties 
July 25, 1848. It was also resolved that everything transmitted by this 
agent should be admitted in this country free of duty. 

The French Government failing to give further support to the service 
of international exchanges, notwithstanding the renewed efforts of Mr. 
Vattemare, its operations ceased at his death, in 1864. 

Another movement in our country to effect a system of exchanges 
(chiefly directed, however, to natural history specimens) was made by 
the "National Institution" organized at Washington, D. C, in May, 
1840. Early in 1841 the institution addressed a circular to the principal 
scientific institutions of Europe, soliciting their correspondence. A let- 
ter to the corresponding secretary from Dr. H. G. Brown, professor in 
the University of Heidelberg, Germany, proposed, " if acceptable to you 
I ofler an exchange of the petrifactions of your country for those of 
Germany and the neighboring countries." In September, 1841, the 
United States consul at Lima, Peru, offered to the institution his valu- 
able entomological collections. Almost simultaneously M. Dufresnoy, 
of the Royal School of mines at Paris, wrote that he had delivered to Mr. 
D. B. Warden (formerly consul of the United States at Paris) a box of 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 709 

specimens of mineralogy for deposit in the cabinet of tlie National In- 
stitution at Wasliiugtou, expressing the liope that such transmissions 
may become frequent. 

In December, 1841, Dr. E. Foreman, of Baltimore, proposed to the 
institution a plan for obtaining conchological specimens from all parts 
of the country by a system of exchange. In pursuance of a resolution 
of the institution adopted December 13, 184:1, a committee appointed 
to propose a plan of exchanges reported February 14, 1842, first, "that 
a system of exchanges is of very great importance in the accomplish- 
ment of one of the primary objects for which the National Institution 
has been declared to be formed, viz, the establishment of a national 
museum of natural history," «&c.; and second, "that in exchanges of all 
kinds the natural productions of our country shall first and always have a 
decided preference. This method, while it recommends itself to us and 
our interests, is calculated to extend benefits and encouragement to the 
societies and naturalists of our country, who will thus have a central 
depository, from which they may enlarge and vary their own collections; 
and thus also in due time the duplicates of the exploring expedition 
may with the greatest advantage be diffused throughout the land, there- 
by fulfilling in the amplest manner the intentions of those who formed 
that noble project, and justify the liberality of the government which 
supported it." 

And the committee recommended : 

"1. That a system of exchanges be entered upon without delay. 

"2. That the curator and assistants be directed, for this purpose, to 
separate all duplicates, except those from the exploring expedition; and 
that they select and label such specimens as are to be sent to indi\'idu- 
als or societies. 

"3. That the first step taken be to discharge the obligations of ex- 
change already incurred by the institution. 

" 4. That a committee be appointed, to whom the curator shall submit 
all sets of specimens thus set aside for any given exchanges, who shall 
decide upon the equivalency before said specimens shall be boxed ux) 
and sent off. 

" 3. That in all cases of diflBculty which may arise, reference must be 
made to the i)resident or vice-president of the institution for decision, 
who will, if they conceive it necessary, submit the question to the in- 
stitution. 

" 6, That a book be kept by the curator, subject at all times to the 
inspection of the committee, in which must be noted the contents of each 
box or package, lists of the articles for which they are the equivalents, 
the name and the i)lace of the society or individual to whom one set is 
to be sent, and from whom the other has been received." 

In July, 1842, the institution adopted the name "National Institute." 

It will thus be seen that the eflbrts of the National Institute towards 
the establishment of a system of exchanges were mainly intended to 



710 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

enrich its cabinet of natural history, although the exchange of books 
was not excluded. In this way its museum obtained many valuable ad- 
ditions during the succeeding years, but the financial condition of the 
institute prevented a vigorous execution of the system. Notwithstand- 
ing several appeals to Congress for aid, of which the last one was made 
on December 16, 1845, nothing was done toward giving the desired re- 
lief, and on the 25th of November, 1840, the following "notice to the 
members of the jSTational Institute " was published, which will give a 
fair insight into its condition : 

" A reference to the last * memorial to Congress,' which was presented 
to the Senate by the Hon. Lewis Cass and to the House of Representa- 
tives by the venerable John Quincy Adams, will aiford the members 
some idea of the present condition of the National Institute. Notwith- 
standing that renewed appeal. Congress has again omitted to grant re- 
lief. More than a thousand boxes, barrels, trunks, &c., embracing col 
lections of value and rarity in literature, in the arts, and in natural his- 
tory, remain on hand unopened, the liberal contributions of members at 
home and abroad, of governments, of learned and scientific societies and 
institutions, of foreign countries and of our own, and of munificent friends 
and patrons in every part of the world. The worth, extent, and Amer- 
ican interests of these collections may be understood, though imperfectly, 
by a perusal of the four bulletins which are now before the public. For 
the preservation, reception, and display of these the institute has neither 
funds nor a suitable de j)ository . The usual meetings of the members have 
been suspended for a considerable period. Hence the regular proceed- 
ings have been interrupted, and hence the present volume (which has 
been published by the subscrii^tion of a few members and others, a sub- 
scription so limited as to have rendered it intlispensably necessary to 
abridge the publication within the narrowest possible comjjass), instead 
ot presenting in the usual form the proceedings of the institute, gives a 
mere and meager abstract of a voluminous and valuable correspondence, 
and an imperfect account of donations and contributions to its library 
and cabinet." 

And thus with the year 181G vii-tually ceased the activity of the Na- 
tional Institute in that direction. 

From this sketch it will be seen that the system introduced by the 
two early scientific institutions of our country had in view mainly the 
interchange of their own transactions for those of foreign societies, for 
their own benefit and the extension of their own reputation, and that the 
system introduced in France had in view mainly the interchange among 
public libraries of their superfluous duplicates and of government pub- 
lications. The Smithsonian In^^titution, starting out with the same 
system, at a very early date in its history inaugurated the original en- 
terprise of furthering the muiual interchange of scientific transactions 
and i)ublications throughout the world, without reference to any direct 
benefit to itself by reason of such exchanges. 



SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Amoug" tlie detiuite Hues of policy adopted by the Institution at the 
commencement of its operations was that of a diflusion of its pubhcations, 
resulting- in a system of exchange not limited to the distribution of unused 
duplicate volumes accumulated in libraries, but comprehending a full 
interchange of the intellectual products of the two hemispheres. 

lu the original "programme of organization " ijresented to the Board 
of Regents by Prof. Joseph Henry, December 8, 1847, this object was 
set forth, and in the explanations and illustrations of the i3rogramme 
the consideration was urged that the publication of a series of volumes 
of original memoirs would afford the Smthsonian Institution the most 
ready means of entering into friendly relations and correspondence with 
all the learned societies m the world and of enriching its library with 
their current transactions and proceedings. 

A committee of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences appointed 
to consider the plan proposed for the organisation of the Smithsonian 
Institution reported, December 7, 1847, on this feature, that "it can 
scarcely be doubted that an important impulse would be given by the 
Smithsonian Institution in this way to the cultivation of scientific pm-- 
suits, while the extensive and widely ramified system of distribution and 
exchange, by which the publications are to be distributed throughout 
the United States and the world, woiUd insure them a circulation which 
works of science could scarcely attain in any other way." 

The first volume of the Smithsonian " Contributions to Knowledge," a 
memoir on the ancient monuments of the IMississippi Valley (by Messrs. 
Squier & Davis), was published in 3G0 quarto pages in 1848, and during 
the following year* was distributed to leajned societies in the following 
countries : 



No. of Bocioties. 

lu Middle aud South America : 

Cuba, Havana 1 

Cliili, Santiago 2 

New Grenada, Bogota 1 

Venezuela, Caracas 1 

Brazil, Kio J aneiro 1 

In Africa: 

Egypt, Cairo 1 

In Asia: 

China, Hong-Kong 1 

ludia, Allahabad, Bombay, Ceylon, 

and Madras 5 

Java, Batavia 1 

Philii)piue Islands, Manila 1 

111 Europe: 

Austria 9 



No. of societies. 
In Europe — Continued: 

Belgium - 6 

Denmark 3 

France 25 

Germany 28 

Great Britain and Ireland 41 

Greece 1 

Hollaud 6 

Italy 16 

Norway 2 

Portugal 1 

Russia 6 

Spain 3 

Sweden 5 

Switzerland 7 

Turkey 1 

711 



712 HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

• 

In addition, the volume was liberally distributed to distinguished 
savans interested in its subject, and to numerous institutions through- 
out our own country. 

.At the commencement of its system of exchanges, the Institution was 
much trammeled by the great delays and considerable expenses attend- 
ant on custom-house requirements, but by earnest efibrts and proper 
representation to Congress, the United States Government adopted the 
enlightened policy of admitting through our custom-houses, duty free, 
all scientific publications from foreign countries addressed to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, whether for its own use or as presents to learned 
societies and individuals in any part of our country. 

The efforts of the Institution were then directed to the procurement 
from foreign governments of a recij^rocal liberality on their part. The 
following extract from the Secretary's report for 1851 will sufficiently 
indicate the steps first taken : 

"The promotion of knowledge is much retarded by the difficulties ex- 
perienced in the way of a free intercourse between scientific and literary 
societies in different parts of the world. In carrying on the exchauge 
of the Smithsonian volumes, it was necessary to appoint a number of 
agents. Some of these are American consuls, and other responsible 
individuals, who have undertaken in most cases to transact the busi- 
ness free of all charge, and in others for but little more than the actual 
expense incurred. These agencies being established, other exchanges 
could be carried on through tbem, and our means of conveyance, at the 
slight additional expense owing to the small increase of weight; and 
we have accordingly offered the privileges of sending and receiving 
small packages through our agency to institutions of learning, and in 
some cases to individuals who chose to avail themselves of it; the offer 
has been accepted by a number of institutions, and the result cannot 
fail to prove highly beneficial, by promoting a more ready communica- 
tion between the literature and science of this country and the world 
abroad. 

"As a part of the same system, application was made through Sir 
Henry Bulwer, the British minister at "Washington, for a remission of 
duties on i)ackages intended for Great Britain, and we are informed that 
a i)ermanent arrangement will probably be made through the agencj^of 
the Eoyal Society for the free passage through the English custom-houses 
of all jjackages from this Institution. 

" The Smithsonian exchanges are under the special charge of Professor 
Baird, who has been unwearied in his exertions to collect proper ma- 
terials, and to reduce the whole to such order as will combine security 
with raijidity of transmission. 

"The system of exchanges here described has no connection with 
that established between national governments by Mr. Yatteumre. It 
is merely an extension of one which has been in operation, on a small 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 713 

scale, for nearly half a century, between the American Philosopliical 
Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences on this side 
of the Atlantic, and the several scientific societies on the other." 

Early in 1852 Professor Henry addressed a commnnication to the 
vice-president of the Eoyal Society of London, ('ol. Edward Sabine, 
"with a view of obtaining the iniinence and co-()i)eration of that distiii- 
gnished body in the promotion of an unrestrained scientific interchange 
between the two great English countries. 

This communication received a very prompt and favorable considera- 
tion from that society, and the following ofiicial response was placed by 
Professor Henry before the Board of Eegents at its meeting, May 1, 
1852: 

Eoyal Society's Apartments, 
Somerset House, London, March 19, 1852. 
Prof. Joseph Henry: 

My Dear Sir : I duly communicated to the Earl of Eosse, president 
of the Eoyal Society, your letter to me on the subjects of the inter- 
change of scientific publications between the United States and this 
country, and the admission into England, duty free, of scientific books 
and memoirs presented to institutions or to individuals here, either 
by or through the Smithsonian Institution. I accompanied this com- 
munication by a letter addressed to the president, which you will read 
in the inclosed printed minutes of the council of the Eoyal Society of 
January 15, 1852. The subject has since been brought by the Earl of 
Eosse under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government, who have 
shown, as might be expected, much readiness to meet in the same spirit 
the liberal example which has been set by the United States, in ex- 
empting from duty scientific books sent as presents from this country 
to the Smithsonian Institution, and through that Institution to other 
institutions and to individuals cultivating science in the United States. 
The move which has been suggested b^^ our board of customs for admit- 
ting, duty free, scientific publications designed for this country, and 
which we hope will receive the approval of the treasury, is, that a list 
should be furnished by the Eoyal Society of the names of all institu- 
tions and individuals to whom such works may be expected to be ad- 
dressed, when the custom-house officers will have directions to pass 
without duty all such publications having the names of such institutions 
or persons inscribed either on the cover or on the title-page, which are sent 
to this country in packages directed to the Eoyal Society, the list to bo 
amended or extended from time to time. The Eoyal Society will gladly 
take charge of, and distribute under these regulations, the books which 
the Smithsonian Institution may send for institutions and individuals 
in this country, receiving them from the agent in London appointed by 
the Smithsonian Institution; and I shall be obliged by your furnishing 
ime, at your earliest convenience, with a list, as complete as you may 



714 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAJ?f EXCHANGES. 

be able to make it, of tlie names of the institutions and persons to whom 
books or memoirs are likely to be sent. 

The Eoyal Society will also gladly receive and forward to their ulti- 
mate destination (where such assistance may be useful) packages con- 
taining publications of a similar description, designed for institutions 
and individuals on the continent of Europe ; such packages being 
directed to the Eoyal Society, and stated on the outside of the case or 
package to be/ro??i the Smithsonian Institution. The customs duties will, 
in such cases, be either altogether remitted or returned on re-exporta- 
tion. 

If it be a convenience to the cultivators of science in the United 
States, that publications presented to them by institutions or individu- 
als on the continent of Europe, or elsewhere, should be addressed to 
the Eoj^al Society as a channel of communication, the same facilities will 
be given by the board of customs, and the Eoyal Society will, with 
l)leasure, make the required arrangements. It will be necessary, in 
such cases, that packages arriving from the continent of Europe or 
elsewhere should be marked on the outside, "for the Smithsonian 
Institution, " and the foreign secretary of the Eoyal Society should be 
apprised of their being sent. Expenses of freight would of course be 
defrayed by the agent of the Smithsonian Institution. 

I am, my dear sir, with great respect and regard, very sincerely yours, 

Edwakd Sabine, 
Vice-President and Treasurer of the Royal Society, g 

This, though an important concession, was still attended with consid- 
erable delay, and on farther solicitation the rule was so relaxed that all 
duties were remitted on books, not foreign reprints of British copyrights. 

Colonel Sabine's views on the subject were laid before the British 
Association in his address as president of that body, on occasion of their 
annual meeting in 1852, as follows: 

"Another subject which has occupied the attention of the parlia- 
mentary committee in the last year is one to wliich their attention was 
requested by the council of the association, with a ^iew of carrying into 
effect the desire of the general committee for a more cheap and rapid 
international communication of scientific imblications. The credit of 
the tirst move towards the accomplishment of this desirable object is 
due to the Government of the United States, by whom an arrangement 
was made for the admission, duty free, of all scientific books addressed 
as presents from foreign countries to all institutions and individuals 
cultivating science in that countr3', such boolcs being sent through the 
Smithsonian Institution, by whom their distribution to their respective 
destinations was undertaken. This arrangement was notified to our 
government through the British minister at Washington, and a similar 
privilege was at the same time requested for the admission, duty free, 
into England, of books sent as presents from the United States to pubhc 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 715 

institutions and individuals cultivating science in this country, under 
such regulations as might appear most fitting. This proposition gave 
rise to communications between the president of the Eoyal Society and 
the chairman of the parliamentary committee on the one part, and the 
treasury and the principal commissioner of customs on the other; the 
result of which has been the concession of the privilege of admission, 
duty free, into England, of scientific books from all countries, designed 
as presents to institutions and individuals named in lists to be prepared 
from time to time by the Eoyal Society, after communication with other 
scientific societies recognized by charter — under the regulation, how- 
ever, that the books are to be imported in cases, addressed to and pass- 
ing through the Eoyal Society. This arrangement has come into oper- 
ation ; and it may be interesting to notice, as giving some idea of its 
extensive bearing, that the first arrival from the United States, which 
has taken place under these regulations, consists of packages weighing 
in all not less than three tons. 

" There is another branch of the same subject which is more difficult 
to arrange, viz, the international communication by post of scientific 
pamphlets and papers at reduced rates of postage. The parliamentary 
committee have directed their attention to this part of the subject also; 
and I earnestly hoiie that their exertions will be successful." 

In his annual report for 1852 Professor Henry states : 

" The whole number of articles received during 1852 is 4,744, which 
is more than three times that of all the previous years. The publications 
i-eceived in many cases consist of entire sets of transactions, the earlier 
volumes of which are out of print and cannot be purchased. They are 
of use in carrying on the various investigations of the Institution, and 
of value to the country as works of reference. 

" The principal object, however, of the distribution of the Smithsonian 
volumes is not to procure a large library in exchange, but to diffuse 
among men a knowledge of the new truths discovered by the agency of 
the Smithsonian fund. The worth and importance of the Institution is 
not to be estimated by what it accumulates within t-he walls of its build- 
ing, but by what it sends forth to the world. Its great mission is to 
facilitate the use of implements of research, and to diffuse the knowl- 
edge which this use may develop. The Smithsonian publications are 
sent to some institutions abroad, and to the greater majority of those 
at home, without any return except, in some cases, that of cooperation 
in meteorological and other observations. 

"In carrying out this plan the Institution is much indebted to the 
liberal course adopted by the Government of Great Britain and the 
ready co-operation of the Eoyal Society of London. All packages in- 
tended for Great Britain, for some parts of the Continent, and the East 
Indies, are directed to the Eoyal Society, and on the certificate of its 
president are, by a special order of the government, admitted duty free, 
and without the delay and risk of inspection. The i)ackages are after- 



716 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Tvartls (listrihuted by the agent of the Institution, or by those of the 
society. 

" This system of exchanges does not stop here. The Eoyal Society 
has adopted the same i)lan with reference to Great Britain and all other 
parts of the world; and the Smithsonian Institution, in turn, becomes 
an agent in receiving and distributing all packages which tlie society 
desires to send to this country. A general sj^stem of international com- 
munication, first started by this Institution for the distribution of its 
own publications, has thus been established which will tend to render 
the results of the labors of each country in the line of literature and 
science common to all, and to produce a community of interest and of 
relations of the highest imi)ortance to the advancement of knowledge 
and of kindly feeling among men." 

So rapidly and generally was the beneficent work of the Smithsonian 
Institution recognized and appreciated abroad, tbat in his report for the 
year 1854 the secretary — Professor Henry — announced: "There is no 
port to which the Smithsonian parcels are shipped wliere duties are 
charged on them, a certified invoice of contents by the secretary being 
sufficient to pass them through the custom-house free of duty. On the 
other hand, all packages addressed to the Institution arriving at the 
ports of the United States, are admitted, without detention, duty free. 
This system of exchange is therefore the most extensive and efticient 
which has ever been established in any country." And in the following 
year, 1855, the secretary remarked in continuation of the subject: "The 
Smithsonian agency is not confined to the transmission of works from 
the United States, but is extended to those from Canada, South and 
Central America, and in its foreign relations embraces every part of the 
civilized world. It is a ground of just congratulations to the Eegents 
that the Institution, bj" means of this part of the plan of its organization, 
is able to do so much towards the advance of knowledge." 

The system of international exchange of literary and scientific produc- 
tions thus established, naturally developed into two distinct branches: 

The foreign exchange, or the distribution abroad of publications by 
the Smithsonian and by other American institutions. 

The domestic exchange, or the distribution within the United States 
of publications bj^ foreign establishments. 

To this might be added, as a third branch, the introduction in 18G7 
of a separate system of government exchange. 

I. Foreign Exchanges. 

The Smithsonian Institution, in undertaking to extend the system 
of international exchange of literary and scientific publications, com- 
municated its purpose to the chief learned societies throughout the 
country, with a profier of its services to the end in view. The priuci- 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 717 

pal bodies rcsj^ondiiij]^ to its invitfition ■were the American Academy 
of Arts aud Sciences, Boston ; the Boston Natnral History Society, 
the PhiUidelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, the United States Coast 
Survey, the Naval Observatory at Washington, and a few others. The 
Hon. Luke Lea, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, at the instance of the 
Institution (seconded by the authors), embraced the opportunity of 
presenting to about one hundred and fifty establishments in Europe 
(selected from the Smithsonian list) copies of Schoolcraft's History of 
the Indian tribes. In this case the Institution requested the recipients 
to return a special acknowledgment to the Commissioner of the In- 
dian Bureau. Numerous documents of scientific interest published by 
Congress were, through the personal liberality of members in distrib- 
uting their copies, received from the Senate document room for trans- 
mission abroad. The Senate also assigned to the Institution three 
hundred copies of Foster and Whitney's report on the copper lands of 
Lake Superior ; one hundred copies of Owen's report on the geology of 
Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota ; and one hundred copies of Stans- 
bury's report on the exploration of Utah, for foreign distribution. 

In the Smithsonian report for 1854, the secretary states : "During 
the past .vear the number of societies availing themselves of the facili- 
ties thus offered has largely increased, including among others nearly 
all the State agricultural societies of America publishing transactions. 
This result has been produced by a circular which was issued by the 
Institution early in the spring of last year, to make known more gen- 
erally the system of exchange. Copious returns are being constantly 
received for the societies, and an intercourse is thus established which 
cannot fail to produce important results, both in an intellectual and 
moral i)oint of view." 

As an indication of some of the incidental benefits conferred by this 
extensive system of exchange, a few special transmissions may be 
cited. 

In 18G7, at the suggestion of Hon. John Bigelow, late American 
minister to France, a request was made by the Institution that some of 
the principal publishers of school-books in this country would furnish 
copies of their elementary text-books, in order that these might be pre- 
sented to Professor E. Laboulaye, of the College of France, for exam- 
ination, with a view to the application of some of their peculiar feat- 
ures to the purposes of instruction in his own country. The character 
of this distinguished professor, aud his known admiration of American 
institutions, secured for this request the prompt and liberal response 
of several publishers, a list of whom, with the number of works con- 
tributed, is as follows : 

Volumes. 

Harper & Brothers, New York 62 

A. S. Barnes & Co., New York 26 

Oiikley & M;ison, New York 10 

C. Scribner, New York 3 



718 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Volnmcs. 

H. Cowpcrtliwaito & Co., Philadelphia 10 

U. Hunt & Son, Philadelphia 12 

E. C. & J. Biddle, Philadelphia _ 12 

A. S. Davis & Co. , Boston 6 

Sargent, Wilson & Hinckle, Cincinnati 33 

Professor Laboulaye, in acknowledging the receipt of these 174 vol- 
umes, says : " These books form the admiration of all who take an interest 
in education, and I hope that Franco will jirofit by this example. We 
have excellent things at home by which you in turn might profit, but 
we have seen nothing comparable to your readers, your object lessons, 
your graphics, and your geographical series." 

The Institution in like manner frequently received applications from 
foreign governments and societies for official publications of the States, 
of general government, relative to certain branches of political economy, 
stiitistics, education, &c. During the year 18G8 a request of this kind 
was received from the Belgian Government for all the publications of 
the States in regard to public schools. 

In answer to a circular asking for these documents, a large and valua- 
ble collection was received, for which the thanks of the Institution were 
returned to the following persons : A. Eogers, second auditor of Virginia; 
T. Jordan, secretary of state, Pennsylvania; S. C. Jackson, assitant 
secretary board of education, Massachusetts; J. A. Morris, school com- 
missioner, Ohio; jN". Bateman, sui^erintendent of education, Illinois; 0. 
J. Hoadley, state librarian, Connecticut; F. Eodman, secretary of state, 
]\Iissouri ; E. A. Barker, secretary of state, Kansas ; Ed. Wright, secre- 
tary of state, Iowa; C. W. Wright, secretary of state, Delaware; J. E. 
Tenney, secretary of state, Michigan, and the secretary of state, Wis- 
consin. 

Another application of a similar character was received from the Gov- 
ernment of Norway for the publications of the United States relative to 
militarj^ affairs, which, on being referred to the heads of departments 
and bureaus, secured a large number of the desired publications. Ac- 
knowledgments for these favors were made to General E. D. Townsend, 
Adjutant-General; General A. A. Humphreys, Chief Eagineer, United 
States Army; Surgeon-General Barnes; Paymaster-General Brice; Gen- 
eral Dyer, Chief of Ordnance; Commodore Jenkins, Chief of Bureau of 
Ordnance and Hydrography, Navy Department ; General Myer, Chief 
Signal Officer. 

For official co-operation with the Institution in its plans for the pro- 
motion of knowledge, and imi)ortaut assistance rendered, besides the 
foregoing, may be mentioned Hon. William H. Seward, Secretary of 
State; Hon, Hugh McCullough, Secretary of the Treasury ; Hon. Horace 
Capron, Commissioner of Agriculture ; General Meigs, Quartermaster- 
General; Mr. Spofford, Librarian of Congress ; Professor J. H. C. Coffin, 
Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and Commodore Sands, of the 
National Observatory, 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 719 

Most valuable assistance in connection with foreign exchanges \ra.s 
also rendered by E. J. Davison, Argentine consul; Jos6 I. Sanchez, con- 
sul of Venezuela; B. Blanco, consul-general of Guatemala; L. n. J. 
D'Aguir, consul-general of Brazil ; R. C. Burlage, consul-general of Neth- 
erlands ; Hon. E. Juteirez, minister from Costa Rica ; the American 
Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions ; Real Sociedad Econora- 
ica, Havana ; Board of Foreign Missions, New York ; American Col- 
onization Society, "Washington; Society of Geography and Statistics, 
Mexico; University of Chili; Bataviaasche Genootschap van Kunsten 
en Wetenschappen, Java ; and the Institute of History, Geography, and 
Ethnology, of Rio Janeiro. 

It was not alone from societies or publicbodies that works w^re received 
by the Institution for gratuitous distribution at home and abroad among 
libraries or establishments of learning where they might obtain apijre- 
dation. Co^iies of works produced by private enterprise were not infre- 
quently sent to the Institution by individuals who could not afibrd the 
additional expense attendant upon their desired transmission to distant 
and scattered points. 

In most cases the list of distribution was made out by the parties 
sending the copies, but sometimes the selection of recipients was left 
t-o the Institution. 

Among the articles distributed in this way was the narrative of an 
exploration to Musardo, the capital of the western Mandigoes, through 
the country east of Liberia, by Benjamin Anderson, a young man of pure 
negro blood. The narrative was printed without correction from the 
original manuscript, at the expense of Mr. H. M. Schieftelin, of New 
York, and nearly the whole of the edition was presented to the Institu- 
tion for distribution. 

LLBEEALITY OF TRANSPORTATION COMPANIES. 

The rapid extension of the Smithsonian exchanges soon became a 
heavy tax upon the resources of the Institution; and the conduct of its 
principal function ("the increase of knowledge among men" by the pro- 
motion of original research and discovery) was threatened with being 
crippled and overridden by the demands of a ser\ice really held as in- 
cidental and subordinate thereto. With a view to diminish, if possible, 
the expenses involved, the Institution, in 1855, addressed several of the 
leading transatlantic steamship companies, unfolding its methods, and 
asking, in consideration of the great public benefit of the system, the 
favor of reduced rates of freight upon this particular service. 

With a liberality and public spirit which cannot be too highlj- admired, 
the companies addressed agreed to carr.y the freights of the Smithsonian 
lustitutiou not merely at an abatement, but without charge; and thus 
generously enabled the Institution to maintain the growing magnitude 
of the operations, when otherwise the system must have broken down 
by it^ own weight. 



720 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

At a meeting of the Board of Eegents, on the 8th of March, 1856, it 
■was — 

Resolved, That the Secretary, on the part of the Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, return thanks to the United States iMail Steamship 
Company, M. O. Roberts, president; Pacific Mail Steamship Company, 
W. H. Aspinwall, president; South American Mail Steamship Company, 
Juan Matteson, president; Mexican Gulf Steamship Company, Harris 
& Morgan, agents ; and the Panama Railroad Company, David Hoad- 
ley, president, for their liberality and generous offices in relation to the 
transportation without charge of articles connected "with the operations 
of the Institution. 

In the Secretary's report for 1867, he says : " The system has now at- 
tained a great development and increases measurably every year. The 
expenses hitherto have been principally borne by the Institution, but 
their amount has now become so great as seriously to interfere with 
other operations. - - - The expenses of the Smithsonian exchanges 
would be considerably greater than they are, but for the liberality of 
various transportation companies in carrying packages free of cost." 

The line of sailing vessels between New York and tbe west coast of 
South America, belonging to Mr. Bartlett, 110 Wall street, also engaged 
to carry all the Chilian exchanges free of charge. 

In the course of the year 1858, Hon. R. Schleiden, the minister from 
Bremen, offered his service in trying to procure for the Smithsonian 
Institution the advantage of free or reduced freight on exchanges for 
the port of Bremen. His success is announced in the following letter: 

Bremen Legation, Washington, January 25, 1859. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, „ 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution: 9 

Sir : Agreebly to your verbal request, I have proposed to the presi- 
dent and directors of the North German Lloyd of Bremen to manifest 
their interest in the cause of science by facilitating literary intercourse 
between the United States and Germany, by means of their steamers 
plying between Bremen and New York. 

It affords me great i>leasure now to inform you that, according to a 
letter of the president of the Lloyd, dated the 5th instant, and just re- 
ceived, the said Bremen Steamship Company have resolved, henceforth 
and until further notice, to forward by their steamers all the i)ackages 
of books and specimens of natural history which the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution may be i^leased to send to Germany, or which may be sent from 
Germany to the Smithsonian Institution, free of charges between New 
Y^ork and Breraerhaven. 

I beg leave to add that Messrs Gelpcke, Keutgen, and Reichelt, 84 
Broadway, New York, are the agents of the North German Lloyd at that 
place, and that the next Bremen steamer sailing for Europe will leave 
New York on the 19th of February next. 



w 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 721 

I avail myself of this occasion to offer you renewed assurances of my 
high consideration. 

R. ScnLEiDEN, 
Minister Resident of Bremen. 

The following resolution was adopted by the Board of Eegents, Feb- 
ruary 15, 1859 : 

Resolved^ That the thanks of this board be returned to his excellency 
R. Schleiden, minister resident of Bremen, for his intervention with the 
"North German Lloyd of Bremen," to facilitate and advance the cause 
of science by transporting, free of charge, &c., packages of books and 
specimens of natural history from Germany to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and fi'om the Institution to Germany, and the like thanks to the 
president and directors of the North German Lloyd of Bremen for their 
generous liberality in the instance above referred to. 

On the IGth of February, 1860, Professor Henry addressed a letter to 
Mr. Edward Cunard, of the steamship line running between New York 
and Liverpool, asking similar favors, in reply to which the following let- 
ter was received, which was laid before the Board of Regents at their 
meeting on March 17, 1860 : 

New York, February 25, 1860. 
Pro£ Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Dear Sir : I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 
16th instant, and, in reply, I beg to inform you that I shaU have much 
pleasure in conveying in our steamers from New York to Liverpool, 
every fortnight, one or more cases from the Smithsonian Institution to 
the extent of half a ton or 20 cubic feet measurement. The cases to be 
addressed to your agent in Liverpool, or to his care. The arrangement 
of free cases is intended only to apply to those shipped by you from 
this side of the water. 

Your obedient servant, 
E. Cunard. 

At a meeting of the Regents, held April 7, 1860, it was— 

Resolved, That, the thanks of the Board of Regents are hereby given 
to .the various companies and individuals who have generously aided in 
advancing the objects of the Smithsonian Institution and the promotion 
of science, by the facilities they have afforded in the transportation of 
books, specimens, &c., free of charge. 

In the next year, 1861, in response to an application by Professor 
Henry, another concession of free freight was granted by the Hamburg 
American Packet Company, in the following communication: 
S. Mis. 109 46 



722 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Hamburg American Packet Company, 

Kew York, October 21, 1861, 
Prof. J. Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution : 
Dear Sir : In reply to your favor of October 18, we beg to state that 
we shall be most happy to accommodate the Smithsonian Institution 
in furthering the wishes you exiiress, and take on freight, free of charge, 
any packages which you desire to ship, be they specimens of natural his- 
tory, books, or other articles desired to be forwarded to Germany or the 
continent of Europe, irrespective of bulk. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

KUNHARDT & Go. 

At a meeting of the Board of Eegents held May 1, 1862, it was — 

Eesolved, That the thanks of the Board of Eegents be presented to the 
Hamburg American Packet Company for their liberal co-operation in 
assisting to advance the objects of this institution. 

Without detailing the successive acquiescence of different companies 
it is sufficient to mention that the following great transportation lines 
now grant free freight to the Smithsonian packages : 

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bros., agents), l!^ew York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim,Forwood & Co., agents), l^ew York. 

Bland (Thomas), New York. 

Cameron (E. W. & Co.), N'ew York. 

Compagnie G^nerale Transatlantique (L. De B6bian, agent), New 
York. 

Cunard Eoyal Mail Steamship line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents). 
New York. 

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York. 

Denison (Thomas), New York. 

Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New 
York. 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company (H. Cazeaux, 
agent). New York. 

North German Lloyd Steamship Company (agents, Oelrichs & Co.," 
New York; Schumacher & Co., Baltimore). 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Eed Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents). New York. 

White Cross Line (Punch, Edye & Co., agents), New York. 

FOREIGN AGENCIES. 

In the special work of foreign distribution of memoirs and packages 
sent abroad, the establishment of various agencies in the principal capi- 
tals, of course, became necessary. The same agencies were also em- 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 723 

ployed as centers for the collection of publications designed to be sent 
to the Institution. In the Smithsonian report for 1878 it was announced 
that— 

"Of late years in certain countries these labors have been materially 
lightened by a iiortion of the exchange being undertaken by some learned 
society, or by the government. These, being constituted Smithsonian 
agents in their respective countries, receive whatever may be sent them 
for distribution, collect the returns and transmit them, thus giving to the 
Institution the benefit of an intelligent superintendence of the work. 
The first of these organizations was that established some years ago by 
the University of Christiania, Norway, and by Holland in the patronage 
of the Scientific Bureau at Harlem under the efficient supervision of ©r. 
E. H. Von Baumhauer. During the ijast year a similar organization 
has been eifected for Belgium, and it is hoped that their number wiU 
continue to increase. Even now, without any formal arrangement to 
that effect, the Academies of Science of Stockholm, of Copenhagen, of 
Madrid, and of Milan, discharge the services of agents of the Institution 
for their respective countries." 

Present List of Foreign Centers of Distribution. 

Argentine Republic. — Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres. 
Austria-Hungary. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 
Bavaria. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

Belgium. — Commission Beige des Echanges Int^rnationaux, Brussels. 
^ra»si7.— Commission of International Exchange, Eio Janeiro. 
British Guiana. — Observatory, Georgetown. 

Canada. — McGUl CoUege, Montreal ; Geological Survey of Canada, 
Ottawa. 

Cape Colonies. — WUliam Wesley, London, England. 

Chili. — IJniversidad, Santiago. 

China. — United States consul-general, Shanghai. 

Costa Bica. — Universidad, San Jos6. 

BenmarJc. — K. D, Vjdenskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Dutch Guiana. — Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Surinam. 

East Indies. — William Wesley, London, England. 

Ecuador. — Observatorio, Quito. 

Egypt. — Institut lEgyptien, Cairo. 

Finland. — F. A. Brockhaus, Leipsic, Germany. 

France. — Commission Franyaise des ^changes lutemationaux, Paris. 

Germany. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

Great Britain. — William Wesley, London. 

Greece. — Biblioth^que Rationale, Athens. 

Guatemala. — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala. 

Hayti. — Secretaire d'fitat des Eelations Ext<5rieures, Port-au-Prince. 

Iceland. — Islands Stiptisbokasafn, Reykjavik. 

Italy. — Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Eome. 



724 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Japan. — Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio. 

Liberia. — Liberia College, Monrovia. 

Mexico. — Museo Nacioual, Mexico. 

Netherlands. — Bureau Scientifique N^erlandais, Harlem. 

NetUerlandsch India. — Genootschap van Kunsten en Weitenschappen, 
Batavia, Java. 

New Caledonia. — Gordon and Gotch, London, England. 

New South Wales.— Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand. — Colonial Museum, Wellington. 

Norway. — K. N. Frederiks TJniversitet, Cliristiania. 

Fhilipinne Islands. — Eoyal Economical Society, Manila. 

Polynesia. — Eoyal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu. 

Portugal. — Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon. 

Prussia. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

Queensland. — Government Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane. 

Russia. — Commission Russe des Ecliauges Internationaux, St. Peters- 
burg. — (Imperial Public Library.) 

Saxony. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

St. Helena. — William Wesley, London, England. 

Soxith Australia. — Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 

Spain. — Real Academia de Ciencias, Madrid. 

Strait Settlements. — William Wesley, London, England. 

Sweden. — K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

Switzerland. — Eidgenossensche Bundes Canzley, Berne. 

Tasmania. — Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobarton. 

Trinidad. — Scientific Association, Port of Spain. 

TurFs Island. — Public Library, Grand Turk. 

United States of Colombia. — Central Office of Exchanges, Xatioual 
Library, Bogota. 

Venesuela. — University, Caracas. 

Victoria. — Public Library, Melbourne. 

Wilrtemberg. — Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic. 

AMOUNT AND COST OF EXCHANGES. 

The tabular statement subjoined of the yearly amount of matter sent 
abroad by the Institution from the commencement of its oi^eratious to 
.the end of the last year, 1881, v/Ul show the progress, extent, and con- 
dition of its foreign exchanges. It may be stated in brief that during 
the first ten years of the system (closing with 18G0) the total weight of 
matter sent abroad amounted to 145,979 pounds, the cost of the same 
to the Institution being $23,989.29 ; the weight sent during the second 
decade (closing with 1870) was 221,713 pounds, at a cost of $32,398.84; 
and that the weight sent during the third decade (closing with 1880) was 
570,571 pounds, at a cost of $78,453.01. 

Notwithstanding the remarkable liberality with which the exertions 
of the Institution have been aided by the great transportation compa- 



HISTORY OF THE SSHTHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



725 



Dies at home and abroad, the co-operation of learned societies, and the 
remission of duties and custom-house expenses by all nations, the act- 
ual cost of these international exchanges to the Smithsonian fund has 
reached for the last five or six years to fully one-fourth of its entire in- 
come. 

Cost of exchanges to the Institution. 



184t,V1850. 

1851 

1852 

1853 , 

1854 

1855 

1856- 

1857 

1858 

1859 

1860 

1861 

1862'. 

1863 

1864 

1865 

1866 



$1, 603 00 
2,010 49 
2, 178 33 
2,807 38 
2,738 65 
1, 930 78 
1,517 54 
2,500 24 
1, 326 90 
2,027 94 
2, 348 04 
1,499 47 
2,724 88 
1, 735 31 
3,779 61 
2,807 76 
2,252 60 



1867. 
1868. 
1869. 
1870. 
1871. 
1872. 
1673. 
1874. 
1875. 



$3^701 93 

■ 4,870 72 

4,860 94 

4,165 62 

4,201 50 

5,870 32 

6,251 74 

5,589 89 

6,748 80 

1876 10,199 10 

1877 9,790 73 

1878 10,250 41 

1879 9,554 47 

1880 9,996 05 

1881 *7,467 84 



Total $141,308 98 



Shipments of foreign exchanges. — No. of boxes from 1850 to 1881. 





CO 


00 




CO 


1 




oo 


00 


1 


oo 


o 

00 


o 

00 


to 

OO 


'i 




r-4 


00 


Africa 






1 






























America: 

British America 


































Central America and 




































West Indies. 
Mexico 






1 
1 

1 






























South America 






2 


1 




















' 


"" 




Asia 






















■"T"" 


*" 




Australasia 




























1 

2 
■ 1 

10 
24 

9 


1 


Europe : 

Belgium 


1 
1 

6 
10 

12 


1 

1 

6 
11 

11 


1 
1 

5 
13 

11 


2 
1 

6 

12 

,11 


1 
1 

5 
11 

8 


"i' 

4 
12 

5 


2 

1 

8 

27 

9 


1 
1 

4 
11 

10 


1 

1 

6 
21 

17 


1 
1 

10 
17 

25 


1 
1 

10 
12 

22 


1 
1 

4 
18 

6 


2 
2 

13 
24 

16 


1 
1 

9 
17 

14 


1 
1 

8 
17 

13 


1 
1 

9 
20 

1- n 


Denmark (inclading 
Iceland). 


Germany (including 
Austria-Hungary) . 


Greece 


Italy 


3 
1 


3 

1 


3 
2 


3 
2 

1 
3 

"i" 

2 


2 
1 

1 
2 
1 
1 
1 


2 

1 
1 
1 

"i' 

1 


4 
3 

1 
5 

1 
1 
2 


2 

1 
1 
2 

"i' 
1 


4 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 


4 
3 
1 
5 
1 
1 
3 


3 

1 
1 
2 

"i' 

2 


2 
3 
1 
3 

1 
2 

1 


6 
5 
1 

6 

1 
2 
4 


3 

4 

1 
I 


3 
2 

1 
2 
1 
1 
3 


3 

4 

1 
4 

I 


4 
4 
1 
3 
2 
1 








1 

1 
1 
2 


1 
1 
1 

2 


Spain and Portugal ... 




3 


Turkey 


Polynesia .., 


































.... 




1 


2 


.... 


2 


2 


4 


6 


5 




10 


5 


30 


32 


4 


10 


12 


22 






40 


40 


46 


48 


38 


33 


70 


40 


56 


82 


63 


,3 


114 


61 


63 


77 


83 



*TLe apparent redaction of expense for the last year (1881) is due to an appropria- 
tion of $3,000 allowed by Congress in aid of the government exchanges. It thus ap- 
pears that the average expense of the international exchanges for the last six years 
has exceeded |10,000 per annum. 



726 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Shipments of foreign excJinnges — Xo. of hoxes from 1850 to 1881 — Contiuued. 





1-1 


00 


o 


oo 


1 


r-( 


?2 

00 


00 



00 


00 




00 





00 


00 
00 


Total. 














3 


2 


2 

9 
2 






2 

5 
9 

5 

25 
11 
33 

6 

5 

32 
95 

71 
7 
20 
13 
9 
16 
24 
9 
6 
2 
1 






1 

1 
4 

6 

13 
4 
26 

9 

8 

26 
54 

52 
1 

5 
11 

4 

12 

10 

10 

7 

1 

3 


10 
6 

9 

28 

9 

23 

8 
• 6 

36 

80 

54 

2 

46 

14 

9 

37 

10 

10 

8 

2 


11 


America : 












3 

1 

7 

21 

1 

10 
3 

24 
39 

43 
1 
8 
4 
2 
9 
10 
10 
6 
6 


2 
8 

3 

20 

3 

49 

7 
5 

23 
62 

64 

1 

11 

7 

8 

13 

10 

13 

13 

1 


4 
2 

4 
16 
4 

20 

8 
6 

42 
77 

58 
2 

10 
8 
6 
9 

10 
8 

14 
1 


2 

14 

5 

20 

3 

14 

6 
14 

40 

77 

52 
3 

13 
8 
4 

10 
8 
8 
8 


36 
















2 


48 


"West Indies. 














40 






:::::: 








8 

7 
4 

18 
59 

36 

2 

10 

10 

8 

10 

10 

4 

6 


5 

5 

11 

5 

4 

11 
36 

30 
1 

5 
3 

7 

"5' 

5 


ICO 














43 
2 

4 
3 

8 
40 

27 
1 
5 
4 
3 
6 
2 
4 
4 


84 








4 

2 
3 

7 
35 

16 


2 
3 

11 
37 

20 
1 
8 
4 
2 
8 
2 
3 
5 


2 

2 
2 

6 

28 

23 

"s 

1 
2 
4 
2 
3 
2 


186 


Europe : 


2 

2 

7 
38 

24 


2 
2 

14 
26 

22 


100 


Denmark (inclading Ice- 
land). 


88 
4''8 


Germany (inclading Aus- 


1,000 

802 




22 


Italy 


5 

8 
1 
6 
1 
2 
2 


5 

4 
2 
6 
1 
2 

4 


3 

4 
1 
4 
2 
2 
3 


214 




144 




78 




203 


Spain and Portugal 


117 
112 




127 


Turkey 


15 


Pol3Tie8ia , 


















4 


Kest of the world 


15 


14 


26 


15 


23 


20 














269 


























113 


104 


112 121 


108 


179 


196 


149 


208 


323 


406 


309 311 


268 


407 


4,339 



Shipments of foreign exchanges — whole quantity from 1850 to 1881. 



I 



Tear. 



1850 
1851 
1852 
1853 
1854 
1^55 
1856, 
1857, 
1858 
1859, 
1860 
1861 
1862 
1863 
1864 
1865 
1866 



Nnmber 
of boxes. 



Bulk in Weight in 
cubic feet, pounds 



33 
70 
40 
56 
82 
61 
73 
114 
61 
63 
77 
83 



200 
240 
263 
392 
365 
358 
586 
384 
672 

1.054 
767 
625 

1,006 
447 
546 
557 
571 



6,900 
7, 92U 
9,885 
12, 200 
9,791 
10, 481 
18, 271 
14, 248 
22, 674 
29, 480 
20, 029 
16, 958 
28, 836 
10, 286 
20, 500 
18, 630 
18, 050 



Tear. 



1867.. 
1868. . 
I860.. 
1870.. 
1871.. 
1872.. 
1873.. 
1874.. 
1875.. 
1876.. 
1877.. 
1878.. 
1879.. 
1880.. 
1881.. 

Total 



Number 
of boxes. 



113 
104 
112 
121 
108 
179 
196 
149 
208 
323 
406 
309 
311 
268 
407 



4.339 



Bulk in 
cubicfeet. 



975 

1,057 

1, 033 

1,189 

772 

954 

1,470 

933 

1,503 

2,201 

3, 276 

2,100 

2, 177 

1,976 

2,800 



33, 575 



"Weight in 
pounds. 



22,523 
31, 171 
23, 370 
31, 383 
28, 950 
26,850 

44, 236 
27, 990 

45, 300 
80,750 

117, 000 
69, 220 
69, 975 
60, 300 

lUO, 750 



1, 054, 913 



II. — Domestic Exchanges. 



The system of domestic exchanges embraces not only tlie distribution 
of Smithsonian and other American contributions to knowledge through- 
out our country, but that of the publications received from foreign 
countries as well, intended for societies and individuals here. By the 
liberal courtesy of many well-established houses in the book business 
in different iiarts of the country, these domestic transmissions were ef- 
fected with a very satisfactory dispatch and fidelity. The gentlemen to 
whem the Institution was mainly indebted in 1851 and the immediately 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 727 

following years for this valuable service were Messrs. J. P. Jewett & 
Co., of Boston ; George P. Putnam, of New York ; Lippincott, Granibo 
& Co., of Philadelphia; John Pussell, of Charleston; and H. W. 
Derby, of Cincinnati. To these names should be added in 1852 and 
following- years those of Messrs. Jewett, Proctor, and Worthingtou, of 
Cleveland ; Dr. George Engelmann, and John Halsall, of Saint Louis ; 
and B. M. ISTorman, of New Orleans. 

As an incidental but striking illustration of the interest awakened 
in the international exchange at that early day may be mentioned, 
among the numerous literary gifts to the Institution, a rare and curious 
collection of manuscripts of very varied character, sufficiently described 
in the following letter of presentation : 

"Avenue Lodge, Brixton Hills, near London, 

"October 28, 1852. 
" Prof. Joseph Henry : 

"Sir : I have the pleasure of offering for your acceptance for the use 
of the Smithsonian Institution a collection of documents formed for 
the purpose of illustrating the history of prices between the years 1050 
and 1750. The collection, regarded as a collection, is, I believe, unique 
in its kind, although many manuscripts of the same description are to 
be found dispersed amongst the vast stores of the British Museum and 
other libraries in this country. It consists of about seven thousand 
original papers bound in fifty-four volumes, including bills, accounts, 
and inventories respecting commercial and domestic articles of nearly 
every description. 

"It will afford me great pleasure if the allocation of these papers at 
Washington prove of use at any time to the literary inquiries of your 
great nation. Without incurring the imputation of falling into the ordi- 
nary error made by collectors in attaching a fictitious value to relics 
which have necessarily required the expenditure of considerable time 
and exertion to bring together, it may, perhaps, be allowed me to 
entertain a hope that these fragments of an earlier age, now con- 
fided to your care, may be hereafter regarded of importance in the 
list of materials which will some day assist in producing a history 
of social progress. 

" Mr. Henry Stevens, F. S. A., the agent to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in England, has kindly undertaken to forward the collection to 
you on an early opportunity. 

" I feel sure you will excuse the liberty I am taking in addressing you 
on this subject; and I have the honor to be, sir, 

"Your obedient, faithful servant, 
"J. O. Halliwell." 



728 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSOMAN' EXCHANGES. 



The history and condition of domestic exclianges, from their com- 
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following tables : 





Keceived for the Smithsonian library. 


Tor other institutions 
in the United States. 




"Volumes. 


Parts and 
pamphlets. 


Maps and 
engravings. 


Total. 


Addresses. 


Packages. 


1846 to 1850 


470 

549 

1,481 

1,440 

926 

1,037 

1,356 

555 

733 

1,022 

1,271 

821 

1,611 

910 

823 

767 

1,243 

1,557 

1,770 

1,234 

1,113 

936 

1,262 

689 

863 

1,120 

1,017 

1,889 

1,263 

1,949 

1,143 

1,867 


624 

618 
2,106 

991 
1,468 
1, 707 
1,834 
1,067 
1,695 
2,540 
4,180 
1,945 
3,309 
3,479 
2,754 
3, 256 
4,509 
3,946 
3.005 
4,089 
3,890 
3,579 
4,502 
4,354 
4,5:il 
5,813 
6,193 
6,511 
7, 392 
8,071 
7,275 
9,904 


4 


1,098 
1,167 
5,336 
2,556 
2,828 
2,770 
3,330 
1,760 
2,540 
3,002 
5,671 
2, t8G 
5,035 
4,589 
3,686 

4, 206 
5,873 
5,831 

5, .509 
5,555 
5,182 

4, 597 
5,962 

5, 697 
5,546 
7,047 
7,585 
8.726 
8,729 

10, 203 
8,570 

11, 959 






1851 






1852 


1,749 
125 
434 

26 
140 
138 
122 

40 
220 
120 

55 
200 
109 
183 
121 
328 
134 
232 
179 

82 
198 
454 
162 
114 
375 
820 

74 
183 
152 
188 


96 
160 
149 
219 
189 
193 
243 
293 
835 
274 
273 
273 
299 
345 
329 
347 
436 
501 
567 
573 
587 
689 
750 
610 
644 
766 
062 
785 
945 
1,054 


637 


1853 


1,05C 


1854 


987 


1855 


1,445 


1856 


1, 245 


1857 


1,273 


1858 

1859 


1, 5S9 
1, 9.i3 


1860 


1,903 


1801 


1,406 


1802 


2,111 


1863 


1, 522 


1864 


2,482 


1865 


2,308 


1860 


2,703 


18G7 „ 

1868 


971 
2,394 


1869 


4,130 


1870 


3,705 


1871 


3,952 


1872 


4,635 


1873 


4,782 


1874 


4,326 


1875 


4,661 


1876 


4,853 


1877 


4,962 


1878 


5,292 


1879. 


6,971 


1880 


5,567 


1881 


8,433 






Total 


33, 877 


99, 787 


6,966 


165, 631 


13, 286 


94,765 







Distribution of domestic exchanges, shoiving numier of packages received for societies, ^c, 'in 
the United States and British America from 1852-1861. 



ALABAMA. 

Mobile: 

Barten Academy 1 

Uui versity of Mobile 1 

Montgomerg : 

State Library 22 

Talladega : 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb. 2 

Tuscaloosa : 

Alabama University 11 

Geological Survey 5 

Hospital fo.r the Insane 2 

ARIZOXA. 

Prescott : 

TeiTitorial Library 6 

ARKANSAS. 
FayeUeville : 

Industrial University 1 

Holly Grove : 

Literary Institute 6 

Judsonia : 

Judson University 1 



Little Bock : 

Governor of the State 39 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb. 2 
Educating the 

Blind 1 

Literary Institution 2 

State Geologist 1 

Institute 1 

Library 340 

University 22 

CALIFORNIA. 

Berkeley : 

University of California 5 

Marysville : 

Marysville Library 1 

Oakland : 

Health Office 2 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 1 

University of California 27 

Sacramen to : 

Agricultuial and Horticultural 

Society 7 



HISTORY OF -THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



729 



Distfibution of doinestio exchanges, 4'C. — Continued. 



Saoramento — Continued. 

California Institution 2 

Free Library 1 

GeologicalSurveyofCalifornia. 3 
Institution for the Deaf, Dumb, 

and Blind 1 

Medical Society of California.. 1 

State Agricultural Society 16 

Library 17 

San Francisco : 

4cademy of Sciences 1, 295 

Agricultural Society 1 

and Horticultural 

Society 2 

Biblioth^que de la Ligne 1 

Board of Health 2 

California Historical Society. .. 4 

Corporation of the city . . 1 1 

Geological Society 3 

• Survey 28 

Governor of State 3 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 4 

Library of San Francisco 1 

Lick Observatory 7 

Mayor of the city 7 

Mechanics' Institute 2 

Mercantile Library Association. 13 

Microscopical Society 1 

Municipality 1 

Observatory 1 

Odd Fellows' Library 1 

Office of James Lick Institute. 1 
Pharmaceutical Association... 1 
Society for Protection of Ani- 
mals 1 

St. Ignatius College 1 

State Horticultural Society 1 

Santa Clara : 

Santa Clara College 1 

University of the Pacific 1 

Stoclcton : 

Society of Natural History 6 

State Lunatic Hospital 12 

COLORADO. 

Central Vity : 

Miners and Mechanics' Institute 3 

Colorado Springs : 

El Paso County Library Asso- 
ciation 1 

Denver: 

Agricultural Society 1 

Governor of Colorado 4 

State Library 2 

Territorial Library 4 

CONNECTICUT. 
Bridgeport : 

Bridgeport Library and Reading 

Room 1 

Hartford : 

American Philological Associa- 
tion 2 

Philosophical Society 1 

Board of Agriculture 12 

Hartford Society of Science 4 

Historical Society of Connecti- 
cut 20 



Hartford — Continued. 

Hospital for the Insane 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

Murphy Philosophical Associa- 
tion 

Physical Society 

Retreat for the Insane 

Society of Natural History 

Science 

Physical Science... 

State Agricultural Society 

Library 

Theological Institute 

Trinity College 

Watkinson and Connecticut 

Historical Society 

Watkinson Library of Refer- 
ence 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 

Institute 

Litchfield : 

Retreat for the Insane 

Springfield Institute 

Middletown : 

Connecticut State Hospital for 

the Insane 

Wesleyan University 

New Britain: 

State Normal School 

New Haven: 

American Journal of Arts and 

Sciences 

Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Sci- 
ences 

Mercantile Library 

New Haven Museum 

Peabody Museum 

Sheffield Scientific School 

State Board of Agriculture 

Yale College 

Musoiim 

Observatory 

Young Men's Institute 

New London : 

Young Men's Christian Associiir- 

tion 

Norwich : 

Otis Library 

Waterbury : 

Bronson Library 



DELAWARE. 
Dover : 

State Library 

Newark : 

Delaware College 

Wilmington : 

Agricultural Society.. 
WUmington Institute. 



1 
1 
7 
2 
1 
1 
9 
4 
1 
16 

1 

2 

S 
29 

1 

1 



3 
13 



1, 158 
511 

1,197 
1 
1 
1 
18 
2 
415 
1 
3 
2 



DISTIUCT OF COLUMBLA. 

Georgetoxcn : 

Georgetown College 234 

Observatory of Georgetown Col- 
lege 8 



730 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, #c.— Continued. 



Hillsdale : 

Pioneer Sunday School 1 

Washington : 

Agricultural Department 1, 695 

American Annals of the Deaf 

and Dumb 2 

Medical Association. 195 

Museum ... 23 

Anthropological Society 5 

Belgian Legation 5 

Board of Health 8 

Botanic Garden 2 

Bureau of Ethnology 3 

Census Bureau 100 

Chinese Legation 15 

Coast Survey 1,585 

Columbia Hospital for Women . 1 

Uuivers.ty 22 

Commissioners of the District. 1 
Construction and Repair Bu- 
reau, United States Navy ... 2 
Clinico Pathological Society... 1 

Corcoran Art Gallery 1 

Corporation of the city 1 

Corps of Topographical Engi- 
neers 1 

Cosmos Club 1 

Education, Bureau of 102 

Engineer Bureau, United States 

Army 106 

Entomological Commission 6 

Geographical Surveys 14 

Geological Surveys of the Ter- 
ritories 600 

German Reading and Chess 

Club 1 

Relief Association ... 28 

Governor of the District 2 

Government Hospital for the 

Insane 7 

Howard University 4 

Hydrographic Office 12G 

Index Medicus 3 

Indian Bureau 24 

Commissioners 14 

Interior Department 90 

LandOffice 83 

Library of Congress 619 

Light-House Board 8 

Marine Hospital 4 

Medical Society of the District 

of Columbia 10 

Medicine and Surgery, Bureau 

of 3 

Mint, Bureau of 16 

National Academy of Sciences. 942 

Deaf-Mute College... 20 

Institute 39 

Museum 36 

Nautical Almanac 119 

Naval Observatory 1, 898 

Navigation, Bureau of 

Navy Department 

Ordnance Bureau,Uuited States 

Army 

Odd Fellows' Library 



68 
no 



122 
1 



Patent Office 3,391 



Washington — Continued. 

Paymaster Department, United 

States Navy 1 

Pharmaceutical Association... 4 

Philosophical Society 33 

President of tbe United States. 15 

Provost-Marshal General 4 

Public Schools 26 

Quartermaster-General'sOffice. 2 

Revenue Department 2 

Signal Office, United States 

Army 286 

Spencerian Business College .. 1 

State Department 82 

Statistics, Bureau of 186 

Surgeon-General's Office.U.S. A. 2, 072 

Hospital 10 

Swedish and Norwegian Lega- 
tion ^ 5 

Survey of North - American 

Lakes 3 

Territorial Legation 1 

Topographical Bureau 3 

Treasury Department 54 

Trigonometrical Survey 2 

U. S. Agricultural Society 1 

and Mexican Boundary 

Survey 3 

Fish Commission 14 

Naval Expedition to i 

ChiU 34 

War Department 103 

Washington Sentinel 1 

FLORIDA. 
Jacksonville : 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 3 

Saint Augustine: 

Historical Society of Florida .. 4 

Tallahassee : 

Academy of Tallahassee 2 

Public Library 1 

GEORGIA. 

Athens : 

Hospital for the Insane 1 

State Agricultural College 1 

University of Athens 4 

A tlanta : 

Agricultural Department and 
State Agricultural Society . . 1 

City Library 3 

Medical College 1 

and SurgicalJournal- 2 

University 2 

Augusta : 

Horticultural Society 1 

Medical College 1 

Cave Sjn'ing : 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 

Macon: 

Public Library and Historical 
Society 

Milledgeville : 

Hospital for the Insane 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



731 



Distribution of doniestic exchanges, <f-c. — Continued. 



Milledgeville — Continued. 

Oglotliorpe University. 

State Library 

University 

Oxford : 

Emory College 

Penj}field : 

Alercer University 

Savannah : 

Chatham Academy 

Historical Society 



29 

19 

4 



1 

3G 



IDAHO. 
Boise City : 

Territorial Agricultural Society 

ILLINOIS. 
AMnfjdon : 

Abingdon College 

Aurora : 

Literary and Historical Society 
Bloomington : 

Illinois Museum of Natural His- 
tory 

Natural History Society 

Library 

Wesleyan University 

Carhondale : 

Southern Illinois Normal Uni- 
versity 

Champaign : 

Industrial University 

Chicago: 

Academy of Sciences 

American Electrical Society... 

Astronomical Observatoiy 

Society 

Board of Trade 

Botanic Garden 

Chicago Historical Society 

Medical Journal 

Times 

Free Library 

Historical Association 

Illinois Staats Zeitung 

Insane Asylum 

Mayor of the city 

Mechanics' Institute 

Museum of Natural History 

National Live Stock Journal.. 

Observatory 

Public Library 

School Library 

Kush Medical College 

Society of Natural History 

State Microscopical Society .. . 

Theological Seminary . .- 

University 

Young Men's Association Li- 
brary 

Elgin : 

Hospital for the Insane 

North Illinois Hospital 

Evanston : 

Northwestern University 

Galcshurg : 

Academy of Music 

Knox College 

Lombard University 



15 



1,191 
1 
3 
9 
13 
1 
6 
2 

11 
5 
4 
1 
1 
6 

27 
4 
1 
7 

63 

30 
1 
2 
3 
1 
b 



3 
1 

10 

1 

1 

13 



JachsonviUe : 

Illinois College 2 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 4 

State Hospital for the Insane.. 11 
Institution for the Blind. • 9 
Lebanon : 

McKendrick College 1 

Monmouth : 

Monmouth College 1 

AVarren County Library 1 

Moro : 

American Pomological Society. 8 

Mercantile Library Association 8 

Nor7nal: 

Illinois Museum of Natural His- 
tory K) 

State Laboratory of Natural 

History 1 

Natural History Society 19 

"The Schoolmaster" 2 

Ottawa : 

Ottawa Academy of Natural 

Sciences 6 

Peoria : 

Mercantile Library Association 8 
Ba7itone: 

Literary Society 5 

Bock Island : 

Augustana College 2 

Public Library 1 

Springfield : 

Academy of Music 2 

Geological Survey 8 

Library Association 1 

St. Joseph's Collen;e 1 

State Agricultural College 14 

Board of Agriculture 4 

Library 23 

University 1 

Vandalia : 

Historical and Archseological 

Society 4 

Westfield: 

Westfield College 1 

WheatOH : 

Whoaton College 1 

INDIANA. 

Bloomington : 

Indiana University 8 

Craiifordsville : 

Wabash College 1 

Fort Wayne: 

Concordia College 2 

Greencastle : 

Asbury University 9 

Hanover : 

Hanover College 1 

Indianapolis : 

Academy of Sciences 10 

Bureau of Statistics and Geol- 
ogy 2 

Geological Society 1 

Survey of Indiana.. 74 

Horticultural Society 3 

Hospital for the lusane 3 

Indiana Historical Society 23 



732 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAIJ EXCHANGES. 



Disfrihution of doniesiic exchanges, ^o. — Continued. 



Indianapolis — Continued. 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb- 
Educating tlie 
Blind .' 

Mclntire Institution for Deaf 
Mutes 

Owen Cabinet 

Public Library 

Lafayette : 

Pardee University 

Meran : 

Union Christian College 

New Albany : 

Society of Natural History 

Theological Seminary 

Notre Dame : 

University of Notre Dame. 

Richmond : 

Richmond Scientific Association 
Saint Mainard: 

St. Mainard College 

Terre Haute: 

State Normal School 

IKDIAN TEKEITOKY. 

Armstrong : 

Armstrong Academy 



Ames : 

Iowa Agricultural College 

Burlington : 

Burlington University 

Iowa Historical and Genealogi.- 

cal Institute 

Council Bluffs : 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

Davenport : 

Academy of Natural Sciences. . 

Griswold College 

Decerah : 

Norwegian Lutheran College.. 
Des Moines: 

Analyst 

Department of Public lustriic- 
tion 

Geological Survey 

Governor of Iowa 

Iowa School Journal 

State Horticultural Society . . . 

Library 

of Iowa 

Dtiiuqne: 

Iowa Institute of Science and 

Art 

Fairfield : 

Jefferson College Library Asso- 
ciation 

Grinnell : 

Grinnell University 

Iowa College ..<. 

Independence : 

Hospital for the Insane 

Indianola: 

Simpson Centennial College — 



242 
2 



16 



3 

6 

20 

1 

2 

197 

16 



Iowa City : 

Geological Survey 9 

Grand Lodge of Iowa 2 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 1 

Iowa Weather Service 17 

Laboratory of Physical Sciences 2 

State Historical Society 2 

of Iowa (see also Des 

Moines) 9 

University, 519 

Keohuk : 

Library Association 1 

Mount Pleasant: 

Hospital for the Insane 2 

Wesleyan University 2 

Mount Vernon: 

Cornell College 1 

Oscaloosa : 

Oscaloosa College 1 



Baldxmn City: 

Baker University 4 

Lawrence : 

Academy of Sciences 1 

Kansas Historical Society 3 

University of Kansas 5 

Leavenworth : 

College of Pharmacy 1 

Kansas Academy of Music 1 

Mercafttile Library Association. 3 

State Academy of Sciences 5 

Yoimg Men's Christian Associar- 

tion 1 

Lecompton : 

State Library .-t - 5 

OlatJie : 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 2 

Ossawatomie : 

Hospital for the Insane . _ 2 

Topeka : 

Academy of Sciences 19 

Kansas Historical Society 28 

Natural History Society 4 

State Library 13 

Washburn College 1 

Wyandott : 

Library Association 3 

KENTIXJKY. 

AsMaifd : 

Agricultural and Mechanical 

College,- 

Cambridge : 

College 

Columbia : 

Christian College 

Danville : 

Center College 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb -- 

Theological Seminary 

Famdale: 

Kentucky Military Institute.. - 
FranJcfort: 

Geological Survey of Kentucky. 126 

Public Library 

State Eibrary 1- 



HISTOEY OF '^HE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



733 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, ^-c. — Continued. 



Frankfort — Continuccl. 

Third Kentucky Hospital for the 

Insane 1 

Sohis : 

State Hospital for the Insane.. 1 
HopkinsviUe : 

Second Kentucky Hospital for 

the Insane 1 

Western Lunatic Asyl^im.. 4 

Lebanon: 

St. Mary's College 1 

Lexington : 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 7 

Fii'st Kentucky Hospital for the 

Insane 3 

Kentucky University 5 

State Agricultural Society 1 

Transylvania Medical College . . 1 

University 3 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

Lotiisville : 

College of Pharmacy 1 

Corporation of the city 1 

Grand Lodge of Kentucky 1 

Historical Society of Kentucky . 8 
Louisville and Richmond Med- 
ical Journal 6 

Mayor of the city 5 

Medical Department, University 

o .' Louisville 1 

Public Library 11 

University of Louisville 15 

EiissellviUe : 

Bethel College-. 1 

Logan Female CoUege 2 

Shelby ville : 

01)servatory of Shelby College . 1 

Shelby College 1 

LOUISIANA. 

Batvn Rouge: 

Academy 1 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 2 

State Library 21 

University 9 

Clinton : 

Louisiana Insane Asylum 2 

Grand Cofcau: 

St. Charles College 1 

Jackson : 

Insane Asylum 3 

New Orleans: 

Athondo Louisiannaise 4 

City Library 1 

Corporation 1 

Insane Asylum 1 

'Lyceum of Natural History ... 2 

Mayor of the city 7 

Mechanics' Society Library 1 

Medical Department, Univer- 
sity of Louisiana 1 

Jlunicipality 1 

New Orleans Academy of Sci- 
ences 778 

New Orleans Deutsche Zeitung. 1 

State Library 49 

University of Louisiana 10 



Augusta : 

Board of Agriculture 1 

Commissioner of Fisheries 6 

Historical Society of Maine 2 

Hospital for the Insane 4 

State Library 15 

Natural History and Geological 

Society 2 

State Lunatic Hospital 3 

Calais: 

High School and Academy 2 

Bangor : 

Commissioner of Fisheriaa 2 

Mechanics' Association 1 

Brunswick : 

Bo wdoin College 78 

Historical Society i. 22 

Colby: 

Colby University 9 

College 2 

Dartmouth : 

Dartmouth College 26 

Hebron : 

Hebron Academy 1 

Houlton : 

Forest Club 3 

Lewiston : 

Androscoggin and Natural His- 
tory Society 1 

Manufacturers and Mechanics' 
Association 1 

Norway : 

High School and Academy 2 

Orono : 

Maine State College of Agricul- 
ture 1 

Portland: 

Atheneum and Public Library. 1 

City Registrar 1 

Commissioner of Fisheries 3 

Legislature of Maine 1 

Maine Agricultural Society 1 

Historical Society 2 

Journal of Education... 1 

Mayor of the city 3 

Portland Society'of Natural His- 
tory 248 

Saco: 

York Institute 2 

Wata-ville: 

Colby University 10 

Waterville College 15 

MARYI..V^-D. 

Annapolis : 

St. John's College 3 

State Library 20 

United States Naval Academy. 23 
United States Naval Observa- 
tory 7 

Baltimore: 

Academy of Sciences 13 

American Journal of Chemis- 
try 1 

American Journal of Dental 

Science 3 



734 



HISTORY OF- THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Distrihuiion of cbrMStic exchanges, .^'C. — Continued. 



Baltimore — Continued. 

American Journal of Mathe- 



matics 


11 


Baltimore City College 




Deutsche Zeitung.. . 




College of Pharmacy 




Corporation of the city 




Historical Society of Maryland . 


74 


Johns Hopkins Uniyersity 


03 


Maryland Asylum for the In- 




sane 


4 


Institute 


4 




6 


Mercantile Library 


3 


Loyola College 


1 


Mount Hope Institution 


'2 


Municipality .. ... . 


2 


Newton University 




Odd Follows' Library 




Paul's Lyceum and Library As- 




sociation . ... 




Peabody Institute 


83 


St. Mary's College ■.. 




State Agricultural Society 




Library 


ly 


Normal School 




Superintendent Publiclnstruc- 




tion 




University of Maryland 




Young Men's Christian Associ- 




ation -. .. .. . 




Frederick City: 




Institution for the Deaf and 




Dumb -- 




Hyattsville : 




State Agricultural College 




EoclcviUe: 




Rockville Academy 




Saint James : 




College of Saint James 




IVoodstock : 




"Woodstock College 




MASSACHUSETTS. 




Amherst : 




Astronomical Observatory 




Geological Survey of Massa- 




chusetts 




Massachusetts AgriculturalCol- 




lege 


17 


Andover : 




Theological Seminary 




Boston : 




Agricultural Society ' 




American Academy of Arts and 




Sciences 


3,180 


Board for Foreign 




Missions 


2 


Christian Examiner. 


21 


Gynecological Soci- 




ety 


20 


Naturalist 


5 


Social Science Asso- 




ciation 


28 


Statistical ''Associa- 




tion 


189 


Unitarian Associa- 




tion 


29 



Boston — Continued. 

Appalachian Mountain Club . . 1 

Art Museum 1 

Association for Improving the 

Condition of the Poor 1 

Atlantic Monthly 1 

Board of Education 7 

Boston Art Club 5 

Atheneum *. 29 

Journal of Medicine ... 1 
Journal of Natural His- 
tory 1 

College 1 

Medical and Surgical As- 
sociation 1 

Medical and Surgical 

Journal 70 

Observatory 1 

Scientific Society 1 

Society of Natural Hig»- 

tory 4,212 

University 1 

Bowditch Library 80 

Bureau of Statistics and Labor. 2 

City Library 3 

Commissioners of Insurance 1 

CommonvFealth of Massachu- 
setts 6 

Corporation of the city 1 

Christian Register Association. 23 
Day School for Deaf and Dumb. 1 
Department of Public Instruc- 
tion 1 

Directors of public institutions. 1 

Geological Sui-vey 12 

Good Health Journal 7 

Hosi)ital for the Insane 5 

House of Correction 1 

Inspectors of State prisons 1 

Library of Boston Hospital ... 12 

Lyceum of Natural History ... 2 
Massachusetts Asylum for the 

Blind 2 

Massachusetts College of Phar- 
macy 1 

Massachusetts Historical Soci- 
ety •. ,. 109 

Massachusetts Horti cu 1 tu ral So- 
ciety 1 

Massachusetts Institute of 

Technology 17 

Massachusetts Society for Pre- 
rention of Cruelty to Ani- 
mals 2 

Massachusetts State Board of 

Agriculture 47 

Massachusetts State Board of 

Charities... 28 

Massachusetts State Board of 

Health 41 

Massachusetts State Library . . 197 

Massachusetts Teacher 'l 

Mayor of the city 8 

McLean Hospital for the In- 
sane 1 

Medical Gazette 3 

Society ^. 1 

Mercantile Library 5 



HISTORY - OF THE • S>nTHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



735 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, <^-c. — Continued. 



Boston — Continued. 

Microscopical Society 1 

Municipality 1 

New England Historical and 

Genealogical Society 58 

North American Review 39 

^Ornithological Club 1 

'Perkins' Institute for the Blind. 18 

Philosophical Society 1 

Prison Discipline Association.. 19 

Public Library 433 

Sanitary Commission 2 

Institute 1 

Science Observer 1 

Society for the Development of 

Mineral Resources 1 

Worcester County Horticultu- 
ral Society 1 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

Brookline : 

Public Library 1 

Cambridge : 

American Association for the 

Advancement of Science 391 

Astronomical Journal 143 

Athenenm 1 

Botanical Garden 8 

Museum 1 

Cloverdon Observatory 1 

Dane Library 3 

Entomological Club "Psvche". 24 

Harvard College T 889 

Observatory . . 736 
Natural History So- 
ciety 1 

Herbarium of Harvard College. 12 

Institution for the Blind 2 

Law School Library 1 

Lawrence Scientific School 2 

Museum of Comparative Zo- 
ology 1,024 

National Academy of Sciences.. 32 

Nautical Almanac 3 

Nuttall Ornithological Club ... 2 

Peabody Museum 42 

Philosophical Society 2 

Theological School Library 1 

College Bill: 

tuft's College 1 

Concord : 

Public Library 1 

Dorchester: 

State Board of Health 4' 

Haverhill : 

Public Library 1 

Gloucester : 

Sawyer Free Library 2 

Hingham : 

Public Library 1 

Jamaica Plain : 

Bussey Institution 117 

Lancaster : 

Town Library 1 

Zatcrence: 

PublicLibrary 1 

Leicester: 

Public Free Library 4 



Lowell : 

Mechanics' Assaciation 1 

Lynn: 

PublicLibrary 1 

Society of Natural History 2 

Manchester : 

Literary and Philosophical So- 
ciety 1 

Nantucket : 

Atheneum 1 

Netvburyport : 

PublicLibrary 1 

Nexvton Center: 

Theological Institution 7 

Northampton : 

Clarke Institution for Peaf 

Mutes 7 

PublicLibrary 1 

State Lunatic A svlum 7 

Pittsfield: 

Library Association 1 

Quincy : 

Public Library 1 

Salem : 

American Association for the 
Advancement of 

Science 459 

Naturalist 6.1 

Oriental Society 7 

Atheneum 1 

Essex Institute 1,135 

North Chiirch and Society 2 

Peabody Academy 942 

Penekcse Island : 

Anderson School 7 

Somerville: 

McLean Asylum for the Insane . 3 

South Hadley : 

Mount Holyoke Female Semi- 
nary 1 

Springfield : 

City Library Association 1 

Taunton: 

Public Library 1 

State Lunatic Hospital 8 

TVatertown : 

Free Public Library 1 

Wellesley: 

Wellesley College 9 

WUliamstotcn : 

Astronomical Observatory 1 

Williams College 1 

Woburn : 

Public Library 1 

Worcester: 

American Antiquarian Society. 258 

Catholic College 1 

Free Institute of Industry 1 

Public Library 4 

Society of Natural History 1 

State Hospital for the Insane.. 7 

Technological Institution 6 

Worcester Academy 1 

>nCHIGAN. 

Adrian : 

Ailrian College 1 



736 



HISTORY ■ OF^HB- SMITHSONIAN' EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domestvo exchanges, ^-ci — Continued. 



Ann Arior: 

Detroit Observatory 

Geological Survey of Michigan. 

Herbarium of the Umversity.. 

Observatory 

Society of Agriculture 

University of Michigan 

Coldwater: 

Michigan Library Association . 
Detroit: 

Geological Survey of Michigan. 

Historical Society of Michigan. 

House of Correction 

Museum 

Peuinsula and Independent 
Medical Journal 

Public Library 

St. Philipp's College 

State Agricultural Society 

Survey of the North American 

Lakes 

Flint: 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

Hillsdale : 

Hillsdale College 

Kalamazoo : 

Asylum for the Insane 

College 

Geological Survey 

Lansing : 

Agricultural College 

Geological Survey 

State Agricultural Society 

Board of Health 

Library 

Marquette : 

Geological Survey 

Olivet: 

Olivet College 

Fort Huron : 

Ladies' Library Association . . . 

MINNESOTA. 
Duluth: 

Free Public Library 

Scandinavian Librarj^ 

Faribault: 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb , 

Minneapolis : 

Geological Survey 

Minnesota Academy of Sciences 

University of Minnesota 

Eed Wing : 

, Hamlin University 

San Anthony : 

University of Minnesota 

Saint Paul: 

Academy of Natural Sciences. . 

Chamber of Commerce 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 

Minnesota Historical Society. . 

Library Association .^. 

Northwestern Medical and Snr- 
gical Journal 

State Library 



4 

13 

1 

192 

1 

45 

26 

2 
4 
1 
1 

4 

4 
1 

250 



3 

3 
16 
71 

68 
17 

1 

1 

1 



3 

65 

4 

1 

5 

6 

7 

1 

109 
1 

1 

4 



Saint Peter : 

Institution for the Insane 4 

MISSISSIPPI. 

Clinton : 

Mississippi College 1 

Daleville : 

Cooper Institute 1 

Jackson : 

Hospital for the Insane 3 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 1 

State Historical Society 3 

Library ^ 21 

Lunatic Asylum 2 

Natchez : 

Public Library 2 

Oxford : 

University of Mississippi 11 

MISSOURI. 

Columbia : 

Agricultural College 1 

Geological Survey of Missouri. 81 

State Library 1 

University of Missouri 23 

Fulton: 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb .'...: 3 

State Lunatic Asylum 7 

Glasgow : 

Morrison Observatory 4 

Jefferson : 

Governor of Missouri 4 

Historical Society ^ 14 

State Board of Agriculture.,.. 20 

Library 14 

Kansas City: 

Kansas Review 1 

Western Review 1 

Young Men's Christian Asso- 
ciation 3 

Liberty : 

William Jewell College Library 4 

Bolla : 

Geological Survey of Missouri. 15 

School of Mines 2 

Saint Louis : 

Academy of Sciences ,. 2,487 

Botanical Garden 1 

Catholic Institute for Deaf and 

Dumb 1 

College of Pharmacy 1 

County Hospital for the Insane. 1 

Corporation 1 

Deutsches Institut zur Befor- 
derung der Wissenschaften, 

Kunst uud Gewerbe 20 

Geological Survey of Missouri. 62 

Governor of the State 3 

Humboldt Medical College 1 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 4 

Law Library 1 

Mayor of the City 9 

Medical Archives of St. Louis.. 1 

Mercantile Library 12 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



737 



Disirihuti07i of domestic exchanges, t^c. — Continued. 



Saint Louis — Continued. 

Missouri Dental Journal 

Historical Society 

Peabody Academy 

Polytechnic Dci»artment of the 

University 

Public Library 

School Library 

St. Louis Medical and Surgical 

Journal 

St. Vincent Hospital for the 

Insane 

State Bureau of Geology and 

Mines 

"Washington University 

Westliche Post 

Warrenshurg : 

State Normal School 

MONTANA. 

Helena : 

Historical Society 



NEBRASKA. 

Lincoln : 

State Library 

University of Nebraska 

Omaha : 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb. 

Nebraska Historical Society. .. 

State Library 

Territorial Library 

Peru: 

State Normal School 



NEVADA. 

Carson City: 

State Library 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord : 

Department of Agriculture 

Natural History Society 

New Hampshire Historical So- 
ciety 

New Hampshire State Lunatic 

Asylum 

State Agricultural Society 

Library 

Prison 

Young Men's Christian Associa^ 

tion 

Exeter : 

Phillips Exeter Academy 

Hanover : 

Dartmouth College 

Observatory 

Manchester : 

City Library 

Portsmouth : 

Atheneum 

NEW JERSEY. 
Burlington : 

Burlingtori College 

Hohoken : 

Stevens Institute of Technol- 



3 
3 

1 
3 

20 

11 
1 

1 

53. 
1 



4 
1 

2 

3 

10 

5 



2 
1 

53 

15 
4 

21 
2 

1 

1 

117 
11 



ogy 

S. Mis. 109- 



1 

58 



Mount Holly : 

Lyceum of History and Natural 

Sciences 1 

Neivark: . 

Historical Society of New Jer- 
sey IG 

New Brunswick : 

Geological Survey of New Jer- 
sey 88 

Natural History Society 1 

Rutgers Scientific School 8 

Neioton : 

Newton Library Association ... 1 

Princeton : 

Agricultural Society 1 

Pollege of New Jersey 174 

Green School of Science 3 

Hal stead Observatory 2 

Horticultural Society 1 

Observatory 10 

Pharmaceutical Society 1 

Theological Seminary 1 

EaJiway : 

Library Association 1 

Salem : 

Salem Academy 1 

Trenton: 

Geological Survey 6 

State Library 19 

Lunatic Asylum 8 

NEW MEXICO. 

Santa Fd: 

Historical Society of New 

Mexico 3 

Territorial Library 3 

NEW YORK. 

Albany : 

Adirondack Survey Office 13 

Albany Library 1 

Institute 220 

Bureau of Military Statistics.. 9 

Commissioners State Park 2 

Dudley Observatory 450 

Governor of the State 2 

Homoeopathic Society 2 

Inspector of Penitentiaries 1 

State Prisons 1 

New York State Agricultural So- 
ciety 529 

Cabinet of Nat- 
ural History. 102 
Literary Society 1 
Medical Society 35 
Museum of Nat- 
ural History . 22 
Regents of N. Y. University . .. 110 

Secretary of State 4 

State Board of Charities 1 

Library 888 

Normal School 1 

Superintendent of Insurance .. 3 
Young Men's Chi'istian. Associa- 
tion 1 

Alfred Centre: 

Observatory 3 



-47 



■38 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domestio exchanges, ^-c. — Continued. 



Annandale : 

St. Stephen's College 

Auhurn: 

Agricultural and Mechanical 
College 

Hospital for theCriminal Insane 

Theological Seminary 

Baih: 

Library Association 

Blackicell's Island : 

New York Lunatic Asylum 

Binghamton : 

Institution for the BUnd 

Broohlyn : 

Baker Collegiate Institute 

Brooklyn Library 

Collegiate and Polytechnic In- 
stitute 

Entomological Society 

filing's County Medical Society . 

Long Island Historical Society. 

Mayor of the city - - - 

Mercantile Library Association 

Statistical Society of Brooklyn 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 

Bvffalo : 

Buffalo Historical Society 

Medical Association.. . 

Practical School 

Society of Natural Sci- 
ences 

Grosvenor Library 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

Medical and SurgicalJonmaL. 
North American Entomologist . 

Observatory 

Society of Natural History ..... 
Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 

Young Men's Library 

Canandaigua : 

Brigham Hall's Hospital 

Canton : 

St. Lawrence University 

CKnton: 

Hamilton College 

Litchfield Observatory of Ham- 
ilton CoUege 

Corning : 

Corning Library 

Cornwall : 

Cornwall Library 

Elmira: 

Elmira Academy of Sciences . . . 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 

Flatbush : 

King's County Hospital for the 

Insane 

Flushing : 

Sanford Hall Asylum 

Fordham : 

St. John's College 

Geneva: 

Hobart College 



1 
3 
1 

1 

12 

1 

1 



1 
4 

2 
21 
3 
5 
2 



17 
1 
4 

463 
3 

1 

7 
1 
2 
2 

2 
1 

2 
3 
1 

24 1 
1 
1 
4' 
1 

4 
1 
1 



Governor's Island : 

Military Service Institution . . . 
Hamilton: 

Madison University 

HornellsviUe : 

Library Association 

Hudson : 

Observatory 

Ithaca : 

Cornell University 

Jamestown : 

Microscopical Society 

Le Roy : 

Ingham University 

lAma: 

Genesee College — - 

Wesleyan Seminary 

Newburgh : 

Theological Seminary Associa- 
tion, Reform Church - 

New York: 

Agricultural Intelligencer 

American Agriculturist 

Biole Society -« 

Bureau of Mines ~ 

Chemical Society 

Chemist 

Christian Commission 
Druggists' Circular . . 
Episcopal Theological 

Seminary 

Ethnological Society. 
Geographical Society 

Institute 

ofArchitects 

Journal of Chemistry . 

Microscopy 

Mining . .. 

Obstetrics. 

Medical Eclectic Ee- 

view — 

Medical Journal 

Microscopical Society 
Museum of Naturjil 

History 

Missionary Society . . . 

Naturalist 

Public Health Asso- 
ciation 

Society of Civil En- 
gineers 

Anthropological Institute of 

New York 

Apprentices' Library 

Astor Library 

Austrian Consul 

Bavarian Consul 

Board of Education 

Bloomingdale Asylum for the 

Insane 

Chamber of Commerce 

Christian Inquirer office 

College of Pharmacy 

Physicians and Sur- 
geons 

the City of New York 



1 

10 
1 
1 

59 

4 

1 

1 
1 



1 
6 
5 
4 

30 

S3 

WO 

3 

1 

110 

1,238 

354 

55 

2 

4 

19 

1 

« 
24 
13 

166 

12 

1 



64 

115 
3 

293 
1 
1 
1 

5 

4 

14 

2 

1 
1 



HISTORY OF THE SIHTHSONTAN EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, ^-c. — Continued. 



Neio York — Continued. 

Columbia College 42 

CommiRsioners, Central Park.. 2 

Cooper Union 9 

Courricr dcs fitats-Unis 1 

Dermatological Society 1 

Eclectic Medical College 1 

Engineering and Mining Jour- 
nal •- 100 

Farmer and Mechanic 4 

Farmers' and Mechanics' Intel- 
ligencer 1 

General Society of Mechanics 

and Tradesmen 1 

Gynecological Society 2 

Herbarium of Columbia College 4 

Historical Society — 67 

Homoeopathic Sun 1 

Institution for the Blind 4 

Deaf and 

Dumb-..- 3 
Instruction of 

Deaf and Dumb 3 

Insurance Department — 7 

In ternational Review 2 

LenoxLibrary 10 

Journal of Psychological Medi- 
cine 7 

Liberal Christian 8 

Library Journal 1 

Manufacturer and Builder 65 

Mayor of the city 9 

Mechanics' Institute - . 1 

Medical College 1 

Gazette 4 

Library and Journal 

Association 1 

Record _. 2 

Recorder 2 

Society 1 

Mercantile Library Association 65 
Merchants and Clerks' Library 

Association - 1 

Meteorological Observatory ... 51 

Metropolitan Board of Health. 16 

Museum of Art . . 34 

Mexican Consul 1 

Municipality 1 

National Board of Underwriters 1 

Natural History Society 1 

New York Academy of Sciences. 1041 
Medicine 56 
Belletristisches Jour- 
nal 1 

City Lunatic Asylum 3 

Dental Journal 5 

HandelsZcitung 2 

Herald 1 

Hungarian Society.. 2 

Journal of Pharmacy 4 
Lyceum of Natural 

History 950 

Medical Journal 4 

Medico-Historical So- 
ciety 3 

Society Library 5 

of Libraries- 1 

Staats Zeitung 1 



Xew York — Continued. 

New York Statistical Society. . . 1 

Times 12 

Tribune 3 

Norton's Librai"y Gazette 4 

Numismatic and Archjeological 

Society 13 

Philosophical Society 1 

Prison Association G 

Public Health Association 1 

School Society 1 

Sanitarian • 79 

School of Mines 128 

Scientific American 7 

Scottish American Journal 3 

Society for the Protection of 

Animals 1 

State Commissioners of Public 

Charities 2 

Swedenborg Society 1 

Swedish-Norwegian Consulate- 4 

The Nation 1 

ToiTey Botanical Club 1 

Uniao Scientifico Brazileiro 1 

Union Theological Seminary .. 3 

University of New York 75 

United States Sanitary Commis- 
sion 128 

Van Nostrand's Magazine 4 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion, German 1 

Poughkeepsie : 

Public Library 5 

Hudson River Insane Asylum, . 1 

Society of Natural Sciences 12 

Vassar Female College 24 

Bocliester : 

Theological Seminary 2 

University 9 

Bandall's Island: 

House of Refuge 1 

Schenectady: 

Union College 15 

Sing Sing : 

State Lunatic Asylum 1 

Prison 1 

Syracuse : 

Public Library 2 

University 4 

Troy: 

Female Seminary 1 

Marshall Inliriuary 1 

Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti- 
tute 4 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

Utica : 

American Journal of Insanity. 35 

State Lunatic Asylum 15 

Ward's Island: 

Emigrant's Refuge and Hospi- 
tal 2 

We^t Point : 

Observatory 1 

President, Committee of Engi- 
neers 1 



740 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Bistnbiition of domestic exchanges, ^-c— Contiuned. 



West Point — Continued. 

United States Military Academy 
WiUard: 

Willard Asylum for the Insane. 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Chajyel Hill : 

University of Nortt Carolina.. 
Davidson College: 

Library 

Lenoir : 

Davenport Female College 

Ealeigh : 

Hospital for the Insane 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 

State Library 

Trinity College: 

Geological School 

Trinity College 

Warrenton : 

Female College 

OHIO. 
Ashtabula: 

Anthropological Society 

Athens : 

University 

Cincinnati : 

Academy of Medicine 

American Freemason 

Medical College 

Journal 

Astronomical Society 

Cincinnati Lancet 

Quarterly Journal of 

Science 

College of Pharmacy 

Dental Register 

Geological Society 

Historical and Philosophical 

Society 

Mayor of the city 

Mechanics' Institute 

Medical College of Ohio 

Mercantile Library 

Municipality 

Mussey Medical Library 

Natibnal Normal 

Observatory 

Public Library 

Society of Natural History 

University of Cincinnati 

Volksblatt 

Volkszeitung 

Western Academy of Sciences. 
Youug Men's Mercantile Li- 
brary 

Zoological Society 

Cleveland: 

Academy of Natural Sciences.. 

Case Library 

Kirtland Society 

Observatory 

Public School Library 

University 

Carthage: 

Longview Hospital for the In- 
sane 



29 
2 

7 
1 
1 



& 

9 

1 
1 

9 
2 
5 
1 

6 

1 

18 

1 

21 

6 

7 

3 

42 

1 

1 

1 

404 

34 

43 

10 

1 

1 

2 

3 
1 

10 
1 
7 
2 
1 
1 



Columbus: 

Bureau of Statistics 

Central Lunatic Asylnni 

Geological Survey of Ohio 

Horticultural Society 

Hospital for the Insane 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 

Ohio Lunatic Asylum 

State Agricultural Society 

Board of Agriculture 1, 

Library 

University 

Dayton : 

Hospital for the Insane 

Public Library 

Delaware : 

Ohio Wcsleyan University 

Fremont : 

Burchard Library 

Gambier : 

Kenyon College 

Granville: 

Dennison University 

Hiram : 

Hiram College 

Hudson : 

Western Reserve College 

Observatory . 
Lebanon : 

Mechanics' Institute 

Marietta : 

Marietta College 

New Athens: 

Franklin College 

Newburg : 

Northern Ohio Lunatic Asylum . 
North Bend : 

Horticultural Society of Ohio. . 
Oberlin : 

Oberlin College 

Oxford : 

Miami University 

Painesville : 

Lake Erie Female Seminary . . 
Mill Creek: 

Lunatic Asylum 

Springfield : 

Public Library 

Tiffin: 

Heidelberg College 

Theological College of the Ger- 
man Reform Church 

Urban a : 

Central Ohio Scientific Associa- 
tion 

Urbana University 

Westerville : 

Otterbein University 

Wooster : 

Wooster Uni versity 

Yellow Springs: 

Antioch College 

OREGON. 

Forestville : 

Pacific University 

Oregon City : 

University of Oregon 



4 
1 

45 

15 
4 
3 
1 

92 
207 

96 
1 

4 
1 

12 

1 

50 

2 

1 

19 
1 

1 

1 

1 

5 

14 

4 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



741 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, <f-c. — Coutiuued. 



Portland: 

Library Association 

Hospital for the Insane . . . 
Salem: 

Institution fbr the Deaf 

Dumb 

State Library 

Willamette Observatory . . 
University 



and 



PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny : 

Allegheny Observatory 

Society of Natural Sciences . .. 

Western State Penitentiary . . . 
Theologi c al S eminary . 
Bethlehem: 

Lehigh University 

Packer University 

Carlisle : 

Carlisle Society of Literature . . 

Dickinson College 

Chester : 

Crozer Theological Seminary . . 
Dixrnont: 

Western Hospital for the In- 
sane 

Dam-ille: 

Northern Hospital for the In- 
sane 

Easton : 

American Institute of Mining 
Engineers 

Lafayette College 

Northwestern University 

Pardee Science School 

Frankford : 

Friends' Asylum for the Insane. 
Germantoicn: 

Germantown Literary Associa- 
tion 

Gettysburg : 

Pennsylvania College 

Theological Seminary 

Harrisburg : 

Adjutant-General 

Harrisburg Academy 

Medical Society of the State . . 

Second Geological Survey of 
Pennsylvania 

State Agricultural Society 

Library 

Lunatic Hosj)ital 

Haver ford: 

Haverford College 

Kellyville: 

Woodbury Eetreat 

Lewishurq : 

University - 

Mansfield : 

State Normal School 

Meadville : 

Theological Seminary 

Media : 

Delaware County Institute of 

Science 

Xew Wilmington: 

Westminster College 



61 
2 
1 
1 

3 
6 

6 
12 



52 

14 

1 

1 



Philadelphia : 

Academy of Fine Arts 1 

Natural Sciences.. 4,576 
Agricultural Society of Penn- 
sylvania 1 

American Entomological Soci- 
ety 296 

Institute of Archi- 
tects 3 

Journal of Conchol- 

ogy 49 

Journal of Dental 

Sciences 1 

Journal of Medical 

Sciences 7 

Naturalisfe 25 

Pharmaceut cul Soci- 
ety 423 

Philosophical Society 2, 753 

Apprentices' Library 1 

Asylum for the Insane 2 

Atheneum 2 

Board of Health 4 

Inspectors of County 

Prisons 1 

Public Charities 2 

Education 22 

Publications 1 

Trade 8 

Central High School 260 

School Observa- 
tory 8 

College of Pharmacy 3 

Physicians 3 

Commissioners Fairmount Park 2 

Corporation of the city 1 

Curator of Birds, Philadelphia 

Museum 1 

Dental Cosmos 11 

Enquirer 1 

Laboratory 3 

Times 6 

Eastern State Penitentiary.... 2 
Entomological Society of Phila- 
delphia 10 

Evening Bulletin 1 

Franklin Institute 559 

Journal 9 

Friends' Bookstore 1 

Insane Asylum 1 

Geological Society 3 

Survey of Pennsyl- 

'vania 24 

German Society 1 

Girard College 11 

Historical Society of Pennsyl- 
vania 154 

House of Refnge 5 

Jefferson Medical College 5 

Library Association of Friends. 2 

Library Company 102 

of Penusvlvania Hos- 
pital... 112 

Magnetic and Meteorological 

Observatory 2 

Mayor of the city 7 

Medical and Chirurgical Jour- 
nal 13 



742 



HISTORY - OF -THE SMITHSONIAN - EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domesOo exchanges, <f c. — Continued. 



Pli i ladelph ia — C ontinued. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter 4 
Review . 5 
Society of Pennsylva- 
nia -— 4 

Times 116 

Mercantile Library 8 

Mexican Commission . 2 

Municipality 2 

Naturalists' Leisure Hour 1 

Naval Review 1 

North American Medico-Chi- 

rurgical Review 17 

Numismatic and Antiquarian 

Society 6 

and Archaeolog- 
ical Society ... 8 

Observatory 8 

of Girard College . 27 

Office of Gray's Atlas 1 

Penn Monthly 1 

Penn's Hospital 1 

Pennsylvania Horticultural So- 
ciety 23 

Hospital for the 

Insane 7 

Institute for the 

Blind 126 

Institute for the 
Deaf and Dumb 13 
Pennsylvania Society for Pre- 
vention of Cruelty to Animals 2 

Philadelphia Hospital 1 

Journal of Medi- 
cine 1 

Philadelphia Society for Pro- 
moting Agriculture 2 

Polytechjoic Bulletin 1 

College 2 

Review 1 

Public Schools 6 

Royal Bavarian Consulate 1 

Social Science Association 2 

Society for Alleviating the Mis- 
eries of Public Prisons 6 

Society for the Protection of 

Animals 69 

Stacey Stone-Dressing Machine 

Company 1 

State Lunatic Asylum — 1 

University of Pennsylvania ... 23 

United States Mint • - . 2 

Wagner Free Institute 208 

Zoological Garden _. 2 

Society 89 

Pittsburgh, : 

Day School for Deaf and Dumb . 1 

German Library 1 

Mercantile Library 2 

National Iron and Steel Pub- 
lishing Company 3 

Western Pennsylvania Hospital 

for the Insane 3 

Penitentiary 1 

Sliaron : 

Observatory 1 

South Bethlehem: 

Lehigh University . 8 



Strathmore : 

Strathmore College . . 
Washington: 

Western College 

West Grove: 

East Pennsylvania 
mental Farm 



Experi- 



KHODE ISLAND. 

Newport : 

Mechanics' Library 

Redwood Library 

Society of Science 

Providence : 

American Naturalist 

Atheneum 

Brown University 

Butler Hospital for the Insane. 

City Registrar's Office 

Normal School 

Public Library 

Registrar-General for Rhode 
Mand 

Rhode Island Historical Society 

Secretary of State 

Society for the Encouragement 
of Domestic Industries 

State Library 

WoonsocJcet :. 

Harris Institute Library 

SOUTH CJlROUNA. 
Cedar Springs: 

Institute forthe Deaf and Dumb 
Charleston : 

Chaorleston Journal of Medicine 
Medical Journal and 

Review 

Museum of Natural 

History 

Observatory 

College of Charleston 

Elliott Society of Natural His- 
tory 

Library Society 

Literary and Philosophical So- 
ciety 

Medical School of South Caro- 
lina 

Public Library 

South Carolina College Libra^ 
Historical Soci- 
ety 

Medical Associ- 
ation 

Society Library 

State Medical College 

University of Charleston 

Columbia : 

South Carolina College.™ 

State Library 

Lunatic Asylum 

University — Geological 

Rooms — 

Theological Seminary — 

University of South Carolina . . 
J>ae West: 

Erskine College 



1 

3 
1 

15 
4 

99 
4 
4 
1 
1 

1 

53 

2 



2 
5 
3 

376 

28 



1 
2 
1 

22 

6 

22 

2 

1 

29 

19 

1 

2 

1 

1(] 



HISTOKY OF THE fiMITnSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



743 



Diatrihution of domestic exchanges, ^-c. — Continued. 



Greenmlle : 

Furuian University . . . 
Lexington: 

Tiieological Seminary. 



TENNESSEE. 

Columbia : 

Athenoum 

Jackson College 

Hxaicassee : 

Hiawassee College 

Jackson : 

Southern Bajitist University. .. 
Enoxrille: 

Cumberland University 

East Tennessee University 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb. 

Tennessee Pliilomathesiaji So- 
ciety 

Lebanon : 

Cumberland University 

Marysville : 

Marysville College 

South West Theological Sem- 
inary 

Memphis : 

Christian Brothers College 

NaskviUc: 

Geological Survey 

Historical Society of Tennessee- 
Hospital for the "insane „ . 

Institution for the Blind 

State Library 

University 

Vanderbilt University- 

TEXAS, 
Anaiin : 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 

I*ublic Library „ 

State Library 

Lunatic Asylum 

University of Texas 

Bonham : 

Geological Survey 

Chapel Bill: 

Soul6 University 

Independence : 

Bailor University 

UTAH, 
Salt Lal-e City : 

Territorial Library 

University of the Deseret- 



VERMONT. 

Barnet : 

Historical and Antiquarian So- 
ciety 

Brattleboro' : 

State Lunatic Asylum 

Burlington : 

City clerk 

Fletcher Free Public Library.. 

University of Vermont „ 

Castlcton : 

Orleans County Society of Nat- 
ural Sciences 



11 

1 

1 

1 

11 
5 
9 
2 

29 

15 

1 



2 
1 
27 
1 
5 

3 

64 

1 



4 

10 

1 
1 

G6 

302 



Derby : 

Society of Natural Sciences 

Monipelier : 

Historical and Antiquarian So- 
ciety 

Society 

State Cabinet of Natural His- 
tory 

Library 

Butland : 

Pharmaceutical Association 

SL Johnsbury : 

Atheneunx _ 



1 

89 



VIRGINIA. 
Blacksburg : 

Agricultural and Mechanical 

College.- 1 

Charlottesville: 

University of Virginia 105 

Emory : 

Emory and Henry College 1 

Hampden- Sydney : 

Hampden-Sydney College G 

Hampton : 

Hampton College 1 

Normal Institute 3 

Union Theological Seminary ... 3 

Lexington : 

School of Civil Engineers 2 

Virginia Military Institute 3 

Washington and Lee Univer- 
sity 3 

tLynchburg : 

Medical Society of Virginia ... 1 
Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

New Market : 

Polytechnic Institute 4 

Richmond: 

Medical Society 10 

Richmond College 2 

Medical College 1 

Southern Fertilizing Company. 1 

State Library 43 

University 1 

Virginia Historical Society 20 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1. 

Salem : 

Eoanoke College 1 

Staunton: 

Institution for the Deaf and 

Dumb 3 

Western Insane Hospital 7 

Williamsburg : 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 



WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 
Olympia: 

Territorial Library 

Seattle: 

Territorial Library 

Steilacoom : 

Insane Asylum 



19 

16 
1 
1 



WEST VIRGINIA. 

Charleston : 

State Library 



744 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Distribution of domestic exchanges, ^c. — Continued. 



Flemington : 

West Virginia College 

Eomney : 

Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb 

West Virginia Hospital for the 

Insane 

Sliepherdstoum : 

Shepherd's College 

Wheeling : 

Natural History Society 

WISCONSIN. 

Appleton : 

Lawrence University 6 

Beloit : 

Beloit College 1 

Geological Survey of Wisconsin 8 

Delavan : 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb . 3 

Dululh : 

Scandinavian Library 3 

Galesville : 

Galeeville University 5 

Inmanville : 

Scandinavian Society 11 

Janesville : 

Institution for Educating the 

Blind 47 

University 2 

Madison: 

Academy of Sciences 304 

Agriculture Department 2 

College of Arts 2 

Educational Society 1 

Office of Emigration 4 

Geological Survey 2 

Hospital for the Insane 1 



Madison — Continued. 

Natural History Society 4 

Observatory 1 

Skandinaviske Presse Forening 6 

Society for Educating the Blind 2 

■ State Agricultural Society G15 

Historical Society 146 

Library GO 

Superintendent of Public In- 
struction 1 

University of Wisconsin 17 

Wasbburn Observatory 12 

Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 1 

Milwaukee : 

Catholic Seminary 

German Natural History Society 

Milwaukee Seebote 

Milwaukee University 

Naturhistorischer Verein 

Public Library 

Skandinaviske Presse Forening 
Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion 

Needh : 

Scandinavian Literary Associa- 
tion 

Wisconsin Scandinavian Libra- 
ry 

Pine Lake : 

Wisconsin Scandinavian Socie- 
ty 

Bacine : 

College Library 

WYOMING. 
Cheyenne : 

Territorial Library 



19 



3 



KECAPITULATION. 



Alabama 44 

Arizona 6 

Arkansas 416 

California 1, 487 

Colorado 15 

Connecticut 3, 461 

Delaware 9 

District of Columbia 15, 518 

Florida 10 

Georgia 116 

Idaho 3 

Illinois 1,634 

Indiana 182 

Indian Territory. 3 

Iowa 1,101 

Kansas - 101 

Kentucky 239 

Louisiana 896 

Mai ne 473 

Maryland 369 

Massachusetts 15, 423 

Michigan 742 

Minnesota 215 

Mississipi)i 45 

Missouri 2,908 

Montana 3 



Nebraska 26 

Nevada 3 

New Hampshire 237 

New Jersey , 401 

New Mexico 6 

New York 9,070 

North Carolina 43 

Ohio 2,296 

Oregon 11 

Pennsylvania 10, 634 

Rhode Island -• 208 

South Carolina 548 

Tennessee 105 

Texas 104 

Utah 6 

Vermont 473 

Virginia 243 

Washington 18 

West Virginia 8 

Wisconsin 1, 398 

Wyoming 3 

Individuals, United States ) 

Societies .... l-n-.-u a.^„^^„„ > 23,505 
Individuals.. ; British America. ^ 

Total 94,765 



III. — GOVEENMENT EXCHANGES. 

Although Congress, by act July 20, 1840, authorized the printing 
and binding of fifty copies of all volumes published by the two Houses, 
which volumes were to bo reserved for the purpose of exchange with 
foreign powers, yet from the omission to provide for the extra print- 
ing, or from other cause, this liberal arrangement failed to go into 
operation. 

An act of March 4, 184G, directed the Librarian of Congress to pro- 
cure a complete series of reports of the United States courts and of the 
laws of the United States, and transmit them to the minister of justice 
of France, in exchange for works of French law presented to the United 
States Supreme Court. 

By act of June 26, 1848, the Joint Committee on the Library was au- 
thorized to appoint agents for exchange of books and public documents. 
All books transmitted through these agents of exchange, for use of the 
United States, for any single State, or for the Academy at West Point, 
or the National Institute, to be admitted free. 

A resolution of June 30, 1848, ordered that the Joint Committee on 
the Library be furnished with twenty-five copies of the Eevolutionary 
Archives, twenty-five copies of Little & Brown's edition of the Laws of 
the United States, seven copies of the Exploring Expedition then pub- 
lished, and an equal' number of subsequent publications on the same 
subject, for the purpose of international exchange. 

A joint resolution of March 2, 1849, directed that two copies of certain 
volumes of the Exploring Expedition be sent to the Government of Rus- 
sia, in lieu of those which were lost at sea on their passage to that coun- 
try. The Secretary of State was also directed to present a copy of the 
Exploring Expedition, as soon as completed, to the Government of 
Ecuador. 

By the act of August 31, 1852, the act of 1848 regulating exchanges 
was repealed. 

In 1852 the Smithsonian Institution urged that Congress should make 
some systematic and permanent arrangement for distributing complete 
series of its works to European libraries, to at least thirty of which they 
might be judiciously supplied. It was also suggested that particular 
works of scientific interest, as reports of patents, coast-survey opera- 
tions, government explorations in geography and geology, and others 
of a similar character, might be assigned in larger numbers of from one 
hundred to three hundred, as had already been done in some instances 
by the Senate. These might be distributed by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion at moderate cost to the government, and direct returns or exchanges 
obtained for the Library of Congress, if desired. The distribution of 
Congressional documents in the United States could also be advanta- 
geously modified. The copies given to the State Department for do- 
mestic distribution were sent only to colleges or lyceums, not to regular 
public libraries, even of the largest class. The rule in force with the 

745 



746 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Smithsonian Institution might well be applied in this case, of making 
as equable a distribution as possible throughout the country, s«j>- 
plying all larger public libraries, and giving to smaller ones only where 
a large district would otherwise be destitute. It had always be^n 
matter of complaint with men pursuing special objects of research that 
public documents relating to their investigations were frequently inac- 
cessible. In order to remedy this, some department could be directed 
to keep full lists of all persons prominently engaged in the various 
branches of science, and to supply the names on such list regulkrly 
with extra copies of documents to be furnished by Congress. 

By act of August 18, 1856, the Secretary of State was authorized t» 
purchase one hundred copies each of Audubon's Birds of America and 
Quadrupeds of North America, for exchange with foreign governments 
for valuable works. 

The matter of government exchanges received, however, no furthep 
definite action until 1867, when the following act was passed : 

A Resolution to provide for the exchange of certain pubUo documents. 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter printr 
ed by order of either House of Congress, and fifty copies additional of 
all documents printed in excess of the usual number, together with fifty 
copies of each publication issued by any department or bureau of the 
government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on the 
Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, and 
especially by foreign governments, as may be deemed by said commitee 
an equivalent; said works to be deposited in the Library of Congress, 

Approved March 2, 1867. 

A primary object of this movement was to secure as regularly and 
economically as possible all reports and other documents relative to the 
legislation, jurisprudence, statistics, internal economy, technology, &c^ 
of aU nations, so as to place the material at the command of the com- 
mittees and members of Congress, heads of bureaus, &c. 

No appropriation was made for meeting the necessary expenses, which 
could not conveniently be borne by the Smithsonian fund. But as ^a 
year would necessarily elapse before any documents would be ready for 
distribution, the following circular was issued by the Institution, with a 
view of ascertaining what governments would enter into the proposed 
arrangement : 

CrBOUIvAE RELATIVE TO EXCHANGES OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS. 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, U. S. A., May 16, 1867. 
A law has just been passed by the Congress of the United States aur 
thorizing the exchange, under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, 
of a certain number of aU United States ofiBcial documents for the cor- 



HISTORY- OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 747 

respoiidiug publications of other governments thronghout the world, the 
returns to be placed in the national library at Washington. The works 
to be distributed under this law will consist of reports and proceedings 
of Congress, messages of the President, annual reports and occasional 
publications of departments and bureaus, &c., the whole relating to the 
legislation, jurisprudence, foreign relations, commerce, statistics, arts, 
manufactures, agriculture, geographj^, hydrography, &c., of the Fnited 
States, and including everything of whatever nature published either 
by direct order of Congress or by any of the departments of the gov- 
ernment. The series will embrace a large number of volumes each year, 
the most of which are bound. 

The object of the law above mentioned is to procure for the use of the 
Congress of the United States a complete series of the publications of 
other governments, to include the documents of special bureaus or 
departments, as well as the general publications, of whatever nature, 
ITrinted at the public expense, and also embracing all such works as are 
published by booksellers with the aid of grants or subscriptions from 
governments. The law is not retrospective, although it may cover some 
of the publications of the last session of Congress. 

Some time will necessarily elapse before the first transmission can be 
made, but in order to organize a plan of exchange, to be presented for 
consideration to the Library Committee and the Librarian of Congress, 
I beg leave to ask your advice as to the best method of accomplishing 
the objects above stated. It is important to ascertain what govern- 
ments are willing to enter into the proposed exchange, and whether any 
one bureau or branch of government or public library in each country 
will undertake to collect all the national publications, as above men- 
tioned, and transmit them to Washington, or whether separate arrange- 
ments must be made with more than one oflace. The former plan is con- 
sidered preferable, as diminishing the labor involved, and may possibly 
l)e adopted by enactment, as has been done by the United States. 
Whatever method be most feasible, you will confer a favor by giving us 
such information on these and other points as may serve for our guid- 
ance in further action. 

Liformation is also desired as to the titles and character of the regu- 
lar official publications of each country, and their average number and 
extent in each year, as well as the names of the different bureaus and 
officers from which they emanate. 

The Smithsonian Institution, in behalf of the Library of Congress, is 
prepared to promise, if necessary, the delivery of the above-mentionefl 
publications free of charge for freight. It will also name an agent in 
each country who will receive parcels or boxes containing the exchanges 
returned, and transmit them to Washington. 

Besides the exchange of complete series of national publications, the 
law of Congress above stated authorizes the distribution of works on 
special subjects to the different bureaus having them in charge, as 



748 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

finance, statistics, patents, agriculture, &c., provided that copies of 
their publications be given in return. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Joseph Henry, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 

[The Smitlisonian Institution to tlie State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, June 4, 1867. 
Hon. William. H. Seward, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir: I have the honor to send, herewith, copies of a printed circular 
relative to an international exchange of public documents, for the bene- 
fit of the Congressional Library, with the request that you will trans- 
mit the same to all the diplomatic representatives of the United States 
in foreign countries, and, if favorable, to foreign ministers accredited to 
the United States. 

Tours, respectfully, 

Joseph Henry. 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, June 18, 18G7. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th in- 
stant, inclosing copies of a printed circular relative to the international 
exchange of public documents for the benefit of the Congressional 
Library, and to inform you in reply that your request in regard to the 
distribution of the circulars has been complied with, they having been 
transmitted to foreign ministers here and to our ministers abroad. 

Most truly yours, 

William H. Seward. 

The honorable Secretary of State having thus courteously undertaken 
the official distribution of the Smithsonian circular to the representa- 
tives of foreign governments, formal recognitions were received from 
•these powers, a majority of whom signified their approval and accept- 
ance of the proffer. The following is a list of governments which 
responded favorably to the proposed international exchange of official 
documents : 



Argentine Republic. 

Baden. 

Belgium. 

Chili. 

Colombia (United States of). 

Costa Rica. 

Denmark. 

Finland. 

France. 



Great Britain. 
Hamburg. 
Netherlands- 
Norway. 
Spain. 
Sweden. 
Switzerland. 
Victoria. 
Wurtemberg. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 749 

These all embraced the opportunity offered of procuring the national 
publications of the United States, and x)roflfered complete series of their 
own in return. Some of them, indeed, sent at once large packages of 
their works without awaiting further action on the part of our govern- 
ment. Among them one large box of books from the government of 
Victoria, Australia, was received, and its contents deposited in the 
Library of Congress. 

Of the communications on this subject received either directly or 
through the Department of State, the greater number are herewith 
subjoined. 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, July 19, 18C7. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : Herewith I inclose an extract of a dispatch of the Ist instant, 
from George K. Teaman, esq., minister resident at Copenhagen, which 
relates to the exchange of public documents with the Government of 
Denmark, as proposed in your circular of the 16th of JNIay last. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Seward. 

[^Inelosure. ] 

No. 77.] Legation of the United States, 

Copoiihagen, July 1, 18G7. 
Hon. Wm. H. Seward, 

Secretary of State, Washington : 

Sir: I have further to acknowledge the receipt of your circular dis- 
patch -of the 13th June, touching the subject of Professor Henry's cir- 
cular, in relation to the exchange of official documents with foreign 
countries, and to state that Mr. Vedel, the director-general of the min- 
istry of foreign affairs, with whom I have conversed upon the subject, 
and with whom I left a copy of Professor Henry's circular, has expressed 
himself gratified with the proposal, and suggests that for the present 
anything of interest he may have for the United States shall be left 
with me for shii^raent, and that United States documents might also be 
addressed to me for the Danish Government. 

K other arrangements are deemed more convenient, hereafter they will 
be made. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
GEORaE n. Yeaman. 



750 HISTORY 01* THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The Argentine Legation to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Argentine Legation in the United States, 
10 University place, New York, August 17, 1867. 

Prof. Joseph Heney, Esq., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington : 
Sir: Upon my return from Washington I found a note from the Secretary 
of State inclosing your memorandum relating to an exchange of official 
documents of the United States for those of other countries. In fulfill- 
ment of the desires of the honorable Secretary and of those who direct 
that Institution I will hasten to communicate to my government the 

contents of those documents. 

* * * * m * • * 

Hoping soon to have the pleasure of presenting my respects in person 
to you in that city, 

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
B. Mitre y Vedia, 

Charge (P Affaires. 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, August 23, 1867. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, d'c., &c., Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : I inclose herewith, for your information, a copy of a note of the 
19th instant, from the minister of Spain, in regard to the conclusion ar- 
rived at by Her Majesty's Government for the interchange of official pub- 
lications between that government and the United States. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Sevs^ard. 



[ Incloaure. — Translation . J 

No. 27.] Legation of Spain at Washington, 

Washington, August 19, 1867. 
Hon. Secretary of State oftM United States, &c., &c., &c.'. 

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary- of 
Her Catholic Majesty, commumcates to the honorable Secretary of 
State that, having submitted to theGovernmentof Her Majesty the ad- 
vantage of estabbshing a mutual interchange of official publications be- 
tween Spain and the United States, with reference to the bases set out 
in the printed memorandum of Prof. Joseph Henry, Secretary of-the 
Smithsonian Institution, has now received an answer on that point. 

The Government of Her Catholic Majesty accepts with much pleasure 
the proposal for an exchange of documents, and is ready to deliver to 
the legation of the United States at Madrid, or to the agency that may 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 751 

be designated, all the official publications of importance that may be 
brought out in Spain. 

The undersigned avails of this opportunity to renew to the honorable 
Mr. Seward the assurance of his most distinguished consideration. 

Facundo Goni. 



[The U. S. Legation at Switzerland to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Beme, September 21, 1867. 
Prof. Joseph Heney, 

Secretary of the Smithsonimi Institution^ Washington : 

Sir: Under instructions from Mr. Seward, transmitting to me your 
circular relative to an international exchange of national publications, 
I have communicated with "the proper authority" — that is, the chief of 
the department of the interior — designated by the high federal council 
as its agent" to arrange the mode of proceeding in the execution of the 
plan." 

As the result of our conferences I am authorized to say to you that 
the high federal council accepts with great pleasure the proposition 
£or the exchange of national publications. 

It is desired to know whether you prefer to receive these publications 
as made and at the time of issue, or whether, at the end of each year, 
all the publications made during the year shall be delivered together in 
one or more packages. 

It is preferred by the federal council that the publications shall be 
received and delivered at Beme by an agent of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. I suggest thg-t this legation be d^ignated as such agent to re- 
ceive and deliver such exchanges, which arrangement would be more 
acceptable to the Swiss Government than the agency of any private 
party. 

The number and bulk of the federal publications will be smaU in com- 
parison with ours, and the question was propounded whether the prop- 
ositions also embraced necessarily the publications of each canton, a« 
that would be somewhat difficult. I presume that, while such publi- 
cations would be acceptable to you, it was not contemplated to include 
those of the cantonal governments. 

For every reason I advise you to receive the publications of each year 
6fv masse, in lieu of receiving them in detachments. 

The Swiss publications will be delivered packed ready for transpor- 
tation. 

I can only add that I stand ready to act in the premises as you may 
desire. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant;, 
Geo. Haeeington. 



752 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution. J 

Department of State, Washington, October 2, 1867. 
Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : With reference to a memorandum from you wliicli was com- 
municated to Mr. A. Marzel on the 14th of June last, proposing an ex- 
change of official publications of the United States for those of the 
Netherlands, I have now the honor to inclose a translation of a note of 
the 30th ultimo from Mr. A. Marzel, signifying a disposition on the part 
of the Netherlands Government to adopt the reciprocal arrangement 
proposed by you. 

I am, sir, your very obedient servant, 
William H. Seward. 

[_Inclo8ure — Translation.] 

Legation of the Netherlands, September 30, 1867. 
Hon. William H. Seward, (&g., &c., &c. : 

Sir: Eeferring to my dispatch of the 15th of June last, in relation 
to an exchange of official documents between the United States and 
other countries, I now have the honor to inform you that the Govern- 
ment of the Netherlands is disposed to accede to the wish of the Sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institution in reference to the said exchange. 

The different departments of the public administration having been 
consulted on the subject, they have unanimously aj^plauded the idea 
suggested by Prof. Joseph Henry. 

All that is needed now is an agent of the United States, appointed 
for the purpose, to be put in communication with the competent Neth- 
erlands authorities to carry out the i)roposed exchange in a regular 
manner. 

I take the occasion to offer the assurance of my distinguished con- 
sideration. 

A. Marzel. 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, October 24, 1867. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington: 
Sir: With reference to the correspondence which has taken place 
between us heretofore on the subject, I have the honor to inclose a 
copy of a communication of the 22 instant from Francis Clare Ford, esq., 
the charg6 d'affaires ad interim of Great Britain, in relation to the pro- 
posed exchange of the official publications of the two countries. 

I have the honor to be your obedient servant, 
WiLLUM H. Seward. 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 753 

[Inclosurc.'] 

Washington, October 22, 18G7. 

Sir : With reference to your note of the loth of June, addressed to 
the late Sir Frederick Bruce, inclosing a memorandum of Prof. 
Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, relative to 
an exchange of United States official documents for those of other 
countries, I have the honor to inform you that, the subject having 
been duly brought to the notice of my government, I have been in- 
structed by Lord Stanley, Her Majesty's princii)al secretary of state 
for foreign affairs, to communicate to you the suggestions which have 
been made by the lords commissioners of Her Majesty's treasury in 
regard to the manner in which the proposed exchange should be car- 
ried out. 

The lords commissioner of Her Majesty's treasury readily acknowledge 
the advantages of an exchange of copies of official documents between 
Her Majesty's Government and that of the United States, and are quite 
ready to give effect to the act of Congress referred to in the memoran- 
dum of Professor Henry, which was inclosed in your note of June 13. 
They suggest that the list of official documents prepared by the comp- 
troller of the stationery office (a copy of which is herein inclosed) 
should be transmitted to you for the information of the Government of 
the United States, with an intimation that they will be prepared to 
give directions that a copy of the books therein enumerated, or any 
other official documents which may be named, shall be delivered to the 
agent of the United States, and that Her Majesty's minister at Wash- 
ington be requested to obtain from the Government of the United States 
a list of corresponding official publications. 

The lords commissioners of Her Majesty's treasury have, however, 
ascertained from the British admiralty that copies of the charts and 
publications of that department are already sent, annually, to the sec- 
retary of the United States Coast Survey and the Bui'eau of Il^avigation, 
and selections to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, 

sir, your most obedient, humble servant, 
Francis Clare Ford. 



[The Government of Colombia to the U. S. Legation.] 
[Translation.] 

Department of the Interior and Foreign Eelations, 

Bogota, November 7, 1867. 
To Hon. General Peter J. Sullivan, 

Minister Resident of the United States of America^ &c.: 
Sir : In due time I had the honor of receiving your excellency's very 
attentive communication inclosing a letter from Mr. Joseph Henrv, of 
S. Mis. 109 48 



754 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

the SmithsoDian Institution, dated the 16th of May last, in which he 
solicits, on the most liberal conditions, the exchange of the official (his- 
tory) productions of this country for those of the United States of 
America. 

The Government of Colombia, which sincerely desires to promote the 
interests of its countrymen, heartilj^ adopts the plan of exchange which 
Mr. Henry of the Smithsonian Institution proposes through his excel- 
lency, and accepts it with greater satisfaction inasmuch as the official 
productions of the American Government, as Eepublican and enlight- 
ened, will be a worthy example for the citizens of Colombia, a country 
that is making every effort in its power to establish a free and just gov- 
ern mnt. 

The national librarian has been ordered by this department to make 
a detailed report as to the best manner of carryiug into effect this ex- 
change. As soon as it is received in this oflBce, I will forward it to his 
excellency that he may transmit it to Mr. Henry as he requests. 

And thus have the honor to offer to his excellency the assurance of 
my high and distinguished consideration. 

Carlos Martin. 



[Tho Eoyal Library of Wiirtemberg to the Smitlisonian Institution. ] 

Stuttgart, November 11, 1867. 
Mr. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution : 

Dear Sir : In regard to the proposed exchange of government pub- 
lications, we have the honor to submit the following answer to your 
communication. 

Having inquired of all the bureaus issuing official publications, we are 
enabled to say that our government will readily enter into the proposed 
arrangement. 

The Royal Public Library will undertake the collection and transmis- 
sion of all the publications of our national institutions, thinking that 
arrangement would be more agreeable to both parties. 

We are well aware that the publications of our government, ordinary 
and extraordinary, will not bear comparison either in size or value with 
those of the Government of the United States; but since the offer of ex- 
change proceeds from them we are glad to show our estimation of it by 
accepting itreadilj% 

With regard to transmission, we think that a mutual delivery at 
Leipzig free of charge would be consistent with the ordinary terms of 

intercourse between the public libraries of Europe and America. 

******* 

4 Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Staelin, 
Head Librarian of ths Royal Fublic Library. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 755 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution. ] 

Department of State, Washington, November 14, 1867. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : Herewith I inclose for your information a transcrii^t of a com- 
munication of the 21st ultimo, from the United States minister at Brus- 
sels, relative to an exchange of public documents with the Government of 
Belgium. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Seward. 

[_Inclo8ure "No. 1.] 

No. 464.] Legation of the United States, 

Brussels, October 21, 1867. 
Hon. William H. Seward, 

Secretary of State, &c., &c., &c. : 
Sir : With reference to your circular dispatch of 13th June relative to 
an exchange of public documents with this government, I have the 
honor herewith to inclose in translation copy of a communication from 
Mr. Rogier expressing the concurrence of the government in the prop- 
osition, and inclosing a first list of documents which it is proposed to 
forward by the end of the year, to be followed by others semi-annually. 
I also inclose copy of my reply accepting the arrangement proposed. 
The documents to be sent in exchange on our si^e can be forwarded, 
I presume, through the Belgian legation at Washington. 

I have the honor to be, with great respect, 
Your most obedient servant, 

H. S. Sanford. 

{_Inclosure "No. 2. — Translation.] 

Brussels, October 17, 1867. 
Mr. Sanford, 

Minister, (fee, <&c., &g., Brussels: 

Mr. Minister: I have communicated to the minister of the interior 
the contents of the letter you were pleased to address me on the 5th of 
July last, respecting the proposal of an exchange of documents between 
our two governments. 

My colleague is quite ready, Mr. Minister, to oflfer the Government of 
the United States of America a copy of the various official publications 
brought to light by the cares of his department. He has moreover, in 
accordance with the desire I had expressed to him, communicated the 
proposal in question to the other ministerial departments. The minister 
of finance has already declared that he is quite willing to give his adhe- 
sion thereto. I am persuaded that a similar statement will be made by 
my colleagues of the war, justice, and public works departments. 



756 HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

The best method to adopt with the view to secure the regular and 
collective dispatching of Belgian publications would be, seemingly, to 
collect them at the "science and letters division" of the ministry of the 
interior, so as to form the object of yearly or half yearly communication 
to the legation of the United States at Brussels, through the medium 
of my department. 

I join to my letter, Mr. Minister, a provisional list of documents that 
could be placed at the disposal of the Government of the United States. 
The departments of foreign affairs will add a few publications enumer- 
ated at the end of this list. Should you have no objection, Mr. Minister, 
to make to the disposition intended to be taken, a first sujjply of works 
might be prepared before the end of the year. 

The letter of the Minister of the Interior concludes as follows: 

"As far as public instruction is concerned the exchange proposed has 
already been made the object of a direct communication from Mr. Sanford, 
dated May 27 last. Mr. Sanford was informed, in replj^, that the United 
States must be in possession of the laws, decrees, and other documents 
relating to that service; that, in fact, the department of the interior has 
transmitted two coi)ies of them to the legation at the time of tlieir 
publication with request to be so kind as to forward one to the United 
States Government. The documents alluded to are the triennial reports 
in the three degrees of instruction. They contain everything connected 
with public teaching in our country. Mr. Sanford has been informed, 
besides, that, if he wished for it, another collection of these documents, 
as complete as possible, would be forwarded to him." 

The only thing requisite in this respect would therefore be to act in 
conformity with precedents. 

Please to receive, Mr. Minister, the assurance of my most distin- 
guished consideration. 

For the minister — Mr. Eogier, 

The Secretary-General, Baron Lambermont. 

llnclosure No. 3.] 

Legation of the United States, Brussels, October 19, 1867. 
His Excellency Monsieur Eogier, 

Minister of Foreign Affairs, (&c., tfcc, (&c. : 

Mr. Minister : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your 
excellency's letter, under date of 17th instant, relative to the proposition 
made in my communication of the 5th of July last, for an exchange of 
public documents. 

I thank you, Mr. Minister, for the interest you have been pleased to 
manifest on this subject, and I shall have great satisfaction in receiving 
and transmitting to my government the documents as proposed in your 
letter, and at such times as will be most convenient to your excellency's 
department. 

The documents referred to in the letter of his excellency the min- 
ister of the interior were specially designed for the Bureau of Educa- 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 757 

tion at Washinjiton. The triennial reports on public instruction period- 
ically sent to this legation by your colleague of the department of the 
interior have been duly transmitted to my government, and duplicates 
of these copies will not, therefore, be needed. 

Thanking yon again, Mr. Minister, for your courteous and liberal re- 
spouse to the suggestion of exchange of public documents, 

I pray your excellency to receive the renewed assurance of my high- 
est consideration. 

H. S. Sanfoed. 



Department of State, Washington, December 11, 1867. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Sniithsoman Institution : 
Sir : Eeferring to your circular of the 16th of May last, in regard to 
the x>roposed exchange of a certain number of all official documents of 
the United States for the corresponding publications of foreign govern- 
ments, I inclose for your information the translation of a note upon the 
subject which Mr. Berthemy, the French minister here, has addressed 
to the Department. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Seward. 

[^Inclosure. — Translation. ] 

Legation of France to the United States, 

Washington, November 15, 1867. 
Hon. William H. Seward : 

Mr. Secretary" of State : In conformity with the wish you did me 
the honor to express to me in your letter of 13th of June last, I hastened 
to transmit to the imperial government, in commending it to attention, 
a circular from Prof. J. Henry of the Smithsonian Institution concerning 
an exchange of documents of official character, edited in the United 
States, — for publications of a similar kind printed by order, and with the 
concurrence of foreign governments. 

In reply to the communication which was addressed to him on this 
subject by the minister for foreign affairs, the minister of agricultiue, 
commerce, and public works has made known to the Marquis de Mon- 
stier that he could give of what pertains to his department his assent 
to the project for exchange, and could dispose of publications relating 
to general statistics of France, and to special statistics of railroads, as 
well as of reports made on the labors of engineers of mines, of annals of 
commerce with foreign countries and some analogous documents. 

The minister for foreign affairs has charged me to bring this com- 
munication to your knowledge, and to add that the French administra- 
tion would take the measures necessary to effect the exchange in ques- 
tion, either through the medium of the legation of the United States at 
Paris or through my intervention, as soon as it be known what are the 



758 HISTORY OP THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

documents which the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is author- 
ized to send to France. 
Accept, Mr. Secretary of State, the assurance, of my high consideration. 

Berthemy, 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Wahington, January 21, 1868. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Sir: For your information, I inclose herewith a transcript of a dis- 
patch of the 19th ultimo, from the United States minister at Copenha- 
gen, relative to the proposed exchange of public documents between the 
United States and European governments. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Sev^ard. 

[Inclosare.'] 

No. 122.] Legation of the United States, 

Copenhagen, December 19, 1867. 
Hon. William H. Seward, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir : Recurring to the circular of the Department and to that of Pro- 
fessor Henry, of the Smithsonian Institution, touching aa. exchange of 
documents, books, and publications with European governments, I have 
now to add that Count Friss, in a note to me of the 17th of this month, 
informs me that the Danish Government has charged the " Eoyal Library 
of Copenhagen" with the execution of the arrangement on the part of 
this government, and he suggests that the Smithsonian Institution select 
an agent in this city to carry the interchange into effect by receiving 
and forwarding the books, &c. For the Department and the Smithso- 
nian Institution I have expressed satisfaction with this arrangement, 
and I cannot now think of a better local agent here than Mr. L. A. 
Heckoher, the United States vice-consul, who, I have no doubt, would 
act, and who is an intelligent, prompt, and careful business man. I 
have already forwarded one valuable scientific work to Professor Henry, 
in the care of Mr. Bille, charge d'affaires. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

George H. Yeaman. 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian InstitiTtion.] 

Department of State, Washington, February 7, 1868. 



Prof. Joseph Henry, 



Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution^ Washington : 
Sir : I have the honor to inclose, for your information, a copy in trans- 
lation of a note of the 23d ultimo addressed to this Department by Mr. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 75-9 

Bille, charg6 d'affaires of Denmark, and a copy of a note of the 25th ul- 
timo from Baron do Wetterstedt, the Swedish and Norwegian minister, 
both referring to your proposed exchange of oflicial documents between 
the Governments of Denmark and Sweden and Norway and the Govern- 
ment of the United States. 

I am, sir, your dbedient servant, 
William n. Seward. 

llnclosure No 1. — Translation. ] 

Legation of Denmark, Washington, January 23, 1868. 
Hon. William H. Seward, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir: The Royal Government has charged me to communicate to you 
that it is happy to give its adhesion to the exchange of official documents 
which during last year was proposed to it by the Government of the 
United States, and of which the Smithsonian Institution at Washington 
would serve as intermediary according to the organization planned in 
the letter of Mr. Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, dated 
May 16, 1867. 

I have the honor to add that the Grand Eoyal Library of Copenhagen 
is in charge, from this time, of all matters connected with such inter- 
change, and that the different branches of the Danish administration 
will place subject to the direction of the library the publicatious they 
may wish to offer to the Government of the United States. 

In consequence, and referring to the letter above mentioned from IVIr. 
Henry, I venture to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to please inform 
me who is the agent of the Smithsonian Institution who will, at Copen- 
hagen, be in charge of the packages intended for exchange with Den- 
mark. 

Please accept, Mr. Secretary of State, the assurances of my highest 
consideration. 

F. Bille. 

llnclosure No. 2. — Translation.] 

Legation of Sweden and Norway, 

Washington, January 25, 1868. 
Hon. William H. Seward, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir: Referring to my note of 19th June last year, in reply to yours 
of 13th same month, concerning a proposed exchange of official docu- 
ments, I have the honor to inclose copy of an official letter, received 
from the Norwegian department of the interior, under date 19th ultimo, 
in which the acceptation by Norway of the offer of exchange is made 
known, and to request you kindly to bring the contents of the letter to 
the notice of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, with high consideration, 
Sir, your obedient servant, 

N. W. DE Wetterstedt. 



760 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[Translation of an official letter from the Royal Norwegian Department of the Inte- 
rior to His Swedish and Noi-wegiau Majesty's minister at Washington, dated Chris- 
tiana, December 19, 1867.] 

Under date June 18, last year, you forwarded to tliis department 
transcript of a note from the State Department at Washington, and a 
printed copy of a memorandum containing a proposition to establish a 
system of exchange of printed official documents, &c., between the 
United States of America and other countries, under the direction, on 
the American side, of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington. 

In reply, the department will not fail to notify you, that the propo- 
sition is readily accepted from the JSTorwegian side, and that proper 
measures have been taken to the end that the exchange may take place 
from here in connection with the literary transmissions from the Univer- 
sity of Christiana under the direction of the secretary of the university. 

Ton are requested to bring the above to the knowledge of the proper 
authority at Washington, and also to co-operate to the end that the 
Smithsonian Institution may, in conformity with the ofi'er made in the 
memorandum, appoint an agent here in Christiana, by whom the Nor- 
wegian documents may be received for further transmission to Wash- 
ington. 

Bretteville. 
n. bonnevie. 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, February 8, 1868. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : I have the honor to inclose to you a copy of a communication 
received by Alvin P. Hovey, esq., minister resident at Lima, Peru, from 
the minister for foreign affairs of that Republic in reply to Mr. Hovey's 
note informing him of your proposition for an exchange of public docu- 
ments. 

I shall be pleased to receive such suggestions as you may deem it 
proper to make, so as to enable me to reply to Mr. Hovey on the subject. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
William H. Seward. 

llnclosure No. 1. — Translation.] 

No. 58.] Foreign Office, Lima, December 30, 1867. 

His Excellency the Minister of the United States: 

The esteemed note of your excellency, No. 54, was received at this 
office, inclosing a proposition from the Smithsonian Institution of Wash- 
ington, sent to your excellency by the Department of State proposing 
an exchange of the official documents of that Republic for those of this. 

I must mention to your excellency that the note referred to would 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 761 

have been long ago answered, but it was received just ])revious to your 
excellency's departure lor Chili. 

I also desire to thank the Government of the United States through 
your excellency for the kind offer made to the Government of Peru. 

The Government of Peru accepts with pleasure the proposition of 
your excellency's government, and I have the honor to inclose a copy 
of the decree issued by the President of Peru in relation to the matter. 

The government proposes to organize the exchange in the following 
manner : 

1. In the foreign office of Peru will be collected the different publi- 
cations and documents requisite for the exchange. 

2. To insure regularity in the exchange, the Government of Peru 
will send its publications to its consul in New York; and the Institution 
will send those it may desire to remit to the consul of the United States 
at Callao P.y these two officers the documents will be forwarded to 
their destination. 

3. It is deemed convenient that the exchange should commence from 
the beginning of the present year, 1868; but if the Institution thinks 
proper, any publications issued before that date will readily be ex- 
changed. 

4. With respect to the nature of the publications to be exchanged, 
I beg to call your excellency's attention to the inclosed list. If the 
Institution approves, the Peruvian Government will send the works 
contained in the first series, and afterward will continue sending each 
year, a copy of the works contained in the second series, receiving in 
exchange the corresponding publications issued in the United States. 

I l)eg that your excellency will transmit to the Institution these bases, 
and communicate the reply to this department, so that if the reply be 
favorable, the Peruvian Government may immediately commence its 
part in this arrangement. 

I beg to assure your excellency of my mostdistinguished consideration. 

I. A. Bareenechea. 

[^Inclosure No. 2. — Translation.] 

Lima, December 27, 1807. 
Having seen the note of his excellency the minister of the United 
States of America, and the adjoined circular of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution of Washington, proposing an exchange of the official documents 
of Peru for those of the United States, the proposal is accepted in all of 
its terms. 

Let the corresponding orders be given. 

To be registered, communicated, and imblished. 

Eubric of His Excellency the President. 
I. A. Bareenechea. 
Copy. 

I. Federico Elmoee, 

Chief ClerJc. 



762 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The U. S. Legation at China to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Legation of the United States, Peking, April 17, 1868. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : A circular from you, dated May 16, 1867, respecting the best 
method of carrying out the provisions of the law of Congress authoriz- 
ing the exchange of United States official documents for those of other 
countries, was received through the Department of State last year. It 
was only recently, however, that I found a convenient opportunity of 
ascertaining the views of the Chinese officials upon the proposal. The 
inclosed correspondence exhibits their views, but in addition to the 
statements made in my letter, the purposes, advantages, and results of 
the exchange were personally explained to Tung Siun, the most learned 
and literary member of the foreign office, whose name is perhaps 
already known to you for his version into Chinese of Longfellow's Psalm 
of Life. He entered into the plan with entire readiness, but stated that 
its adoption rested with another department of government from the 
one he belonged to, and might not therefore immediately be accepted. 

The Chinese Government has from time to time published or aided 
works of value, but it issues nothing like our reports of departments, 
nor has it any official organ for making known its operations, decrees, 
or appointments. The Red Book, or quarterly official list of incumbents 
in the civil and military service, and the Peking Gazette, are both al- 
lowed to be published under its sanction by private persons, who never 
add anything to the papers furnished them, but the Calendar is, so far 
as I know, the only authorized publication issued by any branch of the 
government. The three last Emperors have not equaled their prede- 
cessors in their patronage of letters, and if an exchange of a suitable se- 
lection of the books printed by order of Congress can, by and by, be made 
for some of the statistical and political works of former monarchs, the 
result would no doubt be mutually atlvantageous. 

The United Learning College, of which mention is made in th*e cor- 
respondence, if it succeeds in carrying out the designs of its founders, 
will, in a few years, educate natives who will be able to turn the infor. 
mation given in our books to good account. At present, I do not think 
that there are a score of Chinese in the whole country who are able to 
fully understand them, but it is even more probable that there is not 
half that number of persons in the United States (not including Chinese) 
who could intelligently consult the works which this government might 
send to you in exchange. It is perhaps best then not to press the sub- 
ject at present. 

I am, sir, with esteem, 

Very respectfully your obedient servant, 
S. Wells Williams. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 763 

[The Indian Survey Office to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Ko. 131.] Geological Survey Office, 

Calcutta, October 26, 1868. 
Professor Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution^ Washington: 

Dear Sir : In the last packet of books received by me from the Smith- 
sonian Institution I found a printed notice proposing to establish, through 
the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, a system of exchange of the 
various public documents printed and issued under the sanction of the 
Government of the United States, for similar documents issued by other 
governments. 

I at once submitted this proposal to the secretary to the Government 
of India, expressing a hope that the proposition might be favorably re- 
ceived. And I am now instructed to inform you that the Government 
of India will be happy at once to enter upon a system of reciprocal ex- 
change of their public documents with the Government of the United 
States, through your Institution. 

I have further the pleasure to inclose to you a list of such reports and 
other documents as are at the present available. It is possible also that 
some of the former numbers of those which have appeared in series can 
be obtained. 

As soon as I shall have the pleasure of hearing from you, whether 
such a series will be acceptable, the books can be packed and forwarded 
to the Smithsonian Institution , as you may desire. Books for Calcutta 
should be forwarded direct by ship (the quickest way), or sent to London, 
to the care of the Secretary of State for India, India Office. 

All parcels should be addressed to the Secretary to Government of 
India, Home Department, Calcutta. 

I trust that both this country and the United States may long con- 
tinue to reap the important advantages which must result from a free 
interchange of such documents relating to either country. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant. 

Thomas Oldham, 
Superintendent of the Geological Survey of India. 



[The Government of Colombia to the State Department.] 

Bogota, November — , 1869. 
His Excellency the Secretary of State 

of the United States of America: 
The Colombian Government considers the exchange of their respect- 
ive literary and scientific protluctions as an effective means of develop- 
ing the civilization and wealth of nations, of drawing their mutual re- 
lations closer, and of rendering the same more fraternal. 



7G4 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Desiring to coutribiite to the attainment of an object which, for this 
country, is so important, the Governmejit of the Union issued the decree 
of the 23d of January, 1868, "which establishes, in the national library, 
a central bureau for the exchange of the national publications for those 
of other American countries." 

That your government may become acquainted with the provisions 
of said decree, the undersigned secretary of the interior and of foreign 
relations has the honor to send your excellency a copy of the same. 

And as the executive power of the Union does not doubt that the pro- 
ject contained in this decree will be accepted by your excellency's gov- 
ernment, it has ordered the box containing the first collection of Colom- 
bian publications, intended for your country, to be sent to the national 
administrator of finance at Santa Marta, to be held by him at the dispo- 
sal of your government, or of its librarian. A list of these publications 
is given in the annexed note, addressed by the national librarian to the 
librarian of the United States of America. 

The undersigned begs your excellency to obtain from the most excel- 
lent President of your Eepublic the adoption of this project, and the 
making of the necessary arrangements, that it may be carried out; and 
is happy to present you the assurances of the very distinguished con- 
sideration with which he has the honor to be, 

Your excellency's obedient servant, 
Anto. M. Pradillo. 

[_IjicIosure. — Translation. ] 

DECREE ESTABLISHING, IN THE NATIONAL LIBRARY, A CENTRAL OFFICE FOR THE 
EXCHANGE OF THE NATIONAL PUBLICATIONS WITH THOSE OF THE OTHER COUN- 
TRIES OF AMERICA. 

The President of the United States of Colombia, considering — 

1st. That the literary and scientific works of the nation are very little 
known and circulated outside of the country, on account of the lack of 
relations established for this purpose ; 

2d. That the republics of the United States of America, Bolivia, and 
Chili have already initiated the establishment of such relations with 
the Colombian Union, and that it is not doubtful that the other Ameri- 
can nations will gladly welcome the organization of exchanges of pub- 
lications which may make us better known to each other; and 

3d. That no means can more efficaciously contribute to the cause of 
enlightenment, and towards the fraternity of the nations of America, 
than the establishment of a literary and scientific correspondence among 
the different peoples, which would be the result of such exchanges — 

DECREE. 

Article 1. There is established in the national library, under charge 
of the librarian, a central office for the exchange of official publications 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 7G5 

and of such literary and scientific works as the national government, 
the governments of the states of the Union, and private individnals, 
anthors or publishers, may designate to be sent to other American coun- 
tries, in exchange for their publications. 

Art. 2. The national librarian shall enter, directly, into such nego- 
tiations or correspondence with the librarians of the other countries of 
America as may be necessary to establish the regular exchanges and 
literary relations which are the object of the present decree. 

Art. 3. The national administration of finance in the state of Panama, 
and the Colombian Consuls-generals and private individuals in the na- 
tions of America, shall assist the national librarian in carrying out the 
projected exchanges, acting as intermediate agents, and promoting and 
facilitating said exchanges so far as it may be in their power to do so. 
The librarian may communicate directly, for the purposes indicated, 
with the consuls of Colombia, and with the administrator of national 
finance in Panama, and for the greater security of his letters to other 
countries, he may send them, if he shall think proper, through the depart- 
ment of the interior and of foreign relations. 

Art. 4. There shall be placed at the disposal of the librarian twenty- 
five copies of each of the official publications of the country which shall 
hereafter appear, for the objects of this decree, and twenty-five copies 
of those now in the archives or in the national library, in order that 
he may remit the same, together with the invitation which he shall ad- 
dress to each one of the libraries of America, to establish exchanges. 

Art. 5. The librarian shall propose to the executive the purchase 
of such non-otficial publications as he may deem suitable to be sent in 
exchange. If the executive shall think that the publications proposed 
ought to be purchased for said purpose, he shall issue an order to that 
effect, and the cost of the same shall be paid from the national contin- 
gent fund for "sundry expenses" of the dei)artment of the interior. 

Art. 6. There shall be addressed by the department of the interior 
and of foreign relations, to the governments of America, a circular 
giving notice of the provisions of this decree, and calling their attention 
to the importance of their adopting the proper means to carry out the 
beneficent plan of establishing and systematizing our literary and 
scientific relations. 

Art. 7. There shall likewise be addressed, by the same department^ 
a circular to the governments of the Colombian states, urging them to 
aid in the execution of the provisions of this decree by all the means in 
their i)0wer. 

Art. 8. The national librarian may extend the provisions of this 
decree to some of the libraries and establishments for the publication 
and sale of books in Europe. 

Art. 9. All works which may be sent to this office in exchange for 
national publications shall be preserved in their respective places in 



766 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

accordance with the prescriptions of the executive decree of the 21st 
instant, providing for the proper "arrangement of the national library." 

Given at Bogota, January 23, 1868. 

Santos Acosta, 

President 
OIrlos Maetin, 

Secretary of the Interior and of Foreign Relations. 



[The National Library of Colombia to tbe Smithsonian Institution.] 
[Translation.] 

United States of Colombia, National Library, 
Central Office of Exchanges, 

Bogota, November 17, 1869. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington : 

In the month of November, 1867, the Hon. General Sullivan, who was 
then minister resident of the Union near our government, communicated 
to the latter the law passed by Congress authorizing the exchange of 
official publications for those of other countries, under the direction of 
the Smithsonian Institution. The Government of Colombia accepted, 
and furnished to the minister all the data which he had thought proper 
to ask, at the same time conferring on me the honor of designating me for 
the management of everything relating to the subject. 

Subsequently, the national executive drew up the decree of the 23d 
of January, 1868, " establishing in the national library a central office 
of exchanges of the national i^ublications for those of the other countries 
of America;" an authenticated copy of which decree I have the honor 
of herewith transmitting. 

Authorized, therefore, as well by the commission received from the 
government on the occasion n amed, as by the decree which I inclose, I take 
the liberty of addressing myself to you, now that the central bureau of 
exchanges is beginning to operate with all desirable regularity, having 
overcome the- embarrassments and impediments incident to every office 
recently created, and which have hitherto delayed the official invitation 
which I have now the honor of submitting to you. 

It is quite time that populations should be brought into contact, and 
that, for their mutual advancement, they should come to know one 
another by the initiation of literary relations. But, that this end might 
be satisfied and not remain a simple project, it was necessary that in- 
troductory measures should be taken by the government, giving at the 
same time greater security to the exchanges and encouraging private 
individuals to furnish their productions under the guarantee thus pro- 
vided that they will be duly forwarded. 

The noble object of the Smithsonian Institution absolves me from the 
necessity of troubling you with considerations relating to the utility and 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 767 

convenience of the proposed exchanges, but inasmuch as an under- 
standing should exist between us respecting the manner of verifying 
them, I submit to your consideration the proposition that the Govern- 
ment of Colombia should place the packages intended for remittance 
by the library in the port of Santa Marta, Avhere they will be delivered 
by the administrator of the national property to the person whom you 
may be pleased to designate, and that the same national functionary 
shall receive at that i)ort those which you may be so good as to send us. 
Desiring that, uutil this be possible, there should be a general basis for 
the exchange of publications, it seems to me equitable that this oflace 
should deliver and receive in our own sea-ports. 

As a first remittance, I have the honor of dispatching a case contain- 
ing 204 volumes, pamphlets, collections, &c., as will be found detailed 
in the annexed catalogue. Of some of these publications it has not been 
possible, for the moment, to send complete collections, but I have taken 
a note of the numbers or deliveries which are wanting, in order that 
they may be sent in subsequent remittances. 

This case is directed to Santa Marta, to the care of the administrator 
of the national property. He will keep it in his own custody until you 
shall be pleased to give instructions respecting the person to whom it 
shall be delivered. For the next, I shall be guided by the directions 
which you may think proper to communicate to me, but in the present 
instance it seemed more convenient that you should directly instruct 
the administrator {administrador de hacienda nacional) as to the disposal 
of the case m question, with a view to save the time which would be lost 
by an exchange of notes. 

It remains to be mentioned that a case, with like contents, is remitted, 
at the same date with the above, for the national library at Washing- 
ton ; so that the one in question is expressly destined for the Institution 
over which you i)reside as Secretary. 

I am led to hope that the remittances will promptly be augmented, 
both in number and importance; but the honor will still inure to me of 
having exchanged with you the first notes on the inception of these 
literary relations, an honor which I prize the more highly from its af- 
fording me the occasion ofexpressing the respect and high consideration 
with which I am 

Your very obedient servant, 
Otava, 
Librarian^ and Director of Exchanges. 

In October, 1874, four cases of documents were sent to the Govern- 
ment of Ontario, Toronto; and in November, 1874, five cases to the 
Parliamentary Library, Ottawa ; five cases to the Government of Japan, 
and four cases to the Bibliothek des Deutschen Keichstag, Berlin. 

A number of boxes were also shipped to the agents of the Institution 
in Europe, to be held by them for further instructions. 



768 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

A large quautity of these public documents having accumulated at 
the Institution, it became necessary to provide for their distribution 
without further delay, and accordingly the Institution issued, iu 1875, 
the following circular: 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, October 1, 1875. 

The Congress of the United States has authorized the exchange, under 
the direction of the Joint Library Committee of Congress, through the 
Smithsonian Institution, of a certain number of all United States of- 
ficial documents for the corresponding publications of other govern- 
ments throughout the world, tlie returns to be placed in the national 
library at Washington. The works to be distributed consist of reports 
and proceedings of Congress, messages of the President, annual reports 
and occasional publications of departments and bureaus, &g., the whole 
relating to the legislation, jurisprudence, foreign relations, commerce, 
statistics, arts, manufactures, agriculture, geography, hydrography, &c., 
of the United States, and including everything, of whatever nature, 
published either by direct order of Congress or by any of the depart- 
ments of the government. The series embraces a large number of vol- 
umes each year, the most of which are bound. 

The exchange expected from each government is a complete series of 
its publications, to include the documents of special bureaus or depart- 
ments as well as the general publications, of whatever nature, printed 
at the public expense, and also embracing all such works as are pub- 
lished by booksellers with the aid of grants or subscriptions from gov- 
ernments. 

The Smithsonian Institution, in behalf of the Joint Library Com- 
mittee of Congress, is prepared to deliver the publications of the 
United States, free of charge for freight, to any person in the city of 
Washington or in New York who may be designated by the govern- 
ments which enter into the arrangement. 

The books intended for the United States are to be delivered to 
either of the Smithsonian agents, viz : 

London. — William Wesley, 28 Essex street. Strand. 

Paris. — G. Bossange, 16 Eue du 4 Septerabre. 

Leipsic—Dv. Felix Fliigel, 12 Sidouien strasse. 

St. Petersburg. — L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place. 

Amsterdam. — F. Miiller, Heerengracht. 

Milan. — U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia. 

Harlem. — Bureau Scientifique Central Neerlandais. 

Ghristiania. — Kongelige Korske Fredericks Universitetet. 

Stochkolm. — Kongeliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. 

Gojienhagen — Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. 

For all other countries packages may be delivered to the United 

States ministers. An invoice for each transmission should be sent by 

mail to the Institution. 

Joseph Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



niSTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



7G9 



This circular was sent with the following letter to the foreign minis- 
ters in Washington representing the following countries: Argentine 
Kepublic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, Denmark, France, 
German Empire, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii, Hayti, Italy, Japan, 
Mexico, Netherlantls, Peru, Portugal, Paissia, Salvador, Spain, Sweden, 
Norway, Turkey, United States of Colombia, Venezuela : 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D. C, October 30, 1875. 
Sir: I have the honor, accompanying this, to transmit a circular re- 
lative to the exchange of the documents published by the United 
States with those of other nations, and to request you to state to whom 
the boxes now ready for transmission, intended for your government, 
shall be delivered. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Joseph Henry, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

In accordance with the instructions received by the Institution, in 
response to the foregoing letter, the following distribution of documents 
was made : 

Argentine Repuhlic. — Six cases, sent to G. Videla Dorna, Albemarle 
Hotel, Xew York. 

Belgium. — Six cases, sent to Peter Wright «& Sons, Philadelphia. 

Brazil. — Six cases, sent to vice-consul, 52 South Gay street, Baltimore. 

Chili. — Six cases, sent to Muiioz & Espriella, 52 Pine street, New York. 

France. — Six cases, sent to consul-general of France, New York. 

Mexico. — Six cases, sent to Juan N. Navarro, consul-general of Mex- 
ico, New York. 

Portugal. — Six cases, sent to consul-general of Portugal, New York. 

Sweden. — Six cases, sent to consulate, 18 Exchange Place, New York. 

TurTcey. — Six cases, sent to legation, Washington, D. C. 

During the year 187G, 120 boxes of documents were forwarded, the 
following being a list of the distribution: 



Places sent to. 



Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada 

Chili 

England. 

Germany 

Havti 

Holland 

Japan , 

Mexico 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 



Boxes. 



Places sent to. 



Prussia 

Queensland 

Saxony 

Scotland 

Spain 

South Australia 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Total 



Boxes. 



120 



S. Mis. lOD- 



-49 



770 HISTOPtY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, D. 0., May 29, 187G. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, &c., &c., &c. : 

SiE : I herewith inclose a copy of a note, dated the 22d instant, which 
has been received from Sir Edward Thornton, the British minister at 
this capital, respecting the interchange of official documents between 
this country and Gre;it Britain, wherein, referring to certain circulars 
on this subject received by him from you in November last, he inquires 
whether the Smithsonian Institution is acting in behalf of the Govern- 
ment of the United States in this matter. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Hamilton Fish. 

llnclosiire. — Sir E. Thornton to Mr. Fish.] 

Washington, May 22, 187G. 
Hon. Hamilton Fish, &c., &c.: 

SiE, : I have the honor to inclose copies of two circulars which I re- 
ceived in November last from Professor Henry, Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, relative to the exchange of official documents between 
the Governments of the United States and of Her Majesty. I forwarded 
copies of the circulars to Lord Derby, but as it does not appear that any 
formal arrangement has yet been made between the two governments 
for the general exchange of official documents, his lordshij) has directed 
me to inquire whether the Smithsonian Institution is acting on behalf 
of the Government of the United States. I shall have much pleasure 
in conferring with you upon this subject during my next visit to the Stat© 
Department with a view to ascertain more i^recisely what would be the 
British official documents which the United States Government would 
desu'e to receive in exchange for those of this country. 

I have the honor to be, wii-h the highest consideration, 
Sir, your obedient servant, 

Edward Thornton. 



[The Smithsonian Institution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, June 2, 1876, 
Hon. Hamilton Fish, 

Secretary of State : 

Dear Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your let- 
ter of the 29th ultimo, and the accompanying letter from Sir Edward 
Thornton, relative to the question whether the Smithsonian Institution 
is acting in behalf of the Government of the United States as agent 
in the exchange of public documents between the government of this 
country and that of Great Britain. 

As a reply to this question I beg leave to refer you to the acts of Con- 



I 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 771 

gress approved by tlie President of the United States, March 2, 1SG7 
(Stat., vol. xiv, p. 573) ; July 25, 1SG8 (Stat., vol. xv, p. 2G0) ; sec. 370G 
Eev. Stat. 

As to the question what official documents the United States Gov- 
ernment desires to receive Irom Great Britain, I would say that as the 
United States Government intends to send a fidl set of everything- that 
is ijrinted at the government expense, a similar return would be ex- 
pected of all documents published by the British Government. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Joseph Henry, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institution. ] 

Department of State, Washington, March 23, 1877. 

Prof. Joseph Henky, 

Washington, B. C, <&€., <&€., &c. : 

Sir: I inclose herewith, for your information, a copy of a dispatch of 

the 7th instant, ISTo. 138, from Mr. Pierrepont, the minister for the United 

States at London, relating to the subject of international exchange of 

public documents. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

F. W. Seward, 

Assistant Secretary, 
llnclosure."] 

Ko. 138.] Legation of the United States, 

London, March 7, 1877. 
Hon. Hamilton Eish, 

Secretary of State, &c., &e., &c., Washington, D. C: 
Sir : I received sometime since from Professor Henry, of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, a letter in relation to the international exchange of 
documents between the United States and Great Britain, and inclosing 
a circular upon the subject. 

I was not able conveniently to bring the matter to the attention of 
Lord Derby until the 20th of October last, when I sent to him a copy of 
Dr. Henry's letter and ckcular, and requested him to refer the subject 
to the proper authorities. 

He acknowledged the receipt of my communication on the 31st of 
October, but it was not until the 1st instant that I received from his 
lordship a definite answer to Dr. Henry's proposal, a copj* of whicli 
answer I herewith inclose, and ask that you will do me the favor to 
communicate it to Dr. Henry. 

I have the honor to be, 
With great respect, your obedient servant, 
Edwards Pierrepont. 



772 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[7?!c7oswre.] 
[Lord Derby to Mr. Pierrepont.] 

Foreign Office, March 1, 1877. 
Hon. Edwards Pierrepont, &g.^ <&c., &c.: 

Sir : With reference to my letter of 31st of October last, I have the 
honor to acquaint you that the proposal of the Smithsonian Institution 
for an interchange of documents between the United States and this 
country has been considered by the lords of Her Majesty's treasury, 
and that they have informed me that they do not think it expedient 
to agree to an unlimited and indiscriminate exchange of papers, the 
greater part of which would be only of local and temporary interest. 

Arrangements have been made for the purchase for Her Majesty's 
government of the Congressional documents issued from year to year, 
which appear to include all that is required for the use of this depart- 
ment. 

I have accordingly the honor to request that you will be so good as 
to inform Professor Henry that Her Majesty is grateful for the offer 
made by the Smithsonian Institution, but are not prepared to enter 
into an arrangement for the unlimited interchange of documents sug- 
gested in his letter to you of the 21st of July last. 

I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration. 
Sir, your most obedient, humble servant, 

Derby. 



[Legation of Austria-Hungary to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Saratoga, July 31, 1878. 
Professor S. F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir. : In compliance with the wishes expressed by the imperial and royal 
minister of finances, I have the honor to transmit you herewith for the 
library of the Smithsonian Institution a complete file of the publications 
concerning various projects of law, presented by the Austro-Hungarian 
Government to the delegations of the Austro-Hungarian Empire dur- 
ing the session December 3, 1877 — June 7, 1878, as well as of all the 
resolutions adopted by the said delegations and sanctioned hereafter 
by His Imperial and Eoyal Apostolic Majesty. 

Eeceive, sir, the assurances of my very distinguished consideration, 

Taverez, 
ChargS d' Affaires of Austria-Hungary. 

Arrangements effected with most of the governments interested in 
the system of exchanges have resulted in instructions to their respective 
representatives in Washington to facilitate such operations officially ; 
and accordingly their several consuls at New York and Baltimore now 
act as forwarding agents. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 
SJiipping agents of government exchange. 



773 



Countries. 


Agents. 


Argentine Republic 

Bavaria 


Consul-General Carlos Carranza, New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltiuiore. 


Belgium 


White Cross Line and Red Star Line, New York. 




Consul Charles Mackall, Baltimore. 


Buenos Ayros. 


Carlos Carranza, consul-general. New York. 




Baltimore aud Ohio Express Comj^any. 
Consul-General C. de Castro, New York. 


Chili 


Cuba 


Consul-General Hipolito de Uriarte, New York. 
Consul-General Henrick Braem, New York. 


Denmark . 


Ecuador 


Consul Francis Spies, New York. 
Compaguie Gen6rale Transatlantiquc, New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 
Do. 


France 




Great Britain ...... 


Greece . ..... 


Consul-General D. W. Botassi, New York. 


Guatemala 


Consul Jacob Baez, Now York. 


Hayti 


Atlas Steamship Company, New York. 
Consul-General M. Raffo, New York. 


Italy 




Consul-General Samro Takaki, New York. 


Mexico . .. 


Consul-General Juan N. Navarro, New York. 




Consul-General R. C. Burla""c, New York. 


New Soutb Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway .... 


R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
Consul-Gener.al Christian Bors, New York. 




Consul-General Gustav Amsiuk, New York. 


Prussia 


North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 
Do. 




Russia . ... 


Hamburg American Packet Company, New York. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 




South Australia 


R. W. Cameron &, Co., New York. 




Consul-General Hipolito de Uriarte, New York. 
Consul-General Christian Beers, New York. 


Sweden 




North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 
Do. 


Tasmania . 


Turkey 


Turkish legation, Washington, D. C. 


Venezuela 


Consul-General G. de Garmeudia, New York. 




R. W. Cameron & Co. , New York. 


Wiirtemberg 


North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 





Governments in exchange with the United States Government. 



Governments. 


Establishments designated for the reception of the United 
States Government publicatious. 


Argentine Republic 

Bavaria 


Minister of Foreign Alfjiirs, Buenos .\yres. 
Kouiglicho Bibliothek, Munich. 


Belgium 


Bibliothcque Royale, Brussels. 

Commission of International Exchanfc, Rio Janeiro. 


Brazil 


Buenos Aj^res 


Government of Buenos .\yres, Buenos Ayres. 
Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 


Canada 


Chili 


Legislative Library, Toronto. 
Museo Nacional, Santiago. 


Denmark .. .. 


Kougelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen. 
Government, Paris. 


France ..... .... 


Germany ... ... 


Reichsta"'s Bibliothek, Berlin. 


Great Britain 


British Museum, London. 


Greece 


Bibliotheque Nationale. 


Hayti 


Italy 


Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emauuele, Rome. 



774 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

Governments in excliange ^ciih the United States Govei'nment — Continued. 



Governments. 


Establishments designated for the reception of the United 
States Government publications. 


Japan .... . ...... 


Minister of fbreign affairs, Tokio. 
Government, Mexico. 


Mexico ........... 




Library of the States General, the Hague. 


New South Wales 

New Z6alan(l . 


Parliamentary Lii^rary, Sydney. 
Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 
Foreign office, Christiania. 


Norway 


Portn ofal 


Government, Lisbon. 


Prussia . . 


Kouigliche Bibliothek, Berlin. 




Government, Brisbane. 


Russi a .. .......... 


ComniLssion des Echanges Intemationanx, St. Petersburg. 


Saxony 


Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden. 


Sonth Australia 


Government, Adehiide. 




Government, Madrid. 


Sweden 


Government, Stockholm. 


Tasmania 


Eidgenossensche Buudes Canzley, Berne. 
Parliamentary Library, Hobarton. 
Government, Constantinople. 
University Library, Caracas. 




Venezuela . . . .. 


Victoria 


Public Library, Melbourne. 


Wiirteniberg 


Kouigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart. 







Transmissions of Government exchanges. 




Argentine Republic. 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayrcs 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Toronto) . . . 

Chili 

Denmark 

England 

France 

Second set 

Germany 

Greece 

Hayti 

Holland 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

New South Wales. . . 

New Zealand 

Norw.ay 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Kussia 

Saxony 

Scotland 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland , 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

"Wiirtemberg 



Nov. te, 
Aug. 16, 
Nov. 20, 
Nov. 17. 
Nov. 21, 
Nov. 5, 
Oct. 10, 
June 18, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. II, 
Nov. 11, 
July 3, 
Oct. 8, 
Nov. 21, 
Jnlv 24, 
Dec. 14, 
Fob. 23, 
Nov. 2, 
Dec. 1, 
July 30, 
...do . 
June \f, 
Nov. 11, 
Aug. 7, 
June 9, 
Nov. 2, 
Aug. 28, 
Dec. 26, 
July 3, 
Dec. 9, 
Nov. 11, 
Oct. 31, 
July 15, 
Nov. 9, 
July £4, 
June 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1875 

1878 

1 

1875 

1876 

1874 

1874 

187.5 

1879 

1.S76 

1875 

1879 

1874 

1877 

1876 

1875 

1881 

1874 

1875 

1876 



1873 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



Nov. 18, 
Aug. 16, 
Nov. 20, 
Nov. 17, 
Nov. 21, 
Nov. 5, 
Oct. 10, 
Juno 18, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 11, 
Nov. 11, 
July 3, 
Oct. 8, 
Nov. 21, 
July 24, 
Dec. 14, 
Feb. 23, 
Nov. 2, 
Doc. 1, 
July 30, 

i do . 

June 18, 
Nov. 11, 
Aug. 7, 
June 9, 
Nov. 2, 
Aug. 28, 
Dec. 26, 
July 3, 
Dec. 9, 
Nov. n, 
Oct. 31, 
July 15, 
Nov. 9, 
July 24, 
June 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1874 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1877 
1876 
1875 
1881 
1S74 
1875 
1876 



1873 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



Nov. 18. 
Aug. 16, 
Nov. 20, 
Nov. 17, 
Nov. 21, 
Nov. 5, 
Oct. 10, 
Jan. 31, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 11, 
Nov. 11, 
July 3, 
Oct. 8, 
Oct. 10, 
July 24, 
Dec. 14, 
Feb. 23, 
Nov. 2, 
Dec. 3, 
Julv 30, 
. . . .do . . 
Dec. 11, 
Nov. n, 
Aug. 7, 
June 9, 
Nov. 2, 
Aug. 28, 
Dec. 26, 
July 3, 
Dec. 9, 
Nov. 11, 
Oct. 31, 
July 15, 
Nov. 9, 
July 24, 
Juno 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1875 

1878 

1875 

1875 

1876 

1874 

1874 ; 

1875 

1879 

1876 

1875 

1879 

1874 

1877 

1876 

1875 

1881 

1874 

1875 

1876 



1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
187G 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



Nov. 18, 
Aug. 16, 
Nov. 20 
Nov. 17 
Nov. 21 
Nov. 5 
Oct. 10, 
Jan. 31 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 11 
Nov. 11 
July 3, 
Oct. 8 
Oct. 10 
July 24 
Dec. 14 
Feb. 23, 
Nov. 2, 
Dec. 1 
Julv 30 

...do. : 

Dec. 11 
Nov. 11 
Aug. 7 
June 9, 
Nov. 2 
Aug. 28, 
Dec. 26 
Julv 3, 
Dec. 9 
Nov. 11 
Oct. 31 
July 15 
Nov. 9, 
July 24, 
June 9 
Jan. 28, 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1874 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1875 
1879 
1874 
1877 
1876 
1875 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1876 

1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



Nov. 18, 

Aug. 16. 

Nov. 20, 

Nov. 17, 

Nov. 21, 

Nov. 5, 

Dec. 13, 

Jan 31, 

Mar. 20, 

Sept. 11, 

Nov. 11, 

July 3, 

Aug. 7, 

Oct. 10, 

July 24, 

Dec. 14, 

Feb. 23, 

Nov. 2, 

Dec. 1, 

Julv 30, 
.. do... 

Dec. 11, 

Nov. 11, 

Aug. 7, 

June 9, 

Nov. 2, 

Aug. 28, 

Dec. 26, 

Julv 3, 

Dec. 9, 

Nov. 11, 

Oct. 31, 

July 15, 

Nov. 9, 

July 24, 

June G, 

Jan 28, 



1875 
1878 
1^75 
1875 
1876 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1875 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1876 



1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1876 
187d 
1878 
187^ 
1875 
18761 
1876 
1873 
1^78 
1876i 
1879' 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 
Transmissions of Government exchanges — Continued. 



775 



Country. 



BosF(6). 



Box G (7). 



Box H (8). 



Box I (9). 



Box K (10). 



Argentine Republic . 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buonos xVyres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Toronto) .. 

Chili 

Denmark 

England 

France - 

Second set 

Germany 

Greece 

Hayti 

Holland 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

New South "Wales . . . 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

llussia 

Saxony 

Scotland 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turliey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

'Wiirtemberg 



Nov. 18, 
Aug. 16, 
Nov. 20, 
Nov. 17, 
Nov. 'Jl, 
Dec. 13, 
. . do . . 
Dec. 1, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 11, 
Nov. 11, 
July 3, 
Aug. 7, 
Oct. 10, 
July 24, 
Dec. U, 
Feb. 23, 
Nov. 9, 
Dec. 1, 
Julv, 
. . . do . . 
Dec. 11, 
Nov. 11, 
Aug. 7, 
June !>, 
Nov. 2, 
Aug. 28, 
Dec, 
July 3, 
Dec. 9, 
Nov. 11, 
Oct., 
Jnly, 
Nov. 9, 
July 24, 
June 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1876 
1875 



1875 
1879 
187fi 
1875 
1879 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1875 
1881 
1875 
1875 
1876 ! 



1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 

IHSI 

1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



Dec. 12, 
Aug. 16, 
Oct. 31, 
....do .. 
Nov. 21, 
Oct., 
...do.. 
...do.. 
Mar. 20, 
Oct. 15, 
Mar. 20, 
July 3, 
Oct. 15, 
Oct. 10, 
Oct. 31, 
Oct. 15, 
Fob. 23, 
Oct. 24, 
Oct. 15, 
Oct. 9, 
....do .. 
Dec. 11, 
Oct. 15, 
. . . do . . 
Oct. 9, 
Nov^. 2, 
Oct. 1.1, 
Dec. 20, 
Oct. 9, 
Dec. 9, 
Dec. 20, 
Oct. 15, 
Oct. 9, 
Nov. 21, 
Oct. 31, 
Oct. 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1877 
1878 
1876 



1876 
1876 



1879 
1876 
1877 
1879 
1876 
1877 
1877 
1876 
1881 
1876 
1876 
1S76 



1876 
1876 

1876 
18S1 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1876 
1877 
1876 
1879 



Doc. 12, 
Aug. 10, 
Mar. 20, 
....do .. 
Doc. 12, 
Apr. 28, 

do . 

Mat. 20, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 22, 
Mar. 20, 
July 3, 
Mar. 20, 
Oct. 10, 
Oct. 31, 
...do.. 
Feb. 23, 
Oct. 24, 
Mar. 20, 
Nov. 9, 
... do .. 
Oct. 31, 
Mar. 20, 
....do . 
Nov, 9, 
Nov. 2, 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 22, 
Nov. 9, 
Nov. 10, 
Oct. 31, 
Mar. 20, 
Nov. 9, 
Mar. 20, 
Oct. 31, 
Nov. 9, 
Jan. 28, 



1877 
1878 
1877 



1877 
1877 



1877 
1879 
1877 
1877 
1879 
1877 
1877 
1877 



1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 



1877 
1877 



1877 
If^Sl 
1877 

1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 



Dec. 12, 
Aug. 16, 
Oct. 31, 
...do .. 
Dec. 12, 
Oct. 31, 
. . . .do . . 
....do .. 
Mar. 20, 
Sept. 22, 
Oct. 5, 
July 3, 
Sept. 12, 
Oct. 10, 
Oct. 31, 
...do .. 
Feb. 23, 
Sept. 13, 
Oct. 31, 
Oct. 17, 
....do.. 
Oct. 31, 
...do . 
Sept. 12, 
Oct. 17, 
Nov. 2, 
Sept. 12, 

do .. 

Oct. 17, 
Nov. 16, 
Oct. 31, 
Sept. 17, 
Oct. 17, 
Sept. 13, 
Oct. 31, 
Oct. 17, 
Jan. 28, 



1877 
1878 
1877 

1877 
1877 



1879 
1877 
1877 
1879 
1877 
1877 
1879 



1881 

1877 
1877 
1877 



1877 



1877 
1877 
1881 

1877 



1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 



Jan. 12,1878 
Aug. 16, lr78 
Jan. 12, 1878 

...do 

.. do 

...do 

...do 

do ... 
Mar. 20, 1879 
Jan. 12, 1878 

...do 

July 3, 1879 
Jan. 12, 1S78 

...do 

....do 

. do 

Feb. 23,1881 
Jan. 1-2, 1878 

-do 

..do 

..do 

..do 

. do 

. do 

do 

Nov. 2, 1-^81 
Jan. 12,1878 

...do 

... do 

... do 

...do 

...do 

...do 

....do 

... do 

.-..do 

Jan. 28, 1j:<79 



Transmissions of Government exchanges — Continued. 



Country. 



Box L (11). 



Box M (12). 



Box N (13). 



Box O (14). 



BoxP (15). 



Argentine Republic. 

Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Can:id» ((jttawa) 

Canada (Toronto) ... 

Chili 

Denmark 

England 

Franco 

Second set 

Germany 

Greece 

Hayti 

Holland 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Now South Wales. .. 

Now Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

Scotland 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

"Wiirtemberg 



Oct. 4, 1878 
Oct. 23,1878 
Oct. .5, 187-* 
Oct 23,1878 
Oct. 4, 1878 
Oct. 5, 1878 

.. do 

...do 

Mar. 20, 1879 
Oct. 5, 1878 
....do... 
July 3,1879 
Oct 23,1878 
Oct, 5, 1878 
4, 1878 
5, 1878 
23. 1881 
5, 1878 
4, 1878 

...do 

...do 

Oct. 5,1878 

...do 

Oct 23,1878 

4, 1878 

2, 1881 

23, 1878 

5, 1878 

4,1878 

1,1878 

.5, 1878 

23, 1878 

4, 1878 

23, 1878 

1,1878 

4, 1878 



Oct 
Oct 
Feb. 
Oct. 
Oct, 



Oct. 
Nov. 
Oct 
Oct 
Oct 
Oct 
Oct 
Oct. 
Oct. 
Oct. 
Oct 
Oct 



Oct 11,1879 

...do 

....do 

...do 

....do 

...do 

....do 

... do 

....do 

Feb. 6, 1880 
Oct 11,1879 

...do 

...do 

...do 

....do 

Oct 13,1879 
Fob. 23, 1881 
Oct 11,1879 
Oct 13,1879 



.(10 



do 

do 

Sept. 19, 1879 
Oct 13,1879 

...do 

Nov. 2,1881 
Oct 13,1879 



July 30, 18S0 Apr. 13, 1881 

do Apr. 9,1881 

do Apr. 13, 1S81 

Apr. 9, 1881 
Apr. 13, 1881 
Apr. 9.1881 

do 

Apr. 13, 1881 

do 

Apr. 9,1881 

... do 

Apr. 13, 1881 
Apr. 9, le81 
Apr. 13, 1881 

do 

...do 

Apr. 9, 1881 
Apr. 13, 1881 

do 

... do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

Apr. 9,1881 

do 

Nov. 2,1881 
Apr. 9, 1881 



....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 

...do 

...do 

....do 

....do 

...do 

Feb. 23, 1881 
Julv 30, ls80 
....Ilo 



....do 

....do 

....do 

... do 

....do 

...do 

Nov. 2,1881 
July 30, 1880 



Jan. 28, 1870 



Oct 13,1879 
Sept 19, 1879 
Oct 13,1879 

..do 

..do 

..do 

-do 

-do 

Oct. 11,1879 



Nov. 2,1881 
Julv 30, 1880 

do 

....do 

....do 

...do 

... do 

....do 

....do 



Apr. 9,1881 

do 

...do 

Apr. 9,1881 

do 

....do 

...do 

Apr. 13, 1881 
Apr. 9,1881 



Oct 28, 1^81 

...do 

...do 

...do 

.....lo 

... do 

....do 

....do 

...do 

...do 

....do 

.. do 

....do 

....do 

... do 

....do 

....do 

... do 



...do 
...do 
... do 
....do 

.. do 
...do 
...do 
Nov. 

Oct 28, le81 



2, 1881 



Oct 28,18-1 

...do 

...do 

....do 

....do 

...do 

...do 

....do 

....do 



SUPPLEMENTARY NOTICE OF PROCEEDINGS CONSEQUENT UPON THE 
PARIS CONVENTION OF 1875. 

The Smithsonian Institution, which has thus for the third of a cen- 
tury undertaken, as one of its fiekls of activity, a system of free inter- 
national exchanges of the scientific and literary productions of all coun- 
tries, has now achieved a magnitude of operations beyond which it finds 
a further extension impossible with its present limited resources. It 
has been seen that for the last six years the average cost of its exchange 
system has slightly exceeded $10,000 per annum, or one-fourth of its 
entire income. The growing disposition among various governments, 
within this period, to support a system of mutual exchange, inspired 
the hope tbat our own government would lend its aid in co-operating 
with so beneficent an enterprise, and in thus establishing our own ex- 
changes upon a truly national basis. With this view various eflbrts 
have been made by this Institution; first, to obtain government aid in 
defraying the expenses incurred in the distribution of government pub- 
lications; and secondly, to secure the recognition of the really national 
service of the Smithsonian exchanges generally, and to induce Conuress 
to relieve the Institution of its now over-grown burden; so that its funds 
might be applied to other pressing demands for "the increase and ditfu- 
sion of knowledge among men." 

An account of the international congress of Paris, and of the concur- 
rence of various governments in its recommendations, is here subjoined, 
together with the principal portion of the Smithsonian correspondence 
with the State Department, in relation to the subject of international 
exchanges. 

During the months of August and September, 1875, au international 
congress of geogTaphical sciences was held at Paris, consisting of several 
hundred delegates from all parts of the globe, and representing the 
following national governments : Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Chili, 
Dominican Eepublic, France, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Norway, Portu- 
gal, Eoumania, Eussia, Spain, Sweden, Swiss Confederation, Turkey, and 
the United States of America. A prominent result of this conference 
was a unanimous resolution to enlist the co-operation of the respective 
governments there represented in securing the free interchange of official 
and other publications, in accordance with the following : 

PROPOSED PLAN FOR THE INTERNATIOXAL EXCHANGE OF SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS 
TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE CONTRACTING POWERS. 

The undersigned delegates propose to request their respective govern- 
ments to organize in each country a central bureau whose duty it shall 
be to collect such cartographic, geographic, and other publications as 
may be issued at the expense of the state, and to distribute the same 
among the various nations which adopt the present programme. 

These bureaus, which shall correspond directly with each other, shall 

776 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 777 

serve to transmit the international scientific communications of learned 
societies. 

Tliey shall serve as the intermediate ajjents for the procurement, on 
the best possible terms, of books, maps, instruments, &c., X)ublished or 
manufactured in each country, and desired by any of the contracting 
countries. 

Each country shall transmit at least one copy of its national publica- 
tions to the other contracting countries. 

In order to accomplish this project, the Baron de Vatteville, who was 
charged by his colleagues with the formation, at Paris, of a central 
commission of exchanges, convoked a meeting of those signers of the 
convention of August 12, 1875, who reside at Paris, at the ministry of 
public instruction. 

The commission thus formed, desirous of securing the exchange of 
publications and official documents relating to the sciences which tend 
to promote a knowledge of the globe, such as, first, astronomy, geodesy, 
cartography, geography, topograj^hy, geologj', mineralogy, botany, an- 
thropology, hj'gieue, zoology, entomology, explorations and travels, his- 
tory, archceology, linguistics, numismatics, &c.; and, secondly, statisti- 
cal information of all kinds, has prepared, discussed, and adopted the 
regulations mentioned below, which its members will submit to their 
respective governments for appi-oval. 

Section I. — General arrangements. 

Article 1. Each high contracting party shall designate in its country 
a bureau as the center for international exchanges, and shall communi- 
cate its exact title and address to the other governments. 

Art. 2. Each bureau shall prepare a bibliography of the oflicial works 
published within late years and which they are inclined to exchange. 
It shall transmit at least one copy of this list to the foreign bureaus, and 
shall engage to notify these same bureaus of all new official publications 
as they may appear. 

Art. 3. The bureau of each country may (subject to the ratification of 
its government) make use of the opportunity to include in the list of pro- 
l)0sed exchanges such publications as are not, strictly speaking, comprised 
in the category of the sciences above mentioned. 

Section II. — Exclianges heticeen governments and departments. 

Art. 4. All official documents, that is to say, publications issued at the 
expense of the state, shall be exchanged gratuitously. With regard to 
these each high contracting party engages to transmit to the loreigu 
bureaus at least one copy of each of its publications, excepting, however, 
those which relate to the national defense. 

Art. 5. If auj- country shall desire for any purpose to ret^eive more 
than one co])y of the official publications of any other country, the num- 
ber thereof shall be fixed by a previous arrangement through means of 
the bureaus of exchange, on the basis of an equitable reciprocity . 

Section III. — Exchanges between governments and learned societies. 
Art. G. If any scientific society or institution, whether receiving a 
subsidy from the state or not, shall desire to receive directly ollicial 
publications from any foreign country, it shall address the biueau of its 



778 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

country, which shall serve as agent for obtaining the most favorable 
conditions. 

Art. 7. Any modifications of these conditions of the exchanges agreed 
upon by two countries, relative to the suppression of a document or the 
transmission of additional copies, must x^ass through the bureaus of the 
countries interested. 

Section TV. — Exchanges beticeen learned societies. 

Art. 8. The bureau will serve as intermediary between scientific 
societies, whether subsidized or not, which may desire to make ex- 
changes between themselves, by giving all the information at their dis- 
posal. It will also act officially in regard to authors, publishers, or 
manufacturers of instruments, whose publications or productions may 
be desired by either a state or a foreign scientific society, in order to 
procure the advantage of the greatest possible reductions in favor of 
the applicants. 

Art. 9. The bureau is not to take any i^art in the exchanges between 
clubs or associations which do not have a well-defined scientific or liter- 
ary character, nor in exchanges between manufacturers, publishers, or 
authors. 

Section V. — Transmissions and payment of carriage. 
This section remains to be prepared in accordance with the reply which 
shall be received from the postal union, in reference to the request for 
free transport which has been addressed to the same on behalf of the 
commission by the Baron de Vatteville. This is also the case with re- 
gard to the protocol, the terms of which can only be determined upon by 
the different governments in pursuance of a previous arrangement. 

Done at Paris, January 29, 187G, council chamber of the ministry of 
public instruction, &c., division of science and letters, first bureau, 
under the authority of the minister of public instruction, by the assis- 
tant secretary and director of the bureau of sciences and letters. 

Baron de Vatteville, 
President of the Commission for International Exchanges. 

On the 25th of April, 1876, the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of 
State, communicated to the Hon. Benjamin H. Bristow, the Secretary of 
the Treasury, the "proposed plan of international exchange" promul- 
gated by the Paris commission January 25, 187G. 

Copies of these communications were transmitted by the honorable 
Secretary of the Treasury to Professor Henry, the President of the Ka- 
tioual Academy of Sciences and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, with the following letter: 

Treasury Department, May 2, 1876. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, LL.D., 

President National Academy of Sciences: 
Sir : I have the honor to transmit herewith for the consideration of 
the National Academy of Sciences a copy of a letter of the 25th ultimo 
from the honorable the Secretary of State, inclosing a copy of a com- 
muuication dated Paris, the 15th of March, 1876, addressed to that de- 
partment by Dr. W. E. Johnston, in relation to the establishment of a 
bureau of international exchanges of works of science, together with 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 770 

copies of a letter of February 23, 187G, from Baron de VatteTille, presi- 
dent of tlie Commission of International Exchanges at Paris, and a plan 
adopted by the commission, -wbicli it is proposed to submit to the con- 
tracting powers. 

The department would be pleased to be favored with the views of 
the Academy of Sciences upon this subject, and any recommendations 
it may see fit to make. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

B. H. Bkistow, 

Secretary. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, May 4, 187G. 
Hon. B. H. Bbistow, 

Secretary of Treasury : 

Sir : Tour letter of the 2d instant, relative to the establishment of 
an international bureau for the exchange of works of science, &c., with 
the accompanying documents, has been received, and in behalf of the 
National Academy of Sciences, and also of this Institution, I respect- 
fully submit the following as an answer. 

From the earliest period of the establishment of scientific societies in 
America, it has been customary to exchange their publications for those 
of similar institutions in all parts of the world. 

About thirty years ago, as stated by Dr. Johnston, Alex. Yattemare 
attempted to establish a system of international literary and scientific 
exchange between France and the United States, and succeeded in in- 
t<?resting in his project several of the States of the Union. The enter- 
prise, however, was an individual one, and fell into disuse i)rincipally 
on account of want of adequate means for carrying it on. 

In 1846 the Smithsonian Institution was organized by the bequest of 
an English gentleman for the "increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." To realize the ideas of the founder it was resolved by the 
directors of the establishment to institute various scientific investiga- 
tions, and to send a copy of the published result'; of these to each of the 
principal libraries of the world. To carry out this idea it was necessary 
to appoint paid agents in various parts of the Old World through whom 
the publications of the Institution might be distributed, and those of 
foreign institutions received in return. This system was soon after- 
wards extended so as to include the publications of all the learned so- 
cieties of the United States, Canada, and South America, with those of 
the Old World. This has now been successfully carried on for upwards 
of a quarter of a century, and has been so enlarged as to embrace the in- 
stitutions of almost every part of the civibaed world, as exhibited in the 
following table.* 

The exi^ense of this system of exchange, which has enriched all the 

* This table is omitted, as not here important. 



780 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

principal libraries of the United States and of foreign nations, has been 
borne entirely by the Smithsonian Institution, and now amounts to 
nearly seven thousand dollars annually. This expense, however, would 
be much greater were it not for the generous co-operation of various 
American, British, French, and German steamship companies, which 
carry the packages without charge for transportation. As a further 
extension of the system. Congress has directed that iifty copies of each 
of its annual publications be given to the Institution for exchange with 
foreign governments. 

In view of the foregoing statements, 1 do not think it in the least de- 
gree probable that the Government of the United States would think 
it advisable at present to establish a special bureau for co-operating in 
the plan proposed by the congress of geographical sciences. 

I may say, however, in behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, that it 
will cheerfully co-operate with the system proj)osed as soon as it has 
succeeded in establishing its organization, and also that if, at any time, 
the Government of the United States chooses to assume the expense of 
a purely national establishment, the Institution would devote the money 
it now expends in this direction to other objects connected with the 
"increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

I have the honor to be, yours, respectfully, 
Joseph Henry, 
Fresident National Academy and Secretary Smithsonian Iristitution. 



[The Portuguese commissioners to the jiresitleut of tho. Belgian commission.] 

Lisbon, March 1, 1877. 

Sir : The agreement signed August 12, 1875, by yourself and the 
Portuguese commissioners on the occasion of the geographical congress 
at Paris, is without doubt the most valuable result of that scientific 
and truly international reunion w^hich has contributed in so efficacious 
a manner in drawing closer the intellectual relations already established 
between the nations they represented. 

The scientific literary and art exchanges organized, in a sure and 
permanent manner, in aiding unquestiouablj' in the rapid and thorough 
diffusion of science, ought to create indissoluble bonds of union between 
the ditlerent groups of the human family — bonds which cannot fail to 
be most j)rofitable to the great cause of civilization. 

True to its agreement, and convinced of the immense advantages 
which must spring up for all nations from the realization of so generous 
a thought, the Portuguese Government has appointed a commission 
provisionally charged with the organization of the service of scientific, 
literary, and art exchanges on such a basis which should not sensibly 
deviate from that which we have the honor to communicate to you 
herewith, and which has been accepted by the commissioners residing 
at Paris, who constitute an international committee. 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 781 

Our commission, however, composed of the undersigned, and provided 
with the necessary jiower by a decree of the ministry of foreign affairs, 
and of which inclosed you will find the translation, held that it should 
first address itself to the signers of the agreement of August 12, for the 
purjiose of informing them of its organization and of requesting them 
to furnish the necessary information which it needs for a proper dis- 
charge of the duties with which it is intrusted. 

It is with a view to the accomplishment of this, for us so honorable, 
mission, that we beg you, sir, to communicate to us the ideas and reso- 
lutions of your government on this point; also, what steps should be 
taken to establish promptly and surely the service of scientific, literary, 
and art exchanges between Portugal and Belgium, on a permanent, offi- 
cial, and as extensive a basis as possible. 

It is also our duty to inform you that the Portuguese Government has 
instructed its representatives abroad to communicate to the govern- 
ments to which they are accredited the establishment of our commis- 
sion of international exchanges, and also the names of the members of 
which it is composed. 

Accept, sir, the assurance of our most distinguished consideration. 

Marquis de Souza Holstein. 
Jose Julio Rodriguez. 



[Circular of the Belgian commission to the learned societies of Belgium.] 

We have had the honor of explaining to you in a former circular, 
which was addressed to you in 1873, that by royal decree of May 17, 
1871, a commission was appointed charged with the organization of a 
system of exchange between Belgium and foreign countries, of either 
writings in every branch of intellectual activity or reproductions of 
the principal monuments, or the most valimble objects in connection 
with the graphic or j)lastic arts. The commission has been divided in 
three sections ; the second, representing the interests of literature, 
bibliography, and numismatics, has inaugurated its labors by the i)ub- 
lication of a catalogue in which is contained a statement of all periodic 
publications issued in Belgium by learned societies, the departments, 
associations, and private individuals. In the preparation of this list 
our section made use of the documents transmitted by you in answer 
to the above-named circular. This list appeared in the course of the 
year 1871under the titleof "Introduction to the bibliography of Belgium: 
Brussels. Henry Manceaux." At the instance of our section the gov- 
ernment has also accorded its patronage to the same publisher for a 
bibliograijhy of Belgium. After having taken other steps with a view 
to the comi)letion of its organization, our section has now finally been 
placed in the position of commencing active operations. We have been 
able, consequently, upon the agreement signed by the delegates of 



782 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

tweuty-two nations at the geograpliical congress at Paris in 1875, to 
enter into relations with several committees already established abroad. 

The time has arrived for us to ask you that you will indicate precisely 
■what you are able to place at our disposal from among the publications 
issued by your society since its foundation, be it from the stock on hand 
or from future continuations of series, informing us of the number of 
copies still at your disposal, as also their price. 

It is understood that the publications now issuing as well as the fol- 
lowing numbers are to be furnished at the subscription price. In regard 
to those of previous years we trust that, in consideration of the fact 
that it would increase the number of subscribers for your publications, 
you will settle ujion a moderate price, so that we may be able to accept 
of it. 

At some future time when we shall have received from foreign coun- 
tries catalogues of works we may procure from them we shall have the 
honor of communicating it to you so that you may indicate which of 
the works would be desirable for you. In the majority of cases we shall 
make return in kind of what you have furnished us; but the amount 
for those you will have asked of us and we furnished will be deducted 
and your account will be settled every year. 

What we expect of your courtesy at present is the indication of the 
material for exchange which we may procure from your society. 
Accept, &c., &c. 

L. Alvin, President: 

Chas. Euelens, Secretary. 



[The Smithsonian Institution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, June 3, 1878. 
Hon. Wm. M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
May 15, inclosing a communication from W. E. Johnston, M. D., in ref- 
erence to the subject of international exchanges between the United 
States and France. 

In reply I beg to inform you that this Institution has been for a num- 
ber of years charged by Congress with the duties of exchanging its offi- 
cial publications and those of the various departments of the United 
States Government for similar publications of foreign governments, 
France among the number. 

This Institution has also for a still longer period maintained a much 
more comi)rehensive and extended system of communication between 
learned societies and specialists of the New World and those of the Old, 
receiving serial and other publications from South and Central Amer- 
ica, the West Indies, and the British provinces of jSforth Americii, as 
well as those of the United States, and transmitting them through its 
agents abroad. These, in turn, receiving any parcels from the countries 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 783 

represented by them for transmission to any portion of America, like- 
wise tbrongii the Smithsonian Institution. 

A special element in the Smithsonian system of international ex- 
changes consists in the employment of a number of agents in different 
l)ortious of Europe, a list of whom is herewith inclosed. It will be seen 
that the agent of France is Mr. Gustav Bossange, the well-known book- 
seller, of Paris. 

It will be entirely agreeable to the Smithsonian Institution to adopt 
any plan of communication between the United States and France that 
may be considered an improvement upon the present, although it could 
not now undertake to assume any responsibility beyond that of taking 
charge of official publications interchanged between the two govern- 
ments, and of any parcels addressed to scientific individuals and insti- 
tutions. 

If the Department of State should think proper to instruct the Ameri- 
can minister at Paris to serve as agent in these transactions it will be 
an improvement upon the present system which we shall be happy to see 
carried into effect. 

I am, very respectfully and truly, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The State Department to tlie Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, AYashington, August 28, 1878. 
Spencer F. Baird, Esq., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. : 
Sir: Eeferring to your letter of the 3rd of June last to this department 
in relation to the international exchange of works of science, a copy of 
which was transmitted to our minister at Paris, and by him communi- 
cated to Dr. Johnston, the American delegate to the congress for pro- 
moting the organization of a more extensive system of such exchanges, 
I have the honor to inclose herewith, for your consideration, a partial 
report just received by this department from Dr. Johnston as to the 
proceedings of the congress in relation to the subject-matter of this cor- 
respondence. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
F. W. Seward, 



[Iuclosure.'\ 



Acting Secretary. 
Paris, August 5, 1878. 



His Excellency Wm. M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir: In reply to your excellency's letter of June 10, addressed to the 
American minister at Paris, and that of Mr. Baird, Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, of June 3, accompanying, both relating to the 
X^roposed official organization of a system of international exchanges of 



784 HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

works of science, I have the honor, at the request of Mr. Hitt, charg6 
d'afiiiires, to again address you on the subject, and to lay before you 
some other considerations in regard to this scheme. 

All the governments which are represented by diplomatic agents at 
Paris, with the exception of England and Germany, which still hold out 
in order to first see the working of the scheme, have given in their ad- 
hesion and agreed to the creation, within the bureaus of their respective 
foreign secretaries, of an agency, with a special employe, charged with 
the duty of international exchanges of works of science. 

It is hoped that an arrangement may be made in regard to the trans- 
portation of these exchanges which will reduce the expenses to a mere 
trifle. 

Will the Smithsonian Institution, which is already organized for this 
kind of work, and which has been making exchanges with a certain 
number of foreign governments for a good many years, assume to do 
this work, on the more enlarged and more official scale which is now 
l^roposed, and enter, as the occasion jiresents, into direct communication 
with the different foreign bureaus; or will it demand to do this work 
through the foreign legations of the United States; or, finally, will it 
prefer, if the State Department will do this work, to abandon it to the 
State Department entirely I 

The foreign bureaus would much prefer, for the sake of simplicity and 
uniformity in the service, that the work should be done in the United 
States exactly as it is done here — that is to say, by a special bureau 
established within the State Department. The American legation at 
Paris would also prefer that the exchange should be made by direct 
communication through the bureau, rather than through its agency, and 
it is probable that the other European legations, where exchanges are 
to be made, would also jirefer the direct communication. 

Nevertheless, as regards the Smithsonian Institution, the relations of 
this Institution to the government, and its superior facilities for this 
kind of work, are so well known that in the various meetings of the 
congress no objection was ever raised to its assimilation with the pur- 
ix)sed official bureaus of the different governments. 

As I have already had the honor of informing your excellency, the 
last meeting of the congress was composed, exclusively, with the excep- 
tion of myself, of official jiersonages, some thirty- in number, mostly 
members of the diplomatic corps; and I desire to know of your excel- 
lency whether it would not be more appropriate for one of the members 
of the American legation to assume hereafter the duty of representing 
the United States in this congress. In view of the fact, however, that 
there may not be more than one or two more meetings of the congress, 
I have been requested by the legation to continue to fill the duty of the 
deleg'ate to the end. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

W." E. Johnston, M. D. 



[The Smitlisouiau Institution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, Sei)tember 17, 1878. 
Hon. Wm. M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a communica- 
tion from the State Department, dated August 28, inclosing a letter i 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 785 

from Dr. W. E. Johnston, of tlio 5tli of August, iu refereuce to the par- 
ticipation of the Smithsonian Institution in the system of international 
exchanges. 

In reply to the suggestioiis of the letter referred to, I beg leave to 
say that the Smithsonian Institution has bem engaged for nearly thirty 
years in the development of its present system of international ex- 
changes, prosecuted almost entirely at the expense of the Smithsonian 
fund; that it has thoroughly met the needs and wishes of the scientific 
men of both countries, and that uidess there is some assurance that the 
work can be carried on with equal efficiency under some new arrange- 
ment it would be considered inexpedient by the Board of Regents to 
made any change. If, however, the Government of the United States 
will undertake the entire expense of the work and its management on 
a scale that will meet all the requirements, it is very probable that the 
assent of the Board of Eegents can be had to the proposition to trans- 
fer it to a new organization, and thus be enabled to devote funds thus 
released in some other direction. 

This, of course, according to the letter of Dr. Johnston, would involve 
the assumption of the labor at least by the State Department, and the 
securing of the necessary appropriations from Congress for the purpose. 

If I am informed by the State Department of its readiness to under- 
take the expense and responsibility attendant upon the assumption of 
the system of international exchanges in question, I will take pleasure 
in referring the matter to the Board of Eegents for its action. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencek, F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The state Department to tlie Smitlisonian Institntion.] 

Department of State, Washington, September 26, 1878. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir: I have received and carefully considered your letter of the 17th 
instant, in replj' to the letter of this Department of August 2Sth ultimo, 
in relation to the international system of exchanges of scientific publi- 
cations proposed by a conference at Paris, in which the United States is 
represented by Dr. W. E. Johnston. 

I quite agree with the opinion expressed through you by the Board 
of Regents, that it is inexpedient to make any present cliange iu the 
admirable and efficient system of literary exchanges with foreign coun- 
tries inaugurated by the Smithsonian Institution nearly thirty years ago, 
and since then developed to its present proportions. 

The letter of Dr. Johnston, of August 5, of which acopy was sent to 
you with the Department's letter of 28th ultimo, states that ''the rela- 
S. Mis. 109 50 



786 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

tions of the Smithsonian Institution to this gOYernment, and its sujierior 
facilities for conducting exchanges of the kind proposed, are so well 
known, that, in the various meetings of the congress, no objection has 
been raised to its assimilation with the proposed olficial bureaus of the 
difierent governments." It is believed that there is no obstacle to effect- 
ing such an assimilation substantially on the basis of the suggestions 
contained in your letter of June 3, 1878. 

The United States minister at Paris has therefore been directed to 
convey, through Dr. Johnston, to the international conference the opin- 
ion of this government, that, so far as its special domestic bureau of ex- 
change is concerned, it is preferable to leave the work with the Smith- 
sonian Institution rather than to replace it by the organization of a new 
bureau ad hoc in the Department of State, but that no objection is seen 
to entering into a common arrangement of international exchange, pro- 
vided that the operations of the Institution be assimilated with those of 
the foreign bureaus so as to enable it to act as though it were, for the 
special purpose in view, a bureau of the foreign department of this gov- 
ernment. 

As you make no categorical answer to the inquiry contained in Dr. 
Johnston's letter of the 5th ultimo, as to whether the Smithsonian In- 
stitution will consent " to assume to do this work on the more enlarged 
and more official scale which is now proposed, and enter, as the occasion 
presents, into direct communication with the different foreign bureaus, 
or will it demand to do this work through the foreign legations of the 
United States," it is inferred that any practical arrangement sanctioned 
by the conference will meet the approval of the Board of Eegents. 
Mr. Noyes will, therefore, be instructed to advise Dr. Johnston in that 
sense, and leave the details of assimilation to the deliberation of the 
conference, inclining, however, if there be no impediment to such a 
course, to favor the designation of the legations of the United States in 
foreign countries as the channels of communication between the several 
foreign bureaus and the Institution, as apparently contemplated in your 
letter of the 3d of June last. Any special consideration which you may 
be disposed to advance on this point will nevertheless receive prompt 
attention. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Wm. M. Evarts. 



[The State Dej)artment to tlie Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, October 30, 1878. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir : I transmit to you herewith a copy of a note received from the 
minister of Portugal in this country, giving information of the action of 
the Portuguese Government with reference to exchanges of publications 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 787 

with foreign goverumeuts. The departmeut will communicate to the 
minister the substance of any statement which maj' be received from 
you in relation to the subject. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

F. W. Seward, 
Assistant Secretary. 

[7nc?08Mre No, 1. — Translation.] 
i\rofe from Viscount Das Nogueiras. 

Legation of Portugal, 
Washington, 19th of October, 1878. 

Mr. Minister : I have the honor to inform you that for the purpose 
of organizing, upon the basis of the geographical congress of Paris in 
1875, the service of scientific, literary, and artistic exchanges between 
Portugal and the foreign nations, and to the end of profiting by the offers 
already made by different countries of commencing to send to Lisbon 
several collections of inestimable value, the government of His Most 
Faithful Majesty has named, in order to provisionally constitute a Por- 
tuguese committee of exchanges, the Marquis of Souza Holstein, peer 
of the kingdom, vice inspector of the Eoyal Academy of Fine Arts, mem- 
ber of the Royal Academy of Sciences, member of the central i)ermanent 
committee of geography, and Jos6 Julio Eodrigues, professor to the 
polytechnic school, chief of the photographic section of the general direc- 
tion of geodetic works, member of the Eoyal Academy of Sciences, sec- 
retary of the permanent central committee of geography. 

In making the communication to you, I hoi)e, Mr. Minister, that the 
persons composing the Portuguese committee will be officially recognized 
in their relations with the committees of the United States. 

I profit by this occasion to renew to you the assurance of my high 
consideration, 

Viscount das Nogueiras. 

[Indosure No. 2. — Translation.] 

Declaration of the Portuf/uese Government relative to the establishment 
of a provisional commission of international exchanges. 

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, November 21, 1876. 

In consideration that it is of the greatest importance to organize with- 
out delay the service of scientific, literary, and art exchanges between 
Portugal and foreign countries, although it be only provisionally and 
until such definite action may be taken as the importance of the subject 
demands, in conformity with the basis laid down at Paris at the congress 
of 1875, and in accordance with the negotiations entered upon ; 

In consideration that it is imj)ortant not to delay the work commenced 



788 HISTORY OF THE* SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

by His Majesty's Government for the purpose of securing for the Portu- 
guese public establishments numerous and valuable elements for study ; 

In consideration that it becomes indispensable to profit by the oft'ers 
made by several foreign countries which desire to send to Portugal col- 
lections of incontestible value : 

His Majesty the King decrees, through the ministry of foreign affairs, 
that the Marquis of Souza Holstein, senator, <S:c., &c., and Jose Julio 
Eodrigues, professor at the polytechnic school of Lisbon, &c., &c., be 
provisionally charged with the organization of the above-named service 
of scientific, literary, and art exchanges between Portugal and foreign 
countries, authorizing them to make requisition to the above ministry 
for what they may need for the perfect accomplishment of the mission 
which His Majesty has deigned to confide to their zeal and patriotism. 

Given at the Palace October 28, 1876. 

Jaao D'Andrate Coryo. 

Countersigned. 
Minister of Foreign Affairs, 

Jorge Cesar De Figaniere. 



[The Smitlisoniau Institution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, iSTovember 7, 1878. 
Hon. William M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir : In acknowledging the receipt of your communication of Sep- 
tember 26, concerning the system of internatioual exchanges to be con- 
ducted under government auspices by the various nations of the world, 
I beg to renew the assurance that the Smithsonian Institution will be 
pleased to enter into any relations of the kind in question that may be 
authorized by its Board of Eegents. The precise form of co-operation 
on the part of the Institution will probably be deemed by the board us 
immaterial, provided the result is likely to add to the renown of Mr. 
Smithson, the founder of the establishment. 

Whether the parcels that may be on hand for the rest of the world 
shall be delivered to the foreign legations here, or forwarded through 
the American legations abroad, is a matter of no special moment. 
Whatever practicable system may be adopted by the international con- 
vention will be duly considered and doubtless adopted by the board. 

I have also the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a letter of October 
30, inclosing a communication from the legation of Portugal, designating 
a commission in Lisbon to receive and take charge of any future trans- 
missions to that country from the United States. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 789 

[The State Department to the Smitbsouian lustitution.] 

Department of State, Washington, November 14, 1878. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : Your letter of the 7tb instant, in relation to the contemplated 
assimilation of the Smithsonian Institution's system of international 
exchanges with the international bureau which it is proposed to estab- 
lish in accordance with the conclusions of the Paris congress, has been 
received. 

It is a source of gratification to this government to learn the readi- 
ness of the Smithsonian lustitution to enter into any practicable ar- 
rangement which may be made in furtherance of an extended interna- 
tional scheme of exchanges. 

The details, however, of the proposed aiTangement, so far as the other 
countries are concerned, ai'e but imperfectly known at present, although 
it is believed that the plan is such that the Smithsonian Institution, in 
merging its exchange system therein, would not only increase its sphere 
of operations, but be relieved to a great extent of the trouble and ex- 
pense involved in transmitting foreign exchanges to this country. At 
any rate, knowing the great benefits which have accrued and are accru- 
ing to scientific effort in all parts of the world through the well-ordered 
exertions of the Smithsonian, this department would not favor any ar- 
rangement which might tend to curtail in any way the comprehensive 
results now attained. 

An instruction has been to-day sent to the United States minister at 
Paris, requesting him to obtain, if possible, precise information as to 
the working details of the proposed international arrangement, in order 
that the question whether the Smithsonian plan of exchanges can be 
thereto assimilated may be understandingly considered. Mr. ]SI"oyes 
has been especially directed to ascertain what facilities of exchange, if 
any, it is proposed to accord to private scientific organizations and in- 
dividuals, whether in the countries adhering to the proposed plan or 
in countries outside of its scope. If a practicable basis can be found 
for the assimilation of the operations of the Smithsonian bureau of ex- 
changes with those of the international bureau, it is conceived that it 
should secure to the former full freedom of action for so much of its 
present plan of work as may not be embodied in the contemplated 
scheme. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Wm. M. Evarts. 



790 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The State Department to the Smithsonian Institntion.] 

Department of State, Washington, January 10, 1879. 
Prof. Spencee, F. Baird, 

Secretary Sinithsonian Institution : 

Sir : Eeferring to my letter of the 14th of l!^ovember last, addressed 
to you, in relation to the contemplated assimilation of the SmiJJisouian 
system of international exchanges with the plan i^roposed by the inter- 
national congress at Paris, I have now the pleasure to transmit here- 
with copy of a recent dispatch from the United States minister at Paris, 
inclosing a communication from Dr. William E. Johnston in answer to 
the specific inquiries of the department. 

It appears from Dr. Johnston's report that no essential change has 
been made in the plan proposed two years ago for the organization of 
the international bureau and the conduct of the business of reciprocal 
exchange. The " printed documents " referred to were received with a 
letter from Dr. Johnston, dated March 15, 1876, and, being sent to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, were, by that officer, referred to your prede- 
cessor. Dr. Henry, whose reply, under date of May 4, 1876, has formed 
the basis of the subsequent proceedings and instructions of this depart- 
ment in the matter. For your convenience, however, I transmit here- 
with the duplicate copy of the "projet de reglement " received from Dr. 
Johnston. 

You are already aware of the desire of this department to secure to 
the Smithsonian Institution, in event of its admission to the proposed 
international system, the fullest liberty of action and the utmost en- 
hancement of its utility, without entailing any additional burden on its 
resources. It is thought that this can be accomplished without diffi- 
culty. 

To that end, I will, however, thank you to make a careful review of 
the whole subject, in the light of Dr. Johnston's last report, with a view 
to determine the precise status of the Smithsonian as an international 
bureau under the projected plan. I would suggest that a detailed mem- 
orandum setting set forth the bases on which your co-operation could be 
effected, on the plan of the circular of the ministry of public instruc- 
tion and the fine arts which accompanied Dr. Johnston's letter of March 
15, 1876, would be very serviceable for submission to the Paris con- 
gress. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

Wm. M. EvAets. 

llnclosure No. 1.] 

Legation of the United States, Paris, December 13, 1878. 

Hon. Wm. M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 
Sir : Eeferring to your dispatch No. 107, of November 14, 1878, 1 have 
the honor to inclose herewith a copy of a communication fjom Dr. AVill- 
iam E. Johnston (with two documents annexed), which discusses and 



HISTORY OF TPIE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 791 

answers so fully the questions contained in your dispatch that I Avill 
only add that I approve the remarks and conclusions of the writer. 
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant, 

Edwakd F. ISToyes. 

{_rnclo»ure No. 2.] 

Paris, December 9, 1878. 

His Excellency General Noyes, 

Minister of the Uriited States, Paris : 

Dear Sir: In reply to your demand for information in regard to the 
l^roceedings of the conference for organizing a system of international 
exchanges of works of science, I have the honor to send you herewith 
inclosed two copies of the jdan drawn up by the conference, and one 
copy, the only one in my possession for the moment, of the plan of or- 
ganization of the French bureau for carrying out the French i)art of the 
scheme. 

I beg leave, however, to recall through you, to the memory of the 
State Department, that I have already nearly two years ago furnished 
copies of these documents to that department. 

I take this occasion to state that no alterations or amendments were 
made in the subsequent meetings of the conference to the printed docu- 
ments herein sent. They will be found to cover most of the questions 
which you desired answered. 

But in reply to the question of the honorable Secretary of State as to 
hoT the exchanges are to be made, I would state that in the discussions 
of the conference it was assumed as a matter of course that they should 
be made directly from bureau to bureau without passing through the 
respective legations, and that in all probability the postal service could 
be obtained gratis. 

These ])oints had not been otherwise determined at the last meeting, 
aid I am not able to state at this moment whether any arrangement 
lus yet been made about free transportation or not. This question will 
uadoubtedly come under consideration at the next meeting of the con- 
ference, and I will take the earliest occasion thereafter to inform you of 
the proceedings of the conference on the subject. 

The great exhibition of this year, and the unusual activity in local 
and national affairs of the new minister of public instruction and fine 
arts (at whose office and under whose auspices the conference was held), 
have prevented any meeting of the conference for nearly a year. It will 
not, however, be long before another meeting is called. 

If the honorable Secretary of State of the United States, or the hon- 
orable director of the Smithsonian Institution, which has so large an 
experience in the matter of international exchanges, desire to introduce 
any modifications into the printed plan herewith sent, or add any new 
features thereto, I will only be too hai)py to propose these modifications 
or amendments at the next meeting of the conference, and can guaran- 
tee in advance a favorable hearing. 

I may add finally that at the last sitting of the conference the only 
governments which hesitated to give in their adhesion were those of 
England and Germany. The delegates of these goverinnents demanded 
time to see the operation of the scheme, but it is expected that they will 
finally adhere. 

1 have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of esteem, your 
most obedient servant, 

Wm. E. Johnston, M. D., 
Delegate for the United States. 



792 HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The Belgian Commission to tlie Smithsonian Institution.] 

Brussels, January 24, 1879. 
Directors of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentle:jien : On the 25th of May, 1878, we had the honor to forward 
to you a considerable nnmher of Belgian publications in exchange for 
those which you had sent to us some time previously. 

We hoped by this sending to establish a system of regular trans- 
missions of our respective intellectual x)roductions between your Insti- 
tution and our exchange commission. 

We sent you at the same time the papers relative to the organization 
of our exchange system, a list of our periodical publications, and the 
Bibliography of Belgium, begging you to indicate what works you de- 
sired. Finally, we informed you of our own desiderata. 

******* 

We therefore earnestly entreat you, gentlemen, to consider the mat- 
ters treated of in our note. An agreement upon a regular system of 
exchange would be of great advantage to science and to the progress 
of which your Institution is a powerful promoter. 

Accept the assurance of my highest consideration. 

L. Alyin, Presidenl 

C. EuELENS, Secretary. 



[The Smithsonian Institution to the State Department. ] 

Smithsonian Institution, February 5, 1879. 
Hon. William M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter ol 
the 10th of January in reference to the participation, by the Smithson- 
ian Institution and the State Department, in the proi30sed system of 
international exchanges, suggested and in a measure established by the 
international congress of Paris, together with inclosures from the Amer- 
ican minister at Paris, and a memorandum of proposed regulations and 
conditions. 

Apologizing for the necessary delay in my reply, I beg to say that the 
direct exchange between the Smithsonian Institution and the French 
bureau has commenced by the receipt of one box of scientific publica- 
tions from Paris, and the transmission of several boxes by the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

The schedules of the contents of the one box already received, and of 
another not yet to hand, have been forwarded by the Baron de Vatte- 
ville, who is in charge of the Paris agency ; and it is probable that the 
work will be continued now without any serious impediment. 

The Smithsonian Institution is now making up a large sending for 
Paris, which will fill fifteen or twenty boxes, and be transmitted in ac- 



HISTORY OF THE SMITIISONIAJT EXCHANGES. 793 

cordaiice with the proposed phin. This, as I miderstaiid it, is to be as 
follo^ys: The Smithsoniau Institution, in continuation of its arran/ije- 
nieut with the Library of Congress, will forward at least once a year to 
the agency iu Paris a complete set of the publications of the United 
States Government, provisions having been made to that end by law of 
Congress directing the Public Printer to reserve fifty sets for interna- 
tional exchange of all works printed by the government office, whether 
by direct order of Congress or by the departments. This, of course, docs 
not include any coutidential papers for the State or other departments, 
but does embrace their general circulars, reports, &c., prej^ared for their 
own use. 

Secondly, the Smithsonian Institu'sion will receive from the various 
societies of the United States publishing transactions, and from men in- 
terested in research, and maintaining relations with corrt'spondents 
abroad, whatever they may wish to forward to France. All the parcels 
for any one address will be concentrated in one or more bundles, each 
bearing the address of the proper party, and indorsed as sent by the 
Smithsonian Institution. The parcels will then be inclosed in the nec- 
essary number of boxes and addressed to the bureau of the French 
agency, and forwarded from New York by suitable vessel; steamer, if 
the amount is small; sailing-vessel, if large. A bill of lading will, of 
course, be sent to the agency, together with a detailed invoice of the 
several addresses. 

The Smithsonian Institution will deliver its boxes at the seaport free 
of charge ; after that, the expense of transmission to Paris will be borne 
by the French bureau. 

In return, it is expected that the French bureau will, in the first 
place, charge itself with the gathering together and transmission of all 
the public documents of France, and that it will receive all parcels 
delivered to it hy societies, institutions, and individuals in France for 
transmission to correspondents in America. 

It is to be understood that, as heretofore, the Smithsonian Institution 
will include in its transmissions all the publications of the various de- 
partments of the United States Government and those of American 
countries outside of the United States, such as Canada, Mexico, Chili, 
«S:c. It will also bo willing to receive from the Paris agency corre- 
sponding parcels for Canada and other portions of America. 

I beg to inclose also certain rules which have lately been put in force 
by the Smithsonian Institution in connection with its system of inter- 
national exchanges, in which certain restrictions are indicated, wliich 
may i)roperly be followed by the French bureau. The principal of these 
consists in the refusal to receive any parcels that are in any way duti- 
able, such as books purchased for the use of private individuals, as 
well as scientific and philosophical ai)i)aratus, &c. It is also proposed 
to place a restriction upon the transmission of objects of natural history 
which are extremely bulky, and the interchange of which is in most 



794 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

cases a matter of pecmiiary profit and not for tlie advancement of sci- 
ence. Special exceptions will always be made in regard to applications 
for the transmission of articles of the kind sent to any of the leading 
public museums of the country. 

It will, of course, be understood by the Department, as previously 
explained, that the exchange of government publications is directly in 
the interest of the Library of Congress, and that all the works received 
by the Smithsonian Institution itself are placed on deposit in the same 
establishment. 

If, as suggested by the American minister to France, it becomes pos- 
sible to send packages of international exchanges free by post, it will 
greatly relieve the labor and responsibility of the work, permitting the 
sendings to be made with much greater frequency. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Bated, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



[The Smithsonian Institution to the French Commission.] 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington City, February 8, 1879. 
Baron E. de Yatteville, 

Commisiiioner des ^changes Internationatix, Paris, France : 

Dear Sib: In addressing you in regard to the subject of the inter- 
national exchange between the Smithsonian Institution and the bureau 
under your direction, I write at much length, even at the risk of repeat- 
ing the substance of previous letters, being desirous of making complete 
and satisfactory arrangements for the future prosecution of this import- 
ant work. 

As you are doubtless aware, the Smithsonian Institution has for many 
years been engaged in the development of a system of international ex- 
change, which is now very extensive and complete, and so far has been 
conducted entirely at its expense, and not by appropriations of the 
United States Government. The actual outlay amounts to more than 
$10,000 a year, or to more than one-fourth of the entire Smithsonian 
income. 

This exchange consists of two divisions : 

The one embracing exclusively the publications of the United States 
Government, to be exchanged for corresponding publications of other 
governments. 

The other consisting of the works of the various learned and scientific 
societies and of scientific men. 

The system of government exchanges was initiated by the Smithson- 
ian Institution in 18G7, at which time the inclosed circular was issued 
by my i)redecessor. It was intended to embrace everything printed at 
the expense of the United States Government, with the guarantee that 



HISTORY OF THE SMI-^HSONIAN EXCHANGES. 795 

iiotliiug whatever sliould be omitted, however trivial and apparently un- 
iuiportant. These pnblications were to be sent to snch governments 
only as would agree to majic an equally exhaustive return, the trans- 
missions to be made respectively at times most convenient to the con- 
tracting parties, on the part of the United States about once a year. 

The Smithsonian Institution agreed to deliver its boxes, free of ex- 
pense, at New York, or any other convenient point of shipment in the 
United States, the remaining charges to be met by the recii^ieut. The 
returns in like manner to be delivered at a seaport in Europe j the 
remaining expenses to be paid here. 

Various delays occurred, and it was not until 1S73 that the first trans- 
mission could be made. 

At present thirty -two sets of forty-eight, reserved for the purpose, are 
disposed of to as many governments; sixteen sets remaining on hand, 
each occupjdng eleven boxes, of about 300 pounds. As France has re- 
ceived the first eleven boxes of the series, the continuation will consist 
of the twelfth and succeeding numbers. 

What we especially desire now from France in return for this sending 
is not merely the special publications of some of the scientific bureaus, 
but a series of everything published by the state, as complete as that 
which we send, to include the records of the legislation of the republic, 
its reports upon education, statistics, commerce, navigation, topograph- 
ical and geological explorations, &c. 

Can we look forward to this through your instrumentality"? We do 
not expect that the series can commence as far back as that which we 
have sent, and are quite willing to have it begin with the present year, 
or i)erhaps with 1878. 

Will it not be expedient to secure in France some provision like that 
made by the United States Government, and which alone will accom- 
l)lish the desired object, namely, that of directing the Public Printer to 
reserve a certain number of copies of every official document for the 
purpose of international exchange? 

The second division of our system of exchanges is tliat relating par- 
ticularly to learned societies and men of science ; it also includes trans- 
missions of separate bureaus of the United States Government to their 
correspondents. The publications of the latter class are all embraced 
in the full series of the govermental exchanges included in the first 
division and are consequently duplicates, very useful, however, for bu- 
reaus, public libraries, scientific societies, &c. 

I beg to inclose the rules lately adopted for the guidance of corre- 
spondents of the Smithsonian Institution. These, you will see, exclude 
objects of natural history except when especially authorized. There is 
at present an immense amount of interchange of i^lants, minerals, and 
other objects of natural history between amateurs, which is of no special 
advantage to science. We therefore propose to exclude natural history 
objects, excepting in the interest of some special scientific research. 



796 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

It is to be noted in this connection that the Smithsonian Institution 
discharges its function of intermediary of exchange, not merely between 
the institutions of the United States, but also of all America; and that 
it is the established agent of exchange for the societies of Canada, as 
well as of Mexico, of Chili, and other Central and South American States. 
This policy it is entirely willing to continue, and you can, therefore, with- 
out hesitation, send any parcel that may come to your agency addressed 
to any portion of America, the further transmission and final delivery of 
which we promise within such time as may be practicable. 

I now beg leave to make some suggestions for the more thorough ac- 
complishment of the object which we both have so much at heart. 

In the first place, I would ask that all boxes be addressed " Smith- 
sonian Institution, Washington, care of the Collector of Customs, New 
York," and that two regular bills of lading of the shipment from Havre 
or other seaport of France to oSTew York be sent to the Smithsonian In- 
stitution simultaneously with or before the transmission. In this way 
we shall have no difiiculty in looking after the box or boxes and in se- 
curing their arrival in Washington nt the earliest i)0ssible moment. 

"Of course, if you have an agency in jSTew York, we shall be pleased to 
be placed in cominunication with it. But such agency is not necessary 
if you will send dui^licate bills of shipment, as suggested. 

If it is more convenient to you to have all the charges from Paris to 
Washington paid here, and in the same way to receive the boxes from 
Washington and pay the expenses in Paris, it will be equally agreeable 
to us. 

May we not assume — which I trust is the case — that your bureau will 
receive, without any restriction whatever, everything sent by the Smith- 
sonian Institution intended for public bureaus, learned societies, libra- 
ries, and men of the whole of France and its dependencies in Algeria, and 
that it will see to the further transmission of these packages from Paris? 

Should this trust be accepted, we will notify the consignee of each 
sending that a package has been forwarded through you, and instruct 
him or it to apply to you for the same. 

Of course, we accept an equally exhaustive mission on our part. If 
authorized, we will send a circular to each of our correspondents in 
France, instructing them to send all parcels to you instead of to M. 
Bossange, our present agent, who has recently failed in business. 

I greatly regret to state that the collection of books advised by you 
under date of July 23 has not yet come into our possession. I have 
written to M. Bossange, asking him for information on the subject. Is 
it certain that it was sent to that agent 1 

The invoice of the 27th of September has been duly received, but all 
the works enumerated were not found. I beg to send herewith a list 
of what is still wanting. 

If I understand aright, the rules of the international bureau contem- 
plate the placing of packages intended for a particular country in the 



HISTOKY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 797 

bauds of the resident minister of that country; or, in other words, that 
the parcels from the Smithsonian Institution for your country are to he 
turned over to the minister of Fmnce in Washington, and those for 
the United States to the American minister in Paris. 

It is quite immaterial to us which method is preferred, although, as o 
matter of business, we think the transmission can be made more direct 
by ourselves to Kew York, and by you to Havre. Please advise us on 
this head. 

Trusting that the length of this communication will be justified by 
the desire to put on a proper basis so important a transaction as that of 
the international exchange of the whole of America with the Eepublic of 
France, 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The State Departmeut to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, February 8, 1879. 
Professor Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Sir : I inclose herewith for your information a copy of a letter ad- 
dressed to this department by the princiijal librarian of the British Mu- 
seum, conveying the thanks of its trustees for the present in continua- 
tion of former donations of certain public documents of the Government 
of the United States, which were received through the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
F. W. Seward, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I Indosure.'\ 

British Museum, January 25, 1879. 

The Secretary or State, 

Government of the United States : 
Sir : I am directed by the trnstees of the British Museum to acknowl- 
edge the receipt through the Smithsonian Institution of the present 
which the Government of the United States has been so good as to make 
to them, in continuation of former donations, of the series of the reports 
of the committees of the United States Senate, 1877-'78, Washington, 
1878, 8vo., together with a collection of reports and other State papers, 
referring to the aduiinistration of the Government in the United States, 
dui'ing the years 1877-78. 

I am requested that you will be pleased to cause the expression of the 
best thanks of the trustees of the British oMuseum to be conveyed to the 
Government of the United States for this present, which constitutes an 
addition of much interest to the national library of this country. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servant, 

Edward A. Bond, 
Princijjal Librarian. 



798 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The Smithsonian Institution to the Belgian Commission.] 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington City, March 13, 1879. 
Monsieur L. Alvin, 

President of Belgian Commission of 

International Exchanges^ Brussels, Belgium: 

Sir : I have to apologize for the temporary cessation of the corre- 
spondence between yourself and the Smithsonian Institution in reference 
to the proposed system of international exchange. 

The death, in May last, of my lamented predecessor. Professor Joseph 
Henry, has caused an interruption in the business of the Institution, from 
which it has only recently recovered ; but I trust that the matters referred 
to will hereafter be prosecuted with due dispatch and accuracy. 

The Smithsonian Institution, as already explained to your honorable 
commission, has now in charge two distinct departments of international 
exchanges. The first is that carried on in behalf of the Government of 
the United States for the benefit of the national library at Washington. 
For this purpose the official i^rinter is instructed to reserve fifty sets of 
the publications, not only of the Congress of the United States, but also 
of the several bureaus of the government, and to send forty-eight of 
these to the Smithsonian Institution, the other two being delivered to 
the national library. One complete series is sent to each government 
agreeing to make an equally complete and exhaustive return. Under 
this arrangement there is absolutely no print issued, however small and 
insignificant, or however costly to the government, that is not included 
in the series ; and a like return is expected, even though the aggregate 
amount be very much less. 

The second division is that prosecuted in behalf of learned societies, 
the various bureaus of the government, and the scientific and literary 
men of America. This embraces all publications of learned societies, 
scientific lieriodicals, monographs, and other works, but does not include 
specimens of natural history or of the fine arts, unless permission is 
especially obtained. An accompanying pamphlet will fully explain the 
conditions under which this second division is prosecuted. 

These two forms of international exchange have hitherto been con- 
ducted entirely at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. It has 
its own agents in Europe, several of whom receive a salary. It has paid 
the expenses of the delivery, as also that of the return of parcels sent 
through the same agent to institutions and persons in America, involv- 
ing of late years a cost of about $10,000 annually to the Smithson fund. 
This expense has become very onerous, and the proposition to divide it 
with foreign bureas of exchange has been received with the greatest 
satisfaction. For many years Mr. Fredrick Miiller, of Amsterdam, has 
been the Smithsonian agent for Belgium and the Netherlands, but the 
exchange bureau of Haarlem has now taken the matter out of his charge, 
so far as Holland is concerned 5 and we hail with great satisfaction tlie 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 799 

prospect of a cordial and efficieut relation of a similar character ^vith 
your own bureau, by which the services of Mr. Miiller for Belgium may 
in the future be dispensed with. 

By a careful perusal of the rules herewith sent, you will observe that 
the Institution does not contemplate a miscellaneous exchange of uuas- 
signed or unaddressed books, but simply undertakes to maintain direct 
and intelligent relations between the different bodies and to deliver such 
]^arcels as bear an inscription of destination by the senders. In some 
instances it receives a number of copies of particular works unaddressed 
which it forwards at its own discretion to parties who appear to be suit- 
able recipients. It is willing to transmit all such surplus copies intended 
for Belgium to your department for subsequent assignment. You can 
also in like manner send several copies of particular works for the same 
purpose; but we would profer that all other matter be specifically and 
formally addressed. 

Your failure to receive an invoice of our i)revious sending is of less 
consequence, as a specific destination had been given the several pack- 
ages. We did not propose to send a list of the contents of the packages, 
as these came to us already addressed. There will, however, be a list of 
the addresses themselves, and we shall forward a catalogue of the ofS- 
cial publications contained in our transmissions to the Government of 
Belgium. 

We have already sent you a copy of the list of Belgian institutions re- 
ferred to in your letter of March 18, 1878, and shall be pleased to have 
any suggestions for its improvement. 

In reply to your letter of the 29th of May, I beg to state that we are 
not yet in receipt of the box which you advised as sent to us on that 
date, and that unless we are informed of the route by which it was for- 
warded, and especially as to the port of departure and also the vessel 
on which it comes and its address in the United States, it will be im- 
l)ossible for us to obtain it. 

Hereafter all boxes intended for this Institution should be addressed, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, care of the Collector of Customs, Xeic 
YorJc, and duplicate bills of lading sent, one to the collector and one to 
the Smithsonian Institution. In this way there will be no delay and 
the boxes will i-each us after the shortest possible time. We shall also 
thus be able to pay the expenses of freight from your shipping point in 
Europe to Washington. We will in return deliver our packages in 
^ew York free of expense and have them shij^iied to Belgium. Should 
you have any particular channel of communication which you prefer, 
please advise us; otherwise we shall forward by Antwerji steamers 
from jSTew York. 

We will, with i^leasure, act in behalf of the Belgian Geographical So- 
ciety and the Eoyal Society of Botany, and endeavor to secure such ex- 
changes as they may respectively desire. 

As the Smithsonian Institution is already in possession of quite a full 



800 HISTOEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

series of transactions of Belgian scientific institutions, it will hardly be 
necessary for you to make any special effort to send this class of matter 
excepting in response to applications for desiderata. 

The library of the Smithsonian Institution, constituting as it does a 
portion of the National Library of the United States in Washington, 
"we have the satisfaction of knowing that by the combination of the re- 
sults of the exchanges with learned societies and with foreign gov- 
ernments, we shall, in time, have under one roof, to a very important 
degree, that ideal public establishment referred to in your pamphlet, 
where the principal periodical and monographic works in science and 
literature are to be found. 

I regret to say that the introduction to the bibliography of Belgium 
for the years 1875 to 1878 is not in our possession. If it reached us it 
has been mislaid, and we should be glad to have another copy. 

^ Should the Ij^^umismatic Society of Belgium send its publication to 
the American Journal of Numismatics, in Philadelphia, through us, we 
would see that tbe desired return is made. 

Eeferring to your letter of the 24:th of January, 1879, I beg to renew 
the statement that the box of Belgian publications, mentioned as sent 
on the 25th of May, 1878, has not yet come to hand. 

In the present communication you will find, I trust, the information 
previously asked for; and I hope that with the explanations herein 
made that the mutual relations of the Smithsonian Institution and of 
the Belgian Exchange Commission will be put on a satisfactory basis, 
and that hereafter there will be no interruption to a continued easy in- 
tercourse. 

If we have not heretofore formally expressed ourselves to this effect, 
we now beg to state that you are at liberty to address parcels through 
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington to the Government of tbe 
United States, and to learned societies, and to men in any part of 
America. We will charge ourselves with the prompt delivery of such 
packages addressed to Canada, Mexico, Chili, Cuba, Brazil, &c. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The Brazilian Commissiou to the Smithsonian Institution.] 
CENTRAL BRAZILIAN COMMISSION OP INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

Office of the Secretary of State for Imperial Affairs, 

Eio de Janeiro, May IG, 1880. 
To his excellency Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Illustrious Sir: Mr. Xavier Charmes, attach^ of the ministry of 
public instruction and fine arts of France, and chief of the department 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 801 

of international exchanges, having sent me, on the 20th of April last, at 
my request, the list of correspondents appointed by the various govern- 
ments to take charge of international exchanges, gives me the informa- 
tion that you are the correspondent designated by your government for 
the abov'e-meutioned service in your country, and I presume he has also 
informed you that the government of his Majesty the Emperor, my 
august sovereign, has founded (established) in the capital of Eio de 
Janeiro a central commission of international exchanges, naming me its 
president, and as associates, Abackarel Jeronymo Bandeiia de Mello, 
chief of section of the general directory of statistics, and Guilherme 
Candido Bellegarde, chief of section of the central directory of the 
ministry of agriculture, commerce, and public works, as stated in the 
articles printed in the accompanying pamphlet, of which I have the 
honor of sending you three copies. 

It remains, then, to inform you that the central Brazilian commission 
of international exchanges has been in operation since the 20th day of 
November last, and transacts its business in the third directory of the 
oflice of the secretary of state of imperial affairs, and that it will shortly 
send you the first remittance of our official publications, hoj^ing that 
in return there will also be sent to it the official publication of your 
country. 

I wish to congratulate you on account of the happy resolution taken 
by our respective governments, in the interest of the sciences and of the 
development and progress of civilization, to establish as a permanent 
institution the service of international exchanges, and I (very) especially 
congratulate myself on the opportunity thus afforded of opening rela- 
tions with a gentleman so distinguished and illustrious as yourself. 

Accept, eminent sir, the assurance of my highest esteem and consid- 
eration. 

The president of the commission. 

Dr. J. J. DE Compos da Costa de Medeibos y Axbuquerque. 

[//tcZosure.] 

PKOVISIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE GUIDAJTCE OF THE CENTRAX COMMISSION OB" 
INTERNATIONAI. EXCHANGES ESTABLISHED THIS DAY. 

Article I. The central commission of international exchanges shall be 
installed in one of the rooms of the third department of the oflice of 
the secretary of the empire, and transact its business on such days and 
at such hours as will not interfere with the ordinary business of the 
office of the secretary. 

Art. II. The commission is charged — 

1. To correspond with similar institutions established in other countries, 
with respect to all matters within its competency. 

2. To collect and transmit all information, scientific, literary, or con- 
cerning the arts, which may be solicited of them. 

3. To have made, on behalf of the commissioners of other countries, 
the necessary examinations in the libraries, archives, book-stores, and 
other public and private establishments of the empire. 

S. Mis. 109 51 



802 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

4. To collect together the documents intended for exchanges, and per- 
form this in the way that shall be most beneficial to the empire. 

5. To receive and distribute those which may be sent by foreign com- 
missions. 

6. To give all possible aid to scientific missions, both Brazilian and 
foreign. 

7. To solicit from any authority or public department whatsoever 
everything that may be necessary for the fulfillment of the charge in- 
trusted to it. 

8. To appoint rei^resentatives (agents) in the provinces and give them 
the necessary instructions. 

Art. III. The commission shall send to the minister and secretary 
of state of imperial affairs, before the 31st day of March of each year, a 
detailed report of the work accomplished and exchanges made during 
the ijreceding year, suggesting the changes it deems it advisable to 
make in the present instructions. 

Art. IV. The materials necessary for carrying on (expediting) the 
business of the commission shall be furnished by the office of the secre- 
tary of state of imjjerial affairs. 

Palace of Eio de Janeiro, November 13, 1879. 

Francisco Maria Sodia Pereira. 



[The State Departmeut to the Smithsonian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, June 17, 1880. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 
Sir: I have the pleasure to inclose herein a copy of "regulations of 
the Russian commission for the international exchange of works of 
science and art," and a coj^y of a note from the charge d'affaires ad in- 
terim of Eussia, relating thereto, and to say that the department will 
be happj' to communicate to the legation the purport of any observations 
which you may see proper to make in reference to the intelligence hereby 
conveyed. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
John Hay, 
Acting Secretary. 
[JncZosMre No. 1. — Translation.] 

Legation of Eussia in the United States, 

Washington, May 19, 31, 1880. 

His Excellency William M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State, tfcc, dec : 
Mr. Secretary of State: The geographical congress which met at 
Paris in 1875, having recognized the necessity of organizing, in a uniform 
manner, in the various countries, the system of exchanging the various 
administrative, literary, or scientific publications of international inter- 
est, a resolution of the council of the empire, adopted April 10, 22, 1877, 
and sanctioned by His Majesty the Emperor, made provision for the 
establishment of a Eussian commission of international exchange. The 
imperial ministry now informs me that this commission has just been 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 805 

appointed under the presidency of Privy Councilor Bytchow, and is 
composed of delegates from tlie various branches of the government of 
the empire. It will be governed by special regulations, a copy of which 
I have the honor herewith to transmit. 

1 have been iustructed to bring the foregoing to the notice of the 
Federal Government, and to inform your excellency that it will be the 
duty of this commission to enter into relations with the commission of 
the same kind existing in the United States, as regards all those mat- 
ters which form the object of its mission. 

Communications intended for the Russian commission should be ad- 
dressed as follows: To the President of the Russian Commission of In- 
ternational Exchange, Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg. 

I avail m^j-self of this occasion to beg you, Mr. Secretary of State, to 
be pleased to accept the assurance of my highest consideration and 
most profound respect. 

G. WiLLAMOV. 

llnclosure No. 2. — Translation.] 

REGULATIONS OF THE RUSSIAN COMMISSION FOR THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE OF 
WORKS OF SCIENCE AND ART. 

The duties of the Russian commission shall be as follows: 

1. It shall collect for the governments and learned institutions of 
foreign countries the publications intended for them, either as a gift or 
by way of exchange, and shall have charge of the shipment of such 
publications. 

2. It shall send to the official and learned institutions of the empire of 
Russia the ])ublications which are intended for them, either gratuitously 
or by way of exchange by foreign governments or institutions. Packages 
must be addressed to this commission. 

3. It shall transmit to foreign commissions for the governments and 
learned institutions of foreign countries any information that may be 
asked of it and that it may be able to supply. 

4. It shall furnish to the official or learned institutions of such foreign 
countries as may request it through their respective commissions infor- 
mation concerning the documents in the Russian archives and concern- 
ing the conditions on which a copy thereof will be furnished to them. 

5. It shall have charge of the exchange of duplicates. 

6. On the recommendation of foreign commissions it shall facilitate 
the accomplishment of their mission to scientific men visiting Russia, 
furnishing them, to this effect, with information, letters of recommenda- 
tion, &c. 

The Russian commission shall use its influence to the same end with 
foreign commissions in behalf of Russian scientists. 

7. It shall act as a medium with foreign commissions for the obtain- 
ment of such information as may be required by the official and learned 
institutions of Russia. 

8. It shall publish annually a catalogue of the official publications 
issued by the various departments of the government, the statistical 
committees, and the learned institutions and societies. 

Within the limits of this programme the Russian commission will 
enter into correspondence with foreign commissions of the same charac- 
ter. 

The commission shall present an annual report of its proceedings to 
the minister of ijublic instruction. 



804 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

[The Smithsouian lustitution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, October 23, 1880. 
Hon. William M. Evarts, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir: a geographical congress of nations, with delegates from the 
principal governments of the world, was held at Paris in the summer 
of 1875, and among the representatives was one from the United States 
of America. 

One of the results of the deliberations of the congress was a recom- 
mendation of the adoption of a uniform system of exchanging the lite- 
rary and scientific publications of all nations. This recommendation 
was reported to your predecessor in office, the Hon. Hamilton Fish, who 
requested that the Smithsonian Institution would act as the interme- 
diary of the United States in carrying into effect the proposed system 
as embodied in the recommendation of the Paris congress, as above 
referred to. 

Under date of January 10, 1879, the Smithsonian Institution received 
the following communication from the Department of State in reference 
to the proposed international exchange system: 

" You are already aware of the desire of this department to secure to 
the Smithsonian Institution the fullest liberty of action and the utmost 
enhancement of its utility without entailing any additional burden on 
its resources." 

You are of course informed that a number of other governments rep- 
resented at the congress of Paris have seconded the recommendation 
in question, and have already adopted special means, by establishing 
bureaus of international exchange, to carry its provisions into effect. 
Among these governments are France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, 
Eussia, and Italy. 

Eecognizing the enlightened action of the Paris congress in recom- 
mending a system of interchange of scientific and literary thought be- 
tween the different peoples of the world, and acting in accordance with 
the expressed wish of the Department of State, the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution at once set about the inauguration of the proposed system on 
behalf of the Government of the United States. 

It was originally presumed that by interlacing with the regular estab- 
lished systems of exchanges of the Institution so successfully conducted 
for more than a quarter of a century, the international system could be 
carried on at a very little outlay in addition to that required for the 
Smithsonian system. But this presumption did not prove to be a fact, 
the Institution finding, after two years' trial, that the expense attendant 
upon the execution of the request of the Department of State is far 
greater than was anticipated. 

The Smithsonian Institution is therefore compelled to ask that an ap- 
propriation of $7,000 be requested of Congress by the Department of 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 805 

State, for the purpose of carryinj? into effect the recommendation of 
the Paris congress on a scale in keeping with the high position of the 
United States among civilized nations and commensurate with the rep- 
utation of the government for enlightened liberality in connection with 
the cause of general education. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencee F. Baibd, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 



[The State Department to tlie Smitbsouiau Institution.] 

Dei>artment of State, Washington, October 30, 1880. 
Prof. Spencer F. Batrd, 

" Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 23d instant, in relation to the expense of the work of conducting 
the exchange of the literary and scientific publications of all nations, 
recommended by the international geographical congress held at Paris 
in the summer of 1875, which work, at the instance of this department, 
the Smithsonian Institution undertook to carry on on behalf of the 
United States. You state, furthermore, that it was originally i>resumed 
that exchanges in question could be carried on in connection with the 
system already established, but that practically the additional work 
has been found to greatly increase the expense of conducting the ex- 
changes, and that, therefore, the Smithsonian Institution is compelled 
to ask that an appropriation of $7,000 be requested of Congress to de- 
fray the expenses of the exchanges recommended by the Paris congress, 
and undertaken on behalf of the United States by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution at the instance of this department. 

In reply I have to say that, fully appreciating the importance of main- 
taining and extending this system of literary and scientific exchanges 
■which has been so happily inaugurated, it will afford me much pleasure 
to ask the proper committees of Congress to favorably consider your 
request for an appropriation of $7,000 for the purpose indicated in your 
letter. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant, 
Wm. M. Evarts. 



[State Department to the Senate Committee on Appropriations.] 

Department of State, Washington, January 31, 1881. 
Hon. Henry G. Davis, 

Chairman of the Committee on Ajypropriations, Senate: 
Sir : I have the honor to transmit herewith, for the information and 
consideration of your committee, a copy of a letter dated the 23d of 



806 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

October last, from Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, to this department, in relation to the expenses which 
have been imposed upon that institution by its having undertaken, at 
the instance of my predecessor, the Hon. Hamilton Fish, to carry 
out on behalf of this government the system of exchanging the literary 
and scientific publications of all nations which was adopted at an inter- 
national conference held at Paris in the summer of 1875, at which this 
country was represented. 

It now appears from the statements made in Professor Baird's letter 
that the expense of carrying out the exchanges in question is far greater 
than was anticipated, whereby an undue burden has been imposed 
upon the resources of the Smithsonian Institution; and Professor 
Baird therefore asks that an appropriation of $7,000 may be made for 
the purpose of carrying out the recommendations of the Paris congress 
of 1875. 

I may add that it is understood by this department that the ex- 
changes of literary and scientific publications in question are now car- 
ried on at the expense of the several governments which were parties 
to the congress of 1875, except in the case of this government, which 
has imposed this important and useful work upon the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

In view, therefore, of the reasons set forth by Professor Baird in a 
communication transmitted herewith, and in view of the great benefits 
which the government, institutions of learning, public libraries, and men 
of science are receiving from the system of the exchange of literary 
and scientific publications inaugurated by the congress of 1875 at Paris, 
I beg to recommend that the appropriation asked for, as above indi- 
cated, may be made. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

Wm. M. Evarts. 



[The State Departmeut to the Smithsouian Institution.] 

Department of State, Washington, December 27, 1881. 

Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution: 
Sir: Eeferriug to the reply of this department, of the 30th of October 
last, to your letter of the 23d of that month, in relation to the exchange 
of government and scientific publications with foreign countries, and 
referring also to the letter of this department to the Senate Committee 
on Appropriations, dated the 31st of January last, on the same subject, 
I now beg to request you to furnish this departmeut with your views in 
relation to this matter, in form of a memorandum, to serve as the basis 
of a communication to Congress urging the appropriation of an amount 
sufficient to defray the expenses of international exchanges, and of so 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 807 

organizing the work that it shall be done by the Smithsonian Institution, 
but under the Department of State, and with its official co-operation. 
This arrangement seems to be desirable in order that the American 
bureau of exchanges may be on the same footing as those in Europe, 
where this business is conductetl under the supervision of the foreign 
officers of the various countries which have entered into the interna- 
tional agreement in relation to exchanges. 

I mny add that, owing to the want of sufficient funds to enable the 
Smithsonian Institution to carry out fully the system of exchanges, a 
large amount of labor and expense has been imposed upon this depart- 
ment in sending to various countries of Europe the i)ublications of this 
government. The calls upon this department to perform services of this 
character are growing more and more numerous and more and more 
burdensome continually. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant. 
J. 0. Bancroft Davis, 

Acting Secretary. 



[The Smithsonian Institution to the State Department.] 

Smithsonian Institution, March 12, 1882. 
Hon. F. T, Frelinghuysen, 

Secretary of State : 

Sir : The letter from the Department of State of December 27 last, in 
reference to the future prosecution by the Smithsonian Institution of its 
system of international exchanges under the direction of the State De- 
partment, was duly received, but the reply has been deferred until a 
statement of all the circumstances connected with the initiation and 
carrying on of this work to the present time could be prepared. This 
statement I now have the honor to submit for your consideration. 

The statement in question is prefaced by an account of the attempts 
made prior to 1850 in the direction of a system of exchange, both in the 
United States and elsewhere, and it also presents points of the history 
of the concerted eflbrt toward an international system started in Europe 
in 1875, and now in operation with fair prospects of success. 

From the document referred to it will also be seen that the Smith- 
sonian Institution has for many years carried on, single-handed and 
alone, so far as outside pecuniary aid is concerned, the most extensive 
system of exchange ever attempted. Originating in the transmission of 
the publications of the Institution, the Smithsonian exchange next in- 
cluded the publications of various learned societies of the United States; 
subsequently the exchanges of the government bureaus in Washington, 
and linally the international exchanges between the Congress of the 
United States and foreign governments. The cost to the Smithsonian 
fund of the maintenance of this system now amounts to about $10,000 a 
year, an expenditure the Institution is entirely unable to continue, and 



808 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

it becomes necessary, therefore, that operations in this department should 
hereafter be more confined to the immediate interests of the Institution, 
unless Congress shall vouchsafe its assistance. 

Aid in connection with the exchange system is requested on the fol- 
lowing grounds : 

(1.) The expenses of the exchanges by the Smithsonian Institution of 
its own publications should in equity be paid by the United States Gov- 
ernment, for the reason that the proceeds of these exchanges (now form- 
ing a library of about 100,000 volumes) are all deposited in the Con- 
gressional Library as soon as received. 

(2.) The system enables the several departments and bureaus of the 
government to obtain valuable materials for their respective libraries 
by exchange of their publications for tiiose of corresponding depart- 
ments and bureaus of other governments, and which publications can 
be obtained only through exchange. 

(3.) The work of the Institution for the benefit of other establishments 
in this country is national in its character, tending greatly to advance 
general science and popular education. 

Your predecessor in office, realizing this drain upon the resources of 
the Smithsonian, requested Congress for an appropriation of $7,000, 
which was the estimated cost of the work at the time; an allowance, 
however, of only f 3,000 was granted. The money was placed in charge 
of the Interior Department, this disposition of it being made presumably 
at the instance of the Department of State and as an indication of its 
preference to be relieved from further responsibility in the matter ; and 
for this reason the Smithsonian Institution made direct application to 
Congress for an appropriation of $5,000 for the coming fiscal year. This 
estimate, though entirely below the sum requisite for carrying on the 
work, was submitted as more likely to be allowed than a larger amount. 
I trust that if the Department of State is willing to continue its efforts 
in connection with the exchanges, it will ask for at least $10,000 for the 
service. If it is desirable that the Smithsonian should also take charge 
of the government and other exchanges now passing through the State 
Department, a still larger sum will be required. 

It will be entirely agreeable to the Smithsonian Institution to prose- 
cute the exchange system under the general direction of the Depart- 
ment of State, and thereby secure the services of consuls or foreign 
ministers of the United States in those countries where national bureaus 
of exchange have not yet been established. 

Commending the subject to your early and careful consideration, 

I have the honor to be, &c., 
Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 

As the amount ($3,000) appropriated by Congress in assistance of the 
Institution for the last year (18S1) had been placed nnder the direction 



HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 809 

of the Interior Department, tlie subject of the desired extension of 
gOTernment aid was naturally referred to the honorable Secretary of 
the Interior for his opinion. The following communication expresses 
his entire approval of the project: 

[Mr. Kirkwood to Mr. Freliughuysen.] 

Department of the Interior, Washington, March 27, 1882. 

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi- 
cation of the 24th instant touching the establishment of a bureau of 
international exchanges under the supervision of the Department of 
State, "the work of the bureau to be concentrated in the hands of the 
Smithsonian Institution, as the delegated agency of said department," 
and in reply to say that this department has long felt the need of some 
iraj^roved method of conducting international exchanges, by which the 
more certain and speedy delivery of packages transmitted may be se- 
cured. The chief difficulties encountered under the present system re- 
sult, in the first place, from the very limited number of dispatch agencies 
employed by the Department of State, restricting transmission of docu- 
ments, &G., received from other departments and offices to the three 
cities, London, Paris, and Hamburg; and, secondly, from the delay 
which often attends the dispatch of i^ackages through the Smithsonian 
Institution, many months frequently elapsing between the delivery of a 
package to the Institution and its reception abroad. In addition, the 
present system involves the trouble of keeping accounts, and of the 
presentation and payment of bills for transportation, whether packages 
are transmitted by the Department of State or by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

It is understood that under the new system proposed by you these 
difficulties will be avoided; that not only will it unify our system of 
international exchanges, and "assimilate it with that of other countries," 
but also that greater dispatch and certainty of delivery will be attained. 

It is furthermore presumed that the appropriation to be made for this 
purpose will be adequate to meet the necessities of all the departments 
and offices of the government, so that they will be relieved of all ex- 
pense in the matter of transportation. 

In view of the fact that the proposed arrangement seems to involve 
these advantages, I regard it as entitled to the approval of this depart- 
ment. 

I have the honor to be, &c., 

S. J. Kirkwood. 



[Report of the Secretary of State to the Presitlcut.] 

To the President : 

The Secretary of State has tiie honor to lay before the President, 
with a view to its transmission to Congress, a letter from the Secretary 



810 HISTORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 

of the Smithsonian Institution concerning the working of the present 
system of exchanges carried on by that Institution, and the practica- 
bility of the suggestion which has been made, that the scope of the 
Smithsonian Institution's bureau be enlarged so as to form an inter- 
national bureau of governmental and scientific exchanges, under the 
supervision of the Department of State. 

The Secretary of State has little to add to the very clear exposition 
made by Professor Baird of the rapid growth of the operations of the 
exchange bureau of the Smithsonian, and to his statements of the 
utility of still further extending them. He has been for some time con- 
vinced that an arrangement like that proposed would not only bring 
the system of diplomatic and literary jexchanges of this country into 
harmonious relations with the like international exchange bureaus in 
other countries, but would greatly enlarge the beneficial results obtained 
under the present system of private enterprise, besides relieving the 
several executive departments of the labor and expense of effecting their 
own foreign exchanges, by concentrating the work in one properly 
equipped and competent bureau. His opinions in this regard are shared 
by other members of the government, as will be seen on perusal of the 
annexed letter from the Secretary of the Interior in response to an in- 
quiry lately addressed to him. Should the President decide to recom- 
mend the latter to the consideration of Congress, the Secretary of State 
has the honor to advise that an appropriation of $10,000 be asked for 
the coming fiscal year, in order that the proposed plan may have a fair 
chance to demonstrate its necessity and its benefits. It is probable 
that the scattered expenses under the present system of separate ex- 
changes aggregate a larger amount than that which he suggests as the 
limit of a serviceable appropriation. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

Fred'k T. Frelinghuysen. 

Department of State, Washington, April 11, 1882. 



[Recommeudalion by the President to Congress.] 

To the House of Eepresentatives : 

I transmit herewith, with commendation to the attention of Congress, 
a report of the Secretary of State and its accompanying papers concern- 
ing the proposed establishment of an International Bureau of Exchanges. 

Chester A. Arthur. 
Executive Mansion, 

Washington, April 14, 1882. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Abbe, Clevelaud ; report on progress iu meteorology in 1881 231 

Aboriginal art, a supposed specimen of 672 

works at the mouth of the Klikitat River, Wash. Terr 527 

soapstono quarry and shell-heaps iu Alabama GI7 

Aborigines of Florida 677 

of Texas 613 

Accessions to the Museum during the year 100 

Acoustics 341 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution and 

National Museum 181 

extending privileges of Library of Congress to Regents of Smithsonian 

Institution 181 

furnishing to the Smithsonian Institution one set of weights and meas- 
ures 186 

granting franking privilege 181 

printing of Fish Report 184 

remitting duties on object of art awarded Professor Baird by fishery ex- 
hibition at Berlin 184 

Adams, W. II. ; on mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 553 

Administration of the National Museum 97 

Smithsonian Institution 13 

Aid from other museums 95 

of manufacturing and commercial firms to Museum 100 

Alabama, aboriginal soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in CI7 

Jefferson County, mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in 616 

Alachua County, Florida, mounds iu 635 

Alaska, collections of fishes from 105 

fishes of 465 

Allen County, Kentucky, mounds iu 609 

Alternate generation in gall insects 446 

Americanists, International Congress of 45 

American Museum of Natural History, New York, collection received from .. 109 

Amphibians - - 478 

bibliography of 478,479,480 

Amphioxus, embryology of 468 

Analysis of buildiug-stoue 110 

Anatomy, vegetable 391 

Ancient canals in Florida 631 

remains near Cobden, 111 584 

rock inscriptions iu Johnson County, Arkansas 538 

Andrews, E. A., assistant in Fish Commission work 48 

Animal life, the telegraph and 417 

Annelids, natatory bladder in 428 

Ant hropogeny 500, 5'>2 

(811; 



812 INDEX. 

Page. 

Anthropological corre8i)ondence, abstracts from 681 

Anthropology, illnstrated in Museum 89, 92 

miscellaneous papers on 527 

report on progress in, in 1881, by O. T. Mason 499 

archaeology 500, 502 

bibliography of 508,509,510,511,512 

biology of man 500, 502 

bibliography of 513,514 

comparative psychology, or "phrenology" 501 504 

bibliography, of . 514, 515 

comparative technology 501 , 505 

bibliography of 519 

daimonology or pneumatology 501, 506 

bibliography of 521 , 522 

ethnology 501,505 

bibliography of 515, 516, 517 

glossology 501, 505 

bibliography of 517, 518 

hexiology 501,507 

bibliography of 522 

instrumentalities of research 501, 507 

bibliography of 522, 523, 524, 525 

sociology 501, 506 

bibliography of 520,521 

use of vrord 89 

Antiquities of Cayuga County, New York 650 

East Windsor, Conn 660 

Fox Eiver Valley, La Salle County, Illinois 549 

Jackson County, Illinois .-. 580 

Knox County, Illinois 554 

Madison County, New York 651 

Mills County, Iowa 528 

Nicaragua, by J. F. Bransford, M. D 26 

Nova Scotia 673 

Onondaga and adjoining counties, New York 647 

Oswego County, New York 647 

Southwestern Pennsylvania 638 

Texas 613 

Wayne County, Illinois 587 

Appendices to report of the Assistant Director of the United States National 

Museum 111,131 

Appendix, general 187 

to report of Secretary 55 

Applegate, F. L. , signal observer at Unalaska 22 

Appropriations for 1882 x 

in 1881 169 

Appropriation for asphaltum foot-walks 186 

concrete walk 13, 186 

furniture and fixtures of National Museum 185 

Government exchanges 33 

heating and lighting National Museum 185 

internatioual exchanges - 7, 185 

international Fishery Exhibition at Berlin 182 

North American ethnology 185 



INDEX. 813 

Page. 

Appropriation for preservatiou of collections 185 

Armory building 185 

publication of ethnological material 182 

repayment of freight on Naval Observatory publications.. 183, 184 

War Department publications 180 

sewerage ^ 13, 173, 184 

transfer and arrangement of collections presented at the 

Centennial Exhibition 185 

ArchaBological explorations 39 

Archeology, department of 101 

progress in, in 1881 500, 502 

ArchaeopterygidsB, characteristics of 487 

Archegoniata 405 

Architects of the National Museum, report of 177 

Archives of the Museum, preservation of 98 

Arkansas, Independence County, mounds in 541 

Johnson County, ancient rock inscriptions in 538 

Armory building, ajipropriation for 170 

used for storage 12 

Art and industry in Museum 99 

Arthropods, bibliography of 431 

Arthur, Chester A., president ex officio Smithsonian "Establishment" xv 

Eegent vui 

appointment of Kegents by IX 

Ashland County, Ohio, mounds and earthworks in 593 

Asphalt um foot-walks, appropriation for 186 

Aspii'ators for Museum building 11, 174 

Assay laboratory in Museum building 11 

Asteroids 220 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 28 

Astronomical bibliography 229 

Astronomy, progress in, in 1881, by E. S. Holden 191 

Asteroids 220 

August shooting stars 217 

Bibliography of 229 

Comets 213 

Companion of Sirius " 202 

Cluster measurements 191 

Double stars 202 

Etna Observatory 224 

Faye's periodic comet 21G 

Fixed stars 192 

Instruments and methods employed 197, 224 

Jupiter 220 

The Moon 220 

Nebulae and clusters 191 

Observatories 223 

Origin of the English mile 219 

Parallax of stars 195 

Planets 219 

Saturn 222 

Solar parallax 207 

Solar system 202 



814 INDEX. 

Page. 

Astronomy — Continued. 

Star charts I97 

The Sun 205 

Transit of Mercury 212 

Transit of Venus 209,210 

Uniform standard time 227 

Variable stars 195 

Velocity of light 210 

Vulcan 219 

Atkins, C. G., employed in fisheries census 53 

Atkinson, Edward, procured exhibit of cotton fabrics 100 

Atmosphere, chemical and physical properties of 261 

movements of 290 

Atwood, Capt. N. E., employed in fisheries census 52 

Auckland, New Zealand, Museum, collections received from 106 

Amoras 304 

B. 

Bacon, Paymaster Albert W., U. S. N., collections received from 107 

Bacteria 395 

Bailey, Mr. , engineer steamer Fish Hawk 47 

Baird, Prof. S. F., bibliography of the publications of 98 

Director Smithsonian Institution and National Museum . . . xvi 

U. S. National Museum Ill 

letter transmitting Annual Eeport for 1881 iii 

member of National Museum Building Commission 176 

report of, to Board of Regents 1 

report on Bureau of Ethnology 38 

report on the U. S. Fish Commission 46 

report on U. S. National Museum 35 

Baker, Capt. J. G., specimens received from 42 

Banta, W. V., and John Garretson; on mounds at Snake Den, near Salem, 

Iowa 532 

Barber, George W. ; on mounds near the National Home, Milwaukee County, 

Wisconsin 542 

Barker, Prof. G. F., representative at Electrical Convention at Paris 46 

report on progress in chemistry in 1881 381 

report on progress in physics in 1881 333 

Barker, Henry L. , collections made by 104 

Barkley, W. F. ; anthropological correspondence 681 

Barnard, J. G. ; internal structure of the earth 25- 

Barnstable County, Massachusetts, shell heaps in 664 

Barren County, Kentucky, mounds in 609 

Bean, Dr. T. H., assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

collections made by 105 

curator U. S. National Museum xvi, 111 

employed iu fisheries census 53 

in charge of department of fishes 105 

table of entries in the record books of the Museum 99 

titles of papers by Ill, 112 

Beardslee, Commander L. A., collections made by 102 

Beauchamp, W. M., antiquities of Onondaga and adjoining counties, New 

York 647 

Bee, peculiar glands connected with tongue of 446 



INDEX. 815 

Page. 

Bell, James, collectious rpceivoil fidin 103 

nionnds in Alachua County, Florida 635 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, list of papers by 125 

collections received from 105 

Berlin, fishery exhibition in 44, 182 

Berrien County, Georgia, New River, mounds in 631 

Bibliographical history of the Museum 98 

Bibliography of anthropology 508, 525 

of Museum Avork Ill 

of zoology 411 

Billings, Dr. J. S., letters of introduction given to 44 

Biological Society of Washington, meetings of, in Museum building 99 

Biology of man 500, 503 

Birds added to American fauna in 1881 487 

American Jurassic 485 

number of 485 

bibliography of 481, 482, 483, 484 

coloring matter of feathers 484 

Blackford, E. G., donations to Museum 103, 105 

Blind fishes and congeners 477 

Blood of insects 445 

Board of Regents, report to 1 

meeting of (> 

Boehmer, George H. ; History of the Smithsonian Exchanges 33, 703 

in charge of international exchanges 30 

report on operations of exchanges during the year 1881 . 30 

Booth, N. , expiration of term of, as Regent ix 

Botany, report on progress in, in 1881, by W. G. Farlow 391 

archegoniata 405 

bacteria 395 

diseases of plants 399 

fossil, department of 109 

phajnogams 407 

thallophytes 400 

vegetable anatomy and physiology 391 

Boucard, A. , donation to Museum 103 

Bowers, Stephen, donation to Museum 101 

Boyle County, Kentucky, mounds in 603 

Braceville, Ohio, mound near 592 

Brausford, J. F.; antiquities of Nicaragua 26 

Bread, Indian, or tuckahoe, by J. H. Gore 637 

Brewster, Hon. Benjamin H., member ex officio xv 

Brewster, William, titles of papers by 125, 126 

Brushes, exhibit of, in Museum 101 

Building commission. {See National Museum, building commission.) 
Buildings of the Institution : 

Armory building 12 

Laboratory of natural history 12 

National Museum building 10 

Smithsonian building 9 

Building-stones, analysis of 110 

microscopic slides of 110 

Bulletins of the National Museum, No. 21 27 

Philosoi^hical Society of Washington 27 



816 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bureau County, Illinoia, mounds in 556 

Bureau of Ethnology, Professor Bairtl's report on 38 

report of 38 

Busse, F. , collections received from 106 

Butler County, Ohio, earthworks in 600 

C. 

Cabinet of curiosities, national 81 

California, collections of fishes from 105 

salmon eggs, distribution of 50 

Callichthyids, oviposition of 473 

Canals, ancient, in Florida 631 

Carruthers, Arthur ; an thropological correspondence 681 

Carvings, rock, on the Susquehanna River, Pennsylvania 642 

Case, H. B.; description of mounds and earthworks in Ashland County, Ohio. 593 

Cass County, Illinois, Indian remains in 568 

buried flints in 563 

Catalogues of stars 192 

Cayuga County, New York, antiquities of 650 

Ceilings in Museum building, repairs to 10, 11 

Centennial Exhibition, effects of 83 

Chifitodermaj 455 

Chautauqua County, New York 643 

Check-list of Smithsonian publications 27 

Chemical laboratory 14 

Chemical laboratory in Museum building 11 

properties of the atmosphere 261 

products, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Chemist, report of the 161 

Chemistry, report on progress in, in 1881 381 

general and physical 381 

inorganic 383 

organic 388 

Chester, C'apt. H. C, selection of steamer Prometheus by 23 

Chinese medicines in Museum 100 

Cicada, periodical 446 

Clark, A. Howard, employed in Fisheries Census 52, 53 

obtained collections of schooners 101 

Clarke, E. W., thanks due to 22 

Clark, Henry James ; Lucernaria3 and their allies 25 

Classification, proposed, in Museum 89 

Cluss & Schultze, architects. National Museum building, report of 180 

Cly mer, Hiester, regent VIU 

Coast and Geodetic Survey, co-operation of 42 

Cobdeu, 111. , ancient remains near 584 

Ca3lenterates 421 

bibliography of 421,422 

Collecting fish eggs 50 

Collections, appropriation for transfer and arrangement of, 185 

Collins, Capt. J. W., employed on Fisheries Census 52 

paper by - 126 

Coloring matter of birds' feathers 484 

Comets, notes relative to 213 

observed in 1881 29 



INDEX. 817 

Page. 
Committee, Executive. (/See Executive Committee.) 

National Museum building. (See National Museum.) 

special, ou Henry memorial volume, (.See Memorial of J. Henry.) 

Comparative psychology or "phrenology " 501,504 

Comparative technology 501, 505 

Concrete walk, appropriation for IJ 

Conduction of heat 354 

Coanecticut, antiquities of East Windsor 6ti0 

Connor, Miss Maggie, death of 43 

Contributions of manufactures to the Museum 88 

to Knowledge, vol. xxiii 25 

Co-operation of revenue cutter Corwin 20, 22 

U. S. Signal OflSce 19 

Navy Department and James Gordon Bennett 17 

with other establishments 40 

Coosawattee, Old Towu, Georgia, silver crosses from mound at 619 

Copp^e, Henry, Kegent viil,ix,xv 

resolutions by x,xiii 

Corals, collections of 108 

mounting of 108 

Corcoran Gallery of Art, co-operation of 41 

Corning, Erastus, donation to Museum 103 

Correspondence, anthropological, abstracts from 681 

of the Smithsonian Institution 13 

Correspondents of the Institution 31 

Corwiu, revenue cutter, co-operation of 22 

Cotton fabrics obtained for the Museum 100 

Japanese, collection of 101 

Coues, Elliott ; anthropological correspondence 681 

Cox, Hon. Samuel S., Kegent XV 

reapjjoiuted Regent ix 

Cox, W. v., employed in Fisheries Census 52 

Cray-fish, fossil tertiary 438 

Crosses, silver, from mound in Georgia 619 

Crustaceans, deep-sea 436, 437 

parasitic 433 

Culture of animals, expansion of 93 

Curiosities, national cabinet of 81 

Cushing, F. H., collections from 38 

explorations by :38 

Cuttle-fishes, gigantic 460 

D. 

Dale, Dr. F, C. , birds received from 103, 108 

Dall, William H., contributions to Museum 42 

honorary curator, National Museum xvi, 111 

titles of papers by 112, 113 

Dana, Prof. J. D., labeled corals 108 

Davis, Hon. David, member ex officio XV 

Regent xv 

Deaths. (jSee Necrology.) 

Dean, Seth; ou antiquities of Mills County, Iowa 528 

Deeriug, Hon. Nathaniel C, Regent ix,xv 

appointed Regent ix 

S. Mis. 109 52 



818 INDEX. 

Page. 

De Hass, Dr. W., exploration by 39 

De Morgan, J. J. M., collection received from 109 

Dentistry appliances, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Deposits of articles in Museum to be encouraged 58 

De Vinne, Theodore, L., illustration of wood-cut printing presented by 101 

Devoe, F. W., & Co., exhibition of paints, &c 100 

Diseases of plants, report on 399 

Distribution of young fish 50 

Donaldson, Thomas, procured exhibits from the Philadelphia Exhibition 36, 100 

Donations to the Museum, list of 131 

Double stars 202 

Dow, Capt. J. M. , services rendered by 41 

Dug^s, Prof. A., collections received from 104, 106 

Durgiu, Dr., letters of introduction given to 44 

E. 

Earll, R. E., employed in Fisheries Census 52 

Earth 219 

internal structure of 25 

Earthworks in Ashland County, Ohio 593 

Butler County, Ohio 600 

Vanderburg County, Indiana 591 

East Windsor, Conn., antiquities of 660 

Echinoderms 423 

bibliography of 423 

Economic geologj"^, department of 110 

Economical entomology of the U. S., by Townend Glover 43 

Edmunds, R. H., employed in Fisheries Census 52 

Edwards, Vinal N. , collections received from 105 

Edwardsville, Kans., mounds near 528 

Electric spark and light 377 

Electrical convention in Paris 44 

measurements 375 

service iu Museum 12, 97 

Electricity 304,372 

Elliot, D. G. ; classification and synopsis of TrochilidsB 25 

Ellsworth, E. W. ; antiquities of East Windsor, Conn 660 

Etna Observatory 224 

Embryology of Araphioxus 468 

of the lamprey 470 

Endlich, F. M., paper by 126 

Employes of the Museum, grading of 07 

Entomological collections transferred from Agricultural Department to Mu- 
seum 107 

Entomology, department of 106 

economical, illustrations of 43 

Epidemic, fish, in the Gulf of Mexico 466 

Essential oils, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Estimated expenditures for 1882 169 

receipts for 1882 _. 169 

Ethnological Bureau, Prof. S. F. Baird's report on 38 

report of 38 

explorations 39 

Ethnology, North American, approjiriatioii for 171 

report on progress in 501, 505 



INDEX. 819 

Pago. 

Ethnography, department of 102 

Etowah River, Georgia, the great mound on the 024 

Evans, R.B.; on mounds in Barren and Allen Counties, Kentucky G09 

Exchanges, acta of Congress relative to 745 

appropriation for 7,33, 171, 185 

domestic 63, 726 

expenses of the service 31 

foreign 716 

history of 30,703 

international 776 

Paris convention on 776 

receipts and. distribution of 59,60 

rules relative to _ 57 

tabular statement of 64,71,728 

with foreign governments 72, 773 

Executive Committee, reports of X. xil, xiii, 167 

Expenditures for 1881 168 

Explorations, ethnological and archaeological 15, 39, 527 

(See Researches and explorations.) 

F. 

Farlow, W. G. , titles of papers by 126 

report on progress in botany in 1881 391 

Farrell, F. M.,on ancient remains near Cobden, 111 584 

Fauna, American, birds added to, in 1881 487 

Faye's periodic comet c 216 

Feathers, coloring matter of 484 

Ferry, CM.; anthropological correspondence 681 

Fever, by H. C. Wood 26 

Fierasper, habits of 478 

Figyelmesey, Mr., collections received from 104 

Finances of the Institution 7 

Financial statement of architects 179 

Fire-proof building, National Museum, appropriation for 170 

report on 173, 177 

Fish Commission, U. S., collectiouH made by 105 

Professor Baird's report ou 46 

Fish epidemic in the Gulf of Mexico 466 

Fish Hawk, cruise of, in 1881 47,48 

Fish Commission steamer 46,47 

Fish report, printing of 184 

Fisheries census 51 

investigations of 46 

Fishery Exhibition in Berlin 44, 182 

Fishes, collections of 105 

department of 105 

of Alaska 465 

Flint, Earl, anthropological correspondence 681 

Flint, Dr. James M., chairman of board to experiment on preparing wood for 

naval purposes 14 

compilation from pharmacopEeias 100 

honorary curator National Museum xvi, HI 

in cb.arge of medicinal collections of Museum 36 

materia viedica collections by 99 



820 INDEX. 

Page. 

Flints buried iu Cass County, Illinois 563 

Floor in National Museum building 10 

Florida, aboiigines of 677 

Alachua County, mounds iu 635 

ancient canals in 681 

Flynn's Creek, Tennessee, mounds on 611 

Folger, Hon. Charles J. , member ex officio xv 

Food-fishes, propagation of 46 

Foods, collection of, in Museum 100 

Forbes, Pi'of. S. A., collections received from 105 

Foreign correspondents of the Institution 31 

Foreman, Dr. Edward, assistant, National Museum xvi, 111 

duties of 102 

Fossil botany, department of 109 

invertebrates, department of 109 

Fountain iu Museum building 174, 177 

Fox River Valley, Illinois, antiquities of 549 

Franking privilege 181 

Freliughuysen, Hon. Frederick T., member ex officio XV 

French, G. H. ; antiquities of Jackson County, Illinois 580 

on a stone fort near Makanda, Illinois 582 

Fritsch, E., contract for tile-flooring 174, 177 

Furniture and fixtures, appropriation for 170 

G. 

Galbraith F. G. ; rock carvings on the Susquehanna River 642 

Gale, W. Hector; on antiquities of Fox River Valley, La Salle County, Illinois. 549 

Gall insects, alternate generation in 446 

Garfield, James A., president ex-offido Smithsonian Establishment Viii, xv 

death of 3 

resolutions relative to ix 

memorial notice of IX 

Gai'man, Samuel, title of paper by 126 

Garretsou, John, and H. V. Banta ; on mounds at Snake Den, near Salem, Iowa 532 

Generation, alieruate, in gall insect 446 

Geographical Congress at Venice 45 

Geology, economic, department of — 110 

of Lower Louisiana, by Eugene W. Hilgard, Ph. D 25 

Georgia, Berrien County, mound in 631 

Coosa wattee Old Town, silver crosses from mound at 619 

Etowah River, the great mound on the 624 

Murray County, silver crosses from mound in 219 

New River mounds, iu 631 

silver crosses from mound in 619 

Gesner, William; mounds, &c., in Jefferson County, Alabama 616 

Gibson, John, & Co., work done by 95 

Gilbert, C. H., collections received from 105 

employed in Fisheries Census 53 

Gill, Theodore, titles of papers by 126 

on progress in zoology in 1881 409 

Glazier, W. C. W., title of paper by 126 

Glossology 501,505 

Glover, To wnend, illustrations of economical entomology 43 



INDEX. 821 

Page. 

Goode, G. Brown, Assistant Director National Museum xvi,35, 81, 111 

in charge, Fisheries Census 52 

list of papers hy 113,114 

report of Assistant Director 81 

and Tarleton H. Bean, list of papers by 114 

Gore, Prof. J. Howard ; on Indian bread or tuckahoe 68l 

work upon the collection of food 107 

Government exchanges , 32 

Grades of employes of the Museum 97 

Graham, N. B. ; anthropological correspondence 682 

Grave mound, Indian, in Georgia, silver crosses from 619 

Grayj Prof. Asa, reappointed Eegent IX 

Regent viii, ix, xv 

resolutions by ix, x, xiO 

Gray, W. B. , cases furnished by 95 

Green, Edward, on ancient rock inscriptions in Johnson County, Arkansas.. 538 

Guesde, L., collections made by 103, 104 

Gulf of Mexico, fish epidemic in the 466 

Giinther, Dr., aid furnished by 95 

Gurney, John Henry, list of papers by ISg 

H. 

Habel bequest 9 

Haite, Joshua, sr., mounds on Flynn's Creek, Jackson County, Tennessee.. . 611 

Haldeman, Mrs. S. S., donation from 101 

Hamilton bequest 9 

Hamlin, Hon. H., resignation of, as Regent ix, 4 

services of 5 

Hardy, George L., and Fred. B. Scheetz ; on mounds in Ralls County, Missouri . 533 

Harger, Oscar, list of papers by 126 

Harlan, Calvin S. ; anthropological correspondence • 682 

Harris, D. W., donation to Museum 102 

Hawes, Dr. George W., curator National Museum xvi, 110, 111 

list of papers by 115 

stone-cutters employed by 96 

Hawloy, E. H., mounting of specimens done by 108 

Hay, Dr. O. P., collections received from 106 

title of paper by 127 

Ilayden, Rev. Horace, autiquities of Sonthwesteru Pennsylvania 6.38 

Hayden, Walter, collections received from 106 

Hayes, Rutherford B., president ex officio Smithsonian Establishment XV 

Heating and lighting National Museum building, appropriation for 185 

Henderson, Hon J. G., donation from 101 

Hendley, J. W., painting of casts 96 

Henry County, Illinois, mounds iu 552 

Henry, Joseph, memorial of 27 

statue of XIII, 6 

Henshaw, H. W., title of paper by 127 

Hcring, J. C, collections made by 102, 103, 104 

Hilgard, Eugene W. ; geology of Lower Louisiana 25 

Hill, Hon. Nathaniel P., Regent viii.ix.xv 

appointed Regent ix, 4, 5 

Hillers, J. IC, photographic work done by 40 

Hinckley, Isaac, facilities offered in transporting lish 51 



822 INDEX. 

Page. 

History, bibliographical, of tbe Museum 96 

of the Museum, periods in 81 

of the Smithsonian exchanges, by George H. Boehmer 703 

Hoar, Hon. George F., Regent Viii, ix 

appointed Eegent ix,xv, 4,5 

Hodgden, Captain, specimens received from , 42 

Holdeu, Prof. Edward S. ; on progress of astronomy in 1881 191 

Homsher, G. W. ; anthropological correspondence 682 

Hooper, Captain, assistance given by ^ 41 

thanks due to 20 

Horan, Henry, superintendent of the National Museum building 97 

Howard, Captain, specimens received from , 42 

Howe, Hon. Timothy O., member ex officio xv 

Hubbard, H. B. ; shell dejjosits at the mouth of Short Creek, West Virginia, . . 637 

Hunt, Hon. William H., member ex officio xv 

Huxley, Professor; definition of term "museum" 85 

Hyatt, Prof. A. , labeled corals 108 

I. 

Ice industry, collection of 101 

Ichthyology 468 

bibliography of 468,470,471,472 

Illinois, ancient remains near Cobden 584 

Bureau County, mounds in 556 

Cass County, buried flints in 563 

Indian remains in 568 

Henry County, mounds in, 552 

Jackson County, antiquities of 580 

stone fort in 582 

Knox County, mounds in 554 

La Salle County, antiquities in 549 

mounds in 544 

mounds in Spoon Eiver Valley 558 

Stark County, mounds in 552 

stone fort near Makanda 582 

Union County, ancient remains in 584 

Wayne County, antiquities of 587 

Whiteside County, mounds in 544 

Inaugural reception of the President 1 

Independence County, Arkansas, mounds in 541 

Indian bread or tuckahoe 687 

grave mound in Georgia, silver crosses from 619 

remains in Cass County, Illinois 568 

Indiana, mounds and earthworks in Vanderburg County 591 

Industries illustrated in Museum 90, 92 

Ingersoll, Ernest, employed in Fisheries Census 53 

title of paper by 127 

Inorganic chemistry 383 

Inscriptions, ancient rock, in Johnson County, Arkansas 538 

Insectarium 445 

Insects, blood of 445 

department of 106 

devastations by 448 

relation of Devonian, to existing types 451 

stigmata of 445 



INDEX. 823 

Page. 

Insects, wings of 45I 

Instrumentalities of anthropological research 501,507 

Internal structure of the earth, by J. G. Barnard 25 

International Congress of Americanists 45 

Electrical Convention in Paris 44 

exchanges, appropriation for 171, 185 

exchanges, history of, by George H. Boehmer 33 

Fishery Exhibition in Berlin 44 

Geographical Congress 45 

Invertebrates, fossil, department of 109 

Investigation of fishing and fisheries 40 

mounds 39 

Iowa, Henry County, mouuds in 532 

Mills County, mounds in 528 

mounds at Snake Den, near Salem 532 

J. 

Jack, J. Allen ; sculptured stone from St. George, New Brunswick 665 

Jackson County, Illinois, antiquities of 580 

Tennessee, mounds in 611 

Jade, exploration for 19 

Japan, collection of ornamental wood from 100 

masks from 102 

Japanese cotton, collection of 101 

Jefferson County, Alabama, mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in 616 

Johnson County, Arkansas, ancient rock inscriptions in 538 

Johnson, S. H., title of paper by 127 

Johnston, Joseph E. , Regent viii 

Jones, A., M. D. ; on mounds and other remains in Independence County, Ar- 
kansas 541 

Jones, Charles C, jr. ; silver crosses from an Indian grave-mound at Coosa- 

wattee Old Town, Murray County, Georgia 619 

Jones's Station, Butler County, Ohio, earthworks near 600 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., arrangement of iish collection by 105 

collections made bj' 105 

employed in Fisheries Census 53 

title of paper by 127 

and Charles H. Gilbert, titles of papers by 127 

and Pierre L. Jouy, title of paper by 128 

Jouy, P. L., collections received from 108 

title of paper by 115 

K. 

Kales, J. W. ; anthropological correspondence 682 

Kansas, mound near Edwardsvillc .528 

Wyandotte County, mouTids in 528 

Keifer, J. Warren, appointment of Regonts by ix 

Kelly, Miss Anna W., donation to Museum 103 

Kent's classification of Protozoans 417 

Kentucky, Allen County, mound in 609 

Barren County, mounds in 609 

Boyle County, mouuds in 603 

Mercer County, mounds in 603 

Kentworthy, Charles J. ; ancient canals in Florida 631 

Kid-glove nuxnufacture illustrated in donation to Museum 101 



824 INDEX. 

Page. 

Kirkwood, Hou. Samuel J., member €X officio xv 

Klikitat River, Washington Territory, aboriginal -works at mouth of 527 

Knickerbocker Ice Company, donation by 101 

Knox County, Illinois, antiquities of 554 

Koons, B. F., assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

Kraus, Drs., assistance given to 42 

Kvebbs, Eugene, donation from 101 

Kumlien, Ludwig, emijloyed in Fisheries Census 52,53 

L. 

Laboratory, chemical 161 

Laboratories in Museum building 11 

Laboratory of natural history 13 

Lake Tanganyika, shells of. 458 

Lami)rey, embryology of the 470 

Land shells of Palaeozoic era 457 

Langston, Hon. John M., contributions to Museum 37 

Prof. J. M., collections received from 108 

Larco, Andrea, collections received from 105 

Larvae, aquatic lepidopterous 447 

Larynx, structure of the, in epomophori 495 

La Salle County, Illinois, antiquities of Fox River Valley 549 

mounds in 544 

Lawrence, George N. , title of paper by 129 

Lee, Prof. L. A. , assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk xvi 

Legar6, Dr. T. Berwick, donation to Museum 103 

Lepidoptera, report on 447 

Leslie, C. C, collections received from 105 

contributions to Museum 37 

Lesquereux, Professor, arrangement of collection of fossil plants 109 

Library of Congress, privilege of, extended to regents of the Smithsonian 

Institution 181 

Library of the Museum 95 

of the Institution 34 

increase during the year 35 

Light-House Board, co-operation of the 42 

Light, production and velocity 301 

reflection and refraction 36:i 

Lincoln, Hon. Robert T. , member ex officio x V 

Linney, W. M. ; on mounds in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Kentucky 603 

Lockington, W. N., titles of papers by 129 

Lucernariae, and their allies, by Henry James Clark 25 

Luther, S. N. ; anthropological correspondence 682 

exploration of a mound near Braceville, Trumbull County 

Ohio 592 

M. 

MacFarlane, R., contributions to Museum 37,38 

Maclean, Dr. John, member of Executive Committee xv, 172 

Regent^ viii, ix, xv 

reports by xii, x:ii 

resolutions by --^ i 

Mac Lean, J. P. ; anthropological corresi)ondence 683 

earth works near Jones's Station, Butler County, Ohio 600 



INDEX. 825 

ragP. 

Madison County, New York, antiquities of 651 

Madsen, Peter, donation from 146 

Magnetism 304, 372 

Miikauda, Illinois, stono fort near 582 

Mammals 490 

Mammoth Cave, blind fishes of 477 

Man, illustrated in Museum 89,92 

Manufacturing firms, aid of, to Museum 100 

Marble, Hon, Edgar M. , member ex officio xv 

Maruack, S. W., collections received from 104 

Marshall, Henry, taxidermist of the Museum 96 

Masks from Japan 102 

Mason, Otis T. ; report on progress in anthropology in 1881 499 

Massachusetts, Barnstable County, shell heaps in 664 

Marsupials, relations of 494 

Materia medica, collections in Museum 99 

Mather, Fred., emjiloyed in Fisheries Census 52 

Matthew, G. F. ; on a supposed specimen of aboriginal art 672 

Maxey, Hon. Samuel B., appointed regent ix,4, 5 

Eegent viii, XV 

McClelland, M. A. ; on antiquities of Knox County, Illinois 554 

McDonald, Col. Marshall, collections received from 105,108 

contributions to Museum 37 

employed in Fisheries Census 53 

McFarlano, R., collections made by 103 

McKay, Charles L., arranging of fish collection 105 

signal observer at Nushigak 22 

title of paper by 129 

McLean, John J. ; anthropological correspondence 683 

signal observer at Sitka 23 

Mechanics 336 

Medicinal collections in Museum 36 

Medusai and hydroid polyps living in fresh water 422 

Meeting of the Board of Regents 6 

Meeting of the members of the Establishment 5, 6 

Meigs, Gen. M. C, consulting engineer of Museum building commission 175 

resolutions of thanks to xi 

Members ex officio , xv 

Memoirs in course of preparation 98 

Memorial of Joseph Henry . 27 

report of special committee on Ki 

MendelefT, Mr., mound of Ziiui 40 

Mercer County, Kentucky, mounds in 603 

Mercury, transit of 212 

Merrill, George P., aid. National Museum xvi, HI 

lapidary work by 96 

prepared raicj oscopic slides of building stones 110 

Merostomes, relations of the 431 

Metcalfe, Mr., collections from 39 

Meteorology, report on progress in, in 1881, by Cleveland Abbe 231 

auroras 304 

chemical and ])hysical properties of the atmosphere 261 

methods and apparatus 244 

movements of the atmosphere, winds, tic 290 

optical phenomena 322 



826 INDEX. 

Page. 

Meteorology, solar radiation and terrestrial temperature 267 

storms 300 

treatises and bibliography 241 

Mew, Dr., experiments by, on preparing wood for naval purposes 14 

Mexico, Gulf of, fish epidemic in the 466 

Microscopic slides of building stones 110 

Mile, English, origin of the 219 

Miles Bros. & Co., exhibit of brushes 101 

Mills, Clark, bust of Professor Henry 7 

Mills County, Iowa, antiquities of 528 

Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, mounds in 542 

Mineralogy, department of 110 

Miscellaneous Collections, vols, xx and xxi 26, 27 

papers on anthropology 527 

Missouri, Pike County, mounds in 537 

Ralls County, mounds in 533 

Mites, relation of the 439 

Mohr, Charles, aboriginal soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in Alabama 617 

Mollusks 452 

bibliography of 452,453,454,458,459,460 

gigantic cuttle-fishes 460 

land shells of paleozoic era 457 

Molluscoids 461 

Montforth, Warren ; anthropological correspondence 684 

Moodj^, J. D. ; mounds in Whiteside and La Salle Counties, Illinois 544 

Moon 220 

Moon, M. A. , title of paper by 129 

Moran, Dr. James, contributions to Museum 38 

Mound, in Murray County, Georgia, silver crosses from 619 

the great, on the Etowah River, Georgia 624 

Mounds and earthworks in Vanderburgh County, Indiana 591 

at Snake Den, near Salem, Iowa 532 

in Alachua County, Florida : 635 

in Allen and Barren Counties, Kentucky 609 

in Ashland County, Ohio 593 

in Bureau County, Illinois 556 

in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Kentucky 603 

in Henry and Stark Counties, Illinois 552 

in Independence County, Arkansas 541 

in Jefierson County, Alabama 016 

in Pike County, Missouri 537 

in Ralls County, Missouri 533 

in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 558 

in Whiteside and La Salle Counties, Illinois 544 

investigation of 39 

near Braceville, Trumbull County, Ohio 592 

near Edwardsville, Kansas 528 

near the National Home, Milwaukee County, Wisconsin 542 

on Flynn's Creek, Tennessee 611 

New River, Berrien County, Georgia 631 

Murray County, Georgia, silver crosses from mound in 619 

Museum, tUe flooring for 174,177 

(See National Museum.) 



INDEX. 827 

N. 

Page. 

National Academy of Sciences, resolution to provide accommodations for xii 

cabinet of curiositiea 81 

National Museum, accessions of the year 100 

aid from other museums 95 

aid of manufacturing and commercial firms 100 

bibliography of museum work HI 

building 10 

building commission, report of x, 173 

Bulletin, No. 21 27 

chemical laboratory completed 11 

details of administration 97 

distribution of books and specimens 34 

effects of Centennial Exhibition 83 

electrical service of 12 

experiments in methods of arrangement 94 

fire-proof building, appropriation for 170 

foods 100 

increase of 35 

library 95 

list of contributors to, in 1881 131 

list of officers of Ill 

materia medica 99 

medicinal collections of 36 

minerals, arrangement of 35 

outline of a scheme of Museum classification 89 

periods in the history of 81 

photographic laboratory 11 

plan of organization of 89 

proceedings, vol. iii 27 

publications of 98 

repairs to ceilings of 10, 11 

report of Assistant Director 81 

report of Professor Baird on 35 

report of the architects 177 

supplementary steam furnace introduced 11 

telephonic service of 12 

tiling for floors of 10 

work of the preparators 96 

Natural resources illustrated in Museum 90, 92 

Naval Observatory, repayment of freight by 183, 184 

Nebula} 191 

Necrology 43 

Nelson, Dr. Wilford, collections received from 104 

Nelson, E. W., collections made by , 102 

New Brunswick, sculptured stone found in St. George 665 

New River mouuds, Berrien County, Georgia 631 

New York, antiquities of Onondaga and adjoining counties 647 

Cayuga County, antiquities of 650 

Chautauqua County 643 

Madison County, autiquities of 651 

Onondaga Count j', antiquities of 647,651 

Oswego County, antiiiuities of 647 

perforated tablet of stone from 658 



828 INDEX. 

Page. 

Norris, Col. P. W., collections received from 110 

Northville, Michigan, Fish Commission station 51 

Nova Scotia, antiquities of G73 

Nichols, Dr. H. A., birds received from 103 

collections received from 106 

Nichols, Lieut. H. E., collections received from 105 

Null, James M. , donation to Museum 101 

Null, James W. ; anthropological correspondence G84 

Nushigak, signal station at 22 

O. 

Observations on temperatures of water and air 42, 43 

Observatories 223 

Occupations of mankind illustrated in Museum 91,93 

Officers and assistants of the Smithsonian Institution XVi 

of the United States National Museum Ill 

Ohio, Ashland County, mounds and earthworks in 593 

Butler County, earthworks in 600 

Trumbull County, mound in 592 

Onondaga County, New York, antiquities of 647, 651 

Optical phenomena 322 

Organic chemistry 388 

Organization of the Museum, plan of 89 

Orthonectides, characteristics and relations of the 425 

Oswego County, New York, antiquities of 647 

Oyster, multiplication of 51 

P. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, co-operation of 40, 31 

Paleontological specimens 109 

Paleontology, invertebrate, department of 109 

Paleozoic era, land shells of 457 

Paints, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Palmer, Edward ; anthropological correspondence 684 

donation to Museum 101 

investigation of mounds 39 

Palmer, Joseph, chief modeler of the Museum 96 

Parallax of stars 195 

Parasitic crustaceans 438 

polychactous worm 427 

Paris, electrical convention in 44 

Parker, Hon. Peter, member of Executive Committee XV, 172 

Museum Building Commission 176 

Regent viii, ix, xv 

reports by Xli, xiii 

resolutions by X 

Parker, Peter, jr., assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

Patterson, Eev. George, D. D. ; antiquities of Nova Scotia 673 

Peet, S. D. ; anthropological correspondence 684 

Pennsylvania, rock carvings on the Susquehanna River 642 

Southwestern, antiquities of 638 

Perforated tablet of stone from New York 658 

Perfumes, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Phuenogams, report on 407 



INDEX. 829 

Page. 

Pharmacopaeias, collection of 100 

Pharynx, structure of the, iu Eponiophori 493 

Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sciences, collections received from 107 

permanent exhibition 36 

Phillips, Barnet, employed in Fisheries Census 52 

on future of the Museum 88 

Philosophical Society of Washiujjton, bulletins of 27 

Photographic laboratory in Museum Building 11 

Phrenology, progress in 501,504 

Physical properties of the atmosjihere 261 

Physics, report on progress iu, iu 18:^1, by G. F. Barker 333 

acoustics 341 

electricity and magnetism 372 

heat 346 

light 3G1 

mechanics 336 

Pike County, Missouri, mounds iu 537 

Plan of organization of the Museum 89 

Planets 219 

Plants and animals, symbiosis of 416 

Plants, department of 109 

diseases of 399 

Pneumatology 501, 506 

Poey, Prof. Felipe, contributions to National Museum 37 

collections received from 104 

distributes Smithsonian exchanges in Cuba 31 

Point Barrow signal station 23 

Polaris report, appropriation for 171 

Polarization of light 369 

Polyps, hydroid and medusse living in fresh water 422 

Porifers 419 

bibliography of 419 

peculiar paleozoic sponges 420 

propagation of sponges 421 

Porter, Joseph Y. , title of paper by 129 

Kev. Dr. Noah, Eegent viii, ix, xv 

Powell, Major J. W., director of the Bureau of Ethnology 38 

Powers, Weightman & Co., oflered exhibit of chemical products 100 

Preparators of the Museum, work done by 96 

Preservation of collectious, appropriation for 169 

Museum archives 98 

President's inaugural reception 1 

Printing of Smithsonian Report for 1882 ordered ll 

press in the Museum 98 

Proceedings of the National Museum, vol. iii 27 

Progress, scientific, in 1881, record of 189 

Propagatiou of food-fishes 46 

Protochordates 461 

Protozoans 417 

bibliography of 417 

Kent's classification of 418 

transparent animalcules 418 

a new primary group of infusoria 418 

Psychology or " phrenology " 501,504 

Pterodactyles, American 480 



830 INDEX. 

Page. 

Publications of the Museum 98 

bibliography of the, of Prof. S. F. Baird 98 

bibliographical history of the Museum 98 

Bulletins of the National Museum 27 

distribution of 34 

memoirs in course of ^preparation 98 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27 

Table of entries in the record books 99 

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution 25 

Annual report 28 

Antiquities of Nicaragua 26 

Checli list of publications 27 

Contributions to Knowledge 25 

Distribution of 34 

Miscellaneous Collections 26 

Eainfall tables 26 

Q. 

Quarry, aboriginal soapstone, in Alabama 617 

K. 

Radiation of heat 354 

solar 267 

Radiators in Museum building 174 

Rainfall tables, by Charles A. Schott 26 

Ralls County, Missouri, mounds in 533 

Rau, Charles, curator, U. S. National Museum xvi, ill 

titles of papers by 115 

Rathbun, Richard, assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

curator. National Museum xvi. 111 

employed in Fisheries Census 53 

Receipts for the Smithsonian fund in 1831 167 

Record books of the Museum, entries in 99 

of scientific progress in 1881 189 

Anthropology 499 

Astronomy 191 

Botany 391 

Chemistry 381 

Meteorology 231 

Physics 333 

Zoology 409 

Reflection of light 363 

Refraction of light 363 

Regents, Board of, meeting of x, 6 

Journal of proceedings of ix 

resolutions of ix, V 

new, of the Institution 4 

of the Institution viii, xv 

Repayments from exchanges 7 

Report of the architects of the National Museum 177 

Report of Assistant Director U. S. National Museum 81 

Report of Bureau of Ethnology 38 

of the Chemist 161 

Executive Committee 



INDEX. 831 

Pago. 

Report ai' the National Musoiim Building Comraiesion ITIJ 

Professor Baird to Board of Regents 1 

Rei)tile8 and Batrachians, department of 104 

contributed to National Museum '67 

extinct Jurassic, new order of 480 

Researches and explorations, 15 et seq 527-680 

by Belding, L. — Guadaloupeand Cerros Islands. 15 

Bell, James — Florida 15 

Bcndire, Capt. Charles — Oregon 23,24 

Berry, Lieutenant — steamer Rodgcrs 18 

Bransford, Dr. J. F. — Ni<!aragua 19 

Call, Dr. R. Ellsworth, Mississippi Valley .. 16 

Dale, Dr. F. C. — steamer Palos 18 

Evans, S. B.— Mexico 16 

Figyelmesey, P. — Demerara 17 

Gilbert, C. H.— Central America 16 

Green, Commander F. M. — steamer Palos 18 

Guesde, L. — Guadaloupe 17 

Hay, Prof. O. P.— Mississippi Valley 15, 16 

Henderson, Hon. John G., Illinois 16 

Hering, Dr. C. — Surinam 17 

Jouy, P. L. — steamer Palos Id 

Le Baron, J. F. — Florida 15 

Murdock, Professor — Point Barrow 23 

Musgrave, Mr. — Jamaica 17 

Nelson,E. W.— Alaska 20 

Newcomb, Raymond L. — steamer Jeaunette. 17 

Newton, Hon. Edward — Jamaica 17 

Nichols, Dr. H. A. Alford — I Dominica 16 

Norris, Col. B. F. — Yellowstone Park 16 

Ober, F. A.— Mexico 16 

Revenue steamer Corwin 22 

Ruby, Charles — Montana 24 

Rusby, H. H. — New Mexico 16 

Smith, Professor — Point Barrow 23 

steamer Jeanette 17 

steamer Palos 18 

steamer Rodgers 18 

Stevenson, Col. J. — New Mexico 24 

Turner, Lucien M. — Alaska 20 

Walker, S. T.— Florida 15 

Wells, Mr.— West Indies 17 

Researches and explorations in Alaska 20, 21, 22, 23 

Cential America 16 

Cerros Islands 15 

Demerara 17 

Dominica 16 

s Florida 15 

Guadaloupe 15, 17 

Jamaica 17 

Mexico 16 

Mississippi Valley 15, 16 

Montana 24 

New Mexico 16,24 

Nicaragua 19 



832 INDEX. 

Page. 

Researches and explorations in Oregon 23, 24 

Point Barrow 23 

Surinam 17 

Yellowstone Park 16 

Resolutions of Board of Regents accepting report Executive Committee x 

accepting report specjal committee to pre- 
pare Henry memorial xir 

providing accommodations for National Acad- 
emy XII 

relative to death of President Garfield ix 

relative to statue of Joseph Henry xiv 

to print Annual Report u 

Revenue Marine, co-operation of 41, 42 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk xvi 

titles of papers by 27 

Rice, H. B. ; anthropological correspondence 684 

Richard, John H., death of 43,96 

Ridgway, Robert, collections received from 103 

curator, National Museum xvi. 111 

in charge of department of birds 103 

private collection of, acquired for Museum 103 

titles of papers by 115, 116, 117 

Riggs, George W., death of 43 

Riley, Charles V., in charge of department of insects 106 

titles of papers by.... 117,118,119,120,121,122,123,124 

Riley, Charles W., collections deposited by 106 

Rock-carvings on the Susquehannah River, Pennsylvania 642 

Rock inscriptions, ancient, in Johnson County, Arkansas 538 

Rodents, American Miocene 496 

Roessler, A. R. ; antiquities and aborigines of Texas 613 

Royal Museum of Copenhagen, donation from 101 

Ruby, Charles, birds received from 103 

collections made by 103 

Rusby, Henry H , anthropological correspondence 684 

Ryder, J. A., title of papers by 129 

S. 

Salem, Iowa, mounds at Snake Den, near 532 

Scammon, Capt. C. M. , specimens received from 42 

Scheetz, Fred. B., and George L. Hardy; mounds in Ralls County, Missouri.. 533 

Schieflelin, W. H.,& Co., donations of drugs by 36,100 

Schott, Charles A., rainfall tables 26 

Scientific progress in 1881 , record of 189 

writings of Smitbson 27 

Sclater,P. L.,paperby 129 

Scribner's Sons, New York, collections received from 106 

Scudder, N. P., and F. W. True, arranging collections 104,105 

Sculptured stone found in St. George, New Brunswick 665 

Selachians 471 

Serviss, E. F. ; on mounds near Edwardsville, Kansas J>28 

Sewerage in Smithsonian grounds 13, 173, 178 

Shalleuberger, T. M. ; on mounds in Henry and Stark Counties, Illinois 552 

Shell deposits on Short Creek, W. Va .- C37 

Shell-heaps in Alabama 617 

Barnstable Co. . Massachusetts 664 



INDEX. 833 

I'age. 

Shells, Americauized European 456 

of Lake Tanganyika 458 

of Palieozoic «'ra 457 

Sbenaudoah Valley Kailroad Co., collections from 110 

Sherman, W. T., member of Executive Committee xv, 172 

Museum Building Commission 17r. 

Regent viii, ix.xv 

reports by xii, xiii 

Sherrard, James, Chautauciua County, New York G4o 

Shiudler, Mr., painting done by 9G 

Shoemaker, George, title of paper by 12U 

Short Creek, W. Ya. , shell deposits on 037 

Stevenson, Col. James, explorations by 39 

Shufeldt, R. W., title of papers by 124 

Sibley, H. F., on antic^uities of Wayne Co., Illinois -587 

Signal Office, services rendered by 47, 48 

stations in Alaska 20, 21 , 22, 23 

Silver crosses from mound in Georgia fil9 

Sitka, signal stations at 23 

Skinner, Josiah, collections received from 105 

Smiley, C. W., employed in Fisheries Census 52 

Smith, Miss Rosa, collections received from 105 

contributions to Museum 38 

tit les of papers by 129 

Smitb, Sanderson, assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

Smith, S. I., title of paper by 129 

Smithson, James, scientific writings of 27 

and his bequest, by W. J. Rheea 27 

fund, condition of <",•*. 9 

Smithsonian Institution, report of 1 

Snake Uen, near Salem, Iowa, mounds at 532 

Snyder, J. F., on buried flints in Cass County, Illinois 5(i3 

on Indian renuiinsiu Cass County, Illiuois 568 

Soapstone quarry, aboriginal, in Alabama 617 

Social relations of mankind illustrated in Museum 91,93 

Sociology 501, 506 

Solar parallax 207 

radiation 207 

system 20J 

Specific heat 360 

Spiders, two remarkable 439-' 

Sponges, mounting of 108 

preparation of 421 

propagation of IJI 

Spoon River Valley, Illinois, mounds in 558 

Stalact ites, collections of 110 

Stalagmites, collections of 110 

Star catalogues 1 02 

fishes and diagnostic formulae for them 4 j:5 

Stark County, Illinois, mounds in r).V2 

Statistics of the sun 206 

Statue of Jost'pli lU'ury, report relative to xiii 

Steam furnace, supplementary, introduced in Museum building 11 

Stearns, Silas, collections received from 105 

contributions to Museum 37 

;S. .Mis, 1()*> .").; 



S?A INDEX. 

Page. 

Steams, Silas, employed iu Fisheries Census 52 

Stevenson, Col. James, collections made by 102 

ex])loration8 by 38, 31) 

S.iasou, Floyd, M. D., on mounds and earthworks in Vanderburgh County, 

Indiana ..- 591 

Stockton, J. B. ; anthropological correspondence 685 

iStone fort near Makanda, III 582 

■Stone heaps in Jefferson County, Alabama 616 

. Stone, Livingston, collections received from 105 

contributions to Museum 37 

paper by 129 

• Storms 300 

.Story, W. W., statue of Henry by XIH,6, 7 

. Sturgeon, development of the 473 

• St. George, New Brunswick, sculptured stone found in 665 

Sun 205 

statistics of 206 

Susquehanna River, rock carvings on the 642 

Swan, James G., collections received from 105 

contributions to Museum 38 

employed in Fisheries Census 53 

Symbiosis of plants and an imals 416 

T. 

Tablet, perforated, of stone, from New York 658 

Tandy, W. ; anthropological correspondence 685 

Tanganyika Lake, shells of 458 

Tanner, Capt. Z. L., commanding steamer Fish Hawk 47 

Taylor, Hon. Ezra B., Regeut xv 

appointed Regent ix 

Taylor, F. W., in charge of chemical laboratory 14 

member of board to experiment on preparing wood for naval 

purposes 14 

chemist. National Museum , xvi, 111 

report of 161 

Taylor, William J., exploration by 39 

New River mounds, Berriau County, Georgia 631 

Technology, comparative 501, 505 

Telegraph and animal life 417 

Telephonic service in Museum 12 

Temperatures of water and air, observations 42, 43 

Temperature, terrestrial 267 

Tennessee, Flyun's Creek, mounds on 611 

Jackson County, mounds in 611 

Terrestrial temperature, report on 267 

Texas, aborigines and antiquities of .; 613 

Thallophytes 400 

Thermometry 34S 

Thurber, H. K. and F. B. & Co., exhibition of food substances 100 

Tichkematse, assistant to Mr. Stevenson 40 

Tiede, counsellor, aid furnished by 95 

Tiffany, A. S. ; mounds in Bureau County, Illinois 556 

Tile flooring for National Museum 10, 174. 177 

Tokio, First Manufacturing and Trading Company, presented masks 102 

University of, donated ornamental woods 101 



INDEX. 835 

Page. 

Tooker, Williaui Wallace; perforated tablet of stone from New York 058 

Transi t of Mercury 212 

Veuus 209, 210 

Transi)ortatioii cumpauies, liUerality of 31 

expanslou of 93 

Treasury Department, co-operation of 41 

Trilobites 433 

Trocliilidse, by Daniel Giraiul Elliot 25 

Trowbridge, Lieut. \Vm. P., contributions made by 42 

True, Fred. W., acting curator, department of mammals 102 

curator, National Museum x vi 

employed in Fisheries Census 52, .'3 

in charge of Museum 1 ibrary 9(), HI 

and N. P. Scudder, ai-ranging collection 104, 105 

Trumbull County, Ohio, mound in 592 

Tuckahoe, or Indian bread, by J. II. Gore 637 

Turbellarians, new suborder of the 426 

Turner, Liicien M., collections made by 102 

Turtles, arrangement of collection of 104, 105 

U. 

Unalashka, signal station at 22 

Ungulate animals 497, 498 

Uniform adopted in Museum service 97 

University of Tokio, donated ornamental woods 101 

V. 

Vanderbnrg County, Indiana, mounds and earthworks in .591 

Varnishes, exhibit of, promised to Museum 100 

Vasey, Dr. Geo. A., in charge of department of plants 109 

Vegetable anatomy, report on 391 

Velie, Dr. J. W., collections received from 105 

Venus, transit of, report on 209, 210 

Verrill, A. E. , assisted in Fish Commission work 48 

labeled corals 108 

titles of papers by 129, 130 

Vertebrates, bibliography of 461, 462, 463, 464, 465 

Virginia bonds 8, 9, 168 

Visitors to the Museum 93 

Vulcan, report on 219 

Vulture, turkey 4>'9 

W. 

Waite, Hon. Morrison R., member ex o^cio xv 

president. Board of Eegents viii, i x , x v 

Walker, Hon. George, U. S. Commissioner to Electrical Convention 45 

Walker, S. T. ; anthropological correspondence Cif^'i 

collections received from 101, 103, 105 

exploration by - :{9 

the aborigines of Florida (577 

Wallem, Frederick M., collections received from 106 

Ward, H. A., mounting of mammals by 96 

Ward, Lester F. . titles of papers by 124, 125 

in charge of department of fossil botany 109 



836 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Wasbiugtou Territory, aboriginal works at mouth of Klikitat River, in 527 

Watkins, Joseph C. ; on mounds in Pike County, Missouri 5^37 

Wayne County, Illinois, antiquities of 587 

Wells, J. G., birds received from lOiJ 

West A^irginia, shell deposits in G37 

Short Creek, shell deposits on G37 

Wheeler, Capt. George M., representative at the International Geographical 

Congress at Venice 46 

Wheeler, William A., Regent vni 

appointment of Regent by ix 

Whitcomb, T. M. ; on aboriginal works at mouth of Klikitat River, Washing- 
ton Territory 527 

White, Captain, specimens received from 42 

White, Dr. Charles A., curator. United States National Museum Ill 

titles of papers by 125 

collection received from 109 

curator, National Museum xvi 

in charge of department of invertebrate paleontology 109 

White Manufacturing Company offered exhibit of dentistry appliances 100 

Whiteside County, Illinois, mounds in 544 

Whittlesey, Charles; the great mound on the Etowah River, Georgia G24 

Wiggins, John B. ; anthropological correspondence 686 

Wilcox, W. A., employed in Fisheries Census 52 

Williamson, George ; anthropological correspondence 686 

Wilson, Edmund B., paper by 130 

Wietheiss, C. J. ; anthropological correspondence 686 

Wing, Daniel; shell heaps in Barnstable County, Massachusetts 664 

Wisconsin, Milwaukee County, mounds in 542 

mounds near the National Home in Milwaukee County 542 

Withers, R. E., expiration of term of, as a Regent ix 

Wittfield, Mr., collections made by 104 

Wood-cut printing, process of 101 

Wood, H. C. ; study on fever 26 

Wood, Lieutenant, commanding steamer Lookout 59 

Woodpeckers and moth cocoons 489 

Wood's Holl, Fish Commission station 46 

Wood's Holl Harbor, obstruct ions in 49 

Woods, ornamental, collection of 100 

Work done by Fish Commission 48 

Work done by the preparators of the Museum 96 

Work done in chemical laboratory 161 

Workshops in Jefferson County, Alabama 616 

Worms, bibliography of 425, 426, 427 

as earthmakers 428 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, grant free freight on Smithsonian exchanges 31 

Y. 

Yarrow, Dr. Henry C, honorary curator. National Museum 1 xvi, 111 

in charge of department of reptiles and batrachians. 104 

Yeates, Wm. S., aid, National Museum xvi, 111 

Yellowstone Park, collections from 110 

Young, Ladd & Coffin, offered exhibit of perfumes 100 



INDEX. 837 
z. 

Page. 

Zeledon, Jos^, birds received from 10:5 

contribtition to Museum 38 

ZuBi, exploration of 40 

Zoology, report on progress in, in 1881, by T. Gill 409 

amphibians 478 

arthropods 431 

birds 481 

coelenterates 421 

echinoderms 423 

fishes 468 

mammals 490 

mollusks 452 

molluscoids 461 

protochordates 461 

protozoans 417 

vertebrates 461 

worms 425 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Pago 

Plan of clieiiiical Liboralory, Natioual Museum 162 

Map, showiug location ofitboiiginal works at mouth ofKIikitat River .V27 

Mounds in Mills County, Iowa: • 

Sketch No. 1 " 529 

Sketch No. 2 530 

Ancient rock inscriptions in Johnson County, Arkansas: 

Figs. 1-8 539^ 

Figs. 9-17 540 

Mounds in Whitesides and La Salle Counties, Illinois: 

Plan I 544 

Plan II 547 

Plan III 548 

Antiquities of Fox River Valley, La Salle County, Illinois: 

Fig. 1 550 

Fig. 2 551 

Mounds iu Henry aud Stark Counties, Illinois: 

Plats 1,2 553 

Group of mounds in Bureau County, Illinois 557 

Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois: 

Fig. 1 ^ 559 

Fig. 2 5G2 

Buried Hints in Cass County', Illinois: 

Figs. 1,2 oGo 

Fig. ;5 566 

Fig. 4 567 

Mounds iu Wayne County, Illinois 588, 590 

Mounds in Ashland County, Ohio 594 

EarthAYorks iu Butler County, Ohio 602 

Mounds in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Kentucky 604, 606 

Mounds in Barren and Allen Counties, Kentucky : 

Plan No. 1 608 

Plan No. 2 610 

Silvercrossesfrom an Indian grave mound at Coosawattee Old Town, Georgia: 

Fig. A, 1 620 

Fig. A, 2 G21 

Fig. B, 1 622 

Fig. B, 2 623 

Great mouud on the p]towah River, Georgia: 

Fig. 1 624 

Fig. 2 625 

Fig. 3 627 

Figs. 4, 5, stone effigy 628 

Fig. G, stone efQgy 629 

83§ 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 839 

Pago. 
Ancient canals in Florida : 

Plan No. 1 G32 

Plan No. 2 634 

Mounds in Alachua County, Florida: 

Fig. 1 635 

FMgs. 2,3 636 

Fig. 4 637 

Antiquities of Onondaga and adjoining counties, New York: 

Fig. 1 C48 

Figs. 2,3 649 

Fig. 4 650 

Fig. 5 652 

Fig. 6 653 

Figs. 7,8 654 

Fig. 9 655 

Fig. 10 656 

Perforated tablet of stone from New York : 

Figs. 1-5 659 

Sculptured stone found in St. George, New Brunswick 666, 667 

Supposed specimen of aboriginal art 672 

Tuckahoe: 

Figs. 1,2,3 696 

Figs. 4,5 699 






vy^.'j^f^v^ 



WoHl'i^GTOtl 



"-^m 



9M4 



v#- 



«^*» 



V v_ 



imwf^^'i!'^^ 'NSTrruTioN libraries 




3 9088 01421 6402 



